








































-qtt 
\E--

{JN'IED NAT'ONS

GENI ERAI.
A S S E M B LV

!ASII "
GEIIEFAL

A/10447
l-0 Decenber l-975
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH

Thirtieth session
Agenda iten 122

CONCI,USION OF A TREATY ON THE COMPLETE AND GENERAI,
PROHTBITION OF NUCLEAR-IiEAPON TESTS

Report of the First Comnittee

Rapporteux: Mr. Horacio ARTEAGA-ACoSTA (Venezue.la)

1. The item entit]-ed. "Conclusion of a treaty on the compl,ete and general
prohibition of nuclear-rreapon tests" w&s included by the Secretary-General in the
draft agenda of the thirtieth session at the request of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Bepublics (4/1021+1).

2" At its 2353rd pl-enary meeting, on 1p Septernb er 1975, the cenera] Assembly,
on the reconmend.ation of the General Cornmittee, decided to includ.e the item in
the agenda of the thirtieth session and to a]-]-ocate it to the First Conmittee for
consid.eration and. report.

3. At its 20J2nd meeting, on 30 October lr975.- tlne First Connittee decided to
hold. a conbined general debate on the itens a.Ilocated to it relating to
disal'mament and the fndian Ocean as a zone of peace, na.neJ,y itens 3f, 34 to 48,
fz1, I22 and 125, Ttre general d.ebate on these itens took place at the 20?2nd to
2095th neetings, from 30 October to 21 November.
)+, On 23 Septenber, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics submittecl a draft
resorution (A/c.r/L.7o7) w@ and general.
prohibition of nuc.l-ear-weapon tests" annexed. to it. It vas introduced by the
representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics at the 2075th neeting
on 3 November.

,. At the 2102nd neeting, on 2 Deeenber, the Union of Soviet Social-ist Repubtics
subnitted a revised version of the draft resolution (A/C.L/L.?O7 /Rev.l) with the
text of the draft treaty annexed to it, also sponsored by Bulgaria, the Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Repubfic, Costa Rica, Czechosl-ovakia, Finland, the Gerrnan
Denocratic Republ-ic, Hungary, Mauritius, Mongolia, Pol-and and. the Ukrainian Soviet
Sociafist Republic, by which:

?5-28)+80



A/t-oU17
English
Page 2

/^)\@/ ,- yreambular laragraph was added, reading as follovs;

"Reaffirming that the potential benefits of any peaceful application of
nucteai erpfosions should be availabfe to nuclear as wel1 as non-nuclear
States in conforndty vith the provisions of the Treaty on the Non-Profiferation
of Nucleal Weapons in such a way as to exclud.e any possibility of peaceful
nuclear explosions being used for purposes incompatible with the complete
and general prohibition of nuclear-weapon tests and the non-prolife"ation of
nuclear weapons ,ttI

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the words "to invite 25 to 30 non-nuclear-
weapon States, to be appointed by the President of the Generaf Assenbly after
consultations with all regional groups, to participate in those negotiations" were
inserted. between the word "teststt and the word "anclt' in the third line.

6, At the 2105th neeting, on l+ December, tbe Union of Soviet Socialist Rerublics'
also n'ith the sane sponsors, subnitted a further revised version of the draft
resolution (A/C.f /L"7OT/Rev.2) with the text of the draft treaty alnexed to it
in vhich, in operative paragraph 3, the vords "and to transnit to the group
referred to in paragraph 2 of this resolution sl1 docr:ments rel-ating to the
consideration by the Gene"al As sembly at its thirtieth session of agenda items 37
and f22" lrere add.ed to the end of the paragraph" On 5 Decenber the Secreta.ry-
General subrnitted a statement on the adrninistrative and financial implications of
draft resolut ion A/C.VL,70T /Rev.2"

'l' At the 2l-O8th meeting, on ! December " the 
First Connittee proceeded to vote on

d.raft resolut ion A/c.r/L.7o7 /Rev ,2"

(t) The fourth preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of
BB to a, wit]n 22 abstentions. The voting was as fol-]ol'ts:

In favour: Afghanistan " Australia, 
Austria, Bahrain, Sangladesh, Belgiur'

Benin" Bolivia' Botswana' Bulgaria, Burundi, Syelorussian Soviet
Social-ist Republic, Canada, Chad' Colonbia' Congo ' Costa 

Rica,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Demoeratic Yemen, Denmark "
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, E1 Sal-vador, Ethiopia,
FiJi, tr'inIand, German Democratic Republic, Ghane, Guinea '
Hungary, Icel-and, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy'
Ivoiy Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Kuwait, laos, lesotho ' 

h'beria'
Libyan Arab Republ-ic, l,uxembourg ' Madagascar, 

Mal-aysia, Mal-i '
Mexico, Mongolia, Nepal, Netherlands ' 

NeaT Zeal.and-, Nigeria,
Norvay, Onan, Palristan ' 

Panama ' 
Paraguay " 

Peru, Philippines 
'

Poland, Qatar, Rornania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone'
Singapore, Sudan, Swaziland, Swed.en, fhailand' Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic " 

Union
of Soviet SociaList Republics' United Arab Enirates, United
Kingdom of Great B"i.tain and Northern lreland u United Republic
of Ca&eroon, Upper volta, Uruguay ' Venezuela " 

Yenen, Yugoslavia'
Zaire .



A/101+l+7
English
page 3

Against: Al_bania,China.

Abstaining: Algeria, Argentiaa, Bhutan, Brazil, Burna, Chile, France,
Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Honduras, India, Kenya,
Mal-ar':i, Mauritania, portugal, Spain, Sri Lanka, Turkey, Uganda,
United Bepubfic of Tanzania, United. States of Anerica,
Zambia.

(b) The draft resolution as a whole was ad.opted by a record.ed. vote of ?3 votes
to 2, with 37 abstentions (see para. B letow). The voting was as follovs:

In favour:

Against :

Abstaining:

Afghanistan, A1geria, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Bolivian Botswana, Bulgaria, Bun:ndi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist RepubJ.ic, Chad, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechosl-ovakia, Deroocratic Yemen, Doninican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, E1 Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, I'inland, Geruan Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Honduras, Ilungary, Ind.ia, fndonesia, Iran,
Janaica, Kuwait, Ls,os, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic,
l4alaysia, Mali, Mexico" Mongolia, Nepa1, Nigeria, Paaama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar n Romaniao Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swazilanrl, fhailand, Trinirlad. and. Tobago, Tunisia" Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republ-ic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab hirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Bepublic of Tanzania, Upper Volta" Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
YugosJ-avia, Zaire, Zambia.

Al-bania, China,

Austlalia, 3elgium, 3enin, Bhutan, Brazil, Burna, Canad.a, Chile,
Congo, Deurark, France, Gerr0any (Fed.era]. Republic of), Greece,
Guinea, IceLand, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan,
Kenya, luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritania, Netherlands,
Nev Zealartd, Norway " Onan, Pakistan, Portugal, Spain, Sueden,Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United. States of America,

RECOMMENDATfON OF THE FIBST COMMITTEE

8. fhe First Comittee recoumends to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
folloving draft resolution:

The General Assembly,

Recognizing the urgent need for the cessation everywhere and by al-l of
nuclear-veapon tests, including underground tests,



A/1ol+47
English
faEe +

Expressi4E its deep concern over the fact that an international agreement on
the cessation of nucl-ear-weapon tests of a1f kinds has not yet been 

"eacbed,
Convinced that the cessati.on of such tests noul-d contribute to the reduetion

of the nuclear arms race as ve1l as to the further relaxation of international
tension,

leaffirning that the potential benefits of any peaceful applics.tion of nuclear
explosions should be available to nucl-ear as we]-l as non-nuclear States, in
conformity with the provisions of the Treaty on the Non-Pro.li feration of Nucl-ed.r
Weapons, !/ in suctr a way as to exclude any possibility of peaceful nucl-ear
explosions being used for purposes incornpatible vith the complete and general
prohibition of nuclear-weapon tests and the non-proliferation of nuclear veapons,

I'urther convinced. of the need again to exert every effort for the early
cessation ever)Mhere and by al-l- of nuclear-weapon tests, including r.mderground

1. Takes note of the draft treaty on the conplete and general prohibition
of nucl-ear-weapon tests subnitted to the General Assenbly by the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, the text of which is annexed to the present
reso]-ution i

2" Cal]-s upon al-l- nuclear-weapon States to enter into negotiations, not
later than 31 March 1975, ldth a view to reaching agreement on the conplete and
general prohibition of nuclear-veapon tests, elld invites twenty-five to thirty
non-nuc.l-ear-weapon States " to be appointed by the Presid.ent of the Ceneral 

Assembly
after consul-tations with all regional groups, to participate in those negotiations
and to inform the General Assenbly, at its thirty-fifst session,of the resul-ts
of tbe negotiations ;

3. Requests the Sec retary-General to rend-er such assistance as may be
necessary for the negotiations with a view to reaching agreeuent on the coroplete
and general prohibition of nucLear-weapon tests and to transmit to the group
referred to in paragraph 2 above all d.ocuments felating to the consideration
by the General Assembly at its thirtieth session of agenda itens 3? and- 122;

h. Decid.es to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-first session
the item .ttitf.a lConclusj.on of a tleaty on the compLete and. general prohibition
of nuclear-weapon tests ".

ANNEX

Union of Soviet SociaList Republ-ics; draft treaty on the conplete and
generaf prohibition of nuc.Iear-weapon tests

The States Parties to this Treaty,

Proclainins their intention to bring about' as speedily as possible, the
c."saff6iJF-IIJ nuclear-arms race. the adoption of effective neasures towards

U General Assembly resotution 23?3 (XXII) e arlnex.



A/ rool+7
EngJ.ish
Page 5

nucl-ear disarnament and the conclusion of an agreenent on generaL and complete
disarmanent und.er strict and. effective internationaL control_,

Taking into account the appeal_s by the General AssenbLy of the United Nations
to put an end to nucl-ear-weapon tests in all environments 

"

Noting that the prohibition of al]- nuclear-veapon tests vould be in the
intexests of strengthening peace and slowing the arms race and. vouLd be a
contribution to the process of international d6tente,

Reaffi.rning that the potential benefits of a-rly peaceful application of nucl-ear
erplosions should be avail-ab1e._to nuc.l-ear as well as non-nuclear States in
conformity with the provisions of the Treaty on the Non-profi feration of Nuclear
Weapons 2/ and of the

Tests in the Atnosphere, in Outer Space and trrd.er Water, signed i,n Moscow on
5 Ausust t96J, 31

Stressing the importance of strict compliance vith the above-mentioned Treaty
up to the tine of the entry into force of this Treaty,

Seeki4e to achieve the permanent cessation of a-11 test explosions of nuclear
lleapons by all States,

Have agreed. as follovs:

Article f

1. Each State ?arty to this Treaty undertakes to prohibit, to prevent and
to refrain fron carrying out any test explosions of nuclear weapons anywhere und.er
its jurisdietion or control in all environnents - in the atmosphere, in outer
space, under vater and underground.

2. Each State Party to this Treaty und.ertakes to refrain from encouraging,
inciting, or in any way participating in the carrying out of nucl_ear expfosions
prohibited by paragraph l- of this article.

A-rIAC-LC l.I

1. Control over compliance with this Treaty shall- be conducted by the States
Parbies, through their ornryr national- technical means of eontrol, in accordance rith
the general-l-y recognized ru]"es of international law.

2/ Iden.
3/ Unitea Nations, Treaty Series, vot. \80, No. 6961+, p. Ll.



A/101+\7
-unsLasn
rage o

2. In order to promote the objectives of and ensure compliance with the
provisions of this Treaty, the Parties to the Treaty shal1 co-operate in an
international exchange of seismic data'

3. fn ord.er to promote the objectives of and to ensure compliance with the
provisions of this Treaty, the Parties sball, tthen necessary, consuft one another,
nake inquiries and receive appropriate inforrnation in eonnexion with such inquiries.

Ll. Any State Palty to this Treaty which ascerteins that any other State
Party is acting in violation of obligations deriving fron the provisions of the
Treaty nay lodge a conpl-aint with the Unr'ted Nations Security Council. Such a
complaint must contain all possible evidence confirning its validity and a lequest
for its consideration by the Security Cor:nci}. The Council shall info"m the States
Parties to the Treaty of the results of its consid.eration'

Article III

1. The provisions of articl-e I shall- not apply to any underground nuclea?
explosions conducted by nuclea"T-veapon States for peaceful putposes on the
territory under their jurisdiction and in conpliance nith the agreements under
which, in accordance tith article V of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of
Nuclear Weapons, non-nuclear-weapon States a"e to benefit from any peaceful
applications of nucl-ear explosions.

2. The expfosions referred to in paragraph 1 of this article sha11 be
conducted as fol-.lovs:

(a) In the case of non-nuclear-lreapon States' in confornity with the
provisions of article V of the Treaty on the Non-Pro.l-iferation of Nucl-ear Weapons I

(l) In the case of nuclear-weapon States' in confornity I'ith a proced.ure to
be established under a special agreement concerning lrhich the nuclear-veapon
Staires ui1l conatuct negotiations with due legard for the reconrnendations of the
International_ Atomic Energy Agency on the subiect end which vil1 be concluded as
speedily as 1lossibl-e.

Article IV

The provisions of this Treaty shal1 not affect obligations assumed by the
States Parties to the Treaty under other international agreements.

A.rticle V

I. Any Party to the Treaty may propose a.nendments to the Treaty' The text
of any proposed amendment shaf.l- be subnitted to the Depositary Governnents, whi.ch
sha11 circu-late it to all Parties to the Treaty. Thereupon, if requested to do so
by one tbird or more of the Parties to the Treaty, the Depositary Governments
sha.ll convene a conference" to which they sha11 invite all the Parties to the
Treaty, for the purpose of consid.ering such amendment.



A/1ol+)+?
English
Page T

2. Any anendment to this Treaty nust be approved by a najority of the votes
of al-I the Parties to the Treaty, includ.ing the votes of aLL nucl-ear-weapon
states Parties to the Treaty. The amendment shalf enter into force for each party
depositing its instrument of Tatification of tbe amendment upon the deposit of such
instruments of ratification by a najority of aL]. the ?arties, including the
nuc],ean-weapon states Parties to the Treaty. Thereafber, it shall- enter into force
for any other Party upon tfre deposit of its instrurnent of ratification of the
a.nend.ment .

AITAC-LC V-L

1. Tbis Treaty shalJ- be open to all States for signature. Any State vhich
does not sign the TTeaty before its entry into force in accordance with
paragraph 3 of this arti.cle may acced.e to it at any tine.

2. This Treaty shall be subject to yatificati.on by signatory States.
Instruments of ratification and accession shalt be deposited with the Governments
of ..,, 'which are hereby designated. the Depositary Governments.

3, This Treaty shal-I enter into force upon the deposit of the instruments
of ratification by ... Governments, includ.ing the Governnents of all
nuclear-weapon States.

l+. For States whose instruments of ratification or accession are deposj.ted
subsequent to the entry into force of this Treaty, the Treaty sha11 enter into
force on the date of the d.eposit of their instnments of ratification or accession.

5. Ttre Depositary Governments sha1l pronptly inforn alf signatory ald
acceding States of the date of each signature " the date of deposit of eachinstrument of ratification or accession" the date of the entry into force of this
Treaty, and the date of receipt of any requests for convening a conference of
Parties to the Treaty or of other notifications.

6" This Treaty sha1l be registered- by the Depositary Governnent s pursuant
to Articl-e 102 of the Charter of the United Nati.ons.

Artac_Le v l_L

1. This Treaty sha1l be of unlinited duration,

?. Each State Party shall, in the exercise of its national sovereigaty, have
the right to withdraw from the Taeaty if it decides that exhraord.inary
circunstances, connected with the subject-matter of this Treaty, have Jeopard.ized
its supreme interests, It shall give three monthsr notice of such withdrawaf
to all other Parties to the Treaty and to the United Nations Security Council.
Such notice shafl include a statement of the extraord.inary circumstsrrces which it
regartls as having jeopardized its supreme interests.



A/101+l+?
English

A?I1C-LC V -t-LI

This Treaty, the Chineser English, French, Fussian and. Spanish texts of {hich
are equally authentic, shall- be deposited in the archives of the Depositary
Governments " Duly certified copies of this Treaty shall be transnitted by the
Depositary Governments to the Government s of the signatory and acceding States.

IN I{ITNESS WHEREOI'the r:ndersigned-, being du-ly authorized. for the purpose,
have signed this Treaty.

DONE in ". , copies, in . . . on the ". . day of .. . .




