








































:7 6t E:

-Ll-UNIIED NAI'ONS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

UlSIr.
GENEML

A/101+71+

13 Decenber 1975
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/IRENCE

Thirtieth session
Itens ?5 and 76

INTRODUCTION

CONSIDNBATION OF DRAT'T BESOLUTIONS

rII. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

TNTERNATIONAL WOMEN I S YEAR, INCLUDTNG TIIE PROPOSALS
AND RNCOMMENDATTONS OF THE WORLD CONFERENCE OF THE

INfENNATIONAL WOMEN IS YEAF

SIATLIS AND ROLE OF WOMEN III SOCIETY, WITH SPECIAL REI'ERENCE TO
THE NNED FOR ACHIEVTNG EQUAL RTGHTS FOB WOMEN AND TO WOMENIS
CONTRIBUTTON TO THE ATTAINMENT OF THE GOALS OF THE SNCOND UNITED
NATTONS DEVELOPMENT DECA.DE, TO TIIE STRUGGLE AGAINST COLONIALISM,
RACISM AND RACIAL DISCRIMINATION AND TO THE STRENGTIIENING OT'

TNTEFNATIONAL ?EACE AND OF CO-OPEBATION BETWENN STATT.S

Report of the Third Connittee

Rapporteur: Mrs. SEIGLA KANINDA (Zaire)

Paragraphg

1-4
5-24

3o

T

II. 3

75-29l-67



A/ro\'111
English

1. INTRCDUCTION

1. The General Assenbly, at its 2353rd neeting, on 1! Septembet l-975 ' 
aflocated'

to the Third. Connittee agend.a iterns 75 and 76 entitled, respectively:
rrlnternational Women's Year, including the proposels ard reconmendations of
the World Conference of the International Wonen's Year"

and

"Status and role of wonen in society, with speciat reference to the need for
a.chi evi no eorra.l r"i shts folnomen and to vomen's cont"ibution to the
attainment of the goals of the Second United- Nations Developnent Decade ' 

to
the struggle against colonialism, racism and raciaJ' discrimination and to the
strengthening of international peace and of co-operation between States"'

At its 2113th neeting, on 2\ September 1975, the Third Conmittee decided to
consider those two itens Jointly.

2' The Third Conmittee considered the iterns at its 21?0th. 2L72nd' to 21?5th and
2l?7th to zl8lst meetings from 25 Novenber to 5 December 1975. The surtrnary
records of those neetings (A/c.3/sR.21?o, 2172-2:-7 5 and. 2177 -?IBI ) contain the
views expressed by tlre representatives of Member States and of the specialized
agencies on the items.

3. The Cor',mittee had before it the foflowing docr:ments:

(a) Beport of the Secretary-Gener€"l on neasures and activities und.ert ahen in
connexion with the fnternational Woxnen I s year (l/toz63);

(u) Note by the Secret ary-General containing background information on the
items (a/roe6\ ) ;

(") Note by the Secretary-General containing background. information and
suggestions for the establishment of an international research and training
institute fo" the advancement of women (A/103\0);

(d) Note by the secretary-General forwarding the relort of the world
Conference of the International Women's Year, held at Mexico City from 19 June to
2 July 19?5 G/r725 and Add . 1 ) .

(.) A fetter and a note verbale from Bulgaria (A/100\2 and 4/10088),
respectively; two letters from the Gernan Democratic Republic (A/10o1+5 and
A/C-.3/6\\) q- a note verbale from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (A/fOO49 ana
Corr.t): a note verbale f"om l{ongolia (A/10056)i a note verbale fron Afghanistan
(A/10057)t a lctter from Japan (4/10066) a note verbale from che Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic (A/1oo7o); a note verbafe fronr Egypt (A/10071)i a note
verbale fron the Syrian Ar:ab Republic (4/10073)r a note verbafe fron the Ukrainian
Soviet Socia-List Republic (A/1OO?5); a note verbale from Chile (4/10076); a note
verbale from Democratic Yemen (n/roogg)f, a note verbale from Hungary (A/Iaogg); e
nore ve-rbaIe from Peru (-{/10107)t e notc verbale from the Ivory Coast (l/fOttf), a
note verbale from Lebanon (4/10138); a note verbale from Poland (A/1oIl+0); a note
v.'rhc.le fron vliooslar-ie (A/lnl 6o).p rnte vertrale fron Zaire (A/10210): and a
letter from Cuba (A/C.3/6\3), t...



A/10l+TL
English
?age 3

L. At the 21?Oth meetingo on 26 tlovember, the itens were introduced by the
Assistant secretal'y-Generar for social- Development and Human it ari an Affairs and.
Secretary-General- of the International Womenrs Year and of the Worl-d. Conference of
the International Women's Ycqr and hw l-he -rpnrrl-rz
rnternationa.r women's "":"';; :1".;l;::.:"3::I"::,::'"?T;:t1fl"ffffi:lJt 

tn"

Women's Year (A/c"3/SR.21?o).

II. CONSIDIRATION OF DRAFT RESOT,UTTONS

A. Draft resolution A/C,3/L.2193

5, At the 21J6th rneeting, on 3 December, the representative of Cuba introduced a
draft resoLution (A/c.3/L,21!f), entitled "Expreslion of appreciation to the
Government and people of l,4exico", r,rhich vas sponsored by AlAeria, Argentina, Cuba,
linland, the Geman Democratic Republ_ic, Ghana, Greece, Sgi""C, IISS, @_%Japan, the Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Ma1i, Norway, tfrE pfrifippines,
9*gd"!, the Unign of Soviet Sociafist Republicsu Venezuela and yugoslavi a, laterjoined by Sahrain " Benin, Colonbia, Democratic 

yemen, Eeypt, Sglgg, IEig, Jordan u
Lesotho, Malaysia, Mauritania, Nigeria, Oman, Rornania, Sri Lanka, ttre Suaan,
Uganda, the United Arab Eairates ard the United Republic of Caneroon. The draft
resolution read. as follovs:

rrThe General Assernbl_y,

"Considerirlg the significance and positive results of the WorLd
, Conference of the International Women's year which is the first 'aorldconference sponsored by the United Nations on wonenrs issues,

"Expresses its deep appreciation to the Government and people of Mexico
for hosting the World Conference of the Tnternational_ Wonenrs year.',

6. At the 218Oth meeting, on ! December, the Conmittee adopted the draft
resolution by acclamation (see para. 30 below, draft resolution I).

B, Draft resolution A/C.3/L,?I9\

T, At the 2u9th meeting, on ! December, the representative of the Germ€r
Democratic Republic introduced. a revised. text of a draft reso]_ution
(A/C.3/L,2I9\/Rev.1) , entitled. "Women's participation in the strengthening of
international peace and security and in the struggle against cotonialisn, racism,
racial discrimination, foreign aggression, occupation and alJ. forns of foreign
domination", which was sponsored by Bangladesh, Cape Verde, Cuba, EgypJ, the
German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mongolia, Mozambique, Sri
Lanka and Tunisia. The revised d.raft resclution read as foflows:

"The General Assenbly,

'"Recallins its resolution 32?5 (XXIX) of IO December 19?l+,



A/10\74
Englj.sh

"Consid.ering the report (E/5725) of the i{or1d Conference of the
lnternational Wonen's Year, in particular the Declaration of Mexico L9'15 ' the
\,trorld Plar of Action for the implementation of the objectives of the
Internationaf Women's Year and ihe resolutions contained in the report of the
World Conference,

"Atnreciatinp' that the World Conference of the Tnternationa] Wortren's
t"ar .ffi""i26d'Tf," important role vomen nust play in the strengthening of
international peaee and security and the expansion of co-operation among
States, irrespective of their social and econornic systerns, on the principles
of peaceful coexlstence in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations '

"End.orsing the statement of the Worfd Conference that internationaf

"o-op.t.tion 
uod peace require the achievement of nationa] l-iberation and

independ.ence, preservation of sovereignty and territorial integrity, the
elimination of colonialism and neo-coloni ati sm o aggression and foreign
oceupation, apartheid and racial discrirnination in aJ-t its forms " as 

well as
the recognition of the di.gnity of peoples and their right to self-
noi am i n of r'nr

"Noting with satj.sfaction the opinion expressed by the World Conference
ttrat pEacE-equires-trrat vomen as weJ.l as men reJect any type of intervention
in the domestic affairs of the States ' 

openly or covertly carried out by
other States or by transnational corporations, that women as lre11 as men a-lso
promote the respect for the sovereign right of a State to establish its own
economic, social and. political systen wi.thout political aJld economic
pressures or coercion of any type,

"Taking into account the viev of the World Conference that the Charter
of ncononic Rights and Duties of States confirms, inter alia, the obligation
of all- States to promote the implenentation of general and conplete
disarmalent and to use the fund.s saved for economic and social development
and provide part of them for the needs of the developing countries,

'lNoting with satisfaction the positive changes which have taken place
do"i''e@ationa1re]ations'Suchasthee1irninationof
the dangerous so[rces of war in Viet-Nsm €nd the results of the A1l-European
Conference on Security and co-operation, anil noting also the irnportance of
deepening the process of international" d6tente and strengthening
intirnational Just peace based on fu11 respect for the Charter of the United
Nations and the interests of al-l States, large and snall,

"fuiphasizine the srave concern that in some regions of the world

"oloni@ 
and foreign aggression yet exist.and

territories are stilt occupied, which represents a most serious infringement
of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and of hunan rights of
both men and women ' and of 

the peoplesr right to self-determinat ion '
Reaffirms the principles promufgated in the Declaration of Mexico;



A/10)+71+
English
Page 5

"1. Feaffirms the prineiples p"omulgated in the Declaration of l4exico;

"2. Reaffirns that the strengthening of international peace and
security, co-operation among al]' States irrespective of their social and
economic systems, based on the principle of peaceful coexistence, and the
elirnination of the remsining vestiges of colonialism, neo-co1onia1ism,
apartheid" aJ"1 forms of racism and racial rliscrimination, alien domination,
foreign aggression and occupation are indispensable for the safeguarding of
the fund.ament al- human rights of both men alld women i

tt3. Calls upon all Governments o int ergovernment al and non-government al-
organizations, particularly vonenrs organizations and womenrs groups, to
intensify their efforts to strengthen peace, to expand end deepen the process
of international- d6tente and to make it iffeversible, to eliminate compl-etely
qhd dafihi+ala' ql l., *-* forms of cotonialisn, to put an end to the policy and
practiee of apartheid, a"11 forms of racism and racial discrimination and to
aggression, occupation and foreign domination;

t'l+. U?ges all Governments to take effective measures towards bringing
about general and complete disarnaroent and the convocation of the 1^lor1d
Disarmament Conference as soon as possible;

"5. Expresses its solidarity with and its assistance for wcnen who
contribute towards the struggle of the peoples for their national liberation i

"6, lnvites the Se cret ary-General to subnit a comprehensive 'eport on
the inplenentation of the present resolutjon to the CeneraL Assembly at its
thirty-second sesslon. "

B. The Corunittee had. before it a statement on the financial inrplicati:ns
(A/C"3/6\7) relatins to the draft resolution.

9. l't the 2181st meeting, on 5 December, the Connittee adopted the revised. draft
resolution by 73 votes to 2?, r^'ith 22 abstentions (see para. 30 below, d."aft
reso-Lutlon Lt l.

C. Draft reso1ut ion A/C"3/L.2195

10. At the 21?5th meeting, on 3 December, the rep"esentative of the Philippines
introduced draft resolution A/C.3/L"2f95, entitled "World Conference of the
International- Womenrs Year", which was sponsored by Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain,
Colorabia, the Doninicar Republic, Eeypt, the Gambia, Ghana, Grlyana, Iran, Jamaica'
Jordan, the Libyan Arab Repub1ic, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan' !g.g' trte
PhiLippines, Romania, Senegal, Sri Lanka" Trinidad and Tobago, firnisia, Turkey,
UgaJrda, the United Republic of Cameroon and Venezuela' later joined by Chad'
Guinea" Indonesia. Mauritania and Oman. The draft resolution read as follows:



iage o

"The General- As sembll-,

"Recalling its resolution 3o1o (XF/II) of 18 December 19?2 proclainring
i.ha rrc.ar 'l 075 oc Thf arh^ti^hal Llanonr< Vaar

'tRecallins also Econonic and Social Couneil resolutions 1BL9 (LVI) and
r8:r (r,vfl or-I6lF IgTL+ eonvening an international conference d.uring
lnternational llomenr s Year as a focal ooint of the international observance
of the Year 

"

further its resolutions 3276 (XXIX) and 327? (IXIX) of
Iconomic and Social council resol"ution 1959 (LIX)

the l,trorl-d Conference of the International hlomen rso1 zo July -19 I>
Year,

concerning

"Recallins the irnportance of the participation of women in the
inplernentation of the decisions of the sixth and seventh special sessions of
the General Assembly as welf as of the Ner,r International Economic order,

'rHaving considered the report of the l,lorld Conference (E/5725 and Add.t),

'E!&!S._consj4g{gd_gb_g the note of the Secretary-General on the
estabfishnent of an international research and trainine institute foa the
advancement of r,romen ( A/1031+O ) .

"Conrineed that the World Conference, through the adoption of the
Decl-aration of Mexico, the Worl-d Plan of Action and other resol,utions " hasmade a va^luab1e and constructive contribrrtion towards the achievenent of the
threefold objectives of the Year, namely the promotion of equality between
rnen and women, ensuring the fu11. integration of vomen in the total developnent
effort, and the promotion of vomenrs contribution to the developnent of
friendly rel-ations and co-operation among States and. to the strengthening of
vorld peace,

"Considering the valuable and constructive contributions towards the
implementation of the threefold objectives of the International l^lomen's Year
made by conferences and seminars held during the Year,

"Convinced also that the promotion of development objectives 8nd the
s oluti on- o?- ciiEfEl-i6i1d econlrnic and socia.l problems shoufd contribute
significantly to the improvement in the situation of vonen and in particular
that of women in rural areas and in l"ow-income grouDs,

"Convinced ftrrther that women rnust play an inportant role in the
. -r.-----.------i-:_promotion, achievement and maintenance of international peace,

"Considerine that the decisions and reconmendations of the Conference
should be translated into concrete action vithout delay by States,
organi zations of the United Nations system and intergovernment al and
non-governmental organizations,



A/10\7)+
En g1i sh
Pooc 7

"Recalling that the Conference stressed the inportant rofe of regional
comrissions in the ir:nplement ation of the World Plan of Action and related
resolutions e

''Convinced that periodic and comprehensive reviews arrd appraisals of
progress made in meeting the goals of the World Plan of Action and related
resol-utions endorsed by the Conference &re of crucial importance for its
effective irnplernentation , and shoul_d be undertaken at regular interval-s by
Governments and by the organizations of the United. Nations systenx within an
qqreorl l- i mo froma

'rNoting that the Conference recomaended the continuing operation of the
Cor,nission on the Status of Women or sone other representative body, within
the structure of the United Nations, designed. specificaJ_Iy to deal with
matters relating to the status of vomen, so as to ensure the imple,nentation
of ongoing projects designed to carry out the progra.nmes set forth in the
llorld Plan of Action,

"1. Takes note of the report of the World Conference (E/r725 and Add.l)
includ"ing tt 

"Sucf 
a""tion of l.{exico on the Equality of Wonen a,nil their

Contribution to Developnent and Peace, the World Plan of Action for the
inplenentation of the objectives of the fnternational Wornenrs Year, the
regional plans of action, and the resolutions and other reconmendr,r.tions
adopted by the Conference, and. endorses the action proposals contajned in
these docr.ments;

Proclaims the period L976-a985 as the United Nations Decade for
Itromen: Equality, Development and Peace to be devoted to effective and
sustained national, regional ald international action to inplement the l,lorfd
Plan of Action and related resolutions:

'3. CaJ-ls uoon C,ovemments,
recommendations contained in the

as a matter of urgency, to examine the
world Plan of Action and related resolutions.

including nati.onaf action such as:
tt(a) Establisbment of shorte medium and long-term targets, and

priorities to this end, taking into account the guidelines set forth in
chapters 1 and If of the Plan, including the minim:n objectives reconmrended
for achievement by 1980 (E/5725, chap. f, para. l+6);

Ir /r- \ 
^,r^-+.i^- ^J' -^\u/ nsvyurvu -. --tional strategies o pJ-ans and programes for their

inplementation r,rithin the fl'aflework of over-alf development plans, policies
on zl nrno*ornoc .

"(c) Und.ertat<ing of regular reviews and appraisals of progress made at
the national and 1ocal- l-evels in achieving the goals and objectives of the
Plan vithin the fr€meltork of over-a1I development plans, policies and
progranmes;



A/1or+71
Eng-lish

tt4. Requests the Se cretary-General to transmit to the relevant organs
of the United l{ations and. to the organizations of the United Nations system
the decisions and. reconmendations of the Conferencel

"5. fnvites all relevart organizations of the United llations system
concerned:

"(a) fo submit within the framework of the Aduinistrative Cormittee on
Co-ordination theiT proposals and suggestions to the Econonic and Social
Council at its sixty-second session for implementing the Worfd Plan of
Action and. refated resolutions during the Decade for trionen: nquality,
leve-Lopmenl and Hcace , .Lylb-19O);

"(l) fo develop and irnplement during the first half of the decade
I9T6-f985 

" 
Lrnder the auspices of the Administrative Corornittee on Co-ordi-nation,

a joint interagency ned.i um-t e rm prograrnme for the integration of vomen in
development, which should. co-ord.inate and integrate activities und-ertaken
in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, vith speclal enphasis on technicaf
co-operation in prograrnmes relating to women and developrnent;

"(c) To rende"r in accordance vith requests of Governn']ents sustained
assistance in the forrnulation, design, inplementation and evaluation of
projects and prograrmes r^rhi ch would enable women to be integrated in national
and international d.evelor:ment :

'6, Ca-lls upon the regional conmissions to develop and implement, as a
matter of priority, effective strategies to further the objectives of the
World Pfan of Action at the reglonal and subregiona"l Ievels, bearing in mind
their respective regional plans of actionl

"7, Urges all financial institutions and a"Ll internations-I, regional
and subregional development banks 8lrd bilateral funding ageneies to accord
high priority in their development assistance in accordance with requests of
Governments to lrojects that uoufd promote the integration of vonen in the
developnent process, in particular women in the rural areas, as vell as the
achievement of equality of women and men, priority being given to corrtries
vith linited financi al means:

"8. Urges non-government al organizations at the national and
international levels" to take all possible measures to assist in the
implementation of the l{orld ?lan of Action and. related resolutions vithin
their particular areas of interest and competence;

"9. Decides in principle in accordance with resolution 25 adopted at
the iiorld Conference to estabfish, under the auspices of the United Nations 

"an fnternational Insti.tute on Research and Training for the Advancement of
Women, which vould be financed through votuntary contributions and would
coll-aborate with appropriate national" regional and international economic
and social research institutes I



A/rd17\
tinslf sh
paie 9

rr1o. fnvites the Secret ary-General therefore to appoint, r,rith due
consi derationJ6-the principle of equitable geographical disiribution, a
SToup of 5 to 10 experts to draw up the terms of reference and structuraf
organizations of the rnstitute, with special consid-eration given to the needs
of t"ron-en of developing countries ard requests the Se cl-etary-Ceneral to t-eportto the ncononic and- social council at its sixtieth session on the basis of
the xecormendations of the group of experts a.ird after having consulted with
representatives of existing regional centres and/or institutes for research
and training t&ich have similar objectives and goa"ls;

"11, Affirns tirat a system-wi de reviev and appraisal of the World plan
of Action EtroFte underta.hen biennially, and that such reviews and
apprai.safs should constitute an integral part of the procedure of reviev
and appraisal of progress made under the International Development Strategy
for the Second United Nations DeveloFment Decade, taking into account the
Nett Intenationa"l Economic Order and the decisions resulting from the
sixth and seventh special sessions of the Generat Assenbfy;

"12. Affi rns that the General Assenbly and other relevart
al-so consider biennially the progress achieved in the promotion
equality of women vith men in all spheres of life in accordance
international standards and in particular their participation in poritical
life a'd in intemational co-operation e''d the stxengthening of internationaf
peace;

r?13. Expresses the hope that the Ad Hoc Colrnittee of the llhole which
witl consiEEi-TnE-i66iT of the c'oup of Experts on the Restructuring of the
United Nations System (E/AC.62/9) viU take fulf account of the need. to
imptement the world Plan of Action and related resolutions of the world
conference on rnternational woment s year as well as the requirenents of the
Decade for l,rlomen: Equality, Developnent an<i peace, and appeals to the
Ad l{oc Cormrittee to ensure, that the machinery designed to d.eal with
questions relating to vomen should be strengthened, taking into account in
particular the rol-e of the Comnission on the Status of Wonen and the
procedures establ-ished for systern-r.ride rerriew and appraisal- of the World
Plan of Action;

't1\. Decidqs to inscribe on the agenda of the thirty-first session of
the GeneralGffibly an item entitled '"trr" unit.a ttrations Decade for l,ronen:Equality, Development and peacer ;

"15. Invites the Secret ary-General- to subndt a progress report to the
General- Assen,bly at its thirty-first session on the measures taken to
implernent the trforl-d P1a.n and. related resolutions, and on the progress
achieved in initiating the prceedures for its review and appraisar by Member
States, the United- Nations organs, the regional conrmissions, the specialized
agenci es and other intergovenmental organiz atlons concerned I

oooaes snouad
of the fuu
with



A/10474
Engl"i sh
Page 10

"16, Requests the Sec retary-General to ensure if possible vithin
existing ""**, 

that the Secretariat unit responsible for l'ronen t s
questions possesses adequate personnel al]d budgetary xesources in order to
diseharge 

-its 
functions under the l,.lorld Plan of Action in co-operation v'j th

a.lf orsanizations of the United Nations system;
it17 !-^,roc+ c frrrthar the Secret ary-General , in the light of paragralh 15

the requirements of the llorld Plan of Action and
Conference in preparing revised estimates for i-977

and the meoium-terrn plan for 19?8-1981 and to report thereon to the General
Assembly at its thiriy-first session, in accordarrce vith established
procedures I

"18. Urges ail States, the United Nations system and interglovernmental'
and non-governmental organiza+.ions concerned n as well as the mass
ccmmunication media to give widespread publicity to the achievements and
significance of the Conierence at the national, regional and international
leveIs ;

"19. Requests the Sec ret ary-General as a natter of high priority to issue
witnin e"iEfG[TEsources a simplified version of the fiorld Pfan of Action'
as a booklet in the official languages of the United Nations, vhich vould
highlight the targets, goals and main recornrnendations for action by
Governnents, the United Nations family and non-government al organizations,
and r+hich v;uld explain the relevance of the implementation of the World ?lan
of Action to the daily lives of men and women throughout the world;

rt2o. Decides to convene at the nid-term of the United l{ations Decade for
trlomen: fquafity, Deveiopment and Peace, in 1980, a vorld conference to
review aJId evaluate the progress made in inplernenting the objectives of the
International Vtroments Year as recorurended by the World Conference of the
Internationat Wcnen's Year and rrhere necessary, to readiust -- exi sti ng
programmes in the light of netr data and research available. "

11. At the 217?th meering, on l+ Decenber, the reFresentative of the Ukrailian
Soviet Sociafist Renublic submitted an oral amendment to insert the vords "of
ffird'',conference''andthevords''toreview''in
operative paragraph 20.

L2. At the zl8oth meeting, on 5 December, the representative of Yueoglavia
subnitted an oral amendnent to replace the words 'ran integral part of" by the
word.s "an input to the process" in operative paragraph 11.

13. The representative of Madagascar submitted a.n smendment (A/C"3/L.22A6) fu
replace operative paragraphi 9 and 10, respecti.vely " by 

the folloving texts:

above, to take into account
related resolutions of tire



A/10)+71+

English
Pase l-1

"9. Agrees in principle to the establishment " under the auspices of 
the

United Nations, of ar Internationaf Research and Training lnstitute for the
Advancement of Women, financed through voluntary contributions (as recomr,rended
in resolution 26 adopted at the Iiorld Conference in Mexico)";

''10. Inrrites the Sec ret ary-Cenera.f therefore, in accordance vith the
reconnendations contained in resofution Z6 (f) anA (2) of the \,Iorld
Conference, to establish a group of 5 to 10 experts, on the basis of equitable
geographical distribution, r,rith a representative from each regional centre
for research and training for the advancernent of lromen, to assist him in the
study of the establ-ishment and the definition of the terms of reference of
the Institute, and requests the Seclet ary-General to submit a report to the
Econonic and Social Council at its sixtieth session on the basis of the
recommendations and concfusions of the 65roup, "

14. At the 21d0th neeting, on 5 Decenber, the aJrendnent subrdtted by ''adagascar
(see para. f3, above), which was not accepted by the sponsors, was not pressed to
a vote. Subsequently, the sponsors of the draft resofution revised operative
paragraphs 10, 11 and 20, talring into account the amendment of l'ladagascar ard
incorporating the proposals of Yugoslavia and the Lll<rainian Soviet Socialist
Republic (see paras. fl and 12 above).

15, The Connittee had before it a statement on financial irrplications (A/C.3/5\B)
reLating to the drafb resolution (A/c,3/L.2195),

16. At the 2lBLst meetino on 5 llc(]cmlrer thc Cornnittee voted. on the draft
resolution as fol]-ows:

(a) Operative para€Taph J. vas adopted by a ro11-c411 vote of 73 to 22, vith
22 abstentions. The vating was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, 3ang1ad.esh, 3enin,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussien Soviet Socialist
Repirblic, Chad, China, Cuba, Cyprus; Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Gennan Democratic
Fepublic, Ghana, Cwana, Hungary, fndia, Indonesia, Iran, fraq,
Jamaica, Jordal, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic,
Mad.agascar, i'{alaysia, Mali, l{auritania, Mexico, Mongo1ia, l.'lorocco,
Mozanbique, Nepa-l, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia'
Senegal, Sri Lsnka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Trinidad and tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda" Ukrainian Soviet
Socia.list Republic, Union of Soviet Social-ist Republics ' 

United
Arab Amirates, United Eepublic of Cameroon, Upper Volta,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugosla-r.ia, Zambia,

Against: Australia, Belgiun, Canada, Chile, Colornbia, Costa Rica, Denrnark,
Frarce, Germany (Fed.era1 Republic of), Guatenala, Itaiti, Honduras,
Ireland, Israel , It€J-y, Liberia, Luxembourg " lletherlands,Nicaragua, Norway, United Kingdom of Great B?itain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.



Abstaining: Austria, Bahamas, Barbados " 
Bhuts-n, Bolivia' Ethiopia' Fiji,

Finland, Greece' Iceland, Japan, l'lalawi, IIew zealand, Portugal '
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Swaziland' Sweden, Togo'
Uruguay, Zaire.

(b) Operative paragraph 2 was adopted by 81 votes to )+, uith 31 abstentions.

(.) The d-raft resol-ution as a vho].e was adopted by a roI1-ca1l vote of
97 to 2, wi cn ?? abstentions (see para. 30 be1ov, draft resofution ITT). The
votins vas as folIolrs:

In favour:

Abstaining:

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan " 

Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burna, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, China,
Colonbia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslova-kia, Democratic Yenen,
Dominican Republic, Ecuad.or, Egypt, nthiopia, Fiji, Tinland,
Gabon, Gernan Denocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guyana'
Hungary, Tceland, Indiau Tndonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica' Japan,
Jordan" Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon " Lesotho, 

Libyan Arab RepubJ-ic 
'

Madagascar, Ma.laysia, l4a1i, l{auritania' l4exico " 
r4ongolia,

l.'ioTocco, i{ozambique, llepal, Neff Zealand" I'liger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Phil-ippines, Poland, ?ortugal ' Qatar,
Romania, Rwalda, Saud:i Arabia, Senegal, Slerra Leone, Singapore,
Spain" Sri Lanka" Sudan " Svazilarid, 

Sweden 
' 

Syri an Arab Republie,
Thailand., Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda'
Ukrainian Soviet Sociatist Republic' Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab &nirates, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Vo1ta, Uruguay, Venezuelan
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Za"nbia.

Israel ? Nicaragua.

Bahamas, Bar-bados, ?elgiurn, Bolivia, Canada. Chile, Costa Rica,
Denmark, France, Germany (Federal- Republic of)' Guatcmala'
Haiti, Honduras, Irelard, Italy, Liberia, Luxenbourg, l4alawi 'Netherlands, Nolway, United Kingdorn of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland" United States of 4merica.

D. Draft resolut ion A/c.3/L.2796

17. At the Zl"T9th meeting, on 5 December, the representative of the Ukrainran
Soviet Socialist Republic introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/L.2196), entitl-ed
"Equality between men a.nd ffomen and the elinination of discrimination against
vonen"', vhich \tas sponsored by Czechoslovakia, ''lonqolia, i{epal, the Ltrrainia:r
Soviet Socialist Republic and the United Fertrub1ic of Cafleroon, later joined by
Guineao Hungary, Poland and Uganda. The text, which was olalIy revised, and
subsequently Joined by Egypt, read as follows:



A/10)+7l+
Engli sh
Page 13

Wonen ' s Year A,lexi co ,
"Welconing the results ofsults of the l,Iorld Conference of the International

- ^ -_'ir-y .r une-z ,J1)ry ) 19t2J,

"Recalling the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations which,
inter a-lia, enphasize the importance of the respect for human rights and
fundanents-l freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language
or religion and for the equality of nen and vomen,

"Firmly convinced that discrimination against lromen is incompatible vith
the humane dignity, prevents social progress and achievement of the goals of
developnent ,

"Mindful that the continuation of arcmed conflicts, at:ms race,
colonialism, foreign occupation, racism, racial discrinination and apartheid.
hinders effective realization of equal- rights for women and prevents the
improvement of the situation of women and their wider larticination in al_l
spheres of life,

"Noting conventions and re comrnendations concerning the rights of women
adopted und.er aegis and in the frsnewo?k of the United Nations and its
specialized bodies and progress achieved in their inplementati on,

"Noting that not all States are yet parties to relevaJlt conventions and
other instruments elaborated by the United Nations" the International Labour
Organisation, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cu]-tural
Organization and other United Nations bodies"

"Expressing concern in connexion with continuing discrinination in uany
countl-ies against women in nany fieJds and, in particular, in labour
relations, general and professional_ education and training,

'rAvare that Lromen, enjoying fuuy the rights provided for in the relevant
international instn:ments should play the role equal with men in all spheres
of life, including ensuring of peace, strengthening international security and
should fufly partieipate in political 1ife"

r?Confident that the relaxation of international tension ct rrtributes to
the developnent and implementation of standards in at1 fiel_ds of concern to
I,/Ofien ,

"1. Ca1ls on all States that have not done so to ratify the international
conventions and other instrunents concerning the protection of r^romen r s rights
and the elinination of discrimination against wonen and to inxpfenent
effectivel-y the provisions of these conventions and other instnments,
including the United Nations Declarations and reconmendations of the
International Labour Organisation and the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultura^I Orsanization :



A/101+71+
English

"2, Requests the Connission on the Status of tr"tromen to comp1.ete in 19T6
the elaboration of the draft Convention on the Elimination of Discrinination
against llomen;

"3, Ca1ls on all States to pronxote vigorously vider participation of
wonen in strengthening of international peace, in extending relaxation of
internationa.I tension, on the basis of fu1l respect for the charter of the
United Nations as lrel1 as the United Na,tions resolutions, in settling the
problelTrs of disaruament, in elinination of colonialisrn, foreign occupation,
racisn, racial discrinination and apartheid and in all other fornos of
political l-ife, contributine in this r,ray to the creation of the nost
favourable conditions for the corrDlete elimination of the discrimination
against vomen.It

18. At the 218fst meetinr on 5 T)aopmtrF? thp Cornmittee voted on the draft
resoluti.on as follovs:

i..) nnaF6.r;1,6

(l) The draft
26 abstentions (see

paragraph 3 was adopted by 8! votes to 12, with 22 abstentions;

resolution as a whole was adopted by B8 votes to 2, with
para. 30 below, d"aft resolution TV).

E. Draft decision AlC -3/L.2197

19. At the 2179th meeting, on I December, the representative of Jamaica
introduced a draft decision G/C,3/L.2r97), entitled "Volunt ary fund for the United
Nations Decade for Women" which was sponsored by Colonbia, Costa Rica, the
Dorninican Republic, Gabon, Iran, Jamaica, Morocco, the Philippines and the
Kinedom of Oreat Britain a"nd Nolthern Iretand, later joined by Afghanistan,
Senegal and the United States of America. fhe dTaft decision, whieh was orally
revised iead as fol-lows;

"The Third committee, recalling resolution (XXX) proclainring the
period 1976-19U5 as the United. Nations Decade for l,ionen i Equality,
Development and Peaee, decides that the voluntary fund for the International
wonenrs Year established under Economic and Social Cor;ncil resolution
f850 (Lvl) be erLended to cover the period of the Decade; a^na (i) rcquests
the Secretary-General to present to the sixtieth session of the Economic and
Social council (a) an accor:nting report of the fund, (b) proposals for the
future mnagement of the fund and the criteria to be applied for future
d.isbursements, (c) ttre report requested in resolution 12 of the Internationaf
trlomenIs Year Conference: (ii) invites the Econoroic and Social Council- at its
sixtieth session, in the light of the above reports, to make appropriate
reconmendations for the continuation of the fund to the thirty-first session
of the General Assembly. "

20. At the 21B1st meeting, on 5 Decenrber, the Condnittee adopted the draft decision
withcut objection (see para, 31 below),

United



^/rot47LlEngl-i sh
?oca I5

2I" At the 2179th meeting" on 5 Decerber 1975. the representative of the
Philippines requested that the following be included in the report of the Third
Cornnittee to the General Assemblr/:

"The Philippines delegation futly supported the draft decision
(A/c.3/L.2I97), which rras one of the most significant proposals made in
connexion with agenda items 75 and ?6. The establishment of the fund woul-d
be importsnt for the iroplenentation of the progralnmes cal-Ied. for in draft
resolution AlC.3/L.2l_95 and required for the Decade for Women aJId Development.
The fund shou-ld supplenent regular budgetary resources and not be used as a
substitute for resources that sh ould regularly be used for womenrs questions.
Thus, the fund should not be regard.ed as a regular trust fund adninistered
by the Secretary-General but, ratber, as a unique fund affording nany
possibilities for grotrth and d.evelopnent. Governments, for instance, could
ask for alirect assistance r:nder this fund for their vonen's progra,nmes, If
the fund was rnanaged with integrity and imagination, it would be able to grov,
but it noutd also require the fornu-lat i on of a progranme to encourage
contributions fron Governments and private individuals. In that eonnexion,
it rqas envisaged that wornen in rural aaeas in countries such as the
Philippines would be villing to contribute even in a nnodest way to the furd
when they had seen what it was doing to inprove their status. Lastly, with
regard to the cornposition and policies of the board to be entrusted with the
management of the fund, it is fel,t that they uust rer'Iect the interests and
concerns of Governments . "

I. Draft resolut fon A/C.3/L.2l98

22. At the 2179th meeting, on 5 Deceraber, the representative of Nigeria introduced
draft resoluti"on A/C,3/L.21!8, entitled "Improvement of the economic status of
wonen for thei? effective and speedy participation in the development of their
countries", which was sponsored by Botsvana, Colonrbia, Costa Rica, Gltyana, Jamaiea,
Kenya, Lesotho, Nj.geria, Fwanda, Svaziland, the United Republic of Cameroon, the
United States of America and Urugua]r, later joined by Barbados, Canada, Guinea,
Liberia, Honduras, Togo and Zambia. The text, which was orally revised, taking
into account a proposal by Ma1i, and subsequently sponsored by Mali, read as
follovs :

"The General Assemblyu

riRecognizing that nany r,romen in fow-income countries are engaged in
various econornic activities, on a self-rel-iant basis not normally taken into
account vhen considering the GNP,

"Convinced that the contribution of such economic activities by wornen
to the over-afl national economic development is substantial,

''Further convinced that credit facilities are a necessary prerequisite
for the improvement of econcrnic activities of women engaged in self-reliance
proJects,



A/ro\7\
English
fage fo

"Recoqnizing the continued benefits that can accrue from 3gssss to even
moderate financial resources, when such become available,

"Concerned that many loaning and financial institutions continue to
pract i JE-Tfs cillrination towards vonen, considering then poor credit risks, and
that local- and national practices and customs in nany parts of the world bar
women from engaging in responsible financial transactions,

"Feaffirning resolution 10 ad.opted at the tr^Iorld Conference for
fnternational Woments Yes.r 'Access of l{onen bo Fina"ncial Assisl,ance,,

Urges Governments, governmental and non-governmental organi zations
to support more vigorously official and private efforts to extend to women
facifities now being offered only to nen by financiat and lending
institutions;

"2" Requests Governments to encourage al-l efforts by womenrs
vr6anr!-aurv'D, .---peratives and lending institutions which will enable
woraen at lowest 1ewel in rural and urban areas to obtain credit and loans to
improve their econornic activities and -lntegration in national- developnent I

"3. Urges Governnents, the United Nations devefolment systeno includ.ing
specialized agencies and non- gove rnment aI organizations to incorporate in
their training progranmes, vorkshops, seminars, courses desiAned to irnprove
the efficiencv of vonen in business and financial nanagenent,"

23. At the 218l-st meeting, on 5 December" the Corunittee adopted the draft
resofution \dthout objection (see p.ra. 30 be1ow, draft resolution V).

G, Draft resolution A/C. 3/L.2]99

d+. At the 2180th meeting, on ! December, the representative of Egypt introduced
the revised text of a draft resofution (A/C-3/L.2799/Rev.1), entitled "women in
rural areas", whieh was sponsored by Afgleanistan, Bangladesh, Algeria, Argentina'
Botsvana, Cofombia, the Doninican Repubfic, Ecuador, Egypt, Guyana, Iran, Jamaica,
Malawi " Mauritania, Mexico" Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, the Philippines " 

Rornania,
Senegal, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic. Tr.rnisia, Uganda" the United Republic
of Caneroon and Yugosl-avia, later joined by Lesotho, Togo and Zambiao the revised
draft resolution read as foflovs:

"The General Assenbfy,

"Recalling its resolution 32?6 (XXIX), in r^rhi eh it decided to consider
at its thiftieth session an item entitled 'fnternatianal Inlomen's Year,
including the proposals aJrd recomnendations of the Conference of the
International Wonenr s Year r ,

resolution 21 adopted by the i^iorld Conference of
Year. the r:rincinles contained in the 19?5

account



A/1oL?l+
English
page 17

Declaration of Mexico, the World Plan of Action and the relevant resolutions
beari.ng on the contribution of wonen to equality, peace and development,

"Realizing the inportance of the adherence to the reconmendations of
the Worl-d Pl-an of Action esrceciallv those related to l'omen in rural and
1ow-income areas,

"Considering also the vital role ru.ra1 vomen play not only witbin the
fa,pi ly unit, but also in the process of national devel-opnent, through
agriculture and particularly through food production and dist"ibution,

"Bearing in nind that, in nany parts of the wor1d" illiteracy, lack of
educati.on and training and inadequate distribution of humsn and economic
resources have caused severe unemlloynent and underemployment problens for
women and hindered them from contributing fu1ly to the nationa"l d.evelopnent
efforts,

"Convinced that the struggle for development is the primary resonsibility
of all peoples and Governnents, taking into account the principles of the
Cbarter of Econonlc Rights and- Duties of States and the Declal'ation aJrd Pla.n
of Action on the Establishnent of a New International Econoroic order,

"Noting the l-ack of both quartitative and qualitative data on the pcsi.tion
of women and their role in afl ruraf activities "

lrol].ng atso
ttre unlTE?TEion-s

the activities related to rural llomen undertaken to date by
bodies and special agencies concerned,

"Noting further the need for co-ordinated and systematic exarnination
of the situation of rural vomen and their role in all rural- activities,

"1. Urges a.l1 Governments to accord - within their respective plans -
higher priority for (a) gathering relevant data on the status and role of
women in rural and Iow-incorne areas, (b) achieving socio-economic conditions
based on the real-ization of the full and equal partnership of men and women
in the development of society, both in law, and in fact, (c) promoting
agri cultural productivity, agro-based industries and integrated mral
development progranmes ;

"2. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare and subrnit through the
Economic and Soci.al Council - on the basis of the vier/s of the rel-evant
United Nations bodies and specialized agencies, as well as those of the
Governments - guidelines for non-formal, education progrartrnes designed to
enable rural $omen to use fulIv their calabilities and to contribute to the
devel-opment of society.,

"3, Urees also the United Nations organizations, the specialized
agencies, and the regional comrnissions and the international financial
institutions to accord special attention to government programmes and projects
aimed at the ful-1 integration of rural vomen in developnent;



A/10471+
English
_Hape _Lo

"l+. Urges all Governments to develop extensive training prograrunes
relevant to women and to make full- use of al]. existing and proposed research
institutes and. centres, particularly the regional and international
institutes and centres for the ad.vancement of wonen in rural areas i

"5. Requests the secretary-General, in consultation with Menber States
and the speeialized ageneies and organizations of the United Nations systern,
+^ TAn^n+ +^ {+ }ia,'**nnuaIly on the progress achieved in connexion r'rith the work
referred to in the foregoing paragraphs. "

25. At the 2180th neeting, on 5 December, the sponsors of the draft resoltuion
further revised the text ora11y by:

(a) Deleting the rsords t'have caused" between the words "resources" andr'ssvslsrr and to replace the vord "and" by the word "have" bet'^'een the r^'ord "wonen"
and the word "hindered" in the fifth prearnbular paragraph;

(t) Rpnlaeino tl-e r-rnrd "the" h" fhF r.lr'rd "a" in the first line of the sixth
preambu1ar paragraph ;

(c) Replacing the words "the lack of" by the words "the need for" in the
first line of the seventh preambular paragraph;

(d) Replacing the vord "biannually" by the word "biennial1y" in operative
paragraph 5.

26. At the 2181st neeti.ng, on 5 Decenber, the Conr:dttee voted on the draft
resolution as fol"lows:

(a) The second preambular paragraph was adopted by a ro11-ca11 vote of
82 to 3, with 32 abstentions. The voting rnras as fol-l-o.ws:

Tn favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bshrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botsva.na, Brazil, Bul-garia, 3urma,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, cuba, cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dominican Fepublj.c, Ecuador,
Egypt, Finland, cabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guyana, Hungary, IcelanC, India, Tndonesia, Irarr, fraq, Jarnaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Maurit€.nia, Mexico" Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepa1, New Zealand, Nigeria, Onan' Pakistan,
Panana, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia" Senegal, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sveden, Syrian Arab
Repub11c, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad arld Tobago " 

Tunisia' Turkey 
'Uganda, Ukrainisn Soviet Socjalist Republic, Union of Soviet

Social-ist Republics, United Arab Ernirates, United Republic of
Cameroon 

" United RepubJic of Tanzania, UDpe.r Volta, Venezuela,Yenen, Yugoslavia" Zambia.



A/10\?4
English
Page 19

Against: Israel, Liberia, Nicaragua.

Abstaining: Barbados, Belgiun, Bolivia, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Fica'
Denmark, Ethiopia, Fiji, Irance, Germany (Federal Republic of)"
Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Irelandn Italy' Japan'
Luxenbourg, Malawi, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, United Kingdon of Great Britain
and No"them freland, United States of America, Ur uguay, Zaire.

(l) The sirth presmbular paragraph was adopted by a ro1l-calf vote of 108 to
none, with 12 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Afgeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, 3enin, Bhutan, Boliria' Botswana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burna, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Chad, Chi1e, China, Colonbia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cl4)rus,
C ze chos lovaki.a, Denocratic Yenen, Dennxark, Doniniean Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt r Ethiopia, Fiji, tr'in1and, Gabon, German Democrstic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, fndia, fndonesia, fran, Iraq, Ireland,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Republic, Madagas car, Malar^ri, Malays ia, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, It{ongolia, Morocco, Mozanbique, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Nornay, Onan, Pakistan,
Panara, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugaf, Qatar, Roroania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra l,eone, Singapore, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailend,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Enirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zalnbia.

Against: None.

Abstaining; Bahanas, Belgiurn, France, cermany (Federal Republic of), Israel,
Ita1y, Japan, Luxembourg, Nicaragua, Spain, United Kingdorn of
Great Britain and Northern lreland. United States of Anerica.

(c) The draft resolution as a whole was adopted by 12\ votes to none,
r.rith 12 abstentions (see para, 30 t,elor.', draft resclution VT),

Il. Drefc re;o.r -rion .\/C.lrj-.2-C0

27, At the 2179th meeting, on ! December, the representative of the United Republie
of Cameroon introduced draft resolution A/C.3/L.220o" entitled "Measures for the
integration of wornen in developmentn, whi ch was sponsored by the United RepubLic of
Cameroon and- Zaire u later joined by Belgiun, Gabon, France, Lesotho, Togo, the
United States of America, Uganda and Zarnbia, The terb of the draft resolution,
vhich uas ora1ly revised, read as follows:



A/ro\7 t+
Engli sh
Page 20

28. At the 2IBIst meeting, on 5 December,
an oral smendmen! to add the vords "vho so
and the words "to incorporate" in the first
operative paragraph.

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 3010 (XXVII) of 18 December 1972 proclairning the
year I9T5 as International Womenrs Year,

'!r"g4log a-Lso General Assembly resolution
recomlendation of the Second Conmittee.

(XXX) ,* ad.opted on the

"Having considered the Prelininary Report of the International
Year ConTEiEniE-fEGid-by the Secret ary-General in docr-rment x/5725

Women I s
containing
thethe resolutions of the Conference and the !iorl-d. Pfan cf Action for

fmplementation of the objectives of International Womenrs Year'
t'Noting that the Worfd P1an of Action set forth guidance on action

progranmes for the integration of wonen in d.evelopment,

"Recal-ling that General Assembl-y resolution 2626 (xxv ) of 2)+ October l-970
set forth the International Development Strategy for the Second. United. Nations
Development Decad.e and included anong its objectives the fulf integration of
l,romen in the total development efforto and that the maiority of specialized
4d-h^.iac ^+har Trhi+6d r\rations bodies and United Nations Member States hsve
a]'ready advocated sirnitar action, as have individual- donor agencies ard United
Nations Member countries "

"Noting that in its resolution 33\2 (XXIX) the General- Assembly called
,rpot tilE-Giied Nations system to provide increased assistarce to those
progra.rmes, projects a.nd activities that wiU encourage and promote the further
integration of vomen into nationa.I, regional arrd interregional economic
development activities,

"1. Recornnends that aII organs of the United Nations d evelopment systen'
including UNDP and the specielized agencies, and other international technical
and financial assistance progra.nmes and agencies:

"(a) Give sustained attention to the integration of women in the
folmulation o design and implementation of d.evelopment proiects arrd prograrutres;

"(t) Assi.st Governncents to incorporate in their developnent pIans,
progranme and sector analysis, ard progr€llme and project documents, an impact
statement of how such proposed progra.mes will affect women as participants
and benefi ciaries. "

* Pending adoption by the General Assenbly.

the representative of AJeeria submj.tted
t"qr."l" betveen tbe w6id-Tcdvernments "
line of subparagraph (b) of the



A/10474
English
Page 21

29, At the same meeting, the Connittee voted on the draft resolution and the
amendment thereto as folfows:

(a) The amendment by Algeria ras adopted by 6/ votes to none with
25 abstentions;

(b) Subparagraph (b) of the operative paragraph, as amended, was adopted
without objection;

(c) The draft resolution as a who1e, as a:lended, uas ad.opted lrithout
objection (see para. J0 be1ow, draft resolution VII),



A,,'-t 0r,'/,1

Page 22

III. RECoMVIENDATIONS 0F THE THfBD CoMI4ITTEE

30, The Third Coru0ittee reconm.ends to the General As serrbly the adoption of the
follol,ring draft resolutions :

ssior of

DRAFT] NESOLUTION ]

iation to the Government and Mexico

The General Assembly,

Consid.ering the significarice and
the International Womenrs Tear, which
the United N5tions on wonenIs issues.

posi.tive results of the World Conference of
is the first world. conference sponsored by

Ilwnr.o< c ec i+a ?166n---------- --- *--' appreciation to the Governnent end people of l{exico for
hosting the Wor].d Conference of the International Women I s Year,



A/ao\71+
English

DBAFT RESOLUTION II
Women I s i cipation the

and in the
of international

coloni sm. ract sn. rac 1a-L
ion and al] forrrs of

Recafling its resolution 3275 (XXIX) of tO December I97\,
Considering the report of the Wortd Conference of the International- llomenrs

\ear, !/ in particular the Decl,aration of Mexico on the Equal,ity of llomen and. their
Contribution to Development and peace, f97r, ?/ the WorLd plan of Action for the
Implernentation of the Objectives of the Interi-at i onal Wonen r s year 3/ and the
resol-utions contained in the report of the Conference, l+/

. , Appreciating that the Conference emphasized the inportant role women nust pJ-ay
1n the strengthening of international peace and security and the expansion of
co-operation €.nong states, irrespective of their sociar and. economic systems, on theprinciples of peaceful coexistence in accord.ance ffith the charter of tle united.
Nations,

Endorsing the statement of the conference that internationa.l- co-opexation and
peace require the achievement of national litreration and independ-ence, the
preservatj on of sovereignty and territorial integrity, the elinination of colonialism
and neo-coloni alisn, aggression and foreign occupation, apartheid and racial
discrininatlon in all- its forms, as we]t as the recognitio";F-if,. dignity of
peoples and their right to s e1f-determinat ion ,

IVoting vith €atisfacti.on tbe opinicn expresseat by the conference that peace
r.q.,iffimenie3ect"o}typ"ofinteIventioninthedomestic
affairs of the States, openly or covertly carried out by other States or by
transnationaf corporations, that vomen as welr as nxen also pronote the respect for
the sovereign right of a state to estabr.ish its ovn econoraic, social and p-titicat
system without political and economic pressu.res or coercion of any type,

Tehing i4to account the view of the Conference that the Charter of Econonic
ai ght;-;ndlG;;;-;T-ET ate s J/ confirm", irl""-"ri", the obligation of ar-l- states to
promote the inplementation of general- and complete d i s arroament and to use the funds
saved for economic and sociaL development and provide part of them for the need.s of
Lhe developing countries,

The Genelql Assemb].y,

! n/srzs and Add . 1.
^l 

n lr-^-4t L/J(2>, palt one, sect. f.
3/ lbid. , sect. fI.A,
)+/ Ibid. , sect. III.
5/ Genera"l Assembly resofution 3AB1

foreign domination

( xxrx) .



Al IOt+7 4
English

Noting with satlsfacti.on the positive
last few years in international relations,
sources of war in Viet-tlam and the results

changes which have taken place d.uring the
such as the el-inination of the dangerous
of the Conference on Security and

Co-operation in Europe, a"nd noting also the importance of deepening the process
of international dStente and strengthening international Just peace based on full
respect for tLre Charter of the United Nations ald the j.nterests of sLf States, l-arge
and sna1I.

Enphasizing the glave concern that in some regio4s of the world colonialism,
apartheid, racial discrinination and foreign aggression yet exist and territories
are sti1l occupied, which represents a nost serious infringement of the principles
of the Charter of the United Nations and. of hu.nan rights of both men ancL women, and.
of the peoples t right to s elf-detemination,

l. leaffirms the principles promui-gated in the Declaration of Mexico on the
Equality of Women and their Contribution to Development and Peacen 1975;

?, Reaffirns that the strengthening of international peace and security,
co-operati.on anong all States irrespective of their social and economic systens,
based. on the principle of peaceful coexistence, and the e.linination of the renaining
vestiges of colonialism, neo-colonialism, apartheid " all forms of racism and. raciafd.i s criroinati on , alien domination, foreign aggression and occupation are
ind.ispensable for the s afeguard.ing of the fundam€ntal human rights of both men and
women ;

3. Cal1s upon a1f Goverrurents, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations, particularJ-y women I s organizations and womenrs groups, to intensify
their efforts to strengthen peace, to expand and deepen the process of international
d.6tente and make it irreversibJ-e, to elininate compfetely and definitefy aJ-J. forros
of colonialism and. to put an end to the policy and practice of apartheid, a.l.l forms
of racism, racial discrimination, aggression, occupation and foreign donination;

1+. Urges a1f Governnxents to take effeetive measures toward.s bringing about
general and conplete dis armament and convening the Worfd Disarmament Conference as
soon as possible;

5. Expresses its solidarity with and its assistance for wornen who contribute
towarcis th@ for their nationa-I liberation;

6, Invites the Secret ary-General to subnit a conprehensive report on the
inplernentation of the pr€sent resolution to the General Assembly at its
thirty-second session,



A/10)+?)+
Eng-lish

DRAF'T IXSOLUT]ON T1]

World Conference of the International Women's Year

The General Assemb].y,

Recallins its resolution 3010 (XXVII) of f8 December I97p ln which it
proclaimed the year l-975 International Women,s year,

ISSg4jlg_gI_gS Economic and. Social Council ?esolutions 181+9 (LVI) and
r8:l -Gvif oT-f6 f'lav 197)+ convening an international conference during the
Tnternational Wonen's Year as a focal Doint of the international observance of
the Year.

10
28

Recal-1ing fi:rther its xesolutions 3216 (XXIX) and 3277 (XXIX) of
December l-974 as r,re11 as Xconomic and Social Council resoluti.rn 1959 (I,IX) of
July 1"975 coneerning the World Conference of the lnternational Womenr s Year,

Recalling the inportance of the participation of women in the implenentation
of the decisions of the General Assenbly at its sixth 6/ and seventh speciai
sessions 7/ as wel]- as in the implenentation of the progranrne of Action on the
Establishnent of the Nelr International neonomic Order, 9/

Having eonsidered the report of the Confer ence, 9f
Having considered. also the note by the Se cretary-General on the establishrnent

of an international research and traininE institute for the advancement of
wornen o 10/

Convinced that the Conference, through the adoption of the Declaration of
Mexico on the Equality of Women and their Contribution to Development and Peace,
1975" L/ the WorJ-d. Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Objectives of the
fnternat,ional Wonen's \ear !2/ and other resolutions, has made a valuable and
constructive contribution tor,rards the achievement of the threefold objectives of
the Year, namety the promotion of equality between men and women, ensuring the fu1l

6/ Official'Records of the General Assen0bl,y. Sixth Slecial Session,
irupprement r\{o, -L \Al g>>g ) .

7 General Assembly resolutions 3361 (S-VII) and,3362 (S-VII) and decisions
taken at 2326t]n and 231+9th plenary meetings of the Assembly.

B/ General Assenbly resolution 3202 (S-VI).
9/ E/5725 and Add.1.

f9./ A/1031+o '
!!/ El>tzr, part one, sect. I.
1:?/ Ibid. , sect . II, A.



t\/ Io\7 )+
English
raqe 4()

inbegration of women in the total d.evel-opment effort, the promotion of womenrs
contribution to the devefopment of friendly relations and co-operation among States
and the promotion of their contribution to the strengthening of I'orld peace,

Considering the valuable and constructive contributions tovards the
implementation of the threefold objectives of the International Women's Year nade
by conferences and seminers he1d du?ing the Year,

Convinced also that the promotion of development obi ectives and the solution
of 

"tffiI-Gifd-EEononic 
and social problens should contribute significantly to

the inprovement in the situation of vomen, in particutar that of women in rural
areas and in low-income groups,

Convinced further that vomen must pJ-ay an important role in the promotion'

""tri..rEiE 
- urrd-iIGIErranc e o f inte rnat ional peace,

considerinp tl-a+. the d.ecisions and reconmendat i ons of the Conference t3/ should
l" t r6iEfETEElito concrete action without delay by States, organizations of the
United Nations system and intergovernmental and non-governmentaf organizations,

Recalling that the Conf--rence stressed the important role of regional
"orriiil6il-li 

the imptementation of the World Plan of Action and related
resolutions, J"4 /

Convinced that Feriodic and comprehensive reviews and appraisals of progress
nade in meeting the goals of the World Plan of Action and related resolutions
endorsed by the Conference are of crucia.I inportance for their effective
inplenentation and- should be undertaken at regular intervals by Governments and by
the organizations of the United Idaticns sysrerr vrithir ar agree.i t.ine frame,

Noting that the Conference recoomended the continuing operation of the
Connission on the Status of Women or some other representatil)e body' 1!/ within the
structure of the United Nations, designed specifically to deal with natters relating
to the status of r{oroen, so as to ensure the implementation of continujng proiecLs
designed. to carry out the prograumes set forth in the \^lor1d Pl-an of Action'

1. Takes note of the report of the llorld Conference of the International
Woments Year, including the Declaration of Mexico on the Equality of Wonen and their
Contribution to Development and Peace, 1975, the World P1a.n of Action for the
lmpl-ementation of the Objectives of the Tnternationaf women's Year, the regional
plans of action, and the resolutions and other recommendations adopted by the
Conference, and endorses the action proposals contained in these docu-rnent s I

2, Proclaims the period f97 6-1985 United Nations Decade for women: Equality'
Developrnen- and Feace, to be devoted to effective and sustained national, regional
and international- action to imnlement the Wortd Plan of Action and related
resolut ions :

-/ 
::::'

I4l -Lb]'d., resol.utaon 4.



A/to4TI
English
Paee 27

3, Cal1s upon Govern.ments, as a matter of urgency, to examine the
recornmentlat ions contained in the World. Plan of Action and. related resolutions,
including action to be taken at the national ].eveI, such as:

(a) The establishment of short-term, medirur-term and long-terrn targets, and
priorities to this end, taking intc account the guidelines set forth in chapters f
and II of the trlorfd Plan of Action, including the nlnimum objectives reconmended
for achievement by fg8ot f5/

(b) The adoption of nationat strategies, plans and programnes for the
implementation of the reconmendations within the fr|).ncvork of over-aff devel-opment
plans, policies and prograrnrnes;

(c) The undertaking of regular reviews and appraisals of progress made at the
national and 1oca1 1eve1s in achieving the goals and objectives of the World Plan
of Action within the framework of over-al1 developroent plans, policies and
progranme s ;

\, Requests the Secret aly-General, to transmi.t to the relevant organs of the
United Nations and to the organizations of the United Nations system the decisiorrs
and recornmendations of the Conference;

5. fnvites all relevant organizations of the United ltlations system concemed:

(a) To subnit, within the framevork of the Adninistrative Cornmittee on
Co-ordination their proposaLs and suggestions to the Econonic and Social Council
at its si)i:-th-second session for implementing the World Plen of Action and related
resolutions d-uring the United Nations Decade for llonen: Equality, DeveloFment and

{r) t]1^ ,10r,6l ^r ahr*,3 inplenent, during the first half of the decade f976-f985,
under the auspices of the Administrative Cornmittee on Co-ordination, a joint
interagency medium-tern progranme for the integration of women in develo-cr.en-i " r,rhi 

ch
should co-ordinate and integrate activities undertaken in accordance tith
subparagraph (a) above, with special emphasis on technical co-operation in

'progranmes relating to women sJld development;

(c) To render, in accordance with requests of Governrnents, sustained
assistance in the fofinulat ion ' design, inplementation and evaluation of 

projects
alrd prografimes which would enable vomen to be integrated in national and
international- development ;

6- Cal1s upon the regional conmissions to derelop and implement, as a matter
cf priority, effective strategies to further the objeetives of the World Plan of
Action et the legional and subregional 1eve1s, bearing in mind their respecti.re
regional plans of action;

t2l tt) lz), para. 40.



A/10\Tl+
Engoish
fase zo

7. Urges all financiaf institutions and 8:11 international' regional and
subregional devel-opnent banks and bilateral- fwrding agencies to accord high
priority in their developnent assistance, in accordance vith requests of Governnents r
io projects that would pionote the integration of wonen in the development process'
in iarii"trr*" women in ihe rural areasr as well as the achievement of equality 

of
von;n and nen, priority being given to coultries r^rith linited financial meansl

8. Urges non-government al organizations' at the national and internationa]
levefs, to take afl possible ot..=o"." to assist in the iroplenentation of the Wo"1d
Plan of Action and re.lated resolutlons I'rithin their particular areas of interest
and corcpetence;

g. Decir1es in principle, in accordance ffith Tesolution 26 adopted by the
Conference, to establish, under the auspices of the United llations, €m Tnternational
Institute on Research and Training fo" the Advancement of Wonen, which would be
fina"nced through voluntary contri.butions and would collaborate nith
appropriate naiional, regional and international economic and social research
institutes;

10. Invites the se cret ary-General therefore to appoint' fith due consideration
to ttr. prinEilliof equitable 

"geographical distribution, a group of five to ten
experts to draw up, in consultation with the representatives of existing regional
centres and/or institutes for research and traiiring vhich have sinilar obiectives
and goa1s, the terms of reference and structural organization of the Institute'

- giving special consideration to the needs of women 
of developing countries' and

requests the Secret ary-Genera.l to report to the Economlc and Social Council at its
sixtieth session on the basis of the reconrnendat ions of the group of experts;

11. Affirms that a systenx-wide review and appraisal of the ldorld Plan of
Action shoutd be undeltaken biennially, and that such reviews and appraisals should
constitute an input to the process of- review and appraisal of progress made under
the Tnternational Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development
n.caoe, 16/ taking into accor.:nt the Progranme of Action on the Establishrnent of a
New lnternationa"f }jconomic Order and th! decisions, resulting from the sixth and
seventh special sessions of the Genera] Assembl-y;

Ul Affirms that the General Assembly and other relevant bodies should also
consider biennially the progress achieved in the plomotion of the fu1l equality of
women with nen in all "pl."J" 

of fife in accordance with international standards
a.nd, in particular' the participation of vomen in political life and ir:
internationa.l co-operation and the strengthening of international peace;

13/ Expresses the hope that the Ad Hoc conmittee on the Restructuring of
the Economic and Social Sectors of the United Nations System, ',rhich viIl consider

16l Genere"l Assembly resolution 2525 (XxV).



A/ ]'ot+7 \
hegli.sh

the report of the Group .,f ,r:YhFr+ c ^h +ha st',,^ture of the Uni*,ed ltrations Systemt 
- 

r ^ ^ 7^ t^,\i,/A'-:.ot/9), lU vrII take full account of the need to implenent the World plan of
Action anrl related resolutions of the I,/orld Conference of the International Worcen's
Year as r,v-eil as the requirenents of the United Nations Decade for Wornen: X1ua1ity,
Develotrrnent and Peace, and anpeals to the Ad Hoc Comnittee to ensure that the
machinery desiqned to deal with questions iEl?i-ing to vomen should be strengthened,
taking into account, in particular, the rcle of the Coandssion on the Status of
Women and the procedures estabfished for system-wide review ard appraisaf of the
Itorl d Plar of Action;

1l+. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-first session
an iten enfiTTE "United Nations Decade for rrlomen: Equality, Developnent a:rd
feace:

15. Tnvites the Secret a ry-Ceneral to submit a lrogress retort to the Genera-I
Assernbly at its thirty-first session on the measures taken to irnplement the Wofld
Plan of Action and related resolutions, and on the progress achieved in initiating
the procedures for the Plan's revier and apprai.sal by l4ember Statee, the United
rrlatjons o-rgans, the re4"iona.J commissions, Lhe specialized agencies and other
interqovernnent a1 organiz ations conc erne d :,

I5" Requests the Se cretary -Gene ral to ensure" if possible within existin:
resources, that the Secretariat ulit resDonsible for vomenrs questions possesses
adequate personnel- and budgetary resources in order to discharge its functions r.rnder
the l,.iorld Plan of Action in co-operation with all organizations of the United
ltlati ons system;

IT. Reouests further rhe Sec re t ary.-General , in the liqht of paragraph 15
above, to t el'-e into account the requirenents of the lrtrorld Plan of Action and related
resolutions of the Conference in preparing rerrised estirnates tor J-977 and the
nediuni-terrn rlan for l9?8-i981 and to report thereon to the CeneraJ" Assembly at its
+,hirtw-eirqt <aqeinn j', accordance Vith establishad ^'^^a;-rrac,

18, Urges a1J- States, the organizations of the United lTations system and.
inte rgovernnent af and non-gove rnnent aI organizations concenred, as well as the nass
commi.nications media, to give widespread publicity to the achievements and
siflrificance of the Confer-ence aL the national, regional and international levels;

19, Requests thc Sec ret ar../-General , as a matter of high priority, to issue,
vithin existing resources, in the official l€nguages of the United Nations, a
sinplified version of the trlorl-d Plan of Action as a booklet, which would highlight
the targets, goals arrd. rnain recomraendati ons for acticn by Governments, the United
Nations system and non-government al organizations, and vhich wou1d expl-ain the
releverce of the implerrcntation cf the world Plan of Action to the daify lives of
nen and wonen throughout the 'world;

1Z A Nev United Nations Structure for Glob al" Iconomic Co-opexation (Unitea
Nations publication, Sales No.: E.75,II.A.7).



A/10)+?)+
Engli sh
Page 30

20. lecides to convene ' 
at the raid-term of the United Nations Decade for

Women: uql-.arffil Development and Peace, in 1980 , a vorld conference of all States
to review and evaluate the
Internationa.l l^lomen I s Year
International trtronen ' s Year
the light of rt: ; d.at a and

pro€lress made in inrplementlng the oblectives of the
as reconmended by the Worfd Conference of the
ard, vhere necessary, to readJust existing programmes in

research available.



A/ro)+T\
Eng.lish
Page 31

DRAFT RESOLUTION ]V

Equa-lity between men and vonen and elinination of
dis criminaticn aEainst women

Tha CFnarnl A<camh l.

Welcorninr' lhe results of the World Conference of the International Women's
v^-- -T -rT--:l-rla vi ^^ r-^,,--m 19 Ju.ne to 2 JuIy t9T5,

Recalline the provisions of the Charter of the United lrlations vhich, inter a1ia"
enphasize the inrportance of the res?ect for human rights and fnndanent aI freedoms
for a"11 without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion a.nd for the
equality of men and women 

"

Ilfnlf qg4vr-nce4 that discrinrjnation against women is incornpatible vith hunan
ai gity arxat" rtents social rrooress and achieverent of the goals of cievelopnent,

l4indful that the continuation of arned conflicts, the arr.s race, eolonialism,
forelgn occupaticn, racism, racial discrirdnation and apartheid hinders effecti,ve
realization of equal rights for women and prevents the improvenent of the situation
of women and theiT vifls1 rorr.iajno+jnn in .r'l <nheres of life,

Notina conventions a.n d re cornnendations concerning the ri.ghts of women adopted
under the aegis end in the framework of the United Nations and its specialized
bodies and progress achieved in their inplernent ation ,

Notinc tilat a1l, States are not yet parties to relevant conventions ard other
instruments elaborated by the United Nations, the Internationaf Labour Organisation,
the United Nations Educati^hor Sniontifin ah^ duftural Organization and other

Expressing concern in connexion vith continuing discrimination in many
countries against h'onen in many fields, in particular in labour relations, general-
and Drofessionai education and training,

Avare that women, enJoying fuJ.ly the rights provided for in the relevant
international instruments, shoutd play the role equaf with nen in all spheres of
life, includinr: the ensuring of peace and the strengthenin€r of international
security, and should fully participate in political 1ife,

Confident that the relaxation of international tension contTibutes to the
developraent and imllementation of standards in all fields of concern to vomen o



A/ ro47 4
EngJ-ish
P a4e 32

1. Ca11s uron all States that have nct done so to ratify the international
con venc.i onJ-Ji-ZIiEr insLr unents concerning the protection or vonen!s rights and
the elirqination cf discrirdnation againsL vonen and to inpler-ent effect.ively the
provisions of these conventions and cther instrurents, including decla]'ation8 of
the United Nations and recorunendations of the International Labour Orga:risation and
the United Naticns Educational" Scientific and Cultural Organization;

2, Eeclests the Co:imission on the Status of llomen Lo co'nnlete, in 1975- the
elaboratioi-6i-TIF draft Convention on the Elimination of Discrininaticn against
Women i

3. Catls upon all States to promote vigorously wider participation of wonen
-in the strengtheninq of international Deace anc in extending relaxation of
'int6-nel-i.nel '.en<inn ^r tl-e hasis no "ull resrect for the C\arler of the tjniLed
Nations as wel-l as for United lfations resolutions " 

j.n settling the problens of
dis arrnament " in the eliraination of colonialism, of foreign occupation, 

of racism,
of racial discriroination and of apartheid and in all otheT forms of political 1ife,
contributinq in this way to the &EJtion of the most favourable cond'itions for the
cornplete elimination of discrirnination against {omen '



A/ro\71+
Engli sh

DFAFT NESOLUTTON V

ciDat the d

The General Assembly,

Becognizing that nany women in low-income
economic activities cn a self-Teliant basis not
when considering the gross national product 

"

for their effective and
of their countries

countries are engaged in various
normalllI taken into account

t of the c status of women

Convinced that the contribution of such economic activities by vomen to the
over-all national- economic development is substantial 

"

Further convinced that credit facilities are a necessary prerequisite for
Lhe improvement of economic activities of vonen cnoascrl in sel f-relian.c projects,

Recognizing the continued benefits that can accrue from access to even
moderate financie,]. resources, r{hen such become available,

Concerned. that r0any lending and financial institutions continue to practise
discrimination against women, considering thern poor credit risks, and that loca1
and national practices and custoros in many parts of the worfd. bar women from
engaging in responsible fi.nancial transaetions"

Reaffirn:ing resolution lO, entitled "Access of woraen to financial assistance".
adcpted by the l,Iorfd Conference of tLre fnternational Ltomenrs year.

1. Urges Governments, governmental and non-governmental organizations to
sup?ort more vigorously official and private efforts to extend to wonen facilities
nor,r being offered only to men by financial and lending institutions;

2. Requests Governments to encourage aII efforts by vornen's organizations,
eo-operatives and lending institutions which vi1.} enable women at the lowest level
in rural and urban areas to obtain credit and .loans to improve their econonic
activities and integration in national developnent;

3. Urges Governments and the organizations of the United Ifations
development system, incl.uding specialized agencies and non-governmental
organizations, to ineorporate, in their training prograrmes, vorkshops aJrd
seminars, courses designed to improve the efficiency of vomen in business and
financia]. nanasement.



A,/10)+?l+
English

DRAtr'T RESOLUTION VI

Wonen in rural areas

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 3276 (xxIx) of 10 Decenber l!'fl+, in which it decided
to 

"orrlfdEi-Ef 
its thirtieth session an itern entitled "International Womenrs Year,

including the paoposals and recornmendations of the Conference of the International
i,Jomen s rear -

Taking into account resol-ution 21 adopted by the World Conference of the
International Women's Year. the princip].es contained in the Declaration of Mexico
on the Equality of i{omen arrd. their Contribution to Development and Peace, f975, g
the World Plan of Action for the Implementation cf the obiectives of the
International- \domenrs Year !9/ and the relevant resofutions bearing on the
contribution of women to equality, peace and development,

Real,izing the importance of the adherence to the reconmendations of the !tror1d
Plan of Action, especially those related to women in rural and low-income areas'

ennei dcri ro e 1 cn
unit,-t"--t atso in the
pe"Tti cular]-y throu8h

the vital role ruraf vonxen play ' not 
only vithin the family

process of national development, through agrj.culture aJrd-
food production and distribution 

'
D^^-. -- : - -.'..i +L^-lstur,g., "--t, in r08ny parts of the world' il1iteraey, lack of

ed.t,cailon- and-Il6lilng, inadequate distribution of human and eeonomic resources,
severe unemployment and underemployment problens for fiomen have hindered. them fl'om
contributing fu y to the national development efforts,

Convinced that the struggle for developnent is a prinary responsibility of
all peopl-es and Governnents, taking into account the principles of the Charter of
Economic Rights and Duties of States 20/ and the Declaration 2I/ and' Plan of
Action on the Establ-ishment of a New International Econonic oTder,22/

\3/
1A/

a,
4J
22/

F/5725, part one" sect. L
Ibid., sect. II , A,
General

Genera.l

General

ASSemb !y resol-ut]-on Jzol l,\JlI1\,/.
Assemb-Iy resofution 320I (S-VT).
Asserobly resolution 3202 (S-VI ) .



Noting the need.
wonen and their role

T\T^+i-^ -l^^ +L^lvvrrrF: @frv urts
uniteE-TEITonsEdies

further the
rural- women

A/10l+71+
Engli sh
Page 35

for both quantitative and qualitative data on the position of
in al-l rural activities,

activities related to ruraf women, undertaken to date by the
and special agencies concerned,

need for co-ordinated and systematic examination of the
and their role in a1l rural activities,

1. Urges a1l Goverrurents to accordo vithin their respective plans, higher
priority for:

(") Gathering relevant data on the status and role of vomen in rural and
Iow-income areas;

(b) Achieving socio-economic conditions based on the
and equal partnership of nen and vonen in the d.evelopment
and in fact;

(") Promoting agricultural prod.uctivity, agro-based
rural devefopment progranmes;

realization of the ful]
of society, both in lav,

industries and l:.ntegrated

2, Requests the Secretary-General to prepare and submit, through the
Economic and Social Counci.I, on the basis of the vier,rs of refevalt United Nations
bodies and specialized agencies as velL as those of Governments, guidelines for
non-formal educational progralnmes designed to enable rural_ wonen to use ful-l-y their
capabil-ities and to contribute to the development of society;

3. Urges a^lso United. Nations organizations, specialized agencies, regional
conmissions and international financial institutions to aecord. special attention
to governnent progratxflres and- proJects aimed at the full integration of rural women
in d evelopment ;

l+. Urges al-1 Governments to develop extensive training progrslnes relevant
to vomen and- to make fulL use of all existing and proposed research institutes and
centres, particu.larly the regional and international i.nstitutes and centres fo"
the ad.vancement of women in turaL areas:

the specialized agencies and organi zations of the United Nations system, to report
to it biennial-ly on the progress achieved in connexion vith the work referred to
j.n the previous paragraFhs



ngli sh
rage JO

DBAT'T RESOIUTIOIT VII

l'4easures for the integration of vomen in d-eveloprent

The General As sembly,

Recallinq i.bs resolution 3O1O (xxvfl) of I-B December :t972 ln r'rhich it
troclai-ed vear 1975 Tnternational. !b-en's Year,

Recallins also General Assembly resolution
recormendation of the Second Comnittee,

(XXX)* adopted on the

Ilavins considered the relort of the l{or1d Conference of the Tnternational
",or."lG-TE"" E7-iEiT?inins the resolutions adooteti. by the liorld correrence 2\/ and.
the Ilorld Pla o f Action for the fraplenentat ion of the Obiectives of the
fnternational lbnents Year, 25/

Noting that the i{or1d Plan of Action set forth guidance on action prograrrnes
{'^* +h6 iht arv'l i^h 

^f 
r.,^h6h in darral^nmahi

Fecafling its resolution 2626 (XXv) of 2l+ October 1970 on the fnternational
Development StTategy for the Second United ltrations Developraent Decade, in which the
Assernbly included among the obJectives of the Strategy the fuII integration of
vomen in the total- devel onment ef'ort, and recallinr'' also that tLe raJority of the
slecialized agencies,, other United Nations bodies and l.{ernber States have already
advocated sirnilar action, as have individual donor agencies,

Becalling that in its resolution 3342 (Xxff) of 17 Decenber 1971! the General
Assenbly invited the United ltTations systeq to provide increased assistance to those
progra,rures, projects and activities that r,rill encourage and promote the further
integration of women into national , regional and interregional econol0ic development
activities 

"

1. BSSpSrc4_q!- that all orqans of the United Nations development system'
including the United Nations Devetopment Progranrme and the specialized agencies, and
other international technica"l and financial assistance 'prosrannes and agencies:

(") Give sustained attention to the integration of vomen in the forrmrlat ion 'design and implementation of develoDment projects and progrannes;

(tr) Assist Covernnent s that so request to incorporate, in their develoorent
plans" programme and sector ana.l.'y'ses and prograrnme and project docunents, an irnpact
statement of hor,r' such proposed prograrmes vil1 affect women as pa.rticinants and
beneficiaries,

F Pending adoption by the General Aseenbly (see a/r o3)+)+ /add.1 , para' 26,
dreft resolution II).

?!
?L/
2r/

E/ 5725 and Add.1.

t!/>lz). sectr. -L,LL.
Ibid. , sect. A, TL



31. The Third Conmittee also reconmends to the General As sernbly the adoption of
the following draft d.ecision:

A/101+71+
Ergli sh

(XXX)* procleining the
Equality, Development and

i'The General Assernbly, recalling resolut ion
period 1975-l-985 United Nations Decad.e for r{onen:
Peace :

(") Decldes that the vo1untary fund. for the International llomen r s yearn
established by the Xconomic and Social Council in its resolution 1850 (fVI) of
16 May 19?)+, be extended to cover the period of the Decade;

(b) Requests the Secretarv-General to submit to the Economic and Socia.l
Council at its sixtieth session:

(i) An accounting report of the fund I
(ii) Proposals for the futur e nanagement of the fund and the criteria

to be applied for futur e disbursenents;
(ill) The report requested by the I{or1d Conference of the fnternational

llomenrs Year in il-s rpsnlrrtinr 12'

(c) fnvites the Economic and Social Council, at its sixtieth sessicn,
in the liEqht of the above ?eports, to nake appropriate recornmendat ions to the
General Assernbly, at its thirty-first session" for the continuation of the
r uno.

* Pending adortion by the General Assenbly (see para. 30 above, draft
reso-Lutaon ,1111.




