








































:==:-

-cE 
:

-*4::::::
UN'TED NAilO^{S

GENERAL
A S S E M B LV

Distr.
GEI{ERAL

A/10)+43
9 Decenber 197 5
ENGLISH
ORIGINAI,; EIIGLTSH/SPANISH

Thirtieth session
Agenda iten \6

ESTABLISHMENT OF A NIJCLEAR-I.IEAPON-FREE ZONE IN TI{E
REGTOII OF T}IE TIIDDLE EAST

Report of the First Conmittqe

Rapporbeur: Mr. Horacio ARTEAGA-ACOSTA (Venezuela)

1. The iten entitled "Establishment or a nuclear-weapon -free zone in the region
of the Middle East: report of the Secretary-Genera1" r""a s included in the
provisional agenda of the thirtieth session on the basis of General Assembly
resolution 3263 (XXfi) of 9 December 19?)+.

2. At its 2353rd pJenary meet-Lng, on 19 Septemb er 1975, the General Asseurbly,
on the recornnendation of the General Conmittee- decided to include the item in
the agenda of the thirtieth session and to al-locate it to the First Cornmittee for
consideration and report.

3. At its 2Ol2nd rneeting, on 30 Oetober, the First Cormittee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the iterns allocated to it retating to disarnarnent and
the Tndian Ocean as a zone of peaceo namely, items 31, 3L to l+8, 120, ].22 and- 126.
The general debate on these itenis took place at the 2072nd to 2O95tlj meetings" from
30 october to 21 Novenber.

lr. In eonnexion vith iten Ir5, tte First Comrcittee had before it the rel,ort of the
Secretary-cen eral (A/IO2?I and Add.l and 2),

5. On 29 I'Iovember 1975, Eeypt and f"an submitted a draft resolution (A/eJ/L,1\l)
which vas later co-sponsorEEE Bahrain, Jordan, Ku\rait and Tunisia. Tt was
intToduced at the 2101st meeting, on 1 December, by the representative of fran.

6, At the 21OLth meetino. on ? Ilpno'r].^r Eorrn+ anf, fran submitted a corrigendum
' :5.1-!:\At\-;,r/)J. t4-L/L;orr,r., oy which, in operative-paragraprrl-fb ) , the uord "transit"

(between the vords i'acquisitioni' and "testing'r) woula be deleted so that the
subparagralh would read as follovs:

7r-28n6



A/1orrh3
Engli sh
Page 2

By the same corrigend.um the word tttott was
vord. ItFecoronend.s" .

T. At the 2t06th meeting, on )+ December
Corr.l, as corrected, vas put to the vote.
provisions of the resofution as indicated

(a) The seventh preadobular paragraph
by a record-ed. vote of 9? to none, rrith 13

"(b) Refrain, on a reciprecal basls, from any ether action that would
facilitate the acquisi.tion, testing or use of such veapans, or would be in
any other way detrimental to the UbJective lf the establishment of a nuc.Lear-
weapcn-free zone in the region under an effective systen of safeguards."

In favour: Afghani stan, Algerla, Australia, Austria, Bahrain ' Bangladesh,Barbados, Belgiuro, Benin, Bolivia, Sotsvana, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Social-ist Republic, Canada, Chad, Chile'
Colonbia, Congo" Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Dorninican Republic, ncuador, Egypt, El Salvador n Ethiopia,
Fi.nland, German Democratic Republie, Gernany (Federal Republ-ic of),
Ghana, Greece, Honduras, Hung€Jy, Ice]and, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lsos,
Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malar^ri, Malaysia, MaIi,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepa1,
Netherfandsl Nel' Zeal-and-r Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Onan ' Peru'Philippines, Po1and, Romania, Rvanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
5 erra Leone, Singapore, Sudan" Svaziland. n Sweden, Syr ian Arab
Republic, Thaifand, Togo, Trinid.ad and Totago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukrainian Soviet Socia.list Republic, Union of Soviet Sccial-ist
Republics, United. Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great irita-:n
and Northern tre1a.nd, United Republic of Cameroon, United States
of America, Upper V.1ta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia" Zaire,
Zambia ,

None.Against:

Abstaining: Argentina, Bhutan, Brazil, France, India, Indonesia, Israel,
Pakistan, Portugal, Spain, Sri Lanka, Uganda, United Republic of
TaJIzania.

(b) In operative paragraph S (a), trre vords I'and. nuclear explosive devices'
were adcpted by a recorded vote of !6 to ncne" r,rith 15 abstentions. The voting
uas as fol].cvs;

Afghanistan, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Sangladesh"
Barbados, Belgiun, Benin, Bo1ivia, Botswana, Bulgsria, Burundi 

"Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republie, Canada, Chad, Chi].e 'Colombia, Congo" Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,

added in -rperative paragrap}, l+ aft er the

1975, draft resolution A/C.l/L.741 and
Separate votes vere requested. on the

befow.

and operative paragraph 2 were adopted
abstentions. The voting vas as fo].]-ows:

In favour:



A/101+).13
English
Page 3

Demark, Doninican Republic, Xcuador, ngypt r El- Salvador,Ethiopia, Finland, German Danocratic Republic, cermany (Federal
Republlc of), Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, f ce]-and,
fndonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Ital-y, Ivory Coast, Jamaica"
Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxerotourg,
Madagascar, I"la1aysia, Mafi, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
I{ongolia, Mozambique, Ifepal , Netherl-ands, Nev Zealand, i{iger,
ltligeria, I'lorvay, Oman, pakistan, peru, philippines, poland,
Portugal, Romania, Rvanda, Saud.i Arabia, Senegal , Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sudan, Swaziland, Sveden, SSrian Arab Republic,
Ihai].and, Togo, Trinidad and ?obago, Tunisia, Thrkey, Ukrainian
Soviet Sociafist Republic, Union of Soviet Socia]ist Repubfics,
United Arab Enirates, Unlted Kingdoro of creat Britain and
Northern Ireland., United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
Venezuela. Zambia.

None .

A!g!-ai.:le' Argentina, Bhutan, Brazir, France, rndia, rsrael, Kenya, Ma]affi,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Ugand.a, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, yugoslavia, Zaire.

_ (") .Operative paragraph 3 (b) r^,as adopted by l-oo votes to none" .ith/ abstentions.

AeqiLct,

(d) The draft resolution as a whole
111 to none, with I abstentions (see para.

fn favour:

vas then adopted by a recorded vcte of
B tetow). The voting was as follows:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bang]ad.esh, Barbad.os i Belgium, Benin" Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsvana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Surundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic " Canada, Chad, Chile, China" Colonbia, Congo, CostaRica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemenl D ennark,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, E1 Salvad.or, Ethiopia,
tr'inJ.and, France, German Denocratic Republic, Gernany (Feaeraf
Republic of), Ghana, Greece, Guinea, I{onduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, fnd.onesia, Iran, Traq, Ireland, Ita1y, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, l,esotho, Liberia,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, llalaysia, ivlali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, lr{ongo1ia, Mozambique, Nepal , Netherlands,
New Zealand 

" Niger, Nigeria, llorr,Iay, Oman, 
pakistan, peru,

PhiJ-ippines, Pol-and, portugal , Rcmania, Rvanda, Saud.i Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland." Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, firnisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Social-ist Repubtics" United. Arab
fuirates, United Kingdon of creat fritain and Northern freland,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of .America, Upper
Vol-ta, Uruguay, Venezuela, yugoslavia, Zanbia.



A/10\43
Xngl i sh
fage 4

Against I None.

4.1:!g4j_le, Israel, United Republic of Camerocn, Zaire.

RECOI{'IENDATION OF THE I'IFST COMM]TTEE

B. The First Conmittee recorulends to the ceneral Assenbly the adoption of the
following d-raft resolut ion:

Establishment of a nuc] ear-veapon-free zone in the
region of the Middle East

.rtr._ sgsf_el _Agegn!]-J!,

Reqslllng resolution 3253 (XXIX) of 9 December l9?\, in vhich the ceneral
as senl-y-i'liirrelmingly conmended the idea of the establishment of a nucfear-
weapon-free zone in the region of the Middle Es.st,

,h. c#i-"!ilP";;i":'i/';ff'l,:'.:ii"::::":ffI;ff:;Ti"::,:i'.:T;:'ll"3iHi'i,*'
the establishment of a nuclear -weapon-free zone in the region of the Middl-e East,

Recogni_zl1g, on the basis of Lhe above-neftioned report, that the establ-i sturent
of a nuc lear -veapon-free zone in the Middle East enjoys wide support in the region,

Mindfu.t of the prevailing politicatr situation in the region and of the
potential danger emanat ing therefrom" which ffould be further aggravated by the
introduction of nuclear weaDons in the area"

Conscious, Lherefore, of the need Lo keep the countries of the regian from
becoming involved in a ruinous nuclear a?ms race..

Taking note of the comprehensive study of the questicn of nuclear-weapon-free
zones-ftr a1I i.iE aspects, 2/ prepared by tle Ad_$gg Group of eualified Govenulental
Xxperts pursuant to General Assernbfy r e so tut ioi-j2-6t F (XXIX) of 9 Decenber l-9?l+,

Bgc?ltilg its resolution 2373 (XXII) of 12 June 1968, in which it expressed
the hope for the videst possibl-e adherence to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
of Nuclear Weapons f/ by bcth nuclear-veapon and non-nuclear -.weapon States,

1. Expresses the opinion that the Member States with which the Secretary-
Generg,l has consul-ted through his notes verbales of 10 March L9T5 and. 13 June 1975

V S/W78 and Add.l-)+; A/ IO22I and" Ad.d.,l and 2.
U A/IAO27 /Add.l, annex I.
3/ General Assembly resolution 2373 (XXII), annex.



A/10)+l+3

Page 5

Frrsuant to Genera]- Assembly resolution 3263 (XXIX) should exert efforts towards
the realization of the objective of establishing a nuc fear -weapon-free zone in the
Middle East;

2. Urges all parties directly concerned to adhere to the Treaty on the
Non-kolif eration of Nuclear Weapons as a neans of p,ronoting this obJective;

3. Reconmends that the Member States referred to in paragraph I of the
present resolutions pendlng the establishnent of the nuclear -neapon-free zone under
an effective system of safeguards:

(a) Proclaim so1ennly and i$med iately their intention to refrain, on a
reciprocal basis, from producing, acquiring or in any other way possessing nucJ.ear
weapons and nuclear explosive devices, and from permitting the stationing of
nucfear weapons, in their territory or the territory under theiT control- by any
thtud party i

(b) Refrain, on a reciprocal basis, from any other action that woul-d-
fa.ci-Iitate the acquisition, testing or use of such neapons, or would be in any
other way d.etrinental to the objective of the establishnent of a nuclear-weapon-free
zone in the region under an effective system of safeguards;

4. Bglgnnglqq to the nuclear-weapon States to refrain from any action
contrary to the trnrrpose of the present resolution and the obJective of establishing,
in the region of the Middle East, a nuclear -veapon-free zone under an effective
system of safeguards and to extend their co-operation to the States of the region
in their efforts to promote this objective;

,, Lerrqgs to :'nclude in the provisional agenda of its thirty-first session
the i.tem entitled "Establishnent of a nuclear -weapon-free zone in the region of the
ufcole tsast .




