








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAl 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10321 
31 October 1975 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/FRENCH 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda item 78 

ADVERSE CONSEQUENCES FOR THE ENJOYMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF 
POLITICAL, MILITP.RY, ECONOMIC P.ND OTHER FORMS OF P.SSISTANCE 
GIVEN TO COLONIAL AND RP.CIST REGIMES IN SOUTHERN AFRICA 

Report of the Third Committee 

Rapporteur: Hrs. SEKELP. KA.i'IINDA (Zaire) 

CONTENTS 

Paragraphs Page 

I. INTRODUCTION • • • • • . . • • • • . • . . . . 

II. CONSIDERP.TION OF DRP.FT RESOLUTION A/C.3/L.2163 

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE THIRD COMHITTEE 

' 

75-22395 

1 - 4 

5 - 7 

8 

2 

2 

3 

I . .. 



A/10321 
En;,lish 
Page 2 

I. INTRODUCTION 

1. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Assembly 
allocated to the Third Committee agenda item 78, entitled "Adverse consequences 
for the enjoyment of human rights of political, military, economic and other 
forms of assistance given to colonial and racist regimes in southern Africa". 

2. The Committee 
The summary record 
representatives of 

considered this 
of this meeting 
Member States. 

item .at its 2140th meeting, on 24 October 
(A/C.3/SR.2140) contains the views of 

3. The Committee had before it a note by the Secretary-General on the item 
(A/10262). 

4. The Director of the Division of Human Rights introduced the item at the 
Committee's 2140th meeting. 

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/L.2163 

1975. 

5. The representative of Ghana introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/L.2163), 
sponsored by EftYpt., Ghana, Mali, the United Republic of Cameroon. the United 
Republic of Tanzania and the Upper Volta, later joined by the Libyan Arab Republic, 
the Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Togo and Uganda. The draft resolution as orally 
revised, read as follows: ----

"The General Assembly, 

"Having considered the item entitled "Adverse consequences for the 
enjoyment of human rights of political, military, economic and other forms 
of assistance given to colonial and racist regimes in southern Africa", 

"Mindful of its responsibility to offer the oppressed peoples under 
the colonial and racist regimes in southern Africa every assistance in 
their struggle for self-determination and for the enjoyment of their 
fundamental human rights, 

"Aware that in pursuance of Economic and Social Council resolution 
1864 (LVI)--the Sub-Corr~ssion on Prev~ntion of Discrimination and Protection 
of Minorities has appointed a Special Rapporteur to evaluate urgently the 
importance and the sources of political, military, economic and other 
assistance given by certain States to the. racist and colonial regimes of 
southern Africa, as well as the direct or indirect effects of such 
assistance on the perpetuation of colonialism, racial discrimination and 
apartheid, 

"1. Considers that organizations and States which give assistance to 
the racist and colonial regimes in southern Africa are accomplices of 
those regimes in respect of their inhuman policies of racial discrimination, 
apartheid and colonialism; 

I . .. 



A/10321 
English 
Page 3 

"2. Requests the Secretary-General to give the Special Rapporteur, 
Mr. Ahmed M. Khalifa, every possible assistance he may need in the 
completion of his report to be presented to the twenty-ninth session of 
the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of 
Minorities, 

"3. Decides to consider this item at its thirty-first session as 
a matter of high priority and, in this regard, requests the Secretary-
General to submit the final report of the Special Rapporteur to the 
Assembly at that session." 

6. At the same meeting, in the light of oral amendments put forward by India, 
the sponsors further revised operative paragraph 3 of the draft resolution to read 
as follows: 

"3. pecides to consider this item at its thirty-first session as a 
matter of high priority and in this regard requests the Secretary~General 
to submit the final report of the Special Rapporteur, along with the 
recommendations of the Sub-Commission, before the Assembly at that session." 

7. Also at the same meeting, the revised draft resolution as amended was adopted 
by 94 votes to none, with 13 abstentions (see para. 8 below). 

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE 

8. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Adverse consequences for the en.ioyment of human rights of political, 
military, economic and other forms of assistance given to colonial 

and racist regimes in southern Africa 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the item entitled "Adverse consequences for the 
enjoyment of human rights of political, military, economic and other forms 
of assistance given to colonial and racist regimes in southern Africa", 

Mindful of its responsibility to offer the oppressed peoples under the 
colonial and racist regimes in southern Africa every assistance in their 
struggle for self-determination and for the enjoyment of their fundamental 
human rights, 

Aware that, in pursuance of Economic and Social Council resolution 
1864 (LVI) of lT May 1974, the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination 
and Protection of Minorities appointed a Special Rapporteur to evaluate 
urgently the importance and the sources of political, military, economic 

/ ... 



A/10321 
English 
Page 4 

and other assistance given by certain States to the racist and colonial 
regimes of southern Africa, as well as the direct or indirect effects of 
such assistance on the perpetuation of colonialism, racial discrimination 
and a-partheid, 

1. Considers that organizations and States which give assistance to 
the racist and colonial regimes in southern Africa are accomplices of those 
regimes in respect of their inhuman policies of racial discrimination, 
apartheid and colonialism; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to give the Special Rapporteur, 
Mr. Ahmed M. Khalifa, every possible assistance he may need for the completion 
of his report, which is to be presented to the Sub-Commission on Prevention 
of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities at its twenty-ninth session; 

3. Decides to consider this item at its thirty-first session as a 
matter of high priority and, in this regard, requests the Secretary-General 
to submit the final report of the Special Rapporteur, along with the 
recommendations of the Sub-Commission on ,Prlwefitionaofj\Discrinine.ticn and 
Protection of Minorities, to the General Assembly at that session. 




