








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAl 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10409 
1 December 1975 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda items 91 and 12 

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE 
TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES BY THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND 
THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS 

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL (CHAPTER VI (SECTION E)) 

Report of the Fourth Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Rui QUARTIN-SANTOS (Portugal) 

1. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Assembly, 
on the recommendation of the General Committee (A/10250), decided to include in 
the agenda of its thirtieth session the following items: 

"91. Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the 
international institutions associated with the United Nations: 

(a) Report of th0 Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence 
to Colonial Countries and Peoples; 

(b) Reports of the Secretary-General 11 • 

"12. Report of the Economic and Social Council 11 • 

2. At the same meeting, the General Assembly decided to allocate to the Fourth 
Committee, for consideration and report, agenda item 91, together with chapter VI 
(sect. E) of the report of the Economic and Social Council, 1/ which relates to 
the item. 

3. At its 2134th meeting, on 30 September, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a 
general debate covering agenda items 23, 86, 91 and 12, 92 and 93, on the 

l/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, Supplement 
No. 3-(A/10003). 

75-26570 I . .. 



A/10409 
English 
Page 2 

understanding that individual draft resolutions on matters covered by those items 
would be considered separately. 

4. The Fourth Committee considered items 91 and 12 at its 2162nd to 
2174th meetings, between 7 and 24 November. 

5. At the 2162nd meeting, on 7 November, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee 
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced chapter VII 
of the report of that Committee relating to item 91 (A/10023 (Part V)). 

6. In addition, the Fourth Committee had before it the relevant chapter of the 
report of the Economic and Social Council. 2/ The Committee also had before it the 
reports of the Secretary-General relating to the items, submitted in pursuance of 
paragraphs 11 (a) and 11 (b) of General Assembly resolution 3300 (XXIX) of 
13 December 1974 (A/10080 and Add.l-4 and A/10319), and a related note by the 
Secretariat (A/C.4/L.l095, as well as a letter dated 13 November 1975 from the 
World Bank (A/C.4/80l). The Fourth Committee also took into account a related 
report of the Secretary-General, submitted in pursuance of paragraph 3 of 
General Assembly resolution 3340 (XXIX) of 17 December 1974 (A/10106 and Corr.l 
and Add.l to 3). 

7. The general debate covering the items referred to in paragraph 3 above took 
place at the 2162nd to 2177th meetings, between 7 and 28 November. 

8. At the 2173rd meeting, on 21 November, the representatives of Bulgaria and 
the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic introduced a draft resolution 
(A/C.4/L.lll9), which was finally sponsored by the following Member States: 
Afghanistan, Bulgar~a, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Comoros, Congo, 
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, 
Ghana~ Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, India~ Indonesia, Iran, Iraq~ Jamaica, Kenya, 
Madagascar, Mali, Mongolia, Nigeria, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Senegal, 
Sierra Leone, Somalia, Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, United Republic of Tanzania and Yugoslavia. 

9. At its 2174th meeting, on 24 November, the Fourth Committee adopted the 
draft resolution (A/C.4/L.lll9) by a recorded vote of 91 to none, with 
2 abstentions (see para. 10 below). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Barbados~ Belgium~ Bhutan~ Brazil~ Bulgaria, Burma. Burundi, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,_ Chad, Chile, China, 
Comoros, Cnngo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia~ Denmark, Egypt, 
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fi,j i, Finland, German Democratic 
Republic~ Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea 9 Guinea-Bissau~ 

~Ibid., chap. VI, sect. E. 

I .. . 



A/10409 
English 
Page 3 

Guyana, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, 
Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, 
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, 
Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: France, United States of America. 

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE 

10. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence 
to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and 
the international institutions associated with the United Nations 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration 
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the 
specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the 
United Nations", 

Recalling the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples, contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 
14 December 1960, and the programme of action for the full implementation of 
the Declaration, contained in its resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, 
as well as all other relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the 
Security Council, 

Having examined the reports submitted on the item by the Secretary-
General, ~/ the Economic and Social Council gj and the Special Committee on 
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 

1/ A/10080 and Add.l-4; A/10319. 

gj Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, 
Supplement No. 3 (A/10003), chap. VI, sect. E. 

/ ... 



A/10409 
English 
Page 4 

Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 3/ as well as the 
related report of the United Nations Council for Namibia, ~-

Taking into account the statements of the representatives of the 
national liberation movements of the colonial Territories in Africa who 
participated as observers in the work relating to their respective countries, 
and conscious of the urgent and pressing need of the peoples concerned for 
concrete assistance from the specialized agencies and other institutions 
associated with the United Nations, 

Reaffirming the responsibility of the specialized agencies and other 
organizations within the United Nations system to take all effective 
measures, within their respective spheres of competence, to ensure the full 
and speedy implementation of the Declaration and other relevant resolutions 
of the United Nations, particularly in the provision of moral and material 
assistance, on a priority basis, to the peoples of the colonial Territories 
and cheir national liberation movements, 

Noting with concern that, although progress has been maintained in the 
extension of assistance to refugees from the colonial Territories in Africa, 
the actions taken hitherto by the organizations concerned in the provision of 
assistance to the peoples of the Territories through their national liberation 
movements continue to remain inadequate to meet the urgent needs of these 
peoples, 

Noting with satisfaction the measures initiated by some of the specialized 
agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system, in 
particular the World Food Programme and the United Nations Development 
Programme, to provide assistance on a priority basis to the peoples of the 
Territories formerly administere1 by Portugal, and expressing its appreciation 
to the Secretary-General for the initiative he has taken in that regard, 

Expressing its appreciation to the General Secretariat of the Organization 
of African Unity for the continued co-operation and assistance extended by it 
to the organizations within the United Nations system in connexion with the 
implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, 

Mindful of the necessity to keep under continuous review the activities 
of the specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations 
system in the implementation of the various United Nations decisions relating 
to decolonization, 

]/ A/10023 (Part V), chap. VII. 

4/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, 
Supplement No. 24 (A/10024), vols. I and II. 

I . .. 



A/10409 
English 
Page 5 

l. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to 
the item; 2f 

2. ~eaffirms that the recognition by the General Assembly, the Security 
Council and other United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the struggle of 
colonial peoples to achieve freedom and independence entails, as a corollary, 
the extension 0y the United Nations system of organizations of all the 
necessary moral and material assistance to the peoples of the colonial 
Territories and their national liberation movements; 

3. Expresses its appreciation to those specialized agencies and 
organizations within the United Nations system which have continued to 
co-operate in varying degrees with the United Nations in the implementation 
of the Declaration and other relevant resolutions of the General Assembly; 

4. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations within the 
United Nations system, including the World Bank and the International Monetary 
Fund, to take or continue to take the necessary measures towards the full and 
9peedy implementation of the relevant provisions of those resolutions; 

5. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations within the 
United Nations system to render or continue to render, as a matter of urgency, 
all possible moral and material assistance to the colonial peoples in Africa 
struggling for their liberation from colonial rule and, in particular, 
recommends that the organizations concerned should initiate or broaden 
contacts and co-operation with these peoples in consultation with the 
Organization of African Unity and should work out and implement concrete 
programmes for such assistance with the active collaboration of the national 
liberation movements concerned; 

6. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations within the 
United Nations system to extend all moral and material assistance to the 
newly independent and emerging States; 

7. Reiterates its urgent request that the specialized agencies and 
other organizations within the United Nations system should take measures, 
within their respective spheres of competence, to increase the scope of their 
assistance to refugees from colonial Territories, including assistance to the 
Governments concerned in the preparation and execution of projects beneficial 
to those refugees, and, in that connexion, to introduce the greatest possible 
measure of flexibility in their relevant procedures; 

8. Urges once again the specialized agencies and other organizations 
within the United Nations system, in accordance with the relevant 
resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council, to take all 

2/ A/10023 (Part V), chap. VII. 

/ ... 



A/10409 
English 
Page 6 

necessary measures to withhold any financial, economic, technical or other 
assistance from the Government of South Africa and the illegal regime of 
Southern Rhodesia, to discontinue all support to them until they restore to 
the peoples of Namibia and Zimbabwe their inalienable right to 
self-determination and independence and to refrain from taking any action 
which might imply recognition of the legitimacy of the domination of the 
Territories by those regimes; 

9. Notes with satisfaction the arrangements by several specialized 
agencies and organizations enabling representatives of the national liberation 
movements recognized by the Organization of African Unity to participate fully 
as observers in their proceedings relating to the countries concerned, and 
calls upon those organizations which have not yet done so to make the 
necessary arrangements without delay, including the requisite financial 
provisions as recommended by the Economic and Social Council, particularly so 
as to ensure that assistance projects of the agencies and organizations are 
carried out t~ the benefit of the peoples concerned and their national 
liberation movements; 

10. Recommends that all Governments should intensify their efforts 
in the specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations 
system of which they are members to ensure the full and effective 
implementation of the Declaration and other relevant resolutions of the · 
United Nations and, in that connexion, should accord priority to the question 
of providing assistance on an emergency basis to peoples in the colonial 
Territories and to their national liberation movements; 

11. Urges the executive heads of the specialized agencies and other 
organizations within the United Nations system, with a view to facilitating 
the implementation of paragraph 10 above, to formulate and submit to their 
respective governing bodies or legislative organs, as a matter of priority 
and with the active co-operation of the Organization of African Unity, concrete 
proposals for the full implementation of the relevant United Nations 
decisions, in particular specific programmes of all possible assistance to 
the peoples in colonial Territories and their national liberation 
movements; 

12. Reguests the Secretary-General: 

(a) To prepare for submission to the relevant bodies concerned with 
related aspects of the present item, with the assistance of the specialized 
agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system, a report 
on the action taken since the circulation of his previous report in 
implementation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, including 
the present resolu~ion; 

(b) To continue to assist the specialized agencies and other 
organizations within the United Nations system in working out appropriate 
measures for implementing the present resolution and to report thereon to the 
General Assembly at its thirty-first session; 

I . .. 



A/10409 
English 
Page T 

13. Requests the Economic and Social Council to continue to consider, in 
consultation with the Special Committee, appropriate measures for co-ordination 
of the policies and activities of the specialized agencies and other 
organizations within the United Nations system in implementing the relevant 
resolutions of the General Assembly; 

14. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question 
and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-first session. 




