








































+a t:

=R5=
UN'TED NAilOhiS

GEI{ERAL
A S S E AA E LV

Distr.
GENENAL

A/10[ol+
3 Decenber 1975
NNGLISH
ORIGINAI : ; EIIGLISII/FRENCH

Thirtieth se s sion
Agenda itern 73

C OI{TE1'{TS

T TNTMANNTTNTFTAI\I

]I. CONSIDERATTON OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

II1. RECoIW1ENDATTONS OF THE IIHIRD COl,['lITTnE

ALTIR1SATIVE APPROACHNS AND WAYS AND I,INANS WITHIN THE UNITED
NATIONS SYSTzu FOR IMPROVTNG THE Itr'T'ECTIVE ENJOWEIIT OF

HUMAN RIGHTS AND FUNDAX]TENTAT, tr'BEEDOIIiS

Report of the Third Coomittee

Fapporteur: It's. SEKELA-K\NINDA ( zaire )

Paragraphs

L-r+

5 - 12

13

2

2

B

7 5-27 2oo



A/10401+
English
Page 2

1.

5. At the 2168th neeting, the representative
Great Britain and Ncrthern freland introduced
lrhich read as follows:

INTRODUCTION

f. The General Assenbly, at its 2353rd plenary meeting on 1! September I9Tj,
allocated to the Third Conmittee agenda item BO, entitled "Alternative approaches
and ways and means r,rithin the United Nations system for improving the effective
enjoyment of hur0an rights and fundamental freedoms; report of the Secretary-
General' .

2. The Third Corurittee considered the iten at its 2168th, 2f69Lh, 2ulst and
21?2nd rneetings, between 2\ and 28 I\overober 19?5. The summary record.s of these
meetings (A/C.3/SR.2158, ?!69, 2171 and 21f2) contain the views expressed by the
representatives of l4ember States and of the specialized agencies on the item.

3. The Cornmittee had before it a report by the Secretary-ceneral (A/].OZ35),

f+. At the 2168th neeting, on 2l+ Iovember, the Director of the Division of
Hunan Rights made an introd.uctorv statement.

]I. CONSIDEFATIOI{ OF DRAFT RESOIUTIONS

A. Drs.ft resol-ution A/C,3/L.21BB

of the
a draft resoLu.[lon \A/u. J/ L.l]rao )

"The General Asserably,

'Recallins its resolutions 3136 (XXVIII) and 3221 (xxfx),
iilr. -4xoresses lrs appreciation to the Secre tary -Ceneral fcr his report'A-Lternatave approaches and vays and means within the United Nations system

for improving the effective en j o]'raent of human rights and fundamental
freedoms' contained in docrnent A/IOZ35 \

"2. Urges all Ment,er States and in particular those that have not
already d-one so, to submit their views to the Secretary-General in accordance
vith paragraph I of resolution 3221 (xXfX);

''3. Requests the Secr etary-0 eneral in the light of further replies from
Member states and non-governmental organizations in consultative status with
the lconamic and Social Council to submit an up-dated version of his report
to the thirty-first session of the ceneral Assembly;

"')+. Decjdes to consirtc"' v.i+h h.ioh -?i^pit1r Et .iis t hi }-1-.1r- f .i rs+. cac.'
tt'" q,," 

"t 
iilii?r; ;';;il;:-;r#;:";::".:;'H;:'.# ;L: Tl;ili;'fi: ff i;:;'

Nations system for inproving the effective enjcyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms. "

United Kingdom of



A/10401+
fnE_L1Sn
fage 3

6, The folloving amendments were subnitted to the draft resolution:

(a) At the same meeting, Bulgaria subn-ritted the fofloving amendments in
document Alc.3 IL.ZI?II

(i) Add the folloving netr preambufar paragraph:

''Considering that the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Bights and. the lnternational Covenant on Civil and Politi.cal
Rights and Optional Protocol will soon enter into force,".

(ii) Insert the following nerr operative paragraph It:

"Eequests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the status of
international ccnventions in the field of human rights for which the
Sec retary -C en era-L acts as depositary. "

(t) AIso at the same meeLing, Ireland oral)y proposed the addition in
operative oaragraph 3, after the word Council , of tne words 'and of the viets
expressed during Lhe proceedings of the tl^jrbieth sessjon ofl the Ceneral Assenbly

(c) At the 2169th meeting, on 25 ltrovember " the Union of 
Sovlet Sociallst

Republics subnitted the follor'rlng oral amendment s;

t Dclete the nords 'a11 'and'in particular those'' in operative paragraph 2i

(ii) Delete the words "with high priority" after the vord "consider" in
operative paragraph J+.

(d) At the same meeting, !C!Ci_Arg!fg. ora11y proposed that the \^/ord'thirty-first should be replaced ty tne vora thirLy-second' in operative
palagrapn +.

7. At the 21T1st neeting, on 26 Noverober, the representative o1 1L" gnited Kingdorn
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland accepted the amendment s submittec by
Bulgar ia, the ora.l amendment of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to
operative paJagraph 2 and the oral amendment of lreland to operative paragraph 3 and
revised the t e)ct accord.ingLy"

B- At ihp sa're reeiino +La rr^hh1'r +aa a'^+a?r ^n the amendments and the revised
d.raft resolution as follows:

(a) The oral amendment of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to
operative paragraph \ vas rejected. by a ro1l-cal1 vote of 4l+ to 32, with 45
abstentions. The voting vas as fol.lows:



A/10\01+
English

Against: Australia, Austria, 3e1gium, Eolivia, Eotsr,rana, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Costa Pica, ltenmarl., Dc*jnican Denublic, Ecuador, ciji,
''1nJ-ard, Irance, r;aflbia, Gerrnnny (rederal eepublic of), Chana,
Greece, Cuatenala, Ironduras, fceland, freland" Tsrael . Ttaly,
Japa-r, Kcnya, Iuxernbourg, \4exico. rieLheplands. \eu Zealand,
Nicaraeua, lTiaeria, l.rorv.ay, Parana, Dhilippines, Dortugal, Siera
,Fr]r,F Sra tn s,ra/lFF -i+p.j k- -tJt,,l Or Of GrFp f. or-r j:ar n and

Northerr lre1and, Unjted States of Aflerica, Ur-Lrguay, Venezuele.

Abstaini,ng: Afghanistan, Argentina. Banqladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Brazil,
Burma, Chad, Ecluatorial Gui nea, Ethiop-ia, CaLon, Crenpda" Cuyanaj
lndia Trrdoreeia TTrn Tv^Fv a^'et .Iono iao -l^Fd^^ Lahan^n

Lesotho, Liberia, "ladagascar, llalaysja, 
-rorocco, \epal , Cman,

Pakista"n, Papua Nev Cuinea, Peru, Senegal, Siroatrore, Sri Lanka,
Svazjland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
United Fepublic of Caneroon, United .Republic of Tanzania, Upper

Trtp.)s rvt4 /.F1Tl\ /,Fff f,la.

(U) The oral amendment of Saudi Arabia to operative paragraph J+ r^'as ad opted.
by a ro11-ca.Il vote of L6 Lo ),I' with 33 sbstentions. The voLino r.ras as follous:

In favour t

In favour !

Aeainst:

Al o.--iq F.l-rr: r cr-lrr-jo lwplnrr,<nirr s^., ia+ SocialisL
Rcntthl in tlrrhn f-rrnrrre l-zcahnclnrraliq Tlahomcrr Tlemnera1-in Ycnar
IqypL, Gernan lelocratic eepubl ic, Cuinea, Pungary, lrao, Kuvalt.
Laos, Libya-n Arab liepublic, Ilali, l'a.uritania, Mongolia,
Foland, Oatar, Fonanja, I\ran da, Saudj Arabiar Sudan, Syrian Arab
Pepub-i-lc, Uganda, Ul.rainian Sovjct Socialist qepublic, Union of
Si^\/l a-T \^^lalraJ Harlrhlrac llhr+ad A7-h E-m','+ac YaDEn

Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, tsurma,
Bu-Loaria, Byelorussian Soviei Soeie-Iist pepublic, Cuba,
Czechoslova-kia, Daho-ev, Denocraric veren, Egypt, Gernan
T1A-^^'-+i^ D^" ,.1-t i^ ^,,irer Trttt ,-^e,lAltr KUUait,
LesoLl-o, Libvan A.rab Republic, f ladagascar-, l'alaysia, {ra1i,
Mauritania, ':ongofia, lorocco, NepaL, Pak-isLan, Peru, Poland,
Qatar, Fomania, Frranda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal , Sudan, Syrian Arab
Fepublic, Tunisia, Turkey, TJqanda, lftrar'.ni an Sovr'.et Socialist
FepubJ i c, Unjon o' Soviet Socialist Jlepublics" United A.rab
EniraLes, Yen er , Yugoslavia.

Colonbian Costa !ica, lenmark, Doninican Republic, ncuador,
'1J1, Ilnland, Fr ance, Gamb-La, Uernany (Fedet"al f.epub-I1c o1'J )
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Hondura.s, Iceland, Treland, Tsrael,
Ttaly, Japan, Kenya, Luxenrbourg, llexico, lletherfand.s,
'.ew Zeal end, lTicata6ua, I\'orvay, Philippines, Portusa-I , Stain,
Sl.reden, United Kingdon of Great lritain and Northern Treland,
United States of A,-erica, Ur rguay, Venezuela.



A/10\o)+
flnEl.t sn
yage )

Abst-aining: Argentina, Barbados, Brazil, Chad, Cyorus' Fquatoria} Guinea'
Ethiopia, Cabon, Crenada, Cuyana, India, fndonesia, fTan' Ivory
Coast, Jamaica' Laos' I-ebanon 

' 
Liberia' liligeria, Oma,nr Panama,

Panua Ner,r Guinea, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lankar Swaziland,
Thailand, Togo' Trinidad and Tobago' United Fepublic of
('arneroon, United Republic of 'la.nzania' Upper Volta, Zaire'

(.) The revjsed drafL resolution, as alended' \,/as adopted by a ro11-ca11
voLe of 115 to none, vith 5 abstentions (see para. L3 belov). The voting was as
fc 11or,rs :

In favour l Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangfadesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan ' 

Bolivia, Bot sr'rana' Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist nepublic ' 

Canada'
Chad., Colornbia, Costa Rica, Cuba, C1'prus o Czechoslovakia,
Dahoney, Democratic Yemenr lenmark, Dominican Republic,
Ecuadoro Egy1t, Fiji, Finland, France' Gabon, Gambia, German
Denocratic Eepublic, cernany (I'ederal Republic of), Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana ' Honduras, 

Hungary 'Ice1and, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraqr Irelandr Israel , Ita1y,
ivory Coast, Jarnaica, Japan, Jordan' Kenya' Kuwait, Laos'
Lebanon, T,esotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Luxembourg '
Madagascar, l{alaysia, I'la1i, l4auritania, Itlexico, }'ilongolia, l4orocco,
Iijepal, llew Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Nonray, 0manr Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portu€laf t
Qatar, Romania, Rlranda, Saudi Arabia, Seneqal' Sielra Leone,
Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sr,raziland, Sleden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
af Came!"oon, Unitetl Republic of Tanzania, United States of
America, tTpper Volta, Uruguayr Vene zuela, Yenen' Yugoslavia, Zaire '

None .

Abstaini4g: Chi1e, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, I\ietherlands, United Kingdon
of Great Britain and 'l{crthern Ireland.

B. Draft resolqiion A/c.3/L.2189

g. A-ir the 2168th neetin4, on 2)+ Ilovenrber, the representative o1'Chile
introduced dr a_ft resolution A/C.3/L.2169 and Ccar.1 vhr'.ch read as fol-lor'rs:

"The General Ass€4rbly'

"Reca1-l.ing that Articles 55 and' 56 of the Charter of the United Nations
providE-TTEt-T[e Organizaticn sha1l prornote universal respect for human rights
end that all Member States pledge themselves to take Joint and separate
action to that end..



"Bearing in mind the Universal Declaration of Human Fishts. the
International Covenants on Civil and Political Rights and on Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights, the Convention on the Elirnination of A11 Forns of
Racial Discrimination, the Declaration of the Int€rnational Conference on
Ilurnan lights held at Teheran in l!68, and other jnstrurnents of a universal
or regional nature 'hich give expression to human rights and establishmachinery for their protection)

t'tfgting the Declaration on Principles of fnternational Lav concerning
Friendly Felations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the
Charter of the United lrlations (resolution 2625 (XxV) ), particularly as regards
the duty of States to co-operate in the promotion of universal Tespect for
human rights and fundanentaL freedons for all,

'rNotinq l-urt'her, inter alia, General Assenbly resolutions 211! (XXI),
3136 (xxtTTi)-a"d 322r-(xffiJ. -, economic and social council resofution
116\ (XLI) and resoluticn 2 (XXII) of the Commission on l{uman Rights, rrhich
call for strengthening the United Nations system in order to ensure the
universal exercise of hrunan rights, vithout distinction of any kind, o.I]d for
deterrnining the r,rays and means of strengthening it,

"Considering that resoluti or\ 32?I (XXIX) proviaed for soliciting the
views of Menber Stateso the specialized agencies and regional intergovernrnental
organizations on alternative approaches and arays and means rcithin the United
Ilations system for irnproving the effective enjoyment of hunan rights and
fundenental freedoms.

"Hq.ving Sgnsiqered. the report of the Secr etary-General (4/10235), whicb
contains the views of Menber States and of the above-mentioned agencies and
organizations concerning alternative approaches and vays €.nd means within the
United liations system for improving the effective enj oyrnent of hurnan rights
and fundament al freedoms,

"Again expressing the hope
r\r6ir Lb vitrr
application,

enter into force in
without exceptions

that the International Covenants on Hunan
the near future and i,ii1f receive univelsal
or di scrimination,

'rBearinq in nind resolution 1159 (XLI) of the Econonic and Social Cor-rncil ,
tte rei6iT-6Tr tnu lo l-oc Study Group on Feqional Commissjons o'r iluman Rights
(E/CN.4/9bb and Add.I) and other agreements and documents relating to the
activities and functions of such Fegional Cornmissions,

"Noting that the only pre-established systear for the investigation of
individual a1legations concerning viofations of hunan rights (Council
resolution 1503 (XLvTTf)) has not fu1ly achieved the objectives for r^.hich it
rtas established,

"Considerino the essential need to create a general systern of universal
aoalication uhjch \.rill- effect:'vely permit the investigation of all
allegations of violations of human rights, wherever they occur,



A/101+04
Xnglish

t'1. Instructs the Secretary-General of the Unr:teC Nations to appoint a
group of 10 experts of recognized integrity and proven knowledge in the field
of hurnan rights, in vhich the different geographical areas are represented and
the different 1ega1 systems taken into account, for the purpose of preparing
a study on the establi.shment of a system for investigating allegations of
violations of human rights;

"2. Decides that such a systen should a11ow for appropriate participation
by regionaf-6ilo:-ni zations, should be universal in scope- and- autonaiic and
cornpulsory for all l4ember States, should avoid. duplication, should ensure
adequate machinery for co-oleration between the Organization and the States
investigated and should confer upon such States appropriate guarantees
regarding d.iscretion and fairne ss;

tt3. Requests the Group of Experts to submit its report to the Econonic
and Social Council at its si.xty-first session for subsequent consideration by
the General As sembly at its thirty-first sessiono taking into account the
background infornation obtained. during the study of this question by the United
Nations and the opinions expressed. recently by l,lember States in this 

"espectl
rr4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of the thirty-first

session tlE-fTEiltAtternative u.pplo"ch.= and 'ways and means within the United
l,llations system for inproving the effective enJoyment of hr:man rights and
fundsment a1 freedons | . I'

10. While considering this draft resolution, the Committee had a-lso before it a
letter dated 24 November 1975 fTon the Permanent Fepresentative of Chile to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C3/6)+5).

11. A statement on the financial inplications of the draft resol-ution was
circulated in docrment A/ C.3 /L.2:-92.

12. At the
of Ameri ca

21?1st rneeting;, on 26 November, the representative of th" ]41!gq_€Jg!9"
orally proposed the folloving amendnents to the tlraft resolution:

(a) Add the words fsupported by reliable evidence'r after the words
trallegations of violations of human rights,rr in the tenth preanbular paragraph;

(b) Delete the words rrand autonat ic and compulsoryrt in operative paragraph 2.

13. At the same meeting, the representative of Chile accepted the first of the
above arnendments.

l-4. Also at the same meeting, the 
"epresentative 

of the United Arab Ernirates
forual,ly proposed, under rule 131 of the rules of procedu"e of the General Assenbly'
that the proposal of Chile shoul-d not be put to the vote. Folloving a procedural
debate, the Cornmittee adopted the proposal of the United Arab tuiirates by a
ro11-ca1I vote of \T to 22, vith 39 abstentions. The voting was as follows:



A/1oL o)+
Engli sh
fage o

15. The Third Comrittee reconnends tc the General Assembly the adoption of the
follovine draft resolution:

Alternati.ve and and means rrithin the United
llat em for the effective

human and fundanental freedoms

The General Assembl:r,

lecalling its resolutiorrs 3136 (xnIIlI) of 1l+ December 1973 and
3221 lxx-iffE 6 lrovember l91l+,

considerins that the rnternaticnal covenant on nconomic, social and cu1tu]'a.l
fignti-f7-iil tfre Internationa] covenant on Civil and Political Fights and
n-+;^-.i p-^+^a^r a)/ u;11 cnnn anlay inf. f^'-^p

In favour i

Against :

Abstaining:

V Resolution 22 00
2/ Fesotution 2200

-Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Bepublic, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahoney '
Dernocratic Yemen, Egirpt, Gabon, German Democratic Republic' Ghana,
Grenada, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary' India, Iran, Jamaica, I"uvait'
Laos, Libyan Arab Republic ' 

Madagascar ' 
Malaysia' I'ta1i,

Mauritania, Mexico, I'longolia, Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Portu€5al'
Qatar, Senegal, S'\^'az iland, Syrian Arab Republicn Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uhrainian Soviet Social,ist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist iepublics, United Arab Imirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Yenen, Yu65os1avia.

Austria, Belgiun, Eolivia, Canada, Chile' Costa Fica, Dominican
Repubtic, Ecuad.or, France, Germany (Federal Fepublic of),
Guatemala, Honduras n Treland, fsrael, Ita1y, Luxerrrbourg,
lletherlands, lliearagua, Panama, United Kingdom af GTeat Britain
and l\lorthern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay.

Argentina, Barbados, Bhutan, Botswana' Brazil, Burma, Chad,
Colonbia, Denrnark, Finland, Greece' Ice1and., Tndonesia' Ivory
Coast, Japan, Jordan, Lebanon, Lesothor Liberia, Irorocco, lTepal,
Nev Zealand, Nonray, Oman, Papua liler,r Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Romania, F\./anda, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka' Sudan' Sveden,
Thailand, Togo, Uganda, United Republic of Cameroon, Zaire.

III. TECOI4MENDATIOII OF THN THIFD COI{MITTEE

\ n1,1 /, annex.
( r,x1 ./ e annex.

A

A



A/101+ol+
Engli sh

'I Tvnrec cac i t c appreciation to the Secret ary-General for his report on
alterna.tive approaches and vays and means within the United ltrations system for
improving the effective enjoyrnent of hr,nan r"ights and fundanental freedorns; 3/

2. Urges l4ernher States that have not al-ready done so to subn0it their vievs
to the Sec retaxy-General in accordance with naragraph f of General Assembly
resolution 3221 (XXIX);

3. Reouests the Se cretary-Ceneral , in the light of further replies fTom
]liember States and non-government a1 organizations in consultative status vith the
Economic and Social Council and of the views expressed d.uring the proceedings of the
thirtieth session of the General Assernbly, to submit an up-dated version of his
report to the Assernbly at its thirty-first session;

l+. Requests the Secretary-Genera-1 to subndt a report on the status of the
internationat conventions in the field of human rights fo|which the Secretary-
General acts as depositary;

5. !S"_tiS!- to consider with high priority at its thirty-second session the
question of elternative approaches and r,'ays and means Lrithin the United l,Iations
systen for inproving the effective enjoprent of hu,'nan rights and frlndanent al
freedons .

3/ A/ro235.




