








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAl 

ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10438 
10 December 1975 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda item 41 

GENERAL AliD COMPLETE DISARMAMENT 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Horacia ARTEAGA-ACOSTA (Venezuela) 

1. The item entitled: 

"General and complete disarmament: 

(a) Report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament 

(b) Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency" 

was included by the Secretary-General in the provisional agenda of the thirtieth 
session on the basis of General Assembly resolution 3261 D (XXIX) of 
9 December 1974. 

2. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Assembly, 
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in 
the agenda of the thirtieth session and to allocate it to the First Committee for 
consideration and report. 

3. At its 2072nd meeting, on 30 October, the First Committee decided to hold a 
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament and 
the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely, items 31, 34 to 48, 120, 122 and 126. 
~;he general debate on these items took place at the 2072nd to 2095th meetings, 
from 30 October to 21 November. 

4. The First Committee had before it, in connexion with agenda item 41, the 
following documents: 

75-28502 I . .. 



Aj10i+38 
English 
Page :? 

(a) Report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (A/11027-DC/238); 

(b) Annual report of the International Atomic Energy Agency, 
l July 1974-30 June 1975; !/ 

(c) Letter dated 21 March 1975 from the Permanent Representatives of the 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/10060); 

(d) Letter dated 25 June 1975 from the Permanent Representative of Romania 
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/10123); 

(e) Note by the Secretary-General dated 6 September 1975 {A/10215); 

(f) Note by the Secretary-General dated 27 October 1975 (A/10316); 

(g) Letter dated 22 September 1975 from the Chairman of the Delegation of 
Mexice to the thirtieth session of the General Assembly addressed to 
the Secretary-General (A/C.l/1056); 

(h) Letter dated 8 October 1975 from the Permanent Representative of the 
Union of Sov~et Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to 
the Secretary-General (A/C.l/1059); 

(i) Letter dated 30 October 1975 from the Permanent Representative of 
Romania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/C .l/1066) ; 

(j) Letter dated 27 October 1975 from the Permanent Representative of Sweden 
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.l/1068); 

(k) Letter dated 21 November 1975 from the Permanent Representatives of the 
United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to 
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.l/1069); 

(l) Letter dated 28 November 1975 from the Permanent Representative of 
Mexico to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/C.l/1070). 

5. On 12 November, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, Finland, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Ireland, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Norway and Sweden submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.72l). The draft 
resGlution was introduced by the representative of the Netherlands at the 
2086th meeting, on 13 November. On 25 November, Mexico, Nigeria and Peru submitted 
amendments (A/C.l/L.729) to this draft resolution. The amendments were 
introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 2099th meeting, on 28 November. 

1/ Circulated as a document of the General Assembly under a note by the 
Secretary-General (A/10168 and Add.l). 

I ... 



A/10438 
English 
Page 3 

On 3 December, the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.l/L.72l, as well as Austria 
and Ecuador, submitted a revised draft resolution (A/C.l/L.72l/Rev.l), which 
reflected the main points of the proposed amendments (A/C.l/L.729) and which was 
introduced by the representative of the Netherlands at the 2104th meeting, on 
3 December. The proposed amendments were, accordingly, withdrawn. At the 
2106th meeting, on 4 December, the representative of the Netherlands, on behalf of 
the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.l/L.72l/Rev.l, amended orally operative 
paragraph 8 of the draft resolution by adding the words "in its consideration of an 
elaboration of a comprehensive test ban treaty" after the word "review". 

6. On 26 November, New Zealand, Romania, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Tunisia and 
Venezuela submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.732) which was introduced by Sweden 
at the 2098th meeting, on 26 November. It was subsequently revised 
(A/C.l/L.732/Rev.l) and also sponsored by Austria, Grenada and the Philippines. A 
statement on the administrdtive and financial implications of the resolution was 
submitted by the Secretary-General on 3 December (A/C.l/L.748). 

7. On l December, Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Nigeria, Peru, Sweden and Yugoslavia 
submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.744)-.--This resolution was introduced by 
Mexico at the 2104th meeting, on 3 December. At the 2108th meeting, on 
5 December, the representative of Mexico, on behalf of the sponsors of the draft 
resolution, amended orally the first operative paragraph of the draft resolution 
by replacing the world "Deplores" with the word "Regrets". 

8. On 4 December, Austria, India, Mexico, Nigeria, Romania, Sri Lanka and 
Sweden submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.749), which was subsequently also 
sponsored by Finland, Iran, Mauritius, Pakistan and the Philippines. This 
resolution was introduced by Austria at the 2106th meeting, on 4 December. A 
statement on the administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution 
was submitted by the Secretary-General on 4 December (A/C.l/L.752). 

9. Also on 4 December, Denmark, Finland, 1ndia, Japan, Romania and Yugoslavia 
submitted a draft resolution (A/C .l/L. 750), which was subsequently alsc sponsored 
by Sweden. This resolution was introduced by Denmark at the 2106th meeting, on 
4 December. At the 2108th meeting, on 5 December, the Secretary of the First 
Committee stated that the Secretary-General understood that the draft resolution 
had no financial implications as far as the United Nations was concerned. 

10. At the same meeting, the First Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.l/L.72l/Rev.l, as orally amended, by a recorded vote of 84 to 4, with 
30 abstentions (see para. 15 below, draft resolution A). The voting was as 
follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, 
Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Burundi, Canada, Chad, Chile, 
Colombia, Costa Rica, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, Greece, Honduras, Iceland, 
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, 

/ ... 



A/10438 
English 
Page 4 

Jamaica~ Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, 
Libyan Arab Republic, Luxembourg, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, 
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, 
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sudan, 
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad 
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Upper Velta, Uruguay, 
Venezuela, Zaire. 

Against: Albania, Bhutan, China, India. 

Abstaining: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, German 
Democratic Republic, Guinea, Hungary, Lesotho, Madagascar, 
Malawi, Mauritania, Mongolia, Mozambique, Poland, Spain, Sri 
Lanka, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic of Cameroon, United 
Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Yugoslavia, 
Zambia. 

11. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/L.732/Rev.l, 
by 101 votes to none, with 17 abstentions (see para. 15 below, draft 
resolution B). 

12. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/L.744, as 
orally amended, by a recorded vote of 92 to 10, with 16 abstentions (see para. 15 
below, draft resolution C). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, 
Burundi, Canada, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, 
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, 
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Honduras, Iceland, 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Ivory Coast, 
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, 
Mauritius, Mexico, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, 
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, 
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic 
of Cameroon, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, 
Zambia. 

Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, 
German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United States of America. 

I ... 



A/10438 
English 
Page 5 

Abstaining: Belgium, Congo, Cuba, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Greece, Guinea, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi, Mauritania, 
Mozambique, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania. 

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/L.749, by a 
recorded vote of 104 to none, with 12 abstentions (see para. 15 below, draft 
resolution D). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, 
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad·, 
Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, 
Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, 
Greece, Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, 
Iran, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, 
Kuwait, Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, 
Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, 
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, 
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, 
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of 
America. 

14. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/L.750, by 
112 votes to none, with 5 abstentions (see para. 15 below, draft resolution E). 

/ ... 



A/10438 
English 
Page 6 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE F'IRST COMMI'rTEE 

15. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

General and com:olete disarmament 

A 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 3261 D (XXIX) of 9 December 1974 and 3386 (XXX) 
of 12 November 1975, 

Convinced of the urgent necessity that all States, in particular nuclear-
weapon States, take effective measures to reverse the momentum of the nuclear 
arms race~ 

Recalling also its resolutions on the urgent need for the prevention of 
nuclear proliferation and for an effective comprehensive nuclear weapon test ban, 

Bearing in mind that it has not yet proved possible to differentiate between 
the technology for nuclear weapons and that for nuclear exp~osive devices for 
peaceful purposes and that, consequently, it is not possible at present to develop 
nuclear explosive devices for peaceful purposes without at the same time acquiring 
a nuclear weapon capability, 

Conscious of the fact that the testing and application of nuclear explosions 
for peaceful purposes can have significant arms control implications both for the 
spread of nuclear weapons and their technology to States which do not already 
have them and, in the context of limitations of nuclear weapon testing, for the 
refinement of the arsenals of existing nuclear-weapon States, 

Desirous of ensuring the fullest possible exchange of nuclear technology 
and nuclear materials for the economic and social benefit of mankind without 
increasing the risk of diversion to ~ilitary purposes and the consequent danger to 
world peace and security, 

Noting that non-nuclear-weapon States Party to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons have the right to obtain the potential 
benefits from any applications of nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes, under 
appropriate international observation and through appropriate international 
procedures, pursuant to a special international agreement, through an appropriate 
international body with adequate representation of non-nuclear-weapon States, as 
contemplated in article V of the Treaty, 

Noting further that the potential benefits from any applications of nuclear 
explosions for peaceful purposes could be made available to non-nuclear-weapon 
States not parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons by way 
of nuclear explosion services provided by nuclear-weapon States, as defined by the 
Treaty, and conducted under the appropriate international observation and 
appropriate international procedures called for in article V of the Treaty and in 
accordance with other applicable international obligations, I . .. 



A/10438 
English 
Page 7 

Recalling once again the statements made at the l577th meeting of the First 
Committee, on 31 May 1968, by the representatives of the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics and the United States of America concerning the provisions of 
article V of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons which relate 
to the conclusion of a special international agreement on nuclear explosions for 
peaceful purposes, !/ 

Convinced of the need for the special international agreement or agreements 
contemplated in article V of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons in respect of the peaceful application of nuclear explosions, 

l. Appeals once again to all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States, 
to exert concerted efforts in all the appropriate international forums with a view 
to working out promptly effective measures for the cessation of the nuclear arms 
race and for the prevention of the further proliferation of nuclear weapons; 

2. Notes with appreciation: 

(a) The report of the International Atomic Energy Agency concerning its 
studies of the peaceful applications of nuclear explosions, their utility and 
feasibility, including legal, health and safety aspects, which comprises 
information regarding the establishment by the Agency of the Ad Hoc Advisory 
Group on Nuclear Explosions for Peaceful Purposes; 

(b) The section of the report of the Conference of the Committee on 
Disarmament with respect to the arms control implications of peaceful nuclear 
explosions within the framework of a comprehensive test ban; 

(c) The consideration given by the Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to the role of nuclear 
explosions for peaceful purposes as provided for in that Treaty; 

(d) The observations of the Secretary-General in the introduction to his 
annual report submitted to the General Assembly at its thirtieth session; 

3. Notes the conclusions of the Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons with respect to article V of 
the Treaty, contained in the Final Declaration of the Conference, adopted by 
consensus in May 1975; 

1/ See A/C.l/1052. 

I . .. 



A/10438 
English 
Page 8 

4. Notes also that the final documentation of the Conference included a 
draft resolution, submitted by eight States which attended the Conference, 2/ 
which urged the Depositary Governments of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons to initiate immediate consultations with all of the other States 
Party to the Treaty in order to reach agreement on the most appropriate place 
and date for holding a me~ting of the Parties in order to conclude the basic 
special international agreement contemplated in article V of the Treaty; 

5. Notes in this connexion that, according to information provided by the 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America to the 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons in response to the invitation addressed to them in General Assembly 
resolution 3261 D (XXIX), no consultations had yet taken place for the conclusion 
of the special basic international agre~ment on nuclear explosions for peaceful 
purposes as envisaged in article V of that Treaty; 

6. Invites the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of 
America to provide information on such consultations as they may have entered into 
or may intend to enter into for the conclusion of the special basic international 
agreement on nuclear explosions for peaceful purposes as envisaged in article V 
of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to the General Assembly, 
at its thirty-first session through the Secretary-General; 

T. Requests the International Atomic Energy Agency, within its sphere of 
competence, to continue its present examination of the aspects of the peaceful 
application of nuclear explosions, which its Board of Governors has authorized 
under its resolution adopted on ll June 1975, and to report on progress in all 
these areas to the General Assembly at its thirty-first session; 

8. Requests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to keep under 
review, in its consideration of an elaboration of a comprehensive test ban 
treaty, the arms control implications of nuclear explosions for peaceful 
purposes, including the possibility that such explosions could be misused to 
circumvent any ban on the testing of nuclear weapons; 

9. Stresses the need to ensure, particularly in the context of a 
comprehensive test ban, that any testing or application of nuclear explosions for 
peaceful purposes does not contribute to the testing or refinement of the nuclear 
weapon arsenals of nuclear-weapon States or to the acquisition of nuclear 
explosive capability by other States; 

10. Calls upon all Member States to support and assist in the fulfilment of 
these tasks. 

g} NPT/CONF/C.II/L.l. 

I . .. 



A/10438 
English 
Page 9 

B 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling that disarmament is one of the fUndamental objectives of the United 
Nations, 

Deeply concerned that the arms race has continued unabated and that the world 
expenditure on armaments is increasing, 

Recalling that in its resolution 3261 A (XXIX) of 9 December 1974 it requested 
the Secretary-General and Governments to report on the action and steps which they 
had taken to publicize the Disarmament Decade in order to acquaint the general 
public with its purposes and objectives, and noting the report of the Secretary-
General in this regard, lf 

Regretting that in recent years no significant progress has been rrade in the 
field of disarmament, 

Recognizing therefore the need to pursue negotiations on disarmament in 
existing negotiating forums, 

Conscious of the need to utilize the resources spent in the arms race for 
economic and social development, particularly in the developing countries, 

Reaffirming its conviction that the entire international community has a vital 
interest and a common responsibility of making every effort towards achieving 
progress in the search for general and complete disarmament under strict and 
effective international control, 

Noting therefore the Declaration adopted by the Conference of Ministers 
for-Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries 4/ held at Lima in August 1975, 
calling for new initiatives on a universal basis in order to promote progress in 
disarmament, 

Considering that the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament 
is far from adequate in comparison with existing needs, 

Recognizing the need for additional and improved information about relevant 
developments, progress and results in the field of disarmament to be provided to 
all Member States, 

Noting the increased responsibilities that have been placed upon the 
Disarmament Affairs Division in servicing meetings and conferences on disarmament, 
as well as in implementing the decisions adopted by the General Assembly, 
including requests for information, studies and reports on matters related to 
disarmament, 

lf A/10294. 
J:j A/1021 7. I . .. 



A/10438 
English 
Page 10 

Noting the suggestion made by the Secretary-General in the introduction to 
his annual report to the General Assembly 5/ that a basic review be carried out 
of the role of the United Nations in the disarmament field, 

l. Invites all States to communicate to the Secretary-General, not later 
than l May 1976, their views and suggestions on the strengthening of the role 
of the United Nations in the field of disarmament; 

2. Decides to establish an ad hoc committee of the General Assembly, open 
to the participation of all Member States, to carry out a basic review of the role 
of the United Nations in the disarmament field; 

3. Decides that the review should, inter alia, focus on the following 
objectives: 

(a) Possible new approaches for achieving more effective procedures and 
organization of work in the field of disarmament, thereby enabling the United 
Nations to exercise its full role in multilateral disarmament efforts; 

(b) Ways and means of improving existing United Nations facilities for 
collection, compilation and dissemination of information on disarmament issues, 
in order to keep all Governments, as well as world public opinion, properly 
informed on progress achieved in the field of disarmament; 

(c) Ways and means to enable the United Nations Secretariat to assist, on 
request, States parties to multilateral disarmament agreements in their duty to 
ensure the effective functioning of such agreements, including appropriate 
periodical reviews; 

4. Requests the Secretary-General to render all possible assistance to the 
Ad Hoc Committee, including preparation of summary records; 

5. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to meet for a short organizational session 
not longer than one week in January and for substantive sessions of two weeks in 
June/July 1976 and of one week in September 1976 and to submit its report, 
including findings and proposals, to the General Assembly at its thirty-first 
session; 

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-first session 
an item entitled "Strengthening the role of the United Nations in the disarmament 
field". 

2f A/10001/Add.l. 

/ ... 



c 

The General Assembly, 

A/10438 
English 
Page ll 

Recalling its resolution 2602 A (XXIV) of 16 December 1969 relating to the 
initiation of bilateral negotiations between the Governments of the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America on the limitation 
of offensive and defensive strategic nuclear-weapons systems, 

Reaffirming its resolutions 2932 B (XXVII) of 29 November 1972, 
3184 A and C (XXVIII) of 18 December 1973 and 3261 C (XXIX) of 9 December 1974, 

Bearing in mind that the above-mentioned Governments agreed on 21 June 1973 
to make serious efforts to work out and sign in 1974 the agreement on more complete 
measures on the limitation of strategic offensive arms called for in the interim 
agreement of 26 May 1972, and that on the same occasion they expressed their 
intention to carry out the subsequent reduction of such arms, 

Noting that, as a result of the discussions held at the highest level in 
November 1974 also between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United 
States of America, both sides reaffirmed their intention to conclude an 
agreement on the limitation of strategic offensive arms to last until 
31 December 1985 inclusive and declared that they would make an effort to complete 
such an agreement in the course of 1975, 

Noting also that at the same meeting it was agreed to set ceilings both on the 
strategic offensive nuclear delivery vehicles as well as on such of those vehicles 
that may be equipped with multiple independently targetable warheads, that both 
sides stated that favourable prospects existed for completing the work on the new 
agreement in 1975 and stressed that it would include provisions for further 
negotiations beginning no later than 1980-1981 on the question of further 
limitations and possible reductions of strategic arms in the period after 1985, 

Sharing fully the opinion expressed by the Secretary-General to the effect 
that disarmament negotiations move very slowly in comparison to the obvious 
perils posed by the enormous arsenals of nuclear weapons, 

1. Regrets the absence of positive results during the last two years of the 
bilateral negotiations between the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics and the United States of America on the limitation of their strategic 
nuclear-weapons systems; 

2. Expresses its concern for the very high ceilings of nuclear arms set for 
themselves by both States, for the total absence of qualitative limitations of 
such arms, for the protracted time-table contemplated for the negotiation of 
further limitations and possible reductions of the nuclear arsenals, and for the 
situation thus created; 

I . .. 



A/10438 
English 
Page 12 

3. Urges anew the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States 
of America to broaden the scope and accelerate the pace of their strategic nuclear 
arms limitation talks, and stresses once again the necessity and urgency of 
reaching agreement on important Qualitative limitations and substantial reductions 
of their strategic nuclear-weapon systems as a positive step towards nuclear 
disarmament; 

4. Reiterates its previous invitation to both Governments to keep the 
General AssemblY informed in good time of the progress and results of their 
negotiations. 

D 

The General Assembly, 

Conscious of the increased responsibilities that have been placed upon the 
Disarmament Affairs Division in servicing meetings and conferences on disarmament, 
as well as in implementing the decisions adopted by the General Assembly, 
including reQuests for information, studies and reports on matters related to 
disarmament, 

Noting in particular that the number of meetings to be serviced and the 
amount of documentation to be prepared by the Disarmament Affairs Division has 
doubled within the last four years, 

Requests the Secretary-General to take appropriate steps for the strengthening 
of the Disarmament Affairs Division, including the addition of staff necessary for 
the effective carrying out of its increased responsibilities. 

E 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 2660 (XXV) of 7 December 1970 in which it commended 
the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear and Other Weapons of 
Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof, 

Noting that article VII of the Treaty provides that: 

"Five years after the entry into force of this Treaty, a conference of 
Parties to the Treaty shall be held at Geneva, Switzerland, in order to 
review the operation of thi~ Treaty with a view to assuring that the 
purposes of the preamble and the provisions of the Treaty are being realized. 
Such review shall take into account any relevant technological developments. 
The review conference shall determine, in accordance with the views of a 
majority of those Parties attending, whether and when an additional review 
conference shall be convened.", 

I ... 



A/10438 
English 
Page 13 

Bearing in mind that the Treaty will have been in force for five years on 
18 May 1977 and expecting that the review conference called for in the Treaty will 
take place soon after that date, 

1. Notes that after appropriate consultation a preparatory committee of 
parties to the Treaty is to be arranged; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to render the necessary assistance and to 
provide such services, including summary records, as may be required for the review 
conference and its preparation; 

3. Recalls its expressed hope for the widest possible adherence to the 
Treaty. 




