








































UNIT ED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10441 
10 December 1975 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda i tern 44 

COMPREHENSIVE STUDY OF THE QUESTION OF NUCLEAR-WEAPON-FREE 
ZONES IN ALL ITS ASPECTS 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Horacia ARTEAGA-ACOSTA (Venezuela) 

l. The item entitled "Comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free 
zones in all its aspects: report of the Conference of the Committee on 
Disarmament" was included by the Secretary-General in the provisional agenda of 
the thirtieth session on the basis of General Assembly resolution 3261 " (XXIX) of 
9 December 1974. 

2. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in the 
agenda of the thirtieth session and to allocate it to the First Committ2e for 
consideration and report. 

3. At its 2072nd meeting, on 30 October, the First Committee decided to hold a 
combined general debate on the item allocated to it relating to disarmament and 
the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely, items 31, 34 to 48, 120, 122 and 126. 
The general debate on these items took place at the 2072nd to 2095th meetings,. 
from 30 October to 21 November. 

4. The First Committee had before it, in connexion with agenda item 44, the 
special report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament (A/10027/Add.l) 
containing the comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free zones in 
all its aspects, prepared by the Ad Hoc Group of Qualified Governmental Experts 
under the auspices of CCD, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 3261 F (XXIX). 

5. On 17 November, Argentina, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Peru and Zaire submitted 
a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.724) which was introduced by the representative of 
Mexico at the 2097th meeting, on 25 November. Subsequently, on 28 November, 
Bolivia submitted document A/C.l/L.740 and Corr.l containing amendments to draft 

75-28422 I . .. 



A/10441 
English 
Page 2 

resolution A/C.l/1. 724. At the 2105th meeting, on 4 December, Bolivia withdrew 
its amendments after the representative of Mexico, on behalf of the original 
sponsors and Pakistan, introduced a revised text of the draft resolution 
(A/C.l/1.724/Rev.l). 

6. On 26 November, Finland submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/1.734) which 
was introduced by the representative of Finland at the 2099th meeting, on 
28 November. A revised text of the draft resolution (A/C.l/1. 734/Rev.l) was 
submitted by Finland on 1 December and introduced at the 2102nd meeting, on 
2 December. A statement on the administrative and financial implications of 
the draft resolution was submitted by the Secretary-General on 1 De~ember 
(A/C.l/1. 743). 

7. At the 2108th meeting, on 5 December, the Committee voted on draft 
resolution A/C.l/1.734/Rev.l: 

106 
(a) The fifth preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of 

to none, ~:ri th 3 abstentions. r_;:'he votin ':'; 1ras as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, 
Botswana~ Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi 9 Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Canada, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, 
Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, German 
Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, 
Greece, Guinea, Honduras; Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran~ 
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan 1 Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lesotho, Luxembourg) Hadagascar, 
Halawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, 
Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, Ne1< Zealand, Niger, 
Nigeria 1 Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal, Romania~ Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal., Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, 
United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, 
Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: India, Uganda, Zaire. 

(b) The draft resolution as a whole was adopted by 111 to none* (see 
para. 9 below, draft resolution A). 

* After the vote, the delegations of Qatar and Liberia stated that, had they 
been present, they >1ould have voted in favour of the draft resolution. 

I ... 



A/10441 
English 
Page 3 

8. At the same meeting, the First Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.l/L.724/Rev.l, by a recorded vote of 63 to 10, with 39 abstentions*"- (see 
para. 9 below, draft resolution B). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh, Barbados, 
Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Chad, Chile, 
China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, Guinea, Honduras, Iran, 
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Laos, Lesotho, Madagascar, 
Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Iv!auritius, N!exico, Nepal, Niger, 
Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Romania, Rwanda, 
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan, S>raziland, Thailand, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Republic of 
Cameroon, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, 
Zambia. 

Against: Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ireland, 
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Bahrain, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Canada, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Egypt, Fiji, German Democratic Republic, Greece, Hungary, 
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, 
Mala>ri, Hongolia, Mozambique, Ne>r Zealand, Norway, Oman, Poland, 
Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania. 

RECOMHENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE 

9. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

Comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free 
zones in all its aspects 

A 

The General Assembly, 

-Recalling its resolution 3261 F (XXIX) of 9 December 1974, by >rhich it decided 
to undertake a comprehensive study of the question of nuclear->reapon-free zones in 
all its aspects, 

** After the vote, the delegation of Liberia stated that, had it been present, 
it >rould have voted in favour of draft resolution A/C.l/1.724/Rev.l. 

/ ... 



A/10441 
English 
Page 4 

Having considered the special report of the Conference of the Committee on 
Di 'armament ll containing the comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-
weapon-free ~ones in all its aspects,~ 

Noting the comments made by States members of the Conference of the 
Committee on Disarmament concerning the study, l/ 

Convinced that the study will enhance further efforts concerning nuclear-
weapon-free zones, 

Recognizing that the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones can 
contribute to the security of members of such zones, to the prevention of 
proliferation of nuclear weapons and to the goals of general and complete 
disarmament, 

Expressing the wish that the study will be of assistance to States interested 
in the establishment of nuclear--weapon-free zones, 

1. Takes note of the special report of the Conference of the Committee on 
Disarmament containing the comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-
free zones in all its aspects; 

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Ad Hoc Group of Qualified 
Governmenta'l Experts for the preparation of the study; 

3. Conveys its thanks to the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the 
Director-General of the International Atomic Energy Agency and other relevant 
international organizations for the assistance they have given for the preparation 
of the study; 

4. Commends the special report containing the comprehensive study of the 
question of nuclear-weapon-free zones to the attention of all Governments, the 
International Atomic Energy Agency and other relevant international organizations; 

5. Invites all Governments, the International Atomic Energy Agency and 
other international organizations concerned to transmit to the Secretary-General 
before 30 June 1976 such views, observations and suggestions on the special 
report as they may deem appropriate; 

6. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report based on information 
received under paragraph 5 above and to submit it to the General Assembly at its 
thirty-first session; 

11 All0027 I Add.l. 
?;.I All0027IAdd.l, annex I. 

1.1 All0027/ Add.l, annex II. 
I • •• 



A/10441 
English 
Page 5 

7. Requests the Secretary-General to arrange for the reproduction of the 
special report as a United Nations publication and to give it the widest possible 
publicity in as many languages as is considered desirable and practicable; 

8. Recommends that all Governments give a wide distribution to the special 
report containing the comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free 
zones, so as to acquaint public opinion with its contents, and invites relevant 
international organizations to use their facilities to make the special report 
widely known; 

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-first session 
the item entitled "Comprehensive study of the question of nuclear->reapon-free 
zones in all its aspects". 

B 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling that the United Nations Organization, as set forth in the Charter, 
is based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all its Hembers and that, 
in conformity with the provisions of the Charter, international relations should 
be governed, among other fundamental principles, by those of prohibition of the 
threat or use of force and non-intervention, 

Bearing in mind that nuclear-weapon-free zones constitute one of the most 
effective means for preventing the proliferation, both horizontal and vertical, 
of nuclear weapons and for contributing to the elimination of the danger of a 
nuclear holocaust, 

Reaffirming the principle defined in General Assembly resolution 2028 (XX) of 
19 November 1965, which established the necessity that there should be an 
acceptable balance of mutual responsibilities and obligations of the nuclear-weapon 
and non-nuclear-weapon States, 

Reaffirming also the request made in its resolution 2153 A (XXI) of 
17 November 1966 to all nuclear-weapon States to refrain from the use, or the 
threat of use, of nuclear weapons against States which conclude regional treaties 
in order to ensure the total absence of nuclear weapons in their respective 
territories, 

Having examined the comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-
free zones in all its aspects carried out by the Ad Hoc Group of Qualified 
Governmental Experts under the auspices of the Conference of the Committee on 
Disarmament, pursuant to General Assembly resolution 3261 F (XXIX) of 
9 December 1974, 

Having examined also the comments made by States members of the Conference of 
the Committee on Disarmament regarding that study, the text of which is reproduced 
in the special report with which the Conference transmitted the study to the 
General Assembly, 

I . .. 



A/10441 
English 
Page 6 

Bearing in mind that, without prejudice to the results that may be obtained 
through any further examination of this matter, from the analysis of the contents 
of the special report it is already possible at this time to draw certain 
incontrovertible conclusions, 

Noting that from among those conclusions it would seem advisable to stress 
the necessity that the General Assembly define the concept of nuclear-weapon-free 
zone and the scope of the principal obligations of the nuclear-weanon States 
towards such zones and towards the States included therein, 

Convinced that in so doing it will strengthen the new efforts recently 
undertaken and the realizations already achieved for the establishment of nuclear-

<ii.e' weapon-free zones, 

Solemnly adopts the following declaration: 

I 

Definition of the concept of a nuclear-weapon-free zoi1e 

A "nuclear-weapon-free zone" shall, as a general rule, be deemed to be any 
zone, recognized as such by the United Nations General Assembly, which any group 
of States, in the free exercise of their sovereignty, has established by virtue 
of a treaty or convention whereby: 

(a) The statute of total absence of nuclear weapons to which the zone shall 
be subject, including the procedure for the delimitation of the zone, 
is defined; 

(b) An international system of verification and control is estabJished to 
guarantee compliance with the obligations deriving from that statute. 

II 

Definition of the princinal obligations of the nuclear-weapon 
States towards nuclear-weanon-free zones and towards the 

States included therein 

In every case of a nuclear-weapon-free zone that has been recognized as such 
by the General Assembly, all nuclear-weapon States shall undertake or reaffirm, 
in a solemn international instrument having full legally binding force, such as a 
treaty, a convention or a protocol, the following obligations: 

(a) To respect in all its parts the statute of total absence of nuclear 
weapons defined in the treaty or convention which serves as the 
constitutive instrument of the zone; 

I . .. 



A/10441 
English 
Page 7 

(b) To refrain from contributing in any way to the performance in the 
territories forming part of the zone of acts which involve a 
violation of th·e aforesaid treaty or convention; 

(c) To refrain from using or threatening to use nuclear weapons against 
the States included in the zone. 

III 

The above definitions in no way impair the resolutions which the 
General Assembly has adopted or m~y adopt with regard to specific cases of nuclear-
weapon-free zones nor the rights eman:J.ting for the '1Ember States from such 
resolutions. 




