








































-A--/6!r 
ts:

{JN'IED NAT'ONS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

Distr.
GIIiENAI

A/ro! 5B
9 Decenber 197 5

ORIGINAI,: ENGLISH

Thirtieth sess ion
^oan^q 

ira- 6Lt

CHARTER OF ECONOMTC RIGHTS AND DUTIES OI' STATES

a6n^'+ ^f Ir"a c-^^nd conmittee

Ratporteur: Mrr. Iaz1u1 KARIM (Bangledesh)

1 The Genera.L As s€nbly, at its 2353rd plenary
allocated to the Second. Conmittee aBenda iten 64,
RiEhts and Duties of States".

neeting on IP Sept-.nber I97J,
entitled rrcharter of Economic

2. The Second Conmittee considered the iten at its 17O4th and 1?09th neetings'
on 25 Nov€nber and 2 Decenber 1975. An account of the discussions of ,he
Cornmittee is contained in the relevant sunrxoary records (A/C,2/SR.L7}L .-nd 1709).

3. For its consideration of the iten, the Conmittee had before it the note by
the Secret axy-Genera1 on the conpilation of references nade to the Charter of
Econonic Rights and Duties of states (A/C.2/3oo 

"na 
Add.L and 2).

\. At the 17ol+th neeting, on 2! l]ovember, the representative of l4exico, on
beha"l-f of Argentina, $!9, tfre fcninican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Indonesia,
Kenya, Madagascar, Mexico, Perur the Phililpines, Venezuela and Zaire, introduced
" ot.it-iE".r"t i.r TEictit .fri). suu"eq"intrv, H."d.r-"", Jarnaj c-iltne LibyanArab lepublic, Panama and Uganda joined in sponsoring the draft resolution" which
read as follows:

''The General As s enbly,

"Fecalling itd lesolutj.on 3281 (xEX) of 12 Decmber 19?)+ by which the
Charter of Econonic Rights and Duties of States Ltas solemnly adopted,

"Recalling also that in its resolut ion 3362 (S-vrr) of 16 Septenber f97 5
it reaffirmed that the Decl,aration and the Progranrle of Action on the
Establishnent of a New fnternational Economic Order n as well as the Charter
of Economic Rights and Duties of Stetes, 1ay dor,m the foundations of that
new orde}, consolidation and development of $hic2r are inperative for the
strengthening of internationa"I security and friendly relations and
co-oDeaation amons St ates.

75-28098



A/101+58
Engli sh

"Reaffirning the importance of article 3l+ or tne chart er of Economic
Rights and Duties of states, vhich provides that the ceneral Assenbly sha1l
carry out periodical.ly a systematic and comprehensive consideration of the
imn-Lenentation of lhe Char-t.er, covering both progress achieved and any
improvernent s and additi.ons whlch night become necessary, taking into account
all the econornic, social, legal and other factors related to the p"inciptes
and purposes of the Charter',

"Taking into account the need that the General- Assembly, for the
appropriate discharge of such functions, rnust have the fuff co-operation of
its compet ent organs,

rrBearing in nind the rofe given to the Econonic and Sociaf Council to
define the policy frarnework and. co-ordinate the actiwities of alt
organizations" institutions and subsidiary bodies within the united l[ations
system for the irnplernent at i on of the progranme of Action on the Establisnmenc
of a lilew fnternational Eeononic Order"

_q 
o. f_q4X__Ig.4gC!-e-E the c onmon vil1 to strengthen, develop and

regulate the New fnternational Economic Order vhich is based. on the
Declaration and the Programme of Action adopted by the General Assenbly at
its sixth special session and on the Chaxt er of Economic Rights and nuties
of States adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-ninth session;

"2, Invites l4eliber States to take all appropriate measuxes for the
promot achievement of these ajms;

"3. Decides to entTust the Economic and Social Council with the task
of reviewing-TlE-implementat ion of the charter of Economic Rights and Duties
of States with a viev to adequately prepare the systematic and conprehensive
consideration as a separate item by the General Assembty as provided. for in
article 3l+ of the charter and to report on the progress achieved to the
General Assernbly at its thirty-second session;

Charter of Econonic Rights and
sessions to discharge the task

and Sociaf Council to include an item on the
Duties of States in its agenda for its sunmer
assigned. to it in palag?aph 3 above;

"5. Requests the Secretary-cener al- to give the widest d.issenination to
the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, recognizing the
imortance of r,rorld pubric opinion, in ord er to ensure the observance of its
lrovisi ons;

"q. Requests the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,
the United Nations Organization for fndustrial Developnent, the specialized
6g6ncies, the fnternationaf Atomic Ene?gy Agency and the regional cornnissions
orl the Uiited Nations system to continue the study of the progress achieved
in the irnplementation of the Charter of Economic Rights and D;ties of States
and to report to the Generar Assembly through the Economic and soeial counci1,"



A,/10458
English
Page 3

5' at the 17ogth neeting, on 2 Deeenber, the representative of Mexico introd.uced,
?? ,:"lilf- ?I_tbe sponsors, a revised. ,r"""io., or tf,. O.ari'""""irti."v+rv,d/tr,r4(>/ ttev.l_J. The revisions incorporated were the folfovins:
,,^ - 

(ul In opel'ative laragraph 1, the first l-ine was replaced by the fo1lowing;"Soleunly reiterates ttre united d.eiermination io strengttren and develop,,,

.. (b) rn operative paraglaph l, the word. "prepare" was d.er.eted and the word"preparing" vas inserte-d. between the words ,rtoir and ,,adequateJ_y[;

.J:l fn operative paragreph 5, theracrJ-1tate" in the last line;
(*) In operative paragraph 6, the words flthe study of,r were replaced by theword.s "to study",

f;r^ *1,"1:_:1T. r:?t_r"e, the comnittee adopted rhe revised draft resoLution\4/v.4t''!+t>/ flev.-L/ by a roll_-call vote of 85 to 3, with 12 abstentions(see para. T belov). The result of the voting was as foll-ows:
In favour: Afghanistanr Albania, Al-geria, Argentina, Australia, Au6tria!

Bahrain, Bangladesh, Iarbados, nolivia, Botswana, Bulgaria,
Surundi, Byelorussian Soviet Social-ist Republic, CnaAl Cfrife,
China, Colonbia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahcmey"
Democr-atic yemen, Dorninican lepublic, Egypt, El Salvaaor, Ethiopia,Fiji, I'inland, Gernan Denocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Hungary,India, Indonesi.a, Iran, I?aq, Jamaica, Jord-an, Kenya, Kuwait,
Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, libyan Arab Republic, lr{adagascar,
Malaysia, Mali, lt'ta1ta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolil,
Mozambique, New Zealand., Nigeria, No"way, Oman, lariguay, peru,
Philippines, poland., portugal, Qatar, fionania, RwandJ,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Siena Leone, Singapore, Sxi Lanhar Sudan,Svaziland, Sveden, Syrian Arab Reputlic, Tirailand, Trinidad. and
Tobago, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socia.l-ist iepublic, Union ofSoviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Eniraies, United Republicof Caneroon, Upper Volta, Venezuela, yugoslavia, Zaire.

Against :

RECOMMENDATION OF

7. The Second Conmittee reconmends to
following draft resolution:

Gerrnapy (Federal Republic of), United Kingdom of creat Britain
and Northern lreland, United States of Anerica.

Abstaining: Bahamas u Belgium, Canad.a, Denmark, Fxance, Iceland, Irefand,Israel, Ital_y, Japan, Luxenbourg, NetherLand.s.

word. "ensurefi vas repJ.aced by the word

THE SECOND COMMTTTEE

the General Assenrbl-y the ad.option of the



A/1ol+58
English

Charter of Econonic Rights and Duties of States

The General As sembly,

Fecalling its resofution 3281 (xtrIx) of ]2 December ]!JL 1y whieh it adopted
tne dGiEE-6f Economic Rights and Duties of States'

Recaffing also that, in its resolution 3362 (S-Vff) of 16 Sept enrb er L975, it
reeff iinEEJIE-Tli6 Declaration ancl the Prograrme of Action on the Establisbnrent
of a New Tnternatione.I Economic Order, !/ as wefl as the Charter of Economic Rjghts
and Duties of States, lay do1.In the foundations of that new order, the consolidation
and development of l./hich are imperative for the strengthening of international
security and friendly relations and co-operation among States,

Reaffimins the imr,ort ance of article 34 of the Charter of Economic Rights
arrd Duties of states, which provides that the General As sembly sha.1l carry out
periodically a systematic and comprehensive consideratj.on of the implenentation of
the Charter, covering both progress achieved and any improvements and additions
which may become necessary, taking into account all the economic, social, lega-1
and other factors rel,ated to the lrinciDles and purposes of the Charter '

Taking into account the fact that
discharge of such functions, must have
organs,

the General Assenbly' for the approprj.ate
the ful1 co-operation of its competent

BearinE in nind the role assiqned- to the Economic and Social Council, which
is to define the policl' framework and co-ordinate the activities of all
organizations, institutions and subsidialy bodies r^rithin the United Nations systen
for the implmentation of the Progrsrnme of Action on the Establishment of a ltrew
Internat ional- nconomic Order.

1. Solennly reite]'ates the united determination to strengthen a"nd. devefop
the nev' international economic order, which is based on the Declaration and the
Prograll]lle of Action on the Estabfishnent of a New fnternational Economic Order,
adopted by the GeneraJ- Assembly at its sixth speciaf session, and on the Charter
of Economic Rights and. Duties of States adopted by the Assenbly at its twenty-ninth
session;

?. fnvites Mslber States to take all appropriate measures for the prompt
achi evernenE-6T-IEe se aims r

3. Decid.es to entmst the Economic and Social Councl]1 with the task of
revr- ewrng r,ne rmptemercation of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States
w-ith a view to preparing adequateLy its systematic and comprehensive consideration
by the Generaf A6sanb1y, as a separate item, as provided in article 34 of the
Charter, and to report on the progress achieved to the Assembly at its thirty-
second. s essi on;

l-/ General Assembly resolutions 3201 (S-vI) and 32Q2 (S-vr).



f+. Reouests the Economic
Charter of nconomic Rights and
sessions in order to discharse

5 ' Request s

A/IO\'B
Xno.t ish
P''r'? 5

and gocial Council to include aJI itsn on the
Duties of States in the agenda for its sr.rnmer
the task assigned to it in paragraph 3 above;

Chart er of Economic
the Secret ary-GeneraJ- to give
Rights and Duties of States.

the. rrridest disssrination to the
recognizing the inportance of
observance of its provisions;lioxl-d public opinion, in order to facititate the

6. Requests the United Nations Conference on ?rade a.nd. Developnent, the
united tlatf6il- tfrdustr ial- Devel,opnent organization" the speclalized agencies,
the fnternationaf Atomic Energy Agency and the regional comroissions of the united
Nations system to continue to study the progress achieved in the implenentation
of the charter of Economi c Rights and Duties of states and to repori to the General
Assenbly through the Econor0ic and SociaJ, Council-.




