








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10320 
1 

(~)...~ .I 
3 November 1975 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/FRENCH 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda it em 68 

ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF RACIAL DISCRIMINATION 

Report of the Third Committee (Part I) 

Rapporteur: Mrs. SEKELA KANINDA (Zaire) 

CONTENTS 

I. INTRODUCTION . • • • • • • . . • • • • • • 

II. CONSIDERATION OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS RECOMMENDED 
BY THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL . • • • • 

III. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/L.2159 

IV. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/L.2152 

V. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/L.2151 

VI. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE •••• 

75-22422 

Paragraphs Page 

1 .. 6 

7 - 16 

17 - 20 

21 - 22 

23 - 26 

27 

2 

4 

13 

16 

17 

19 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 2 

I. INTRODUCTION 

l. The General Assembly, at its 2353rd plenary meeting on 19 September 1975, 
allocated to the Third Committee agenda item 68 entitled: 

"Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination: 

11 (a) Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination; 

"(b) Report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination; 

"(c) Status of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of 
Racial Discrimination: report of the Secretary-General." 

2. The Third Committee decided, at its 2113th meeting on 24 September 1975, to 
consider together subitems (a) and (c). 

3. The Committee considered these subitems at its 2114th to 2124th and 2130th to 
2136th meetings, from 25 September to 20 October. The summary records of these 
meetings (A/C.3/SR.2114-2124 and 2130-2136) contain the views of representatives of 
Member States on the subitems. 

4. In connexion with item 68 (a), the Committee had before it the following 
documents: 

(a) The second annual report of the Secretary-General, prepared and submitted 
to the Economic and Social Council by the Secretary-General, in accordance with 
paragraph 18 (f) of the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and 
Racial Discrimination, on the basis of information available as at 14 April 1975 on 
six topics relating to the Decade (E/5636 and Add.l-3), which the Council, in 
resolution 1938 A (LVIII) of 6 May 1975, had requested the Secretary-General to 
submit to the General Assembly; 

(b) A summary of information concerning activities of Governments and 
international organizations prepared on the basis of information available as at 
14 April 1975, and submitted to the Economic and Social Council by the Secretary-
General with a view to assisting the Council in preparing the enumeration of 
activities undertaken or contemplated to achieve the objectives of the Decade called 
for in paragraph 18 (b) of the Programme for the Decade (E/5637 and Add.l and 2), 
which the Council, in the same resolution, had requested the Secretary-General to 
submit to the General Assembly; 

(c) The summary records of the discussion on the subject of the Decade for 
Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination during the fifty-eighth session 
of the Economic and Social Council (E/AC.7/SR.758-760, 763 and 764, and E/SR.l948), 
which the Council, in resolution 1938 A (LVIII), had requested the Secretary-General 
to submit to the General Assembly; 

/ ... 



A/10320 
English 
Page 3 

(d) The relevant part o~ the report o~ the Economic and Social Council to the 
General Assembly; !/ 

(e) A note by the Secretary-General on the Decade ~or Action to Combat Racism 
and Racial Discrimination (A/10145 and Corr.l), to which was annexed draft 
resolutions A and B on the Decade recommended by the Economic and Social Council in 
resolutions 1938 A and B (LVIII), ~or adoption by the General Assembly; 

(~)A note by the Secretary-General (A/10145/Add.l), containing a summary of 
in~ormation received by him on activities urrdertaken or contemplated in connexion 
with the Decade and supplementing the in~ormation on the subject which he had 
submitted to the Economic and Social Council (E/5636 and Add.l-3 and E/5637 and 
Add.l and 2). 

5. In connexion with item 68 (c), the Committee had before it the report o~ the 
Secretary-General on tb:e' status of the International Convention on the Elimination 
of All Forms o~ Racial Discrimination (A/10197). 

/ .! 
6. Su)Jitems 68 (a) and 68 {c) were introduced by the Director o~ the Division of 
Human''Rights at the Committee's 2ll4th meeting on 25 September. 

1/ O~~icial Records o~ the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, Supplement 
No. 3-(A/10003), chaps. I and V, sect. B.l. 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 4 

II. CONSIDERATION OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS RECOMMENDED BY 
THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL 

7. The Committee considered the draft resolutions on the Decade for Action to 
Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination recommended by the Economic and Social 
Council in resolutions 1938 A and B (LXVIII), for adoption by the General Assembly, 
which read as follows: 

Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination 

A 

Implementation of the Programme 

"The General Assembly, 

"Recalling its resolution 3057 (XXVIII) of 2 November 1973, in which 
it reaffirmed its determination to achieve the total and unconditional 
elimination of racism, racial discrimination and apa:r:.!-heid, 

!'Considering that the policies of racism, racial discrimination and 
apartheid are flagrant violations of the principles of the Charter of the 
United Nations and constitute serious violations of the obligations of 
Member States under the Charter, 

"Bearing in mind the vital importance of establishing a new economic 
and social world order based on justice and equality, 

111. Condemns the intolerable conditions which continue to prevail in 
southern Africa and elsewhere, including the denial of the right to 
self-determination and the inhumane and odious application of apartheid 
and racial dis crimination; 

"2. Reaffirms its recognition of the legitimacy of the struggle of 
oppressed peoples to liberate themselves from racism, racial discrimination, 
apartheid, colonialism and alien domination; 

"3. Urges all States to co-operate loyally and fully in achieving the 
goals and objectives of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial 
Discrimination by taking such actions and measures as: 

"(~) Implementing United Nations resolutions bearing on the elimination 
of racism, apartheid, racial discrimination and the liberation of peoples 
under colonial domination and alien subjugation; 

"(b) Ensuring immedi,.te termination of all measures and policies, as 
well as-miliatry, political, economic and other activities, which enable 
racist regimes in southern Africa to continue the repression of the African 
people; 

I ... 



A/10320 
English 
Page 5 

"(£.) Providing full support and assistance, morally and materially, 
to the peoples that are victims of apartheid and racial discrimination and 
to the liberation.movements; 

"(~) Cessation of emigration to South Africa; 

"(~) Ensuring the release of political prisoners iCt South Africa 
and of those subjected to restriction for their opposition to apartheid; 

" (f) Signing and ratifying the International Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 2/ the International 
Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the -Crime of Apartheid ~ 
and all other relevant instruments; 

"(~) Formulating and executing plans to realize the policy measures 
and goals contained in the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat 
Racism and Racial Discrimination, including the advisability of 
establishing national arrangements to follow up the implementation of the 
Programme for the Decade; 

"(g) Reviewing internal laws and regulations with a view to 
identifying and rescinding ohose which provide for, give rise to, or 
inspire racial discrimination or apartheid; 

"(:jj Complying, when due, with the provisions of paragraph 18 (~) 
of the Programme for the Decade, which call for Governments to forward 
a report every two years on the action taken under the Programme for the 
Decade, on the basis of a questionnaire circulated by the Secretary-
General; 

"(.J..) Educating in particular youth in the spirit of equality and 
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms; 

"4. Urges Member States which are parties to the International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination to 
continue to comply fully with their obligations under the Convention 
and, in particular, to submit their reports within the time-table laid 
down under article 9; 

"5. Urges also United Nations organs and bodies, the specialized 
agencies and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to 
ensure the continuation of their activities related to the Decade with 
emphasis on, inter alia: 

£1 General Assembly resolution 2106 A (XX), annex. 
~ General Assembly resolution 3068 (XXVIII), annex. 



A/1032(' 
English 
Page 6 

"(~) Providing moral and material support to the national liberation 
movements and victims of apartheid and racial discrimination; 

"(£_) Assisting and conducting vigorous education and information 
campaigns to dispel racial prejudice and to involve public opinion in the 
struggle against racism and racial discrimination; 

"(£.) Examining the socio-economic and colonial roots of racism, 
apartheid and racial discrimination with a view to eliminating them; 

"6. Requests national sports federations of Member States to refuse 
systematically to participate in all sports or other activities together 
with the representatives of the racist regime of South Africa; 

"7. Welcomes any contributions and suggestions related to the 
Programme for the Decade by the Committee on the Elimination of All Forms 
of Racial Discrimination, the Special Committee against Apartheid and the 
Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of 
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and 
Peoples; 

"8. Requests the Secretary-General to draw on the expertise of the 
Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination while undertaking 
the relevant activities of the Decade; 

"9. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General 
Assembly at its thirty-first session a report containing proposals to 
implement efficiently paragraph 17 of the Programme for the Decade which 
calls for the establishment of an international fund on a voluntary basis; 

1110. Expresses the hope that adequate resources will be made available 
to the Secretary-General to enable him to undertake the activities 
entrusted to him under the Programme for the Decade; 

"11. Decides to consider at its thirty-first session, as a matter of 
high priority, the question entitled 'Decade for Action to Combat Racism 
and Racial Discrimination 1 ." 

B 

;,'orld conferer,ce to combat racism and racial discrimination 

"The General Assembly, 

"Having considered Economic and Social Council resolution 1938 B (LVIII) 
of 6 Hay 1975, 

'·1. )Jotes with appreciation the offer of the Government of Ghana to act 
as host to the world conference envisaged as a !!lajor feature of the Decade 
for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination; 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 7 

11 2. Reguests the Secretary-General to enter into consultations with 
the Government of Ghana on arrangements for holding the conference as well 
as the nature of the financial contribution that the Government of Ghana 
will be capable of making with regard to its offer; 

11 3. Reguests further that the Secretary-General submit a report on 
his consultations in this regard to the Economic and Social Council at its 
sixtieth session to enable the Council to advise the General Assembly on 
this matter. 11 

8. At the 212lst meeting, on 3 October, the representative of Mali introduced the 
following amendments (A/C.3/L.2154) to draft resolution A on behalf of Algeria, 
Greece, Jamaica, Lesotho, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Portugal, Senegal and 
and Yugoslavia: 

(a) Add the following as the second preambular paragraph: 

"Recalling its resolutions 2920 (XXVII) of 15 November 1972 and 
3224 (XXIX) of 6 November 1974 concerning measures to improve the situation 
of migrant workers," 

(b) After paragraph 3 (h), add the following new paragraph 3 (i) and reletter 
the other paragraphs accordingly: 

"(i) Ensuring the cessation of all discriminatory measures against 
migrant workers and extending to them treatment equal to that 
provided for nationals of the host country." 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 8 

9. In the light of suggestions put forward by the 1·epresentative of the 
Federal Republic of Germany, the above amendments were orally revised to add 
the folJ.owing at the end of the new subparagraph 3 ( i) : "with regard to human 
rights and to the provisions of their labour legislation". 

10. The representatives of E~pt, Ghana, the Upper Volta and Yugoslavia, 
subsequently joined by Guinea, submitted the following amendments to draft 
resolution A (A/C.3/L.2155), which in their revised form read as follows: 

(a) Preamble: add a new first preambular paragraph as follows: 

"Noting with appreciation the reports of the Secretary-General 
contained in documents A/10145 and Corr.l and Add.l, E/5636 and Add.l-3, 
E/5637 and Add.l and 2." 

(b) Paragraph 7: 

Add the following sentence to the paragraph: 

" ••• and the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and 
Protection of Minorities." 

(c) Paragraph 8: 

Following the words "Committee on the Elimination of Racial 
Discrimination" add the words "and the Sub-Commission on Prevention of 
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities" • 

• 
(d) Paragraph 10: 

The paragraph should read as follows: 

"Reiterates the call in resolution 3057 (XXVII) to make adequate 
resources available to the Secretary-General to enable him to undertake 
the acti vi tias entrusted to him under the Programme for the Decade." 

(e) Add the following new paragraph 11 and renumber accordingly: 

"Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights in collaboration with 
the Sub-Corr~ission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of 
Minorities to study ways and means of ensuring the implementation of 
United Nations resolutions bearing on apartheid, racism, racial 
discrimination with a view to facilitating the examination of this 
question by the General Assembly in accordance with paragraph 18 (i) of 
the Programme." 

11. The representatives of Algeria, Madagascar, 11ali and Senagal, subsequently 
joined by Guinea and Lesotho, submitted an amendment (A/C.3/L.2156), by which 
a new paragraph 11 was added to draft resolution A, which read as follows: 

I ... 



A/10320 
English 
Page 9 

"Appeals to Governments and private organizations in a position to do so 
to make voluntary contributions of funds which would make it possible to 
carry out all of the activities provided for in the Programme for the Decade, 
especially in paragraphs 15 and 16 thereof with regard to research, studies, 
education, training and information directed towards the achievement of the 
goals of the Decade and designed to assist the victims of racial 
discrimination and racism .. 11 

12. At the 212lst meeting on 3 October, the representative of Somalia introduced 
the following amendments (A/C.3/L.2157) to draft resolution A on behalf of 
Afghanistan, Algeria, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Guinea, Iraq, Jordan, the Libyan 
Arab Republic, Morocco, Somalia, the Syrian Arab Republic, the Sudan and the 
United Arab Emirates: 

(a) Add the folloing paragraph after the first preambular paragraph: 

"Recalling that in its resolution 3151 G (XXVIII) of 
14 December 1973, the General Assembly condemned the unholy alliance 
between Zionism and racism." 

(b) Add the following paragraph after operative paragraph 1: 

"Considers Zionism as a form of racial discrimination to be included 
in the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial 
Discrimination." 

(c) Renumber the following operative paragraphs according\Y; 

(d) In the present operative paragraph 2, add the word "zionism" between the 
words "apartheidr' and ncolonialism11 ; 

(e) In the· present operative paragraph 3 (c), add the word "zionism" between 
the words 11 apartheid11 and "and racd.al discrimination tt; 

(f) In the present operative paragraph 5 (a), add the word "zionism" between 
the words "apartheid11 and nand racial discrimination"; • 

(g) In the present operative paragraph 5 (c), add the word "zionism" between 
the words "apartheidn and 11 and racial discrimination''. 

13. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria put forward an oral 
amendment to add the following at the end of subparagraph (b) of operative 
paragraph 5 of draft resolution A: 

"In particular that an international competition should be organized to 
select an appropriate emblem for the Decade and the printing of posters 
containing the emblem for wide distribution." 

A statement on the financial implications of the amendment was submitted by the 
Secretary-General (A/C.3/638). 

/ ... 



A/10320 
English 
Page 10 

14. At the 2116th meeting, on 29 September, the Committee decided that the 
deadline for the submission of draft resolutions and amendments relating to the 
item would be 1 October at 1.00 p.m. At the 2130th meeting, on 15 October, the 
representative of Somalia announced on behalf of the co-sponsors (see para. 12 
above), the wish to withdraw the amendments (A/C.3/L.2157) and to replace them by 
a new draft resolution, and also requested that the majority rule, provided in 
rule 125 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, should apply in 
determining whether the new text would be submitted for consideration or not. 
Some representatives maintained, on the other hand, that the two-thirds majority 
provided in rule 123 was required for this purpose. The Committee decided by a 
recorded vote of 72 to 24, with 28 abstentions, that the majority rule provided in 
rule 125 would be applicable to the proposal of Somalia. The voting was as 
follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, A~gentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Bhutan, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, 
Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, 
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, 
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Libyan Arab 
Republic, Madagascar, Halaysia, Mali, Mauritania, ~lauritius, 
Mexico, .Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nigeria, Oman, 
Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic 
of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, 
Yemen, Yugoslavia. 

Against: Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Denmark, 
Dominican Republic, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Haiti, 
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Liberia, Luxembourg, Halawi, 
Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay. 

Abstaining: Botswana, Brazil, Burundi, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Fiji, 
Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Greece, Grenada, Guyana, Honduras, 
Ivory Coast, Japan, Lesotho, New Zealand, Philippines, Romania, 
Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Zaire, 
Zambia. 

15. By a recorded vote of 75 to 22, with 26 abstentions, the Committee then 
decided, as proposed by Somalia, to consider a new version of the draft 
resolution. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Bhutan, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, 
Dahomey, Democrat-ic Yemen, Egypt, Gabon, German Democratic 
Republic, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, India, 
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,,Laos, 
Lebanon, Libyan Arab Republic, ~Jadagascar, Malaysia, Mali, 

I ... 



A/10320 
English 
Page 11 

Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, 
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,. 
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ug'l.nda, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United 
Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia. 

Against: Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Dominican 
Republic., France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Haiti, Iceland, 
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlands, 
Nicaragua, Norway, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United States of America, 

Abstaining: Bolivia, Botswana, Burundi, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Fiji, 
Finland, Gambia, Greece, Honduras, Ivory Coast, Japan, Lesotho, 
Mauritius, New Zealand, Romania, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Uruguay, Zaire, Zambia. 

16. At the 2134th meeting, on 17 October, the Committee voted on draft resolutions 
A and B recommended by the Economic and Social Council (A/10145 and Corr.l, annex) 
and on the amendments thereto. The voting was as follows: 

(a) A proposal to add a new first preambular paragraph (item l in document 
A/C.3/L.2155) was adopted without a vote; 

(b) A proposal to add a new preambular paragraph (item 2 in document 
A/C. 3/L. 2154) was adopted by 122 votes to 1, with 4 abstentions; 

(c) A proposal to add a new subparagraph (i) after operative paragraph 3 (h) 
(item 2 in document A/C.3/L.2154), as revised (see para. 8 above), was adopted by 
121 votes to none, with 5 abstentions; 

(d) The oral amendment submitted by Nigeria to subparagraph (b) of operative 
paragraph 5 (see para. 12 above) was adopted unanimously; 

(e) The proposal to add a new sentence at the end of operative paragraph 7 
(item 2 in document A/C.3/L.2155) was adopted without a vote; 

(f) Operative paragraph 7 of draft resolution A recommended by the Economic 
and Social Council, as amended, was adopted without a vote; 

(g) A proposal to add a new sentence to operative paragraph 8 (item 3 in 
document A/C.3/L.2l55) was adopted without a vote; 

(h) Operative paragraph 8 of draft resolution A recommended by the Economic 
and Social Council, as amended, was adopted without a vote; 

(i) A proposal for a new formulation of operative paragraph 10 (item 4 in 
document A/C.3/L.2l55) was adopted unanimously. 

/ ... 



A/10320 
English 
Page 12 

(j) A proposal to add a new operative paragraph 11 (item 5 in document 
A/C.3/L.2155) as revised, was adopted unanimously; 

(k) A proposal to add a new operative paragraph 11 (renumbered 12) (contained 
in document A/C.3/L.2156) was adopted unanimously; 

{1) Draft resolution A, recommended by the Economic and Social Council, as 
a whole, as amended, was adopted by 126 votes to 1, with 2 abstentions (see 
para. 27 below, draft resolution I); 

(m) Draft resolution B recommended by the Economic and Social Council was 
adopted by 126 votes to 1, with 1 abstention (see para. 27 below, draft 
resolution II). 

; ... 



A/10320 
English 
Page 13 

III. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/L.2159 

17. At the 2132nd meeting, on 16 October, the representative of Somalia introduced 
draft resolution A/C.3/L.2159 sponsored by Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Cuba, 
Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Guinea, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, the 
Libyan Arab Republic, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, the 
Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen, 
subsequently joined by Mali and the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. 

18. At the 2134th meeting, on 17 October, the representative of Sierra Leone 
supported by Zambia, proposed the deferral of the consideration of the draft 
resolution until the next session of the General Assembly. The proposal was 
rejected by a roll··call vote of 68 to 45, with 16 abstensions. The voting was 
as follows: 

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, 
Botswana, Canada:> Colombia~ Costa Rica~ Denmark) Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, 
Germany (Federal Republic of\, Haiti, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, 
Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Kenya, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malawi 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nepal, Norway, Rwanda, 
Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Upper Volta, 
Uruguay, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cambodia, 
Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, German 
Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea··Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon~ 
Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, 
Mauritania, Mauritius) Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique~ Niger, 
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, 
Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United 
Republic of Tanzania, Yemen, Yugoslavia. 

Abstaining: Argentina, Burma) Gambia, Ghana, Grenada~ Guatemala, Honduras) 
Jamaica, Lesotho, Hexico, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, 
Singapore, Thailand, Togo, Venezuela. 

19. At the same meeting, the representative of the 
the closure of the debate on the draft resolution. 
a roll-call vote of 66 to 29, with 32 abstentions. 

Libyan Arab Republic moved 
The proposal was adopted by 
The voting was as follows: 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 14 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Sov.iet Socialist Republic, 
Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, 
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, 
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea·-Bissau, 
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq) Jordan~ Kuwait) Laos~ 
Lebanon, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, !V!alawi, Malaysia, 
Hali, I-1alta, Mauritania, ~.fongolia, Morocco, Mozambique~ Niger, 
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia. 

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, 
Dominican Republic, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of, Haiti Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, 
Ivory Coast, Japan, Liberia, Luxembourg, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, 
Uruguay. 

~bstaining: Bahamas, Barbados, Botswana, Burma, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Gambia, 
Ghana, Grenada, Guyana, Jamaica, Kenya, Lesotho~ Mauritius) 
Mexico, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Romania, 
Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, 
Thailand, Togo, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Zaire, Zambia. 

20. Also at the same meeting, the Committee voted on the draft resolution. At 
the request of the representative of Mexico, separate votes were taken on each of 
the preambular paragraphs. The voting was as follows: 

(a) The first preambular paragraph was adopted by 104 votes to 4, with 
20 apstentions; 

(b) The second preambular paragraph was adopted by 75 votes to 26, with 
27 abstentions ; 

(c) The third preambular paragraph was adopted by 75 votes to 21, with 
32 abstentions; 

(d) The fourth preambular paragraph was adopted by 75 votes to 24, with 
29 abstentions; 

(e) The fifth preambular paragraph was adopted by 74 votes to 24, with 
29 abstentions ; 

(f) The draft resolution, as a whole, was adopted by a roll-call vote of 
70 to 29, with 27 abstentions (see para. 27 below, draft resolution III). The 
voting was as follows: 

I . .. 



A/10320 
Eri.glish 
Page 15 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Cambodia, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Gabon, German 
Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, 
Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, 
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Poland, Portugal, ~atar, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic 
of Tanzania, Yemen, Yugoslavia. 

Against: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Canada, Costa 
Rica, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Finland, France, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Haiti, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, 
Italy, Ivory Coast, Liberia, Luxembourg, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, 
Uruguay. 

Abs~ining: ~ Botswana, Colombia, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gambia, Ghana, Grenada, 
Honduras, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Nepal, 
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Romania, Rwanda, Sierra 
Leone, Singapore, Swaziland, Togo, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Zaire, 
Zambia. 

~ Subsequently, the representatives of Argentina and Thailand drew 
attention to the fact that they had abstained in the vote on the draft resolution, 
but that this had not been recorded by the voting machine. 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 16 

IV. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/L.2152 

21. At the 2118th meeting, on 1 October, a draft resolution on the status of 
the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of 
Apartheid (A/C.3/L.2152) was submitted in connexion with item 68 (a) by Bulgaria, 
Ecuador, the German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Hungary, Iraq, Somalia, 
the Syrian Arab Republic, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and Yugoslavia, 
later joined by Bangladesh, Cuba, Cyprus, Mali, Mongolia, Morocco, Poland, 
the Sudan and the United Ar8.b Emirates. The draft resolution read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Referring to its resolution 3068 (XXVIII) of November 1973, by which 
it approved and opened for signing and ratification the International 
Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, 

"Reaffirming its firm conviction that apartheid constitutes a total 
negation of the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations 
and is a crime against humanity, 

"Convinced that ratification of or accession to the International 
Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid on a 
universal basis and implementation of its provisions are necessary for 
achievement of the goals of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and 
Racial Discrimination, 

"1. Appeals to the Governments of all States to sign, ratify and 
implement without delay the International Convention on the Suppression and 
Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid; 

112. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly 
annual reports on the status of this Convention; 

"3. Decides to consider this question at its thirty-first session as 
a subitem of the agenda item entitled "The Elimination of All Forms of 
Racial Discrimination. 11 

22. At the 2122nd meeting, on 6 October, the draft resolution was adopted by 
b8 votes to none, with 22 abstentions (see para. 27 below, draft resolution IV). 

I ... 



A/10320 
English 
Page 17 

V. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/L.2151 

23. At the 2117th meeting, on 30 September, the representative of Belgium, in 
connexion with item 68 (c), introduced a draft resolution on the status of the 
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination 
(A/C.3/L.215l) sponsored by Argentina, Belgium, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Cyprus, 
Egypt, Germany (Federal Republic of), Finland, Ghana, Greece, Iran, Morocco, 
Nigeria, the Philippines, Senegal, Swaziland, the Syrian Arab RePUblic, the United 
Arab Emirates and Yugoslavia. The draft resolution read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Recalling its resolutions 3057 (XXVIII) of 2 November 1973, 
3134 (XXVIII) and 3135 (XXVIII) of 14 December 1973 and 3225 (XXIX) of 
6 November 1974, 

"1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the status of 
the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination; 

112. Expresses its satisfaction with the increase in the number of 
States which have ratified the Convention; 

"3. Reaffirms its conviction that ratification of the International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination or 
accession to the Convention on a universal basis and implementation of its 
prov1s1ons are necessary for the realization of the objectives of the 
Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination; 

"4. Appeals to States which have not yet become parties to the 
Convention to accede thereto; 

"5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to submit to the 
General Assembly annual reports concerning the state of ratifications of 
the Convention, in accordance with resolution 2106 A (XX) of 
21 December 1965". 

24. At the 212lst meeting, on 3 October, the representative of Uruguay introduced 
an amendment (A/C.3/L.2153) sponsored by Norway and Uruguay by which the 
following new paragraph 5 (the present paragraph 5 should be renumbered) was 
added: 

"Appeals to States parties to the Convention to study the possibility 
of making the declaration provided for in article 14 of the Convention." 

I ... 



A/10320 
English 
Page 18 

25. At the 2122nd meeting, on 6 October, the Committee adopted the amendment by 
a recorded vote of 61 to 12, with 39 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Botswana, 
Brazil, Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, Costa Rica, 
Cyprus, Dahomey, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Fiji, 
Finland, France, Gabon, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, 
Greece, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, 
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, 
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, 
Norway, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, 
Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United nepublic of Camero~n, United Republic of Tanzania, 
United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, 
Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, 
German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, 
Mongolia, Poland, Senegal, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Burma, Chad, Cuba, 
Democratic Yemen, ~~hiopia, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, 
Iran, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kuwait, Laos, Madagascar, 
Malawi, Malaysia, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, 
Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia. 

26. At the same meeting, the draft resolution (A/C.3/L.2151), as amended, was 
adopted by 106 votes to none, with 6 abstentions (see para. 27 below, draft 
resolution V). 

I ... 



VI. RECO~~NDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE 

A/10320 
English 
Page 19 

27. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

Implementation of the Programme for the Decade for Action to 
Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination 

The General Assembly, 

Noting with ap-preciation the reports. of the Secretary-General, '2./ 

Recalling its resolution 3057 (XXVIII) of 2 November 1973, in which it 
reaffirmed its determination to achieve the total and unconditional elimination 
of racism~ racial discrimination and apartheid~ 

Recalling its resolutions 2920 (XXVII) of 15 November 1972 and 3224 (XXIX) 
of 6 !Jovember 1974 concerning measures to improve the situation of migrant workers, 

Considering that the policies of racism, racial discrimination and apartheid 
are flagrant violations of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and 
constitute serious violations of the obligations of Member States under the Cbarter, 

Bearing in mind the vital import~nce of establishing a new economic and social 
world order based on justice and equality, 

1. Condemns the intolerable conditions which continue to prevail in southern 
Africa and elsewhere, including the denial of the right to self-determination and 
the inhumane and odious application of apartheid and racial discrimination; 

2. Reaffirms its recognition of the legitimacy of the struggle of oppressed 
peoples to liberate themselves from racism, racial discrimination, apartheid, 
colonialism and alien domination; 

3. Urges all States to co-operate loyally and fully in achieving the goals 
and objectives of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination 
by taking such actions and measures as: 

(~) Implementing United Nations resolutions bearing on the elimination of 
racism, apartheid, racial discrimination and the liberation of peoples under 
colonial domination and alien subjugation; 

'2./ A/10145 and Corr.l and Add.l, E/5636 and Add.l-3, and E/5637 and Add.l and 2. 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 20 

(~) Ensuring immediate termination of all measures and policies, as well as 
military, political, economic and other activities, which enable racist regimes in 
southern Africa to continue the repression of the African people; 

(£) Providing full support and assistance, morally and materially, to the 
peoples which are victims of apartheid and racial discrimination and to the 
liberation movements; 

(~) Cessation of emigration to South Africa; 

(~) Ensuring the release of political prisoners in South Africa and of those 
subjected to restrictions for their opposition to apartheid; 

(f) Signing and ratifying the International Convention on the Elimination of 
All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 6/ the International Convention on the 
Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid 11 and all other relevant 
instruments; 

(g) Formulating and executing plans to realize the policy measures and goals 
contained in the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial 
Discrimination, including the advisability of establishing national arrangements 
to follow up the implementation of the Programme for the Decade; 

(h) Reviewing internal laws and regulations with a view to identifying and 
rescinding those which provide for, give rise to, or inspire racial discrimine.tion 
or apartheid; 

(!) Ensuring the cessation of all discriminatory measures against migrant 
workers and extending to them treatment equal to that provided for naticnals of the 
host country with regard to human rights and to the provisions of their labour 
legislation; 

(~) Complying, when due, with the prov1s1ons of paragraph 18 (~) of the 
Programme for the Decade, which call for Governments to forward a report every two 
years on the action taken under the Programme for the Decade, on the basis of a 
questionnaire circulated by the Secretary-General; 

(k) Educating, in particular, youth in the spirit of equality and respect 
for human rights and fundamental freedoms; 

4. Urges Member States which are parties to the International Convention on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination to continue to comply fully 
with their obligations under the Convention and, in particular, to submit their 
reports within the time-table laid down under article 9; 

§!General Assembly resolution 2106 A (XX), annex. 

11 General Assembly resolution 3068 (XXVIII), annex. 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 21 

5. Also urges United Nations organs, the specialized agencies and 
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to ensure the continuation of 
their activities related to the Decade with emphasis on, inter alia: 

(a) Providing moral and material support to the national liberation movements 
and viCtims of apartheid and racial discrimination; 

(~) Assisting and conducting vigorous education and information campaigns to 
dispel racial prejudice and to involve public opinion in the struggle against 
racism and racial discrimination, in particular to organize an international 
competition to select an appropriate emblem for the Decade and the printing of 
posters containing the emblem for wide distribution; 

(£) Examining the socio-economic and colonial roots of racism, apartheid and 
racial discrimination with a view to eliminating them; 

6. Requests national sports federations of Member States to refuse 
systematically to participate in all sports or other activities together with the 
representatives of the racist regime of South Africa; 

7. Welcomes any contributions and suggestions related to the Programme for 
the Decade by the Committee on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 
the Special Committee against Apartheid, the Special Committee on the Situation with 
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to 
Colonial Countries and Peoples and the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination 
and Protection of Minorities; 

8. Requests the Secretary-General to draw on the expertise of the Committee 
on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and the Sub-Commission on Prevention of 
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities while undertaking the relevant activities 
of the Decade; 

9. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at 
its thirty-first session a report containing proposals to implement efficiently 
paragraph 17 of. the Programme for the Decade, which calls for the establishment of 
an international fund on a voluntary basis; 

10. Reiterates the call in its resolution 3057 (XXVII) to make adequate 
resources available to the Secretary-General to enable him to undertake the 
activities entrusted to him under the Programme for the Decade; 

11. Calls upon the Commission on Human Rights, in collaboration with the 
Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, to 
study ways and means of ensuring the implementation of United Nations resolutions 
bearing on apartheid, racism and racial discrimination with a view to faciliteting 
the examination of this question by the General Assembly in accordance 1fith 
paragraph 18 (i) of the Programme for the Decade; 

12. Appeals to Governments and private organizations in a position to do so 
to make voluntary contributions of funds which would make it possible to carry out 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 22 

all of the activities provided for in the Programme for the Decade, especially in 
paragraphs 15 and 16 thereof, with regard to research, studies, education, 
training and information directed towards the achievement of the goals of the 
Decade and designed to assist the victims of racial discrimination and racism, 

13. Decides to consider at its thirty-first session, as a matter of high 
priority, the question entitled "Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial 
Discrimination 11 o 

DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

\ 1Torld conference to combat racism and racial discrimination 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered Economic and Social Council resolution 1938 B (LVIII) of 
6 May 1975, 

1. Notes with appreciation the offer of the Government of Ghana to act as 
host to the world conference envisaged as a major feature of the Decade for Action 
to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to enter into consultations with the 
Government of Ghana concerning arrangements for holding the conference as well as 
the nature of the financial contribution that the Government of Ghana will be able 
to make with regard to its offer; 

3. Further requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on his 
consultations in this regard to the Economic and Social Council at its sixtieth 
session to enable i~ to advise the General Assembly on this matter. 

DRAFT RESOLUTION III 

Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 1904 (XVIII) of 20 November 1963, proclaiming the 
United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 
and in particular its affirmation that "any doctrine of racial differentiation or 
superiority is scientifically false, morally condemnable ;;nd/ socially unjust and 
dangerous" and its expression of alarm at "the manifestation; of racial 
discrimination still in evidence in some areas in the world, some of which are 
imposed by certain Governments by means of legislative, administrative or other 
measures", 

Recalling also that, in its resolution 3151 G (XXVIII) of 14 December 1973, 
the General Assembly condemned, inter alia, the unholy alliance between 
South African racism and zionism, 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 23 

Taking note of the Declaration of Mexico on the Equality of Women and their 
Contribution to Development and Peace, 1975 §! proclaimed by the World Conference 
of the International Women's Year, held at Mexico City from 19 June to 2 July 1975, 
which promulgated the principle that "international co-operation and peace require 
the achievement of national liberation and independence, the elimination of 
colonialism and neo-colonialism, foreign occupation, zionism 1 apartheid, and 
racial discrimination in all its forms as well as the recognition of the dignity 
of peoples and their right to self-determination", 

Taking note also of resolution 77 (XII) adopted by the Assembly of Heads of 
State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its twelfth ordinary· 
session, 9/ held in Kampala from 28 July to l August 1975, which considered "that 
the racist regime in occupied Palestine and racist regimes in Zimbabwe and 
South Africa have a common imperialist origin, forming a whole and having the same 
racist structure and being organically linked in their policy aimed at repression 
of the dignity and integrity of the human being", 

Taking note also of the Political Declaration and Strategy to Strengthen 
International Peace and Security and to Intensify Solidarity and Mutual Assistance 
among Non-Aligned Countries, 10/ adopted at the Conference of Ministers for Foreign 
Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries, held in Lima from 25 to 30 August 1975, which 
most severely condemned zionism as a threat to world peace and security and called 
upon all countries to oppose this racist and imperialist ideology, 

Determines that zionism is a form of racism and racial discrimination. 

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV 

Status of the International Convention on the Suppression 
and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid 

The General Assembly, 

Referring to its resolution 3068 (XXVIII) of 30 November 1973, by which it 
approved and opened for signature and ratification the International Convention 
on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, 

Reaffirming its firm conviction that apartheid constitutes a total negation 
of the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and is a crime 
against humanity, 

§} E/5725, part one, sect. I. 

~/ A/10297, annex II. 

10/ A/10217 and Corr.l, annex, p. 3. 

I . .. 



A/10320 
English 
Page 24 

Convinced that ratification of or accession to the International Convention 
on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid on a universal basis 
and implementation of its provisions are necessary for the achievement of the 
goals of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, 

l. Appeals to the Governments of all States to sign, ratify and implement 
witlwut delay the- International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of 
the Crime of t<partheid; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly annual 
reports on the status of the International Convention on the Suppression and 
PutJ.istjnl_f:nt of the Crime of Apartheid; 

3. Decides to consider this question at its thirty-first session under 
the item entitled~ "Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination 11 • 

DRAFT RESOLUTION V 

~!:.~tU§ of' the International Convention on the Elimination 
of ALl Forms of Racial Discrimination 

Recalling its resolutions 3057 (XXVIII) of 2 November 1973, 3134 (XXVIII) and 
3135 \xxvniT-of 14 December l9T3 and 3225 (XXIX) of 6 November 1974, 

1. :rakec~ote of the report of' the Secretary-General on the status of 
tile InteynationaJ. Con-.rention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
D·i.scri~ninr,tion; 

2. ~xpresses 
\,:hi ch have ratified 

its satisfaction with 
tneConvt2ntioll; 

the increase in the number of States 

3. Reaffirr1s its conviction that ratification in the International -----
Conve:otioa on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination or accession 
to the Convention on a universal basis and implementation of its provisions are 
necessary for the realization of the objectives of the Decade for Action to Combat 
Hacism and Racial Discrimination;, 

l1. Appeals to States Hhich have not yet become parties to the Convention 
to accede thereto; 

5. Appeals to States parties to the Convention to study the possibility of 
making the -declaration provided for in article 14 of the Convention; 

6. Requests tlle Secretary-General to continue to submit to the General 
Assembly annual reports concerning the state of ratifications of the Convention, 
in accordance "ith its resolution 2106 A (XX) of 21 December 1965. 




