








































{.',V'IEE NATdONS

GENERAL
ASSEAABLY

ljastr.
GENERAL

A/r$99
1 Decenber 1975

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirti.eth session
Agenda itera 86

TNFORMATION FROM NON-SE],F-GOVEBNING TERR]TOFIES TRANSMITTED
UNDER AITICLE 73 e OF THN CHARTER OF TEE LNTTED NATIONS

Report of the Fourth Connittee

Barporteul: Mr. Rui QUARTIN-SANTOS (Portugal)

1. At its 2353rd pIenary rneeting, on 19 Septenber L9'(5 ) the General Assembly ' onthe reconeendation of the General corinittee (A/10250), decided to include in the
agenda of its thirtieth session and to all-ocate to the Fourth Cornnittee for
consideration and report an iten entitled:

'llnformation frorn Non-Se1f-Gcverning Territories transmitted under
Article ?3 e of the Charter of the United }lations:

"(a) Report of the Secret ary-General;

"(b) neport of the Special Corunittee on the Situation with regard to the
Inplementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Col-onial- Countries and Peoples.I'

2. At its 213\th meeting, on 30 seltember' the I'ourth Conrnittee decided to hold
a general debate covering agenda itens 23, 86, 91 and J.2, 92 and 93, on the
understanding that individual draft resolutions on natters covered by those itens
vou].d be considered separately.

3. The !'ourth Conmittee considered iten 85 at its 2162nd to 2173rd meetings,
between ? end 21 November.

l+. At the 2162nd meeting, the Bapporteur of the Special Cornnittee on the Situation
vith regard to the Irapl-ementation of the Declaration on tbe Granting of Independence
to colonial countries and Peoples introduced chaptef xncl of the repo].t of that
Conmrittee relating to the item (A/10023/Add.9).

5, The Fourth conmittee also had before it the Teport of the secret ary-Genera"l
relating to the iten (A/1030?).

I >-14) 5>



A/Lo399
English
Page 2

6. The general debate covering the itens referred to in paragraph 2 above took
place at the 2162nd to ZlT?th roeetings, betveen ? and 28 fqovenler.

7- At the.2172nd meeting" on 20 November, the chaiman drew attention to a draft
resolution (l/C.\/l,,ltt? ), vhich vas finali.y sponsored by the folloving Menber
States: Brazil-, Congo, Cuba, Egypt, Guinea, GuiGuinea-Bissau, Iraq, Ivory Coast,, aa:-;a=,Jqngrca, Laog, lqladagascar, Portugel, Rvand.a, Senegal-, Solralia, Togc, United Republicof Cameroon, Uniteq ESpuUfic of f-*"nia aruand Uloer Volta.

U. At its 2U3rd neeting, on 21 November, the Fourth Connittee adopted draft
resolution A/C.4/L.11U by a recorded vote of 1OB to none, with 3 abstentions
(see para. 9 belov), The votins was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgiun, Bhutan, Botsffana, Braziln Bulgaria,
Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Clrile,
China, Co].onbia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahamey,
Ecuad.or, Egypt, E1 Salvad.or, nthiopia, tr'in1and, Gabon, cerman
Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana,
Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
Icelando India, lndonesia, Iran, Iraq, freland, Italy, Tvory
Coast, Janaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenyau Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, l'{a1aysia,
Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongotia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Netherlands, Nev Zealand, Nicaragua, Nore/ay, Oman, Pakistar"
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Po1and,
Portugal, Rornania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singepore 

"Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sud.an, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republ.ic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Toba.go, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Llkrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Fepublics, United Arab Etnirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia.

None .

Abstaining: FTance, United. Kingdom of Great Brits,in and Northern lreland,
United States of America.

NECOMMENDATTON OT' fHN FOURTH COMMITTEE

9. The Fourth Corrunittee recommends to the General Assenbly the adoption .f the
folloving draft resolution :

Information frou Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted
under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United. Nations

,Ihe General AssembLy,



A/ro399
English
Page 3

Recallins its resolution l-970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
requesTEd-IlE-Speci aJ. Comittee on the Situation with regard to the Implenentation
of the Decla"ation on the Granting of Ind.ependence to Colonial Count"ies and Peoples
to study the infornation transmitted to the Se cretary-General under Article 73 e of
the Charter of the United Nations and to take such infomation fully into account in
exami"ning the situation with regaxd. to the impJ.ernentation of the Declaration,

Recallins aJ-so its resolution 3293 (xXIx) of .I3 December I97\, in vhich it
requested the Special Conrnittee to continue to discharge the functions entrusted. to
it under resolution fgTO (XWII),

!ev14g e4qmrned the chapter of the report of the Special- Cornrnittee dealing with
the transmittal of inforrnation under Article ?3 e of the C'harter U and the action
tsken by it in respect of that information,

Having a]-so examined the report of the Secretary-General on this il-en, 2/

neploring that, despite the repeated re cornmendations of the General Assenbly
and the Special Conrnittee, so&e Member States having respons ibilities for the
administration of Non-Self-Governing Territories have ceased or have failed to
transndt information under Article ?3 e of the Charter,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special coDmittee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to colonia-I countries ald Peoples relating td the infor!0ation from
Non-Self-Gove rning Territories transnritted under ArticLe ?3 e of the Charter of the
unateo Natlons: -Ll

2. Reaffirns that, in the absence of a decision by the Generaf Assenbly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a ful-l meausre of self-
gove rnment in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering Power concemed
shou-Id continue to transmit infomation xnder Article 73 e of the Chaxte" vith
respect to that Territory;

3. Requests the adninistering Powers concerned to tlansnit, to the Secretary-
General the infornati on prescribed in Article 73 e ot the Charter, as we].l as the
fullest possible information on po].itical. aJId constitutional developments in the
Temitories concerned, within a maximum period. of six nonths following the
expiration of the adninistrative year in those Territories;

)+, Requests the Speeial Conrnittee to continue to diseharge the flntctions
entrusted to it under Genera] Assenbly resolution 19To (XVIII), in accordance with
established procedures, and to report thereon to the Assertbly at its thirty-first
session.

y A/roa8/Add.!, chap. xxxlr.
u Alro3ot.




