








































-/a 
\:

=si=
{JN'IED NAT'ONS

Distr.
GXNEFA],

G E t,l E R A L
A S S E A/{ B LY

A/Iol+LB , 'j*'t n.{
10 Decenber 1975
ENGLISE
ORIG]NAI,: ENGI,ISE/SPANISH

Thirtieth session
.Agencla iten 126

PROH]BITION OF TEE DEVE,O?MENT AND MANI-IFACTUBE OF NEI,I TYPES OF
WEAPOi{S OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND NEW SYSTEMS OF SUCH WEAPONS

Report of the First Comrittee

Bapporteur: Mr. Horacio ARTIAGA-/-'OSTA (Venezuela)

l-. The iten entitled rrProhibition of tiie d.evelopment and nanufacture of new
tlrpes of r^'eapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons" was incfuded
in tbe draft agend.a of the thirtieth session at the request of the Union of Soviet
ijocl.&l_Isl fiepuD-L].cs \A/ !uz+3 ).

2. At its 2366th plenary neeting, on 29 September I975o the General Assenxbly,
on the reco@endation of the Genera^J" Connittee, decided to inclutle the iten in the
agenda of the thirtieth session and. to allocate it to the Fi.rst Connittee for
considers.tion and report,

3. At its 20J2nd rneeting, on 30 October, the First Conmittee decided to hold
a combined- genereJ debate on the itenrs ailacated to it relating to disarnament
and. the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely, items 31, 34 to 48, 120, 122 and.
126, The general debate on these iteros took place at the 20?2nd to 2o95th neetings,
from 30 october to 2l- November.

l+. On 28 Septenber, the Union of Soviet Sociqlist Republics submitted a draft
resolution (A/c.L/L.7rL) 

"i 
ition of the

development and manufacture of neff types of weapons of mass d.estruction and of
new systems of such weaponstt annexed. to it. It was introduced by the representative
of the Soviet Union at the 2072nd. meeting, on 30 october.

5, 0n I December, the Union of Soviet Socia"list Republics subnitted a revised.
version of the draft resolution (A/C.f /L.TLI/Rev.l) with the draft agreement
annexed to it, r'hich kras sponsored. by Afghanistan, Bu.l-garia, the B_ygfgr'rE ri !.n
Soviet Socialist Bepublic, Costa Rica, Czechosl"ovakia, Democratic Yenen, the Gelrdan

, Guinea, Hungary, Madagascar, Marritius, I"4ongolia' Poland, the
Syrian Arab nepublic ,
Socialist Rerublic s "

the Ukrainian Sovi.et Socialist Republic, the Union of Soviet
Issgffi

7r-28\7)+



A/104\8
]lnglish
Paee 2

6. At the 2l-O8th neeting, on 5 Decenber, the First Conmitt€e adopted draft
resol"ution A/C.I/L.TI7 /Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 99 to 1, vith f5 abstentions
(see para. 7 bel-ow). The voting vas as fol]'ovs:

In favour:

Abstaining:

Afghani stan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bang1ad.esh, Benin, Bhutan, 3o1ivia" BotsFana, Rra,zil " 

Bul€aria,
Burma, Burundi, Syelorussia.n S6viet Socialist Republic, Canad.a,
Chad, Chile, Colonbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Deuocratic Yemen, Doniniean Republic, Ecuador,

--'-jnni. T'i ii I'inlard Gprman DemocIatiC!{jJ!ur !t r rurrtvlrra, r'rJr, r'rrr+ur-u, wvr.
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia? Ira.n, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jarnaica, Japan, Jord.an,
Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, ljadagascar,
it4alaysia, lvlaf i, Mauritius, Mexieo, Mongoiia, Nepaf , New Zeal.and,
Iligeria, Norway, Onan, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Ph.i r i--i-^e p^r --A D^-tugal, Qatar, Romania" Rwanda, saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Svaziland, Sveden, Thailand, Togo, Tbinidad- and Tobago, Tunisia,
Tlrkey, Ukrainian Soviet Sociafist Eepublic, Union of Soviet
Sociali.st Republics, United Arab Enirates, United. Republic of
Caraeroon" United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Vo1ta, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia-

Albania.

Belgiurn, Derir.rark, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ireland,
I srael, Italy, Liberia, Luxenbourg, l4a1alri., I'{auritania,
I'letherlslrds, Ugand.a, United Kingdon of GTeat Britain and. l\orthern
freland, United States of America.

RECO]IJ'IEJIDATIO]I OF THE I'IRST COMMITTEE

7. Tire First Conrnittee reconnends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
fol].owing draft resolution.

Concl-usion of a treaty on the complete and general
crohibitj.on of nuclear-reapon tests

The General As sembly,

Striving to strengthen internationaJ_ peace and security,

Conscious of the interest of nations in continuing efforts to save nankind
from the danger of the use of new means of mass destruction, to lilrdt the arms
race and to bring about disarmament,

Bearing in mind that nodern science and. technology have reached a leve1 vhere
a serious danger arises of the development of new, stilI nore pernicious types of
weapons of mass d.estruction and of ner^r systeas of such weapons,



A/1oLLB
fa.:1i sh
page 3

convinced. that the prohibition of the development and. manufacture of new,
sti.ll more pernicious tJ?es of weapons of nass destruction would serve the goal of
strengtheniag peace aad preventing the threat of war,

1,.. Cor.:sid.ers it necessary to take effective steps, by concluding an
appropriate international_ treaty (or agreeraent), for the prohibition of the
dev€lopraent and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and of nelr
systems of such weapons I

2. Takes note of the draft agreenent on the prohibition of the deveropment
arrd manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and. of new systems of
such weapons, subnitted to the General- Assenbly by the union of soviet socialist
Republics, the text of which is annexed to the present resolutiono as well as points
of view a;nd suggestions put forward during the discussion of this question;

3" Reg-uests the conference of the committee on Disaxmament to proceed as
soon as rossible, r'rith the assistance of qualified governmente-} .xp.rls, to ffork out
the text of such an agreement and to subr0it a report on the results achieved. for
consideration by the Genela]. Assembly at its thirty-first session;

l+. Reque€ts the secretary-General- to tra.nsrai.t to the conference of the
connittee on Disarmament a-l-l- d.ocuments relating to the discussion by the General
Assembly at its thirtieth session of the iten entitLed "prohibition of the
development and. manufacture of new types of l,reapons of mass destruction and of new
systens of such weapons" I

5. DFcides to include in the provisionar agenda of its thirty-first session
a selarate iten entitled. 'rProhibition of the d.evel-opment and roanufacture of newtyles of weapons of nass destruction and new systens of such wearonstt.



A/101+l+B
nngl-i sh
Annex
Page I

AIV'NEX

Union of er iiocf a_11
on the of the a,ctu?e
of of nass

The States Parties to this Aqreenent,

Guided by the interests of strengthening international peace ard security,
Desiring to eontribute to saving nankind. from the d_anger of the use of new

Eeans of \,rarfare, ]-imiting the arns race and bringing about disamament,
Recognizing that mod.ern science and. technolog.y have reached. a Level where

a serious d.anger arises of the d.evel_opnent of new, sti1l more destructive types
of veapons of mass destruction and of new systems of such veapons,

Conscious that the d.eveLopment and. manufacture of such veapons axe fraught
v:ith the nost serious consequences for the peace and security of nations,

- Bearing in rnind that xecent years have seen the conclusion of a number ofr-mportant agreelxents concerning limitation of the arns race and. d.isarmament,
including those related to the frohibition of weapons of nass destruction,

Expressing the profound interest of States and peoples in the adoption of
measures to prevent the use of the achievements of modern science and. technofosr
for the d.evelopment and- marufacture of the above-mentioned veapons of mass
d.estruction,

Desiring to proaote the strengthening of confid.ence among nations and the
further improvement of the internationaJ. situation,

Seeking to contribute to the realization of the lofby purposes and principles
of the Charter ol' the United Nations,

Have agreed. as follows:

Artic],e I

1. Xach State Party to this Agreement undertakes not to d.eveLop or
manufacture nel' types of weapons of mass d.estauction or new systems of such weapons,
including those utilizing the l-atest achievements of moalern science and technoLogy.
New types of lreapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons shall
include: (to be specified through negotiations orr the subJect).

new systens of such 1,,reaDons



A/10).+l+B
rnE-LlSiI
Annex
Page 2

In the event that new areas of development and manufacture of weapons of eass
destruction and systems of such neapons not covered. by this Agreement emerge after
ttle entry into lorce of the Agreement,, the Paxties shall conduct negotiations with
a view to extending the prohibition lrovicled for in this Agreement to cover such
potential new tl4)es and systems of weapons.

2. Each State Party to the Agreement undertakes not io assist, encourage or
induce any other State, group of States or international organizations to engage
in activities contrary to the provisions of paragraph I of this article.

Articl-e II

Each State Partlr to this Agreement shalf in accordance rrith its
constitutional processes, take the necessary measures to prohibit and prevent any
acti',rities contrary to the provisions of this Agreement, within the territory of
such State or in any territory und.er its jurisdiction or und.er its controf,
wherever it nay be,

Article IIf

]- In the event that any State Party to this Agreement has any suspicrons
that another State Party has vioLated. the provisions of this Agreement, the Parties
concerned undertake to consult one another and co-operate in solving the problens
vhich arise.

2. If the consultations referred to in paragraph 1 of this article fail to
produce resrlts nutua"11y acceptable to the Parties concerned, the State which has
such suspicions may lod.ge a complaint l,rith the Security Council of the United
Nations, Such comp.Iaint nlust include evidence confinning its val-idity, as wel-l as
a reguest for its consideration by the Security Council.

3. Each State Party to this Agreement undertakes to co-operate in canying
out ai1y investigation which the Seeurity Council may initiate, in accordance vith
the provisions of the Charter of the United. Nations, on the basis of the conplaint
rF.'pjwcrl hw 1-.he /lnrrnnil Thp qcnrrri+rr I'nrrr.'il qha1l inform the States Parties
to the Agreement of the results of the investigation.

4. Each State Pa"ty to this Ag"eenent undertakes to provid.e or support
assistance, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nationso to any State
Party to the Agreement which so requests, if the Seeurity Council decides that such
State Party has been exposed. to danger as a result of violation of the Agreement.

Article fV

f. i{othing in this Agreement sha11 be interpreted as affecting the inalienable
right of a-l-1 the States Parties to the Agreeuent to develop and use scientific
research anC discoveries exclrrsively for peaceful purloses without any
di scriqri n ati on.



A/101+l+8
nnglish
Annex
page 

3

?' The states parties to the Agreement undertake to facilitate scientificand technological co-oFeration in the use of the latest achievements and discoveriesof science and technology for peaceful purposes.

Article V
Each State Party to this Agreerxent undertakes to pursue in good faithnegotiations on effective measures to limit the arns race in all its fo"os and put8'' end. to it, as ve11 as on a treaty on generaL a,nd. conplete d.i s arnxa&ent undbrstxict and effective international 

"orrtrol,

Article Vf
Any State Party may propose aJ:lendnents to this Agreement. Each proposed

amendment shal-], be subnitted to the Depositary Governnents and. circu_lated. by thento al"l" Parties to the Agreer:rent, r,rhich shafr- inforrrr the Depositary Governjrents ofacceptance or rejection as soon as possible after its receipt.
The amen&lent sha11 enter into force for each State party accepting the

Pulq:"t upon its acceptance by a rmjority of the sta'Les parties to the Agreenent,including the Depositary Governnents 
" anC ihereafter for aanh ?arnaihj-- StateParty on the datl of it's acceptance of tr." *urror.ii 

r Eucr'rrrrlei 
'

This Agreernent sha-lf be of unl-inited duration.
Each state Partv to this Agreement shall in exereisi.ng its national sovereigntyhave the right to Fithdraw fron the Agreement if it d.ecides that extraordinaryevents, rel-ated to the subject-natter of the Agreerrrent, have Jeopardized. its supremeinterests. rt 6har-r. give notice of such withdiavat to all other states parties tothe Agreement and to the security council of the united r:rations three nonths inadvance' such notice shau include a statement of the extraordi.nary events itregard.s as having jeopardized. its supreme interests.

Articl-e VII

Article VIff
1' This Agreement shau be open to a1r- states for signatu'e. any state .whicndoes not sign the Agreement before its entry into tolce in accordance withparagraph 3 of this article may acced.e to ii at any tine.

- 
2, Thi.s Agreement shal-1 be subject to ratification by signatory States.rnstruments of ratification and instr;ments of accession sha-Il ie deposited lriththe Governments of ..,...,. which are hereby desrgnated the Depositary Goverdnents.



A/10\!8
_E;nq_L l Sn
Annex
yace 4

3. This Agreement sha1l enter into force after the deposit of instruments
of ratification by ........ Governments, inclutling the Governments d.esignated the
Depositary Governroents of the Agreement.

4. For States whose lnstnrilents of ratification or accession are deposited
subsequent to the entry into force 3f this Agreernent, it sha.fl enter into force
on the date of the deposit of their instnrments of ratification or accession.

,. The Depositary Governments shall promptLy inforn all signatory and
acceding States of the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each
instrrment of ratification or accession and the date of the entry into force of
this Agreement, and of the receipt of other notices.

This Agreement shall- be registered. by the Depositaffy Governments pursua.nt to
Article 102 of the Charter of the United l{atione.

Article IX

This Agreement, the Chinese, Eng].ish, French, Russian and Spanish texts of
which are equa]-]-y authentic, shall be d.eposited in the archives of the Delositary
Governnents. Dul-y certified copies of the Agreement shal-l be transmitted by the
Depositary Governnents to the Governments of the signatory and acceding States.

IN WITNESS WHERIOF the undersigned, duly authorized, have signed. this
Agreeuent.

Done in . copies at .,.,..,. this . day of




