








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10461 
9 December 1975 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda item 52 

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ISRAELI 
PRACTICES AFFECTING THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE POPULATION 

OF THE OCCUPIED TERRITORIES 

Report of the Special Political Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Guenther MAUERSBERGER (German Democratic Republic) 

l. The item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories" 
was included in the provisional agenda of the thirtieth session of the General 
Assembly in accordance with resolution 3240 (XXIX) of 29 November 1974. 

2. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Assembly, 
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in 
its agenda and to allocate it to the Special Political Committee for consideration 
and report. 

3. The Special Political Committee examined the item at its 985th to 
99lst meetings, between 26 November and 5 December. 

4. The Committee had before it the report of the Special Committee to Investigate 
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied 
Territories (A/10272) as well as the report of the Secretary-General (A/10370) 
submitted in accordance with paragraph 10 (c) of resolution 3240 A (XXIX) and 
paragraph 4 of resolution 3240 C (XXIX). 

5. At the 985th meeting, on 26 November, the Chairman of the Special Committee 
made an introductory statement. 

6. At the 990th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of Pakistan introduced 
four draft resolutions (A/SPC/L.340, L.34l, L.342 and L.343), sponsored by 
Pakistan and Senegal. Subsequently, draft resolution A/SPC/L.340 was also sponsored 
by Afghanistan, Benin, the Comoros, India, Indonesia and Malaysia; draft 
resolution A/SPC/L.34l by Afghanistan, Benin, the Comoros, India, Indonesia, 

75-28177 I . .. 



A/10461 
English 
Page 2 

Malaysia, Mali and the Philippines; draft resolution A/SPC/L.342 by Afghanistan, 
Benin, the Comoros, India and the Philippines; and draft resolution A/SPC/L.343 
by Afghanistan, Benin, the Comoros, Indonesia, Malaysia and the Philippines. 

7. The Committee received statements on the administrative and financial 
implications of draft resolution A/SPC/L.340 (A/SPC/L.345 and Corr.l), and of 
draft resolution A/SPC/L.342 (A/SPC/L.344), submitted by the Secretary-General in 
accordar.ce with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly. 

8. At the 99lst meeting, on 5 December, the Committee voted on the four draft 
resolutions, as follows: 

(a) Draft resolution A/SPC/L.340 was adopted by a roll-call vote of 81 to 4, 
with 20 abstentions (see para. 9 below, draft resolution A). The voting was 
as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, 
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Hungary, 
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, 
Kuwait, Lebanon. Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nigeria, 
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, 
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United 
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Costa Rica, Israel, Nicaragua, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burundi, Canada, Colombia, Denmark, 
France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Iceland, Ireland, Italy, 
Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

(b) Draft resolution A/SPC/L.34l was adopted by a roll-call vote of 106 to l, 
with 3 abstentions (see para. 9 below, draft resolution B). The voting was as 
follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, 
Chad,. China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, 
Finland, France, German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India, 

I . .. 



A/10461 
English 
Page 3 

Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, 
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab 
Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, 
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of 
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, 
Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, 
Zambia. 

Against: Israel. 

Abstaining: Haiti, Malawi, Nicaragua. 

(c) Draft resolution A/SPC/L.342 was adopted by a roll-call vote of 84 to 2, 
with 24 abstentions (see para. 9 below, draft resolution C). The voting was as 
follows: 

In .favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, 
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia, 
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, 
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, 
Mozambique, Nepal, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, 
Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Israel, Nicaragua. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Haiti, 
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Malawi, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

I . .. 



A/10461 
English 
Page 4 

(d) Draft resolution A/SPC/L.343 was adopted by a roll-call vote of 78 to 4, 
with 26 abstentions (see para. 9 below, draft resolution D). The voting was as 
follows: y 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Csprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, German Democratic 
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, 
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, 
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, 
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, 
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of 
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Costa Rica, Israel, Nicaragua, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Burma, Canada, Colombia, 
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Haiti, 
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Malawi, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Norway, Swaziland, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL COMMITTEE 

9. The Special Political Committee recommends to the General Assembly the 
adoption of the following draft resolutions: 

A 

The General Assembly, 

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations as 
well as the principles and provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 

Bearing in mind the provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, ?J as well as of 
other relevant conventions and regulations, 

1/ At the same meeting, the representative of Oman stated that, had he been 
present, he would have voted in favour of all four draft resolutions (A/SPC/L.340, 
L.341, L.342 and L.343). 

?J United Nations, Treaty Series, val. 75, No. 973, p. 287. 

I . .. 



A/10461 
English 
Page 5 

Recalling its resolutions on the subject, as well as those adopted by the 
Security Council, the Commission on Human Rights and other United Nations bodies 
concerned and by specialized agencies, 

Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied 
Territories, 1/ which contains, inter alia, public statements made by leaders of 
the Israeli Government, 

l. Commends the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting 
the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories for its efforts 
in performing the tasks assigned to it by the General Assembly; 

2. Deplores the continued refusal by Israel to allow the Special Committee 
access to the occupied territories; 

3. Calls again upon Israel to allow the Special Committee access to the 
occupied territories; 

4. Deplores the continued and persistent violation by Israel of the Geneva 
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 
12 August 1949, and other applicable international instruments; 

5. Condemns, in particular, the following Israeli policies and practices: 

(a) The annexation of parts of the occupied territories; 

(b) The establishment of Israeli settlements therein and the transfer of an 
alien population thereto; 

(c) The destruction and demolition of Arab houses; 

(d) The confiscation and expropriation of Arab property in the occupied 
territories and all other transactions for the acquisition of land involving the 
Israeli authorities, institutions or nationals, on the one hand, and the 
inhabitants or institutions of the occupied territories, on the other; 

(e) The evacuation, deportation, expulsion, displacement and transfer of 
Arab inhabitants of the occupied territories and the denial of their right to 
return; 

(f) Mass arrests, administrative detention and ill-treatment of the Arab 
population; 

(g) The pillaging of archaeological and cultural property; 

lj A/10272. 

I . .. 



A/10461 
English 
Page 6 

(h) The interference with religious freedoms and practices, as well as family 
rights and customs; 

(i) The illegal exploitation of the natural wealth, resources and population 
of the occupied territories; 

6. Declares that those policies and practices of Israel constitute grave 
violations~ the Charter of the United Nations, in particular the principles of 
sovereignty and territorial integrity, and the principles and provisions of 
international law concerning occupation, as well as constitute an impediment to the 
establishment of a just and lasting peace; 

7. Reaffirms that all measures taken by Israel to change the physical 
character, demographic composition, institutional structure or status of the 
occupied territories, or any part thereof, are null and void; 

8. Reaffirms further that Israel's policy of settling parts of its 
population and new immigrants in the occupied territories is a flagrant violation 
of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time 
of vlar and of relevant United Nations resolutions, and urges all States to refrain 
from any action which Israel will exploit in carrying out its policy of colonizing 
the occupied territories; 

9. Demands that Israel desist forthwith from the annexation and colonization 
of the occupied Arab territories as well as from all the policies and practices 
referred to in paragraph 5 above; 

10. Reiterates its call upon all States, international organizations and 
specialized agencies not to recognize any changes carried out by Israel in the 
occupied territories and to avoid actions, including actions in the field of aid, 
which might be used by Israel in its pursuit of the policies and practices 
referred to in the present resolution; 

11. Requests the Special Committee, pending the early termination of the 
Israeli occupation, to continue to investigate Israeli policies and practices in 
the Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, to consult, as appropriate, 
with the International Committee of the Red Cross in order to ensure the 
safeguarding. of the welfare and human rights of the population of the occupied 
territories, and to report to the Secretary-General as soon as possible and 
whenever the need arises thereafter; 

12. Requests the Secretary-General: 

(a) To render all necessary facilities to the Special Committee, including 
those required for its visits to the occupied territories with a view to 
investigating Israeli policies and practices referred to in the present resolution; 

(b) To assign, in consultation with the Special Committee, additional 
staff members to assist the Special Committee in the performance of its tasks; 

I . .. 



• 

A/10461 
English 
Page 7 

(c) To ensure the widest circulation of the reports of the Special Committee, 
and of information regarding its activities and findings, by all means· available 
through the Office of Public Information of the Secretariat; 

(d) To report to the General Assembly at its thirty-first session on the 
tasks entrusted to him; 

13. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-first session 
the item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices 
Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories". 

B 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 3092 A (XXVIII) of 7 December 1973 and 3240 B (XXIX) 
of 29 November 1974, 

Considering that the promotion of respect for the obligations ar1s1ng from 
the Charter of the United Nations and other instruments and rules of international 
law 1s among the basic purposes and principles of the United Nations, 

Bearing in mind the provisions of the Geneva Conventior. relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of vlar, of 12 August 1949, gj 

Noting that Israel and those Arab States whose territories have been occupied 
by Israel since June 1967 are parties to that Convention, 

Taking into account that States parties to that Convention undertake, in 
accordance with article 1 thereof, not only to respect but also to ensure respect 
for the Convention in all circumstances, 

1. Reaffirms that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of 
Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, is applicable to all the Arab 
territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem; 

2. Deplores the failure of Israel to acknowledge the applicability of that 
Convention to the territories it has occupied since 1967; 

3. Calls once more upon Israel to acknowledge and to comply with the 
provisions of that Convention in all the Arab territories it has occupied since 
1967, including Jerusalem; 

4. Urges all States parties to that Convention to exert all efforts 
in order to ensure respect for and compliance with the provisions thereof in all 
the Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem. 

I ... 



A/10461 
English 
Page 8 

The General Assembly, 

c 

Recalling its resolution 3240 C (XXIX) of 29 November 1974, 

Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied 
Territories, 3/ in particular section V thereof concerning action by the Special 
Committee to implement the provisions of paragraph 3 of resolution 3240 C (XXIX), 

Noting that the Special Committee was not able to submit to the General 
Assembly at its current session a full report in accordance with the request made 
in paragraph 3 of resolution 3240 C (XXIX), 

l. Requests the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting 
the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories to continue its 
efforts to undertake a survey of the destruction in Quneitra and to assess the 
nature, extent and value of the damage caused by such destruction; 

2. Requests the SecretHry-General to continue to make available to the 
Special Committee all the facilities necessary in the performance of its tasks and 
to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-first session. 

D 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 2253 (ES-V) of 4 July 1967, 2254 (ES-V) of 
14 July 1967 and 3240 (XXIX) of 29 November 1974 and Security Council resolutions 
252 (1968) of 21 May 1968, 267 (1969) of 3 July 1969, 271 (1969) of 
15 September 1969 and 298 (1971) of 25 September 1971, 

Taking note of the information contained in the report of the Special 
Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices· Affecting the Human Rights of the 
Population of the Occupied Territories, J! 

Noting with concern the actions of the Israeli authorities in changing the 
institutional structure and established religious practices in the sanctuary of 
al-Ibrahimi mosque in the city of al-Khalil, 

Considering that these actions constitute grave violations of human rights 
and religious freedom and of the norms of international law, in particular 
article 27 of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons 
in Time of \>Tar, of 12 August 1949, 5) 

Considering also that these violations of established religious rights are 
a challenge to the susceptibilities of hundreds of millions of Muslims all over 
the world, 

/ ... 

• 



A/10461 
English 
Page 9 

Considering furthermore that these violations, which have already caused 
civil and religious disturbances, constitute a new threat to peace and security 
in the area, 

l. Declares all measures taken by the Israeli authorities with a view to 
changing the institutional structure and established religious practices in the 
sanctuary of al-Ibrahimi mosque in the city of al-Khalil null and void; 

2. Calls upon Israel to rescind and to desist forthwith from all such 
measures; 

3. 
mosque by 
report as 

Requests the Secretary-General to investigate the situation in al-Ibrahimi 
contacting the Islamic, Arab and other authorities concerned, and to 
soon as possible on the implementation of paragraph 2 above; 

4. Calls upon Israel to co-operate with the Secretary-General and to 
facilitate his task. 




