








































UNITED NATIONS 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10467 
GENERAl 
ASSEMBlY 11 December 1975 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda item 12 

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL 

Report of the Second Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Fazlul KARIM (Bangladesh) 

1. The General Assembly, at its 2353rd plenary meeting on 19 September 1975, 
allocated to the Second Committee certain parts of agenda item 12, entitled 
"Report of the Economic and Social Council". The parts of the report allocated 
to the Second Committee were chapters II, III (sects. A toE, G, Hand J to L), 
IV and VI (sects. A to D and F). 

2. The Second Committee considered the item at its 1655th to 1660th meetings, 
between 23 September and 6 October 1975, in the context of its general debate. 
The Committee resumed its consideration of the item at its 1693rd, 1699th, 1700th, 
l703rd to l706th meetings and at its 1708th to l712th meetings, on 7, 14, 20, 24 
to 27 November and on 1 to 5 December 1975. An account of the Committee's 
discussions is contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.2/SR.l655-1660, 
1693, 1699, 1700, 1703-1706 and 1708-1712). 

3. The Under-Secretary-General for Economic and Social Affairs made an 
introductory statement at the l655th meeting on 23 September. 

4. In addition to the above-mentioned sections of the report of the Economic 
and Social Council on the work of its fifty-eighth and fifty-ninth sessions ~/ 
and the report of the Council on the work of its resumed fifty-ninth session 
(A/10003/Add.l (Parts I-III)), the Committee had before it the following documents: 

(a) Letter dated 20 March 1975 from the Permanent Representative of the 
German Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/10059); 

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, 
Suppl;ment No. 3 (A/10003). 

75-28587 / ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 2 

(b) Letter dated 24 March 1975 from the Permanent Representative of the 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed 
to the Secretary-General (A/10062); 

(c) Lett~r dated 24 March 1975 from the Permanent Representative of 
Bulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/10063); 

(d) Note verbale dated 24 March 1975 from the Permanent Mission of the 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic to the United Nations (A/10064); 

(e) Letter dated 14 April 1975 from the Permanent Representatives of 
France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and 
the United States of America addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/10078 and Corr.l); 

(f) Note verbale dated 12 May 1975 from the Permanent Mission of the 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed 
to the Secretary-General (A/10084); 

(g) Letter dated 26 June 1975 from the Permanent Representatives of France, 
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the 
United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/10126); 

(h) Letter dated 26 June 1975 from the Permanent Representatives of France, 
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the 
United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/10127); 

(i) Letter dated l July 1975 from the Permanent Representative of the 
Federal Republic of Germany to the United Nations addressed to the 
Secretary-General (A/10130); 

(j) Report of the Secretary-General on economic, financial and technical 
assistance to the Government of Guinea-Bissau (A/10105 and Add.l-3); 

(k) Report of the Secretary-General on economic, financial and technical 
assistance to the Territories still under Portuguese domination 
(A/10106 and Corr.l and Add.l-3); 

(l) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to the drought-stricken 
areas of Somalia (A/10258); 

(m) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to the drought-stricken 
areas of Ethiopia (A/10259); 

(n) Report of the Secretary-General on permanent sovereignty over national 
resources in the occupied Arab territories (A/10290 and Add.l and 2); 

I ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 3 

( o) Peno:r·t of the Secretary-General on consideration of the economic and 
social situation in the Sudano-Sahelian region stricken by drought and 
measures to be taken for the benefit of that region (A/10346); 

! 
'd'; Report of the Secretary-General on the establishment of a special fund 

for the least developed countries (E/5499); 

( q) Summary of the Concise Report on the World Population Situation in 
1970-1975 and its Long-Range Implications and its findings (United 
Nations publication, Sales No. E. 74 .XIII. 4) (E/5624); 

(r) Report of the Secretary-General on the World Population Year, 1974 
(E/5602 and Corr.l and 2). 

I 

5. At the l693rd meeting, on 7 November, the representative of Poland, on behalf 
of Alp,eria, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Cuba, the German Democratic Republic, Greece, 
India, Iraq, Madagascar, Bali, Mo~ia, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, 
Qatar, Rwanda, the Syrian~ Republic, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
the Upper Volta and Yugoslavia, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l442 and 
Corr.l), entitled "Examination of long-term trends in the economic development of 
world regions", which read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Takinp, into account that 1975 marks the thirtieth anniversary of the 
founding of the United Nations and that, as stipulated in Article 55 of the 
Charter, the United Nations shall promote higher standards of living, full 
employment, and conditions of economic and social progress and development of 
all peoples in order to create conditions of stability and well being which 
are necessary for peaceful and friendly relations among nations, 

"Recalling its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 Hay 197l~ on 
the Dec~aration and Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New 
Interr,.ation2.l Economic Order and. its resolution 3362 (S-VII) of 
16 Septembe,· 1975 on development and international economic co-operation as 
well as its resc>1ution 3281- (XXIX) of 12 December 1974 on the Ch,;_rter of 
Economic Rights and Duties of States, 

"!Jel(eving. that peaceful coexistence among States and the relaxation of 
intex·nati.onn.J tensions as \·Tell as the elimination of aggression and foreign 
occu:p8t:i.on are important conditione for international economic co-operation and 
that expansion of that co-operation neong all countries, with particular 
emphasis on the needs of accelerated development of the developing countries, 
provides the material hasis for durable peace and rapprochement among all 
nations, 

"Con~.idering that mankind's material needs can be better satisfied by way 
of sustained. long-term economic deveJopment of individual countries and 
regions and that long-term international economic co-operation is in the 
interests of all countries and regions , I ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 4 

"Considering further that the development of each country depends 
primarily on the mobilization of its resources and that international 
economic co-operation is a necessary component of that development, 

"Stating that an examination of the long-term trends in the economic 
development of individual regions is of great importance for securing a 
rapid rate of economic development of all countries, in particular of 
developing countries, and that such an examination will also contribute 
towards the elimination of the negative phenomena in the economies of those 
countries and regions, 

"1. Recommends that the regional commissions of the United Nations 
prepare studies on the long-term trends in and forecasts of the economic 
development of their respective regions, taking into account the national 
development programmes of individual countries of the regions and the 
particular characteristics and priorities of the regions; 

"2. Recommends further that the regional commissions include in tho~e 
studies specific conclusions on the trends of the economic development of the 
regions and on interregional economic co-operation; 

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare for the Economic and 
Social Council at its sixty-third session, on the basis of the above-mentioned 
studies, a comprehensive report on the long-term trends and forecasts in the 
economic development of the various regions and their mutual relationship, 
including methodological guidelines for the further examination of such 
trends in the regions; 

"4. Decides to consider the subject of long-term trends in economic 
development of the regions as a separate item at its thirty-second session; 

"5. Invites Governments of Member States to participate in the 
implementation of the present resolution." 

6. A statement on the administrative and financial implications of the draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l442 and Corr.l) was made by the Secretary of the Committee 
at the 1693rd and 1699th meetings. 

7. At the 1693rd meeting, the representative of Egypt orally proposed that the 
words "colonialism, racial discrimination, apartheid and foreign aggression and 
occupation are essential" be substituted for the words "aggression and foreign 
domination are important" in the third preambular paragraph of the draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l442 and Corr.l). 

8. At the same meeting, the representative of 11exico proposed that, in the 
second preambular paragraph of the draft resolution, the words "its resolution 
3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on development and international economic 
co-operation" be placed at the end of that paragraph. 

/ ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 5 

9. Togo and Uganda joined in sponsoring the draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l442 and 
Corr.~ 

10. At the same meeting, the representative of Italy, on behalf of the European 
Economic Community and its member States, 2/ proposed an amendment (A/C.2/L.l451) 
to the draft resolution calling for the replacement of the words "peaceful 
coexistence among States and the relaxatio;, of international tension" by the words 
'maintenance of peace and security, development of human contacts and freer 
exchange of people, ideas and information". 

11. A revised text of the draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l442/Rev.l and Corr.l) 
incorporated the oral amendments proposed by the representatives of Egypt (see 
para. 7 above) and Mexico (see para. 8 above) and was subsequently co-sponsored 
by Egypt, Somalia and the United Republic of Cameroon. 

12. At the 1699th meeting, on 14 November 1975, the representative of Poland, on 
behalf of Algeria, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Cuba, Egypt, the German Democratic 
Republic, Greece,. India, Iraq,. Madagascar, Mali, Nauritius, Mongolia, Peru, 
the Philippines, Poland, ~ugal, Rwanda, ~lia, the Syrian Arab Re~ic, 
Togo, Uganda, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Republic of 
Cameroon, the Upper Volta and Yugoslavia, introduced a revised draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l442/Rev.2), which he further orally revised. 

13. The revised paragraphs read as follows: 

(a) The third preambular paragraph was modified to read as follows: 

"Believing that peace and security, peaceful coexistence among States 
and the relaxation of international tensions, the elimination of colonialism, 
racial discrimination, apartheid and foreign aggression and occupation as well 
as freer exchanges of information are essential conditions for international 
economic co-operation and that expansion of that co-operation among all 
countries, with particular emphasis on the needs of accelerated development 
of the developing countries, provides the material basis for durable peace 
and rapprochement among all nations," 

(b) In operative paragraph 3, the words "and in consultation with the 
Committee for Development Planning" were inserted between the words "studies" and 
"a comprehensive report n. 

14. At the same meeting, the representative of Italy, on behalf of the sponsors, 
withdrew the amendments proposed in document A/C.2/L.l451, and requested that a 
separate vote be taken on the third preambular paragraph of the revised draft 
resolution. 

~Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ireland, Italy, 
Luxembourg, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland. 

/ ... 



A/lOit67 
English 
Page 6 

15. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on the revised draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l442/Rev.2), as further orally revised, as follows: 

(a) The third preamhular paragraph was adopted by a roll-call vote of 88 to 
14, with 8 abstentions. ~~e voting was as follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, 
Bhutan~ Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria~ Burma, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Cvprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, 
Egypt, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, India, 
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast~ Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Malaysia, Hali, }.1alta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, 
Hozambique, Nepal, Nevr Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, 
Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, 
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, 
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, 
United Republic of Cameroon, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, 
Zaire. 

Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, 
Netherlands, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
and United States of America. 

~bstaining: Australia, Austria, Fiji, Finland, Norway, Swaziland, Sweden and 
Uruguay. 

(b) The revised draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l442/Rev.2) as a whole, as orally 
revised, was adopted by 100 votes to none, with 13 abstentions (see para. 57 
below, draft resolution I). 

II 

16. At the 1697th meeting, on 12 November 1975, the Committee had before it a 
draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l454) submitted by Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Cuba, 
Cyprus, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Greece, India, Indonesia, 
Iraq~ Italy, Jordan, Kuwait~ Madagascar~ Mauritania, Mauritius, tJ!exico, Norocco, 
the Netherlands, Norway, Pakistan, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, the 
Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Uganda, the Upper Volta and Yugoslavia, entitled 
"The T,/orld Employment Conference", which the Niger also joined in co-sponsoring. 

17. At the l700th meeting, on 20 November 1975, the representative of Tunisia, on 
behalf of the original sponsors, as well as Canada, Finland, Portugal and Sweden, 

/ ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 7 

introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l454/Rev.l), entitled "Tripartite 
World Conference on Employment, Income Distribution, Social Progress and the 
International Division of Labour". 

18. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the revised draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l454/Rev.l) without a vote (see para. 57 below, draft resolution II). 

III 

19. At the 1700th meeting on 20 November, the representative of the Netherlands, 
on behalf of Austria, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Colombia, Egypt, Ethiopia, Greece, 
Grenada, Guyana, India, Ireland, Jordan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, 
Pakistan, the Philippines, Somalia, Sweden, Togo, the Upper Volta and Yugoslavia, 
introduced a draft resolution (A/C. 2/L .1446) entitled "Immediate needs". 

20. Subsequently, Rwanda and Uganda joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

21. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the 
administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution. 

22. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l446), without a vote (see para. 57 below, draft resolution III). 

IV 

23. At the 1700th meeting, on 20 November, the representative of the Upper Volta 
introduced, on behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Belgium, Brazil, Chad, Democratic 
Yemen, Guinea, India, Iran, Jordan, Kuwait, the Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Mali, Mauritius, Mexico, the Niger, Pakistan, Peru, Senegal, the Sudan, Tunisia, 
the United Republic of Cameroon, the Upper Vol~nd Yugoslavia, a draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l455) entitled "United Nations Conference on Desertification". 

24. Uganda, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen joined in sponsoring the draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l455). 

25. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Co~~ittee made a statement on the 
administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution. 

26. The Committee then adopted the draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l455) without a vote 
(see para. 57 below, draft resolution IV). 

v 

27. At the 1704th meeting, on 25 November, the Under-Secretary-General for 
Political and General Assembly Affairs introduced the report of the Secretary-
General on consideration of the economic and social situation in the Sudano-
Sahelian region stricken by drought and measures to be taken for the benefit of 
that region (A/10346) called for in General Assembly resolution 3253 (XXIX). 

/ ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 8 

28. At the l705th meeting, on 26 November, the representative of the Upper Volta, 
on behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Chad, the Gambia, Indonesia, Kuwait, Madagascar, 
the Niger, the Philippines, Seneg~Tunisia, the United Republic of Cameroon and 
the Upper Volta, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l478), entitled 
"Consideration of the economic and social situation in the Sudano-Sahelian region 
stricken by drought and measures to be taken for the benefit of that region". 

29. At the 1706th meeting, on 27 November, the Committee adopted the draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l478) witbout a vote (see para. 57 below, draft resolution V). 

VI 

30. At the 1709th meeting, on 2 December, the representative of Argentina, on 
behalf of Argentina, Bangladesh, Canada, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, India, Indonesia, 
Iran, Irag, Kenya, Malaysia, Mali, Mexico, Nigeria, Norway, Peru, the Philippines, 
Senegal, Singapore, Thailand, ihe Upper Volta, Venezuela and Yugoslavia, introduced 
a draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l477) entitled "United Nations Water Conference". 

31. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative of Argentina orally 
revised operative paragraph 5 by substituting the word "Urges" for the word 
"Requests". 

32. At the same meeting, Burundi, Honduras, Mauritania, Sweden, the United Arab 
Emirates and Uruguay, joined in sponsoring the draft resolution. 

33. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the 
administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l477), 
which was subsequently issued under the symbol A/C.2/L.l487. 

34. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l477), 
as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 57 below, draft resolution VI). 

VII 

35. At the l662nd meeting, on 8 October, the Committee had before it a draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l430) submitted by Iran, entitled "Measures to prevent 
corruptive practices by transnational and other corporations". 

36. At the 1663rd meeting, on 9 October, the Committee also had before it a draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l429) submitted by the Libyan Arab Republic, entitled 
"Transnational corporations and the illegal and immoral acts practised by some of 
those corporations H. 

37. At the l[06th meeting, on 27 November, the two draft resolutions mentioned 
above (paras. 35 and 36) were withdrawn and replaced by a draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l437), entitled "Measures against corrupt practices of transnational and 
other corporations and their intermediaries", which the representative of Iran 
introduced on behalf of Algeria, Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia, Cuba, Democratic 
Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Guyana, Iran, Iraq, the Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Romania, Somalia, the Upper Volta, Venezuela and 
Yugoslavia. Costa Rica, Gabon, Jordan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Togo and the 
United Republic of Tanzania also joined in sponsoring the draft resolution, which 
read as follows : f ..• 



A/10467 
English 
Page 9 

"The General Assembly, 

"Concerned by the corrupt practices of certain transnational and other 
corporations and their intermediaries, 

"Recalling paragraph 4 (g) of the Declaration on the Establishment of a 
New International Economic Order which provides for regulation and supervision 
of the activities of transnational corporations, 

"Recalling also the provisions of section V of the Programme of Action 
on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order emphasizing 
inter alia the need to formulate, adopt and implement a Code of Conduct for 
transnational corporations, 

"Reaffirming the provisions of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties 
of States according to which such corporations should not operate in a manner 
that violates the laws and regulations of the host countries, 

"Recalling Economic and Social Council resolutions 1721 (LIII) of 
28 July 1972, 1908 (LVII) of 2 August 1974, and 1913 (LVII) of 
5 December 1974, 

"Recalling the Report of the United Nations Commission on Transnational 
Corporations on its first session, document E/5655, 

"1. Condemns all corrupt practices including bribery by transnational 
and other corporations and their intermediaries in violation of the laws, 
regulations and moral values of the host countries; 

"2. Reaffirms the right of any State to investigate and take legal 
action, in accordance with its national laws and regulations, against 
transnational and other corporations and their intermediaries for such 
corrupt practices; 

"3. Calls upon both home and host Governments to take all necessary 
measures which they deem appropriate, including legislative measures to 
prevent such corrupt practices and to take consequent measures against the 
violators; 

"4. Calls upon Governments to collect information on such practices and 
to exchange the information bilaterally and multilaterally particularly 
through the United Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations; 

"5. Calls upon home countries to adopt strict measures against acts of 
bribery committed by their nationals or corporations abroad, including the 
adoption of regulations for disclosure of financial contributions made by 
such corporations or their intermediaries in host countries; 

"6. Requests the Economic and Social Council to direct the Commission 
on Transnational Corporations to include in its programme of work the question 

/ ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 10 

of corrupt practices of transnational corporations and to n:.nke recommendations 
on ways and means whereby such corrupt practices can be effectively prevented; 

"7. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General 
Assembly at its thirty-first session, through the Economic and Social Council, 
on the implementation of this resolution. tl 

38. At the same meeting, the Committee also had before it a draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l435) submitted by the United States of America and entitled 
11
Transnational corporations"') which read as follovm : 

;:The General Assembly, 

"Concerned by reports of bribery and other improper behaviour on the 
part of certain transnational enterprises~ and reports of solicitation of 
bribes or other encouragement of such practices by certain government 
officials, 

"Considering that such practices can adversely affect the relations 
betvreen enterprises and Governments, and prejudice legitimate investment 
activities important to the general economic welfare, 

"1. Condemns the offering or solicitation of bribes and other corrupt 
practices by enterprises, or their encouragement by government officials or 
individuals; 

112. Requests the Economic and Social Council to instruct the Commission 
on Transnational Corporations to include this issue in its programme of 1.rork to 
be submitted to the Council at its sixtieth session; 

11
34 Calls upon relevant governmental and non-governu.ental organizations 

to co-operate vith efforts to resolve this problem." 

39. At the lTllth meeting on 4 December, the Committee had before it a revised 
draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l437/Rev.l) submitted by Alp,eria, Argentina, Bolivia, 
Colombia, Costa Rica~ Cuba, Democratic Yemen~ Ecuador, Egypt~ Gabon, Gl~ana, Iran, 
Iraq, Jordan, the Libya:;:;--Arab Republic, t1adagascar, Nir:eria, Pakistan, Peru, --
Romania, Somalia, the Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, the United Republic of Tsnzania, 
the Upper Volta 5 Venezuela and Yugoslavia, entitled 

11Heasures against corrupt 
practices of transnational and other corporations 5 their intermediaries and others 
involved 11 , ,.;hich Benin also joined in sponsoring. 

40. Tne following changes '\fere made in the revised draft resolution: 

(a) In the first preambular paragro.ph, the "rords "and others involved" were 
added at the end of the paragraph; 

(b) In the third preambular paragraph, the vrords 11 for transnational 
corporations 11 were deleted and the -words 11referred to in the report of the 
Commission on 'Transnational Corporations on its first session 11 were added at the 
end of the paragraph; 

; ... 



A/10467 
English 
Pa~Ce 11 

(c) In the fourth preambular parae;raph, the words ".'lecallinr; further" were 
substituted for the word !!Reaffirming"; 

(d) Operative paragraphs l to 5 were re<forded as follo"s: 

"1. Condemns all corrupt practices, including bribery, by transnational 
and other corporations, their intermediaries and others involved in violation 
of the lm;s and regulations of the host countries; 

"2. Reaffirms the right of any State to adopt legislation and to 
investigate and take appropriate legal action, in accordance with its national 
laws and regulations, against transnational and other corporations, their 
intermediaries and others involved for such corrupt practices; 

"3. Calls upon both home and host Governments to take, within their 
respective national jurisdictions, all necessa~J measures which they deem 
appropriate, including legislative measures, to prevent such corrupt practices 
and to take consequent measures against the violators; 

"4. Calls upon Governments to collect information on such corrupt 
practices as well as on measures taken against such practices and to exchange 
information bilaterally and, as appropriate, multilaterally particularly 
through the United Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations; 

"5. Calls upon horne Governments to co-operate with host Governments to 
prevent such corrupt practices, including bribery, and to prosecute, within 
their national jurisdictions, those who engage in such acts; 11 

41. At the same meeting, it was announced that the draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l435) 
submitted by the United States of America had been withdrawn. 

42. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the revised draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l437/Rev.l) without a vote (see para. 57 below, draft resolution VII). 

VIII 

43. At the 1703rd meeting, on 24 November, the representative of 11adagascar, on 
behalf of the Group of Seventy-seven, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l467), 
entitled, "Conference on International Economic Co-operation", which read as 
follmrs: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Recalling its resolutions 2626 (XXV) of 24 October 1970 on the 
International Development Strategy for tbe Second United Nations Development 
Decade, 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974 containing the Declaration 
and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International 
Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974 on the Charter of Economic 
Rights and Duties of States and 3362 (S-VII) on development and international 
economic co-operation, 

I ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 12 

"Notinp; that the Conference on International Economic Co-operation is 
being held in Paris with ... participants who will represent the interests of 
developing countries and developed market economy countries respectively, 

"Conscious of the fact that the proposed Conference on International 
Economic Co-operation will consider subjects which are of universal importance 
and affect the interests of the entire international community, 

"Considering that the proposed programme of work of the Conference on 
International Economic Co-operation, as well as the results reached therein, 
1<ill, directly or indirectly, have a bearing on the ongoing 1<ork on 
international economic co-operation and development >fithin the United Nations 
system, 

"Bearing in mind the need to establish a relationship bet>feer. the policy 
decisions adopted within the United Nations system and the decisions which may 
be agreed upon at the Conference on International Economic Co-operation, 

"l. Requests the Governments participating in the Conference on 
International Economic Co-operation to ensure that their deliberations and 
decisions are consistent with the principles and policy decisions adopted 
within the United Nations and in particular those related to the establishment 
of the New International Economic Order; 

"2. Requests the Conference on International Economic Co-operation to 
make reports available to the United Nations for its consideration at the 
thirty-first session of the General Assembly; 

"3. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations to submit to 
the General Assembly, through the Economic and Social Council, a report on his 
participation at the Conference on International Economic Co-operation; 

"4. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Secretary-
General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the 
Executive Director of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, 
the Director-General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United 
Nations and all other executive heads of specialized agencies actively to 
assist the participants in the Conference on International Economic 
Co-operation~ " 

44. At the lTllth meeting, on 4 December, the representative of Madagascar, on 
behalf of the Group of Seventy-seven, introduced a revised draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l46T/Rev.l) which incorporated the following changes: 

(a) The second preambular paragraph was modified to read as follows: 

"Noting that a Conference on International Economic Co-operation is to be 
held in Paris with participants from developing countries and developed market 
economy countries ':t tt; 

I .. . 



(b) The fifth preambular para~raph was reworded as follows: 

A/10467 
English 
Page 13 

"Bearing in mind the need to establish a relationship between the United 
Nations system and the Conference on International Economic Co-operation,"; 

(c) Operative paragraphs 1 and 2 were reworded as follows: 

"1. Requests the Governments participating in the Conference on 
International Economic Co-operation to ensure that their deliberations and 
decisions take full account of the principles and policy decisions adopted 
within the United Nations and in particular General Assembly resolutions 
2626 (XXV) of 24 October 1970 on the International Development Strategy for the 
Second United Nations Development Decade, 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 
1 May 1974 containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the 
Establishment of a New International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 
12 December 1974 on the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States and 
3362 (S-VII) on development and international economic co-operation; 

"2. Invites the Conference on International Economic Co-operation to 
report on its conclusions to the United Nations General Assembly at its 
thirty-first session;" 

(d) In operative parae;raph 4, the words "specialized agencies" were replaced 
by the words "competent organs and organizations of the United Nations system". 

45. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee made a statement on the 
administrative and financial implications of the revised draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l467/Rev.l). 

46. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the revised draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l467/Rev.l) without a vote (see para. 57 below, draft resolution VIII). 

IX 

47. At the 1708th meetine;, on 1 December, the Under-Secretary-General for Economic 
and Social Affairs introduced the report of the Secretary-General (A/10290 and 
Add.l and 2) on permanent sovereignty over national resources in the occupied 
Arab territories, which was prepared pursuant to General Assembly resolution 
3336 (XXIX) . 

48. At the 1712th meeting, on 5 December, the representative of Pakistan on behalf 
of Afghanistan, Alf(eria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Botswana, Chad, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Democratic Yemen,. ~t, Equatorial Guinea, Guinea, Geyana, India, Indonesia, 
·Iraq,- Jordan., Kenya·; · .. Kuwait, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Horocco, 
.tile Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, the Philippines -:-Q.atar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Somalia, the Sudan, ~Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, the United 
Arab Emirates, the United Republic of Cameroon, the United Republic of Tanzania, 
the Upper Volta and Yugoslavia, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l490), 
entitled "Permanent sovereignty over national resources in the occupied Arab 
territories 11 , which Yemen also joined in sponsoring. 

I ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 14 

49. The Committee then adopted the draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l490) by a roll-call 
vote of 91 to 2, with 21 abstentions (see para. 57 below, draft resolution IX). 
The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan~ Botswana, Brazil, BulBaria, Burma, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cambodia, Chad, Chile, 
China~ Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, 
Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, 
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India, 
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Liberia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Hali, Halta, 
Hauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, 
Oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, 
Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, Zaire. 

Against: Israel and United States of America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Dominican 
Republic, El Salvador, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), 
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Halawi, Netherlands, 
Nev Zealand, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, Uruguay. 

50. At the 1704th meeting, on 25 November, the Committee had before it a draft 
resolution (A/C.2/L.l474) submitted by the Philippines, entitled "Codification and 
progressive evolution of the norms and principles of international economic 
development". 

51. At the 1710th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of the Philippines 
introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l474/Rev.l), entitled 
"consolidation and progressive evolution of the norms and principles of 
international economic development law", which read as follows: 

"The General 1\ss embly, 

"Recalling Article 13, paragraph l, of the United Nations Charter, which 
calls on the General Assembly to initiate studies and make recommendations 
for the purpose of encouraging the progressive development of international 
law and its codification, 

"Recalling its resolution 3082 (XXVIII) of 6 December 1973, in which, 
inter alia, it reaffirmed the urgent need to establish or improve norms of 
universal application in the field of international economic relations, 

I . .. 



A/10467 
English 
Page 15 

"Considering that there are already norms and principles in the field of 
economic development that are politically relevant, legally sufficient, 
and timely for consolidation, such as those contained in its resolutions 
2626 (XXV) of 24 October 1970 on the International Development Strategy, 
3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of l May 1974, containing the Declaration of 
Principles and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New 
International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974 on the Charter 
of Economic Rights and Duties of States, and 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 
on development and international economic co-operation, as well as relevant 
resolutions and decisions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and of other 
economic and financial organizations of the United Nations system, 

"Convinced that there has been a long-felt need for a comprehensive code 
of economic behaviour, based on equity, sovereign equality, interdependence, 
common interest and co-operation, that should guide international economic 
relations, particularly at this time, when the world is faced with a general 
economic crisis and with mounting problems of under-development in most 
developing countries, 

"l. Requests the Secretary-General to study the question of the 
consolidation and progressive development of the norms and principles of 
international economic development law, and the feasibility of their 
codification, taking into account, particularly, the above-mentioned 
resolutions; 

"2. Requests the Secretary-General to submit his study on this question 
to the General Assembly for consideration at its thirty-first session." 

52. A statement was submitted by the Secretary-General (A/C.2/L.l488) on the 
administrative and financial implications of the revised draft resolution 
(A/C.2/L.l474/Rev.l). 

53. At the 17llth meeting, on 4 December, the Committee approved, without a vote, 
a draft decision, proposed by the Chairman (A/C.2/L.l489) in the light of informal 
consultations, which recommended that the General Assembly should take note of 
the revised draft resolution (A/C.2/L.l474/Rev.l), entitled "Consolidation and 
progressive evolution of the norms and principles of international economic 
development law" and should decide to include this question as a separate item in 
the provisional agenda of its thirty-first session with the hope that it would 
be allocated to the Sixth Committee for consideration (see para. 58 below, draft 
decision I). 

54. At the l712th meeting, on 5 December, the Committee approved, without a vote, 
the draft decision proposed by the Chairman (A/C.2/L.l493) recommending that the 
General Assembly should endorse the recommendation of the Economic and Social 
Council contained in paragraph 5 of its resolution 1950 (LIX), of 22 July 1975, 
that Arabic should be an official and working language of the Economic Commission 
for Africa, in addition to English and French (see para. 58 below, draft 
decision II) . 

I ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 16 

55. In connexion with t~e administrative and financial implications of the draft 
decision (A/C.2/L.l493), the report of the Secretary-General (A/C.5/1682), 
containing revised estimates resulting from decisions of the Economic and Social 
Council at its fifty-eighth and fifty-ninth sessions, was circulated. 

56. At the same meeting, the Committee, on the proposal of the Chairman, 
decided to recommend that the General Assembly should take note of the documents 
listed in paragraph 2 of his draft decision (A/C.2/L.l493) (see para. 58 below, 
draft decision II). 

/ ... 



RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE 

A/10467 
English 
Page 17 

57. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

Examination of long-term trends in the economic 
development of world regions 

The General Assembly, 

Taking into account that 1975 marks the thirtieth anniversary of the founding 
of the United Nations and that, as stipulated in Article 55 of the Charter, the 
United Nations shall promote higher standards of living, full employment and 
conditions of economic and social progress and development of all peoples in order 
to create conditions of stability and well-being which are necessary for peaceful 
and friendly relations among nations, 

Recalling its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of l May 1974 containing 
the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New 
International Economic Order and its resolution 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974 on 
the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States as well as its resolution 
3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on development and international economic 
co-operation, 

Believing that peace and security, peaceful coexistence among States and the 
relaxation of international tensions, the elimination of colonialism, racial 
discrimination, apartheid and foreign aggression and occupation as well as freer 
exchanges of information are essential conditions for international economic 
co-operation and that expansion of that co-operation among all countries, with 
particular emphasis on the needs of accelerated development of the developing 
countries, provides the material basis for durable peace and rapprochement among 
all nations, 

Considering that mankind's material needs can be better satisfied by way of 
sustained long-term economic development of individual countries and regions and 
that long-term international economic co-operation is in the interests of all 
countr}es and regions, 

Considering further that the development of each country depends primarily 
on the mobilization of its resources and that international economic co-operation 
is a necessary component of that development, 

Stating that an examination of the long-term trends in the economic development 
of individual regions is of great importance for securing a rapid rate of economic 
development of all countries, in particular of developing countries, and that such 
an examination will also contribute towards the elimination of the negative 
phenomena in the economies of those countries and regions, 

I . .. 



A/l046T 
English 
Page 18 

1. Recommends that the regional commissions should prepare studies on the 
long-term trends in and forecasts of the economic development of their respective 
regions, taking into account the national development programmes of individual 
countries of the regions and the particular characteristics and priorities of the 
regions; 

2. Recommends further that the regional commissions should include in those 
studies specific conclusions on the trends of the economic development of the 
regions and on interregional economic co-operation; 

3. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare for the Economic and Social 
Council at its sixty-third session, on the basis of the above-mentioned studies and 
in consultation with the Committee for Development Planning, a comprehensive report 
on the long-term trends and forecasts in the economic development of the various 
regions and their mutual relationship, including methodological guidelines for the 
further examination of such trends in the regions; 

4. Decides to consider 
development of the regions as 

the subject of long-term trends in economic 
a separate item at its thirty-second session; 

5. Invites Governments of Member States to participate in the implementation 
of the present resolution. 

I . .. 



DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

A/10467 
English 
Page 19 

Tripartite World Conference on Employment, Income Distribution, 
Social Progress and the International Division of Labour 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1968 (LIX) of 30 July 19'75 
concerning the forthcoming Tripartite World Conference on Employment, Income 
Distribution, Social Progress and the International Division of Labour and 
decision 134 (XV) of 16 August 19'75 of the Trade and Development Board concerning 
the impact on employment of international policy measures in the field of trade 
and development, lf 

Bearing in mind its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 11ay 19'74 
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a 
New International Economic Order, as well as its resolution 3281 (XXIX) of 
12 December 19'74 containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, 

Recalling also its resolution 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 19'75, particularly 
sections III and IV thereof on science and technology and on industrialization, 

Bearing in mind also that in resolution 3362 (S-VII) Governments are invited 
to undertake adequate preparations and consultations in view of the importance of 
the Conference, 

Stressing that one of the fundamental objectives of the United Nations is 
to promote full employment in all countries, 

Convinced that efforts to promote full employment should be an integral part 
of over-all national development policies, 

Convinced also that in the field of employment action should be taken at the 
international level to complement and reinforce measures taken at the national 
level, 

1. Welcomes the convening by the International Labour Organisation of the 
Tripartite World Conference on Employment, Income Distribution, Social Progress 
and the International Division of Labour in June 1976; 

2. Notes with satisfaction that the main objectives of the Conference are the 
promotion of a better understanding of the nature and magnitude of the employment 
problems, the formulation of recommendations for national strategies to cope 
effectively with. these problems and the identification and adoption of concrete 
proposals for action at the international level; 

}/ A/10015 (Part III), annex I. 

I . .. 



A/10467 
English 
Page 20 

3. Endorses the requests addressed by the Economic and Social Council in 
its resolution 1968 (LIX) to the competent bodies of the United Nations and the 
specialized agencies to give their full co-operation in the preparation of the 
Conference; 

4. Urges all States participating in the Conference to be represented at 
the highest possible level. 

I . .. 



A/10467 
English 
Page 21 

DRAFT RESOLUTION III 

Immediate needs resulting from economic emergency situations 

The General Assembly, 

Consider1ng tpat economic emergency situations creati~g widespread disruption 
affecting, all s~ctOors of society have frequently afflicted many parts of the world 
and req\li:re .il!j!Ilediate remedial action to offset their far-reaching and devastating 
economic, social and structural consequences, particularly for the poorest 
countries and the most vulnerable people in those countries, 

Considering further that such action, geared to the immediate needs of the 
afflicted populations, is necessary to sustain the long-term development process 
in these countries, 

Convinced of the need for the United Nations system to respond to these 
situations in a comprehensive and co-ordinated manner, 

Bearing in mind the relevant principles and recommendations in section X of 
General Assembly resolution 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974, 

Taking into account also the relevant provisions of General Assembly 
resolution 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975, in which the Assembly decided to 
examine and adopt at its thirtieth session appropriate measures concerning the 
economic, social and structural consequences of natural disasters, particularly in 
the least developed countries, 

Considering that the Economic and Social Council in its policy-making role has 
responsibility for co-ordinating United Nations action in this field, taking into 
account the relevant activities already undertaken by the various organs of the 
United Nations system, 

1. Requests the Secretary-General., in consultation with the appropriate 
organizations of the United Nations system, with a view to enabling the United 
Nations system to deal adequately with economic emergency situations and to respond 
more effectively to the resulting immediate needs of the affected populations in 
developing countries, to submit proposals to the Economic and Social Council at its 
sixty-first session, inter alia, on: 

(a) The elaboration of global criteria for identifying such economic emergency 
situations; 

(b) The possible establishment of procedures for periodically reporting 
relevant information through resident representatives of the United Nations 
Development Programme, in consultation with the Governments concerned, to a central 
focal point, to be established where appropriate, which will process such 
information; 

I ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 22 

(c) T~ possibJ,e elaboration of procedures for submission, on the basis of 
such information, 9f proposals to the Economic and Social Council for the 
proclamati.oq, whera'·~~cessary, of a state of emergency with economic, social and 

. structux&l oO,u$equenc¢s; 

(d) The strengthening of the co-ordinating mechanism of the United Nations 
system within its existing financial resources; 

2. Iqvites the Economic and Social Council to consider, as a matter or 
urgency, the above-mentioned proposals by the Secretary-General and to invite the 
governing bodies of the United Nations agencies concerned to provide it with any 
comments they may have on this matter. 

I .. . 



DRAFT RESOLUTION IV 

United Nations Conference on Desertification 

The General Assembly, 

A/10467 
English 
Page 23 

Recalling its resolution 3337 (XXIX) of 17 December 1974, in which it decided 
to initiate concerted international action to combat desertification, 

Having considered the progress report of the Secretary-General l_!} and the 
relevant portions of the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations 
Environment Programme on its third session LJ on the implementation of General 
Assembly resolution 3337 (XXIX), 

Noting decision 3C (III) of 30 April 1975 of the Governing Council of the 
United Nations Environment Programme, in which it approved the proposals of the 
Executive Director of the Programme on measures to be taken in implementation of 
General Assembly resolution 3337 (XXIX), 

Noting also Economic and Social Council resolution 1958 (LIX) of 25 July 1975, 

Stressing the need for additional research to clarify a number of. fundamental 
problems of desertification for the solution of which the requisite scientific 
knowledge is not yet available to the international community, 

Stressing further that the preparation of the Conference should provide the 
international community with the basis for an action-oriented, comprehensive and 
co-ordinated plan of action, which should include the building up of indigenous 
and autonomous science and technology capacity in the areas concerned, 

1. Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of the competent 
bodies of the United Nations concerned, particularly the United Nations Environment 
Programme, to intensify the efforts required to ensure the appropriate 
preparation, at the technical level, of the United Nations Conference on 
Desertification· 

2. Reiterates its request to the United Nations Environment Programme and 
the United Nations Development Programme to provide the financial and technical 
assistance necessary to ensure the satisfactory preparation of the Conference, 
bearing in mind particularly the need to close the gaps in scientific knowledge 
and technologies in this field; 

'2_/ E/5689. 

5/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session Su lement 
No. 2S (A 10025) chap. III, sect. B (e). 

I . .. 



A/10467 
English 
Page 24 

3. Requests the Committee on Science and Technology for Development, with 
the assistance of the Advisory Committee on the Application of Science and 
Technology to Development, to include in its programme of work on arid areas, in 
pursuance of Economic and Social Council resolution 1898 (LVII) of 1 August 1974, 
proposals to close the gaps in scientific knowledge and technologies concerning 
desertification; 

4. Decides that the cost of the Conference will be borne by the regular 
budget of the United Nations; 

5. Requests the United Nations Fund for Population Activities to contribute 
to the financing of the demographic components of the studies prepared in 
implementation of General Assembly resolution 3337 (XXIX); 

6. Requests the executive heads of the specialized agencies to authorize 
their respective secretariats to provide for their participation in the secretariat 
of the Conference and in the ad hoc interagency task force, in conformity with 
General Assembly resolution 3337 (XXIX); 

7. Requests further the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment 
Programme to act as the intergovernmental preparatory body for the United Nations 
Conference on Desertification and to submit to the General Assembly at its 
thirty-first session, through the Economic and Social Council, recommendations on 
the organization of the Conference. 

I .. . 



DRAFT RESOLUTION V 

Consideration of the economic and social situation in the 
Sudano-Sahelian region stricken by drought and measures 

to be taken for the benefit of that region 

The General Assembly, 

A/10467 
English 
Page 25 

Recalling the relevant resolutions of the Economic and Social Council and 
the General Assembly, particularly Council resolutions 1834 (LVI) and 1874 (LVII) 
of 14 May 1974 and 16 July 1974, and Assembly resolutions 3054 (XXVIII) and 
3253 (XXIX) of 17 October 1973 and 4 December 1974, 

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 1918 (LVIII) of 
5 May 1975, 

~Toting with satisfaction the role played by the Office for the Sahelian 
Relief Operation of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations 
with regard to emergency assistance, and the activities undertaken by the United 
Nations Sahelian Office with a view to combating the effects of the drought and 
implementing the medium-term and long-term programme adopted by the Permanent 
Inter-State Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel, 

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the economic and 
social situation in the Sudano-Sahelian region stricken by drought, §! 

1. Takes note with satisfaction of the report by the Secretary-General on 
measures to be taken for the recovery and rehabilitation of the Sudano-Sahelian 
region stricken by drought; 

2. Expresses its gratitude for the assistance given to the countries of 
the Sudano-Sahelian region by Member States, private organizations and individuals; 

3. Urges Member States, the organs of the United Nations system and other 
intergovernmental organizations to respond favourably, in an effective and 
continuing manner, to the requests for assistance formulated by the Permanent 
Inter-.State Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel and by Governments, so as to 
meet the medium-term and long-term needs of the Sudano-Sahelian countries; 

4. Requests the United Nations Sahelian Office to continue its close 
co-operation with the Permanent Inter-State Committee on Drought Control in the 
Sahel and its efforts to ensure co-operation and co-ordination between United 
Nations programmes and organizations with a view to the implementation of 
medium-term and long-term assistance programmes; 

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue his action aimed at obtaining 
tne financial assistance necessary for the implementation of the medium-term and 
long'-term projects submitted by the States members of the Permanent Inter-State 
Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel. 

§} A/10346. 
I . .. 



A/10467 
English 
Page 26 

The General Assembly, 

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI 

United Nations Water Conference 

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1761 C (LIV) of 18 May 1973, 

Bearing in mind chapter IV of the report of the Committee on Natural Resources 
on its fourth session, 7/ which contains the comments made by members of the 
Committee at that session, 

Taking note of the relevant chapters of the report of the Economic and Social 
Council on its fifty-eighth and fifty-ninth sessions, §) 

Recalling further Economic and Social Council resolution 1979 (LIX) of 
31 July 1975, 

l. Welcomes the decision of the Economic and Social Council to convene the 
United Nations vlater Conference in Argentina from 7 to 18 '1arch 1977: 

2. Endorses the arrangements for the preparations for the Conference as 
set out in Economic and Social Council resolution 1979 (LIX): 

3. Requests the Secretary-General to give ample support to the Conference 
secretariat in its preparatory work, including, if necessary, arrangements for the 
close collaboration of the relevant organizations of the United Nations system; 

4. Requests the relevant organizations of the United Vat ions system to 
co-operate closely with the Conference secretariat in the preparatory work: 

5. Urges the United Nations Environment Programme to provide financial 
support for the preparatory work of the Conference in order to ensure its success: 

6. Requests the Secretary-General to bring to the attention of Member 
States the nature and importance of the water problems to be dealt with at the 
Conference, to give wide publicity to the Conference through the Office of Public 
Information and the Centre for Economic and Social Information of the Secretariat 
and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-first session on the action 
taken on the present resolution. 

I/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Fifty-ninth Session, 
Supplement Uo. 3 (E/5663), chap. IV, sect. A. 

~/Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, Supplement 
No. 3, chaps. IV (sect. E) and VI (sect. G). 

/ ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 27 

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII 

Measures against corrupt practices of transnational and other 
corporations, their intermediaries and others involved 

The General Assembly, 

Concerned by the corrupt practices of certain transnational and other 
corporations, their intermediaries and others involved, 

Recalling paragraph 4 (g) of the Declaration on the Establishment of a New 
International Economic Order 2./ which provides for the regulation and supervision 
of the activities of transnational corporations, 

Recalling also the provisions of section V of the Programme of Action on the 
Establishment of a New International Economic Order 10/ emphasizing, inter alia, 
the need to formulate, adopt and implement the code of conduct referred to in the 
report of the Commission on Transnational Corporations on its first session, 11/ 

Recalling further the provisions of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties 
of States according to which such corporations should not operate in a manner 
that violates the laws and regulations of the host countries, 12/ 

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolutions 1721 (LIII) of 28 July 1972, 
1908 (LVII) of 2 August 1974 and 1913 (LVII) of 5 December 1974, 

Recallin~ the report of the United Nations Commission on Transnational 
Corporations on its first session, 

1. Condemns all corrupt practices, including bribery, by transnational and 
other corporations, their intermediaries and others involved in violation of the 
laws and regulations of the host countries; 

2. Reaffirms the right of any State to adopt legislation and to investigate 
and take appropriate legal action, in accordance with its national laws and 
regulations, against transnational and other corporations, their intermediaries 
and others involved for such corrupt practices; 

3. Calls unon both home and host Governments to take, within their 
respective national jurisdictions, all necessary measures which they deem 
appropriate, including legislative measures, to prevent such corrupt practices and 
to take consequent measures against the violators; 

2J General Assembly resolution 3201 (S-VI) of l May 1974. 
10/ General Assembly resolution 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974. 

ll/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Fifty-ninth Session, 
Supp~ment No. 12 (E/5655 and Corr.l). 

12/ General Assembly resolution 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974. 

I . .. 



A/10467 
English 
Page 28 

4. Calls upon Governments to collect information on such corrupt practices, 
as well as on measures taken against such practices, and to exchange information 
bilaterally and, as appropriate, multilaterally, particularly through the United 
Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations; 

5. Calls upon home Governments to co-operate with Governments of the host 
countries to prevent such corrupt practices, including bribery, and to prosecute, 
within their national jurisdictions, those who engage in such acts; 

6. Requests the Economic and Social Council to direct the Commission on 
Transnational Corporations to include in its programme of work the question of 
corrupt practices of transnational corporations and to make recommendations on 
ways and means whereby such corrupt practices can be effectively prevented; 

1. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly 
at its thirty-first session, through the Economic and Social Council, on the 
implementation of the present resolution. 

I ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 29 

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII 

Conference on International Economic Co-operation 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 2626 (XXV) of 24 October 1970 on the International 
Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade, 3201 (S-VI) 
and 3202 (S-VI) of l May 1974 containing the Declaration and the Programme of 
Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 
12 December 1974 on the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States and 
3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on development and international economic 
co-operation, 

Noting that a Conference on International Economic Co-operation is to be held 
in Paris with participants from developing countries and developed market economy 
countries, 

Conscious of the fact that the proposed Conference on International Economic 
Co-operation will consider subjects which are of universal importance and affect 
the interests of the entire international community, 

Considering that the proposed programme of work of the Conference on 
International Economic Co-operation, as well as the results attained, will, 
directly or indirectly, have a bearing on the ongoing work on international 
economic co-operation and development within the United Nations system, 

Bearing in mind the need to establish a relationship between the United Nations 
system and the Conference on International Economic Co-operation, 

l. Requests the Governments participating in the Conference on International 
Economic Co-operation to ensure that their deliberations and decisions take full 
account of the principles and policy decisions adopted within the United Nations 
and, in particular, General Assembly resolutions 2626 (XXV) on the International 
Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade, 3201 (S-VI) 
and 3202 (S-VI) containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the 
Establishment of a New International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) on the Charter 
of Economic Rights and Duties of States and 3362 (S-VII) on development and 
international economic co-operation; 

2. Invites the Conference on International Economic Co-operation to report 
on its conclusions to the General Assembly at its thirty-first session; 

3. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly, 
through the Economic and Social Council, a report on his participation in the 
Conference on International Economic Co-operation; 

I ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 30 

4. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the Secretary-
General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the Executive 
Director of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, the Director-
General of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and all 
other executive heads of competent organs and organizations of the United Nations 
system actively to assist the participants in the Conference on International 
Economic Co-operation. 

I ... 



A/10467 
English 
Page 31 

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX 

Permanent sovereignty over national resources in the 
occupied Arab territories 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 3336 (XXIX) of 17 December 1974, entitled "Permanent 
sovereignty over national resources in the occupied Arab territories", paragraph 5 
of which requested the Secretary-General, with the assistance of relevant 
specialized agencies and United Nations organs, including the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development, to prepare a report on the adverse economic 
effects on the Arab States and peoples, resulting from repeated Israeli aggression 
and continued occupation of their territories, 

Recalling the statement 13/ made on behalf of the co-sponsors in introducing 
the revised draft resolution, 14/ underlining the need to seek the assistance 
of relevant United Nations organizations in preparinG the report requested of 
the Secretary-General as these organizations had the machinery needed to carry out 
studies and research which would be useful in preparing the report, 

Recalling further the statements submitted by the Secretary-General, 15/ in 
which he proposed that the report would be prepared on the basis of inquiries 
from and visits to the States concerned and consultations with the relevant 
specialized agencies and United Nations organs, including the United Nations 
Conference on Trade and Development, 

Recalling also that, in his two statements, the Secretary-General indicated 
that a large part of the work involved would be carried out in co-operation with 
the Economic Commission for Western Asia, and that the Commission would require 
four economists, appointed for six months each, and General Service secretarial 
support as well as travel funds for the preparation of the report, 

Noting that, in view of the staffing proposals for the Economic Commission for 
Western Asia, the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions 
recommended 16/ an additional provision in the amount of $37,000 to cover the 
cost of two economists only for a period of six months each and that the 
General Assembly approved this additional appropriation to supplement the staff 
and resources of the Commission in the work involved in the preparation of the 
report~ 

13/ See A/C.2/SR.l635. 

14/ A/C.2/L.l372/Rev.l. 

15/ A/C.2/L.l385 and A/C.5/1649. 

16/ A/9978/Add.l. 

I . .. 



A/10467 
English 
Page 32 

Noting also that the report of the Secretary-General !I/ was not prepared in 
conformity with paragraph 5 of General Assembly resolution 3336 (XXIX), the related 
statements made on behalf of the co-sponsors and by the Secretary-General, and 
the administrative and financial implications and provisions approved by the 
Assembly, but contained only annexes setting forth information available to 
Governments and to some of the relevant specialized agencies and United Nations 
organs which were not involved in the preparation of substantive studies related 
to the report, 

1. Notes that the report of the Secretary-General is inadequate as it did not 
incorporate the necessary substantive and comprehensive studies required in 
conformity with paragraph 5 of General Assembly resolution 3336 (XXIX) and related 
documents, including A/C.2/SR.l635, A/C.2/L.l385, A/C.5/1649 and A/9978/Add.l; 

2. Requests the heads of the relevant specialized agencies and United 
Nations organs, particularly the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development 
and the Economic Commission for Western Asia, to co-operate actively and adequately 
with the Secretary-General in the preparation of a final and comprehensive report; 

3. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
thirty-first session his final comprehensive report, which should fulfil the 
above-mentioned requirements. 

17/ A/10290. 

I . .. 



A/10467 
English 
Page 33 

58. The Second Committee also recorr~ends to the General Assembly the adoption of 
the following draft decisions: 

DRAFT DECISION I 

Consolidation and progressive evolution of the norms and 
principles of international economic development law 

The General Assembly takes note of the draft resolution entitled "Consolidation 
and progressive evolution of the norms and principles of international economic 
development law" annexed hereto, and decides to include this question as a separate 
item in the provisional agenda of its thirty-first session with the hope that this 
item would be allocated to the Sixth Committee for consideration. 

ANNEX 

Consolidation and progressive evolution of the norms and 
principles of international economic development law 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling Article 13, paragraph 1, of the Charter of the United Nations, which 
calls on the General Assembly to initiate studies and mrute recommendations for the 
purpose of encouraging the progressive development of international law and its 
codification, 

Recalling its resolution 3082 (XXVIII) of 6 December 1973, in which, inter 
alia, it reaffirmed the urgent need to establish or improve norms of universal 
application in the field of international economic relations, 

Considering that there are already norms and principles in the field of 
economic development that are politically relevant, legally sufficient and timely 
for consolidation, such as those contained in its resolutions 2626 (XXV) of 
24 October 1970 on the International Development Strategy for the Second United 
Nations Development Decade, 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of l May 1974, containing 
the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New 
International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974 on the Charter of 
Economic Rights and Duties of States, and 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on 
development and international economic co-operation, as well as relevant 
resolutions and decisions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development 
and the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and of other economic and financial 
organizations of the United Nations system, 

Convinced that there has been a long-felt need for a comprehensive code of 
economic behaviour, based on equity, sovereign equality, interdependence, common 
interest and co-operation, that should guide international economic relations, 
particularly at this time, when the world is faced with a general economic crisis 
ana. with mounting problems of under-development in most developing countries, 

I . .. 



A/10467 
English 
Page 34 

l. Requests the Secretary-General to study the question of the consolidation 
and progressive development of the norms and principles of international economic 
development law, and the feasibility of their codification, taking into account, 
particularly, the above-mentioned resolutions; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to submit his study on this question to 
the General Assembly for consideration at its thirty-first session. 

DR~FT DECISION II 

The General Assembly endorses the recommendation of the Economic and Social 
Council contained in paragraph 5 of its resolution 1950 (LIX) of 22 July 1975 that 
Arabic should be an official and working language of the Economic Commission for 
Africa, in addition to English and French, and takes note of the following 
documents: 

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on economic, financial and technical 
assistance to the Government of Guinea-Bissau; 18/ 

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on economic, financial and technical 
assistance to the Territories still under Portuguese domination; 19/ 

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to the drought-stricken 
areas of Somalia; 20/ 

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to the drought-stricken 
areas of Ethiopia; 21/ 

(e) The summary of the Concise Renort on the 1•/orld Population Situation in 
1970-1975 and its Long-Range Implications 22/ and its. findings; '?c3/ 

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on the Vlorld Population Year, 1974. 24/ 

18/ A/10105 and Add.l-3. 

19/ A/10106 and Corr.l and Add.l-3. 

20/ A/10258. 

21/ A/10259. 

22/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.74.XIII.4. 

23/ E/5624. 

24/ E/5602 and Corr.l and 2. 




