








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAl 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10440 
9 December 1975 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda item 4 3 

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION Oil THE 
DENUCLEARIZATION OF AFRICA 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Horacia ARTEAGA-ACOSTA (Venezuela) 

l. The item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on the Denucleari zation 
of Africa" was included by the Secretary-General in the provisional agenda of the 
thirtieth session on the basis of General Assembly resolution 3261 E (XXIX) of 
9 December 1974. 

2. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Assembly, on 
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in the 
agenda of the thirtieth session and to allocate it to the First Committee for 
consideration and report. 

3. At its 2072nd meeting, on 30 October, the First Committee decided to hold 
a combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament and 
the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely, agenda items 31, 34 to 48, 120, 122 
and 126. The general debate on these items took place at the 2072nd to 
2095th meetings, from 30 October to 21 November. 

4. On l December, Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Chad, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, 
Ethiopia, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, the Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, the Niger, Nigeria, 
Rwanda, Senegal; Sierra Leone, the Sudan, Swaziland, Tunisia, the United F.epublic 
of Cameroon, the Upper Volta and Zaire submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/L.742), 
which was subsequently also sponsored by the Comoros, Guinea-Bissau and Somalia. 
The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Nigeria at the 
2103rd meeting, on 3 December. 

5. At its 2106th meeting, on 4 December, the First Committee adopted draft 
resolution A/C.l/L.742 by a recorded vote of 114 to none (see para. 6 below). 
The voting was as follows: 

75-28257 I ... 



A/10440 
English 
Page 2 

In favour: 

Against: 

Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, 
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominican 
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, France, 
German Democratic Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, 
Greece, Guinea, Honduras, Hurigary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, 
J:reland, Israel, ItaJ_y, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Halaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, 
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, 
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad 
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Hepublic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United 
States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, 
Zaire, Zambia. 

None. 

RECOMJI1ENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE 

6. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Denuclearization of Africa 

The General Assembly, 

Convinced that nuclear-weapon-free zones provide the best and easiest means 
whereby non-n:cclear-weapon States can, by their own initiative and effort, ensure 
the total absence of nuclear weapons from their territories and enhance their mutual 
security, 

Mindful of the fact that nuclear-weapon-free zones strengthen and promote the 
regime for the u~n-proliferation of nuclear weapons, 

Reaffirming the inalienable right of all States to develop research, production 
and use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, 

I . .. 



A/lo44o 
English 
Page 3 

Recalling its resolutions 1652 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 2033 (XX) of 
3 December 1965 and 3261 E (XXIX) of 9 December 1974, which called upon all States 
to consider and respect the continent of Africa, including the continental African 
States, Madagascar and other islands surrounding Africa, as a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone, 

Noting the solemn Declaration of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government 
of the Organization of African Unity on the Denuclearization of Africa, l/ 

Noting also that the aforementioned Declaration has been endorsed by the Second 
Conference of the Heads of State or Government of Non-aligned Countries,~ 

1. Agrees that implementation of the Declaration of the African Heads of 
State and Government on the Denuclearization of Africa will be a significant measure 
to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons in the world, conducive to complete 
and general disarmament, particularly nuclear disarmament; 

2. Reaffirms its call upon all States to respect and abide by the Declaration 
of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African 
Unity on the Denuclearization of Africa; 

3. Reaffirms further its call upon all States to consider and respect the 
continent of Africa, including the continental African States, Madagascar and other 
islands surrounding Africa, as a nuclear-weapon-free zone; 

4. Reiterates its call upon all States to refrain from testing, 
manufacturing, deploying, transporting, storing, using or threatening to use 
nuclear weapons on the African continent; 

5. Requests the Secretary-General to render all necessary assistance to the 
Organization of African Unity towards the realization of the solemn Declaration on 
the Denuclearization of Africa in which the African Heads of State and Government 
announced their readiness to undertake, in an international treaty to be concluded 
under the auspices of the United Nations, not to manufacture or acquire control of 
nuclear weapons; 

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-first session 
the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on the Denuclearization of 
Africa". 

lf Official Records of the General Assembly, Twentieth Session, Annexes, 
agenda item 105, document A/5975. 

~ See A/5763. 




