








































-f,\ 

\:::=t c|+' E:
-GdlG!-

UN'TED NAI'ONS

GEI\ERAL
A S S E ,\A B I.Y

Distr,
GENERAL

A/101+31+

P December 1975
ENGLISH
ORIG]NAL: ENGI,]SH/SPANISH

Thirtieth sess ion

URGENT NEED FOR CESSATION OF NUCLEAR AND TIIERMONUCLEAR
TESTS AND CONCLUSION Otr'A TREATY DESIGNED TO ACHIEVE A

COMPFETIENSIVE TEST BAN

Feport of the First Conmittee

Rapporteur: Mr, Horacio ARTEAGA-ACOSTA (Venezuela)

1. The iten entitled "Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear
tests and concl-usion of a treaty designed to acbieve a comprehensive test ban:
report of the Conference of the Connittee on Disarmanent" was included by the
Secretary-General in the provisional agenda of the thirtieth session on the basis
of General Assembly resolution 325? (xxTx) of 9 December 19?)+.

2. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 Septembev ]|975, the General Asserxbly,
on the recormendation of the General Connittee, decided to incl-ud.e the iten in the
agenda of the thirtieth session and to allocate it to the First Corn0rittee for
consideration and report.

3. At its 2072nd meeting, on 30 October, the First Coanittee decided to hold
a combined general debate on the itens allocated to it relating to disarmament
and the Ind.ian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely, itens 31, 3l+ to 48, !2o " ],22 

and
I?5, The general d.ebate on these iterns took place at the 20T2nd to 2o95t.h
rneetings, from 30 October to 21 November.

)+. The lirst Comrnittee had before it, in connexion l,Iith agenda item 37, the
following documents:

(") Report of the conference of the Cornnittee on Disannamen t (A/roo27-DC/?38);

(b) Letter dated 22 September 1975 ftom the Chairman of the Delegation of
Mexico to the thirtieth session of the General Assenrbly addressed to
the Secretary-ceneral (A/ c.r/ 1055) i

(c) Letter dated 27 October 1975 fron the Personaf Representative of Sveden
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/c.!fO67).

75-2825L / ...



A/101+3)+
English
Page 2

,. 0L 28 Novernber, Australia, Colonbia, FinLand, Irel-and, Mexico, Nepa1,
New Zealand, Niseria, the Philippines. Sweden and Venezuela submitted a draft
resolution (A/C.1/L.?38). The draft resolution vas introduced by Austral-ia at
the 210lst meeting, on I Decernber. At the 2lol+th meeting, on 3 December, the
sponsorls agreed to an oral amendment suggested by Yugoslavia to make clear, in
opers.tive pal:agraph ? of the draft, that the Conference of the Conrnittee on
Disarmament should give the highest priority to the conclusion of a comprehensive
test ban agreement.

5. At the 21o6th rneeting, on l+ December, draft resolution A/C.I/L.T3B, as ora11y
amended, tras put to the vote;

(") The fourth preambular paragraph was adopted by a record.ed vote of
88 to none, vith 28 abstentions. Tne voting was as follovs:

Tn favcuf,.: Afghanistaa, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belgir.rn, 3enin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Burna, Burundi,
Carrada, Chad, Chile, Colorobia, Costa Fica, C;rprus, Denmark,
Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Egrpt, E1 Salvador, Ethiopia, Iiji"
Finland, cerrnany (Federal Republic of), Ghana, Guinea" Honduras,
fceland, Ind.onesia, Iran, Iraq, lreland, Israel, fta1y,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Ma1i,
Mauritius, Mexico, Nepa1, lletherlands, New Zealand, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Ornan, Pakistan, Peruo Philippines, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Fwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Trurisia, Turkey, United.
Arab Endrates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Zaire, Zambis..

None ,Against:

Abstainins: Algeria, Argentina, Brazil. , Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, China, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovaftia, Dernocratic
Yemen, France, German Democ"atic Republic, Greece, Hungary,
lndia, Ms.dagascar, Malawi, Mauritania, Mongolia, Mozambique,
Pofand, Spain, Sri Larika, Uga.nda, Lrhraini an Soviet Socialist
Republ-ic, Union of Soviet Socialist nepublics, United States of
America, Yu6gos lavia,

(b) Operative paragraph 1 was adopted by a recorded vote of BO to 5, vith
33 abstentions. The votine was as follows:



In favour:

A/10)+ 34
English
vaae 3

Argentina, Australia., Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados '3enin, Bhutan, Bo1ivia., lotswana, Bxazi]-, Chad' Chile' Colonbia,
Costa Rica, Cyprus, DenmaJk, Dorainican Republic, Ecuador,
Erypt, EI Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guinea,
Honduras, Iceland, India, fndonesia, lran, fraq, Ireland,
Is?ae1, Ivory Coast, Jamaicao Jordan, Kenya, Kuvait, Laos,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, I'{alawi, Malaysia, Ma1i,
Mauritius, Mexico, Nepal, ltrew Zealand' Niger, Nigeria, Norway n
Ornan, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar' Rwanda, Saudi Arabia'
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sudan, Swaziland' Sweden'
Syri an Arab Bepublic " 

fhailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago'
Tunisia, United. Arab Enirates, United Republic of Cameroon 'United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Vo1ta, Uruguay, Venezuefa'
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire o Zanbia.

Albania, China, France, United Kingdon of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and United States of America.

Against :

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Belgiur, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Congo' Cuba'
Czechoslova}ia, Democratic Yemen ' German 

Denocratic Bepublic,
Gernany (Federa] Republie of), Greece, Hungary ' 

Tta1y, Japan '
Luxenrbourg, Madagasear, Mauritania" Mongolia, Mozanbique,
Netherlands, Pdristan, Poland, Roraania, Spain, Sri Lanka, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Sociatist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics.

(") Operative paragraph 5 vas adopted by a recorded vote of 96 to none, vith
22 abstentions. The votins was as follows:

fn favour: Afgharistan, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Sangladesh '
Barbados, 3e1giuri, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Burma, Canada, Chad, Chile' Colombia, Congo, Costa Fica, Cynrus,
Denmarhu Dominican RepubJ-ic ' Ecuador' Egypt, 

E1 Salvador,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guinea, Honduras ' Iceland,Indonesia, Tran, Traq, freland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast'
Jamaica" Japan, Jord.an ' 

Kenya 
' 

Ku^tait, Laos, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Republic, Luxembou"g, Malavi, Malaysia, Mal-i ' Mal-ta,Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Nepa1, Netherlands, Ner'r Zea\and. 'Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Ornan, Pakistan, ?e?u, Philippines,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland' gveden,
Syri an Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobego'
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Vo1ta, Uruguay, Venezuela'
Yemen, Yugos1a.via. Za]nbia.

None ,.Against:



A/10)+31+
English

Abstaining: Algeria, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yemen, I'rance,
German Democratic Republic, Gemany (FederaL Bepublic of),
Greece, Hungary, India, Madagascar, Mongolia, Mozambique, Poland,
Ukrainlan Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United States of America, Zaire.

(d) The drafb resolution as a whole was adopted by a recorded vote of
)2 to 2, vith 2l+ abstentions (see para. f below). The voting lras as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Iahrain, Bangladesh,
Sarbados n Benin, Bhutar, Bolivia, Botswana, Srazi]-, Burna,
Qanada, Chad, Chi1e, Colornbia, Costa Rica" Cyprus, Denmark,
Dornini can Republ-ie, Ecuad.or " Egypt, 

E1 Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Ghana, Guinea, Honduras, Iceland, fndia, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ire]-and, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaicao Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic,
Malawi, Malaysia, Ma1i, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Nepal,
Netherlsrds, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Onan, Pakistan 

"Peru, Philippines, Portugal, qata", Romania, Rwanda, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Larika,
Sudan, SwazilBnd, Sved.en, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and. Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab nmirates,
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republ-ic of Tanzania, Upper
Vo1ta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia.

Albania, China.

Abstaining: Algeria, Belgiur, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Fepublic, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France,
German Democratic Republic, Geamany (Federal Fepublic of),
Greece, I{ungary, Ita1y, Luxerrborrg, Madagascar, Mauritania,
l4ongolia, Mozambique, Poland., Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdon
of Great Srltain and Northern frelard. United States of America.

FECOMMENDATION OF THE FINST COMMITTEE

T- The I'irst Connittee reconrnends to the Generaf Assenbly the adoption of the
following d"aft resol-ution:

Against:



A/10434
nngli sh
page !

Urgent need for cessatiou of nuclear and thermonucl-ear
tests and conclusion of a treaty desig-.ned to achieve a

comprehensive test ban

The General Ass enibly 
"

Deeply concerned that a nrmber of States have engaged in underground nuclear
weapon testing since the tr,renty-ninth session of the General Assembly, while
velconing the fact that there ha\c been no atmospheric nucJ'eal veapon tests j.n the
same period,

its prev-ious resofutions on the subject, most recently resol"ution
y uecenoer Iy14.

Fecalling the stated ain of the parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon
Tests-liJiETtmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water 1/ to "eut to 

achievd the
discontinuance of all test explosions of nuclear weapons for all ti,ne,

Noting:

(a) That the Final Decl-aration of the Review Conference of the Parties
to the Treaty on the Non-Proli feration of NucleaT Weapons, adopted by consensus
in May 197J:

(i) Expressed the viev that the conclusion of a treaty banning aJ1 nucleer
weapon tests is one of the rnost inportant measures to halt the nuclear
arns race.

(ii) Expressed the hope that the nuclear-weapon States parties to the Treaty
on the Non-Pyoli feration of Nuclear Weapons will take the lead in
reaching an eerly solLrtion to the technical and political difficulties
on this issue,

(i.ii) arnpalorr fa rh-- -.-ese States to make every effort to xeach agreement on the
conclusion of an effective comprehensive test ba.rr,

(b) That the final d.ocumentation of the Conference included a draft
resolution and a draft add.iticnal protoco.I to the Treaty, subrnitted by a
considerable number of States which attended the Conference, concerning nucl-ear
weapon tests, 2/ whereby the nuclear-veapon States depositaries to the Treaty
would agree on a moratoriun which could in due course become a comprehensive test
ban embracing all nuclear-weapon States.

V United Nations, Treatv Series, vo1. I+80, No. 6961+, p. l+3.
2/ NPT/CoNI/L. 2/Rev. 1.



A/10r+31+
Engli sh
rage o

(c) That the desire r,ras expressed by a considerable nunber of delegations
at the Conference that the nucl,ear-veapon States parbies to the Treaty should, as
soon as possible, enter irrto ar agreement, open to all States and containing
appropriate p"ovisions to ensure its effectiveness, to halt all nuclear wes.pon
tests of adherj.ng States for a specified time, whereupoit the terns of such an
agreement would be rev-iewed in the light of the opportunity at that time to achieve
a universal and. permanent cessation of all nuclear treapon tests,

TakinA note of the section of the report of the Conference of the Coonittee on
Disarmament relating to the question of a conprehensive test bari agreement, 3/

Feaffirming its eonviction that the cessation of nuclear lreapon testing
"oota@ of nankind, both as a majo! step towardscontaolfi.ng the development and proliferation of nuclealweapons and to refieve the
deep apprehension concerning the harnful consequences of radioactive contamination
for the heal-th of present and future generations,

1. Condenns all nuclear veapon tests" in whatever environment they nay be
conducted I

2, Depfofes the continued lack of progxess tor.rards a comprehensive test ban
agreenent;

3. lnphasizes the urgency of reaching agreement on the concfusion of an
effective comprehensive test ban;

4, Ca1ls upon al-l nuclear-weapon States to bring to a haLt all, nuclear
weapon tests through an agleed suspension subJect to review after a specified
period, as an interim step tovards the conclusion of a formal and corprehensive
i-.n ql-. })An 

^ 
oPAAmah+ .

5. Ernphasizes in this regard the particular responsibility of the
nuclear-veapon States vhich are party to international A.greenents in vhich they
have declared their intention to achieve at the earliest tossible date the
cessation of the nuclear arms race:

6. Calls upon aLl States not yet parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear
Weapon Tests in the Atnosptrere, in Outer Space and under Water to adhere to it
forthwith I

1. Urges the Conference of the Cornittee on Di s arma:nent to give the highest
tri:riLy to thL conclusion of e conprehensive test ban agrc-m"nt and to rEport to the
General Assembfy at its thirty-first session on the progress achieved;

B. Deci_des to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-first
session the iten entitled "Urgent need- for cessation oft nuclear and thermonuclear
tests and conclusion of a treaty d.esigned to achieve a conxpfehensive test ban",

1/ A/IOO27-DC/238, sect. TII.




