








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda item 120 

• 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10446 
9 December 1975 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH;3PANISH 

ESTABLISHMENT OF A NUCLEAR-WEAPON-FREE ZONE IN THE 
SOUTH PACIFIC 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Horacia ARTEAGA-ACOSTA (Venezuela) 

l. The item entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the So1.<.th 
Pacific" was included by the Secretary-General in the provisional agenda of the 
thirtieth session ~t the request of Fiji and New Zealand (A/10192). 

2. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Assembly, 
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in 
the agenda of the thirtieth session and to allocate it to the First Committee 
for consideration and report. 

3. At its 2072nd meeting, on 30 October, the First Committee decided to hold a 
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament and 
the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely items 31, 34 to 48, 120, 122 and 126. 
The general debate on those items took place at the 2072nd to 2095th meetings, from 
30 October to 21 November. 

4. On 20 October, Fiji, New Zealand and Papua New Guinea submitted a draft 
resolution (A/C.l/L.719) which subsequently was also sponsored by Chile, Ecuador, 
Malaysia, Peru, the Philippines and Singapore. The draft resolution was introduced 
at the 2074th meeting, on 31 October, by the representatlve of New Zealand. 

5. At the 2100th meeting, on 28 November, the First Committee proceeded to vote on 
draft resolution A/C.l/L.719. A separate vote was taken on the third, fourth 
and fifth preambular paragraphs of the draft resolution. The paragraphs were 
adopted by 90 votes to none, with 13 abstentions. Thereafter, the Committee 

75-28092 / ••• 



A/10446 
English 
Page 2 

adopted the draft resolution as a whole (see para. 6 below) by a roll-call vote 
of 94 to none, with 18 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, 1) Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, 
Burma, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, 
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Fiji, 
Finland~ Ghana, Guinea, Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia, 
Iran, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Laos, 
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, 
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, 
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, 
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, 
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad 
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United 
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, 
Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo, Cuba, 
Czechoslo':akia, Egypt, France, German Democratic Republic, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Hungary, Italy, Mongolia, 
Poland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

6. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone 
in the South Pacific 

The General Assembly, 

Conscious of the urgent need for agreement on measures to achieve the goal 
of general and complete disarmament, including nuclear disarmament, under 
effective international control, 

y After the vote, the representative of Belgium indicated that it had been 
his intention to abstain and that Belgium would abstain in the General Assembly 
vote on the draft resolution. 

I ... 



A/10446 
English 
Page 3 

Convinced that the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the continuance of the 
nuclear arms race are among the greatest threats to world peace and the survival 
of mankind, 

Noting that article VII of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons 2/ acknowledges the right of any group of States to conclude a treaty in 
order to ensure the total absence of nuclear weapons in their respective 
territories, 

Noting further the declaration of the Review Conference of the Parties 
to the Treaty en the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Veapons that the establishment 
of internationally recognizzd nuclear-weapon-free zones, on the initiative 
and with the agreement of the directly concerned States of the zone, 
represents an effective means of curbing the spread of nuclear weapons and could 
contribute significantly to the security of those States, 11 

Endorsing also the declaration of the Review Conference that the 
co-operation of the nuclear-weapon States is necessary for the maximum 
effectiveness of any treaty arrangements for establishing a nuclear-weapon-
free zone, 11 

Recalling, in particular, the Declaration on the Denuclearization of Africa 
adopted by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of 
African Unity in July 1964 4/ and the notable progress achieved by the Latin 
American States towards the-denuclearization of their region, 

Noting, in addition, that the Heads of Government of the independent or self-
governing States members of the South Pacific Forum emphasized in their communique 
of 3 July 1975 the importance of keeping the South Pacific region free from the 
risk of nuclear contamination and of involvement in a nuclear conflict and 
commended the idea of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the South Pacific 
as a means of achieving that aim, 

1. Endorses the idea of the establismnent of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in 
the South Pacific; 

2. Invites the countries concerned to carry forward consultations about ways 
and means of realizing this objective; 

3. Expresses the hope that all States, in particular the nuclear-weapon 
States, will co-operate fully in achieving the objectives of the present 
resolution; 

4. Requests the Secretary-General to render all necessary assistance to the 
States of the region in giving effect to the purpose of the present resolution. 

~General Assembly resolution 2373 (XXII), annex. 

11 A/C.l/1068, annex I, p. 9· 
4/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twentieth Session, Annexes, 

agend; item 105, document A/5975. 




