








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAl 
ASSEMBLY 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda item ll9 

QUESTION OF KOREA 

Report of the First Committee 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10327 
3 November 1975 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH 

Rapporteur: Mr. Horacio ARTEAGA-ACOSTA (Venezuela) 

CONTi.iNTS 

I. INTRODUCTION 

II. PROPOSALS 

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/L.7D8/Rev.l and 
amendments thereto • • • • • 

B. Draft resolution A/C.l/L.709 and amendment 
thereto 

III. VOTING ••• 

IV. RECOM!I1ENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE 

75-22552 

Paragraphs Page 

l - 8 

9 - 16 

10 - 12 

13 - 16 

17 - 25 

26 

2 

4 

4 

8 

10 

17 

I . .. 



A/10327 
English 
Page 2 

I. INTRODUCTION 

l. In a letter dated 27 June 1975 to the Secretary-General (A/10142), the 
representatives of Canada, Costa Rica, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America requested 
the inclusion in the agenda of the thirtieth session of the General Assembly of 
an item entitled "urgent need to implement fully the consensus of the twenty-eighth 
session of the General Assembly an the Korean question and to maintain peace and 
security on the Korean peninsula". Subsequently, New Zealand (A/10142/Acld.l); 
Uruguay (A/l0142/Add.2); Grenada, Nicaragua and Paraguay (A/l0142/Add.3); Bolivia 
an~ Guatemala (A/l0142/Add.4); the Dominican Republic, Germany (Federal Republic of) 
and Haiti (A/10142/Add.5); the Central African Republic and Gabon (A/10142/Add.6); 
and Colombia (A/10142/Add.7) became co-sponsors of the request. The item was 
included in the draft agenda of the thirtieth session as item 120. 

2. In a letter dated 8 August 1975 to the Secretary-General (A/10191), the 
representatives of Algeria, Bulgaria, Burundi, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, China, the Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, 
Equatorial Guinea, the German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, 
Iraq, Madagascar, M:ali, Malta, Mauritania, Mongolia, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, 
Sierra Leone, Somalia, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, the Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United 
Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslavia and Zambia requested the inclusion in the agenda 
of the thirtieth session of a supplementary item entitled "Creation of favourable 
conditions for converting the armistice into a durable peace in Korea and 
accelerating the independent and peaceful reunification Df Korea". Subsequently, 
the Libyan Arab Republic and Senegal (A/10191/Add.l); Ghana, Laos and the Upper 
Volta (A/l0191/Add.2); and Cambodia and Yemen (A/l019l/Add.3) became co-sponsors 
of the request. The item was included in the draft agenda of the thirtieth session 
as item 121. 

3. At its 224th meeting, on 17 September 1975, the General Committee recommended 
that items 120 and 121 of the draft agenda should be included in the agenda of the 
thirtieth session and be combined in the following order under the heading 
11 Question of Korean: 

"Question of Korea: 

(a) Creation of favourable conditions for converting the armistice into a 
durable peace in Korea and accelerating the independent and peaceful 
reunification of Korea; 

(b) Urgent need to implement fully the consensus of the t>renty-eighth session 
of the General Assembly on the Korean question and to maintain peace and 
security on the Korean peninsula." 

The General Committee also recommended that the item should be allocated to the 
First Committee. 

I .. . 



A/10327 
English 
Page 3 

4. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Assembly 
adopted the recommendations of the General Committee. 

5. At its 2046th meeting, on 30 September, the First Committee decided without 
objection to invite the delegations of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea 
and the Republic of Korea to participate in the discussion on the question of Korea 
without the right to vote. Accordingly, the Secretary-General addressed 
communications to the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea and 
the Government of the Republic of Korea, informing them of the decision of the 
First Committee and requesting them to communicate to him the names of the 
representatives whom they would be designating for this purpose. 

6. On 6 October, the Secretary-General received a communication from the 
Permanent Observer of the Republic of Korea to the United Nations, dated 
6 October 1975, informing him that the Government of the Republic of Korea would 
be represented by its Minister for Foreign Affairs at the meetings of the First 
Committee when it discussed the Korean item. On 7 October, the Secretary-General 
received a communication, dated 6 October, from the Permanent Observer of the 
Democratic People's Republic of Korea to the United Nations, informing him that 
the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea had decided to send 
its delegation (list attached to the letter) to participate in the discussion on 
the question of Korea in the First Committee at the thirtieth session. 

7. The First Committee considered the item at its 2060th to 207lst meetings, 
from 21 to 29 October 1975. 

8. At the 2060th meeting, the representative of Algeria stated that since in 
his view there had been a drastic change in draft resolution A/C.l/L.708 as a 
result of the incorporation of the French amendments, the Secretariat should have 
given a different symbol to the revised draft. The Secretariat explained the 
practice of alloting such symbols as was done in this case. After an exchange of 
views, the Chairman's request to postpone procedural discussions to the end of the 
general debate was accepted. 

I . .. 



A/10327 
English 
Page 4 

II . PROPOSALS 

9. The First Committee had before it two draft resolutions on the ~uestion of 
Korea. 

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/1.708/Rev.l and amendments thereto 

10. A draft resolution dated 24 September (A/C.l/1.708), later revised on 
10 October as A/C.l/1.708/Rev,l (reissued subse~uently as Rev.l* and Rev.l**), 
replaced the draft resolution that had been transmitted as an attachment to the 
initial letter dated 27 June from six Member States (A/10142, annex II) containing 
the re~uest for the inclusion of the item entitled 1Urgent need to implement fully 
the consensus of the twenty-eighth session of the General Assembly on the Korean 
~uestion and to maintain peace and security on the Korean peninsula· 1 • Draft 
resolution A/C.l/1.708 was sponsored by Barbados, Bolivia, Canada, the Central 
African Republic, Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, Gabon, Germany 
(Federal Republic of), Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Japan, the Netherlands, New 
Zealand, Nicaragua, Paraguay, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, the United States of America and Uruguay, and read as follows: 

''The General Assembly, 

"Desiring that progress be made towards the attainment of the goal of 
peaceful reunification of Korea on the basis of the freely expressed will 
of the Korean people, 

"Recalling its satisfaction with the issuance of the joint communi~ue 
at Seoul and Pyongyang on 4 July 1972 and the declared intention of both 
the South and the North of Korea to continue the dialogue between them, 

"Further recalling that by its resolution 711 (VII), adopted on 
28 August 1953, the General Assembly noted with approval the Armistice 
Agree;nent of 27 July 1953, and t':lat, in its resolut~o:o Bll (IX) o::' 
11 December 1954, it expressly took note of the provision of the Armistice 
Agreement which re~uired that the Agreement shall remain in effect until 
expressly superseded either by mutually acceptable amendments and additions 
or by provision in an appropriate agreement for a peaceful settlement at a 
political level between both sides, 

"Bearing in mind the hope expressed by the General Assembly in its 
resolution 3333 (XXIX) of 17 December 1974 that the Security Council will give 
consideration to those aspects of the Korean ~uestion which fall within its 
responsibilities, 

''Aware, however, that tension in Korea has not been totally eliminated 
and that the Armistice Agreement remains indispensable to the maintenance of 
peace and security in the area, 

I ... 



A/10327 
English 
Page 5 

"Noting the letter of 27 June 1975, addressed to the President of the 
Security Council by the Government of the United States of America (S/11737), 
affirming that it is prepared to terminate the United Nations Command on 
1 January 1976 and., together with the Republic of Korea, to designate military 
officers of the United States and the Republic of Korea as successors in 
command to ensure enforcement of all provisions of the Armistice Agreement 
now the responsibility of the Commander-in-Chief of the United Nations 
Command, provided that the other parties directly concerned agree prior to 
termination of the Command that they will regard all provisions of the 
Armistice Agreement as continuing in force, 

"Noting the statement of 27 June 1975 by the Government of the Republic 
of Korea affirming its willingness to enter into the above arrangement to 
maintain the Armistice Agreement, 

"Recognizing that, in accordance with the purposes and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations regarding the maintenance of international 
peace and security, the United Nations has a continuing responsibility to 
ensure. the attainment of this goal on the Korean peninsula, 

;'1. 

statement 
both the 

Reaffirms the wishes of its members, as expressed in the consensus 
adopted by the General Assembly on 28 November 1973, !} and urges 

South and the North of Korea to continue their dialogue to 
expedite the peaceful reunification of Korea; 

"2. Expresses the hope that the members of the Security Council, 
bearing in mind. the need to ensure continued adherence to the Armistice 
Agreement and the full maintenance of peace and security in the area, will, 
as appropriate, encourage the parties directly concerned to undertake 
discussions at the earliest possible date in order that the United Nations 
Command may be dissolved in conjunction with appropriate arrangements to 
maintain the Armistice Agreement; 

·'3. Expresses the further hope that these discussions will be 
completed and alternative arrangements for the maintenance of the Armistice 
Agreement will be made in order that the United Nations Command may be 
dissolved on l January 1976." 

11. On 26 September, France submitted amendments (A/C.l/1.710) to draft 
resolution A/C.l/1.708 which were subsequently co-sponsored by Belgium, the 
Gambia and Italy. The amendments were as follows: 

Preamble 

{1) To add the following first paragraph: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Mindful of the hope expressed by it in resolution 3333 (XXIX) of 
17 December 1974," 

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-eighth Session, 
Supplement No. 30 (A/9030), p. 24, item 41, 

I ... 



A/10327 
English 
Page 6 

(2) To delete the fourth paragraph. 

(3) To amend the sixth paragraph to read: 

"Noting the letter of 27 June 1975, addressed to the President of 
the Security Council by the Government of the United States of America, 
affirming that it is prepared to terminate the United Nations Command on 
1 January 1976, provided that the other parties directly concerned reach 
agreement on alternative arrangements mutually acceptable to them for 
maintaining the Armistice Agreement." 

(4) In the seventh paragraph, replace the words "the above arrangement 
to maintain·' by "arrangements for maintaining·'. 

Operative part 

(5) To amend paragraph 2 to read: 

''Expresses the hope that all the parties directly concerned will 
enter into negotiations on new arrangements designed to replace the 
Armistice Agreement, reduce tensions and ensure lasting peace in the 
Korean peninsula;". 

(6) To add the fo~lowing new paragraph 3: 

"Urges all the parties directly concerned, as a first step, bearing 
in mind the need to ensure continued observation of the Armistice Agreement 
and the full maintenance of peace and security in the region, to embark 
on talks as soon as possible so that the United Nations Command may be 
dissolved concurrently with arrangements for maintaining the Armistice 
Agreement;". 

(7) At the end of existing paragraph 3 (which becomes paragraph 4) add, 
after the words "l January 1976", the following phrase: "so that by that 
date no armed forces under the United Nations flag will remain in the 
south of Korea". 

12. The co-sponsors of the draft resolution accepted the amendments submitted 
by France; the latter were incorporated in the draft resolution, which then was 
reissued as document A/C.l/L.708/Rev.l (reissued subsequently as Rev.l* and 
Rev.l**) of 10 October 1975. The revised draft resolution, which was sponsored 
by ~arbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, the Central African Republic, Colombia, 
Costa Rica, the Dominican Republic, France, Gabon, the Gambia, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Liberia, 
Luxembourg, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Paraguay, the United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America and Uruguay, 
read as follows: 

''The General Assembly, 

"Mindful of the hope expressed by it in resolution 3333 (XXIX) of 
17 December 1974, 

I 



A/10327 
English 
Page 7 

,.'Desiring that progress be made tm•ards the attainment of the goal of 
peaceful reunification of Korea on the basis of the freely expressed will 
of the Korean people, 

"Recalling its satisfaction with the issuance of the joint communique 
at Seoul and Pyongyang on 4 July 1972 and the declared intention of both 
the South and the North of Korea to continue the dialogue between them, 

"Further recalling that by its resolution 711 (VII), adopted on 
28 August 1953, the General Assembly noted with approval the Armistice 
Agreement of 27 July 1953, and that, in its resolution 811 (IX) of 
ll December 1954, it expressly took note of the provision of the Armistice 
Agreement which requires that the Agreement shall remain in effect until 
expressly superseded either by mutually acceptable amendments and additions 
or by provision in an appropriate agreement for a peaceful settlement at a 
political level between both sides, 

"Aware, however, that tension in Korea has not been totally eliminated 
and that the Armistice Agreement remains indispensable to the maintenance 
of peace and security in the area, 

"Noting the letter of 27 June 1975 (S/11737), addressed to the 
President of the Security Council by the Government of the United States of 
America, affirming that it is prepared to terminate the United Nations 
Command on l January 1976, provided that the other parties directly concerned 
reach agreement on alternative arrangements mutually acceptable to them for 
maintaining the Armistice Agreement, 

"Noting the statenent of 27 June 1975 by the Government of the Republic 
of Korea affirming its willingness to enter into arrangements for maintaining 
the Armistice Agreement, 

"Recognizing that, in accordance with the purposes and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations regarding the maintenance of international 
peace and security, the United Nations has a continuing responsibility to 
ensure the attainment of this goal on the Korean peninsula, 

111. Reaffirms the wishes of its members, as expressed in the consensus 
statement adopted by the General Assembly on 28 November 1973, ~ and urges 
both the South and the North of Korea to continue their dialogue to expedite 
the peaceful reunification of Korea; 

"2. Expresses the hope that all the parties directly concerned will 
enter into negotiations on new arrangements designed to replace the Armistice 
Agreement, reduce tensions and ensure lasting peace in the Korean peninsula; 

~ Ibid. 

I . .. 



A/10327 
English 
Page 8 

"3. Urges all the parties directly concerned, as a first step, bearing 
in mind the need to ensure continued observation of the Armistice Agreement 
and the full maintenance of peace and security in the region, to embark on 
talks as soon as possible so that the United Nations Command may be 
dissolved concurrently with arrangements for maintaining the Armistice 
Agreement; 

"4. Expresses the further hope that these discussions will be 
completed and alternative arrangements for the maintenance of the Armistice 
Agreement will be made in order that the United Nations Command may be 
dissolved on l January 1976 so that by that date no armed force under the 
United Nations flag will remain in South Korea." 

B. Draft resolution A/C.l/L.709 and amendment thereto 

13. A draft resolution dated 24 September (A/C.l/L.709) replaced the draft 
resolution that had been transmitted as an attachment to the initial letter dated 
8 August from 35 Member States (A/10191) containing the request for the inclusion 
of the item entitled "Creation of favourable conditions for converting the 
Armistice into a durable peace in Korea and accelerating the independent and 
peaceful reunification of Korea". Draft resolution A/C .1/L. 709 was sponsored by 
Algeria, Bulgaria, Burundi, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cambodia, 
China, the Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, 
Equatorial Guinea, the German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, 
Hungary, Iraq, Laos, the Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, 
Mauritania, Mon~a, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Somalia, the Sudan, the 
Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Union 
of Soviet Socialist Re~ics, the United Republic of Tanzania, the Upper Volta, 
Yemen, Yugoslavia and Zambia, and subsequently co-sponsored by Cape Verde and 
Mozambique. It re c.d e.s follows: 

"The General Assembly, 

"Noting that the reunification of Korea has not yet been achieved 
although thirty years have elapsed since Korea was divided into the North 
and the South and twenty-two years since the establishment of the armistice 
in Korea., 

"Recalling the obligations assumed by States in accordance with the 
Charter of the United Nations on respect for the principle of equality 
and self-determination of peoples and on refraining from intervening in 
matters which are within the domestic jurisdiction of any State, 

''Considering that it conforms with the principles of the Charter to 
encourage the Korean people to achieve the independent and peaceful 
reunification of their country at the earliest possible date on the basis 
of the three principles of independence, peaceful reunification and great 
national unity and to create favourable conditions for it, 

/ ... 



A/10327 
English 
Page 9 

"Hoping that the North and the South of Korea will promote their 
dialogue to accelerate the reunification of the country in accordance with 
the spirit of the joint statement of 4 July 1972 and with the decision 
adopted by the General Assembly at its twenty-eighth session on 
28 November 1973, which welcomed the joint statement, 

"Considerinl': that a durable peace cannot be expected so long as the 
present state of armistice is kept as it is in Korea, 

"Considering that, in order to guarantee a durable peace in Korea and 
accelerate its independent and peaceful reunification, it is urgently 
necessary to take new decisive measures for terminating foreign interference 
in its internal affairs, removing tension and preventing armed conflicts 
in that region , 

"1. 
Command' 
the flag 

Considers that it is necessary to dissolve the 'United Nations 
and withdraw all the foreign troops stationed in South Korea under 
of the United Nations; 

"2. Calls upon the real parties to the Armistice Agreement to replace 
the Korean !1ilitary Armistice Agreement with a peace agreement as a measure 
to ease tension and maintain and consolidate peace in Korea in the context 
of the dissolution of the 'United Nations Command' and the withdrawal of 
all the foreign troops stationed in South Korea under the flag of the United 
Nations; 

"3. Urges the North and the South of Korea to observe the principles 
of the North-South joint statement and take practical measures for ceasing 
arms reinforcement, reducing the armed forces of both sides drastically to 
an equal level, preventing armed conflicts and guaranteeing against the 
use of force against the other side, and thereby remove the military 
confrontation and maintain a durable peace in Korea, conducive to accelerating 
the independent and peaceful reunification of the country." 

14. By a letter dated 18 September (A/C.l/1061) the representative of Algeria, on 
behalf of the sponsors of draft resolution A/C.l/L.709, requested that the draft 
resolution be given priority and put to the vote before any other draft resolution 
under the i tern entitled "Question of Korea". 

15. At the 2070th meeting, on 28 October, the representative of Saudi Arabia 
introduced an amendment (A/C.l/L.720) to draft resolution A/C.l/L.709 proposing the 
replacement of its operative paracraph 2 by a new text, which read as follows: 

"2. Appeals to the parties to the Armistice Agreement to create 
conditions which will ensure a peaceful transition for a solution on the 
basis of unification, confederation, or federation of North and South Korea 
emanating from the common will of the Korean people as a whole;" 

16. At the next meeting, the representative of Saudi Arabia orally revised his 
amendment as follovrs: the word "'unificationu was replaced by "reunification"; the 
word "oru after the word 11 confederation" was replaced by a comma; and after the word 
"federation" the words nor any other political arrangementn were added. 



A/10327 
English 
Page ll 

(a) Operative paragraph l was adopted by a recorded vote of 65 to 46, with 
27 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, 
Burma, Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, France, Gabon, Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic 
of), Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, 
Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, 
Jordan, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malawi, Maldives, Mauritius, 
Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, 
Paraguay, Philippines, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, 
Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, 
Venezuela. 

Against: Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Cambodia, Cape Verde, China, Ccngo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, EQuatorial Guinea, German 
Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, IraQ, 
Kuwait, Laos, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, 
Mauritania, Mongolia, MozambiQue, Nigeria, Poland, Romania, 
Rwanda, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana, 
Chad, Cyprus, Finland, India, Jamaica, Kenya, Lebanon, Malaysia, 
Mexico, Niger, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Qatar, Sierra 
Leone, Sri Lanka, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, Zaire. 

(b) Operative paragraph 2 was adopted by a recorded vote of 61 to 46, with 
31 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, 
Burma, Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Fiji, France, 
Gabon, Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Grenada, 
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, 
Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Luxembourg, Malawi, Maldives, Mauritius, Morocco, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Paraguay, Philippines, 
Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, 
Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

/ ... 



A/10327 
English 
Page 12 

Against: Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Cambodia, Cape Verde, China, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, German 
Democratic Republic~ Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iraq, 
Kuwait, Laos, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, 
Mauritania, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nigeria~ Poland, Romania, 
Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Togo, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper 
Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana, 
Chad, Cyprus, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, India, Jamaica, 
Lebanon, Malaysia, Mexico, Nepal, Niger, Pakistan, Papua New 
Guinea, Peru, Qatar, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka~ Trinidad 
and Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of 
Cameroon 9 Zaire. 

(c) Operative paragraph 3 was adopted by a recorded vote of 60 to 48, with 
31 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Australia, Austria 1 Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, 
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Fiji, France, Gabon, 
Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Grenada, 
Guatemala, Haiti~ Honduras, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, 
Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Lesotho, Liberia, 
Luxembourg, Malawi, Maldives, Mauritius, Morocco, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Paraguay, Philippines, 
Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, 
Thailand, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Cambodia, Cape Verde, China, Congo, Cuba, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial 
Guinea 9 German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea~ Guinea-Bissau~ 
Guyana, Hungary, Iraq, Kuwait, Laos, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mongolia, Mozambique, 
Nigeria~ Poland, Romania, Rwanda~ Sao Tome and Principe, Somalia, 
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic 
of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

I . .. 



Abstaining: 

A/10327 
English 
Page 13 

Afghanistan, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana, 
Burma, Chad, Cyprus, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Finland, India, Jamaica, 
Kenya, Lebanon, Malaysia, Mexico, Nepal, Niger, Pakistan, 
Papua New Guinea, Peru~ Qatar, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, 
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Zaire. 

(d) Operative paragraph 4 was adopted by a recorded vote of 60 to 51, with 
28 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Abstaining: 

Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, 
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Fiji, France, Gabon, 
Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, 
Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, 
Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, 
Malawi, Maldives, Mauritius, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Paraguay, Philippines, Portugal, 
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, 
Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

Albania, Algeria, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Cambodia, Cape Verde, China, Congo, Cuba, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial 
Guinea, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iraq, Kuwait, Laos, Libyan 
Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mongolia, 
Mozambique, Nigeria, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and , 
Principe, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Afghanistan, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana, 
Chad, Cyprus, Ecuador, Finland, India, Jamaica, Kenya, Lebanon, 
Malaysia, Mexico, Nepal, Niger, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, 
Peru, Qatar, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Trinidad and Tobago, 
Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Zaire. 

(e) The draft resolution as a whole was adopted by a roll-call 
51, with 29 abstentions. {See para. 26 below, draft resolution A.) 
as follows: 

vote of 59 to 
The voting was 

I . .. 



A/10327 
English 
Page 14 

In favour: 

Against: 

Abstaining: 

Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, 
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
Denmark, Dominican Repu ic, El Salvador, France, Gabon, Gambia, 
Germany (Federal Republic of), Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, 
Honduras, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, 
Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malawi, 
Maldives, Mauritius, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, 
Norway, Oman, Paraguay, Philippines, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, 
Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of 
America, Uruguay, Venezuela. 

Albania, Algeria, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cambodia, Cape Verde, China, Congo, 
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, 
EQuatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iraq, Kuwait, Laos, 
Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, 
Mongolia, Mozambique, Nigeria, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome 
and Principe, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Togo, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic 
of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yeme11, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Afghanistan, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burma, 
Chad, Cyprus, Ecuador, Fiji, Finland, India, Jamaica, Kenya, 
Lebanon, Malaysia, Mexico, Nepal, Niger, Pakistan, Papua New 
Guinea, Peru, Qatar, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Zaire. 

21. The representative of Uruguay proposed that, in view of the adoption of draft 
resolution A/C.l/L.708/Rev.l, the Committee not vote on draft resolution 
A/C.l/L.709. After some discussion, the representative of Uruguay accepted an 
appeal by the representative of the Ivory Coast and withdrew his proposal. 

22. The Committee next took up draft resolution A/C.l/L.709. After initial 
consideration of the amendment submitted by the representative of Saudi Arabia 
as orally revised (see paras. 15 and 16 above), the representative of Saudi Arabia 
offered to withdraw the amendment if the sponsors of the draft resolution would 
accept the following additions in the introductory section of their draft, which 
he had originally proposed at the twenty-eighth session (A/C.l/L.659): lf 

"The General Assembly, 

"Noting that the artificial separation of the Korean people at the 38th 
parallel was the outcome of political arrangements agreed upon by the major 
Powers to serve extraneous, strategic and ideological interests, regardless of 
the common will or widespread consent of the Korean people to such arrangements, 

3/ Ibid., Twenty-eie:hth Session. f.nnexes, agenda i tel'l 41, document A/9341, 
para.-12-.--

f ... 



A/10327 
English 
Page 15 

"Regrettin~e tho.t the separation of the Korean people at the 38th parallel 
was tantamount to arbitrary partition of the Korean peninsula into North and 
South zones, notwithstanding the fact that ethnolor,ically, culturally and 
linguistically the people of both zones constitute a single national entity," 

As an alternative, the representative of Saudi Arabia proposed to include the 
following wording in the operative portion of the draft resolution: 

"Calls upon all Powers, and especially the major Powers, to refrain from 
interfering in the internal affairs of Korea and to undertake to respect the 
sovereignty of the Korean people as a whole;" 

When these proposals orere rejected, the representative of Saudi Arabia agreed to 
suspend them, provided the texts in question were included in the report of the 
First Committee this year. There was no objection on the part of the Committee. In 
this connexion the representative of Saudi Arabia said that he hoped the major 
Powers, before the beginning of the thirty-first session, would have found a 
satisfactory solution to which the Korean people as a whole would agree. If they 
did not come to an agreement then he would have to resuscitate all those amendments 
that might be applicable to the situation as it would obtain at the thirty-first 
session. 

23. The proposed amendments of the representative of Saudi Arabia comprise the text 
contained in paragraphs 15 and 16 above (A/C.l/L.720) as orally revised for 
operative paragraph 2 of draft resolution A/C.l/1.709 and the following to be added 
to the prea~bular and operative parts: 

"The General Assembly, 

''Notinv, that the artificial separation of the Korean people at the 38th 
parallel was the outcome of political arrangements agreed upon by the major 
Powers to serve extraneous, strategic and ideological interests, regardless of 
the common will or widespread consent of the Korean people to such arrangements, 

"Regretting that the separation of the Korean people at the 38th parallel 
was tantamount to arbitrary partition of the Korean peninsula into North and 
South zones, notwithstanding the fact that ethnologically, culturally and 
linguistically the people of both zones constitute a single national entity, 

"l. Calls upon all Powers, and especially the major Powers, to refrain 
from interfering in the internal affairs of Korea and to undertake to respect 
the sovereignty of the Korean people as a whole;" 

24. The Committee then voted on draft resolution A/C.l/1.709. The draft resolution 
was adopted by a roll-call vote of 51 to 38 with 50 abstentions (see para. 26 below, 
draft resolution B). The voting was as follows: 

I . .. 



A/10327 
English 
Page 16 

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cambodia, Cape Verde, 
China, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, 
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, 
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iraq, Laos, Libyan 
Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali, !!alta, Mauritania, Mongolia, 
Mozambique, Nigeria~ Poland~ Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and 
Principe, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Against: Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Central African 
Republic, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Dominican 
Republic, El Salvador, France, Gambia, Germany (Federal Republic 
of), Grenada, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, 
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlands, New 
Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Cman, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia, Spain, 
Svaziland, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United States of America, Uruguay. 

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Bhutan, Brazil, Chad, Cyprus, Ecuador, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, 
Greece, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kenya::. Kuvrai t, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Malaysia, Maldives, 
l1auri tius, Mexico, tviorocco, Nepal, Niger, Pakistan, Papua New 
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, 
Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela, Zaire. 

25. The representative of Tunisia requested to be given an opportunity to make a 
statement on this item at a later stage. The representative of Sweden proposed 
that the item remain on the agenda of the Committee for another 10 days. The 
Chairman said he would find it difficult to accede to the proposal of the 
representative of Sweden because the Committee had already had ample time to 
debate the question and to vote on the two draft resolutions which had already been 
adopted. He noted that the Committee would send a report to the General Assembly 
1<ith those bm draft resolutions. He thought that the Swedish delegation and like-
'llinded delegations would he.ve ample opportunity to make whatever proposals they 
"lizht vish durin!! the consideration of this item in plenary meeting. The 
representative of Slleden, on the appeal of the Chairman, 1;i thdrev his proposal. 

I ... 



IV. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST C0!1HITTEE 

A/10327 
English 
Page 17 

26. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

Question of Korea 

A 

The General Assembly, 

Mindful of the hope expressed by it in resolution 3333 (XXIX) of 
17 December 1974, 

Desiring that progress be made towards the attainment of the goal of peaceful 
reunification of Korea on the basis of the freely expressed will of the Korean 
people, 

Recalling its satisfaction with the issuance of the joint communique at 
Seoul and Pyongyang on 4 July 1972 and the declared intention of both the South 
and the North of Korea to continue the dialogue between them, 

Further recalling that by its resolution 711 A (VII), adopted on 
28 August 1953, the General Assembly noted with approval the Armistice Agreement 
of 27 July 1953, and that, in its resolution 811 (IX) of 11 Dece~ber 1954, it 
expressly took note of the provision of the Armistice Agreement which requires 
that the Agreement shall remain in effect until expressly superseded either by 
mutually acceptable amendments and additions or by provision in an appropriate 
agreement for a peaceful settlement at a political level between both sides, 

Aware, however, that tension in Korea has not been totally eliminated and 
that the Armistice Agreement remains indispensable to the maintenance of peace and 
security in the area, 

Noting the letter of 27 June 1975, 4/ addressed to the President of the 
Security Council by the Government of the United States of America, affirming that 
it is prepared to terminate the United Nations Command on 1 January 1976, provided 
that the other parties directly concerned reach agreement on alternative 
arrangements mutually acceptable to them for maintaining the Armistice Agreement, 

Noting the statement of 27 June 1975 by the Government of the Republic of 
Korea affirming its willingness to enter into arrangements for maintaining the 
Armistice Agreement, 

Recognizing that, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations regarding the maintenance of international peace and security, 
the United Nations has a continuing responsibility to ensure the attainment of this 
gqal on the Korean peninsula, 

I:_/ S/11737. I . .. 



A/10327 
English 
Page 18 

1. Reaffirms the .rishes of its members, as expressed in the consensus 
statement adopted by the General Assembly on 28 November 1973, 2/ and urges both 
the South and the North of Korea to continue their dialogue to expedite the 
peaceful reunification of Korea; 

2. Exp:esses the hope that all the parties directly concerned will enter 
into negotiations on ne.r arrangements designed to replace the Armistice Agreement, 
reduce tensions and ensure lasting peace in the Korean peninsula; 

3- Urges all the parties directly concerned, as a first step, bearing in 
mind the need to ensure continued observation of the Armistice Agreement and the 
full maintenance of peace and security in the region, to embark on talks as soon 
as possible so that the United Nations Command may be dissolved concurrently with 
arrangements for maintaining the Armistice Agreement; 

4. Expresses the further hope that these discussions .rill be completed and 
alternative arrangements for the maintenance of the Armistice Agreement will be 
made in order that the United Nations Command may be dissolved on 1 January 1976 
so that by that date no armed forces under the United Nations flag .rill remain in 
the South of Korea. 

5/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-eighth Session, Supplement 
No. 30 (A/9030), p. 24, item 41. 

/ ... 



B 

The General Assembly, 

A/10327 
English 
Page 19 

Noting that the reunification of Korea has not yet been achieved although 
30 years have elapsed since Korea was divided into the North and the South and 
22 years since the establishment of the armistice in Korea, 

Recalling the obligations assumed by States in accordance with the Charter of 
the United Nations on respect for the principle of equality and self-determination 
of peoples.and on refraining from intervening in matters which are within the 
domestic jurisdiction of any State, 

Considering that it conforms with the principles of the Charter to encoure,ge 
the Korean people to achieve the independent and peaceful reunification of their 
country at the earliest possible date on the basis of the three principles of 
independence, peaceful reunification and great national unity and to create 
favourable conditions for it, 

Hoping that the North and the South of Korea will promote their dialogue to 
accelerate the reunification of the country in accordance with the spirit of the 
joint statement of 4 July 1972 and with the decision adopted by the General Assembly 
at its twenty-eighth session, on 28 November 1973, §I 1<hich 1<elcomed the joint 
statement, 

Considering that a durable peace cannot be expected so long as the present 
state of armistice is kept as it is in Korea, 

Considering that, in order to guarantee a durable peace in Korea and 
accelerate its independent and peaceful reunification, it is urgently necessary 
to take new decisive measures for terminating foreign interference in its internal 
affairs, removing tension and preventing armed conflicts in that region, 

1. Considers that it is necessary to dissolve the "United Nations Command" 
and withdrai< all the foreign troops stationed in South Korea under the flag of the 
United Nations; 

2. Calls upon the real parties to the Armistice Agreement to replace the 
Korean Military Armistice Agreement 1<ith a peace agreement as a measure to ease 
tension and maintain and consolidate peace in Korea in the context of the 
dissolution of the "United Nations Command" and the 1<ithdrawal of all the foreign 
troops stationed in South Korea under the flag of the United Nations; 

3. Urges the North and the South of Korea to observe the principles of the 
North-South joint statement and take practical measures for ceasing c.rms 
reinforcement, reducing the armed forces of both sides drastically to an equal 
level, preventing armed conflicts and guaranteeing against the use of force 
against the other side, and thereby remove the military confrontation and maintain 
a durable peace in Korea, conducive to accelerating the independent and peaceful 
reunification of the country. 

§} Ibid. 




