








































:--t-::'A\:
=7 

5D 
-

:
[/N'TFD NAtr'ONS

GENERAI.
A S S E M B LY

Distr.
GENEBA,L

A/ ro\t+z
o lecemDer ryl)
ENGLlSH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPAN]SH

Thirtieth session
Agenoa lt,em 4)

IMPLEME\TTATfON OF GENEFAI, ASSEI,,tsLY FESOLUTTON 3262 (TXIX)
CONCERNING THE SIGNATUFE AND FATIF]CATTON OF ADDTTIONAL
PROTOCOL I OF THE TREATY FOR THX PROHIBITTON OI'NUCLEAR

WEAPONS II\ I,ATIN AI/ERTCA (TNNATY OF TLATE],OLCO )

Report of the lilst Conrnittee

Rapporteur: l',1r. Horacio AiTEAGA-ACOSTA (Venezuela)

1. The item entitled "Implementation of Genelal Assembly r€solution 326? (KXfX)
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I of the Treaty
for the Prohibition of Nuclear l{eapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco):
report of the Se cretary-General'r was included by the Se cretary-General in the
provisional agenda of the thirtieth session on the basis of General Assembly
resolution 3262 (xxIX) of 9 Decernber 19?l+.

2. At its 2353rd plenaxy meeting, on 19 Septenb e'r 1975, the Ceneral Assembly, on
the recorutrendation of the Genera"l Conmittee. decided to include the iten in the
agenda'of the thirtieth session and to allocate i.t to the First Connittee for
consideration arld report.

3. At its 2O72nd rneeting, on 30 October, the First Corunittee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the itens allocated to it relating to d.isarmanent and the
lndian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely o itens 11, 3)+ to )+8, I2O, I22 and 126. The
general debate on these iterls took place at the 20?2nd to 2095th meetingsn from
30 October to 21 ltrovember.

\. The First Connittee had before it, in connexion vith agenda iten l+5, the
report of the Secretary-General pursuant to General Assembly resolution 3262 (KXfX)
(A/10265).

,. On 1l+ Noverober, the Bahamas, Barbados, Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica., Chi1e,
the Dorninican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Grena4a, Guatemala, Ig!t=e",
Jamaica, Mexico, Nicarazua, Panama, Igfgggf., Peru, Trinidad and fobago, Uruguay
and Venezuela subrnitted a draft resolution (A/C.1/L.723), vhich was introduced by
tire iE!-sentat ive of l4exico at the 2096th meeting, on 2l+ November.

75-280\6



A/1041+2
Xnglish
Page 2

6. At the 2lOOth meeting, on 28 Novenber,
draft resalution A/C.1/L.723 by 91 vote6 to
para. I De_Lov J ,

the First Connittee adopted
none, vith f? abstentions (see

BECOMI'IENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTXE

7. The First Corrunittee recormrends to the General Assemblv the adoption of the
following draft resolution :

Inplementation of Ceneral Assenbly resolution j2()2 (X'fix.)
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional
Protocol I of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear

'i{e apons in Latin Anerica (Treaty gll Tlatelolco)

The Conprn l Ac<pn}]l..----." -v,
Beca-llins its resolutions 2285 (xxIT) of 5 Decenber 1957 and 3262 (XXIX) of

9 Decerober 197! concerning the Treaty for hhe prohibition of lluclear Lleapons in
Latin America (Treaty of Tlate1olco) 1/ and its Additional Pr-otocol T,

Taking into account that eertain territories lying vithin the zone of
"pp:. 

ii atli"-6TTIEI-GEity which are not sovereign politicai entities are
nevertheless in a position to receive the benefits derived fran the Treaty
through its AdditionaL Protccol f to which the States that de .jure or de facto are
internationally responsible for those territories nay become parties,

Reca-Lling vith satisfaction that the United Kingdoni of Great Britain and
Norttr@ofthe1{etheI1andsbecamepartiestoAdditiona1
Protocol I in 1969 and 1971, respecbively,

1. Again urges France and the United States of Anerica to sign and ratify
Additional Protocol J of the TreaLy for bhe Proh jl-rition of -luclear Wearons in
Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) ar 

"oon 
as possible, in order that the

peoples of the territories in o,uestion may rece-ive bhe benefits whicl' derive fron
the TreaLy and vhich consjst mainly in rernoving Lhe danger of nuclear attack and
sparing the. squandering of resources on the production of nuclear wea]]ons;

2. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit
two States to vhich the above ar:nea1 is addressed and

fl.e nr pqarl-. raqo'rrtion to the
to inform the General Assembly

at its thirty-second session of any neasure adopted by those States;

3. Decides to include in the provisiona.l agenda of its thirty-second session
an jtem eniTElEa-a "lt plenentation of Ceneral Assernbly resolution ... (xxx)
concerning the signature and ratification of Additiona.l P"otocol f cf the Treaty for
the Prohibition of Xluclear iieapons :',n Latin Arnerica (treaty of Tl-atelolco)".

f/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vot. 63)+, No. 9068, p, 326.




