








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAl 
ASSEMBLY 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10431 
10 December 1975 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda item 34 

IMPLEMENTATION OF GENERAL ASSE~ffiLY RESOLUTION 3254 (XXIX) 

Report of the First Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Horacia ARTEAGA-ACOSTA (Venezuela) 

l. The item entitled "Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3254 (XXIX): 
report of the Secretary-General" was included by the Secretary-General in the 
provisional agenda of the thirtieth session on the basis of General Assembly 
resolution 3254 (XXIX) of 9 December 1974. 

2. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Asc ombly, 
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the it .,m in the 
agenda of the thirtieth session and to allocate it to the First Committee for 
consideration and report. 

3. At its 2072nd meeting, on 30 October, the First Committee decided b) hold a 
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament and 
the Indian Ocean as a zone of peace, namely, items 31, 34 to 48, 120, 122 and 126. 
The general debate on these items took place at the 2072nd to 2095th meetings, 
from 30 October to 21 November. 

4. The First Committee had before it, in connexion witb agenda item 34 a 
report of the Secretary-General (A/10165 and Add.l-2) and a letter dated 
26 June 1975 from the Acting Permanent Representative of the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General 
(A/10124). 

5. On 20 November, Mexico and Sweden submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/L. 726) 
which was introduced by the representative ·of Mexico at the 2098th meeting, on 
26 November. On 3 December, the two sponsors of the draft resolution submitted a 
corrigendu.'!l (A/C.l/L. 726/Corr.l) by which the words "in absolute terms" would be 
added in operative paragraph 2, after the words "military expenditure". The 
corrigendum was introduced by Sweden at the 2l04th meeting, on 3 December. At the 
2107th meeting, on 5 December, Hexico, on behalf of the sponsors, orally amended 

75-28329 I . .. 



A/10431 
English 
Page 2 

operative paragraph 7 by repl:1..cinr; the \·TOrds 11 im:plenentst ion of resolut ion1' vdth 
the words "report requested of the Secretar;.r-General in resolution11 • A statement 
on '~he P.ri.ministrn.tive anrl finP...,ncial imuJications of t}1e draft resolution was 
submitted b7 the Secreta!'y-General on 2 .December (A/C.-1/L. 745). 

6. At the 
amended, by 

same meeting, the First Committee adopted the draft resolution, as 
91 votes to 2, with 20 abstentions (see para. 7 below). 

RECON!IIENDATION OF THE FIRST COMNITTEE 

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3254 (XXIX) 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 3254 (XXIX) of 9 December 1974, 

Noting with appreciation that the 1974 report of the Group of Consultant 
Experts on the Reduction of Nilitary Budgets !f has been issued as a United Nations 
publication and given wide distribution by the Secretary-General, 

Having examined the report of the Secretary-General, 2/ containing the views 
and suggestions of States regarding the matters covered in-the report mentioned 
above, 

Considering that the report of the Group of Consultant Experts on the 
Reduction of Military Budgets, as well as the views and suggestions reflected 1n 
the report of the Secretary-General, indicates the need for further study of many 
of the complex questions identified therein, 

Reaffirming its conviction of the urgent necessity that the States permanent 
members of the Security Council, as well as any other State with comparable 
military expenditures, carry out reductions of their military budgets, 

Reaffirming also its conviction that part of the resources thus released should 
be utilized for social and economic ·development, particularly of the developing 
countries, 

Noting with concern that year after year world military expenditure continues 
to rise, 

Convinced that international security could be maintained "ith far lower 
general levels of world military expenditures than at present, 

!/ A/9770 (United Nations publication, Sales No.: E.75.I.l0). 
~/ A/10165 and Add.l-2. 

I ... 



A/10431 
English 
Page 3 

l. Appeals to all States, in particular the States permanent members of the 
Security Council, as 1<ell as any other State 1<ith comparable military expenditures, 
to strive to c'each agreed reductions of their military budgets; 

2. Uri>;es the t1<o States 1<ith the 
absolute terms, pending such agreement, 
budgets; 

highest levels of military expenditure, in 
to carry out reductions of their military 

3. Requests the Secretary-General, assisted by a group of qualified experts 
appointed by him after consultations with Member States, to prepare a report 
containing an in-depth analysis and examination in concrete terms of the various 
matters specified in paragraph 5 belo1<, including conclusions and recommendations; 

4. Calls upon all Governments to extend their full co-operation in providing 
all ouch assistance as may be required for the efficient preparation of this 
report; 

5. Decides that the report shall give emphasis particularly to the following 
"atters: 

(a) The definition and scope of the military sector and of military 
expenditures, as well as the classifications and structuring of expenditures 
within the military budgets, with the over-all aim of achieving generally 
acceptable and universally applicable delimitations and definitions and a 
standardized accounting system, so as to permit effective comparisons of the 
military budgets; 

(b) The valuation of resources in the military sector, considering different 
economic systems and different structures of production within the military sector, 
with the purpose of examining methods concerning the relationships between resources 
and military output; 

(c) The deflation for price change in military production in different 
countries, with the aim of examining methods of measuring real expenditure trends 
over time, taking into account differences between countries in the rate of price 
change; 

(d) The international value comparison and exchange rates relevant to 
military production, with the purpose of examining methods for accurate currency 
comparison of military expenditures; 

6. Requests the Secretary-General to submit the report to the General Assembly 
at its thirty-first session; 

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-first session 
an item entitled "Reduction of military budgets: report of the Secretary-General 
under resolution •... (XXX)". 




