








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda item 89 

QUESTION OF SOUTHERN RHODESIA 

Report of the Fourth Committee 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10359 
17 November 1975 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Rapporteur: Mr. Rui QUARTIN-SANTOS (Portugal) 

l. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Assembly 
decided to include in the agenda of its thirtieth session an item entitled: 

"Question of Southern Rhodesia: report of the Special Committee on the 
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples". 

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Fourth 
Committee for consideration and report. 

2. The Fourth Committee considered the question at its 2134th to 2145th, 
2148th, 2l49th and 2155th meetings, between 30 September and 27 October 1975. 

3. At the 2l34th meeting, on 30 September, the Rapporteur of the Special 
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration 
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced 
chapter IX of the report of that Committee (A/l0023/Add.2 and Corr.l), relating 
to the item. 

4. In connexion with its consideration of the item, the Fourth Committee had 
before it two letters addressed to the Secretary-General: one dated 
10 January 1975 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the Permanent Mission of the 
United Republic of Tanzania to the United Nations (A/9998-S/11598), and the other 
dated 19 February 1975 from the Permanent Representative of Liberia to the United 
Nations (A/10050-S/11638). The Committee also had before it two letters 
addressed to its Chairman: one dated 21 October 1975 from the Permanent 
Representative of Botswana to the United Nations (A/C.4/79l), and the other dated 
24 October 1975 from the Deputy Permanent Representative of the United States of 
America to the United Nations (A/C.4/793). 

75-24340 I . .. 



A/10359 
English 
Page 2 

5. During the consideration of the item, Mr. Michael A. Mawema, representative 
of the African National Council of Zimbabwe, the national liberation movement of 
the Territory, participated in an observer capacity in the proceedings of the 
Committee in accordance with the relevant provisions of General Assembly 
resolution 3280 (XXIX) of 10 December 1974. 

6. Mr. Mawema made statements at the 2139th, 2144th and 2155th meetings, on 
6, 9 and 27 October. 

7. At its 2144th meeting, on 9 October, the Fourth Committee granted a request 
for hearing relating, inter alia, to the item, submitted by Mr. Romesh Chandra, 
Secretary-General of the World Peace Council (WPC) (A/C.4/788). At the 2145th 
meeting, on 13 October, statements were made by Mr. Chandra, Mrs. Purabi Mukherji 
and Dr. Carlton B. Goodlett of WPC. 

8. The general debate on the item took place at the 2134th to 2144th meetings, 
between 30 September and 9 October. 

9. At the 2148th meeting, on 17 October, the Chairman drew the attention of 
members to two draft resolutions on the item (A/C.4/L.l092 and Corr.l and 
A/C.4/L.l093) which had been circulated. 

io. At the 2149th meeting, on 20 October, the representatives of Senegal and 
Oman introduced the two draft resolutions referred to above, which were finally 
sponsored by the following Member States: 

(a) A/C.4/L.l092 and Corr.l: 

Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Botswana, Bulgaria, Byelorussian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, 
Egypt, Ethiopia, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, 
Kuwait, Laos, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, 
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Romania, 
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yugoslavia, Zaire and Zambia. 

7 v c: 

(b) A/C.4/L.l093: 

Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Botswana, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Egypt, Ethiopia, 
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea Bissau, Guyana, 
India, Indonesia, Iraq, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Libyan Arab Republic, 
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, 
Nepal, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, United Arab 
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper 
Volta, Yugoslavia, Zaire and Zambia. 

I . .. 



A/10359 
English 
Page 3 

11. At its 2155th meeting, on 27 October, the Fourth Committee adopted without 
objection the draft resolution contained in document A/C.4/L.l092 and Corr.l 
(see para. 13 below, draft resolution I). 

12. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft resolution 
contained in document A/C.4/L.l093 by a recorded vote of 110 to none, with 
6 abstentions (see para. 13 below, draft resolution II). The voting was as 
follows: 

In favour: 

Against: 

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cailada, 
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, 
Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German 
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, 
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan 
Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, 
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, 
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

None. 

Abstaining: Belgium, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Italy, United 
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States 
of America. 

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE 

13. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

DRAFT RESOLUTION I 

Question of Southern Rhodesia 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the question of Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe), 

I . .. 



A/10359 
English 
Page 4 

Having examined the relevant chapters of the re~ort of the Special Committee 
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the 
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,!/ 

Having heard the statements of the representative of the administering 
Power, 5:_! 

Having heard the statements of the representative of the national liberation 
movement, the African National Council of Zimbabwe, who participated in an 
observer capacity in the consideration of the item by the Fourth Committee, ]} 

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the 
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and 
its resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, containing the programme of action 
for the full implementation of the Declaration, as well as all other resolutions 
relating to the question adopted by the General Assembly, the Security Council and 
the Special Committee, 

Bearing in mind that the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, as the administering Power, has the primary responsibility 
for putting an end to the critical situation in Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) 
which, as repeatedly affirmed by the Security Council, constitutes a threat to 
international peace and security, 

Reaffirming that any attempt to negotiate the future of Zimbabwe with the 
illegal regime on the basis of independence before majority rule would be in 
contravention of the inalienable rights of the people of the Territory and contrary 
to the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and of resolution 1514 (XV), 

Gandemning the continued oppression of the people of Zimbabwe by the illegal 
racist minority regime, the arbitrary imprisonment and detention of political 
leaders and others, the illegal execution of freedom fighters and the continued 
denial of fundamental human rights, including in particular the criminal measures 
of collective punishment, as well as the measures designed to create an apartheid 
State in Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe), 

Noting the efforts made to promote the unity and solidarity of the liberation 
forces, culminating in the formation of the African National Council of Zimbabwe, 
and the firm determination of that national liberation movement to achieve freedom 
and independence on the basis of majority rule, and convinced that the unity of 
Zimbabwe under the leadership of its national liberation movement is fundamental 
to the rapid achievement of the objectives of the Declaration, 

!/ A/10023 (Parts I-IV) and A/10023/Add.2. 

5:./ A/C.4/SR.2134, 2144 and 2155. 

i/ A/C.4/SR.2139 and 2144. 

I . .. 



A/10359 
English 
Page 5 

:I. ,, .. ,,+'c''-?]llS the inalienable right of the people of Zimbabwe to self-
determimt-.._i·)n, freedom and independence and the legitimacy of their struggle to 
secure by e,ll the means at their disposal the enjoyment of that right as set forth 
in the Charter of the United Nations and in conformity with the objectives of 
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV); 

2. Reaffirms the principle that there should be no independence before 
majority rule in Zimbabwe and that any settlement relating to the future of the 
Territory mus·~ be worked out with the full participation of the national 
liberation movement of the Territory, the African National Council of Zimbabwe, 
the sole and authentic representative of the true aspirations of the people of 
Zimbabwe; 

3. Endorses the relevant prov1S1ons of the Dar es Salaam Declaration on 
Southern Africa adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African 
Unity at its ninth extraordinary session, held in April 1975; 

4. C~al·' ~ up"n the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
NortlJern Irele.nd, il' tr_e discharge of its primary responsibility as the 
administering Povrer} .::.o -cake all eft'ecti ve measures to enable Zimbabwe to accede 
to independence in accordance with the aspirations of the majority of the 
population and not under any circums·tances tcJ accord to the illegal regime any of 
the powers or attributes of sovereignty; 

5. Firmly supports the people of Zimbabwe under the leadership of their 
national liberation movement, the African National Council of Zimbabwe, in all 
their efforts to achieve majority rule; 

6. Demands: 

(a) The termination forthwith of the executions of freedom fighters being 
carried out by the illegal Smith regime; 

(b) The unconditional and immediate release of all political prisoners, 
detainees and restrictees, the removal of all restrictions on political activity 
and the establishment of full democratic freedom and equality of political rights, 
as well as the restoration to the population of fundamental human rights; 

(c) The discontinuance forthwith of all repressive measures, in particular, 
the arbitrary closure of African areas, the eviction, transfer and resettlement of 
Africans and the creation of so-called protected villages; 

(d) The cessation of the influx of foreign immigrants into the Territory and 
the immediate withdrawal of all mercenaries therefrom; 

T. Appeals to all States to take all necessary and effective measures to 
prevent advertisement for, and recruitment of, mercenaries for Southern Rhodesia; 

/ ... 



A/10359 
English 
Page 6 

8. Requests all States, directly and through their action in the specialized 
agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system of which they are 
members, as well as the non-governmental organizations concerned and the various 
programmes within the United Nations, to extend to the people of Zimbabwe, through 
their national liberation movement all the moral, material, political and 
humanitarian assistance necessary in their struggle for the restoration of their 
inalienable rights; 

9. Invites all Governments, the specialized agencies and other organizations 
within the United Nations system, the United Nations bodies concerned and 
non-governmental organizations having ~ special interest in the field of 
decolonization, as well as the Secrethry-General, to take steps, as appropriate, 
to give widespread and continuous P'Jblicity through all the media a.t their disposal 
to information on the situation in Zimbabwe and on the relevant decisions and 
actions of the United Nations, with particular reference to the application of 
sanctions against the illegal regime; 

10. Requests the Special :;ommittee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples to keep the situation in the Territory under review and to 
report thereon to the General Assembly at its thirty-first session. 

DRAFT RESOLUTION II 

Question of Southern Rhodesia 

The General Assembly, 

Having adopted resolution 
of Southern Rhodesia, 

(XXX) of on the question 

Strongly deploring the increasing collaboration which certain States, 
particularly South Africa, in violation of Article 25 of the Charter of the United 
Nations and of the relevant decisions of the United Nations, maintain with the 
illegal racist minority regime, thereby seriously impeding the effective application 
of the sanctions and other measures taken so far against the illegal regime, 

Seriously concerned at the continued importation of chrome and nickel into 
the United States of America from Southern Rhodesia, in violation of the relevant 
decisions of the Security Council and in disregard of the related resolutions of 
the General Assembly, 

Deeply disturbed at recent reports of widespread violations of United Nations 
sanctions, including the operation of Southern Rhodesian aircraft for international 
passenger and cargo traffic and the participation of "Southern Rhodesian" teams in 
various sporting events, as well as the continued functioning of information and 
airlines offices of the illegal regime outside Southern Rhodesia and the resultant 
influx of foreign tourists into the Territory, 

I ... 



A/10359 
English 
Page 7 

Considering that developments in the area call in particular for positive, 
concerted international action with a view to imposing maximum isolation on the 
illegal regime, 

Reaffirming its conviction that the sanctions will not put an end to the 
illegal racist minority regime unless they are comprehensive, mandatory and 
effectively supervised, enforced and complied with by all States, and in particular 
by South Africa, 

1. Strongly condemns the policies of the Governments, particularly the 
Government of South Africa, which, in violation of the relevant resolutions of 
the United Nations and in open contravention of their specific obligations under 
Article 25 of the Charter of the United Nations, continue to collaborate with the 
illegal racist minority regime, and calls upon those Governments to cease forthwith 
all such collaboration; 

2. Condemns all violations of the mandatory sanctions imposed by the 
Security Council, as well as the continued failure of certain Member States to 
enforce those sanctions strictly, as being contrary to the obligations assumed 
by them under Article 25 of the Charter; 

3. Condemns the continued importation of chrome and nickel from Southern 
Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) into the United States of America, and calls upon the 
Government of the United States to repeal speedily all legislation permitting such 
importation; 

4. Calls upon all Governments which so far have not done so: 

(a) To take stringent enforcement measures to ensure strict compliance by 
all individuals, associations and bodies corporate under their jurisdiction with 
the sanctions imposed by the Security Council and to prohibit any form of 
collaboration by them with the illegal regime; 

(b) To take effective steps to prevent or discourage the emigration to 
Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) of any individuals or groups of individuals under 
their jurisdiction; 

(c) To discontinue any action which might confer a semblance of legitimacy 
on the illegal regime, inter alia, by forbidding the operation and activities of 
Air Rhodesia, the Rhodesia National Tourist Board and the Rhodesian Information 
Office, or any other activities which contravene the aims and purposes of the 
sanctions; 

(d) To invalidate passports and other documents for travel to the Territory; 

5. Reiterates its conviction that the scope of the sanctions against the 
illegal regime must be widened to include all the measures envisaged under 
Article 41 of the Charter, and requests the Security Council to consider taking 
the necessary measures in that regard as a matter of urgency; 

I . .. 



A/10359 
English 
Page 8 

6. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the 
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial 
Countries and Peoples to follow the implementation of the present resolution, and 
inYites the Security Council Committee established in pursuance of 
r2solution 253 (1968) concerning the question of Southern Rhodesia to continue 
to co-operate in the related 'wrk of the Special Committee. 




