








































UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 

Thirtieth session 
Agenda item 53 

POLICIES OF APARTHEID OF THE GOVERNMENT OF 
SOUTH AFRICA 

Report of the Special Political Committee 

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/10342 
24 November 1975 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Rapporteur: Mr. Guenther MAUERSBERGER (German Democratic Republic) 

CONTENTS 

Paragraphs Page 

I, INTRODUCTION . , . , . l - 8 2 
II. DRAFT RESOLUTIONS • 9 - 26 

4 

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL COMMITTEE 27 10 

75-25346 I . .. 



A/10342 
English 
Page 2 

1. The item entitled: 

I. INTRODUCTION 

"Policies of apartheid of the Government of South Africa: 

"(a) Report of the Special Committee against Apartheid; 

"(b) Report of the Secretary-General" 

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirtieth session of the General 
Assembly in accordance with resoluti0n 1978 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963. 

2. At its 2353rd plenary meeting, on 19 September 1975, the General Assembly, 
on the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in 
the agenda and to allocate it to the Special Political Committee for consideration 
and report. 

3. The Special Political Committee considered the item at its 95lst to 973rd 
meetings, held between 8 October and 6 November. 

4. The Committee had before it the following documents: 

{a) Report of the Special Committee against Apartheid !f; 

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Trust Fund for 
South Africa (A/10281); 

(c) Letter dated 29 May 1974 from the Chairman of the Special Committee 
against Apartheid to the Secretary-·General transmitting the declaration 
and recommendations of the Seminar on South Africa, held at UNESCO 
head~uarters in Paris from 28 April to 2 May 1975 (A/10103). 

5. In addition, the Special Political Committee had before it a letter dated 
17 September from the Acting Chairman of the Special Committee against Apartheid 
to the Chairman of the Special Political Committee (A/SPC/174), annexed to which 
was a statement on political prisoners in South Africa adopted by the Special 
Committee against Apartheid on 12 September. In his letter, the Acting Chairman 
of the Special Committee against Apartheid conveyed the Special Committee's 
re~uest that the Special Political Committee "devote one or two meetings •.• , on 
10 October, to the Day of Solidarity with South African Political Prisoners", and 
"that the South African liberation movements recognized by the Organization of 
African Unity be invited to participate in the observance of the Day of Solidarity, 
as well as in the debates on 'the policies of apartheid of the Government of South 
Africa' in the Special Committee". 

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, 
Supplement No. 22 (A/10022) circulated to the members of the Security Council 
under the symbol S/11839. 

I ... 



A/10342 
English 
Page 3 

6. At its 950th meeting, on 1 October, the Special Political Committee agreed 
without objection to accede to the requests of the Special Co~mittee against 
Apartheid contained in document A/SPC/174, namely, to devote two meetings on 
10 October to the observance of a Day of Solidarity with South African Political 
Prisoners and to invite the liberation movements recognized by the Organization 
of African Unity /the African National Congress of Sonth Africa (ANC) and the 
Pan-Africanist Congress of Azania (PAC)/ to participate in that observance as well 
as in the debates on item 53. At its 95lst meeting, on 8 October, the Corrmittee 
also agreed without objection to hear statements in the course of the observance 
of the Day of Solidarity with South African Political Prisoners by the Secretary-
General of the World Peace Council, the Deputy Secreta~;-General of the Afro-Asian 
Peoples Solidarity Organization and the representative of the Lawyers' Committee for 
Civil Rights under the Law. 

7. At its 95lst meeting, on 8 October, the Committee heard a statement by the 
Assistant Secretary-General for Political Affairs of the Organization of African 
Unity. 

8. Pursuant to the decisions taken at its 950th meeting the Special Political 
Committee devoted its 953rd to 955th meetings, on 10 and 13 October, to the 
observance of the Day of Solidarity with South African Political Prisoners. In 
the course of those meetings, the Committee heard more than 50 statements by 
representatives of Member States and by Mr. Alfred Nzo, on behalf of the African 
National Congress, by Mr. David Sibeko, on behalf of the Pan-Africanist Congress 
of Azania, by Mr. Romesh Chandra, on behalf of the World Peace Council, and by 
Mr. T. Michael Peay, on behalf of the Lawyers' Connnittee for Civil Rights under the 
Law. 

I . .. 



A/10342 
English 
Page 4 

II. DRAFT RESOLUTIONS 

9. The follm,ing draft resolutions were considered by the Committee: 

(a) Draft resolution on the United Nations Trust Fund for South Africa 
(A/SPC/L. 324); 

(b) Draft resolution on solidarity with the South African political 
prisoners (A/SPC/1.325); 

(c) Draft resolution concerning the special responsibility of the United 
Hations and the international community towards the oppressed people 
of South Africa (A/SPC/1.326); 

(d) Draft resolution concernin::; Bantustans (A/SPC/1.327): 

(e) ilraft resole1tion concerning apartheid in sports (A/SPC/1.328): 

(f) Draft resolution concerning the situation ln South Africa (A/SPC/1. 331); 

(g) Draft resolution on the programme of work of the Special Committee 
:;gainst Apartheid ( A/SPC /L. 332) . 

A. Draft ...J:esolution A/SPC/L. 324 

10. At the 956th meeting, on 15 October, the representative of Sweden introduced 
a draft re:oolntion (A/SPC/1.324), entitled "United Nations Trust Fund for South 
African~ sponsored by Australia, Austria., Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, Finland~ 
Germany (Federal Republic. ofr;-_c;h;;,n",;:-:Gliinea, Guyana, Iceland, India,_, Indonesia, 
l_ran~ Jamaica') Kuwait~ ~1orocco, l'figeria, Norway~ Oman~ Pakistan, the Philippines~ 
Qatar,· sie_rr.e 1-eOne;-·-theslldan, Sweden, the Syriaii:J\r"ab--Re:;;;.;bi:Cc, Togo, Tunisia, 
Turkey, the United Repub.Lic of Tanzania ana Zambia. Bangladesh, Cyprus, Greece, 
Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Hauri tius, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Somalia, 
Uganda, the United Arab Emirates and _'{enezuela subsequently became co~sponsors. 

ll. At the 960th meetin~, on 20 October, upon the proposal of Sweden, the Committee 
decided, in the absence of objection, to take a decision, by consensus and without 
a vote, on the draft resolution (A/SPC/L.324). The draft resolution was then 
adopted without objection (see para. 27 below, draft resolution A). 

B. Draft resolution A/SPC/1.325 

12. At the 958th meeting, on 16 October, the representative of Dem!lark introduced 
a draft resolution (A/SPC/1.325), entitled "Solidarity with the South African 
political prisoners 1;, sponsored by Algeria, Australia, Austriaj Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Barbados, Cypr'~s, Denmark, Egypt, Finland: the German Democratic Republic, Ghana, 
Guinea} Guinea-Bissau~ Guyana~ Haiti~ HungarJC.~ Iceland, India~ Indonesia, Jamaica 1 

I . .. 



A/10342 
English 
Page 5 

Jordan, Kenya, Kmrait, Laos, Lebanon, Liberia, the Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Halays.ia, !i_ali, Hauri ta_pia: _Hexic_~-;-l•1onr;olia, Nozrunbique, Nepal, New Zealand, 
Nigeria j Norway., Pakistan) Papua Ne1v Guinea") Peru, the Philippines:~ Romania, Senegal, 
Sierra LeOne, Singapore~ Sollialia" the ·sua_-;-;, S\-.reden, the Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Trinidad and To~ago, Turkey, the Ukrar;;Ian Sovi"et Socialist Republic, 
the United Republi~ of Cameroon, the United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia and Zambia. Bhutan_, Botswana~ the _Q_C2_n,o:o, _Cuba, Democratic Yem~n, ~c~ador) 
Hondoras, lraq., Lesotho~ Horocco~ Oman, Qatar, Tunisia, yganda, the United Arab 
Emirates, the ypper Volta and ~aire- subsequently became co-sponsors. 

13. At the 960th meeting, on 20 October, upon a proposal by the representative of 
Sweden, the Committee decided, in the absence of objection, to take a decision, by 
consensus and >rithout a vote, on the draft resolution (A/SPC/L. 325). The draft 
resolution was adopted >rithout objection (see para. 2'7 belo>r, draft resolution B). 

C. Draft resolution A/SPC/1.326 

14. At the 962nd meeting, on 22 October, the representative of YUflOSlavia 
submitted a draft resolution (A/SPC/L.326), entitled "Special responsibility of the 
United Nations and the international community towards the oppressed people of 

. South Africa
11

, sponsored by ~~ge~ia;., Bahrain, Bangladesh~ fuba, Cyprus, Dahomey~ 
Ecuador::~ Egypt, the German Democratic Republic, _Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, .~ndia, 
Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, the Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, 
}.'lauri tania::~- Nepal" Nigeria~ Pakistan 1 the PhilippineS_, Qatar, Rwanda:~ Sierra Leone, 
Singapore, Somalia, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, !'ogo, Uganda, 
the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the United Arab Emirates, the United 
Republic of Tanzania, the Upper Volta, Yemen and Yugoslavia. Afghanistan, 
the Congo~ Czech9_?iovakia~ Democratic Yemen-; Ethiopi~, Guyana,. Iraq~ Kuwait, Laos, 
Liberia, Mali, Horace.£.,__ the Niger, !l()mania, Se_""gal and Zambia subsequently became 
co-sponsorso 

15. At the 964th meeting, on 24 October, the draft resolution was adopted by a 
roll-call vote of 90 to none, with 9 abstentions (see para. 2'7 below, draft 
resolution C). The voting was as follo>rs: }/ 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria:; Australia, Austria, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil~ Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, 
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Egypt, 
Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, 
Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary~ Iceland~ India, 
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Jordan, Kenya:~ Kuwait, Laos, 
Lebanon 9 Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Malaysia, Mali~ Hauritania, Mexico:~ Mongolia, Morocco~ New 
Zealand::~ Nigeria, Norway, Oman~ Pakistan~ Papua New Guinea, 
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, R>randa, Saudi Arabia, 

y Subsequently the representatives of Arflentina, Cyprus, Nepal, Peru, Q.atar 
and Turkey stated that, had they been present, they >,rould have voted in favour of 
the draft resolution. 

/ ... 



A/10342 
English 
Page 6 

Senegal 9 Singapore 9 Somalia, Spain~ Sri Lanka~ Sudan, Swaziland, 
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, IJ.1ogo, Tunisia, Uganda~ 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic~ Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Upper Volta, Venezuela~ Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: Belgi~~, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Italy, Japan, 
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Dnited Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

D. Draft resolution A/SPC/L.327 

16. At the 965th meetine;, on 27 October, the representative of Nie;eria introduced 
a draft resolution (A/SPC/L.327), entitled "Bant;:,stans", sponsored by Algeria, 
Argentina, Bahraitl, Bangladesh, Botswana, Cuba, Cyprus, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, 
&u~:-?_gy-pt, the G~!n18.n _D€;;-ocratic RepubliC, Ghana, _9uinea, GuY9na, J:Iaiti 5 
_Hungary 9 India, Indonesia, ]:ran, Jordan~ Kenya, the Libyan Arab Republic~ Hadagascar, 
Malaysia, Hali ~ Ivlauri tania, Nexico~ Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria~ Pak.istan 1 
Peru~---the Philipf:dnes~ _Rwanda? Sierra Leone~ Singapore~~~lia, Sudan~ the §_y_Ij.an 
Arab Republic, Thailand, To~o, Uganda, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
the United jl_r_ab Emirates , the United Republic ·of Tanzania, the !Jpper Volta, 
.Yene~l.?-el~~ _X~men.:_ and _Yugosla~iao The Congo_, ~thiopia, Honduras, Irag_~ Jamaica, 
Kuwait, Laos~ Liberia, Hauritius~ Morocco, Oman) Qatar, Romania, Senegal, Trinidad 
andTZbar;;o:--th; Unit,;d_R_ep_u_l1lic -or" Cameroon and Zambi~ subsequently became 
co-~sponsors. 

17. At the 968th meeting, on 29 October, the representative of Belgium introduced 
amendments (A/SPC/L. 329), sponsored by Belgium, Luxembourg and the ~ietherlands, to 
the draft resolution (A/SPC/L.327), according to which: 

(a) The third preambular paragraph would be replaced by the following text: 

11Reaffirminr:_ the legitimacy of the struggle in South Africa, irrespective 
of race, colour and creed, for the total eradica·tion of ~partheid and any form 
of racial discrimination\': 

(b) The following operative parae;raph 4 >muld be added: 

"Calls__ on the Government of the Republic of South Africa to cease all 
efforts to establish Bantustans and to conform to the principles expressed in 
the United Nations Charter." 

18. At the 969th meeting, on 30 October, the Committee proceeded to vote on the 
amendments (A/SPC/1.329), which were rejected by 69 votes to 25, with ll abstentions. 

I ... 



A/10342 
English 
Page 7 

19. The CoLnnittee then adopted the draft resolution (A/SPC/1.327) by a recorded 
vote of 100 to none, with 8 abstentions (see para. 27 below, draft resolution D). 
The voting was as follm<s: ?) 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African 
Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Egypt, 
Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, 
Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, 
Indonesia, Iran 3 Iraq 7 Ireland, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Kenya~ 
Kmrait, Laos, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, 
Malaysia~ Hali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, 
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia~ Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
S1..raziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand~ rrogo, Trinidad 
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Enirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yenen, Yueoslavia~ Zaire~ 
Zambia. 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: Belgium, France, Gernany (Federal Republic of), It&ly, Luxembourg, 
Netherlands, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United States of America. 

E. Draft resolution A/SPC/L.328 

20. At the 968th meeting, on 29 October, the representative of India introduced 
a draft resolution (A/SPC/1.328), entitled "Apartheid in sports", sponsored by 
Algeria, Aus~ralj.~_:o Bahrain, Bangladef?.h_, Bhutan, Brazil, Canada, Czechoslovak_ia, 
Dahomey, Ecuador, Egypt~ the German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, 
Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia_, gaq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, ~,aos, the Libyan 
Arab Repl(blic, Malaysia, !1ali_, Mexico, Morocco, ''lozambique, Nepal, the Niger, 
Nigeria, Oman~ Pakistan, the Philippines, E9~ania., Rwanda, Senegal, ~ierra Leon~, 
Sin~apore, SomaJ}a, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic_, Thailand, Trinidad and 
Tobago, Tunisia, the Ukr"-J-ni_an Soviet Socialist Republic, the United Arab Emirates, 
the United Republic of Tanzania, the Upper Volta, Yugoslavia, Zaire and Zam~ia. 
Chad, the Congo, Cuba, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, Honduras, Ireland, 
:Jamaica 5 Liber:Ca, MaUri tania-:-Mauri ti us~ Qatar 5 Togo, Turkey, Uganda, the United 
Republic O:f" Cameroon and Yemen" subseque~tly beca;;;;-;;-o-sponsors-.---

?} At the same meeting, the representatives of the Bahamas and Liberia stated 
that, had they been present, they would have voted in favour of the draft 
resolution. 

I . .. 



A/l03l~2 
English 
Page 8 

21. At the 969th meeting, on 30 October, upon a proposal by the representative of 
India, the Committee decided, in the absence of objection, to adopt the draft 
resolution (A/SPC/L. 328) by acclamation. The draft resolution was adopted without 
objection (see para. 27 belm.;, draft resolution E). 

F. Draft resolution A/SPC/L.~3l 

22. At the 9TOth meetine, on 31 Octoher, the representative of the Libyan Arab 
Republic introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/L.33l), entitled "Situation in South 
Africa", sponsored by Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Burundi, Chad, 
the Congo, publl._, .Cyp_rus, Dahomey, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea., 
Gabon, the German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea 9 Guinea-Bissau~ Guyana, 
Hungary, ]ndia_, ";l:nci~;,ee;ia, Kenya, Kuwait, the Libyan Arab Republic, llad--;;_g;;:;;car, 
Malaysi2,~ Ma~~, Mauritania~ .~4ongolia~rocco~ the Niger 9 Nigeria, Q!Q_an, Pakistan, 
Qatar, Rwa!lc!il._, Senegal, §9!'lalia, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, 
Uganda, the United Arab ~irates, the United Republic of Cameroon, the United 
Republic of Tanz_ania, the Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia and Zambia. Czechoslovakia, 
Jamaica a.nd the ~:::~c_a_ip~_a_!!.._f-:'_9viet __ Soci~l.li_~ _ f{enub!-ic __ subsequently became co-sponsors 
of the draft resolution. 

23. At the 972nd meeting, on I, November, the draft resolution <<as adopted by a 
roll-call vote of 83 to 15, with 13 abstentions (see para. 27 below, draft 
resolution F). The voting was as follows: ~ 

In favour: 

~gainst: 

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria') Bahrain, Bhutan., Botswana, Brazil, 
Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, 
China~ Congo, Cuba) Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dahomey, Democratic 
Yemen~ Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, 
German Democratic Republic, Ghana) Grenada, Guinea, Guyana~ 
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, 
Kenya, Kuwait, Laos, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Republic, 1-'adagascar, 
Malaysia, Hali) Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, 
Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan., Peru, 
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, 
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, 
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia~ Zaire, Zambia. 

Austria, Belgium., Canada, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, 
Netherlands, Norway, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Nsrthern 
Ireland, United States of America. 

3/ At the same meeting, the representatives of Bangladesh and the Syrian Arab 
RepubJic stated that, had they been present, they would have voted in favour of the 
draft ;--eso1ution. 

I . .. 



Ai103l~? 
English 
Page 9 

Abstainin&: Australia, Barbados, Colombia, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Iran, 
Lesotho, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain, Svaziland, 8<-reden. 

G. Draft resolution A/SPC/L.332 

24. At the 972nd meeting, on 4 November, the representative of the United Republic 
of Tanzania introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/L.332), entitled "Pro,ramme of 
work of the Special Committee" sponsored by Bahrain, Bangladesh, the Congo, Dab<?_mey, 
Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Jo]C_<ian, Kenya, Liberia, the Libyan Arab Republic, 
Madagascar, Mexico, the Niger, Rwanda, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates_, the United 
Republic of Cameroon and the ynited Republic of Tanzania. Cuba, EgyPt, India, Iraq, 
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius~ Horace~') .~an_, Q.atar, Senega~.' the §udan ') Tunil?ia~:~ 
the Upper Volta and Zambia subsequently became co-sponsors. 

25. On 4 November, the Secretary-General, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules 
of procedure, submitted to the Committee a statement (A/SPC/L.333) on the 
administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution. 

26. At the 973rd meeting, on 6 November, the draft resolution was adopted by a 
roll-call vote of 98 to none, with 8 abstentions (see para. 27 below, draft 
resolution G). The voting was as foll8ws: ~ 

In favour: 

Against: 

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, BangladeshJ Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Chad, China, 
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Dahomey, Denocratic 
Yemen, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic 
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, 
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, 
Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, 
Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malayasia, Mali, Hauritania, 
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, New Zealand, Nigeria~ Norway~ 
Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qntar, 
Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal~ Sierra Leone, Singapore, 
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden~ Thailand, 
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Rermblics, 
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic 
of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zamiba. 

None. 

Abstaining: Barbados, France, Germany (Federal Republic of), Israel, 
Luxembourg, Netherlands, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

~/ At the same meeting, the representatives of Czechoslovakia and Haiti stated 
that, had they been present, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution. 

/ ... 



A/10342 
English 
Page 10 

III. RECO!II~1ENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL 
POLITICAL COH!IIITTEE 

21. The Special Political Committee recommends to the General Assembly the 
adoption of the following draft resolutions: 

Policies of apartheid of the Government of South Africa 

United Nations Trust Fund for South Africa 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the United 
Nations Trust Fund for South Africa, 5/ to which is annexed the report of the 
Committee of Trustees of the Trust Fu;d, 

Recalling its resolutions on the Trust Fund·, 

Gravely concerned over the numerous arrests and trials in the past year 
of persons under the repressive and discriminatory legislation enforced by 
the Government of South Africa and by the illegal administrations in Namibia 
and Southern Rhodesia, 

Reaffirming that humanitarian assistance by the international community 
to persons persecuted under repressive and discriminatory legislation in 
these Territories is appropriate and essential, 

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments, organizations and 
individuals that have contributed to the United Nations Trust Fund for South 
Africa; 

2. Appeals to all States, organizations and individuals to make more 
generous annual contributions to the Trust Fund in order to enable it to meet 
the growing needs; 

3. Again appeals for generous direct contributions to the voluntary 
agencies engaged in assistance to the victims of apartheid and racial 
discrimination in South Africa, Namibia and Southern Rhodesia; 

4. Requests the Secretary-General, through the Unit on Apartheid and 
the Office of Public Information of the Secretariat, to arrange for widespread 
publicity <"f th~ need for humanitarian assistance for the vidims of the 
repression in South Africa, Namibia and Southern Rhodesia. 

'if A/10281. 

I . .. 



B 

Solidarity with the South African political prisoners 

The General Assembly, 

A/10342 
English 
Page ll 

Deeply concerned over the ruthless repression against the opponents of 
apartheid and racism in South Africa, including the recent persecution of 
numerous student, cultural and other leaders, 

Reaffirmin~ its resolutions calling for an end to repression and 
unconditional amnesty for all persons imprisoned or restricted for their 
opposition to apartheid or acts arising from such opposition, 

Taking note Of the refusal of the racist South African regime to heed 
these resolutions, 

Reaffirming the legitimacy of the struggle Of the South African people 
for the total eradication of apartheid and exercise of the right of self-
determination by all the inhabitants of South Africa, 

Reaffirming its conviction that the release of the leaders of the 
oppressed people of South Africa and other opponents of apartheid from 
imprisonment and other restrictions is an essential factor for the eradication 
of apartheid, 

Recognizing the contribution of the liberation movements and other 
opponents of apartheid in South Africa to the purposes of the United Nations, 

1. Condemns the ruthless repression by the racist South African regime 
against the leaders of the oppressed people of South Africa ana other 
opponents of apartheid; 

2. Strongly condemns the Terrorism Act and other repressive legislation 
designed to suppress the legitimate struggle of the South African people for 
freedom and self-determination; 

3. Expresses its solidarity with all South Africans struggling against 
apartheid and for the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations; 

4. Again calls upon the racist regime of South Africa to grant an 
unconditional amnesty to all persons imprisoned or restricted for their 
opposition to apartheid or acts arising from such opposition~ as well as to 
political refugees from South Africa, and to repeal all repressive laws and 
regulations restricting the right of the people to strive for an end to the 
apartheid system; 

5. Requests the Special Committee against Apartheid and the Unit on 
Apartheid of the Secretariat to redouble their efforts to publicize the cause 
of all those persecuted for their opposition to apartheid in South Africa. 

I . .. 



A/10342 
English 
Page 12 

G 

Special responsibility of the United Nations and the international 
community towards the oppressed people of South Africa 

The General Assembly·, 

Recalling its numerous resolutions condemning the policies of apartheid 
of the racist regime of South Africa, 

Aware of its responsibility of upholding the principles enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 

Commending the courageous struggle of the oppressed people of South Africa 
under the leadership of their liberation movements supported by the United 
Nations and the international community, 

Taking note of the heavy sacrifices made by the people of South Africa in 
their legitimate struggle for self-determination, 

Meeting on the occasion of the thirtieth anniversary of the United 
Nations, 

l. Proclaims that the United Nations and the international community 
have a special responsibility towards the oppressed people of South Africa and 
their liberation movements, and towards those imprisoned, restricted or exiled 
for their struggle against apartheid; 

2. Reiterates its determination to devote increasing attention and all 
necessary resources to concert international efforts, in close co-operation 
with the Organization of African Unity, for the speedy eradication of apartheid 
in South Africa and the liberation of the South African people. 

D 

Bantustans 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolution 2775 E (XXVI) of 29 November 1971 and subsequent 
resolutions by which it condemned the establishment of bantustans by the 
racist regime of South Africa, 

Taking note of the manoeuvres of the racist regime of South Africa to 
proceed with the establishment of bantustans in the Transkei and other regions, 

Reaffirming the legitimacy of the struggle of the South African people, 
under the leadership of their national liberation movements, by all means 
possible, for the total eradication of apartheid and for the exercise of their 
right to self-determination, 

I ... 



A/10342 
English 
Page 13 

1. Again condemns the establishment of bantustans as designed to 
consolidate the inhuman policies of apartheid, to perpetuate white minority 
domination and to dispossess the African people of South Africa of their 
inalienable rights in their country; 

2. Reaffirms that the establishment of bantustans is a measure 
essentially designed to destroy the territorial integrity of the country in 
violation of the Principles enshrined in tho Charter of the United Nations; 

3. Calls upon all Governments and organizations not to deal with any 
institutions or authorities of the bant;; ·3 ::,arJ.~! or to accord any form of 
recognition to them. 

~partheid in Sports 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling and reaffirming its resolution 2775 D (XXVI) of 29 November 1971 
on apartheid in sports, 

Noting that the campaign for the boycott of South African sports teams, 
selected on the basis of apartheid and in violation of the Olympic principle of 
non--discriminiation, has been an important measure which has effectively 
demonstrated the abhorrence of apartheid on the part of Governments and 
peoples, 

Rejecting the attempts of the racist regime to gain acceptance for 
participation in international sports by superficial and insignificcnt 
modifications of apartheid, 

Noting with regret that some national and international sports bodies have 
continued contacts with racist South African sports bodies in violation of the 
Olympic principle and the resolutions of the United Nations, 

Condemning the racist regime of South Africa for its repressive measures 
against non-racial sports bodies in South Africa, 

1. Reaffirms its unq_ualified support of the Olympic principle that no 
discrimination be allowed on the grounds of race, religion or political 
affiliation; 

2. Commends all Governments, sports bodies and other organizations which 
have taken action, in pursuance of the Olympic principle and the relevant 
resolutions of the United Nations, for the boycott of racially selected South 
African sports bodies or teams; 

3. Calls upon all Governments, sports bodies and other organizations: 

I .. . 



1\/10342 
English 
Page 14 

(a) To refrain from all contacts with sports bodies established on the 
basis of apartheid or racially selected sports teams from South Africa; 

(b) To exert all their influence to secure the full implementation of 
the Olympic principle, especially by the national and international sports 
bodies which have continued co-operation with South African sports bodies 
established on the basis of apartheid; 

4. Commends all sports bodies and sportsmen in South Africa which have 
been struggling against racism in sports; 

5. Requests the Secretary-General to arrange for the production and 
widest distribution of information material on apartheid in sports in South 
Africa, and the international campaign against contacts in sports with South 
Africa. 

F 

Situation in South Africa 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the report of the Special Committee against 
Apartheid, §! 

Taking note of the conclusions and recommendations of the Seminar on South 
Africa organized by the Special Committee in Paris from 28 April to 2 May 1975, 

Recalling its resolutions on the nolicies of apartheid of the racist 
regime of South Africa, as well as the" relevant resolutions of the Security 
Council, 

Recalling also its decision concerning the representation of South Africa 
in the General Assembly, 

Deeply concerned over the grave situation in South Africa, which 
constitutes an affront to human dignity and a threat to international peace 
and security, 

Reaffirming that the policy and practice of apartheid constitute a crime 
against humanity, 

Reaffirming that the continued collaboration of some States and of 
economic and other interests with the racist regime of South Africa impedes 
the efforts for the eradication of apartheid, 

6/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, Supplement 
No. 22 (A/10022). 

I .. . 



A/10342 
English 
Page 15 

Noting with regret that three permanent members of the Security Council, 
namely, France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and 
the United States of America, have prevented, by an abuse of their veto, a 
mandatory arms embargo against South Africa, under Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations, as recommended by the General Assembly by an overwhelming 
majority of Member States, 

Gravely concerned over reports on collaboration by States and economic 
and other interests with the racist regime of South Africa in the establishment 
of nuclear installations and the development of nuclear technology, 

Convinced that the United Nations must devote increasing attention and all 
necessary resources to concert international efforts in the inescapable and 
urgent task of eradicating apartheid in South Africa and securing the liberation 
of the South African people, 

1. Again condemns the racist reg1me of South Africa for its policies 
and practices of apartheid, which are a crime against humanity, for its 
persistent and flagrant violations of the principles enshrined in the Charter 
of the United Nations and for its continued defiance of the resolutions of the 
General Assembly and the Security Council; 

2. Denounces the manoeuvres of the racist regime of South Africa, which 
are designed primarily to perpetuate and obtain acQuiescence in its abhorrent 
apartheid policies, to deceive world opinion, to counter international isolation, 
to hinder assistance to the national liberation movements by the international 
community and to consolidate white minority rule in South Africa; 

3. Strongly condemns the actions of those States and foreign economic 
and other interests which continue to collaborate with the racist regime of 
South Africa, in contravention of the resolutions of the General Assembly and 
the Security Council, and thereby encourage it to persist in its inhuman 
policies, and strongly urges the main trading partners of South Africa, 
particularly the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the 
United States of America, France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan and 
Italy, to cease collaboration with the racist regime of South Africa and to 
co-operate with the United Nations in the efforts to eradicate apartheid; 

4. Again condemns the strengthening of relations and collaboration 
between the racist regime of South Africa and Israel in the political, military, 
economic and other fields; 

5. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the struggle of the oppressed people of 
South Africa by all means possible for the total eradication of ~artheid and 
the exercise of the inalienable right of self-determination; 

6. Reaffirms that the racist regime of South Africa is illegitimate and 
has no right to represent the people of South Africa and that the national 
liberation movements are the authentic representatives of the overwhelming 
majority of the South African people; 

I ... 



A/10342 
English 
Page 16 

7. Declares that the racist regime of South Africa, by its resort to 
brutal repression against the great majority of the people of the country and 
their national liberation movements, bears full responsibility for 
precipitating violent conflict, which is bound to occur if the situation 
remains unchanged~ 

8. Recof(!lizes that the international curnmunity must take firm action 
a,gainst the racist regime of South Africa in order to avert any suffering in 
the course of the struggle of the South African people for freedom; 

9. Appeals to all States and organizations to provide all assistance 
required by the oppressed people of South Africa and their national liberation 
movements during their legitimate struggle, in the light of the recommendations 
of the Special Committee against Apartheid; 

10. Requests all Governments to sign and ratify the International 
Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid; 1/ 

ll. Appeals to all States concerned to take the necessary measures to 
impose an effective embargo on the supply of petroleum, petroleum products 
and strategic raw materials to South Africa; 

12. Requests the Special Committee against Apartheid to hold 
consultations ',rith Governments and organizations, as necessary 'J to promote the 
impl<~mentation of the measures indicated in paragraph ll above; 

13. Invites all Governments, specialized agencies of the United Nations 
and other organizations to continue to co-operate closely with the Special 
Committee against Apartheid towards a concerted international campaign against 
apartheid; 

14. Commends the anti-apartheid movements and other non-governmental 
organizations which have taken action against apartheid and in support of the 
South African national liberation movements; 

15. Requests all specialized agencies of the United Nations and other 
international institutions, which have not yet done so, to invite 
representatives of the South African national liberation movements recognized 
by the Organization of African Unity to attend their conferences and seminars, 
as well as meetings of executive.bodies~ and make the necessary financial 
provisions for their participation; 

16. Again requests the Security Council to consider urgently the 
situation in South Africa and the aggressive actions of the racist regime 
of South Africa with a view to adopting effective measures, under Chapter VII 
of the Charter of the United Nations, to resolve the grave situation in the 
area and, in particular: 

1/ General Assembly resolution 3068 (XXVIII). 

I ... 



A/10342 
English 
Page 17 

(a) To ensure that all Governments implement fully the arms embargo 
against South Africa, without any exceptions as to the type of weapons, and 
prohibit any violations of the arms embargo by companies and individuals 
within their jurisdiction; 

(b) To call upon the Governments concerned to refrain from importing 
any military supplies manufactured by, or in collaboration with, South Africa; 

(c) To call upon the Governments concerned to terminate any existing 
military arrangements with the racist regime of South Africa and to refrain 
from entering into any such arrangements; 

(d) To call upon Governments concerned to prohibit any of their 
institutions, agencies or companies, within their national jurisdiction, from 
delivering to South Africa or placing at its disposal any equipment or 
fissionable material or technology that will enable the racist regime of 
South Africa to acquire nuclear-weapon capability. 

G 

Programme of work of the Special Committee against Apartheid 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the report of the Special Committee against 
Apartheid, §/ 

Having noted with appreciation the work of the Unit on Apartheid of the 
Secretariat, in consultation with the Special Committee, in continuing to 
publicize the evils of apartheid and the United Nations efforts for its 
eradication" 

Commending the Special Committee for its work in the discharge of its 
responsibilities to promote the international campaign against apartheid in 
accordance with the resolutions of the General Assembly on the policies of 
apartheid of the racist regime of South Africa, 

Considering that efforts for concerted international action by Governments 
and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations in support of the 
legitimate struggle of the people of South Africa under the leadership of 
their national liberation movements for their right to sGlf-determination must 
be intensified, 

Further convinced of the need for close co-operation with the specialized 
agencies of the United Nations, the Organization of African Unity, the 
movement of the non-aligned countries and other appropriate intergovernmental 
organizations in all efforts by the United Nations to secure a solution to the 
grave situation prevailing in South Africa, 

8/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, Supplement 
No. 22 (A; 10022 1 • 

I . .. 



A/10342 
English 
Page 18 

l. Requests the Special Committee against Apartheid to continue and to 
intensify its activities to promote co-ordinated international campaigns 
against apartheid, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the General 
Assembly, and to give special attention in 1976 to encouraging, promoting 
and supporting: 

(a) Campaigns for the legitimate struggle of the national liberation 
movements recognized by the Organization of African Unity against the racist 
regime of South Africa; 

(b) Actions by trade union, women, student, youth and religious 
organizations to express their solidarity with, and their support of, the 
oppressed people of South Africa; 

(c) Campaigns against collaboration by any Government or transnational 
corporation with the racist regime of South Africa; 

(d) Condemnation of the propaganda of the racist regime of South Africa 
and its supporters, and the widest dissemination of information on the 
struggle of the South African people for their right to self-determination; 

2. Authorizes the Special Committee: 

(a) To send missions to Governments of Member States, to the headquarters 
of specialized agencies and other intergovernmental and non-governmental 
organizations, as well as trade union confederations~ as required, for 
consultations to promote the international campaign against apartheid; 

(b) To take appropriate steps to promote closer co-operation with the 
Organization of African Unity, the movement of the non-aligned countries, and 
other appropriate intergovernmental organizations; 

(c) To participate in conferences concerned with apartheid; 

(d) To invite representatives of the South African national liberation 
movements recognized by the Organization of African Unity and those of other 
organizations, as well as experts on apartheid~ for consultations on various 
aspects of apartheid and on action against apartheid; 

3. Requests the Special Con@ittee to organize, in consultation with the 
Organization of African Unity, an international seminar in 1976, as proposed in 
paragraphs 223 and 224 of its report; 

4. Appeals to all Governments and organizations to make voluntary 
contributions or provide other co-operation to reinforce the activities of 
the Unit on Apartheid to publicize, through all media, the evils of apartheid 
and the United Nations efforts for its eradication; 

I ... 



A/10342 
English 
Page 19 

5. Requests the Secretary-General to take appropriate steps to rename 
and strengthen the Unit on Apartheid, as suggested by the Special Committee in 
paragraphs 227, 228 and 233 of its report; 21 

6. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Special 
Committee, to arrange for the production of a film on apartheid and its widest 
distribution in various languages. 

21 Ibid. 




