








































:=z ^ 

-
==/ ar E-

I.'N'TED NAI'ONS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

Distr.
GENERA],

A/3T/3BB
y lecemoer -ty lb

ORTGINAL: EI{GLISH

Thirty-first session
Agenda it ern 116

IMPLM4E.IITATTON OF THE CONCLUSIONS OF THE I,IRST
REVIEW CONFERHVCE OF THE PARTIES TO THE TFEATY

0N THE NON-PROIIFEMTION OI'NUCLEAR r,tXApONS

Rapporteur: Mr. Kedar Bhakt a SHRESTHA (tepa])

1. The iten entitled rrlmp]'ementat ion of the conclusions of the first Revier,/Conference of the Parties to the T?eaty on the Non_proliferation of Nuciear
weapons" was incfuded in _the provision-al agenda of the thiTty-first session atthe request of Sweden (A/31/1)+l)

2' At its.l+th plenary meeting' on 2l+ septerrb er L9TG, the Gen eral Assembry, on thereconmend'ation of the Genera-I connxittee, decided to includ.e the iten in its a.oenrta.and to allocate it to the !'irst Comrittee,
3. -.At_its Znd neeting, on 5 october, the First conmittee decided to hor_d. acombined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament, namely,items 34 to 50 and a16. Tbe general debate on these items took place at the20th to 39th neetings, from 1 to f9 November.
l+' rn aecordance with a request by swerlen addressed to the secretary-GeneraJ- on30 september" the final document of the review conference of the parties to theTreatv on the Non-Pror iferation of Nuclear lleapons (Npr/coNF/35, part; i to rrr) vascirculated as an officiat do cument of the l,irsi Corrrittee tAti-,itiirtlrt .- In ad.dition,the Conmittee had before it a letter dated 2Z October l-976 from the'pemanent
Representative of Finland to the United Naticns addressed. to the Secretary_
General (A/C.r/3r/6).

5. - At the 
l+?th meeting, on I Decenber, the representative of Sr^reden introduced ad.raft resolution (A/c.1/3f /L.32), vhich r^ras subiequently arso sfinsoreJ oy eustria,Dennark, Ecuador, Iceland, Nigeria and Norway,

76-P6938



r/ 31/ 388
Xnglish
Page 2

6" At its 52nd rneeting on 3 Deceuber, the Flrst conmittee adopted draft
resolution A/c.I/3f/L.3, by a recorded vate of 99 to 1, uith 1? abstentions 1/
(see para. 7 below). The voting was as follovs:

In favour :

Abstaining:

Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Bahrain " Bangladesh, 
Belgium,

Benin, Botsvana" Bulgaria' Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Bepublic,
Canada, Central African Republic, Ch€.d, Colonbia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yemen' Derinark, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador' Egypt, EI Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, I'in1and,
Germar Democratic RepubJ-ic, Germany, Federat lepublic ofu Ghana,
Greece, Grenada, Guyana, Ilaiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran,
lraq, Ireland' Tsrael, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jarnaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peolle's Democratic Bepublic, Lesotho" T'ibyan
Arab Republic, Luxembourg ' 

l'ladagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali,
Mauritius, I,lexico, lrlongolia, l{orocco, Nepal, Netherlands, ltrev
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, lligeria, Norvay, Oman, Pana'na, Papua
1{ev Guineau Paraguay, Pofand, Qatar, nonania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal" Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri l,anka, Sudan" Swaziland,
S\ueden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand-, Togo, Trinidad and Tobaeo '
Tlrnisin.- Trrrkev.. Ilkra.inian Soviet Socialist Repub1ic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United Kingdon
of Great Britain a^nd Northern lreland, United States of America'
Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire'

China.

Algeria, Argent ina,, Bhutan, Bofivia, Brazil , Burma, Chi1e, Cuba'
France, fndia' l.Iozanbique, Pakistan, Portugal , Spain' Uganda'
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania'

RECOI4I'4IINDATION 0F THE FIRST COI'MITTEE

7 c'hc Firet cnnrnil.t,-,- reconmends to the General Asserobly the adoption of the
following draft res o1ut i on :

Implernentation of the concludons af the -first
!"ft.l fgAlgf"rls-g--S{: the Parties to the Treatv

on -!L" Non-Ptol if"ration

The General Assenbfy,

Becognl?ing that the danger of nucfear ltarfare remains a grave threat to the
survival of mankind,

V Aft€r the vote, the representatives of Burundi, Guinea and the
Phifippines indicated that it had been their int ention to vote in favour of the
draft resolution.



Convinced that the prevention
or other nuclear explosive devices
nuclear varfare ,

A/3r/388
Engish
page 3

of any further proliferatlon of nuclear weapons
remains a vital elenent in efforts to avert

convinced that the pronotion of this objective virl be furthered by more rapid
progress tonards the cessation of the nuc1ea1. arms race and the initiation of
effective measures of nuclear disarmament,

Further convinced that the discontinuenc e of a-rr test explosions of nuclear
weapons for all time would constitute an inportant step in these efforts,

Noting that the Treaty on the Non-proliferation of Nuclear rtreapons, 2/ to which
ab out 10o States are parties, irnpJ,ies a balance of nutual, r espons ib ititi es and
obligations of al-I States parties to the Treaty, nuclear-weapon as well as
non-nuclear-weapon States,

Recalling that the states partles to the Treaty on the Non-pTol iferat ion of
Nuc]-ear 'l'ileapons met at Geneva from ! to 30 x{ay 1!J! to review the operation of the
TreaLy with a view to assuring that the pr.rrposes of the pre€.nb1e and the provisions
of the Treaty lrere being realized,

$ff!h"f_:SS slljns. that the Final Document of the Review Conference of the
Parties to the TYeaty on the ilon-.prol-ife rati on of -iuclear weapons J/ includes,
inter a1ia, a Final Decfaration and a nunber of interpretative stalements in
connexion with the Final Declaration,

iiioting that the conference has cal1ed for universal adherence to the Treaty on
the l\Ton-Profiferation of iluclear l{eapons o

Recognizing the necessity of effective international safeguards in order to
ensu"e that the peaceful applications of nuclear energy vill not 1ead. to further
profiferation of nucJ.eat: veapons or other nuclear explosive devices,

Underlining the important role of the fnt ernationa-1 Atomic Energ,r Agency in
implernenting international non-proli feration policies in connexion vith the
peaceful uses of nuclear energy

Concerned that the nuclear arms race continues unabated,

Recosnizins thei. wariorrc annr.l.Y.iafd +^ h66+ +ha a6^r,,i+r,
conc"i i6irn""r.""-,lllli""3il;::l*" 

mea'ns are necessarv to meet the ".'*,-"v

1, Urgently ca-lls for deternined. efforts by all nuclear-weapon States:
(") To bring about the cessation of the rruclear €ffms racei

2/ General Ass ernbly resolution 2373 (XXII).
Y see A/c.7/3I/ \.



A/3L/388
English
fage +

(b) To undertake effective measures in the direction of nuclear disarmament;

(c) To find an esrly solution to the difficulties in reaching agreenent to
discontinue aff tests "xpiosions 

of nuclear weapons for all time as a step
towards the realization of these obiectives;

2, Innphasizes the particular responsibility of the tvo naiol' nucfear-

',reapon States in this regard;

3, Stresges the urgency of internationa'l co-operative efforts in
appropriate forums to p".iuttt" the further proliferation of nuclear weapons or 

other

nuclear explosive devices ;

4. -tsC-ggg3rzgs that states accepting 
effective non-prol iferation restraints

have a right to futf access to the peaceful uses of nucleal energy and underlines
the j$lortance of aff effo"ts to increase the availabitity of energy' particularly
for the needs of the developing countries of the r'iorld;

5. 3CSil99-E- the International litornic nner6xr Agency to 
accord high priority

to il-s programle of work in Lhese areas,

6. Decides to include in ttre provisional agenda of its thiTty*third session
.. it!* "rrifrfEi,'i*pie*entation 

of ihe conclusions of the first Review Conference
of the ?arties to the rre"ty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear lieaT)ons and
establishment of a preparatory conmittee for the second Review Conference"'




