








































::::::
:/A 

-
:;7 cD E--
:

{.,N'TED AJAT'ONS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

Distr.
GENIRAI

A/3]-/376
7 December 19?6

ORTGTNAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-first session
Agenda item 39

IMFIEMENTATTON OF THE DECI,ARATION OF THE TNDIAN
OCEAN AS A ZONE OF PEACE

Report of the First Comrdttee
Rapporteu!: Mr. Ked.ar Bhakta SHFESTHA (Nepal)

L- The iten entitled irrmplenentation of the Declaration of the rnd.ian ocean as a
zone of Peace: report of the Ad Hoq conmittee on the rndian oceanr was included inthe provisionar agenda or tne tlTE!-first session on the basis oi c"n.r.r Ass enxbly
resolution 3468 (XfX) of 11 Decernber ].g7r.
2. At its )+th plenary neeting, on 2)+ Septernb er A976, the ceneral Assenbly, on the
reconmendation of the General connittee, decided to includ.e the iten in its asenda
sJrd to alloc€.te it to the First Colnmittee.

3. At its 2nd meeting' on ! october, the tr'irst conmittee decided. to hold a
cornbined general debate on the itens allocated to it relating to disama.nent,
narne\r, iterns 34 to 50 and 115. The general debate on these items took nte.F,r
the 2Oth to 39th neetings, from 1 to 19 November.
l+. In connexion with item 39, the First Corudttee had before it the report of the
Ad Hoc Corndttee on the fndian 0cean. l/

2. . At the 40th neeting, on A2 November, the representative of Indonesia, acting
chair:nan of the Ad Hoc connittee on the rndian ocean, introduced the report of the
Ad Eoc connitteul6nt-.ittiog in paragraph 20 a drafb resolution unanimousry
reconmended by the Ad Hoc Cornrnittee for adoption by the ceneral Assembly.
6. on_23 Novenber, the Secretary-ceneral subnitted a statement (l/c.l/Zt/t,ZZ) on
the adroinistrative and finaneial irnplications of the draft resolution.

1/ Official_ R""o"d"=of the Gur".?1 A ,Suppl&e

76-26)189



A/3r/376
Engli sh
Page 2

T. At the l+\th neeting ' on 29 Novenber, 
the tr'irst Connittee sdopted the draft

resolution by 9? votes to none, with 27 abstentions (see para' B berow) '

FECOMMENDATION OF THE T'IRST COI"IMITTEE

B. The First Cornnittee reconmend.s to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
following d.raft resolution:

ion of the ion of the

The General Assembly,

RecatlinE tbe Declaration of the Ind.ian Ocea.n as a Zone of Peace' contained in
it" "6J6IiIIi? 

2832 (xxvr) of 16 December ]9?1, and recalling also its resolutions
iggz (xxv]::') or ri p.".rnl.r l:972,3080 (xXViIri of 6 Decenber 1973, 3259 A (Xxrx) of
9 December 197)+ and 3)+58 (xxx) of 11 December 1975'

Reaffirming its conviction that concrete action in furtherance of the
ot;ecElnu" of ttt" Declaration would be a substantial contribution to the
strengthening of international peace and security t

Noting the resofution adopted at the Fifth confe"ence of Heads of State or
coverfiEiI-of Non-Aligned. Countries on the subJect of the Indian ocean Peace Zone
_t'ropos al-, -rl

Deepfy concerned that there has been an escalation of the nilitary presence of
th. g;;;-F;;;;;;;"ived in the context of great Power rivalry in the rndian
Ocean, a.nd believing therefore that the inplementation of the purposes and
objectives of the Declaration of the Ind.ian ocean as a Zone of Peace has acquired
s neff urgency,

Regretting that, despite repeated invitations, certain great Powers as well as

".rtafild]iiEritime 
users of the fndian Ocean have not so far found it possible

to co-operate with the Ad Hoc conmittee on the Indian ocean and the littoral and
hinterland States of the Indian Ocean,

f. Tskes note of the report of the Ad Hoc Comnittee on the Indial ocean, 3/
in particuGi-section fI thereof "on"."nin[Tl-. 

consultations entered into by the
littoral and hinteTJand States of the Indian Ocean in pursuance of paragraphs I and
l+ of Generel Assenbfy resolution 3L6B (XXX);

2. Requests the Ad Hoc Cornnittee and the littoral and hinterfand States of
the Indian Ocea.n to ccnflinu" their consultations with a vien to fornulating a
prograrnme of action leading to the convening of a Conference on the Tndiar Ocean;

4 A/3t/L97, annex, p. 12h.
?/ nffi{:ia.l Fecords of the Gene}gl Assembly, Thirty-first Session,

Supplenent No. 29 @/3ri29 and Corr.l).

as a Zone of ?eace



to all Stat,es, in parti.cular the
Indian Ocean, to co-operate in a
discharge of its functions;

A/3r/376
English
Page 3

great Powers
practieal manner

3. Renews its invitation
and maJor maritime .users of the
with the Ad Iloc Comrlttee in the

\. Requests the
in accordance with its
thirty-second s es sion

Ad Hoc Conmittee to continue its vork- and consultations
mandate and to submit ta the General Assembly at its

a renort on its work i
.l t h6^ac c rFr

sunmary records.
,, Requests the Secretary General to continue to render

assistsnce to the Ad Hoc Connittee, including the provision of




