








































UN'IFD NATJONS

GENERAL
A S S E A/q B LY

UfSII.
GENEBAI

A/37/399
13 Decenber 1976

ORTGTNAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-fiTst session
Agenda item 55

NEPORT OF THE SPECIAT, COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ISBAELT
PFACTICES AFI'ECTING THE HUMAN RIGHTS OF lHE POPUI,ATION

OF THE OCCUPIED TERRITORIES

Report of the Speciat Potitical Corurittee

Rapporteur: l.fr. Percy HAYNES (Guyana)

I. TIIRODUCTIOII

1. The iten entitled "Report of the Special Cornrnittee to Tnvestigate Israeli
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories"
was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty*first session of the General
Asserably in accord.ance with Assembly resolution 3525 (XxX) of 15 Decernber ]_975.

2. At its l+th plenary meeting on 2l+ septernber L976, the Genera] Assembly' on
the reconmend.ation of the General Conmittee, decided to include the itern in its
agend.a and to allocate it to the Special Political Connittee.

? nha Snaninl Pnlir.insl Conlnittee examined the item at its 17th to 19th'
22nd to 26th and 28th to 31st meetings between 10 November and 2 December.

)+. The Con',nittee had before it the followin6l documents: (a) Report of the
special comnittee to Investigate fsraeli Practices Affecting the Hrrman Rights of
the population of the Occupied Territories (U/Z:- /Z]!B); (t) Report of the Secretary-
General (A/3I/235 a,rld Add. I and 2) subnitted. ln pursuance of resolution
3525 D (xxx); and (c) Report of the Secretary-General (A/3I/3oz) submitted in
pursuance of resol-utions 3525 A and C (XXX).

5. At the l?th meeting, on l-0 Novenber' the representative of Senegal on the
Special Connittee, Mr. Keba Mbaye ' 

introduced the Conmitteers report.

5. At the same meeting, the Chairrnan informed the members of the Committee that
he had received two requests' one from the representative of the Syrian Arab
Republic and the other from the representative of Israel, that they be given an
opportunity to sho$ fihos relating to the item under consideration.

76-?7507



LlT./399
English
Page 2

1. At the 18th meeting, on l-l- Novernber, the representative of Senegal proposed
that the Isaaeli filn shoul-d first be shown to the Special Conaittee to Investigate
fsraeli Practices Affecting the Hrma.n Rights of the Population of the Occupied
Territories, r^'hich lrould report to the special Pofitical cormrittee whethel oT not
it regarded that fikn as covered by the Special Conmitteer s terms of refe?ence'
The Cornnittee adopted the proposal by a rol-1-ca1l vote of 65 to 23, with
16 abstentions. Tl'e voting vas as follows:

In favour l

Against:

Afghanistan r Algeria, Bahrain, BangJ-actesh, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad' China' Congo'
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakian Democratic Yenen, Egypt, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Gulrana, Hungaryt
India, Indoneiia, fran, Iraqr Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers
Demccratic Bepubiic, Leba.nonr Libyan Arab Republic, Malaysia,
Mali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Mozambique, Niger, oman, Pakistan'
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar' Fwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal'
Sierra Leone, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Repub1ic,
Togo, Tunisia, Turkey 

' 
Uganda' Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic '

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ' 
United Arab Emirates'

United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania,
Upper Vo1ta, Venezuela, Yemen r Yugoslavia, Zaire, zanbia'

Australia, Austria, Belgiun, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland o Cermny! Federal- RepubJ-ic of,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Ita1y, l'{a1ald o Netherlands, Nev Zealand'
Nicaragua, Norway, Sveden' United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of Anerica, U?uguay.

Abstaining: Bahamas, Brazil, Ecuador' El Salvador, Ethiopia' F?ance,
Ivory Coast' Japar ' 

Mexico, Nepal' Paraguay, Portugal, Singaporet
Svaziland., Thailand., Trinidad and Tobago.

E. The decision of the Conmittee was the subject of letters dated
12 and. 22 November, respectivelyr from the Permanent Representatives of Tsrael
(a/SpC/lt/6) and the Syrian Arab Republic (A/SPC/31/8) addressed. to the Secretarv-
General.

+1-- io+i- -^^{i-- nn r2 \nrre'he'.- the fiLn entit}ed "quneitra: death of a7. n', rr,LE rTLri !r<<LrD6t
citytt vas shovn to the members of the con'mittee.

10. At the 22nd meeting, on l-? November 
' 

the Chair$an inforrned the Conmittee that
requ€sts had been received from the Secret ary-General of the world Peace Council
and from the Vice-lresident of the Afro-Asian Peoplers Solidarity Organization to
te granted. hearings in connexion with the iten, ard that those requests had been
€ndorsed by the Permanent Representative of the Libyan Arab Republic in tvo letters
d.ated l"o lilovember addressed to the chairrnan. The corudttee decided to accede to
those requests at the appropriate time; however, it was sulsequently indicated that
the representatives of the t.\^to organizations had left New York s,rrd would present
their views in r,ritten forrn.



]I. CONSIDEBATION OF DFAFT RESOLUT]ONS

11 . In the cour.se of its deliberations, the Special Political Cormittee
considered four draft resolutions. as set forth below.

A. tlraft resol ution A/sPC/3I/L.9

l.2. At the 3oth meeting, on 1 Decenber, the representative of Bangladesh
introd.uced a draft resol-ution (A/SPC/31/L.9) sr,onsored by Bangladesh, the
Central African Republic, Chad, the 9en9r eA, Cut'a, fndia, II&E! lg, tte
Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Pakistan and

13. At its 31st meeting, on 2 Decenber" the Cornnittee adopted the draft
resolutjon by a ro11 call vote of lO2 to 3, vith )+ abstentions (see para. 23
belorr. dTaft resolution A). The votinE r,ra s as follows: 1r'

fn favour; Afghenistan, A1ge"ia, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgiun, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazi,I, Bulgaria'
Burrna, Byelorussjan Sovjet Socialist Rer:ublic, Canada, Chad,
Chile, China, Comcros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea,
nthiopia, Fin1and., France, German Democratic Republie, Geruany,
Federal lepublic of, Ghana, Greece" Guyana, Hungary, Iceland,
India, fndonesia, Iran, Iraq, lre1and, Itafy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuvait, Lao People's Democratic Republic 'Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mal-aysia'
l'Ia1i, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mczambique, Nepa1,
Netherlands, ltrew Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Onan, Pakistan,
E6,r, Irr";ri--iha- D^r-nd, Portugal, Qatar, Romania o RWanda,
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sornalia, Spain, Sri T,anka, Sudan,
Surinam, Sveden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinid.ad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialisb Republics, United Arab
Enirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania,
Upper Vo1ta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
ramola.

::!:=i:_:'

Abstaining:

Israel, Nicaragua, United States of America,

Colombia, Costa Riea, Liberia, Malawi,

1/ The renrcsertatives of Malta and
tlelegations been present a.t the rDeetingl
dr&ft resolution,

Al31/399
English

Senegal later stated that, had their
they woul-d have voted in favour of the



A / ar /"oo

B. Draft resolution A/S?C/31/L.10

f]+, At the 3oth neeting, on 1 Decenber" the representative of Tndonesia
introduced a draft resolution (A/sPc/3I/L.to ) sponsored by Bangladesh, the
CentTal African Republic " Chad, the Comoros, Cuba, fnclia, f!&IS4_C-, tt"Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Mozambique, Pakistan, !€@, the#"H"ls#i*: u@
15. At jts 31st meet-lng, on 2 December, the Cornnittee adopted the draft
resolution by a roIl-cal-l- vote of 107 to none, v-ith 2 abstentions (see para. 23
belov, draft resolution B). The voting vas as folfows: 2/

In favour': Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burrna, Syelorussis.n Soviet Sociafist Republic, Canada, Chad,
Chi1e, China, Colonbia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Finland, France,

Against :

German Democratic Repubfic, cerl|lany, fi'ederal Republic of,
Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Hungary, fceLand, India, Tndonesia,
TFa. r7q^ Tral6h^ r+-ly, Janaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao Peoplefs Demoeratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Ma1i,
Malta, Mauritania, Mexlco, Mongolia, Moroccoo Mozambique, Nepa},
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Ouan, Pakistan,
paflr phi lj--i--- p^] -Fd, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rvanda,
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Surinam, Swede. , Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand., Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Fepublics, United Arab
lhj.rates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern freland,
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania,
United. States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Yemen, Iugosl-avia, Zaire, Zamoi'a.

None .

Abstalning: Tsrael, Nic aragua.

C. Draft resolution A/SPC/31/L.11
16. At the 30th rneeting, on 1 Decembero the representative of pakistan introduced
a d."aft resolution (A/spc/3l/L.n ) sponsored by Afghanistan, Eangladesh, the
Comoros, Cuba, Cyprus, the Gambia, Guinea o Tndia ind PJt<istan.-

2/ The representative of Senegal
present at the neeting, it vould have

later stated that n had
voted in favour of the

his delegation been
draft resolution.



A/3r/399
English
page 5

r7. 0n 1 December, the s ecretary-General, in accordance with rule 153 of the
Tules of procedure of the General Assembly, subnitted a. statement (A/S9C/3!/L.B)
on the adninistrative and financial implications of the draft resolution.
18. _At-its 31st rneeting, on 2 December, the Connittee adopted the draftresolution by a rolt-catl vote of 8l+ to 3, \,tith 22 abstentions (see para. 23 belov,
draft resolution C). The voting was as iollows: V

fn favo'r: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burrna, ByeJ-orussian Soviet
Sociafist Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Cz echosl-ovakia, Democ"atic yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Iinland, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
G?eece, Guyana, Hungary, India, fndonesia, Tran, Traq, Janaica,
Jord.an, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao peoplers Denocratic Republic, Lebanon,
lesotho, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar n Malaysia, MaJi, Ma1ta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Moroeco, Mozambique, Nepal-,
Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan, Peru, philippines, poland, portugal-,
Qatar, Ronania, Rwanda, Saudi. Arabia, Singapore, Sonalia, Spain,
Sri Lenka, Sud.an, Surinam, Syrian Lrab Republic, Thailand,
frinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Enirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,

fsrael, Nicaragua, United States of America,
Abstaining: Austral-ia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica,

Denmark, I'rance, Gernany, Federal Republic of, Icelando freland,
Italy, Japan, Liberia, Malawi, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Sweden, United Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern Irefand.-
Uruguay, Venezuela.

A€tainst :

D. Draft ?esoiution A/spc/3fll.12
19' At the 31st meeting' on 2 December, the representative of cuba introduced adraft resol,ution (e/SpC/3f/L.12) sponsored by Aighanistan, Bangladesh, the
@st=Rglub1ic, the coilloros, cuba, th" qr4$g, the Gernan
9e49c=l& rRilublic, ouinea, :;aE, UeUC, paftTstan, lFana" .na tr,e drainiii--Soviet Soc iaList Renubfic .
20' At the sane neeting, the representative of c_eu., o.t beharf of the co-sponsors,
introd.uced an oral revision for the deletion of ine tnira preambu-1ar DarasraDh ofthe draft resolution.

JI Idem.



A/!./ 399
r,ns-Lf sn
rage o

2I. On 1 December, the Secretary-Generaf in accordance with rule 153 of the
t-ules of procedure of ttle General Assernbly, submitted a statenxent (A/SPC/31/L.14)
on the adninistrative and financial implications of the draft resolution'

22. At its 3l-st meeting' on 2 December, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution, as revised, ny a ro11-ca11 vote of 81 to 2, with 26 abstentions (see
para, 23 belov, draft resolutlon D). The voting vas as fo11offs: 4/

Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bah"ain, Bangladesh, Bhutan '
Boiswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo' Cutra ' Cyprus 'Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea'
Ethiopia" Gerrran Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guyana '
Hungary, India" Indonesia' Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan ' Kenya,
Kur^'ait, lao Peop]-e's Democratic Republic, Lebanon ' 

Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Fepublic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Ma1i, Malta'
I,4auritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepa1,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru' Philippines, Poland' Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sornalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Syrian Arab Fepublic, Thailand,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia' Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Sociafist Republics ' 

United
Arab Emi"ates, United Republic of Caneroon ' United 

nepublic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta' Yemen, Yugoslavia' Zaite, Zambia '

Israel, Nic aragua.

Australia, Austria, Belgiurr, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Dernnark, Ecuador, Finland, I'rance ' 

Germany, Federal Republic of'
Iceland, I.re1and, Ttaly,, Japan, Liberia, Malawi, NeLherJands,
New Zealand, Norvay, Portugal, Sveden, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern lre1and, United States of America, Uruguay '
Vene zuela .

In favour:

A6qf!- u .

Abstaining;

III. RECOMI"IENDAT]ONS OF THE SPECIAL IOLITICAL COI\MITTEE

23, The Special Po1itical Cornnittee aecommends to the Generaf Assembly the
adoption of the follor,ring d"aft resolutions:

Idem.



Al 3r/ 399
Ergl ish
Page 7

Report of the Special Connittee to TnvesLigate Israeli Przrctices
Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied

Territories

Tha r]aha?q l Acearhl l

Guided by the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, in particular
the principles of sovereignty and tenitorial integrity,

A

Bearing in mind the rrfes of international l"aw concerning
pa rt iEiTIi-Ta=6li6TTs ions of the Geneva convention relative to
Civilian Persons in Tine of War, of 12 August 1949, 5l

1. Strongly deplores the measures taken by Israel in the
occupied 

"i""E-fgZt 
trrat "lter their demographic composition ornatuTe, and particularly the establishment of settlements;

occupation, in
the Protection of

Arab territories
ocnot"q nh i ne 1

2, Declares that such measures have no 1egal validity and cannot preJudice
the outcome of the search for the establishment of peace, and considers that such
measures constitute an obstacle to the achievement of a just and lasting peace in
the area;

3. Declares further that all legislative and adrinlstrative measures taken
by fsrael, including the expropriation of land and properties thereon and the
tTansfer of populations, which purport to change the 1egal status of Jerusalen are
invalid and cannot change that status;

\. Urgently carls once rnore upon Israel to rescind all those neasures and
tc desist forthwith from taking any further measures whicb tend to change the
denographic composition, geographical nature or status of the oecupied Arab
territories or any part thereof, including Jerusalem.

The General Ass enxbly,

Reealling its resolutions 3092 A (XXVIII) of 7 December 1973, 32\O B (ffix)
of 29 lvovember l-9?l+ and 3525 B (XXX) of 15 December a975,

Considering that the promotion of respect for the obligations arising fron
the Charter of the United Nations and other instruments a,nd rul-es of international
1aw is among the basic purposes and prineiples of the United Nations,

5/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973, p.287.



Al3L/399
English
.Hage o

the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of
of llar, of 12 August 1949, is alplicable to all the Arab

r----r -;--^ ro(" iF^r'Cing Jerusalem;

fnvestigate rsraeli
0ccupied
nade by leaders of

9/
L/

Fcalirrg in mind the provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the
f.-1.:Ti.n-;f CivTli-an Peisons in Tine of war, of 12 August r9\9, il

Noting Lhat lsrael and those Arab States rshose teritcries have been occupied.
by .ts-ae1 since Jr:ne 1967 are parties to that Convention,

Taking into account that States parties to that Convention undertake' in
accord.ance r^ri th article 1 tbereof, not only to respect but also to ensure respect
for the Convention in all cirer.rmstances "

l-. Reeffirros that
Civilian Fe?sons in Tine
territories oc cupi.ed by

2. qgp&IgE" the faifure of Israel to acknovledge the applicability of that
Convention to the te*itories it has oecupied since 1967;

3. Cal1s again upon Israel- to acknowl-edge and to comply with the _provisions
of ihat Convention in aft the Arab territories it has occupied since 1967,
including Jerusalem;

4. Urges once more all States parties to that Convention to axert aLl-
efforts in order to ensure respect for and compliance with the provisions thereof
in a1l- the Arab tenitories occupied by lsrae1 since 196?, ineluding Jerusalem.

rne uenera-L ASsemb_Ly,.

t'}ri A ad ].t +h6 hr,rn^,::=::= -., ---- -.,*^",-ses and. principles of the Charter of the United ltrations as
well as the principles and provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human
Right s ,

Bearin€i in nind the provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Tirne of tr^Iar, of 12 August f9\9, 9/ as wefl as
of other relevant conventions and xegufations,

Recalling its resolutions on the subJect, as well as those adopted by the
the Cormission on Hunan Biahts and other Unitetl Nations bod.iesSecurity Counc i1,

concerned and by specialized agencies,

Egvr4g_S-ons jgglgq the report of the Special Connittee to
Practices Affecting the Hu$an Rights of the Popul.ation of the
Territories, 7/ w]ni.ch contains, inte" a^l"ia, public statenents
the Government of Israe].

I D1(1.

A/3!/218.



^/3r/399
::::'y

]. Ccr:rends the SpecJ.at Ccnmittee to Investigate Israeli practices
Affecting the llunan Rights of the population of the occupied. Territories for itsefforts in perforning the tasks assigned to it by the ceneral Assembly;

2. Deplc,res the continued ref'usal by
access to the occupied territories;

3. Ca1ls again upon fsrael to atlow
oceupied tEitiG;fA;r -

(c) The evacuation, d.eportation, expulsion, displacenent and t"ansfe"
Alab inhabitants of the occupied territories, and the denial of their right
rctrrcn ;

Israel to all.ow the Special Cr.rnmittee

the Special Cornnittee access to the

4. Deplores the continued and persistent viol_ation by fsrael of the ceneva
Convention rel-ative to the Protection of Civilien persons in Tinre of Wa? " of12 August 19.1+9, and other appl-icabl-e international instrr-rments;

5. Condenns, in particular, the follor,ring Israeli policies and practices:
(a) The annexation of parts of the occupied territories;
(b) The establishnent of Israel-i settlenents therein and the transfer of

an al"ien population thereto j

of
to

(a) The confiscation and expropriation of Arab property in the occupied
territories and aLl other transactiong for the acquisition of land involving the
fsraeli authorities, institutions or nationale on the one hand, s,nd. the
inhabitants or institutions of the occupied territories on the other;

(e) The destruction and denolition of Arab houses;
(f) l{ass arrests, adninistrative detention and i1l-treatnent of the Arab

populat i on ;

(e) The itL-treatnent of pe?sons und e" d.etention;
(h) The pi1la6ing of archeeological and cultural property;
(i) The interference with reJ.igious freedons and. practices - particularly as

uanifested. nost recently in Al-KhaLil - as ve1l as femily rights and customs I
(.t) The iIlegal exploitation of natural wealth, lesources and population of

the occupied territories;

6, Reaffires that alf ueasures taken by Israel- to change the physical
character, d.enographic composition, institutional. structure or status of the
occupiecl territories, or any part thereof, including Jerusaler4, are nuLl and void,
and that rsraelts policy of settling parts of its population and neff innigrants



Al3L/399
llns_L1sn
eale 10

in the occupied territories constitutes a flagrant violation of the Geneva
convention relative to the Protection of civilian Petsons in Time of war and of
the relevsnt United Nations resofutjons i

'l , Demands that Israel desist forthwith from the pol-icies and practices
referred to in paragraphs 5 and b above;

S,Reiteratesitscalluponallstates,internationalorganizationsand
speci"ti""EE$iciEF not to recognize any changes carried out bv rsrael in the
occupied territories and to avoid actions, including those in the field-of aid'
vhicir night be used by Israel i.n its pursuit of the polieies of annexation and
coloniza.tion or any of the other policies and practic es refered to in the present
resolution I

9. Requests the Special Conmrittee, pending the early termination of the
Israeli o"c,$Itio.r, to continue to investigate lsraeli policies and practices in
the Arab territories occupied by fsrael since 1967, to consult' as appropriate'
with the International Comittee of the Red Cross in orde? to ensure the
safeguarding of the velfare arrd hr:miur rights of the population of the occupied
territories, and to report to the Secretary-General as soon as possible and
whenever the need arises thereafterl

10. Requests the Secretary-General :

(") To render al1 necessary facilities to the Special Con,nittee, including
those required for its visits to tbe occupied territories" with a view to
investigating Israeli policies and practices referred to in the present
resolution;

(b) To continue to make avaj.lable additional staff as nay be necessary to
assist the Special Cor[0ittee in the performarce of its tasks;

(c) To ensure the widest circulation of the reports of the Special Cornaittee'
and of information regarding its activities and findings, by a]l means available
th?ough the office of Pubfic Tnforration of the secretariat and, vhere necessaly,
to reprint those reports of the Special Cormittee vhich are nc longe]' available;

(a) To report to the General Assembfy at its thirty-second session on the
tesks entrusted to hin ln the present paragraph;

11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-second session---:";i------i rr- t of the Speciat comoittee Lo lnvesti4ate rsraeli Practjcesrne lrem enrlr_Leo fiepor
Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories".

D

Thp flanpral Aceanhl..-"""*"*.L'

Recallins its resol-utions 321+0 c (xxIX) of 29 November 197\ and 3525 c (XXX)
of 15 December 1975,



Having considered the report of

A/3r/399
English
Page 11

the Special Couuittee to Investigate Israeli
Practices Affeeting the Hunan Rigirts of the Population of the Oecupied
Territories, !-/ in particular eection v thereof, entitled "quneitra", and annex IrT
thereto, a report submitted by a Swiss expert engaged by the Special Connittee and
entitfed ttQr:neitra: report on nature, ext€nt and vafue of damage",

f. Expresses its appreciation of the thoroughness and inpe:',islity with
which the expert engaged b$r the Special Comittee discharged the tasks entrusted
to hin;

2, Condeuns the rnassive. deliberate destruction of Quneitra perPetrated
withd.rawal of Israeli forces from thatdu"ing Is"aeli occupation and prj.or to the

c].ry ln ry l'+;

3. Recognizes that the Syrian Arab Republic is entitled to fu1l and
aclequate compensation, under international- faw and in equity, fof the massive
damages and delibe"ate destruction perpetrated in Quneitra r^rhiIe it was under
Israeli occupation, and to aII other 1ega1 remedies in accordance rvith applicable
international laro' and practice;

)+. Takes not e of the statements mad-e t'y the representative of the Syrian
Arab Republic before the Special Political Cormittee, to the effect that his
Goverrnoent reserves al]. rights to ful-l compensation in regard to all d.anages
resulting from the Israeli d.eliberate destruction of Quneitra, including those not
covered by the expertr s above-mentioned report or not falling within the scope of
r.rf 5 dDr fSuucrr ! i

J. Requests the Special- Corooittee to conplete its survey on afl the aspects
referred to in the previous parag"aph and to report thereon to the General
Assenbly at its thirty-second sessionl

5. Requests the Secretary-Genera] to provide the Special Cornmittee with all
the facil-ities required for the completion of the tasks referred to in the
previous paragraphs.

o/ rbrd.




