








































-al:.=zstl=
{.,tt,rED NAT'ONS

GENERAI.
A S S E M B LY

Distr 
^

GENEFAI,

Al 3t /\rt4
13 December f9?5

OIIGINAL: NNGLISH

Thirty-first session
Aoanrlq iiem ??

IMPLEMENTATTON OF TTIE DECLAiATION ON THE STRENGTHENING
OF INTENNAT]ONAL SECURITY

Report of the Fiast C

Rapporteur: l,{r ' Kedar Bhakta SHRESTHA (Nepa1)

1, The iten entitled "Implernentation of the Declaration on the strengthening
of International Secr.rity: report of the Secretary-Genela,lrr vas incfuded in the
provisional agenda of th; thiTly-first session io accordance vith ceneral Assembly
resol-ution 3389 (xxx) of 18 Novenber t975.

2, At its \th plenary neeting, on 2\ septemb et J976 the General Assembly, on
the recottrnendation of the General conmittee, d.ecided to include the iten in the
agenda and to all-ocate it to the tr'irst Cornmittee.

3. The First Connittee considered the item at its 53rd to SBth meetings, fron
b to lu DecemDer 19 Io.

\. The !'irst Conmittee had befor€ it the report of the Secret€4r-General
(l/Z:./S> and Add.l) submitted in accordance with paragraph f of General Assenblv
resol,ution 3389 (rXX) of fB Novembe r !975' The annex to the report contained a
list of additional- documents relating to this iten which h8'd been issued since
the consideration of the subiect by the Assenbly at its thirtieth session' In
add.ition, the foJ-lowing documents tere also cireulated:

(") Letter d.ated 2l+ Decenrber l-9?5 fron the PeTmanent Representatiwe of
Algeria to the United Nations ad.dressed to the Secretaxy-General (l/St/\t);

(l) Letter dated 30 January 19?5 fron the Permanent Representatives of
Mauritania and lomania to the united Nations addressed to the secletary-General
(r/ztl\t);

76-27\7o



A/3t/\r\
Bl8tish
Page 2

(c) Letter dated. 9 February 1975 from the Fermanent Representative of
Poland to the United Nations ad.dressed. to the Secretery-General- (l/ttl\g ana
UOT?. -L J :

(a) letter dated 6 "lpril 1975 from the Pefla€nent Representatives of Mexico
and Yugoslavia to the united. Nations addressed to the secret ary-General 6/3r/78);

(e) letter dated B April l-9?6 fron the Acting Pernanent Representative of
Sulgaria to the United Nations ad.dressed to the Secretary-General (A/3f/79);

(f) Letter dated 1 June 19?5 from the representatives of Bulgaria an'1 the
Union of Soviet Socia-list Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/31-/102 ) ;

(e) Letter dated 1? June 1!f6 from the Pennanent Representative of Algeria
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/Zl/ttO);

(h) Letter dated 25 June 19?6 fron the representatives of Guinea-Bissau and
Romania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (1,/lt/tt6);

(i) T,etter dated 18 Jlne 1976 fTon the representatives of Ronania and Senegal
to the United Nations addressed. to the Secretary-Genera1 A/3J-/]l'f );

(j) Letter d.ated 2 Ju1y lg16 from the Pernanent Representative of chite to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-ceneral (A/3I/Iz3-S/fZfzT);

(k) Letter dated ? "ruIy 19?5 from the Pernanent Representative of the
German Denocratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/3r/azl4);

(1) Letter clated 'l JuJ:y A976 from the Permanent Fepresentative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations adclressed to the
Secretary-Gener.ar ( A/ 3L/ \?6-S/r2130 ) ;

(t) Letter dated.2? Jul-y !976 fron the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the
Pernanent l4ission of Morocco to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-
General (A/ 3r h6I-S / ]-?I1J) \

(n) Letter dat ed. 28 July 1976 frotr the representatives of Morocco and
Mauritania to the United Nations addressed to the Secret ary-ceneral (l/lt/16l+);

(o) Note verbale d.ated 5 August 1!16 fron the Charg6 dtaffaires a.i. of the
Permanent l"fissir:n of Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A,/:l/f 7l+ ) ;

(p) Note verbale dated 13 Aueust 1976 fron the Pernsnent Mission of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations aaldressed to the
secretary-Gen erat (t/lt/t7T) ;

(q) Letter dated. 16 August 19?6 from the Permanent Representatives of
Benin and Rornania to the United Nations ad.d.ressed to the Secret arv-General
(A/311183 ) 1



A/ 3r/\11
English

(r) Letter dated 10 Septenber 1976 from the permanent nepresentative of
Poland to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/Zt/ZtZ) |

(") Letter dated 29 October :l-976 fron the pernanent Representative of
Bulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the Se cretary-General (A/C.I/3f/7).

5. At the 55th rneeting on B Decernber, the representative of Sri Lanka introduced
a draft resofution (A/C.t/Zt/t.l+1) entitled "Non-interfertrnce in internal affairs
of Statesrr on behalf of A]ggrig, Bangladesh, Eg:.pt, cuyana, India, Sri Lanka,
Igqosfavia and Z?nbi?, later co-sponsored by Bhutan, Botswana, furunai, Ctr.aa, Cula
Ghana, Grenada, Jamaica, Jord.an, Kuwait. uaaaEEEiEf, @,
Nepal, Rwanda, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic. UAand.a. the United Republ_ic ofNepal, Rwanda, tlre Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Ugand.a, the United Republ_ic of
Cameroon, anal the United Republic of Tanzanlla. (for the text, see para , .12 belov,
draft Tesolution I

tr. At the 57th meeting, on 9 Decenber, the representative of Cyprus introduced
d?aft resolution A/c,)-/3I/L.42 on behalf of Algeria, cyprus, Egypt, India, ITaq,
Malta, Sri Lanka and Yugoslavia. later co-sp6iE6iEF ov Crenaaa" l,,t"u"lt i 

"" - 11".""&$u, ?"i 
f,""t. and Yugoslavia, later co-sponsored by Grenada, Mauritius, Morocco,

the Syrian Arab Republic and tunisia. The text read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Having consid.ered the iten entitled 'Trnplenentati on of the Declaration
on the Strengthening of fnternational Security',

"Searing in rnind the Declaration on the Strengthening of Interns.tional
Security, resolution 2?3h (XXV) and the reLevaJlt resolutions of the General
Assenbly concerning the inplenentation of the Decla"ation,

t'Welcoming nev achievements and trends in international relations and
all other efforts contributing to the strengthening of international secur.ity
and the promoting of peacefu-l co-operation in accordance with the Charter of
I,ne unrted .L\ atlons -

"We1_9lsl.ns_gfE_g-, in this context n the successful results of the Fifth
Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Alisned Countri.es held in
Colombo fron 16-19 August 1976 vhich represents a furiher significant
contribution to the strengthening of international security and development
of equitabLe international relations,

"Noting the successful outcone of the Conference on Security and
Co-oper:ation in Europe, emphasizing that the security of Europe, the
Med.iterranean and the Middle East is elosely interrelated, and expressing its
conviction that the inplementation of the Fina.I Act of that Conference
through agreed. means vill contribute to the strengthenjng of international
peace and security,



A/ 3r / \t-t4
English

ttNoting hoire-yglw.It4 grave-concern the contjnrring existence of focal
points of crises and tensions in various regions endangering internationa"l-
peace and security, the continuation of the arms race as well as acts of
aggression, the threat or use of force, foreign occupati.on and alien
d.omination and exj.stence of col-onialism, neo-colonialisn n racial discrinination
and e.partheid, vhich renain the main obstacles to the strengthening of
internationsf peace aIrd security,

ItReaffirming the close link existing betveen the strengthening of
international security, disarroanent, decolonization, development and the need.
for a more intensive national and international effort to narrow the widening
gap betv€en the developed and the developing cor:ntries, and also stressing, in
this connexion, the inportanc€ of the earLy iroplementation cf the decisions
adopted. at its sixth and seventh special sessions,

"IgP4Si3i.g. the neeal constsntly to strengthen the peace-keeping and
peace-nalring role of the United. Nations in accordance with the United Nations
Charter s.s well as its role in pronoting devel-opment thTough equitable
co-operation,

tt1. Sofennly cal]'s upon all States to seek stTict and consistent
inplementation of ttre purposes and. the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and of all the provisions of the Declaration on the Strengthening of
Internationa.l Security ;

"2. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples und.er colonia1
and alien d.onination to achieve seff-d"eternination and independence and appeals
to all States to increase thei-, support and solio.arity r^'ith then in their
struggle against colonialisn, racial d.i s crirnination and aparbheid;

"3. Also cAlls upgn al1 States to extend the pxocess of relaxation of
tensions, vhich is still linited both in scope and geoglapbic€.l erbent, to all
regions of the wor1d, in order to help bring about iust and lasting solutions
to international problens with the participation of 8"11 States so that peace
and security will be based on effective respect for the sovereignty aJrd
independence of a"l-l States a"rrd the inalienable rights of all peopl-es to
detemine their own destiny freely and without outside interference r coercion

'r4. Beg{firns that any neasure or pressure directed agairrst any State
while exercising its sovereign right freely to d.ispose of its naturaf resources
constitutes a fl-agrant violation of the right of self-deteruination of peoples
and. the principle of non-intervention, as set forth in the Charter, which' if
pursued, cou]-d. constitute a threat to internationa.l peace ar)d securityl

tt5. Reaffirns its opposition to any threats or use of force, intervention,
aggression, foreign occupation and laeasures of politi.cal and economic coercion
$hich atter0pt tc violate the sovereignty, tenitorial- integrityn independence
and security of States;



A/3r/\r\
English
Page 5

"6. Reconmends urgent measures to stop the arms race and promote
disarnament, the disnant.Iing of foreign nilitary bas€s, the creatipn of zones
of peace afld co-operation and the achj evement of genera] arrd conplete
d.isarmament and strengthening the role of the United. Nations, in accordance
with the United Nations Charter, in order to elininate the causes of
internationa-l tensions and ensure internationa.l rea.ce- seerrritv and
co-operation:

tt?. Iiecoqngnds to the Security Council that it consider appropriate steps
toward.s carryi.ng out effectively, as provided in the Charter and the
Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security, its prirnary
responsibiJ.ity for the maintenance of internationa.l security and peace;

"8. Invitgs the States parties to the Conference on Security and
Co-operati6i-f-Europe to implenent fully and urgently all the pr-ovisions of
the FinaJ- Act includ.ing those relating to the Med.i.terranean and. to consider
favourably the conversion of the Mediterranean into a zone of peace and
co-operation in the interests of international peace and security;

"9. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General , requests hin to
submit to ihe General Assenbl-y at its thirty-second session a repolt on the
implementation of the Deelaration on tbe Strengthening of International
Security and. d.ecides to j.nclud.e in the provisional agend.a of its
thirty-second. session the item entitled t ftnplementation of the Decla.ration on
the Strengthening of International Securityl.r'

7, At the 5?th neeting, on 9 December, the representative of Pol-and introduced.
s. draft resol-ution (A/C.f /3f /L,\3) on behalf of Czechoslovakia, the gglqgg
Democratic Republ-ic and Poland.. The text read. as fol1o s:

trThe General- Assellbly,

"Having consid.ered the item entitl-ed. rlmplementation of the Decl-aration
on the Strengthening of International Securityr,

ttBeari.na in nind the leclaration
securiTJ-78!6IEf6i-2?3\ ( ncv)Z erra

on the Strengthening of fnternational
the relevant resolutions of the General

Asserobly eoncerning the iroplementation of the Declaration,

"Vfel-conring ner,r efforts and achievements in the promotion of d6tente end in
the growbh of nu-ltilateraI co-operation in various regions of the worl.d,

"Welconing al-so the successful resul.ts achieved. in biJ.ateral- arld
nultilateral relations through the inplement at ion of the tr'inal Act of the
Conference on Security anal Co-operation in nurope, signed in HeJ'sinkj. on
1 August 1975,



A/31/\r\
English
-Yage o

"Stressing cl-ose interrelationship and complementary chars.cter of
activities pursued in compliance rrith the Charter of the United Nations to'!'ra.rds
the strengthening of international- security regionally and universally,

"Also expressing its confid.ence that the United Nations is the proper
forum for the d.issemination of positive experience arising frorn the development
of co-operation and the strengthening of international security,

ttWelcoming the successful outcone of the conference of Non-Aligned
Countries at Colonxbo in August f9?5 as constituting an important contribution
to efforbs made in the strengthening of intertrational security and in the
development of multilateral international co-operation,

"Stating with anxiety that the continuation of the axms race is a
considerable burden for peoples arrd d-e]ays the solution of pressing problerns
deri.ved from the economic, socie-I snd cultural gror.rth of countries,

rrNoting with concern the continuing existence of focal points of crises
and tensions in various regions endangering international peace and securil-.y
and acts of aggression, the threat or use of force, expansionism and alien
domination, the existence of colonialism anal neo-colonia.Ii sr, which remain the
obstacles to the strengthening of international security and peace,

"Enphasizing the inportance which the wor]d-wide and total elimination
of racism, apartheid. and racial discrimination have for the strengthening of

rrReaffiruing again the close l-ink t'etreen the strengthening of
internationaL security, disarmament and possibility
efforts touards the gro'..rbh of developing countries,
this connexion, the need of the early implementation
at its seventh special session,

of na.king more intensive
and also stressing, in
of the decisions adopted

"Stressing the need to consolid.ate and broaden the positive tTends arrd
d.evelotru.ents in international relations towards the strengthening of peace
and seculity,

rrExpressing its confidence in the essentiat role of the United Nations in
stirnulating such trend.s anal d.evelopments by nahing ful-1 use of the nays and
meens set forth in the Charter of the United Nations,

"1. once again caI1s upon all States to seek fu1l j.mpler0entation of the
Declaration on the Strengthening of Tnternational Security and by this vay to
support the processes of international d6tente;

"2, Consid.ers it inperative to give greater force to political d6tente
by achieving that in the nilitary fie1d, and for this purpose to achieve
progress in the practical application of means which rrould. lead to end.ing the
arms race:



Recommends al1 States to take

A/3l-/L+r\

effective neasures to stop the race
nuclear and conventiona,l am€.rdents, and also to achieve progress in
and conplete disarrnanent ;

of both
general

8. At its 58th rneeting on 10 December, the Connittee
A/C.I/3I/L.\L by 81 votes to none, vith 1)+ abstentions
resolution I).

ttL. Cal1s upon all States to apply all possihle means in order that
refraining from the use of force in international relations shouJ.d. becone a
real anal inviol-able 1av of international ?elations;

"5. Beaffirns that the elinination of continuing and menacing focal
points of tension is one of the nost important tasks for the strengthening of
international peace End security;

"6. Ca11s upon all States to increase the effectiveness of the United
Nations in the preservation end consolidation of international peaee and
security in conpliance with the Charter of the United Nations;

"7. Feaffirrns that peace, secu"ity and peaceful coexistence of States
wi.th different systerns are the prerequisite of the devel-opment of
internationaL economic co-operation and the rapprochement of nations;

"8. Ca11s upon a.1l- States to strengthen co-operation in l-ine with the
Charter of the United Nations through intensified efforts towards pronoting
regional systens of security and. co-operation;

"9. Appeals to all States to ta.ke urgent and effective measures to
achieve an early conpletion in the inplementation of the Decl-aration on the
Granting of Ind.ependence to Colonia-l Countries and Peoples and tbe other
resolutions of the United Nations on the total eliminatlon of colonialism,
racism and apartheid., and reaffims the legitir0acy of the struggle of peoples
under coloniaJ. d.onination to achieve self-deterurinat ion and independence I

"10. Calls upon al]- the organs and specialized agencies of the United
Nati.ons to use al1 possibilities, provid.ed by the Charter of the United
Nations and the statutes of these agencies, of strengthening the confidence of
States and broadening co-operation in all fields thereby creating conditions
favourable to the strengthening of international security;

tt11. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-peneral, xequests him to
subnit to the-G."""rf As sembly at its thirty-second session a 

"eport 
on the

inplementation of the Decl-aration on the Stl'engthening of International
Security, €nd. decid.es to includ.e in the provisionaf agenda of its thirty-second
session the item entitled. rlD.plementation of the Declaration on the
Stren8thening of International Security'. ''

adopted draft resolution
(see para. 12 below, drafb



A/ 3Li\14
!;ne Lasn
Page U

9, At the same meeting, after consultations among the sponsors of draft
resolutions A/C.1/3IlL.\2 and A/C.L/3I/L.l+3, Malta introduced a revision to draft
resolution A/C.I/3L/L.I+2 on behalf of the sponsors of the dlaft. The new fifth
r,r?Aoyenh of thF .Tearnhl e of the amend-ed resolution read as foliotrs:

"&!ita the successful outcome of the conference on Security and
Co-operation in Europe, emphasizing that the security of Europe should be
conside"ed in the broader context of world security, and is closely
interrelated in particular, to the security of the Mediterranean, the Middfe
East and to other regions of the vo"Id, arrd expressing its conviction that
the implementation of the Final Act of that Conference through agreed means
vil1 contribute to the strengthening of international peace and security".

]0. At the same neeting, the representative of Poland stated that the co-sponsors
ot A/C,L/3I/L.)+3 vould not press their resofution to a vote.

11. At the same meeting, the cornmittee adopted dl'aft resolutlon A/C'I/3I/L.\2,
as revised, by 103 votes to 1, ffith 16 abstentions (see para. l-2 be1ow, draft
resolution If ).

NECOMMENDATTONS OT' THE tr'IFST COMMITTEE

:.2. The First Cormittee reconmends to the Genera.l Assembly the adoption of the
fol-lovine draft resol-utions :

DRAT'T FESOTUTION ]

&n-interference in internal affairs of States

The General Assenbly,

Recalling its resolution 273\ (XXV) of 16 December 1,970 containing the
Declai6ll6i-ii the Strengthening of rntemational security,

Recalling its resolution 2131 (Xx) of 21 December 1965 containing the
DeclaiEff6i-ii the Inadmissibility of Intervention in the Donestic Affairs of
States €nd. the Protection of Their Independence and Sovereignty '

Recalling further its resolution 2625 (xxv) of 2\ october 1970 containing the
n" 

"1ai.tToi-ol-FiliiT!1es 
of International Law concerning Friendly Refations and.

Co-operation anong States,

Reaffirminq the right to self-detentrination, freedom and independence of
peoples und.er colonial or otber forms of alien dornination as well as their right
to struggle to that end and to seek and receive support in accordance with the
principles of the Charter of the United Nations,



A/ 31/ )+1h
nnglish

Re affi rrnin€ the right of each State to choose its ovn economic, cuftural ard
socia] system in accordance with the witl of its people, free from outside
in+.F1^fF1.Fn.F nncrainn 

^r" 
ihTAe+ r'n nnrr fnm

Noting Itith great concern that several Member States have been subJected- to
various forus of interference, pressu"e and organized campaigns of vilification
and intinidation designed to d.eter them fronn pursuing their united s"nd independent
role in international relations.

Alrare that a wide range of direct and. j.ndirect techniques, including
withttold.ing assistance and the threat of withhofding assistance, subtle and
sophisticated fonns of econon:ic ccercion, subversion and defamation with a view to
destabiLi zation, are being.mobilized against covernments which seek to free their
economies fron foreign control- and nanipulation, to restructure their societies
and to exercise pemanent sovereignty over their natura.l resources,

Conscious that the use of such tehcniques of d-estabili zation csrr produce
distrust arrd. cause unrest and disorder within and between States" adversely
affecting thereby the maintenance of international peace and security'

Mindful of the provisions of Artjcle 2, paragraph l+, of the Charter, which
requires afl Menber States to reflain in their interyrational relations from the
threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence
of sny State or in any other manner, inconsistent with the purposes of the United
Nations,

t. Reaffirms the inalienable sovereign right of every State to determine
freel-y, and. vithout any forn of foreign interference, their political, social and
economic system a.nd. their relations with other States and international
olganizations;

2. Decla:res that the use of force to deprive peoples of their nationaf
i.dentity ci]Fitutes a violation of their inalienabfe riglrts snd of the principle
of non-intervention;

3. Denounces any forn of interference, overt or covert, direct or indirect,
including recruiting and send.ing mercenaries, by one State or group of Stetes and
any act of ni1itary, political, economic or other form of intervention in the
interna-l or external- affairs of other states, regar&Less of the character of their
nutual relations or their social and economic systeml

\. Accordingfy condenns s"11 fornxs of overt r subtle and highly sopltisticated
techniques of coercion, subversion and defsmation aimed at disrupting the political'
social or economic order of other States or destabilizing the Govemments seeking
to free their economies from external control or nanipulationl

5. Cal1s upon all states, in accordance with the pur"pos es and principl-es of
the Charter of the United Nations, to undertake necessary measures in order to
prevent any hostil-e act or activity teking place within their territory and
directed against the sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence
of snother state; 

/,..



A/31/)+1l+
English
?age l-0

6. Requests the Secretary-General to invite a1l Member States to express
their vievs on ways by which greater respect for the principle of non-interference
in the interns.l affairs of States can be assured. srd to relort to the General
As ser0bl-y at its thirty-second session.

DBAFT NNSOLTNION II

Implementation of the Declaration on lhe Strengthening
of International Seeurity

ftre General Assembl_y,

Having considered tbe iten entitled "fmplenentation of the Decl_aration on the
Strengthening of lnternational Securityrr ,

lcari no i n mi n'l
contained in Genera"l
re].evant reso1utions
Declaration,

the Declaration on the Strengthening of International Security,
Assembly xesolution 2?3)+ (XXV) of 16 December 19T0, and the
of the Assenbly concerning the implenentation of the

Welcoroing nelr achievements and trends in international_
efforts contributing to the strengthening of international
pronotj.ng of peaceful co-operation in accordance ffith the
Nations ,

rel"ations €,nd all other
caa"rii" ahd +l'a

unarter or rne unrted

Welconing e"1so, in this context, the successfu-l- results of the Fifth
Conference of Head.s of State or Gove]T}ment of Non-Aligned Countries, he].d at
Cofonbo fron 16 to 19 Augus t 19?6, vhich represents a further significant
contribution to the strengthening of internationa"l security and d.evelopment of
equitable international relations,

I{oting the successful outcone of the Conference on Security €Jld Co-operation
in Europe o emphasizing that the security of Europe shoul_d be considered in the
broader context of world security arld is close].y interrelatedo in particular, to the
security of the Mediterranean, the Midd-le East and to other regions of the world.,
and expressing its conviction that the implenentation of the Fina] Act of that
Conference through agreed means wil]. contribute to the strengthening of
internatione-1 peace and security"

rave concern the continuinE existence of foca.1 loints of
crises and tensions in various regionJ endangering international, peace and security,
the contj.nuation of the aJrns race as well as acts of aggression, the threat or use
of force' foreign occupation and- alien donination afld the existence of colonialism,
neo-coloniatismn racial d.iscriminaticn snd apartheid, r.rhich remain the main
obstacles to the strengthening of int ernationa.l peace aJId security,

Reaffirraing the close link existing between the strengtheniog of international
securityr d.isarmaraent, decolonizationn development an4 the need for a more intensive



A/3r/\r\
.unlrl-].sn
lase -Lf

nationa-l and international efforb to narrow the witlening gap betveen the d.evel-oped
and the developing countries, and al-so stressing, in this connexion, the inportance
of the early inplexnent ation of the decisions adopteal at its sixth ard. seventh
specia.l- sessions,

Emphasizing the need constantly to strengthen the peace-keeping €rd peace-
making role of tbe United Nations in accord.ance rith the Charter as I'e1I as its role
in pronoting development through equitable co-operation,

1. f .:Sggly._99f]"__!!9S a].l States to seek strict and cons istent
implenentation of the purposes and the principles of the Charter of the United.
Nations arld of at]- the provisions of the Declaration on the Strengthening of
International- Security ;

2. Reaffirns the legitimacy of the struggl-e of peoples r:nd er col-onia"I and
alien doniifi6?16 achieve self-d.eterrnination and indipendence and appeals to at1
States to increase their support and soli.darity with them in their struggle against
coloniali.srn, racial discrilaination and. apartheid I

3. Also calls upon aJ.l States to extend the process of relaxation of
tensionso vhich is sti11 limited both in scope and geographical extent, to al-l
regions of the world., in order to help bring about Just and lasting solutions to
intemational problems with the participation of all States so that peace and
security wil,1 be based. on effective respect for the sovereignty aJrd independence of
aI1 States and the inalienable rights of a.11 peoples to determine their ovn destiny
freely arrd vithout outside interference, coercion or pressure;

4. Reaffirms that any measure or pressure d.irected. against arty State rlhile
exe rc i s ing-ilFT6Grei gn right freel-y to dispose of its natural resoulices
constitutes a flagrant violation of the right of sel-f-deterrnination of peopfes antl
the principle of non-intervent ion , as set forth in the Charter, which, if pursued.,
couId. constitute a threat to international- peace and. security;

5. Reaffilns its opposition to any threats or use of force, intervention,
aggression, foreign occupation and heasures of political and. econonic coercion
vhich attempt to yiolate the sovereignty, tbrritorial lntegrity, independence and
security of States I

A Reconmends urgent measures to stop the €,rns race ard prornote digarns.ment,
the dismantling of foreign ni].i.tary bases, the creation of zones of peace a,rld
co-operation and, the achievement of general and complete disarmament and.
strengthening the role of the Unitett Nations, in accordence lrith the Charter, in
order to eLininate the causes of lnternational tensions and ensure international
peace, security and co-operation;

7. necoonend.s that the Security Council shoukl consider appropriate steps
toEard.s earrying out effectiveLy, a.s pxovi d.ed. in the Charter and. the Declaration
the Strengthening of InternationaJ- Security, its primary 

"esponsibility 
for the

naintenance of international security and peace;



Alt /\t\
English
Page 12

8. Invites the States parties to the Conference on Security and Co-oPeration
in Europe t!-lfrGnent ful1y and urgently alf the provisions of the FinaJ- Act'
includiirg those relating to the Mediterranean, and' to consider favourably the
conversion of the Mediterranean into a zone of peace and co-operation in the
interests of international peace and. security;

9. T€kes note of the report of the SecretsrJ'-General- ' / 
requests hin to

submit to tbe General Assenbly at its thirty-seeond session a report on the
implenentation of the Declaraiion on the Strengthening of Internation€J Security
ffid d.ecides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-second session the
item entitled "Inplementation of the Declaration on the Strengthening of
Intemational Security".

rl A/3r/!8, and Add.l.




