








































=6t=UN'IED NATiONS
GENERAI.
A S S E M B LY

Distr.
GNNERAL

A/3r/38?
Q lleacnhcr I 07(

OlIGrNAl: ENGLISE

Thirty-first s es sion
Agenda itern \!

CONVENTION ON THE PROHIBTTION OI MI],ITAXY OR ANY OTHER HOSITLE
USE OF ENVIRONMENTAL MODIFICATION TECHNIOUES

Report of the tr'irst Connittee
Rapporleur: Mr. Kedar Bhakta SHRESTHA (Wepal)

7;,^ 9l^l ,lby:rb-.1, Argentina, Mexico, ?anama and perq subnitted a drafb Tesolution/^ rt^ i /.r /' l.\ . ' _, --Ilil;i1 l', i^ll,llt": was , subsequentJ.y also sponsored by Cyprus, the poninican

l|3. ararf .resolution, wh6h nas-lndodu.ed bv ihe representati.'" of M"*i.i-#t#26th nreeting, on 9 Novenber, read as follows:

1' The item entitled rrconvention on the prohibition of nilitary or a,'y otherhostile use of environmentar- modification iechniques: report of tire corrrur.nc.of the coumittee rn Disarmament " was incr-uded in the provisional agenda of thethixty-first session on the basis of General Assembly resol_ution 3[?5 (rcCX) of1l- Decenber 1925,

2. At its 4th plenery meeting, on 2)+ Septenb er 1976" the General Assembly, on thereconmendation of the ceneral conmittee, decicted to incrude the iten in i.ts agendaand to a^l1ocate it to the First Corurittee.
3. At its 2nd meeting, on 5 October, the First Comrittee decideai to hold a combinedgeneral debate on the itens aLlocated to it relating to disarnament, nemely,iterns 3l+ to 50 and 115. The general, debate on these items took place at the20th to 39th meetings, from 1 to 19 Novenber,
)+" rn connexion r^'ith item \5, tne First con:nittee hatr before it the report of theConference of the Counittee on Disarman ent. I/

1/ official Rec

76-26%2



A/3r/ 382
lngli sh

"The Gener a. - Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 3261+ (xxIX) of 9 Decenber 19?l+ and 3l+?5 (xlo( )
of 11 December 1975 ,

"Reiteratin€i its conviction that the conclusion of a convention on the
p"o1ilffie the envi"onment a1d clirnate for military-other hostile purposes vou]-d contribute to the cause of strengthening peace
averting the threat of war'

"Convinced also that such a convention shoul-d not affect the use of
.nviroiiEil[i6EfTlcation technique s for peaceful purposes, which should
contribute to the preservation and improvement of the enviro nent for the
benefit of present ffId future Senerations"

the report of the Conference of the Cormxittee on
^.,^-+.i ^-uu rr'rIr5 qusD u rvrr t

and
and

accounr
Di sarmament as it relates

"Noting with satisfaction the progress achieved' in the preparetion of the
text of a draft convention on the matter,

"]. Requests the Conference of the Counittee on Digarma'nent, vithout
n,.Ai.di^F -f.n -fhe r?iorities establ-ished in its prografime of work, to continue
negotiations on the text of a draft eonvention on the prohibition of nilitary
or any other hostife use of environmental modification techniques, bearing in
mino ihe proposals and suggestions which have been subnitted as'we}1 as the
relevant discussion by the General Assenbly, with a vielt to reaching agreement
ae ear.lw ss nossible to t t."t which woutd be wi.d'ely acceptable to Menbers of
the Uniied Uations, and to submit a report on the resul-ts achieved to the
General Assenbly at its thirty-second session;

"2. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference of the
Cornnittee on Disarma,rtent all documents relating to the discussion of this
question by the General Assembly at its thirty-first session;

"3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-second
session an item entitled 'convent ion on the prohibition of nilitary or any
other hostile use of environmental raodification techniquesr '"

6" On )+ November, Canada, Denma"k, Fin1and, the Ge"naJj . Deroog-{at ic Rep-ubl-ic, g"!quTy'
Japan , Mongolia, anu-l"tn."ru"e" , 19"*"u , Ei"la . tttt u"i tta Kingd"om of-Great 

Britain
and Northern rreland and zaire subnitted u. a".rt-'r""oliffiltii573tfiT' Th"
araft re"of"tt."" r1rich was-Introd.uced by the representative of Finland at the
2)+th neeting" on 5 November ' read 

as foflows:

'rThe General- Assenbly,

"Recalling its resolutions 326\ (xxrx) ana 3)+75 (r0a() '



Al3a/38P
English
Page 3

',!r!ern4!sq to avert the potential dangers of nilitary or any other hostileuse of envirornnental nodification tecirnioue! "

-_. ^_.-rryqling_ 
vith salisfaction that the conference of the Cormittee on

::::T".^:r:_:as^c:npleted ind-transrnitted to the General a""Jiy, in tr,urylorr or l-rs -.grb session, the text of a draft convention on the prohibitionof nilitary or any other hostir-e .,". oi 
"rr''rrtonmental 

nociification techniques,
'rconvigced 

. 
that the convention wilr contribute to the realization of thepurposes and. principles of the Chs.rter of the United Nations,

"1. Conmends,:f: Coilv:nti?T 
-?n 

the prohibition of nilitary or any otherhostile usEl?-e'roironmental modification techniques, the text of vhich isannexed to the report of the Conference of the conmittee on Disarnament(A/3t/27 \;

"2. Reouests the Secretary_General , as depositary of the Convention, toopen it foi-i6;ule and ratification ai the ."rri"=i" p.="i;i. -;;;. ,
"3. Expresses_ its hope for the videst possible ad.herence to theconventionl--

7. Subsequently draft resotutio2 L/C.t/3t/L.5 vas reissued with the text of thedrafb convention annexed to it (A/ct/li'tl.Sjii".t*) ,;;J;i",-ilr*.it"l ,""" rhFi:*'"ffi;:;
*-=rt1:1 - 

t9i'lo+,'"' -e+=+*: gn-l.ni.l' g;"."+, rndia, rtary., !i!sre,Mozanbrque and the ukrainian Soviet. EiiGilFi Rer,rorrc.
3; 

", "ll ".t 
n*]:".'Tlu', .***ici _ P_U're I +e3+, Bu1sar i s,-, . t he Bye lorus s i aIl s ovi etgg.S_Ig.f i qt Repubt- i clgsr-arr q!+p!b+l, Canada 

" C z ec rro srovar iE, E nfiIii:.- ---- -__:i:!:s*j:: _!-!:+sE+gye{+9, pgnm?rk, Ethiopia, Finland, the
#4e9+++ igp, ru!1ic, Ghera, cuinea,@rv,-fiErr. lran- Tta.rv .Tcnqn T.ihMongolia, Mozanbi the Netherland.s, NoS-!!Ss, _Hunsarv, 

rn4i?, ir"aa;I!elrl@,
lq}C1rd, the Union ot Soviet

Mongolia,
Repubtics , tEE

pgvrer Voc+a-L+st Hep\rbl-ic and Zaire submitted ath the draft Convention annexed to it
thich was introduced by the repreeentative of
2 December. The draft resolution read as follows:

"The Gene"af Assenbly,

"Recalling its resol,utions 3251+of 11 Dec€mbey 1975,

"RecaLling its resol-ution.
recognized that a]I StateB haye
negotiations,

'?Det ermined to
use of envirorulental

1722 (fiII) of 20 Decenber :r96f, in which it
a deep interest in disaruament attd. arms control

tnu1l 
-!h" 

potential dange"s of nilitary or any other hostile
lroorl'tcatton techniques,

States of -America,
new_Ly revf,sed draft
(A/c,r/3r/L" j/Rev.2
Finland at the 5oth

the
resolution
and Corr,1)
meeting, on

(xxrxl o1 9 December 19?4 and 3U5 (r)q)



A/3r /382
EngJ.i sh
Page 4

"Convinced that broad adherence to a convention on the prohibition of
soch 

"EIT6i-wou1d 
contribute to the cause of strengthening peace and averting

the threat of fiar,

"Notine wit! satig:""Eg" that the Conference of the conrnittee on
Disarmarent EiJ?onpre t ea ana tlansmitted to the General Assenbly, in the
report of its l',ork in 1976, the text of a draft Convention on the prohibition
of rnilitary or any other hostile use of environrnental nodification techniques,

,,Anxious that during its I9'i7 session, the Conference of the Comraittee on
Di s armarnent shorrld concentTate on urgent negotiations on disarma:nent and arms
l-inLitation measures,

'iRearinp r'n mintf that draft agreenents on di s arma'nent and arms contTcl
neasures s' iltTffio the General- Assembly by the Conference of the Conmrttee
on Disarmament should be the result of a process of effective negotiations and
that such instruments should duly take into account the views and interests
of all States so that they can be joined by the widest possible nrtr ber of
countries,

"Bearing in mind that article VIII of the draft Convention makes provision
for a Ionf erenEETEEview the operation of the Convention five years after
its entry into force, with a viev to ensuring that its purposes and provisions
are being realized,

"Al-so bearj.ng g--g$C- all relevant docrments and negotiating records of
the Conference of t[e Cffiittee on Disarmament on the discussion of the draft
Convention o

,'Convinced that the Convention should not affect the use of environnental
roaitiilTf6n--n techniques for peaceful purposes, which could contribute to the
preservation and improvement of the environment far the benefit of present and
futuae generations,

'roonvinced that the Convention will contribute to the realization of the
.,,r.o.1i-"r',d lr"incinles of the Charter of the United Nations,

"1. Conmends the Convention on the prohibition of nilitary or any other
hostile use of environrnental rnodification techniques, the text of which is
annexed to thi s resolution'

"2. Requests the Secretary-General u as depositary of the Convention ' to
open for sign-ture and ratification at the earliest possibl-e date;

t'3' Expresses its hope for the widest possible adherence to the
Conwention;

,tl+. Calls upon the Conference of the Committee on Disarmanent, vithout
r,reirrd.iee to the oriorities established in its progranme of work, to keep under
review the problem of effectively averting the dangers of nilitary or any other
hostile use of environmental mod.ification techniques;



A / 
"'t 

/ ?.A,

t'5. Reouests. that. the_ secretary-General transmit to the conference ofconurittee EilriEire.n"rrt ar-f d.ocumenis 
".i.trrrg to the d.iscussion by theceneral Assembr'v at its thirty-rii"i 

".""1.n of the question of prohibitingrailitary or a'ny otrrer hostir.e- use of u.r.'i.om"nt.r modification techniques.,,
9: .At lhe. lOth rneeting, 91 e !99em!er, ltrigeria proposed the following oralanendments to d.raft resol-ution al c I / ziirffi ,r,

(a) The addition of a nell preanbular paragraph reading as fol].ows:
"Noting further that the convention is intended to prohibit effectivelynilitary or any other hostile 

"". or .n''ri.onmental nodification techniquestn order to elininate the dangers to rnurrtirra frorn such use,,i
(b) The deletion of operative psJagraph 1 and its replacenent by thefollowing text:

"1. Refers the convention on the prohibition of rnilitary or any otherhostile use of environmental modificatiin techniques, the text of which isannexed to this resolutionu to a_11 States for their consideration, signatureand ratification".

These ora-l a"nendment s we
A / c. r / a17 L. 5 /;;. ;';; ;:""ffi: ";::ir:I ".n" 

co-sponsors of draft resolution

l-0 . On 2 December, A"stf&,^p4.,ri3, B.r?2i1., Bulgaria, the Byelorussia.n Soviet
*:1++t-3:!s!++, .*uii, lcscho+o_vgEie, qgrnerk, Elhi_spre, Finklq, tr,e @,*ngeeggIat l_e_ 3epsb'I&, cui n e a, Hunf,aTf " r "o i J - 

-r;.fr-i. ;i:l _'=iiij - ='iT#=*.
H#**e,,:n". N?lh-38: ffiffi ; ffi ,ia*,il* R1R** H*;Repubfics, rn" uffig_oo'no =miu*,* _Stales of .Araericiltl rne 

-
xm:,:FF:*.;;"#i*,,.if #ffi ilif IsfJ
-"::"::1:g lv the svriSn Arab Republic " incorporating the amendnent" ""r"ii"l'il ,r,rne prevaous paragraph,
1.1. 0n 2 December, the sponsors of draft resolution A/C"f/3a/L.l+ (see para. Jabove), joined by Eaiti. submitted. a revised draft resolut ion (A/C,I/3r/r. )+/nev. r )vhich r.ras introducEd-Ei the represent"tl"" -of-l,fJ*ico at the 5Oth neeting, on2 Decenber. The draft Tesolution 

"ead. 
as foifor*

"Ihe__gSnerCl_-4E S,?nq+IL,

"!S!".tri!C its resolutions
of 11 Decerobet ].975,

326\ (XXIX) of p Decenber 19Tl+ and 3)+75 (rXX)

pronr.brtlon of action to influen,
"Reiterating its conviction that

to influence the
the conclusion of a convention on the

Repubfics, tfre UniTEd

other hostile purposes
avert ing the threat of

environment and climate for nilitary
to the cause of strengthening peacewould contribute

war ,

and
and.



Al 3rl382
-Ij1ls_Lasn
Page 6

"Convinced also that such a convention shoufd not affect the use of
environ Eilal-modi-Il. at i on techniques for peaceful purposes, whieh should
contribute to the preservation and improvement of the environment for the
benefit of present and. future generations '

"Taking into account the report of the Conference of the Coruoittee on
Disarnarnent as it relates to this question,

"Ugt i"C- ri!h-Eg&j$9S! l9g the progress achieved in the prep€ration of
the text of a draft convention on the matter '

"Being aware that Menber States have not had time to give that text the
consideration it deserves.

"1. Requests the Seeretary-General to transmit to all States the text of
the draft 

"o.*.trtio.r 
on the prohibition of nilitary or ally other hostile use of

environnental modification tecbniques' contained in docrment A/3r/27 ' 
as wel1

as all other relevant d.ocr.ment s refating to this question;

"2, Invj-tes al]- Member States to conmunicate to the Secletary-General
their vierfEd-Euggestions on this question before 30 June 1977;

tt3. Requests the Secretary-General to tTansnit to all Member States the
replies submitted pursuant to pa.ragraph 2 above;

uL. Decid.es to include in the pro-'isional agenda of its thirty-second
session anlGfr-Jntitled rConvention on ,he prohibition of military or a:ry
other hostile use of environnental modirication techniques'.''

i,2, At its 5fst meeting, on 3 December, the Conmittee proceeded to vote on draft
resolutions A/C l/3f /L.iiRev'f and A/C.r/3I/L.5/Rev -3 " Ttre representative of India'
seconded by the representative of Nigeria, noved that draft resolution
A/c 'r/3L/;.5 /Rev.3 be accorded prioilflTver drafb resolut ion A/c"a/3r/r"b/Bev'1'
The rnotion was adopted by a recird.ed vtte of 59 to 31, lrith 30 abstentions. 2/
The vot ina ffas as follows:

Afghanistan, Austrian Bahrain, 3e1gir.rm, Bhutan ' 
Bol-ivia ' Botswa'na '

Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Social-ist Republie ' 
Canad'a '

central African Republic, Colombia, Congo, Cuba " Czechoslovakia,
Democratic YeuLen, Denmark, Ethiopia, Iinland, German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federa] Bepublic of, Ghana' G"eece, Ilungary '
Icetana, fndia, Iran, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan ' Jordan, 

Lao

PeopJ-ets Derdoc"atic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia' Luxembourg,

fn favour:

2/ Atter the vote, the representative of the T,ibyan Arab Republic indicated
that her vote in favour of the motion had not been recorded'



A/3r-/382
Brglish
Page J

Matlagascar, Malawi, Mongolia 
" Mozambique, Nepa1, Netherlancls,Nigeria" No11aV, onan, poland, portugal, -Sieira'Leone, Somalia,

Sud.an, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Tu"key, UkTainianSoviet Socialist 
^Republic , Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,United Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern frel-and, United.States of America, Zaire.

Against: Argentina, Burund.i, Chi1e, China, costa Rica" Cl4)rus, Ecu-4or,France, G:enada, Iraq, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Malaysia, _auritius,Mexico, Nicaragua, paJlama, paraguay, peru, philippines, eatal,Ronania,,-Rwanda, Singapore, surinan, Thaiiand, riiria"a and Tobago,Uganda, Uruguay, Venezuela.
Abstaining: Algeri.a, Australia, Bangladesh, Buma, Chad. 

" Egypt, E1 Satvador,Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Guyana, fndonesia, f""iurrd, Israel, Ma1i,Mauritania, Morocco, Nev Zealand, Niger, p;kistan" daudi Arabia,
Senegql , Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, United Arab Enirates, United
Republ_ic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Vo1ta,yugoslavia, Zembia.

1?: 4! !!" sarne meeting, the Connittee proceeded to vote on d.raft resot_utionA/c 'r/3L/L'5/Rev.3. The rrraft resor-utioi was ad.opted by a recorded vote of 89 to 11,with 2l abstentions f/ (see para. 1J below). The voting was as fo]-lows:
fn favour:

Against:

AfghaJlistan, Algeria, AustraLia, Austria, Bahrai.n 
" BangJ-ad.esh,Belgiun, 3enin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Sullaria, iurrna,Byelorussian Soviet Socia"Iist Republic a Canada, Central AfricanRepublic, Colonbia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democrs.tic yemen,

Denmark,.El Salvador, Ethiopia, FiJi, Finland, Gabon, cermanDenocratic Republic, Gerrnany, leOerai Repubfic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guyana, Hung€ry, Iceland, fndia, Indonesia, fran, frelando fsrael,Italy-, Japan, Jo"dan, Lao peoplers Dernocraiic ieputrtic 

" Lebanon "
.Le_sotho ,- -Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic , Lr.uembourg , I\tadagascar,
lelavi, Ma1i" Ma1ta, Mauritania, Morrgoii., Morocco, Nepal,Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, O:nan, itriiippines,
lolT+, Portugal-, eatar, Ronania, Sierra f,eonl, Singapore eSomalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweclen, Syrian Arab
Republic 

" Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainjan Soviet SocialistRepublic, Union of Soviet Social-isi Republics, United Arab Enirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern ireland, United
States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, yugoslavia, Zai"e.
Burund.i, Ecuad.or, Grenad.a, Kenya, Kuwait, Mauritius, l.,texico, panalna,
Peru, Trinidad and Tobago, Zambia.

- 1/ After the vote' the representative of Mozanbique ind.icated that his vote infavou? of the draft resolution had not been recorded.



A/3t/382
_tinp_L 1sn
Pale 8

Abstaining: Argentina, Chad, Chite, Con€lo ' Costa Bica, Dominican 
Republic,

Egfpt, Equatorial Guinea, France, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica'
Malaysia, New Zea1and., Pahista.n, Paraguay, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia'
Surinam, Togo, Uganda, United Republic of Ca':neroon, United' Republic
of Tanzania. Venezuela. Yenen '

was
The

Conmittee by a record.ed vote of )+9 to \2, with 35 abstentions'
follows :

Afghanistan, Austria, Belgiurn" Bhutsn, Bolivia, Brazj1' Bulgaria,
Byel-orussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canad.a, Central African
Republic, Colombia " Cuba ' 

Czechosfovakia, Denmark ' 
Equatorial

Guinea, Ethiopia" Finland, German Democratie Republic, Germany '
FederaL Republic of, Ghana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Iran, Italy'
Japan, Joralan, Lao Peoplers Denocratic Republic ' 

Lebanon ' 
Lesotho,

Liberia, Mad.agascar " Mongolia, l{ozarnbique ' 
Nepal' Netherlands"

l{igeria, Norffay, Philippines, Poland" Swaziland, Syrian Arab Il
Republic " Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian 

Soviet .socialist Republic '
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdorn of Great
Britain and Northern lreland, United States of Anerica, Zaire'

Algeria, Argentina, Benin, Bunmdi " Chi1e, 
China ' 

Costa Rica,
Cyprus " 

Dominiean nepublic, Ecuador, France, Grenada, Israel,
Jamaica, Kenya, Kuvait, Lu'rembourg, Malaysia, Ma1ta, It{auritania '
Mexico, Moro-co, Nicaragua Pararla, Paraguay, Peru, Fonania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Singa.pore, Spain, Surinam, Thailand " 

Togo'
Trinidad atrd Tobago, United Arab hrirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta' Uruguay '
Venezuela, Zambia,

Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Botswana, Burna, Chad ' 
Congo'

Democratic Yenen, Egl&t ' E1 Salvador, 
tr'iji, Gabon ' 

Greece' Guyana '
Indonesia, Iraq, frel€Jrd, Ivory Coast' Libyan Arab Republic,
Malawi, I'[a1i, New Zealand, Niger, Otnan, Pakistan, Portugal ' Qatar,
senegal, Sierra Leone" Sonalia, Sri Larka, Sudan, Sweden " 

tulisia,
YuEoslavia.

4Ca._g!.!-:

Absteining:

1\. At the sa.rne neeting, the delegations of Finland and Indi-q rdoved that the
cormittee take no further action on draft resofffii A/c.1-/31/L.l+/Rev.1. The motion

adopted by the
voting vas as

In favour :



Al3a/382
English

NECOI4MEND,ATION OF TIIE FTRST COMMITTEE

15. fhe tr'irst connittee reconaends to the General Assesbly the adoption of the
following draf't resolution:

The General Asserbly,

nec+uins its resorutions 3261+ (rxrx) or 9 Dece!.ber 1971+ and 3r+75 (x)o() of
-L-L uecerDer -Lg r) ,

Rgca].]-ing its resolution U22 (XVI) of 20 December 196I, in vhich ir
recognized that all states have a deep intere€t in disarmanent and arns controL
negotiations,

Deter+ined to avert the potential da.ngers of nilitary or ary other hostile
use of environmental nod.ification techniques,

conv-inced that broad adherence to a convention on the prohibition of such
action would. contribute to the cause of strengthening peace and averti.ng the
threat of war ,

Noting with satis faction that the Conference of the Cofiaittee on Disarmamenr
has eompleted and. trensnitted to the Ceneral Assenbly, in the repott of its vork
in 1976' l+/ tne text of a draft convention on the prohibition of lfilitary or any
Other Hostile Use of Env-ironnental Modification Techniques, Z/

Noti-ng qjrther that the Corrvent ion is intended to prohibit effectively rrilitaryor ary other hostile use of environnentar- rnodification teehniques in order to
elininate the da.ngers to mankind frorn such use,

Bearing in nind that draft agreeuents on disarma.uent and arns control
neasures subrdtted to the General Assenbly by the conference of the connittee on
Disarnament should be the resu-It of a process of effective negotiations and that
such instrunents should duly ta-ke into account the views and interests of al1
states so that they can be Joined by the widest possible nurnber of countries,

leerine in nini that articl-e VIII of the Convention makes prov-ision for
a conference to review the operation of the Convent ion five years after its entryinto force, with a view to ensuring that its puryoses ard prorrisions are being
realized,

4/ Official Records of the Generat Assenbly, Th"irty_first Segsion,
S uppfE-ore

5/ Ibid. , annex I.

Techniques



Al 3t/ 382
[n&_L t s n
Pale 10

Also bealing- i,n -Aini al1 
relevant documents and negotiating recards of the

conference ol lne Lonnrfee on Di s arma"raent on the discussion of the draft
Conrrelll,lOn,

Convinced. that the Convention should not affect the use of environuental
nocli fication techniques for peaceful
preservation and. im?rovement of the
futu.re generations,

Convinced that the
puposes eld principles

Aaxious that during its 19??
Disarmament should conceltrate on
linitetion measures '

purposes ' 
which could contribute to the

eiviionroent for the benefit of present and

Convention wiff, contribute to the realization of the
of the Charter of the United Nations '

session the Colference of the Comittee on
urgent negotiations on disarnament and arrns

].,RefeTstheCcnventionoutheProhibitionofMilitaryorAnyother
Ilostile Use of Environnental Modification Techniques, the text of which is annexed
to the present resolution, to all States for their consid'eration, signature and'
rati. fi c at i on ;

2. Requests the Secretary-General, as depositaxy of the convention ' 
to

open it toi6lffi':r. and ratification at the earl-iest possible date;

3. Expresses its hope for the widest possible adherence to the Convention;

\. cal.Is upon the Conference of the Conunittee on Dis armament ' vithout
preJudice TZ-TI-" p"io"ities esta.blished in its pro€ralme of work, to keep under
review the problem of effectively averting the dangers of ndlitary or s'ny other
hostile use of enrrironmental nodification techniques;

5 - Re.luests the Secretar3r-Genera.1 to transnit to the Conference of theil:i1:::_:: -^'- -
Comnittee on Di sarmament a.11 docunents relating to the discussion by the General
Assenbly at its thirty-first session of the question of the prohibition of rnilitary
or anv other hostile use of environmental rnodification techniques '



^/-.lr 
/ 382

lln g1 ri sh
Page I I

ANNNX

Hcstite use_ ot_E.try@

Have agreed as folLovs:

Articfe I
1. Each State Party to this Convention undertakes not to engage in uilitary

a/ See Rel
(United Nations

f the United Nations Conference the Hrman

The States Parties to this Convention,
Guided by the interest of consoridating peace, and wishing to eontribute tothe cause of halting the a"ms race, and of lringing about general and completedisarnarnent mder strict and effeciive international control, and of savingnankind fron the danger of using new neans of warfare,

. lete-rnired to continue negotiations with a viev to achierring effective progresstowards further measures in the field of disarmament,

.. Recognizing that scientific and technica] advances may open new possibilitieswith respect to nodification of the environnent.

- 
Recal-l-ing.the Declaration of the united Nations conference on the HumenEnvironnent, a/ adopted. at Stockholrn on Id June 1972,
ReaJ-izing that the use of environnental nodification techniques for peacefu-lpurposes could improve the interrefati onship of man and nature and contribute tothe preservation and i.rnprovenent of the environment for the benefit of present andfuture generations,

. lecognizing, however, that nilitary or any other hostile use of suchtechniques couLd have effects ertremely harmfj- to humal welfare o

. Desiring to prohibit effectively nilitary or any other hostile use ofenv-iron'iental modification techniques in order to elirninate the dangers to nankindfrom such use, aJId affirming their willingness to work towards the achievement ofthis objeetive,

Desiring also to contribute to the strengthening of trust among nations andto the f\rrther inprovenent of the international situation i.n accordance with thepurposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations.

eation, Sales No. E. 73,IT .A. f



Al3r/382
nn p_L1sn

Pale 12

or aty other hogtile use of environnentaJ- nodification techniques having
widespread, long-lasting or severe effects as the means of destruction, darnage or
inju{y to any oth€r State Party.

Z. Each State Party to this Convention undertakes not to asBist' encourage
or induce any State, group of States or international organization to engage in
activities contrar1r to the provisions of paragraph f of this article'

Article If

As used in article I' the tern "entrironmentel nodification techniques" refers
to a.ny technique for changing - through the deliberate nanipulation of natrlr^al-
proce;ses - tne dynamics, composition or structure of the earth' including its
biota, lithosphere, hydrosphere, and atnosphere ' or 

of outer space'

Article IIf

1 Tha nr.nr.ieinns of this Convention strall noi hinder the use of
ej,rvitonment8l lnodification techniques for peaceful purposes al]d sh8,l.] be without
preJudice to generally recognized principles and applicable rules of international
law concerning such use.

2. The States Parties to this convention undertake to faciLitate, and have
the rj.ght to parti.cipate in' the fuflest possible exchange of scientific end
technoiogical inforrnation on the use of environmente-1 nodification techniques for
I)eBcefuf pur?oses. States Parties in a position to do so shsll contribute ' aJ-one
or togethir vith other states or internationa.l organizations, to international
econon-ic and scientific co-operation in the preservation, improvement, and peaceful
utilization of the environnent, wittr due consialeration for the needs of the
developing areas of the vorld.

Article IV

Each State Party to this Convention undertakes to take any measures it
considers necessary in accordance with its constitutional pxocesses tO prohibit
and prevent "tty 

u"ii.tity in violation of the provisions of the Convention arlywhere
under its Jurisdiction or control.

Article V

1. The States Parties to this convention undert ake to consult one anothel
and to co-operate in solving any problems which rnay arise in relation to the
obJectives it, or in the application of the provisions of, the Convention'
consuftation and co-operation pursuant to this articfe may also be rmd.ertaken
through appropriate international- lrocedures rvithin the framevork of the United
Nations and in accord.alce with its Charter, These international- procedures malr
incfude the services of appropriate international organizations ' 

as well as of a
consu.ltative corunittee of experts as provided for in paragraph 2 of ttris erticle.



Al3r/382
English
Page 13

_ ?. For the purposes set forth in paragraph 1 of this articl_e, theDepositary shaLl, within one month of the receipt of a request fron any StateParty, convene a consultative- connlittee of exlr.rts. Any State p€Jty may s,ppoj.ntan expert to this connittee whose fi-rnction" ,nd rul.s of proced.,re Lre set out inthe alnex, vhich constitutes an integral part of this convention. fhe connitteeshall- transndt to the Depositary . 
"tr--"ri of its fincrings of fact, incorporatingall v-iews and infornation pr€sented to the couru.ttee during its proceedings. TheDepositary shalr- distribute the s unmary to €.11 states parties.

3' Any state Party to this convention which has reasons to believe that anyother state Party is acting in breach of obligations derirring fron the provisions
-of. 

the convention nay lodge a con4rlaint witn ihe security coiurcil of th; unitedNations ' such a conplaint shouLd incl-ude al-l- relevant infornation as lrell as all-possible evidence supporting its validity.
l+. Each State Party to this Convention r:ndertekes to co_operate in carryingout any investigation $hich the security councit nay initiate, in accordance viththe provisions of the charter of the uni.ted Nations, on the basis of the conplaintreceived by the council. The security council sha1l inform the states parties tothe Convention of the results of the investigation.

5. Each State Party to this Convention und.ertakes to provide or supportassistanceo in accordence with the provisions of the charber of the united Nations,to any Party to the convention vhich so requests, if the security council decidesthat such Party has been harmed. or is likel], to be harned as a result of violationof the Convention.

Article VI
1. Any state Party nay propose ameedments to this convention. The text ofany proposed amendment ehalr be subroitted to the Depositary, vho shar-l pronptrycirculate it to al-l States parties.

2' An amendment sha.I1 enter into force for all states parties vhich haveaccepted it, upon the deposit with the Depositary of instruments of acceptance bya najority of states Parties. rhereafter it sharl enter into force for anJrrenaining state Party on the date of deposit of its instrr.r:nent of accepta'ce.

Article ]ff I
This Convention shal_l be of unlin.ited duration.

Article VfII
1. Five years after the entry into force of this Convention, a conferenceof the states Parties to the convention shar-I be convened. by the Depositary atGeneva. The conference sharl revie$ the operation of the convention with a viee, toensuring that its purposes and provisions -are being rea_lized, anti sha1l in



A/3a /382
English
Page 14

particular exanine tlle ell'ectiveness of Lhe pr.r-'rvisions ol arLjc1e 
I' paraglaph 1'

in elininating the dangers of nilitary or a'ny other hostile 
use of environmental

nodification techuiques.

2- At interyals of not less tha'n five years thereafter' a maJority 
of the

States Palties to this Convention may obtain' by subnitting a 
proposaa to this

el'r'ect to the Depositary, the convening of a conference vith the same 
ob'jectives '

3. If no revicrr conference has been convened pursuant to paragraph 
2 of

this article within fO years fol lowing the conclusion of a prerrious review
conference, the Deposita"r|- "rttrf "oriiit 

the views of all States Parties to this
Conventi on on the holding of such a conference ' ff one third or L0 of the 

States

parties, whichever ,r.,*n"i i= J-ess, respond affirmatively, the Depositary sha11
take irunediate steps to convene the conference '

Article IX

1. This Convention sha^ll be open to al-1 States for sigrrature ' Any State
vhich does not sign the convention before its entry into force 'ln accordance vith
paragraph 3 of this article may accede to it at any tine'

2, This convention sha1l be subiect to ratification by signatory states'
Instnr:nents of ratification and instn.:nents of accession shal-I be deposited vith
the Secretary-Genera"I of the United Nations.

3. This Convention sha.l-l enter into force upon the deposit with the
Depositaqr of instn:-urents of ratification by 20 Governments in accordance with
pa"agraph 2 of this article'

l+. For those States whose instruments of ratification or accession are
deposited after the entry into force of this Convention, it shal1 enter into force
on the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification ot accession'

5. The Depositary sha1l prompbly inform all signatory and aeceding States
of the da.te of each signature, ln. aat. of deposit of each instnrment of
ratification or of accession ard the date of the entry into force of this
Convention and of any amendments thereto, as rell- as of the receipt of other
notices.

6. This Convention shall be registered by the Depositary in accordanee vith
Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations '

Article X

This Con'rention, of which the Arabic' Chinese, English, !'rench ' Bussian'
and Spanish texts are equafly authentic, shetf be deposited $ith the ^Secretary-
General of the united wations who shall send certi-fied copies thereof to the
Governnents of the signatory ard aceeding States'

IN WITNESS WIIEREoF, the r.rndersigned, duly authorized' thereto' have signed
this Convention.

Done at On."'"



A/3r/382
English

Annex to the Conwention

1, The Consultative CoEnittee of Exlerts sha1l underta}e to make appropriatefindings- of fact and provi.e expert v-iews 
".i."Lt to any problem raised pursuantto article v, paragraph r, of this convention by the state pa.lty req'esting theconvening of the Connittee.

2' The vork of the consultative comdttee of Experts shal1 be orgsnized in sucha way as to permit it to perforn the functions set forth in paragriph f of thisannex. The Connittee sha.l.L decide procedural questions reLative to theorganization of its work, where posiibl. ly 
"oi""n"rs, but otherwi.se by a naJoxityof those present and voting. Thlre sha' ie n--voting on matt ers of substance.

:. .The Depositary or his representative sha1l serve as the chairnan of the

l+. Each e:cpert may be assisted at neetings by one or more advisers.
,' Each expert shall have the right, through the Cha:i rnan, to request from States,ard' fi'om international orgerrizatiois,'"""i, iiio"r"tion an. assistance as theelq)ert consi'lers deeirabre for the accompr-ishraent of the comdtteers vork.




