








































{.'NJJTfE f{ArJchts

GENERAL
A S S E M E LY

Distr.
GEI]EFAL

A/37/37\
I lecernDer -19 rb

OBIGINAI,: E.NGLISH

Thifty-first session
Agenda i.tem 3T

I]RGENT NEED FO8 CESSATTOXI OF NUC],IAR AND THERMONUCLEAR
TESTS AND COIJCLUSIOIT OF A TNEATY DESIGNND TO ACI]IEV! A

COIIPNEHENSIVN TNST TAN

Rapporteur: l4r. Kedar Bhakta SHRESTHA (Nepat)

1. The iten entitl-ed Jrurgent need for cessation of nuclear and thernonucleartests and conclusion of a treaty d-esigned to achieve a comprehensive test ban:report of the conference of the conmittee on Disarnament" ivas included in theprovisional agend.a of the thirty-first session on the basis of General- Asccm}'rwresolution 3l+66 (XXx) of 11" December f9T5,

?,. At its 4th plenary neeting, on 2! Septenb er l9.16, the 0enera_1 _Assenbly" onthe reconrnendation of the General conmittee, decided to include the iten in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Conrdttee.
3" .At its 2nd neeting, on J october, the First corrtrittee decided to hor-d a
combined general debate on the itens arlocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 3l+ to 50 and 116. The genelal debate on these itens took pfaceat the 20 r to 39th meetings, from 1to 19 l,trovenber,
4, In connexion rrith itern 37, the First Cornmittee had before it the report ofthe Conference of the Connjttee on Disarnament. 1/

?. 0n 22 l'trovenxber, Aust{alj.-?, AUg!I^5[_, Colombia" _agggaof, nthiopia, Iretand,
Hf+: riepal, lrew ?ea,rana {i,.g"irJhl phiri"ois;;qged,fiaG-Zlelg subnitteda draft resolution 6l alTztTt ls) 

"- 
wt^i"r-viE-Gioseouently alsu sDonsored by

Afghanistan, FinLand, l-elue_IeL_Sffilgg and rhe gp1 rCC_ jep!b1i!_-Si_qgg9r99". rtr"

1/ Offlcia]. R..o"d"
n". Pr 6mz7f-
76-26\77



Al3r/37\
English
Fage 2

draft resolution
l+2nd neeting, on

I.ras introduced
24 ltovemoer,

bv the rerresentative of New Zealand at the

l,lovember, the Corunittee voted on draft resol-ution5, At its \Lth rneeting, on 29
A/ C.L/3I/L.15 as fol I ovs :

(") Opera'ri ve Faragraph -L
38 abstenrions. The vocin{ uas

In favour:

Against:

was adopted by a rol1-ca11 Yc-r,e of 82 to 5, with
as follovs:

Afghanisran, Argentin:r, A,ustralia" Austri.a, Bahrain, Barb3oos 'Bl-utar LoIivia, Erazil , F:rrurdi, Chad, Cl:i1--, cclonbia, Costa
Rica, C)rprus, lennark, ncuador', llgyr:t, E1 Sa1vador, Itbiopj.a.
!'iji, flnland, Gnana, Grenacla " 

Guatena-la ' Guyana, 
Iceland' India'

fndonesia, Tran, Traq, I reland. Tvory Coast, Ja:air-:'-, Je'par' "
Jordan, I{enya, Kuvait, Lebanon, T,esotho ' 

Liberia,, Libyan Aral:
Republic. I{alarvi, l4alaysia, l{a1i ' }{afte, 

llauritius, llexico,
Morocco, Moza:rrbique, llepal, New Zealarld, llical'agua ) I{iger,
Nigelia, Iionray, Panana" Papua I':ler+ Ciuinea, Paraguay ' Peru,lhilippines, qatrr, Fvanda, Saudi Arabia' Senegal, Sierra treone,
Singapore, Sri Lan}'r. Sudan, Surinaa, Svaziland, Sweden' Sytian
Arab lepublic, Thaiiand, Togo, lrinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
United Arab Elnirates, UniteC Rep'.iblic of Camerocn ' 

Upler Volta 
'

Venezuela, Yugoslavia.

A-Lbania " China" France, United Kingdon of Great 
Britain and

Tortherr lreland, UniteJ States of A,'!erica.

AlSrgi"i4g: Algeria Belgium, Benin, !otsr','ara, Rulgari.a, iurr:a, Bl'eiorus;iau
Sovitt Soc:alisr tr^r:ul,1i': Uarilda, C.:rgu, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
leuocratic Yenen, German lenocratic Fepublic, Gernany, l'ederal

. Republic of, Greece, Hrlgarir ' 
Israel, Its-fy ' Lao Pecple'sDenocratic Fepublic, I-'uxer-bJurg, lladagascar, l'lauritania, Mongolia,

Netherlands " Cman, Pakistan, Poland', Portugal , 
Roraa.nia" Spain,

Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialisb Hepublics, Unitcd Reprrblic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Yemen, Zaabia.

(t) The draf'L resolution a.s a whole r,/as adopted by a ro]1-ca1i vote of
IOL to 2, with 23 obstentions (s". p"ra. l beLow). Tl-e 'rotirg lias as follows:

In favcur: Afghanistan, fu'gentina, Austral.ia' Austaia, Rahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bo-tsnaira' Brazil' Burma, Burund:-,
Central Afrlcan Republic, Chad3 Chife, Colonbia, Congo, Costa
Rica, cyprus, Democra-tic Yerren, Dennark ? Ecuador ' Egypt ' 

E1

Salvador, xlhiopie, nijj , ItinLar'd r chana. Crerada' Lluaten-af a,
Guyana, Iceland, fndia, Indonesia, Iran, Jraq, Ireland, Israef,
Ivory Coast) Janaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuvait, Laa Peoplers
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, i,iberia, Libyan Arab
Republie, Madagascar, I'lalawi ' Malaysia., 

i'Iali, t4alta, Mauritius,
Mexico, Moroccc" l\{ozanrbique, llepal , Netherlands " Nefi Zealand,



I\/3r/37)+
English
page 3

Nicaragua, irliger, Nigeria, Norway, Onan, pakistan, panama, papua
$ew Guinea, Paraguay, peru, philippines, portugal, eatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saud.i Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Spain" Sri Lanka" Sudan, Surinarn, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, United Arab lhirates, United Republic of Ca.neroon, Upper
Volta, Uluguay, Venezuela, yemen, yugoslavia.

Aggi_15!, Albania, China.

Abstaining: Algeria, Belgiun, Benin., Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic
Fepublic, Germany, Federal Fepublic of, Creece, Hungary, Italy,
Luxenbourg, Mauritania, Mongolia, poland, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Bepublics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic
of Tanzania, United States of Imerica. Zambia.

FECOMMXNDATION OF TI{E FIRST COMM]TTEE

7. The tr'irst Connittee reconmends to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
foJ.l.owj.ng draft resolution:

_Urgent neea for cess*
tests and concfusion of a tTeaty designed to achieve a

cornprehensive test ban

The General Assembly,

Bgg{!i4f!g- its conviction that the cessation of nucl-ear weapon testing would
be in the supreme interest of nankind, both as a major step towards controlling the
development and proliferation of nuclear r{,eapons a.nd to relieve the deep
apprehension coneerning the harnfu-I consequences of radio-active contarnination for
the health of present and ftrture generations,

Gxavely concerned et the continuation cf both atmospheric and undergrcund
nuclear $eapon testing since the thirtieth session of the General Assenbly,

Fecalli!8 its previous resolutions on this subject, the most recent being
resolution 3466 ()Ofi) of 11 Decenber l9"fj.

ECSSU]IS the stated aim of the parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon
Tests in the Atnosphere, in Outer Space and under Water 2/ and the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear weapons 3/ to seek to achieve the discontinuance of
all test explosions of nuclear *""ponl for aI1 tine"

2/ United Nations, Treaty Series, voI. )+Bo, No. 696)r, p. l+3.
3,/ General Assenbfy resolution 2373 (XXII)., anrex.



A/ 3r/ 3TIt
IJNE L A SN
Page 4

lloting the inforrnation concerning agreements concluded by tl'o nuclea]' weapon
State!-f]-miting the scope of underground nuclear rdeapon tests and naking provision
in this connexion for the control and supervision of peaceful nuclear explosions
including, in certain cases, arrangenents for on-site verification' 4/

Considerin8 that conditions are favourable for these tuo nucLealweapon
States to step up their efforts to reach agreement on the rneans of verifying a
conprehensive test ban agreenent o

Taking note of that part of the report of the Conference of the Conmittee on
Disarmament 5/ relating to the question of a comprehensive test ban treaty,

1. Cond.emns all nuclear weapon tests, in whatever environment they nay be
conducted i

2' Declares its profound concern that substantive negotiations towards a
comprehensive test bsn agreement have not yet begun and re-emphasizes the urgency
of concluding a cornprehensive and effective agreement;

3. Ca1ls cnce again upon all nuclear veapon States to suspend the testing
of nuclear ffeapons by agreement, subJect to review after a specified period, as
an interim step towa.rds the conclusion of a formal and comprehensive test ban
agreement ;

)+. Dnphasizes in this regard the particular responsibility of the nuclear
'weapon States which are party to international agreements in which they have
declared their intention to achieve at ttre earfiest possible date the cessation
of the nuclear arns racel

5, Cal-l,s upon a-11- States not yet parties to the freaty Banning Nuclear
Weapon Tests in the Atnosphere, 1n Outer Space and under Water to adhere to it
forthwith ;

6. Urges the Conference of the Corudttee on Disarmament to continue to give
the highest priority to the conclusion of a conprehensive test ban agreement and
to report to the General Assenbly at its thirty-second session on the progress
achieved;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agendz. of its thirty-second session
the iten entitled "Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear test's
and conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a comprehensive test ban".

\/ see A/3L/L2!, annex.
t See Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-first Session,

Supplernen b No. 21 (A/31/27).




