








































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/31/362
29 November 1976

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-first session
Agenda item 25

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING
OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES

Chapters of the report of the Special committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples relating to specific Territories

not covered by other agenda items

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. A. Majid MANGAL (Afghanistan)

1. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 September 1976, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its thirty-first session an item entitled:

"Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and PeOples: report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples".

At the same meeting, the General Assembly decided to allocate to the Fourth
Committee those chapters of the report of the Special Committee relating to
specific Territories.

2. The chapters of the Special Committee's report concerning the Territories
which were not covered by other agenda items related to the following specific
Territories:

76-24972/1 / ...



A/31/362
English
Page 2

Territory

Spanish Sahara

Timor

Gibraltar

French Somalilandll

Cocos (Keeling) Islands

New Hebrides

Tokelau Islands

Brunei

Gilbert Islands, Pitcairn and Tuvalu

St. Helena

Solomon Islands

American Samoa

Guam

Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

Antigua, Dominica, St. Kitts-Nevis-
Anguilla, St. Lucia and St. Vincent

Belize

Bermuda

British Virgin Islands

Cayman Islands, Montserrat and Turks
and Caicos Islands

Falkland Islands (Malvinas)

United States Virgin Islands

Relevant chapter of the report
of the Special Committee

A/31/23/Add.5 and Corr.l, chap. XI

A/31/23/Add.6, chap. XII

A/31/23/Add.7 (Part I), chap. XIII

A/31/23/Add.7 (Part 11), chap. XIV

A/31/23/Add.8 (Part I), chap. XV

A/31/23/Add.8 (Part I), chap. XVI

A/31/23/Add.8 (Part 11), chap. XVII

A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XVIII

A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XIX

A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XX

A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XXI

A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XXII

A/3l/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XXIII

A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XXIV

A/31/23/Add.9 (Part I), chap. XXV

A/31/23/Add.9 (Part I), chap. XXVI

A/31/23/Add.9 (Part I), chap. XXVII

A/31/23/Add.9 (Part 11), chap. XXVIII

A/3l/23/Add.9 (Part Ill), chap. XXIX

A/31/23/Add.9 (Part Ill), chap. XXX

A/31/23/Add.9 (Part Ill), chap. XXXI

~/ Note by the Rapporteur: The new designation of the Territory is French
Territory of the Afars and the Issas (see Terminology Bulletin No. 240
(ST/CS/SER.F/24o) of 15 April 1968).

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 3

3. At its 3rd meeting, on 5 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 25, 84, 88 and 12, 89 and 90, on the
understanding that individual draft resolutions on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

4. The Fourth Committee considered item 25 at its lOth to 29th, 31st and
32nd meetings, between 26 October and 25 November.

5. At the lOth meeting, on 26 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced the chapters
of the report of that Committee referred to in paragraph 2 above. The Fourth
Committee also had before it the following communications addressed to the
Secretary-General:

(a) Letters from Indonesia dated 22 December 1975 and 15 June 1976
(A/31/42-S/11923 and A/31/109-S/12097);

(b) Letters from Algeria dated 6 February, 8 March, 17 May, 23 June,
13 July and 26 October 1976 (A/31/48-s/11971, A/31/59-S/12002,
A/31/91-S/12076, A/31/112-S/12108, A/31/136-s/12141 and A/31/283);

(c) Letter from Madagascar dated 13 February 1976 (A/31/52-S/11981);

(d) Letter from Argentina dated 23 February 1976 (A/31/55);

(e) Letter from Spain dated 26 February 1976 (A/31/56-s/11997);

(f) Letters from Mauritania dated 14 and 24 June and 15 July 1976
(A/31/106-s/12095, A/31/114-s/12116 and A/31/138-s/12143);

(g) Letters from France and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland dated 2 July and 26 October 1976 (A/31/121 and
A/31/286) •

(h) Letter from Sri Lanka dated 1 Septe~ber 1976 (A/31/197);

(i) Letter from Turkey dated 30 September 1976 (A/31/237);

(j) Note verbale from Somalia dated 15 October 1976 (A/31/269);

(k) Letter from Morocco dated 28 October 1976 (A/31/306).

6. At the 15th meeting, on 4 November, during the discussion on Belize, the
Fourth Committee heard a statement by Mr. earl L. B. Rogers, Deputy Premier and
Minister for Internal Affairs and Health of Belize.

7. At the 14th meeting, on 3 November, on the proposal of the representative of
Democratic Yemen and following a statement by the Secretary of the Committee

/ ...



A/3l/362
English
Page 4

concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth
Committee decided that the statements concerning the question of French Somaliland
made during the meeting should be reproduced in extenso in the record of the
meeting. Subsequently, at the 17th meeting, on 8 November, on the proposal of
the representative of Democratic Yemen and following a statement by the Chairman
concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth
Committee decided that all the statements on the question of French Somali land
made by the representative of the administering Power and the representatives of
Ethiopia and Somalia, as well as the statements made by the representatives of
the national liberation movements and the petitioners concerned, should be
reproduced in extenso in the records of the relevant meetings.

8. At the 22nd meeting, on 11 November, on the proposal of the representatives
of the United Republic of Tanzania and Madagascar and following a statement by
the Chairman concerning the related administrative and financial implications,
the Fourth Co~mittee decided that the statements relating to the question of
Western Sahara made during the meeting should be reproduced in extenso in the
record of the meeting. At the 23rd meeting, on 12 November, at the request of
the representative of Spain, the Fourth Committee decided that the statement made
by that representative on the question of Western Sahara should be reproduced
in extenso in the record of the meeting. At the same meeting, the Committee, on
the proposal of the representative of the United Republic of Tanzania, decided
that the statements made during the meeting by the representatives of Morocco,
Mauritania and Algeria on the aforementioned question should also be reproduced
in extenso in the record of the meeting.

9. During the Fourth Committee's consideration of that part of the item relating
to French Somaliland, Mr. Warsama Assowe Dhabar, representative of the Front de
liberation de la Cote des Somalis (FLCS), and Mr. Ahmed Bourhan Omar,
representative of the Mouvement de liberation de Djibouti (MLD), participated in
an observer capacity in the proceedings of the Committee, in accordance with the
relevant provisions of General Assembly resolution 3412 (XXX) of 28 November 1975.

10. Mr. Warsama Assowe Dhabar made statements at the 14th, 17th and 21st meetings,
on 3, 8 and 11 November 1976. Mr. Ahmed Bourhan Omar made a statement at the
17th meeting.

11. The Fourth Comnlittee granted the following requests for hearing ln connexion
with its consideration of the item:

Petitioner

Mr. Mahmud Saedon A. Othman, Head of the
Foreign Affairs Bureau, Partai Rakyat Brunei (PRB)
(People's Party of Brunei) (A/c.4/31/3)

Meeting at which request
for hearing was granted

lOth

/ ...



Mr. Mohamed Abdelaziz, Secretary-General,
Frente Popular para la Liberaci6n de Saguia
el Ha~a y Rio de Oro (Frente POLISARIO)
(A/c.4/31/4)

Mr. Jose Ramos Horta, member of the Central
Committee, Executive Committee and Political-
Military Committee, Frente Revolucionaria de
Timor Leste Independente (FRETILIN)
(A/C. 4/31/7)

Mr. Hassan Gouled Aptidon, President, Ligue
populaire africaine pour l'independance (LPAI)
(A/c.4/31/8)

Mr. Mohamed Kamil Ali, President, Mouvement
populaire de liberation (MPL) (A/c.4/31/8/Add.l)

Mr. Ahmed Youssouf Houmed, Secretary-General,
Union nationale pour l'independance (UNI)
(A/c.4/31/8/Add.2)

Mr. Abdallah Mohamed Kamil, President of the
Government Council of the French Territory
of the Afars and the Issas (A/C.4/31/8/Add.3)

Mr. Hassan Youssouf Mahamoud ~/

lOth

lOth

lOth

loth

lOth

11th

20th

A/31/362
English
Page 5

12. At the 13th meeting, on 2 November, Mr. Mari Alkatiri of FRETILIN made a
statement. At the 14th meeting, on 3 November, Mr. Abdallah Mohamed Kamil,
President of the Government Council of the French Territory of the Afars and the
Issas, made a statement. At the 17th meeting, on 8 November, statements were
made by Mr. Mohamed Kamil Ali, of MPL, and Mr. Ahmed Dini Abmed of LPAI. At the
20th meeting, on 10 November, Mr. Abdallah Mohamed Kamil replied to a question
put to him by a member of the Committee, and Mr. Ahmed Youssouf Houmed of UNI made
a statement. At the same meeting, following a procedural discussion, the
Committee, by a vote of 20 to I, with 86 abstentions, decided to hear
Mr. Hassan Youssouf Mahamoud at that meeting. Accordingly,
Mr. Hassan Youssouf Mahamoud made a statement concerning the question of French
Somaliland at the aforementioned meeting. At the 22nd meeting, on 11 November,
Mr. Mohamed Abdelaziz of the Frente POLISARIO made a statement. No
representatives of PRB appeared before the Committee.

13. The general debate covering the items referred to in paragraph 3 above took
place at the 11th to 24th and 27th meetings, between 28 October and 17 November.

~/ See para. 12 below.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 6

14. In connexion with item 25, the Fourth Committee adopted 15 draft resolutions
and four draft consenSUSes concerning the following Territories:

I.

II.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

xv.

XVI.

XVII.

XVIII.

XIX.

Western Sahara

Solomon Islands

Gilbert Islands

Tokelau Islands

Falkland Islands (Malvinas)

Belize

New Hebrides

Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Montserrat and Turks and Caicos Islands

St. Helena (consensus)

Tuvalu (consensus)

Timor

British Virgin Islands

American Samoa

Gibraltar (consensus)

Cocos (Keeling) Islands (consensus)

Brunei

United States Virgin Islands

Guam

French Somaliland

An account of the Committee's consideration of the draft resolutions and the draft
consensuses is given in sections I to XIX below.

15. At its 28th meeting, on 18 November, the Fourth Committee took decisions
concerning the questions of Pitcairn and of Antigua, Dominica,
St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia and St. Vincent, as reflected in paragraph 73
below. In taking these decisions, the Fourth Committee noted that, SUbject to any
directives which the General Assembly might give in that connexion, the Special
Committee had decided to give consideration to the latter group of Territories at
its next session.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 7

I. WESTERN SAHARA

16. At the 22nd meeting, on 11 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution prepared by him concerning Western Sahara (A/c.4/31/L.13).

17. At the 23rd meeting, on 12 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.4/31/L.13 without objection (see para. 71 below, draft resolution I).

11. SOLOMON ISLANDS

18. At the 19th meeting, on 9 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning the Solomon Islands (A/c.4/31/L.3).

19. At the 21st meeting, on 11 November, the representative of Papua New Guinea
introduced draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.3, which was finally sponsored by the
following Member States: Australia, Austria, Canada, Fi.li, India, Indonesia, Iraq,
Ivory Coast, Japan, Malaysia, Mozambique, New Zealand,-papua New Guinea,
Philippines, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Thailand, Trinidad and TObago, Uganda and
United Republic of Tanzania.

20. At the 25th meeting, on 15 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.4/31/L.3 without objection (see para. 71 below, draft resolution 11).

Ill. GJ~EERT ISLANDS

21. At the 21st meeting, on 11 November, the representative of Sierra Leone
introduced a draft resolution concerning the Gilbert Islands (A/c.4/31/L.7), which
was finally sponsored by the following Member States: Australia, Denmark, Fij i ,
India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Liberia, Malaysia, Mali,
Mozambique, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, United RepUblic of Tanzania
and Yugoslavia.

22. At the 25th meeting, on 15 November, following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee, under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly, concerning the related administrative and financial implications,
the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.7 without objection
(see para. 71 below, draft resolution Ill).

IV. TOKELAU ISLANDS

23. At the 23rd meeting, on 12 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning the Tokelau Islands (A/c.4/31/L.14).

24. At the 24th meeting, on the same date, the representative of Iran introduced
draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.14, Which was finally sponsored by the following
Member States: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Congo, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 8

Ivory Coast, Japan, Malaysia, Mozambique, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Sierra
Leone, Sweaen, Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon and
United Republic of Tanzania.

25. nt the 25th meeting, on 15 November, following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee, under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly, concerning the related administrative and financial implications,
the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.14 without objection
(see para. 71 below, draft resolution IV).

V. FALKLAND ISLANDS (MALVINAS)

26. At the 22nd meeting, on 11 November, the representative of Iraq introduced a
draft resolution concerning the Falkland Islands (Malvinas) (A/c.4/31/L.8). The
draft resolution in its revised form (A/C.4/31/L.8/Rev.l) was finally sponsored
by the following Member States: Benin, Bolivia, Burundi, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Dominican Repub.Li.c , Ecuador", Lgypt:'l Lraq , Mali, Mexic0:'l Mozambique:'l Panama , Peru,
§enegal, Syrian Arab RepUblic, Uganda, Uruguay, and Venezuela.

27. At the 25th meeting, on 15 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.4/31/L.8/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 94 to 1, with 32 abstentions
(see para. 71 below, draft resolution V). TIle voting was as follows.

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, lTicar~gua, ~iger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Surinam, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, TIlailand, Toga,
'runisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist RepUblic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of C&~eroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper
Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against: United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Botswana, Canada,
Denmark, Fiji, Finland, France, G&flbia, GenJany, Federal Republic
of, Gujana , Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Luxembourg,
Malawi, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea,
Portugal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago,
United States of America, Zaire.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 9

VI. BELIZE

28. At the 22nd meeting, on 11 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning Belize (A/c.4/L.IO).

29. At the 26th meeting, on 17 November, the representative of Kuwait introduced
draft resolution A/c.4/3l/L.IO, which was finally sponsored by the following
Member States: Afghanistan, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados,
Benin, Bhutan, Burundi, Canada, Chad, Congo, Cuba, Denmark, Equatorial Guinea,
Ghana, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-BISSa."u, Guyana-;-India, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Mali, Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Oman, Romania, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of
Cameroon, United RepUblic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yugoslavia, Zaire and Zambia.
In his statement, the representative of Kuwait submitted, on behalf of the sponsors,
an oral revision to the text of the draft resolution by which, in the fourth
preambular paragraph, the words "in pursuance of paragraph 6 of resolution
3432 (XXX)", were deleted.

30. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution
A/c.4/3l/L.IO, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of III to 9, with
15 abstentions (see para. 71 below, draft resolution VI). The voting was as
follows:

In favour:

Against:

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana,
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory
Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's DtIT.ocratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka~ Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist RepUblic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Bolivia, Chile, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras,
Nicaragua, Paraguay, Uruguay.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 10

Abstaining: Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Israel,
Japan, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Pakistan, Peru, Spain,
United States of America, Venezuela.

VII. NEW HEBRIDES

31. At the 25th meeting, on 15 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning the New Hebrides (A/c.4/31/L.19), which was sponsored by the
following Member States: Australia, Ghana, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, New Zealand,
Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Sierra Leone, and United Republic of Tanzania.

32. On 16 November, a revised text of the draft resolution (A/c.4/31/L.19/Rev.l)
was circulated by the sponsors, now including the Ivory Coast and Mozambique,
by which the fifth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Having heard the statement of the representative of the Government
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as an
administering Power, relating to developments in the New Hebrides,"

was replaced by:

"Having heard the statements of the representatives of the
Governments of France and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, as the administering Powers, relating to developments
in the New Hebrides,".

33. At its 27th meeting, on 17 November, following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee, under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly, concerning the related administrative and financial implications
the Fourth Committee adopted revised draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.19/Rev.l without
objection (see para. 71 below, draft resolution VII).

/ ...



A/3l/362
English
Page 11

VIn. BERMUDA, CAYMAN ISLANDS, MONTSERRAT,
AND TURKS AND CAICOS ISLANDS

34. At the 25th meeting, on 15 November, the representative of Barbados introduced
a draft resolution concerning the Territories listed above (A/c.4/3l/L.20), which
was finally sponsored by. the following Member States: Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium,
Canada, Guyana, India, Trinidad and Tobago and United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

35. In his statement, the representative of Barbados submitted, on behalf of the
sponsors, now joined by Australia, Benin, Guinea, the Ivory Coast, Jamaica and
Mozambique, the following oral revisions to the draft resolution:

(a) The ninth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and
economic conditions of the Territories concerned and stressing the necessity
of diversifYing their economies as a matter of priority in order to reduce
their dependence on fluctuating economic activities,"

was replaced by the following:

"Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and
economic conditions of the Territories concerned and stressing the necessity
of diversifYing and strengthening further their economies as a matter of
priority in order to promote economic stability and to reduce their
dependence on fluctuating economic activities,"

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the phrase "should they so wish," was deleted;

(c) Operative paragraph 5, which read:

"5. Calls upon the administering Power to take all possible steps, in
consultation with the local authorities as appropriate, to diversifY the
economies of the Territories listed above and to work out concrete programmes
of assistance and economic development for those Territories;"

was replaced by:

"5. Calls upon the administering Power to expand its programme of
budgetary and development aid and to take all possible steps, in consultation
with the local authorities as appropriate, to diversifY and strengthen further
the economies of the Territories listed above and to work out concrete
programmes of assistance and economic development for those Territories;".

36. At its 27th meeting, on 17 November, following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee, under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly, concerning the related administrative and financial implications,
the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.4/3l/L.20/Rev.l without objection
(see para. 71 below, draft resolution VIII).

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 12

IX. ST. HELENA

3.7. At the 25th meeting, on 15 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
consensus concerning St. Helena (A/c.4/31/L.17).

38. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee made a statement under
the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly concerning
the administrative and financial implications of the recommendation contained in
the draft consensus.

39. At its 27th meeting, on 17 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
consensus A/c.4/31/L.17 without objection (see para. 72 below, draft consensus I).

X. TUVALU

40. At the 25th meeting, on 15 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
consensus concerning Tuvalu (A/c.4/31/L.18).

41. At its 27th meeting, on 17 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
consensus A/c.4/31/L.18 without objection (see para. 72 below, draft consensus 11).

XI. TIMOR

42. On 10 November, a draft resolution concerning Timor (A/c.4/31/L.5) was
circulated on behalf of the following Member States: Algeria, Benin, Congo, CUba,
Democratic Kampuchea, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau and Mozambique. A statement by the
Secretary-General (A/c.4/31/L.9), SUbmitted in accordance with rule 153 of the
rules of procedure of the General Assembly concerning the related administrative
and financial implications, was circulated on the same date. The draft resolution
(A/C.4/31/L.5) read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recognizing the inalienable right of all peoples to self-determination
and independence in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the
United Nations and of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of
14 December 1960,

"Recalling General Assembly resolution 3485 (xxx) of 12 December 1975
and Security Council resolutions 384 (1975) of 22 December 1975 and 389 (1976)
of 22 April 1976,

"Having examined the chapter of the report of
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Territory, 11

11 A/31/23/Add.6, chap. XII.

the Special Committee on
the Declaration on the
Peoples relating to the

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 13

"Bearing in mind the political declaration of the Fifth Conference of
the Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries in connexion with
the question of East Timor, ~

"Having heard the statement of the representative of Portugal, 2J

"Having also heard the statement of the representative of the Frente
RevoIucfonar-La de Timor Leste Independente (FRETILIN), §j

"Mindful that all States should, in conformity with Article 2,
paragraph 4, of the Charter, refrain in their international relations from
the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or national
independence of any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with the
purposes of the United Nations,

"Deeply concerned at the critical situation resulting from the military
intervention of the armed forces of Indonesia in East Timor,

1/1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of East Timor to
self-determination-alld independence and the legitimacy of their struggle to
achieve that right;

1/2. Condemns the persistent refusal of the Government of Indonesia to
comply with the provisions of General Assembly resolution 3485 (xxx) and
Security Council resolutions 384 (1975) ~d 389 (1976);

1/3. Rejects the claim that East, Timor has been integrated into
Indonesia inasmuch as the people of the Territory have not been able to
exercise freely their right to self-determination and independence;

"4. Calls upon the Government of Indonesia to cease hostilities
against the forces of the Frente Revolucionaria de Timor Leste Independente
(FRETILIN) and to withdraw all Indonesian forces from the Territory in
compliance with the relevant United Nations resolutions;

1/5. Draws the attention of the Security Council, in conformity with
Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations, to the
critical situation in the Territory of East Timor and recommends that it
take all effective steps for the immediate implementation of its
resolutions 384 (1975) and 389 (1976) with a view to securing the full
exercise by the people of East Timor of their right to self-determination
and independence;

"6. Calls upon all States to respect the unity and territorial
integrity of East Timor;

~ A/31/197, annex I, para. 36.

2J A/c.4/31/SR.13.
§j Ibid.

/ ...



A/3l/362
English
Page 14

"7. Decides to invite the representative of FRETILIN to participate as
appropriate in its proceedings relating to East Timer, including those of the
Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

"8. Reguests the Special Committee to keep the situation in the
Territory under active consideration, to follow the implementation of the
present resolution, to dispatch to the Territory as soon as possible a
visiting mission with a view to the full and speedy implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Indepenuence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-second session;

"9. Decides to include in the agenda of its thirty-second session an
item entitled 'Question of East Timor'."

43. At the 21st meeting, on 11 November, the representative of Guinea-Bissau, on
behalf of the sponsors, withdrew the draft resolution (A/c.4/31/L.5).

44. At the 25th meeting, on 15 November, the representatives of Guinea-Bissau,
the United Republic of Tanzania and Benin introduced a draft resolution concerning
Timor (A/C. 4/3l/L.15), which was finally sponsored by the following Member States:
Algeria, Benin, Congo, Cuba, Democratic Kampuchea, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Mali,
Mozambique and United Republic of Tanzania.

45. At the same meeting, the Chairman drew attention to a statement by the
Secretary-General (A/C.4/31/L.21), SUbmitted in accordance with rule 153 of the
rules of procedure of the General Assembly, concerning the administrative and
financial implications of the draft resolution (A/c.4/31/L.15).

46. At its 21th meeting, on 11 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.4/31/L.15 by a roll-call vote of 61 to 18, with 49 abstentions (see
para. 71 below, draft resolution IX). The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Against:

Albania, Algeria, Benin, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Chad, China,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon,
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Leo People's
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, Mexico,
Mongolia, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Swaziland, Sweden, Togo , Trinidad and Tobago,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Republic of Cameroon, United
RepUblic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Zambia.

Bangladesh, Chile, India, Indonesia, Iran, Japan, Jordan,
Malaysia, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Philippines,
Saudi Arabia, Surinam, Thailand, Tunisia, United States of
America.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 15

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, Egypt, El. Salvador, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal RepUblic of, Grenada, GuatemaJ.a, Honduras, Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Kuwait, Lebanon, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Qatar, Singapore,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Turkey, United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 16

XII. BRITISH VIRGIN ISLANDS

47. At the 21st meeting, on 11 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning the British Virgin Islands (A/c.4/31/L.6).

48. At the 22nd meeting, on the same day, the representative of Sierra Leone
introduced ~ revised text (A/c.4/31/L.6/Rev.l) of the draft resolution, which was
finally sponsored by the following Member States: Australia, Congo, Fi,j i ,
Grenada, India, lvory,Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Liberia, Mozambique, Senegal,
Sierra Leone; Syrian Arab RepUblic, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, United Republic
of Cameroon, and United RepUblic of Tanzania.

49. The revised draft resolution (A/c.4/31/L.6/Rev.l) contained the following
new paragraph which was added as operative paragraph 2:

"2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the
BritiSh Virgin Islands to self-determination and independence in
accordance with the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colo~ial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV);"

50. At the 25th meeting, on 15 November, the Secretary of the Committee made a
statement, under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly, concerning the administrative and financial implications of the
recommendation contained in the draft resolution.

51. At the 27th meeting, on 17 November, the representative of the United
Republic of Tanzania, on behalf of the sponsors, submitted an oral revision to the
text of the revised draft resolution by Which, in the fourth preambular paragraph,
the words "and the expression of his Government's readiness to grant independence
to the Br-it.Lsh Virgin Islands if the majority of its inhabitants so des i r-e were
deleted.

52. At its 28th meeting, on 18 November, the Fourth Committee adopted revised
draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.6/Rev.l, as orally revised, without objection
(see para. 71 below, draft resolution X).

XIII. AMERICAN SAMOA

53. At the 26th meeting, on 17 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning American Samoa (A/c.4/31/L.22), which was finally sponsored
by the followin€i Mefllber States: Australia, Grenada, Indonesia, Japan, t1alaysia,
New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Sierra Leone and United Republic of
Tanzania.

54. At the 28th meeting, on 18 November, the representative of Australia, on
behalf of the sponsors, submitted the following oral revisions to the text of the
draft resolution:

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 17

(a) The fourth preambular paragraph was deleted;

(b) At the end of operative paragraph 2, the following words were added:
"contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)".

55. At the same meeting, following a statement by the Secretary of the Committee,
under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly,
concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth
Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.22, as orally revised, without
objection (see para. 71 below, draft resolution XI).

XIV. GIBRALTAR

56. At the 26th meeting, on 17 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
consensus concerning Gibraltar (A/c.4/31/L.23).

57. At its 28th meeting, on 18 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
consensus A/c.4/31/L.23 without objection (see para. 72 below, draft consensus Ill).

xv. COCOS (KEELING) ISLANDS

58. At the 26th meeting, on 17 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
consensus concerning the Cocos (Keeling) Islands (A/c.4/31/L.24).

59. At its 28th meeting, on 18 Ncvember, following a statement by the Secretary of
the Committee, under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly, concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the
Fourth Committee adopted draft consensus A/c.4/31/L.24 without objection (see
para. 72 below, draft consensus IV).

XVI. BRUNEI

60. At the 22nd meeting, on II November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning Brunei (A/C.4/31/L.12).

61. At the 26th meeting, on 17 November, the representative of Malaysia introduced
the draft resolution, which was finally sponsored by the following Member States:
Egypt, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Mozambique, Philippines, Syrian Arab Republic and United Republic of Tanzania.

62. At the 28th meeting, on 18 November, following a statement by the Secretary of
the Committee, under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly, concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the
Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.12 by 107 votes to none, with
15 abstentions (see para. 71 below, draft resolution XII).

/ ...



A/3l/362
English
Page 18

XVII. UNITED STATES VIRGIN ISLANDS

63. At the 28th meeting, on 18 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning the United States Virgin Islands (A/c.4/31/L.25), which was
finally sponsored by the following Member States: Dominican Republic, Ivory Coast
and Sierra Leone.

64. At the same meeting, the representative of the Ivory Coast, on behalf of the
sponsors, submitted an oral revision to the text of the draft resolution, by which
the fourth preambular paragraph was deleted.

65. At its 29th meeting, on 19 November, following a statement by the Secretary of
the Committee, under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly, concerning the related administrative and financial implications,
the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.25, as orally revised,
without objection (see para. 71 below, draft resolution XIII).

XVIII. GUAM

66. At the 31st meeting, on 24 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning Guam (A/c.4/31/L.26), which was finally sponsored by the
following Member States: Benin, Comoros, Cuba, Iraq, Lao People's Democratic
Republic and Libyan Arab Republic.

67. At its 32nd meeting, on 25 November, following a statement by the Secretary of
tLe Committee, under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assembly, concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the
Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.26 by a recorded vote of
60 to 21, with 42 abstentions (see para. 71 below, draft resolution XIV). The
voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Barbados, Benin, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde,
China, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia,
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Hungary, India, Iraq, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Mali,
Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Poland, Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 19

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Dominican Republic,
France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Grenada, Haiti, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America, Uruguay.

Abstaining: Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Chad,
Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Greece,
Guatemala, Honduraa, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Ivory Coast,
Jordan, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Malaysia, Nepal, Norway, Oman,
Paraguay, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Singapore,
Spain, Surinam, Sweden, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Upper Volta,
Zaire.

XIX. FRENCH SOHALILAND

68. At the 31st meeting, on 24 November, the representative of Egypt introduced
a draft resolution concerning French Somaliland (A/C.4/31/L.27), which was
finally sponsored by the following Member States: Algeria, Benin, Burundi,
Cape Verde, Chad, Congo, Democratic Yemen, E~t, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia,
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic,
Madagascar, Mali, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, United Republic of
Tanzania, Yemen and Zambia. -- .

69. At the 32nd meeting, on 25 November, the Chairman drew attention to a
statement by the Secretary-General (A/c.4/31/L.28), submitted in accordance with
rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, concerning the
related administrative and financial implications of draft resolution A/c.4/31/L.27.

70. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.4/31/L.27 by a recorded vote of III to none, with 18 abstentions (see
para. 71 below, draft resolution XV). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Chad,
China, Colombia, Comeros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Grenada,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, GuYana, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lac People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, !1ongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,

/ ...



,

A/31/362
English
Page 20

Poland, Portugal, Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, SUdan,
Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Yemen~ Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against; None

Abstaining; Australia, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Dominican Republic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Haiti, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Spain, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

RECOI~ATIONS OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

71. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 21

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Question of Western Sahara

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of Western Sahara,

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing thee
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to COlonial Countries and P$oples,

Considering the decision of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of
the Organization of African Unity, at its thirteenth ordinary session, held .at
Port Louis from 2 to 6 July 1976, to hold an extraordinary session devoted to
the question of Western Sahara, 11

Taking note of the part regarding Western Sahara of the Political Declaration
adopted by the Fifth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Colomco from 16 to 19 August 1976, §j

Recalling its previous resolutions concerning the Territoi-!r,!

Recalling also its resolution 3412 (XXX) of 28 November 1975'regarding
co-operation between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity,

1. Reaffirms its commitment to the principle of self-determination of
peoples in accordance with the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

2. Takes note of the decision taken by the Assembly of Heads of S1;ate or
Government of the Organization of African Unity to convene an extraordinary'.
session with a view to finding a just and lasting solution to the problem Of
Western Sahara;

3. Decides to postpone consideration of the question of Western Sahara until
its thirty-second session;

4. Requests the Administrative Secretary-General of the Organization of
African Unity to inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the
progress achieved in the implementation of the decisions of the Organization of
African Unity concerning Western Sahara, and invites the Secretary-General of the
United Nations to report on that information to the General Assembly at its
thirty-second session.

11 See A/31/136-s/12141, annex II.
§j A/31/197, annex I, para. 35.

/ ...



•

A/31/362
English
Page 22

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Question of the Solomon Islands

The General Assembly,

Ravin~ considered the question of the Solomon Islands,

Ravine examined the relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 21

Ravin~ heard the statement of the administering Power, ~

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the Territory,

Recalling also its resolution 3431 (XXX) of S December 1975 on the Solomon
Islands,

Noting with satisfaction that the Solomon Islands achieved full internal
self-government on 2 January 1976 and that the Governments of the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the Solomon Islands agree that the
Territory should proceed to early independence,

poting also with satisfaction the development assistance provided by the
United Kingdom, as the administering Power, Australia and New Zealand, as well as
the assistance of the United Nations Development Programme in the economic
development of the Territory during 1976,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Solomon
Islands; ill

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the Solomon Islands to
self-determination and independence, in accordance with the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

3. Requests the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, as the administering Power, to continue to assist the people of
the Solomon Islands towards the achievement of independence;

zj h/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XXI.

10/ See A/c.4/31/SR.ll.

11/ A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XXI.

/ ...



•

A/3l/362
English
Page 23

4. Further requests the aQministering Power, in consultation with the
people of the Solomon Islands, to continue its efforts towards diversification of
the economy of the Territory;

5. Stresses the responsibility of the United Nations to render all possible
assistance to the people of the Solomon Islands in their efforts to consolidate
their national independence and, to that end, invites the specialized agencies and
the institutions associated with the United Nations to work out concrete programmes
af assistance to the Solomon Islands;

6. Requests the Special Committee to keep the situation in the Territory
under review.

;)".'0'r RESOLU':'IO~J El

Question of the Gilbert Islands

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of the Gilbert Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Co~mittee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 12/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of ll~ December' 1960, containinr-; the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the
Territory,

HavinG heard the statement of the administering Power relatin~ to
developments in the Territory, 131

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Gilbert Islands; ~4j

2. Reaffirms the inalienable riGht of the people of the Gilbert Islands to
self-deterTIination and independence in conformity with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV):

121 A/3l/23 (Part 11), chap. III and A/31/23/Add.A (Part Ill), chap. XIX.

131 See A/c.l~/31/SR.ll.

141 A/3l/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XIX.

I ...



A/3l/362
English
Page 24

3 & Requests the Uni ted Kingdom of Great Britain ana. .Northern Ireland? as
the administerin~ Power~ to continue to take measures to expedite the process of
decolonization in the Territory in accordance with the relevant recommendations of
the Special Committee, including in particular the observations of the United
Nations Visiting Mission dispatched to the Territory in 1974; 151

4. Requests that steps be taken towards diversification of the economy of
the Territory, and that the administering Power continue to enlist the assistance
of the specialized agencies and the organizations within the United Nations system
in the development and strengthening of the economy of the Territory;

5. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways and
means for the implementation of the Declaration with respect to the Gilbert
Islands, including the possible dispatch of a further visitin~ mission, in
consultation with the administering Power, and to report to the General Assembly
at its thirty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Question of Tokelau

The General Assembly,

Having,considered the question of the Tokelau Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 161 including in
particular the report of the United Nations Visiting Mission-aispatched to the
Territory in June 1976 171 at the invitation of the Government of ~ew Zealand,
as the administering Power, and the people of the Tokelau Islands,

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Recalling also its resolution 3428 (XXX) of 8 December 1975, concerning the
question of the Tokelau Islands,

Having heard the statement of the representative of the administerin~
Power, 181

151 Official Records of the General Assembly, TwentY-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 23 (A/9623/Rev.l), chap. XXI, annex I.

161 A/31/23 (Part rr) , chap. HI and A/31/23/Add.8 (Part H), chap. XVII.
171 A/3l/23/Add.8 (Part II), chap. XVII, annex.

181 See A/C.4/3l/sR.12.

I ...



• ,

A/31/362
English
Page.25

Having also heard the statement of one of the members of the Visiting
Mission, 19!

Mtndful of the responsibility of the United Nations to help the people of the
Tokelau Islands to realize their aspirations in accordance with the objectives set
forth in the Declaration,

Aware of the special problems facing the Territory by virtue of its isolation,
small size and meaBre resources~

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special ComJmittee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Tokelau Islands: 201

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the Tokelau Islands
to self·-determination in conformity with the Declaration On the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples contained in General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV);

3. Commends the conclusions and recommendations contained in the report of
the United Nations Visiting Mission to the Tokelau Islands, 1976, 211 to the
Government of New Zealand, as the administering Power, and to the people of the
Tokelau Islands for their consideration;

4 Expresses its appreciation to the members of the Visiting ~tission for the
constructive work which they accomplished, and to the administering Power, the fonos
(councils) and the people of the Tokelau Islands for the close co-operation and
assistance extended to the Mission;

5. Decides that, in accordance with the wishes of the people of the Tokelau
Islands, as expressed through their representatives, and in conformity with the
recolnmendation of the Visiting Mission, the Territory shall henceforth be known as

Tokelau" ~

6. Expresses the view that measures to promote the economic development of,
Tokelau are an important element in the process of self-(letermination •. and the hope
that the administering Power will continue to intensify and expand its programme
of budgetary support and development aid to the Territory,

7. Requests the administering Power, in the light of the conclusions and
recommendations of the Visiting Mission, to continue to enlist the assistance of the
specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system, as
well as other regional and international bodies, in the strengthening and development
of the economy of the Territory;

191 See A/c.4/31/sR.24.

201 A/31/23/Add.8 (Part 11), chap. XVII.

211 Ibid., annex, paras. 331-421.

I ...



A/31/362
English
Page 26

, , ,

8. Requests the specialized agencies and other organizations to consider the
methods and scale of their operations, in order to ensure that they are able to
respond appropriately to the requirements of such small and isolated Territories
as Tokelau;

9. Requests the administering Power to take the necessary measures to
intensify proerammes of political education, as well as to enSure the preservation
of the identity and the cultural heritage of the people of Tokelau~

10. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine this question at
its next session, in the light of the findings of the Visiting 'Iission, LncLudf ns;
the possible dispatch, as appropriate and in consultation with the administering
Power, of a'second visiting mission to Tokelau, and to report thereon to the
General Assembly at its thirty-second session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Question of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas)

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of the Falkland Islands (Malvinas),

Recalling its resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, 2065 (XX) of
16 De~ember 1965 and 3160 (XXVIII) of 14 December 1973,

Bearing in mind the paragraphs related to this question contained in the
Political Declaration adopted by the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Lima from 25 to 30 August 1975, 22/ and in the
Political Declaration adopted by the Fifth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Colombo from 16 to 19 August 1976, 23/

Having regard to the chapter of the report of the Special CONmittee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Falkland Islands
(Malvinas) 24/ and, in particular, the conclusions and recommendations adopted by
the Committee concerning the Territory, 25/

22/ A/I0217 and Corr.l, annex, para. 87.

23/ A/31/197, annex I, para. 119.

24/ A/31/23/Add.9 (Part Ill), chap. XXX.

25/ Ibid., para. 8.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 27

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of th~ Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relatin~ to the Falkland Islands
(~mlvinas) and, in particular, the conclusions and recommendations adopted by the
Committee concerning the Territory' 26j

2. Expresses its gratitude for the continuous efforts made by the Government
of Argentina, in accordance with the relevant decisions of the General Ass~mbly,
to facilitate the process of decolonization and to promote the well-being of the
population of the islands;

3. Reguests the Governments of Argentina and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland to expedite the negotiations concerning the dispute
over sovereignty as requested in General Assembly resolutions 2065 (XX) and
3160 (XXVIII);

4. Calls upon the two parties to refrain from taking decisions that would
imply introducing unilateral mOdifications in the situation while the islands
are going through the process recommended in the above-mentioned resolutions;

5. Requests both Governments to report to the Secretary-General and to the
General Assembly as SOon as possible on the results of the negotiations.

I ...



A/3l/362
English
Page 28

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Question of Belize

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of Belize,

Having examined the relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation wi th regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 27/

Recalling its resolution 3432 (XXX) of 8 December 1975,

Having heard the statements of the representatives of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland g]J and Guatemala, 29/

Having also heard the statement of the representative of Belize, 30/

Reaffirmin~ the principles established in the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, set out in its resolution 1514 (XV)
of 14 December 1960, in particular, that all peoples have the right to
self-determination, by virtue of which right they freely determine their political
status and freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development,

Noting that negotiations have taken place between the Government of the
United Kingdom, as the administering Power, acting in close consultation with the
Government of Belize, and the Government of Guatemala, pursuant to the provisions
of paragraphs 4 and 5 of resolution 3432 (XXX),

Regretting that these negotiations have not resulted in the removal of such
obstacles as have hitherto prevented the people of Belize from exercising freely
and without fear their inalienable right to self-determination and independence,

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Beli ze to
self-determination and independence;

2. Reaffirms that the inviolability and territorial integrity of Beli ze
must be preserved;

27/ A/3l/23/Add.9 (Part I), chap. XXVI.

28/ See A/c.4/3l/SR.15.

£21 See A/c.4/3l/SR.19 and 26.
30/ See A/C.4/3l/SR.15.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 29

30 Calls upon all States to respect the right of the people of Belize to
self-determination, independence and territorial integrity, to facilitate the
attainment of their goal of a secure and early independence and to refrain from
any action that would threaten the territorial integrity of Belize;

40 Calls also upon the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, as the administering Power, acting in close consultation with the
Government of Belize, and the Government of Guatemala to pursue vigorously their
negotiations in accordance with the principles of General Assembly resolution
3432 (XXX), in order to reach an early conclusion;

5. Reguests the two Governments concerned to report to the General Assembly
at its thirty-second session on such agreements as may have been reached in the
negotiations refe~red to above;

6. Reguests the Special Committee On the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the DeClaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue its examination of the question 0

1.0.



A/31/362
English
Page 30

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Question of the New Hebrides

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of the New Hebrides,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 31/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
all other resolDtions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the
Territory, including General Assembly resolutions 3290 (XXIX) of 13 December 1974
and 3433 (XXX) of 8 December 1975,

Aware that France, as an administering Power, has not participated in the
discussions of the Special Committee relating to the Territory,

Having heard the statements of the representatives of the Governments of
France 32/ and of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 33/
as the administering Powers, relating to developments in the New Hebrides,

Noting the joint communique issued by the Governments of France and the
United Kingdom on 7 October 1976, 34/ in which the administering Powers state
that it is their joint policy to promote the democratic evolution of the
New Hebrides in accordance with the principle of self-determination,

Conscious of the need to accelerate progress towards the full implementation
of the Declaration with respect to the New Hebrides,

Bearing in mind the constructive results aChieved as a consequence of previous
visiting missions to colonial Territories, and reiterating its conviction that the
dispatch of such a mission to the New Hebrides is essential for securing adequate
and first-hand information in regard to the conditions prevailing in the Territory
and to the views, wiShes and aspirations of the people therein with respect to
their future status,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and economic
conditions of the New Hebrides, and stressing the necessity of diversifying its
economy as a matter of priority,

31/ A/31/23 (Part rr) , chap. IH and A/31/23/Add.8 (Part I), chap. XVI.
32/ See A/c.4/31/SR.27.

l}/ See A/c.4/31/SR.ll.

34/ A/31/286.
/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 31

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to COlonial Countries and Peoples relating to the New Hebrides; 35/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the Territory to
self-determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

3. Reaffirms its conviction that questions of territorial size, geographical
isolation and limited resources should in nO way delay the implementation of the
Declaration with respect to the New Hebrides;

4. Notes with satisfaction the establishment of the Representative Assembly
of the New Hebrides and the declared intention of the administering Powers to
increase progressively the responsibilities enjoyed by the Assembly, in accordance
with the wishes of the people of the Territory;

5. Reiterates its request that the two administering Powers should continue
to take measures to expedite the process of decolonization in the New Hebrides;

6. Requests the administering Powers to take all appropriate steps to
strengthen the economy of the New Hebrides and to work out concrete programmes of
assistance and economic development for the Territory;

7. Requests the administering Powers to continue to enlist the assistance
of the specialized agencies and the organizations within the United Nations system
in accelerating progress in all sectors of the national life of the Territory;

8. Requests the Governments of France and of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland to co-operate with the Special Committee and to
consider permitting access by a United Nations visiting mission to the New
Hebrides, and to report on this aspect to the Special Committee when the Committee
next considers the question of the New Hebrides;

9. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways and
means for the implementation of the Declaration with respect to the New Hebrides,
including the possible dispatch of a visiting mission in consultation with the
administering Powers, and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-second
session on the implementation of the present resolution.

35/ A/31/23/Add.8 (Part I), chap. XVI.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 32

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Question of Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Montserrat,
and Turks and Caicos Islands

!he General Assembly,

Having considered the question of Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Montserrat and
Turks and Caicos Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 36/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the
Territories listed above, in particular General Assembly resolutions 3425 (XXX)
and 3427 (XXX) of 8 December 1975,

Taking into account the statement of the administering Power relating to the
Territories listed above, 37/

Noting the continued readiness of the administering Power to grant
independence to the peoples of the Territories under its administration on the
basis of their express wishes and aspirations in that regard, and its declared
policy of fostering the growth of free and democratic political institutions in
those Territories,

Conscious of the need to accelerate progress towards the full implementation
of the Declaration with respect to the Territories concerned,

Bearjng ~n_mind the constructive results achieved as a consequence of the
1975 United Nations Visiting Mission to Montserrat, 38/ and reiterating its
conviction that the dispatch of visiting missions to~olonial Territories is
essential for securing adequate and first-hand information in regard to the
political, economic and social conditions in those Territories and to the views,
wishes and aspirations of the peoples therein,

Mindful that those Territories require the continued attention and assistance
of the United Nations in the achievement by their peoples of the objectives
embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and in the Declaration,

361 A/31/23 (Part 11), chap. Ill, A/3l/23/Add.9 (Part I), chap. XXVII and
A/31/23/Add.9 (Part Ill), chap. XXIX.

37/ See A/C.4/31/SR.ll.

381 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, Supplement
No. 23(A/IOO-23/Rev.l), chap. XXVIII, annex.

I .. ·



A/31/362
English
Page 33

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and economic
conditions of the Territories concerned and stressing the necessity of diversifying
and strengthening further their economies as a matter of priority in order to
promote economic stability and to reduce their dependence on fluctuating economic
activities,

1. Appro~~ the chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to Bermuda, Cayman Islands,
Montserrat and Turks and Caicos Islands; 39/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the peoples of those Territories to
self-determination and to independence in accordance with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

3. Reaffirms its conviction that questions of territorial size, geographical
isolation and limited resources should in no way delay the implementation of the
Declaration with respect to the Territories concerned;

4. Calls upon the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, as the administering Power, in consultation with the freely
elected representatives of the peoples, to continue to take all the necessary steps
to ensure the full and speedy attainment of the goals set forth in the Declaration
with respect to the Territories;

5. Calls upon the administering Power to expand its programme of budgetary
and development aid, and to take all possible steps, in consultation with the local
authorities as appropriate, to diversify and strengthen further the economies of
the Territories listed above and to work out concrete programmes of assistance and
economic development for those Territories;

6. Urges the administering Power, with the co-operation of the Governments
of the Territories concerned, to safeguard the inalienable right of the peoples of
those Territories to the enjoyment of their natural resources by taking effective
measures which guarantee the rights of the peoples to own and dispose Of those
natural resources and to establish and maintain control of their future
development;

7. Welcomes the positive attitude of the administering Power with respect
to the receiving of United Nations visiting missions in the Territories under its
administration and requests the Chairman of the Special Committee to continue his
consultation with a view to the dispatch of such missions, as appropriate;

8. Requests the administering Power to continue to enlist the assistance of
the specialized agencies and the organizations within the United Nations system in
accelerating progress in all sectors of the national life of those Territories;

39/ A/31/23/Add.9 (Part I), chap. XXVII and A/31/23/Add.9 (Part Ill),
chap. XXIX.

/ ...



A/3l/362
English
Page 34

9. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways and
means for the implementation of the Declaration ;,rith respect to Bermuda, Cayman
Islands, Montserrat and Turks and Caicos Islands, including the pessible dispatch
of visiting missions in consultation ;,rith the administering Power, and to report
to the General Assembly at its thirty-second session on the implementation of
the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

Question of Timer

The General AssemblY,

Recognizing the inalienable right of all peoples to self-determination aLd
independence in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries
and Peoples, contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Recallin~ its resolution 3485 (XXX) of 12 December 1975 and Security Council
resolutions 384 (1975) of 22 December 1975 and 389 (1976) of 22 April 1976,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation ;,rith regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Territory, 40/

Bearing in mind the part regarding the question of East Timor of the Political
Declaration adopted by the Fifth Conference of Heads of state or Government of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Colombo from 16 to 19 August 1976, 41/

Having heard the statement of the representative of Portugal, W
Having also heard the statement of the representative of the Frente

Revolucionaria de Timor Leste Independente, 43/

Mindful that all States should, in conformity nth Article 2, paragraph 4,
of the Charter of the United Nations, refrain in their international relations
from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or national
independence of any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes
of the United Nations,

40/ A/3l/23/Add.6, chap. XII.

41/ A/3l/l97, annex I, para. 36.

42/ See A/c.4/3l/SR.13.

43/ Ibid.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 35

Deeply concerned at the critical situation resulting from the military
intervention of the armed forces of Indonesia in East Timor,

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of East Timor to
self-determination and independence and the legitimacy of their struggle to
achieve that right;

2. Reaffirms its resolution 3485 (XXX) and Security Council resolutions
384 (1975) and 389 (1976);

3. Affirms the principles stated in the part regarding the question of
East Timor of the Political Declaration adopted by the Fifth Conference of Heads
of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries;

4. Strongly deplores the persistent refusal of the Government of Indonesia
to comply with the provisions of General Assembly resolution 3485 (xxx) and
Security Council resolutions 384 (1975) and 389 (1976);

5. Rejects the claim that East Timor has been integrated into Indonesia,
inasmuch as the people of the Territory have not been able to exercise freely
their right to self-determination and independence;

6. Calls upon the Government of Indonesia to withdraw all its forces
from the Territory;

7. Draws the attention of the Security Council, in conformity with
Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations, to the critical
situation in the Territory of East Timor and recommends that it should take all
effective steps for the immediate implementation of its resolutions 384 (l975) and
389 (1976) with a view to securing the full exercise by the people of East Timor
of their right to self-determination and independence;

8. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colcnial
Countries and Peoples to keep the situation in the Territory under active
consideration, to follow the implementation of the present resolution, to dispatch
to the Territory as soon as possible a visiting mission with a view to the full
and speedy implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples and to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-second session;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-second session
an item entitled "Question of East Timor".



A/31/362
English
Page 36

DRAFT RESOLUTION X

Question of the British Virgin Islands

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of the British Virgin Islands,

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the
Territory ,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 44/ including in
particular the report of the United Nations Visiting Mission-aispatched to the
Territory in May 1976, at the invitation of the administering Power, the IJnited
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 45/

Having heard the statement of the representative of the administering
Power, 46/

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the British Virgin
Islands; 47/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the British Virgin
Islands to self-determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

3. Notes with satisfaction the conclusions and recommendations of the
United Nations Visiting Mission dispatched to the Territory in May 1976, ~ and
expresses its appreciation to the members of the Visiting Mission for the
constructive work accomplished and to the administering Power and the Government
of the British Virgin Islands for the close co-operation and assistance extended
to the Mission;

~ A/31/23 (Part 11), chap. III and A/31/23/Add.9 (Part 11), chap. XXVIII.

~ A/31/23/Add.9 (Part 11), chap. XXVIII, annex.

~ See A/c.4/31/SR.ll.

~ A/31/23/Add.9 (Part 11), chap. XXVIII.

48/ Ibid., annex, paras. 154-170.

/ ...



A/3l/362
English
Page 37

4. Reguests the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as
the administering Power, to continue to take all necessary measures, in
consultation with the Government of the British Virgin Islands, to expedite the
process of decolonization in the Territory in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and the Declaration;

5. Endorses the view of the Visiting Mission that measures to promote the
economic development of the British Virgin Islands are an important element in
the process of self-determination, and expresses the hope that the administering
Power will continue to intensify and expand its programme of budget.ary and
development aid;

6. Requests the administering Power, in the light of the conclusions and
recommendations of the Visiting Mission, to continue to enlist the assistance
of the specialized agencies and the organizations within the United Nations system
in the development and strengthening of the economy of the Territory, and requests
those agencies and organizations to respond appropriately to the development needs
of the British Virgin Islands;

7. Further requests the administering Power, in consultation with the
Government of the British Virgin Islands, to pay particular attention to the
training of local qualified personnel;

8. Requests the Special Committee to continue the full examination of this
question at its next session in the light of the findings of the Visiting Mission,
including, the possible dispatch of a further mission to the British Virgin Islands
at an appropriate time, in consultation with the administering Power, and to
report thereon to the General Assembly at its thirty-second ses~ion.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 38

DRAFT RESOLUTION XI

Question of American Samoa

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of American Samoa,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Cemmittee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 49/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to
American Samoa~

Conscious of the need to promote progress towards the full implementation of
the Declaration with respect to American Samoa,

Bearing in mind the constructive results achieved as a consequence of previous
visiting missions to Non-Self-Governing Territories, and reiterating its conviction
that the dispatch of such missions is essential for securing adequate and first-
hand information in regard to the conditions prevailing in those Territories and to
the views, wishes and aspirations of the peoples therein with respect to their
future status,

Mindful that American Samoa requires the continued attention and assistance
of the United Nations in the achievement by its people of the objectives embodied
in the Charter of the United Nations and in the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and economic
conditions of American Samoa and stressing the necessity of diversifying its
economy as a matter of priority in order to reduce its dependence on fluctuating
economic activities,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to American Samoa; 50/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of American Samoa to
self-determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

49/ A/31/23 (Part 11), chap. III and A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XXII.

50/ A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XXII.

/ ....



A/3l/362
English
Page 39

3. Reaffirms its conviction that questions of territorial size, geographical
location and limited resourceS should in no way delay the implementation of the
Declaration with respect to American Samoa;

4. Calls upon the Government of the United States of America, as the
administering Power, in consultation with the freely elected representatives of
the people, to continue to take all the necessary steps to ensure the full and
speedy attainment of the goals set forth in the Declaration with respect to the
Territory;

5. Calls upon the administering Power to take all possible steps to
diversify the economy of American Samoa and to work out concrete programmes of
assistance and economic development for the Territory;

6. Requests the administering Power to consider favourably inviting a
United Nations mission to visit American Samoa for the purpose of observing
conditions in the Territory and learning first-hand of the aspirations of the
people concerning their political status;

7. Urges the administering Power, with the co-operation of the Government of
American Samoa, to safeguard the inalienable right of the people of the Territory
to the enjoyment of their natural resources by taking effective measures to
guarantee the rights of the people to own and disrose of those natural resources
and to establish and maintain control of their future development;

8. Requests the administering Power to continue to enlist the assistance
of the specialized agencies and the organizations within the United Nations
system in accelerating progress in all sectors of· the naticnal life of American
Samoa;

9. Reguests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways and
means for the implementation of the Declaration with respect to American Samoa,
including the possible dispatch of a visiting mission in consultation with the
administering Power, and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-second
session on the implementation of the present resolution.

I . . .



A/31/362
English
Page 40

DRAFT RESOLUTION XII

Question of Brunei

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of Brunei,

Having examined the relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 51/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, as
well as other relevant resolutions and the decisions of the United Nations relating
to the Territory, including in particular the consensus on the question adopted by
the General Assembly on 13 December 1974, 52/

Recalling also its resolution 3424 (XXX) of 8 December 1975,

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Brunei to
self-determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the
Granting ef Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

2. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to Brunei; 53/

3. Notes that no progress has been achieved so far in the implementation of
General Assembly resolution 3424 (XXX);

4. Calls on all parties concerned to work towards the early implementation
of resolution 3424 (xxx);

5. Calls again upon the administering Power, consistent with its
responsibility as the administering Power, to take all steps within its competence
to facilitate expeditiously the holding of free and democratic elections by the
appropriate government authorities in Brunei in consultation with and under the
supervision of the United Nations, in accordance with the inalienable right of the
people of Brunei to self-determination and independence, and further calls, prior
to the elections, for the lifting of the ban on all political parties and the
return of all political exiles to Brunei so that they Can participate freely and
fully in the elections;

51/ A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XVIII.

52/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 31 (A/9631), p. 117, item 23.

53/ A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XVIII.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 41

6. Calls upon the administering Power, in conformity with the provisions
of the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, to extend full co-operation
to the Special Committee;

7. Requests the Special Committee to continue to keep the situation in the
Territory under review and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its
thirty-second session.

I ...



A/3l/362
English
Page 42

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIII

Question of the United States Virgin Islands

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of the United States Virgin Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 54/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the United
States Virgin Islands,

Conscious of the need to promote progress towards the fUll implementation of
the Declaration with respect to the United States Virgin Islands,

Bearing in mind the constructive results achieved as a consequence of previous
visiting missions to Non-Self-Governing Territories, and reiterating its
conviction that the dispatch of such visiting missions is essential for securing
adequate and first-hand information in regard to the conditions prevailing in
those Territories and to the views, wishes and aspirations of the peoples therein
with respect to their future status,

Mindful that the United States Virgin Islands requires the continued attention
and assistance of the United Nations in the achievement by its peop~e of the
objectives embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and in the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and economic
conditions of the Territory, and stressing the necessity of diversifying its
economy as a matter of priority, in order to reduce its dependence on fluctuating
economic activities,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the United States
Virgin Islands; 21/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the United States
Virgin Islands to self-determination and independence in accordance with the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

54/ A/31/23 (Part 11), chap. III and A/31/23/Add.9 (Part Ill), chap. XXXI.

21/ A/31/23/Add.9 (Part Ill), chap. XXXI.
I ...



A/:,J /:,62
English
Page 1~3

3. Reaffirms its conviction that questions of territorial size, geographical
location and limited resources should in no way delay the implementation of the
Declaration with respect to the Territory;

4. Calls upon the Government of the United States of America, as the
administering Power, in consultation with the freely elected representatives of
the people, to continue to take all the ne~essary steps to ensure the full and
speedy attainment of the goals set forth in the Declaration with respect to the
United States Virgin Islands;

5. Calls upon the administering Power to take all possible steps to
diversify the economy of the Territory and to work out concrete programmes of
assistance and economic development for the United States Virgin Islands;

6. Requests the administering Power to consider favourably inviting a
United Nations mission to visit the United States Virgin Islands for the purpose of
cb serving conditions in the Territory and learning first-hand of the aspirations of
the people concerning their political status;

7. Urges the administering Power, with the co-operation of the Government
of the Territory, to safeguard the inalienable right of the people of the
Territory to the enjoyment of its natural resources by taking effective measures
which guarantee the ri~~ts of the people to own and dispose of those natural
resources and to establish and maintain control of their future development;

8. Requests the administering Power to continue to enlist the assistance of
the specialized agencies and the organizations within the United Nations system in
accelerating progress in all sectors of the national life of the United States
Virgin Islands;

9. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways and
means for the implementation of the Declaration with respect to the United States
Virgin Islands, including the possible dispatch of a visiting mission in
consultation with the administering Power, and to report to the General Assembly
at its thirty-second session on the implementation of the present resolution.

I ...



A/31/362
Enf;lish
PaGe 44

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIV

Question of Guam

The General Assembly,

?aving considered the question of Guam,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 56/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to Guam, in
particular General Assembly resolutions 3429 (XXX) of 8 December 1975 and 3481 (XXX)
of 11 December 1975,

Conscious of the need to accelerate progress towards the full implementation of
the Declaration with respect to Guam,

Deploring the policy of the administering Power in continuing to maintain
military installations on Guam, in contravention of the relevant resolutions of the
General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the constructive results achieved as a consequence of previous
visiting missions to colonial Territories and reiterating its conviction that the
dispatch of such missions is essential for securing adequate and first-hand
information in regard to the conditions prevailing in those Territories and to the
views, wishes and aspirations of the peoples therein with respect to their future
status ~

Mindful that Guam requires the continued attention and assistance of the United
Nations in the achievement by its people of the objectives embodied in the Charter
of the United Nations and in the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and economic
conditions of Guam and stressing the necessity of diversifying its economy as a
matter of priority in order to reduce its dependence on fluctuating economic
activities,

'2£/ A/31/23 (Part II), chap. III; A/31/23 (Part IV), chap. v , a-mer: IV and
A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XXIII.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 45

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to Guam; 211

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Guam to self-determination
and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples cnntain~d in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

3. Reaffirms its conviction that questions of territorial size, geographical
location and limited resources should in no way delay the implementation of the
Declaration with respect to the Territory concerned;

4. Calls upon the Government of the United States of America, as the
administering Power, in consultation with the freely elected representatives of the
people, to continue to take all the necessary steps to ensure the full and speedy
attainment of the goals set forth in the Declaration with respect to Guam;

5. StronRlY deprecates the establishment of military installations on Guam
as being incrnnpatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and of reSOlution 1514 (XV);

6. Calls upon the administering Power to take all possible steps to diversify
the economy of' the Territory and to work out concrete programmes of assistance and
economic development for Guam;

T. Calls upon the administering Power to reconsider its attitude towards
recelvlng United Nations visiting missions and to permit access by such a mission
to the Territory;

8. Urges the administering Power, with the co-operation of the Government of
Guam, to safeguard the inalienable right of the people of the Territory to the
enjoyment of its natural resources by taking effective measures which guarantee the
rights of the people to own and dispose of those natural resources and to establish
and maintain control of their future development;

9. Requests the administering Power to continue to enlist the assistance of
the specialized agencies and the organizations within the United Nations system in
accelerating progress in all sectors of the national life of Guam;

10. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways and means
for the implementation of the Declaration with respect to Guam, including the
possible dispatch of a visiting mission in consultation with the administering
Power, and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-second session on the
implementation of the present resolution.

~ A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XXIII.

/ ...



A/31/362
=-:nglish
Page 46

DRAFT RESOLUTION XV

Question of French Somaliland

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of so-called French Somaliland (Djibouti),

Having examined the relevant chapter of the report of the Special Committee on
the Situation 'Nith regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 58/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Recalling also its resolutions 2228 (XXI) of 20 December 1966, 2356 (XXII) of
19 December 1967 and 3480 (XXX) of 11 December 1975 on so-called French Somaliland
(Dj Lbcut i ) ,

Having heard the statements of the representatives of the liberation movements,
the Front de liberation de la Cote des Somalis 59/ and the Mouvement de liberation
de Djibouti, 60/

Having also heard the statements of the President of the Government Council of
the Territo~y, 61/ as well as those of the representatives of the political
parties, namely, the Ligue populaire africaine pour l'independance, 62/ the Union
nationale pour l'independance 63/ and the Mouvement populaire de liberation, 611/ and
of a petitioner, 65/ -- --

Taking note of the solemn delarations of the leaders of the delegations of
Ethiopia and Somalia before the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African
Unity at its twenty-seventh ordinary session, held at Port Louis from 24 June to
3 July 1976, and before the Fourth Committee of the General Assembly, 66/ affirming

58/ A/3l/23/Add.7 (P~rt 11), chap. XIV.

~/ See A/C.4/31/SR.14, 17 and 21.

60/ See A/C,4/31/SR,17.

61/ See A/c.4/31/SR.14 and 20.

62/ See A/c.4/31/SR.20.

63/ See A/c.4/31/SR.17.

64/ Ibid.

§2/ See A/c.4/31/SR.20.

66/ See A/c.4/31/SR.20, 21 and 23 (Ethiopia); and A/c.4/31/SR.14, 17 and 20
(Somalia) .

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 47

that their respective Governments would recognize, respect and honour the
independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of so-ca]led French Somaliland
(Djibouti) after its accession to independence,

Taking note also of the resolution on the question of so-called French
Somaliland (Djibouti) adopted by the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Lima from 25 to 30 August 1975, 67/ and of the part
regarding that question contained in the Political Declaration adopted by the Fifth
Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Colomho
from 16 to 19 August 1976, 68/

Having heard the statement of the representative of France, as the administering
Power, 69/ and in particular the expressed commitment of his Government to lead the
Territory to independence in 1977,

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of so-called French
Somaliland (Djibouti) to self-determination and independence;

2. Reaffirms also its unqualified support of the right of the people of
so-called French Somaliland (Djibouti) to immediate and unconditional independence,
in accordance with the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

3. Calls upon the Government of France to implement scrupulously and
equitably, under democratic conditions, the programme for the independence of
so-called French Somaliland (Djibouti), as outlined by the representative of France
in his statement before the Fourth COlmnittee of the General Assembly, 70/ within the
indicated time frame, (namely, the summer of 1977);

4. Urges the leaders of the Government Council of the Territory, as well as
the representatives of the liberation movements, the Front de liberation de la
C6te des Somalis and the !louvement de liberation de Djibouti, and of the political
parties and groups to enter into the broadest possible discussions on neutral
grounds, under the auspices of the Organization of African Unity, with a view to
resolving their differences, and to agree on a common political platform before
the holding of a referendum, in conformity with the resolution adopted by the
Council of Ministers at its twenty-seventh ordinary session and subsequentlY
approved by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government at its thirteenth
ordinary session; 71/

67/ A/I0217 and Corr.l, annex I, resolution I.

68/ A/31/197, annex I, para. 37.

69/ See A/c.4/31/SR.14.

70/ Ibid.

71/ A/31/269, annex.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 48

5. Further calls upon the Government of France to co-operate fully with the
Organization of African Unity in its effort to convene, in accordance with the
decision of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government, a round-table conference
for the speedy implementation of the request contained in paragraph 4 above;

6. Request~ the Government of France to consider the result of the referendum
in its totality, thus respecting the territorial integrity of the future State;

7.
Territory

Demands that the Government of France withdraw its military base from the
without delay;

8. Calls also~on the Government of France to allow and facilitate the
return to the Territory of all refugees who are bona fide citizens of the Territory,
in accordance with the Organization of African Unity Convention Governinc the
Specific Aspects of Refueee Problems in Africa of 10 September 1969 72/ and the
United 'Tilt ions Convention relating to the Status of Refugees of 1951;73/

9. Requests the Government of France, in order to ensure the implementation of
ohe request contaiued in paragraph 8 above, to set up an ad hoc committee in
accordance with the recommendation of the Fact-Finding Mission of the Organization
of African Unity; ]4/

10. Reaffirms its resolution 3480 (XXX);

11. Endorses all resolutions adopted by the Organization of African Unity on
the question of so-called French Somaliland (Djibouti) and, in particular,
resolutions CM/Hes.431/Rev.l (XXV) 75/ and CM/Res.480 (XXVII), 76/ as well as the
declaration adopted by the Organization of African Unity Co-ordinating Committee
for the Liberation of Africa, as approved by the Council of Ministers at its
twenty-seventh session and the Assembly of Heads of State and Government at its
thirteenth ordinary session, and welcomes the solemn declarations by the leaders
of the delegations of Ethiopia and Somalia before the Council of Ministers of the
Organization of African Unity and before the Fourth Committee of the General
Assembly that their Governments would recognize, respect and honour the independence
and sovereignty of so-called French Itome.LiLand (Jjibcuti) and its territorial
integrity after i.ts accessi.on to independence;

72/ Organization of African Unity, document CM/267/Rev.l.

73/ United 3ations, Treaty ~erie~, vol. 189, No. 2545.

7h/ Report of the OAU Fact-Finding Mission to so-called French Somaliland
(Dj iboutiT~()rganizatio'n of African Unity, document CH1759 XXVII, 1976,
mimeographed.

75/ A/10297, annex I, p. 14.

76/ A/31/196 and Corr.l, annex, p. 11.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 49

12. Calls upon all States to refrain from interfering in the internal affairs
of the Territory and to abstain from any action likely to impede or adversely affect
the current process of the country's accession to independence;

13. Welcomes the statements by the representatives of the people of so-called
French Somaliland (Djibouti) 77/ in which they declared that the Territory would
become a member of the United~iations and of the Organization of African Unity
immediately after independence;

14. Endorses the decisions of the Organization of African Unity and the United
Nations to send representatives to observe the referendum and all subsequent stages
of the independence process to ensure that the principle of self-determination in
the Territory is carried out smoothly and in the most democratic manner;

15. Urges all the Member States, the specialized agencies and other
organizations within the United Nations system, in co-operation with the
administering Power, to render all possible moral and material assistance to the
people of the Territory.

77/ See A/C.4/31/SR.14 and 20.

/ ...



A/31/362
English
Page 50

72. The Fourth Committee r-ec onmends tu the General Assembly the adoj.rion of' the
following draft consensuses:

DRAFT CONSENSUS I

Question of St. Helena

The General Assembly, having heard the statement of the representative
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as the
administering Power, 781 and having examined the relevant chapter of the
report of the Special-Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, 79/ reaffirms the inalienable right of
the people of St. Helena to self-determination in conformity with the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960.
Noting the commitment of the Government of the United Kingdom to respect the
wishes of the people of the Territory in relation to their advance towards
self-determination, and to carry out a policy aimed at implementing the
consensus on St. Helena adopted by the General Assembly on 8 December 1975, 801
the AsseniLly T"'eaffi:::'lliS that c orrt i nue d development assistance f'r-om
the administering Power, together with any assistance that the international
community may be in a position to provide, constitutes an important means
of developing the economic potential of the Territory and of enhancing the
capacity of its people to realize fully the goals set forth in the relevant
provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. The General Assembly
also notes the positive attitude of the administering Power with respect
to the ques t i on of receiving visiting missions and r-equest.s the Chairman of
the Special Committee to continue his consultations in that regard with
a view to the dispatch of such a mission to the Territory, ~s appropriate.
The General Assembly re'luests the Special Committee, in continued co-operation
with the administering Power, to seek the best ways and means to implement
the Declaration with respect to St. Helena and to report thereon to the
Assembly at its thirty-second session.

DRAFT CONSENSUS 11

Question of Tuvalu

The General Assembly, having heard the statement of the representative
of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as the
administering Power, 811 and having examined the relevant chapter of the
report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the

781 See A/c.4/31/sR.ll.

791 A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill), chap. XX.
801 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, Supplement

No. 3~(A/I0034), p. 119, item 23.

811 See A/c.4/31/sR.ll. I ...



A/31/362
English
Page 51

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, 821 reaffirms the inalienable right of the people
ef Tuvalu to self-determination in conformity with the Declaratien on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960. The General
Assembly notes that, following the referendum held in the former Territory
of the Gilbert and Ellice Islands in August 1974 and observed in part by a
United Nations visiting mission, 831 the separation of the Ellice Islands
from the former Territory was satisfactorily completed and the new Territory,
Tuvalu, was brought into being on 1 January 1976 with well-established
institutions of self-government. Further noting that discussions on the
future of the Territory are taking place at present, the General Assembly
urges the administering Power to continue to assist the people of the
Territory to realize their aspirations in accordance with their right to
self-determination. The General Assembly requests the Special Committee,
in continued co-operation with the administering Power, to seek the best
ways and means to implement the Declaration with respect to the Territory
and to report thereon to the Assembly at its thirty-second session.

DRAFT CONSENSUS 111

Question of Gibraltar

The General Assembly, noting that, since the approval of its resolution
3286 (XXIX) of 13 December 1974, talks - which are still continuing - have
been held between the Governments of Spain and of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the question of Gibraltar, urges
both Governments to make possible without delay, taking due account of
current circumstances, the initiation of the negotiations envisaged in
the consensus approved by the Assembly on 14 December 1973 841 with the
object of reaching a lasting solution to the problem of Gibraltar, in the
light of the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and in the spirit
of the Charter of the United Nations.

DRAFT CONSENSUS IV

Question of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands

The General Assembly, having examined the relevant chapter of the report
of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation

821 A/31/23/Add.8 (Part Ill). chap. XIX.

831 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 23 (A/9623/Rev.l), chap. XXI, annex I.

841 Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ei~th Session,
Supplement No. 30 (A/9030), p. Ill.

I ...



A/31/362
English
Page 52

of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, 851 and having heard the statement of the representative of the
administering Power, 861 on the implementation of the relevant provisions
of the Charter of thelJnited Nations and of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in its
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, with regard to the Cocos (Keeling)
Islands, notes with appreciation the close co-operation of Australia, as
the administering Power concerned, in the relevant work of the Special
Committee, and its continued preparedness to receive a further visiting
mission to the Territory at an appropriate time. Bearing in mind the
responsibility of the administering Power to create such conditions as
will enable the people of the Territory to determine fully their future
political status, the General Assembly notes the measures taken so far by
the Government of Australia in the light of the conclusions and recommendations
contained in the report of the 1974 visiting mission to the Territory. 871
The General Assembly also notes that the Government of Australia is reviewing
recent developments in the Territory. It views with concern the division
of opinion among the people of the Territory concerning their future
and expresses the hope that, in the light of that review, the administering
Power will take steps to remedy this division and assess what measures
might best be ta~en, having regard to the obligations of the administering
Power, with a view to enabling the people of the Territory to exercise
their right to self-determination in accordance with the principles of
the Charter and the Declaration. The General Assembly requests the
Special COIT~ittee, in continued co-operation with the administering Power,
to seek the best ways and means to implement the Declaration with respect
to the Territory, in the light of the detailed information to be provided
by the administering Power in 1977, and to report thereon to the Assembly
at its thirty-second session.

73. The Fourth Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decision:

The General Assembly decides to defer until its thirty-second session
consideration of the questions of Pitcairn and of Antigua, Dominica,
St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia and St. Vincent.

851 A/31/23/Add.8 (Part I), chap. XV.

861 See A/c.4/31/sR.26.

871 Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session,
Suppl~ent No. 23 (A/9623/Rev.l), chap. XX, annex, paras. 200-217.


