








































z#5=
{., N 

'TF 
D dvAT',o,\is

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

IJI SI T.
GENERAL

_Lb recemDer

ORIGTNAL:

L975

ENGLI SH

Thirty-first session
Acen,ic i +cn RA

QUESTION OF SOUTHERN RHODESIA

Report of the tr'ourth Co rittee

Rapporteur: Mr. 4.. MaJid MANGAL (Afghanistan)

f. At its Lth plenary neeting, on 2)+ Septenb et 1976, the General Assenbly, on the
reconmendation of the General- Conndttee, decidetl to include in the agenda of its
thirty-first session an item entitled:

"Question of Southern Rhod.esia: reporb of the Special Colllmittee on the
Situation with Tegard to the fnpl-ementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Ind.ependence to CoJ-onial Countries and Peoplestt,

and to a"llocate it to the tr'ourth Conmittee.

?. The Fourth Coumittee considered the item at its \Oth to l+3rd and l+6ttr to
l+9th neetings, betlreen 6 and. 1)+ Decembe",

3. At the 40th meeting, on 6 December, the Rapporteur of the Special Connittee
on the Situation vith regard to the Implenentation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Ind.epend.ence to Colonial Countries and Peoples int"oduced chapters VII
and VIIf of the report of that Conmittee (A/3t/23/Ad.d..L and 2), relating to the
itern.

1+, Tn connexion r,rith its consid.eration of the item, the Fourth Conrnittee had
before it the following connunications addressed. to the Secretary-Genersl:

(") Letter dated B Ma.Tch 19?6 from Mozenbique (t/lt/ 6t-s /tzooS) ;
(l) Letter d.ated B March t9T5 from Nigeria (A/3l-/6a-s/\zoo8) i
(c) Letter dated 17 March L976 fl.on R$randa (4/31/66-5/!202I) i
(d) Letter dated 25 March t9?6 from Algeria (A/ 3I/7I-S /rzoz5) ,

76-27903



A/3r/ )+l+'(
English
Page 2

(e) Letter dated. J April f9?6 fron T,uxernbourg (A/3f /77 -S /f2c39) ;
(t) Letter dated 20 July 1976 fron the Federal Republic of Gerrnany (A/3f/f5r\;

(e) Letter dated 1 Seltember !976 from Sri Lanka (A/3r/a97);
(tr) Letter dated 30 Septernber l976 from nurtey (n/:r/23?);

(i) Note verbale dated. h october fg76 ftor/l chsn.a (A/31/258)\
(l) Letter d.ated 19 october f9?6 frorn the Netherlands (A/3I/271t-S/f?2LT).

5. At its 10th meeting, on 26 October, the Fourth Comrittee granted a request
for hearing relating, inter al-ia, to the item, subnitted. by Mr. Ronesh Chanclra'
Secretary-General of the worrd place Council (wPc) (A/c,\/3a/6). No representatives
of WPC appeared before the Comdttee.

6. The general debate on the item took place
l+9th rneetings, betveen ? an<l 1\ December,

at the l+lst to \3rd and l+6th to

7. At its 41st rneeting, on 7 December, on the proposal of the rep"esentative of
the United Republi c of Tanzania antl following a st atement by the Chaiman coneerning
the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth Connittee decided
that the statement nade duri.ng the neeting by the representative of the United
Kingd.orn of Great Britain and Northerrl lreland, in its capacity as administering
Power, should be reprod.uceal in extenso in the record of bhe neeting.

B. At the )+6th rneeting, on f3 December, the representative of Benin introduceil
two d.raft resolutions on the itern (A/C,\/3f/L.\5 ar,d A/c-l+/3l/t.l+5) , vhich vere
finall-y sponsored by the fo].].oving Mernber States:

(a) A/c.\/T,/L.\5,:

A-lgeria, Benin, Buruncli, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cypms n Democratic Yemen,
Egypt, Ethiopiqn Garnbia, Geman Democratic Bepubfi c, ch€na, Grenada, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iraq , Ivory Coast , @glgg, Kenya,
T,ao Peopl-ets Democratic RepubLic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic,
Mada€las car, Mali, Mexico, Mozambique, Ni Nige"ia, Pa.hists.n, Papua New
Guinea, Bomania, Rwand-a, Sierra Leone,
Sonaifa,-@Ec;@a, c, Togo, Trinidati and
Tobago, firnisia, U€landa,
Tanzanj.a, Upper Vo1ta, Yugoslavia end

(b ) A/c.\/zt/r,.\6:
Algeria, Benin, Bulgaria, Burundi, Chaal, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Czeehoslovakia,
Ethioria, Gabon, Gambig, Gernan Democratic Bepublic, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyaria, Iraq, Jamaica, Kenya, Lao Peoplers Der:ocratic Republic,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republi c, Madagascar, Ma1i, Mongolia, Flozanbique,
Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
?rincipe, Senegal-, Sierra Leone, Sornalia, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab
Republic, 3:go, Trinidacl antl Toba€o, Ugsrga, United. RepubLic of Cameroon,

q of caaeroon, ted Republi c of

United Republie of Tanzania, Uppe" Volta, Yugoslavia arrd Za.nbia.



A/3a/W7
English
Page 3

9. At its l+9th.meeting, on 1l+ Decenber, the Fourth Cc,ronittee adopted draft
resolution A/c.l+/ 3l'/L 'l-+5 without objection (see para. 11 below, draft resolution A),

19. ,4t the. se.me rneeting, the tr'ourth Comnittee edopteat draft resolutionA/C.\/3I/L.\6 by a recorded vote of l2l- to 1, vith 6 abstentions (see para. 1l-
below, dTaft resolution 3). The votinE was as fo1-ows:

In favour : Afghanistan, A1bania, Algeri.a o Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Sahrain, Barbados, 3enin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
BTaziI, Bulgaria, Buma, Burundi, Syelorussien Soviet Socialist
Republic, Ca.naata, Chad, Chil-e, ghina, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yenen, Dennark,
Donini.can Republic, Egypt, Xl Salvador, Ethiopia, FiJi, trinl"a^nd,
Gabon, Gambia, German Denocratic Republic, Ghana, Greeee, G"enad.a,
Guatenala, Guinean Guinea-Bissau, Guyarra, I{ond.uras, Hungary,
IceLand, Ind.ia, fndonesia, fran, fraq, Ireland, Ital_y, Tvory
Coast, Janaica, Japan, Jordan o Kuwait, Lao peoplers Dernocratic
Republic, Lebanon, lesotho, Liberia, IJibyar Arab Republic,
Luxembourg, Madagas cax, Malays ia, Ma"1i, Maurit€nia, Mauritius,
I{exico, Mongoli a, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepa1, i{etheria.nds,
New Zealantl, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norvay, Onan, Pakistar,
Panama, Papua Ne$ Guinea, Peru, PhiJ-ippines, Poland, portugal,
Qatar, Romania" Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic 

" Thailand, Togo, Trinidatl andTobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, IJkrainian Soviet Socialist
nepublic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Unitett Arab
fuirates, United Republic of Ca,neroon, United Republic of
Tanza.nia, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zarnbia.

Against: United States of Anerica.

Abstaining: Belgir:m, trYance, Gennany, tr'ederal Republic of, fsrael, Malawi,
United Kingdom of Great Britain antl Northern freland.

RECOMMENDATTONS OF TIIE FOT]BTH COMMTTTEE

11. The Fou"th Cormittee reconmends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
fol-l-owing ilraft resofutions:

question of Southern Rhodesia

A

The General As setobly,

Having considered the question of Southern Rhodesia (Zintatve),



A/3T/\L7
English
faEe 4

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Corunittee
on the Situation vith Tegard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Col,onial Countries and Peoples, I

llaving heard the statement of the representative of the adninistering
yo*"" ;!- 

atement of the rePlesent

the report
meeting, on

of the Ad Hoc Group established by the Special
t aprit-tgie Zl

Recalling the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries
and. Peoples, contained. in its resolution 1511+ (XV) ot 1)+ Decenber 1960, and the
prograrnne of action for the ful1 implementation of the Declaration, contained in its
resol-ution 2621 (KXV) of 12 October 19?0, as we]-l as all cther lresolutions relating
to the question of Southern Rhodesia adopted by the General Assenbly, the Security
Council and the Special Conmittee,

Bearing in mlnd that the Governnent of the United Kingdon of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, as the adninistering Power, has the prinary responsibility for
putting an end to the critical situation in Southern Fhodesia ( Zinbabwe ) which, as
repeatedly affirmed by the Security Council, constitutes a threat to international
naq^A Ah/l canrrrifrr

Raqffi rmi no
---:-_---t----:=-

].l.lega-L r"eglme on
contravention of
to the provisions

Salaem Declaration on

Taking note of the d€clar€d position of the administeaing Power that there sha1l
be no independence before majority ruJ.e in Zfmbabwe, \/

that any attempt to negotiate the future of Zimbabwe r'rith the
the basis of independence before rnajority rule voul-d be in

the inal-ienable rights of the people of the Territory and contrary
of the Charter of the United Natlons and of resolution 151)+ (Xv)'

its endorsement of the relevant provisions of the Dar es
Southern Africa, adopted. by the Couneil" of l{inisters of the

Organization of African Unity at its ninth extraordinary session, held fron
7 to 10 April 1975, !/

EndorsinA the relevant provisions of the Potitical Declaration adopted by the
Fifth Conference of lIeads of State or Governrnent of Non-Aligned CountTies, heJ.al at
Colombo frorn 16 to 1! August t9?6, relating to southern Afrj-ca, 6f

t/ s/lt/zZ (larts I-V), chaps. T, II and IV-VI; A/3L/23/Add,r, chap. VIr; and
Al 3I/23/ Add.2, chap. VIII.

U Alc,\/3I/sR. hl, paras. 9-37.
1/ A/3I/23/Add.1, chap. VII, annex J.
\/ See A/ 3r/4 /Add. 2 , chap, VIII , alnex , para. l+)+ .
5/ Officia.l Records of the GeneraJ- Assembly, Thirtieth Session,

Suppfers

-

ol Al 5r/ ry I e annex.

account



A/3r/\t+T
Engli sh

Tsking note of the convening of the conference on Zimbabwe at Geneva,

condemning the illegal racist ninority r6gime for its intensified oyp'ession
of the people of zimbabwe, the arbitrary imprisonment and rletention of political
leaders and others, the i11ega1 execution of freedom figtrters and the continued
denia"1 of fimdamental human rights, inclutling in particular the wanton beating,
torture and murder of innocent villagers, arbitraxy crinina"l measures of collecLive
punishnent a]]d measu?es d-esigned to create an apartheid State in Zirnbabwe,

Commending the finn determination of the people of Zinbabwe, under the
leadership of their national liberation rnovement. to achieve freedom and
indenendence -

1. lsefqf nE the jnllienable "ight of the 
people of Zinrbabwe to self-

determination, freedon and jndenendence ard the :leqitinacl. of their st.r.u€rqle to
secure by a]. thc meatrs .Lt tbeir disposal the enjoynent of that right as set forth
in the Charter of the United lrlations and in conformity with the objectives of
Ceneraf Assembly resolution 151)r (XV) i

2. Reaffirms the principle that there should be no independence befo?e
najority rule in Zimbabwe and that any settlement re1atin61 to the future of the
Territory must be vorked out with the fu1I larticipation of the people of Zimbabve
and in accordance with their true asr:irations:

3. qtto4gly ccndenns the ilJ-egaJ- racist minority r6gine for its continued
brutal- and repressive measures perpetrated against the people of Zirbabtre and in
Particular the ilanton killings of Africans carried out by the r6gine within and
outside Zinbabwe;

!. Further strongly condemns the i11ega1 racist ninority r6gime for its
systematic acts of aggression against neighbouring African States;

5. Cal].s upon the covet"nment of the United Kingdon of Great Britain and
Northern Irelandn in the d.ischarge of its prinary responsibility as the
adrninistering Pover, to tal<e all effective neasures to enable Zinbabwe to accede
to independence in accordance with the aspirations of the rnajority of the population
and. not under any circurnstances to accord to the il1ega1 r6gime any of the powers
or attributes of sovereignty;

6. Commends to the adninistering Pove? for appropriate action the relevant
sections of the report of the Ad. I{oc Group established by the Special Conmittee on
the Situation with regard to the Inpl-ementation of the Declaration on the cranting
of Ind.ependence to Colonia-l Countries and Peoples, at its 1029th meeting, on
1 April 1976; Ll

7. Fjr.nly supports the people of Zinbabve in their struggle to achieve
najority 

^r1.;--

Ll A/3r/n/Ad.d.1, chap. vrr, annex r,



^/3r/\\7English
iage o

B. Dernands :

(") The terrnination forthwith of the executions of freedom fiehters beins
carried ouL by the illegal Sroith r6girne;

(b) The unconditional and imrnediate release of aI]- political prisoners,
detainees and. restrictees, the remoral of all restrictions on political activity
and the establishment of ful1 demoeratic freedon and equality of politicar 

"ights,as wel]" as the restoration to the population of f\]ndamental human rights;
(c) The discontinuance forthwith of all repressive measures, in particular

the brutality conmitted in the rtoperational area'r, the arbitrery closu?e of African
areas, the eviction, transfer ard resettlement of Africans and the creation of
so-cslled protected. vi11e4es and the persecution of Christian missionaries
supporting the cause of the liberation of Zirrbabwe;

(d) The cessation of the influx of foreign inmigrant s into the Territo4l and
the inrnediate vithdrawal of aJ-l mercena"ies therefron;

9. Ca11s upon all States to take al1 necessaq/ and effective neasures to
prevent advert i s enent for, and recruitnent of, rnercenaries for southern Rhodesia;

10. Requests all states, directly ard through their action in the speciarized.
agencies and-otE; organizations wittrin tfre United. Nations system of r^rhi ch they
are nenbers, as well- as the non-governnental organizations concerned and the
various prog"arnnes within the united Nations, to erbend, in consultati.on and
co-operation vith the organization of African unity, to the people of Zinbabwe and
their national liberation movement all the moral, material, political and
humanitarial assistance necessaf,x. in their stiuggle for the restoration of their
inalienabl-e rights;

11. Invites all Governnents, the specialized agencies and other orga.nizations
wittrin tne-GITd Nations system, the united Nations bod.ies concerneal and
non-goverrrnental organizations having a special interest in the fiel_d of
decolonization, as uel-1 as the Secretary-General, to take steps, as appropriat€, togive widespread and continuous publicity through all the rnertia at ttreir aisposai to
information on the situation in Zinbabwe ana on ttre relevant decisions and actionsof the united Nations, with particular reference to the application of sanctions
against the i11egaI r6gine;

12. Expresses the hope that the conference on Zinbabwe at Geneva will succeedin establishing the conditions for early independence on the basis of majority nrle,in accordance vith the rer-evant resolutions aiopted by the united Nations;
13' Requests the Government of the united Kingdorn, in keeping with its express

readiness to do so, to co-operate with the Special Cormittee in the discharge of the
mandete entrusted to the latte" by the General Assembly, a.nd to report thereon to the
Special Connittee and to the Assenrbly at its thirty-second session;

1l+. Requests the Special Cornmittee to keep the situation in the Territory under
teview as a natter of priority and to report thereon to the General As sembly at its
thirty-second session.



A/3a/\\7
English
Page 7

D

The Gener€f Assembly 
"

^ . - 
Havilrg ?dopteg resolution ... of , ,. December 19T6 on the question ofSouthern Rhodesia ( zinbabwe),

Ftrongly deploring the increasing collaboration, in violation of Article 25 of
the charter of the united llations and of the relevant decisions of the united
Nations, rdhi ch certain states, particularly south Africa, naintain r^rith the i11ega1
racist ninority r6gime, thereby seriousry inpeding the effective application of
sanctions and other ueasures taken so far against the il1egal r6gime,

SeriousLy concerned. at the continued inportation of chrome and nicke] into the
unitetl states of Arnerica from southern Rhodesia, in viol-ation of the relevant,
decisions of the security council and in disresard. of the related resolutions of
the General Assenxbly,

disturbed at recent reports of wi.despread violations
including the operation of Southern Bhodesian aircraft

passenger and cargo traffic, as wel-l as the continued functioning of info::rnation
and airline offices of the i1lega1 r5gine outside Southern lhodesia and the
resultBrt infLux of foreign tourists into the Te?ritoly,

of Unite<I Nations
for internationaL

Considering that developnent s
concerted international action with
ilJ.egal r6gine,

in the area call in particular for positive,
a view to imposing maximum isolation on the

Reeffirming its conviction that the sanctions will not put an end to the
illega.1 racist minoriff-;€ei;;-unless they a:'e comprehensive, nandatory and
effectively supervised, enforced and complied vith, particularly by South Africa,

- Noting vith appreciation the d.ecision of the covernment of Mozanbique to close1ts borders with Southern Rhodesia and to inpose sanctions against the iI1egaI
racist minority r6gime in compliance with the relevant decisions of the securitv
Cor;ncil, B/

1. Strongl-y conderms those Governnents, particularly the racist r6gime of
Soutn arriiElTo=i-EEF]6Ticies which, in viorltion of the relevant resotutions of
the united. Nations and in open contravention of their specific obligations uncler
Article 2, pars€raph !, and Article e5 of the Charter of the United Nations,
continue to coLl-aborate vith the illegaI racist ninority r6gine, and cal1s upon
those Goverrurents to cease forthl'ith a]-l such collaboration;

2. Condenns al-l riofations of the nandatory sanctions irnposed by the Security
Council, as well as the continued failure of certain Member Stetes to enforce those
sanctions strictl-y, as being contrary to the obligations assumed by then uniler
Article 2, paragraph J, and Article ZS of the Chalrrert

8/ See s/1200\.



A/3L/\\7
English
rase o

3. Conderrns the continued imoortation of chrorne and nickel from Southern
Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) into the United States of America, and cal.ls upon the
Government of the United States to repea.l speedily all legislation perraitting such
importatlon;

)+, Ca1ls upon a.ll Governments which so far have not done so:

(") To take stringent enforcement measures to ensure strict compliance by
all individuals " associations and bodies corporate under their 

jurisdiction with
the sanctions imposed. by the Seeurity Couneil and to prohibit sJIy folm of
collaboration by then with the illegai r6gime;

(b) To take effective steps to prevent or discourage the enigration to
Southern Bhcdesia (Zimtralve) of any individ.uals or groups of individuals r:nder
+hai T i,,ri c,ii ^+i ^- 

.

(") To discontinue any action vhich night confer a senblance of legitimacy
on the illegal r6gime, inter a1ia, tlf forbidding the operation and activities of
Air Rhodesia, the Rhodesia National Tourist Board snd the lhodesian fnfor:nation
Office, or €ny other activities which contravene the ains and pu"poses of the
sanctions I

(d) To invalidate passports and other document s for travel to the Territory;

5, Highly corurend.s the action taken by the Govexnment of Mozambi que in
closing its bord.ers with Southern Rhodesia and inposing total sanctions against
the Snith rSgine, and consid.ers that that action constitutes an important
contribution in support of the liberation struggle in Zinbabwe and. towards the
rnaximun isolation of the illegal r6girne;

5. Requests all States, directly and through their action in the specialized
agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system of vhich they
are members, and the various progra.tlnnes within the United Nations system to extend
to the Government of Mo za.mbique alf forms of financial, technical and nateria,l
assistance in order to enable it to overcone any econornic difficulties in connexion
with i.ts application of economic sanctions against the i11ega1 r6girne;

T. Iqgher requests the Security Counci.I to undertake a periodic revrev
the question of economic assistance to the Government of Mozambi.que aB weJ.l as
the Government of Z€mbia i

B. neiterates its conviction that the scoDe of the sanctions asainst the
i11egajreffic-Ludeaiitnemeasuresenvisagetiuntier
Article 1+1 of the Charter and requests the Security Council to consider taking the
necessary measures in that regard as a matter of urgency;

9. Requests the Speciaf Conmittee on the Situation with regard to the
Inpl-enentation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples. to follol,r the inpl-ementation of the present resolution and
invites the Security Council Conrnittee established in pursuance of resolution
253 (1958) concerning the question of Southern Rhodesia to continue to co-operate
in the related work of the Special Cor0mittee.

of
to




