








































z#l=
L'N'IFD NAilOrVS

GENERA!.
A S 5 E A/t B LY

Di str.
GENEAA],

Al3r/\zT
14 Decembe" 1976

ORIGINALI ENGLISH

Thirty-first session
A.rahd^ i+ah Inn

SCA],E OF ASSESSMEIITS I'OR TI{E APPORTIONI,,IENT
OF THE EXPENSES OF THE UNfTED NATIONS

Report of th-e Fifth Conrfttee

Rapporteur: Mr. E. Brian NASON (Ireland)

I, INTRODUCTION
1, the Fifth Connittee considered agenda item 1OO, entitled "Scale of assessments
for the apportionnent of the expenses of the United Nations: repott of the
Conmittee on Contributions !t, at its t6th, 18th, 19th, Zotih, z2nd., z3rd,, zl+th, 25th .
39th, 40, 41st, \Znd, )+3rd and \9th neetings, hel-d. on 26, ?8 and 2! Ociober, on
I, 3, 4, 5, 8 and 30 Novenber and on 2, 3, 6" 7 and l-l+ Decenb er 1976. It had
before it the report of the cor0aittee on contributions 1/ containing the draft
resolution reconmend.ed by that Conmittee.

IT. IEBATE
?. In introducing the report of the Connittee on Contributions, its Chairrnan,
recalling that that coumittee had. been directed by General Assenbly resolution
JUoz f xxvrll,, of 9 November \973 to revieff the scale of assessnents and to report
to the Ass enbl-y at its thifty-first session, stated. that it was inportant to
c]-ari fy, at the outset, a principle whi ch was fundamental to the coru0ittee rs vork,
nanefy 

' capacity to pay. At the t\^'enty-ninth and thiTtieth sessions of the Assenbly,some repxesentatives had asserted that ler calita income should not be the
deternining factor in establishing a s ciIE-6f-EETes s ments and that there were other
important considerations in the evaluation of a countryrs capacity to pay. In fact,
the only role played by per capita income in the foruul,ation of a scale was in the
carcu-lation of the relief to vhi ch a Member state rll gbt be entitled under the low
p9-3, capita income allovance formula. If that were not the case, then a country .with
l-inited national income and a sna1l population could well be assessed. at a rate in

V Official- Records of the General AFsenbly - Thirtv-fir"st Session, A4plenent-No.f(m

T7-oo7\r



A/3L/\2'l
English
Page 2

er.cess of that of a country vith a far greater net ua.tional lroduct, but r,'ith a
large populatio.r. Under the Comroitteet s terms of reference it was the net national
income of a f/cmoer State that,,'as 1,he princioai r.easul e of ils caEacitv to !ay.

3. The Comnittee on Contributions, nevertheless, arpreciated tha.t national income
av^?Fcsa,'l ir ynnar-n. +-rns -i'oh+' nnt n. i1-.sFl I fnl lr. -pf lFnf. ennnn-nio -ealifies.
Tn exploring possible alternatives, however (lncluding the use of composite
indicators encomrrassinE sLch factors as nutrition, liLeracy and emDloynent), the
Comrnittee had found that there rias cunently no accel)table single comprehensive
indicator which could serve to substitute for national income as the principal
\roqs.rrrF i f pana.j fi. l^ pv lt rae -ninl-czr nrrl- i'hni evcn iF it were
possible to develop such an acros s -Lhe -board indicator, stat]sL-ics for the purpose
Vould nct be available from the vast majoritv of l{ember States. The criteria
followed by the Commitbee at, its 1976 session, therefore, vere essentiallv the sar.e
as in the past. In addition to comparative estimates of national income, the
Cornndttee had. observed the floor and ceiling lrinciDles established bv the Ceneral
Assenbly and had paid particular attention to the problems of developing countries.

\. The task devotving upon the Coru'tlittee in formufating a scal-e of assessrnents
tor L977-7979 had been an exceptionall-y di ffi cu].t one, As the Cornroittee had
emphasized in its report to the t\.renty-ninth session of the ceneral Assembly, 2/
a warning it had reii,erated in its report to the thirtieth session of the
Assembly, 3/ it var: :rlready discernible from the lirited statistics available at
its 1974 and 1975 sessions that the national economies of roany developed and
developing States had changed to such an extent that steep increases r,rauld be
called for in the next scale desoite Lhe Committeers prachiee of njti gating
drastic shifts between scales. The years f972-I97\, the base years for the
Cotrunitteets revievr of the scale, had indeed been narked by profound changes jn the
world econotqf. The net national produet cf l,lember States had rdi rrored these
changes, bhe dir.ensions of vhich, in individual and refative terus, could only be
characteri ze d as unprecedented.

5" The economic changes had also made theroselves feft in the rapid advance of
oer canif.a incorrc nnd in thc la<<ahad raliaf a f1'^rda.'l nrnrr dprrclnrino .^r'n+Tiac
including lov ler calita income cor.rntries, through the operation of the allowance
fornula. ror IIEl9])-,-lf9T5 scale tl'e forr1uL a, in operation since 1953, had been
increased from an upper linit of $1,OOO to $fr5OO and from a tnaximum deduction of
5O to 50 per cent. For the f97T-I979 scaIe, the Conurdttee had recognized that the
revised allowance no longer orovided a sufficient neasure of relief to developing
countries and, in palticular, to Iow per capita incorrle countries. As a consequence,
it had adopLed a new upper limit or jTl8O6-iiI-a new maximu,n deduction of "O per centin the fornulation of the proposed sca-le.

6. Recalling directives of the General Assembly concerning the attention to be
laid by the Cannrittee on Contributicns to developing corurtries in view of their
suecial economic and financial problems, its Chairman pointed out that the
percentage contriLution in the 1961+ scale of JB developing Member States had

2/ ]bid,, Twenty-qinth Session, Supplement t{o. 11 (A/9511),
3/ rbid.,

A/IOO].1/Add J
fhi rtieth

and 2.
Session, Supplernent llo. 11 (A/1OO11) and



A/ 3r / t+?7
English

totalled f6.33 per centi in 19?3, vhen the mininun rate of assessment r,:as sti1l
0.0\ per cent, 98 developing States had contributed a totaL of 1l+.6T per eentl in
the proposed scale for l!977-f979, IOB tleveloping States voul-d be calletl upon to
pay a total of 13.?2 per cent.

7, Ttre base years !9'12-L9?h had been a period. of Eutstantial rel-ative novements
in donesti c price 1eve1s lrhi ch had affected the cufrent value of national income
when erq)resseat in dollars, The linitations of official exchange rate conversions
for put?oses of intemational comparison were widely recognized, particularly in
viev of the growing instability of intemational noney narkets. Based as they
were on internetional transactions of a ]irnited range of comotlities, they did
not correctly refLect the real- purchasing poffer of individual currencies. While
the Statistieal Office of tbe United Nations, in co-operation $ith other
institutions, had. been engagetl since 196B in tleveloping suitable methotls for such
internationaL comparisons n it voul-d. be some tine befofe results fo" a sufficient
nunber of countries would be availabLe for the Conlditteers systernatic use.
Nevertbeless, the Comittee had e:rercised every precaution to ensure that the
interection of relative price novements and excha,nge rates ili d not res r;1t in the
over-assesstrFnt or rDd.er-assessoent of ar:y Menrber State.

8. Sixnilarly, where it haal been found that a substantiaf portion of the forei grl
exchange earnings of a developing country was required for the serricing of ,.
external publ-i c debt, dovaward. adJustnents hsd been natle in indivi dual assllsments
to the extent possible.

9. Itte CoEnittee on Contributions, througlrout its revieu ' 
had been fuJly

conscious of the fact that an equitabte scale vas a natter of utnost i4portarce.
Such changes in assessaent rates as bad been recomended, it was stresged,
r€flected changes in the relative capacity to pry of llb!b€r States afber the
applicetion of poli cy directives .,f the General- Assembly antl after taking into
eccount speciaL factot's or circu.ustances *henever possible. While sone l{ernber
StateB ni ght feef that it should have been possible to nitigate drasti. c vari ations
bet{een sca.Les, given the @gnitutle of the econobi c changes, it had been the
unaninow viev of the Comittee that further nodifications wou].d not only have
wi ilenecl di fferences in the statistical and actual rate of assessment in the
forthconing anct in future scaleE, but noufd have beeu inco patible lfith the
principle of capacity to pay.

10. Referring to the tllafb resolution vhi ctr hacl been recomended bI thg. .
Conmittee, V it vas pointed out that subsequ€nt to the Conritteets.session, the
Denocratic Republi c of Viet-Nan snal the Republic of Vi et-Nam haat been unifietl as
the SociaList Republi c of Viet Na,n. Consequeatfy the reconmended rates of
assessDent for the t1tro countries nere no longer vali il and shoul-d be deletetl from
those portions of the drafb resolution which ttealt u"ith non-!€mber States. The
eatter would be consialered by the Colnrnittee at its 19?? sessionr at vhich tine it
vould al-so reconmend a rate of assessment fof the RepubJ-ic of Seychelles as a
new Menber States.

r+/ Ibid.., Thirty-first Session. Supplenent No. lf (A/31/l1) , lara. 59'



Al3t /tQ(
nnEJ_LSn
Page 4

11. In the ensuing debate the representatives of several L{ember States voiced
strong opposition to the reconnend.ations of the Cornnittee on Contributj.ons, The
tine had cone" it was uaintainerl, for an in-depth discussion of the criteria used.
in forrrulating the scale in the light of the niw realities. The recommendations of
the connittee on contributions were highly anomalous and fraught with dangerous
contra.di ctions. One had only to recall- the problems that had arisen ove? the
apportionment of the expenses of the united Nations operation in the congo and of
the first united Nations frnergency !'orce to appreciate the d-anger and far-reachin6l
consequences of any attenpt to coerce l{enber states into should.ering expenses they
considered unJustified. Ivloreover, the criteria used for the aDportionment of the
expenses of the orgarization, as laid do$n by the General- Assernbly, were hopelessry
outdated, ran counter to econoroic realities and shou-Id be redefined. It was
unacce?tab1e, at a tine when the gap betw€en developed and developing corurtries
continued to lriden, that sudden increases, some of which were substantial, should
be p"oposed in the assessnent rates of d.eveloping countries. Such increases vere
al-1 the more arbitrary when consid.erable reductions had been reconmended in the
assessments of sone alevelope d countries with adva"nced economies, including
DerEanent members of the Security Council with special prirrileges under the Ch€,rter,
The contributions of developed countries should. not decreese at the e>@en€e of
developing countries vhose economies anal rrhose capacity to pay wexe depenalent on
exports of non-renewable resources or on a .linited number of cornrodities which
were subject to price fluctuations; vhose earnings were often eroded by the nrice
of i q>orts essential to developnent; and vhose long-term domestic corunitments for
developnent from the ground level placed a heavlr bu"den on their resources.
Capacj-ty to pay was not an absolute criterion, it was stated nor d.i d it always
correspond. to the actua], revenues of a state. rt had, in fact, been viorated by
the establ-ishment of uaximum and ndnimun rates of assessment. fhe Fifbh Committee
shoul-d rtot ad.opt the recorunended. seale at its current session, for to cio so would
be to postpone consideration of the issues for another three years. It was
proposed. by sone delegations, therefore, that inplementation of the sca.le be
deferred for two years pending agreenent on new criteria for the formul-ation of
future scal-es. Or, as the representative of Japan suggested, the Corrmittee on
contributions should be asked to study urgently the loisibilitv or fomufating new
criteria and. recoumending a new scale of assessments based- on d.ata for the period
f973-f975. Such a scale coul-d be applied progressively over a three-year period,
rdth the current scaLe rercaining in effect foi tfre intervening period. The
suggestion vas also advanced by s ome rep?esentatives that nembership of the
Counittee on Contributions should be expanded to provide for nore adequate
representation of d-eveloping cor:ntries.

].2. Other arguments adduced against the scale related to the statistics used by
the conflittee on conlributions. rn that connexion, a few Member states stated that
superficial reliance on statisti.cs cou]-d. 1ead. to meaningles s, nisleading and
unjnst conclusions; that it was rmrealistic for the years !972-Ig7\ (nhich fail-ed
to reflect the subsequent and. sharp deterioration in the econonies of many
conntries ) to form the base period for a scale fgTT-19I9; that consideration shoul-d
have been given to longer-tern econornic trends rather than to parti.al or transitory
factors I that there as no reason to envelop th€ detiberations of the corunittee on



Al 3r/t+27
English
Paps 5

contributions in secrecy and that the fu].l d.ocunentation of the Conmittee shoul"d. be
rE,de available to the nerrbershi.p at large i that inc"eased asseasments should not
be inposed. without prior consultations rith the States concerned; and that every
proposed increase or reduction shoul-d be ercplaineit in detail in the report of the
Comittee.

13. The red.uction in the rate of assessment of South Africa, in the viev of a few
delegations, vas unjustifieil anat incompatible q'ith resolutionE adopteal by the
General- As sembly on apartheid. rt vas also the olinion of one del.esation that the
decision of one supeEF6Gi-To lower its rate of assessnent to Z5 p,iy cent was
contrary to the principre of eapacity to pay. I,IotEover, it vas added, the lolrering
of the other super-Powerrs rate of assess&ent fron 16.55 per cent in the L9?L-19?3
scal-e to 13.23 per cent in the proposed. scale for L97T-:!979 llas unJustided. in
the 1i girt of that Staters ovn economic statistics.

1\. l,Iithin the context of the foregoing debate on the fornulation of a scaLe,
suggestions 8nd proposals a.dvanced. in connexion with new criteria and tcroced.ures
whi.ch mi ght be adopted included the follor.ring:

(a) As long as the gap betreen developed and developing countries, adequately
tlocumeuted. by statistics, continued. to increase, the total percentage of the budget
borne by the developing cor:ntries shoul-al not be increased,; or, as vas also
suggested.' increased. contributions of d.eveLoDina countriee with risins national.
incomes should be devoteal entirel.y to the ne;ds-of other developing countries;

(t) Increases between scaLes shoukl not exceed a fixecl percentage (proposals
in this rega,rd. ranged fron 10 to ZO per cent);

(c) The concept of a ninimun rate should be re-examined rritb a view lo
lovering the fLoor or to apporbioning along the Lines of the epecial seale
established for peace-keeping operations (the representative of Nepel_ considered
the principle of a rninim]m rate to be inequitable anal proposed that his counrry,
like any other, be assessed. on the basis of its capacity to pay);

(d) Recognition shoulal be gi ven to the special financial obLigations of the
permareat membels of the Security Council, as in the case of peace-keeping
operations, or, as the representative of Japan proposed, by inrposing e lower linit
to their rates of assessment or an upper tinit to the rates of l4enber States not
pernanent menbels of the Council;

(u) In the case of cleveloping countries r,rith comotlity-orientett econonies or
non-renerable rarr eaterials, account shou]_d be t€ken of the effect on their
capeeity to pay of sha4) tleclines in e4por.U prices ancl of the increaEing price of
ineorts;

(t) The evaluation of a countryrs capacity to pay shouLtt not only be baseat on
nationaJ, inconre but also on other indices of national weelth and velfare (an
approximate intlicator of national wes.Ith, it ras suggested by the representative
of Japan, nd ght be the aggregate of the net nationaL product, adjusted by the net
national r^rel fare, ovex the preceding lO or 20 years);



A/ 3r/\aT
English
rase o

(g) The per capila income formuJ.a, which was presently applied by lrqy of
granting relief to low per cailita income countries, should be applied to all
IGmber States, as vas the case with systers of progressive income tax; or, as
was also suggested., consideration should be given to establishing a high per capita
income extra assessnent in order to avoid Larse reductions in the assessmenis of
developed. countri es;

(h) In ord.er to avoi d- sharp fluctuations in rates of assessment between
triennial scales, new scales shoulal be developed_ annually, possibly based on
three-year reference periods (it was also suggested by two alelegations that the
scale should correspond. v-ith the budgetary cycle)i

(i) fn ad.dition to its net national product, the deterldnation of a l4enber rs
capacity to pay should take account of its relative ].evel or stage of development,
its source of income (inclurling the rlepletability of that incone), its access to
foreign exchange, its econonic &nd. sociat status, the vea].th pattern of its people
in rel-ation to devefopnent, the extent of iuiteracy, per capita production anal
consumption of enerry, the val-ue and. amor:nt of prirnary conrnodities produced antl
consumed, the value and amormt of procluction of basic ind.ustries and- fund.s
alfocated for technical and. scientific ?esearch, cereal production and consunption
and. structure of foreign trade;

(l) Consid.eration should be given to the adverse effects of aggression anal
territorial occupation by forei gn troops and to the da"nage suffered by newly
independent countries d.uring colonia]. rule;

(k) In assessing l.{embers t capacity to pay, account shouLd be taken of their
respective nilitary expenditures ;

(1) A study should be undert€&en as to whether hisher assessments in the new
scale would affect voluntary contributions to international organizations as ve11
as foreign aid by develoning countries.

15. The views, suggestions and proposals outlined. in the precetting paragraph
were largely opposed by the 

"epresentatives 
of s number of other Member States.

The report of the Cormrittee on Contributions, it was stated, had been extremely
\tell prepared and the reconmendations contained therein representecl an obJective
formulation of a scale of assessrnents based on criteria and guid.elines laiti do',rn
by the General Assenbly. An orga.nization cou.Id not s urrrive if its established
proced.ures were attacked. whenever they seened to .work against the interests of sone
members. ft was pointed out, moreover, that the Cornn:ittee on Contributions had
given an4rle warning qs to the nature of its reconmendations ,
16. Referring to the pToposal that the total- assessment of developing countries
shou-ld be realuced or remain stable as lons as the sarr betveen devefoped and
developing countries continued to vi den, several delegations pointed to the
incorrpatibi lity of such a proposal with the principle of capacity to pay, since the
econonic situation of indivi dual countries varied greatly within any one group,



Al 3r/ )+27
English
?age 7

since the gap betveen d.eveloped and. some devel-oping countries had in fact nar?oveal
and woxl-il continue to do so ancl since it was the indivi dual responsibility of
lGdber States to share the financial burden of the llnited Nations. fbrthernore.
there were probl"ens in defining the various groups.

L7. In response to the contention that the rates of assessment of developed
countries in the proposed scale would decrease by 3,?B per cent, it was pointed out
that the net dec?ease was in fact nininat and wouLd arnount to less than one third
of 1 per cent. Sinilarly, in connexion l'ith a reference to tbe substantial
inctease to be borne by countries w'ithin the GrouD of Seventy-seven, the Ctrairnan
of the Conuittee on Contributions stated. tha.t 99 developin€i cor:ntries in the scale
comencing rdith the year 19?)+ hatl been assessed a total- of 13.)+1 per cent. The
sane 99 conntries in the proposed scale fot lr977 -L9'B llou].d be assessed a totaf of
13.52 per cent, an increase of O.IL per cent. ff one r.rere to exclude from the
99 lGnber States those 57 States assessed at the floor in the 19Tl+ scaleo the
respective totals for the renaining countries voul"d be 12.OT antt 12.12 per cent,
an increase of 0.05 per cent.

I8. In connexion vith a reference to an 'runvritten ruletr of the Connittee on
Contributions that linited increases between one scale of assessnents and the nerrt
by a fixed percentage, the Chai rnan of that Connaittee erplained that prior to
1951 a lindtation of ]0 per cent had indeed been imposed on increases bet-,r'een
scales. However, tbe Fi fth Conmittee had decidecl 5/ l:nat the retention of such a
Iinitation vould requi re that sone States wouLd toi many years pay a contribution
very much ].oner than woultl be equitable in accordance rdth their capaeity to pay.
Consequently, the practice was rliscontinued. -As to the propos aI that the practice
be reinstituted., as one representative pointetl out, to do so $ou1d be to produce
absurd. results nhen national income chaflged dranatically.

19. the prolosal advanced concerning the lowering of the floor was viewed with
syrpathy by a nr:mber of del-egations, particularly in relation to the .Ieast
developed. anong developing countries and. those classified as most seriously
affected. At the s a.!xe tine it was a].so felt that as a matter of principle
l'Iember States should be required to contribute a reasonable ninirmrm vhich shoultl
not be so lolt as to detract fron their dignity or to render the concept of collective
responsibility neaningless. If a d.ecision vere to be taken to l-over the floor, it
'wes addetl, inplenentation of such a decision shoul-d await the fornru]" ati on of a
nev scale by the Cornrni ttee on Contributions.

20. In so far as the ceiling was concerned, as one xepresentative pointed out,
the principle of a ceiling had existeal fron the inception of the United Nations.
Furthemore, the nost recent d.ecision to ].o$er the ceiling to 25 per cent, in
contr€,st rrith proposals now before the Connittee., had been taken veI1 in advance
of the formulation of a new scale. In connexion l.rith references raade to the
special responsibilities of the peraBnent menbers of the Security Council, the

agenala iten I+o" document A/f669, para. 3.z! =:::. '
tr'i fth Session- Annexes



Al3!/42'(
ljn El_1sfr
eale 8

representative of France recafl-ed tbat in not obJecting to the acloption of special
scales or' assessnent for the financing of the Uniteal Nations Energency Force antl
the Unitett Nations Disengagereut Observer Force, his delegation had clearl-y
stated. that its position on those scales vas not to be rrieved as constitutin€! a
precedent for other special reductions in the sca]-e for the regular budget of
the organization.

2L. ft was general-Iy the opinion of those tlelegations supporting the
record[end.ations of the ConlIittee on Contributions that the new scale lras a
realistic reflection of the econornies of l4etlber States and, nost importantly, of
their capaci.ty to pay. The inportance of the work of the Comrnittee on
Contributions snd the co&petence and integrity of its menbers, it was stated,
could. not be over-estimated, nor cou].at it be overlooked. that the criteria
established fo" the fornutation of sone 20 scales harl r,rithstood the test of
tine, hatl s urvivecl changes in meubership frorn predoninantly developed to
predoninantly developing countries eJ]at had resulted in scaLes of assessment vhicll
had receivecl the overwhelning sulDort of the membershiD. In parbicular, s upport,
vas expressed for the a"guments atlduced by the Conmittee on Contributions in
favour of the retention of a scal.e for a trienni al period. If nev criteria vere
to be ileveloped (and. it was noted. that the Coltml'ttee on Contributions had
indieated that there was at present no single conprehensive indicator which could
substitube for national income to rleternine a countryrs capacity to pay), these
should not be drawn up hastily. It vas for the Comnittee on Contributions, as an
eq)ert body, to undertake a further study of the question on the basis of
instructions incorporatetl in the resoLution adopting the new scale of assessnents,
having regard also to proposals anat suggestions nade in the Conrdttee.

III. CCNSIDEnATICN OF DAAFT RESO',UTIONS

22. At the 39th neeting of the Eifth Coonittee, on 30 Novenber, the Chairnar,
in referring to four tlrs.ft resoLutions before the Conmittee, stated that he
proposed to <lea1 with these in accord.ance v-ith ru].e 131 of the rules of procedure.
the draft resolution contained in the report of the Comdttee on Contributions 6/
had alTeary been introaluced. by the Orai:man of that Conmittee (see sect. II aboie).
IIe therefore inviteil the representatives of Nepal, Cuba and Kuwait to introduce
the other three alrafb resolutions, pointing out, at the sane tine, that the draf!
resorution subuitteit by Nepat (t/ c,513111,.7 /Rev. r ) diit not indicate vhen the
proposed lortering of the floor woultl take effect, nor Cid the draft resolution
subuitted by Cuba (A/C.5/3I/L.8) specit! which l,rere the devefoping countries
vhose principal e:eorb counodities had. uld,ergone a sharp price tlecline since
19?4.

23. Ilre rerrised draft resoLution supnittett by Nepal (A/C.5/3I/L.T/nev.l), lrhi ch
the replesentative of A3EbglieE!- stateal his ctelegation a].so !.ished to sponsor,
read as follows i

q-l &lC. , Thirby-first Session, Supplenent tto. l! (A/3thr) , para, 59.



A/3t/\27
.!;ns_Lasn
Pale 9

"Tlr-.__cen.l al_4Egetn!.]ll,

. "Recalting its resotutions 582 (VI) of 21 Deceuber 1951 ,66j (vII) of
4 December 1952 " I9z7 

(xWIr) of 1t Decenber tg63 " 2l-L8 
(Xx) of

21 December r96j,296I c (nffIl) of 13 December I).12 and.3062 ()o(Vrll) of
9 November 1973 relating to the add.itional recognition to be given to the
low pslg&.$_q income countries in calculating their rate of assessment in
view of ttreir econsric and financial- problems 

"

"RSSgUjlg. that the capacity to pay of the countries recognized by the
Unitetl Nations as the least developed anxong the developing countries and.
those most seriously affected is being adversely affected, ll_!Slgf__a=., lyinflation and currency instability,

''Eg"rgqlaillg the need for reconsideration of the scale of assessments
of the Least developed. countries in order to help them meet their priorities
at home and to alLov the aatJustnent necessary for these countries,

"gg!13ylgg. that the existing arrangement of assessment on the floor leve1
is incompatibl-e vith the principle of capacity to Day,

"!Fl!evl"g_"f_6o. that the col-lective finencial xeslonsibility inplies
that sl1 l.lember States pay at least a ninirnln percentage of the expenses of
the Organization,

"1. &qqt4l,-!- that the capacitv of Member States to contribute towsrd.s
the payment of the budgetery erpenses of the United Nations is the fimdamenta.I
criterion on vhich scales of assessment are based;

"2. Decitles to lover the floor for pur?oses of forroulating and
establ-ishiif,TtE-rates of asseasment ;

"3. E.g"st_l the Cormittee on Contributions to reflect this decision,
in so far as purely practical and technical linitations in calculatinB pernit,
which should be understood to mean a mininr.m paynent of no less than
0.01 per cent of the total expensea of the Organization.rr

rn introdueing the draft resolution, the representative of Nepal explained that the
pteanbular paragraphs took note of the tesolutions of the GeneraJ- AssenbLy relating
to the special reco6nition to be given to lov per capita income coultries in
calculating their rates of assessnent, found" trrE ei-is{ing floor 1eve1 of assessment
of 0,02 per cent to be inconpatibLe vith the principle of capacity to pa.y and
recognized. the collective financial responsibility of all l,lember States in
shouldering the expenses of the organization. operative paragraph 1 reaffinqed
that capacity to pay was the fundamentaL criterion on which scales of assessment.t.lere to be based.. operative paragraph 2 ealled for the lowering of the floo"
vhich, in accordance with operative paragraph 3, would be no l-ess than o,ol" per cent.
Tbe representative of Nepal added that he hoped that ttre d.rafb resol-ution woulal be
adopted by consensus in view of the importance attached to the new international.
econcnic oriler based on Justice, equity and fair play. As to the effective alate of
the new floor, it was for the Comlittee to d.ecid.e.



A/3r/\27
Xng.lish

24. The drafb resolution submitted. by Cu.b_q (A/C.5/31/L"8) read as follons:
I'The ceLe:a]:-]\ssembfy_,

"Consiclering_ that the Cqnnittee on Contributions has reconrnended. for the
neriod I977-1!J! increases in the rates of assessments ot 27 llember States,
inclualing 13 developing countries, in comparison vith the present scsJe,

I'Takiqg into accou{L the fact that repercussions of inflation and
currency instability which were marked.ly apparent d.uring the period 1172.197\,
ttre period taken as the base periotl for the formulati on of the scale of
assessments, na&e it difficuLt to d.etermine, and" in some cases, distort, the
true capacity to pay of l4enber States,

"BearinA in _mind the fact that the caoacity to pay of the developing
couatries is subject to strong cyclical variations or,ring to severe
fluctuations in tbe production, export and prices of the principal- cormodities,

"Searing in nind also the fact that the prices of veJious conrmodities
have fallen sharply in the past two yeaf,:s by conoarison with the prices
prevailing in 1974 and. that this has had a consid.erable effect on the capacity
to pay of the developing countries which export such cor'.utodities,

"B.:SE"t_4jg. that a sub st ant iaJ- part of the capacity to pay in currency
of the d.eveloping countries nlust be devoted to imOortinq, at increasing
prices, the goods ancl services required. to prcflnote their development,

"Recallinq, the resolutions adopteal by the General Assembly and other
international organizations concerning the new international economic order,

"ltgtllit g_gl- s.g that in various resolutions the General Assenbly has
recognized that a distinction must be made betveen developed and. d.eveloping
countries for the purposes of deterrninin€t the scale of asaessments,

lecrggs- to naintain for the period 19??-1979 tine current rates of
assessment of the developing cor.:ntries whose principal exlort comnod.ities have
undergone a sharp price decline since l-9?)+, in cases where the conmittee on
Contributions has recommend.ed an increase in the ratesi

Further dqct 
-des_ 

that the corresronding readjustments in the proposed.
scale of assessnenG iii'ifO not adversely affect the rates recorrrended by the
Corulittee on Contributions for the developing countries."

fn introducing that draft resoLution, the representative of Cuba stated that the
use of the yeaxs 1972*1974 as the base period for the fornmlation of the scaLe of
assessments tor !977 -1979 had resulted in the distortion of national income data
for a nutrbex of countries. lnflati.on had raised the value of national income in
monetary but not in real terms " while currency d.evatuation and fluctuations had aJ.soseriously affected national income figures. The sharp rise in Cuba's national
incone resulting fron the devaluation of the dol1ar was not a reflection of its



A/3r/\27
i;ng1a sn
Pale 11

increased capacity to pay, Xeference was made to tbat situation in the second
preanbular paragraph of tbe draft resoluticn, The third prea-mbular paragraph
pointed to the necessity of taking into accor.rnt that the calacity to pay of nost
developing countries was alependent upon the export of one or of a few conmod.ities,
the prices of r&ich were affected. by cyclical variations in the vorld econoqy.
The fourth and fifth preambular paragraphs recognized tbat ttre capacity to pay of
develooing countries had been affected by sharp d.eclines in counodity prices since
19?l+ and. that a substantisJ- portion of their export earnings vere required. for their
o n deveLognent. Since numerous resolutions of the General As sembly had also
recognized the need for a clear clistinction to be made betveen developed. and
devel"oping countries, operative paragraph 1 of the d.raft resoLution proposerl that
increased rates of assessment in the 197?-1979 scale of those developing countries
vhose principal export co nodities had und.ergone a sharp decline since l-974 be
naintained at the 197!-1976 level. l{hile it vas logical and reasonable to seek a
realuction in such cases, the Cuban delegation, in a spirit of co-operation, sought
only to maintain then at their current levels. It appeared, the fepresentative of
Cuba addeil, that his ovn country was the only one covered by operative paragraph 1
of the draft resolution. Iloweve?, the und-erlying principle applied to all
developing cormtries and snoulct be app].ied. in the fornulatioJ of all future scaLes
of a.ssessment.

25. The revised. draft resolution introd.uced. by the representative of Kuwait
(A/ c,5 /3L/T,,t0lRev.1 and Corr.l) and sponsored ty Eglfqln, crenatla, .Ifq4., I_Ig.q,
E11/el!., the Libyan Arab Republic, tlqgll!!4ie, I!i€98_?., eqlef, !a"di_A.e&_ig"
-S.!ggug., the $udan, the Un:.teg ilg.b_Enr!!.te9_ and ygl193ue!1 re&d as follows:

"The_qgn9r9l__4Eer$lia_,

"3g_g.g1_lr. -g its previous resolutions a.n<I d.ecisions on the subJect ,
"Affirming its guidelines to the Cormittee on Contributions to give

speciat-I6iElEJration to deveLoping Mer4ber States in fonuulating the scale
of assessments.

"Having consiclered the report of the Conunittee on Contributions
lAl?r/rr)

"1. Decideg to defer taking a decision on the new scale of assessnents
until the thirty -third session and to continue the application of the present
scale to the financial years 1977 and 1978'

"2. Le-quegt.: the Corxnittee on Contributions to re examine the question
of a new scale of assessments in the light of the cliscussions and proposals
in the Fifth Cornmittee during the thirty.-first session'

"3. _Instrggli the'Ccnmittee on Contributions to take additional
criteria and guideli.nes ful]y into account in its re-exarnination including:

"(a) The gan between developing anal ateveloped countries should be duly
taken into accormt by the Connittee on Contributions while d.rar,ring up all the
future scales 

/ ,..



A/3r/\27
E':rglish

"(t) me floor assessrrLent of 0.02 per cent should be reconsidered, with a
view to lowering it, especially for the least d.eveloped. among the developing
l{ember States

tt(c) The percentage increase in any idernber Staters contribution afber
each review of the scale of assessments should be gradual, and. under no
circunstances exceed 30 Der cent.

"\. Further decides to erpancl the membership of the Cormittee on
Contriluti6iilv-TlieETenbers iron the tleveloping countries, effective
1 January 1977;

"5. lgqug$q the Connittee on Contributions to submit a progress report
to the ceneral Assearbly at its thirty*second session and. a final report
containing a proposed nev scale of assessments at the thirty..third session.''

the draft resol-ution 7/ took into account proposals by Jape,n, vhich were accepted
by the sponsors at the 39th r.leeting, to ad.d., in operative paragralh 2, after the
worcl "discussionstt, the words "and. proposa]-s',. to deLete in operative ?aragraph 3,
the vords "the fo[oving'i before the word ,'additional" a.nd. to add. the woral
'rincluding'r after the word. "re-examination" . rn introd.ucing that draft 

"esolution,the representative of Kuruait inforned. the Cornnittee that Jord€Jr had become a
sDonsor. He explained. that the draft resorution vas baseflii-Ehe views expressed
tDr various deleqations in discussing the report of the Conmittee on
Contributions " _8/ It r,ras no secret, he add.ea!, that the sponsors were not i.n
agreexoent w-ith the recorunendations of that Coruaittee which they considereal to be
arbitrary, Operative paragxaph 1, the central peragraph of the drafb resolution,
he continued., woul<I rnaintain the ]9?[,19?6 scale for a fu.rther two years, since the
new scale had not obtained. the desired degree of support and had generated
bitterness and opposition. rt had imposed. staggering increa.ses in the assessments
of a number of countries based on so,ca1led. caoacity to pay, In the view of the
sponsots) there was as yet no satisfactory ctefinition of capacity to pay.
Accordingly, operative paragraph 2 of the d.raft resol-ution requested. the Cormittee
on Contributions to re*exanine the question of a new scale in the lipit of the
cutrent d.ebate in the tr'ifth Connnittee. Operative paragraph 3 souaht to offer
fundamental guidelines to the Comnittee on Contributions _ ta,king into account the
dissatisfaction of the sponsors over the fact that the assessments of some
d.eveloped corurtries had been decreased in contrast ','ith increases for certain
devel-oping cor.rntries, a situation vhich failed to take into account the wid.ening
gap between the two groups or the hardship irnposed on the least developed countries
of the current floor assessment of 0.02 per cent. tr'ina1ly, operative paragraph 3
sought to ensure that under no circumstances would. future increases in assessmenr
"ates 

exceed. 30 per cent. Operative paragraph lr would. ad.d three new. members .fron

f/ Initially issued. in provisional form as A/C.5/3I/L,N/Rev.1 without the
incorporation of the anendments subnitted. by Japan.

V Officiar ng.ftaq .l ,
supp1eo0e.g!_-119._ rl ( A/3I/11) .



A/3r/t427
Engli sh
?age l-3

developing countries to the Conr0ittee on Contributions " a 
ploposal" rhictt wou].d. neet

the aspirations of such countries. Operative paragraph 5 would request the
Conmittee on Contributions to subnit a trrogress report to the General Assembl-y at
its thirty-second segsion and a finaJ- report containing a recorunendation for a ne.w
scale of assessnents to the Asserrbly at its thirty-thiril 6ession.

26. In referrinq tc the draft resolution sponsored W epaL ard Afghanistan
6/C,5/3I/L.T/Rev.1), some representatives iequested further cl-arification as to
vhen the lroposed lowering of the fLoor would taJ.re effect, In responding the
representative of Nepal indice.ted that his dele6ation was prepared to specify in
the draft resol-ution that the nev floor lrinciple should be i'nplenented in the
scale of assessments for l-980.-1982. Accoralingly, the repregentative of -New Zeafand
proposed, a suggesiion which t,he representative of Nepal acceoted., that the vords
"in forrnulating tbe coninrl scale of assessmentg'r be inserted. in operative
paragraph 3 of the draft resol.ution, foJ-Iowing the word "decision''.
27. At the 40th meeting, on 2 December, the representative of Canada subnitted an
anendnent (A/c.5/37/L.26) to ttre drafb resofution sponsored by IIgT;n-i st an and
Nepal, as orally anended by New Zealand (A/C.5/3I/L.7/nev.2). The anendment
subnitted by Canacla vould add two further operative paragraphs to draft resolution
A/c,5/3r/L.7 /Rev.2 " as rollows:

'4. hrrther rq,que r! e the Conmittee on Contributions to study urgently
ana in aeot-iiialJ6EiEfrs of increasing the fairness and equity of the
scale of assessments in the l"ight of vielrs expressed by l,lerfuer States at the
thirty.-first session of the General Assembly and in particular by

"(a) Seeking irnprovements in the statistical measurenent of ttre relative
capacity to pay including new or add.itional statisticaf indicators and.
criteria:.

"(b) Considering the possibility of ldti8atinF extreme variations in
assessments betveen two successive scal,es without departing essential-ly from
the principle of the capacity to pqy by increasin6q the statistical base
period fron three years to some longer period or by any other appropriate
method r

"(c) Bearing in rnind the fact that the capacity to pay of the l4ember
States may be subject to severe ftuctuations in econonic activity for a
vari.ety of reasons 1

"(d) &nbodying as appropriate in subsequent reports of the Conmittee the
particular Justirication for any significant increases in the assessment of
any l'{ember State between tvo suceessive scales:

"5. f-:qgg-g! " 
the Conmittee on Contributious to report in depth on its

findings to the thirty-second regular session of the General Assently v'ith a
viev to enabling the GeneraL AssenbLy to consider early action on a ne'w
sca.le . ''



A/3r/\27
Brg)-ish
Page 1l+

In introclucin€! the anendmeut, the r.epr.esentative of Canada stated. that his
delegation attacbed considerable inyortance to draft resolution A/C.5/31/L.T/Rev.2
whi ch recognized the concern of countries vith the lowest per carrita income. I,lhite
aplreciating the dissatisfaction expressed by other t.{erqber EIaGE 6v:er increases intheir proposed assessment rates aod while agreeing that it was necessary to
for;nulate new criteria for estabrishing scales of assessnent, the criteria proposed
in draft resolution A/c.5/3I/L.rc/Rev.1 and Corr.I posed. 

""rioo" 
and practical

difficulties as well as problerns of principle for the Canad.ian delegaiion. Inparticular, the limitation of 30 per cent to percentage increases betr,reen scaJ-ee
would upset the delicate barance on vhich the present method of estabrishing a
scal-e was based. rt vas for the reasons explained- that canada had subnitted the
amendment (A/C,5/l/n,26) , paragraph )+ (t) of which proposed a solution to the
problem of extreme variations betrteen scales. Furthermore, on the basis of a
report to be submitted by the Comrittee on Contributions to the Genexal Assenbly atits thirty-second session, the Assenbly lrould be in a position to take a considered
decision based on expert advice. Any other course of action uight lead to a further
increase in the short term clefieit of the Organization.
28. At.the same meeting" the representative of the Federal Republic of Germqny., in
exDressing his 

_ 
support of the position tsften ly cana-aa]-pro-p.sEa -IEZ-iEEition of a

lte1 FaraeraPh -!a/c.S/Zt/f ,29) at the encl of the amendment subnitted by Canada\A/C.5/3t/L,26), whieh read as follolls:
u6. 

!9c:i<!es to expaJrd the membershiD of the Cornmittee on Contributicns
by five tnerbEiFf,-erreetive 1 January 197?.,*

29. The representative of NepaJ- stated that the original d.raft resolution had not
been intended. to deal with such controversial questions as the criteria to be
established in formulating a scale. However, vhi]-e the sponsors could not accept
the aroendments, they would leave the matter for the cormittee to decide. The
representative of Afghanistan ad.ded that the amendment proposed by the tr'ederal-
Republic of Germany bore no relationship to the original draft resolution and. urged
that it be withdravn,

30. The representative of lfirlrggq,grd TrleC. pointed out that paragraph l+ (d) orthe amendment proposed. ty c^naa.J-([lc.]StE26) aia not relate to the study which
the connittee on contributions would be requested to make. He suggested., therefore,
that that subparagraph should be made a separate paragraph. The 

"epresentative 
of

Cjp"9" accepted the suggestion and proposerl tbat the word.s ,rtr\rther reguests the
cormittee to embody" shourd be inserted before the word ras'i in ttre newlaragraph,
r^thich would be numbered 5, with the existing ps.ragraph 5 renumbered accord.ingly.
These changes were subsequently embodied in d.ocument A/C.r/31/L.26/Rev.1,

3]. rn the ensuing discussion) sorqe reDresentatives expressed. their support of the
draft resolution as amended; the amendments, it was fe1t, came closest to the views
of the Group of 77 a'd were conceived in a soirit of consensus. others pointed. to
the conflict between the proposaJ- to exnand- the menbership of the comlittee on
Contributions by three (as errbodied. in draft resolution A/c.j/3f /L.!o/Rev.1 and.Corr.l) and the anendilent put forward. by the Fedeaal Bepublic of cennany(A/C"5/3L/L,29) which vould enlarge the Cormrittee by five, thus retaining the



A/3r/ I+27
E;Ils-Ll Sn

eale 15

existing geographical composition. It was also stated that the amendraent submitted.
W Carrada (A/c.5/3l/L.26/Rev.r) 'wou1d rad.ically change the original draft resotution,
thus weskening, if not d.estroying, i.ts essential purpose of relieving the burden of
the least developed countries.

32. At its \Ist meeting, on 3 December, the Comrittee agreed, w-ithout obJection, to
a proposar by the representative of Kuwait, mad.e at the 39th neeting, that priority
be given in the voting to the d-Taft resolutions submitted by lllenlber States.
33, Accordingly, in explanation of vote before the vote on draft resolution
A/C.5/3I/L.7/Bev,z and the reLated anendments, sone defegations stated that they
could accept the id.ea of lowering the froor assessment in accord-ence arith the
principle of capacity to pay. However, while recognizing the point of view of
certain delegations concerning the need to clevelop new criteria, they objected
strongly to the d.efentrent of the new scale lendins the formulation of such new
criteria. T'he enlarge;rent of the Co'rnittee on Coitributions, to4ether H-ith the
study to be nade by that Conmittee as cafled fo" in A/C ,j/3I/L.e5/Rev.1, represented
a fair anii reasonable nesponse to the doubts antt dissatisfaction expressed. eartier.
I'urthermore, as one defegation pointed out - certain Menber States whose assessments
would increase as a resul-t of a very considerable rise in national incorne, had put
forwartl proposals which were in nany cases unJustified. rf the scale recormend.ed
by the cornnittee on contributions were to be reJectedr that delegation added, there
would be far"reaching politieal and financiai consequences whi.ch would disrupt the
normal financing of the United. Nations. Other delegations explained that they would
vote against the amend.ment subnitted by canad.a G/c.5/3r/L.26/nev.1) since it r,ras
lirrked to the reconmendation of the Connittee on Contributions and would terretuate
existing anomalies for a further tr,/o years.

3\. At the same meeting, the Cor,nnittee voted. on the amendment contained. in
docu.rnent A/C.r/3I/L,26/Rew.1. The anendment was adopted by a ro11..cal1 vote of
50 to 33, with 39 abstentions. The votins was as follows:

In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Syelorussian Sovi et Socialist Republic, Canada, Chi1e, Costa Rica,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Doninican Republic, n1 Salvador, Fin1and,
France, Ge"man Denocratie Republic, Germany, Federa]- Republic of,
Ghana, Guatemala, I{aiti, Hungary, fceland, IreJ.and, Israel, Ita1y,
Ivory Coast, Japan, Kenya, Luxembourg, Iiongolia, Netherl-ands,
Ner'r Zealand , Nicaragua , Norway , Papua .l)Iew Guinea , poland,
Portugai, Sierra Leone, Svaziland, Swed.en, ?rinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, tlkrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Kincdon of Great Britain a"rd
Ilorthern lreland,, United Rep-ublic of Cameroon, United States of
America, Upper VoLta, Uruguay.

Af4Jiranistan, Albania, Algeria, Bahraln, Benin, Congo, Cuba,
Democratic Yemen, EgI4)t, Grenada, Gui.nea-Bissau, fndonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao Peoplets Democratic Republic " lebanon,Libyan Arab Republic, Ma1i, t'{alta, Mauritania, l.Iorocco, Nigeria,
On€.n, Qatar', Saudi Arabia, Sonalia, Spain, Sudan, United Arab
Dnirates, Venezuela, yemen .

Against :



A/3r/\27
llirla_L 1sn
Paae :.6

,A!5taidng, BangJ"adesh, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Chad,
Colombia, Cyprus, Ecuador, Gabon, Greece, Guyana, India, Janaica,
lesotho, l,llad.agascar 

" idal-aysia , 
I.{exico r l{ozanbique , NepaL ,

Pakistan, Panana, Para€uay, Peru, PhiliD.pines, Romania, Rvanda,
Senegal-, Singapore, Sri L,anka, Surinam, Thailanti, Togo" Turkey,
Uganda, Unitect Republic of Tanzania, Yu6oslavia, Zaite '

35, fn connexion with the smendment submitted by the Federal Republic of Geruany
(A/C,5/31/L.?9 ) , tfre Secretary of the Comittee announced that paragreph 5 containetl
tberein shoultt be renumbered paraeraph 7. The Direetor of the Budget Division
indicated that the enLaxgenent of the Courrittee on Contributions by five members or
by three members (as hatt been prorosed in draft resolution A/c., /3I/T..'.Io/Rev.1 and
Corr.I) would entail ad.tlit ionat expenditures of $1!,2\0 ana $3,600, respectively.
However, both anount E coul-tt b€ absorbed vithin existing alprolriat ions,

36. The representative of fndonesia sought the views of the Legal Counsel- as to
whether the arrenclnent sulndtted- by the Federal Republic of Gerurafly (A/C.5/3I/L,29) 

"vhich introduced an entirely nev element to drafb resolutior A/C,5/3I/L.7/Rev.2"
coultl properly be treated as an €nendment rithin the rules of procedure of the
General Assenbl-y. fn response " the Legal Counsef stated. that a technicaf 

alefinition
could be found. in the last sentence of rule L30 of the rules of procedure. Since
the anendrnent in question was an adtlition to an existing proposal, it did constitute
an a"nendment within the tems of rule 130 in spite of the fact that draft resolution
A/C.r/3r/L.1 / Rev.2, as amended by the Canadian proposaf, did not deal with the
matter of the menbership of the Comittee on Contributions.

37. At its \Lst meeting, the Fifth Connnittee adopted. the snendnent su'omitted by
the FederaL Republic of cel3mny (A/C.5/3L/L.29) ly 5o votes to 36, with
33 abstentions.

38. In explaining their votes on d.raft resolution A/C,rhf/L,1/Bev,2, as amend.eil,
several delegations inclicated that" whilst they could support the basic draft
resolution, they could not support the a.nendrnent s which radic a1ly changed the
nature of that draft, Consequent\r, those delegations stated that they would
abstain in voting on the alraft resolution as a l'ho1e.

39. At the saltre meeting, the Fifth Cor8rittee adopted draft resol-ution
A/C.5/3f /L.7/Rev.2, as amended, by 7l+ votes to none, n"ith l+? abstentions (see
para. 68 below, d.raft resoJ-ution I .A.) .
l+0. In the course of the debate on the d"aft resolution submitted by cuba
(A/c,5/3I/L.8), the representative of tbe upper volta requested clarification as to
which jVenber States woultl be calIed upon to meet the shortfall that vould result
from the appJ-ication of operative paragraphs 1 and 2 of that draft resolution. In
Iesponse to that request, a note plepaJed by the Secretariat as a conference room
paper was cj.rcuLated., which was intendecl for statistical convenience and did. not
necessarily elrpress a Judgenent as to the stage reached by a particular cor:ntry in
the develolment process. That note ind.icated that of 14 developing countries whose
rates of assessmeht vould. increase in the proposed nev sca1e, the principal export



A/3r/\27
Enelish
Pa€e 17

corurodities of Cuba and l{aIaysia had rmdergc-'ne a sharp price decline since 1974.
In an intervention by tlle representative of creecel it was stated that since the
conference room paper had not been confined to members of the Group of 77, a
further paper should be prepared listing l.'lember States with per caoi_ta incone below
$l-,800 r"ho would benefit under the 1ov per capita alJ-ovsJrce fornula recornmended \r
the Conmittee on Contributions, A second note prepared. by the Secretariat as a
conference roorr paper was circulated which shoved that, of the llember States whose
assessments r,rould increase in the proposed nev scal-e, 15 such States had. had
average per capita national incomes below $1 ,8oO during the years 19?2-19?L. Of
those 16 States" the principal export commodities of the same tvo cor:ntries, Cuba
and Malaysia, had und,ergone sharp price declines. In light of the information
provid.ed, the representative of Cuba stated that the first prea.mbular paragraph of
draft resolution A/c.r/3fh.B should refer to 16 rather than to 13 developing
countri es .

l+1. In the opinion of a fer,r delegations, draft resoluti'on a/c,5/3I/L.8 submitted
by Cuba rras restrictive artd narrow in its approach and diffieult to inrplenent in
practice. Furthermore o unlike draft resolution A/C.r/3f/L.7/Rev.z, it wou1d have
the effect of changing the scale proposed by the Comraittee on Contributions which
had been based. on criteria approved. by the General Assenbl-y. The representative
of Cuba, on the other hand, rnaintained that in the longer tern any developing
country placed in the position of Cuba and llalaysia would. stand to benefit from
Cubars proposal. Itoreover ) the shortfaU of 0.01+ per cerit which vould re sult from
the retention of the rates of assessment of two countries at their current levels
could be compensated for by either assessing each of the two States recently
admitteal to membership at 0.02 per cent or by increasilg the rates of asses$lent
of developed countries. The fact that the proposed nev acale had been based on
criteria aDproved by the Assenbly, the representative of Cuba ad.ded., was no
indication of the infa"llibility of the Cornmittee on Contributions.

)+2, Tn explaining their votes before the vote, various "epresentatives 
reiterated

the reservations expressed in the generat debate on draft resofution A/C'5/3I/L.8,
pointinrg also to the fact that no definition had been given of a "sharp commod.ity
price decline". The representative of Trinidad and Tobs€o requested a
clarification before the vote, pointing to the fact th8.t operative pars8raph I of
the foregoing draf'h resolution would maintain for three years the current Tates of
assessment of certain developing countries, while operative paragraph 1 of draft
resolution A/c "5 /3r/L.r0/Rev.1 and Corr.l- would naintain the present scale for
two years and ttre smendment subrdtted by carad.a to that resolution (A/C.5/3f/L.?B)
would adopt the neff scale for two years. If the Conmittee \,/ere to adopt draft
resolution A/C.r/3f /L"8, did that not inply that it could not proceed. to vote on
the cleferment of the new scale for two years? In response, the Legal Counse]
stated that operative paragraph 1 of draft resolution A/C.5/3I/T,.8 naintained the
current rates of assessment fo? thlee years for certain developing countries' while
operative paragraph 1 of dlaft resolution A/c,5 /3r/L'lo/Rev'1 and corr'1 vould
defer a decision on the new scal-e for 19?? and 1978. If the fonier atraft
resolution were adopted., it would be necessaJy to drav a d.istinction betveen the
scale of assessnents for developing countries and that for other cormtries. fn
addition, in accorclance 1rith ttiat resolution, the current rates for two developing



Al3t/\27
fisl-1sn
Page 1tj

countries, Cuba and- iqalaysia, woul-d be na.intained for three years. Draft
resolution a,/c.5 /3I/L,n/Rev.1 and Corr.l would rnaintain the -s!gq4s -Slg for all
countries for two years. that contradiction cou1d. be resolved by adiusting the
rates of assessment of Cuba antl l4alaysia in the third year.

[3. At the hlst meeting, the Cormittee attopted the d]aft resolution sub$titted by
cuba (A/c,5/31/t.B), as ora}ly revised, by 3l+ votes to 25, r^rith 62 abstentioos
(see para. 58 below, alraft resolution I B).

U+. At the \Oth neeting, the representative of Canada, turning to draft resolution
Alu.)tJltrr.Lvlrey.r aDe. COrr,l,, Stat€d that the pe"centage increases reco@ended by
the Comittee on Contributions, while dranatic in themsefves, were not so large in
absol_ute terms. At the sa,ne tine he reiterated the vievs previously exlressed by
several delegations to the effect that perpetuation of the existing sca.Ie would
inpose inequities on many Goverrinents and tbat the process of reviewing criteria
should be tmde vt aJren after the adoption of the proposed. nev scsle. Accordingly '
canada rroposed an arnendme nt (A/c.5/31/1.28) to the foregoing draft resolution
which voul-d replace operative paragraph 1 of draft resolution A/c.5/3L/L.IO /Rev.I
and Corr.1 as follows:

"1, Decid.es to adolt the new scale of assessrents reconmended bv the
Connittee oi-contritut ions tor r9?? ancl 19?8".

l+5, At the same neeting, the !'ederal Republic of Gemany proposed fUrther
smendments ( subsequently embod.ied. in A/C.5/3I/L.30) to the ssme draft resolution
6/ c .5 / 3r/L ,ro/nev.1 and Corr.1) . These provided for :

(a) The addition, in operative paragralh 3 (a), of the vord ''individual'
after the words "The gap betveen"-

(t) Ttte del-etion, fron operative paragraph 3 (c), of tbe r'lords "and uncler
no circumstances exceed 30 per cent r'

(c) The Teplacenent, in operative paragraph l+, of the vords 'ithree menbersrl
by the words ''five memberstt and the del-et ion of the words "fron the d.eveloping
countries".

In explaini.ng these smendments, the representative of the Federal Republic of
Gernany stated, with respect to operati.ve paragraph 3 (a), tnat his delegation
found it difficult to agree to criteria relating to groups rather than to
intlividual countries. The del-etion from paragraDfr 3 (c), he continued., vas based
on the premise that the question of l-imiting increases betlteen scales was one which
should first be consid.ered by the Coruoittee on Contributions. tr'ina]}y, the changes
proposed in operative paragralh l+ had. been nade lrith the sa,ne purpose as the
amendment to draft resotution- A/c .5 /3I/L.7 /Rev.? (A/c.5/3Ll1,.29) subnitted bv the
tr'edera"1 Republic of Gerrnary,

)+5, In exolaining their voteg before the vote on d.raft resolution
A/ C.r/3j-/L "fO/Rev.I and Corr.I and the related s.mFndment s I it was argued by sone



Al 3r/ 1+27
llngli sh
Psge 19

de]'egations that the interests of devel-oping countTies whose econcxaies had sufferedreverseg ald lrhose aasessil4ents woulil te red.uced under the proposed. new scal"e shoul-d.not be sacrificed in the interest of devero'ing countries whose econonies hadimproved anal nhose assessments wourd be increasea accordingr-y. yet operativeparagraph l" of clrs,ft resolution A/C .5 /3j./L,rc/Rev,1 and Corr.l- would have preciselythe- effect of aclwancing the interests of the strongest at the expense of therteakest. I\rthernore, for tho'e co'ntries at the floor, whether it be at o.o2 or0'01 per cent,, €r0 increase of o,0r- per cent would represent an increase of 50 orl-oo-per cent respectively. There was the danger, therefore, that with a li.nitationof 30 per cent, some co'ntries r,rcu-rd nevex rire above the fioor Ieve1, whatevertheir natimal incone. Several_delegat ion s supportecl the amendments proposed. bycanada (A/c.5 Br/L-28) and the Federil n p"u:.ii or Gernanv (d/c.;/l../t .16il 
"irilr.they feLt did not'nde nine the essentiar principles tor the efteciive operation ofthe united ifations. rt was pointed out by- these deregations that they could notendorse any proposal that defe*ed. a decision on the new scar.e, that 

-iraposed-

restrictions on increases or that detracted. fron the principles of corlectiveresponsibility antl capacity to pay. Nor could they accept ihe replacement of asystem for the fornulation of scales of assessnent by iniartial eioerts with aEystem based on political consid.erations. Ttre sponsors of the draft resol-ution. onthe other hand. " maintained that the anendnent suimitted by canada ,."ra-i"irii. ' 
*'

that rlraft resolutic,n of its whole purcose. nor coular they aceept the a:nendmentto para8xaph 3 (a) propoeed by the Feaeral Bepubtic of cernany, which vouId negatea generaJ-ly accepted concept ttrat the situation of develooing countries hs.d. been andsti1l was very different fron that of the d.eve.l-oped countries. rJith respect to theemendment to operative paragraph 3 (c), it vas the view of the sponsors of thetlraft resolution, as velr- as sorne otrer d.elegations, that the substantiar. increasesin the proposed ner'r scale shourd be avoided. in the future" The deretion of thelimitation of 30 per cent to percenta€e increases in any l.lernber State,scontribution,vour-d. negate the intent of paragraoh 3 (c)'a" 
"rt"aiua 

-ir, -a"rrt
resolution A/C ,j /3I/L,to/Rev. t- anrt Corr.i.
l+7. 

-at the 
l+]st neeting, one representative d"ev atteution to tbe fect that theanendment subnxitted by Canad.a (g/C.j/T/f .2il , in so far as it nentioned thereconmendation of the cc,nrdttee on contriuutions, had been reJected. by the Fifth

t:Ht:j::,P:n it, hatl.decided, in approving the draft resotution subxcltted by cuba\Irtu'>/ 5L/tJ'.J, 
' that those recommendations were not valid for t!,o corntries. Theamendnent subaitted by canada shou-r-d therefore be rithcrrawn anal a ruling in thematter was requested. The representative of canada indicated that the question

:::13 ,!: ,resolved. by the addition of tbe *ords ,,taking account of resolutionAtv'>r 5lrtJ.o to that smendnent. rt was pointed. out, however, that the comitteehad aLreatly begun the processing or votini *i 
"" " 

consequence f\rther a;1endment swere inaclrnissible. Furthennore, i.t uas qiestioned. vhether the smendment subnittetlbv canatta (A/c.5 /3r/r' '28) *'as in f,.ct an auendment under rule 130 of the ru-les ofproce'lure ' The representative of cans.da r in stating that his delegation was notprepared to w:ithitraw its amendment, requested a legar opinion as to its var-iclity.rn referring to the oraf addition to tlie anendrnent subnitted. by canad.a, the Le€la1cor:nseL a€reed that such a.n addition vas inadmissibr-e since the connittee T.ras inthe process of voting on that amendment. As to the questj.on of whether the
anendment itself constituted. an anen&lent within the rules of procedure. he



A/3t/\27
llnc-L].sn
PaEe 2o

indicated that r:ule 130 defined en anrendment as something which added. to,
alel-eted from or revised part of an existing proposal. The definition was a
technical one, but there was no reason vhy an amentLnent coufd not conpletely
chalge part of an original proposal " that it be in agreement with the substanceof an original proposal or that its purpose should be limited to the s.dd.itiod
of details or specifications. If a proposal to amend one paragraph diti not
affect the substance of other taragraphs, it voufd seem that such changes
constituted an amend:nent. ff, holrever, a proposed chai8e which related to one
paragraph were to deprive other paragraphs of their neaJring ' such a 

chanpEe vould
not constitute an amend.ment.

l+8. At the )+2nd nreeting, on 5 December n the LeFal Cowrsel stated, in connexion
wi.th a question raised by the representative of Iraq, that the draft resolution
submi tted. by cuba (t/c.5/lt/L.A), as already epproved at the Conrnittee's
41st meeting, lrould have the Generai Assenbly maintain ttre current rates of
assessment for certain developing countries for f977 -1979 without adv=rse1y
affecting the rates reconnentled by the Cormnittee on Contributions for - any other
d.eveJ.opinpq cormtries. In accordance vith the second conference I'oom paper
prepared. by the Secretariat (see para. LO above), that decision would require
a red.uction of 0.02 per cent each in the rates of two d.eveloping countries,
nameJ-y Cuba and l\{alqysia, in order to naintain their assessnents at their crurent
leve:Ls. A readjustment of the remainder of the scal-e vould thus be required
so as to apport ion the '"otal of 0.Ol+ per cent a.$ong developed States. As to
vhether the adoption of the amendment subnitted by Caratla (A/C.5 /3I/L,28) inplied
a reconsid.eration of draft resolution A/c,5/3f/L.8, which had already been
approved., he had already stated at the l+1st meetinq that any fu.Ither resolutions
on that subJ ect should be read. in the l-i eht of tlraft resolution A/C.5/3I/L.82, it
that lrere alone for the amendment subnittett by Calada, such a decision \{ould call
for the approvaL of the sca.1e reconmended by the Conmittee on Contributions
for two yeers, except for tvo States vhose rates for that period (as well as
for an ad.ditional year) uould be maintained at the existing leve1 and excep-t
for a corresponding slight increase in the scales for a few tteveloped countries.
The scale for the great najority of States would rernain precisely as
reconmended by the Connittee. In that connexion, it shou-ld also be noted that
the preembular and. operative paragraphs of draft resolution A/e.5/3r/L.8 clearly
inpli.ed the adoption of the scale of assessnents reconmended by the Connittee
on Contrj.butions. Gonsequently, neither the adoption of the amendnent
subnitted by Carrad a nor the adoption of draft resolution A/C.5 /3I/L.IO/ReY.l
and Corr.l, whether or not it incor-porated the Canadian amendment, would require
reconsid.eration of the decision al-rea{y ta}en h'ith respect to the draft
resolution subnitted by Cuba (A/c.5/3I/L,8), fhus the d.ecision on both the
amendment e"nd on draft Tesolution A/C.5/31/L.n/8ev.1 and Corr.l vhether
anended or not rnrould require only a sirrple najority.

\9, While one delegation expressed its arreenent, a nrmber of other delegations
raised strong objections to the opinion delivered. by the Le g,aI Counsel, It
'was for the Cornn'ittee on Contributi.ons to nshe such consequential adJustnents
as vere required. following the approvaL of the draft resoLution submitted. by



Al3r/427
_E;nc_L1S n
Pale 2l-

c*a (A/c-5/31/L.8). T,he anenatnent submitted by canada G/a.j/3l./L,28) d,id,
not add.ress itseff to drafb resolution A/C.5 /3I/L_1O/Rev.I and Corr.1, which
rrould. defer taking action on the new scale of assessnents, but only to the
recomnendations of the Conmittee on Contributions and rrould adopt those
recornmendatioas for tvo insteatl of three years. The a,nenclment subnittecl by
Canada was nisplaceil siuee it hail aLready been ttecialed to atte" the proposed
new scal-e for two cor:ntries. Ttre amendnent should. in fact be considered an
amendnent to the resoLution reconmencled by the corunittee on contTibutions. g/
Furthermore, since the Fifth comnittee had decitted, ir: accordarce with rute]3t
of the rules of proced.ure, to give priority to resolutions of l,tennbe" States,
to seek to anend draft resolution A/C.jBf /L.}o/Rev.l and Corr.l by inserting
the scal"e reconnenaled. by the conmittee on contributions ffou1d, be a subterfuge
and. a procetlural nanoeuvre not authorized under the rul-es of procedure. A
two-thircls naJority was clearly required. to revelse a previously taken decision,

50, Referring to the oral anend.ment to the first preambular paragraph made
by the sponsor of the draft resot_ution subtrdtted by Cuba (A/C.j/3t/L.B) af
the Conmittee's 4l-st neeting during the process of voting (see l/C,5/3t/Sn.l+l,
para. 3), the repreEentative of creece pointed out tbat since tlLe Cornnittee
was quite properly the master of its or^rn procedure, he proposed to suba^menat
the anend.ment subnitted by ca$ada (a/c.r/Zt/t.zg) by repLacing the word "arlopt "
by ttre word "defer", In recalting that the Counittee, at the s ane rneeting,
bad ref\rsed to pernit calada to further anend its anendrnent, the chairran ruled
that the Greek subamendnent could not be acceDted..

51, Following a request for the opinion of the Legal Counsel (see para. )+B
above ) to be put to the vote, it was agreed. by the ghainnan that the point at
igsue was whether the smendment subnitted by Ca.nada (A/C.5/3L/L.A8) requireit
a sinple or a two-thirds maJority for ad.option,

52. At the l+zntl neeting, the Conrdttee decided by a roJ_1-ca1l_ vote of !6 to L5,
with 35 abstentions, that the anendrent submitted by Canada (A/e.]>nf /L.?8)
required a sinple naJority. Ttre voting was as follor.rs:

In favour: fu'gentina, Australia. Austria, Barbados o Belgirn, Bulgaria,
ByeLoyussian Soviet Socialist Repub1ic, Canada, Chi1e, Coloubia,
Costa Rica, Czechoslovalcia, Dennark, Dominican Republic,
E1 SaLvad-or, I'inLand., Frsnce, German Dernocrat ic RepubJ.ic,
cernany, Fealeral P,epub1ic of, Ghana, Guatenala. Hulgary,
fceland., ft.eland, fsraelo TtaJ-y, fvory Coast, Ja:naica, Kenya,
Luxeubourg, llalar,ri, l4engolia, Netherlands, Nev Zeal_artd.,
llicaragua, Nonra.y, Papua New Guinea, portwal, Srreden, Togo,
Ukraini an Sorriet Socialist Republ-ic, Union of Soviet Socialist
FepubLics, Uniteal Kingatonn of Great Britain and. Northern
freland, Ihited. States of America, Upper Vo1ta, Uru6pay.

9/ Ibid. , pata, 59.



^/3r/\27Brg] i sh
Page 22

4ggggl:' Alba:ria, A16eria, Bahrain, Bansladesh, Benin, Surundi, China,
Conoros, Congo, Denocratic Yemen, Ecuador o EsrI)t, Gabon,
Greece, fndia, Indonesia" Iran, Ireq, Japa.n, Jordan, Kuvait,
Lebanon, Libyan Arab Repubfic, I{adagascar, }4a1aysia, I,!a1i,
I'-aauritania, I[crocco n Niqerian Onar, Qatar, Rvanda, Saud.i
Arabia, Singa,?ore, Sonalia, Spain, Sri Larika, Sudan, Syrian
A"ab Relub1ic, Turkey, Uganda, Ihited Arab Snirates ' venezuela'Yenen, YugosLavia.

Abstaining: Lfghanistan, Balrarnas, Bhutan, Brazil, Buxma, Cuba, Cyprus,
Ethiopia, Ganbia, Grenada, Guinea, Guyana, Lesotho, l{a.ldives,
Ma1ta, l{exico, }.{ozanbique, epal, Pahistan, Parama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Fonania, genegal, Sierra Leone'
Surinau, Svazilantl, Thailond, Trini<Iad and Tobago, Tunisia"
Uniteal Republ-ic of Ca,neroon, United Bepublic of Tanzania,
Zaire , Zanbia.

53. In continuation of their explanations of vote before the vote, several
representatives intlicated that they r,rould, vote for the anendnent subnitted by
Canada, r"rhich representetl a fair corrrprornise. fn approving draft resolution
A/C.r/3I/L-7 /Rev.2 and related anendnents (A/C., /3L/L,26/Rev.1 and
A/C,5/3L/L.29)" the Co@rittee vou.l"d lower the ffoor a1d wouftl request an enla"ged
Counittee on Contributions urgentLy to study r,rays ancl means of increasing the
fairness and equity of the scale of asEessments in order to enable early action
to be taken on a nerr scal"e. In the meantine, there could be no Justification for
reJecting the proposeal new scale which had been based on criteria established.
by the Genera.l Assembly and on the nost recent statistics of Statesr capacity
to pay. Sone del-egations r{ere even prepared to adopt the nev scal-e for one year
only. other delegations, in stating tha,t they would vote against the amendment
subnitted by Canada, maintainecl that the continued apnlication of the existing
scale vas a reasons.ble step in the light of the controversy to whi ctl the
Ieconmend.ations of the Conrnittee on Contributions had given rise. tr\:rthermore,
a 30 per cent ceiling on incleases between scaLes recogn.ized that capacity to
pay could not be considered on the basis of transitory cash flows but on the
basis of the rea-L accumutated wealth of a country.

54. In response to requests by tvo aleleElations as to precisely what they would
be voting on, the Legal Counsel statetl that the amendnent submitted by Canada
(A/C,5/3f/L.28) should be read in conjr:nction with the Cuban draft resolution
(A/a.5/31/L.8). Accordingly, if the Canadiar amendment vere adopted, it woul"tl
mean that the existing scale of assessments would be retained for Cuba and
lr.slaysia, that subsequent readJustments in the new scale uould not affect
developin€! cormtries and. that the cost of those readJustments would be borne by
tl.eveloped corrntries.

55. At its 42nit meeting, the Comdttee adopted the a.nendment submitted by
canad.a (A/c.5/3r/L,28) by a ro1I-calf vote of 56 to \6, wi.th 29 abstentions. The
voting was as foll-ows:



A/3-r/t+27
English
Page 23

fn favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Baha:nas, Belgiurn" Bofivia,Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Social,ist, nepulfic, Canada,
Chile_, CoLoubi-a_,. Costg Rica, Cuba, Czechosiovakia, Denrnartr,
Dorninican Bepublic, El Salvador, fi;i, fiofana, franc.,
German Denocratic Republic, cerma,nlr, Feateral nepublic of,
Ghanaj Guatenala, Hond.uras, flungary, IceIEnd, freland,
Isrs.eLr flaly, fvory Coaet, Kenya, tuxembourg, lfexico, I,bngolia,$ethe}l{nds, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norvay, pana,na, papua NewGuinea, lorsurv, peru, phiLippines, fort,uiat, Sieiia r,eone,swazirand 

" swed.en, rhairand., Ukrainian sov]-et sociar.istRepubt ic, Union of Soviet Sociatist Bepubties, U.i;;; Ki.ngd.onof Great Britain and Northern freLancl, United Fep{bfic of
Cameroon, United States of .America, t.lpper Volta,'Uruguay.

Against: AfgJranistan, Albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Burundi, China,
Conoros, Congo, Dernocratic yemen, Ecuador, ngyoi, Gabcr-, Glecc_o,crenaila, fnd.onesia, Iran, Iraq, Japan, Jordan, ttuvait, LebenoE,Lilyan Arab gepubJ.ic, l{&dagaecar, l4alaysia, lta'l_t a, l{auritania,
I,lorocco i _Nepal " Nigeria, Ouan, 

poland, eatar, nwaniia, SaudiArabia, s"l"g.}: Singapore, Sonalia 
" 5p"i", d"a",, iyri."" t"lRepublic, tbinided and Tobago, Turkey, United Arab 6j.,t"*Venezuela, yen"rr, yugoslavia.

Abstaining: BangJ-adesh_, 
^Barbados, 

Benin, Bhutar, Brazil , Bunna, Chad.,Cyprus, qt-hioeia, Ga.rnbia 
" Guinea, cuysra, India, Jamaica,lesotho-, !.,ral-avi, l/raLdives, Iaali, 

-Ibzanbi,i"., 
pJf 

"t*, n*o*i",Sri Lanka, Surinan, Togp, Tunisia, Ugalaa, Unitea feputflc otTanzania, Zaire, Zarnbia.
56. fn connexion with the amenclment subaitted by his deleg&t io (A/c.5/3L/L.3o),the representative of the Feareval n"p"bi; ;i c"many state. that, at the requesrof severar d.elegatione, ttre anen.neni t; ;p;;";i". peragraph : i"i .i ai"rtresol-ution A/c. j /3L/L.\o/Rev. r- antt co"r.r w." i.ing withdr;wn o' ihu .,-d.""tandiugthat the principre of capacity t" p.y-"ppri"i ii ioaivia,ral rather than ro qroupaof co'ntries. The anend$ent" to op.r"ti". n*"*"pi-l-rr;a ;;;;;l"auu t" 

"sinilar provision t" *".I__:t*or"ti."l7c. S7i7i. f l".r.r, as alrended., previouslyapproved (see para. 39 aoovel.

'7' 
rn explanation. of vote.before the vote, a nr.rnrber of d.eJ-e gat i ons rei.terateclthe views aheadrr exlressed. in favour or arra'alainst trre inposiii;;-;t; ceilin69on peycentage increases betrreen scales, It waf pointeA out, ,or.ove" 

" tycertain representatives in favour of such-a 
"Jifi"g that it had. originally beenproposetl that e ceilins of 15 per cent be estabiished and that :o p!" 

".ot "i,o,rrabe regartletl as a naxinin _
58. At its l+2nd neetine, the Con$ittee reJected. the araendnent subnitted. by theFederal Republic or ceriany 6ia:;h;);.;61-""'Ir*r" anended) by a roI1_call-vote of 50 to 35, with Lt+ abstentions. fr". 

"otiog was a.s foJ-.J.ows:



A/3r /t+2'(
English
ya,se t+

In favour: Australia, Austria, Belgir:n, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Byelorrussian
=:::-::-' so.,l.t soci"rist Bepublic " calada ' 

Czechosfovakia' Denmark '
Oorninican Republic, Fili, Finland, tr'rance ' 

Gernan Democ"etic

Republic ' Gemary, 
Federat Republic of' Ghana' Hungary '

Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Luxetlbourg, '}'{ongo}ia, 
Nepaf '

Netherlards, lr€v Zeala'nd, llorway, Papua llew Cuin91' Paraguay '
Polsnd, Poriuga}, Sweclen, urrainian Soviet Socialist Republic "
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, unitetl Kingttorn of Great
Sritain and }]ortheln Ireland, United States of Americ6'

Afghanistan, Al-bania, Algeria, Bahrain, Burr:ndi, Conoros ' Congo '
Deiocratic Yemen, Ecuad.or, Egypt, Gabon, Greece, Grenada '
fndia, Indonesia, Iran, traq, Japan, Jordan, Kenya' Kuwait '
L,ebanon , libyan Arab Republic ' ltalawi ' 

r?.l3'fsia, Ue'urita'nia 
"

ll"*i"o, 'loro-cco, Nigeria, 0marl' Peru, Philippines ' Qatal ' Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sonalia, Spain, Sri Lanha' Sudan '
Syrian Arab neputric, Ttrailand, Trinidad and Tobago ' ?urkey '
Uganda, United Arab trhirates, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia'
Zambia.

Against:

llslsidng: Argentina, Baha.nas, Bangladesh, Barbados " 
Benin',Brazil' Burna '

Chad, Chile' China, Colonbia' Costa Rica' Cuba' cyprus '
Ht Salvador, Ebhiopia, Gambia, Guatenala ' 

Guinea' Guyana '
llonduras, fvory Coast, Jarnaica, Lesotho' l4adagas car ' l4-altlives '
MaLi " 

I'raita, l-{oza:nbique , Nicara€$a , Pal<istan ' Pana'na ' . 
Roraania '

Rwanila, Sierra Leone " Surinam, 
Swaziland" Togo' funisia'

United Repubfic of Caneroon, United Republic of Tarzania'
UPPer Volta I UruguaY, Zaire.

,g, Referring to atraft resolution A/C.5 /3I /L,ro/Rev' 1 and Corr'1' as. snended'
with respect io operative paragraph a (A/c.5Br/L.28)' tro representatives
requesteil a sepanate totu i., tirat- paragraph. However, it vas pointed out that
a separate vote would entail reconsideration of a decision already taken by
the Conmittee antl, under rule 123 of the ruLes of procedure, vould require a
two-thirds naJority. In delivering an opinion, the Legal Counsel stated that
in his view the proposal for a separate vote was admissible under rule 129 of
the rules of procedure, which rul! also provided' that 'rif obJection is ma'le to
the request for division, the notion for r1ivision shall be voted. upon". At its
l+zna neeting, the Coto'ittee approved the reouest for a separate vote on
operative paraeraph L by 52 votes to )+6, with 2! abstenticns'

50. At the s€me meeting, the Corunittee adopted operative laraglalh- J of 'kaft
resolution A/c '5 /31/L,L6/Bev.1 ana Corr.1, as amended ' by a rolt-ca1l 

vote of
55 to lr7, vith 26 abstent ioDs. Ttre voting was as foLl-ows:

In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Ba'llsmas, Belgiuro' Bulgaria'
Byelorussian Soviet Socia'1ist Republic " Canada' 

Chile'
Colonbia,Cuba,Czechoslovakia,Denmark'Dominicannepublic'
EL Salva6or, ri;i, rinrana, Irancen Gernan Democratic Bepublic "



A/3r /t+27
&rglish
Paae 25

Germany, led:raL Fepublic of, chana, cuatemal_a, Honiluras,Hungary, IceLartt, freland, fsrael" itaty, tvory Coast, Kenya,
Luxemboulg, ldal_awi, l,texico, lrongofia" NeiherLands, New Zealand.,
Nicaragua 

" Norway, 
panana, papua New Guinea, para€uay, peru,philippines, portugal 

" Sierra l,eone, Svaziland, Siealn,ltrailand, Ukrainian Soviet SoeiaList RepubJ.ic, Union of Soviet
Socia,List Republics, United Kingtton of Great iritain ana
Irlorthern freland, United Bepublic of Cameroon, United Statesof Anerica, Upper Volta, Uruguay.

Against: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Burund.i, China, Cosoros,
Con6r,o , Denocratic yeroen, Ecuador, Egrpt , Gabon, Greece ,
Grenad.a, Ind.onesia, fran, Iraq, Japar, Joratan o Kuwait, Lebanon,Libyan Arab Reoublic, l{ada{4ascar, Iralaysia, l{;lta,
Mauritania, Morocco, Nepa1, Nigeria 

" Oman, ?oland, 
g,atar,

Rwantla, 
- 
Saudi Arabia, SenegaJ_, Singapore, 

-SonaLia, 
Siain,

Sud.an, Syrian Ayab Repub1ic, Trinidad €nd Tobago,'furt"y,
Unitett Arab fuirates, Venezuela, yenxen, yugosLavia, Zaire.

Abstainine: B€rg1aale6h, 
, 
Barbad.os , Benin, Bhutan " Brazil, Burna, Chaat,Cfirrus, Etbiopia, Ga.rnbia 

" Guinea" cuyana, Indiao Janaica,Mal_d.ives , I,lali , I4oza&bique , ealistan , norna.nia , Sri LanXa,Surinan, Togo, Tunisia, Uganata, Uniterl Republic of Tanzaria,
Za.ubia,

fl: -1:-:yllining their votes be fo"e the vote on drafr resol_utionAr v ' 2 | 5r I L' LO /tev - r- and corr.l as atrended, nost of the sponsors of the orig"inar-draft regol"ution indicated. that it haa been *.oaua ao as to contradict itgsubstarce 
' one of the principal intentions of vhich was to arefer the ad.optionof a ne$ scale for tno years. Consequently they vould vote against it. Ttrerepresentative of Pola,'' stated if a separate .tot" hra. been taken on operativeparag?aph 2, he would have voted in favour of that paragraph.

f3: -4l.1lr-:am_e neetins, the CoDmittee reJected. draft resolution,.tu')r srrL'.ru,/Hev'-l and corr.r as anend.ed by 62 votes to 25, with 3! abstentions.

9l;. ^ll_ 
tt: 

_I!th neeting, on. t_1+ Decernber, the coffiiittee, at the request of
I*t:l"l:,:glu:d lo :":p":.r the votins .,i trr" irrrt-"""ir"tt""""..1fr."u.u o"
lT_9:ryitl::^":,9:i!.i!$ions. :g/ .f,leeria r.rta roei" then subndtted an
3::3:it (A/c.5/3r/L.35) to the--dran't:'"r"iiJ"frii.r.";;1;;;;";; ror:-owingchanges:

(a)". the replacenent, in subparagraph (a), of the woriis ,,yeans fg77,I}TBand 1979" by the rords "year 197?i';
(b) The replacement of subparaBraph (f) by a new text read.ing as fo]-lows:

"(b) As an exception to ru].e 160 of the rules of proced.ure of the
CeneraL Assenbly, the sca.le of assessnents given in subiaragraph (a) above

ru/ lD1d.



A/3r /427
Erglish
Page 26

sha,I.l be revieved by the Cornrnittee on Contlibutions in 1977' when a
r.eport shall be subnitted. to the Assenbty for its consideration at its
thirty-second. sessi on " I

(c) The deletion of ?eferences to I9?B and 19?9 in subparagrapfrs (e),
( g), and (n) ;

(e) The insertion of the folLor.iing tert as a new subparagraph (c) and the
relettering of succeeding subparagraphs accordingly:

' "(c) ihe Cornnittee on Contributions shal1 drav up future scales
of assessments, on the basis of the fo].lov-ing ' 

(i) ttre criteria
contained. in its 

"eport 
A/3r/rr; (ii) trre additional criteria eontained'

in a'/c.5/3L/L.7 /Rev.Z, as amended.; (iii) the continuing disparity between
the economies of developed and developing cormtries i (iv) nethods which
avoid. excessive variations of inclividual rates of assessments betveen
tvo successive scales: and (v) the d.ebate under agenda iten 100 in the
Fifth Comrittee during the thirty-first session of the Ceneral Assembly,
especially the concerns expressed regarding steep incleases in the rates
of individual assessments".

The representative of India, in introducing the amend.ment, stated that it
represented. the out cone of negotiations and consultations betveen l'lember States
and expresseal the hope that it woul-d be adopted by consensus. The amendment
was adopted without objeet ion.

6l+. At the sa.ne rneeting, the Cornnittee adopted, without obJection' the alrafb
resol-ution contained in paragraph 59 of the report of the Costnittee on
Contributions , p.l as a,mend.ed (see para, 68 below, dTaft resolution I C).

65. Ttre following ilelegations spoke in explanation of their vote after the vote:
Ger:nany, Federal nepublic of, Ghana, Iraq, spain, Japan, Union of Soviet
$ociaList Republics, Phifippines, Iran and ?o1and, The views expressed by
delegations are reflected in the sumnary record of the \9th neeting of the
Conrrittee ( A/c.5 / 3r /SR,\9) .

66. At the s ane meeting, in connexion r,rith the d.ecision telen by the Fifth
Cormittee on the enJ-argement of the Conmittee on Contributions (see paras. 28 and
37 abote), the Cormittee also adopted, nithout obJection, a tlral'b resolution put
forward by its Chairman recommeniling to the General Assenbfy a consequential
a$.endment of rule l-58 of the ruJ-es of proced.ure (see para. 58 below, draft
resolution II).

61 . In the course of their interventions, and with particular reference to
rates of assessnent for their countries, a number of delegations drew attention
to economic anal social factors which, in thei.r opinion, Justified lower
assessnent rates. The6e statements are reffected in the suntrary records of the
Comittee's consiileration of agenda iten 1OO (A/e.5 /3]-/SR.L6, I8-2o, 22-25,
39-l+3 and I+9 ) .



A/3th2'l
-Eingl. 1sn
Page 27

IV. RECOMMEIIDATTONS OF THE I FfiI COI{MITTEE

68. The Fifbh Corrnj.ttee reco&mend.a to the ceneral Assenbly the ad.option of the
following d.rafb resolutions:

DNAFT XESOLUTTON T

_qgg.l--e oll qssessnents for the enr1o?t r'nnmcnf.
of rit. 

"*p."";-= 
oiiffitso'nff

A

The Ceneral Assenbly,

Recallins its resolutions 582 (Vt) of 21 Decenber l-9|'L,655 (VII) of
I December 1952, L927 (XVIII) of IL December 1963,2118 (nf) of 2t December ug6j,
2961 c (XXWI) of 13 Decenber t9?2 alld fo6e (ncvrir) or S Nov"nber igTi"er*tirrg-to the additional recognition to be given to the low per capita incone countries
in calcul-ating their ratea of assessnoent in view of tfreir econonic and financial
problens 

"

RecaLling that the capacity to pay of the countries recognized. by the
Iltrited' Nations as the J-east developed. anong the developing countries anal those
nost seriously affected is being aatversely affected 

" 
inter al_ia_, by inflation

and currency instobilitJ,

Recognizing the need. for reconside?ation of the scale of assessments of
the least (Ievelopeat countries and those most seriousLy affected in order to help
them n0eet their priorities at hone an<I to allow the ad.Justnent necessaly for
these cormtries 

"

Believing that the existing arrangenent of assessnent on the floor l-evel
is inconrpatible vith the principle of capacity to pay,

BelievinA a.lso that the collective financial responsibility inplies that all
ltember States pay at least a roininrm percentage of the expenses of the
Oroonizotian

1. Reaffirns that the capacity of l{embe} States to contribute torard.s
the paJrment of the buttgetarlr expenses of the united Nations is the fundamental
criterion on wbich sca.les of assessnent are based.;

2. Decid.es to lorrer the floor for purposes of fornulatinp! arrd
establishing the rates of asaesshent;

3. Requests the Conmittee on Contributions to refLect this d.ecision in
formulating the corning scale of assessments in so far as purely practical and
technicaJ- lirnitations in calculating pemit 

" lrhi ch should be und.erstood to mea.na mininrun payment of no less th8lt O.O1 per cent of the total expenses of the
organization' 

r...



AhL/t+27
tlnp-L1sn
-Ease zo

l+. Frrther requests the Connittee on Contributions to study urgently
and in depth ways and nears of increasing the fairness a.nd equity of the scale
of essessnents in the light of viervs expressed. by !{enber States at the thirby-
first session of the General Assellbly, in particufar by:

(a) Seeking inprovenents in the statistical measurement of the rel-ative
capacity to pay, includ.ing new or acklitional statistical initicators and criteris,:

(b) Consirlering the possibility of rnitigating extreme variations in
a.ssessnents between two succesgive scalesn vithout departing essential-Ly frou
the principle of the capacity to pay, either by increasing the statistical base
period fron three years to some longer period or by any other appropriate method:

(c) Bearing in ninil the fact that the capacity to pay of Member States !0ey
be subJect to severe fluctuations in economic activity for a variety of reasons;

5, Further requests the Conmittee on Contributions to embodlr as
appropriate in subsequent reports of the Connittee the parbicular Justification
for any significant increases in the assessment of any l{enber State betveen
two successive scal-es:

6. Requests the Conrnittee on Contributions to report in depth on its
findings to the GeneraL Assenbl-y at its thirty-second segsion vith a view to
enabliag the AssernbLy to consider early action on a netr scale;

7. Decittes to enlarge the membership of the Conrnittee on Contributions
by five members, effecti.ve 1 January a977. U

ftre General Assenrbly,

Considering that the Comittee on Contribut ions has reconnenaled fo" the
period 1!fl-1979 increases in the rates of assessment of tventy-seven Member St8,tes,
including sirteen developing cor:ntries, in eornparison vith the present scale,

Taking into accormt the fact that the repercussions of inflation and.
currency instability wbich were n1a.1'kedly apparent aturing the peri.od. 1972-197\,
the period taken as the base period for the formulation of the scale of
assessments, make it difficult to detemine, atrd in some cases ilistort, the
true capacity to pay of l:.-enber States,

Bearing in nind the fact thet the capacity to pay of the developing
countries is subject to strong cyclical variations oring to severe fl-uctuations
in the production, export antl prices of the princi.pal cormod.ities,

!!/ S.. also draft resolution II below.



A/3r/U27
English
Page 29

3ea'ing in nind afso the fact that the prices of various connodities have
faLlen. sharpLy in the past tvo years by comparison with the prices prevailing
in 19?4 and that this has had a considlrable effect on the capacity to pay of the
clevel"oping countries which export such cormodities n

- Reqognizirlg that a substantiat part of the capacity to pay in currencyof the developing countries must be devoted_ to importing" at increasing prices,
the €:ootls and services required. to protnot e their d.evelopnent,

lg-"alllgS the resolutions ad.opted. by the GeneraL Assenbly and by organs
of other international organizations concerning the nev international econobic
oraler,

. - Re9?1l1ng ?Iso that in various resolutions the General Asselnbly has recognized.that a tlistinction must be made betlreen d.ever-oped and d.eveloping countries for
the purposes of deter:orining the scale of assessments,

L. Decides to ruaintain for the period tgTT-L9?9 the current rates of
assessment of the developing countries whose principar- erq)ort comod.ities have
und.ergone a sharp price d.ecline since llJlr, in cases whe?e the Comittee on
Contributions has recormended an increase in the rates;

_ 2. Further decides that the correspond.ing read.Justnents in the proposedscal-e of assessnents shourd. not adversely affect the rates reconmendect by the
Comrittee on Contributions for the developing countries.

Ihe Genera"l" Assembly

Reso].ves that :

(") Ttre sca.l-e of assessments
tbe United Nations budget for the

I4enber State

for the contributions of llenber States to
financial year ]-977 shall be as follows:

Afghanistan
Albania

Per cent

o.o2
0. 02
0.10
0.83
L5Z
0. 63
0. 02
0. 02
0 .04
o.o2

Algeria
Argentina
Australia
Austria
Bahamas
Behrain
Bangladesh
Barb ad.os



AB]./I+27
.Fll{lf lsn
Page 30

I4enber State

lsrtir utr
Benin

Per cent

1.07
0. 02
0. 02
0 .02
0.02
1.0ll
0. 13
0.02
nn,
o .Io
2.96
0.02
0,02

0 .09
5.50

0. 02
0 .02
0 .02
n 1?
o.02
0. 8?
0. 02
0 .02
0. 63
0 .02
0, 02
0 .08
o.02

0.02
0. 02
0. b1
5.66
0.02
0 .02
r?q
7.74
0.02
0.39
0 .02
0.02
0. 02
0. 02
0. 02
0. 02

Solivia
Botsvara

Bhutan

Brazil
Bulgaria

Burundi
Byelorus
Canada
Cape Verd.e
Central African Republic

Chile
China .

Burrna

sian Soviet Socialist nepublic

Comoros
Congo .
Costa Rica
Cuba
qryrus
Czechoslova-hia
Democrat ic lGnTluchea
Democrat ic Yemen

Donj.ni carr Republic

!6yPU .
EL Salvador
Equatorial Guinea
Ethiopia

Flnland
France
Gabon
Gambia
CemsJr Denocratic Republic
Germany, Federal Republic of
Ghan a
Gree c e
Grenad.a
Guatemala
Ouinea
Guinea-Bissau

HAlf,I



!4enber State

Ahrhz1
Eaglish
Pege 3l-

Per cent

Hondu-ras
I{ungary
Iceland

0.3\
0.02
0. ?o
o.1b
0. l+3
0.10
0.15
0 .21+

3.30
0,o?
0. 02
8.66
0. 02
0. 02
0.16
0.02
0.03
0.02
0 .02
0.1?
0.04
0. 02
0. 02
0.09
0 ,02
0 .02
0.02
0. 02
Q.O2
0.78
0. 02
0.05
0.02
0.02
1. 38
0.28
0.02
o.o2
0.13
0. 13
o.02
0 .06
0,02
0. 02
0. 02
0.06
0.10

Ireland

Indonesi.a
lncLa

Iran

I'iexico

Norway

Parana

Peru

Japan
Jordan
Kenya
Kuvait
Lao Peop]e's Democratic Republic
l,ebanon

Ivory Coast
Je.rnai c a

Lesotho
lJf oerla
Liby€^n Arab Repubtic
LuxembourE!
I4adagascar
l.{a1awi
lnalays i a
llald.ives
MaLi
Mafta

NepaJ.
Netherlanals
New Zeal-and.
Ni caragua

l4auritania
tr{auritius

l,{ongolia
l4oxocco
Mozanbique

Onan
Pakistan ,...::::::

Papua New Guinea
Paraguay

PhiJ.ippines



trrgr].sn

l4ember State

Poland .
D^r+rid61!ur LqeloJ

Qatar
Rornaaia

Per cent

1.40
Q.20
0 .o2
o.26
o.o2
0, 02
o.2\
0.02
0, 02
0 .08
0.02
0.40
'I 5?
o.o2
0. 02
0.o2
0. 0?
r.20
0,02
0 .10
0.02
0. 02
o .o2
0,30
0.02
'I qn

0.08
l+ .lr4
0. 02
o.o2

25 ,OO
0. 02
0, 04
o. I+o
o,o2
0. 38
0 .02
o.o2

Rwanda,
Sao Tome and. Principe
Saudi Arabia

Singapore
Somal-ia
South Africa
Spain
Sri Lanha
Sud.an
Surinam
Swaziland.
Sweden .
Syrian Arab Republie
Ttrai.i-antl
ru6v . r
Trinid.acl and Tobago

Ugard.a .
Ukrainian Soviet Soeialist Republic
Union of Soviet Socialist RepubJ.ics
United Arab Dnirates
United Kingdom of Great Britain arld ltrorthern lrefancl
Unitetl Republic of Caneroon . . .
United Republic of Tanzaria
Uni.teal Stateg
Upper Volta
Uruguay
Venezuefa

Siene. leone
Senega]-

Tunisia
firrkey

Zaire

of Anerica

Za.mbia . ..: 1i

Yemen
YugosJ.avia

l-00.00

(l) As an exception to rul.e 160 of the rules of procedure of the General
Assenbly, the scale of assessments gi.ven in subparagraph (a) above shal-l be
reviewed by the Cornnittee on Contributions i-n 1977 vhen a report sha1l be
submitted to the Assenbly for its consid.eration at its thirty-second session;



A/3t/t+27
-Ein sJ-1sh
fage 33

(") ltre Counittee on Contributions shal1 drav up future sea].es of
assessments, on the basis of:

(i) The criteria contained. in its report; 12/
(ii) Ttre acld.itional criteria contained" in resolution A above;

(iii) Ttre continuing disparity betveen the economies of developed and
d-evelopin€ countries ;

(iv) Method.s which avoid excessive variations of individual 
"ates 

of
assessments betr{een two successive scales;

(.r.) The debate under agend.a iten 1OO in the Fifth Connittee during the
thirty-first session, especial_Iy the concern expxessed regariling s.ueep
increases in the rates of individual assessnents;

(d) Notr,rithst andin8 the terms of regulat ion 5.5 of the Financial-
Regulations of the united Nations, the secretary-General shal-l be enlpolrered to
accept" at his discretion and afber consu.I-tation with the Chairman of the Connittee
on Contributions, a portion of the contributions of l4enber States for the calendar"yealI977incutrenci'esotherthanUnited.StateSd.o11ars;

(u) For the year !975, Cape Verde, Sao Tome and principe and l.{oi.anbique,
which bec€me I'T.embers of the United Nations on 16 Septenber 19?5, a',d papua llew
Guinea, the comoros and surinam, \rhi ch bec8nle l\Iembers of the united Nations on
L0 October, 12 llovember and lr Decernbe r L97:-, respective\r, shall contribute
amounts equal to one ninth of 0.02 per centj

(r) f'or the year l!J6, Cape Verile, Sao Tone and principe, Iiozanbique,
Papua New Guinea, the comoros and. surinsm shal1 contribute amount s equal to
0.02 per cent;

(e) The contributions of the six neff t{ember States for I9I5 and f9T6 stia[
be applied. to the sa&e basis of assessnent as for other l,{enber states, except
that in the case of approp"iations approved. under section If of ceneraL Assembly
resoLution 3211 B (XXIX) of 29 November I9?\, and. und.er Assembly resol-utions
33?l+ B ()ux) of 28 Novembe r :'975 and 33?L c (Drx) of e Deceuber rg75 ror rhe
financing of the United Nations Soergency Force, including the Unitett Nations
Disengagement observer Force, the contributi.ons of those states (in aecordance
with the group of contributors to which they may be assigned by the Assenbly)
shau be calcuLated in proportion to the calend.ar year;

^ -!?/ 
Of{icil+ Tecgrds of the ceneral Assenbry, Thirty-first Session,SupplenentirtE@



A/3t/\27
Dnglish
Page 34

(h) srrblcct tc' nrl.e 160 ot ttre rules of procealure of the General Assenftly'
States wbich are not Members of the Unitetl Natione but vhich participate in
certain of its activities sha11 be called upon to contribute tovards t}:,e 79"17
elq)enses of such activities on the besis of the folloving rates:

Non-ltenber State Per cent

Denocratic Peoplers Republic of Korea 0'O>
I{o1y See O'02
Liechtenstein 0.02
l4onaco 0.02
Republic of Korea . 0.13
San Marino . 0.02
Svitzerland 0.96
Tonga O.O2

the following eor:ntries being calletl upon to contribrrte:

(i) To the International Court of Justice:

Liechtenstein,
S an l.4ari no ,
Sr"r'it zerlan il1

/'.\(ii/ To the intemational cont ro]. of narcotic alrug :

Holy See,
Liechtenstein,
I\4onaco,
Republi c of I(orea,
Switzerland,
Tonga;

(iii) To the Economic and Social- Corudssion for Asia and the Paci.fic:

Bepubli c of Korea;

(iv) To the Econordi c Comrtrission for nurope:

Swit zerland;

(n) qg the unitud N"ti"!" cor :

Democratic People rs lepublic of Ko?ea,
Hofy See,
T.i anh+anc+ai -
llonaco ,

San Marino,
Swit zer].ancl;



Al3rl\?T
Engli sh
Paee 35

(vi) To the United iilations TnduFtrial Development Org :

Holy See,
l,iechtenstein,
Monaco,
Republic of Korea,
Switzerland;

(i) I$otvi thstaridi n g the activities f.isterl under subpar agraph (h) above, and
bearing in rdnd the prorrisions of regu-Iation 5.9 of the linancial Regulations of
the United ltrations, the foregoing non-merrber States, as lrel1 as those listed
hal.\^' c.h:l I al qo e.rnf.ril'rri.e 1./1 +.hc avrFn-Fs o I such other activi Lies or
conferences in vhich thev larticipate at the fates established under this
resofution:

Per
Non-member State 1976

a -o2
0 .02

DRAI'T RESOLUTTON II

cent
L977

Nauru . . 0.02
a .o2I,lestern Samoa

Th-- GellCral As segbly 
'

Havine d.ecided, in paragraph ? of resolution l1/ A of
enlarge the mernbership of the Corur:ittee on ContTibutions by
1 January 1977,

npni dee t6 ^nFn,t ith effect from 1 January 19?7, Tule
proce duETd read as fol.Lorqs:

December I9T5 , 13/ to
fi ve nLenbers, effective

158 of its aules of

,,Ru1e 15 B

ttThe General Assembly shall appoint an expert Corunittee on Contributions
consisting of eighteen menbers. "

].l/ See draft resolution f A above,




