








































-A 

\:

=+i=
{JN'TED NAI'ONS

GEI,I ERAI.
A 5 5 E M B LY

Distr.
GENENA],

Al3L/385
8 Decenber 19?6

ORIGINAI,: ENGLISE

Thirty-first session
Agenda it en l+B

PBOIIIBITION OF II{E DEVEI'PMENT AND MANUFACTUSE OF NEW
TTPES OF WTEPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND NEW SYSTEI,S

OF SUCH WEAPONS

Report of the First Cormittee

&qPellurl: !tu. Kedar Bhakta SHRESTHA (Nepal)

1. The item entitl-ed 'rProhibition of the developnent and. manufacture of new
types of weapons of mass destruction snd new systerns of such veapons: report of
the Conference of the Cornni.ttee on Disarmanentrr was included in the prouisional
agenda of the tbirty-first session on the basis of General Assenbfy resolution
3\79 (x)c1() of 11 December 1975.

2. At its Ith pLenary loeeting, on 2l+ Septenb er 1976, the ceneraf Assenbly, on
the reconmendation of the General Comittee, decitled to inclucle the item in its
agend.a and. to aLLocate it to the First Comrittee,

3. At its 2ncl meeting, on 5 October, the First Comlittee decid.erl to hold. a
conbined general- tlebate on the itens allocated. to it relating to d.isarnanent 'nanely Jl+ to 50 and LL6. The general- debate on these items took place at the
20th to 39tlr neetings, f"om 1 to 19 Novenber.

\. In connexion with item \8, trre First Comj.ttee had. before it the report of
the Conference of the Conmittee on Disarnanent. V

5. 0n November 1976, the Union of Sorriet Socialist Bepq4;!g q subnitted a drafb
reso].ution(l/c.t/zt/L.t0)'@.1/31/L.1O/Fev.1).
The fatter draft r.ras introd.ucecl by the representative of the Union of Soviet
Socislist Repub].ics at the 3\tb roeeting, on L6 Novenber.

V 9€!ici"1 R"cords of the
xo. zJ (TITHTT-
76-?6719



A/3r/38'
English
Page 2

5. 0n 2! Novenber, A.f.ehgE$g: M""eg11?: the +r:r:'++g*+:*+^fi":n:vrr cz 'vyeavv*, 1-E::=i:::=:, --_ - , . ;F;;msed version of the draftUnion of Soviet Sociafist Republics subltrltted
"=.ffii 

ch vas subsequentfy sponsored also by
i. an Soviet ie^list the Gernan Democfatlc

Soviet E-6d tueoslavia.

7. At the hTth meeting' on I Decenber, the tr'irst Connittee
resolution A/ c-I/3L/L-n/Rev'2 by a recorded vote of 10I to
(see para. 8 betow). The voting was as fol-l-ows:

Republic, Iiungary ' Pol-and'

In favorE:

@i!Et:
Abstaining:

adopted d"aft
1, uith ]3 abstentions 2/

Afghanistan' Algeria, Argentina, Austria, -Bahrain' 
Bangladesh'

Brutan, Bolivia; Botswani, Brazil, Bulgaria, -3urna' 
Surundi '

;;;i;;""1; so,riet So"iaiist Republic, canada, chad' chile'
cltonuia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cl4rrus, Cz echosl-ovalia '
Denocratic Yenen, Eeuatlor, Eeypt, Ethiopia, Fiji' Finland'
Gern€rDemocraticRepublicnGhana,Greece,Gus'tenala'Guyana'
Eungary, Ice]-gnd, Inttia, Indonesia' Ira'r:' Iraqn Israel' Ivory
coaJt,- ia.naica, Japan, Jord.an, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers
Denocratic neputlic, iebanon, IJesotho ' Liberia' 

Madagas car '
Malawi, fUalaysia, Ma1i, Malta' Mauritius, Mexico' Mongolia'
Morocco, Moza.mbique, Nepal, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway' Oman'
Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugs'a '
Bonania, 

- 

Rwand.i, 
-Saudi 

Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone' singepore '
Sonatia, Sri Lanka, Surinam, 6waziland, Sred'en o Syrian Arab
Bepub1ic, Ihailand., Togo, Tiinidad and Tobago ' -Tunisia ' 

Turkey 
'

Ut-rainian Soviet Sociefist nepublic, Union of Sori et Socialist
Republics, United Arab Ernirates, United Republic of Cameroon'
unit ea nelultic of Tanzania' Upler volta, Uruguay ' venezuela'
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Albania,

Australia, Belgiu:n, Denma"k, France, Germany, !'ederal Republic of'
f reland, ita.l-y, t uxenbourg, Netherlancls, Spain,. Uganda' United
Kingdon of Cru"t Itittitt ind t'torttrern Ireland' Unitecl States of
America.

BE COMMENDATI ON

B. Ttre !'irst CoDmittee reconmends to
following draft resolution:

OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

the General Assembly the adoption of the

2/ Aftet the vote' the representative of Israel indicated that it hatl been
hi" #t.;ti;; io "l"t"i"; 

the 
-representative of the r'ibyan Arab -Bepublic stated'

that, had he been p".""r,i during- the vote' he woul-d have voted in favour of the
draft resolution.

3ulgaria, the



Prohibition of the

A/3u385
English
Page 3

and manufacture of nev
and newsof of nass alest

of such weaoons
The General Assembty,

Rec?l1ing its resoLution 3l+?9 (XXX) of 11 Decenber IgI5, in which it
requestetl the conference of the counittee on Disarmament to proeeed as soon as
Bossible to work out the text of an agreement on the prohibition of the developnent
aod. nxanufacture of new typ€s of weapons of ma6s d.estrr:ction snd new systens of such
weapons ,

Being co+yinced. of the inportance of conclud.ing an agreenent to prevent the
use of scientific and technological progress for the deveropn€nt of n-w tytrres and
systens of weapons of nass destruction,

Taking into account the report of the confelence of the conmittee on
Disamament with regard to this question, 3/

Ta.king note of the discussion at the Conference of the Conmittee on
Disarmenent of the question of the prohibition of the d.everopnent and manufactureof new tl4)es of weapons of nass destruction and ne_]- systens of such weapons,

Taking into account the suggestions and relevant docunents subrnitted to the
General Assenbly on this subJect at its thirty_first session,

1". Requests the conference of the corunittee on Disarna,nent to continue the
negotiations, with the assistance of qualified government€J- experts, ained at
vorking out the text of a' agreement on the protribition of ttre deveiopment and
nanufacture of neu t)q)es of weapons of nass destruction and. new systems of such
weapons and to subnit a report on the results achieved to the General Assenbry for
consicleration at its thirty-second session;

2. Requests the Se cretaqr-General to transmit to the Conference of the
connittee on Disarnament arl documents rerating to the discussion of this iten by
the General Assenbly at its thirty_first session,

3. Decides to include in the provisional agencla of its thirty-second session
an item enTfiIE-d. "Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of
weapons of mas s destruction and new systens of such weapons: report of the
Conference of the Coflnittee on Disarnanent".

3/ See official Records of the G€neral Assenbly, Ttrirty-first Session,
Supptenent lV




