








































-/d 

t:

=ftF
UfV'IED NAT'ONS

GENERA[.
A S S E AA B LY

Distr.
GENERAI

A/3r/T5/!'dd..r
17 Decenber 1976

ORIGINA],: ENGLISH

Thirty-first s es sion
^ccnda 

itpm 65

DElELOPl,lIrilT Al,rt-r I$lf Eq\A!'I01'r-AL E0oi'lollIC Co-OPIF"'TIO":l : 1l'iPLEI4ENTATI oN
Otr' THE DICISIO]{S .4DOITND EI THE GE}I I]RAI, ASStrI'IBLY AT ITS SEVENTH

SPIC]AL SISSIOI.]

Report of the Second conmittee (ruf! I!)

Rapporteur: tVr. Gerhard PI'ANZELTER (llustria)

1. The Second Committee continued its consideration of itero 65 at its 58th, 61st'
'tc 63rd, 65th and 66th neeiinxs, tetween 1 ancl 13 ll-'cenber 1976. ArL .L:count of the
discussion of the Cornmittee is contained in the relevant sunmary records
(A/c.2/3r/sR,5B, 6r to 63, 65 and 66).

2. For its consideration of the item, the Conmittee also ilad befoae it the
fol-Loving docunent s :

(u) Report of the Ad Hoc Conmittee on the Restlucturing of the Economic a.Ild
Socia^l Sectors of the unJ-t ed rations System; f/

(t) Draft resol-ution entitled 'rSpecial intergovernnental corrrittee on
international trade" deferred by the Ginere"l rtls sembly at its thiltieth session
to the current session (i-/C.2/3L/L,5).

3. The Comnittee considered four draft resolutions and three draft decisions, as
set forth in sections I to VfI bel-ov.

T

l, 
^r 

!L^.1 ^+ *^^+.'*^ ^- 7 n^^^*1-^D +l--^ ?-^T6c6hta+ilrF ^f 
fhe Fhililrssur*6e on T Decenberr the representative of the Fhilippines, on

behalf of Arsentlna, Austria, Bangladesh, lolrl'ria, Canada" !E!4!IE" the- !glEin:834
lebubf ic , ncu"dor, Finl ardr-Gu;;;; Jran, J"lnal'ca' Jordan, Mexico, the retherlaflds '

No. 34 B

r/
No. 3f (

Official Records
31

of the Generaf As

No. r[ e (A/3r/3\/Add.2).
9.,
.2)

-first Sessi.on

76-28232

Supplenent 34 A Add.1) ; and ibid. . Supplement



A/3r / .33t / 
^dd 

.r
I1ng1i s h
Page 2

'Te'/ 'er.land, Ion/av, Dt_nue l-e'- C.rin..a, !eru" tLe Ihil inlin"s, Sr.reden, Sri La.:1,foqo, U.1anda, i.he L:njted -.'erubl ic of fa"reroon. lSfrSZg_t_A and vuoosla'ria, in1 rod rcea
a dr:aft resolution (A/C.2/3r/L.61) entitled rtThe effective rnobilizatiorr of wcmen in
development'r and ora11y introrfuced the followins revisions:

(") The repfacement of operative pa.r:a-Araph 2 by the follo\",inf :

"2. Urges l4er,rber States to iroplement the reconnlendat ions set out in
resolution 3505 (XXX), to I'acilitate r,ronen's equal particiration with men
in alf development efforts, and in particular to ensure that they ha-ve equal
access to po1ltica1 parties, trade unions, training, esleciafly in anricuLture,
co-ooeratjves, anJ credit cnd -Loan sysLeI'S, as hrel-I as equaj oprortunitieS to
participate in policy-makine in the econcmic field, connerce an,l trade, and
the advanced sectors of industryl';

(b) The addition, in operative paragraph 1+, of the r,rords 'rthe International
Labour Orqanisaiion" after the r,iords "the Food and Aqriculture Orsanization of the
United ilations '.

Subsequently, Pakistan jcined in sponsorinq the dra.ft reschrtion,

5. At the sane neeting, the Conndttee adopt-^d draft resolut ion A-/C.2/3I/L.51, as
orally revised, \,/ithout a vote (see para, 26 below, draft resolution I).

b. Folloving the adoption of the clraft resolution, the representative of the
United States of America nade a statement.

I1

'f . At the 62nd meeting" on 8 Decenril'er, thF r.tresentative of llorvay, on behalf of
A""ffig, Canada, Colonbia, Derrrnark, Ecuadol , Finland, i.Sgls, Trao, Jordan,
the i'Ietherlands, Nev Zealand, lSgfgzuC, lliqeria, tlorrray, the Dhilinr:ines, Sr.,azilard,
Sr,reden, Tunisia, Uganda and Yemen, introdrrced a draft resolutlon (A/C.2/3f /L.)rB)
enLitled "lriDarLite i/orlcl Conference on :mnloymenL, lncon e Distril.,rtiorr, Social
Progress anC- the lnternaticnal Division cf Labour" and orally revised the draft
resolution by repfacing the r,rords rJfnt erna-t ional T,abour Organisation" by the r,/ords
"International Labour Offiee'r in operative paregraph )+.

B. SuLsequently, lt4al j, 'a"ur_ilan.ia, ieneEa.l and Siprra leone joinerl in sponsoring
the drafL lesolut ion.

), AL Lhq (31d neetino, on 9 D^ce-oer, the representatjve of on'ay, on behalf of
Lhe co-sconsol s, fur1]het" oraliy revised tl'e drafb reso_LuLior oy deleti.ro the
fifth preambutar paragraph,

fO. At the same meeting, the Coflnittee adopted draft resofut lorL A./C.Z/3I/L.)+8, as
orally revjsed, \.rit hout a voLc (see para. 26 belo\./, draft reso-l.rtion lJ).



A/ JJ / 3 35 / At1tl .r
Ilnglish
pa8e 3

11. !-ol-lovine the adoption of the draft resolution, staterncnts lrere made by the
representatlves of the Netherlands, Sveden (also on behalf of Denmark, Finland,
Iceland and lilorway)" China and pakistan.

III

12. At the 53rd meeting, the Conmittee consirlered the report of the
Coffirittee orr the Restauctu"inA of the Economic and Social Sectors of

Ad Hoc
1:ne unLted

lilations System, !/ and heard an introductory statement by the Chairroan of the
Ad Iioc Conmittee.

lJ. At the sane rneetinfl, the Comrnjttee
Chairman (A/C.Z/3I/L.Bh) without a vote

_L/ l1eS O_LUI lonS

z/ i(esotuI;aon

adopted a draft decision proposed by the
\see pala. ll oe_Loir, oraTI oecls].on 1,,.

IV

1l+. The General Assembly, in a decision taken at its 2l+)+1st plenary neeting, on
15 lecenber 1975, decided to defer until its thirty-first session consideration of
a draft resolution (A/C.2/31/L.!) entitled "Special intergovernmental cornmittee on
international trad.e!' 2/ vhich read as foflornrs:

"The General Assenbly,

"Reaffinning the comnnon aspiraticn of all peo!1es of the world torrards
better standards of living and r,r'elfare and, in this regard, the need to find
ways to accelerate the develotr)ment of developing countries,

"Fecalllng tl're Declaration and the Progranme of Action on the
Establishment of a IIew International Econornic Orde}, V the Cllarter of
Econornic Rights and Duties of St,at es 2./ and the relevant section of General- _-; ,Assembly resolution 3362 (S-VII) of f6 Septenber 1975 on develolrment and
international econonic co-oneration.

"Bearing in mind the uork afready accornplisherl by the United llations,
particularly by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development " witha viev to\^'ards the fornxufation of new dimensions for economic relations
betweerr developing a:ld developed. countries, especially in the area of
international trade,

3201 (s-vI) and 3202 (s-w).
3281 (xXIx ) .

itah I t? elrhnarq f1' l
SuFplement tto, 3\, (A/10034) , pp. 79, 80,



A/::| //J _1i /Add . i
Engl.i sh
fage +

"Fecoflnizing the primordial importance of inLernational trade as an
instrunent for the equitable distribution of the vorldrs I'eatth and for
propelJ-ing the development of developing countries,

"!g$fSg4g. that lt is indispensable to pronote a growing expansion of
interniil6nf traae as a means of ensuring a true international econonic
interdependence based on the princip-Les of lul1 equjty and of the sovereignty
of nations,

"Recogrrizing the urgent necessity of defining nev internaticnal norms to
increase the flovr of tyade betveen developed and developin€( countries arr,d to
assure to the latter additional advantages for their expo"ts and thus a
greader parbicipaLion in world trade,

"1. Decides to establish vithin the framevork of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development a special intergcvernmental corrmittee on
international trade to prepare ' in the light 

of negotiations und'er vay or to
be undertaken within or outside the United Nations, a C.Taft genelal agreement
on trade, to be subrnitted to the General Assembly not later than at its
thirty-second session, containing norns that would regulate trade relations
betveen developed countries and developing countries vith the air of promoting
a larger and more equitable participation of devefoping countries in vorld
J,rF.,lc Lhvorrr,l^ - i nter al r'a - t.hc a.onl ication of preferentiaf treatmenL " bearing
in mincl the need to reduce the eccnomic gap betveen developed countlies and
developing countries;

"2. Le::-4gg to consider at its thirty-second sessionn in the llght of
the results of the work of the special intergovernmental corrnittee, the
convening of a plenipotentiary conference for the approval of a general
agreement on trade betveen developed and develcjping countries I

"3. Requests the Trade and Dewelopment Board to give priority to the
work of ttre specGf intergovernmental conmittee a.nd, in consultation with the
interested Covernments, to proeeed to the establishment of the calendaT and
organizaLion of work of the corunjtteel

"l+. Requests further the Secretary-Genera"l of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and It"rrelopment to submit to the General Assenbly at its
thirty-first session a progress report on the vork undertaken by the soecial
int ergovernmental cormittee. "

15. At tiLe 53rd neeting, Lhe Cormittee }ad before ib a draft decision prolosed by
the Chairrnan (tt/c.z/Zl /t -tl+) entitled 'tspeciat int ergovernmental cormit'tee on
international trade"" r./hereby considelation of the above-mentioned d-raft resolution
(A/C.2/3UL.5) would be deferred to the thirty-second session of the General
Assembly.

L6. At the same meeting" the Conmittee adopted the draft decision proposed by the
Chairma.n (A/C.?/ 3L/L.7\), without a v.rte (sle pata, 2'l belo\^') dTaft decision If)'



Al 3J./ 33, / A(J.o..r
EngllSn
Page 5

v

t?. At the 65th nreeting, on I0 December, the representative of Afghanisten, on
behalf of AfghsJristan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Boliriia, Botswana n Surunrl!, the Central
African Republic, Chail, India, the Lao Peoplers Denocrat ic Republic, tesotho,
Ma.Iavi, Ma1i, Moneolia, Nepal, the Niger, ParagusJr, nwanda, Svazilanil, !EgI!g, tne
Upper Volta, Zaire and Zanbia, introd.uced a drafb resolution (A/C.2/3L/L.\),
entitled "United Nations Special Funat for Land-lockecl Developing Cor:ntriesrr.

18. At the s8me neeting, the Connittee adopted the atraft resolution by 82 votes to
none, vitb 20 abstentions (see para. 26 belov, drafb resolution III).

19, Statements in explanation of vote we?e made by the ?epresentatives of Finland.,
Sweden, Japan, the United States of America, the NetherLands (on behalf of the
nine States menbers of the European Economic Comunity ) and. Nelt Zealand.

VI

20. At the 65th meeting, Mr. I. Goritza, Vice-Chairman of the Comnittee,
introduced. a tlraft resolution (A/C.2/3]./L.85) entitlert 'rlnplenentation of General
Assembly resolutions 2526 (x]I,t.r ) entitfeal 'International Developnent Strategy fo"
the Second. United Nations Devefopment Decad.er, 3202 (S-W) entitled r?rogra.me of
Action on the Establishnent of a New International Econonic Ord.er | , 3281 (ffiX)
entitled 'gharter of Econornic Rights and D:ties of Statest and 3352 (S-irII )
entitled I Developnent and. international- economic co-operationt tr.

2I. At the sabe neeting, the rep"esentative of Pakistan, on behal-f of the States
Menbers of the United Nations which are menbers .f the Group of 77, v-ithatlelt
draft resolut ion A/C.z/3I/L.28, entitled "Implenentetion of ceneral As Eenbly
"esolutions 

on the establishnent of the nev international econonic order", the tert
of {hich reaals as follows:

ttThe General Assenbly,

"@]figg its resotutions 3201 (S-vr) and 3202 (s-w) of l- l,ray 1974,
conteining tbe Declaration and. the Progranme of Action on the Establishnent of
a Nelr International Econornic Ord.er, its resolution 32Bl (nffX) of
12 Decen0ber 19Tl+, containing the Charter of Econoeic Rights antl Duties of
Stetes, and. its resolution 3352 (S-VII) of 16 Septenber 1975 on development and
international econonic co-operation.

"Recalling further its resolution 3506 (]rj(x) of 15 Decenber 1975' in
vhich it establishetl the proced.ure for tbe review of tbe implementation of the
d.ecisions adopted by the General Assenbly et its seTenth Bpecial sessionn

"Becalling its resolution z5a6 (lQw) of 2h october 1970' containing the
goals, talgets and policy measures of the International Development Strategy
for the Second United Nations Development Decad.e, which have been reinforceal
by its resolutiong on the establishment of the new international econonic
order and its resol-ution 351? ()r.xx) of 15 Decenber 19?5 on the nid-tets reviev
and apprai sa1 of progress in the irnplenentation of the InternationaL
Developnent Strategy,



Al -l ; 53) / Ao(1. t

"I9!i!& the reports on the fourth session of the United lilations Confetence
on Trade snd Development, the interim report of the Conference on International
Economic Co-operation, as rre1l as other relevant reports,

"Noting further that the pertinent decisions adopted at the lt{inisteria.f
l.{eeting of the Group of TT at Manila, the Fifth Conference of Heads of State
or Government of ilon-Aligned Countries at Colombo and the Conference on
nconomic Co-operation among Devel-oping Countries in l!{exico have flrther
el-aborated the concept aIrd tbe actions required for the establishment of
the ner.r international econonic order,

"Considering with deep and increasing concern that parts of the developing
world are sti1l subject to foreign aggression and occupation, aFartheid., racial
discrinination and col-onia1. and neo-col-onial donination, which constitute the
major obstacJ-es to the economic emancipation and development of the d.evelopinq
countries as a whol-e as 'welI as some of the ereatest threats to international
nao.a ah/l < anrrri l_rr

"!g!E1]91ilg. that the concept of interdependence does not inply that
development and prosperity of the d.eveloping countries should be construed as
being xnerely a by-product of gror^ring affluence in the developed countries,

"Noting with regret that the developed countries have yet to displ-ay the
necessary political wilJ. to inplenent these fundamental decisions and fu1fi1
their commitments and obligations and to adjust their policies for this
purpose,

"Deeply concerned that, as a consequence, during the current Decade the
terms of trade of the developing countries have deteriorated even fu"ther'
leading to unprecedented and groving ba"lance-of-paynent s deficits, the burd.en
of debt has reached unmanageable proportions in many developing countries,
growth in the developing countries is expected to fall short not only of the
6 per cent talget of the Strategy but also of the rate of grol,-th achievetl in
the First United Nations Development Decade and that, for rna"ny deweloping
countries, particularly the least developed land-1ocked" island and nost
seriously affected developing countries, rea1 per capita incone wilf be lo\"er
in l-980 than at the stert of the Deca4e,

"Consiclering that the prirnal issue confronting the international
cornrnunity is the inequitable structure of eeonomic relations between the
d.eveloped and the d.eveloping countries, a situation which eonstitutes a
serious threat to international peace and security,

I

"1. Affinns that its decisions on the establishment of the new
international econonic order represent a conmitment on the part of l{ember
States to ensure equity in economic relations between developed and develo?ing
countries and a deliberate, sustained and plarned effort to develop the
economies of the developing countries;



Al3r/33:/ Add,.r,
English
Page J

"2. Notes with concern that the agreements reached at the fourth sessionof the uniteat Nations conference on Trad.e and Developnent uere lirrited in
natulre anal did not adequately reepond to the agreeloents contained in its
resolution 3362 (S-WI) of 16 Septenber 1975 ,r,d ..r.r, less to the DroDosats ofthe tleveloping countries as set out in the Manira Declaration and. iroirame or
Action;

"3. !\Ether notes with concern that, rlespite the expectations rested on
the conference on rnternationar Econonic co-operation, the"e has been no
conclete progtess so fan, even i.n the face of the nost urgent and pressing
problens of the d.evetoping countries;

rrlt. Reaffirns the conclusions reached. in the nid-term review and
appraisal 6rFFss in the irnplernentation of the rnternationa.L Develornnent
strategy for the second unite<I rlations Development Decade, contained in GeneralABsenbly resoLution 35}J ()Otr) of 1! December Lg.lr, r.rhi ch specifically
identified serious shortfalrs on the pert of the developed countries in the
inpleruentation of General- AsserobLy reiolution 2626 (Tw) ctr:ring the first halfof the Decade;

- 
t'5- Expresses its deep concern and ctisappointnnent tbat there has been no

reaJ" pro€lress o? conclete action tovarals the inplernentation of the decisions on
the establishnnent of the new international econornic order;

u6. Reaffinns fu"tlgt that 
'rgent, 

vigorous and concrete steps and action
stil-l remaIiETiGfE, cotlectivety an<t individually, by all members of the
international cormrunity to end rrithoui Aut"y aIL forns of ioreign aggression
anal occupation, raci al discrimination, aDartheid, colonialisrn and
neo-coloniaLisn end that it is aLso trre-i..6lF"u states to effectively
support and ext encl aesistance to the countries, territories anri. peoples
subJecteal to them so as to reatore their national sovereignty, territorial
integrity ancl their inalienable and. fundanentaL riehts in orde to Droroote
devel-olment and internationaL co-operation, peace a:rd securitv ;

-- "7.- UTges.therefore the developed corrrrtries to dispLay the necessarypolitical- vilL in the ongoing negotiations in different Unitecl lTations f<.:nrms
anal elselthe"e, so as to reach the concrete and ur€ient solutions necessary to
pronote the establish:nent of the nev international economic orderl

tr8. Consiclers that failure to achieve eaxly, concrete and, substantial
solutions T6TfrEa?vetopnent problems of the d.eveloping countries in
negotiations on the establi.shnent of the nelr internationaJ- economic order woutd
have adverse effects on international economic co-operation:

llt.r

"9. lgg'Ie€g to undertake during the course of its thirty-second session
a detailed-GFsment of the prog"."" rnade in the inplenentation of the
decisions on the establishnent of the nev internationaJ- econonic order.



^/3r/335/!d.d.rEnglish
Page 8

together w:ith the review end appraisal of the inplenrenta.tion of the
Intemationa"l Development Stretery uniler a single iten entitled 'The
establishnent of the nerr interna.tional economic or(lerr'r:

"10, Requests the Economic and Sociel Council and its Cormittee on Reviev
and. Appraisal- to prepare a prelininary assessment fcr consideration by the
General Assenbly at its thirty-second. session, bearing in nind the provisions
of the preceding patagraphs and the reports at the sectoral sntl regional level-
presented by the Uniteal Nations organs anal organizations concerneil and such
other tlevelopments as rnay take place in the interim;

rr11. Eequests further the Secretary-General of the United Nations as ve1l
as the heads of the United. Nations bodies anal organizations concerned, in
preparing for the reviev and assess&ent, and Menbef States, in preparing tbeir
national, reports on the inplenentation of the International Devel-opment
Strategy, to take fuL].y into account the provisions of the present resolution,
in parti.cular paragrsph 9, rr

22. At the 56th neeting, on 13 December, the Connittee adopted. draft resolution
A/C.2hf/L.86 by a record,ed vote of tO5 to 1, rrith 7 abstentions (see para. 26
belon, d.raft resolution IV). The voting was as follovs:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahanas,
Bahrain, Banglaatesh, Benin, Bhutan, Boliv:ia, Botsvana, Brazi!,
Bulgaria, Burna, Burund.i o Syelo"ussian Soviet Socialist Republic,

Against :

Cenada, Chatl, Chile, China, Colonbie, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dennark, Ecuaalor, Egypt,
Ethiopia, FiJi, Finlanal, cabon, Gernany Denoc"atic Republic,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, fcelanrt, Inrlia,
fndonesia, Iran, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jortlan, Kenya,
Kunait, Lao Peoplers Denocratic Repub1ic, Lesotho, Liberia,
IJibyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, l,lalaysia, l4a1i, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Netherland.s, New Zealand., Niger, Nigeria, Norl/ay, Onan, P€,kistan,
Panama, ?eru, Philippines, Po1a,nd, Porbugal, Qatar, Ronania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Siena I€one, Singapore, Spain,
Sri l,anka, Sutlan, Surinan, Sved.en, Syrian Arab nepublic, Thailanrl,
Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Scviet Socialist
Republic 

" 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab

Srirates, Unite<l Republic of Cameroon, Unitetl Republic of
Tanzania, Urugrray, Venezuela, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Za.rnbia.

Unit ed States of Anerica.

Abstaining; Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel, Ita1y,
Japan, United. Kingdon of Gleat Sritain and Northern lreland.

23, Statebents in explanation of vote vere naale after the vote by the
representatives of Belgir.u, France, Japan, Bulgaria (on behaLf of Bulgarie, the
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, the cerman Democratic
Bepubl-ic, I{r:ngary, MongoLia, Potand, the ukreinian Soviet Sociafist Republ-ic and



A!3J ! 335/ Aad -1'
Ingfish
Page 9

the Union of Soviet Socialist Reprrb_ics), Denna.rk, Fir,land, Greece, Itaty,
the Uniteil St&tes of America, the llnited Kingdon of cleat Britain and Northern
Ireland n the I'ederaL Republic of Germany, Spain, Canada, Pakistan (on behalf of the
Group of 77), Australia, Israel and Egypt. The representative of the Upler Vo1ta
aLso nad.e a statenent.

WT

2\. At the 66th rneeting, the Covmittee had before it a draft decision proposed by
the Chairman (A/C.2/3L/L.91) , on reports submitted to the General Assenrbly under
it@ 65.

25. At the ssme neeting, the Connittee adopteat draft tlecision A/C.2/3I/L.9I without
a vote (see para. 27 below, drafb decision III).

RECOI4I{ENDATTONS OF TI.TE S]!CO]VD COI4MITTEE

26. The Second. Cononittee recormends to the Generaf Assenbly the a.tloption of the
folLowins draft resoLutions:

DRAflT NNSOLUIIOIT I

El{SSlife q@rfi.zaticn of women in developqent

rh e_]q_e]1grgl_4s!Sg!1y,

3g"g]-1:rr& its resol-ution 3505 (Xlci) of 15 Decenber 19?5 on the integration of
women in the develoFment process,

Recalline further the United Nations regional seminar vith the tho're "The
particioation of women in econouic " social a.nd 

pol-itical d.evelopnent: obstacles
that hinder their integration", held .rt Buenos Aires in March 1975,

lgg€€gtt.iS4 the importarce of the role of vornen in all aspects of econornic and
social devefopment ancl their contribution to the establishnent of the IIev
International Economic Ord er,

I9gge4l_e1"9. that vonen, esoecially those at the ]oner socio-economic ]-eveIs,
a?e arlong the nost disadvartsged_ grouDs of society,

1. Takes note of the report of the Seereta4.-General on the integration of
vomen in tl-Jffip,nent procels; 3/

2, Urges }4ember States to ir'rnlenent the recor"rnendations set out in its
resolution 3505 (lAC) to facilitate the equal participation of vonen vith rqen in a.11

1/ A/31/2o5 and corr.l.



A/3r/33r/ Ldd.t
English
Page lO

d,evelopment efforts and, in particular, to ensure that lronen have eclual access to
politicaf parties, trad.e unions, trainine, especially in agriculture, co-operatives,
and credit and loan systems, as ve]l as eg.ual opportunities to participate in
policy-naking in the economic fie1d, in connerce and trade and i.n the advanced.
sectors of industry;

3. Further u?ges_ the relevaat orga,nizations of the Unitecl llations syEtetn to
stren.r:Jhen their support of d-eveLopment Drograrnrneg or proJects relatin{ to vo!0en j

4. BCgg"t^g- tlle SecLetary*General to prepare a conDrehensive report for
submission to the ceneral As serrbly at its thirty-thircl session on the effective
mobilization of rromen for developnent, particul_arly in the areas referrecl to in
paragrarh 2 above, in collaboration wjth the relevant organizations r,rithin the
United Nations systern - especially the united llations confel:ence on TTade and
Development, the United. Nations Industrial Devel-olment Organi zation, the llnitett
Idations Devefopmenb Programme, the United Nations Children's Fund, the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Labour
Organisation, the United llations }lducationaJ-, Scientific and. Cultural orranization,
the l,Iorld Health organization u the l,lorld Bsnk and- the regional conrdissions - and the
relevant non-governmental organizations, rrhi ch ghould include an evaluation of the
extent to vhich their Droqranmes benefit women.

DNA!'T BNSOLUTTON II

lrilg.tljleiorl d--c oll-urglrjg on- @,
Social Progress and the Internationa! Division of Labour

I!_C_c_e! s ryl_ i!_xensry,

lecauins its resolution 3509 ()aq) of 15 Decenber 1975 relating to the
Tril?artite llorld Conference on Dnr:Ioyoent, Incorne Distribution, Social Progress
and the fnternationaf Division of Labour -

e^cgnj 
"g_ 

qrI!!9f its resotutions 2626 (XXV) of 2\ 0ctober t97O containinE the
rntern-ati"n6f-SGefopilent Strategy fox the Secontt United llations Developnent Decad.e,
3201 (S-Vr) and 3202 (S-Vr) or 1t.{ay 19?Ir containing the Declaretion and the
Prograrime of Action on the stablishment of a ltrer,r Internationat nconorric Order,
3231 (liiflx) of 12 Dece:irber 1!Jh containing the Charter of ilconomic Rig.hts and Duties
of States ancr. 3362 (S-VII) of 16 Septenb er A975 on tleveloproent and internationaL
econorqic co-operation,

Taliing note of the infornation contained in chapter V of the report of the
Econonic ancr- Social Council \/ and of Council decision lB2 (LXr) of 5 August l_9?6
relatinl to the Tripartite Iiorld Conference.

!./ 911i"1af necords of the General Assetdbly, Thi rty- fi rst Session,
!"ppl '



A/3u335/Add..7
.Eng].ish
Page 11

39.":ng-j!-gind that the fund.amental objectives of the United lrlations include
the creation of conditions of economic and social DTogress and d.evelopment, the
securing of higher standards of living, fu11 productive enploynent and- uniwersal
respect for the obsewance of human rights and fundarnental freedoms.

1. Takes note vith satisfaction of the Declaration of Principles and
of Aetion adopt ed by
Distribution, Social
Geneva from 4 to l-T

the Tripartite itorfd Conference on Etnrrlo;nnent, fncot"n.e
Progress and the fnternational Division of Labour. held

June 1976; 5/

Progra,'r

2. Bequests
to the Economic snd
the inplenentation

the fnternational Labour Organisation to subnrit a special repor,.
Social Council- on the measu?es it has taJren and it envisages fc

of the Programe of Aetion;

3. Eggggqt-q the Secretary-General to take appropriate steps, through the
Ailninistrat iie'-d6irnittee on Co-ordination, with a viev- to prornotine and co-ordinatin
active participation by the various organs and specialized agencies of the United
Iilations system in the implementation of the progra.rme of Action and. to report to
the Economic and Social Council;

4. Requests the Economic anal Socla]' Council to und-ertake an apDraisal of the
activities of the organizations of the united l$ations systeu in the light of the
Progra.rme of Action, taliing into account, in narticula.r, the Televant d.iseussions
and decisions of the Governing Body of the rnternationaf Labour office, as vell as
the }eports referred to in paragraphs 2 and 3 above, and to reDort to the General
Assenbly at its thirty-second session.

DRAFT FESOLUTIOII ITI

United illqtions Special Fun4_lor Land-loched Developing Countries

The cenersa AssemblJ,

Recal-linq its resolution 3311 (I,XIX) of 1l+ Decenber 19?l+ by vhich it
requested. the secretary-General to subrrrit to it at its snecial session devoted to
d.evelopment and international economic co-operation a conprehensive stud.y on the
transit problems of the land-locked developing countries a.nd- a coyn!]-ete study on the
establishment of a fund, in favour of the land-locked developing countries,

Fecalling also Xconornic a.ird Social Council resolution 1755 (LIV) of
- . ,. ------:--==-:----'=-.-Ib May -1973 by which the Council defined the scope of a complete study on the
establishment of the fund,

further the decision taken at its seventh streeial session 5/ and its
December 1975 in r.rhi ch it decided to estabLish(XIr' ) or rf

tJ El 585't .
5/ See Official necords of the General Asserblv. Seventh SDecial- Session.

supprEment r6]T-(-Vro:0il '



Reaffirrning that the land-locked developina countries, as a result of their
geographical Lihitation, are tloubly disadvantaged, eslecially with regard to their
a.CLditional transport, transit ancr- trans-shipnent costs,

Having _cl4Slergg the draft, statute of the United Nations Special Fund for
Land-loched Developing Countries contained in the note by the Secretary-Genera}
prepared. in prrrsuence of its resolution 35Ol+ (XU) " Z

1. Iryfgg^e_es_$:_-a.pnlg_.i_gti_"n to the Secretary-General and the United-
liations Conference on Trade arrd, Development for the oreparation of proposal-s on the
organization arrangenents of the United Nations Special I'und for Land-locked-
Developing Countries, including the draft statute;

?, Apnroves the statute of the trln(t, annexed to the present resolution;

3. Requests the United- llations Development Proqrarnme, in close coll,aboration
nith the secretariat of the United llations Conference on Trade a.nd- Developrnent, to
manage the Fund during the interin period ar}d report on its activities to the
General- AssenbLy at its thirty-second sessiont

lt. A-ppeal9_ to all international organizations ancl financial institutions, as
rtell as potential donor countries, to provid-e the necessary financial resources in
order to malie the Fund operational during the interirn period;

5. Fequests the Secretary-General to convene the pledging confetence as
envisaged. in article TIf, _naragranh 2, of the statute;

5. !"f:S__}pg!- llember states and the entire international cor"munity to
contribute generously to the Funrl.

lptute .f tir. U_"-tea U"ti.t
levelo314e_golptrlSE

Pre anb 1e

A/31/335/Add.l
lInglish

irnrnedi at ely a special fund for
for their acld-itional- transport

The United liations SpeciaJ.
(hereinafter referred to as the
As sernbly in accord.ance vith the

fn ord.e" to compensate the
a.dditional transport and- transit

the land-locked developing countries to comDensate
and. transit cos b6 ,

tr\rnd for Land-locked De.reloping
Fund) shalf operate as an o?gan
provisions set forth belov.

ATXIC.LC,L

Countries
of the General

Purpose

land-locked developinq countries for their
costs , the lund sha11:

U tlt:-/zso.



a,/3r/ 33j / Add,.L
English
page 13

(") Provide resources to offset the disadvantages created by the adtlitional
transport and txansit costs facing the land-locked developing countries I

(t) Provid.e financial and. technical assistance for projects ainerl at reducing
the transi.t and related transport costs incurretl by the l-and*locked developing
countries, and at other inprovenents in the tr€rsit and- related. transport
facilities and. arran€t@ents for these countries I

(c) Provide financial support for studies, to be calrietl out by appropriate
United }lations organs, of existing transit and telated translort facilities and
axrangenents for land-lockecl cleveloping countries, and of ways of irnproving thern;

(d) Co-ordinate its activities yith:

(i) The prograrme of stutlies and technicat assistance concerning the transit
aJ1d related t"ansport needs of l_and-locked developing countries beinfl
carried out by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Developr4ent and
t-ha rati nna 1 a,onrn].sslons:

(ii) ReLated progaalmes in the Dep€Jtment of Economic and Social Affairs of the
United l\lations Secretariat and other United ltrations bodies;

(iii) Frrogranmes of technical a.nd financial- assistance on behalf of l-and-l-ocked
developing countries in the United llations Development Programrne and
other mu1tilateral arrd bilateral assistance aaencies,

Article II

lgigirg-lrgg'plsE-
1. The provision of assistance shaJ-l be in conforrnity with the purDoses and-
principles of the Charter of the United Nations.

2' Assistance fron the Funal shaI1 not serve as a means for economic ancl politlcal
interference in the internal affairs of recipient countries and shal1 not be
influenced by considerations relating to the nature of their economic, social and
political systens.

Article III

lesources

1' The resourees of the Fund shaIl consist of voluntary contributions in eash or
in kind by Governnents. The Fund sha1l also be empovered to receive contributions
frol4 international organizations, both governmental and, non-governmental , and- fron
other private sources.

2. Contributions to the Fund may also be made by means of pledging conferences
convened by the Secretarr-General of the United. I\ations " the first r'1.:,1.,-ir-r



Al3]-/33r/ Add.r
English
.Haae _14

confelence to be conrened not later than 12 nonths after the adoption of the
statute of the Fund.. Contributions as pledged to the !\md shal-l- be payable within
the 12 nonths foJ.lolring the pledge.

3. Cash contributions shall be maile in convertible currencies or in currency
readify usable by the l\rnd.

4. Contributions shaIl be made without lirnitation to a specific recipient country.

 r!&le-lL
Organization and supervision

f. The policies and procedures of the Fund. shaLl be fo:rnulated by a Board. of
Governors, conposed. of representatives of 36 States i4embers of the United Nations
or nembers of specialized a4encies or of the Tnternational -Atonic Enerqy Afiency'
elected by the General Assenbly keeping in view, inter alia, the need for balance
anong the representation of the beneficiery land-foched developing countries an-d
their transit neighbours, on the one hand, anal potentiaf donor countries " both
develol)ed and developing, on the other. States elected to the Board of covernors
sh€Il do their utnost to ensure that their representatives possess the expertiee
required for the efficient operation of the Func1.

?. The mernbers of the Board of Governors shal-l be elected for a terrn of three
years, provided, however, that, of the me$bers elected at the first election,
the terms of one third of the members shall expire at the end of one year and' the
terms of a further one third of the menbers at the end of tvo years. Retirinfl
!0embers shal-l- be eligible for re-election.

3. The Boaxd of Governors BhaLl report annually to the General As senbly through
the Econonic and Socia.I Council. The conments of the Council on the report shal]
also be transni.tted to the AssembLy.

Ll. The Bos"rd of Governols sha]-L meet at least once a year and, as often as may be
necessary for the conduct of the lrork of the Fund.

5. The Boafd of Governors may, in the lieht of requirenents u establish an
Executive Conmittee to supervise the operations of the fund on a continuous basis
vhich sha1l report to it on its activities at regular intervals. Beneficiary
lsnd-locked d.eveloping countries and their t"ansit neighbours, on the one hard,
and potential alonor countries, on the other, shall be represented on the Executive
Ccfimittee in proportions similar to such representation on the Board of GovernoTs.

Article I

Quorum ancl voting

l-. A rnajority of the mernbers of the Board of Governors or of the Executive
Cormittee shaLl constitute a ouorum.



A/3u335/Add.1
Enq].ish
Page 15

2. Each rnernber of the Board of Governors and each member of the Executive
Corunittee shafl have one vore.

3. Decisions on all questions shal.l as far as possible be made on the basis of
consensus. In the absence of consensus, decisions shall be rnade by a majority of
the members present and voting. For the purpose of the present article, the phraset'nenbers present anal votingt' me€ns members present and casting an affirnative or
negative vote. llembers which abstain fron voting are consiilered as not voting.

ArtLc_Le v-L

**-*
1. The chief executive officer of the Fund, vho sha1I be appointed by the
Secletary-General subJect to eonfinnation by the Generaf Assernbly, sha1l be the
Executive Director of the Fund.

2. The Executive Director shal] discharge his functions und.er the guidance a,nd
supervision of the Board of Oovernors and the nxecutive Comnittee, if establishetl,
in Ehose deliberations he w-ill- participate r^'ithout the ri ght to vote. He shalI
exercise over-all responsibility for the day-to-day operations of the Fund and shal1
feport directly, on a regular basis, to the Boaxd of Governors, or through the
Executive Corruittee, if established, on the operations of the F\rnd,

3. The Executive Director shal1 be assisted by a sns,J-l secretariat within the
franevolk of the United Nations Secretariat, The Fund may enter into meragement
contracts vith the cor4petent international organizations, includine the regional
devel,opment banks, to conduct its operations. The contracts sha.Il ensure the fu1l
and effective control, at al-l tines, of the !\rnd over the operations. fhe Xxecutive
Director shaLl nake effective use of the existine facilities of the llnitetl llations
Secretariat, including those of the Ilnited lTations Conference on Trade and
Developraent, the regional conmissions and the United Nations Industrial Development
organization, as wel-l as those of the United. lilations Develounent Program.0e. llhe"e
appropriate, the tr'rrnd nay also use the fa.cilities of the slecialized agencies.

Article VII

Moau"._el_qp9l9!!9"

l. To carry out its purposes as specified in article I, the tr'und is empol'ered to
nake grants and loans, ineluding loans on concessionary terus, and-n as approoriate,
to participate in investments and to allocate assistalce in kind under its control
and direction.

2. The Fund shal-l- ensure an equitable distribution of its resources, ta.liing into
account the needs of each of the land-locked tleveLoDins countries as well as relevant
problens at the regional and subregionaL ].evel.



A/31/335/Add .1
English
.Hage _Lb

Artlc-Le v _LI.t

Responsibilities of Governments of reclpient countries

Governments of recipient countries sha^I1 ensure the effective utilization of
the resources provided by the Fund, shall rnaintain the records required by the Fund
in connexion r,rith the adrninistration of its financial and technical assist€nce ancl
shsll report fu1ly on the utilization of such assistance.

Article IX

Finaaci a.1 admini stra.tion

1. The finalciaf regulations fo" the Fund sha1l be drafted by the Secretary-
General of the United l,Tations in consultation vith the Executive Director of the
Fund, for apDroval by the General Assembly on the recornoend-ation of the Board of
Governo?s. fn the prep€ration of these regulations, account sha1l be taken of the
special requi.rements of the operations of the I'und,

2, Pending the approval by the General Assembly of financial- regulations for the
Fund, the Financiat legulations and Rul-es of the lJnited Nations a/ shall appJ-y.

Article X

Future ilfr_titutionaL arranAeraents

The General- Assembly sha11 reviev, in the liqht of experience, the
effectiveness and further evolution of these institutional a,rxangenents with a vierr
to deciding u-Don such changes and irnprovenent s as rDight be necessary in order to
meet fully the purposes of the tr\.lnd..

DNAFT RIISOLUTIOi{ III

lSPl enen!3&ign of .cenera!
"International Develormen

resol-utions 2626 (xw) entitledffiStrat
ii-vr I en!ltJ_eo

ofa I'le\'/ Internat iona-l
of Action

c
Charter of c qhts and Duties of

States entat-Led ueve-Lor antl international
co-operat

nha Canal^al A<<onhlr'"-"'."-'L'
n" 

"j1LI!]]g. 
its resolutions 32Of (S-vI) s-nd. 3202 (s-vl) of 1 llay l-9?l+, containine

the Declsration and the lroruani:rne of Action on the l]stablishment of a llev
International- f,cononic Order, 323f (XXIX) of 12 December- l97l+, containinr the
Charter of nconoriric Rights and Duties of States, and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 Septerrber 1975 on d-evelopirent and international econor4ic co-opera.tior',



Al3r,'33r/Add.1
6cg].ish
paae l_T

- Recalline further its resolution rloS (no() of 15 Deceeber 1975 on theinplenentation of the decisions adopted by the General Assenbry at its seventh
special- sessiono

Recalline its resolutioa 2626 (XfV) of 2l+ October 19?0, coataining the goal-s,
targets enct policy &easures of the rnternational Developnent stratery ior the
seconai uniteal Nations Development Decade, whictr have been cooplemented anal
strengthened by its resolutions on the establishnent of a New fnternationat Econonicorder antl its resolution 35r? ( xr,T) of 15 Decenbey 797, on the nid-tern revies and.appraisel of progress in the inplenentation of the rnternationaf Developnent stratesr,

Notine the reports on the fourth session of the Uniteat Nations Conference on
Trade and Denelopment and the interin reporb of the conference on rnternational
Econonic Co-operation, 8/ as we1"l as other relevant reports,

Notipg further the pertinent decigions on the establishnent of the Nev
fnterneti.onaL Econonic Ortler aaloptetl at the Thirtl Ministerlal Meeting of the crou?of 77 held et l'lenila fron 26 January to ? Februa?v 1976, gJ the Fifti conferenceof Heatls of state or covernment of Non-A-lignett countries,lel"at at colonbo from
16 to 19 August 1pJ6, 19-/ anct the conferenJe on Economic co-operation among
Developing Countries, held at Mexico City froni l_3 to 22 Septenber 19?6, ]V

_ _coagialeTing with d.eep and increasing concern that parts of the alevelopingvorld are still- subJect to foreign aggression and occupation, apartheid, racial
discrinination and colonial anal neo-colonial rlonination, vrri crr-ionEtifuie naJor
obstacles to the econonic enancipation and d.evelopnent of the tleveloping cor:ntries
as a whole as wel]- as naJor threats to international. peace and eecurity,

Ngting the regret expressed. by the tteveloping countries that the developed
cor.&tries have yet to dispray the necessary poriticar vil] to inplenent these
funalan€ntar decisions of the united Nations and fu1l"i1 their com:itments andobligations and to attJust their policies for this purpose,

_ -DeFpry. concerqed. that tturing the current second united Nations DevelopnentDeeaale the terlls of traale of the naiority of d.eveloping countries have aeterio"ateal,
atrtl that they bave together with unprecedented and growing balance-of-parrnents
aleficits ' that the burden of arebt has reached unmanageabLe proportions in nanyaleveloping co'ntries and. glorrth in the areveroping co,ntries is expected. to far-I
short not onLy of the 6 per cent target of the rnternational Developm.ent strategy
but also of the rate of growbh echieved in the First united Nations Developnent
Decade and. that, for nany developing countries, particularly among the Least

A a/3t/z\z, srur'ex.
ztl See w/Lgr.

U-/ see A/3Ih97, annex II.
l!/ See A/C.2/3L/7, part one,



Al3r/335 / Add..!
ljng_L a s n
t'ape -Ld

developed' land-locked' island 
- 
and nost seriously affected developing countries,real. per. capita incone courd,, if present trends persist, be lower i'"lggo trrrnat the start of the Decade,

.. -consitlgring that the inequity in econornic relatrons betveen tbe d.ever-oped analthe alevelopiDg countries is one of the prina] issues confronting the internationa.I-
connunity, a situation rhich could aclversely affect internationat econouic
co-operation and the pronotion of world peace and security,

1: Affirns that its resolutiong on the establishment of a new international
econon-ic ord.el reflect a coanitnent on the lart of all eountries to ensureequitabLe economic relations betveen dleveroped and. developing countries and ederiberate, sustalned and. planned effort to contribute to-thJ development of thetieveloping countries ;

2, En?hasizeg the conclusions reacheal in the micl_tern review and appraisalol progress i' the inplenentation of the rnternationar- Develop'.ent strategy forthe second unitett Nations Development Decad.e, contained. in its resolution
351? (XJa() of I5 December 1975, wrrictr specificauy identified. seriow shortfaltsin the inplenentation of its resotut ion 2626 ( nrv) a,::ri"e ir." iii"l-_nJi or the
Decaaie ;

^- - 
3- ExprgsFes it9 d.eep concern antt disaplointnent at the failure of the

uoErerence on uternational Economic co-operation to achieve any concrete resultsso far;

actlons stiu rennain to be taken, corlectively and intlividually, by a1I nedbers ofthe internationaL comunity to end. nithout deiay all fo:m. of io".igo aggression
and occupation, racial discrindnation, apartheid, colonialism and nJo-cilonfalisno
and that it is also the d.uty ot art staEiJ6-!?rectively support and. extend
assistance to the countri'es, territories and peoples subJectett to then so as torestore their national eovereignty, their territorial iniegrity and theirinslienable and fund.a.rnental rights in order to pronote ttevelopnent anil international
co-operation, peace ancl security;

- 5. E:lpresses alegp concern, rlespite some prog"ess in certain areas, at theslow pace of progress in the inprenentation of lhe neasures specified. in theresolutions and decisions of the General Assembly aatopted at its sixth an6 seveathspecial sessioas 
'od at the linited natule of agreements reached at the fourthsession of the United Nations Confe?ence on Trade anrl Developnent;

urges the internationar- comunity, particurarry the ttever.oped. countries,
_t_o - 

alisplay the necessary political rriu in ite ongotng negotiations -in ttifferentUnitecl Nations forr.rns and elsewhere so aa to react tt. concrete and u!'gent solutionE
necessary to pronote the estabtiehnent of a nev inte?national econonic order;



II

-1. Decides to und.ertake during the course of its thirty-second session aaletail-etl assessnent of the progress made in the irnplerentation of General Asseubly
resolutions 2626 (Y6I) entitled "rnternational Developnent strategy for the
Second. United Nations Developnent Decad.er', 3202 (S-VI) entitLed 'rprog:ame ofAction on the Establishnent of a Ner rnternational Economic ord.ert', iegl (xrrx)
entit]-ecl "Charter of Economic Rights anat Duties of States,, anct 33di (S_Vfil .r,iit:..atrr)eveloproent and internationar econonic co-operation'r under a singte'iten
entitLed "Assessnent of the progress nade in the inptenentation oi Generel Assembly
resolutions 2626 (xxl ) entitled rrnternationar Develolnent strategy for the
Seconcl Unitecl Nations Developnent Deca<le r, 3A02 ( S-\rI) entitled ,Frogra.,,-e of
Action on the Establishment of a Nev Interrrational Econonic Order r, iaSf ()GfX)entitled. 'Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of Statesr and,336L (S_1rrI)
entitleal rDevelopnent and. interratioaal econonic co-operation"';

2. Requests tbe Econonic antt Social Council and the Comittee on Reviev and
Appraisal- to prepare a prelininar"Sr assessnent, for conslderation by the Generar
Assenbly at its thirty-second ses::ion, bearing in nrind the provisions of the
precetling paragraphs and the reports at the sectoral and relional level subnittet!
by the Unitecl Nations organs and organizations concerned. and sucb other
develolments as nay take place in the interin;

3. Requests the Secret8.ry-GeneraL a,nd the heaals of the United. Nations bodies
and' organizatlons concerned., in prep,arlng for the reviev and assessraent, and
Menber states, in preparing their aational relprts on the inprenentation of the
rnternatioual Devel-opn0ent stratery for the second united Iyations Developmen!
Decatle' to tahe ful1y into accor:nt the proyisioas of the present resoluiion, lnpalticuLar its section fI, paragraph 1.
27- The second comittee a-Iso recomentts to the Genera] As senbry tbe actoption of
the follo$ing draft decisions:

md !!!4.,

Al3r/335 /Add..r
English
Page 19

DRAFT DECISTO$ I

(a) Tekes note of the repo"t of the Ad Hoc Ccrrclttee on the Restructuring cfthe Econoui c ancr social sectors ot the unirEdtr*-:tions syeten; 12/

The General Assemblv:

No JJ-l 54 / ; 1Or.O. ,
r3l

No. B (A/3r/3\/Add.z).
Ad.at.1) ;



A/ 3r/ 33i / Add..L
English
Page 20

(l) Decides to eriend the nandate of the al-geq co@ittee rrith a view toenabring it to subnit finar 
_ 

reconnencrationa , irr-"ccorarnce n,ith General Assenbryresolution 3362 (S-ruI) of ld Septenber 19?i, to the Assenbly at itsthirty-second session through the Econonit ana sociar council at itssirby-third. session;
(") Requests the Econonic antt Social Council to continue, as envisaged insecti.on VII, paragraph a, of oeneral Assenbly resolution l:ee (s_vfil ,-ih. pro".""of rationalization and refoln which it has uiaertake' in accorrlarrce lrithcouncil resolution u6B (Lry) of 1g May 19?3 an'Assemblv resolubion 33\' (x[x) of1f Decerrber ]!Jl+;

^ 
(1). Further requests the Economi c and social council to subnit to theGeneral Assenbly at its thirty-second 

".s"ioo-ih. report lequested. rn Assemblyresolution 33\]- (l(XrX).

. .. -ft1 feneral- Assenbly tlecides to atefer coneid.eration of the draft resolutionentitled "Special intergovernuental comittee on international tradei ii/ untifits thirty-second sessiJn.

DRATT DECISIOI{ II

DRAflT DECISION TIf

The General Ass embly decides to take note of the follov-ing docurnents:

- 
(a) 

- 
Prelininary study by the Secretartr-ceneral_ on the possibility ofestablishing a^n internationaf energy instltute Fithin the franewolk of the United.Natious systen; 1,[

(b) 
- 
Progress report of the Executive Director of the united NationsInclustria.l Developlent Organization on the Joint study on international industrialco-operation; !!/

8/ A/c.2/9,/L.,
!L/ rlzrlzez.
r2/ A/3r/23o.



A/9,/33r/Add,.r
English
Page 21

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the Conference on Tnternationaf
Econonric Co-operation; 16/

(d) Reirort of the Executive Director of the United Nations lnclustrial
Developnent Organization on the establishnent of an industrial technological
lnrofnatr.on oanKl I r/

(.) Report of the Secretary-General on the establishnent of a network for
the exchange of technological infornation. 18/

!9/ A/3r/7oT and Coff.1 and 2.
4/ a/tll.t+t.
1,8/ E/5839.




