








































<a-

=!El=
T.'N'TED NATIONS

GENERAI-
A S S E M B !.Y

Distr.
GEl[ENAI,

A ',lA/3t/2?31\dd.\
26 october I97 6

ORIGINAI,: ENGLISII

Thirty-first sessj.on
Agend.a iten 69

ELIMINATION OF ALL FOFI4S OI' RACIAI DISCBIMINATION

Pan^'+ 
^f 

fho 'T|liaA /l^nmr'+iAA fpali T)

Rapporteur: Mr. Ibrahin 3ADAv,Il (Eeypt )

I.

II.

CONTENTS

lNTRODUCTTON

CONSIDERATION OI' THE DNAFT NESO],UTIONS RECOMMENDED BY
THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

CONSIDERATION OF DNAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/3T/L.3 ,

ooNSTDERATIoN 0F DRAIT RESoLUTToN A/C.3/3I/L.\ and

ParaEtraphs Pa€le

_L-O 1

9-11 4
rL

l) --ro 7

III.

IV.
Corr. 1

V. RECOI4MENDATIONS OF THE TETRD COMMITTEE 't7

76-206T6



A/3r-/27 3
nnglish
Page 2

I. TI{TRODUCTIOII

1" At its 4th plenary neeting, on 2l+ Septenber 1976, the ceneral Assembly a].located.
to the Third Cornmittee agenda item 69 entitled:

- 'Efimination of all forms of racia"l discrimination:

(a) Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Dis criminatiorr;
(b) Reports of the Corunittee on the Elirnination of Facial- Dis crirnination;

(c) Status of the lnte"national- Convention on the Elird.ration of A11 Forrns
of Raciaf Dis crinination;

(d) Status of the Internetional convention on the Suppression and Punishment
of the Crine of Apartheid."

2. The Third Cornnittee tlecj.de<l, at its 2nd neeting on 27 Septenber, to consider
JointJ-y subitems (a), (c) and (d).

3. The Comnittee considered these subi.tens at its 3rd to 12th meetings, from
28 September to B October. The views expressed by the representatives of Menber
States on these subitens are contained. in the sunullary records of those neetings
(A/c 

" 3/31/sR. 3-ta ) .

[" fn eonnexion vith iten 69 the Connittee had before it the fouolving documents:

(a) Letters frorn Turkey (A/3r/97" A/ 3r/a6?-s/rzr6o, A/3r/rTo-s/r?r6z and
Al 3r/205-s/l'2196) ;

(b) Letters fron cyprus (A/ 3\ /r5ts / !211+l+ ana co?r.1, A/3\/r7B-S/I?I79) 
',

(c) A letter from the Libyan Arab Republie (A/C,3/3t/2).

," fn connexion with subitem (a), tfre Conrnittee had before it the following
documentation:

(") The re].evant part of the report of the Economic and Social Council to
the General Assembly; /

(b) The report of the secret ary-General. (E/5759 and Add.l) subnitted to the
Economic and Socia.l Council at its sixtieth session in accordance r,rith
paragraph 18 (e) of the Programe for the Decad.e for Action to Conbat Racism and
Racial Discrinination, containing an analysis of replies received from Governments

_1_/ -Orylc:ig{ Records of the ceneral Assembl-y, Thirty-first Session, SupplementNo:-l--(47



A/3t/273
English

up to I April 1976 to the questionnaire circulated by the Secrets.ry-ceneral- under
the first cycle of biennial reports provided for unde" the programme. This report
was nade available to the General Assenbly at its thirty-first session in
accordance with Council resolution l9B9 (LX) of 1l May 1pf6;

(") fhe third annual- report of the Secretary-Gene?€I , prepared and submitted.to the Econor.ic and socia.r- council in accordance with paragraph 18 (f) of the
Prograrme for the Oecaae (n/5760 and Adct.1), containin! u 

"rrrrrry of actions,suggestions, trends, etc, , emerging fron the deliberations of various united.
Nations organs and bodies and from those of the specialized agencies concerned.
vith the question of racia] discrinination and .gpgrlbgijl; . ",n*"ty 

of information
on the el-irnination of racisrn and racial di scrimil6iT6i-Teceived in periortic
reports; information on activities unde? the progrartrme of advisory iervices in the
field of h.:man rights in regard to raciar d.is crimination; infornaiion on the
subJect subnitted. by non-governnentar organizations; and reports on action in
relation to the Decad.e by the Offi.ce of Public fnfornation and the United Nations
fnstitute for Training and Research. This report was nad.e availabl-e to the General
Assembly at its thirty-first session at the request of the Econonic and social
Council in its resotution l9B9 (Ltf);

. (d) A leport of ihe Secretary-ceher€l 6/57rts) subnitted to the Economi.c al3d
sociar council at its sixtieth session in accordance with General Assenbly
resolution 33?8 ( lorx) of le Novembet !975, relating to the secretary-General's
consultations vith the Government of Ghgna concerning arrangements for hokling
the world. conference to conbat Racism and Rac ial Discrinination at Accra, as vell
as the nature of the financial contribution that the Government of Gbana rould be
able to make with }egard to this conference. Ttri s report aTas also naale avail-ab1e
to the Assembly at the request of the Council in its }esolution l9B9 (LX);

f.) rrl.c crrnno*, ".:ecords of the discussion on the Decade for Action to Combat
Racisn and Raciat Discrinination d.uring the sixtieth session of the Econonic an4
Social Council (E/SR.1989-1993 and. E/sF,2ooo) which the counci.L o in resolution
1989 (lX) 

" had requested the Secretary-General to subnit to the ceneral As6embly;
(f) A note by the sec xetaly-Genera1 (A/3L/AZ3) subnitted to the eeneral

Assembly at its thirty-first session in accord.a.nce with the request of the Economic
and. Social Council in resolution 1989 (IX), containing further inforrnation reeeired
by the Secretary-General on activities und.ertaken or contempl-ated in connexion with
the Decade and supplementing the infonration subnitted to the council at its
sixtieth session und.er paragraphs 18 (e) and 18 (f) of the prograume for the Decad.e i

(e) A report of the Sec reta,r'y-General (A/3f/86) subnitted unater cenera].
.Asse&bly resolution 3377 (rxx) of lo Novenber l9?5 and paragraph u of the programmefor the Decacle, containing proposals for the establ-ishnent of s,Il international fund.
on a voluntary basis to hetp the peopl-es struggling against racial d.iscrimination
and. apartheid.;

(tr) A note by the Secretary-G€neral on the Decade for Action to Conbat Racisn
and iacial- Diserinination (A/31/I\B), transrnitting the texts of the two draft



A/ 31/ 2"t 3
Engli sh
rase 4

resolutions recomnended by the Econonic and Sociaf Councit, in resol-utions 1989 (LX)
and. 1990 (f,X), tor ad.option by the General Assenbly;

(i) A statement of the Secretary-General subnitted in accordance with
rule 153 of the rules of procedure (A/C.3/3I/L,5) concerning the financia.l
irnplications of the d.raft resolution (4/31/11+8, annex II) reconrdendeal by the
Economic end Social Council, in resolution 1990 (LX), for adoption by the General
Assenbly.

6. Tn connexion vith subitem (q), ttie comaittee had before it the report of the
Secretary-.General (A/3I/2O1) on the status of the International Convention on the
Elinination of A11 Fofns of Racial Dis criruination , submitted by the Secretary-
Genera"l in accordance with General Assenbly resolution 2105 A (XX) of
rr .uec emDe r l.90).

7, In connexion with subiten (d), trre report of the Secretary-Generaf (A/31/2O9)
on the status of the fnternationaf Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of
the Crime of Apartheid, subnitted, und.er Genere.l Assenbly resolution 3380 (xfx) of
10 Novernber 1!J!.

B. Subi.tens (a), (c) ana (a) were introduced W the Director of the Division of
Human Rights at the 3rd meeting of the Conmittee, on 28 September.

II. CONSIDERAT]ON OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTIONS RECQI4MENDED 3Y
THE XCONOMIC AND SOCIA], COUNCIL

9. The Comnittee consid.ered the two draft resolutions (A/3f/fl+8, annexes f ancl If)
concerning, respectively, the i.nrplementation of the ?rogranme fo" the Decatle for
Action to Combat lacisn and Racia.l Discrimination and the l^Ior1d Conference to
Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, reconmended by the Economic ancl Social
Council in resolutions 1989 (LX) and 1990 (f,x) or 11 May 1976 for adoption by the
General Assembly.

A. Implementation of the Plo€lr€,rme for the Decade for Action
to Combat Facism and Racial Dis crinination

L0. At its I1th ueeting, on 7 october, the Connittee voted on the draft resofution
concerning the implenentation of the Prograome (4/31/1\8, annex 1). fhe draft
resol-ution was ad,opted. by a roll--cal-I vote of 103 to 1, with 16 abstentions (see
para, 17 below, draft resolution 1). The roting was as fol-lows:

In favour; Afghalistan " Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, 
Barbados,

3enin, Bhutan, Bol-ivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burna,
Surrlndi, Byelorussian Soviet Sociafist Republic, Chad, China'
Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Denocratic Yenen,
Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia" Fiji" Finland, Gabon u Gambia,
German Democratic Republic " Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,Guyana, Ilungaxy, Iceland, India, Indonesia" Iran, Iraq" Ireland.'



Al3r/273
EnAIi sh
page 5

Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia,
l,ibyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malaysia, MaJ_i, l4auritania,
Mexico, I4ongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Ner,r Zealand,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Onan, Pakistan, Papua New Gui.nea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, qata", Rom€Jria, Rsanda, Sao Tome
and Prj.ncipe, Saudi Arabia" Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somal.ia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad arrd Tobago, Tunisia, furkey,
Uganda, uk"ainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Soci.alist Republics, United Arab Ernirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, Uniteal Republic of Tanzania" Upper Volta, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia.

.{gginE! , Israel.

Abstaining; Australia, Belgiun, Canad.a, Central African Republic " Chi1e,Costa Rica, France, cernany (Fed.eral Fepublic of), Guatema"la,
Ita1y, Luxenbourg " Netherlands, Nicaragua, Srrazilard, UnitedKingalon of Great Britain anai Northern lre1snd, Uruguay,

The representative of the United States of America stated that his delegation
would not particips.te in the voting. The representative of Bahrain stated
subsequently that, had she been present during the voting, she rould have voted. in
favour of the draft resolution.

B. World Conference to Conrbat Raci.srn and Racial Discrirnination

11. At the same meeting, the Conmj.ttee voted on the dTaft resolution concernin€S
the World Conference to Conbat Racism and Racial Discrirnination (4/31/148,
ANNCX LI J ."

(a) At the request of the representative of Austria" a separate vote was
taken on operative paragraph 2. The paragraph was adopted by 82 votes to ]5, with
f3 abstentions.

(b) The draft resol,ution as a whole was adopted by a rol-I-cal]. vote of
99 to 2, with 20 abstentions (see para" 17 below, draft resolution II). The voting
vas as follovs:

In favour: Afghanistan 
" 

Algeria, Argentina, Austria" Bahamas, Barbados,
Benin, Shutan 

" BoJ-ivia, Botswana" Brazil" Bulgaria, Burma,Burrmdi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colonbia, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic lemen,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German
Democratic Republic " Ghana, Greece, Guatemalau Guinea" Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesis.,
Iran, Traq, Ivory Coast, Ja,naica, Japan " Jord.an, Kenya, Kuwait,Libyan Arab Fepublic, Madagascar, Malaysia, Ma1i, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambi.que, Nepal , New Zealand, Niger,

/.,,



A/3L/273
EnBlish
rage o

Against;

Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru' Philippines ' Poland, 
Portugal ,

Qatar " Romania, lwsnda, Sao Tone 
and Principe, Saudi Arabia"

Sene65a1, Sierra Leone, Soraalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinarn,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailend., Togo, Trinidad and Tobago'
I'rrnisia, Turkey, Uganda " Ukrainian 

Soviet Sociafist Republic '
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United. Arab Enirates, United
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania' Upper Volta'
Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire" Zambia.

Canada. Israel.

Abstaining: Australia, Belgir:.n, Central African Republic, Costa Rica, Denma"k 
"!'iji, France, Germany (Federal Fepublic of), freland ' 

Ita1y,
L,iberia, Luxembourg ' 

Netherlands J Nicaragua ' Norr^'ay, Papua New
Guinea" Singapore " Swaziland, 

Swecten, United Kingdon of Great
Britain and Nolthern lreland "

The representative of the United States of America stated that his delegation would
not participate in the voting. The representative of Bahrain stated subsequently
that, had she been present during the voting, she would have voted in favour of the
d"aft resol,ution.

III, CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOI.UTION A/C,3/3!/L"3

72. At ttre Bttr neeti.ng of the Cornnittee, on 5 October, the representative of
Bel-gium, in connexion Lrith agenda iten 69 (c), introduced a draft resolution on the
status of the fnternationa] Convention on the Elirnination of A11 tr'orms of Racial
Discrimination (A/C.3/3L/L.3) sponsored by Argentina" Belgium, Costa Rica, Egypt,
Gerr0any (Federal Republic of, Ghana, Iran, Morocco and Yugoslavia, subsequently
ioined by Bolivia, Bulgaria, Cyprus, f"4ju, Iq"lX, the Libyan Arab Republic ' NettZea-Iand, the Philippines, Senegal , the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia"
ttre United Arab llrirates and the United Republic of Cameroon'

13" At the l-lth meeting, on T October, the
amendment (A/c.3ha/L,61 which woul-d. add a

"5, Appea"ls to States parties to
of naking the declaration provided for

representative of Uruguay introduced an
new paragraph 5 as follows:

the Convention to study the possibility
in article 1\ of the Conventionl "

ll+, At its 12th meeting, on 8 October, the Conmittee voted on the draft resolution
and amendment thereto, as fol.Iows:

(a) The a.nendment proposed by Uruguay was adopted by l+B votes to none" with
J6 abstentions.

(b) The draft resolution as a rthole, as amended " was adopted. by consensus
\see para. _LI Del-ou, drarr resoJ-ur,ron J.lr,/.



Al3r/273
$ngflsn
Page 7

rv. 0ONSTDEnATTON OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/3r/L,\ AND COBR,f

15. At the l,lth meeting, on 7 October, the representative of the German Democratic
Republic introduced a draft resolution on the status of the fnternational
Convention on the Suppression anil Punishment of the Crirne of Aleflbel]l
(A/C.3/3L/L,\ and Corr.1) sponsored by lenig, Cuba " the Ceruan 

Denocratic Republic,
Guinea" Mozambique, PoLand, Sonxalia, the Syrian Arab Repubfic, the Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republ-ic and _Y-qgeslg:I49, later Joined by Ja:naica and Nigeria.

l-b. At rts lzth meetrngl
by 90 votes to none, vith

on
28

B october, the Connittee adopted the draft resolution
abstentions (see para. 1? befow, draft resolution IV).

V. FECOMMENDATIONS OF THE T}ITRD COMMITTEE

I7. The Third Corunittee reconmends to the ceneral Assenbly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions :

DRAT'T BESOLUTION T

enent ati for the or Action to

The flen cral AccAmhl'__-_ --.-_-*_ ---_ __-__y,

Becalling its resolution 3057 (XXWII)
reaffirmed its resolve to achieve the total
racial aliscrinination and alartheid..

of 2 Novenber 1973, in vhich it
and unconditional elinination of racism"

neaffireing that the policies of racism, racial- discrinination and apartheid
are flagrant violations of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and
constitute serious violations of the oblieations of the Member States under the
Ctrarter 

"

!ggl14g-34-31 { the vital, importance of establishing a nen international
economic order based on justice and equalityo

Noting that the realization of the nationa-l independence of the People's
Republic of Angol-a and the courageous action of the Peopl-ers Republic of Mozambique
in applying full,y the Unj.ted Nations system of sanctions against the racist r6gine
in Southern Rhodesia have contributed to the erowins isofation of the racist
r6gime in South Africa,

Rea"lizing the serious threat to international peace arrd security resulting
from the continued defiance of the racist r6gimes in South Africa and Southern
Bhodesia _of the resolutions and the wj.]1 of the internationaf cornrnunity in relation
to the abhorrent polieies of glgrlhgjg.and racial di scrirnination , the continued
iuegal occupation of Namibia and the denial of the right of peoples to self-
determination "



A/3r/273
_Fin p_L.ls n
Pale 8

Convinced that the Proalame for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and
naciai Oiscrinination 2f is a mal or undertaking in the fight agairtst racial
discrinination which deserves the ful} support of al1 Governments and
intergovernmental and non. .goverrutrental organi zations,

1" !,o-l4Srn!.g_ the intol-erabl-e conditions which continue to prevail in southern
Africa and. elsewhere " including the denial of the right 

to sel f-determination and
the inhumane arld odious application of _qpqlhelg ard racial dis crirninati on;

2" Ig3€IiIgg its recogaition of the legitirLacy of the struggle of oppressed
peoples to liberate thenselves from racism, racial discrimination, g!gl!!914,
colonialism and alien donination:

3. Ca1ls upon al.l States and intergoverrunent al and non-governmental
organizations to offer a1I possible assistance to the People's Republic of Angola,
the People's Republic of Mozambique and the African countries surrounding the racist
r6gimes in southern Africa, so that they may continue to app1y fully the sanctions
against these r6gimes;

4" Vlggq al-1 States to co-operate loyally and fully in achieving the goals
and objectives of the Decade for Aetion to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination
by taking actions and neasures caIled for by the Plogrsnr,'re for the Decade at the
national, regional and internationaf levels and, in particular:

(t) To ensure inmediate termination of a-11 measures and policies, as welf as
military, nuclear, economic 6Jrd other activities, which enable racist r6gines in
southern Africa to continue the repression of the African people;

(b) To provide fu1l support and assistance, mora.11y and naterially, to the
peoples r^rhich are victims of g&erlhg:g and racial discrimination and. to the
liberation movernents i

(c) To cease emi gration into South Africa:

(d) To ensure the release of political prisoners in South Africa and of those
subjected to restrictions for their opposition to apartheid;

(e) To formulate and execute plans to realize the policy measures aJrd goals
contained in the Progranme for the Decade, e"nd to consider the advisability of
establishing national anangements to fo11ow up the inplementation of the Progra-nne;

(f) To reviernr internal laws and regulations with a view to identifying and
rescinding those uhich provide for, give rise to, or inspire raciaf discrimination
or apartheid;

(g) To ensure the cessation of a].]. discriminatory measures against migrant
workers and extend. to them treatnent equal to that provided for nationals of the
host country with regard to human rights and the provisions of their fabour
legislation;

z/ ueneraJ_ ASSemo_Ly reso_Lutfon JU>f (rii(v_L-Lr/, annex"



Al3r/273
Engl-ish
Page 9

(tr) To sign and ratify the Interns.tional Convention on the Elimination of A11
Forms of Racial Dis crimination, .3_/ the fnternational Convention on the Suppression
and Punishment of the C"ime of Apartheid, )+/ and all other relevant instrunents;

5" Also urges Menber States which are parties to the International Convention
on the Elinination of Al-l Forms of Racial Di.scrimination to compfy fuUy with their
obligations under the Convention and, in particutar 

" 
to subrnit their reports in

accordance with the time-table laid d.ol'n in article 9 thereof;

6, Further urges United. Nations organizations, the specia-lized agencies and.
j.ntergovernmentaf and non-govertlmental organizations to ensure the continuation of
theiT activities related to the Decad.e with enphasis on, l4gl_gflg:

(") Providing noral and material support to the national liberation movernents
and the victins of apartheid elrd rs.c ial- dis erirnination;

(b) Assisting and conducting vigorous educational and infornation campai gns
to dispel Tacial p"ejud.ice and to involve public opinion in the struggle against
racism and racial discrimination:

(c) Examining the socio-economic and eo].onia]. roots of racism, apartheid and
racia]- discrimination with a viev to eliminating themi

7" 4ruSglA to Member States vhieh have not yet alone so to forward the
reports call-ed for under paragxaph 18 (e) of the P?ogrsmme for the Decade;

B. !CISS!9!_ any contributions and suggestions related to the Programme for
the Decacle by the Connittee on the Elirnination of nacial Discrimination, the
Special Connittee against Apartheid., the Special Cornnittee on the Situation v-ith
regard to the Implenentat ion of the Declaration on the Granting of fndependence
to Colonial Countries and. Peoples, the Con:mission on lluman Rigfuts " its Ad UocWorking Group of Experts and its Sub-Comrnis si. on on Prevention of Discrimination
arld Protection of X{inorities, especially }.rith 

"egard 
to ttre preparations for the

Worlal Conference to Combat Racism and- Racial Dis erimination;

9, . Fequests the Sec retary-General to draw on the expertise of the Connittee
on the El-inination of Racial Discrinination and the Sub-Connission on Prevention
of Discrinination and Protection of Minorities while undertakinA tbe rel-evant
activities of the Decade,

10. .qgite53lgg the call in paragraph f8 (e) of the Progranne for the Decade
to make adequate resources available to the Se cretary-General to enable hin to
und.ertake the activities entrusted to him rmder the Prograntre;

ff, Appeals to Governments and private organizations to neke voluntary
contributions which would nake it possible to carry out al.l of the activities
provided for in the Prograrnme for the Decadel

3/ General -A.ssembfy resolution 2106 A (XX), a.nnex.
_{ General Assembly resol-ution 3068 (XXVIII), annex,



Al3r/?73
English
Fage 10

l-2. Dgcldes to consider at its thirty-second session, as a natter of high
priority, thE-question entitled "Decade for Action to conbat Racism and Racial
Discrininationr .

DRAFT RESO],UTION II
.!{orld 

Conference

l!s-9qerel_4xs@lr,
Recalling its resolution 3057 (XXVUI)

reaffirmed its resolve to achieve the total
racia.l discriminacion and ena?f.ha'i ri

of 2 Novenber 1973, in which it
and unconditional elinination of racism.

-BSg_rf1i"g algg its resolution 33?B (XIS) of 10 Novenber 1975,
Tal<ing note of Econonic and Social_ Council- resolution 1990 (LX) of

lt May 1975 
"

Having considered the request of the Government of Ohana that the United
Nations defray half of the additional cost involved in holding the Worlcl Conference
to Conbat Racisn and Raciat Discrimination at Accra, and the reconmend.ation of the
Econonic and Socia] Counci.I in this regard,

Recognizing that Ghana is one of the countries most eeriously affected by
the current world econonic crisis and that, despite this, the Govelnment of Ghana
is naking a substantial financial contribution towafcls the Conference,

1. Welcones again with appt:eciation the offer of the Government of Ghana to
act as host to the World Conference to Cornbat Racisn and Racial- Discrimination and
takes note of the measures contemplateal by that Goverrnnent ained at ensuring the
success of the Conference;

2. lgc-lggg' in conforrnity vith paragraph 13 of the Prograrnnxe for the Decade
for Action to coxobat Racism and Raciar Discrinination, 5/ to conv€ne the conference
in Ghana in order to mobil-ize worLd public opinion and Jdopt neasures likely to
secuxe the furl and universal inprenentation of united Nations decisions and.
resoLutions on racisn, raciaL discrirnination 

" -a!gl!bgig, clecolonization andself-determination;

3, Decides to rnake exception to its resolution 2609 (XXIV) of
15 Decenber TgZF-on the pattern of conferences and agrees that half of the
add.itional- cost involved in holding the Conference in Ghana shalt be defrayed.
from the regular budget of the United Nations;

4. _nSgq:jS_ the Sec retary-General to rnaintain his contacts with the
Government of'Ghsna concerning future arrangements for holding the conference at
Accra;

5/ General Asser0bly resol-ution 3O5T (XXVIII), annex.



,- Decides
priority, il-iG;
Disc rimination'' .

5" Appeals to States parties to the Convention to
mahing the decl-aration provided for in article l)+ of the

to consider at its thirty-second session" as a matter ofentitled 'r'iiorld Conference to Combat Facism and Racial

DRAFT RESOI,UTIOII I1I
Status of the fnternational Convention on the Elimination

of A11 Forns o! naciar Oiicri ination

Al3r/273
English
Page 11

hi eh

(XXVIII) of
Novenber 19? 5,

-ry_Selctsl_a$ss4y,,

-, * R"",-Iilg,its resolutiols 3O2T (XXVIII) of 2 November Ig73" 3t3:_l-4 December 1973, 3zz5 (XXrx) of 6 Novernber 1!T)+ and 33g1 txixj-.i io
l. 

. . -&I..:--lg!C of the report of the Sec retary-General 6/ on tbe status of thernrernatronaL Convention on the llirnination of Afl Foms of -nacialDiscrinination; J/

Expr:sses its "atlslufu with the increase in the nurnber of Statesrrhrch have ratlfied the Convention or acced.ed there.uo;

,. -3: I9!{firmE-ggg-@1q its conviction that rati.fication of or a.ccession totne lnternatlonal Convention on the ELinination of A11 Forrns of Racial
Discriraination on a universal basis and. irnplenentation of its provisions arenecessary for the realization of the obJectives of the Decade for Action to combat
Racism and Racial Dis crinination;

eplggle- to states which have not yet become parties to the convention toratify it or accede theretol

study the possibility of
Convention;

6- Requests the sec retsJy-General to continue to subnit to the Generaf
As senxbly annua"l reports concerning the status of the convention, in accord.ancewith Assenbly resolution 2106 A (XX) of 21 Decembe t 196r.

DFATT NESOLUTIOIY IV

Status of the Internationq,l- Convention on the Suppression

The Genera-I Assembly_"

- Bgca"lling its resolution 3068 (&XVIII) of 30 November IgT3" by which itadopted and opened for signature and ratification the International Convention on

5_/ Al3r/zor.
7/ Generat Assenbly resol-ution 2106 .{ (XX), annex.



Al3r/273
Ilnglish
Page 12

the Suppression and Punishnent of the Crime of Apartheid, and its resolution
3380 (X.Lr() or 10 liovenbe r 1975"

FvlYaccino i+c -nh'eciation to those States which have become parties to the
Convention 

"

convl_*S-gg that ratification of or accession to the International Convention
on the guppression arrd Punishment of the Crine of Apartheid on a universal basis
and implernentation of its provisions are necessary for the achievenent of the
goals of the Decade for Action to Conrbat Racisn and Racial Discriminationo

ttggllg*i"e its firm conviction that apartheid constitutes a total negation of
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and is a crime
against humanity serious].y disturbing internation€"1 peace and security,

U:1QS:U44g Seeurity Council resolution 392 (1976) of .19 June 1976, in which
the Council condenmed the Governnent of South Africa for its resort to massive
violence against and killings of the African people, including school children and.
students and others opposing racial discrimination,

Noting that the legitimate struggle of the oppressed African peoples against
gp3lthel-{ demand.s all necessary assistance by the international- comrnunity,

]. Tskes note of the report of the Se cretary-General on the status of the
fnternational-- C6iTEition on the Supnression and Funishnent of the Crime of
nrrCrqgl{, B./

2. I_"l!o4€-g the entry into force on 18 Ju1y 19?6 of the above-mentioned
Convention,

3. A.p1gg]s to a1f States r,rhich have not yet become parties to the Convention
to acced-e thereto'

l+" Invites the Chairman of the thirty-third, session of the Cornmission on
Hrxnan Fights to appoint a group consi.sting of three members of the Conmissr-on on
HumaJl Rights as provided for by article fX of the Convention;

5. Invites_ the Connission on Human Rights to undertske the functions set
out in article X of the Convention, in particular to prepare a l-ist of individuals,
or5anizations, institutions and representatives of States vhich are alleged to be
responsible for the crimes enurnerated in article II of the Convention.

6. l9-g11e. s-!-g_ the Se cretary-General to include in his next annual report under
General As senrbly resolution 3380 (XXX) a special part concerning the irnplementation
of the Convention 1

7" lgglegg to consider annually u starting rdth its thirty-second session,
the question entitled rstatue of the International Convention on the Suppression
and Punishment of the Crirne of Apartheid".

F,l a/T/zos.




