








































---_?.8-:=-r{ \:

=#i=
UN'TED h{AruoNs

GET.{ERAL
A 5 S E rvt B LY

Distr.
GENERAL

A/3r/353
zb l\ovemoer fy Jo

oRfGINAI: ENGLISH

Thirty-first session
Agenda itens 88 and 12

IMPLEMU{TATION OF TI{E DEC],ANATION ON TIIE GBAIVfING OF INDEPENDENCE TO
COLONTAI, COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES BY rIIE SPEC]AIIZED AGENCIES AND THE

INTERNATIONAI, fNSTITUTTONS ASSOCIATED WITH TIIE UNTTED NATTONS

REPORI OF TH8 ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL ( CHAPTER VII (SECTION E))

Report of the Fourth Connittee

Rapporteur: Mr. A. Majid MANGAL (Afehanistan)

1. At its l+th plenary neeting, on 2l+ septenber I)16, the General Assenbly. on
the reconmendation of the General Cornrnittee, decided to includ.e in the agenda
of its thirty-first session the fol-l-owing iterns:

"BB. Irrplenentation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial- Cormtries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the
international institotions associated vith the United Nations:

(a) Report of the Special Comrittee on the Situation with regard
to the Implenentation of the Declaration on tbe Granting of
Independ.ence to Colonial- Countries and ?eoples;

(b) Reports of the Se cretary-General . "

"12. Report of the EcononLic and Social- CounciJ-."

2. At the s€.lae rneeting, the General Assenbly decided to allocete to the Fourth
Connittee agenda iten 880 together with cbapter VrT (sect. E) of the report of
ttre Econ.mic and Social Cor:ncil, 1/ vhich reLates to the iten.

V Official Records of the Gr4era]. Assenbly, Thirw-
Sl,pptJr.

T6-2\7?t+



A/3L/ 3r3
Ens_Lasn
Pale 2

3. At its 3rd meeting, on 5 october, the tr'ourth Connittee decided to hold a
general debate covering agerld.a itens 2!, BL, BB and 12, 89 and p0, on the
understand.ing that indj.vidual draf't resolutions on matters covered by those items
wou]-d. be consid.ered separately,

)+, Ttre Fourth Conrrnittee considered iterns BB and f2 at its l-Oth to 25tin
neetings, between 25 october and 15 November.

5. At the l-oth meeting, on 26 October, the tapporbeur of the Special Conmittee
on the Situation with regard to the fmplenentation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Ind.ependence to CoLonial Cor-rntries and Peoples introduced. chapter VI
of the relort of that Connittee relating to iten B8 (A/3t/23 (part V)).

6. fn addition, the 3ou?th Corui:ittee had before it the relevant chapter of the
report of the Economic and Socie-l Co:J';rci:-. 2/ The Connfittee also had before it
the reporbs of the Secretary-GeneraJ- relati-ng to the iteros, subnitted in pursuance
of p aragraph 12 (a) ana (b) of General Assenbly resolution 3l+21 (X)(X) of
B Decenber L9T5 G/3f/65 and Add.I-5 srd A/3t/238). Further, the Corrdttee had
before it a letter dated I September 1975 fTom the Pernanent Representative of
Sri Larka addressed. to the Secretarnr-Generat (A/3I/f9T), whicb related, inter a1ia,
to the itens.

T. At the 22nd neeting, on l-l- Novenrber, the 
"epresentative 

of the World Health
Organization provided the Fourth Conmittee with infornation on the related
activities of his organization to supplenent that which was included in the
above-rnentioned report of the Se cretaty-ceneral (A/3U5j ard Add.1-5),

B. The general debate covering the itens referred to in paragraph 3 ab ove took
I)lace at the ].]th to zl+th neetings, betffeen 28 October €nd 12 Novenber.

9. At the 22nd meeting, on lL Novernber, the representative of Bulgaria
introd.uced. a draft resolution (A/C,\/31/L.\), whicb vas finally sponsored. by the
following Menfte r States: Benin, Bulg€""ia, Byelorussian Soviet Social-ist Republic,
Chad, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yenen, Eeypt, Ethiopia, Gernan
t9ggge!iS-I@ff-9., Ghara, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Gr{vana, Hr.rnsary, rndie, rran,Iraq, IvorT coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Lao Feople's Democratic Republic, Madagascar,
Ma1i, Monsolie, Mozaabique, Nepal o Niger, Nieeria, ?oland, Portugal, Romenia,
Sao Tome and. Principe, Senegal, Sielra leone, Sonalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Togo, Trinidad. and Tobago, Ttrrritia, Uganda, Llkrainian Soviet Social-ist
{epublic, United. Republ-i c of Caneroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Vofta,
Yugoslavia and Zambia.

10' At its 25th neeting, on 15 Noverber, the tr'ourth Conmittee adopted dlaf!
resolution A/C.\/3f/L.l+ by s. Tecorded. vote of 121+ to none, vitb 5 abstentions
(see para. l-1 belov). The voting rn/as as folLows:

4 lbid,. , chap. WT, sect . E.



In favour:

::e=::=_:'

Abstaining:

Al3r/353
English
paee 3

Afglranistan, Albani a, Algeria, Argentina, Australi a, Austria,
Baharas, Bahrai.n, Bangladesh, Barbaalos, Belgiun, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bu-lgaria, Burma, Burundi,
Byelon:ssian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Chad, Ctrile,
Ctrina, Colornbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, C}prus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratj.c Kampuchea, Deraocratic Yemen, Dernmark, Ecuador,
Egppt, E1 Salvad.or, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, FiJi, Finland'
Gabon, Garnbia, German Democratic Republic, Ghena, Greeee,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Cuyana, Hungary, I celand,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, frelarrd, Ital-y, Ivory Coast,
Jamaicao Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kurait, Leo People's Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, L,iberia, Libyar Arab Republic, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Ma1i, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norvay, Oman, Pakistan, Panamar Papua New Guinea'
Peru, Philippines, Poland, PortugaL, Qatar, Ronani a, Ruanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sud.an, Surinan, Swazilaad, Sweden, Syri an Arab
Republic, fhailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, T\rrkey 'Uganda, Ukrainian Soriet Sociafist Republ-ic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United Republic of
Ca,neroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
Vene zuela, Yenen, Yugos l al'i a, Z,aiTe, Zambi a.

None .

France, Gernany, Fed.eraJ- lepublic of, Malawi, United Kingdon
of Great Britain and Northern lre].and. United States of America.

BECOMMENDATTON OF THE FOURTII COMMITTEE

11. The Fourth Conndttee recomnends to the General Assexobly the adoption of
the folJ-owi ng draft resolution:

on the G ce ro
d the

rnati dwi

The GeneraJ. Assenbly,

considered. the iten entitled rrlmplementation of the Decl-aration on the

of

Granting of
agencies and

Independence to Col-onial Countries and Peoples by the specialized
the internationa.l- institutions associated with the United Nations",

Recafling the Decl-aration on the Granting of Ind.ependence to Colonial
Countries anrl Peoples, contained in its resolution 1511+ (XV) ot 1\ Decenber 1950,
ancl the progranme of acti on for the fu]-1 inplenentation of the Declaration
containecl in its resolutlo\ 262I (nfV) ot 12 October 1970, as wel-l as all other
relevant resolutions of the General Assenbly and the Security Council,



A/3r/353
English
rase +

Havins examined the reports submitted- on the item by the Secretary-Ceneral, 3/
the nconomic and Social Council- V and the Special Comnittee on the Situation with
regard to the Impl-enentation of the Decfaration on the Granting of lndependence to
Colonial Countries arld Peopl-es, 5/

Teking into accor..mt the positions of the national liberation movements of
the colonial Territories in Africa on this itern, as explained to the Special-
Connittee ard to its Ad Hoc Group established at its 1029th meeting, on
1 April 7976, 5/ wnicf,-Esited a number of African countries in May 19?6, and
conscious of tf,e urgent and pressing need of the peopl-es concerned for concrete
assistance fron the specialized agencies and other organizations within the
United Nati ons systerne

Reaffirning the responsibility of the specialized agencies and other
organizations within the United Nations system to take a1f effective measures,
within their respective spheres of competence, to ensure the fu1l and speedy
irnplenentation of the Declaration and other re.levanb resofutions of the United
Nations, particularly in the provision of mora-l and naterial assistance, on a
priority basis, to the peopl-es of the colonial Territories and their national
liberation movements,

Noting r,ri th concern that, although progress has been naintained in the
extension of assistance to refugees fron the colonial Territories in Africa, the
actions taken hitherto by the organizations concerned in the provision of
assistance to the peoples of the Territories through their national- liberation
movements continue to renain inadequate to meet the urgent needs of these peoples,

t\T^+.i--,..i+L ^^+.i^f^^'-.-..6 .,.,, .-.,-,-ction the neasures initiated by some of the specialized
agencies arld. other organizations vithin the United Nations systero, in particular
the World Food Prografime and the United Nations Development Prograrnme, to provid.e
assistence on a priority basis to the peoples of the Territories formerly
administered by Portugal, and. expressing its appreciation to the Secretary-General
for the initiative he has taken in that regard,

Evnro<cjno j+. -^-reciation to the General Secretariat of the Organization
of African Unity for the continued co-operation and assistance extend-ed by it to
the organizations within the United. lTations systen in connexion with the
inplenentation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations,

Mindful of the necessity to keep under continuous rer-i ew the activities of

31 Al3L/65 and Add.l-', A/3r/48.
j+/ Officiat Records of the ceneral Assenbly, Thilty-first Session,

Supplenent, No. 3 (A/3L/3), chap. VII, seet. E,
tJ A/31/23 (Part v), chap, vr.
U al zt/zz/ Idd.l-, chap . vrr .



1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special cor0ndttee on the
Situation tTi yegara to the Irrplenentation of the Declaration on the Gra,''ti ng
of Independ.ence to Colonial- Countries and Peoples "elating 

to the iten; T/

?. leaffirns that the recognition by the General Assenbly, the Securit'y
Council atraJ6." U"lted Nations organs of the legitinacy of the struggle of
col-onial peoples to achieve freedom and independence entails ' as 

a corollary, the
exbension by the organizations within the United Nations system of all- the
necessary moral and naterial assistance to the peoples of the colonial Territories
and their nationaL liberation movenents;

3. Expresses its appreciation to those specialized agencies and
organi zati6iFTithin ttre Unitealations systen which have continued to co-ope"ate
in varying degrees with the United. Nations in the inplenentation of the
Decl-aration and other relevant resolutions of the General As senrbly;

1+. Expresses its concern that the assistance extended so far by the
special"i zeETgerrcies and ottrer organizations within the United Nations system to
the colonial peoples, parti cularly those of Zimbabwe and Nsmibia, and to their
national liberation movernents is far from adequate in terms of the actual needs
of the peoples conc e rned l

5- Re.erel-.s that the World Bank and the Internationa"l Monet arJr Fund have
not yet t JEn-tiru necessary measures towards the fu]1 and sPeedy implementation
of the Decfaration and other relevant resolutions of the General Assenbfy;

the specialized agencies and
system in the inplementati on
d e col-oni zation,

6, Requests the specialized agencies and
United Nations system to render or continue to
afl rrossi.ble moraJ- and material assistance to

A/ j.t / 3>3
English
PaSe 5

otber organizations vithin the United Nations
of the various United Nations decisions relating to

other organi zations rithin the
render, as a matter of urgencY 'the cofonial peoples in Africa

struggling for their liberation fron colonial rule I

7. Re commends that the organi zations concerrled shoul-d initiate or broaden
contacts aid-co-operation with the colonia.f peoples in consul-tation with the
organization of African Unity, review their proced.ures with respect to the
fornul-ation and preparation of assistance progranmes and ploJects and
introduce greater flexibility in these procedures so as to be able to extend the
necessary assistance r^rithout delay to help the colonial peoples and their national
fiberation novements in their struggle to exercise thei? inalienable right to
self-detelrnination and independence in accorda.rice vith Generaf Assernbly
reso-Lutlon -t)-14 \ nv ,l ;

il A/3r/n (part v), chap. vr.



At 3t/ 3r3
English
Page 6

B. Urges once again the speciaJized agencies and other orgenizations vithin
the United. l ations system, in accordance vith the rel-evant resofutions of Lhe
Generaf Assernbly and the SecuriLy Courcil, to bake all necessary measures to
vithhold sny financial, econolric, technical or other assistance fron the
Government of South Africa and the il"legal rSgime of Southern ihodesia, to
discontinue a"lI suppol-t to them until they restore to the peoples of $alribia and
Zimbabve their inalienable right to s elf-determination and independence and. to
aefrain fron taking any action vhich night imply recognition of the legitinacy of
the donri.nation of the Territories by those r6gimes;

9, Notes r^ri th satisfaction the arrangements made by severa-l specialized
agencies arrd organizatlons which enable representatives of the national
]iberation novenents recognized by ttre Organization of African Unity to
participate flrlLy as observers in the proceedin5s relating to natters concerning
their respective countries, and ca.lls upon those international institutions
lthi ch have not yet done so to follow this exarnple and to make the necessary
arrargements without delay ;

l-0, necormends that al1 Governments should intensify their efforts in the
spe cia:i zeE-E$iEiEJ and other organizations vithin the United Nations systen
of whi ch they are menbers to ensure the fulf and effective implenentation of the
Declaration and other reLevant resofutions of the United Nations and, in that
ccnnexion, shoul-d. accord priority to the question of providing assistance on an
energency basis to peoples in the coLonial Territories and to their national
liberation novements i

11. Urges the executive heads of the specialized agencies and other
organi zations within the United Nations system, having regard to the
reconmendations contained. in paragraph 7 above, to fornulate with the active
co-operation of the Organi zalion of Lfrican Unity and to subnit, as a matter of
priority, to their governing and legislative orgaJts concrete proposals for the
fu]l- inplementation of the relevant United Nations decisions, in particular
specific prograrmes of assistance to the peoples in the colonial Territories
and their nationaf libern.tion mrr1/cnFnf.c.

I2, fSS.LeslE_ the Se cretary-ceneral-:

(a) To prepare for submission to the relevant bod.ies concerned with related
aspects of the present item, with the assistance of the specialized agencies
and other organj. zations ithin the United Nations system, a report on the action
taken since the circulation of his previous report in in&lementation of the
rel-evant resol-utions of the United Nations, including the present resolution I

(b) To continue to assist the specialized. agencies and other organizations
vithin the United Nations system in working out appropriate measures for
implernenting the present resolution and to report thereon to the Genera.I
Assenftly at its thirty-second. session;



A/3r/353
Enatrsn
paie T

13, Requests the lcononic and Social Council to continue to consider, in
consultation ith the Special Conuittee, appropriate mea,sures for co-ordination
of the policies end activities of the specialized agencies and other organi zations
within the United. Nations system in irnplementing the relevant resolutions of the
General Assernbl"y;

14. Requests the Specia.l Connittee to continue to exanine this question and
to report to the GeneraL Ass erably at its thiaty-second session.




