








































-/A 

I:#E
UNITED NAT'ONS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

Distr.
GENERAL

A/3r/33r
t9 IIOVenOer Iy lo

ORIGINAL: ENGLISfl

Ttrirty-first session
Agend.a iten 70

A.D\rERSE CONSEQUENCES FOR THE ENJOYMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS OF POLITICAL,
MI],ITARY, ECONOMIC AND OTHER FORMS OF ASSISTANCE GIVEN TO COLONIAL

AND RACIST NEGIIMS IN SOUTIIERN AFRICA

Report of the Third Comittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ibrahim BADAI'J'I ( Ee'ypt )

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The iten entitled ttAdvetse consequences for the enjoyment of hrm8.n rights of
political, rni1itary, economic and other forms of assistance given to colonial and
racist r6gines in southern Africa" was incfuded in the provisional agenda of the
thirty-first session of the General AssenbLy in accortlance with Assembly resol-ution
33U, (rXX) of 10 November 1975.

2. At its l+th plenary neeting, on 2l+ Septenber L976, the General Assembly, on
the recoflmendation of the General Connittee, de,cided to include the iten in its
agenda and to allocate it to the Third Cornrnittee,

3, The connittee consid.ered this iten at its 19th, 21st to 26th, 281h, 29th, and
35th to l+Oth neetings, heLd bet.,reen 15 October and 5 Norenber 19?6. The views
erpressed by the representatives of member States and obselvers are contained in
the sumary record.s of those meetings (A/c.3/31/sR.1g, 2146, 28, 29 and. 35-l+0).

\. In connexion L/ith iten 70, the Conmittee tratl befo"e it the following
d.ocutrentation:

(") Note by the secretary-Genera1 giving background information on the itero
(n/tl zzr-) '

(b) Prelininary report on the subJect by 1,1r. Ahned M. Khalifa, the SpecieJ
Rappolteur of the Sub-Conmission on ?revention of Diserinination and Protection of
Minoritiesn subnitted to the Sub-Conmission at its twenty-ninth session
(E/cN.\/sub.2/371);

76-23729



A/ 3r/ 33r
English
Page 2

(.) fntroductory statement of the Special napporteur before the twenty-ninth
session of the sub-Conurission (E/cN.U/Sub.Z/SR.763 and ?51+),

^n 'Itr n^+^L^F +h^ nirectoT of the DivitiOn of Human.). 4u urrs !7urL uEqurrrS, vrr r/, vuuvusf
Rights introduced the item,

II. CONSIDENATION OF DRAFT RISOLUTION A/C.3/3L/L.T5

5, The Conmittee had before it a draft resolution (A/|3/3L/L.$) , which was
sponsored. by Al-geria, Benin, the Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, fraq, the Libyan Arab
Repub]ic, Madagascar, Nigeria, Senegal, So_rglig, the Syri an Arab Repubfic ' 

Togo'
the United. Republ-ic of Cameroon, the United Bepublic of Tarz€nia and Zanbia,
€ubsequentl-y j.oined by the Congo and Democratic Yenen. The d.raft resolution read
as fol-l-ows;

"Thu_!9Igr4_AlES .,

'fRecalling its resolutions 3382 (XXX) and 3383 (xxx) of 10 Novembe r 19'15 '
rfRecalling resol-ution 6 ( ){XXII ) of 1 March ]-976 of the Comrission on

Hrmsrr Rights, denor.mcing with indignation the political, ni1itary, e conoroic
afld other forms of assistance vhich certain Sts.tes give to the racist
ninority r6gimes of southern Africa,

ItReca-Iling its resolutions 3201 (s-VI) and 3202 (s-VI) of 1 May 1!71+
on the establ-i.shnent of the new international- econorlic order,

"Recalling its resolution 3281- (XXIX) of L2 December 197\ on the qharter
of Econo!0ic Rights and Duties of States,

"BuSrUj4g its resoLution 31n (rXvIII) of 1T December 19?3 relating to
peruanent sovereignty over natural resources of devel"oping countries and
territories under foreign occupation, colonial rule, alien domination and
apartheid.,

"Ilaving consid.ered. the preliminary report of the Special Rapporteur
contained. in docunent E/CN.\/svb.2/ 3?1 of 1l+ Jrtrv 1976,

"Convinced that the above-nentioned report contains additiona,l evidence
en alt in-g-IT-T;-conclud e that the political, nilitary, econonic and other
assista.nce given to the racist and colonial r6girres of South Africa and.
Southern Rhodesia by certain States is the najor factor in the perpetuation of
the aboninable policies of these rdgines inasmuch as they ad.versely affect the
hurnan rights and. fund.amental freedoms of the oppressed peoples of southerar
Afri ca -

that three peruanent members of the Security Council ,
Kingdom and the United States of America, by the usenamely France, the United



A/3r/33J_
EngLish
page 3

of the veto prevent the Council from taking effective action against the
South Afriean apartheid r6gine, thus impairing the exercise and the enJ oyment
of human rights of the oppressed peoples of southern Affica,

"Noting further that the actions of some States in strengthening
political, economic, military and other rel-ations with the South African
r6giroe are in flagrant and d.eliberate violation of the purposes and principleg
of the Chs.rte" and resoLutions of the United Nations,

"Convinced that the continued nilitarv and nuclear collaboration between
certaii-StElEJ-and orgarizations, and the racist r6gimes in southern Africa
constitute a serious menace not onLy to the oppressed peoples of southern
Africa but also to the independent African States and. to international peace
a h/{ aAnlrFr'+ v

"1. Reaffirns the inalienabl-e rights of the oppressed peoples of
southern Africa to se.l-f-determination, independ.ence and the enjoynent of the
natural resolr-rces of their territories;

"2, Reaffi.rrs further the right of these sane oppressed peoples to
ci-ispose of-Tfr6se resor:rces in their best interest", JA to rec;iv; f'rl1
coropensation for the e:ploitetion, depletion, loss of srd dslns.ges to their
natural resources including compensation for the exploitation and nalipulation
of their human resources:

"3. Condenns stlongly the coll"aboration of aJ-l- States, particularly
France, the Fed.ere,l RepubJ-ic of Germany, the Uniteti Kingrlon, the United States
of America, Israel and Japan, as a'elL as cerlain foreign econonic interests
which naintain and/or continue to incfease their. collaboration with the racist
r6girnes of southern Africa, especially in the econonic, nilitary arrd. nuclear
field.s:

"4. leaffirus that the States 8rrd oraanizations which Eive assi.stance
to the racist and colonial r6gimes in southem Africa are accomplices in the
inhume,rr practices of racial" discrinination, apartheid. and colonialisn
perpetratetl by those r6gines;

"5. fnvites the Secu"ity Col:rtcj.l to inpose a total embsrgo on sales,
gifbs and transfers of arns o? any other kind of nilitary supplies to South
Africa;

"5. Call-s upon all States scrupuj-ously to observe the sanctions inposed
on the illegal ninority r6giroe of Southern Fhod.esia;

"7. Cal-ls upon all States, specialized agencies, interggovernnentaJ- and.
non-governmental organizations to offer all possible assistance to the
Liberation novenents of southern Africe that are recognized by the organization
of Afrj.can Unity an<l the United. Nations;



A/3r/33L
English
rase 4

"8. Invites the Economic arld Social Council, in col-laboration rith
the Conndssion on Humar Rights, to examine the question of the consequences
of the use of the veto on the enjoJnaent of hman rights by the oppressed.
peopl-es of southern Africa and submit a report to the General Assenbly at its
+r1i n+-. +1-.: *r ^^^^:^un-Lf Ly-Lnlf-q sesslon ;

"9. Requests the Secretary-GeneraL to trsJrsmit the prelininary report
of the Special lapporteur to the Special Ccomittee against Apartheid arld to
the Council for Narni bi a;

"Lo. Deci.des to consid.er this iten at i.ts thirtv-third session as a
na++6r ^r ;=;=;. in the light of any recorinendation by the Sub-Conmisslon
on Prevention of liscrinination and Protection of Minorities, the Coumission
on Human Rights, the Economic and Social. Council , as well as the Special
Conmittee against Apartheid.tl

7. At the 38th meeting, on 3 November, the representative of Nigeriq in'broduced
a revised. text (A,/C.3/3rll,.I6lRev.t-), vhich was a^tso sponsored ly ggrln{i, ng,fpt,
Ethiopia and Yemen, subsequentLy joined by Equatorial- Guinea, Mozarnbiq.ue, the Lao
Peoplers Democratic Republic, Sierra Leone, the Sud.an aJlii Uganda. .At the s €,ne
neeting, the representative of Nigeria revised operative paragraph 8 ly inserting
the words t'by the above-mentioned three permanent nenbersrr after the word ttvetctt.

8. At the 39th neeting, on )+ November, the representatives of SenegaJ. and the
United Bepublic of C€lreroon vithdrew the names of their d.elegations fron the .l.ist
of sponsors of the revised alraft resolution, because of the changes introd.uced.
to operative paragraph 8,.

9. At the sane meeting, the Conmittee adopted the drs.ft reso.Iution by a rolJ.-cal-l
vote of BT to :.2, with 31 abstentions (see para. 11 below). The voting vas as
fol1or,fs:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Barbados,
Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazii, Surmao Burundi, Chad, Chite,
Cbina, Colonbia, Conoros. Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
Karnpuchea, Denocratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyafla, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Jord.an, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Denocrabic Republic,
Lesotbo, Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic, Madagascar, Malai.sia,
Ma1i, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozanbique, Nepal , Niger,
Nigeria, Onan, Palristan, Panama, Peru, Philippi.nes, Qatar,
Ronania, Rwanila 

" 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Siena Leone, Singapore,

Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinem, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Repubtic,
fhaiJ"and, Trinidad and. Tobago, Tr:nisia, Ugartla, United Arab
Enirates, Ihited Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire . Zanbia.



Al3r/Tr
English

Against: Belgiuro, Dennark, Frerce, Gernany (Federal Republic of), I?eland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxenbourg, Netherlantls, United Kingdon of
Gleat Britain and Northern helelad, United States of A:nerica,

Abstainin€!: Australia, Austria, Bulgaria, Byelorussia::r Soviet Socialist
' Republic, Carada, Centra} African Republic, Costa Rica,

Czechoslovakia, Doninican Republic, tr'inland n German Democratic
Fepublic, Greece, Grenad.a n Guaten€la, HontluraB, Hungaly, Iceland,
IraJr, Mal-awi, Mongolia, New Zealand, Niearagua, Nonray, Papua
Nev Guinea, Polard, Portuga], Spain, Sweden, Turkey, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

10. The sunr0ary records of the 39th and \0th neetings (A/C.3/31/SR.39 ana I+O)
contain the explanations of vote on the draft xesoLution.

III. NECOMMENDAT]ON 03 THE THIRD COMMITTEE

l-L, fhe Third Comittee reco@ends to the Genere.l AssenbLy the adoption of the
fol-Loltring draft resolution:

The General Asse&b1y,

Recalling ite resoLutions 3382 (x<x) ana 3383 ()off) of L0 Novenber 1975,

Reeatling resolution 5 (XlOfiI ) of 1 l{arch t9?6 ot the Conmission on
Ilulen Bights, I/ denor:ncing vith inatignation the political, ni1itary, econonic
and other forrs of assistarace which certain States give to the racist minority
r6gines of southern Africa,

{ecq.lling its resolutions 320f (S-VI) and 3202 (S-vI) of 1 May 1974
Action on the Establishment of acontaining the Decl-aration and Progranme of

New International Econoroic Ord.er.

RecaLling its resolution 3281 (p{Ix) of 12 Decenber 1974 containing
CtrarteiJF-Ei6i-onic Rights and Dut,ies of States,

Recall-ine its resolution 31?f (rx\rIII ) of 17 December 1973 relating to
pemanent sovereignty over natural resources of aleveLoping countries and
territories r:nder foreign occupation, coloniaL rule, alien domination and
apartheid,

1/ See Official Records of the Eccnonic antl Sixtieth Session
Supplenent No. 3 U, sect. A.

JOC]-al. UOUnC].l-



Al 3r/ 33t
English
rage o

Having considered with satisfaction the prelininary report of
J-\ July 1!J6 prepared by the Special Rapporteur on the adverse consequences
for the enjoyment of hulllan rights of politicat, ni1itary, economic and other
forns of assistance given to the col-onia]- and racist r665ines in southern
l].lr]^ca^ zl

Convinced that the above-mentioned report contains additional- eviclence
enabling the Genera-l Assenbly to conclude that the politica.l, nilitary,
economic and other assistance given to the racist and colonial r6gines of
South Africa and Southern Rhodesia by certain States is the rnajor factor in
the perpetuation of the abominabLe policies of these r6gines inasnuch as they
ad.versely affect the hr.uran rights and flmd8mental freedoms of the oppressed
peoples cf southern Africa,

Noting lrith concern that three permarent members of the Security
Council - France, the United Kingd.om of Great Sritain €nd Northern frel-and
and the United States of America - by the use of the veto prevent the Colmcil
from taking effective action against the South African apartheid. r6gime,
thus inpai.ring the exercise and the enjolment of human rights of the oppressed
peoples of southern Africa,

Noting further that the actions of some States in strengthening
pol-itical, economic, nilitary and othe? relations with the South Africar
r6gime are in flagrant a,nd defiberate viofation of the purposes and principles
of the Charter and Tesolutions of the United Nations,

Convinced that the continued ni].it€.l.y and. nuclear collabo?ation of
certain-3ffrEl-and organizations with the racist r6gimes in southexn Africa
constitutes a serious menace not only to the oppressed peop.les of southern
Africa, but atso to the ind.ependent African States and to international peace
ani conrui +rr

1 Reaffirr0s the inalienable rights of the oppressed. peoples of
southern lfifi6i-T6-se1f-detemination, independence and the enjoynent of the
natural resources of their territories;

2. Reaffirl4s fr]f.+h6- +r.- -.i-L+ ^? +L6da ssfle oppressed peoples tO
dispos! or iffiffiffi"-to.i""ili"i'i"i."""." and to receive fut-t
conpensation for the erploitation, depletion, loss of and d.anages to their
natursJ. resouxces, inelud.ing conpensation for the exploitation antl
nanipulation of their hu&an resources;

3. Strongly condenns the collaboration of a].l States, particularly
tr'rance, the Feder€J. Republic of cemany, the Uni.ted Kingd.om of Great Sritain
and Northern lrelandr the United States of America, Israe.l aJ)d Japan, as weLl
as those foreign econonic interests l,/hich naintain and/or continue to increase
their collaboration with the racist rdgirnes of southern Afrieao especially
in the economic, roilitary sJrd nuclear fields l

4 E/cN.l+/sub.z/37r.



Al 3L / 333-
English

. Page 7

l+. Reaffirrs that the States arrd" organizal,ions vhieh give assistsrce
to the racf E?-iotonial t6girnes in southern Africa are accornplices in the
inhr..man practices of racial- dis crirninat ion , apartheid €,rrd coloniaJ.isn
perpetrated by those r6gimes;

5. Invites the Security Counci]. to impose a total enbargo on sal-es,
gifts and EE-Tiins fer of arlrs or eny other kind of nilitary supplies to
South Africal

6. Ca]ls upon all States scrupulously to observe the sanctions inposed.
on tne ittEEll-[Ii6ili.ty r6gine of Southem Rhodesia;

7. CsJ-1s upon all States, speclalized agencies, inter8overnmental
and non-govetnnentel organizations to offer al]- possible assistsnce to the
liberation movements of southern Africa that are recognized by the Organization
of African Unity and the United Nations;

B. Invites the Econonic and Social Council o in collaboration with the
coroni s s ion-6i-Huran Rights, to examine the question of the consequences of
the use of the veto by the above-raentioned. three permanent nembers of the
Security Corjncil on the enjoynent of bunan rights by the oppressed peoples
of southern Africa and to submit a report.thereon to the General Assenbfy at
its thirty-third session I

9. Requests the Secretary-Gene"al to continue to accord the Specia]-
Rapporteur the assistance he need.s to complete his study;

]0. Requests the Secretary-General to transxdt the preliminary report
of tUe Speciat napporteu" to the Special, Comrittee against 4larlhgll aca to
the United Nations Council for Na.nibia;

11. Decides to consider this item at its thirty-third session as a
natter of priority in the light of any reconmendation by the Sub-Comission
on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, the Comnission
on Hr:nan Ri.ghts and the Econoroic and Socia.l Cowrcil, as veLl as by the Special
Connittee against Apartheid and the United Nations Council for iiamibia.




