








































-a 
s:

=3ir-5=
UN'IED NAT'ONS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

u1str.
GE$MA],

A/3r /t+o3
10 Decernber 1976

ORIGINAL: EI{GLI$H

Thi r+v-fi ?cf caeci^h

IMPLEMENTATION BY STATES OF TI{E PROVISTONS OF THE VTENNA
CONVENTION ON DIPI,OI\4ATIC RELATTOI\IS OF 1961

Report of the Sixth Conmittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Valentine V. BOJTLOV (3ulgaria)

1. The it eur entitled " fnpl ernent at ion by States of the provisions of the Vienna
Convention on Diplomatic Relations of f961 : report of the Sec ret ary-General " was
included in the provisional a€enda of the thirty-fi"st session of the Gener8"1
Assenbly pursuant to its resolution 3501 (XXX) of 15 Decernber 1"9?5.

2. At its l+th plenary meeting, on 2l+ septenber 1976" the Generat Assenbly
decided to include the item in its agends and to allocate it to the Sixtn
Committee.

3. The Sixth Comnittee considered the item at its 65th, 66tir and 68th meetings,

l+. At the 65th meeting, on 7 December, the representative of the Union of Soviet
Sociali.st Republics introduced a draft resolution (A/C-6/3\/L.f6) on behalf of
Argentina, Butgaria, Cuba, Cyprus, Gernan Democratic Republic, Hungary' MaIi'
Pol-and and the Union of Soviet Socia.list Republics, later joined by Algeria'
Burundi J the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist lepublic, Czechoslovakia' Egypt,
India, Liberia, Panama and Somalia. The draft resolution read as follovs:

"The Ceneral Assenbly,

"Ta.king note of the report of the Sec retary-General on the impLementation
by States of the provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations
of 1961 (A/3r/r\5 and Add,1),

"Noting that since the adoption by the General
resolutEi-35O1 (](xx) the numbei of States parties
on Diplonatic Refations of 196]- has increased,

76-2To97

Assenbly of its
to the Vienna Convention



Al3r /\03
English

ItConcerned at continuing instances of viol-ations of the rules of
aiptonEl-c tat relating, in particular, to the status of the dipfomatic
courier,

"Fecosnizins the advisability of studying the question of the status of:i::::9i:::_=i:= -__- -_
tne ai!I6-at ic courier arrd the di.plomatic bag not accompanied by diplomatic
courier in the light of the Vienna Convention on Diplonatic Relations of
1961" and

"@ that the General Assembly shou-Id' periodieally
considEr-E its 

"essiont 
the question of inplementation by States .of the

provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplonratic Felations of 1961'

"1. Urges States vhich have not yet done so to become parties to the
Vienna Convention on Diplonatic Relations of f96l;

"2. Reaffirns the need for strict implementation by States of the
provisions 6?TIJTi.tttt. Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 in the
interest of rnaintainin€! normal relations bet'!,teen them, strengthening
international peace and security and developing international co-operation;

tt3. Invites l{ember sbates to submit or to supplement their cornment s srrd
observations on ways and means to ensure the implementation of the provisions
of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 196I and on the
desirability of elabo"ating provisions concerning the status of the diplornatic
courier in accordance with resorution 3501 (xxx)' paragraph \, with due
regard also to the question of the status of the diplonatic bag not
accompanied by the diplomatic courierl

"l+. Requests the fnternational Law Commission at the appropriate time
to study, in the light of the infornation contained in the repolt of the
Secret ary-General on the irplenentation by States of the provisions of the
Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 (A/3r /r\5 and Add.l) and
other information on this question to be received from l{ember States through
the Secretary-General , the proposals on the elatroration of a protocol
concerning the status of the diplomatic courier and. the diplonatic bag not
accompanied by the diplonatic courier, which wou.1d constitute development and
concretization of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic lelations of f961;

"r, Requests the Secretary-General to suburit to the United Nations
General As serrbly at its thirty-third session an analJ'tical report on vays
and means to ensure the imp.l ement at ion of the Vienna Convention on Diplonatic
Rel-ations of 1961 on the basis of connents and observations on this question
received from X{ember States and also teking into account the results of the
study by the lnternational Law Conmission of the proposals on the
elaboration of the above-mentioned lrotocol;

"6, Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-third
session an item entitled rrfmplement at ion by States of the provisions of the
Vienna Convention on Diplouratic Relations of 1961 : Teport of the
Secretary-General. "



L/ 3t /Lo3

i;::':"

,. At the 68th neetingr on 9 December, the representative of the union of soviet
social-ist Republics introduced- a revised version of the draft resolution
(A/C,6/3!/L.16/Rev,1) on behalf of Al-geria, Arsentina, BulAaria, Burundi, the
lyel-orussian Soviet Socialist Republic " Cuba, Cyprus, Cz echostovatria, nelrct, ttr.Germa+ Dernocratic Republic, Hunsary, India, Liberia, Ugfi, Ieagag, lgkag,
€94++9, the Ukrainian Soviet Socia"list Republic, the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and Yugoslavia, fater joined by Iran anal S.rr"g"L
6. At the same meeting, the Sixth Comrnittee voted on draft resolution
A/C.6/ 3f /L.f6/Rev.1. The representative of the United States of America requested
that a separate vote, paragraph by paragraph, be taken on the draft resorution.
fhe notion was rejected by 39 votes to 23, with 33 abstentions.

7. The Conmittee then adopted. the draft resolution (A/c.6/3I /LJ6/Fev.1 ) as a
whole by 72 votes to 2, with 19 abstentions (see para. 9 beJ-or,r).
B. statements in explanation of vote before the vote on the d"aft resofution as
a whole were made by the representatives of the united states of America and
Kenya. Statements in explanation of vote afber the vote were raade by the
representatives of the united Kingdom of Great Britain and tTorthern rreland,
France, Finland, Swed.en, Austria and Austral_ia.

nFCOI\S4ENDATIoN 0F rHE SIXTH COMI.4ITTEE

9, The sixth cormittee recorrnends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
folloving draft resolut ion:

The General Assembly,

Taking note of the report of the secretary-General on the implenentation by
states of the provisions of the vienna convention on Diplomatic lelations of
t96r, Ll

Noting that.since the adoption by the General Assenbly of its
resolution 3501 (XXX) of IJ Decernber f9T5 the number of States parties to the
Vienna Convention on Diplornatic Relations of 1961 2/ has increased,

- concgrned at continuing instances of viol,ations of the rufes of d.iplonatic1av relating, in particular. to the status of the diplonatic courier urrd th"
diploroatic bag not accompanied by diplonatic courier,

r/ A/3L /r\5 and Add.1.
United Nations, Treaty Series, vol . 500, No. 7310, p, 95.



Al 5tItrvs
English
fage +

Iiecognizing the advisability of studying the question of the status of the
o-iproilIt -iiiiier and the diplomatic bag not accompanied by diplomatic courier
in the light of the Vienna Convention on Diplornatic Relations of l9bf,

Considering it desirabl-e that the Generaf Assembly should periodically
consider at lts sessions the question of implernentation by States of the
provisions of the Vienna Convention on Diplona,tic Relations of 796I,

1. Urges States r,rhich have not yet done so to become parties to the
Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 ;

2. Reaffirms the need for strict inplementation by States of the provisions
of the Vienna Convention on Diplornatic Relations of I95I in the interest of
maintaining norma"l relations between them, strengthening international peace and
security and deweloping international co-operation;

3, Invites l'lember States to submit or to supplement their cor[flents and
observations on ways and means to ensure the imptementation of the provisions of
the Vienna Convention on Diplonatic Relations of 1961- and on the desirability of
elaborating provisions concerning the status of the diplomatic courier in
accordance vith paragraph l+ of General Assembly resolution 3501 (XXX), with due
regard also to the question of the status of the dipl-omatic bag not accompanied by
the diplomatic courier;

)+, Requests the fnt ernat ional Law Cornmission at the appropriate time to
study, in the lighb of the jnfcrrnation contained in the report of the Secretary-
Genersl on the irnpl ementat ion by States of the provisions of the Vienna Convention
on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 anct other inforuration on this question to be
Teceived from Memb er Sta.tes through the Secret ary,General, the proposals on the
elaboration of a protocol concerning the status of the diplomatic courier aJld the
diplomatic bag not acconpanied by the diplomatic courier, 'which voul-d constitute
development and concretization of the Vienna Convention on Diplonatic Relations
of 1961;

5. Requests the Secretary*General to submit to the General Assenbly at its
thirty-third session an analytical report on ways and means to ensure the
irrplenentation of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 on the
basis of conments and observations on this question received from l.{ember States and
also taking into account the results, if avar'lab-Le and ready, of the study by the
fnternational Law Cornnission of the proposals on the elaboration of the
above-mentioned protocol .

6. Decides to include in the prowisional agenda of its thirty-third
session ttre- itii-ent itled "Implementation by States of the provisions of the
Vienna Convention on Diplonatic Relations of 1961 : report of the Secretary-
General".




