








































:7!\ 

-=rejF
&.,fv,rgD NAilOi{s
GENERAL
ASSEAAtsLV

Distr.
GENEFAL

Al3r/38a
8 Decernber 1976

ORTGINAL: ENGLTSH

Thlrty-first session
Agenda it ern l+ )+

EsrABIrsHMElrr'31.* 
iH'il*";Hii';l:fl"'0"

Report of the tr'irst Conrnittee

Rapporteur: l.{r. Kedar Bhakta SITRESTITA (Nepaf)

1. The itern entitled "nstablishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region
of the Middle Eastrr was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-fiTst
session on the basis of General Assembly resolution 3)+?l+ (XXX) of 1l December 1975.
2. At its l+th plenary meeting, on 2l+ Septernb er 1976, the cene"al Ass embly, on the
recolnmendation of the General Conmittee, decided to include the it ern in 1ts aAend.a
and to allocate it to the First Connnittee,

3. At its 2nd neeting, on 5 October, the First Conrnittee decided to hold a
cornbined gene"al debate on the itens allocated to it re.rating to disarrnanenr,
namely, itens 34 to 50 and 116. The general debate on these items took place at the
20th to 3!th meetings, from 1 bo 19 Novernber.

1:,^ ?l^ ??_ N:Ig*b_uT, Esypt, rran and Kuvait submitted a draft resolution\A/t:.r/ 3r/ L.ly) rrhrch was subsequently also sponsored by Bq!qq!n, Jordan\A/ C. rl 7r/ L. ly.l whrch was subsequently also sponsored bv Eraa!,, Jordan ,Mauritania, the sudan and the united Arab Enirates. The draft resorution was
introduced. by the representative of rran aC thJFrst neeting, on 23 November.

5. At the \5th rneeting, on 2p November, the Connittee voted on draft resolution
AlC,I/1r/L,a9 as follows :

(a) Operative paragraphs 2 and 3 were adopted by 10? votes to none, vith
11 abstentions l

(b) fire draft resolution as a whole was adopted. by 121 I,otes to none, with
2 abstentions (see para. 6 lelow).

76-?67or



Al 3a/ 3Ba
EnBlish
Page 2

6. The !-irst
f<.r1 1 <.rwi ng draft

RECOMMENDATION OF TEE FTRST COMMITTEE

Comrnittee recormlends to the General Assembly the
resolution:

adoption of the

Establislnaent of a nuclea,r-weelon-free zone
t" th" res-t"" oI tna l"lroo.La,.L;.dsl

The General As sembly,

Reca^lling its resolution 3263 (XxIx) of 9 December 1974, in which it
estabfishnent of a nuclear-weapon-freeoverwhelmingly conmended the id.ea of the

zone in the reqion of the Middle East,

Recalling also its resolution 3LT)+ (UX) of 11 Decernber 1975, in vhich it
recoglfiEE-TiF1f,F establ-ishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the liliddle nast
enjoys vide support in the region,

Mindful of the prevailing political situation in the region and the potential
danger enanating therefrom that woulct be further aggravated by the introduction of
nuclearweapons in the area,

Concerned that the J-ach of any appreciable progress in the direction of the
establfihen-[-of a nuclear-n eapon-free zone, i.n ihe present atnosphere in the
region, vill further complicate the situation,

Convinced that progress towards the establishnent of a nuclear-veapon-free
zone in the Middle East will greatly enhrrc e the cause of peace both in the region
and in the ruorld. -

Conscious of the particular nature of the problens involved and the
complexities inherent in the situation in the Middl"e East and the urgency of
keeping the region free from involvement -i.n a ruinous nucl-ear a?ns race,

1. Expresses the need for further ac+-ion to generat- momentum towards
realization-i?-iiE-EsTablilftent of a nuclear-neapon-free zone in the Middle East;,

2. Urges all parties directly concerned to adhere .Lo the Treaty on
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear: Weapons U as a means of promoting this obJective;

3. Reiterates its recotrmend.ation that the States Members of the Uniteci
Ns.tions referred to in ps.ragraph 2 above, pending the establishment of the
nuclear-'weapon-free zone undel an effective system of safeguards r should i

{a) Proclaim solemnly and imrrediately their intention to refrain, on a
reciprocal basis, froD. producing, acquiring or in any other v8.y possessing nuclear
weapons and nucLear explosive devices, and fron pernitting the stationing of
nuclear weapons in their territory or the territory under their control by any
third party;

-Ll Uenel"a-L Assernb-Ly resot_utlon zJlJ ( xJtj r,,, a,nnex.



A/31/381
English
Page 3

^ . !o) Refrain' on a reciprocal basis, frorn any other action that wouldfacilitate the acquisition, testing or use of such weapons, or vould be in anyothe.way detrinental to the objeciive of the estauistrnent -of a nucfeai-weapon-freezone in the region unde" an effective systero of safeguards;
(c) Aglee to place att- their

Atomic Energy Agency safegualds;
nuclea.r activities r_rnd"er the fnternational

4' Reaffirns the reconmendations to the nuelear-weapon states to refrain
1:?r 31y rctl6ilint".ry to the progress of the present resolution and theobjective of estabrishing in the relion or-tne laiddle East a. nuclear-weapon-freezone under an effective systern of sireguaras JnJ to exteno their co-operation tothe States of the region in their eftoits io pr.r"t. this objective;

5. fnvites the Secretary_General
progTess tol^ral'ds the establishment of athe Middle Eest ;

to explore the possibilities of makina
nuclear-weapon- free zone in the area of

6' Decides to inelude in the provisional agenda of its thi"ty-second. sessionthe item entiTr-EE- "Establishment .f ; 
"r.r;i;;:;eapon-free zone in the resion orthe Midd1e East".




