








































::A \:

-r 
-- Y:

-

UN'IED NAI'ONS

GEITERAL
A S S E fuT B LV

Di str.
GENERAI

Al 3r/ 30r
J -t'{ovemDer ry I o

ORIGINAI: SNGLISH

Thirty-fi.rst session

ACTMTIXS oF FoXEIGN ECONo},1IC AllD oTIIEB II|ITERESTS .llfif CH(.ABE
IMPEDING T1]I] II{PIEMEI,ITATION OF THN DNCLAFATISNI. O\T THN' GFAI.]TII,TG
OF INDNPEI1DENCE TO COIO}IIAL'] COUNTNIES -AIIII 'PEOPI,FjS TN SOIIIIFFI']
RHODESIA:AND llAl[BIA AllD ]ll ALL OTIIXR TI'FRTTOFIES UIIDFF COLONfAI
DoMII'IATIOII AI\TD Etr'FORTS TO ELII\4INATE COT,oNTAITSI4 

'..'APAFTIIIIID 
At'lD

FACIAL DI.qCRI!4I1]ATTOII T$ SOUTIIEFIf AFFTCA

Report of the I'ourth Connittee_

Rapporteur: Mr. A. Maj itt MANGAL (Afghsnistan)

1. At its )+th pl-enaxy neeting, on 2l+ Septemb er f976, the General- Assernbly, on
the reconmendation of the Generat Connittee" decided to include in the agend.a of
its thir-by-first session and to al]-ocate to the Fourth Conmittee an itern
entitled:

"Activities of foreign economic ard other interests vhich are inpeding the
implerrentation of the Decl-aration on the Granting of Independence to ColoniaJ
Countries and Peoples in Southern Rhodesia and Namibia aJld. in aJ-l other
Territories unde? co].onia]- d.omination and efforts to eliminate co1onl€Iisn,
apartheid and racial discrinination in southern Africa: report of the
Special Conndttee on the Situation with regard to the Implenentation of the
DecLaration on the crant ing of Ind.ependence to Colonial Countries and
PeopJ.esr'.

2, The Fourth Conmittee considered the item at its 3ral to 9th neetings, between
5 and 22 October.

3. At the 3rd neeting, on 5 october, the Rapporteur of the Special Conmittee on
the Situation with regard to the Inplenxentation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced chapte" IV of the
report of thet Coanittee (A/3!/23 (Part III)) relating to the item.

I+. The general debate on the itern took pl-ac e at the \th to ?th neetings,
betveen B and 12 October,

76-zr7u- / ...



Al3a/3cJ-
nngli sh
Page 2

5. At' the 8th meeLing, on 20 October, the representatives of rhe Syrian Arab
Republie, l,iafi and Benin introduced a draft resolution (A/C.)+/3f/L.L and Corr.l)
vhich nas fina.Lly sponsored by the fo1-[o1,iin6 ;-enber States: !]_gsr1e, Benin,
Burundi, Conso, Cuba, lzecAggLgvg4ig" !€gggg!4_SanpucEgg, De ocratic Yernen,
Xet'pt, Xquatorial Guineao Gernan Democratic Repubfic, Ghanao Guinea, culnea-Biss au,
Traq, Kenya, I(uvait, Lac Peop1e's Der,,iocralic nepublic, Libya.n Afab Repuulic,
'.'"a"c""-"r, ic4-, :."-."@., s.".""1, Sggar_q" q4!a.
syrran Ara0 .1epuD-L1c, logo, un]ted Hepublrc ol LaJ'lzarla, Yemen aJid Zambia.

6. At its gtlr meeting, on 22 October, the lourtlr Cornmilcee rejected, by
86 votes to 32, vith 13 abstentions, a proposal by the representative of Belgiu,'n
that a separate vote be taken on ti,)e tenth preanbular paragraph and on operative
paragraph 6 of the draft resofution.
7 A+ iha aan^ h6a+in-

( A/ c " 14/ 3L/ L. r and corr. 1)
(see para. 8 belou). The

ln favour:

the I'ourth Comni.tt ee ad,opted the dTaft resolution
by a recorded vote of IOZ ta 9, r^rith 19 abstentions
votinE vas as foflovs;

Against :

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Barbados,
Benin, Bolivian Botswa.na, Brazil, Bul-garia, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socia-list Republie, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile,
China, Colonrbia, Con'oros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Deirocratic Yemen, Ecuador, Eg''pt,
llquatorial Guineao lthiopia, tr'iji, Gabon, Gambia, German
Denccratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Huncary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Traq, Jamaica" Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplels Dernocratic Republic " Lebanon,
Lesotho , Liberia, Libyan Arab Republic , l'tadagascar, l.lalaysia,
.-ali, i{auritania, l.exico, ..on5oJia, J,loroccc,, L:ozanbique " '{epaI,Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan" Panama, Papua i{ew Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Ronania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senega-I , Sierra Lecne, Singapore,
Somalia, Sri L,anka, Sudan, Surinam, Svaziland, Syrian Arab
rah ,r-r i^ rl.r"-i r --n n^^^r Trinidad a-nd Tobago" Turkey, Uganda"
Ukralnian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab nrdrates, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Vo]ta, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Yeinen r Yugoslavia" Zaire, Za.nbia

Belgiun, France, Oernany ( I'ederal Republic of)" Israel, Ita1y,
Luxembourg, i{etherlands, United Kingdom of Great Britain arrd
llorthern lreland" United States of America

4lgt_gtnilg, Australia, Arrstria, Bahamas, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark,
[] Salvador, Finlarrd, Guatenala, Honduras, Iceland, f reland,
Japan, i'ialawi u l[ev Zealand, r'trorvay, Portugal, Spain, Sweden.



Activities of foreign economic and othe-f interests which
are impedinf, the i'npl.enentat -ion of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independ.ence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples in Southe rn Rhodes ia and _l{C41b:!-?--g4C-iL-a11--9t}t9-L
Territories und-er colonial domination and efforts to--=--r__----=_-_:_=:-
e-Llm1nate co-Lonaarlsm, apartheid and racial discrinination

rn southern Africa
tIhA r:ahAFa l AaaAr}\l-r ^""-,-vry,

-; 
".""t""*" *e 

item entitled "Activities of foreign economic and other
inter6ilF-wni"-n JiJTipeding the implement ation of the Declarat ion on the Grant ing
of Independence tc Col-onia1 Countries artd Peopfes in Southern Ilhodesia and l$amibia
and in a.11 other Territories under cofonial donination and efforts to eLirninate
colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination in southern Africa" o

Having exa.rllined. the chapter of the report of the Special Connittee on the
Sit,-."tTii-viTliTQ6iA to the Inptementation of the Decl-aration on the Granting of
Indepenclence to Colonial Cor.:ntries ard Peoples relating to this question, J-/

Taking into consideration Lhe parts of the report of the United lJations
co'n"@ to this quest ion,

Recalling its resolution 15fl+ (XV) of 1\ December I95o ' 
containing the

Decfar lEi-f,i the Granting of Ind.ependence to Colonial Countries a;1d Peoples, and
its resolution 2621 (XXV) of ta O"tol"t 1970, containing the programtre of action
for the fuI1 implenentation of the Declaration, as well as all other resolutions
of the United. lilations relating to the item,

Reaffirming the solernn obligation of the adndnistering Powers under the
chu.tEi-6f Jh. u.rited llations to promote the political" economic, social and
educational advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their
ahrainistration and to protect the hrman and natural resources of those
Territories against abuses ?

Reaffirning that any economic or other activity which inpedes the
i.preilEi tion or the Declaration and obstructs efforts aimed at the el-imination
of coionialism, apartheid and racial d.iscrimination in southern Africa and other
colonial Te rr it oiiEJ-ilif.t e s the political" economic and social rights and

FECOI{.IONDATION OF THE FOURTII COIIjITTXE

B. The Fourth Connittee reconmends ta the General AssernbJ-y the adoption of the
folfowine d.raft resol,ution:

rl Al JLl Z3 lf art 1-L-1,/ .

i/ o/rr/r,..

A/ 3r/ 3or
Eng].j.sh
?age 3



Al3r/307
ENSIISh
Pale )+

interests of the peoples of the Territories and is therefore incompatibl-e vith
the purposes and principles of the Charter,

Noting r+rith profound concern that the cofoniaf po.wers afld certain states,
through their actlvities in the cofonial Territories, have continued to disregard
united l'{at ions d.ecisions refated to the iten and that they have failed to
inplement, i.n particular, General- Assembly resofutions 2621 (XXV) of
l-2 october 1970 and 3398 ()cxx) of 2l t\ovenbe r 1975, by vhich the As s embl,y cal-l,ed
upon the colonial Pornrers and those Government s vhich had not yet done so to take
legislative, adniinistrative or other measures in order to put a_n end. to
enterprises in colonial Teffitories, particularly in Africa, w.hi ch are olrned by
their national-s or bodies corporate und.er their jurisdiction, whenever such
enterpri.ses are d.etrimental to the interests of the inhabitants of those
Territories, and to prevent new investments which run counter to such imeresrs,

Condeqrning the intensified. activities of those foreign economic, finencial
8rd other interests vhich continue to exploit the natural and human resources of
the colonlal Territories a-nd to accunufate and repatriate huge profits to the
detriment of the interests of the inhabitants, particularly in southern Africa,
thereby iropeding the rea"lization by the peoples of the Territories of their
legitinate aspirations for s el- f-det ennination and inrlependence,

. Strongly conde ning the support which the racist minority r6gime of SouthAfrica and the illegar racist minority r6gine in southern Rhodesia continue to
receive from those foreign econonic, finaf,'cial and other interests which are
collaborating vith then in their exploitation of the natu?al and human resources
of, and. in the further entrenchnent of their i11ega1 and raciarist d.omination
over, the international rerritory of Namibia and the llon-self-coverning Territory
of Southern Rhodesia (Zimlalwe), respectively,

Deeply concemed at the growing investments of foreign capital in the
production of uranium and military equipment and the extent of the nuclear a.rl
nilitary collaboration betveen the racist ninority r6gime of South Africa an+ iili:3
lfestern and other countriesn in particular, tr'rance, the trederal Republic of
Germany, rsrael, the united Kingdom of Great Britain and. llorthern rreland and i,ir,r
United States of Ameriea, in providing the pretoria r6gime with equipnent ard
technologr ruhich increases its nuclear a;nd nilitary capability and relaects tht:
intensified supporb of foreign interests in south Africars continued illegal
oceupation of Namibia" as vefl as South Africats olnr arowth as a nuclear and
military Pover 

"

Concerned al-so at the fact that foreign economic, financiat and other
interEEE s-i6iTffie to d.eprive the ind.igenois populations of other colonial
Territories, including those in the Caribbean and pacific Ocean regions, of their
rights over the \,realth of theix countries, and at the continued. loss of ownership
of land by the inhabitants of the Territories as a resutt of the unwillineness of
adninistering ?o\,rers to restrict the sa.1e of 1and. to foreigners,

Conscious of the continued need to mobilize vorld public opinion against the
involvement of forelgn econonic, financiaf and other interests in the exptoitati{rn



A/ 3r/ 30r
Engfish

of the natura.I arrd hunan resources, rhich impede the independence of col-oniaJ-
Territories, part icuJ.arJ-y in Africa,

1. -BCgI&-ry- the inalienable right of the peoples of d.ependent Territori'es
to self-d eterninat ion and independence and to the enj oytrlent of the natural-
resou?ces of their Territories, as well as their rigirt to dispose of those
resources in their best interests;

?. Feiterates that any ad.ministering or occupying Power which d.eprives the
colonial peoples of the exercise of their legitinate riglrts over thei? natural-
resources or subordinates the rights and interests of those peoples to foreign
economic and financial interests violates the so.Iemn obligations it has assumed
und.er the Charber of the United Nations;

3. Ige!!i3g!. that, by their depletive exploitation of natural resources,
the continued accrmulation and repatriation of huge profits 8nd the use of those
profits for the enri.chment of foreign settlers and the entrenchment of colonial
domination over the Territories, the activities of foreign economic, financiaf
and other interests operating at present in the colonial Territories of southern
Africa constitute a major obstacle to political independence and to the enJoynent
of the natural resources of those Territories by the indigenous inhabitants;

\, Condenns the activities of foreian economic and other interests in the
colonial rerritories i.nped.ing the inplemeniation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonia-l Countries and Peoples and the efforts to elininate
colonialism, apartheid and racial diserinination ;

5, Condemn s the Goverrlnents \,Ihich continue t,o support or collaborate with
those foreign eeononic and. other interests engaged. in exploiting the natural and-
humaJr resources of the. Territories, thus violating the politiceJ, econonic and
social rights €,rrd interests of the indigenous peoples and obstructing the fu and
speedy impleurentation of the Decl,axation contained in Genera"l Assembly
resolution 151)+ (XV) of 1l+ December 1960 in respect of those Territories;

6- strondlv conrlernns the colLaboration both in nuclear and. nilitary fields
between the racist minority r6gime of South Africa and all- countries, in
particular Fxance, the f'edera] Bepublic of Germany ' 

Israel' the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Iretend and the United States of America, r,rhi ch
continue to suppfy this r6gime with nucfear and rnilitary equipnent and technol-ogy
vhich increase its nuclear and. military potential, and calls upon 4"11
Governnents, in particular trlance, the Federal Bepublic of Gernany, Israel-' the
United Kingdom and the United States, to refrain from extending facilities,
<iirectly or indirectly, to Lhe racist minority r6gine of South Africa enabling it
to produce uranium, plutonium and other nucfear naterials, reactors or nilitary
equiprnent;

7. Calfs once again upon alf GovernmenLs which have not done so to tske
tegistative, adrninistrative or other measures in respect of their nationals and
the bod.ies corporate rurder their Jurisdiction vho or.m and operate enterprises in
rnlr,nial Ter?ii.nr-iF,e r'qrticularly in Africa, vhieh are detrinental to the

/...



A/3r/3or
Engli sh
faEe {J

interests of the inhabitants of those Territories, in order to put an end to such
enterprises ar}d to prevent new investments that run counter to the interests of the
inhabitants of those Territories I

B" fg]]q.. o=" all Government s violating the nandatory sanctions irnposed by the
Securi.ty Council- against the illegal racist minority r6giriLe in Southern Rhodesia,
as rJe]-1 as the continued failure of certain lulember States to enforce those
salctions, as being contrary to the obligations assumed by thei0 under Article 25
of the Charter;

9, Requests al1 States to take effective measures to enri. the supply of funds
and other fonns of assistance, incfuding nilitary supplies and equipment, to those
r6gimes r^7hich use such assistance to repress the peoples of the colonial
Territories ancl their national Liberation rrovements;

10. !glf-!__9ry-9__e&ln -93gn all States to discontinue all economic " 
financial

or trade relations with South Africa concerning llamibia and to refrain from
^n*.pr"inr inJn onnnnmin financ-lal or other relations with South Africa, acb.in0 on
behal-f of or concerning llamibia, which nay lend support to its continued i11egal
occupation of that Territory;

11. Strongly eonderurs the racist ninority r6gime of South Africa rhich, in
viol-ation of th" r"1""*rt 

".solutions 
of the United i{atlons and in open

contravention of its specific obligations under Article 25 of the Cbarter'
continues to coll-aborate r'.ith the illegal- racist ninority r6girue in Southern
D1.^r^^i *v-'r that Government to cease inmediately aJ-l forns of
collaboration vith the illegal racist rainority r6gime in Southern Rhod-esia;

I2. Invites af1 Governments and organizations vithin the United i{ations
system, having 

"egard. 
to the relevant provisions of the Decfaration on the

Establishntent of a i\ilev Int ernational Econornic Order, contained in General Assembly
resolution 3201 (S-VI) of I liay 197\, and of the Charter of Econornic Right s and
Duties of States, contained in Genera"l Assembly resolution 3281 (XXIX) of
12 Deceuber 19TL, to ensure, in particular, that Lhe permanent sovere-lgnry
of the cofonial Territories over' their natural resources is ful1y respected arrd
safeguarded;

f3. Calls upon the adnini.stering Powers to abol-ish every discriminatory and
unjust wage system vhich prevails in the Territories under their adninistration and
to app.ly in each Territory a uniforn system of vages to alJ. the inhabitants
without any d.i scrirnination;

1)+, Requests_ the Secretary-Genera.l to undertake, through the office of ?ublic
Inforrnation of the Secret ariat " a sustained and vide 

publicity campaign with a view
to inforrninl world pubi.ic opinion of the facts concernin5 the pil-taging of naLural
resources and the exploitation of the indigenous populations by fcreign monopolies
and the support they render to the colonialist and racist r5gines;

l-5. nequests the Speciat Corunittee on the Situation vith regard to the
Imlrlementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to reporb thereon
to the GenexaJ- Assembly at its thirty.-second session.




