












































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 12

Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/265/Add. 3 l\ (""'vi' \
17 December 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Second Committee (Part IV)

Rapporteur: Mr. Ibrahim Suleiman DHARAT (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)

1. The Committee continued its consideration of this item at its 51st, 52nd,
56th, 57th and 60th meetings, on 22 and 30 November, and 8, 9 and 13 December 1977.
An account of the discussion of the Committee is contained in the relevant summary
records (A/C.2/32/SR.51-52, 56-57 and 60).

2. For the consideration of the questions discussed at those meetings, the
Committee had before it the following documents:

(a) Note by the Secretary-General on the joint report of the secretariats of
the United Nations, the International Labour Organisation, the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the World Bank on
social and institutional reform as a means of increasing domestic food
production and distributing it equitably among the population (A/32/139);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on permanent sovereignty over national
resources in the occupied Arab territories (A/32/204);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the medium-term
and long-term recovery and rehabilitation programme in the Sudano-
Sahelian region (A/32/254);

(d) Note verbale dated 29 November 1977 from the Permanent Representative of
Egypt to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/32/398);

(e) Note by the Secretariat transmitting the text of a draft resolution
recommended by Economic and Social Council resolution 2097 (LXIII)
entitled "Transport and Communications Decade in Africa" (A/C .2/32/L.3);

77-29707 / ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 2

(f) Note by the Secretary-General on developments in human settlements and
follow-up to Habitat: United Nations Conference on Human Settlements
(A/C.2/32/L.4);

(g) Note by the Secretariat transmitting the text of a draft agreement on
co-operation and relationships between the United Nations and the World
Tourism Organization recommended by the Economic and Social Council in
its decision 254 (LXIII) (A/C.2/32/L.5);

(h) Note by the Secretariat containing the text of a draft resolution
entitled "Assistance in economic emergency situations" transmitted bY
Economic and Social Council decision 257 (LXIII) (A/C.2/32/L.6);

(i) Note by the Secretary-General On the world population situation
(A/C.2/32/L.8);

(j) Report of the Secretary-General on immediate needs resulting from
economic emergency situations (E/5989);

(k) Report of the United Nations Water Conference (E/CONF.70/29). !I

I

3. At the 51st meeting, on 22 November, on a proposal by the Chairman, the
Committee approved the draft agreement on co-operation and relationships between
the United Nations and the World Tourism Organization (A/C.2/32/L.5) recommended
to the General Assembly for adoption by the Economic and Social Council in its
decision 254 (LXIII) of 3 August 1977 (see para. 26 below, draft resolution I).

II

4. At the 51st meeting, the representative of the Philippines, on behalf of
Argentina, Colombia, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Peru,
the Philippines, Portugal, Senegal and Tunisia, subsequently joined by Austria,
Burundi, Chad, the Dominican RepUblic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, the Gambia, Mali,
Nepal, Panama, Spain and Togo, introduced a draft resolution entitled "World Tourism
Organization" (A/C .2/32/L.53). At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.2/32/L.53 without a vote (see para. 26 belOW, draft resolution 11).

!J United Nations pUblication, Sales No. E.77.II.A.12.

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 3

III

5. At the 52nd meeting, on 30 November, the representative of Argentina, on behalf
of Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Canada, Chad, Chile, Denmark, the
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Finland, Greece, Italy, J~ca, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Mali, Mexico, Nigeria_, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, the Philippines, Portugal,
Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, the Sudan, Sweden, the Syrian Arab RepUblic, Tunisia,
Uganda, the United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela and Zaire, introduced a
draft resolution entitled "United Nations Water Conference" (A/C .2/32/L .65).

6. A statement submitted by the Secretary-General on the administrative and
financial implications of the draft resolution was circulated in document
A/C.2/32/L.79.

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/32/L.65 by
90 votes to none, with 9 abstentions (see para. 26 below, draft resolution Ill).

8. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Czechoslovakia (also on behalf of Bulgaria, the Byrlorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia,
Poland, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics), Brazil, Israel, Turkey, Afghanistan and Nepal.

IV

9. At the 52nd meeting, the representative of Austria, on behalf of Argentina,
Austria, Brazil, Belgium, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, France, the Gambia, Mali,
Mauritania, the !,!iger, Senegal, Tunisia and the Upper Volta, introduced a draft
resolution entitled "Implementation of the medium-term and long-term recovery and
rehabilitation programme in the Sudano-Sahelian region and urgent measures to be
taken on behalf of the region" (A/C.2/32/L.56/Rev.l). At the same meeting, the
Committee adopted the draft resolution without a vote (see para. 26 below, draft
resolution IV).

10. The representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics made a statement.

V

11. At the 51st meeting, the Committee considered a draft resolution entitled
"Transport and Communications Decade in Africa" (A/C.2/32/L.3) which the Economic
and Social Council, in its reSOlution 2097 (LXIII) of 29 July 1977, had recommended
for adoption by the General Assembly.

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 4

12. A statement on the administrative and financial implications of the draft
resolution was submitted by the Secretary-General (A/C.2/32/L.33).

13. At the same meeting, the representative of Jamaica, On behalf of the States
Members of the United Nations which are members of the Group of Seventy-seven,
introduced amendments (A/C.2/32/L.45) to the draft resolution, which called for
the addition of:

(a) The following new second preambular paragraph:

"Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 2097 (LXIII) of
29 July 1977 on the Transport and Communications Decade in Africa, ";

(b) The fOllowing new operative paragraph 2:

"2. Decides that, in accordance with its resolution 31/93 of
14 December 1976, the mobilization of the necessary financial and technical
resources required to make the Decade a success constitutes a pressing need
of an unfore seeable nature;".

14. At the 52nd meeting, on 30 November, the Committee adopted the amendments
contained in document A/C.2/32/L.45. It also adopted draft resolution A/C.2/32/L.3
as a whole, as amended (see para. 26 below, draft resolution V).

15. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Czechoslovakia (also on behalf of Bulgaria, the Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia,
Poland, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, Nigeria, the Federal Republic of Germany and France.

VI

16. At the 56th meeting, on 8 December, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf
of Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Burundi, the Central African
Empire, Chad, the Comoros, the Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, DeF.ocratic Ypmen, D,iibouti, Egypt,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, India, Indonesia, ~, Jordan, Kuwait, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, the Niger, Nigeria, ~, Pakistan, Qatar, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates, the Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia
and Zambia, subsequently joined by the Equatorial Guinea, Guyana, Mozambigue,
the Philippines and Viet Nam, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Permanent
sovereignty over national resources in the occupied Arab territories"
(A/C.2/32/L.59).



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 5

17. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution by a roll-call
vote of 98 to 3, with 24 abstentions (see para. 26 below, draft resolution VI).
The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Byelorussi.an Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Central
African Empire, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain,
Sri Lanka, SUdan, Surinam, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and TObago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, Upper Volta, Venezuala,
Viet Nam, Yemen, YugOSlavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Australia, Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark,
El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Papua New Guinea,
Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay.

18. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Belgium (on behalf of the nine members of the European Economic
Community), Portugal, Japan, the Syrian Arab Republic and Cyprus.

VII

19. At the 57th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Kenya, on behalf of
Australia, Burundi, Canada, Ethiopia, Finland, Jordan, Kenya, Lesotho, Mauritania,
Mexico, Nepal, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, the Philippines, Portugal, Sri Lank".
and Sweden, also joined by Uganda, introduced a draft resolution
(A/C.2/32/L.4l/Rev.l) entitled "Institutional arrangements for international
co-operation in the field of human settlements Ol •

/ ...



A,32/265/Add.3
English
Page 6

20. A statement on the administrative and financial implications of the draft
resolution was submitted by the Secretary-General (A/c.2/32/L.89).

21. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/32/L.41/Rev.l
by a recorded vote of 101 to none, with 13 abstentions (see para. 26 below, draft
resolution VII). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burma"
Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Colombia, Costa Rica, CUba, Cyprus,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, DominiCan Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana,
Greece, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic RepUblic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamabiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, MOrocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Sudan,
Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo ,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Belgium, Bulgaria, Eyelorussian Soviet Sociali~t Republic,
China, Czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic Republic,
Hungary, Italy, Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

22. FOllowing the adoption of the draft reSOlution, statements were made by
the representatives of Canada, the United States of America, France, the German
Democratic Republic (also on behalf of Bulgaria, the Eyelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, the Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics), Japan,
Venezuela, Italy, Mexico, Argentina, Austria, Burundi, Nigeria and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

I ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 7

VIII

23. At the 60th meeting, on 13 December, the Committee adopted a draft decision
proposed by the Chairman recommending that the General Assembly should
request the Secretary-General to cancel the Trust Fund for Documentation
on Housing, Building and Planning and authorize him to utilize the funds
as a contribution to Habitat, Centre for Human Settlements (see para. 27 below,
draft decision I).

IX

24. At the same meeting, the Committee, on a proposal by the Chairman,
decided to recommend that the General Assembly should take note of the following
documents (see para. 27 below, draft decision 11):

(a) Joint report of the secretariats of the United Nations, the
International Labour Organisation, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations and the World Bank on
social and institutional reform as a meanS of increasing
domestic food production and distributing it equitably among
the population; ~

(b) Summary of recent population trends and policies prepared in
accordance with Economic and Social Council decision 87 (LVII)
of 6 May 1975 which will be published as the third concise report
on the World Population Situation; l!

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on immediate needs resulting
from economic emergency situations. ~/

25. The Committee took no action on the draft resolution entitled "Assistance
in economic emergency situations" (A/C.2/32/L.6) transmitted to the General
Assembly by Economic and Social Council decision 257 (LXIII) of 3 August 1977.

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

26. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolutions:

'9 E/CN.5/537.
1/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council Sixt -second Session,

Supplement No. E/59l3), appendix.

~/ E/5989.

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 8

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

ARreement on co-operation and relationships between the
United Nations and the World Tourism Organization

The General Assembly,

Having considered Economic and Social Council decision 254 (LXIII)
of 3 August 1977 and the draft agreement annexed thereto on co-operation
and relationships between the United Nations and the World Tourism
Organization,

Approves the Agreement on co-operation and relationships between the
Uni ted Nations and the World Tourism Organization as set forth in the
annex to the present resolution.

Annex

Agreement on co-operation and relationships between the
United Nations and the World Tourism Organization

The General Assembly of the United Nations, in its resolution 2529 (XXIV) of
5 December 1969, decid~d, inter alia, that an agreement should be conclUded which
would establish close co-operation and relationships between the United Nations and
the future World Tourism Organization, define the modalities of such co-operation
and relationships and recognize the decisive and central role that the World
Tourism Organization is to play in the field of world tourism in co-operation with
the existing machinery within the United Nations system.

Article 3, paragraph 3, .of the Statutes of the World Tourism Organization
provides that the World Tourism Organization, in order to establish its central role
in the field of tourism, shall establish and maintain effective collaboration with
the appropriate organs of the United Nations and its specialized agencies.

Therefore, the United Nations and the World Tourism Organization agree as
follows:

Article I

RECOGNITION OF RESPONSIBILITIES

1. The United Nations recognizes the World Tourism Organization as being
responsible for taking such action as may be appropriate under its Statutes for
the accomplishment of the purposes set forth therein, with due regard to the
competence and responsibilities of the United Nations and its organs and of the
agencies within the United Nations system.

I ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 9

2. The United Nations takes note that the World Tourism Organization, in pursuing
its aims, is concerned to palf particular attention to the interests of the
developing countries in the field of tourism.

Article II

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE UNITED NATIONS

The World Tourism Organization, having regard to the obligations of the
United Nations to promote the objectives set forth in Article 55 of the Charter of
the United Nations, agrees to arrange for the sUbmission as soon as possible to its
General Assembly or its Executive Council, as appropriate, of all formal
recommendations that the United Nations may make to it and, in due course, to
report to the United Nations on the action taken by it or its members in order to
give effect to such recommendations or on the other results of their consideration.

Article IU

RELATIONSHIPS AND CO-ORDINATION

1. The United Nations and the World Tourism Organization agree to strive for the
maximum co-operation and the elimination of unnecessary duplication between them in
their respective activities related to tourism.

2. The United Nations and the World Tourism Organization agree that the
activities of the World Tourism Organization and the activities in respect of or
related to tourism of the United Nations and other organizations within the
United Nations system shall be co-ordinated by the Economic and Social Council
through consultations and recommendations. Intersecretariat co-ordination shall be
ensured through the machinery of the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination, in
the operation of which the World Tourism Organization shall participate in respect
of matters of common interest.

3. The World Tourism Organization will seek separate arrangements for
co-operation with individual agencies within the United Nations system engaged in
tourism or tourism-related activities.

Article IV

RECIPROCAL REPRESENTATION

1. The United Jlations shall be invited to send representatives to attend in an
observer capacity the meetings of the General Assembly and the Executive Council of
the World Tourism Organization and any subsidiary bodies which may be established
by the World Tourism Organization, as well as such conferences as the World
Tourism Organization may convene, and to participate, with the approval of the bodY
concerned and without the right to vote, in debates on questions of concern
to the United Nations.

/ ...



A/32/2651Add. 3
English
Page 10

2. The World Tourism Organization shall be invited to send representatives to
attend in an observer capacity meetings of the Economic and Social Council or its
sUbsidiary organs, conferences convened by it and meetings of other United Nations
bodies which deal with matters of common interest and to participate, with the
approval of the body concerned and without the right to vote, in debates on
questions of concern to the World Tourism Organization.

Article V

WRITTEN STATEMENTS

The United Nations may SUbmit written statements to meetings of bodies of the
World Tourism Organization and other meetings organized by it on matters of common
interest which are relevant to the work of those bodies. The World Tourism
Organization may submit written statements to the Economic and Social Council, to
its subsidiary organs and to conferences convened by it, and also to the SUbsidiary
organs of the General Assembly of the United Nations, on matters of common interest
which are relevant to the work of those bodies.

Article VI

PROPOSAL OF AGENDA ITEMS

Subject to such preliminary consultations as may be necessary, the secretariat
of the World Tourism Organization may include in the provisional agenda of the
General Assembly and the Executive Council of the World Tourism Organization items
proposed to it by the United Nations. The Secretariat of the United Nations may
include in the provisional agenda of the Economic and Social Council items proposed
by the World Tourism Organization. In this connexion, the World Tourism
Organization may make recommendations and proposals relating to international
agreements to be drawn up in the field of tourism.

Article VII

EXCHANGE OF INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTS

Subject to such arrangements as may be necessary for the safeguarding of
confidential material, a full and prompt exchange of information and documents on
matters concerning tourism shall be made between the United Nations and the
World Tourism Organization. The World Tourism Organization agrees to transmit to
the Economic and Social Council reports on its activi ties and programmes.

I ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 11

Article VIII

STATISTICAL SERVICES

1. The World Tourism Organization takes note that the United Nations is the
central agency for the collection, analysis, publication, standardization and
improvement of statistics on tourism as part of the statistics in respect of
international travel, national accounting and other general statistical information.

2. The United Nations recognizes the World Tourism Organization as the appropriate
organization for the collection, analysis, pUblication, standardization and
improvement of statistics within the sphere of the World Tourism Organization,
without prejUdice to the right of the United Nations to concern itself with such
statistics in so far as they may be essential for its own purposes or for the
improvement of statistics throughout the world.

3. The United Nations and the World Tourism Organization agree to combine their
efforts to secure the greatest possible usefulness and utilization of such
statistical information and to minimize the burden placed upon national Governments
and other organizations trom which the information may be collected.

Article IX

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE AGREEMENT

The Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of the
World Tourism Organization may enter into such supplementary arrangements for the
implementation of this Agreement as may be found desirable.

Article X

ENTRY INTO FORCE AND REVISION OF THE AGREEHENT

1. This Agreement shall come into force upon its approval by the General Assembly
of the United Nations and the General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization.

2. The Agreement may be amended or revised by agreement between the United Nations
and the World Tourism Organization, and such amendment or revision shall come into
force upon approval by the General Assembly of the United Nations and the
General Assembly of the World Tourism Organization.

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 12

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

World Tourism Organization

The General Assembly,

Recalling resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974, containing
the Declaration and Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International
Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, containing the Charter of Economic
Rights and Duties of States, and 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975, on development
and international economic co-operation,

Recalling also article 27 of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of
States,

Recalling further resolutions 2529 (XXIV) of 5 December 1969 and 2802 (XXVI)
of 14 December 1971 concerning, inter alia, the establishment of the World
Tourism Organization as an intergovernmental organization, as well as the Economic
~nd Social Council decision of 20 May 1971 on co-operation and relations between
the United Nations and the World Tourism Organization,

Noting that the statutes of the World Tourism Organization, which were
adopted at Mexico City on 27 September 1970, entered into force on 2 January 1975,

Noting further article 3 of the statutes of the World Tourism Organization,
which states that the organization, in order to establish its central role in the
field of tourism, shall establish and maintain effective collaboration with the
appropriate organs of the United Nations and its specialized agencies,

Recalling its resolution 32/ of __ December 1977, by which it approved
the draft agreement on co-operation and relationships between the United Nations
and the World Tourism Organization,

Bearing in mind article 2 of that agreement, under which the World Tourism
Organization agrees to submit as soon as possible to its general assembly or its
executive council, as appropriate, all formal recommendations that the United
Nations may make to it and to report, in due course, to the United Nations on the
action taken by it with respect to such recommendations,

Recalling further article 9 of the agreement referred to, Which states that
the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the Secretary-General of the
World Tourism Organization may enter into supplementary arrangements for the
implementation of the projected agreement,

ReCOgniZing the contribution of tourism to ecnomic and social development
and to the promotion of international understanding, peace and prosperity,

Conscious of the need to pay particular attention to the interests of
developing countries in the field of tourism,

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 13

Aware of the actions undertaken by developing countries individually and
collectively to promote tourism,

1. Requests the World Tourism Organization to intensify its efforts to
promote tourism, particularly in developing countries, through international
co-operation, bearing in mind article 3 of its statutes, and to report to the
General Assembly at its thirty-third session, through the Economic and Social
Council at its sixty-fifth session, on action taken by it with respect to this
recommendation;

2. Invites those states Members of the United Nations which are not yet
members of the World Tourism Organization to consider becoming members of that
organization;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to follow up this invitation with the
Member States concerned and report on this matter to the General Assembly at its
thirty-third session, through the Economic and Social Council at its sixty-fifth
session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

United Nations Water Conference

The General Assembly,

Recalling General Assembly resolution 3513 (XXX) of 15 December 1975 and
Economic and Social Council resolution 1979 (LIX) of 31 July 1975,

Recalling further General Assembly resoluticns 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S··VI) of
1 May 1974, containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the
Establishment of a New International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of
12 December 1974, containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States,
and 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on development and international economic
co-operation,

Noting that the United Nations Water Conference, held at Mar del Plata,
Argentina, from 14 to 25 March 1977, took far-reaching decisions on the entire
spectrum of the management and development of water resources,

Considering that the agrements reached at the Conference call for urgent
action,

1. Adopts the report of the United Naticl2s Water Conference 2! and
approves the Mar del Plata Action Plan 2! and the other agreements reached at
the Conference;

2! Report of the United
Sales No. E.77.II.A.12).

2! Ibid., chap. I.

Nations Water Conference (United Nations publication,

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 14

2. Expresses its gratitude to the Government and the people of Argentina
for their generous hospitality during the holding of the Conference;

3. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General of the Conference
for the effective preparation and organization of the Conference;

4.
to take
reached

Urges Member States and all organizations of the United Nations system
intensified and sustained action for the implementation of the agreements
at the Conference;

5.
4 August

Endorses Economic and Social Council resolutions 2115 (LXIII) of
1977 and 2121 (LXIII) of 4 August 1977;

6. Reaffirms that due priority should be given to the measures needed to
implement the Mar del Plata Action Plan as well as other agreements reached at
the Conference;

7. Recommends that Governments should consider, where necessary, the
desirability of designating national water conference committees or other suitable
organizations to co-ordinate and monitor the implementation of the Conference I s
recommendations at the national level on the basis of detailed national action
programmes, encompassing areas specified in the note by the Secretary-General on
recommendations of the Conference and follow-up action, 71 and recommends more
popular involvement in the process of planning and decision making towards the
formulation of a national policy;

8. Requests the regional commissions to strengthen and intensify their
responsibilities in the water sector and, to this end, assign specific
responsibilities to an intergovernmental committee within the regional commissions
in accordance with the recommendations of the Conference and with resolution 1 (V)
of the Committee on Natural Resources §I with the allocation, if necessary, of
additional resources;

9. Reguests the Committee on Natural Resources, at its special session,
to review plans and programmes prepared at national and regional levels and to
formulate immediate and concrete steps to promote and secure its early
implementation;

10. Calls upon the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its thirty-third session, through the Economic and Social Council, the results
of the special session of the Committee on Natural Resources and on the measures
adopted by the whole system of the United Nations for the implementation of the
Mar del Plata Action Plan, and the agreements reached at the Conference.

11 E/6015.
81 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Sixty-third Session,

Supplement No. 2A (E/6004), chap. I, sect. B.

I . ..



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 15

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Implementation of the medium-term and long-term recovery and
rehabilitation programme in the Sudano-Sahelian region and

urgent measures to be taken on behalf of the region

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 2816 (XXVI) of 14 December 1971, 2959 (XXVII) of
12 December 1972 and 3054 (XXVIII) of 17 October 1973,

Recalling further its resolutions 3253 (XXIX) of 4 December 1974, 3512 (XXX)
of 15 December 1975 and 31/180 of 21 December 1976 and Economic and Social Council
resolutions 1918 (LVIII) of 5 May 1975 and 2103 (LXIII) of 3 August 1977,

Taking note of the decision of 27 June 1977 of the Governing Council of the
United Nations Development Programme concerning the implementation of the medium-
term and long-term recovery and rehabilitation programme in the Sudano-Sabelian
region,

Deeply concerned at the magnitude of the effects of the new drought
prevailing in the SUdano-Sahelian region, and in particular at the serious
shortage of food and the livestock losses,

Taking note of the declaration adopted by the Council of Ministers of the
Permanent Inter-State Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel at its special
session held at Niamey on 26 and 27 October 1977,

Mindful of the fact that the transport problem, particularly the state of
the infrastructure and the inadequacy of the present capacities, constitutes a
major obstacle for the countries of the region,

Noting the measures taken by the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United Nations and the World Food Programme to establish large stockpiles of
food in the ports of the Sudano-Sahelian region,

Noting the individual and collective efforts made by States members of the
Permanent Inter-State Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel,

Noting with satisfaction the decisive role played by the United Nations
Sahelian Office, on the one hand, in helping to combat the effects of the drought
and to implement the priority medium-term and long-term recovery and rehabilitation
programme adopted by the States members of the Permanent Inter-State Committee on
Drought Control in the Sahel, and, on the other hand, in mobilizing the necessary
resources to finance priority projects,

Taking note of the expansion of the recovery and rehabilitation programme in
the Sahel as a result of the adoption by the Council of Ministers of the Permanent
Inter-State Committee on Drought Control in the Sabel, meeting at Ouagadougou
from 25 to 28 April 1977, of the drought control and development strategy and
programme for the Sahel,

/ ...



A!32!265!Add.3
English
Page 16

Considering that the nature and magnitude of the needs of the countries of
the Sudano-Sahelian region, which are among the least developed countries, make it
necessary for the international community to continue and to strengthen its
action of solidarity in support of the recovery efforts and economic development
of those countries,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of the medium-term and long-term recovery and rehabilitation programme, 21

I

EMERGENCY MEASURES

1. Urges Governments, United Nations agencies and intergovernmental
organizations to respond immediately to the appeal made by the Council of
Ministers of the Permanent Inter-State Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel
at its special session held at Nimney, in particular by taking emergency measures
to meet the requirements for food aid specified in the Niamey D~claration;

2. Reguests Member States, donor agencies and the competent United Nations
agencies to employ special procedures for the transport of this aid and to inform
the World Food Programme thereof so that it IIla¥ co-ordinate shipments to the
affected regions;

3. Invites Member States, donor agencies and the competent United Nations
agencies to dispatch any eValuation missions required for the purpose of
determining accurately the exact requirements of each of the countries concerned;

4. Urges Member States, particularly the developed countries, international
financing institutions and intergovernmental organizations to intensify their
assistance to the Sudano-Sahelian countries by providing them with increased
financial assistance to alleviate the effects of the drought;

5. Reguests the Secretary-General and the Director-General of the Food and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to apply the experience gained in
relief operations in continuing to produce forecasts and to provide adequate
assistance to overcome the problems of supply storage and distribution;

6. Also urges the Secretary-General and the Director-General of the Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations to continue to operate the
early warning system in order to keep abreast of developments in the situation
in the Sudano-Sahel1an region;

21 DP!252 and Corr.l and A!32!254.

! ...



A/32/265/Add. 3
English
Page 17

II

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE MEDIUM-TERM and LONG-TERM
RECOVERY AND REHABILITATION PROGRAMME

1. Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the Secretary-General on
the efforts made to implement the medium-term and long-term recovery and
rehabilitation programme in the Sudano-Sahelian region 10/ drawn up by the States
members of the Permanent Inter-State Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel;

2. Expresses its gratitude to the Governments, United Nations agencies,
intergovernmental organizations, private organizations and individUals that have
contributed to the implementation of the programme;

3. Urges all States to provide financial and technical support for efforts
to strengthen transport infrastructures and facilities, with particular emphasis
on ensuring uninterrupted movement of food-stuffs and other products from the
ports of unloading to all regions of the land-locked countries of the
Sudano-Sahelian region;

4. Also urges all Governments, United Nations agencies, intergovernmental
organizations, private organizations and individuals to continue to respond
favourably and in a continuing manner, either bilaterally or through the United
Nations Sahelian Office or any other intermediary, to requests for assistance
from the Permanent Inter-state Committee on DrOUght Control in the Sahel and its
member States;

5. Draws the attention of Member States and of the Secretary-General to
the importance of the ministerial and summit meetings of the Permanent Inter-state
Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel to be held at Banjul from 8 to
14 December 1977;

6. Requests the United Nations Sahelian Office to continue its close
co-operation with the Permanent Inter-State Committee on Drought Control in the
Sahel and its efforts to ensure co-operation and co-ordination between United
Nations programmes and bodies, with a view to the implementation of the medium-
term and long-term assistance programmes;

7. Reguests the Secretary-General to continue his action aimed at
mobilizing the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the
medium-term and long-term projects identified by the States members of the
Permanent Inter-State Committee on Drought Control in the Sahel;

8. Also reguests the Secretary-General to continue to report to the General
Assembly, through the Governing Council of the United Nations Development
Programme and the Economic and Social Council, on the implementation of the
medium-term and long-term recovery and rehabilitation programme in the
SUdano-Sahelian region and to report to the Assembly at its thirty-third session
on the implementation of section I above.

10/ A/32/254.
/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 18

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Transport and Connnunications Decade in Africa

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 2626 (XXV) of 24 October 1970 on the International
Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade, 3202 (S-VI)
of 1 May 1974, containing the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New
International Economic Order, and 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on development
and international economic co-cperation, and in particular the need to narrow
the gap between the industrialized and the developing countries,

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 2097 (LXIII) of
29 July 1977 on the Transport and Connnunications Decade in Africa,

Recognizing the urgent need to improve SUbstantially the transport and
communications infrastructure in Africa in particular,

Noting with satisfaction the initiative of the Organization of African Unity
and the Economic Connnission for Africa in the establishment of an integrated
African road network and the rationalization of Africa's railway systems and
other transport systems in order to facilitate the promotion of multinational
economic co-operation in Africa, intra-African trade and the political, social
and economic integration of Africa,

Connnending resolution 291 (XIII) of the Economic Connnission for Africa
entitled "Transport and Connnm:ications Decade in Africa", adopted at its thirteenth
session (4th meeting of the Conference of Ministers), III

Noting section III D of the annex to the report of the Conference on
International Economic Co-operation ~ on infrastructure, in particular
paragraph 8 thereof dealing with Africa,

Convinced that effective support is required from the international cODDllunity
in order to promote the principle of collective self-reliance for the purpose of
solving African prOblems in these sectors,

Convinced further of the need to adopt an integrated approach in the
formulation of a global strategy for the development of transport and
communications in Africa, taking into account all the problems facing the
continent in this field,

1!/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council Sixt -third
Session, Supplement No. 7 E/594l), part Ill.

121 A/31/478/Add.l.

I ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 19

Noting with appreciation the progress made in the development of a
Pan-African telecommunication network, which is jointly sponsored by the
Organization of African Unity, the International Telecommunication Union and the
Economic Commission for Africa,

Welcoming the continuing interest of the specialized agencies in the
application of communications technologies and services, in particular that of
the International Telecommunication Union, which, as the lead agency, has the
responsibility for the regulation, co-ordination and harmonization of activities
in this field,

1. Endorses the recommendation made in paragraph 1 of resolution 291 (XIII)
of the Economic Commission for Africa adopted at its thirteenth session
(4th meeting of the Conference of Ministers) and proclaims a Transport and
Communications Decade in Africa during the years 1978-1988, with a view to:

(a) Giving active support to the preparation and implementation of a global
strategy for the development of transport and communications in Africa, for the
purpose of solving the problems of the continent in this field;

(b) Mobilizing the technical and financial resources required for this
purpose;

2. Decides that, in accordance with its resolution 31/93 of
14 December 1976, the mobilization of the necessary financial and technical
resources required to make the Decade a success constitutes a pressing need of
an unforeseeable nature;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the executive heads
of the agencies concerned, to provide all possible assistance to the African
States in the preparation of a detaileo. plan of action for the Decade and to
co-ordinate the mobilization of the necessary technical and financial resources
required to make the Decade a success;

4. Calls upon all Member States, in particular the developed countries
and others in a position to do so, to participate effectively in the
implementation of programmes for achieving the objectives of the Decade;

5. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the International
Telecommunication Union and other specialized agencies concerned, to propose for
consideration, as appropriate, one year during the Decade as a World Communications
Year, in view of the importance of transport and communications to other regions
of the world, and to submit a report to the Economic and Social Council at its
sixty-fifth session containing a detailed programme of measures and activities
to be carried out during such a Year;

6. Further requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly
at its thirty-third session, through the Economic and Social Council at its
sixty-fifth session, a detailed progress report on the implementation of the
present resolution and to submit thereafter annual progress reports.

I ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 20

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Permanent sovereignty over national resources
in the occupied Arab territories

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the relevant principles o~ international law and the
provisions of the international conventions and regulations, in particular, the
Hague Convention IV of 1907 13/ and the Fourth Geneva Convention or
12 August 1949, 14/ concerning the obligations and reponsibilities of the occupying
Power,

Recalling its previous resolutions on permanent sovereignty over natural
resources, particularly their provisions supporting resolutely the e~~orts o~
the developing countries and the peoples o~ the territo~ies under colonial and
racial domination and foreign occupation in their struggle to regain ef~ective
control over their natural and all other resources, wealth and economic
activities,

Bearing in mind the pertinent pr0V1S1ons o~ its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and
3202 (S-VI) o~ 1 May 1974, containing the Declaration and the Programme o~ Action
on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order, and 3281 (XXIX) of
12 December 1974, containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties o~ states,

Recalling ~ther its resolutions 3175 (XXVIII) o~ 17 December 1973,
3336 (XXIX) of 17 December 1974, 3516 (XXX) of 15 December 1975 and 31/186 of
21 December 1976 on permanent sovereignty over national resources in the occupied
Arab territories,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the adverse
economic effects on the Arab states and peoples resulting from repeated Israeli
aggression and continued occupation of their territories; 1'iJ

2. Also notes that, owing to the time constraint, incomplete coverage and
technical and other limitations, the reFort did not cover all pertinent losses,
such as:

The adverse economic effects extending beyond the year 1975;

Losses in the Arab territories still under Israeli occupation·;

Human and military losses;

W Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, The Hague Conventions and
Declarations 1899-1907 (N.Y., OXford University Press, 1915).

14/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 73.

121 A/32/204.
/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 21

(d) The loss oT and damage to items oT national, religious and cultural
heritage;

(e) Losses in the traditional sectors, including the retail tradiag, small
industries and Tarming sectors;

(T) The Tull impact on the development process oT the Arab States ,
territories and peoples subjected to Israeli aggression and occupation;

3. Emphasizes the right of the Arab States and peoples whose territories
are under Israeli occupation to Tull and eTfective permanent sovereignty and
control over their natural and all other resources, wealth and economic activities;

4. ReafTirms that all measures undertaken by Israel to exploit the human,
natural and all other resources, wealth and economic activities in the occupied
Arab territories are illegal, and calls upon Israel immediately to desist forthwith
Trom all such measures;

5. Further reafTirms the right oT the Arab States and peoples subjected to
Israeli aggression and occupation to the restitution oT and Tull compensation Tor
the exploitation, depletion, loss and damages to their natural, human and all
other resources, wealth and economic activities, and calls upon Israel to meet
their just claims;

6. Calls upon all States to support and assist the Arab States and peoples
in the exercise of their above-mentioned rights;

7. Calls upon all states, international organizations, specialized agencies,
investment corporations and all other institutions not to recognize, or co-operate
with or assist in any manner in, any measures undertaken by Israel to exploit the
resources oT the occupied territories or to efTect any changes in the demographic
composition or geographic character or institutional structure oT those
territories.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Institutional arrangements for international co-operation
in the Tield oT human settlements

The General Assembly,

Recalling relevant reSOlutions, in particular its resolutions 2718 (XXV) oT
15 December 1970, 3001 (XXVII) oT 15 December 1972 and 3327 (XXIX) oT
16 December 1974,

Convinced oT the need Tor urgent action to improve the quality aT life of all
people in human settlements,

Recognizing that such action is primarily the responsibility of Governments,

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 22

Conscious that human settlements problems represent a primary field of action
in international co-operation, which should be strengthened in order that adequate
solutions may be found, based on equity, justice and solidarity, especially among
developing countries,

Recognizing that the international community should provide, both at the
global and regional levels, encouragement and support to Governments determined
to take effective action to ameliorate conditions, especially for the least
advantaged, in rural and urban human settlements,

Recognizing that human settlements and the steps to be taken to improve
them should be considered an essential component of socio-economic development,

Recalling the decisions of the United Nations Conference on the Human
Environment, as well as the recommendations of the World Population Conference,
the World Food Conference, the Second General Conference of the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization, the World Conference of the International
Women's Year, the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of
a New International Economic Order adopted by the General Assembly at its sixth
special session and the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, that
establish the basis of the new international economic order,

Aware of the sectoral responsibilities of the organizations of the United
Nations system,

Conscious of the need to achieve greater coherence and effectiveness in
human settlements activities within the United Nations system,

Recognizing that new priorities should be identified and activities developed
to reflect comprehensive and integrated approaches to the solution of human
settlements problems,

Convinced that it is necessary to consolidate and strengthen promptly the
capacity of the United Nations system in the field of human settlements,

Recognizing that urgent steps should be taken to ensure a better mobilization
of financial resources at all levelS, with a view to improving human settlements,

Believing that:

(~) The current level of resources available for development purposes,
particularly for human settlements, is clearly inadequate,

(b) The effective development of human settlements has been hindered by
great disparities in socio-economic development within and between countries,

(c) The establishment of a just and equitable world economic order through
necessary changes in areas of international trade, monetary systems,
industrialization, the transfer of resources, the transfer of technology and the
consumption of world resources is essential for socio-economic development and
for the improvement of human settlements, particularly in developing countries,

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 23

I

INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION IN THE FIELD OF HUMAN SETTLEMENTS

Considers that:

(~) International co-operation in the field of human settlements should be
viewed as an instrument of socio-economic development;

(~) The fundamental object of international co-operation for development is
to support national action and, therefore, programmes for such co-operation in the
field of human settlements should be based on the policies and priorities
established in the recommendations for national action of Habitat: United Nations
Conference on Human Settlements;

(~) In seeking co-operation for development, States should give due priority
to human settlements;

(d) Requests for development assistance should not be subject to
discrimination on the part of the institutions to which these requests are
addressed;

(~) Technical co-operation should be made available to countries requesting
assistance in policy formulation, management and institutional improvement
relating to human settlements;

(!) Technical co-operation should be made available to developing countries
requesting assistance in education and training and applied research relating to
human settlements;

(~) Financial and technical co-operation for development should be accorded
to countries requesting assistance for, inter alia, projects in self-help and
co-operative housing, integrated rural development, water and transportation;

(h) All Governments should give serious consideration to making contributions
as soon as possible to the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation
established by virtue of General Assembly resolution 3327 (XXIX), in order to
expedite action programmes in the field of human settlements;

(i) Emerging concepts and priorities regarding human settlements in
developing countries present new challenges to the policies and capability of
development assistance agencies in donor countries and to international bodies,
multilateral and bilateral development assistance agencies should therefore
respond effectively to requests for assistance in the field of human settlements,
and special attention should be paid to the needs of the least advantaged
countries, particularly in the provision of long-term low-interest mortgages and
loans to facilitate the implementation of human settlements activities in the
least developed countries that cannot fulfil existing terms and conditions;

/ ...



A/32/265/Add. 3
English
Page 24

(1) Information systems should be strengthened, where necessary, and better
co-ordinated, and stronger links established at the regional level between human
settlements and research institutions in different countries;

(k) Many international organizations carry out activities related to human
settlements, and specialized agencies and other appropriate bodies, in particular
the United Nations Children's Fund, the United Nations Development Programme, the
United Nations Fund for Population Activities, the International Labour
Organisation, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the
World Food Programme, the united Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, the World Bank and the World Health Organization, should consider
seriously the recommendations of Habitat: United Nations Conference on Human
Settlements, with a view to their implementation in their respective fields of
competence;

II

COMMISSION ON HUMAN SETTLEMENTS

1. Decides that the Economic and Social Council should transform the
Committee on Housing, Building and Planning into a Commission on Human Settlements,
which will have fifty-eight members to be elected for three-year terms on the
following basis:

(~) Sixteen seats for African States;

(~) Thirteen seats for Asian States;

(~) Six seats for Eastern European States;

(.<'!.) Ten seats for Latin American States;

(~) Thirteen seats for Western European and other States;

2. Decides that the Commission on Human Settlements will discharge,
inter alia, the responsibilities at present exercised by the Committee on Housing,
Building and Planning;

3. Decides that the Commission on Human Settlements will have the following
main objectives:

(~) To assist countries and regions in increasing and improving their own
efforts to solve human settlements problems;

(b) To promote greater international co-operation in order to increase the
availability of resources of developing countries and regions;

(~)

approach
To promote the integral concept of human settlements and a comprehensive

to human settlements problems in all countries;

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 25

(d) To strengthen co-operation and co-participation in this domain among
all countries and regions;

4. Decides that the Commission on Human Settlements will have the f'ollowing
main functions and responsibilities:

(~) To develop and promote policy objectives, priorities and guidelines
regarding existing and planned programmes of' work in the f'ield of' human
settlements, as f'ormulated in the recommendations of' Habitat: United Nations
Conference on Human Settlements and subsequently endorsed by the General Assembly;

(£) To follow closely the activities of the United Nations system and other
international organizations in the field of human settlements and to propose, when
appropriate, ways and means by which the over-all policy objectives and goals in
the f'ield of' human settlements within the United Nations system might best be
achieved;

(c) To study, in the context of' the Conference's recommendations f'or national
action, new issues, problems and especially solutions in the field of human
settlements, particularly those of' a regional or international character;

(Sl) To give over-all policy guidance and carry out supervision of' the
operations of' the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation;

(~) To review and approve periodically the utilization of funds at its
disposal for carrying out human settlements activities at the global, regional
and subregional levels;

(r) To provide over-all direction to the secretariat of the Centre referred
to in section III below;

(K) To review and provide guidance on the programme of the United Nations
Audio-Visual Information Centre on Human Settlements established by virtue of
General Assembly resolution 31/115 of' 16 December 1976;

5. Decides that the first session of the Commission on Human Settlements
should be held in the first half of 1978;

6. Decides that the report of' the Commission on Human Settlements will be
submitted to the General Assembly through the Economic and Social Council;

III

}~BITAT, CENTRE FOR I~~N SETTL~ITIITS

1. Decides that a small and effective secretariat shall be established in
the United Nations to service the Commission on Human Settlements and to serve as
a focal point for human settlements action and the co-ordination of activities
within the United Nations system, to be named "Habitat, Centre for Human
Settlements", hereinafter ref'erred to as "the Centre";

1...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 26

2. Decides that the Centre shall be headed by an Executive Director, at a
level to be determined later, who shall report to the Secretary-General until such
time as any relevant recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Restructuring
of the Economic and Social Sectors of the United Nations System can be taken into
account;

3. Decides that the Executive Director shall be responsible for the
management of the Centre, which shall comprise the posts and budgetary resources
of the following:

(~) The Centre for Housing, Building and Planning of the Department of
Economic and Social Affairs;

(b) The appropriate section of the Division of Economic and Social
Programmes of the United Nations Environment Programme directly concerned with
human settlements, with the exception of the posts required by that Programme to
exercise its responsibilities for the environmental aspects and consequences of
human settlements planning;

(.£) The United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation;

(i) As appropriate, selected posts and associated resources from relevant
parts of the Department of Economic and Social Affairs;

4. Decides that the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation
shall be administered by the Executive Director referred to in paragraph 9 above
and shall have the terms of reference set out in the annex to General Assembly
resolution 3327 (XXIX), with appropriate amendments to reflect the new
relationship to the Commission on Human Settlements and its secretariat;

5. Decides that the centre, under the leadership of its Executive Director,
shall be entrusted, inter alia, with the following responsibilities:

(~) To ensure the harmonization at the intersecretariat level of human
settlements programmes planned and carried out by the United Nations system;

(~) To assist the Commission on Human Settlements in co-ordinating human
settlements activities in the United Nations system, to keep them under review
and to assess their effectiveness;

(.£) To execute human settlements projects;

(i) To provide the focal point for a global exchange of information about
human settlements;

(~) To provide sUbstantive support to the Commission on Human Settlements;

(K) To deal with interregional human settlements matters;

(~) To supplement the resources of the regions in formulating and
implementing human settlements projects when so required;

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 27

(£) To promote collaboration with, and the involvement of, the world
scientific community concerned with human settlements;

(1) To establish and maintain a global directory of consultants and advisers
to supplement the skills available within the system and to assist in the
recruitment of experts at the global level, including those available in
developing countries;

(~) To initiate public information activities on human settlements in
co-operation with the Office of Public Information of the Secretariat;

(~) To promote the further and continued use of audio-visual material
relating to human settlements;

(1) To carry out the mandate and responsibilities previously assigned by
the appropriate legislative bodies to the secretariat units to be absorbed in
the central staff;

(m) To implement programmes until they are transferred to the regional
organiwtions;

6. Decides that the Director of the United Nations Audio-Visual Information
Centre on Human Settlements shall report to the Executive Director;

7. Decides that there should be close links between the Centre and the
United Nations Environment Programme, and that for this reason the location of
the Centre should be at Nairobi;

8. Decides that during the period 1978-1980 a significant portion of all
posts in the Centre will be assigned to the regions for work on regional human
settlements questions;

IV

ORGANIZATION AT THE REGIONAL LEVEL

1. Recommends that the regional commissions should consider the
establishment of regional intergovernmental committees on human settlements,
comprising all members, in cases where such committees do not already exist;

2. Recommends that such regional committees should be established as soon
as possible and then co-ordinate their activities with those of the Commission
on Human Settlements and report to it through the appropriate regional
commissions;

3. Recommends that the responsibility for implementing regional and
sUbregional programmes should be gradually transferred to regional organizations;

4. Recommends that each regional committee should be served by a unit of
the secretariat of the parent regional commission under an executive officer;
these units should preferably be established as soon as possible and should be
provided with the necessary resources for their operations;

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 28

5. Decides that the regional committees shall be responsible for the
formulation of regional and subregional policies and programmes and for their
implementation;

6. Recommends that the budgetary and personnel resources available to each
regional secretariat unit should consist of those available from the regular
budgetary resources and those redepla,yed from the aggregate posts available to
the central secretariat, voluntary contributions, including those made to the
United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation, as well as selected
resources currently available to each region;

7. Recommends that the principal functions of the regional secretariat units
should be:

(~) To serve the regional committees referred to in paragraph 1 of the
present section;

(!!.) To review progress in the implementation of programmes with the regions;

(c) To promote the active collaboration of governmental representatives in
activities related to human settlements;

(d) To assist Governments of countries in the region in the formulation of
their requests for assistance from the appropriate bilateral and multilateral
bodies;

(~) To establish close links with the appropriate financial institutions at
the regional and global levels and with regional units of the specialized agencies;

(f) To formulate, implement and supervise regional and sUbregional
programmes and projects, especially regional training programmes;

(Eo) To execute regional human settlements projects;

8. Recommends that the regional secretariat units, with the approval of the
regional committees, should identify" those national and regional institutions
which are best able to provide services, training and assistance in research
relating to human settlements;

v

TERMS OF REFERENCE

1. Decides that human settlements activities and programmes at both the
global and regional levels shall deal in particular with the follcwing subject
areas:

(~) Settlement policies and stragegies;

(!!.) Settlement planning;

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 29

(£.) Institutions and management;

(~) Shelter, infrastructure and services;

C!!) Land;

(!) Public participation;

2. Decides that the formulation of global programme priorities within these
broad subject areas shall be undertaken by the Commission on Human Settlements
and that of regional programme priorities by the regional committees, on the
basis of the needs and problems of the region and of the countries within the
region;

3. Recommends that the following functions should be considered on a
priority basis, in relation to the subject areas mentioned in paragraph 1 of the
present section:

(a) Identification of the problems and possible solutions;

(:Q.) Formulation and implementation of policies;

(£.) Education and training;

(d) Identification, development and use of appropriate technology, as well
as limitation of hazardous technology;

(~) Exchange of information, including audio-visual information;

(!) Implementation machinery;

(a) Assistance in the mobilization of resources at the national and
international levels;

(h) Promotion of the establishment of an international information pool on
building materials, plant and equipment;

VI

CONCERTED ACTION AND CO-ORDINATION

1. Urges in particular that the Executive Director of the Centre and the
bureau of the Commission on Human Settlements should meet bi-annually with the
Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme and the bureau
of its Governing Council to review together their respective priorities and
programmes for improving human settlements and to strengthen and extend
co-operation between the two organizations;

2. Urges also that the Executive Director of the Centre and the Executive
Director of the United Nations Environment Programme should participate in and
address the annual meetings of their governing bodies;

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 30

3. Decides that there must be a sustained and determined effort, on the
part of all organizations most closely connected with human settlements, both at
regional and global levels, to concert their planned programmes and projects;

4.
Committee
the field
system;

Decides further that the existing mechanisms of the Administrative
on Co-ordination must be strengthened to ensure that co-ordination in
of human settlements is effective throughout the whole United Nations

VII

WORKING RELATIONS WITH FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS

1. Recommends that the Centre and the secretariats of the regional
commissions should establisb working relations, as regards the question of human
settlements, with the principal financial institutions at the regional and global
levels;

2. Recommends that special co-operation should exist at the global,
regional and national levels between the United Nations Development Programme
and the Centre;

VIII

CO-OPERATION WITH ORGANIZATIONS OUTSIDE THE
UNITED NATIONS SYSTEM

Recommends that, at the global and regional levels, co-operation should be
sought with universities, research and scientific institutes, non-governmental
organizations and voluntary groups, in order to make full use of their knowledge
and experience in the field of human settlements; at the intergovernmental level,
this co-operation should be formalized and at the secretariat level it should be
brought about by the establishment of appropriate working relations.

27. The Second Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decisions:

DRAFT DECISION I

United Nations International Institute for Documentation
on Housing, Building and Planning

The General Assembly requests the Secretary-General to cancel the Trust Fund
for Documentation on Housing, Building and Planning, established by Economic and
Social Council resolutions 1166 (XLI) of 5 August 1966 and 1301 (XLIV) of
28 May 1968, and authorizes him to utilize the funds so released as a contribution
to Habitat, Centre for Human Settlements, established by Assembly resolution
32/ of December 1977.

/ ...



A/32/265/Add.3
English
Page 31

DRAFT DECISION II

The General Assembly takes note of the following documents:

(a) Joint report of the secretariats of the United Nations, the
International Labour Organisation, the Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations and the World Bank on social and institutional
reform as a means of increasing domestic food production and
distributing it equitably among the population; ~§j

(b) Summary of recent population trends and policies prepared in accordance
with Council decision 87 (LVII) of 6 May 1975 which will be pUblished
as the Third Concise Report on the World Population Situation; 17/

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on immediate needs resulting from
economic emergency situations. 18/

1Y E/CN.5/537.
17/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Sixty-second

Session, Supplement No. 4 (E/5913), appendix.

Jl}j E/5989.


