












































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/461
15 December 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISh

Thirty-,second session
Agenda item 92

QUESTION OF SOUTHERN RHODESIA

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Gursel DEMIROK (Turkey)

1. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on
the recomrnendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its thirty-second session an item entitled:

"Question of Southern Rhodesia: report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples",

and to allocate it to the Fourth Committee.

2. The Fourth Committee considered the item at its 25th and 27th to 35th
meetings, between 15 November and 12 December 1977.

3. At the 27th meeting, on 30 November, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
On the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced chapter VII
of the report of that Committee (A/32/23/Add.l) relating to the item.

4. In connexion with its consideration of the item, the Fourth Committee had
before it the following communications addressed to the Secretary-General:

(a) Letter dated 15 March 1977 from Egypt (A/32/61);

(b) Letter dated 22 March 1977 from Ghana (A/32/63-S/12305);

(c) Letters dated 28 January, 20 May, 3 June and 5 October 1977 from Sri
Lanka (A/32/57, A/32/92, A/32/9S-S/12340, A/32/266-s/12412);

(d) Letter dated 14 June 1977 from Mongolia (A/32/115-S/12347);

77-29141 / •••



Letter dated 5 October 1977 from the Union of Soviet Socialist
(A/32/259) .

A/32/461
English
Page 2

(e) Letter dated 23 September 1977 from the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
(A/32/235);

( f)
Republics

In addition, the Committee had before it a letter dated 6 June 1977 from the
Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation
of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
and the Acting President of the United Nations Council for Namibia addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/32/109/Rev.l-S/12344/Rev.l).

5. During the Fourth Committee's consideration of the item, Mr. Tirivafi Kangai
and Mr. Callistus NdloVli, representatives of the Patriotic Front (Zimbabwe), the
national liberation movement of the Territory, participated in an observer capacity
in the proceedings of the Committee in accordance with the relevant provisions of
General Assembly resolution 3412 (XXX) of 28 November 1975.

6. [~. Kangai made statements at the 27th and 28th meetings, on 30 November and
1 December. I~. Ndlovu made statements at the 29th and 35th meetings, on
1 and 12 December.

7. The Fourth Committee granted the following reQuests for hearing in connexion
with its consideration of the item:

Petitioner

Mr. Romesh Chandra, President, World Peace
Council (WPC) (A/c.4/32/6)

Reverend Hichael Scott, International League
for Human Rights (A/c.4/32/10)

Mr. Bernard Rivers, Haslemere Group
(A/C.4/32/10/Add.l)

Reverend Ndabaningi Sithole, President,
Zimbabwe African National Union (ZANU)
(A/c.4/32/10/Add.2)

I~. Elton Razemba, North American Chief
Representative, African National Council
of Zimbabwe (ANC (Zimbabwe)) (A/c.4/32/10/Add.3)

Meeting at which reQuest
for hearing was granted

9th

18th

23rd

28th

28th

8. I~. Chandra, Mr. Gardon Schaffer, Mrs. Karen Talbot and Mr. Camillo Perez of
WPC made statements relating, inter alia, to the item at the 25th meeting, on
15 November. The Reverend Scott and Mr. Rivers made statements at the 27th meeting,
on 30 November. Mr. Razemba made a statement at the 28th meeting, on 1 December.
The Reverend Sithole made statements at the 28th meeting and, with the Committee's
consent, at the 29th meeting, on 1 December.

I . ..



A/32/461
English
Page 3

9. The general debate on the item took place at the 27th to 35th meetings, between
30 November and 12 December.

10. At its 25th meeting, on 15 November, on the proposal of the representative of
Angola and following a statement by the Chairman concerning the related
administrative and financial implications, the Fourth CClf.mittee decided without
objection that the statement made during the meeting by Mr. Chandra should be
reproduced in extenso (A/c.4/32/L.30).

11. At its 27th meeting, on the proposal of the representative of Ghana and
following a statement by the Chairman concerning the related administrative and
financial implications, the Fourth Committee decided without objection that the
statement made at that meeting by the representative of the Patriotic Front
(Zimbabwe), as well as the statements made by the Reverend Scott and Mr. Rivers,
should be reproduced in extenso in the record of the meeting. At the same meeting,
on the proposal of the representative of the Netherlands and following a statement
by the Chairman concerning the related administrative and financial implications,
the Fourth Committee decided that the statement made during the meeting by the
representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland should
be reproduced in extenso in the record of the meeting.

12. At the 34th meeting, on 12 December, the representative of the United Republic
of Cameroon introduced draft resolutions A and B on the item (A/c.4/32/L.31) which
were finally sponsored by the following Member States: Algeria, Angola, Bangladesh,
Benin, Burundi, Chad, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia,
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Iraq, Kenya, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mali, Mozambique, Nigeria, Romania,
Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic
of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia and Zambia.

13. At the 35th meeting, on 12 December, the representative of the United Kingdom
submitted an oral arr,endment to draft resolution (A/c.4/32/L.31), by which the
following new paragraph would be added as the eleventh preambular paragraph:

"Taking note of the negotiations following Security Council resolution
415 (1977) of 29 September 1977 and the current initiative of the administering
Power for the accession of Zimbabwe to independence,".

At the same meeting, the representative of the United Kingdom withdrew his
amendment.

14. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee took decisions on draft resolutions
A and B (A/c.4/32/L.31) as follows:

(a) Draft resolution A was adopted without objection (see para. 15 below);

(b) Draft resolution B was adopted by 112 votes to none, with 10 abstentions
(see para. 15 below).

/11 ••



A/32!461
English
Page 4

RECOMMENDATIONS OF TIlE FOUR'IH COMMITTEE

15. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

A

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe),

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, !I

Taking into account the Maputo Declaration in Support of the Peoples of
Zimbabwe and Namibia and Programme of Action for the Liberation of Zimbabwe and
Namibia, adopted by the International Conference in Support of the Peoples of
Zimbabwe and Namibia, held at Maputo from 16 to 21 May 1977, 5.1 as well as the
Lagos Declaration for Action against Apartheid, adopted on 26 August 1977 by the
World Conference for Action against Apartheid, held at Lagos from 22 to
26 August 1977, 21

Having heard the statement of the representative of the administering
Power, !tI

Having heard the statements of the representatives of the national liberation
movement who participated in an observer capacity in the consideration of the
item, '21

Recalling its resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, containing the programme of action for the full
implementation of the Declaration, as well as all other resolutions relating to
the question of Southern Rhodesia adopted by the General Assembly, the Security
Council and the Special Committee,

Bearing In mind that the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, as the administering Power, has the primary responsibility

!I A!32!23 (Parts I-V), chaps. I, 11 and IV-VI; A!32!23!Add.l, chap. VII.
5.1 A!32!109!Rev.l-S!12344!Rev.l, annex V.
11 A!CONF.91!9 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.77.XIV.2), vol. I,

sect. X.

~ A!c.4!32!SR.27.

21 A!c.4!32!SR.27-29 and 35.

! ...



A/32/461
English
Page 5

for putting an end to the critical situation in Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) which,
as repeatedly affirmed by the Security Council, constitutes a threat to
international peace and security~

Reaffirming that any attempts to negotiate the future of Zimbabwe with the
illegal regime on the basis of independence before majority rule would be in
contravention of the inalienable rights of the people of the Territory and
contrary to the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and of resolution
1514 (XV),

Condemning the deliberate sabotage by the illegal racist minority regime of
the numerous, intensive efforts being made to secure a negotiated settlement in
Zimbabwe on the basis of majority rule,

Bearing in mind the resolutions on Zimbabwe adopted by the Assembly of Hends
of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its fourteenth
ordinary session, held at Libreville from 2 to 5 July 1977, §I

Stressing the grave responsibility of the international community to take all
possible measures in support of the people of Zimbabwe in their liberation struggle
and in minimizing the hardship and suffering of Zimbabweans in that regard,

Indignant at the arbitrary imprisonment and detention of political leaders
and others, the massacre of freedom fighters and the continued denial of
fundamental human rights, including in particular the wanton beating, torture and
murder of innocent villagers, arbitrary criminal measures of collective punishment
and measures designed to create an apartheid State in Zimbabwe,

Commending the firm determination of the people of Zimbabwe, under the
leadership of their national liberation movement, to achieve freedom and
independence and convinced that their unity and solidarity are fundamental to the
rapid attainment of that objective,

Outraged and deeply concerned by the continuing acts of aggression against
neighbouring independent African States, including the most recent aggression
against Mozambique 11 which resulted in loss of human lives and destruction of
property,

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Zimbabwe to self-
determination, freedom and independence and the legitimacy of their struggle to
secure by all the means at their disposal the enjoyment of that right as set forth
in the Charter of the United Nations and in conformity with the objectives of
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

2. Reaffirms the principle that there should be no independence before
majority rule in Zimbabwe and that any settlement relating to the future of the

§I See A/32/310.

11 S/12466.
/ ...



A132/461
English
Page 6

Territory must be worked out with the full participation of the people of Zimbabwe
and in accordance with their true aspirations;

3. Condemns the continued war of repression and the intensified oppressive
measures against the people of Zimbabwe by the illegal racist minority regime;

4. Strongly condemns the illegal racist minority regime for its continuing~
brutal acts of aggression and threats against MozambiQue, Zambia and Botswana;

5. Strongly condemns South Africa for its continued support of the illegal
racist minority regime in contravention of the provisions of all the resolutions
and decisions of the United Nations on thie question;

6. Calls upon the Government of the Dnited Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, in the discharge of its primary responsibility as the
administering Power, to take all effective measures to enable Zimbabwe to accede
to independence in accordance with the aspirations of the majority of the
population and not under any circumstanc es to ac cord to the illegal regime any of
the powers or attributes of sovereignty;

7. Finally supports the people of Zimbabwe in their struggle to exercise
their inalienable right to self-determination and independence by all means at their
disposal;

8. Reaffirms the relevant provlslons of the Maputo Declaration in Support
of the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia and Programme of Action for the Liberation
of Zimbabwe and Namibia, in particular the provisions calling for assistance to
those front-line States which are victims of repeated acts of aggression by the
racist minority regime; QI

9. Demands:

(a) The termination forthwith of all repressive measures perpetrated by the
illegal racist minority regime against the people of Zimbabwe and in particular
the wanton killings and executions of Africans and their freedom fighters carried
out by that regime, the brutality committed in the "operational area", the
arbi trary closure of African areas, the eviction, transfer and resettlement of
Africans and the creation of concentration camps;

(b) The unconditional and immediate release of all political prisoners,
detainees and restrictees, the removal of all restrictions on political activity
and the establishment of full democratic freedom and eQuality of political rights,
as well as the restoration to the population of fundamental human rights;

(c) The cessation of the influx of foreign immigrants into the Territory and
the immediate withdrawal of all mercenaries therefrom;

QI A/32/109/Rev.I-S/12344/Rev.1, annex V, paras. 21 and 39.

I . ..



A/32/461
English
Page 7

(d) The immediate cessation of all acts of aggression and threats against
neighbouring African States;

10. Calls upon all States to take all necessary and effective measures to
prevent advertisement for, and recruitment of, mercenaries for Southern Rhodesia;

11. Requests all States to give immediate and substantial material assistance
to enable the Governments of Mozambique and Botswana to strengthen their defence
capability in order to safeguard effectively their sovereignty and territorial
integrity;

12. Requests all States, directly and through their action in the
specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system of
which they are members, as well as the non-governmental organizations concerned
and the various programmes within the United Nations system, to extend, in
consultation and co-operation with the Organization of African Unity, to the
people of Zimbabwe and their national liberation movement all the moral, material,
political and humanitarian assistance necessary in their struggle for the
restoration of their inalienable rights;

13. Invites all Governments, the specialized agencies and other
organizations within the United Nations system, the United Nations bodies concerned
and non-governmental organizations having a special interest in the field of
decolonization, as well as the Secretary-General, to take steps, as appropriate,
t~ give widespread and continuous publicity through all the media at their disposal
to information on the situation in Zimbabwe and on the relevant decisions and
actions of the United Nations, with particular reference to the application of
sanctions against the illegal regime;

14. Requests the Government of the United Kingdom to continue to co-operate
with the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
in the discharge of the mandate entrusted to the latter by the General Assembly,
and to report thereon to the Special Committee and to the Assembly at its thirty-
third session;

15. Requests the Special Committee to keep the situation in the Territory
under review as a matter of priority and to report thereon to the General Assembly
at its thirty-third session.

B

The General Assembly,

Having adopted resolution A above on the question of Southern Rhodesia
( Zimbabwe) ,

Strongly deploring the increasing collaboration, in violation of Article 2,
paragraph 5, and Article 25 of the Charter of the United Nations and of the relevant

/ ...



A/32/461
English
Page 8

decisions of the United Nations, which certain States, particularly South Africa,
maintain with the illegal racist minority regime, thereby seriously impeding the
effective application of sanctions and other measures taken thus far against the
illegal regime,

Deeply disturbed at widespread violations of United Nations sanctions,
including the operation of Southern Rhodesian aircraft for international passenger
and cargo traffic, as well as the continued functioning of information and airline
offices of the illegal regime outside Southern Rhodesia and the resultant influx
of foreign tourists into the Territory,

Considering that developments in the area call in particular for positive,
concerted international action with a view to imposing maximum isolation on the
illegal regime,

Deeply concerned that the measures approved by the Security Council have so
far failed to bring an end to the illegal regime and convinced that sanctions
cannot put an end to that regime unless they are comprehensive, mandatory and
strictly supervised and unless measures are taken against States which violate
them,

Reaffirming the relevant prOV1Sl0ns of the Maputo Declaration in Support of
the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia and Programme of Action for the Liberation of
Zimbabwe and Namibia adopted by the International Conference in Support of the
Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia, held at Maputo from 16 to 21 May 1977, in
particular those provisions relating to sanctions against the illegal regime, 2/

Conscious of the urgent and special economic needs of Mozambique and Zambia
arising from their full implementation of the relevant decisions of the Security
Council,

1. Strongly condemns the policies of those Governments, particularly the
Government of South Africa which, in violation of the relevant resolutions of the
United Nations and in open contravention of their specific obligations under
Article 2, paragraph 5, and Article 25 of the Charter of the United Nations,
continue to collaborate with the illegal racist minority regime, and calls upon
those Governments to cease forthwith all such collaboration;

2. Condemns all violations of the mandatory sanctions imposed by the
Security Council, as well as the continued failure of certain Member States to
enforce the sanctions strictly, as being contrary to the obligations assumed by
them under Article 2, paragraph 5, and Article 25 of the Charter;

3. Condemns South Africa for its continued support of the illegal racist
minority reglme in Southern Rhodesia in contravention of Security Council
resolutions on sanctions against that regime;

V Ibid., annex V.

/ ...



A/32/461
English
Page 9

4. Calls upon all Governments which thus far have not done so:

(a) To take stringent enforcement measures to ensure strict compliance by
all individuals, associations and bodies corporate under their jurisdiction with
the sanctions imposed by the Security Council and to prohibit any form of
collaboration by them with the illegal regime;

(b) To take effective steps to prevent or discourage the emigration to
Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe) of any individuals or groups of individuals under
their jurisdiction;

(c) To discontinue any action Which might confer a semblance of legitimacy
on the illegal regime, inter alia, by forbidding the operation and activities of
"Air Rhodesia", the "Rhodesia National Tourist Board" and the "Rhodesian
Information Office", or any other activities Which contravene the aims and purposes
of the sanctions;

Cd) To invalidate possports and other documents for travel to the Territory;

(e) To take all effective measures against international companies and
agencies Which supply petroleum and petroleum products to the illegal regime of
Southern Rhodesia;

5. Requests all States, directly and through their action in the
specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system of
which they are members, and the various programmes within the United Nations system
to extend to the Governments of Mozambique and Zambia all forms of financial,
technical and material assistance in order to enable those Governments to overcome
economic difficulties in connexion with their application of economic sanctions
imposed against the illegal regime and the severe economic loss and destruction of
property brought about by the acts of aggression committed by the regime, and
requests the Security Council to undertake a periodic review of the question of
economic assistance to the two Governments;

6. Deems it imperative that the scope of sanctions against the illegal
regime must be widened to include all the measures envisaged under Article 41 of
the Charter and reiterates its request that the Security Council consider taking
the necessary measures in that regard as a matter of urgency;

7. Requests the Security Council to impose a mandatory embargo on the supply
of petroleum and petroleum products to South Africa in view of the fact that
petroleum and petroleum products are transported from South Africa into Southern
Rhodesia.

8. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to follow the implementation of the present resolution and
invites the Security Council Committee established in pursuance of resolution
253 (1968) concerning the question of Southern Rhodesia to continue to co-operate
in the related work of the Special Committee.


