












































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNiTED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A!32!341
16 November 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 90

INFOru'~TION FROM NON-SELF-GOVERNING TERRITORIES TRAlISMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 ~ OF THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Gursel DEMIROK (Turkey)

1. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its thirty-second session and to allocate to the Fourth Committee the item
entitled:

"Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under
Article 73 ~ of the Charter of the United Nations:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General;

(b) Report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples".

2. At its 5th meeting, on 7 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general d~bate covering agenda items 24, 90, 93, 95 and 12,96 and 97, on the
understanding that individual draft resolutions on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

3. The Fourth Committee considered item 90 at its 8th and lOth to 20th meetings,
between 26 October and 9 November.

4. At the 8th meeting, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colo~ial Countries and Peoples introduced chapter XXXII of the report of that
Committee relating to the item (A!32!23!Add.9).

5. The Fourth Committee also had before it the report of the Secretary-General
relating to the item (A!32!253).

77-23955 ! ..•



A!32/341
English
Page 2

6. In addition, the Fourth Committee had before it the following communications
addressed to the Secretary-General:

(a) Note verba1e dated 20 April 1977 from Portugal (A/32/73);

(b) Note verba1e dated 11 May 1977 from Indonesia (A/32/90).

7. The general debate covering the items referred to in paragraph 2 above took
place at the lOth to 20th meetings, between 31 October and 9 November.

8. At the 15th meeting, on 4 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution (A/C.4/32/L.2), which was finally sponsored by the following Member
States: Angola, Brazil, Burundi, Con~o, CUba, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana,
Guinea-Bissau, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Madagascar, Mali, Prucistan, Sac Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Syrian
Arab Republic, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta and Viet Nam.

9. At its 20th meeting, on 9 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.4/32/L.2 by a recorded vote of 111 to none, with 5 abstentions
(see para. 10 below). The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Against:

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Camoras, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, IraQ, Ireland, Italy,
Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Spain, Sri Lanka, Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Vo1ta, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia~

None.

Abstaining: France, Guatemala, Honduras, lJnited Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

/ ...



A/32/341
English
Page 3

RECOM/,lliNDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

10. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted
under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
reQuested the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation
of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples to study the information transmitted to the Secretary-General under
Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations and to take such information
fully into account in examining the situation with regard to the implementation of
the Declaration, ,

Recalling also its resolution 31/29 of 29 November 1976, in which it
reQuested the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions entrusted
to it under resolution 1970 (XVIII),

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee dealing
with the transmittal of information under Article 73 e of the Charter t! and the
action taken by the Committee in respect of that information,

Having also examined the report of the Secretary-General on the item, gj

Deploring that some Member States having responsibilities for the
administration of Non-Self-Governing Territories have ceased to transmit
information under Article 73 ~ of the Charter,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information from
Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of
the United Nations;

2. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure of self-
government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering Power
concerned should continue to transmit information under Article 73 e of the
Charter with respect to that Territory;

t! A/32/23/Add.9, chap. XXXII.
y A/32/253.

/ ...



A/32/341
English
Page 4

3. Requests_ the administering Powers concerned to transmit, or continue to
transmit, to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in Article 73 ~ of
the Charter, as well as the fullest possible information on political and
constitutional developments in the Territories concerned, within a maximum period
of six months following the expiration of the administrative year in those
Territories;

4. Requests the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in accordance with
established procedures, and to report thereon to the Assembly at its thirty-third
session.


