












































=::::":'::'.::=

sli)(
_.__ ..---
---------

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS Distr.
G:Sl~ERAL

A/32/368
1 Dece;,lber 1977
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL, I:~jGLISlj/SPA?/ISB

_____• • c _

Thirty,-second session
Agenda iten 34

I~WLEjlliNTATION OF GENERAL ASSE~IDLY RESOLUTION 3473 (XXX)
CONCERNING THE SIGNATURE AND RATIFICATION OF ADDITIONAL
PROTOCOL I OF THE TREATY FOR THE PROHIBITION OF NUCLEAR

WEAPONS IN LATIN Al1CRICA (TREATY OF TLATELOLCO)

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: ilr. Francisco CORREA (Mexico)

1. The item entitled "Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3473 (X)[X)
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I of the Treaty
for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco):
report of the Secretary-General" was included in the provisional agenda of the
thirty·-second session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 3473 (xxx) of
11 December 1975.

2. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 19T7, the General Asseably, on the
recommendation of the General Cow~ittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 7th meeting, on 18 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarm&~ent~ nmuely
items 33, 34, 38 to 49 and 51 to 53. The general debate on these items took place
at the 7th to 27th meetings, from 18 October to 7 November. ~

4. In connexion with item 34, the First Committee had before it the following
documents: (a) Note verbale dated 28 September 1977 from the Permanent
Representative of the United States of America to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/C .1/32/3); (b) Report of the Secretary,·General of
14 October 1977 (A/32/275). -

1/ For an index to statements by delegations on disarmllieent items see
A/321383.

77-26364 / ...



A/32/368
English
Page 2

5. On 10 November, the Bahamas, Barbados, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,
the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, E~vador, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Jamaica,
~'rexico, Nicaragua, Pan~, Paraguay, Peru, Surin~, ~rinidad and Tobago:! pruguay
and Venezuela submitted a draft resolution (A!C.1/32/L.17), which was introduced by
the representative of 11exico at the 32nd meetin~, on l~ November.

6. At its 34th meeting, on 16 November, the Camnittee adopted draft resolution
A/c.1/32/L,17 by a recorded vote of 100 to none, with 16 abstentions (see para. 7
below). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Burma, Burundi, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Cyprus, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghana, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Hauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Upper Volta,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, YugOSlavia, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Argentina, BUlgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist RepUblic,
Central African Empire, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, German
Democratic Republic, Greece, Guyana, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist RepUblics.

RECOMMENDATION OF TEr FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3473 (xxx)
concerning the signature and ratification of Additional
Protocol I of the Treaty for the Prohibition of Nuclear

Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco)

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 2286 (XXII) of 5 December 1967, 3262 (XXIX) of

I ...



A/32/368
English
Page 3

9 December 1974 and 3473 (XXX) of 11 December 1975 concerning the Treaty for the
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) gj and its
Additional Protocol I,

Taking into account that certain territories lying within the zone of
application of that Treaty which are not sovereign political entities are
nevertheless in a position to receive the benefits deriving from the Treaty through
its Additional Protocol T, to which the States that de jure or de facto are
internationally responsible for those territories may become parties,

Recalling with satisfaction that the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and the Kingdom of the Netherlands became parties to Additional
Protocol I in 1969 and 1971, respectively,

1. Notes with satisfaction that Additional Protocol I of the Treaty for the
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) was signed
on 26 May 1977 by the President of the United States of America and that the
Government of that country has decided to take the necessary steps for its
ratification;

2. Again urges France to sign and ratify Additional Protocol I of the Treaty
for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) as
soon as possible, in order that the peoples of the territories in question may
receive the benefits which derive from the Treaty and which consist mainly in
removing the danger of nuclear attack and sparing the squandering of resources on
the production of nuclear weapons;

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-third session
an item entitled "Implementation of General Assembly resolution 32/ concerning
the signature and ratification of Additional Protocol I of the Treaty for the
Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco)".

gj United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068, p. 326.


