












































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 57

Distr.
GENERAL

A!321407
8 December 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

REPORT OF 'fHE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ISRAELI
PRACTICES AFFECTING THE HUI~4N RIGHTS OF THE POPULATION

OF THE OCCUPIED TERRITORIES

Report of the Special Political Committee

Rapporteur: Hiss Ruth DOBSON (Australia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories 11
was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-second session of the General
Assembly in accordance with Assembly resolutions 31/106 A to D of 16 December 1976.

2. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Special Political Committee.

3. The Special Political Committee examined the item at its 23rd, 24th, 26th to
34th and 36th meetings, between l4 and 25 and on 29 November.

4. For its consideration of the item, the Com~ittee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special
Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the
Population of the Occupied Territories (A/32/284);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of General Assembly
resolutions 31/106 C and D (A/32/308);

(c) Letter dated 7 November 1977 from the Permanent Representative of the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/sPC/32/L.l2);

77-27940 I ...



A/32/407
English
Page 2

(d) Letter dated 15 November 1977 from the Permanent Representative of
Israel to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/SPC/32/L.13).

5. At the 23rd meeting, on 14 November, the representative of Senegal on the
Special Committee, Mr. Ousmane Goundiam, introduced that Committee's report.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

6. In the course of its deliberations, the Special Political Committee considered
three draft resolutions, as set forth below.

A. Draft resolution A/SPC/32/L.14

7. At the 31st meeting, on 22 November, the representative of Indonesia
introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/32/L.14) which was sponsored by Chad, India,
Indonesia, the Lac People's Democratic Republic, Malaysia, Pakistan and Yugoslavia,
subsequently joined by Bangladesh, Maldives, Mali, Nigeria, Senegal and Viet Nam.

8. At its 36th meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted the draft resolution
by a roll-call vote of 114 to 1 (see para. 15 below, draft resolution A). The
voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Bylorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African Empire, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gambia, German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guinea,
Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics , United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States
of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
YugOSlavia, Zaire, Zambia. !I

Against: Israel.

!I The representatives of the Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, Maldives, Rwanda and the
United RepUblic of Cameroon SUbsequently indicated that, had they been present, they
would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...



Al32/407
English
Page 3

B. Draft resolution A/SPC/32/L.16

9. At the 34th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Cuba introduced a
draft resolution (A/SpC/32/L.16) which was sponsored by Afghanistan, Bangladesh,
the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Comoros, Cuba, the German
Democratic Republic, India, Indonesia, Pakistan, Uganda and the Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, sUbse~uently joined by Madagascar, Mali, Senegal and viet Nam.

10. At the 36th meeting, on 29 November, the representative of the Budget Division
made a statement in which he indicated that while there would be no financial
implications at that time with regard to the draft resolution, implications would
have to be considered, should it become necessary in the future (see also
A/SPC/32/L.18) •

11. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution by a roll-call
vote of 83 to 1, with 33 abstentions (see para. 15 below, draft resolution B). The
voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
RepUblic, Central African Empire, Chad, Chile, China, Congo,
CUba, Cyprus, CzechoslOVakia, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Gambia, German Democratic RepUblic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea,
Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
RepUblic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Mali, /lauri tania, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Romania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire and Zambia. ~

Against: Israel.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Denmark, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Liberia, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Peru, Portugal, Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela.

2/ The representatives of the Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, Maldives and the United
RepUblic of Cameroon subse~uently indicated that, had they been present, they would
have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...



A/32/407
English
Page 4

C. Draft resolution A/SPC/32/L.17

12. At the 34th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Bangladesh
introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/32/L.17) which was sponsored by Afghanistan,
Bangladesh, Indonesia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Pakistan and Uganda,
subsequently joined by the Comoros, Mali, Nigeria, Senegal and Viet Nam.

13. At the 36th meeting, on 29 November, the representative of the Budget Division
made a statement on the administrative and financial implications of the draft
resolution (see also A/SPC/32/L.19).

14. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution by a roll-call
vote of 84 to 2, with 30 abstentions (see para. 15 below, draft resolution C). The
voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Central African Empire, Chad,
China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gambia, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Cuinea, Guyana, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lac People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Mali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire and Zambia. l!

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Denmark, El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Liberia, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Surinam, Swaziland,
Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uruguay, Venezuela.

l! The representatives of the Comoros, Guinea-Bissau, Maldives and the United
Republic of Cameroon SUbsequently indicated that, had they been present, they would
have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...



A/32/407
English
Page 5

IH. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL COHMITTEE

15. The Special Political Corrmrittee recommends to the General Assembly the
adoption of the following draft resolutions:

Report of the S~ecial Committee to Investigate Israeli
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Po~ulation

of the Occu~ied Territories

A

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3092 A (XXVIII) of 7 December 1973, 3240 B (XXIX)
of 29 November 1974, 3525 B (XXX) of 15 December 1975 and 31/106 B of
16 December 1976,

Considering that the promotion of respect for the obligations arlslng from
the Charter of the United Nations and other instruments and rules of international
law is among the basic purposes and principles of the United Nations,

Bearing in mind the provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, ~

Notin~ that Israel and those Arab States whose territories have been
occupied by Israel since June 1967 are parties to that Convention,

Taking into account that States parties to that Convention undertake, in
accordance with article 1 thereof, not only to respect but also to ensure respect
for the Convention in all circumstances,

1. Reaffirms that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of
Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, is applicable to all the
Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem;

2. Stron~ly de~lores the failure of Israel to aknowledge the applicability
of that Convention to the territories it has occupied since 1967;

3. Calls again upon Israel to acknowledge and to comply with the provisions
of that Convention in all the Arab territories it has occupied since 1967,
including Jerusalem;

4. Urges once more all States parties to that Convention to exert all
efforts in order to ensure respect for and compliance with the provisions thereof
in all the Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem.

~ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973, p. 287.

I ...



A/32/407
English
Page 6

B

The General AssemblY,

Recallin~ its resolutions 3240 C (XXIX) of 29 November 1974, 3525 C (XXX) of
15 December 1975 and 31/106 D of 16 December 1976,

Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied
Territories, 51 in particular annex II thereof, entitled "Report on damage at
Quneitra'\ a report on the nature, extent and value of damage, submitted by a
Swiss expert engaged by the Special Committee,

1.
which the
Affecting
the tasks

Expresses its appreciation of the thoroughness and impartiality with
expert engaged by the Special COIT@ittee to Investigate Israeli Practices
the Human 'Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories discharged, -
entrusted to him;

2. Condemns the massive, deliberate destruction of Quneitra perpetrated
during the Israeli occupation and prior to the withdrawal of Israeli forces from
that city in 1974;

3. Reaffirms that the Syrian Arab RepUblic is entitled to full and adequate
compenslition, under international law and in equity, for the massive damage and
deliberate destruction perpetrated in Quneitra while it was under Israeli
occupation, and to all other legal remedies in accordance with applicable
international law and practice;

4. Takes note of the statements made by the representative of the Syrian
Arab Republic before the Special political Committee at the thirty-first il and
thirty-second 11 sessions of the General Assembly to the effect that his Government
reserves all rights to full compensation in regard to all damages resulting from
Israel's deliberate destruction of Quneitra, inclUding those not covered by the
expert's above-mentioned report or not falling within the scope of his assignment;

5. Reguests the Special Committee to complete its survey on all the aspects
referred to in paragraph 4 above and to report thereon to the General Assembly at
its thirty-third session;

6. Reguests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Committee with all
the facilities required for the completion of the tasks referrred to in the
previous paragraphs.

2/ A132/284.
il A/spc/31/sR.30, para. 12.
l! A/sPC/32/sR.34, paras. 7-10.

I . ..



AI321407
English
Page 7

C

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations
as well as the principles and provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights,

Bearing in mind the proV1s~ons of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, ~I as well as of
other relevant conventions and regulations,

Recalling its resolutions on the subject, as well as those adopted by the
Security Council, the Commission on Human Rights and other United Nations bodies
concerned and by specialized agencies,

Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied
Territories, 2Y which contains, inter alia, public statements made by leaders
of the Government of Israel,

1. Commends the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices
Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories for its
efforts in performing the tasks assigned to it by the General Assembly;

2. Deplores the continued refUsal by Israel to allow the Special Committee
access to the occupied territories;

3. Calls again upon Israel to allow the Special Committee access to the
occupied territories;

4. Deplores the continued and persistent violation by Israel of the
Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War,
of 12 August 1949, and other applicable international instruments, and ccndemns
in particular those violations which that Convention designates as "grave
breaches 11 thereof;

5. Condemns the following Israeli policies and practices:

(~) The annexation of parts of the occupied territories;

(Q) The establishment of Israeli settlements therein and the transfer of an
alien population thereto;

(sO The evacuation, deportation, expulsion, displacement and transfer of
Arab inhabitants of the occupied territories, and the denial of their right to
return;

~I United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973, p. 287.

2.1 A/32/284.
I . ..



AI321407
English
Page 8

(~) The confiscation and expropriation of Arab property in the occupied
territories and all other transactions for the acquisition of land involving the
Israeli authorities, institutions or nationals on the one hand, and the inhabitants
or institutions of the occupied territories on the other;

(~) The destruction and demolition of Arab houses;

(!) Mass arrests, administrative detention and ill-treatment of the Arab
population;

(3.) The ill-treatment and torture of persons under detention;

(~) The pillaging of archaeological and cultural property;

(i) The interference with religious freedoms and practices as well as family
rights and customs;

(~) The illegal exploitation of the natural wealth, resources and population
of the occupied territories;

6. Reaffirms that all measures taken by Israel to change the physical
character, demographic composition, institutional structure or status of the
occupied territories, or any part thereof, including Jerusalem, are null and void,
and that Israel's policy of settling parts of its population and new immigrants
in the occupied territories constitutes a flagrant violation of the Geneva
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War and of
the relevant United Nations resolutions;

7. Demands that Israel desist forthwith from the policies and practices
referred to in paragraphs 5 and 6 above;

8. Reiterates its call upon all States, in particular those States parties
to the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of
War, in accordance with article 1 of that Convention, and upon international
organizations and specialized agencies not to recognize any changes carried out
by Israel in the occupied territories and to avoid actions, inclUding those in the
field of aid, which might be used by Israel in its pursuit of the policies of
annexation and colonization or any of the other policies and practices referred
to in the present resolution;

9. Reguests the Special Committee, pending the early termination of the
Israeli occupation, to continue to investigate Israeli pOlicies and practices in
the Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, to consult, as appropriate,
with the International Committee of the Red Cross in order to ensure the
safeguarding of the welfare &nd human rights of the population of the occupied
territories, and to report to the Secretary-General as soon as possible and
whenever the need arises thereafter;

10. Reguests the Special Committee to continue to investigate the treatment
of civilians in detention in the Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967

I . ..



A/32/407
English
Page 9

and to submit to the Secretary-General a special report on that subject as soon
as possible and whenever the need arises thereafter;

11. Requests the Secretary-General:

(a) To render all necessary facilities to the Special Committee, including
those required for its visits to the occupied territories, with a view to
investigating Israeli policies and practices referred to in the present resolution;

(b) To continue to make available additional staff as may be necessary to
assist-the Special Committee in the performance of its tasks;

(c) To ensure the widest circulation of the reports of the Special Committee,
and of-information regarding its activities and findings, by all means available
through the Office of Public Information of the Secretariat and, where necessary,
to reprint those reports of the Special Committee which are no longer available;

(d) To report to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session on the
tasks entrusted to him in the present paragraph;

12. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty~third session
the item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices
Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories".


