












































UNITED NATiONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 46

Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/377
8 Dec ember 1977
EIIGLISH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPP.lHSII

PROHIBITION OF THE DEVELOPlmlT AND MANUFACTURE OF IIETiJ
TYPES OF FEAPONS OF 11llSS DESTRUCTION AND NEF SYSTEMS

OF SUCH HEAPONS

Report of the First Committee

Rappor~eur: Mr. Francisco CORP~A (Mexico)

1. The item entitled "Prohibition of the development and manufacture of ne" types
of weapons of mass destruction and nei-T systems of such veapons: report of the
Conference of the Committee on Disarmament l1 "JaS included in the provisional agenda
of the thirty-second session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 31/74
of 10 December 1976.

2. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee~ decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 7th meeting, on 18 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 33, 3[1, 38 to 49 and 51 to 53. The general debate on these items
took place at the 7th to 27th meetings, from 18 October to 7 November. !I

4. In connexion with item 46, the First Committee had before it the report of the
Conference of the Committee on Disarmament. 21

5. On 28 October, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics submitted a draft resolution (A/C.1/32/L.4) , which was
subsequently sponsored also by the pyelorussian Soviet Socialist RepUblic,

1/ For an index to statements by delegations on disarmament items, see
A/32/383.

2/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/32/27).

TT -27934 I . ..



A/32/3H
English
Page 2

Czechoslovakia and Mongolia. The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of the German Democratic Republic at the 28th meeting on
9 November.

6. On 28 October, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy,
Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland submitted a draft resolution (A/c.1/32/L.5) which was subsequently
sponsored also by the Ivory Coast. The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of the United Kingdom at the 28th meeting, on 9 November.

7. At the 33rd meeting, on 15 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.1/32/L.4 by a recorded vote of 87 to none, with 28 abstentions 1/
(see para. 9 below, draft resolution A). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining; Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burma, Canada, Central African
Empire, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Luxembourg,
Mauritania, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Senegal,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

8. At the same meeting, the First Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.1/32/L.5
by a recorded vote of 80 to none with 35 abstentions ~ (see para. 9 below, draft
resolution Bl. The voting was as follows:

31 After the vote, the representatives of Burma and Guinea stated that they
had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

~ After the vote, the representative of Cape Verde stated that his delegation
had intended to abstain.

I ...



A/32/377
English
Page 3

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Burma, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Empire, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Turkey, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
Republic of Cameroon, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Austria, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Jamaica, Kenya, Madagascar, Mali,
Mongolia, Mozambique, Nigeria, Poland, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Zambia.

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

9. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new
types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems

of such weapons

A

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3479 (XXX) of 11 December 1975 and 31/74 of
la December 1976, in which it requested the Conference of the Committee on
Disarmament to work out an agreement on the prohibition of the development and
manufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new Bfstems of such
weapons,

Recognizing that modern science and technology have reached, level where a
serious danger arises of the development of new, still more destr\~tive types of
weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons,

I . ..



A/32/377
English
Page 4

Conscious that the development and manufacture of such weapons are fraught
with the most serious consequences for the peace and security of nation.s,

Being convinced of the importance of concluding an agreement or agreements to
prevent the use of scientific and technological progress for the development of
new types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons~

Noting the negotiations now under way between the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and the United States of America on the question of prohibition of new
types and systems of weapons of mass destruction and in this context on prohibition
of radiological weapons,

Taking note of the discussion at the Conference of the Committee on
Disarmament of the question of the prohibition of the development and manufacture
of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons,

Taking into account the report of the Conference of the Committee on
Disarmament with regard to this question, 21

1. Requests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to continue
negotiations, with the assistance of qualified governmental experts, aimed at
working out the text of an agreement on the prohibition of the development and
~anufacture of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such
weapons, and, when necessary, specific agreements on this subject;

2. Requests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to submit a
report on the results achieved to the General Assembly for consideration at its
thirty-third session;

3. Urges all States to refrain from any action which would impede
international talks aimed at working out an agreement or agreements to prevent the
use of scientific and technological progress for the development of new types of
weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference of the
Committee on Disarmament all documents relating to the discussion of this item by
the General Assembly at its thirty-second session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda ot its thirty-third session
the item entitled "Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of
weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons: report of the
Conference of the Committee on Disarmament".

51 See Official Records of tne General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Suppl;ment N~:- 27 (A/32/27l, vol. I, paras. 207-234.

I . ..



A!32!377
English
Page 5

B

The General Assembly,

Guided by the interests of strengthening international peace and security and
desiring to promote confidence among nations and the further improvement of the
international situation,

Restating its conviction that scientific discovery should be used for the
benefit of w~nkind,

Recognizing that new weapons might be evolved on the basis of scientific
principles other than those used in the weapons named in the 1948 definition of
weapons of mass destruction, §I

Bearing in mind that recent years have seen the conclusion of a number of
important agreements on the limitation of the arms race and disarmament, including
some relating to the prohibition and limitation of identified weapons of mass
destruction, and that negotiations for further agreements are continuing,

Noting the discussion at the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament on the
question of the prohibition of the development of new weapons of mass destruction,

l.
based on

2.
mankind;

Urges States to refrain from developing new weapons of mass destruction
new scientific principles;

Calls upon States to apply scientific discovery for the benefit of

3. Reaffirms the definition of weapons of mass destruction contained in the
resolution of its Commission for Conventional Armaments of 12 August 1948, §!
which defined weapons of mass destruction as atomic explosive weapons, radio-active
material weapons, lethal chemical and biological weapons and any weapons developed
in the future which have characteristics comparable in destructive effect to those
of the atomic bomb or other weapons mentioned above;

4. Welcomes the active continuation of negotiations relating to the
prohibition and limitation of identified weapons of mass destruction;

5. Requests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, while taking
into account its existing priorities, to keep under review the question of the
development of new weapons of w~ss destruction based on new scientific principles
and to consider the desirability of formulating agreements on the prohibition of
any specific new weapons which may be identified;

6. Requests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to report on its
review to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session.

§j See S!C.3!32!Rev.l and Rev.l!Corr.l.


