












































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/463 <5l.."...,\
15 December 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 62

UNITED NATIONS ENVIRONMENT PROGRAMME

Report of the Second Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ibrahim Suleiman DHARAT (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)

1. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Cow~ittee, decided to include in its agenda the item
entitled:

"United Nations Environment Programme:

(a) Report of the Governing Council;

(b) Reports of the Secretary-General;

(c) United Nations Conference on Desertification"

and to allocate it to the Second Committee.

2. The Second Corr~ittee considered the item at its 19th to 21st, 23rd to 27th and
55th to 59th meetings, between 17 October and 10 December. An account of the
discussion of the Committee is contained in the relevant summary records
(A/C.2/32/SR.19-21, 23-27 and 55-59).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment
Programme on the work of its fifth session (A/32/25); ~j

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session, Supplement
No. i5 (A!32/25).

77-29584 / ...



A/32/463
l~n~lish

Page 2

(b) Report of the Secretary ·General on material remnants of ,mrs and their
effect on the environment (A/32/131)

(c) Note by the Secretary·-General on co-·ordination of action at the regional
level in the field of human settlements (A/32/26o);

(d) Reporc of the Secretary--General on the living conditions of the
Palestinian people in occupied territories (A/32/228);

(e) Note by the Secretary-General on international conventions and protocols
in the field of the environment (A/32/156);

(f) Report of the United Nations Conference on Desertification
(A/CONF.14/36);

(g) Report by the Secretary-General on the results of the United Nations
Conference on Desertification (A/32/251 and Corr.l);

(h) Note by the Secretary-General on natural resources shared by two or more
States (A/32/159);

(i) Report of the Economic and Social Council (A/32/3); ~/

(j) Report of the Economic and Social Council on the work of its resumed
sixty-third session (A/32/3/Add.l, Parts I-VI);

(k) Note verbale dated 23 August 1911 from the Permanent Ihssion of the
Syrian Arab Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-
General (A/32/189);

(1) Note verbale dated 28 July 1911 from the Permanent 11ission of Bulgaria
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.2/32/3);

(m) Note verbale dated 21 October 191'7 from the Permanent l'lission of Jordan
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.2/32/6)_

4. At its 19th meeting, on 11 October, the Executive Director of the United
Nations Environment Programme made an introductory statement and, at the 20th
meeting, on 18 October, the Committee heard a statement by the Secretary-General
of the United Nations Conference on Desertification on the results of the
Conference.

5· The Committee then considered six draft resolutions and two draft decisions,
as set forth in sections I to VII below.

~ Ibid., Supplement No. 3 (A/32/3), chap_ IV, sect. E.

/ ...



1</32/463
English
Page 3

I

6. At the 55th meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Sweden introduced a
draft resolution entitled "Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Programme" (A/C. 2/32/L .19 /Rev.l), sponsored by ~.rgentina, ~CaYl.ad,,-,
Egypt~, India, Jamaica, Jordan, the ~ibyan ll.rab JaInahiriya~ Nigeria, U~~8:~, ~?~5J~_:t~~,
the ?!~J:.~--.:~E_~.~_fJes~ Port -'"Tc_a1.~ the 0~d.,~~:"_, §~~ede~, ~Cr:iEJ.(l:~_d__~p.---.S~~o bft.":2.' J~--m.is j:-a_,
Vene:zu_eJ::.§.. and ~ur~oslavia) later .J oined ;t?~nr~l.9desl1) D2T'i.mark 2nd Finland.

I. At the same meeting, the Committee adonted draft resolution
A/C.2/32/L.19/Rev.l (see para. 32 below, dr~ft resolution I).

8. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the
United States of America, Italy, Brazil, France, China, Belgium, the Federal
Republic of Germany, Viet Nam and the Netherlands. The representative of the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya also made a statement.

II

9. At the 55th meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Afghanistan
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/32/L.31/Rev.l) entitled "Financial and
technical assistance to the least developed among the developing countries",
sponsored by Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burundi, the Central African Empire,
Chad, Ethiopia, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Mali, Nepal, Rwanda, the Sudan,
Swaziland and Uganda, later joined by Bolivia, Botswana. the Comoros, Democratic
Yemen, Guinea-Bissau and the Niger.

10. The representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland made two proposals:

(a) In operative paragraph 1 of the draft resolution (A/C.2/32/L.31/Rev.l),
the word "decision" should be replaced by the word "recommendation" after the
\>lords l1implementation of the 11:,

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the word "decisions" should be replaced by the
word flrecommendations fi •

Il,e representative of Afghanistan accepted those amendments on behalf of the
sponsors of the draft resolution.

11. The Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/32/L.31/Rev.l, as orally revised
(see para. 32 below, draft resolution 11).

12. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, representatives of the United
States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Belgium (on behalf
of the members of the European Economic Community) made statements.

/ ...



A/32/463
English
Page 4

III

13. At the 56th meeting, on 8 December, the representative of Mali, on behalf of
the sponsors, introduced a draft resolution entitled n,'leasures to be taken for the
benefit of the Sudano-Sahelian region;> (A/C.2132/L.50/Rev.2), sponsored by Cape
Verde, Chad, the Gambia, India, Mali, Mauritania, ]\1orocco, the Niger and Senegal~
later joined by Algeria, Egypt, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau, the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Mexico, Nigeria, the SUdan, Tunisia, the United Republic of Cameroon
and the Upper Volta.

14. Subse~uently, the representative of :lali, on behalf of the sponsors, revised
the draft resolution (A/C.2/32/L.50/Rev.2) by deleting operative paragraph 4,
which read as follows:

"4. Requests the Secretary-General to report on the implementation of
this resolution, through the Economic and Social Council, to the General
Assembly at its thirty-third session."

15. At the 56th meeting, the Committee adopted
A/C.2/32/L.50/Rcv.2 (see para. 32 below, draft

draft resolution
resolution Ill).

16. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of
France, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Japan and the United States of
America made statements.

17. At the 57th meeting, on 9 December, the ~epresentative of Pakistan
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Living conditions of the Palestinian
people" (A/C.2/32/L. 51), on behalf of Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Benin, the Comoros,
Cuba, Egypt, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Kuwait, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Uganda, the United Arab
Emirates and Yugoslavia, subsequently joined by Algeria, Bahrain, Bolivia,
Democratic Yemen, the Sudan, Viet Nam and Yemen.

18. In his introductory statement, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf of
the sponsors, revised operative paragraph 1 of the draft resolution by replacing
the words "it does not meet adequately" after the words "the view that" by the
phrase 1!there is a need for further analysis in order to fullytl.

19. The Committee also had before it a statement submitted by the Secretary-
General (A/C.2/32/L.81) on the administrative and financial implications of the
draft resolution (A/C.2/32/L.5l).

20. At the 57th meeting, the
orally revised, by a recorded
below, draft resolution IV).

Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/32/L.5l, as
vote of 95 to 4, with 24 abstentions (see para. 32
The voting was as follows: 11

l/ At the 58th meeting, the representative of Italy informed the Secretariat
that he had intended to abstain in the voting.



A/32/463
English
Page 5

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Central
African Empire, Chad, China, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea-Bissau 9
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Liberia, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab RepUblic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia.
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, YemeD, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Australia, Guatemala, Israel, United States of ~merica.

Abstaining: Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark,
El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Papua New Guinea,
Portugal, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uruguay.

21. The representatives of Japan, the Syrian Arab Republic and Belgium (on behalf
of the European Economic Community) made statements after the vote. The observer
for the Palestine Liberation Organization made a statement.

v

22. At the 58th meeting, on 10 December, Mr. Tukan, Vice-Chairman of the
Committee, introduced a draft resolution entitled "Report of the United Nations
Conference on Desertification" (A/C.2/32/L.97), submitted on the basis of informal
consultations on the revised draft resolution (A/C.2/32/L.27/Rev.l), which had
originally been submitted by the delegation of Jamaica on behalf of the States
Members of the United Nations which are members of the Group of Seventy-seven.

23. A statement submitted by the Secretary-General on the administrative and
financial implications of the draft resolution was also before the Corr@ittee
(A/C .2/32/L. 91 and Add.l).

24. At the 58th meeting, the Committee took the following action:

(a) It adopted operative ~aragraph 11 of draft resolution A/C.2/32/L.97 by
82 votes to 16, with 18 abstentions;

/ ...



A/32/2,63
English
Page 6

(b) It adopted operative paragraph 12 by 80 votes to 11, with 20
abstentions;

(c) It then adonted the draft resolution, as a whole, by 104 votes to none,
with 12 abstentions (;ee para. 32 below, draft below, draft resolution V).

25. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the German Democratic Republic (on behalf of BUlgaria, the
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic
Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist RepUblic and
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics), the Netherlands, Japan, Australia,
Italy, Israel, France, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Pakistan, the Federal Republic of Germany, the United States of America, Belgium,
Sweden, Spain, Non~ay and Denmark.

VI

26. At the 59th meeting, on 12 December, the representative of the Philippines
introduced a draft resolution entitled "Resources of the United Nations Habitat
and Human Settlements Foundation" ('I../C. 2/32/L. 28), on behalf of Bangladesh,
Egypt, India, Jamaica, Jordan) Kenya, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mexico, Nigeria,
Oman, the Philippines, the Sudan, Trinidad and Tobago, ~unisia and Venezuela.
During her statement, the representative of the Philippines introduced two
revisions:

(a)
"Appeals

The replacement, In operative paragraph 1, of the word "Urges 11 ty
to";

(b) ·The replacement in operative paragraph 2, of the word "Endorses" by the
'I'lord :INate sn .

27.
and

The Secretary of the Committee made
financial implications of the draft

a statement regarding the aQministrative
resolution (A!C.2!32/L.28).

28. At the 59th meeting, the Committee adonted draft resolution A!C.2!32!L.28, as
orally revised (see para. 32 below, draft r~solution VI).

29. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of the
United States of America, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, the Federal Republic of Germany, Spain, Denmark, France and Sweden made
statements.

VII

30. Also at the 59th meeting, the Committee decided, on the proposal of the
Chairman, to reco~~end that the General Assembly should take note of the report of
the Secretary-General on co-ordination of action at the regional level in the

! ...



A/32/463
English
Page 7

field of human settlements (A/32/260), submitted pursuant to paragraph 7, of
General Assembly resolution 31/109 of 16 December 1976 (see para. 33 below, draft
decision I).

31. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted a proposal by the Chairman to
recommend that the General Assembly, noting Economic and Social Council decision
264 (LXIII), should request the Secretary-General to submit the report concerning
specific measures to meet the need for a decent living environment for the most
vulnerable groups of society called for in paragraph 2 of Assembly resolution
31/113, to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session through the Council at
its sixty-fifth session (see para. 33 below, draft decision 11).

RECO~U1ENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COr~lITTEE

32. The Second Corrnittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Report of the Governing Council of the
United Nations Environment ~!ograrune

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Programme on the work of its fifth session ~ and the statement 21 of
the Executive Director of the Programme introducing the report,

Having further considered Economic and Social Council resolution 2112 (LXIII)
of 11 August 1977 relating to the report of the Governing Council of the United
Nations Environment Program~e,

Recalling its resolutions 2997 (XXVII) of 15 ~ecember 1972 and 31/112 of
16 December 1976,

1. Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the Governing Council of
the United Nations Environment Programme on the work of its fifth ,'ession;

2. Invites_ the governing bodies of all organizations within the United
Nations system to take full account within their terms of reference, of the
decisions of the Governing Council and to ensure that those organizations review
their prograa~es and bUdgets with a view to participating fully in the effective
implementation of the environment prograrr~e;

41 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Suppl;ment No. 25 (A/32/25).

2/ A/c.2/32/SR.19, paras. 1-13.

I ...



A/32/463
English
Page 8

3. Stresses the need for ensuring that environmental considerations are
taken into account in development programmes in differing socio-economic settings,
in the implementation of the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New
International Economic Order ~ and in the formulation of the new international
development strategy;

4. Invites all Governments to contribute generously to the Fund of the
United Nations Environment Programme, bearing in mind resolution 98 (v) of
24 May 1977 of the Governing Council, so as to permit the full implementation of
the medium-term plan for 1978-1981 for Fund programme activities; 11

5. Notes the report of the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the
Executive Director of the United Nations Environment Programme on the study of the
problem of the material remnants of wars, particularly mines, and their effect on
the environment, 81 and decision 101 (V) of 25 May 1977 of the Governing Council
and invites Gover;~ents concerned to co-operate with the Executive Director in the
implementation of the decision;

6. Also notes the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of
the Executive Director on international conventions and protocols in the field of
the environment 2/ and invites l1ember States, as appropriate, to ratify and
implement these conventions and protocols, and requests the Executive Director to
continue to take the necessary measures to facilitate the ratification and
implementation of these and newly signed conventions and protocols by the greatest
possible number of States;

7. Also notes the note by the Secretary-General on the progress made by the
Intergovernmental Working Group of Experts on Natural Resources shared by two or
more States 101 and decision 99 (v) of 20 May 1977 of the Governing Council and
expresses the hope that the Working Group of Experts will expedite the completion
of its work in order for the Governing Council to present its final report on the
sUbject to the General Assembly.

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Financial and technical assistance to the least
developed among the developing countries

The General Assembly,

~ General Assembly resolution 3202 (S-VI).

1/ UNEP/GC/98 and Corr.l and Corr.2, table 1.
§/ A/32/137.
2/ A/32/156.

101 A/32/159.

I ...



United Nations Conference on Trade and Develo ment,
United Nations pUblication, Sales No. E.76.II.D.IO),

A/32/463
English
Page 9

Taking note of the resolutions adopted by the United Nations Conference on
Desertification, held at Nairobi from 29 August to 9 September 1977, III

Recognizing that desertification constitutes a world-wide economic and social
problem,

Reaffirming the cardinal principle of the permanent sovereignty of States
over their natural resources,

Bearing in mind the resolution adopted by the United Nations Conference on
Desertification, in which the Conference recognized that the least developed among
the developing countries with limited resources at their disposal were in need of
immediate financial and technical assistance from the United Nations and the
specialized agencies· and international organizations within the United Nations
system, 121

Taking note of resolution 98 (IV) of 31 May 1976 of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development, 131

1. Recommends the speedy implementation of the recommendation of the United
Nations Conference on Desertification with respect to financial and technical
assistance to the least developed countries; 141

2. Urges the United Nations and its Member States and the specialized
agencies and international and regional financial institutions to ensure the
implementation of the recommendations of the United Nations Conference on
Desertification in favour of those countries by extending additional international
and bilateral assistance;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-third session on the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Measures to be taken for the benefit of the Sudano-Sahelian reglon

The General Assembly,

Considering the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification and the relevant

III See A/cONF.74/36, chap. 11. See also A/32/257.

121 A/CONF.74/36, chap. 11, resolution 2.

131 Proceedings of the
vol. I, Report and Annexes
part one, sect. A.

141 A/cONF.74/36, chap. I, recommendation 28.

I ...



A/32/463
English
Page 10

resolutions and recommendations adopted by the United Nations Conference on
Desertification, 151

Bearing in mind the United Nations resolutions and recommendations concerning
the drought in the Sahel and the implementation of the medium-term and long-term
programme for the recovery and rehabilitation of the region,

Aware of the particular seriousness of desertification in the Sudano-Sahelian
region and of the recurrent critical situations resulting from it, which hamper
the economic and social development of the region and have particularly adverse
effects on the way of life of the population,

Noting in particular the harmful effects of the particularly low level of
rainfall in the region,

1. Stresses the need for the immediate implementation in the Sudano-
Sahelian region of the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification and of the
relevant resolutions adopted by the United Nations Conference on
Desertification; 16/

2. Requests the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment
Programme to consider at its sixth session, on the basis of a report by the
Executive Director of the Programme which will take account of the role and
activities of the competent existing organs in the region, measures to improve
institutional arrangements in the Sudano-Sahelian region, including the
establishment of a subregional office of the United Nations Environment Programme
in the region for the purpose of supporting efforts undertaken at the national and
regional levels by the countries concerned to combat desertification and of
encouraging and co-ordinating, in co-operation with competent existing organs,
assistance from developed countries, multilateral financial institutions,
intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental donors;

3. Further requests the Governing Council to include in its agenda, when it
considers the implementation of the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification, an
item concerning measures and modes of action for implementing projects and
programmes to combat desertification in the Sudano-Sahelian region.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Living conditions of the Palestinian people

The General Assembly,

Recalling the Vancouver Declaration on Human Settlements, 1976, 171 and the

151 A/CONF.74/36, chaps. I and II.

161 Ibid.

171 Report of Habitat: United Nations Conference on Human Settlements
(United Nations publication, Sales No. E.76.IV.7 and corrigendum), chap. I.

I ...



A/32/463
English
Page 11

relevant recom~endations for national action 18/ adopted by Habitat: United
Nations Conference on Human Settlements, held-at Vancouver from 31 May to
11 June 1976,

Recalling also resolution 3 of the recommendations of the Conference for
international co-operation on living conditions of the Palestinians in occupied
territories 19/ and Economic and Social Council resolution 2100 (LXIII) of
3 August 1977,

Recallinl' General Assembly resolution 31/110 of 16 December 1976,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the living
conditions of the Palestinian people in the occupied territories 20/ and expresses
the view that there is need for further analysis in order to meet fully the
objectives of General Assembly resolution 31/110;

2. Requests therefore the Secretary-General, in collaboration with the
relevant United Nations organs and specialized agencies, particularly the
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East and
the Economic Commission for Western Asia, to prepare and submit to the General
Assembly at its thirty-third session a comprehensive and analytical report on the
social and economic impact of the Israeli occupation on the living conditions of
the Palestinian people in the occupied territories;

3. Requests the Secretary-General, in preparing the above· mentioned report,
to consult and co-operate with the Palestine Liberation Organization, the
representative of the Palestinian people;

4. Urges all States to co-operate with the Secretary-General in the
preparation of the report.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

United Nations Conference on Desertification

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 Hay 1974
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a
New International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974 containing the
Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 September 1975 on development and international economic co-operation,

Recalling further its resolution 3337 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, in which it
decided to convene the United Nations Conference on Desertification,

18/ Ibid. , chap. H.

19/ Ibid. , chap. IH.

20/ A/32/228.

/ ...



A/32/463
English
Page 12

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the results of the
Conference, 211

1. Approves the report of the United Nations Conference on
Desertification; 221

2.
as host

3.
for its

Expresses its gratitude to the Government and people of Kenya for acting
to the Conference;

Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General of the Conference
efficient preparation and organization;

4. Calls upon all Governments to consider, on a priority basis, the
recommendations for national action contained in section IV of the Plan of Action
to Combat Desertification 231 and, where necessary, the desirability of
establishing a national authority to co-ordinate, consolidate and implement
national anti-desertification action programmes;

5. Recommends that sUbregional co-operation be initiated or intensified, as
considered necessary, among countries affected by desertification, with the
required assistance from the United Nations Environment Programme and other
organizations concerned, with a view to formulating specific joint programmes and
requests for development assistance for implementation of the Plan of Action;

6. Requests the regional commissions to undertake intensified and sustained
action in support of national efforts to combat desertification, to assist
Governments, at their request, in the implementation of the Plan of Action to
Combat Desertification and to convene, as appropriate, in co-operation with
interested Governments and regional organizations, intergovernmental regional
meetings, technical workshops and seminars to consider the immediate
implementation of the reco~mendations contained in section V of the Plan of
Action;

7. Requests the organs, organizations and other bodies of the United
Nations system to support international action to combat desertification within
the context of the Plan of Action;

8. Decides to entrust the Governing Council and the Executive Director of
the United Nations Environment Programme, as well as the Environment Co-ordination
Board, with the responsibility of following up and co-ordinating the
implementation of the Plan of Action, in accordance with its recommendation 27,
and requests the Governing Council to report, through the Economic and Social
Council, to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session and thereafter every
two years;

211 A/32/257 and Corr.l.

221 A/cONF.74/36.

231 Ibid., chap. I.

I ...



A/32/463
English
Page 13

9. Calls upon all countries, in particular developed countries, as well as
multilateral financial institutions and non-governmental donors, to provide and
increase their assistance to countries SUffering from desertification, especially
for the financing of their sUbregional and regional programmes and projects within
appropriate consortium arrangements, such as those pertaining to the Sahel green
belt, and urges developing countries to give due priority to desertification
problems in their development assistance requests;

10. Authorizes the Executive Director to convene immediately a consultative
group, which would meet as and when required, comprising representatives from
organizations referred to in paragraph 7 above, such other organizations as might
be required, donor countries, multilateral financial agencies, as well as
developing countries having a substantial interest in combating desertification,
to assist in mobilizing resources for the activities undertill<en within the framework
of implementing the Plan of Action;

11. Endorses in principle the creation of a special account within the
United Nations for implementing the Plan of Action;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare and submit a study on the
establishment and operation of such an account to the General Assembly, at its
thirty-third session, through the Governing Council and the Economic and Social
Council;

13. Invites the Governing Council to have prepared, by a small group of
high-level specialists in the international financing of projects and programmes,
a study of additional measures and means of financing for the implementation of
the Plan of Action, and to submit a final report on the subject of additional
measures of financing to the General Assembly, at its thirty-third session,
through the Economic and Social Council;

14. Reguests the Secretary-General to approach Member States and competent
organizations and bodies within the United Nations system, as well as scientific
institutions concerned outside the system, for further research, development and
refinement of the data pertaining to desertification, to close any existing gaps
in scientific knowledge and technology, and for further development of the world
map of desertification on the basis of the relevant recommendations of the
Conference;

15. Further requests the Secretary-General to invite intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations concerned with desertification problems and their
impact on development to participate in the implementation of the Plan of Action
with a view to co-ordinating their activities within world-wide and regional
programmes;

16. Further reguests the Secretary-General to report to the General
Assembly, at its thirty-third session, on the implementation of the resolutions
adopted by the Conference, 24/ especially resolution 2 on financial and technical

24/ Ibid., chap. II.

/ ...



A/32/463
English
Fa,~e 14

assistance to the least developed countries and resolution 4 on the effect of
'i,·reapons of mass destruction on ecosystems.

DP~_FT RESOLUTION VI

Resources of the United Nations Habitat
and Hmnan Settlements Foundation

The General Assembly,

~ecalling its resolution 3327 (XXIX) of 16 December 1974 regarding the
establishment of the United Nations Habitat and Human Settlements Foundation,

Believing that the current level of resources available to the Foundation is
clearly inadequate,

Recognizing that the international community, at both the global and regional
levels, should encourage and support Governments determined to take effective
action to ameliorate conditions, especially for the least advantaged, in urban and
rural settlements,

Bearing in mind the invitation of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Programme, in its decision 92 (V) of 25 May 1977, to the General
Assembly regarding the setting of a target for total voluntary contributions by
Governments to the Foundation,

1. Appeals to all Governments to contribute generously to the United
Nations Habitat and Hurrlan Settlements Foundation as soon as possible in order to
expedite action programmes in the field of hQman settlements;

2. Notes the proposal of the Executive Director of the United Nations
Environment Progra~~e regarding the target of $50 million as a minimum for the
total voluntary contributions by Governments for the years 1978-1981; 251

3. Requests the Secretary-General to convene, during the thirty-third
session of t11e General Assembly, a pledGing conference on voluntary contributions
by Governments to the Foundation if pledges to meet the minimum target referred to
in paragraph 2 above are not forthcoming.

33. The Second Committee also recorr~ends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft decisions:

DFAFT DECISION I

Co-ordination of action at the regional
level in the field of human settlements

The General Assembly takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on

25) UNEPIGC/93.

I ...



A/32/463
English
Page 15

co-ordination of action at the regional level in the field of human
settlements, 26/ submitted pursuant to paragraph 7 of Assembly resolution 31/109
of 16 December-1976.

DRAFT DECISION 11

Specific measures to meet the need for a decent living
environment for the most vulnerable groups of society

The General Assembly, noting Economic and Social Council decision 264 (LXIII)
of 4 August 1977, re~uests the Secretary-General to submit the report concerning
specific measures to meet the needs for a decent living environment for the most
vulnerable groups of society, called for in paragraph 2 of Assembly resolution
31/113 of 16 December 1976, to the Assembly at its thirty-third session, through
the Council at its sixty-fifth session.

26/ A/32/260.


