












































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 74

Distr ..
GENERAL

A/32/307/Add.l·
2 November 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF RACIAL DISChIMINATION

Report of the Third Committee (Part 11)

Rapporteur: Fuad M. AL-HINAI (Oman)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Third Committee considered subitems (a), (c) and (d) of item 74 at its
4th to 11th and 13th to 15th meetings, from 28 September to 6 October and on
10 and 11 October 1977 (see A/32/307).

2. The Committee considered subitem (b) at its 28th to 30th meetings, from
24 to 26 October. The views expressed by the representatives of Member States on
this subitem are contained in the summary records of those meetings
(A/C.3/32/SR.28-30).

3. In connexion with subitem (b), the CONmittee had before it the report of the
Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination for the year 1977. !I

4. The Director of the Division of Human Rights introduced the subitem at \he
28th meeting, on 24 October (see A/C.3/32/SR.28, paras. 56-66).

11. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/32/L.12

5. At the 29th meeting, on 25 October, the representative of Yugoslavia, on behalf
of Argentina, Cyprus, Egypt, Ghana, India, Morocco, the Philippines, Senegal, the
Syrian Arab Republic and Yugoslavia, subseQuently joined by Madagascar and Nir,eria,
introduced a draft resolution on the report of the Committee on tne·Elimination of
Racial Discrimination (A/c.3/32/L.12).

11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
SuPP1;ment No. 18 (A/32/18).

77-21712 I ...



A/32/307/Add.l
English
Page 2

6. At its 30th meeting, on 26 October, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.3/32/L.12:

(a) Operative paragraph 7, on which a separate vote had been requested by the
representative of the Federal Republic of Germany, was adopted by a roll-call vote,
of 70 votes to 1, with 28 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain, Botswana, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African
Empire, Chad, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Ecuador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, India, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Mozambique, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, Upper Volta, Venezuela,
Viet Narn, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Israel.

Abstaining: Australia, Barbados, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Guatemala, Honduras, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Rwanda,
Swaziland, Trinidad and Tobago, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay.

The representative of Malaysia stated that owing to an error his delegation had
abstained instead of voting in favour;

(b) The draft resolution as a whole was adopted by 103 votes to 1, with 1
abstention (see para. 7 below).

Ill. RECO~[·1ENDATIOII OF THE THIRD CO~IMITTEE

7. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Report of the Committee on the Elimination of
Racial Discrimination

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3057 (XXVIII) of 2 November 1973 and 32/ .•. of
November 1977 }/ on the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial

}/ See A/32/307, para. 15, draft resolution I.

/ ...



A/32/307/Add.l
English
Page 3

Discrimination, resolution 31/81 of 13 December 1976 on the reports of the Committee
on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination and resolution 32/ ... of
November 1977 4/ on the status of the International Convention on the Elimination
of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,

Having considered the report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial
Discrimination on its fifteenth and sixteenth sessions 2/ submitted under article 9,
paragraph 2, of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Racial Discrimination)

NotinR with appreciation the decisions taken by the Committee at its sixteenth
session about its contribution to the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination by preparing a document on the Convention and the relevant study on
the acceptance and implementation of the Convention,

Stressing the importance of the undertaking of States parties to the Convention
to engage in no act or practice of racial discrimination against any person, groups
of persons or national or ethnic minorities, and to ensure that all public
authorities and public institutions, national and local, shall act in conformity
with this obligation, in accordance with relevant provisions of the Convention,

Noting the decisions adopted by the Committee at its fifteenth and sixteenth
sessions,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Committee on the
Elimination of Racial Discrimination;

2.. Takes note also of the part of the report relating to Trust and
Non-Self-Governing Territories and to all other Territories to which General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 applies, draws the attention of
the relevant United Nations bodies to the opinions and recommendations of the
Committee relating to those Territories and stresses the necessity of providing the
Committee with sufficient information in order to enable it to discharge fully its
responsibilities under article 15 of the International Convention on the Elimination
of All Forms of Racial Discrimination;

3. Commends the Committee for furthering the implementation of the Convention
by re~uesting the States parties to the Convention to include in their reports
under article 9 information on the measures which they have adopted to give effect
to article 7 of the Convention in the fields of teaching, education, culture and
information with a view to combating prejudices which lead to racial discrimination,
promoting understanding, tolerance and friendship among nations and racial or
ethnic groups, and propagating the purposes and principles of the Charter of the
United Nations, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations
Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and the
Convention:

~ Ibid., draft resolution 11.

2/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Suppl;ment No. 18 (A/32/18).

/ ...



A!32!307!Add.l
English
Page 4

4. Welcomes decision 2 (XVI) of 9 August 1977 in which the Committee decided
in principle to give general distribution to the reports of States parties to the
Convention and other official documents of the Committee which would bring about
greater awareness by world public opinion of the problem of racial discrimination
and mobilize it on the realization of the goals and principles contained in the
Convention;

5. Welcomes all efforts by the Committee to focus the greatest attention on
the just cause of the peoples struggling against the oppression of the colonialist
and racist regimes in southern Africa;

6. Invites States parties to the Convention to provide necessary information
to the Committee in accordance with article 9 of the Convention, taking into account
in particular:

(a)
relations

General recommendation III and decision 2 (XI)
with the racist regimes in southern Africa;

on the status of their

(b) General recommendation IV on the demographic composition of their
population;

(c) General recommendation V on measures adopted to give effect to article 7
of the Convention;

7. Expresses its grave concern that some States parties to the Convention,
for reasons beyond their control, are prevented from fulfilling their obligation
under the Convention in parts of their respective territories, endorses the
relevant decisions of the Committee and recalls General Assembly resolutions
2784 (XXVI) of 6 December 1971 and 3266 (XXIX) of 10 December 1974 concerning the
situation in the Golan Heights;

8. Invites the States parties to the Convention to observe fully the
provisions of the Convention and other international instruments and agreements to
which they are parties concerning the elimination of all forms of discrimination
based on race~ colour, descent or national Or ethnic origin;

9. Invites all States which are not yet parties to the Convention to ratify
or accede to it and, pending such ratification or accession, to be guided by the
basic provisions of the Convention in their internal and foreign policies.


