












































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/354
21 November 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-second session
Agenda items 95 and 12

II1PL~1ENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRM,TING OF INDEPENDENCE TO
COLONIAL CCUNTRIES ~D PEOPLES BY THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES ~D THE

INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL {CHAP. VII (SECT. E))

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Gursel DEMIROK (Turkey)

1. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda
of its thirty-second session the following items:

"95. Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the
international institutions associated with the United Nations:

(a) Report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard
to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

(b) Reports of the Secretary-General."

"12. Report of the Economic and Social Council."

2. At the same meeting, the General Assembly decided to allocate to the Fourth
Committee agenda item 95, together with chapter VII (sect. E) of the report of
the Economic and Social Council, !I which relates to the item.

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Suppl;ment No. 3 (A/32/3).

77-24786 / ...



A!32!354
English
Page 2

3. At its 5th meeting, on 7 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 24, 90, 93, 95 and 12, 96 and 97, on the
understanding that individual draft resolutions on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

4. The Fourth Committee considered items 95 and 12 at its 8th and 10th to
20th meetipgs, between 26 October and 9 November.

5. At the 8th meeting, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
01 Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced chapter VI of the
report of that Committee relating to item 95 (A/32!23 (part v)).

6. In addition, the Fourth Committee had before it the relevant chapter of the
report of the Economic and Social Council. 21 The Committee also had before it the
reports of the Secretary-General relating t~ the items, submitted in pursuance
of paragraph 12 (a) and (b) of General Assembly resolution 3l!30 of
29 November 1976 (A/32/87 and Add.1-3 and A/32/286), as well as a related note
by the Secretariat (A/AC.l09/L.1174).

7. The general debate covering the items referred to in paragraph 3 above took
place at the lOth to 20th meetings, between 31 October and 9 November.

8. At the 16th meeting, on 7 November, the representative of Bulgaria introduced
a draft resolution (A/c.4/32/L.3), which was finally sponsored by the following
Member States: Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Empire, Chad,
Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Mali, Mongolia, Mozambique, Niger,
Pakistan, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zaire and Zambia.

9. At its 20th meeting, on 9 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.4/32/L.3 by a recorded vote of 130 to none, with 4 abstentions
(see para. 10 below). The voting was as follows:

•

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin~
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Empire, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Denmark, rominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic RepUblic, Ghana,

?J Ibid., chap. VII, sect. E.

I ...



A/32/354
English
Page 3

Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa,
Sao Tome and Frincipe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Caneroon, United Republic of Tanzania,
Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: France, Germany, Federal Republic of, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

RECOMMENDATION OF TEE FOURTH COMMITTEE

10. The Fuurth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and
the international institutions associated with the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized
agencies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations",

Recalling the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,
and the programme of action for the full implementation of the Declaration,
contained in its resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, as well as all other
relevant resolutions adopted by the General Assembly and the Security Council
on this subject, including in particular Assembly resolution 31/30 of
29 November 1976,

/ ...



A/32/354
English
Page 4

Having examined the reports submitted on the item by the Secretary-General, l!
the Economic and Social Council 4/ and the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementatio; of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 5/ as well as the related report
of the United Nations Council for Namibia, §j -

Taking into account the Maputo Declaration in Support of the Peoples of
Zimbabwe and Namibia and Prograrr~e of Action for the Liberation of Zimbabwe
and Namibia adopted by the International Conference in Support of the Peoples
of Zimbabwe and Namibia, held at Maputo from 16 to 21 May 1977, 7/ as well as
the Lagos Declaration for Action against Apartheid adopted by the World
Conference for Action against Apartheid on 26 August 1977, ~

Convinced that the struggle of the peoples of Zimbabwe a~d Namibia for
self-determination and independence has entered its final and most crucial stage
and that it is therefore incumbent upon the entire international community to
intensify concerted action in support of the peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia
and their national liberation movements for the attainment of this goal,

Deeply conscious of the critical need of the peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia
and of other colonial Territories for concrete assistance from the specialized
agencies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations
in their struggle for liberation from colonial rule and in their efforts to
consolidate their national independence,

Reaffirming the responsibility of the specialized agencies and other
organizations within the United Nations system to take all effective measures,
within their respective spheres of competence, to ensure the full and speedy
implementation of the Declaration and other relevant resolutions of the United
Nations, particularly in the provision of moral and material assistance on a
priority basis, to the peoples of the colonial Territories and their national
liberation mOVEments,

Noting with concern that, although there has been progress in the extension
of assistance to refugees from the colonial Territories in Africa, the actions

3/ A/32/87 and Add.1-3 and A/32/286; see also A/AC.I09/L.1174.

~ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Supplement No. 3 (A/32/31, chap. VII, sect. E.

5/ A/32/23 (part V), chap. VI.

§I Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Supplement No. 24 (A/32/24), vol. I, part two, chap. II.

l! A/32/109/Rev.l-S/12344/Rev.l, annex V.
§I A/CONF.91/9 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.77.XIV.2),

vol. I, sect. X.

/ ...



A/32/351j
EnGlish
Page 5

taken hitherto by the organizations concerned in providing assistance to the
peoples of the Territories through their national liberation movements continue
to remain inadeQuate to meet the urgent needs of these peoples,

Expressing its confident hope that closer contacts and consultations between
the specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system,
institutions and the Organization of African Unity and the national liberation
movements of the colonial Territories will help to overcome procedural and other
difficulties which have impeded or delayed the implementation of some assistance
programmes,

Welcoming with satisfaction the report of the mission dispatched by the United
Nations Council for Namibia to specialized agencies and other organizations
within the United Nations system with headquarters in Europe 21 and the
recommendations contained therein, to which reference is made in the Maputo
Declaration,

Expressing its appreciation to the General Secretariat of the Organization of
African Unity for the continued co-operation and assistance extended by it to the
organizations within the United Nations system in connexion with the implementation
of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations,

Mindful of the necessity to keep under continuous review the activities of the
specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system in
the implementation of the various decisions relating to decolonization,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee On the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item; 101

2. Reaffirms that the recognition by the General Assembly, the Security
Council and other United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the struggle of
colonial peoples to achieve freedom and independence entails, as a corollary, the
extension by the organizations within the United Nations system of all necessary
moral and material assistance to the peoples of the colonial Territories and their
national liberation movements;

3. Reiterates the appeal contained in the Maputo Declaration in Support of
the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia and Programme of Action for the Liberation of
Zimbabwe and Namibia to the international community to redouble its assistance to
the peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia and their national liberation movements
during this crucial phase in their struggle for freedom and independence;

21 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Supplement No. 24 (A/32/24), vol. 11, annex Ill.

101 A/32/23 (part V), chap. VI.

I ...



A/32/354
English
Page 6

4. Expresses its appreciation to certain specialized agencies and
organizations within the United Nations system which have continued to co-operate
in varying degrees with the United Nations in the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), and other relevant resolutions
of the General Assembly;

5. Expresses its concern that the assistance extended so far by the
specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system
to the colonial peoples, particularly those of Zimbabwe and Namibia, and to their
national liberation movements is far from adequate in relation to the actual
needs of the peoples concerned;

6. Regrets that the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund have not
yet taken the necessary measures towards the full and speedy implementation of the
Declaration and other relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, deplores in
particular the fact that those agencies continue to maintain co-operation with
the colonialist racist minority regime of South Africa and urges the executive
heads of those agencies to draw the particular attention of the governing organs
concerned to the present resolutions with a view to formulating specific programmes
beneficial to the peoples of the colonial Territories, particUlarly Zimbabwe
and Namibia;

7. Reguests the specialized agencies and other organizations within the
United Nations system to render or continue to render, as a matter of urgency,
all possible moral and material assistance to the colonial peoples in Africa
struggling for their liberation from colonial rule;

8. Requests once again the specialized agencies and other organizations
within the United Nations system to continue to provide all moral and material
assistance to the newly independent and emerging States;

9. Recommends that the organizations concerned should initiate or broaden
contacts with the colonial peoples in consultation with the Organization of
African Unity, review their procedures with respect to the formulation and the
preparation of assistance programmes and projects and introduce greater flexibility
in these procedures so as to be able to extend the necessary assistance without
delay to help the colonial peoples and their national liberation movements in
their struggle to exercise their inalienable right to self-determination and
independence in accordance with resolution 1514 (XV);

10. Urges those specialized agencies and organizations within the
United Nations system which have not already done so to include in the agenda of
the regular meetings of their governing bodies a separate item on the progress
made by those organizations in their implementation of the Declaration and other
relevant resolutions of the United Nations;

11. Urges once again the specialized agencies and other organizations within
the United Nations system, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the
General Assembly and the Security Council, to take all necessary measures to

/ ...



A/32/354
English
Page 7

withhold any financial, economic, technical or other assistance from the
Government of South Africa and the illegal regime of Southern Rhodesia, to
discontinue all support to them until they restore to the peoples of Namibia
and Zimbabwe their inalienable right to self-determination and independence and
to refrain from taking any action which might imply recognition of, or support
for, the legitimacy of the domination of the Territories by those regimes;

12. Notes with satisfaction the arrangements made by several specialized
agencies and organizations which enable representatives of the national liberation
movements recognized by the Organization of African unity to participate fully
as observers in the proceedings relating to matters concerning their respective
countries, and calls upon those international institutions which have not yet done
so to follow this example and to make the necessary arrangements without delay;

13. Recommends that all Governments should intensify their efforts in the
specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system of
which they are members to ensure the full and effective implementation of the
Declaration And other relevant resolutions of the United Nations and, in that
connexion, should accord priority to the question of providing assistance on an
emergency basis to peoples in the colonial Territories and to their national
liberation movements;

•
14. Urges the executive heads of the specialized agencies and other

organizations within the United Nations system, having regard to the recommendations
contained in paragraph 9 above, to formulate with the active co-operation of the
Organization of African Unity and to sUbmit, as a matter of priority, to tL2ir
governing and legislative organs concrete proposals for the full implementation of
the relevant United Nations decisions, in particular specific programmes of
assistance to the peoples in the colonial Territories and their national liberation
movements;

15. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to assist the specialized
agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system in working out
appropriate measures for implementing the present resolution and to prepare for
submission to the relevant bodies, with the assistance of the specialized agencies
and other organizations within the United Nations system, a report on the action
taken since the cirCUlation of his previous report in implementation of the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations, including the present resolution;

16. Reguests the Economic and Social Council to continue to consider, in
consultation with the Special Committee, appropriate measures for co-ordination
of the policies and activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations
within the United Nations system in implementing the relevant resolutions of the
General Assembly;

17. Reguests the Special CoEmittee to continue to examine this question and
to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session.


