












































UNITED NATGONS

GENERAL

ASSEMBLY

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 85

Distr.
GENERAL

A!32/440
14 December 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

UNITED NATIONS DECADE FOR WOMEN: EQUALITY, DEVELOPMENT AND PEACE

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Fuad M. AL-HINAI (Oman)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly allocated
to the Third Committee agenda item 85, entitled "United Nations Decade for Homen:
Equality, Development and Peace: reports of the Secretary-General".

2. The COLImittee considered this item at its 19th to 28th and 73rd to 75th meetings
from 13 October to 9 December. The views expressed by representatives of Member
States on this item are contained in the summary records of those meetings
(~/C.3/32/SR.19-28 and 73-75).

3. The Committee had before it the following documents:

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council to the General Assembly; !I

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the Voluntary Fund for the United
Nations Decade for Homen, prepared in accordance with paragraph 4 of its
resolution 31/133 (A/32/174);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on measures taken to implement the World
Plan of Action and the Programme for the United Nations Decade for Women, prepared
in accordance with paragraph 8 of resolution 31/136 (A/32/175);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on women's participation in the
strengthening of international peace and security and in the struggle against
colonialism, racism, racial discrimination, foreign aggression and occupation and all
forms of foreign domination, prepared in accordance with paragraph 6 of
resolution 3519 (XXX) (A/32/211);

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session, Supplement
No. 3-(A/32/3), chap. VI, sect. B).

77-28892 / ...



A/32/440
English
Page 2

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the promotion of full equality of
women and men in all spheres of life in accordance with international standards and
the Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, called for under
paragraph 12 of resolution 3520 (XXX) (A/32/216 and Corr.l and Add.l);

(f) Report of the Secretary-General concerning the Draft Convention on the
Elimination of Discrimination against Women and containing the text of the draft
Convention as well as general observations from Governments and the specialized
agencies. The report had been prepared and transmitted to the General Assembly in
accordance with Economic and Social Council resolution 2058 (LXII) of 12 May 1977
(A/32/218 and Add.l and 2);

(g) Report of the Secretary-General on women in rural areas prepared in
accordance with paragraph 5 of resolution 3523 (XXX) (A/32/269).

l~. At the 19th meeting, on 13 October, the Assistant Secretary-General for Social
Development and Humanitarian Affairs and the Officer-in-Charge of the Advancement
of Women Branch of the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs made
introductory statements.

II . PROPOSALS

A. Draft Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination
against Wo~en (A/32/218, aLncX IV)

5. At its 23rd meeting, on 19 October, the Committee decided to establish an open-
ended Working Group to consider the draft Convention on the Elimination of
Discrimination against Women submitted by the Economic and Social Council
(A/32/218, annex IV).

6. At its 73rd meeting, on 8 December, the Rapporteur of the Working Group
introduced the report of the Group (A/C.3/32/L.59).

7. At the 74th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Tunisia introduced
draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.52 entitled: "Draft Convention on the Elimination of
Discrimination against Women", sponsored by Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, Finland, the German Democratic Republic, Greece,
Hungary, Iran, Italy, Kenya, Monp;olia, Norway, the Philippines, Sweden, Togo and
Tunisi~, subsequently joined by Benin, Costa Rica, Ghana, New Zealand, Senegal and
Zambia.

8. At the 75th meeting, on 9 December, the sponsors orally revised operative
paragraph 1 to insert the words "of the Working" between the words "of the report"
and the words "of the Third Committee" in the first line of the paragraph, and
to delete the words "prepared the Working Group" in the second line.

9. At the same meeting, the representative of Morocco orally proposed the
deletion of the words "with satisfaction" in operative paragraph 1.

/ ...



A!32!440
English
Page 3

10. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on the draft resolution as follows:

(a) By 89 votes to 6, with 22 abstentions, the Committee decided to retain
the words "with satisfaction" (see para. 9 above);

(b) Operative paragraph 1, on which a separate vote was taken at the request
of Mali, was adopted by 117 votes to none, with 4 abstentions;

(c) Draft resolution A!C.3!32!L.52, as a whoie, was adopted without a vote
(see para. 26 below, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolution A!C.3!32!L.53

11. At the 74th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Iran introduced
draft resolution A!C. 3!32!L. 53 entitled "International research and training for
the advancement of women", sponsored by Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh,
Burundi, Egypt, India, Iran, Iraq, Italy, the Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kenya,
Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, the Niger, Pakistan, the Philippines, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey and Yugoslavia, subsequently joined by Eenin, the Ccngo, Costn
!.lica, Qhana, guinea, fl_enep;al, the Sudan, the United States of America, the
Upper Volta and Zambia.

12. At the 75th meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A!C.3!32!L.53
without a vote (see para. 26 below, draft resolution 11).

C. Draft resolution A!C.3!32!L.54

13. At the 74th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Tunisia introduced
draft resolution A!C. 3!32!L. 54 entitled "Interagency programme for the United
Nations Decade for Women" sponsored by Austria, Bangladesh, Burundi, France, Greece,
India, Iran, Iraq, Italy, the Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Morocco, Nepal, New Zealand, the Niger, Norway, Papua Ne"
Guinea, the Philippines, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey and Venezuela, subsequently joined
by Benin, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Madagascar, Mali, Senegal, the Upper Volta and
Zambia.

14. At the 75th meeting, on 9 December,the Committee adopted draft resolution
A!C.3!32!L.54 without a vote (see para. 26 below, draft resolution Ill).

D. Draft resolution A!C.3!32!L.55!Rev.l

15. At the 74th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Morocco introduced
draft resolution A!C.3!32!L.55!Rev.l entitled "Pledging Conference for the United
Nations Decade for Women", sponsored by Austria, Bangladesh, Burundi, Guinea, Iran,
Iraq, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Morocco, the Niger, the Philippines,
Togo, Tunisia and Turkey, subsequently joined by Benin, Ghana, Senegal and the
Upper Volta.

! ...



A132/440
English
Page 4

16. At the same meeting, the Committee heard a statement on the financial
implications of the draft resolution.

17. At the 75th meeting, on 9 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/c.3/32/L.55/Rev.l without a vote (see para. 26 below, draft resolution IV).

E. Draft resolution A/c.3/32/L.56

18. At the 74th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Egypt introduced
draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.56 entitled "World Conference of the United Nations
Decade for l'1omen", sponsored by Austria, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Burundi, Egypt,
the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, India, Iran, Iraq, the Ivory Coast,
Jordan, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Mongolia, Nepal, New Zealand, the
Niger, Norway, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey,
Venezuela and Yugoslavia, subsequently joined by the Congo, Ghana, Jamaica, Mali,
Senegal, the Upper Volta and Zambia.

19. At the same meeting, the Committee heard a statement on the financial
implication of the draft resolution.

20. At the 75th meeting, on 9 December, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.3/32/L.56 without a vote (see para. 26 below, draft resolution V).

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.57

21. At the 74th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of the United States
of America introduced draft resolution A/C. 3/32/L. 57 entitled "Voluntary Fund for
the United Nations Decade for Homen", sponsored by Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium,
India, 1'::.'O£1_, Iraq, Italy, the Ivory Coast, Jordan, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Mauritania, t1orocco, New Zealand, the Niger, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the
United States of America and Venezuela, subsequently joined by Costa Rica, Ghana,
Mali, the Netherlands and Zambia.

22. At the 75th meeting, on 9 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/32/L.57 without a vote (see para. 26 below, draft resolution VI).

G. Draft resolution A/c.3/32/L.66

23. At the 74th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of the German Democratic
Republic introduced draft resolution A/c .3/32/L. 66 entitled "Homen' s participation
in the strengthening of international peace and security and in the struggle against
colonialism~ racism~ racial discrimination, aggression, occupation and all forms of
foreign domination", sponsored by Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic RepUblic,
Hunr;ary and Mongolia, subsequently joined by Cuba, Ethiopia and Madagascar.

I ...



A/32/440
English
Page 5

24. The sponsors of the draft resolution revised the second preambular paragraph
of the draft by replacing the words "are inconceivable without" by "require".

25. At the 75th meeting, on 9 December, the Committee adopted the revised draft
resolution by a roll-call vote of 53 to 19, with 52 abstentions (see para. 26 below,
draft resolution VII). The voting was as follows:

In favour: AlGeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana,
Bulgaria, Burma, Bye10russian Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo,
Cuba, cYprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary,
India, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mali,
Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Oman, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republic, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Cameroon, United RepUblic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia,
Zambia.

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Bahamas, Barbados, BOlivia, Brazil, Burundi, Central
African Empire, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Fiji,
Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Indonesia, Iran,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Lesotho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mexico, Morocco, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Rwanda,
Senegal, Spain, Surinam, Swaziland, Thailand, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Upper Vo1ta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zaire.

The representative of Albania stated that he had not participated in the vote.

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

26. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

United Nations Decade for Women: Equality, Development and Peace

The General AssemblY,

Recalling its reSOlution 31/136 of 16 December 1976, in which the General
Assembly, inter alia, approved the Programme for the United Nations Decade for Women,

/ ...



A/32/440
English
PaGe 6

which entails the adoption by the Assembly of the Convention on the Elimination of
Discrimination against Women and its entry into force during the first half of the
Decade, between 1976 and 1980,

Convinced that the adoption of that Convention and its entry into force will
contribute to the implementation of the principal objectives of the United Nations
Decade for Women: Equality, Development and Peace, and to the realization of the
principles of equality between men and women,

Noting the work done in 1976 by the Commission on the Status of Women at its
twenty-sixth session with a view to the elaboration of the draft Convention on the
Elimination of Discrimination against Women,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 2058 (LXII) of 12 May 1977,
in which the Council requested the General Assembly to take up consideration
of the draft Convention as a matter of urgency at the outset of its thirty-second
seSSlon with a view to its adoption at that session,

1. Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the Working Group of the
Third Committee on the draft Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination
against Women; ~/

2. Recommends that a working group should be established at the beginning of
the thirty-third session to continue consideration of the articles which have not
been completed during the current session;

3. Expresses the hope that the draft Convention will be adopted during the
thirty-third session of the General Assembly;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-third session,
as a matter of high priority, an item entitled "Draft Convention on the Elimination
of Discrimination against Vlomen".

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

International Research and Training Institute
for the Advancement of Women

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 31/135 of 16 December 1976, by which it decided to
establish an International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of
\{omen, and Economic and Social Council resolution 1998 (LX) of 15 May 1976
concerning the same question~

~ A/C.3/32/L.59.

I ...



A/32/440
English
Page 7

Recalling further the reports of the Secretary-General on the progress achieved
towards the establishment of the Institute, submitted to the General Assembly at its
thirty-first session 3/ and to the Economic and Social Council at its sixtieth and
sixty-second sessions~~

Convinced that the early establishment of the Institute will contribute
substantially to the realization of the objectives of the World Plan of Action and
the Programme for the United Nations Decade for Women, 21

I~.tin,,; the :9repo.r,',tions nlreO-dy undcrtc.kcn by the Secretary-Genernl for the
establishment of the Institute,

Considering that those preparations should be actively continued and that a
preliminary draft document describing the structure and composition of the
Institute should be prepared not later than April 1978,

1. Notes the efforts made thus far by the Secretary-General with a view to
the establishment of the International Research and Training Institute for the
Advancement of Women;

2. Requests the Secretary-General to continue those efforts and to prepare,
in consultation with the competent bodies of the host country, the competent organs
and institutions of the United Nations system and the regional commissions
concerned, a draft document describing the structure, composition, responsibilities,
and programme of the Institute, as well as the co-ordination of the activities of
the Institute with those of the organizations concerned, particularly the United
Nations Development Programme, the regional commissions and the regional research
centres for the advancement of women, having regard to the recommendations of the
Group of Experts set forth in the report submitted by the Secretary-General to the
Economic and Social Council at its sixtieth session;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Economic and Social
Council at its sixty-fourth session on the progress achieved towards the
establishment of the Institute, including substantive and administrative
preparations, and to submit to it for consideration and adoption the draft
document referred to in paragraph 2 above.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Interagency programme for the United Nations Decade for Women

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 3520 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, in which it proclaimed
the period from 1976 to 1985 United Nations Decade for Women: Equality, Development

}/ A/31/310.

~ E/5772 and E/5926.

21 Report of the World Conference on the International Women's Year (United
Nations pUblication, Sales No. E.76.IV.l), chap. 11, sect. A.

/ ...



A/32/440
English
Page 8

and Peace, to be devoted to effective and sustained national, regional and
international action to implement the World Plan of Action and related
resolutions of the World Conference of the International Women's Year,

Recalling further that at its thirty-first session, in its resolution 31/136
of 16 December 1976, it approved the Programme for the Decade, which focused on
the first half of the Decade, 1976 to 1980,

Noting that the joint interagency programme for the integration of women in
development, whose establishment was called for in paragraph 5 Cb) of General
Assembly resolution 3520 (XXX), has become an inter~gency programme for the United
Nations Decade for Women based on the implementation of the World Plan of Action,
for the formulation of which the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian
Affairs serves as focal point,

Noting further that this programme was drawn up in July 1977 in the context
of the conceptual framework and the co-ordination of ongoing activities and
planned activities of the agencies concerned,

Noting further that this programme, which should be brought up to date every
two years, is currently the subject of a study which is to be considered by the
special interagency meeting on the United Nations Decade for Women to be held in
July 1978 with a view to preparing for the World Conference,

1. Notes the measures already taken by the Secretary-General for the
implementation of the Programme for the United Nations Decade for \{omen;

2.
national,
Decade;

Emphasizes that constant and increasing efforts must be made at the
regional and international levels to attain the objectives of the

3. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with all the
participating agencies and organizations of the United Nations, to submit to the
General Assembly at its thirty-third session, through the Economic and Social
Council, the study of the interagency programme accompanied by the observations
formulated by the Council with regard to it;

4. Further requests the Secretary-General to transmit to Governments every
two years the study of the interagency programme for the Decade;

5.
system to
jointly.

Urges the participating agencies and organizations of the United Nations
identify and undertake as quickly as possible projects to be executed

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Pledging conference for the United Nations Decade for Women

The General Assembl,y,

Recalling its resolution 31/137 of 16 December 1976, in which it requested
the Secretary-General to convene during the thirty-second session of the General

/ ...



A/32/440
English
Page 9

Assembly a pledging conference for contributions to be made to the Voluntary Fund
for the United Nations Decade for Women and to the International Research and
Training Institute for the Advancement of Women,

Notin~ with satisfaction the results of the first Pledging Conference for the
United Nations Decade for Women, held at the Headquarters of the United Nations on
8 November 1977,

Convinced that the Programme for the United Nations Decade for Women, if it is
to be fully effective, must be translated into the greatest possible number of
projects and programmes at the national, regional and interregional levels,

Also convinced that the speedy establishment of the International Research and
Training Institute for the Advancement of Women will contribute sUbstantially to the
attainment of the research and training objectives of the World Plan of Action,

1. Expresses its thanks to the Secretary-General for having convened the
first Pledging Conference for the United Nations Decade for Women;

2. Expresses its warm thanks to those countries which have already
contributed, those which have pledged contributions and those which have expressed
their intention of contributing to the Voluntary Fund for the United Nations Decade
for Women and/or to the International Research and Training Institute for the
Advancement of Women;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to convene during the thirty-third session
of the General Assembly a second pledging conference for voluntary contributions
for the purpose of financing:

(a) The Voluntary Fund for the United Nations Decade for Women;

(b) The International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of
Women;

4. Further requests the Secretary-General to organize an information
campaign with a view to stimulating the interest of Governments, organizations and
individuals likely to contribute to the Voluntary Fund for the united Nations
Decade for Women and the International Research and Training Institute for the
Advancement of Women.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 3520 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, in paragraph 20 of
which it decided to convene at the mid-term of the United Nations Decade for Women
a world conference to review and evaluate the progress made in implementing the

/ ...



A/32/440
English
Page 10

objectives of the International Women's Year as recommended by the World Conference
of the International Women's Year and, where necessary, to readjust existing
programmes in the light of new data and research available,

Recalling further that the Economic and Social Council, in its resolution
1999 (LX) of 12 May 1976, requested the Commission on the Status of Women at its
twenty-sixth session to consider different aspects of the preparatory work for
the World Conference of the Decade, including its agenda, and also decided to
consider at its sixty-fourth session, in the spring of 1978, the preparatory work
for the Conference,

Recalling also that, in accordance with the request of the Council, the
Commission on the Status of Women has considered various aspects of the material
preparations and the organization of the Conference as well as the implications of
the Conference for the programme budget, bearing in mind a note by the Secretary-
General, §j

Recalling further that the Council, at its sixty-second session, adopted
resolution 2062 (LXII) of 12 May 1976, in which it:

(a) Requested the Commission on the Status of Women at its twenty-seventh
session to give the highest priority to the consideration of the preparatory work
for the World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women;

(b) Requested the Secretary-General to prepare for the consideration of the
Commission at its twenty-seventh session a report outlining a programme of concrete
action for the second half of the Decade;

(c) Decided to establish, not later than June 1978, a preparatory committee
to make recommendations concerning the sUbstantive and organizational arrangements
for the Conference;

(d) Invited the regional commissions to consider ways and means of
contributing effectively to the Conference,

Noting that preliminary exchanges of views on the preparatory work for the
Conference have also taken place in the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination
at the two special interagency meetings held in September 1976 and July 1977, which
were brought to the attention of the Commission on the Status of Women at its
twenty-sixth session and will be brought to its attention at its twenty-seventh
session,

1. Accepts the offer of the Government of Iran to act as host to the World
Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women;

2. Notes that the Conference will in principle be held at Teheran in
May 1980 and will cover a period of two weeks;

§j E/CN.6/600.

/ ...



A/32/440
English
Page 11

3. Decides that the first session of the Preparatory Committee for the
World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women, the establishment of
which is called for in Economic and Social Council resolution 2062 (LXII), shall
be held at the Headquarters of the United Nations in June 1978;

4. Also notes the efforts made thus far by the Secretary-General and the
Commission on the Status of Women with a view to undertaking the preparatory work
for the Conference;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-third session, through the Economic and Social Council, on the work of the
Preparatory Committee during its first session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Voluntary Fund for the United Nations Decade for Women

The General Assembly,

Recalling its decision to extend the activities of the Voluntary Fund for the
International Women's Year, established by the Economic and Social Council in its
resolution 1850 (LVI) of 16 May 1974, to cover the period of the United Nations
Decade for Women, 1J

Recalling also its resolution 31/133 of 16 December 1976 containing the
criteria and arrangements for the management of the Fund,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the management of the
Fund submitted to it at its thirty-second session, §I

1. Notes with satisfaction the decisions taken by the Consultative Committee
on the Voluntary Fund for the United Nations Decade for Women at its first two
sessions, held in March and June 1977; ~/

2. Expresses the hope that the projects which the Consultative Committee has
already approved will be implemented as soon as possible;

3. Urges the specialized agencies and other United Nations bodies concerned,
including the United Nations Development Programme, to assist the regional
commissions in formulating projects drawn up in connexion with the United Nations
Decade for Women, with a view to sUbmitting them to the Consultative Committee;

7/ Official Records of the General Assembl
No. 34 (A 1003 , p. 100, item 7 •

§I A/32/174.

~ A/32/174, sect. 11.

Thirtieth Session, Su plement

/ ...



A/32/1~40

English
Page 12

4. Also urges the specialized agencies and other United Nations bodies
concerned, including the United Nations Development Programme, to co-operate
closely with the Consultative Committee with a view to developing programmes which
will contribute to the advancement of women;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to report annually on the
management of the Fund and:

(a) To include in such report a summary of the projects selected by the
Consultative Committee for financing by the Fund;

(b) To submit periodically to the General Assembly progress reports on the
execution of such projects.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Women's participation in the strengthening of international
peace and security and in the struggle against colonialism,
racism, racial discrimination, aggression, occupation and

all forms of foreign domination

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3519 (XXX), 3520 (XXX) and 3521 (XXX) of
15 December 1975 and 31/136 of 16 December 1976,

Taking into account that secure peace and social progress, the establishment
of the new international economic order as well as the full enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedoms require the active participation of women, their
equality and development,

Appreciating the contribution of women to the strengthening of international
peace and security and to the struggle against colonialism, racism, racial
discrimination, aggression, occupation and all forms of foreign domination,

Emphasizing its grave concern that in some regions of the world colonialism,
apartheid, racial discrimination and aggression continue to exist and territories
are still occupied, which represents a most serious infringement of the principles
of the Charter of the United Nations and of human rights of both women and men,
and of the peoples' right to self-determination,

Reaffirming the objectives of the United Nations Decade for Women, the
Declaration of Mexico, 1975, and the World Plan of Action,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of its resolution 3519 (XXX); 101

101 A/32/211.

I ...



A/32/440
English
Page 13

2. Calls upon all States to continue to make their contribution to
creating favourable conditions for the elimination of discrimination against women
and for their full and equal participation in the social development process and
to encourage broad participation of women in the effort to strengthen international
peace, extend the process of international detente, curb the arms race and take
measures for disarmament;

3. Seizes the occasion of the International Anti-Apartheid Year to be
observed in 1978 to invite all States full~ to support women exposed to
COlonialism, racism and apartheid in their just struggle against the racist regimes
in southern Africa;

4. Invites all States to proclaim, in accordance with their historical and
national traditions and customs, any day of the year as United Nations Day for
Women's Rights and International Peace and to inform the Secretary-General
thereon;

5. Requests the Commission on the Status of Women to consider, as a
contribution to the preparation of the World Conference of the United Nations
Decade for Women, to be held in 1980, the elaboration of a draft declaration on
the participation of women in the struggle for the strengthening of international
peace and security and against colonialism, racism, racial discrimination,
aggression, occupation and all forms of foreign domination and to report therein
to the Economic and Social Council at its sixty-fourth session;

6. Invites the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its
thirty-fourth session a progress report on the implementation of resolution
3519 (XXX).


