












































UNITED
'l

NATION 5

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 51

Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/380
5 December 1977
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH

GENERAL AND CO~WLETE DISAR~~NT

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Francisco CORREA (Mexico)

1. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

llGeneral and complete disarmament:

"(a) Report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament;

"(b) Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency;

"(c) Report of the Secretary-General. "

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-second session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 31/189 A, C and D of 21 December 1976 and 31/90
of 14 December 1976.

2. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 7th meeting, on 18 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 33, 34, 38 to 49 and 51 to 53. The general debate on these items
took place at the 7th to 27th meetings, from 18 October to 7 November. !I

1/ For an index to statements by delegations on disarmament items, see
A/32;383.

77-26948 / ...



A/32/380
English
Page 2

4. In connexion with item 51, the First Conmittee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament; gj

(b) Annual report for 1916 of the International Atomic Ener8Y Agency
circulated under a note by the Secretary-General (A/32/158 and Add.l);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General pursuant to General Assembly resolution
31/90 (A/32/216);

(d) Letter dated 6 ~lay 1911 from the Permanent Rerresentative of the
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/32/83);

(e) Letter dated 6 May 1911 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-
General (A/32/84);

(f) Letter dated 6 May 1911 from the Permanent Representative of the
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/32/85);

(g) Letter dated 6 July 1911 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General transmitting the final communiQue of the Eighth Islamic
Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Tripoli from 16 to 22 May 1911
(A/32/133, annex);

(h) Letter dated 23 September 1911 from the Permanent Representative of the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the resolutions adopted by the Eighth Islamic Conference of Foreign
Ministers (A/32/235).

(i) Letter dated 30 September 1911 from the Permanent Representative of
Poland to the United Nations at Geneva addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the Final Document of the Review Conference of the Parties to the
Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear vleapons and Other Weapons
of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof
(A/C.l/32/4);

(j) Note verbale, dated 2, October 19", from the Representative of the
United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the final communique of the Organizing Conference of the International
Nuclear Fuel Cycle Evaluation, held in Washington, D.C. from 19 to 21 October 1911
(A/C.l/32!1).

2/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Surpl;ment No. 2, (A!32!21).

! ...



A/32/380
English
Page 3

II. PROPOSALS

5. On 19 October, Finland submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/32/L.3), which in
its revised form (A/C.l/32/L.3/Rev.l) was sponsored by Australia, the Bahamas,
Canada, Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland, Japan, Nepal, Norway, Poland,
Senegal, Tunisia and Zaire. The revised draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of Finland at the 34th meeting, on 16 November; subsequently, it
was further revised (A/C.l/32/L.3/Rev.2) by its sponsors. The representative of
Pakistan submitted amendments (A/C.l/32/L.38) to the revised draft resolution,
which he introduced at the 38th meeting, on 18 November. They read as follows:

(a) ~lIn operative naraPTB.nh 1,.) renlace the vords I effective and
non-discriminatory restraints' by the words 'universally applied and
non-discriminatory safeguards of the International Atomic Energy Agency'.

(b) "Reformulate onerative !Jara"raph (, as follows:

'Urges the nuclear-weapon States parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to respond positively to the
proposals and preoccupations of the non-nuclear-weapon States in order
to make it possible for all non-nuclear-weapon States, as defined in
article I of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to
adhere to the Treaty and urges them, in the interim, to accept the
application of universal and non-discriminatory safeguards of the
International Atomic Energy Agency. '

(c) At the end. of ol}erative n"rR~raph 1 "dd the follo>ring:

'without jeopardizing their respective fuel cycle policies or
international co-operation agreements and contracts for the peaceful
uses of nuclear energy1.

(d) "In operative TlararranD I) (ii) reTl18.ce the words 'effective
and non-discriminatory restraints f by the lilOTC..S 'universallY aPDlied
and Don--discriminatory s8~fer"uarcls of the International .Atomic Energy
Agency' 0 11

6. On 2 November, Bulgaria, Canada, Denmark, the German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, India, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, the Netherlands,
No~,ay, Poland, Tunisia, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and the United States of America
submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/32/L.6), subsequently also sponsored by
Nicaragua, Togo, Yemen and Zaire, which was introduced by Poland at the 24th
meeting, on 3 November.

I. On 2 November, the representative of Pakistan submitted a draft resolution
(A/C.l/32/L.81, which he introduced at the 28th meeting, on 9 November. The draft
resolution was subsequently co-sponsored by Morocco.

/ ...



A!32/380
English
Page 4

8. On 7 November, Austria, Denmark, Finland, Italy, NOY>lay, Romania, Sweden,
Tunisia and Venezuela submitted a draft resolution (A!C.l!32!L~ubsequently
also sponsored by Jordan, which was introduced by Sweden at the 32nd meeting, on
15 November. A statement on the administrative and financial implications of the
draft resolution was submitted by the Secretary-General on 18 November
(A!C.l!32!L.36). On 9 November, Saudi Arabia submitted amendments (A!C.l!32!L.15)
to the draft resolution, which read as follows:

(al "J\-'!lpnc' the title of the (Iraft resolution to read:

"Publication of a disarmament periodical and consideration of the
preparation of a United Nations candid film on wars and their
conseauences

(0) "Insert a new operative DEragranh to read:

"2. Recommends that consideration be given to the making of a
United Nations film candidly portraying the vast devastation wrought by
the last World War and subsequent wars, and also highlighting the human
tragedies and untold miseries brought about as a consequence of these
wars, so that such a United Nations film could be shown in schools and
universities and on television all over the world with the hope of
creating a genuine aversion to all wars in the future;

"and renumber existing paragraph 2 accordingly."

9. On 11 November, Colomoia, Cyprus, Egypt, Ghana, 11exico, Nigeria, Panama, the
Philippines and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution (A!C.l!32!L.2l),
subsequently also sponsored by Bangladesh and Venezuela, which was introduced by
the representative of Cyprus at the 31st meeting, on 14 November.

10. On 11 November, Belgium sUbmitted a draft resolution CA 'C.l '32,'L.26), which
was later introduced by its representative at the 32nd meeting, on 15 November.

11. On 14 November, Argentina, Mexico, Nigeria and Sweden submitted a draft
resolution (A!C.l!32!L.28), suosequently also sponsored by Ghana, Jordan, Morocco,
New Zealand and Pakistan, which >TaS introduced by the representative of Hexico at
the 34th meeting, on 16 November, and was subsequently revised
(A!C.l!32!L.28!Rev.l). Australia later also became a sponsor of the revised draft
resolution.

! ...



A/32/380
English
Page 5

HI. VOTING

12. At its 29th meeting, on 10 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/32/L.6 (see para. 6 above) by consensus (see para. 19 below,
draft resolution A).

13. At its 35th meeting, on 17 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/32/L.8 (see para. 7 above) by a recorded vote of 86 to none, with
36 abstentions (see para. 19 below, draft resolution B). The voting was as
follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Indonesia, Iran, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, ~1alaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Senegal, Sierre Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bhutan,
Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Hungary, Iceland,
India~ Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, LuxembolT[{, ~,1ongolia'J
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Sweden, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Yugoslavia.

14. At its 36th meeting, on 17 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/32/L.21 (see para. 9 above) by consensus (see para. 19 below,
draft resolution cl.

15. At its 37th meeting, on 18 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/32/L.26 (see para. 10 above) by a recorded vote of 71 to none,
with 41 abstentions (see para. 19 below, draft resolution D). }/ The voting was
as follows:

}/ The representative of Jordan subsequently indicated that, had he been
present, he would have abstained.

/ ...



A/32/380
English
Page 6

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Chad,
Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Fiji, Finland, France, German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast,
Japan, Kenya, Liberia, Luxembourg, Haldives, Hali, Mexico,
Mongolia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Surinam, Swaziland,
Sweden, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaininv,: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados,
Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iraq,
~ladagascar, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Sierra Leone,
Sri Lanka, SUdan, Syrian Arab RepUblic, Thailand, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Yemen, Yugoslavia.

16. At its 38th meeting, on 18 November, before the First Committee proceeded to
vote on draft resolution A/C.l/32/L.13 (see para. 8 above), the Chairman announced
that consultations with the delegation of Saudi Arabia had confirmed that the
intention of its amendments (A/C .1/32/L.15) was "that consideration be given to the
making of a United Nations film" and that they need not be put to a vote, on the
understanding that the Office of PUblic Information would undertake preparatory
research work on the project and the Secretary-General would report at the next
regular session of the General Assembly on the feasibility of making such a film.
The draft resolution (A/C.l/32/L.13) was then adopted by consensus (see para. 19
below, draft resolution E).

17. At the 40th meeting, on 21 November, before the First Committee proceeded to
vote on draft resolution A/C.l/32/L.3/Rev.2, Finland orally revised the draft
resolution, on behalf of its co-sponsors as follows:

(a) The followinr '.ras acld.ed as the eip;hth TJreambular paragraph:

"Underlining the importance of the nuclear-weapon States parties to
the NPT responding positively, by participating in the fullest possible
exchange of equipment, materials and scientific and technological
information for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy as provided in
article IV of the Treaty, to the proposals and preoccupation of the
non-nuclear-weapon States in order to facilitate the adherence of all
non-nuclear-weapon States to the Treaty;

/ ...



A./32/380
English
Page 7

(b) In operative naragranh 4, the word "all" 'laS inserted before
'S"7,ates i ? •

(c) In operative paragraph l~, the words ",ender effective and
non-discriminatory restraints against the proliferation of nuclear weapons 11
were replaced by "under effective and non-discriminatory safeguards against
the proliferation of nuclear weapons".

(0.) j'he fol101dnf\ "as adde~ at the end ef operative naraf\raph 7:

""ithout jeopardizing the respective fuel cycle policies or international
co-operation agreements and contracts for the peaceful uses of nuclear
energy, provided that agreed safeguard measures are applied; 11

(e) In operative naragranh 8, the "ords "under effective gDCl
non-discriminatory restraints against the proliferation of nuclear weapons"
were replaced by "under effective and non-discriminatory safeguards against
the proliferation of nuclear weapons".

At the same meeting, Pakistan announced that its amendments (A/C.l/32/L.38) would
not be pressed to the vote. Thereupon, the draft resolution, as revised and
subseQuently circulated (A/C.l/32/L.3/Rev.3), "as adopted by a recorded vote of
89 to 1, with 16 abstentions (see para. 19 below, draft resolution F). The voting
was as follows: ~

In favour:

Against:

Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist RepUblic, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Cc~go, Costa Rica,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German Democratic Republic, Germany,
Federal RepUblic of, Ghana, Greece, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius,
l1exico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Philippines, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka g
Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United RepUblic of Cameroon, United States of
America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire.

China •

.!±! The representatives of Luxemboure: anr J',Ticarae;uR. subsequently indice.ted
that had they been present, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...



A/32/380
English
Page 8

Abstaining: Algeria, Bhutan, Burma, Colombia, Ecuador, France, Kuwait,
11auritania, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Spain,
Uganda, Zambi a.

18. At its 44th meeting, on 25 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C,l/32/L.28/Rev.l (see para. 11 above) by a recorded vote of 91 to
2, 21 (see para. 19 below, draft resolution G). The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Against:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Belgium, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Chad,
Chile, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, German Democ~atic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Guyana,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Spain, Sudan, Surinam, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of ",,,erica, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yugoslavia.

Albania, China.

21 The representatives of Bangladesh, Costa Rica, Democratic Yemen, Nigeria,
Qatar, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Uganda and Zambia later subsequently
indicated that, had they been present, they would have voted in favour of the
draft resolution.

/ ' ..



A/32/380
English
Page 9

IV. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

19. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

General and complete disarmament

A

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 2660 (XXV) of 7 December 1970, in which it commended
the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and Other
Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil
Thereof,

Convinced that the Treaty constitutes a step towards the exclusion of the
sea-bed, the ocean floor and the subsoil thereof from the arms race,

Recalling that the States parties to the Treaty met at Geneva from 20 June to
1 July 1977 to review the operation of the Treaty with a view to assuring that the
purposes of the preamble and the provisions of the Treaty were being realized,

Noting,with satisfaction that the Review Conference of the Parties to the
Treaty for the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and Other Weapons
of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof
concluded that the obligations assumed under the Treaty had been faithfully observed
by the States parties,

!/otingthat in its Final Declaration, §j the Review Conference affirmed its
belief that universal adherence to the Treaty would enhance international peace and
security,

Noting furthermore that the States parties to the Treaty reaffirmed their
strong support for and continued dedication to the principles and objectives of the
Treaty, as well as their commitment to implement effectively its provisions,

Recognizing that in the final Declaration the States parties to the Treaty
reaffirmed the commitment undertaken in article V to continue negotiations in good
faith concerning further measures in the field of disarmament for the prevention of
an arms race on the sea-bed, the ocean floor and the subsoil thereof,

Bearing in mind that, in this connexion, they have addressed specific requests
to the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament,

§j A/C.l/32/4.

/ ...



A/32/380
English
Page 10

Having considered the report of the Conference of the Committee on
Disarmament, 11

Noting the comments with respect to further measures in the field of
disarmament for the prevention of an arms race on the sea-bed, the ocean floor and
the subsoil thereof, as well as relevant documents surmitted to the General Assembly
at its thirty-second session,

1. Welcomes with satisfaction the positive assessment by the Review
Conference of the effectiveness of the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement
of Nuclear Weapons and Other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the
Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof since its entry into force;

2. Invites all States that have not yet done so, particularly those
possessing nuclear weapons or any other types of weapons of mass destruction, to
ratify or accede to the Treaty as a significant contribution to international
confidence;

3. Affirms its strong interest in avoiding an arms race in nuclear weapons
or any other types of weapons of mass destruction on the sea-bed, the ocean floor
or subsoil thereof,

4. Reguests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament - in consultation
with the States parties to the Treaty and taking into account the proposals made
during the Review Conference and any relevant technological develo~ments - to
proceed promptly with the consideration of further measures in the field of
disarmament for the prevention of an arms race in that environment;

5. Calls upon all States to refrain from any action which might lead to the
extention of the arms race to the sea-bed and the ocean floor;

6. ReQuests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference of the
Committee on Disarmament all documents of the thirty-second session of the Generel
Assembly relevant to further measures in the field of disarmament for the prevention
of an arms race on the sea-bed and the ocean floor and in the subsoil thereof;

7. Requests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to report on its
negotiations to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session.

B

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 31/189 C of 21 December 1976, in which it reQuested
the nuclear-weapon States, as a first step towards a complete ban on the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons, to consider undertaking, without prejUdice to

7/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Suppl;ment No. 27, (A/32/27).

/ ...



A/32/38c:
English
Page 11

their obligations arlslng from treaties establishing nuc1ear-weapon-free zones, not
to use or threaten to use nuclear weapons against non-nuc1ear-weapon States not
parties to the nuclear security arrangements of some nuclear-weapon Powers,

Deeply concerned at the continuation of the arms race, in particular the
nuclear arms race, and the threat to mankind due to the possibility of the use of
nuclear wea~ons,

Considering that, until nuclear disarmament is achieved on a universal basis,
it is imperative for the international community to devise effective measures to
ensure the security of non-nuc1ear-weapon States against the use or threat of use
of nuclear weapons from any quarter,

Noting that the non-nuc1ear-weapon States have called for assurances from
nuclear-weapon Powers that they will not use or threaten to use nuclear weapons
against them,

Considering that the existence of credible and binding restraints against the
use or threat of use of nuclear weapons against non-nuclear States would contribute
towards strengthening the international non-proliferation regime and creating a
suitable climate for disarmament,

Recalling its resolution 3261 G (XXIX) of 9 December 1974 in which it
recommended that Member States should consider in all appropriate forums, without
loss of time, the question of strengthening the security of non-nuc1ear-weapon
States,

1. Reaffirms the provisions of its resolution 31/189 C;

2. Urges the nuclear-weapon Powers to give serious consideration to extending
the undertaking proposed by its resolution 31/189 C and to take expeditious action
in all relevant forums to strengthen the security of non-nuclear-weapon States;

3. Recommends that all possible efforts be made at its special session
devoted to disarmament to be held in ~~y/June 1978, to evolve binding and credible
security assurances to non-nuclear-weapon States, taking into account its
resolution 31/189 C.

C

The General Assembly,

Mindful that, according to Article 1, paragraph 1, of the Charter, the primary
purpose of the United Nations is to maintain international peace and security,

Convinced that the relationship between international peace and security to
disarmament is a close one and that a determination of this relationship can promote
peace~ security and disarmament,

Considering that for the special session of the General Assembly devoted to

/ ...



·, A/32/380
English
Page 12

disarmament, to be held in May/June 1978, the Preparatory Committee proposed that
one agenda item be a review and appraisal of the close i~terrelationshipbetween
disarmament, international peace and security and economic development,

Considering further that the proposal for a study of experts on the
interrelationship between disarmament and economic development is under
consideration by the General Assembly at its current session,

Bearing in mind the need for a parallel study of the interrelationship between
disarmament and international security,

1. Requests the Secretary-General to initiate a study on the
interrelationship between disarmament and international security;

2. Further requests the Secretary-General to submit a progress report thereon
to the General Assembly at its special session.

D

The General Assembly,

Concerned at the fact that the armaments race is accelerating and that the
world figure for expenditures on armaments continues to increase,

Convinced of the need to intensify and diversify the efforts to promote general
and complete disarmament, under strict and effective international control,

Reaffirming the right of each .State, in the exercise of its sovereignty, to
determine the appropriate conditions and to take all the necessary measures for
ensuring its security, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the
United Nations,

Mindful of the importance which new regional measures taken on the initiative
of the States concerned may have,

Convinced of the usefulness for the international community of a study on all
regional aspects of disarmament,

1. Invites all states to inform the Secretary-General, not later than
15 April 1978, of their views and suggestions concerning the regional aspects of
disarmament, including measures designed to increase confidence and stability as
well as means of promoting disarmament on a regional basis;

2. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the national communications
received by him as official documents to the General Assembly at its special session
devoted to disarmament, to be held in May/June 1978,

3. Decides to consider at its thirty-third session the desirability of
re~uesting the Secretary-General to prepare, with the collaboration of a special
group of ~ualified governmental experts, a comprehensive study of all the regional

/ ...



A/32/380
English
Page 13

aspects of disarmament, bearing in mind, inter alia, the decisions and
recommendations of the special session.

E

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 31/90 of 14 December 1976, in which it endorsed the
agreed proposals made by the Ad Hoc Committee on the Review of the Role of the
United Nations in the Field of Disarmament, ~

Having considered the report on the measures taken by the Secretary-General as
recommended by the Ad Hoc Committee, 21

Noting that the Secretary-General has carried out the request in
resolution 31/90 to implement as sOOn as possible the measures recommended by the
Ad Hoc Committee falling within his area of responsibilities,

Noting with satisfaction the publication of the first volume of the United
Nations Disarmament Yearbook, 10/

Recognizing the vital interest of all Governments and world public opinion to
be kept properly informed on all efforts in the field of disarmament,

Recalling the recommendation of the Ad Hoc Committee to the effect that the
General Assembly, on the basis of the report of the Secretary-General, should
consider pUblication of a disarmament periodical,

1. Emphasizes the need for a disarmament periodical presenting in highly
readable form current facts and developments in the field of disarmament, such as
summaries of new proposals, of important relevant statements and communiques and of
in-depth studies undertaken by the United Nations or the Conference of the Committee
on Disarmament, annotated bibliographies and brief summaries of important books and
articles on disarmament questions and related matters;

2. Reguests the Secretary-General to initiate the publication of a disarmament
periodical in all working languages of the General Assembly.

F

The General Assembly,

~~cognizing that the danger of nuclear warfare remains a grave threat to the
survival of mankind)

8/ Official Records of the General Assembly, 'l'hirty.·;first Session,
Suppl;ment No. 36 (A/31/36J, para. 18.

21 A/32/276.
!Q/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.77.IX.2. / ...



A/32/380
English
Page 14

Convinced that the prevention of proliferation of nuclear weapons or other
nuclear explosive devices, especially in those areas of the world where the
maintenance of international peace and security is endangered, remains an important
element in the efforts to avert nuclear warfare,

Recalling resolution 31/189 D of 21 December 1976, in which the General
Assembly requested the International Atomic Energy Agency to give special attention
to its programme of work in the non-proliferation area and to give careful
consideration to all relevant suggestions aiming at strengthening the safeguards
regime that have been presented to the Agency, including the communication from the
Government of Finland, III and to report on the progress of its work on this
question to the AssemblY-at its thirty-second session,

Noting the annual report for 1976 of the International Atomic Energy Agency, 121

Recalling also its resolution 31/75 of 10 December 1976 on the implementation
of the conclusions of the first Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and the recommendations, proposals and
statements made at the Conference, 131

Recalling its resol~tion 2373 (XXII) of 12 June 1968, in which it commended the
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and expressed the hope for the
widest possible adherence to that Treaty,

Noting that more than 100 States are now parties to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,

Underlining the importance of the nuclear-weapon States parties to the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons responding positively, by participating
in the fullest possible exchange of equipment, materials and scientific and
technological information for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy, as provided in
article IV of the Treaty, to the proposals and preoccupation of the
non-nuclear-weapon States in order to facilitate the adherence of all
non-nuclear-weapon States to the Treaty,

Noting also the importance of the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones in
various parts of the world as a possible means of contributing to the prevention of
the proliferation of nuclear weapons as recognized in its resolution 31/70 of
10 December 1976 on the comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free
zones in all its aspects,

Recognizing the need to ensure, on a non-discriminatory basis in accordance with
article IV of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and in keeping

III A!C.1/31/6.

121 A/32/l58 and Add.l.

131 See AIc.1/31/4.

I . ..



A/32/380
English
Page 15

with the promotion of peaceful uses of nuclear energy, a supply of nuclear
technology~ materials and facilities to meet the world's energy needs,

Noting the deliberations of the International Conference on Nuclear Power and
Its Fuel Cycle, held at Salzburg, Austria, from 2 to 13 May 19TT 14/ under the
auspices of the International Atomic Energy Agency, and the Conference on the
Transfer of Nuclear Technology, held at Persepolis, Iran, from
10 to 14 April 19TT, which confirmed the important and growing contribution that
nuclear energy will make to meeting the energy needs of all countries, including
the developing countries,

Noting also thac the Organizing Conference or che International Nuclear Fuel
Cycle Evaluation, held in Washington, D.C. from 19 to 21 October 19TT 15/ recognized
that nuclear energy should be made widely available for peaceful purposes, that
effective measures can and should be taken at the national level and through
international agreements to minimize the dangE' of the proliferation of nuclear
weapons and that the evaluation would not jeopardize the respective fuel cycle
policies or international co-operation agreements and contracts for the peaceful
uses of nuclear energy, provided that agreed safeguard measures were applied,

Anxious that the accelerated spread and development of nuclear technology
should not increase the danger of proliferation of nuclear weapons or other
nuclear explosive devices, and convinced that these two objectives are not
contradictory,

Underlining again the important role of the International Atomic Energy
Agency in promoting the contribution of nuclear energy to economic progress,
bearing in mind the special needs of developing countries, and in implementing
safeguards in the interest of non-proliferation,

Noting that the International Atomic Energy Agency has made further progress
in its safeguards activities by increasing its preparedness to reach with States
which are not parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,
if they so desire, universal and non-discriminatory safeguards agreements no less
effective than those concluded by the International Atomic Energy Agency with
States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, by keeping
under scrutiny the strengthening of its safeguards, by completing this year a
study on the establishment of regional fuel cycle centres and by presenting a
draft convention for physical protection of nuclear materials,

Determined that similar progress could be made in exploring possibilities of
increased assistance to the developing areas of the world,

1. Urgently calls for determined efforts by all nuclear-weapon States:

14/ For the proceedings of the Conference, see International Atomic Energy
Agenc~ Nuclear Power and its Fuel Cycle (STI/PUB/465), vol. I (to be issued in
eight volumes).

15/ For the final communique of the Conference, see A/C.l/32/T.

/ ...



A/32/380
English
Page 16

(a) To bring about the cessation of the nuclear arms race;

(b) To undertake effective measures in the direction of nuclear disarmament;

(c) To find an early solution to the remaining problems in reaching agreement
to discontinue all test explosions of nuclear weapons as a step towards the
realization of these objectives;

2. Emohasizes in this connexion the particular responsibility of those
nuclear-weapon States that have already accepted international obligations,
namely, in article VI of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons,
with respect to the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and the discontinuance of
nuclear-wehpon tests and notes as encouraging the recent efforts under way towards
these ends;

3. Tinderlines the importance of determined efforts, especially by the
nuclear-we&~on States, to ensure the security of non-nuclear-weapon states;

4. Reaffirms that all States have the right, as provided for, inter alia,
in article rr of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, to
acquire and d.evelop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes under effective and
non-discriminatory safeguards against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and
underlines the importance of increased efforts in this field, particularly for
the needs of the developing countries and areas;

5. Recognizes the importance of the technical assistance provided by the
International Atomic Energy Agency to the developing countries and areas of the
world within an effective and comprehensive safeguards system, and emphasizes the
urgent need of common efforts towards an essential increase of this assistance;

6. Urges States that as yet have not adhered to the Treaty on the
Non··Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in the first instance, to do so at an early
date or, at a minimum, to accept other arrangements involving the application of
safeguards to their complete nuclear fuel cycle that would provide satisfactory
assurances to the international community against the dangers of proliferation
while guaranteeing to the States concerned unhindered and non-discriminatory access
to the peaceful benefits of nuclear energy;

7. Emphasizes the importance of common efforts to study satisfactory
arrangements for an adequate supply of nuclear fuels and other materials and
facilities necessary to the efficient implementation and operation of national
nuclear power programmes without jeopardizing the respective fuel cycle policies
or international co-operation agreements and contracts for the peaceful uses of
nuclear energy, provided that agreed safeguard measures are applied;

8. Solemnly affirms the following principles:

(a) States should not convert civil nuclear materials or facilities to the
production of nuclear weapons;

/ ...



A/32/380
English
Page 17

(b) All States have the right, in accordance with the principle of sovereign
equality, to develop their programmes for the peaceful use of nuclear technology
for economic and social development in conformity with their priorities, interests
and needs and should have, without discrimination, access to, and be free to acquire,
technology and materials for the peaceful use of nuclear energy under effective and
non-discriminatory safeguards egainst the proliferation of nuclear weapons;

9. Expresses its strong support for the efforts of the International Atomic
Energy Agency to increase the effectiveness of its safeguards system in order to
ensure that the peaceful uses of nuclear energy will not lead to the proliferation
of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices;

10. Recognizes the need adequately to ensure the physical protection of
nuclear materials, facilities and transport;

11. Requests the International Atomic Ene'gy Agency to continue the
consideration of reaching an international agreement for such protection;

12. Expresses its support for the continuation of the studies by the
International Atomic Energy Agency on the question of multinational fUel cycle
centres and an international regime for plutonium management as possible means
to promote the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes and the interests of
the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices;

13. Requests the International Atomic Energy Agency to report on the progress
of its work on these questions to the General Assembly at its thirty-third sessi.n.

G

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 2602 A (XXIV) of 16 December 1969 relating to the
initiation of bilateral negotiations between the Governments of the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America on the limitation of
offensive and defensive strategic nuclear-weapon systems,

Recalling also its resolutions 2932 B (XXVII) of 29 November 1972,
3184 A and C (XXVIII) of 18 December 1973, 3261 C (XXIX) of 9 December 1974,
3484 C (XXX) of 12 December 1975 and 31/189 A of 21 December 1976,

Regretting the absence of definitive results during the last three years of
those bilateral negotiations,

1. Notes with satisfaction that, in his address to the General Assembly on
4 October 1977, 161 the President of the United States of America stated,
inter alia, the following:

"The United States is willing to go as far as possible, consistent with
our security interests, in limiting and reducing our nuclear weapons. On a

161 A/32/pv.18, p. 6.

I ...



A/32/380
English
Page 18

reciprocal basis we are willing now to reduce them by 10 per cent, 20 per cent
or even 50 per cent. Then we will work for further reduction to a world truly
free of nuclear weapons iJ;

2. Notes with identical satisfaction that, in his address to the Joint
Session of the Supreme Soviet and Central Committee of the Communist Party on
2 November 197'7, the President of the Supreme Soviet of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics stated the following:

"Today we are proposing a radical step: that agreement be reached on a
simultaneous halt in the production of nuclear weapons by all States. All
such weapons - whether atomic, hydrogen or neutron bombs or missiles. At
the same time the nuclear Powers could undertake to start the gradual
reduction of existing stockpiles of such weapons and move towards their
complete, total destruct ion" ;

3. Stresses the necessity and urgency that the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics &nd the United States of America strive to implement as soon as possible
the foregoi"g declarations of their respective heads of State and invites the
Governments ~f both countries to adopt without delay all relevant measures to
achieve that objective;

4. Reiterates with special emphasis its invitation to both Governments to
keep the General Assembly informed in good time of the results of their negotiations
and trusts to be able to receive from them appropriate information in this regard
during the special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament, to be
held in May/June 1978.


