












































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATUONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A!32!l~44

14 December 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

! ...

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 61

OPERATIONAL ACTIVITIES FOR DEVELOP1lliNT

Report of the Second Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ibrahim Suleiman DHABAT (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)

I. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, included in its agenda the item entitled

"Operational activities for development:

"(a) United Nations Development Programme;

"(b) United Nations Capital Development Fund;

H (c) Technical co-operation activi ties undertaken by the Secretary-General;

"(d) United Nations Volunteers programme;

"(e) United Nations Fund for Population Activities;

i' (f) United Nations Children' s Fund;

'I (g) World Food Programme;

"(h) United Nations Special Fund for Land-locked Developing Countries;

"( i) Confirmation of the appointment of the Executive Director of the United
Nations Special Fund for Land-locked Developing countries."

and allocated subitems (a) to (h) to the Second Committee.

2. The Second Committee considered the item at its 38th, 43rd to 48th, 51st to
55th and 58th meetings, between 7 November and 9 December. An account of the
discussion of the Committee is contained in the relevant summary records
(A!C.2!32!SR.38, 43-48, 51-55 and 58).

'17-28877



A!32!1,44
English
Page 2

3, For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council; !!

(b) Report of the Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme
on the United Nations Special Fund for Land-locked Developing Countries
(A!32!236);

(c) Report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Development
Programme on its twenty-third and twenty-fourth sessions; ~

(d) Report of the Executive Board of the United Nations Children's Fund: ,21

(e) Report of the Executive Director of the United Nations Children's Fund on
preparations for the International Year of the Child (E!6010),

(f) Letter dated 15 March from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Egypt to the Secretary-General transmitting documents
of the First Afro-Arab Surr~it Conference Meeting (A!32!61).

4. At the 38th meeting, on 7 November, introductory statements were made by the
Administrator of UNDP, the Executive Director of rnqICEF, the Under--Secretary-General
and Commissioner for Technical Co-operation, the Executive Director of the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities and the Executive Director of the World Food
Prograrrme, as well as by the Special Representative for the International Year of
the Child.

5. The Committee considered six draft resolutions and one draft decision, as set
forth in sections I to VII below.

I

6. At the 38th meeting, on 7 November, the representative of Jordan, on behalf of
~ustria, Canada, India, Iran, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Mexico, the Netherlands, New
Zealand, Ni~eria, Norway, the Philippines, Tunisia and the United Kingdom of Great
~ritain and Northern Ireland, introduced a draft resolution (A!C.2!32!L.17) entitled
"International Year of the Child".

7. At the 48th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of Jordan, on behalf of
the original sponsors and Australia, Bangladesh, Belgium, Colombia, Honduras, the

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session, Supplement
No. 3-(A/32!3), chap. VII, sect. E, and A!32!3!Add.l (Part Ill).

2! Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Sixty-third Session,
Supplement No. 3 (E!5940) and Supplement No. 3A (E!6013!Rev.l).

1! Ibid., Supplement No. 12 (E!6014).

! ...



A/32/444
English
Page 3

Ivory Coa~, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, J.1ali, Panama, Peru, the Syrian Arab
Republic, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great Britain a;;-a-Northern Ireland, the
United Republic of Cameroon, the United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Yemen and Zaire, now joined by Bahrain, the Comoros, Ecuador, Egypt, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Hungary, Lesotho and Uganda, introduced a revised text
of the draft resolution (A/C.2/32/L.l7/Rev,l), which incorporated the following
changes:

(a) At the end of the fourth line of the first preambular paragraph, the
following phrase was inserted: "reSOlution 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974,
containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States,";

(b) In the second preambular paragraph, the words "which proclaimed;; were
revised to read "in which it proclaimed";

(e)
position

In the second line of the fourth operative paragraph, the words "in a
to do so" were deleted.

At the same meeting, the sponsors accepted an amendment proposed by the
representative of Yugoslavia whereby the words "in plenary;' were inserted after the
words "special debate" in the penultimate line of operative paragraph 9.

8. At the same meeting, the Co~~ittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/32/L.17/
Rev.l, as orally amended (see para. 34 below, draft resolution I).

9. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of renmark, the Union of Soviet Socialist Refublics and Jordan.

II

10. At the 51st meeting, on 22 November, the represeGtative of the United RepUblic
of Cameroon, on behalf of Australia, Bangladesh, Burundi, Canada, Denmark, Egypt,
Finland, Iceland, Indonesia, the Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan, ~enya, Liberia, the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritania, the Netherlands, Norway,
Peru, the Philippines, Rwanda, Senegai~aziland, Sweden, Tunisia, the Unite~
~dom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United Republic of Cante~, the
United Republic of Tanzania, the United States of America, Uruguay,and Venezuela,
now joined by Belgium, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/32/L.55) entitled
"United Nations Children's Fund".

11.
and

Subsequently, Austria, Colombia, Costa Rica, Panama,
~ambia joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

Uganda, the Upper Volta

12. At the 53rd meeting, on 1 December, the representative of the United Republic
of Cameroon, on behalf of the original sponsors and Guinea, Honduras and Mali,
subsequently joined by the Syrian Arab Republic and Turkey introduced a revised
text of the draft resolution (A/C.2/32/L.55/Rev.l) which incorporated the following
revisions:

/ ...



A/32/444
English
Page 4

(a) In the last line of the fourth preambular paragraph, the word "any" was
replaced by the word "a";

(b) In the last line of the fifth preambular paragraph, the word "both" was
deleted and, at the end of the line, the words "and to economic growth" were also
deleted,

(c) In the first line of the last preambular paragraph, the words "in a
position to do so" were deleted.

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.2/32/L.551
Rev.l (see para. 34 below, draft resolution 11).

14. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the German Democratic Republic (on behalf also of Bulgaria, the
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland,
the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics), India, the Federal Republic of Germany, France, Argentina and Greece.

III

15. At the 52nd meeting, on 30 November, the representative of Jordan, on behalf
of India, Jordan, Kuwait and Mali, introduced a draft resolution (A/c.2/32/L.66)
entitled "Health needs of Palestinian refugee children" and orally revised it by
a,lding, at the. end of operative paragraph 1, the following phrase: "in close
collaboration with UNRWA and host Governments".

16. At the 55th meeting, on 7 December, the representative of Jordan, on behalf
of the original sponsors, Bangladesh and the Syrian Arab Republic, now joined by
Qatar, Senegal and Tunisia, introduced a revised text of the draft resolution
(A/c.2/32/L.66/Rev.l) in which operative paragraph 1 was revised to read as follows:

"1. Re')uests the Secretary-General, in collaboration with host
Governments and with relevant United Nations bodies, to undertake a sample
survey to ascertain the needs of Palestinian children in refugee camps, with
a view to averting adverse effects on their health".

17. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.2/32/L.661
Rev.l (see para. 34 below, draft resolution 111).

18. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Israel and Jordan.

IV

19. The Economic and Social Council, in its resolution 2128 (LXIII) of
31 October 1977, recommended to the General Assembly for adoption a draft
resolution (A/32/3/Add.l (Part III), p. 3, para. 3) entitled "Target for World Food
Programme pledges for the period 1979-1980".

I ...



20.
(see

At its 54th meeting, on 5 December, the
para. 34 below, draft resolution IV).

A/32/444
English
Page 5

Committee adopted the draft resolution

21. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

V

22. At the 55th meeting, on 7 December, the representative of Afghanistan, on
behalf of Afghanistan, Bhutan, Nepal and Uganda, now joined by the Lao People's
Democratic Republic and Lesotho, introduced a draft resolution (A/c.2/32/L.70/Rev.l)
entitled "United Nations Special Fund for Land-locked Developing Countries" and
orally revised it by adding the word "voluntary" after the word "generous" at the
end of the first line of operative paragraph 1,

23. At the 58th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Afghanistan, on
behalf of the original sponsors, now joined by Buru~di and Zambia and sUbsequently
joined by Bolivia, the Central African Empire, Chad, Malawi and Rwanda, introduced
a revised text of the draft resolution (A/c.2/32/L.70/Rev.2), which incorporated
the following revisions:

(a) The deletion of the third preambular paragraph;

(b) The replacement of operative paragraph 1 by the following:

"1. Urp;es Member States and the entire international community to make
generous voluntary contributions to the Fund in order to make it operational
as soon as possible;\1.

24. At the same meeting, the representative of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya made a
statement before the vote.

25. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/32/L.701
Rev.2 by 96 votes to none, with 17 abstentions (see para. 34 below, draft
resolution V).

26. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Austria, Belgium (on behalf of the members of the European
Economic Community), Sweden, the United States of America, New Zealand, the Union
of Soviet Socialist RepUblics, Japan and Canada.

VI

27. At the 58th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of JmDaica, on behalf
of the States Members of the United Nations which are members of i,he Group of 77,
introduced a draft resolution (A/c.2/32/L.93) entitled "United Nations Development
Prograll11Ue q .,

I ...



A/32/441,
English
Page 6

28. At the same meeting, the Cow~ittee adopted draft resolution A/c.2/32/L.93
(see para, 34 belm', draft resolution VI).

29. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the
Netherlands, Canada, the United States of America, Sweden (on behalf also of
Denmark, Finland, Iceland and Norway), the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and
the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.

VII

30. At the 58th meeting, on 9 December, the Committee had before it a draft
decision proposed by the Chairman (A/c.2/32/L.92) entitled "United Nations Capital
Development Fund".

31. Upon a proposal by the representative of the Upper Volta, the Chairman of the
Committee orally revised the draft decision by deleting from the last two lines of
the text the following words "and that the administrative expenses of the Fund be
met from voluntary contributions made to the Fund".

32. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft decision proposed by the
Chairman (A/c.2/32/L.92), as orally revised (see para. 35 below).

33. Following the adoption of the draft decision, statements were made by the
representatives of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States of
America, the Federal Republic of Germany, France and Japan.

RECOW~NDATIONS OF THE SECOND COlfu~ITTEE

34. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

International Year of the Child

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 2626 (XXV) of 24 October 1970, containing the
International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development
Decade, 3201 (S··VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 Hay 1974, containing the Declaration and
the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order,
3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, containing the Charter of Economic Rights and
Duties of States, and 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on development and
international economic co-operation) as well as Economic and Social Council
resolution 2105 (LXIII) of 3 August 1977,

I ...



A/32/4l~~

English
Page 7

Recalling its resolution 31/169 of 21 December 1976, in which it proclaimed the
year 1979 International Year of the Child with the following general objectives:

(a) To provide a framework for advocacy on behalf of children and for
enhancing the awareness of the special needs of children on the part of decision-
makers and the public;

(b) To promote recognition of the fact that nrogrammes for children should be
an integral part of economic and social development plans with a view to achieving,
in both the long term and the short term, sustained activities for the benefit of
children at the national and international levels,

Believing that the concept of basic services for children is a vital component
of social and economic development,

Recognizing the fundamental importance in all countries, developing and
industrialized, of programmes benefiting children not only for their well-being,
but also as part of broader efforts to accelerate the economic and social process,

Having considered the report of the Executive Director of the United Nations
Children's Fund on the prenarations for the International Year of the Child and the
level of contributions to the financing of these activities, ~I

1. Commends the work of the Executive Director and staff of the United
Nations Children's Fund for the preparatory work which has laid the foundation for
a successful International Year of the Child and, in this regard, welcomes the
appointment of the Special Representative for the Year;

2. Notes with satisfaction the co-ordination being achieved through the use
of an ad hoc advisory group, composed of representatives of concerned organizations
of the United Nations system and non-governmental organizations;

3. Reaffirms that the major focus of the International Year of the Child is
at the national level, but that this should be supported by regional and
international co-operation;

4. Exnresses its gratitude to Goverr.ments that have contributed thus far to
the administrative costs of the International Year of the Child and appeals to all
Governments to contribute to its financing;

5. Requests all United Nations bodies concerned, including specialized
agencies, to keep the United Nations Children's Fund informed of their respective
programmes for the International Year of the Child and, in this regard, requests
the Fund, as the lead agency, to prepare a report for the General Assembly at its
thirty-third session on the activities being undertaken in the UnCted Nations
system;

~I E/60l0.

I ...



A/32/444
English
Page 8

6, Stresses the importance of the active participation of non-governmental
organizations and the public, at both the international and national levels, in
support of the International Year of the Child;

7. Invites Governments to inform the United Nations Children's Fund on
activities undertaken in their country to promote the objectives of the
International Year of the Child;

8, Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the United Nations
Children's Fund, to publicize the International Year of the Child and its aims and
objectives in both developing and developed countries;

9. Decides to consider further the preparations for the International Year
of the Child at its thirty-third session and decides to observe it by holding a
special debate in plenary on the situation of children in the world at its thirty-
fourth session:

10. Expresses the hope that Governments, non-governmental organizations and
the public will respond generously with contributions to attain the objectives of
the International Year of the Child and, through the United Nations Children's Fund
and other channels of external aid, to increase substantially the resources
available for services benefiting children.

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

United Nations Children's Fund

The General Assembly,

Notinr, Economic and Social Council resolution 2109 (LXIII) of 3 August 1977,

Having considered the report of the Executive Board of the United Nations
Children's Fund on its session held at Manila from 23 May to 3 June 1977, 2!

Deeply concerned about the magnitude of the unmet needs of children in
developing countries and the effects that a failure to meet these needs could have
on the long-term development process,

Believing therefore that meeting these needs should be taken fully into
consideration in the drafting of a new international development strategy,

Believing moreover that the basic-services approach, 61 as elaborated by the
United Nations Children's Fund, deserves full support because it contributes to the
meeting of essential human needs,

51 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Sixty-third Session,
Suppl~ment No. 12 (E/6014).

~I See ibid., paras. 131-136.

I . ..



A/32/444
English
Page 9

Recognizing the need for all Governments, especially those that are not
contributing to the United Nations Children's Fund in relation to their financial
capacity~ to increase their contributions as soon as possible~

1, Commends the United Nations Children's Fund for its initiative in regard
to the elaboration and implementation of the basic-services approach for children
as part of a comprehensive development strategy;

2. Urges developing countries that have not already done so to incorporate,
as appropriate, this concept and approach in their national development plans and
strategies;

3. Appeals, with a sense of urgency, to Governments to increase significantly
their contributions, if possible on a multiyear basis, to the United Nations
Children's Fund, so that an equitable sharing of voluntary contributions will be
achieved and that the target of $200 million in annual revenue from all sources will
be attained as soon as possible, and not later than 1979, the International Year of
the Child.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Health needs of Palestinian refugee children

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 212 (Ill) of 19 November 1948 on assistance to
Palestine refugees~

Deeply concerned about the fact that almost half a million children in refugee
camps are not receiving the basic nutritional requirements,

1. Requests the Secretary-General, in collaboration with Governments of host
countries and with relevant United Nations bodies, to undertake a sample survey to
ascertain the needs of Palestinian children in refugee camps with a view to averting
adverse effects on their health;

2. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-third session on the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Target for World Food Programme pledges for the period 1979-1980

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provision contained in paragraph 1 of its resolution 2095 (XX)
of 20 December 1965, under which the World Food Programme is to be reviewed before
each pledging conference,

Recalling also the provisions of paragraph 4 of its resolution 3407 (XXX) of
28 November 1975 whereby, subject to the above-mentioned review, the pledging

I . ..



A/32/444
English
Pal'e 10

conference at which time Governmen-::"s should be invited ..~O pledge contributions for
1979 and 1980 with a view to reaching such a target as may then be recommended by
the General Assembly and by the Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization
of the United Nations, should be convened, at the latect, early in 1978,

Noting that the review of the Programme was undertaken by the Committee on Food
Aid Policies and Programmes at its third session and by the Economic and Social
Council at its sixty-third session,

~aving considered Economic and Social Council resolution 2128 (LXIII) of
31 October 1977 and the recommendations made by the Corr~ittee on Food Aid Policies
and Programmes in its report, 11

Recognizing the value of multilateral food aid as implemented by the World
Food Programme since its inception and the necessity for continuing its action both
as a form of capital investment and for meeting emergency food needs,

1. Establishes for the two years 1979 and 1980 a target for voluntary
contributions to the World Food Programme of $950 million, of which not less than
one third should be in cash and/or services in the aggregate, and expresses the
hope that the resources so contributed will be augmented by substantial additional
contributions from other sources in recognition of the prospective volume of sound
project requests and the capacity of the Programme to operate at a higher level,

2. ~rges States Members of the United Nations or members or associate
members of the Food and AgricUlture Organization of the United Nations to make
every effort to ensure the full attainment of the target:

3. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the Director-General
of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, to convene a
pledging conference for this purpose at United Nations Headquarters early in 1978;

4. Decides that, subject to the review of the World Food Programme provided
for in paragraph 1 of General Assembly resolution 2095 (XX), the pledging conference
at which Governments should be invited to pledge contributions for 1981 and 1982,
with a view to reaching such a target as may then be recommended by the Assembly
and by the Conference of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United
Nations, should be convened, at the latest, early in 1980.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

United Nations Special Fund for Land-locked Developing Countries

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 31/177 of 21 December 1976, by which it approved the
statute of the United Nations Special Fund for Land-locked Developing Countries and
requested the Secretary-General to convene a pledging conference on the Fund,

1/ E/6008.
/ ...



A/32/444
English
Page 11

Expressing appreciation to the countries that contributed to the Fund at the
pledging conference held on 2 November 1977,

Concerned at the fact that the Fund has not yet become operational as
envisaged in General Assembly resolution 31/177,

1. Urges Member States and the entire international community to make
generous voluntary contributions to the United Nations Special Fund for Land-locked
Developing Countries in order to make it operational as soon as possible;

2. Authorizes the Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme
to propose, in close collaboration with the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development, interim arrangements to implement the aims and
purposes laid down in the statute of the Fund until the Fund becomes operational,
in the manner specified in General Assembly resolution 31/177, subject to approval
of such arrangements by the Governing Council of the United Nations Development
Prograrr~e.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

United Nations Development Programme

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974,
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a
New International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, containing the
Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 September 1975 on development and international economic co-operation, as well
as its resolution 2626 (XXV) of 24 October 1970 containing the International
Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development Decade,

Recalling also its resolution 31/171 of 21 December 1976,

Further recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 2024 (LXI) of
4 August 1976,

Having examined the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Development Programme on its twenty-third §) and twenty-fourth sessions, 2/

Reiterating the need to reach the required level of contributions to the United
Nations Development Programme in order to fulfil the aims and objectives established
in the Second Programming Cycle and its concern about the lack of dynamic growth of
resources for the Programme~

8/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Sixty-third Session,
Supplement No. 3 (E/5940).

2/ Ibid., Supplement No. 3A (E/6013/Rev.l).

/ ...



A/32/h41,
I:nglish
Page 12

Noting that the results of the 1911 Pledging Conference on the United Nations
Development Programme fell short of the agreed target of the over-all growth rate
of 14 per cent for voluntary contributions,

Recognizing the need for the United Nations Development Prograrr®e to implement
fully the new dimensions in technical co-operation, as set forth in General Assembly
resolution 3405 (XXX) of 28 November 1915,

1. Reaffirms the validity of the consensus of 1910 as set forth in General
Assembly resolution 2688 (XXV) of 11 December 1910;

2. Takes note of the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Development Programme on its twenty-third and twenty-fourth sessions;

3. Notes with approval the action initiated by the Governing Council of the
United Nations Development Programme, as endorsed by Economic and Social Council
resolution 2110 (LXIII) of 3 August 19", to reinforce the effectiveness and impact
of the Programme} and requests the Governing Council, in pursuance of its
considerations on the role and activities of the Programme, to take fully into
account the views expressed at the sixty-third session of the Economic and Social
Council and at the thirty-second session of the General Assembly;

4. Urges the Governing Council and the Administrator to ensure that the role
and activities of the United Nations Development Programme are in accordance with
the development priorities and objectives of developing countries and in line with
the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly, in particular those related to the
establishment of the new international economic order;

5. Invites the Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme to
continue his efforts~ in association with the participating and executing agencies
and co-operating organizations, to strengthen the financial position of the
Programme and to improve its management;

6. Further invites the Administrator of the United Nations Develorrrent
Programme to continue discussions with the executing agencies with a view to
improving the substantive co-ordination of technical co-operation on the basis of
the consensus of 1910;

I. Urges all States to take measures to provide the United Nations
Development Progra~~e with the necessary resources to fulfil the aims, objectives
and programmes established in the Second Programming Cycle, 19,,-1981, and
especially to achieve and even exceed the over-all annual growth rate of 14 per cent
for voluntary contributions, on which the indicative planning figures for the Cycle
are based;

8. Invites the Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme to
pursue actively his efforts, as reQuested by the Governing Council, to strengthen
the financial basis of the Programme~ taking into account the views expressed in
the General Assembly at its thirty-second session, and to report on the progress
achieved to the Governine Council at its twenty-fifth session;

/ ...



A/32/444
English
Page 13

9. Further invites the Administrator of the United Nations Development
Programme and the heads of executing agencies to increase substantially the number
of experts from developing countries to be included in the lists of experts
submitted to Governments for the execution of projects financed by the Programme,
including nationals from their own countries) regional and subregional groupings~
in accordance with relevant decisions of the Governing Council of the Programme.

35. The Second Corr@ittee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft decision:

United Nations Capital Development Fund

The General Assembly, recalling its resolutions 2186 (XXI) of 13 December 1966
and 3249 (XXIX) of 4 December 1974 and having considered the relevant part of the
report of the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme on its
twenty-fourth session la/ and Economic and Social Council decision 259 (LXIII) of
3 August 1977, deeidesthat the original function of the United Nations Capital
Development Fund should be preserved until 31 December 1978, in accordance with the
measures set forth in paragraph 1 of Assembly resolution 2321 (XXII) of
15 December 1967.

la/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, Sixty-third Session,
Supplement--:iio. 3A (E/6013/Rev.1), chap 0 VIII.


