












































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/45S
15 December 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 12

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Hr. Fuad M. AL-HINAI (Oman)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on the
recommeno_ation of the General Committee, decided to include the item entitled
"Report of the Economic and Social Council" in its agenda and to allocate the
following parts of the report 11 to the Third Committee: chapters 11, III
(sects. G and L), IV (sect. A)-and VI.

2. The General Assembly also indicated that:

(a) Chapter 11 might be of interest to the First, Special Political and
Fourth Cow~ittees;

(b) Chapter VII, section C, might be of interest to the Second and Third
Committees.

3. The following three SUbjects, which were dealt with in the sections of the
report of the Economic and Social Council referred to the Third COlmnittee, are
separate items on the agenda:

(a)
Litem 74

Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination
(ail (chap. IH, sect. G);

(b) Report of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees Litem SjJ
(chap. HI, sect. L);

(cl United Nations Decade for I/omen [item s£ (chap. VI, sect. B).

11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-Second Session,
Suppl~me~No. 3 (A/32!3).

77-29204 I ...



A/32/458
English
Page 2

4. A surmnary of the discussion of the Darts of the report of the Economic and
Social Council concerning items 74 (a), 87 and 85 is contained in the reports of
the Third Committee on those items.

5. Sections of the report of the Economic and Social Council referred to the
Third Committee which do not form part of independent items are as follows:

(a) Chapter 11. General discussion of international economic and social
policy, including regional and sectoral developments;

(b) Chapter IV. Questions considered by the Economic Committee:

Section A. Assessment of the progress made in the implementation of
General Assembly resolutions 2626 (XXV) entitled
"International Development Strategy for the Second United
Nations Development Decade", 3202 (S-VI) entitled "Programme
of Action on the Establishment of a New International
Economic Order", 3281 (XXIX) entitled "Charter of Economic
Rights and Duties of States" and 3362 (S-VII) entitled
lIDevelopment and international economic co-operation1t •

(c) Chapter VI. Questions considered by the Social Committee:

Section A. Social development questions;

Section C. Human rights questions;

Section D. Ilarcotic drugs.

6. In connexion with item 12, the Committee also had before it the following
documents;

(a) Letter dated 15 March 1977 from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Egypt to the Secretary-General (A/32/61);

(b) ReDort of the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Mission
on Emergency Assistance for South African Student Refugees (A/32/65 and Add.l);

(c) Letter dated 23 June 1977 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Chile to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-
General (A/32/125);

(d) Note by the Secretary-General on the welfare of migrant workers and
their farr~lies (A/32/l29);

(e) Note by the Secretary-General on social and institutional reform as a
means of increasing domestic food production and distributing it equitably among
the population (A/32/l39);

I ...



6 A
"work

A/32/458
English
Page 3

(f) Note by the Secreta~!-General transmitting the text of resolution
XXXIII) of the Commission on Hu..man Rights, entitled "Report of the Ad Hoc
ng Group of Experts on southern Africa" (A/32/193);

(g) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the text of a draft
resolution of the Economic and Social Council entitled ';Implementation of the
Declaration on Social Progress and Development" (A/32/2l5);

(h) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Ad Hoc
'Iorking Group to ino,uire into the situation of human rights in Chile, submitted in
accordance with C~neral Assembly resolution 31/124 (A/32/221);

(i) Report of the Secretary-General containing information received from
Member States, specialized agencies and other international organizations on steps
ta~en to implement paragraph 4 of General Assembly resolution 31/124 (A/32/234);

(j) Note by the Secretary-General concerning the observance of the thirtieth
anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (A/C.3/32/1);

(k) Note verbe~le de.ted 10 October 1917 from the Permanent Representative of
Austria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.3/32/2):

(1) Observations of the Government of Chile on the report of the Ad Hoc
,Iorking Group on the Situation of Human Rights in Chile (A/C.3/32/6 and Corr.l);

(m) Note by the Secretary-General on the protection of human rights in Chile
(A/C.3/32/1);

(n) Letter dated 9 December 1911 from the Permanent Representatives of Fiji,
New Zealand and Singapore to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/C.3/32/8)

I. The Com~ittee considered the item at its 54th to 51th, 59th to 65th, 61th
and 69th to T{th meetings, bet,reen 22 November and 12 December. The summary
records of those meetings (A/C.3/32/SR.54-65, 61, 69-n) contain the views of
representatives of Member States and observers, as well as the representatives of
the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the World
Health Organization, on the item,

8. At the 54th meeting, on 22 November, the Deputy Director of the Division of
Human Rights made an introo_uctory statement regarding those parts of the report
of the Economic and Social Council which concerned questions relating to the
activities of United Nations organs and bodies in the field of human rights.

9. At the 55th meeting, on 23 November, the Acting Director of the Centre for
Social I;evelopment and Humanitarian Affairs introduced those parts of the report of
the Economic and Sociel Council relating to the activities of the United Nations
organs and bodies in the field of social development.

/ ...



A!32/458
EnGlish
Page 4

10. At the 56th meetinG, on 24 Dovember, the Chairman-Rapporteur of the Ad Hoc
V!orkin8 Group on the Situation of Human Rifhts in Chile introduced the report of
the TTorl';"_ing Group.

11. At the 57th meeting, on 25 November, the Chief of the Unit for Representation
and Liaison~ Office for Inter-Agency Affairs and Co-ordination ~ on behalf of the
Executive Director of the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control cm.d the
Director of the Division of Narcotic Drugs, made an introductory statem€nt.

12. At the 60th meetinG, on 28 November, the Assistant Secretary-General for
Special Political Questions introduced the report of the Eission on Emergency
Assistance for South African Student Refugees.

11. CONSIDERA~ION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolution recommended by the Economic
and Social Council (A/32/215, annex)

13. The Committee had before it a draft resolution entitled: "Implementation of
the Declaration on Social Progress and Development" which had been recommended 'bY
the Economic and Social COQncil (A/32/215, annex).

14. At the 71st meeting, on 7 December, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution without a vote (see para. 52 below, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolution A/C,3/32/L.37

15. At the 64th meetine, on 1 December, the representative of Sweden introduced
draft resolution A/C. 3/32/L. 37 entitled "Protection of human rights in Chile",
sponsored by Algeria~ AU3tria~ Belp.ium~ Cuba 9 Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Guinea-
Bissau, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, Italy~ the Libyan Arab Ja~ahiri~J~embourg,
Mexico, i0n~a9~ambioue,th~herlands, NonTay~_ ?oland, fortugalj Sweden,
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of
~mer~and Yugoslavi~, subsequently joined by Bulgaria, the Congo, Czechoslovakia,
the German Dem?cratic Republic, Jamaica, the Lao People's Democratic Renublic?
Madarascar, ?ao Tome and Princine, Senegal and the Union of So~iet Socialist
Renublics.

16. At the 72nd meeting, on 7 December, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution by a roll-call vote of 98 to 12, with 28 abstentions (see para. 52
beloW, draft resolution 11). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria~ Angola, Australia, Austria~ Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh~ Barbados~ Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana~
Bul~aria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Colombia, Comoros, Congo,
Cuba, Cyprus, CzechoslOVakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Finland, France, G&~bia,

/ ...



A/32/458
Enl>;li Sll
PalSe 5

Ger!'lan Democratic B.epublic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Guinea~ Guinea-Bissau, Hungary~, Iceland:.; India, Iran, Iraq~
Ireland 5 Israel, Italy~ Jamaica., Js,pan, Kenya~ TCu'tfait,
Lao People 1 s Democratic Republic, Lesotho~ Libyan Arab
Jama.hiriya" Luxembourg, liladagascar, Maldives, Mali, Halta, ~":exico~
~~ngolia) Moza~bique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Ni~er~ Norway~
Pakistan ~ Papua Nei'; Guinea, Poland, Portuc:a1, Qatar, Romania!>,
Rwands, Gac Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia,
Sri LarL~a, Sudan~ Swaziland, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia~ Tur~ey~ Uganda~ Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, united States of America,
Upper Volta, Venezuela, Viet Nam) Yemen~ Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic,
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Lebanon, t1icaragua, Paraguay, Uruguay.

Abstai!!j.ng: Bolivia, Central African Empire, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Fiji~ Gabon~ Ghana 9 Grenada 9 Indonesia, Ivory Coast 5 Jordan 9
Liberia, I'1alavri, Malaysia, Morocco) Nepal, Nigeria, Oman, Panama~
Peru~ Philippines, Saudi Arabia 9 Singapore, Spain, Surinam,
Thailand, Zaire.

C. Draft resolution A/c.3/32/L.38

17. A draft resolution (A/c. 3/32/L. 38) entitled "Assistance to South African
student refugees" was sponsored by Algeria, Botswana, Burundi, the Comoros, the
Congo, Germany, Federal Republic of, Guinea-fu~Malawi,Mali, Mauritania, the
Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, the Sudan, SW8.ziland, Togo, Uganda, Zaire and Zambia. The
draft resolution read a.s follows:

"Rec~!ling its resolution 31/126 of 16 December 1976 requesting the
Secretary-General to take immediate steps to organize and provide emergency
financial and other appropriate forms of assistance for the care, subsistence
and education of South African student refugees,

"!'ecalling also Security Council resolution 417 (1977) of 31 October 1977
Which, inter alia, requested all Governments and organizations to contribute
generously for assistance to the victims of violence and repression, including
educational assistance to student refugees from South Africa,

tiNotir.g the aupointment by the Secretary-General of the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees as co-ordinato!' of assistance "ithin the
United Nations system to South African student refugees,

I ...



Ji/32/ J:·50
English
Page 6

tlEx~~ssinv deeD concern that the South African GovernPl-ent continues to
tak.8 more and more repressive measures against students in that country,

nNot~nr: -with concern the continuing influx of South Afric::Ll1 refugees ~
includinz in particular students, into neighbouring countries~

H~_o,nc.~:rned Over the pressure on the educational systems of the three host
countries 8,.'3 a result of the continued influx of children from Soutb Africa
seeking freedom from repression and also an opportunity to further their
sb.1c1ies J

llHaving exarrrined the reports submitted by the Secretary-General
(A!32!65-~nd A!32!65!Add.l) on the pro~ress achieved in reGard to the
assistance required by and provided to these refugees,

"1. Endorses the measures taken by the Secretary-Genera.l and the Eif;h
Commissioner for Refugees for the mobilization of a profrarr~e of assistance to
South African student refugees in Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland;

11'2. Notes vith appre~iation the generous contributions of the Covernments
of BotsvJana, Lesotho and S"r8.ziland in providing asylum and making available
educational facilities for the student refugees;

H3. Notes with satisfaction the contributions so far made by Merober
States and intergovernme~tal and non-governmental organizations and United
Rations agencies;

"4. ,ExEresses co~_c:.~~ however, that the total assista.nce received to
date falls short of the needs;

17 5 0 Urp.::es all Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations and United Nations ar;encies to contribute zenerously tov.,Tards
the assistance progrffi~mes for these student refugees, both through financial
support and. by offering the necessary opportunities for their care and
subsistence, education and vocational training;

"6. Requests all aeencies and programmes of the United Nations system
including, in particular) the United Nations Educational~ Scientific and
Cultural OrgexJization ~ the United I'Jations Development PrograrJne ~ the United
NEtt ions TrLlst Fillld for South _D-_frica, and the United Nations Educational
Training Programmes for Southern Africa, to assist the High Comrnl.ssioner in
carrying out the hu~naIlitarian task entrusted to him;

117. I\equests the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner for
Refugees to continue their efforts for the mobilization of emerfency financial
and other appropriate forms of assistance for these student refugees;

"8. Further requests the Secretary-General to:

~I (a) arraEp:e for a review of the matter in time for it to be considered
by the Economic ana. Social Council at its sixty-·fifth session;

"(b) report to the Genere.l Assembly at its thirty-third. session."

/ ...



A/32/1,58
English
Page 7

18. At the 64th meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Togo introduced a
revised draft resolution (A/C.3/32/L.38/Rev.l), sponsored by Algeria, Benin,
Botswana, Burundi, Chad, Camoras, the Congo, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Guinea, Guinea-Biss~Lesotho,Malm.;ri, Mali, Mauritania, Mozambigue, the Niger,
Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, the Sudan, Swaziland, Toga, Tunisia, Trinidad and
Tobago, Uganda, the United Republic of ~anzania, Zaire and Zambia, subsequently
joined by Angola, Denmark, Ethiopia, Ghana, Morocco, Norway, Sierra Leone, Somalia
and the Upper Volta.

19. At the 71st meeting, on 7 December, the Committee adopted the revised draft
resolution without a vote (see para. 52 below, draft resolution 111).

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.39

20. At the 64th meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Algeria introduced
a draft resolution (A/C. 3/32/L. 39) entitled "Measures to improve the situation and
ensure the human rights and dignity of all migrant workers" sponsored by Algeria,
Colombia, Italy, Jamaica, Mali, Mexico, the Niger, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda,
Spain, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey and Yugoslavia. The draft resolution was
subsequently sponsored also by Afghanistan, Barbados, the Comoros, the Dominican
Republic, Senegal and Sweden. While introducing the draft resolution, the
representative of Algeria revised the text by adding, in the first line of the
fourth preambular paragraph after the words "migrant workers", the words "in
particular 3349 (xxx) and 31/127".

21. At the 72nd meeting, on 7 December, the Committee adopted the revised draft
resolution without a vote (see para. 52 below, draft resolution IV).

E. Draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.42

22. At the 69th meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Sweden ~
introduced draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.42 entitled "Protection of human rights of
certain categories of prisoners".

23. At its 73rd meeting, on 8 December, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution without a vote (see para. 52 below, draft resolution V).

2/ This is a revised version of draft resolution A/C.3/31/L.34 which was
submitted by Sweden at the thirty-first session of the General Assembly. By
decision 31/414 of 16 December 1976, the General Assembly decided to resume
consideration of the latter draft resolution at its thirty-second session. At the
thirty-first session of the General Assembly amendments (A/C.3/31/L.43) had also
been submitted by the German Democratic Republic to draft resolution A/C.3/31/L.34.
In view of the present revised draft resolution the text of documents A/C.3/31/L.34
and L.43 are not being recirculated.

/ ...



A132/458
English
Page 8

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.43

24. During the thirty-first session, the General Assembly, by its decision 31/414
of 16 December 1976, decided, inter alia, to resume consideration of draft
resolution A/C.3/31/37 and the amendments thereto (A/C.3/31/L.44) at its
thirty-second session under the item entitled "Report of the Economic and Social
COlll1cil" .

25. The Committee had before it a note by the Secretary-General (A/C.3/32/L.43)
containing the text of the draft resolution submitted by the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic at the thirty-first session (see para. 24, above) Lannex 17 and
an amendment thereto submitted also at the thirty-first ~ession ~ Algeria, Egypt,
Irag and the Syrian Arab Republic (see para. 24 above) Lannex IJJ.

26. The draft resolution read as follows:

"Protection of persons detained or imprisoned as a result of
their struggle for self-determination, indepeudence and
social progress against colonialism, aggression and foreign

occupation, racism, apartheid and racial discrimination

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 3246 (XXIX) and 3382 (XXX), which reaffirmed
the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples for liberation from colonial and
foreign domination by all available means, including armed struggle, and
demanded full respect for the basic human rights of all individuals detained
or imprisoned as a result of their struggle for self-determination and
independence~ and their immediate release,

"Noting with appreciation the progress achieved in the elimination of
colonialism and the realization of the right of peoples to self-determination,

"Expressing its serious concern regarding the cont inuing denial of the
right to self-determination of the peoples of Namibia, Zimbabwe and Palestine
and other peoples fighting for the realization of their right to self-
determination and their liberation from colonialism and racism,

"Recalling that the Security Council, in it s resolution 392 (1976)
once again strongly condemned the policy of apartheid as a crime against
the conscience and dignity of mankind and a serious breach of international
peace and security and emphasized the legitimacy of the struggle of the
people of South Africa for the elimination of apartheid and racial
discrimination,

"Emphasizing the necessity of respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms for all, without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 9

nRecalling its resolution 3103 (XXVIII), which solemnly proclaimed
the basic principles of the legal status of the combatants struggling
against colonial and alien domination and racist regimes,

"1. Expresses its solidarity with the fif,llters for national
independence and social progress of peoples, against colonialism,
apartheid, racism and foreign occupation;

"2. Emphasizes again that any attempts to suppress the struggle
against colonial domination and racist regimes are incompatible with the
Charter of the United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights;

"3. Demands the release of all individuals detained or imprisoned
as a result of their struggle for self-determination, independence and
social progress of peoples, against colonialism, aggression and foreign
occupation, racism, apartheid and racial discrimination;

"4. Insists that the racist regimes of southern Africa should
immediately and unconditionally release all individuals detained or
imprisoned for their views or for their opposition to apartheid, racism
colonialism;

"5. Calls upon Member States to provide support and assistance in
all fields to the peoples fighting for their liberation from colonialism,
foreign occupation, racism and racial discrimination;

"6. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to give particular
attention to the question of the release of individuals detained or
imprisoned as a result of their participation in the struggle for
self-determination and independence of peoples, against colonialism,
foreign occupation and domination, racism and racial discrimination;

"7. !lequests the Commission on Human Rights to submit, through the
Economic and Social Council, a report on the implementation of this
resolution to the General Assembly at its thirtY"second session."

27. The following amendments were submitted to the draft resolution:

(a) At the 69th meeting, on 6 December, Morocco submitted the following oral
amendments:

(1) To replace the title of the draft resolution by the following:

nprotection of persons detained or imprisoned as a result of the struggle
against apartheid, racism and racial discrimination, colonialism, aggression
and foreign occupation, for self-determination, independence as well as
social progress for their peoples";

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 10

(2) To replace operative paragraph 3 by the following:

"3. Demands the release of all individuals detained or imprisoned as
a result of their struggle against apartheid, racism and racial
discrimination, colonialism, aggression and foreign occupation, for self-
determination, independence as well as social progress for their peoples;"

(b)
submitted
paragraph

At the same meeting, Egypt introduced an amendment (see
by Algeria, Egypt, Iraq and the Syrian Arab Republic to
4 by the following text:

para. 25 above)
replace operative

"4. Insists that Israel and the racist minority regimes in southern
Africa should irr@ediately and unconditionally release all individuals
detained or imprisoned because of their struggle for self-determination
and national independence, and against apartheid, all forms of racism and
racial discrimination, colonialism and foreign occupation; 11

(c) Cuba orally proposed to insert the words "continue to" between the
words: "Commission on Human Rights" and "give" in the first line of operative
paragraph 6;

(d) Germany, Federal Republic of proposed that after the word "struggle" in
operative paragraph 6, the paragraph should read as in the text proposed by
Morocco for operative paragraph 3.

28. The representative of Algeria submitted a subamendment to the two amendments
of Morocco to insert the word "and" between the words "foreign occupation" and the
words "for self-determination'! ~

29. The sponsor of the draft
revised the text accordingly.
Algeria.

resolution accepted all of the amendments above and
He also accepted the subamendment proposed by

30. The representative of Morocco requested that a separate vote be taken on the
word "and" between the words "foreign occupation" and the words "for self-
determination" in the title and in operative paragraphs 3 and 6 of the draft
resolution.

31. At the 76th meeting, on 9 December, the Committee took the following decisions:

( a)
the word

votes to 20, with 40 abstentions, the Committee decided to retain

(b) The draft resolution as a whole, as revised, was adopted by a roll-call
vote of 69 to 17, with 28 abstentions (see para. 52 below, draft resolution VI).
The voting was as follows:

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 11

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahrain, Barbados, Bhutan, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Central African Empire, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Haiti, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Jamaica, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, I~ali,
Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sudan, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Bahamas, Bolivia, Botswana, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Fiji, Honduras, Ivory Coast, Japan,
Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia, Malawi, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Portugal, Spain, Surinam, Swaziland,
Sweden, Upper Volta, Uruguay.

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 12

G. Draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.45

32. At the 70th meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Austria introduced
a draft resolution entitled "Observance of the thirtieth anniversary of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights" (A/C.3/32/L.45), sponsored by Austria,
Bangladesh, Canada, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Ghana, India, Iran, Italy, Mexico, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, the Philippines, Portugal, Senegal, Sweden, Tunisia,
Uruguay and Venezuela, sUbsequently joined by Australia, Germany, Federal Republic
of, the Ivory Coast, Kenya, Morocco, Nicaragua, Surinam and the United States of
America ..

33. The Committee had before it a statement on the administrative and financial
implications of the draft resolution (A/C.3/32/L.67).

34. At the 75th meeting, on 9 December, the Committee adopted the draft resolution
without a vote (see para. 52 below, draft resolution VII).

H. Draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.46

35. The Committee had before it a draft resolution entitled "Narcotic Drugs:
International co-operation in treatment and rehabilitation" (A/C.3/32/L.46),
sponsored by Austria, Colombia, Costa Rica, Honduras, Malaysia, Nicaragua, Papua
New Guinea, the Philippines, Thailand and the United States of Anerica, which read
as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling Economic and Social Council resolutions 2064 (LXII),
2065 (LXII) and 2066 (LXII), and other resolutions on the dangers of drug abus~

"Acknowledging articles 38 and 38 bis of the Single Convention on
Narcotic Drugs, 1961, as amended,

"Recognizing the growing threat caused by the spread of drug abuse in
many parts of the world, the impact of this situation on social and economic
development assistance, agriculture and many other areas, and the resultant
increase in crime and corruption,

"Aware that drug abuse has serious adverse effects on the quality of
life of individuals and upon the societies in which they live,

"Concerned by the fact that drug trafficking exploits every individual
with which it comes in contact,

"Realizing that the concerted effort of States is required in dealing
with this problem, and that international effort, in this respect, should be
strengthened,

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 13

"Noting that agencies of the United Nations system are addressing
attention through various programmes to reduction of drug supply and demand,

"Bearing in mind that the initial purpose of the introduction of drugs
into society was to improve the health and well-being of individuals,

"Recognizing the urgent need to make individuals and Governments more
aware of the dangers of drug abuse and the need for increased attention to the
field of treatment and rehabilitation,

"1. Invites the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control, to initiate,
in collaboration with the World Health Organization, and other appropriate
agencies and bodies of the United Nations, actions to design models for
prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, taking into account the diversity
of cultures in which drug abuse exists, for the purpose of identifYing and
demonstrating the best techniques for assisting drug abusers in order to
facilitate the work of national authorities in reducing drug abuse;

"2. Further invites the above-mentioned organizations to study the
feasibility of establishing regional or international treatment and
rehabilitation centres to care for individuals suffering from addiction and
abuse and to train persons to apply the best methodologies in this field;

"3. Invites UNDP and other appropriate agencies and bodies of the United
Nations, as well as international or multilateral financial institutions
engaged in development assistance, to co-operate with and assist the UNFDAC,
in accordance with requests by Governments, in the commissioning of pilot
projects aimed at providing farmers who had relied on growing narcotics raw
material as their principal source of income, with other ways and means of
income in areas where the illicit CUltivation and production of narcotics
raw material shall gradually be eradicated in accordance with the decisions
of the Governments concerned;

"4. Invites Governments to include projects designed to promote economic
alternatives for farmers and others who are dependent on illicit production
of narcotic substances, as additional and integrated components in their
economic development programmes when applying for teChnical and financial
assistance from multilateral institutions, and suggests that the Secretary-
General urge Governments to include such projects in their requests;

"5. Requests the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to include in its next
report to the Economic and Social Council suggestions for launching a
meaningful programme of international drug abuse control strategy and
policies, inclUding the possibility of integrating therein existing or
envisaged development assistance programmes and the development of SUbstantive
programmes for the reduction of illicit demand, in order to get supply,
demand and illicit traffic in drugs under better control, in line with the
international treaties in this field;

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 14

"6. Sugp;ests that the Economic and Social Council at its sixty-fourth
session give special consideration to all problems related to drug abuse and
submit a report to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session."

36. At the 72nd meeting, on 7 December, the representative of the United States
of America introduced a revised text (A/c.3/32/L.46/Rev.l) sponsored by Austria,
Colombia, Costa Rica, the Dominican RepUblic, Ghana, Honduras, Indonesia, Italy,
11alaysia, Nicaragua, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Singapore, Spain, Thailand
and the United States of America.

37. At the 73rd meeting, on 8 December, the Committee adopted the revised draft
resolution by 106 votes to none, with 9 abstentions (see para. 52 below, draft
resolution VIII).

I. Draft resolution A/c.3/32/L.48

38. At the 72nd meeting, on 7 December, the representative of the United states
of America introduced a draft resolution entitled "United Nations Fund for Drug
Abuse Control and its programmes relating to economic and sac ial development"
(A/C.3/32/L.48), sponsored by Australia, Bolivia, Canada, Ghana, Japan, New
Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Thailand and the United States of America, subsc~uently
joined by Sweden.

39. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution by 115 votes
to none, with 14 abstentions (see para. 52 below, draft resolution IX).

J. Draft resolution A/c.3/32/L.49

40. At the 70th meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Finland introduced
a draft resolution (A/c.3132/L.49) entitled "Protection of human rights in Uganda",
sponsored by Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden, which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Cop;nizant of the accumulated evidence of continued massive violations
of basic human rights in Uganda,

"Recalling that reported violations of basic human rights in Uganda were
discussed at the thirty-third session of the Commission on Human Rights,

"Recalling its resolution 32/19, of 18 November 1977, on Co-operation
between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity,

"Recalling that the Commonwealth Heads of Government at their meeting in
London in June 1977 expressed the view that these excesses were so gross as
to warrant the world's concern and to evoke condemnation in strong and
unequivocal terms,

I ...



A/32/458
English
Page 15

Ill. Expresses deep concern about repeated gross violations of basic
human rights of individuals in Uganda;

"2. Expresses the hope that the relevant organs of the Organization of
African Unity give appropriate consideration to these violations with a view
to their cessation;

"3. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to consider the human rights
situation in Uganda."

41. At the 75th meeting, on 9 December, the Chairman announced that after various
consultations, the sponsors of the draft resolution had decided not to press for
the vote on the draft resolution, on the understanding that the concern expressed
in the draft would be taken into account when the Commission on Human Rights
resumed its consideration of that question.

K. Draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.50

42. At the 72nd meeting, on 7 December, the representative of the Federal
Republic of Germany introduced ~raft resolution A/C.3/32/L.50 entitled:
"Intensified and co-ordinated efforts to fight the illicit traffic in and illicit
demand for narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances" sponsored by Franc e,
Germany, Federal Republic of and Thailand, subsequently joined by Sweden.

43. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution by 118 votes
to none, with 15 abstentions (see para. 52 below, draft resolution X).

L. Draft resolutions A/C.3/32/L.60
and A/C.3/32/L.61

44. The Committee had before it the following two draft resolutions entitled
flMissing persons in Cyprus'l :

(a) Draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.60, 3/ sponsored by Barbados, Cape Verde,
Cyprus~ Ecuador, Fiji, Guinea-Bissau, Guya~a, Honduras, Liberia, Malta, Mexico,
Mozambique and Panama, subsequently joined by El Salvador, Kenya and Nigeria,
reading as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 3450 (XXX) of 9 December 1975 on the question
of missing persons in Cyprus,

3/ The financial implications relating to the draft resolution were
circulated in document A/C.3/32/L.70.

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 16

"Gravely concerned at the lack of progress towards the implementation of
the said resolution,

"1. Requests the Secretary-General to designate an investigatory body
of up to five experts, competent in this field, with the task of tracing and
accounting for persons missing as a result of armed conflict in Cyprus;

"2. Invites all parties concerned to undertake to give full co-operation
to that body;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to furnish the Commission on Human
Rights, at its thirty-fourth session, with information relevant to the
implementation of this resolution."

(b) Draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.6l sponsored by Turkey reading as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling the report of the Secretary-General contained in document
E/CN.4/l239/Add.l of 25 February 1911,

"1. Notes the agreement reac hed between the leaders of the
two communities on 12 February 1911 in the presence of the United Nations
Secretary-General to set up a new investigatory machinery covering missing
persons of both communities;

"2. Invites the two communities to implement the above-mentioned
agreement;

"3. Reguests the Secretary-General to provide his good offices, through
his Special Representative in Cyprus, to enable the two communities to work
out the modalities of the investigatory machinery with a view to activating
it expeditiously;

"4. Recommends to the parties concerned to seek the assistance of the
International Committee of the Red Cross to facilitate the work of the
investigatory machinery to be set up."

45. At the 11th meeting, on 12 December, the Committee adopted, without a vote,
a consolidated text proposed by the Chairman (see para. 52 below, draft resolution
XII) •

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 17

M. Draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.63

46. The Committee had before it a draft resolution entitled "Regional arrangements
for the promotion and protection of human rights" (A/C.3/32/L.63), sponsored by
Italy, Kenya, Lesotho, Nigeria,~ and Swaziland, subsequently joined by Ecuador
and Panama, which read as follows:

"The General As sembly,

"Mindful of the suggestions made for the establishment, in regions where
they do not already exist, of regional machinery for the promotion and
protection of human rights, ~;

"Aware of the importance of encouraging regional co-operation for the
promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

"Recalling resolution 7 (XXIV) of the Commission on Human Rights which
requested the Secretary-General to arrange regional seminars in areas where no
regional commissions existed, for the purpose of discussing the establishment
of regional machinery for the promotion and protection of human rights,

"Recognizing the important contribution of the United Nations regional
commissions in the economic and social fields~

"1. Invites States in areas where regional machinery in the field of
human rights does not yet exist to consider the establishment within their
respective regions of suitable regional machinery for the promotion and
protection of human rights;

"2. Requests the Secretary-General, under the programme of advisory
services in the field of human rights, to give priority to the organization, in
areas where no regional commissions on human rights exist, of seminars for the
purpose of discussing the establishn~nt of appropriate regional machinery for
the promotion and protection of human rights;

"3. Recommends to the Economic and Social Council to request the United
Nations regional economic and social commissions to study ways and means by
which they may contribute to the promotion and protection of human rights
within their respective regions, and invites the Council, if necessary, to
expressly include in the terms of reference of the regional commissions the
promotion and protection of human rights;

"4. Further requests the Executive Secretaries of the regional economic
commissions to disseminate information on human rights within their respective
regions and to organize regional seminars, training courses, symposia, panel
discussions and other similar activities in the field of human rights and, for

4} A/I0235, paras. 93-97; 173-178; A/32/178, paras. 107-111.

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 18

these purposes to appoint or designate within their respective secretariats a
human rights officer responsible, under the advice of and in collaboration
with, the Division of Human Rights, for the performance of these and other
tasks in the field of human rights."

47. At the 74th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Nigeria introduced,
on behalf of the sponsors, a revised text (A/C.3/32/63/Rev.l) which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Mindful of the suggestions made for the establishment, in regions where
they do not already exist, of regional machinery for the promotion and
protection of human rights, ~

"Aware of the importance of encouraging regional co-operation for the
promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

"Recalling resolution 7 (XXIV) of the Commission on Human Rights which
requested the Secretary-General to arrange regional seminars in areas where no
regional commissions existed, for the purpose of discussing the establishment
of regional machinery for the promotion and protection of human rights,

"Recognizing the important contribution of the United Nations regional
commissions in the economic and social fields,

"1. Invi tes States in areas where regional machinery in the field of
human rights does not yet exist to consider the establishment within their
respective regions of suitable regional machinery for the promotion and
protection of human rights;

112. Requests the Secretary-General, under the programme of advisory
services in the field of human rights, to give priority to the organization,
in areas where no regional commissions on human rights exist, of seminars for
the purpose of discussing the establishment of appropriate regional machinery
for the promotion and protection of human rights;

"3. Further reguests the Secretary-General to submit a progress report
on the implementation of this resolution to the General Assembly at its
thirty-third session for further consideration."

48. At the 76th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Yugoslavia proposed
oral amendments to the revised draft resolution as follows:

(a) To replace the third preambular paragraph by the following:

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 19

"Recalling resolution 7 (XXIV) of the Commission on Human Rights whicb
reQuested the Secretary-General to consider the possibility of arranging
suitable regional seminars under the programme of advisory services in the
field of human rights in those regions where no regional commissions on human
rights exists at present for the purpose of discussing the usefulness and
advisability of tbe establishment of regional commissions on human rights,"

(b) To replace the word "machinery" by "arrangements" in operative paragraph 1
and to insert the words "feasibility of the" between the words "to consider the"
and "establishment" in the second line of the same paragraph;

(c) To replace the words "regional commissions" by the words "regional
arrangements ll and the word "machinery" by the word "arrangements 11 in operative
paragraph 2 and to insert the words "feasibility of the" betw2en the word
"discussing" and the words "of appropriate t1 a

49. At the 77th meeting, on 12 December, the sponsors of the draft resolution
submitted a revised text incorporating the amendments proposed by Yugoslavia to the
third preambular paragraph. Operative paragraphs 1 and 2 were also revised.

50. The revised draft resolution was also sponsored by New Zealand and the United
States of America.

51. At the same meeting, tbe draft resolution, as revised, was adopted by tbe
Committee without a vote (see para. 52 below, draft resolution XI).

IH. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMl;lITTEE

52. The Third Ccmmittee recommends to the General Assembly tbe adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Implementation of the Declaration on Social Progress and Development

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the importance of the Declaration on Social Progress and
Development, contained in its resolution 2542 (XXIV) of 11 December 1969, for the
formulation and implementation of national policies and measures conducive to rapid
social and economic progress,

Recalling its resolution 2543 (XXIV) of 11 December 1969 on the implementation
of the Declaration on Social Progress and Development and other United Nations
documents bearing on socio-economic development, in particular the Declaration on
the Establishment of a New International Economic Order, contained in General
Assembly resolution 3201 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974, and the Charter of Economic Rights
and Duties of States, contained in Assembly resolution 3281 (XXIX) of
12 December 1974,

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 20

Convinced that in conformity with the Declaration the primary task of all
States and international organizations is to eliminate all obstacles to social
progress~ in particular such evils as inequality, exploitation, war, colonialism
and racism,

Conscious of the fact that further social development contributes to peaceful
coexistence, detente and the strengthening of international peace and security,

Recalling that 1979 will mark the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the
Declaration,

1. Urges all Gover~ments to take due account of their ultimate
responsibility of ensuring the social progress and well-being of their people,
inter alia, by adhering to the principles espoused in the Declaration on Social
Progress and Development;

2. Recommends that international organizations and agencies concerned with
development should continue to consider the Declaration as an important
international document in the formulation of strategies and programmes designed to
achieve social progress and development;

3. ReQuests the Secretary-General to prepare and submit to che General
Assembly at its thirty-fourth session, through the Commission for Social Development
and the Economic and Social Council, essentially from the information already
available, a comprehensive report, in lieu of an annex to the 1978 Report on the
World Social Situation as provided for in Assembly resolution 2543 (XXIV), on the
implementation of the Declaration during the period 1969-1979 by Governnlents,
international organizations and agencies concerned with development;

4. Decides, in order to mark the tenth anniversary of the Declaration, to
include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-fourth session a separate item
entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on Social Progress and Development".

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Protection of human rights in Chile

The General Assembly,

Emphasizing its commitment to foster universal respect for, and observance of,
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all in accordance with the principles of
the Charter of the United Nations,

Recalling that, in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 2!

'2./ Resolution 217 A (III).

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 21

and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, §I everyone has the
right to life, liberty and the security of person and the right not to be subjected
to arbitrary arrest, detention or exile, or to torture or to cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment,

Recalling the Declaration on the Protection of all Persons from being Subjected
to Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment,
unanimously adopted in its resolution 3452 (XXX) of 9 December 1975,

Reaffirming once more its condemnation of all forms of torture and other cruel,
inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment,

Considering that both the General Assembly in its resolution 31/124 of
16 December 1976 and the Commission on Human Rights in its resolution 9 (XXXIII) of
9 March 1977 expressed profound indignation that constant and flagrant violations
of human rights have taken place and continue to take place in Chile, in particular
the institutionalized practice of torture, cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or
punishment, the disappearance of persons for political reasons, arbitrary arrest,
detention, exile and cases of deprivation of Chilean nationality,

Considering that its efforts and those of the Economic and Social Council, the
Commission on Human Rights, the SUb-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities, the International Labour Organisation, the World Health
Organization and the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization for the restoration of basic human rights and fundamental freedoms in
Chile have not met with the response that their authority and unanimity of purpose
demand,

Bearing in mind Commission on Human Rights resolutions 8 (XXXI) of
27 February 1975, 3 (XXXII) of 19 February 1976 and 9 (XXXIII) of 9 March 1977, which
established and extended the mandate of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Situation of
Human Rights in Chile,

Welcoming the steps taken by the Commission on Human Rights and the
Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities to
implement General Assembly resolution 31/124,

Noting that the Commission on Human Rights at its thirty-fourth session will be
considering reports on the consequences of the various forms of aid extended to the
Chilean authorities and on a voluntary fund to receive contributions and distribute,
under the authority of an independent board of trustees, humanitarian and financial
aid to those detained or imprisoned in Chile and their relatives,

Having considered the reports of the Ad Hoc Working Group 1/ and of the

§I Resolution 2200 A (XXI).

11 A/32/227.

I . ..



A/32/458
English
Page 22

Secretary-General 8/ under this item, as well as the observations and documents
submitted by the Chilean authorities, 21

Commending the Chairman and the members of the Ad Hoc Working Group for the
thorough and objective manner in which the report was prepared, in spite of the
difficulties arising from the persistent refusal of the Chilean authorities to
permit the Group to visit the country in accordance with its mandate,

Deeply deploring the destruction of the democratic institutions and
constitutional safeguards formerly enjoyed by the Chilean people,

Gravely concerned by the fact that, in spite of the appeals by the General
Assembly, the Secretary-General, private institutions and citizens of Chile, the
Chilean authorities have consistently failed to give a satisfactory account for
missing persons,

Concluding that constant and flagrant violations of human rights and
fundamental freedoms continue to take place in Chile, notwithstanding recent
developments, mainly due to the continuous efforts of the Chilean people and the
international community, which, according to the report of the Ad Hoc Working Group,
indicate a decrease in the number of political prisoners and in the number of
detainees under the state of siege,

1. Reiterates its profound indignation that the Chilean people continue to be
subjected to constant and flagrant violations of human rights and fundamental
freedoms, to lack adequate constitutional and judicial safeguards of their rights
and liberties and to suffer assaults on the freedom and integrity of their persons,
in particular by methods of systematic intimidation, including torture, disappearance
of persons for political reasons, arbitrary arrest, detention, exile and deprivation
of Chilean nationality;

2. Expresses its particular concern and indignation at the continuing
disappearance of persons, which is shown by the available evidence to be attributable
to political reasons and the refusal of the Chilean authorities to accept
responsibility or account for the large number of such persons, or even to undertake
an adequate investigation of cases drawn to their attention;

3. Deplores, in this connexion, the unsatisfactory way in which the Chilean
authorities have sought to fulfil their undertakings to the Secretary-General of the
United Nations, acting under the mandate of General Assembly resolution 31/124, and
relating to the disappeared relatives of the Chileans who drew attention to their
plight by engaging in a hunger strike at the headquarters of the Economic Commission
for Latin America at Santiago;

§I A/32/234, A/C.3/32/7.

21 A/C.3/32/6.

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 23

4. Further deplores the failure of the Chilean authorities to comply with its
own repeated assurances to allow the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Situation of Human
Rights in Chile to visit the country in accordance with its mandate;

5. Calls onC2 more upon the Chilean authorities to restore and safeguard,
without delay, basic human rights and fundamental freedoms and fully to respect the
provisions of the relevant international instruments to which Chile is a party, and
to this end to implement paragraph 2 of General Assembly resolution 31/124;

6. Demands that the Chilean authorities put an immediate end to practices of
inadmissible secret arrests and subsequent disappearance of persons whose detention
is systematically denied or never acknowledged, and to clarify forthwith the status
of such persons;

7. Reiterates its invitation to Member States, United Nations agencies and
other international organizations to inform the Secretary-General of steps taken to
implement paragraph 4 of General Assembly resolution 31/124 in order to allow him
to submit further reports to the Commission on Human Rights at its thirty-fourth
session and the General Assembly at its thirty-third session;

8. Invites the Commission on Human Rights:

(a) To extend the mandate of the Ad Hoc Working Group, as presently
constituted, so as to enable it to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-third session and to the Commission at its thirty-fifth session, with such
additional information as may be necessary;

(b) To present to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session, through
the Economic and Social Council, specific recommendations on possible humanitarian,
legal and financial aid to those arbitrarily arrested or imprisoned, to those forced
to leave the country and their relatives;

(c) To submit to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session, through
the Economic and Social Council, a progress report of action taken in compliance
with paragraph 5 (c) of General Assembly resolution 31/124;

9. Requests the President of the thirty-second session of the General
Assembly and the Secretary-General to assist in any way they may consider
appropriate in the re-establishment of basic human rights and fundamental freedoms
in Chile.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Assistance to South African student refugees

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 31/126 of 16 December 1976 in which it requested the
Secretary-General to take immediate steps to organize and provide emergency

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 24

financial and other appropriate forms of assistance for the care, subsistence and
education of South African student refugees,

Recalling also Security Council resolution 417 (1977) of 31 October 1977 in
which the Council, inter alia, requested all Governments and organizations to
contribute generously for assistance to the victims of violence and repression,
including educational assistance to South African student refugees,

Noting the appointment by the Secretary-General of the United Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees as co-ordinator of assistance within the United Nations
system to South African student refugees,

Expressing deep concern that the South African Government continues to take
more and more repressive measures against students in that country~

Noting with concern the continuing influx of South African refugees, including
in particular students, into neighbouring countries,

Concerned over the pressure on the educational systems of the three host
countries as a result of the continued influx of children from South Africa seeking
freedom from repression and also an opportunity to further their studies,

Having examined the reports of the Secretary-General 10/ on the progress
achieved in regard to the assistance required by and provided to these refugees in
Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland,

Recognizing that the needs of South African student refugees are also imposing
serious pressures on Zambia,

1. Endorses the measures taken by the Secretary-General and the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees for the mobilization of a programme of assistance to
South African student refugees in Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland;

2. Notes with appreciation the generous contributions of the Governments of
Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland in providing asylum and making available educational
facilities for student refugees;

3. Notes with satisfaction the contributions so far made by Member States and
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and United Nations agencies;

4. Expresses concern, however, that the total assistance received to date
falls short of the needs;

5. Urges all Governments, intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations and United Nations agencies to contribute generously towards the
assistance programmes of these student refugees, both through financial support and
by offering the necessary opportunities for their care and subsistence, education
and vocational training;

10/ A/32/65 and Add.l.

I



A/32/458
English
Page 25

6. Requests all agencies and programmes of the United Nations system,
including in particular the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Trust
F~nd for South Africa and the United Nations Educational Training Programme for
Southern Africa, to assist the High Commissioner in carrying out the humanitarian
task entrusted to him;

7. Reguests the Secretary-General and the High Commissioner to strengthen
their efforts for the mobilization of emergency financial and other appropriate
forms of assistance for these student refugees in Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland and
Zambia;

8. Further requests the Secretary-General:

(a) To undertake a similar programme of assistance for South African student
refugees in Zambia;

(b) To arrange for a review of the matter in time for it to be considered by
the Economic and Social Council at its sixty-fifth session;

(c) To report to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Measures to improve the situation and ensure the human
rights and dignity of all migrant workers

The General Assembly,

Recalling the terms of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 111 and of the
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination, 121

Considering the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations of 1961 131 and the
Vienna Convention on Consular Relations of 1963, 141

Considering also the Migrant Workers (Supplementary Provisions) Convention,
1975, 151 and the Recommendation concerning Migrant Workers, 1975, 161 adopted by- -
the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation,

III Resolution 217 A (Ill).

121 Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

131 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 500, No. 7310, p. 95.

141 Ibid., vol. 596, No. 8638, p. 261

15/ International Labour Office, Official Bulletin, vol. LVIII, 1975, Series A,
No. l-,-Convention No. 143.

16/ Ibid., Recommendation No. 151.



A/32/458
English
Page 26

Recalling its resolutions concerning migrant workers, in particular
resolutions 3349 (XXX) of 9 December 1975 and 31/127 of 16 December 1976, and
Economic and Social Council resolutions 1149 (LIV) of 16 May 1913 and 1926 (LVIII)
of 6 May 1975, in which the Council affirmed the need for the United Nations to
consider the situation of migrant workers in an interrelated manner and in relation
to general factors which have a bearing on human rights and human dignity,

Aware that the problem of migrant workers continues to be of major importance
to many countries, that it is becoming increasingly serious in certain regions and
that the Commission on Human Rights and other relevant organs of the United Nations
should take immediate measures to ensure the human rights and dignity of all migrant
workers,

Emphasizing its serious concern at the de facto discrimination suffered by
alien workers in some countries despite the legislative and other efforts exerted
to prevent and punish it,

Believing also that the problem of migrant workers is becoming more serious
in certain regions for political and transient economic reasons and for social and
cultural reasons,

Recalling that the family is the natural and fundamental group unit of society
and is entitled to protection by society and the State, and that in that context the
families of migrant workers are entitled to the same protection as the migrant
workers themselves,

Aware of the work done in the field of migrant workers by the specialized
agencies, particularly the International Labour Organisation, and by other United
Nations organs, such as the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities,

Appreciating in particular the efforts which the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization continues to exert in the field of migrant
workers~

Convinced in particular that an effort at close co-operation between the
International Labour Organisation and the United Nations Educational, Scientific
and Cultural Organization will contribute to the improvement of the situation of
migrant workers,

Aware of the efforts made by countries of orlgln to facilitate the return of
migrant workers and their reintegration into the economic and social life of their
country,

Having regard to Economic and Social Council resolution 2083 (LXII) of
13 May 1977,

1. Calls upon all States, taking into account the provisions of the relevant
instruments adopted by the International Labour Organisation and of the

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 27

International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination,
to take measures to prevent and put an end to all discrimination against migrant
workers and to ensure the implementation of such measures;

2. Invites all States:

(a) To extend to migrant workers having regular status in their territories
treatment equal to that enjoyed by their own nationals with regard to the enjoyment
of fundamental human rights, with particular reference to equality of opportunity
and of treatment in respect of employment and occupation, social security, trade
union and cultural rights and individual and collective freedoms;

(b) To promote and facilitate by all the means in their power the
implementation of the relevant international instruments and the adoption of
bilateral agreements designed, inter alia, to eliminate the illicit traffic in
alien workers;

(c) To take all necessary and appropriate measures to ensure that the
fundamental human rights and acquired social rights of all migrant workers,
irrespective of their immigration status, are fully respected under their national
legislation;

3. Invites Governments of host countries to make arrangements for adequate
information and reception facilities and to put into effect policies relating to
training, health, social services, housing and educational and cultural development
for migrant workers and their families, and to guarantee the free exercise by them
of activities calculated to preserve their cultural values;

4. Further invites Governments of countries of origin to give the widest
possible dissemination to information designed to provide migrant workers with the
fullest possible knowledge of their rights and obligations and to ensure their
effective protection;

5. Invites all States to intensify efforts to enlighten public opinion in
host countries on the importance of the contribution made by migrant workers to
economic and social development and to raising the level of living in such
countries;

6. Requests host countries and countries of origin which consider it useful
to do so to co-·operate with a view to facilitating the reintegration of migrant
workers into their countries of origin, regard being had to socio-economic
conditions in the latter countries;

7. Invites the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization and the International Labour Organisation to ensure jointly, by
appropriate means, very wide dissemination of information calculated to eliminate
the stereotypes and prejudices which led to the de facto discrimination suffered by
migrant workers;

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 28

8. Invites Governments of host countries to give consideration to adopting
definitive measures to promote in their territories the normalization of the family
life of migrant workers through family reunion;

9. Calls upon all States to give consideration to ratifying the Migrant
Workers (Supplementary Provisionsl Convention, 1975, adopted by the General
Conference of the International Labour Organisation;

10.
including
attention

Calls upon the United Nations organs and competent
the International Labour Organisation, to continue
to this question;

specialized agencies)
devoting their

11. Recommends that the Commission on Human Rights and the Economic and Social
Council should consider this question fully and in depth at their next sessions, in
collaboration with the International Labour Organisation, the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and other interested agencies of
the United Nations system, on the basis of the instruments adopted and the documents
and studies prepared by the United Nations and the specialized agencies, including
the study on the exploitation of labour through illicit and clandestine
trafficking 17/ and the report of the Seminar on the Human Rights of Migrant
\vorkers, heldat Tunis from 12 to 24 November 1975. 18/

17/ E/CN.4/Sub.2/L.640.

18/ ST/TAO/HR/50.

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 29

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Protection of the human rights of certain categories of prisoners

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 19/ in particular its articles 5, 10 and 19,

Recalling article 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights, 20/ which guarantees to everyone the right to hold opinions and to freedom
of expression, sUbject only to such restrictions as are provided by law and are
necessary for the respect of the rights or reputation of others or for the
protection of national security or of public order, or of public health or morals,

Recalling also the prohibition against torture and other cruel, inhuman or
degrading treatment or punishment which is laid down in article 7 of the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,

Noting, in this connexion, further efforts to eliminate torture which have
been made in the United Nations and which have been reflected in the Declaration on
the protection of all persons from being subjected to torture and other cruel,
inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment adopted by the General Assembly in its
resolution 3452 (XXX) of 9 December 1975,

Further recalling article 14 of the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights which provides that all rersons, in the determination of any
criminal charge against them, are entitled to a fair hearing by a competent,
independent and impartial tribunal established by law,

Recogpizing the importance of full respect for the human rights and
fundamental freedom of all persons detained or imprisoned as a result of their
struggle against colonialism, aggression and foreign occupation, for self-
determination, independence, the elimination of apartheid and all forms of racial
discrimination and racism, and the termination of all these violations of human
rights,

Aware of the fact that in many parts of the world numerous persons are
detained in respect of offences which they committed, or are suspected of having
committed, by reason of their political opinions or convictions,

Noting that these persons are often exposed to special dangers as regards the
protection of their human rights and fundamental freedoms,

19/ Resolution 217 A (Ill).

20/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI).

/ ...



A!32/458
English
Page 30

Realizing therefore that special attention should be given to the full respect
of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of these persons,

1. Requests Member States:

(a) To take effective measures to safeguard the human rights and fundamental
freedoms of such persons;

(b) To ensure, in particular, that such persons are not subjected to torture
or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment;

(c) Also to ensure that such persons, in the determination of any criminal
charge against them, receive a fair hearing by a competent, independent and
impartial tribunal established by law;

2. Calls upon Member States to examine periodically the possibility of
releasing such persons as an act of clemency or by way of conditional release or
otherwise.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Protection of persons detained or imprisoned as a result
of their struggle against apartheid, racism and racial
discrimination, colonialism, aggression and foreign
occupation and for self determination~ independence as

well as social progress for their people

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3246 (XXIX) of 29 November 1974, 3382 (XXX) of
10 November 1975, 31/34 of 30 November 1976 and 32/14 of 19 November 1976, in which
it reaffirmed the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples for liberation from colonial
and foreign domination by all available means, including armed struggle, and
demanded full respect for the basic human rights of all individuals detained or
imprisoned as a result of their struggle for self-determination fu~d independence,
and their immediate release,

Noting with appreciation the progress achieved in the elimination of
colonialism and the realization of the right of peoples to self-determination,

Expressing its serious concern regarding the continuing denial of the right to
self-determination of the peoples of Namibia, Zimbabwe and Palestine and other
peoples fighting for the realization of their right to self-determination and their
liberation from colonialism and racism,

Recalling that the Security Council, in its resolution 392 (1976) of
19 June 1976 once again strongly condewned the policy of apartheid as a crime
against the conscience and dignity of mankind and a serious breach of international

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 31

peace and security and emphasized the legitimacy of the struggle of the people of
South Africa for the elimina'cion of apartheid and racial discrimination,

Emphasizing the necessity of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms
for al1 1 without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

Recalling its resolution 3103 (XXVIII), in which it solemnly proclaimed the
basic principles of the legal status of the combatants struggling against colonial
and alien domination and racist regimes 9

1. Expresses its solidarity with the fighters for national independence and
social progress of peoples~ against colonialism, apartheid, racism and foreign
occupation;

2. Emphasizes again that any attempts to suppress the struggle against
colonial domination and racist regimes are incompatible with the Charter of the
United Nations and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;

3. Demands the release of all individuals detained or imprisoned as a result
of their struggle against apartheid, racism and racial discrimination, colonialism,
aggression and foreign occupation and for self-determination, independence as well
as social progress for their peoples;

4. Insists that Israel and the racist minority regimes 1n southern Africa
should immediately and unconditionally release all individuals detained or
imprisoned because of their struggle for self-determination and national
independence, and against apartheid, all forms of racism and racial discrimination,
colonialism and foreign occupation;

5. Calls upon Member States to provide support and assistance in all fields
to the peoples fighting for their liberation from colonialism, foreign occupation,
racism and racial discrimination;

6. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to continue to give particular
attention to the Question of the release of individuals detained or imprisoned as a
result of their participation in the struggle against apartheid, racism and racial
discriminatioll 9 colonialism, aggression and foreign occupation, and for
self-determination, independence as well as social progress for their peoples;

T. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to submit, through the Economic
and Social Council, a report on the implementation of the present resolution to the
General Assembly at its thirty-third session.

I .. ·



A/32/458
English
Page 32

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Observance of the thirtieth anniversary of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights

The General Assembly,

Considering that the year 1978 will mark the thirtieth anniversary of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 21/ which, conceived "as a common standard
of achievement for all peoples and all nations", has been and rightly continues to
be a fundamental source of inspiration for national and international efforts for
the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Awar,,- that for their full observation human rights must be ensured to all human
beings and that this aim cannot be attained unless human rights are made known to
them, particularly through teaching and education,

Recalling in this respect its resolution 217 A (Ill), by which the General
Assembly proclaimed the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which demands that
"every individual and every organ of society, keeping this Declaration constantly
in mind, shall strive by teaching and education to promote respect for these rights
and freedoms it ,

Recalling also its resolution 2906 (XXVII) of 19 October 1972 concerning the
observance of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Declaration,

Considering Commission on Human Rights resolution 3 (XXXIII) of
21 February 1977, endorsed by the Economic and Social Council at its
sixty-second session, which recommends to Member States, the specialized agencies
and all international organizations, governmental and non-governmental, concerned
with the protection and promotion of human rights, to take appropriate measures to
ensure that the cC"ir',icot}, anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
is the occasion of special efforts to promote international understanding,
co-operation and peace as well as the universal and effective respect for human
rights, particularly by laying stress on the educational approach both within and
outside formal school sYstems,

Desiring to give appropriate significance to the thirtieth anniversary of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights,

Taking note with appreciation of the suggestions contained in the note by the
Secretary-General concerning the observance of the thirtieth anniversary of the
Uni versal Declaration of Human Rights,

1. Invites Member States, the specialized agencies, regional
intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental organizations to cake
appropriate measures, such as those contained in the annex to the present
reSOlution, to celebrate the thirtieth anniversary of the Universal Declaration;

21/ ReSOlution 217 A (Ill).



A/32/458
English
Page 33

2. Requests the Secretary-General to initiate appropriate activities at the
United Nations level, such as those indicated in the annex to the present
resolution, to celebrate the thirtieth anniversary or the Universal Declaration or
Human Rights;

3. Welcomes the decision or the United Nations Educational, Scientiric and
Cultural Organization to organize in 1978 an international conrerence on the
teaching or human rights and appeals in this connexion to all States to racilitate
the participation or qualiried experts in this conrerence;

4. Invites the United Nations Educational, Scientiric and Cultural
Organization to take the appropriate measures to consult the Commission on Human
Rights at its thirty-rourth session on the elaboration or a programme or action
designed to develop education on human rights, in pursuance or resolution 3 (XXXIII)
or the said Commission;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda or its thirty-third session
an item entitled "Thirty years or the Universal Declaration or Human Reights;
international co-operation for the promotion and observance of civil, political,
economic, social and cultural rights", and recommends that this item should be
considered by the General Assembly in plenary meetings;

6. Further decides to hold a special commemorative meeting to celebrate the
thirtieth anniversary or the Universal Declaration or Human Rights, which falls on
10 December 1978, and requests the Secretary-General to make the necessary
preparations for the programme of this meeting.

I ...



A/32/458
English
Page 34

ANNEX

A

Some suggestions for possible action on the national level:

(a) Formal proclamation of 10 December 1978 as Human Rights Day;

(b) Issuing of special messages on 10 December 1978 by Heads of State or
Government or other prominent civil personalities;

(c) Special meetings of parliamentary and other vublic and private
institutions on Human Rights Day;

(d) Special consideration by States which have not yet ratified or acceded
to the international instruments of the United Nations in the field of human
rights, to become parties to these instruments;

(e) Establishment of national or local institutions for the promotion and
the protection of human rights;

(f) Encouragement of teaching programmes on human rights at the various
levels of education;

(g) Dissemination of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in national
languages, including languages of minorities;

(h) Issuing of human rights postage stamps, first-day covers, and special
cancellations during 1978;

(i) Participation by non-governmental organizations in the celebration and
organization of activities by such organizations;

(j) Activities in the framework of and in support of current Decades and
International Years being prepared on human rights issues.

B

It is recommended that the following measures, among others, be taken at
the United Nations level:

1, Commemorative events should be organized at United ~1ations Headquarters and
at the United Nations Office at Geneva on or around 10 December 1978.

2. A special seminar within the programme of advisory services should be
organized in 1978 (at Geneva) at the world-wide level on the subject of national
and local institutions for the promotion and the protection of human rights. The
report of the seminar should be forwarded to the General Assembly.

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 35

3. Arrangements should be made for the award of human rights prizes as envisaged
in recorr~endation C of the annex to resolution 2217 (XXI) of 19 December 1966.

4. Appropriate public information, broadcasting and audio-visual material should
be issued by the Office of Public Information of the United Nations Secretariat
designed to draw attention to and emphasize the importance of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and the role played and work done by the United Nations
to ensure effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms.

5. Updated versions in all official languages of the United Nations should be
issued of the pUblications Human Rights; A Compilation of International
Instruments of the United Nations and of United Nations Action in the Field of
Human Rights and assistance should be given to institutions which intend to
publish them in other languages.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Narcotic drugs: international co-operation in
treatment and rehabilitation

The General Assembly,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolutions 2064 (LXII), 2065 (LXII)
and 2066 (LXII) of 13 May 1977, and other resolutions on the dangers of drug
abuse,

Acknowledging articles 38 and 38 bis of the Single Convention on Narcotic
Drugs, 1961, 221 as amended,

Recognizing the growing threat caused by the spread of drug abuse in many
parts of the world, the impact of this situation on social and economic
development, agriculture and many other areas, and the resultant increase in
crime and corruption,

Aware that drug abuse has serious adverse effects on the quality of life of
individuals and upon the societies in which they live,

Concerned by the fact that drug trafficking exploits every individual with
which it comes in contact,

Realizing that the concerted effort of States is required in dealing with
this prOblem, and that international effort, in this respect, should be
strengthened,

Noting that agencies of the United Nations system are addressing attention
through various programmes to reduction of drug supply and demand,

221 United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 520, No. 7515, p. 151.

I ...



A/32/458
English
Page 36

Bearing in mind that the initial purpose of the introduction of drugs into
society was to improve the health and well-being of individuals,

Recognizing the urgent need to make individuals and Governments more alrare
of the dangers of drug abuse and the need for increased attention to the field of
prevention, treatment and rehabilitation,

1. Invites the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control to initiate, in
collaboration with the World Health Orr,anization and other appropriate agencies
and bodies of the United Nations, actions to design models for prevention,
treatment and rehabilitation, taking into account the diversity of cultures in
which drug absue exists, for the purpose of identifying and demonstrating the
best techniques for assistinr, drug abusers in order to facilitate the work of
national authorities in reducing drug abuse;

2. Further invites the above-mentioned organizations to study the
feasibility of establishinG treatment and rehabilitation centres to care for
individuals sUffering from addiction and abuse and to train persons to apply the
best methodologies in this field;

3. Invites the United Nations Development Prograw~e and other appropriate
agencies and bodies of the United Nations, as well as international or multilateral
financial institutions engaged in development assistance, to co-operate with and
assist the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control, in accordance with
requests by Governments, in the commissioning of pilot projects aimed at
providing farmers ,rho had relied on growing narcotics raw material as their
principal source of income with other ways and means of income in areas where
the illicit CUltivation and production of narcotics raw material shall gradually
be eradicated in accordance with the decisions of the Governments concerned;

4. Invites Governments to consider including projects designed to promote
economic alternatives for farmers and others who are dependent on illicit
production of narcotic substances, as additional and integrated components in
their economic development programmes when applying for technical and financial
assistance from multilateral institutions;

5. Requests the Commission on Narcotic Drugs to study at its next session
the possibility of launching a meaningful programme of international drug abuse
control strategy and policies, including the possibility of integrating therein
existing policies or envisaged development assistance programmes;

6. Suggests that the Economic and Social Council at its sixty-fourth
session give special consideration to all problems related to drug abuse.

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 37

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control ~~d its programmes
related to economic and social development

The General Assembly,

Recalling its earlier appeals for voluntary contributions to the United
Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control in resolutions 3012 (XXVII) and 3014 (XXVII)
of 18 December 1972, 3146 (XXVIII) of 14 December 1973, 3278 (XXIX) of
10 December 1974 and 3446 (xxx) of 9 December 1975 as well as similar appeals
by the Economic and Social Council in resolutions 1664 (LII) of 1 June 1972,
1937 (LVIII) of 5 May 1975 and 2004 (LX) of 12 May 1976.

Noting with interest Economic and Social Council resolutions 2066 (LXII) of
13 May 1977 on the co-ordination of technical and financial assistance in areas
of illicit production of narcotic raw materials and 2067 (LXII) of 13 May 1977
on restriction of cultivation of the poppy,

Realizing that many programmes of the United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse
Control aiming at the reduction of illicit cultivation (production) of narcotic
raw materials require, to a large extent, socio-economic development action as
a condition for and a complement of their primary drug control aspects, and help
Governments assisted by such programmes, in particular by multisectoral country
programmes, in the economic and social development of the geographical areas
concerned,

Convinced that such drug control-related programmes, Which contribute to the
general economic and social development of the areaS covered by them, merit
support from Governments and international or multilateral organizations and
institutions concerned with providing economic and social development aid,

1. Endorses Economic and Social Council resolution 2066 (LXII) on the
co-ordination of technical and financial assistance in areas of illicit production
of narcotic raw materials;

2. Reiterates its appeal to Governments for sustained contributions to the
United Nations Fund for Drug Abuse Control by giving due consideration to the
economic and social development provided in drug control programmes financed by
the Fund;

3. Urges all international or mUltilateral organizations and institutions
concerned with providing economic and social development aid to co-operate with
the United Nations by supporting financially the implementation of such drug
control programmes which include sectors dealing with the economic and social
development of the areas covered by those programmes;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution to the
attention of all Governments and of international or multilateral organizations

/ ...



A/32/458
English
Page 38

and institutions concerned with providing economic and social development aid and
to invite them to co-operate in its best possible implementation.

DRAFT RESOLUTION X

Intensified and co ordinated efforts to fight the illicit
traffic in and illicit demand for narcotic drugs and

psychotropic substances

The General Assembly,

Recalling relevant articles of the Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs, 1961, 23/
as amended by the 1972 Protocol, ~ ~s well as of the 1971 Convention on
Psychotropic Substances, ~/

Bearing In mind Economic and Social Council resolutions 1932 (LVIII) and
1934 (LVIII) of 6 May 1975, 2002 (LX) of 12 May 1976, 2064, 2067 and 2081 (LXII) of
l3 May 1977, as well as the relevant recommendations of the Fifth United Nations
Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, 26/

Recognizing the serious health, social and economic problems caused by drug
abuse,

Noting with satisfaction the considerable results achieved by national law
enforcement agencies, by increasing regional and interregional collaboration and in
co-operation with the competent international organizations and bodies, in
intercepting more and more the actual movement of drug contraband,

Noting with great concern that the continuing international illicit traffic
in both narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances causes the death of many human
beings or severely infringes upon their health and thus is detrimental to many
societies,

Convinced that measures to reduce illicit demand for narcotic drugs and
psychotropic substances, including prevention, treatment and rehabilitation, must
be taken concurrently with measures to reduce illicit supply of, and illicit
traffic in, drugs,

23/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 520, No. 7515, p. l51.

24/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.77.XI.3.

~ See Official Records of the United Nations Conference for the adoption of a
Protocol on Psychotropic Substances, vol. I (United Nations publication,
Sales No. E.73.XI.3), part four.

26/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.76.IV.2.

/ ...



11./32/458
mg.lish
Page 39

Convinced also that intensifieo. 3,nd co·~or(l,inated efforts by 8.11 cOf.'l.:geten.t
agencies arldO];gan-fzatioDs concerned \.-rith 'the fic:"Jt against j.llicit (J.rU!~ traffic j
at the national~ regional and international levels, could brinG about better
results ill the interception of such trC'offic ~

1. yrges_ every Government to intem:,ify its efforts in the;':, reSDEct "by
strengthening a.nd co",orciinating its l.av! enforcement al3encies l"esponsirJle for
interce}Jting the illicit traffic in D2,YCotic \J~~-'.lgS and psychotropic substances j b~'1
providing them 'iTith the best and most ex_peCLitious ways and means of the exchange of
relevant operationa.l information l;vith the TesTJective authorities of' other'
countries') and by co-opel"'atinG to the fu11est extent IJossihle vli th trle
international organizations vrorking in ·this field,; in order to achie-',re the best
possible results and to avoid waste of time aI1C_ Dlnnpover;

2. Calls upon those international organizations and bodies ') such as the
International Criminal Police Organization (IIrrEFTOL) and the Customs Co~.()peI'e.tion
Council') to assist in all possible \-rays') and in the most co--ordinated manner
avoiding duplication, the respective lav (-::nforcement agencies of all Governments ~
in particular by provj ding them with all available o1)ercutional inJ:ormation. related
to the illicit traffic in narcotic drugs end :psychotropic s1.J..bstances~.

3. Invites Governments to take all ap!)rOTlr"iate me8,sures ar,ainst drug abuse j
inclUding in particular the early prevention of drug addiction ana he~ltr education
;:;rograrr.Jr18S, as 'well as to provide facilities for treatment and l~ehabil:ttation !Jf
persons addicted to drugs;

4. ~nvites Governments to C;3_l"ry out evaluation of their drug :prevention
programmes in orcter to assess their efficiency as vrell as to exp8Dd and intensify
research in the fields of epidemiology and knov.TledS8 of causes e.nc_ moti'les of drug
abuse with regard to both pharmacological and sociological. aspects~,

5. Cal.ls fer more extensive and effective co··oneration of Governments anD_
competent bodies of the United Nations and special.ized aGencies') in ord.er to
facilitate appropriate designing E,nd implementation of ~()TDgrarmnes aimed at redu~ing
ill ici t demand for drugs arret at furthering exchan~e of experience and -i.nforma..tioD.
among scientists and experts actively engaged from varivLls DP"tions:.

6~ ~eiterates its a~peal to all States not yet ~arties to the 1971 Convention
on Psychotropic Substances to take steps to accede to :Lt and requests the Secretary-
General to transmit this appeal to all Governments concerned;

7 ~ Urges Governments to providee> in addition to the data already furnished
in their annual reports to the Secretary~General) other relevant information on the
extent) patterns and any new trends in the abuse of narcotic drues and psychotropic
SUbstances, as well as information on programmes undertaken to reduce illicit
demand for drugs;

R o Requests the Secreta~J-General to strengtben nnQ expand~ to the extent
possibl.e<; and in co-operation with specialized agencies J the facilities avai18)le to
assist Governments which request it in their work to reduce illicit dem,and. :f'or druc.:s.



",,/32/458
English
Page 40

DRAF'I' PESOLUTIOE XI

~:-rin,Jful of the suggestions made for the establis1Jment ~ in regions where they
co not-already exist ~ of regional machinery for the promotion and protection of
j,uman rights, 27/

~)Y:~~~ of the iJnportance of encouraging regional co··operation for the
:;l!.'OlTlotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Re"allin;~ Cor-"nission on Human Rights resolution 7 (XXIV) of 1 March 1968 in
uhich-"the Commission requested the Secretary-General to consider the possibility
of arranging suitable regional seminars under the programme of advisory services
in tb,e field of human rights in those regions where no regional cormnission on
human rights exists at present for the purpose of discussing the usefulness and
advisability of the establishment of resional comm_issions on human rights~

Re£osnizing. the important contribution of the United Nations regional
commissions in the economic fields,

1. ~Dpeal.£. to States in areas \-There regional arrangements in the field. of
hmlan rights do .ot yet exist to consider agreements with a vie1-' to the
establishment ~~thin their respective regions of suitable regional machinery for
the promotion and protection of human rights;

2. Requests the SecretarYo~General, under the programme of advisory
serVlces in the field of human rights~ to give priority to the organization~
In areas where no regional commissions on human rights exists, of seminars
for the purpose of discussing the usefulness and advisability of the
establishment of regional commissions for the promotion and protection of human
rights)

3, further requests the Secretary-General to submit a progress report on
the implementation of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its
thirty-·thirJ. session for further consic_eration.

2V .'1./10235, paras. 93··97 and 173-178; .'1./32/178, paras. 107-111.

/ ...



A/32/458
English
PG.ge 1jl

DRAFT RESOLUTION XII

~is~ing persons in Cyprus

~he General Assemply~

Concerned at the lack of pro8ress tOI'Tards the tra.cinG and accounting for
missing persons in Cyprus~

~xDressing the hop~ that the informal discussions now taking place to
establish a joint committee to trace missing persons are successful~

l~ Requests the Secretary-General to provide his gaoa offices, through his
special representative in Cyprus 9 to support the establishment of an investigatory
body with the participation of the International Committee of the Red Cross which
would be in a position to function impartially} effectively and speedily so as
to resolve the problem without undue delay;

2. Invi tes the parties concerned to continue co--operating in the
establishment of the investigatory body and ~~ork out the lllodalities "Hi th a viev
to activating it expeditiously,


