












































UNITED NATOONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/3l8
4 November 1977

ORIGIR~L: ENGLISH
_______________> ~.~"C_

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 79

IHPORTANCE OF THE UNIVERSAL REALIZATION OF THE RIGHT OF PEOPLES TO
SELF-DETER/1UJATION A!\'D OF THE SPEEDY GRANTING OF HIIJEPENDENCE TO
COLONIAL COUNTRIES AIID PEOPLES FOR THE EFFECTIVE GUARANTEE AND

OBSERVANCE OF IRrr~~N RIGHTS

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: I1r. Fuad H. AL-HHJAI (Oman)

I. INTRODUCTION

l. The item entitled "Importance of the universal realization of the right of
peoples to self-determination and of the speedy granting of independence to
colonial countries and peoples for the effective guarantee and observance of
human rights: report of the Secretary-General" was included in the provisional
agenda of the thirty-second session of the General Assembly in accordance with
Assembly resolution 31/34 of 30 November 1976.

2. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

3. The Committee considered this item at its 12th to 19th, 26th and 28th meetings,
from 6 to 13 and on 20 and 24 October. The views expressed by the representatives
of Hember States on this item are contained in the summary records of those
meetings (A/c.3/32/sR.12-l9, 26 and 28).

4. In connexion with item 79, the Committee had before it the following
dOCUIaent s :

(a) Letter dated 15 l1arch 1977 from the Deputy Prime Hinister and l1inister
for Foreign Affairs of Egypt (A/32/6l);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General (A/32/147 and Add.1-3).

77-22112 I ...



A/32/318
English
Page 2

5. At the 12th meeting, on 6 October, the Director of the Division of Human
Rights introduced the item (see A/C.3/32/SR.12, paras. 10-13).

11. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/32/L.8

6. A draft resolution (A/C.3/32/L.8) was submitted by Algeria, Angola, Benin,
the Comoros~ Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Guinea~ Guinea-Bissau,
Jordan, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mali,
the Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab
Republic, Toga, Tunisia, Uganda and the United Republic of Tanzania, subsequently
joined by pulgaria, Burundi, Cape Verde, Chad, the Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, the German Democratic Republic, Haiti, Hungary, Iraq, the Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Mauritania, Mongolia, Mozambigue, Somalia, the
United Republic of Cameroon, the Upper Volta, Yemen and Zambia. The draft
resolution, which was introduced by the representative of Tunisia at the
26th meeting on 20 October, read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 2649 (XXV) of 30 November 1970, 2955 (XXVII)
of 12 December 1972, 3070 (XXVIII) of 30 November 1973, 3246 (XXIX) of
29 November 1974, 3382 (XXX) of 10 November 1975 and 31/34 of 30 November 1976,

"Recalling also its resolutions 2465 (XXIII) of 20 December 1968,
2548 (XXIV) of 11 December 1969, 2708 (XXV) of 14 December 1970, 3103 (XXVIII)
of 12 December 1973 and 3314 (XXIX) of 14 December 1974 on the use and
recruitment of mercenaries for use against national liberation movements
and sovereign States,

"Recalling the Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at the
International Conference in Support of the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia,
held at Maputo from 16 to 21 May 1977, and the Programme of Action adopted
by the World Conference for Action against Apartheid, held at Lagos from
22 to 26 August 1977,

"Taking note of the Declaration of the First Afro-Arab Summit Conference,
held at Cairo from 7 to 9 March 1977, ~/

"Reaffirming its faith in General Assembly resolution l5i4 (XV) of
14 December 1960, containing the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and the importance of its implementation,

"Reaffirming the importance of the universal realization of the right of
peoples to self-determination, national sovereignty and territorial integrity
and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples,
as imperatives for the enjoyment of human rights,

1..1 A/32/6r.
/ ...



A/32/318
English
Page 3

"Affirming that bantustanization is incompatible with genuine independence,
unity and national sovereignty and would result in perpetuating the power of
the white minority and the racist apartheid system in South Africa,

';Reaffirming the obligation of all Member States to comply with the
principles of the Charter and with United Nations resolutions concerning the
exercise of the right to self-determination by peoples under colonial and
foreign domination~

"Helcoming the independence of Djibouti,

"Reaffirming the national unity and territorial integrity of the Comoros,

"Indignant at the continued violations of the human rights of the peoples
still under colonial and foreign domination and foreign control, at the
continued illegal occupation of Namibia and South Africa's attempts to
dismember its territory, at the perpetuation of racist minority regimes in
Zimbabwe and South Africa and at the denial to the Palestinian people of
their inalienable national rights,

"1. Calls upon all States to implement fully and faithfully
United Nations resolutions regarding the exercise of the right to self-
determination by peoples under colonial and foreign domination;

"2. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the peoples' struggle for independence,
territorial integrity, national unity and liberation from colonial and foreign
domination and foreign control by all available means, including armed
struggle;

\13. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the peoples of Namibia and
Zimbabwe, of the Palestinian people and of all peoples under foreign and
colonial domination to self-determination) national independence~ territorial
integrity, national unity and sovereignty without external interference;

"4. Demands the immediate evacuation of the French administration and
forces from the Comorian territory of Mayotte;

"5. Condemns the policy of bantustanization and reiterates its support
for the oppressed people of South Africa in their just and legitimate
struggle against the racist minority regime in Pretoria;

"6. Reaffirms that the practice of using mercenaries against national
liberation movements and sovereign States constitutes a criminal act and that
the mercenaries themselves are criminalS, and calls upon the Governments of
all countries to enact legislation declaring the recruitment, financing, and
training of mercenaries in their territory and the transit of mercenaries
through their territory to be punishable offences and prohibiting their
nationals from serving as mercenaries, and to report on such legislation to
the Secretary-General;

/ ...



A/32/318
English
Page 4

"I' Condemns the policies of those members of the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization and other countries whose political~ economic~ military
or sporting relations with racist regimes in southern Africa and elsewhere
encourage those regimes to continue stifling the aspirations of peoples to
self-determination and independence,

"8. Strongly condemns all Governments which do not recognize the right
to self-determination and independence of all peoples still under colonial
and foreign domination and foreign control, notably the peoples of Africa
and the Palestinian people;

119. Strongly condemns the ever-increasing massacres of innocent and
defenceless people, including women and children, by the racist minority
regimes of southern Africa in their desperate effort to thwart the legitimate
demands of the peoples;

11 10. Demands the iw.mediate release of all persons detained or imprisoned
because of their struggle for self-determination and independence, full
respect for their fundamental personal rights and the observance of article 5
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which requires that no one
shall be sUbjected to torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment;

"11. Notes with appreciation the material and other forms of assistance
that peoples under colonial and foreign rule continue to receive from
Governments, United Nations agencies and intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations~ and calls for this assistance to be maximized;

;;12. Looks forward to the publication of the following studies undertaken
by the SUb-Cow~ission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of
Minorities:

(a) Historical and current development of the right to self-determination
on the basis of the Charter of the United Nations and other instruments
adopted by United Nations organs, with particular reference to the promotion
and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms;

(b) Implementation of United Nations resolutions relating to the right
of peoples under colonial and foreign domination to self-determination;

"13. Requests the Secretary-General to give maximum publicity to the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
(1514 (XV) of 4 December 1960) and to give the widest possible pUblicity to
the struggle being waged by oppressed peoples for the realization of their
self-determination and national independence,

"14. Decides to consider this item again at its thirty-third session on
the basis of the reports that Governments, United Nations agencies and
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations have been requested to
submit concerning the strengthening of assistance to colonial Territories and
peoples under foreign domination and control~\1

/ ...



A/32/318
English
Page 5

7. At the 28th meeting, on 24 October, the representative of Tunisia revised
the draft resolution by replacing, in the third preambular paragraph, the words:
"Programme of Action adopted by the IVorld Conference for Action against Apartheid"
by the words "D~claration adopted by the v/orld Conference for Action against
Apartheid" .

8. At the same meeting, the representative of Viet Nam introduced oral amendments
which provided for:

(a) The insertion after the word "resolutions" in the first line of the
first preambular paragraph, of the words "2105 (XX) of 20 December 1965";

(b) The insertion of a new operative paragraph 3 reading as follows:

"Iinphasizes the right of all States to provide material, moral and other
assistance to peoples who are still under colonial domination and struggling
for their right to self-determination and national independence;"

and the renumbering of the following paragraphs accordingly.

9. Also at the 28th meeting, the representative of Argentina proposed the
following subamendments to the amendments of Viet Nam:

(a) The insertion" after the word 11resolutionsfl in the first line of the
first preambular paragraph, of the words "1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960";

(b)
after the

The insertion in the new operative paragraph 3 proposed by Viet Nam,
words 11to self-determination ii ~ of the words lita territorial integrityH.

10. SUbsequently, at the same meeting, the representative of Vi~t Nam withdrew
her amenlli~ents and consequently, the representative of Argentina withdrew her
subamendments thereto.

11. An amendment to draft resolution A/C.3/32/L.8 sponsored by Belgium, Canada,
Denmark, Germany, Federal RepUblic of, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands,
Norway, Portugal, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and
the United States of America (A/C.3/32/L.lO) was introduced at the 28th meeting by
the representative of Belgium. The amendment read as follows:

"In paragraph 7 delete the words 'those members of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and other i • If

12. The voting on the draft resolution and amendment thereto was as follows:

(a)
25, with

The amendment (A/C.3/32/L.IO) was
41 abstentions. The voting was as

rejected by a roll-call vote of 61 to
follows:

/ ...



A!32!318
English
Page 6

In favour: Belgium, Canada, Denmark, El Salvador, Fiji, France, Gabon,
Germany~ Federal Republic of, Greece, Grenada, Honduras,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Liberia, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Nor,,,,y, Papua New Guinea, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Against: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Benin, Botswana,
BUlgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian SSR, Cape Verde, Chad, Camoras,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Hungary, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lac People's
Democratic RepUblic, Libya, Madagascar, Mali, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Senegal, Sierra Leone~ Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Toga, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United RepUblic of Cameroon,
Upper Volta, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Abstaining: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil,
Burma, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican RepUblic, Ecuador,
Ftnl~nd, India~ Indonesia~ Iran, Japan~ Lebanon, Lesotho~
Malaysia~ Maldives, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, New Zealand, Peru,
Philippines, Rwanda~ Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Surinam,
Swaziland, Sweden~ Thailand~ Trinidad and Tobago~ Tunisia,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Zaire.

(b) Draft resolution A!C.3!32!L.8, as orally revised, was adopted
roll-call vote of 108 to 3, with 18 abstentions (see para. 13, below).
was as follows:

by a
The voting

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian SSR, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao PeopleYs Democratic RepUblic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi AraQia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone~ Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam,
Swaziland, Syria, Thailand, Toga, Trinidad and Tobago~ Tunisia,
Turkey~ Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist RepUblic, Union of
Soviet Socialist RepUblics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Cameroon, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. ! •..



A/32/318
English
Page 7

Against: France~ Israel, United states of America.

Abstaining: Australia) Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland~ Germany~
Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

13. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Importance of the universal realization of the right of peoples
to self-determination and of the speedy granting of independence
to colonial countries and peoples for the effective guarantee

and observance of human rights

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 2649 (XXV) of 30 November 1970, 2955 (XXVII) of
12 December 1972, 3070 (XXVIII) of 30 November 1973, 3246 (XXIX) of
29 November 1974, 3382 (XXX) of 10 November 1975 and 31/34 of 30 November 1976,

Recalling also its resolutions 2465 (XXIII) of 20 December 1968, 2548 (XXIV)
of 11 December 1969, 2708 (XXV) of 14 December 1970, 3103 (XXVIII) of
12 December 1973 and 3314 (XXIX) of 14 December 1974 on the use and recruitment
of mercenaries for use against national liberation movements and sovereign States,

Recalling the Declaration and Programme of Action adopted at the International
Conference in Support of the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia, held at Maputo
from 16 to 21 May 1977,2/ and the declaration adopted by the World Conference
for Action against Apartheid, held at Lagos from 22 to 26 August 1977. 1/

Taking note of the Declaration of the First Afro-Arab summit Conference, held
at Cairo from 7 to 9 March 1977, ~

Reaffirming its faith in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of
14 December 1960, containing the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, and the importance of its implementation,

?J A/32/109/Rev.l-S/12344/Rev.l, annex V.
1/ See S/12426.

~/ A/32/61, annex I.

/ ...



A!32!318
English
Page 8

Reaffirming the importance of the universal realization of the right of peoples
to self--det erminat ion , national sovereignty and territorial integrity and of
the speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples as
imperatives for the enjoyment of human rights,

Affirming that bantustanization is incompatible with genulne independence,
unity and national sovereignty and would have the effect of perpetuating the power
of the white minority and the racist system of apartheid in South Africa,

Reaffirming the obligation of all Member States to comply with the principles
of the Charter and the resolutions of the United Nations regarding the exercise
of the right to self-determination by peoples under colonial and alien domination,

Welcoming the independence of Djibouti,

Reaffirming the national unity and territorial integrity of the Comoros,

Indignant at the continued violations of the human rights of the peoples still
under colonial and foreign domination and alien sUbjugation, the continuation of
the illegal occupation of Namibia and South Africa's attempts to dismember its
territory, the perpetuation of the racist minority regimes in Zimbabwe and
South Africa and the denial to the Palestinian people of their inalienable
national rights,

1, Calls upon all States to implement fully and faithfully the resolutions
of the United Nations regarding the exercise of the right to self-determination
by peoples under colonial and alien domination;

2. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the people's struggle for independence,
territorial integrity, national unity and liberation from colonial and foreign
domination and alien subjugation by all available means, including armed struggle;

3. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the peoples of Namibia and Zimbabwe,
of the Palestinian people and of all peoples under alien and colonial domination
to self-determination~ national independence~ territorial integritYj natiollal unity
and sovereignty without external interference;

4. Demands the immediate evacuation of the French administration and
forces from the Comorian territory of Mayotte;

5. Condemns the policy of bantustanization and reiterates its support for
the oppressed people of South Africa in their just and legitimate struggle
against the racist minority regime in Pretoria;

6. Reaffirms that the practice of using mercenaries against national
liberation movements and sovereign States constitutes a criminal act and that the
mercenaries themselves are criminals j and calls upon the Governments of all
countries to enact legislation declaring the recruitment, financing and training of

! ...



A/32/318
English
Page 9

mercenaries in their territory and the transit of mercenaries through their
territory to be punishable offences and prohibiting their nationals from serving
as mercenaries) and to report on such legislation to the Secretary-General;

7. Condemns the pOlicies of those members of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and of other countries whose political, economic, military or sporting
relations with the racist regimes in southern Africa and elsewhere encourage these
regimes to persist in their suppression of the aspirations of peoples for
self-determination and independence;

8. Strongly condemns all Governments which do not recognize the right to
self-determination and independence of all peoples still under colonial and
foreign domination and alien sUbjugation, notably the peoples of Africa and the
Palestinian people;

9. Strongly condemns the ever-increasing massacres of innocent and
defenceless people, including women and children, by the racist minority regimes
of southern Africa in their desperate attempt to thwart the legitimate demands of
the people;

10. De:uands the immediate release of all persons detained or imprisoned
because of their struggle for self-determination and independence, full respect
for their fundamental personal rights and the observance of article 5 of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, under which no one shall be SUbjected to
torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment; 2/

11. Notes with appreciation the material and other forms of assistance that
peoples under colonial and foreign rule continue to receive from Governments,
United Nations agencies and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations,
and calls for this assistance to be maximized;

12. Looks forward to the pUblication of the following studies undertaken by
the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities:

(a) Historical and current development of the right to self-determination
on the basis of the Charter of the United Nations and other instruments adopted
by United Nations organs, with particular reference to the promotion and protection
of human rights and fundamental freedoms;

(b) Implementation of United Nations resolutions relating to the right of
peoples under colonial and foreign domination to self-determination;

21 General Assembly resolution 217 A (Ill).

I . ..



A/32/318
English
Page 10

13. Requests the Secretary·-General to give maximum publicity to the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
and to give the widest possible pUblicity to the struggle being waged by
oppressed peoples for the realization of their self-determination and national
independence;

14. Decides to consider this item again at its thirty-third session on the
basis of the reports that Governments, United Nations agencies and intergovernmental
and non-governmental organizations have been requested to submit concerning the
strengthening of assistance to colonial Territories and peoples under foreign
domination and control.


