












































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL

ASSEMBLY

Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/453
15 December 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

------------------------~~~~. -
Thirty-second session
Agenda item li8

MEASURES TO PREVENT Ii~TERNATIONAL TERRORISH 1>ffiICH ENDANGERS OR
TAKES INNOCENT HU~UU~ LIVES OR JEOPARDIZES Fill~DAI~NTAL FREEDOMS,
AND STUDY OF THE UNDERLYING CAUSES OF THOSE FORMS OF TERRORISM
AND ACTS OF VIOLENCE .lliICH LIE IN MISERY, FRUSTRATION,
GRIEVJ\l~CE M~D DESPAIR AND WHICH CAUSE SOME PEOPLE TO SACRIFICE
HUMAN LIVES, INCLUDING THEIR O.ffi, IN AN ATTEI~T TO EFFECT

RADICAL CHANGES

Report of the Sixth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Awn S. AL-KHASA\mEH (Jordan)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Measures to prevent international terrorism which
enc.angers or takes innocent human lives or jeopardizes fundamental freedoms, and
study of the underlying causes of those forms of terrorism and acts of violence
which lie in misery, frustration, grievance and despair and which cause some
people to sacrifice human lives, including their own, in an attempt to effect
radical changes: report of the Ad Hoc Committee on International Terrorism"
was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-second session of the
General Assemhly pursuant to paragraph 12 of Assembly resolution 31/102 of
15 December 1976.

2. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to incl ude the item in the
agenda and to allocate it to the Sixth Committee.

3. At the 54th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Iran,
I~. Fereydoun Hoveyda, in his capacity as Chairman of the Ad Hoc Committee on
International Terrorism, introduced the Committee's report. V

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Supplement No. 37 (A!32!37).

77-29153 I ...



A/32/453
English
Page 2

4. The Sixth Committee considered the item at its 54th to 59th and 68th meetings,
on 25, 28 to 30 November and 9 December. The summary records of these meetings
(A/C.6/32/SR.54-59 and 68) contain the views of representatives who spoke during
the consideration of the item.

II. PROPOSAL

5. At the 68th meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Togo introduced a
draft resolution (A/c.6/32/L.13) sponsored by Algeria, Burundi, the Congo.
Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Kenya, the Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mali, Morocco, the Niger,
Nigeria, the Sudan, Togo~ Tunisia, Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania, Yemen,
Zaire and Zambia, later joined by Afghanistan and Somalia.

6. The Sixth Committee had before it a statement submitted by the Secretary-
General (A/c.6/32/L.17) on the administrative and financial implications of draft
resolution A/c.6/32/L.13.

7. At its 68th meeting, the Sixth Committee adopted draft resolution
A/c.6/32/L.13 by a roll-call vote of 89 to 9, with 24 abstentions (see para. 7
below). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chile, China,
Congo~ Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Kozambiq~e, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Somalia, SUdan, Surinam, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Israel, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Austria, Colombia, Denmark, El Salvador, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Papua New Guinea,
Philippines, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Thailand,
Turkey, Uruguay.

I ...



A/32/453
English
Page 3

The representatives of the United States of America and Guatemala made statements
in explanation of vote before the vote. The representatives of Eduador,
Nicaragua, the United KingC!om of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Chile,
Israel, Japan, Uruguay, France, Austria, Sierra Leone, Cyprus, Greece, Canada,
Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Sweden, Italy, Belgium, Bolivia and Algeria made
statements in explanation of vote after the vote.

Ill. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SIXTH CO~~ITTEE

8. The Sixth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Measures to prevent international terrorism which endangers or
takes innocent human lives or jeopardizes fundamental freedoms,
and study of the underlying causes o-f those forms of terrorism
and acts of violence which lie in misery, frustration,
grievance and despair and which cause some people to sacrifice
human lives, including their own, in an attempt to effect

radi cal changes

The General Assembly,

Deeply perturbed over acts of iJternational terrorism which are occurrino:
with increasing frequency and which take a toll of innocent human lives,

Recognizing the importance of international co-operation in devising
measures effectively to prevent their occurrence and of stUdying their underlying
causes with a view to finding just and peaceful solutions as quickly as possible,

Recalling the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning
Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter
of the United Nations, ?!

Taking note of the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on International
Terro rism, )j

Deeply convinced of the importance to mankind of the continuation of the
work of the Ad Hoc Committee,

1. Expresses deep concern over increasing acts of international terrorism
which endanger or take innocent human lives or jeopardize fundamental freedoms;

2. Urges States to continue to seek just and peaceful solutions to the
underlying causes which give rise to such acts of violence;

?! General Assembly resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.
31 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,

Supplement No. 37 (A!32!37).

1...



A/32/453
English
Page 4

3. Reaffirms the inalienable right to self-determination and independence
of all peoples under colonial and racist regimes and other forms of alien
domination, and upholds the legitimacy of their struggle, in particular the struggle
of national liberation movements, in acoordance with the purposes and principles
of the Charter and the relevant resolutions of the organs of the United Nations;

4. Condemns the continuation of repressive and terrorist acts by colonial,
racist and alien regimes in denying peoples their legitimate right to
self-determination and independence and other human rights and fundamental
freedoms;

5. Appeals to States which have not yet done so to examine the possibility
of becoming parties to the existing international conventions which relate to
various aspects of the problem of in-oernational terrorism;

6. Invites States to take all appropriate measures at the national level
with a view to the speedy and final elimination of the problem, bearing in mind
the provisions of paragraph 3 above;

T. Invites the Ad Hoc Committee on International Terrorism to continue its
work in accordance with the mandate entrusted to it under General Assembly
resolution 3034 (XXVII) of 18 Lecember 1972, first by studyi:r-", tree 1!nderlying causes
of terl'Oris:Cl aEa tllt::D by ::oecommending practi':E.l measures to combat terrorism;

8. Invites the States whioh have not yet done so to submit their observations
and concrete proposals as soon as possible to the Secretary-General so as to enable
the Ad Hoc Committee to carry out its mandate more efficiently;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Ad Hoc Committee an
analytical study of the observations of States submitted under paragraph 8 above;

10. Requests the Ad Hoc Committee to consider the observations of States
under paragraph 8 above and to submit its report with recommendations for possible
co-operation for the speedy elimination of the problem, bearing in mind the
provisions of paragraph 3, to the General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session;

11.
necessary

Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Ad Hoc
facilities and services, including summary records;

Committee with the

12. Decides to include the item in the provisional agenda of its
thirty-fourth session.


