












































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/357
23 November 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 93

QUESTION OF EAST TIMOR

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. GUrsel DEMIROK (Turkey)

1. An item entitled "Question of East Timor" was included in the provisional
agenda of the thirty-second session of the General Assembly in accordance with
Assembly resolution 31/53 of 1 December 1976.

2. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the Fourth Committee.

3. At its 5th meeting, on 7 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 24, 90, 93, 95 and 12,96 and 97, on the
understanding that individual draft resolutions on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

4. The Fourth Committee considered item 93 at its 8th and lOth to 21st meetings,
between 26 October and 10 November.

5. At the 8th meeting, on 26 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced chapter X
of the report of that Committee relating to the item (A/32/23/Add.3).

6. In connexion with its consideration of the item, the Fourth Committee also
had before it the following communications addressed to the Secretary-General:

(a) Note verbale dated 20 April 1977 from Portugal (A/32/73);

(b) Note verbale dated 11 May 1977 from Indonesia (A/32/90);

(c) Letter dated 27 October 1977 from Mozambique (A/c.4/32/8).

77-25187 / ...



A/32/351
English
Page 2

1. At its 6th meeting, On 10 October, the Fourth Committee granted a request
for hearing concerning the item submitted by Mr. Jose Ramos-Ecrta, Frente
Revolucionaria de Timor Leste Independente (FRETIL~N) (A/c.4/32/5). At the
11th meeting, On 1 November, Mr. Mari Bin Ilamud Alkatiri of FRETILIN made a
statement.

8. At the 20th meeting, on 9 November, the Fourth Committee decided, by a
recorded vote of 61 to 24, with 38 abstentions, to grant a further request for
hearing submitted by Mr. Ramos-Ilorta. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Barbados, Benin, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Central African Empire, Chad,
China, Colombia, Comaras, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gambia,
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Jamaica, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, Mexico,
Mongolia, Mozambique, Niger, Norway, Panama, Peru, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Swaziland, Sweden, Toga, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, united Republic of Cameroon,
united Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia,
Zambia.

Against: Australia, Austria, Chile, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Israel, Japan, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Morocco,
New Zealand, Oman, Paraguay, Philippines, Surinam , Thailand,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uruguay, Zaire.

Abstaining: Bangladesh, Belgium, Bolivia, Botswana, Burma, Canada, Costa Rica,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, France, Gabon, Germany,
Federal RepUblic of, Guatemala, Honduras, Ireland, Italy,
Ivory Coast, Jordan, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Nepal, Netherlands,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Qatar, Singapore,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America, Venezuela, Yemen.

At the same meeting, Mr. Ramos-Horta made a statement.

9. At its 11th and 20th meetings, on the proposals respectively of the
representatives of Angola and Mozambique and following statements by the Chairman
concerning the related financial implications, the Fourth Committee decided that
the statements made during those meetings by the representatives of FRETILIN
should be reproduced in extenso in the records of the meetings concerned.

10.
Iran

At its 19th meeting, on 8
and India and. following a

November, On the proposal of the representatives of
statement by the Chairman concerning the related

/ ...



A/32/357
English
Page 3

financial implications, the Fourth COIT®ittee decided that the statement made at
that meeting by the representative of Indonesia should be reproduced in extenso
in the record of the meeting.

11. The general debate covering the items referred to in paragraph 3 above took
place at the lOth to 20th meetings, between 31 October and 9 November.

12. At the 16th meeting, on 7 November, the representative of Barbados introduced
a draft resolution concerning East Timor (A/c.4/32/L.9), which was finally
sponsored by the following Member States: Algeria, Angola, Barbados, Benin,
Cape Verde, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Mozambique,
Sao Tome and Principe, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam and Zambia.

13. At the 20th meeting, on 9 November, the Chairman drew attention to a statement
by the Secretary-General (A/c.4/32/L.18) submitted in accordance with rule 153
of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly concerning the administrative
and financial implications of the draft resolution referred to in paragraph 12
above.

14. At the 21st meeting, on 10 November, the representative of Barbados, on
behalf of the sponsors, submitted an oral revision to draft resolution A/C.4/32/L.9
by which, in operative paragraph 5, the words "in consultation with the Chairman
of the Special Committee," were inserted after the words "Requests the
Secretary-General, i1.

15. At the same
A/c.4/32/L.9, as
47 abstentions.

meeting, the Fourth Corr@ittee adopted draft
orally revised, by a recorded vote of 61 to
The voting was as follows:

resolution
26, with

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Angola, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cape Verde, Chad, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Demo cratic Yemen, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, H'ungary, Iceland., Jamaica, Kenya, 1ao People's Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mali, Mexico, 11ongolia,
Mozambique, Niger, Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Swaziland, Sweden, Togo , Trinidad and Tobago, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Viet Nam, Zambia.

Bangladesh, Chile, Egypt, Guatemala, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Japan, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Morocco 1 Nicaragua,
Oman~ Philippines 9 Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Surinam, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, United States of
America, Uruguay 1 Zaire.

/ ...



A!32!35T
English
Page 4

Ab staining: Afghani stan ') Argentina') Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Belgium, Bhutan') Bolivia) Burma, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gambia, GeTIaany, Federal Republic of, Honduras,
Ireland) Israel, Italy, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Luxembourg,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Qatal') Samoa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia.

RECO~ffiNDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

16. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Question of East Timor

The General Assembly,

Recognizing the inalienable right of all peoples to self-determination and
independence in accordance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations
and of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Territory, !I

Having heard the statements by the representatives of Portugal ~! and
Indonesia, J/

Having also heard the statements by the representatives of the Frente
Revolucionaria de Timor Leste Independente, !±/

Mindful that all States should, in conformity with Article 2, paragraph 4, of
the Charter, refrain in their international relations frcm the threat or use of
force against the territorial integrity or national independence of any State, or
in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes of the United Nations,

Deeply concerned at the continuing critical situation in the Territory,
resulting from the persistent refusal on the part of the Government of Indonesia
to comply with the nrovisions of the resolutions of the General Assembly and the
Security Council,

l! A!32!23!Add.3, chap. X.
~ A!c.4!32!SR.12.

J! A!C.4!32!SR.19.
!±/ A!c.4!32!SR.ll and 20. / ...



A/32/357
English
Page 5

Recalling its resolutions 3485 (xxx) of 12 December 1975 and 31/53 of
1 December 1976 and Security Council resolutions 384 (1975) of 22 December 1975
and 389 (1976) of 22 April 1976,

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of East Timor to self-
determination and independence and the legitimacy of their struggle to achieve
that right;

2. Reaffirms its resolutions 3485 (XXX) and 31/53 and Security Council
resolutions 384 (1975) and 389 (1976);

3. Rejects the claim that East Timor has been integrated into Indonesia,
inasmuch as the people of the Territory have not been able to exercise freely
their right to self-determination and independence;

4. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to keep the situation in the Territory under active
consideration, to follow the implementation of the present resolution, to dispatch
to the Territory as sOOn as possible a visiting mission with a view to the full
and speedy implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV),
and to report back to the Assembly at its thirty-third session;

5. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Chairman of
the Special Committee, in the meantime, to send urgently, a special representative
to East Timor for the purpose of m~<ing a thorough, on-the-spot assessment of the
existing situation in the Territory and of establishing contact with the
representatives of the Frente Revolucionaria de Timor Leste Independente and the
Government of Indonesia, as well as the Governments of other States concerned,
in order to prepare the ground for a visiting mission of the Special Committee,
and to report back to the Special Committee;

6. Draws the attention of the Security Council, in conformity with
Article 11, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations, to the critical
situation in the Territory of East Timor and recommends that it should take all
effective steps for the implementation of its resolutions 384 (1975) and 389 (1976)
with a vi~w to securing the full exercise by the people of East Timor of their
right to self-determination and independence;

7. Calls upon the Government of Indonesia and the leadership of the Frente
Revolucionaria de Timor Leste Independente to facilitate the entry into East Timor
of the International Committee of the Red Cross and other relief organizations in
order to assist the people of the Territory.

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-third session
the item entitled "Question of East Timor" ,



GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/358
22 November 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 28

QUESTION OF CYPRUS

Letter dated 21 November 1977 from the Permanent Representative of
Cyprus to the UI'.ited Na.tions 8.ddressed to the Secretary-General

I have the honour to refer to a letter dated 4 November 1977 (A/32/331) from
the representative of Turkey addressed to Your Excellency requesting circulation
as an annex of a document signed "Vedat gelik, Min1ster of Defence and Foreign
Affairs of the Turkish Federated State of Cyprus".

This document purports to be a reply to my letter dated 31 October 1977
(A/32/316), but does not even attempt to contradict any of the indisputable facts
stated therein. Those facts establish beyond question the illegality and general
non-recognition of such a fictitious state, made up of multiple international
crimes against the indigenous people of Cyprus, who were genocidally expelled - to
a figure of over 200,000 refugees - and are currently being supplanted in their
usurped homes by an Anatolian population massively transported from Turkey.

Turkey cannot whitewash these stark realities by setting up a fictitious
Turkish Cypriot state or by making it the blind instrument of its continuing
aggressive occupation of the territory of Cyprus, and cannot even answer for its
illegal activities in the island. Turkey would seem to expect that it could thus
efface itself from the scene of the Cyprus tragedy like an ostrich. It cannot
evade the heavy responsibility falling upon it from these international crimes.
No artifice can make the citizens of Cyprus, Turkish or otherwise, answer for the
acts of the aggressor's occupation forces. Those acts are and remain an issue
between two Member States: Turkey the invader and Cyprus the victim of invasion.

The emptines. of Mr. gelik's reply to counter concrete charges appears from
the vague way he tries to dispose of them by just branding them "preposterous and
unfounded" and "as recorded in Official documents of the United Nations" without
giving proof or any reference to such "official documents".

A further statement in his reply to the effect that an agreement on exchange
of population was reached in the third round of the Vienna talks is false and

77-24919 / ...


