












































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/369
5 December 1977
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 38

INCENDIARY AND OTHER SPECIFIC CONVENTIONAL WEAPONS WHICH
MAY BE THE SUBJECT OF PROHIBITIONS OR RESTRICTIONS OF

USE FOR Hill1ANITARIAN REASONS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Francisco CORREA (Mexico)

1. The item entitled "Incendiary and other specific conventional weapons which
may be the subject of prohibitions or restrictions of use for humanitarian reasons:
report of the Secretary-General" was included in the provisional agenda of the
thirty-second session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 31/64 of
10 December 1976.

2. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 7th meeting, on 18 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely items 33, 34, 38 to 49 and 51 to 53. The general debate on these items
took place at the 7th to 27th meetings, from 18 October to 7 November. _~

4. In connexion with item 38, the First Committee had before it a report of the
Secretary-General (A/32/124 and Corr.l).

5. On 14 November, Austria, Finland, Jordan, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden,
and Tunisia submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/32/L.29) which was introduced
by the representative of Sweden at the 32nd meeting, on 15 November. On
17 November, AUEtria, Egypt, Finland, ~exico, Nigeria, ?eru, Sweden, Tunisia,
Venezuela and Yugoslavia submitted a revised draft resolution (A/C.l/32/L.29/Rev.l),

1/ For an index to statements by delegations on disarmament items, see
A/32/383.

77-26960 / ...



A/32/369
English
Page 2

which was subseQuently also sponsored by Bangladesh, Jordan, New Zealand end Senegal,
and was introduced by the representative of Sweden at the 38th meeting, on
18 November.

6. On 23 November, the Secretary-General submitted a statement (A/C.1/32/L.44)
on the administrative and financial implications of the revised draft resolution.

7. At the 44th meeting, on 25 November, the First Committee adopted the revised
draft resolution (A/C.1/32/L.29/Rev.l) by a recorded vote of 84 to none, with 21
abstentions 21 (see para. 8 below). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Burma,
Burundi, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Democratic
Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana,
Greece, Guyana, Honduras, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, 11auritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sudan, Surinam, Sweden, Syrian
Arab RepUblic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Belgium, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federal RepUblic of, Hungary, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Mongolia, Poland, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of America.

RECOM11ENDATION OF THE FIRST CO~lMITTEE

8. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

~ The representative of Sri Lanka subsequently informed the Secretariat
that, had he been present during the voting, he would have voted in favour of the
draft resolution.

I ...



A/32/369
English
Page 3

Incendiary and other specific conventional weapons which
may be the subject of prohibitions or restrictions of

use for humanitarian reasons

The General Assembly,

Convinced that the sUffering of civilian populations and combatants could be
significantly reduced if general agreement can be attained on the prohibition or
restriction for humanitarian reasons of the use of specific conventional weapons~
including any which may be deemed to be excessively injurious or to have
indiscriminate effect8~

Mindful that positive results as regards the non-use or restriction of use for
humanitarian reasons of specific conventional weapons would serve~ in addition~ as
encouragement in the broader field of disarmament and might facilitate sUbsequent
agreement on the elimination of such weapons which were completely banned for use,

Recalling that the issue of prohibitions or restrictions for humanitarian
reasons of the Use of specific conventional weapons has been the subject of
substantive discussion for a number of years, notably at the sessions of the
Conference of Government Experts on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons held,
under the auspices of the International Committee of the Red Cross, at Lucerne,
from 24 September to 18 October 1974 3/ and at Lugano from 28 January to
26 February 1976, .~ and at four sessions of the Diplomatic Conference on the
Reaffirmation and Development of International Humanitarian Law Applicable in
Armed Conflicts and in the General Assembly since 1971,

Taking note of the reports of the Secretary-General on the vork of the
Diplomatic Conference as regards the work of the Conference relevant to the present
resolution, 2/

Having concluded from these reports that discussions have taken place primarily
on the questions of prohibiting the use of conventional weapons, the primary effect
of which is to injure by fragments not detectable by X-ray; of restrictions in the
use of land-mines and booby traps; and of prohibitions or restrictions of use of
incendiary weapons, including napalm, and that consideration was also given to
other conventional weapons, such as small-calibre projectiles and certain blast and
fragmentation weapons, and to the possibility of prohibiting or restricting the
use of such weapons;

3/ For the report of the first session, see Conference of Government Experts
on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons (International Committee of the Red
Cross, Geneva, 1975).

4/ For the report of the second session, see Conference of Government Experts
on the Use of Certain Conventional Weapons (International Committee of the Red
Cross, Geneva, 1976).

l! A/9726, A/10222, A/3l/l46, A/32/l24 and Corr.l.

/ ...



1',/32/369
English
Page 4

Noting resolution 22 (IV) on follow--up regarding prohibitions or restrictions
of use of certain conventional weapons adopted by the Diplomatic Conference on
7 June 1977, §j in which the Conference recommends, inter alia, that a conference
of Governments on such weapons should be convened not later than 1979,

1. Believes that the work on such weapons should both build upon the areas
of common ground thus far identified and include the search for further areas of
CO~Dn ground and should in each case seek the broadest possible agreement;

2. Decides to convene in 1979 a United Nations conference with a view to
reaching agreements on prohibitions or restrictions on the use of specific
conventional veapons, including those which may be deemed to be excessively
injurio~s or have indiscriminate effects, taking into account humanitarian and
military considerations, and on the question of a system of periodic review of this
matter and for consideration of further proposals;

3. Decides to convene a United Nations preparatory conference for the
conference referred to in paragraph 2 above and requests the Secretary-General to
transmit invitations to all States and parties invited to attend the Diplomatic
Conference on the Reaffirmation and Development of International Humanitarian Law
Applicable in Armed Conflicts;

4. Recommends. that the preparatory conference should meet once in 1978 for
organizational purposes and, subsequently, with the task of establishing the best
possible substantive basis for the achievement at the United Nations conference
of agreements as envisaged in the present resolution and of considering
organizational matters relating to the holding of the United Nations Conference;

5. Requests the Secretary--General to assist the Preparatory Conference in
its vlOrk;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-third session
an item entitled iiUnited Nations Conference on Prohibitions or Restrictions of Use
of Certain Conventional Weapons which may be Deemed to be excessively injurious
or to have Indiscriminate Effects: report of the United Nations preparatory
conference H •

~/ See 1',/32/124, annex II.


