












































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/375
1 December 1977
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 44

ESTABLISHMENT OF A NUCLEAR-lfEAPON-FREE ZONE
IN THE REGION OF THE MIDDLE K~ST

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Francisco CORREA (i 'e •ico:-

1. The item entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region
of the Middle East" was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty···second
session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 31/71 of lO December 1976.

2. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 7th meeting, on l8 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely items 33, 34, 38 to 49 and 51 to 53. The general debate on these items
took place at the 7th to 27th meetings, from 18 October to 7 November. ~/

4. In connexion with item 44, the Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Letter dated 6 July 1977 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General, transmitting the final communique of the Eighth Islamic
Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Tripoli from 16 to 22 May 1977
(A/32/133, annex);

1/ For an index to statements by delegations on disarmament items, see
A/321383.

77-·26352 ; ...



A132/375
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 23 September 1977 from the Permanent Representative of
the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the resolutions adopted by the Eighth Islamic Conference of Foreign
Ministers (A/32/235).

5. On 14 November, Bahrain, EgyPt, Iran and Kuwait submitted a draft resolution
(A/C.l/32/L.27), which was subsequently also sponsored by Qatar and Yemen. The
draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Iran at the 32nd meeting,
on 15 November.

6. At its 34th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.l/32/L.27 as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 1 was adopted by a recorded vote of 98 to none,
with 14 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Empire, Chad, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia~
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union
of Soviet Socialist RepUblics, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic
of Cameroon, United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Algeria, Argentina, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma, CUba, France,
Guyana, India, Israel, Portugal, Spain, Uganda, United
RepUblic of Tanzania.

(b) Operative paragraph 2 was adopted by a recorded vote of 103 to none,
with 12 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

/ ...



In favour:

Against:

A/32/375
English
Page 3

Afghanistan, Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Botswana, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada,
Cape Verde, Central African Empire, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Cyprus~ Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen~ Denmark,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Luxembourg, Madagascar') Nalaysia, Maldives') Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, M.ozambique, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist R~pUblic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United States
of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yugoslavia.

None.

Abstaining: Argentina, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma, Cuba, France, Guyana, India,
Israel, Spain, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania.

(c) The draft resolution as a whole was adopted by a recorded vote of
117 to none, with 1 abstention (see para. 7 below). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Babrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Empire, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, German Democratic Republic, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People?s Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinam, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic
of Tanzania, United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia. I ...



A/32/375
English
Page 4

Against: None.

Abstaining: Israel.

RECOMME~IDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone
in the region of the Middle East

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 3263 (XXIX) of 9 December 1974, in which it
overwhelmingly commended the idea of the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-·free
zone in the region of the Middle East,

Recalling also its resolution 3474 (XXX) of 11 December 1975, in which it
recognized that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East
enjoys wide support in the region,

Further recalling its resolution 31/71 of 10 December 1976, in which it
expressed the conviction that progress tovards the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East would greatly enhance the cause of
peace both in the region and in the world,

Mindful of the growing international desire for establishing a just and lasting
peace in the area of the Middle East,

Conscious of the global apprehension over possible proliferation of nuclear
weapons, in particular in the sensitive region of the Middle East,

Fully convinced that the possible development of nuclear capability would
further complicate the situation and immensely damage the efforts to create an
atmosphere of confidence in the Middle East,

Reiterating anew the particular nature of the problems involved and the
complexities inherent in the Middle East, and the urgency of keeping the region
free from involvement in a ruinous nuclear arms race,

Recognizing, as a consequence, the need to create momentum towards the goal
of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East,

1. Urges anew all parties directly concerned to adhere to the Treaty on the
Non-PrOliferation of Nuclear Weapons ~ as a means of promoting this objective;

~ General Assembly resolution 2373 (XXII).

I . ..



A/32/375
English
Page 5

2. Reiterates its recommendation that the States Members of the United
nations referred to in paragraph 1 above, pending the establishment of a nuclear-
weapon-free zone under an effective system of safeguards, should:

(a) Proclaim solemnly and immediately their intention to refrain, on a
reciprocal basis, from producing, acquiring or in any other way possessing nuclear
weapons and nuclear explosive devices and from permitting the stationing of
nuclear weapons in their territory or the territory under their control by any
third party';

(b) Refrain, on a reciprocal basis, from any other action that would
facilitate the acquisition, testing or use of such weapons or would be in any
other way detrimental to the objective of the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free
zone in the region under an effective system of safeguards;

(c) Agree to place all their nuclear activities under the International
Atomic Energy Agency safeguards;

3. Reaffirms its recommendation to the nuclear-weapon States to refrain
from any action contrary to the purpose of the present resolution and the objective
of establishing, in the region of the Middle East, a nuclear-weapon-free zone
under an effective system of safeguards and to extend their co-operation to the
States of the region in their efforts to promote this objective.;

4. Renews its invitation to the Secretary-General to continue to explore
possibilities of making progress towards the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free
zone in the area of the Middle East;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-third session
the item entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of
the Middle East".


