












































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NAT80NS

•
Distr.
GENERAL

A/32/371
6 December 1977
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH

Thirty-second session
Agenda items 40 and 49

URGENT NEED FOR CESSATION OF NUCLEAR AND THERMONUCLEAR
TESTS AND CONCLUSION OF A TREATY DESIGNED TO ACHIEVE A

COHPREHENSIVE TEST BAi'!

CONCLUSION OF A TREATY ON THE COMPLETE AND GENERAL
PROHIBITION OF NUCLEAR-WEAPON TESTS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Hr. Francisco CORnEA (Mexico)

1. The i terns entitled ";Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thernonuclear
tests and conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a comprehensive test ban:
report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament" and "Conclusion of a
treaty on the complete and general prohibition of nuclear·"·lfeapon tests 11 -Vlere
included in the provisional agenda as items 40 and 49 in accordance with General
Assembly resolutions 31/66 of 10 December and 31/89 of 14 December 1976.

2. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly, on the
recow~endation of the General Committee, decided to include both items in its agenda
and to allocate them to the First Committee.

3. At its 7th meeting, on 18 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 33, 34, 38 to 49 and 51 to 53. The general debate on these items took
place at the 7th to 27th meetings, from 18 October to 7 November. l/

4. In connexion with agenda item 40, the First Committee had before it the report
of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament. ~/

l/ For an index to statements by delegations on disarmament items, see document
A/32/383.

2/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty second Session, Supplement
No. 27 (A/32/27).

77-27338 / ...



A/32/371
English
Page 2

5. In connexion with item 49, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Note verbale dated 17 February 197'7 from the Permanent Hission of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/32/59);

(b) Letter dated 3 June 1977 fr~m the Permanent Representative of Nigeria to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/32/113);

(c) Letter dated 6 July 1977 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/32/133);

(d) Letter dated 23 September 1977 from the Permanent Representative of the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/32/235l;

(e) Note by the Secretary-General dated 4 November 1977 (A/32/324).

6. On 11 November, Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic,
Hungary, Mongolia and Poland submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/32/L.20) under
item 49, which was subse~uently co-sponsored by the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
RepUblic. It read as follows:

liThe General As s embly,

lI Convinced that the early cessation of nUClear-weapon tests" including
underground tests, everywhere and by everyone, would contribute to the
reduction of the nuclear arms race and to the further relaxation of
international tensions,

"Noting the need to complement the international agreements concluded so
far in the area of reducing the nuclear arms race for a radical solution of
the problem of banning nuclear-weapon tests,

"Recalling the aim proclaimed in the Treaty Banning Nuclear-\{eapon Tests
in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water and the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to seek to achieve the discontinuance of
all test explosions of nuclear weapons for all time,

"Heaffirming its conviction of the need to exert new efforts to achieve
an international agreement on the cessation of all types of nuclear-v.;reapon
test8~

lIBeliE~yi_~_ that a moratorium on peaceful nuclear explosions along with a
ban of all nuclear-weapon tests for a definite period will facilitate the
achievement of such an agreement,

/ ...



:J1.

complete
Reaffirms the need for

and general prohibition

A/32/371
Enr,lish
Par,e 3

an early conclusion of a treaty on the
of nuclear-weapon tests:

112. Notes ,rith satisfaction that the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, the United States of America and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland have begun negotiations on the complete and
general prohibition of nuclear-weapon tests, and expresses the hope that
these negotiations will lead in the near future to the conclusion of' a
relevant international agreement;

113. Calls upon other nuclear--weapon States to JOln in the efforts aimed
at achieving the complete and general prohibiton of' nuclear-weapon tests;

"4. Notes that non-nuclear States, ,;ithin the framework of the
Conference of the Committee on Disarmament and elsewhere, may m~~e a
substantial contribution towards solving the problem of the ccmplete and
general prohibiticn of nuclear-weapon tests~

"5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-third
session the item entitled 'Conclusion of' a treaty on the complete and general
prohibitioD of nuclear-weapon tests I. t1

7. On 11 November, Australia, Austria, Canada, Colombia, Ecuador, Ethiopia,
Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Nepal, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, the
Philippines, Sweden and Venezuela submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/32/L.23)
under item 40. It read as follows:

liThe General Assembly,

"Reaffirming its conviction that the cessation of nuclear-weapon testing
would be in the supreme interest of mankind, both as a major step towards
controlling the development and proliferation of nuclear weapons and to
relieve the deep apprehension concerning the harmful consequences of radio-
active contamination for the health of present and future generations,

"Recalling the determination of the parties to the Treaty Banning
Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water, and
the Treaty on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons expressed in those
Treaties to continue negotiations to achieve the discontinuance of all test
explosions of nuclear weapons for all time,

"Recalling its previous resolutions on the subject,

"Taking note of that part of the report of the Conference of the
Committee on Disarmament relating to the question of a comprehensive test-ban
treaty,

"1. Reiterates its r,rave concern that in spite of the Assembly's
repeated resolutions related to nuclear-weapons testing in all environments,
adopted by very large majorities, such testing has continued unabated during
the past year;

/ ...



A/32/371
English
Page 4

"2. Notes with satisfaction that negotiations have begun among three
nuclear-weapon States with a view to the drafting of a comprehensive test-ban
agreement;

"3. Declares that the conclusion of such an agreement and its opening
for signature would be the best possible augury for the success of the
special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament;

"4. Urges the three nuclear-weapon States to expedite their
negotiations with a view to bringing them to a positive conclusion as soon as
possible, and to use their best endeavours to transmit the results for full
consideration by the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament no later than
the beginning of its spring session;

"5. Requests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to take up
the question with the utmost urgency, with a view to the completion of a
draft treaty for consideration and action by the special session of the
General Assembly devoted to disarmament in 1978;

"6. Once again proclaims as its objective the complete cessation of all
nuclear and thermonuclear tests in all environments;

"7. Decides to include on the provisional agenda of its thirty-third
session an item relating to the implementation of this resolution."

8. On 18 November, after consultations among the sponsors of the two draft
resolutions, both texts were withdrawn and replaced by a single draft resolution
(A/C.l/32/L.37) submitted under items 40 and 49 and sponsored by Australia,
Austria, Bulgaria, Canada, Colombia, Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Ethiopia, the German
Democratic Republic, Hungary, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, Mongolia, Nepal, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, the Philippines, Poland, Sweden and Venezuela.
The resolution was introduced by New Zealand at the Committee's 38th meeting on
the same date.

9. At the 38th meeting, on 18 November, Nigeria orally proposed the following
amendments to draft resolution A/C.l/32/L.37:

(a)
replaced

In operative paraeraph 3, the words "such an agreement H
by the itTords Ita comprehensive test-·ban Treaty";

should be

(b) In operative paragraph 4, the words "to use their best endeavours to"
should be deleted.

la. At its 40th meeting, on 21 November, the Committee proceeded to vote on draft
resolution A/C.l/32/L.37. The amendments by Nigeria were not pressed to a vote.
Draft resolution A/C.l/32/L.37 was adopted by a recorded vote of 89 to 1, with 1
abstention (see para. 11 below). The voting was as follows: ]/

]/ After the vote, Ireland stated that it wished to record its vote as being
in favour. Afghanistan, Bahamas, Bahrain, Cyprus, Kenya, Luxembourg, Malays ia,
Thailand, United Arab Emirates and Uruguay stated that they would have voted in
favour, had they been present. Albania stated that it wished to record its vote
as being against.



English
Page 5

In favour: Algeria, Angola~ Argentina, Australia~ Austria~ Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica~ Cuba, Czechoslovalcia,
Democratic Yemen, De~mark, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic
of, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran,
IraQ, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, r,laldives, Mali, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal~ Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger~
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United RepUblic
of Tanzania, United States of America, Upper Volta, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia

Against: China

Abstaining: France

RECOMt1E~~ATION OF THE FIRST CO~~ITTEE

11. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Urgent need for cessation of nuclear and thermonuclear
tests and conclusion of a treaty designed to achieve a

comprehensive test ban

Conclusion of a treaty on the complete and general
prohibition of nuclear-weapon tests

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its conviction that the cessation of nuclear-weapon testing by
all States would be in the supreme interest of mankind, both as a major step
towards controlling the development and proliferation of nuclear weapons and to
relieve the deep apprehension concerning the harmful conseQuences of radio-active
contamination for the health of present and future generations,

Recalling the determination of the parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear
Heapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Vater ~j and the Treaty

~ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 480, No. 6964, p. 43.

/ ...



A/32/3Tl
English
Page 6

on Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons 2! expressed in those Treaties to continue
negotiations to achieve the discontinuance of all test explosions of nuclear
weapons for all time,

Recalling its previous resolutions on the subject,

Taking note of that part of the report of the Conference of the Committee on
Disarmament 61 relating to the question of a comprehensive test-ban treaty,

1. Reiterates its grave concern that in spite of the repeated resolutions
of the General Assembly related to nuclear-weapons testing in all environments,
adopted by very large majorities, such testing has continued unabated during the
past year;

2. Notes with satisfaction that negotiations have begun among three
nuclear-weapon States with a view to the drafting of an agreement on the subject
of this resolution;

3. Declares that the conclusion of such an agreement and its opening for
signature would be the best possible augury for the success of the special session
of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament, to be held in May/June 1978;

4. Urges the three nuclear-weapon States to expedite their negotiations
with a view to bringing them to a positive conclusion as soon as possible and to
use their best endeavours to transmit the results for full consideration by the
Conference of the Committee on Disarmament by the beginning of its spring session;

5. Requests the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament to take up the
agreed text resulting from the negotiations referred to in paragraph 4 above with
the utmost urgency, with a view to the submission of a draft treaty to the General
Assembly at its special session devoted to disarmament;

6.
an item

Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-third
relating to the implementation of the present resolution.

session

2! Resolution 2373 (XXII), annex.
61 Official Records of the United Nations, Thirty second Session, Supplement

No. 27 (A/32/27).


