












































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-second session
Agenda item 74

Distr.
GENERAL

AI 32I 3076 Cc,,,,, I "" 1:\"'.0. \
1 November 1977

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF RACIAL DISCRIMINATION

Report of the Third Committee (Part I)

Rapporteur: Mr. Fuad M. AL-HINAI (Oman)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 5th plenary meeting, on 23 September 1977, the General Assembly
allocated to the Third Committee agenda item 74 entitled:

"Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination:

"(a) Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination;

"(b) Report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination;

"(c) Status of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms
of Racial Discrimination;

"(d) Status of the International Convention on the Suppression and
Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid".

2. At its 3rd meeting, on 27 September 1977, the Third Committee decided to
consider jointly subitems (a), (c) and (d).

3. The Committee considered these subitems at its 4th to 11th and 13th to
15th meetings, from 28 September to 6 October and on 10 and 11 October. The views
expressed by the representatives of Member States on these subitems are contained
in the summary records of those meetings (A/c.3/32/sR.4-11 and 13-15).

4. In connexion with subitem (a), the Committee had before it the following
documentation:

77-21545 I . ..



A/32/307
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council, !I chapter Ill, section G;

(b) Letter dated 15 March 1977 from the Deputy Prime Minister and Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Egypt to the Secretary-General (A/32/61);

(c) Note by the Secretary-General (A/32/193), containing the text of
resolution 6 A (XXXIII) of 4 March 1977 adopted by the Commission on Human Rights
at its thirty-third session, entitled "Report of the Ad Hoc Working Group of Experts
on southern Africa 11 ;

(d) Report of the Secretary-General (E/5920) submitted to the Economic and
Social Council at its sixty-second session in accordance with paragraph 18 (f) of
the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination
containing a summary of the actions, suggestions, trends etc. emerging from the
deliberations of various United Nations organs and bodies and from those of the
specialized agencies concerned with the question of racial discrimination and
apartheid; information on activities undertaken or contemplated under the programme
of advisory services in the field of human rights in regard to racial discrimination;
a summary of information on the elimination of racism and racial discrimination
received in periodic reports; information on the subject submitted by
non-gover~mental organizations; and reports on action in relation to the Decade
by the Office of Public Information;

(e) Report of the Secretary-General (E/5921) submitted to the Economic and
Social Council at its sixty-second session in accordance with paragraph 18 (e)
of the Programme for the Decade containing an analysis of replies received from
Governments, up to 8 March 1977, in response to a questionnaire circulated by the
Secretary-General;

(f) Note by the Secretary-General (A/32/196) containing further information
received by him on activities undertaken or contemplated in connexion with the
Decade and supplementing the information submitted to the Economic and Social
Council at its sixty-second session under paragraph 18 (e) of the Programme for the
Decade;

(g) Letter dated 23 September 1977 from the Permanent Representative of the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/32/235).

5. In connexion with subitem (c), the Committee had before it the report of the
Secretary-General (A/32/186) on the status of the International Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination submitted in accordance with
General Assembly resolution 2106 A (XX) of 21 December 1965.

6. In connexion with subitem (d), the Committee had before it the report of the
Secretary-General (A/32/187) On the status and implementation of the International

!I Of~icial Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-second Session,
Supplement No. 3 (A/32/3).

/ ...



A/32/307
English
Page 3

Convention On the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, submitted
under General Assembly resolutions 3380 (XXX) of 10 November 1975 and 31/80 of
13 December 1976.

7. Subitems (a), (c) and (d) were introduced by the Director of the Division of
Human Rights at the 4th meeting of the Committee, On 28 September.

II. CONSIDERATION OF THE DRAFT RESOLUTION RECOt~1ENDED BY
THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

8. At its 11th meeting, on 6 October, the Committee adopted without a vote a
draft resolution (A/c.3/32/L.3) on the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and
Racial Discrimination recommended by the Economic and Social Council in
resolution 2056 (LXII) (see para. 15 below, draft resolution I).

Ill. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3!32/L.4

9. At the 7th meeting of the Committee, on 3 October, the representative of
Belgium introduced a draft resolution on the status of the International Convention
On the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (A/c.3/32/L.4) sponsored
by Argentina, Belgium, Bulgaria, Costa Rica, Egypt, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghana, Iran, Morocco, the Syrian Arab Republic and Yugoslavia, subsequently joined
by Cyprus, France, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, India, Iraq, Italy, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, the Niger, Senegal and the Sudan.

10. At the 8th meeting, on 4 October, the representative of Uruguay introduced
an amendment (A/c.3/32/L.5), sponsored also by Ecuador and Sweden, which would add
a new paragraph 5 as follows:

115.
of making

Appeals to States parties to the Convention to study the possibility
the declarat ion provided for in article 14 of the Convention;"

and would renumber the following paragraph accordingly.

11. At its 11th meeting, on 6 October, the Committee voted on the draft resolution
and amendment thereto, as follows:

(a) The amendment (A/c.3/32/L.5) was adopted by a roll-call vote of 34 to 1,
with 73 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bhutan, Canada, Chile, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Denmark~ Ecuador, Fiji) Finland, France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, tlexico, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Uruguay, Venezuela.

I . ..



A/32/30T
English
Page 4

A~ainst: Guinea.

Abstaininv,: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Chad,
Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Egypt,
German Democratic Republic, Ghana~ Greece~ Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Jordan, Ku"ait, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mongolia, Niger, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia.

(b) The draft resolution (A/C.3/32/L.4) as a "hole, as amended, "as adopted
by a roll-call vote of 113 to none (see para. 15 belo", draft resolution 11). The
voting "as as follo"s:

In favour:

Against:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, CUba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France,
German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Ku"ait, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Netherlands, Ne" Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Nor"ay, Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist RepUblic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Upper
Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia.

None.

The representative of Kenya stated sUbsequently that, had he been present during
the voting, he "ould have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...



A/32/307
English
Page 5

IV. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/32/L.6

12. At the 13th meeting, On 10 October, the representative of the German Democratic
Republic introduced a draft resolution on the status of the International Convention
on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid (A/C.3/32/L.6)
sfonsored by Algeria, Bulgaria, Cuba, Egypt, the German Democratic Republic, Guinea,
Guyana, India, Jamaica, Kenya, Nigeria, POland, the Syrian Arab Republic and
Yugoslavia, subsequently joined by the Congo, Iraq, Madagascar and Mongolia.

13. At the 14th meeting, On 11 October, the representative of Nigeria orally
revised the draft resolution by making the following changes:

(a) Th" fifth preambular r:aragraph would end with the word "Lagos";

(b) A new sixth preambular paragraph would be inserted immediately afterwards,
reading as follows:

"Takes note of document A/AC.115/L.467, referring to the General
Declaration and Programme of Action adopted in Lisbon, June 1977".

14. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on the revised draft resolution,
as follmTs:

(a) The new sixth preambular paragraph, on which a separate vote was
requested by the representative of Costa Rica, was adopted by 65 votes to 9, with
24 abstentions;

(b) The revised draft resolution as a whole was adopted by a roll-call
88 to none, with 26 abstentions (see para. 15 below, draft resolution Ill).
voting was as follows:

vote of
The

In favour:

Against:

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain~ Bangladesh~ Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cape Verde, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, CUba, Cyprus,
Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau~ Guyana~ Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia:;! Hali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Niger, Nigeria, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri La~~a,
Surinam, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

None.

/ ...



A/32/307
English
Page 6

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Fiji, Finland,
France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Uruguay.

The representatives of Czechoslovakia, Maldives and Panama stated subsequently that,
had they been present during the voting, they would have voted in favour of the
draft resolution.

V. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD CO~1ITTEE

15· The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its resolve to achieve the total elimination of racism, racial
discrimination and apartheid,

Recalling that, in its resolution 3057 (XXVIII) of 2 November 1973 and in the
Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination
annexed thereto, it called for a continuing effort by all peoples, Governments and
institutions to eradicate raqism, racial discrimination and apartheid,

Noting that, despite the support given to the Programme for the Decade by the
international community, intolerable conditions continue to prevail in southern
Africa and elsewhere, including the denial of the right to self-determination and
the inhwnan and odious application of apartheid and racial discrimination,

Reiterating its conviction that a serious threat is posed to international
peace and security by the continued defiance by the racist regimes in South Africa
and Southern Rhodesia of the resolutions of the General Assembly and of various
other organs and bodies of the United Nations relating to the policies of apartheid,
racial discrimination and the illegal occupation of Namibia,

1. Reaffirms its resolution 31/77 of 13 December 1976 regarding the
implementation of the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and
Racial Discrimination and draws the attention of Member States, international
organizations, specialized agencies and intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations to the need to respect and implement the provisions of that
resolution;

I . ..



A!32/307
English
Page 7

2. Condemns once again the policies of apartheid, racism and racial
discrimination which prevail in southern Africa and elsewhere, including the denial
of the right to self-determination and the inhuman and odious application of
apartheid and racial discrimination;

3. Renews its strong support for oppressed peoples struggling to liberate
themselves from racism, racial discrimination, apartheid, colonialism and alien
domination;

4. Appeals to all States to continue to co-operate with the Secretary-General
by submitting their reports, when due, in compliance with the provisions of
paragraph 18 (~) of the Programme for the Decade;

5. Calls once again upon all Governments which have not yet done so to take
legislative, administrative or other measures in respect of their nationals and the
bodies corporate under their jurisdiction that own and operate enterprises in
southern Africa, in order to put an end to such enterprises;

6. Urges United Nations organs, specialized agencies and intergovernmental
and non-governmental organizations to strengthen and enlarge the scope of their
activities in support of the objectives of the Programme for the Decade, in
particular by:

(a) Intensifying their educational and information campaigns;

(b) Increasing their material and moral support to the national liberation
movements and the victims of racism, racial discrimination and apartheid;

(c) Offering all assistance to and co-operating with the Secretary-General to
ensure the success of the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to do his utmost to give the Programme for
the Decade the fullest publicity, having regard to the need to focus international
attention on the struggle against racism, racial discrimination and apartheid;

8. Renews its call for adequate resources to be made available to the
Secretary-General to enable him to undertake the activities entrusted to him under
paragraph 18 (g) of the Programme for the Decade;

9. Appeals once again to Governments and private organizations to make
voluntary contributions in support of the activities envisaged in the Programme for
the Decade;

10.
priority,
Action to

Decides to consider at its thirty-third session, as a matter of high
an item entitled "Implementation of the Programme for the Decade for
Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination".

I ...



A/32/307
English
Page 8

DRAFT RESOLuTION 11

Status of the International Convention on the Elimination of
All Forms of Racial Discrimination

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3057 (XXVIII) of 2 November 1973, 3135 (XXVIII) of
14 December 1973, 3225 (XXIX) of 6 November 1974, 3381 (XXX) of 10 November 1975
and 31/79 of 13 December 1976,

I, Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General ~I on the status of the
International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination; }I

2, Expresses its satisfaction with the increase in the number of States
which have ratified the Convention or acceded thereto;

3, Reaffirms once again its conviction that ratification of or accession to
the Convention on a universal basis and implementation of its provisions are
necessary for the realization of the objectives of the Decade for Action to Combat
Racism and Racial Discrimination; ~I

4, Appeals to States which have not yet become parties to the Convention to
ratify it or accede thereto;

5, Appeals to States parties to the Convention to study the possibility of
making the declaration provided for in article 14 of the Convention;

6,
Assembly
Assembly

Requests the Secretary-General to continue
annual reports concerning the status of the
resolution 2106 A (XX) of 21 December 1965,

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

to submit to the General
Convention, in accordance with

Status of the International Convention on the Suppression
and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 3068 (XXVIII) of 30 November 1973, by which it
adopted and opened for signature and ratification the International Convention on

~ A/32/186.

}/ General Assembly resolution 2106 A (XX), annex,

~I See General Assembly resolution 3057 (XXVIII),

loo,



A/32/307
English
Page 9

the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, and its
resolutions 3380 (XXX) of 10 November 1975 and 31/80 of 13 December 1976,

Reaffirming its conviction that apartheid constitutes a total negation of the
purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and is a crime against
humanity and that its continued intensification and expansion seriously disturb and
threaten international peace and security,

Convinced that ratification of and accession to the Convention on a universal
basis and the implementation of its provisions without delay are necessary for the
achievement of the goals of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination, 21

Convinced that the proclamation of 1978 as International Anti-Apartheid Year ~I
will contribute to the aims of the Convention,

Bearing in mind the Maputo Declaration in Support of the Peoples of Zimbabwe
and Namibia 11 adopted by the International Conference in Support of the Peoples of
Zimbabwe and Namibia, held at Maputo from 16 to 21 May 1977, and the Lagos
Declaration for Action against Apartheid adopted by the World Conference for Action
against Apartheid, held at Lagos from 22 to 26 August 1977, QI

Taking note of the document issued in accordance with the decision taken by
the Special Committee against Apartheid on 21 June 1977 referring to the General
Declaration and the Programme of Action adopted by the World Conference against
Apartheid, Racism and Colonialism in Southern Africa, held at Lisbon from
16 to 19 June 1977, 2/

Convinced that the legitimate struggle of the oppressed peoples in southern
Africa against apartheid, colonialism and racial discrimination and the effective
implementation of their inalienable and legitimate rights, including their right to
self-determination, demand all necessary support by the international community,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the status of the
International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of
Apartheid; 101

21 See General Assembly resolution 3057 (XXVIII).
~ See Economic and Social Council resolution 2082 B (LXII).

11 See A/32/l09/Rev,l-S/12344/Rev.l, annex V, sect. 11.

QI To be issued as A/cODW.91/9.

2/ A/AC.115/L.467.
101 A/32/187.

I . ..



A/32/30T
English
Page 10

2. Expresses its satisfaction with the increase in the number of States
which have ratified the Convention or acceded thereto;

3.
to accede

Reguests all States which have
thereto as soon as possible;

not yet become parties to the Convention

4. Helcomes the establishment by the Chairman of the thirty-third session of
the COIT@ission on Human Rights of a group as provided for by article IX of the
Convention;

5. Invites the Commission on Human Rights to continue its efforts to
undertake the functions set out in article X of the Convention;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to include in his next annual report under
General Assembly resolution 3380 (XXX) a special section concerning the
implementation of the Convention.


