








































Distr .
GE}IERAL

A/33/525
19 Decenber 19TB

OBIGINAI,: ENGLISE

UNITED NAT' O NS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

thirty-third session
Agenda iten !p

IJi{ITED NATIONS CONFERENCE O}I TR{DE AND DEqELOPMUNT

Report of the Second Comittee

Rapporteur: I4r. Theophilos V. TUEOPHILOU (Cyprus )

I, TNTRODUCTION

1, At its l+th antl 5th rneetings, on 22 September 19?8, the General- Assembly, on
the reconnentlation of the General Conroittee, tlecided to include in its agenale the
iten entitleal:

rrunited Nations Conference on Trade and Developraent:

(a) neport of the Trade and Development Boartl;

(b) Report of the Secretary-General i'

anal to s.11ocate it to the Second. Connittee.

2. The Com.ittee considered this item at its 
'\th, 

55th anil 58th to 63rd rneetings,
betteen 4 and 18 December. An account of the tliscussion of the Conrnittee is
contained in the relevant sunmary record.s (A/C.2/33/SR.5l+, 55 and 58-63).

3. For the consideration of this item, the Connd.ttee hatl before it the following
docrments:

(a) Feport of the Economic anal Social Council, chapter IV, section B; V

(t) Report of the Trade and Development Board. on the second anct third

ofRecords
6iTE

r/
Supplement No. 3

7B-3?o2\



^/33/126Engl-ish
Page 2

parts of its ninth special session" the second part of its seventeenth
session and the first part of its eighteenth session; 2/

(c) Letter dated. 13 April 1978 fron the Pernanent Bepresentative of fiJi
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/33/B3);

(d) Note verbal-e dated 2 June 19?8 from the Permanent Representative of
Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the Se c retary-General,
transmitting the Final Conmuniqu6 adopted. at the l4inj.sterial Meeting
of the Co-ordinating Bureau of Non-ALigned Countries, held at Havs.nd.
from 15 to 20 May t9T8 (4/33/118);

(e) Letter dated lL June 1978 fron the Perxnanent Representative of Senecaf
to the United Nations addresseil to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the text of the resolutions of the Ninth fsLarnic Conference of Foreign
Ministers, he].d at Dakar from 2l+ to 28 April 19TB (A/T/f5f);

(f) Letter dated 6 Septenber 19?8 fron the Charg6 draffaires a.i" of the
Permanent I'{ission of Yugoslavia tc the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General u transmitting d.ocurnents of the Conference of l{inisters
for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligneal Countries, held at Belgrade from
25 to 30 Jul-y 1978 (t/Zl/zo6);

(g) Note by the Secretary-General transnitting a study on the effects of
the rtorld inflationary phenomenon on the development process and
conments of the Trade and. Deve.I-opment Board (A/33/3oZ);

(h) Note by the Secretariat transnitting the provisional agenda for the
fifth session of the United Nations Conferenee on Trade and Development
{A/c .2/ 33/L .)+) ;

(i) Report of the Secretary-General on the revie'w of progress in the
implcnentation of special measures in favour of the least developed
among the d.eveloping countries (E/L9TB/86 (Parts r and II));

(J) Repoft of the Secretary-General on the review of progress in the
irnplementation of special measures and specific action related to the
ps.rticular need.s of the land-locked d.eveloping cor:ntries @h978/87
\rarts I ano It r,.

!" At the 5)+th meeting, on \ December, the Secretary-Oeneral of the United
Nations Conference on Trade anal Development natle an introductory statement.

5" The Connittee proceeded to consid.er the draft resol-utions and draft d.ecision
set out in section If beIor.r.

a/ rbid. , supplement No . 15 (A/ Tlrr) "



Al33/ jz6
English
pa,ge 3

II" CONSIDSRATIOI{ OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.2/3311,.50
6, At the 55t,h meetin6, on 5 December, the representative of l{epal, on behalf of
l&!rnL*3a, lggpJadesE. Bgn:!g, Bhutan, Botsuana, qg.ga1" rhe ggllrgl4fr.tggg
$ee!:e-' !ne4, !glo-gC!ic^Jeaen, n-tlriopia, the .I,gg_le9pl9lE_-QemqgJe!!c-llep"tbu-c-,l,FEg!llg-, :la-Li,. i;epat , tlre lliqer and Vrqt^. lfrr.m, iniioAuceO a draft resotution
\A/C -2133/L.60 ) , entitled ''Special neasures in favour of the least develoned
anong the aleveloping countries I, which read as follovs j

"Thu !rul.f"l l"t "-gl4t}."
"Recalling the special neasures in favouf of the least d.evelopeil among

tht-' developing countries adopted 'by the United l{ations Conference on ?racle antl
Development in its resolutions 62 (III) of 1! Mair 1gJ2 and ?B (IV) of
31 l,lay 1976 ,

'!qEi-l$j"tp__"_onsr_4gfA!i9!. its resolutions 32IL (XXItr) of 5 l{ovem}er tt?h
and, 32/I9O of Ip Decernber L977.

'rTakin8 note of the report of the Secretary-General entitled liReviev of
progress in the inplenentation of special measures in favour of the least
developed. anong the developing corrntrieslr, 3-/

"1. IryI!_es_ the developed countries j as welL as tbe international
financial institutions to increase the flow of financial and technical-
assist€nce to the least d.evelopecl anpng the developing countries;

UrAes_ the United I'lations Development Progranme " the Lrorld. Bank andother financiaL institutions to provide additional resources in orrler to rneet
the particular needs of the Least developed anong the cleveloping countries;

"3. A€fifgS_ the iiecision of the Conference on lnternational Econonic
Co-operation vith respect to the al-location of $f littion for the developin4
as r.rell as the Least d.eveloped countries;

"l+, l'Ielcomes United llations Conference on Tratle and DeveloDnent
resoluL ion-f6ilEllX) on debt and developrnent problens oi develooing countries
adopted at the nintb SpeciaL Session of the Tra.le and Development Soard at the
ministerial leve1, and urges proropt inplenentation of the measures envisagerl
therein;

'5. 'Je]gg&es {g4llq United Nations Conference on Trade and Developmenu
resolut i on-i7I-(IFTTiJT-n specia.l rneasures in favour of the least devel-oped
smong the cleveloping countries, adopted by the Trad.e 3'nd Devel-opment Scard
at its eighteenth session;

2/ E/r978/B6 (Parts I and I1).



^/ 
33/r25

Page L

"'6. Recormends that the devetoped countries, as wcll as the appropriate
internatioiiT-6ilani zations ancl financial institutions vithin the United
liations systen, implement the specific and special neasures in favour of the
feast d.eveloped among the deveLoping countries, a-s reconmended by the
General Assembly and other related organizations of the United Ilations;

"7. llefcomes the call in paragraph 6 of resolution \ (II) of the Second.
Conmittee of the United. Nations Conference on Trade and Development
Intergovernmental Group on the Least Developecl Countries, whi cir requests the
Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and tevelopment
to prepare an outline' to be given ful1 considcration at the TtiCth Session
of the Ccnference, for launching a substantiaf new progranme of action for
the 1980s on behalf of the least developed countries.lr

Tte sponsors of the draft resolution l,'ere subsequently Joined by Rvanda.
'1 , At the 59th meeting, on 8 Decenrber, the representative of Nepal, an behalf
of the sponsors, ora.l1y revised draft resolution A/C.2/33/L.60 by replacing
operative paragraphs 3 and )+ by the folLowing:

"3, Affirms the decision of the Conference on International Economic
Co-operation rdth respect to the allocation of $t tittion for the least
developed. countries and other developing countries most in need-rI

"\. Welcomeq United I'Iations Conference on Trad.e and Developnent
resolut ion-16 fl-S--IX ) on debt and development problems of developing
countries, adopted at the ninth Special Session of the Trade and Developnent
Board at the rninisterial 1eve1! and urges implementation, as soon as possible,
of the neasures envisaged therein and also .welcomes the inplementation
measures already adopted",

lle announced that Viet I'lam had r,rithdravn from
were subsequently Joined by Cape Verde and the

the list of sponsors. The sponsors
United States of America.

8. At the 50th rneeting, on 12 December" the representative of l\Tepal, on behalf
of the sponsors, joined by UBanda, further orally revised draft resolution
A/C"2/33/L.60 by replacing opeiitive paragraph 3 by the iolloving:

"3. Affirms the d.ecision of the Conference on International Economic
Co-operation with respect to the allocation of ,tt litlion in the context of
the special action programme rr .

9. At the same meeting, the Committee aalopted draft resolution A/C.?/33/L.6O,
as ora1.ly revised. (see para. 53 bel-cw, draft resolution I).

10. After the revised draft resolution had been edopted, statements were made by
the repaesentatives of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the lederal
Republic of Cernrany (on behalf of the States menbers of Lhe lluropean Economic
Cornrnunity ) and Japan ,



^/33/526English
Pooc 5

B. Draft resolution A/c .2/33/L.69

Ll, At th€ 57th meeting, on 6 December, the representative of Ma1i, on behalf of
Afghanistan, Bhuts.n, !gf!"-g" Bots'wana" Bunurd.i, the Central- African Enpire, Chad'
the lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, M"E, l]glel, ttr. Niger, Rwancla, Swaziland,
Uga.nda and the Upper Vo1ta, i.ntroduced and oral1y revised a draft resolution
(A/c""/33/L.69) entitled "specific action related to the particular needs of the
land-locked d.eveloping eountriestr, which read. as follorts:

''The General Assembly,

"Utn*,* ,a- resolutions 29?1 (nfvIl) of l-l+ Decenbe r .t9'12,3169 ()cryrrI)
of 1l Decenber 19?3, 3201 (S-W) and 32Q2 (S-vI) of 1l4ay 19?)r, 33]1 ()i{rx)
of 1)+ Decenber 19?lr, 3362 (S-VII) of 15 Septenber 1-975, 31/15T of
21 December l-9?5, and 32/I9I of 19 December 197?,

109 (XIV) of
and 98 (1v)
Developrnent ,

"Taking into consideration Tlade and Development Board
re sepfErntei-rqru; ! a.nd resolutions 6 3 ( lrr )

of 3May L976 ot the Unit ed Nations Conference
5/

I'Bearina j.n mind the other resolutions and decisions adopted by the
Uniteit Nations and its related agencies envisaging special action in favour
of Che land-l-ocked dcveloping countries"

IlTakine into consi deration
2127 (IKIII) of tr 4-ugust 1977,

resolution
of 19 t-Lay 1972
on Trad.e and

and Social Council resolutions
2 August 1978,

aLso Eccrnomic
a:rrd fgTB /57 of

''Bearinp in rnind i.hc -rrnrri<innc ^r ii-.q r,=cnlutions 3l/157 and 32/I9I and
cther relevant resol-utions of the United Nations r^rith respeet to the exercise
of the inalienable rights of the land-locked d.eveloping countries to free
access to and frcm the sea and their riAht to freedom of transit"

"1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of land-locked developing countries
to free access to and from the sea and their right to freedom of transitl

"2. Invites the members of the international cornnunity as well as the
international organizations and financial institutions within the United
Nations systen to i.leplement the provisions of the decisions reconmentled in
favour of such countries i

4/ Offic Records of the
Supplement lo. -15_ (A/96I5/Hev.L) e annex J.

!/ See Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development,
fhird Session, vol. 1, BSpeS!-glg-AnlSJgE- (unitea Nations publication' Sales
No. E"73,II"o.4), annez, I.A.



I\/33/526
Xngli sir
.raEe rJ

"3. Urr',es all nernbers of the world conmunity as r^re11 as the inteanational
organizations conc€rned. to provide land-Iocked developing countries lrith
appropriate financial aid anrl assistance in the forn of grants or concessional
loans for the construction, improvement and maintenance of their transport and
transit infrastructures ancl facilities.,

''l|. Ilv-Ites the United i{ations Developrnent Prograrnme, the United lfations
Conference*61-Tr"Jde and. Developnent, and the financial institutions vithin the
United llations systen to take appropriate, effective measures in order to
provide additional reaources l.rithin their conpetence to neet the additional
costs and. technicaL sssistance needs of the lanal..lockecl deveJ-oping countries. '

I2. In introd.ucing the draft resolution, the representative of 1,{".1i, o.r behalf of
the sponsors, norr Joined by Lesotho, orally revised. operative paragraph L to read
as fol-fows:

")+, !nv-i-tes- the United ilations Development Prograrnme and the financial
institutioii-iT-the Uniteat Nations systen t; take appropriate and effective
measures in order to provide additional resources vithin their competence to
meet the ailditional costs and technical assistance needs of the land-locked
d.eveloping countries, rr

13. At the 58th rneeting, on ? December, the representative of : ]!, on behalf of
the sponsors. further reviseil draft resolution A/C"2/33/L"69 by deleting the
word "inalienablerr in the fi fth preambular paragraph and operative paragraph 1.

1l+. At the same neeting, the fifth preambular paragraph of the dlaft resolution on
which a sepanate vote had been requested by the representative of Pakistan, was
adolted by a roll-cal]. vote of l+9 to l" Iri th 50 abstentions. fhe voting ruas as
follo1,rs:

fn favour: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, 3razil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republ-ic, Central African Enpire, Chad, Chi1e, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Ethiopia, German Deqocratic
Republic, Guinea-Bissau, Ilungary, Iraq, Jordan, Lao Peonle's
Denocratic RepulJ-ic 

" lesotho, 
Ilalavi, l,la1i, I'{exico, l'{ongolia,

llepa1" ltrelr Zea1and., Panama, Peru, Poland" Qatar, Rnanda, Saudi
.Arabia, Singapore, Syrian Arab Repub1ic, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of $oviet Socialist Repul,r1ics, United
States of America, UruBuay, Venezuela " Viet l{an, Yugoslavia,zalre "

AgglBstr Pahistan "
AbstaininB; ALgeria" Angola, Bahanas. Bahrain, Barbados, Belgiun, Benin, Burma,

Canada, Cape Verde, China, Democratic Yernen, Denmark, Dorninican
Ilepublie, Ecuador, Eeypt, El Sal-vador, Iiji, Finland, Franceo
Cerrnany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, lce1and, lndia,



^133/5P5nnql. i stL
?age 7

Indonesia" Iran, Irelancl, Israel, Ttaly, fvory Ccast, Japan 
"Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahirlya, I4edagascar., llala-y's i.1" tiiauri trarria r

Morocco, Mozanbique, Netherlands , i\trorway, Onan, pap..ra l\iev {luinea,
Philippines, Portugal, Rornania, Senegal, Spair,, Sudan, Surina.me,
Sweden, Thailand, Trinidad and Tubago, T..nis j.r. . ut.kcy, Un_re:r
Arab Elirates, United l(ingdon of creat Britain :_nct llorthcrn
Ireland, United Repubfic of Cameroon, llnibed RelrrbJic of Ta_rzaniei,
Yemen.

15. Operative paragraph I of the draft
been requested by the representative of
adopted. by a rolJ--ca11 vote of LB tc a-
fo1lows :

TA r^ l rr+ i ^r ^h rrh i ^l-, D c,' -fr"aTc vor e
the United Republic of Cameroon, was
with 60 abs.benbions, The ,roiing nas

liad

Afghanistan 
" Argentina, Australia, Bangladesh, 

jhutan, Bolivia"
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, 3ye Lorussi rn Sovj ct loc' alist lieoubl ic,
Centlal African Enpire, Chad, Chi1e, Colonbia, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Ethiopia, Gernan Derlocratic RepLr'bJ-ic Tiung.r.ry,
Iraq, Jordan, Lao People's Denocratic Republic, L,-sotho, llalavi,
Ma1i, Mexico, Mongolia, llepal, Nev Zealand) Panalr.r.' Peru, Polanil,
Portugal-, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Singapor=, ,3pain, Syrian Arab
Republic, Ugand.a, Ukrainian Soviet SocialisL Fepub.lic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Fepublics, United Statcs of Ari,,-rica, Urug,ray,
Venezuela, Viet Nan, Yugoslavia " Zaj-Te. ZamlJia.

India, Pakis tan.

Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahra-in, Barbado;, Relgi'ln, Xenin,
Burrna, Canada, Cape Verde, China, Cyprus, )elocrabic Yernr:n,
Denrnark, Doninican Re?ublic, Ecuador, Ig-yDt r El Salva-dor, Eiji.,
tr'inIand, France, Gernany, Iederal Repub.lic of, Ghana. Grcece,
Guinea-Bissau, Iceland, Tnrlcnesia, Iran, freland, Tsrael, Italy,
Ivory Coast, Japan, Liberia, libyan AraL, Jar.ihirLyr, -aoagascar,
I,talaysia, Mauritania, l.,lorocco, t4ozambjque, lctherrancjs, lor1ray,
Ornan, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Q,atar, Ronania- o Senegal,
Sudan, Surinarne, Sveden" Thailand, Trinidad and Tobagc. Tunisia,
Turkey, United. Arab Ernirates, United Kingdom ol Great Britain
and Noathern freland, United Republic of Canrerotrn, ilnited
Republic of Tanzania, Yemen.

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola" Argentina, Austr'€lia, Bahar-nas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgiurn, Fenin, Bhutarr. Boliv:ia,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian SovieL Sociatist
Republic, Cs.nada, Cape Verde, Central Africa.n Empire, Citad, Chife,

16. At the same meeting the Comrnittee voted on draft resolut iolt A/C.2/33/1"59 as
a whole. The draft resolution, as orally revlsedl was adopted by a rofl.-ca1l vote
of 101+ to none, w-ith l+ abstentions (see para. 63 below, draft resoluLj.on lI). The
voting was as follows;

In favour:

Abstaining:

fn favour:



Al33/526
Engli sh
Yage o

China, Colonbia, Qlprus u Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen '
Dennarli, Doninican Bepublic, Ecuador, xgypt " 

E1 Salvador,
nthiopia' tr'iji, Finland, france, German Democratic Republic,
Gerrnany, Fealeral Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guinea-Bissau,
Hwlgary, Iceland ' Indonesia' 

lran, Traq, Ireland' Israel, Italyr
Ivory Coast' Japan, Jordan, tao People's Dernocratic Republic '
Liberia, !,lalawi " MaLaysia, 

MaIi, Irtau-ritania, Mexico, Mongolia"
ldcrocco, I\trczartrbique, llepal ' Netherlards, 

New Zeal-and' Norway '
Oman, Panana, Papua l{ev Guinea, Peru' Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Ronania ' Rwanda " 

Saudi Arabia' Senegal '
Singapore, Spain, Suttan, Surinarne, Sved'en, Syrian Arab Republic '
fhailand., Togo, Triniatad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ugand'a '
Ukrainian Soviet Social-ist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Bepublics'UnitetlArabtuirates,UnitedKingdomofGreatBritain
and Northe"n lreland" United Bepublic of Cameroon" United Republic
of Tanzania n United States of America, Uruguay, Vene zuela 'Viet Nam, Yemen ' Yugoslavia ' 

Zaire, Zambia.

AAainst; None.

Abstaining: Burna " 
India, I4adagascar, Pakistan.

l-7. At the 59th meeting, on B Decenber, statements on tlraft resolution
A/c."/33/L.69 were made by the representatives of Bangladesh, Ecuador, Chi1e"
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics ' 

Janaica, Brazil, China ' Chad" 
Uxuguay '

l,lotocco, Ghana, the Fed.eral Republic of Germany, Viet Nan, Colonbia, Tunisia'
Inilonesi.a, Buruntli, Democratic Yemen, Argentina, Thailand' l4ozambique, India' the
Ivory Coast, Peru, E5rpt, Yemen, Japan, lligeria, I'{alaysia, Turkey, the Unitecl
Republic of Cameroon, Sr.aziland and the Philippines.



Al33/526
Engl-ish
Page 9

C. Draft resolution A/C.2/33/1.?9 and Corr.1 and Rev.1

18, At the 
'?th 

neeting, on 6 December, the representative of Jorilan, on behalf
of Ban€*adesh " Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic Yemen, Xcuad.or, Kenya, Iraqn Jordan,Mali, Morocco, Orcan, the Syrlglr Arab Fepublic antl Yemen, introd.uced a draft
resolution (A-/C.2/33/L.79 and Corr.L) entitled "leverse transfer of technologJr".
The sponsors of the draft resolution were subsequentLy joined by Uruguay. The
draft resolution read as follows:

Itnecall,ing GeneraL Assenbly resolution 32/:-92 of ]9 Decenber 1977
entitled rReverse transfer of technologyr,

"I@g the agreed conclusion and reconmendations adopteti by Croup of
Gove"rn0ental Experts on Reverse Transfer of Technology of the Unitetl llations
Conference on Trade and Devel-opnent, which met at Geneva ftoa 27 February
to T March L97B 

"

"faphasizing that the establishnent of a new internetional econonic
order should ensure that the rnigration of skilled nfirpolrer fYonx cleveloping
countries constitutes an excharrge in which the interests of countries
exporting skilled ma.npower are adequately protected,

"fttrphasizi4A fulther the iT.i-portant contribution that co-operation ln the
exchange of skifled nanpower among the developing countries can nnke to their
col-lective self-rel-iance "

"Regretting that no concrete steps have yet been taken to exalline
national anal international neasures, including the possibility and
feasibility of the p?oposals made by His Royal llighness Crovn Prince
Ilassan bin Tal-al of Jordan concerning the es t abli sh:nent of an international
labour compensatory facility,

"f. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General entitled 'The
brain drain problern: out flow of trained. personne]- fron developin€t to
developed countri es I :, 6/

"2. Notes that the above report sought to bring together in a surunary
forn tbe key element s of a m:mber of stuilies on the subject of the outfLort
of trained. personnel fron developing to deveLoped countries I

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to make avai].able to the Gene:|.al
AssenbLy af-lli-Tlirty-fourth session the in-depth stucly of the "brain
drain problen requested in operative paragraph 5 of General- Assenbly
tesol"ution 32 h9?, covering international, regional, and. interregional
aspects of the problem;

u\, I,lelcomes the inclusion in the provisional- agenda of the fi fth
session of the Unitecl llations Conference on Trad.e and Developnent of atr item
entitled t Development aspects of the reverse transfer of technoloryr;

9l tlwa/gz.



i.i : )i :?i'.
ilir.'ii;lr
P,,rqr I r i

' ;. ii{rc$ a11 rlrtr'L)-- r' Sbates to give ert the fifth session of the United
lle{,i,.-,rir L,rr.L1...l'er1cc t.rrr Jrade and level-o!,nent urgent consideration to the
:ilal-,o.f rLLi oi, rJf riltrioral, r'eqional and inteltrational measures on the
1"f ei'ei opneir tr aspects oI the reverse transfer of technology;

'6, ,r9r.luel!e LllL. :j ccret afy-General of the United lilations Conference
or 'llacic iri:c.l lev.k cnent to report to the General Assembly at its
th ilt.-.r 't ou1"th :irssion on the results achieved by the Conference at its fifth
sessioi: or ,:l,e itenL tr,titled rTler.elofment aspects of the reverse transfer
ol teclruo.'!rit-" altcl- in tarticulalt on the work referred to in paragraph 5
iLilOl-.- .

19, Al. ttLe 5ttlL nteting, on B Decenber, the representative of Jordan, on behal-f
oi thi: s iionsor-:j ) r.ro.ri jcineo by Colonbia and. Ithiopia, introduced a revised. t ext
(,r\/c.2lJ'ilL,T9lFer..1), t}'e fifth preambular paragraph of which he revised. to
reacl :

''L'lotirrg thai no concrcte steps have yet been taken to exanine national
arliL lnt erna l.ior.ral measures, including the possibility and feasibility of the
proposa-ls nade by llis Fo1.al- Highness Crown Prince Hassan bin Tala1 of Jordan
corrcerni::rg the establishnent of an international labour compensatory
r'aci11t.,/,".

e0. At ttre 60irh and 61st rleetrni's, on l-2 end 13 DEeent,er, the representative of
Jor+al, on bellal I cf tire Elonsors, nornr joined by Janaica" nade the following
relras10n5:

(aJ The i,hird preambular vas retlaced by the following:

"Inphasizine that the est,ablishment of the llew International Econornic
orde| shoul.l erisure that the rnigration of skilled manpower fron developing
countries constitutes an exchange in which the interests of all countries
ne6ativefl,r r.f f ecrtrrl by reverse transfer of technology are adequately
lrotected- , " ;

(b) 1'he filLh preambular Da.ragraph vas replaced by:

"llotini: the need to further exarqine national and international measures '.rc1-rding tl--e oossibility ar:d feasibilily of the proDosals rxade by His Royal
l{ighness Cr:olrn Prince llassan bin Ta1a1 of Jordan concerning the establishment
of a.rr internatiorlal fabour compensatory facil-ity,";

l,-) on, r,i,-iu,a r,.radr,.h < r.,,e fAhra^pa hv:

lleqrrests the Secret ary-General to nake available to the General
ssr-nbly ut ius Ll ir1.y-TourLh sessjon the in-depth study of the 'brain drain'

oroller requested in nlerative paragraph 5 of General Assenbly resolution
j?/L92, covering international-, regional, interregional and national aspects
of -,,he prc,l1 ern;It :r



^/33/526l:,n91i sh
Page 11

(d) operative paragranh ) was repJ-aced by:

"5. Urees all- s'lember States to give at the fifth session of the United
,$ations ConfeGnce on Trade and Developnent urgent consialeration to the
elaboration of measures on the developnent aspects of the ?everse tlansfer
^f +-^h-^t ^-,.tr

?1, At the 51st rneeting, on 13 Decernber, the connittee proceeded to talie sction
on draft resolution A/c.z/ 33/L'79/Rev.1, as ora]ly revised, At the request of
the representatiVe of the Federal Republ-ic of Gerrnany, a Separate vote was taken
on operative paragraph 5, which vas ad.opted. by ]05 votes to noneo with
18 abstentions,

22. Draft resolut ion A/C,?/33/r,,79/Rev.1 as a whole a3 orally revised, was aclopted
by 123 votes to none (see para. 63 below, draft resolution rlr).

23, FollowinEi the adoption of the draft resoLution, the representatlve of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics nade a sta,tenent.

D, Drgft resolution A/c.2/33/L.85 and nevJ

2l+. At the 59th meeting" B Decernber, the representative of Barbados, on behalf
of the Baharnas ) Ba{bados, Bs)tswana, irrcqrit, Ggsnatlg, Gu{an? 1 {ry"*g", Rilid:d
ana robEE6-?iE"L.lsgg"l", lilioli&a o""rt r.E6Lution A/e.2/33/L.85' entltl-edirA;ist;;e to [nTi6-"-Ist. Kitt s -llevis -Angui11a o st' lucia and St. Vincent".
25. At the 60th rneeting, on 12 December, the representative of $!g!1' on
behalf of the sponsors, Joined by Banelarlesh antl later by NiBeria, lntroduced a
revised fexr (Ale,2/3f/l'B:/n.v'f) "f ttte 

araft resolution, incorporating the
follor"ring changes:

(a) The fourth preanbular laragraph vas revised by adding the uord
',several" betr,ieen the words "con-fereice' of" and "Governments " and the phrase "antl
that, as a consequence, a Calibbean Group fOr Co-operatiOn in EConomlc Devel-opnent
'.ras established" r,ras added at the end of the paxag?aph;

(l) A neff fifth prearlular paragralh vas added r reading as follows i

"lecallinE also its resoLution 151h (XV) of 1l+ Dece:nber 1960, entitl-ed
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonlal Countries and
Peoples and. all" other resolutions and decisions of the Unitet! ITatious
relating to these Territories and peoplesr"'

26. The revised draf't resofution was adopted (see para. 63 belowt dfaft
resolution IV),

27, I'oLlowing the ad.option of the draft Teso1ution, statements Itere rnailc by tbe
representatives of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics antl the Uniteit
Kinqdorn of Great Britain and llorthern freland.



A/33/256
En,rl i ch

tjt. Draft resolution A/c ,2/33/L. 87

28, At the )9th meeting, on B December, the repres L ntar: i. ve of funisia, on behalf
of the States I'lembers of the United l'lations which are aembers of the Group of ??',
introduced a d.raft resol,ution A/C,2/33/L.87, entitLed. "United lTations conference
on Restrictive Business Practices".

29. At the 52nd
of the sponsors,

\ a./ -Ln tne
'were replaced by

rneeting, on 14 December, the representative of $q!$er on behalf
orally revised the dralt resolution as fol-Ior.'s:

first rrreanbular naragraph, the vords "in lrhich, in paragrar:h j7,''
the words |tparticularly paragraph 37, in vhich";

as ve1l as"
in new

(b) rn operative paragralh 1, the vords "in1qa 4!ia" betneen the uords
"the Grouptt and rrto cornplete" were deleted and the words "and to msJre further
progress on a model 1av, or 1aws, on restrictive business practices" were added
at the end of the paragraDh.

30, At the same rneeting, following a proposal by the representative of the United
States of Amexica, the sponsors accepted an amendment to the draft resolution,
whereby a nev operative paragraph 5 would. be added as follo\,rs:

"5. Bequests the secretary-General of the United llations Conference
on Trad.e and Development to endeavour to find \"/ays to facititate the
effective participation of replesentatives of the least developed countries
in the Conference by seeking extrabudgetary funds to finance traveL expenses
of tffo delegates from each least developed country;"

and the words "tvo representatives of each least d-eveloped country,
before tlre word.s "repres entat ives of the organizations referred to"
onerative paragraph 6 ( forroer operative 5) would be deleted.

31, .At the same rleeting, draft resolut i,on A/C.2/33/L.Bl, as oralfy revised and
amended, vas adopted (see para. 63 be1ow, draft Tesolution V).

32. lollo!'ing the adoption of the draft resolution, statcments r,rere made by the
representatives of the l-hited States of America, thc Federal Republic of Gernany
ani the liniteC l{ingdom cf Greilt lritain and l:lortlt€rn Treland.

!'. !re!L-'sspLnEg!-41!-,-gl331!:q9.
33. At the 59th meeting, on B Decernber, the representatirre of Tunisia, on behalf
of the States l4embers of the United .liations which are members of the Group of ?7,
introduced Craft resohtt io:r' L/C.2/33/L.88, entitlrd "United i\'la--ions Crjnference
oil Trade and Development: fifth session", vhich read as follovs:

"The General Assembl-y,

its resolution 1995 (XTX) of -10 Decenrber 1961+, as amended,
3202 (S-vI) of t May 19?L, 32Br (IIIX) of 12 Dccember 19?1 ,



A / 33/ 526
Engli sh
pp rre 13

3362 (S-VTI) of 16 Septernber rg7r, 3]./t59 of 21 December 1976 and 32/]7!+ of
19 Decenber 1977 and 32 /r9T of' 20 llecernber 19TT,

rrnecaf ine also its resolution 3?/tB9 of .I9 December 1977, whereby it
accepted with appreciation the invitation of the covernr4ent of the Philippines
to hold the fifth session of the United llations Conference on Trade and
Development at }.{anil-a and decided that the fifth sessi.rn of the Conference
should be held from 7 l,lay to 1 June 1979, with a pre-Conference meeting of
senior officials at l.,tanila on 3 and )+ llay t979,

"Considering that a number of inlrortant issues relating to the
establ-ishnent of the I\Te$ fnternational- Econornic Order are under negotiation
or consideration in the United llations Conference on Trade and Development,
notab.ly the Tntegrated ?rograrnme for Cornrnodities, including the establishnent
of the common fund, eeonomic co-ope"ation among developing countries, the
debt probl-em of developing eountries, the transfer of real resources to
developing countries, access to narkets " int errelationships 

between trade,
developnent, money and finance, the international code of conduct
on the transfer of technology and. equitable principles and ruLes f.r
restrictive business practices, and. a convention on international nu1tirdodal
transport ,

"Reaffirmine the major rol-e of the United Irlations Conference on Trade
and Developnent as an organ of the Genera] Assenbl-y for deliberation,
negotiation, review and imDlementation in the field of internationaf trade,
development and rel.ated areas of international economic co-operation,

"1, Takes note 'with appreciation of the relorts of the Trad.e and
Developnent Board on the second and third parts of its ninth special session
and on the second part of its seventeenth session 7/ and, on its eighteenth
session;8/

ilelcomes the adoption by the Trade and Develop:nent Board at its
eighteenth session of the provisional agenda for the fifth session of the
Conference, as ve11 as of the arrangements for the organization of the
ses sion i

"3. Consiclers that the fifth session of the Conference woulal provide
"n inportail-EdTTmely occasion to :

"(a) Review progress and developments relating to the nal or ongoing
negotiatj.ons and aglee on appropriate fo1lov-up aetion;

"(t) Examine current economic developments " 
particularly those having

an ad.verse effect on the developing countries, and take the necessary actions
and- ursent corrective measures 1

7/ Q{flc:ial Recglqq of the General Assenbly, Thirty-third Session,
Snppt 

"ru
o/ lplo., voi. 1I.



^/33/526English
ferle .|.4

i'(c) Consid.er. the longer-tern issues in the field of international trad.e
a d related areas of international econonic co-operation taliing into account
the neecl fiJr the restructurin8 of the world econo&y and. for cvol-ution of
new rules of economic relations and bearing in rnintl. !$e. r a.!!9, the
contribution of the Ubited Iiiations Conference on Trade and DeveLopment to tlte
special session of the General A-s ser4bfy in 1980 and. the preparation of the
InternationaL Develorrment Strategy for the Third United llaticns DeveLopment
Decad e i

"l+. Urees all lfernber States to talie the necessarv steps rrith a view to
ensuring ss"tisfa.ctory resul-ts from the fl fth session of the Conference
through adequat e Dreparations at tire regional and interregionaL l-evels and
thlough tbe ful,l utilization of the permanent machinery of the Conference for
the lurlose of facilitating negotiations on the agenda items of the fi fth
s ess ion ,

"r. Fullher urres al-1 l{enber States to worh towards the adoption of
action-oriented decisions at the fifth session of the Conference tbat vould
nake a nejor contribution to the establishnent of tbe }!ew Tnternational-
lccnonic Orrler. "

3l+. At the 62nd meeting, on 1l+ Decenber, the Vice-Chairnan of the Corunittee,
t\{r. IiinsEan (Canaaa), introduced draft resolution A/c,2/33/L.100, eFtitled
"United Nations Conference on Trade and Develolnnent: fl'. fth session", drafted
c,n the basis of infonnal consultations held on drs.ft resolution A/C."/33/L.88,
which rlras subs€quebtLy vithdrarm.

35. At the Earae rneeting, tlre coFrittee adopt ed. draft resolut ion A/C.2/33/L.LOO
(see para. 63 belory" dreft resolution Vf).

35. After the adoptlon of the draft re.solution, statements L'ere maale by Jalan
and the Union of Soviet Sociallst Republics.

3?. .rrt the 59th ueeting, on B Decenber, the representative of !!gigb' ott
behelf of the States Menbers of the Unltetl Sations which are loer'bers of the Gr.up
of 77r introduced clraft resolution A/C."/33/;,.89 n entitlerl. "llffects of the ltorfd
inflationarl' phenomenon on the development process",

38. At the 62nd meeting" on 1l+ Decenber, the corudttee adopted draft resol-ution
A/c,2/33/L.89 by 1o5 votes to none, with 19 abstentions (see para. 63 below,
draft resoLution VII ).

39. Stater'lents in erplanation of vote after the vote were made try the
representetives of the lederaL Republic of Gerrnany (on behalf of the States
menbers of the luropean llconomic Corununity ) the Gertnan Democratic Bepublic also
on bebatf of Bulgaria" the Syelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic " Czechoslovs.l-ia,Ilungary, Mongolia, PoLand, the Llkrainian $oviet Socialist Republic and. tlre
Union of Soviet Socialist Feputllica, Japan and the United States of A]llerica.



Al J5/ )zo

H. Drafb tesolution A/C.2/33/L.92

40. At the 6oth neeting, on 12 Decenber, the ?epxesentative of Tunisia, on behaff
of the States Members of the United lllations whicb are meldbers of the Group of 77,
introduced. draft resolution A/c.2/33/L.92, entitled'runited llations Conference
to Negotiate an International Arangement to Replace the International Wheat
Agreement of 1971, as Extended".
l+1. The Secretary of the Comittee nlade a statement on the administrative and
financial implications of the draf.t resolution.

\2, At the 61st meeting, on 13 December, the representative of Tunisia, on behalf
of the sponsors, ora11y corrected the fifth preambulal paragraph, replacing the
rnrord.s "wheat agreement" by the vord.s "arrangement to replace the international,
wheet agreement of 1971, as extend.ed.rr.

\3, At the same rneeting, the Connittee adopted draft resolution A/C,2/33/L.9?
(see para. 63 below, draft resolution VIII).

\4. FoJ-)-owing the adoption of the draft resolution the representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics nade a statenent.

r. Draft resolution A/C ,2/33/L.93

45. At the 6oth neeting, on 12 Decenber, the representative of Tunisia, on behalf
of the States Merubers of the United llations shich are members of the Group of ?71
introd.uced. d"aft resolut ion A/c.2/33/L.93, entitled "United Nations conference on
an fnternational Cod.e of Conrluct on the Transfer of Technol-ogytr.
l+6, At the 61st meeting, on f3 Decenber, the Vice-Chairrnano after infornal
consultations had been held, presented an oralIy revised. text of operative
paragraptl I of the draft resolution, in which the words "Qggg all countries, in
particular the cleveloped countries, to intensify tbeir" were replaced by
' g!:g@I__Src!. intensified.".

\7. At the salde neeting, the conmittee adopted d.raft ?esolution A/c,2/33/L,93,
as ora11y revised (see para, 63 below, draft resolution IX).

l+8. The representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics made a
stateuent followina the adolt ion of the reDort.

r+9. At the 60th neeting, on 12 Deceraber, the relresentative of Tunisia' on
behalfof the States l{embers of the United l:lations which are rdenbers of the
Group of ??, introduced draft resol-ution A/c.2/33/L.9\' entitfed. "United lTations
Negotiating Conference on a CoDmon Fund under the IntegTateal Prograrme for
Conmodities'r; in introd.ucing the d.raft resolution, he orally revised operative
paragraptr 1 by replacing the word.s "fron 26 February to 2 l4arch " by the words
rrfrom 12 to 16 March 1979r'.

J.



Al 33/ 526
En6J.ish
rage Lo

50. At the sane r:aeeting, the Secretary of the Cornurittec made a statement on the
atlninistrative and. financia]. inrplications of the drafb resolution.

51. At the 61st neeting' on 13 December ' the 
representative of Tunisia' on

behalf of the sponsors, nade a further oral revision to paragraph 1, repJ'acin69
the words "trom 1z to i6 I'larctr 1979" by the words "before the fifth session of the
United ltrations Conference on Trade and. Developnent " '

52. At the same neeting draft resolut ion A/c.2/33/L.91+' as oral-1y revised, was
adopted (see para. 53 belot.r, draft resolution X).

53. The representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics nade a
statement follouing the adoption of the draft resolution.

5\. At the 6oth neeting, on 12 Decenber, the representative of !q!g!g' on
behalf of the States Menbers of the Unitecl llations which are members of the Group
of ??, introduced. d.raft resolution A/c,"/33/L.96 entitLed "Debt probl-ens of the
d.eveloping countries".

5r. At the 62nil meeting, on 1)+ Decenber, the draft resol-ution was aalopted by
100 votes to none, witn i.z abstentions ("ee p"ra. 63 be1ov, draft resolution Xr)'

56. Statements wele nade afuer the vote by the representatives of Uruguay '
Sr"red en, the Federal Republic of Gerrnany (on behalf of the States members of the
Iuropean ncononic Connunity), Canada, the Getsan Dernocratic Republic (also on
betralf ot Bulgaria, the ByeLorussian Soviet Soclal-ist Republic, Czechos lova.kia '
Hungary, l{ongoLia, ?ol€rd' the Ukrainian Soviet SociaList Republic and the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics), Japan, the Unit ed. States of America, Norway
and Mexico,

57. At the 61st neetinS, on 13 lecember, tbe representative of the .Uniled.Kinedon
of Great Britain and. llorthern lrel.and introduced draft resoLution A/c.2/33/L,95t

a Convention on InternationaL Multinodal
Trartsport", which read:

'rThe General- Assenbly,

"Recalline that the Trade and. Development Boa.rd at its eigtlteenth
s es s i oiliilEllfiz ed tlre Intergovernnental Preparatony Group on MultinotiaL
Transport ' should it complete its 

work at its fifth session, to subldit to
the General Assennbly 8,t lts thirty-third session, through +'he Economic and
Social Council, its :econrnendat ions concerninfl tlie ccnvening of a conference
of plenipot ent iat i es on a conver.,tion on inte::;rational multinoda] translort, 9/

L. Draft resoLut ion A/c.2133fL.95



A/33/5?6
Enslish
Paae 17

rrNotine that the fnt ergovernmental ?reparatory Group di.d not complete
its work and consequently has not submitted any reconmendations concernin6g
a conference,

trl\Toting f\rther that the fntergovernmental Preparatory Group t^'ilI now
hold a sixth session fron 21 February to 9 March 1979 in Geneva'

"1, Requests the Intergovernr0ental Preparatory Group to make
recornmenilations at its siath session concerning the appropriate dates for
convening a conference of plenipotent iaries on a convention on international
nult inodal transport I

"2. Requeslllq!{Lbqr the Trade and Develolment Board at its tenth
special session in March ]-979 to ccnsider this question on the basis of the
reconmendation from the fnt ergovernment al- Preparatory Group. tt

58. At the 63rd. neeting, on 18 December, the reFesentative of the United
Kingdon of Great Britain and l:lorthern Ireland introtluced. a revised text
(A/c.2/ 33/L.95lRev.1) of tbe draft resotution.

59, The Secretary of the Con:rittee xead out a statement of the adroinistrative
and financial inrplications of the draft resolution.

6o. At the same meeting, the Conmittee adopted d.raft resolut ion l/C.2/33/L.95/Rev.1
(see para, 53 beLow, draft resolution XfI).

61. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the
Union of Soviet Social"ist Repubfics nade a statement,

M. Dra!! 4eciqjql-

62. At the 63rd neeting, on 18 Decenber, on the prolosaL of the Ctrairman, the
Coal0ittee decicled to reconnend. that tbe General As s enbl-y should tahe note of the
report of the Secretary-General on the review of pro6!"ess in the irnplementation
of special measurea and. specific action related to the particular neeals of the
lanil-locked developing countries (E/L978/87), subrnitted pursuant to Gebers-1
Assenbly resol-ution li/]gt ot 19 Decenber 19?? (see para' 5l+ below) .



A/33/J26
English
?age 18

IIT. RECOWENDATIONS OF T}IE SECOND COI,4MTTTEE
63' The second. conmittee recommend.s to the ceneral Assembly the arLoption of the
following draft resolutions :

DRAtr'T RESOLUTION I

Special- measures in favour of the least developed
among the developing count"ies

The General- Assenbly,

Recalling the special measures in favour of the teast developed among
developing countries adopted by the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Devel.opment in its resolutions 62 (III) of 19 May I9T 2 1Ol and 98 (IV) of
3I ir{ay 1976, I}/

Taking into consideration its resolution 341lr (rXIX) of 6 Novenber 1!Jl+ and
32/l9O of 19 Decenber 197?,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General entitled. "Review of progress
in the implementation of special neasures in favour of the least developed anong the
developing countries", 12/

f. Ilvites the developed countries, as well as the international financial"
institutioi!-T6-Incre&se the florq of financial and technical assistance to the least
d.eveloped among the developing countries;

2. Urees the United Nations Development Progranme, the World Sank and other
financial institutions to provide additional resources in order to meet the
larticular need.s of the least developed among the developing countriesl

3. Affims the decision of the Conference on International nconoroic
Co-operation with respect to the allocation of $1 billion in the context of the
speciel action progre.me;

l+. Wel-comes United Nations Conference on Trade and Developrnent resolution
f 6: (S-fx)E-aEiT and development problens of developing countries, adopieai at the
ninth special session of the Trade and Development Board at the ministerial l"evel,
and. urges implenentatione as soon as possible, of the neasures envisaged therein and
also welcomes the implenentation neasures already ad.opted;

10/ See Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development n
'.eport and Annexes (United Nations publication,So'l ae TtI^ I' .7" TT n l' \'-...,, annex I.A.

]!/ Ibid., Fourth Session, vol. f, Report and Annexes (unitea Nations
publicstion, Sal,es No. E.?5.II D.10 and corrigendutr), part one, sect. A,

12/ E/r978/86 (Parts I and II).



Al33/126
English

5. lielcomes furtlrer Trade and Development Board resolution 171 (){Vfff) on
special lneasures in favour of the least developed e.tnong the develoning countries"
ad.opiied an l? Septenber 1978i

6, &". o*oelg" that the developed countries " as vel1 as the appropriateinternationaL organizations anil fins.nciaL institutions within the United Nations
system, implenent the specific &nd special" measures in favour of the ]-ea.st developed
among the d.evel-oping countries, as reconrnended by the General Assenb]y and other
related organizations of the Uniteil Nationst

7, Welcornes the ca]-l in paragraph 6 of resolution L (rt) of the second
Conmittee of the United Nations Conference on Trade snd Deve.lopment Intergovernnental
Grorrp on the Least Developed Countries" which requests the Secretary-General of the
Unitetl lrJations Conference on Trade and DeveLopment to prepare an outline, to be
€liven ful"1 consideration at the fifth session of the Conference, for launching a
sullstantial. nel'r progaa.ixme of action for the ]980s on behalf of the least developed
countries.

DRAFT NNSOLUTIO}I II

Specific_action related to the particul"ar needs of
the land-locked cleveloping countries.

The General Assenbly,

Recal]ing its resolutions 29?1 (Xxvff) of 1l+ Decenber 1972, 3169 (XXVIII) of
1? Decenber 1973" 3201 (S-Vr) and 3202 (S-vI) of 1 !.{ay 1971+, 3311- (XXrx) or
ll+ Decenber f97\, 3362 (s-vu) of 16 Septemb er 1975, 3f/L57 ot 21 Decernber 19?6"
and. 32 /f9f of lp Deceraber f977,

fl l4ay 19?6 of the

Bearing in nind tlre other resolutions ancl dccisions ador,ted by thF United
Ilatiorrs aud- its related agencies envisaginr special action in favour of the lancl-
Loched deve.L,pinfl countrics,

Takine into consid.era-tion al-so Economic and Socia]. Council resolutions
214? {Lx-rm71/57 ot 2 Aueust l-9?8,

1al
l\ro. l) t

Tlrirrl Session,
tl+/ see Proceedings of the United trIations Conference on T"ade qqlDevelopme.nL,
. Session, vo1. I, Report anal Annexes (Unitea llations publication,

Taking into considerqlion Trade and Development
L3./ ".rd 

resolutions 63 (ITI ) of t9
United ltrations Conference on Trade

Board resolution 109 (Xfv) or
May ]-912 and 9B (IV) of
and Development, !+/

SaLes No. 8.73.11.0,4), annex LA.



A/33/526
English
Page 20

Bcarinq in mind Lhe provisions of its resolutions 3I/ L57 and 32/191 and other
relevant resolutions of the United l:lations i,rith Tespect to the exercise of the
rights of the land-locked developing countries to free access to and from the sea
rnd their ri6hr ro freedo of [ransiL,

1"
and from

neaffirms the richt of fand-locked developing countries to free a.ccess to
the sea and their rifiht to freedom of transit^

2. Invites the members of the international corrununity as well as the
int ernatioGl-6ir-gani zations anrl. financial institutions r^rithin the TJnited llations
syster'l to impler4ent the provisions of the decisions recornmended in favour of such
ccuntri es I

3. tlrGes all members of the world cornrnunity as vell as the international
organizations concerned to provide l-and. locked developing countries with appropriate
financial aid and assista.nce in the form of grants or concessional loans for the
construction, improvement and maintenance of their transport and transit
infrastructures and facilities i

)+. Invites the United ltrations Development Progra:nne and the financial
institutioiJ-iFTne United l\tations system to take appropriate and effective measures
in ord-er to provide add.itional resources within their competence to meet the
ad.ditional" costs and technical assist€rce needs of the fand-loched developing
countri-os.

DRAFT RI]SOLUTIOi'I IIT

Reverse transfer of technology_

Recallin& General As serobly resolution 32/19? of 19 December f977 entitled
"Reverse transfer of technology",

T\T.+.i h!} l:hp ao?aad .onclusion and recorumendati ons adopted by the Group of
Governmental Experts on Reverse Transfer of Technology of the Llnited l:lations
Conference on Trade a.nd Devefopnent. nhich met at Geneva from ?'l FebruarY to
7 Uarch 1978 

"

Ilnphasizing that the establishment of a new international economic order should
ensure that the migration of skiued man?o\,rer from developing countries constitutes
an exchange in which the interests of aLl- countries negatively affected. by reverse
transfer of technolo4r are adecluately protected,

Enphasizing further the important contribution that co-operation in the
exchange of skilled manpo\.rer among the developing countries can tnahe to their
coll,ective self-reliance

No-b:!ng the need to further examine national and international measures,
including the possibility and feasibility of the proposals made by His noyal
Highness Crornm Prince Hassan bin Talal of Jorclan concerning the establishment of
an lnternational labour compensatory facility,



l. Takes note of the renort
drain problem: outflolr of trained
countries;1!/

A/33/526
lingli sh
Page 21

of tlie Secre La.ry-Cenera I entit-ted "TIie orain
pe"sonnel from d.eveloping to d-eveloped

?, Notes thal thc above reporl sourht to brins tocether in a s'rnnary forn
the key elements of' a number of studies on the subject of the outflov of trained
pcrronncl from developin; to devetoped countries..

3. Requests the Secretarll -Ceneral to mahe available to the General Assenbly
r:.1. its thirty-fourth session the in-depth study of the "brain drain" probl ern
|cluested in paragraph 5 of General Assembly resolution 32/]-92, covering
internat.ionall rc8ional , interregional anri nacional asrccts ol the problern

1+. llelcornes the inclusion in the provisional ag,enda of the fifth session of
the United llations Conference on Trade and Development of an item entitfed
"Development aspects of the reverse transfer of technology",t

5. Urges aI1 ltember States to give at the fifth session of the United Nations
Cionference on Trade and Development ur6ent consideration to the elaboration of
measures on the devefoF:nent aspects of the reverse transfex of technology:j

6. nequests_ the S€cretary-General of the United llations Conference on Trade
and Development to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session on
the resul-ts achieved btr the Conference at its fifth session on the iten entitled
'Developnent aspects of the reverse transfer of technology" and in particular on

't.hA lrnrli r.afprrp,,{ t^ ih ho.adv.hla 5 .h^1r6

DFAFT NESOT,UTION II/

4.""i*tr.". t. a"tie ,
St. lucia and St, Vincent

The Genernl A e eanl].- . - . ---- -- -.-- -----.i'
R,-nal rinr ir< r-crlqlien 32/186 of l9 December 1977. in rrhich it, inter alig,

:t.e"lEd-Tll-Trcency of ren,lering a1I necessary assistance to the peopfes of
Antigua, Dominica, St. I(itts-Nevis-Anguil1a, 5t. Lucia and St. Vincent in their
efforts to strengthen their national economies 

"

!u!3!f_Zfl: the spEcial problens faced by Antigua. St. Kitt s-rTevi s-Anguilla ,
aL. Lucia and St. Vincent with re3ard to territorial size, geographical location
and linited economic rescrrces, as well as the serious adverse effects of recent
r,rorld-r,ride economic and financial- problens "

that these ferritories require the continued attention and assistance
o0 the United i\ations in the achieverrent by their oeonles of their development
obj ect ives 1

!2/ N/r97e/9?.



!./ 33/ 526
English
Pag.e 22

$Iarg of the fact that a conference of severa.I Governments ancl agencies
interested in econoirlic d.evelopment in ttre Caribbean tras hel(L at lrlashington, D.C,,fron fL to l-5 Decenber 1977 

" 
vith the purpose of revielring tbe economic develolment

needs ,lf the Caribbean relqion, and that, as a consequence, a Caribbean Grout for
Co.-operation in Xcononic Development was estabfi shed_,

. RgggfllFn_gfrg- its resolution 1511+ (ry) of llr lrecember tl6O, entitled"Declaration on the Granting of rndepenaence to colonial countries and peonles,'"
and all other resolutions and decisions of the united. llations relating to these
Territories and peoples,

Itotin6_g!1,h_$lle*"je!io_S the recent attainment of inc!_ependence by the
Comnonr.realth of Dominica

.Isgg]tilS that the question of the Territorjes of .Antigua, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguil'fa., St. Lucia and- St. Llincent is eurrently under consideration in t5e refeva.nt
and competent organs of the United j,Tations.

1. &rphasizes the ur€lency of renderin.l all necessary assistance to the
peoples of Antigua, st. Kitts-l{evis-Angui11a, st. Lucia and st. vincent in their
effofts to strengthen theil nati onaL econornies and cal]s upon the Government of
the united. I(ingd.om of Great Britain and ltorthern rreland, in consul-tation with the
I'reely elected relresentatives of the peoples of Antigua, st. Kitts-Nevi s-Aneuiua,
st. Lucia ancl 3t. vincent, to take adequate steps to establish and finance an
approlriate progranme of development of those Territoriesl

2, lqolles,tg- the specialized agencies and other orqanizations rvithin the United
i'trations syiFlr,-1-lrc1udin6 in particuiar the United ll&tions Development progranne.,
international financia] institutions and a,id donorsr to intensify their assistance
\'rithin their respective spheres of competence to the peopl-es of those Territori.es;

- 3. lejug4g Lhe Secretary-Ceneral to repDrt to the ceneral Assenbly at itsthirty-fourth session on the irnplementation of the present resol-ution.

DRAfT RESOLUTIoI'I v

Uniied llations Conference on Restrictive Business pra.ctices

llre ceneral Assenblt,.

Recalling i.ts resol_ution 2526 (Xrviv) of ?l+ october f970, containinr: the
fnternational Development Strategy for the Second United liations Development Decade,
particularly paragraph 37, in r"rhich 31 December lg72 was the date set for attainin6
conctete and significant resul-ts in the control of restrictive business oractices"

_ necal}in.t furthel section I, paragraph 10, of its resolution 3325 (S-,VTI) of
10 iieptember 1975 on d-evel_opnent and international econonic co-operation,



1n
of

A/ 33/ 126
English
Page 23

rne unltect N at tons
a set of principles and
(IV) of 31 May 1975"

1, Takes 49te of TTad.e and Development Board resolution 1TB (XVfII) of
lJ Septelrber 19T8, in which it vas decided to convene a further session of the Third
Ad Hoc Group of Experts on Restrictive Business practices, in order to enable the
Group to compl-et e its work on the set of principles and ru1es, and to make further
progress on a mod.e.I 1au, or lar,/s, on restrictive business praeticesl

2. Decides to convene, in the perioil between September 1979 and April 1980,
und.er the auspices of the united. Nations conference on Trade and. Developnent o aunited Nati.ons conference of Restrictive Business practices to negotiate, on the
basis of the work of the Third Ad. Hoc Group of Experts, and to take at1 decisions
necessaxy for the adoption of a set of mrltilateral-J-y agreed equitable principles
and rules for the control of restrictive busioess practices having adverse effects
on international trade" particularly that of ateveloping countries, and on the
econoutic development of those countries, including a decision on the IegaI character
of the principles and rures;

Taking into account the significant progress nade
Conference on Trade and Developnent in the formul_at i on
rules pursuant to section III of Conference resolution

3. Authorizes the United Nations Conference on Trade and"
fiftn sessfiil-Ti-Tite appropriate actions for the Conference on
Susiness Practices, includ.ing decisions on relevant issues and"
d-etermination of the precise dates for the Conference r,rithin the
in paragraph 2, above l

Development , at its
Restrictive

ih havf i.r,l or fhA
nari nd rafovv-'l +n

4. Requests the Secretary-General to i.nvite:
(a) A].l States to participate in the Conference j
(b) Representatives of organizations that have received a stand.ing invitation

frorn the Genera.l- Assembry to participate in the sessions and the work of al1
international conferences convened und.er its auspices, in the capacity of observers eto participate in the conference in that capacity in aecordance with Assembly
resolutions 3237 (XXIX) of 22 November 19Tl+ and 3l-/]-52 of 20 Decernber l_976.

(c) Representatives of the national- liberation movements recognized in its
region by the Organization of African Unity to participate in the Conference in
the capacity of observers, in accordance with General Assembly resolution
32B0 (XXIX) of l-O December 19?\;

(d) The United Nations Council for Namibia to participate in accordance trith
paragraph 3 of General Ass enibly resolution 3Z/9 E ot )+ November 19TTl

(e) The speeialized agencies and. the fnternational Atornic Energy Agency, as
veLl- as interested- organs of the United. Nations " to be represented at theConference'

(f) Intergovernmental bodies in consultative status with the United. Nations
Conference on Trade and Development to be represented by observers at the Conferencel

/"".



A/33/5?6
Eng,lish
rape l4

(g) Directly concerned, non-governmental organizations in consultative status
vith the United Nations Conference on Trad.e and Development to be represented by
observers at the Conference l

5. nequests tbe Secretary-Ceneral of the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development to end.eavour to finci ways to facilitate the effective parti.cipation
of representatives of the least d.eveloped countries in the Confe"ence by seeking
exbrabudgetary fund.s to finence travel expenses of two dele€iates from each least
d arta l 

^nari ^^rrh+vr',

5. Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that the necessaay arrangemenls
are mad.e for the effective participation in the Conference of representatives of the
organizations referred" to in paragraph \ (b) and (c) above, includ.ing the requisite
financial provisions for their travel expenses ancl per dieml

'( " Requests the Secret ary-Genera,l to make the necessaxJr affan€lements for
holding the Conference at Geneva" to submit to the Conference all relevant
docunentation and to arra.nge for the necessaxy staff, faci]-it,ies ancl services that
it will require I

B. Decides- that the langua€es of the Conference shalf be those useal in the
General Assenxbly anil its ivlain Connrittees.



A/33/126
Engli sh
Page 2J

DFAI'T RESOLUTIOI{ UT

Fifth session of the United l\Iations Conference on Trade anal Devel-oDment

fhe General AssembLv.

RecaLlins its resolutions 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1!64, as amended,
3201 TFTI;;d 3202 (s-w) or l May t!?h" 3281 (xxrx) of ia ieceurber t97i"
3362 (S-WI) of 15 Septenbet 1975, 3]-/l-59 ot 21 December 1976, 32/L7)+ of
]-p Decenber 797'l and.32/]-97 of 20 Decenber L977,

Recalling also its resolution 3a/t99 of 1"9 Decenber I9I7 " whereby it acceptedrtith appreciation the invitation of the Government of the Philippines to hold the
fifth session of the United llations Conference on Trade and Development at Manila
and decided that the fifth session of the Conference should be helcl flom 7 May to
1 June l-979, uith a pre-Conference rteeting of senior officials at Manila on 3 and
L May 19?9"

Consideriryl that a nunber of important issues relating to the establishment of
the new international economic order are under negotiation or consideration in the
United Nations Conference on Trad.e and Developnent n notably the Integrated Progrenne
for Connod.ities n including the establishment of the cormon fund., economic
co-operation among cleveloping countries, the debt problen of devel-oping countries,
tbe transfer of real resources to cleveloping countries, access to markets,
interrelationships between traden development, money and finance, the international
coile of contiuct on the transfer of technology ard. equitable principles and rules for
restrictive business practices, a.nd a convention on international nultimodal-
transport ,

Reaffirrning the major role, as envisaged in United Nations Conference on Trade
and Developnent resoLution 90 (IV) of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Developnent, as an organ of the General Assembly for <Ieliberation, negotiation,
reviev and inplenentation in the field of international tlade and related aneas of
international econcunic co-operation,

1. Iakes note vith appreciation of the reports of the lrade and DeveJ-opment
Board on the second and thi"al parts of its ninth special session and on the second
part of its seventeenth session &/ arrd on its eighteenth session: 17,/

2. !trelcomes the aaloption by the Tr8de and Developnent Board. at its eighteenth
session of the provisional agenda fo" the fifth session of the United Nations
Conference on Traale and Development, as vel} as of the arrangements for the
organization of the session'

t6/ Official Records of the General Assembly" Thirty-third Session,
Supplement No. 15 (4/33/15), vol. I.
---. _; _* _ _-fll tol-o." vo_l. rt.



A/ 33/iz5

Page 26

3. Considers that the fifth session of the Conference would Drovide a]1
important Aa tTiEIy occasion for:

(a) Revierr of progress and devel-opments relating to the najor ongoing
negotiations and agree on appropriate further action;

(b) Examination of current econcmic developments, particularly those having
an adverse effect on the developing countries and consideration of appropriate action
including corrective measures :

(c) Evaluation of the world trs.de and economic situation and consideration of
issues" policies and appropriate r easures to facilitate structural changes in the
international economy, taking into account the interrelationships of problens in
the areas of trade) developnent, money and finance vith a view to attaining the
establishnent of a new international- econonic order and bearing in nind the further
evolution that may be need.ed in the rules and principles governing international
economic relations ancl the necessarf,r contribution of the United Nations Conference
on Trade and Development to a new international develoln'nent strategy for the third
United iVations development d.ecade ;

1+. Urges al]. Member States to take the necessary steps with a view to
ensuring satisfactory results from the fifth session of the Conference through
adequate preparations at the regional anil interregional 1evels and through the fuU
util-ization of the permanent machinery of the Conference for the purpos e of
facilitating negotiations on the agenda iterns of the fifth session',

Member States to work tovards agreernent on action-
at the fifth session of the Conference that would

Il,rl:hcr ,rrrac a'1 'l

orientec-L a"nd other decis ions
contribute effectively to the establishment of the new international economic order.

DMFT RESOLUIIOII 1rII

Effects of the world inflationary phenonenon on the
development process

'_Lne Lieneral As s€mbly,

Recalline its resolutions 26?6 (XXV) of 2l+ October f970, containing the
k t""ffiDevelopnent strateglr for the second United ltrations Development Decade1
3201 (s-vI) and,3202 (s-VI) of 1 t{ay 19?)+, containing the Declaration and the
?rogramme of Aetion for the establishment of a New International Econcmic Order"
3281 (XXIX) of f2 Decernber 197)+, eontaining the Charter of Economic Rights and
Duties cf States and 3362 (S-VI) of 16 Septemb er ]975 on development and
international econornic eo-operation.

5.

Bearing in mind that the effects of the inflationary phenomenon have
,.,niveri6$l-EiET65p1y concerned about the hi6h rates oi r.rorrd inflation
affect negatively the economies of all countries, especial-Iy those of the
deveJ-oping countries,

spread
which



A/33/j26

Eeco.Tnizinq, in pcrti cul-ar " that the wo"1d inflationary phencmenon distortsinternational trad.e and the international ilonetary system,

Recornizinfl further that no country or Eroup of countries alone can solve the
problems caused by vo"1d inflation and that isoJ"a.ted. neasures that have been
adoptecl so far are not in themsel-ves sufficient to ccmbat this r,rorld-wid-e
phenomenon 

"

Bearinq in mincl that the neasures '*rithin the scope of the devel-olrin8 countries
cannot in thensefves controf internationally transmitted inflation,

Recal-ling its resolution 32/l-75 of 9 Deceeber 1977, in rrhich the Secreta.ry-
Generaf of the United l$ations Conference on Trad-e and Development vas requeste.i to
establish a governrnental Group of high-leve1 experts to study the lror].d inflationary
phenomenon and- to transmit that study together with the cornments of the Trad.e and.
Development Boar:'L to the General Assembly, in order to enable it to decide on
measures to be taken ? includinq the possibility of convening a rrorld conference on
inflat ion ,

l-, TqEC!_ nstg of the report of the Group of High-Level Governrnental Uxperts
on the Effects of the orld Inffationary Phencmenon on the Developnent Process 18,/
as ve1l as of the connents of the Trade and Devel_oment Board at its eis.-hteenth
sessionr 19l

2" Takes note in particular of the general, eonclusions arrived at by the
Cxpert Group on the analysis of the effects of the world inflationary phenomenon
on the developing countries:

3" Requests the United ltlations Conference on Trade and Development, at its
fifth session" to recor4nend internationa-1 Folicy measures to conbat the uorld
inflationary phenomenon, as a-pparent in the decline of some of the rrraj or currencies 

"arrd to eliminate the econornic and social effects of internationall-y translitted.
inflation on cleveloping countries, takin4S into account the conclusions ancl
recornnendations containeri in ihe r"ennri ^f lhF cl"nrrn nf F*nprf.s'

I;. Requests further the international ccmmunity to pay special attention to
the internationaf inflation p"oblem during the negotiations for the establishment
of the new international economic order and durina the elaboration of the nert
international development strategy"

lU rD/B/rot+'
-1_2/ _OJ&_q a-4 lCgqrds of the Generaf As

no, r-l (a-



A/ 33/5?6

Page 28

Fecall-inq its resoluLions 3201 (S-VI) and.
the Declaration and- the Programne of Action on
Lntcr"natrona_L ucononrc uruer, ano JJoz \D-vr-L.l
anr.L intcrnationa-I economic co-operati on,

rr'1ri n r ^^hci/jla76a
curlt."E r-". on r".a. ur'ra

DFAFT ENSOLUTIOi\T VIII

United iilations Conference to Negotiate an lnternational Arrangeqle4t
tq B.plASg lhC la!.rnational- I,Iheat Asreerne4l- il-l9ll.2-35- il!e!4ge

The General Assernbly,

3202 (S-VI) of I tray 19?1, containin'
the Establishrirent of a llew
of 16 September 1975' on alevelopnent

Taking note of the report of the liortcl Food Council on the \'tork of the fourtlr
nriniq+.erigl sos,:inn harfl 3! l4exico City fron f2 to ]5 June f978, P/

Tahing note of the resalution adcpted on 2b Iovember 1978 by the united lTations
ConfeiEiiE-T6lEgotiate an Tnternational Arrangement to Replace the Internationaf
l,tr' at Alreernent of 1t71" as Extended,

the statement of the Secretary-General of the United llations
Developnent on the resulLs of the above Conference ' 

2V

BeinA conscious of the great importance of concfuding an international
arrangEEEni-to-r$16ce the Interuational llheat Agreernent of 19?1,

,'..oriorro ::.-:? ffi:":,1'iJ:":5,
2" Calfs upon the Chairman of the United l\Iations Conference to Negotiate an

Intelnational Arrangement to Replace the International ll?re at Agreement of l-9711 as
Exlended to carry out as early as feasible the consultations envisaged in the
resoluticn af 2L llovember 1978 of the Conference l

3" UTAes all countries to Fa"ticipate constructively in the consultations
rcforrcd to cbove

U. Ca11s upon the Interim Ccmmittee to consider, as a matter of urgency,
addressing a recoru[endation to the Secret arJr--General of the United lilations
Conference on Trade and Development with a view to the resurnption of the Conference:,

5. Urges all Governments to intensify their efforts towards an early and
successful conclusion of a;r international arrangernent to reFlace the international
vheat agreement of 1971, as extended.

ry rbid,., Thirty*third session, supplement ]:lo. 19 (A/T/r9).
?)/ Al c,2/ 33/ sR.51+, para" 3.



A/33/r25
En4lish
Pase 29

DRAFT RNSOLUTIOI.I IX

United llations Conference on an International Code of Conduct
on the Transfer of TechnoloEy

Tha (laha"'a l A< <am}1 l----,---Y:
Pennirjnr jfc ?ac^lution 32/1BB of 19 Deceflber 19'17 

"

Tahing note of the resolution of the United Nations Conference on an
lnternational Code of Conduct on the Transfer of Technology adopted on
11 i{overnber l-973 and of the progress achieved at the Conference tovards the
negotiation and- adoption of an international cod.e of conduct on the transfer of
technology,

'I Stl.onr'lw rrrocc jnl6ngified effoTts torrards a successful conclusion of the
c o.r f" r err c .l-

). Rnnrr^s1-.e 1-.hr" SFr'?F-f.p flr-Gan or.l nf tha United NaLions Conference on Tradeji:_:i:::::-
and Devefopnent to take the necessary neasures for convening a resumed session of
the Conference in the first quarter of I9T9, as well as a subsequent session if
requested.

DRATT RNSOLUTION X

United rlations llegotiating conference on a cornmon Fund
under the Integrated Prograrutre for Conmodities

The Genera] Ass enbly,

-"""tt* ta" -".r-aions 320I 
(S-vT) and 3202 (s-'fi) of 1 May 19?!" containing

the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a New
International Economic order,, and 3352 (S-1iTl) of 15 Septenber 1975 on development
and international econonic co-opere"tion,

Recallinf resolution 93 (IV) of 30 May l976 ot the United llations Conference
on Trade and Development on the Integrated Progranrne for Conmodities,

HavintT consid-ered the statenent of the Secretary-General of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development on the plogless achieved at the resr ed second
session of the United llations Negotiating Conference on a Coruron Fund under the
fntegrated Prog"axulre for Conmodities,

1. Takes note of the decision taken by the resumed second session of the
United i$ations Negotiating Conference on a Corlitlon Fund under the Integrated
Progranme for Cornnodities, of 30 lTovenber 1978.- for the reconvening of the third
session of the llegotiating Conference before the fifth session of the United llations
Conference on Trad-e and Develotrment i

2. Endorses the ilecision referred to in paragraph 1 above;



Al 33/526
l]nrf_115 n
Page 30

3. L"j"El" all participating countries at the forthcoming third session of
the I'legotiating Confetenee to exert all the necessary efforts so as to reach
agreement at the feconveneC Conference on the basic aspects of the Corunon Funcl so as
to provide the necessary basis for work on the a.rticles of agreenent on the Cornuon
Fund

S Lres ses
Lrnite d liiations

the neecl- for reaching such alreenent before the fifth session of the
Conference ol Trade and Devefonlrent,

DRAFT E]IiS OLUTIOI.I XI

Debt problems of the developinr countries

The Oeneral Aqseint,l-y,

Recalling its resolutions 3201" (S-VT) EmC 3202 (S-W) of 1 l''lay 19?Ir, containing
the Declaration anc] Prograinne of ,{ction on the Establishment of a }lew International
Econonic orcler, and 32BI (XXIX) of 12 Decernber 19'll+, containin6l the Charter of the
Econcmic ni{thts and Duties of States, as l,relt as 3362 (S-VII) of 16 Septenber 1975
on development and- interrlational econor'ric co-operation,

Recal i4g its resolrrtj.on 32/ !87 of 19 Deceraber 1977 on the debt probl.ens of
developing countries,

RecalLing alsc resolution 9lr (IV) of 31 l{ay a97 6 of the United lilations
Conference on Tra,le Jnd. Dcvef opnent , Q/

Recalling further resolutions 132 (XV) of the Tratte and DeveloDment Board
adopted at the first ])art of its fifteenth session, llil on the increasing burclen of
debt servicing in developing countries, and 165 (S-IX) adopted at the thircl.
(ministerial) pa?t of its ninth specia-l session 2l+ / on tlne debt and d-eveloprent
problems of devel-oping countries,

Igligg_-nolg of the report of the Trade and- Development Board on its eighteenth
session ancl of the provisional agenda of the fifth session of the United llations
Confe"ence on T"arle ancl DeveloDnent.

IIavinA considerecl the statement of the Secretary-General of the Unitecl ltlations
Confefenc€ on Tra-cle a.nd Devel-opment with regard to r,rork on the elaboration of
detailed, features for future operations concerning debt problens undertaken r.rithin
the United l.trations Conference on Trade and Detelornent "

, ?4 Proceedinls of the Ullite4 Nations Cohference on Trade and Developuent(United l,.lations publica-tion, Sales lfo. 8,76.I1.D.10), vo1. I, Report and Annexes.
$-/ -A3i&-L le cqqs of thg General Assenbly, T.hirtieth Session, Supplement

uo. ri(dIoo::7i&])l-
3! flia. , Thirty-third. Session, Supot"ernent J_o. 15 G/33/tj).

/...



A/33/525
Engli sh
Page 31

Concerned that nany developing countries are experiencing great difficulties
in servicing their external debt and are unable to pursue or initiate import ant
narra l 

^hhah+ 
nF^ i d^+ c

Iloting lrith concern that official development assistance flows are sta8nating
utta tilII-5EIaiiEI6FT6fi.nt support facilities to developing countries have been
inadequate,

Convinced that net capital inflor'rs, especially those relating to d-evelopnent..:-.:--.assistance to devefoping countries and in particulal to the most seriously affected"
least developed, land-loched and island developing countries, rLust be increased
substantial-fy and rapidly 

"

Avare that the maJority of developing countries do not enjoy proper access to
international capital markets and that, in any event, loans in such markets are
available at high interest rates and on short maturities,

1. llelcomes the decision of some developed countries, which have adopted
measures for the adJustnent of past bilateral official developnent assistance in
l.Ferlenl-. .lf f ha 1aact .lal'al 

^han 
nnrrnf riac .

2. Notesl however, that such measures have not been made applicable to mar\y
of the devefoping countries speeified in paragraph 2 of Trade and Devel-opment Board
resolution 165 (S-JX), which are facing serious problems i

3. Ca1ls upon all developed countries to i]|plenent in ful1 the agreement on
debt problems contained in Trade and Developrnent Board resolution 165 (S-IX) in
respect of the most seriously affected-, least developed, land-locked and island
developing countries, particularly the least developed among thern 1

l+" frurther calls upon all d.eveJ-oped. countries and conpetent internaiional
i.rstitutioiJT6-irnplEiEiT-If,. provisions of Trade and Development Board
resolution 132 (XV) on the increasing burden of debt servicing in developing
countries:

5. hlelcomes the inclusion in the provisional agend.a of the fifth session of
the United l,lations Conference on Trade and Development of the items:

(a) Reviev of implementation and fuxther action that may be required pursuant
to Trad.e and Development Soard resolution 165 (S-IX)i

(b) Detailed features for future operations relating to the debt problens of
interested developing countries ;

6" Reconmend.s that additionaf financiaf resources should be corulitted by
nu1ti1ate"a1 develolment finance institutions to the developing countries
experiencing debt servicing difficulties l

T, Ulges all developed countries to work tor"ards the adoption at the fifth
session of the United llations Conference on Trade and DeveJ-oprnent of action-
orientated decisions on the debt problens faced by the developing countries, 

/1..



Al 33/ 526
Engli sh
Page 32

DRAFT FESOLUTIOII XII

TLre General- Ass embly n

Recalling that the Trade and Deve.Iopnent Board at its eighteenth session
authorized. the Intergovernmental Preparatory Group on ir{ultimodal- Transport, should
it complete its work at its fifth session, to subnit to the General As sembly at its
thirty-third session, through the Economic and Social Council, its }ecornmendat ions
concerning the convening of a conference of plenipotentiaries on a convention on
international nultimodal transport, 25/

Ioting that the Intergovernmenta.l- Preparatory croup did not compfete its raork
and conseque-rt1y has not submj.tted any reconrnend.ations concerning a conference,

Ivotinq further that the Intergovernment a1 Preparatory Group nill now hold a
sixth sessi.on fyom ?6 February to 9 March f979 af, Geneva,

1. Decicles that a conference of plenipotentiaries on a convention on
international rnultimodal- transDort be convened:.

2. Requests the Intergovernnenta-I Preparatory Group at its sixth session to
ma&e reconmendations concerning the appropriate dates, either in ]t979 or 1980, for
the convening of the conference;

3. Bequests further the Trade and DeveJ-oprnent Soafd at its tenth special
session in March l|979 to consider this question on the basis of the recormendation
of the Tnt ergovernnent al- Preparatory Group,

6\, The Second Cornmittee a].so recormends to the General Assenbly the adoption of
the fol-Lowing draft decis ion :

s in the lementation of
c action related to the cular

land-loeked eg

The General Assembly takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the
review of progress in the inplementation of special neasures and specifi.c aetion
related to the particular needs of the land-.locked developing countries (E/I978/87)
submitted pursuant to Assenbly resolution 32/ I9]- ot 19 December 1977.

Conference on a Convention

25/ Official Records of the General Assa'nb1y, Thirty-thiTd Session,
Suttple*.rt


