








































::_
==/ a \:
=/ Gr 

\:

{/N'IED NAI'ONS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

Distr,
GENERAL

Al33/\7\
_LJ rrec ernDer l9l o
ENGIlSH
OBIGINAI: SPANISH

Ihirty-third s ess ion
Agenda item 89

ELIMINATION OF AIL I'ORMS OF REI,IGIOUS TNTOLERANCE

Report of the Third Cornmittee

Rapporteur: Miss Ana RTCHTER (Areentina)

I. INTRODUCTION

l. The iten entitled "xtimination of all forns of religious intolerance'r was
included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-third session of the General
Assembly in accord.ance vith Assembly resofution 32 /t\3 of 15 Decenber 1977.
2. At its l+th and 5th plenary meetings , on 22 September 19T8, the ceneraf Assembty,
on the recomendation of the General conmittee, decided to include the iten in its
agenda and to allocate it to the Third Cornrnittee.

3' The cornnittee considered this item at its )+2nd, 6ottr to 5Ltrr, 56trr ana
67th neetings on lO Novenber, between 28 November and 1 December, and on 1+ and
5 Decenber. The vievs expressed- ty the repr. esentat ive s of l{eraber States and by the
observers on this item are ccntained in the sunmary records of those meetings
(A/c.3/33/sR.)rz,6o to 6\,66 ana 67).
4. rn connexion r.rith item 89, trre conmittee had before it a note by the secretary-
ceneral (A/T/r6a).

5. At the 42nd meeting, on 10 November, the Director of the Division of Human
Rishts introduced the iten (see A/C "3/33/SR.)+A, para. 66).

rr. ooNSTDEFATTON oF DnAIr nESoLUrroN A/C,3/33/L.5\

9- At the 63rd roeeting, on 30 November, the representative of the Netherlands
introduced a draft resolution (A/c "3 /33/L.51+ ) utiitr"a "Elinination of ar1 forms ofreligious intolerance'r, sponsored by Austria, canada, colonbia, the Dominican
S!]&1i9,--Ftutt"", _Ghgna, Honduras, rrerano Jtafil-Tarnai.a-lGsottro,-tn" ltutrr.flglg",r\r-gerla' Norway, Suriname, the United Kingdorn of Great Bribain and Northern Irel-and,

78-3o5Bl+



A/33/\7\

the United Sbates of Anerica and Venezuela^ subseouenblv
Germany, Federal ReDublic of" Samoa. Sweden

as follows:

"The General As semblv "

ehd TITrr dr ra1. 1'Li^b PAad

Recallins article 18
proclaiuing that everyone
and religion,

of the Universsl Declaration of Hlr,nan Rights,
has the right of freed.on of thought, canscience

I:lcting that during the thirty years of its existence many portions of
the Declaration have been expanded into various international instnrments,
while article 18 has thus far not been so elaborat ed. o

Stil1 desirous to see article 18 folloved by a declaration on the
elimination of al-f forrns nf rpl irinrr< ihf^lar.h.e,

Fecalling its resoluticn 302? (XXVII) of 18 December 1972 in which it
'',ras decided to accord priority to the conpletion of the declaration on the
elinination of all forrns of religious intolerance before resr_wing
ccnsideration of the draft international convention on this subject,

Recalling its resolution 326? (XXIX) of tO December 19TL in which it
requested the Coanission on Hunan Rights to subnit to the General Assenbly,
through the Economic and Social Council , a single draft declaration on the
elirnination of all forrns of intolerance and of discrimination based on
religion or belief, and its resolutions 3I/138 of 16 lecember l.97 6 and.
32 /I\3 ot 16 December A9T1 in rrhich it urged the Conmission to speed 1p
its work so that the draft declaration misht be finalized,

Taking note with regret that the Conrmission on Human Rights has reported,
through the lconornj c and Socia"l Council, that iL has as yet not conpleted the
draft d-eclaration.

Taking account of the fact that, since the Conmission on Human Rights
has undertaken to draft the declaration in response to the request made to
it in rlpnera l Aceamhll. -esolutjon 3267 (XXTX) o the informal wor"king gloup
set up by the Comission at each of its sessions since 1!J)+ has so far
adopted the title and preamble of a draft declaration"

I. Requests the Conmission on Human Rights at its thirty-fifth session
to give high priority to the drafting of the declaration on the eliminatjon
of intolerance and. of discrimination based on religion or belief, and to
strive torrard completion cf the draft declaration et that sessionl

2. Requests the Secretary-Genera1 to make available for the Connission
on Human Bights the provisions of existing international instmments which
relate to the problen of religious intolerance;



A/331)'+7t)
English
page 3

3" Requests the Conmission to instruct its working group rrhich has
been established to carry out this task to set a time-tabIe for a ftll
consideration of the rerljning erricles of the draft declaration during thc
thirty-fifth sessiong

r+. Requests the Comnission on lllnnan Fights to subnit to the General
A s sFarl^- v af il-s thi-+'-

' 
uJ--Lvqr

Council, a si.ngle draft declaration on the elimination of a1l forms of
intolerance and of discrinination based on relieion or beliefl

5. -Decides to jnclude in the provisional agenda or' its Lhirty-fourth
session the item entitled 'Elinination of A11 Forns of Relieious Intolerance'
vfrt] nlgn pTrorll]y.

7. Ar the 65th neetins, on \ )ecember, the representatjvc ofl Hunsary proposecl
that operative paragraph 3 should be deleted' the rerlresentative of Viet Nam
oroposed that Lhe ..?ords "higl. priority in operative paragraph I should be r-eplaced
by the vords "due attentionlr and that the vords 'tnith high priority" at the end of
operative para5raph 5 should be deletedj the representative of the Ukrainian Soviet
Soc-ial-ist Rerub-tic DroDosed LnaL a new Freanbular _oaragraph should bc included and
that the lrords "vhen completed'i should be add.ed at the end of operative paragraph I+"
T\e relresenlative of Tlonqo-Iia prolosed a subauendnent r,o the latttr amendment 

"
wher ehv ,t-c r,ro rd -,,r1- cnfr^rnrr I rl \F FAnta.a,l |v !.1ts wolds 'if it is' . The
representative of the German Democratic Republic proposed that the words "vith
regret" in the sixth lreambular paragraph should be deleted. The representative of
the Netherla"nds proposed revisions to the originaf text. The Conmittee finally
decided that the oral amendments should be subroitted in vritine.

B. AL the 57th ree-cing, on ) December" Lhe connittee had before it the "o11owing
amendment s :

(a) Amendments submiLtect by Llre representative o' Viel liam (AlC.3/33/L"6?) 
"reading:

"1. Tn operative laragrapl.r 1, replace the vords 'hiCh pricrityr by the
r,+ords tdue attentionr .

"2. Delete the woxds rvith high priorityr at the end of otr)erative
paragraph l."

(bl Amendments subnitted by the representatiye of the Ukrainian Scviet
Socialist Republic (A/c.3/33/L.68 ) , reading;

"1. Before the last Freambul.ar paragraph insert a new paragraph to read;
rNotinf, further the efforts lndertaken by the inforn.al workine

group sel' uo Ly the Co'rmission on F[],nan Fights in e-laborating a gener-ally
acceptir"bl e texb of L|e Declal-3tion, taking inLo.account the reLevant
United llations documents., I

"2. At the end of operative paragraph l+ add the following words:
rwhen compl eted l l .;'



Xnglish
.lage 4

o I r- .r1"- --- - - -^--i-- f.hp t^rrr i-1.'1F .. ^l ar'nisions on the
]-ccoraed roLe and in Lhe fol lor,r'ing order:

(u) Sixth prearnbular paragraph: defete the words Jrwith
proposal vas rejected by 39 votes to \6, r^'ith 39 abstentions.
as follor"is :

amAndhanfc lrrr

r1rh a rr^f r'h d rr.c

In favour : Afghanistan, Algeria, Angcla, Bahrain, Benin, Botsvana) Bulgaria'
Byelorussian Soviet SocialisL Republic, Congo" Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Dernccratic lenenl ngypt, German Dernocratic
Republic, Guinea, Guinea.-Bissau, Hungary, fraq, Jorda.n, Kuvait 

"Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, I,{ad.agascar, l4ongolia, Mozambique,
Orqn P-lih,.l rlal.r R^nrhiq qan T.rF erd Frinnine qvPian Ar eh
Republic, Togo, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Relublics. United Arab En'irates,
vl eI ranr, rerenr rugos_Lavla.

Australia, Austria, Belgiul, Canada, Chad, Chi1e, Colorabia,
Cosla Rica, )enuark, Dorninican le,oLblic " lcuador" 

Fin.land, ql aqce,
rlql^. aaF,n.n,r I'dd-,- I tr^n',}.l i,. ^ l' a.haha nrrFl-^mr'1 . Hnr.lrrr ee
Tnalrnd _lF6l rn^ r-Faal lr.l(/ Trrnrrr l.neef .lamAi.. Lpe^f.hnruqri/, LwvrJ
Trrvemhrrrro llaranna l\lathAplrr,.l< ttl+rr Tenlard fl inerao'rn liocr
l,i--eriq l\lnrr:rrr p'noma prn,,. lloa' nr i'hpa pFrAl}r'-' p^rrr,-o1.vr 4oiy r .a.La-.-ae lLrrf JdJ r I ur uuf<qrt
Flranda, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Suriname r Sweden, United Kingclon of
Great Bribain and Norther:n freland, United States of America,
Uruguay, Venezuela.

Argentina, Bahamas, langladesh, Barbados, Bclivia, Brazil , Burna,
Cenl-r:1 Alriaer lnnira a\rhFrrc Fihr'nrin Fi ii C?F.-.F clrvAn,
Tndia, fndonesia, -Lran, Japan, Kenya, Valaysiar ''rauritania,
'lexico, llepal, Dakistan, Peru, Dhilipuines, Senegal . Singaoore,
Sornalia, Srj lantra, Sudan, Swaziland, -hcila'ld, Trinidad and
'1':bago, T-rnisia: rurkeyi i nited PcDUbl ic of caneroon, Jnited
RecLrblic o' Ianzania, Uppe.r Volta, Zaire.

Against:

AL^+-i-.,--.n!r uorrrlrrt"l.

(b) Trsertion o' a nev sevenLh orea:rorilar pa raqrapn betwcen tl're existinfl
si.(th and sevent| or ea":bulr-r' paragraphs (,^,/C.3/Jj/L.(8, rara. 1). TLe oroposal
i^ras adopted- by L! votes to \2^ vith 38 abstentions. The .roting ras as fo1lor,rs I

In favour; Afghalistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain" Benin, Bulgaria,
Byelorussian Soviet Socia.list Republic, Chad, Congo, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Demccratic Yenen, Djibouti, Xcuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau"
lrungary, Trrq, Jor"aan, Kuvait, T ioerja, Libyan Ar"3b Jcrahirjya,
l',ladagascar , l.4ongolia, I,1o z ambi que , onan , Poland " Qatar , 

Rornania ,
Fvanrla , Sao 'or'-e and trrincipc, Saudi Arabi a, Syrian .11.rab ,qenubl i c ,
Togo, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Soc-ia-Lis L eepublics , Uri Led Arab F-il-ates , Unil ed qepublic
nf Trnzrnir \liAl I\,an Voman Yrrooelrrrir



Against:

t l12 /),.r)F t Jrt a t'
English
?age 5

Australia, Austria-, Be1gium, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa nica,
Denmark, Dorninican Fepublic, Finland, France, Germany, Iederal
Republic of, Ghana, Greece? Gua,terna1a, Honduras, Tceland, Ireland'
Tsra"e1, Italy, Lesotho, Luxembourg, }{orocco, Netherlands ,
New Zealand, llicaragua, iiliger, I,Iigeria, l\'lorway ) Panama,
Papua ltrew Guinca, laraguay, Portugal . Snain, Surinane, Swedcn,
llr ir,cd Kihrrdon .f 1-aai Eritain and Northern Treland . United
Republic of Cameroon, United States of America, Upper Vo1ta,
lTrrrorrarr ll6ha?,ra l .

Abstaining: Argentina, Saharas, Bangladeshl Bar"bados, Bolivia" BraziJ, Burrna,
Central African llnpire" Cyprus, Fi j.i, Cabcn) Cuyana, India,
Ind-onesia" Iran, Ivory Coast, Jarnaica, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia,
'laldives,'4auritania, l{exico, Nepal, Pakistan, Peru, Philiplines,
Spnaoal ';'--,^-- c^--l-'- c-i T'nLa q,drn !\taqilanA) UIILLOPUI
Thailand, Trinidad and Tcbaflo, Tunisia, Turkey, zoire.

(c) Operatjve para6'raph 1: replacc the words 'high pricriLy" by the \,rords
"due attention" (a/c.3/:3/L.6J, para. 1). The proposal nas reJected by 38 votes
io 10, vith 36 abstentions. The voting 1/as as follows:

Tn favour: Lfghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Benin, Bulgaria,
Byelorussian Soviet Sacial-ist Republic, Congo, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, DJibouti, Ethiopia, Cerman
Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Irao"
Kuvait, I ibyan AraL Jamahiriya, lladagascarr i'ongolia, llozarbique)
Oman, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia"
Syrian Arab qepublic, logo. Ugonda . Urrrainjan ioviet SocialjsL
RepubLic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
trmirates, Viet Nar, Temen, Yugoslavia.

APainsr: A.:;l-rarir, Austria, !e-I gir-r.'r, Canada, Ch:-d, Chi1e, CoLonojar
Costa Rica, lenmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Fiii, Finlanci,
France, Gabon, Gernany, Fe<1eral Republic of, Ghana " 

Greece,
Guatenala, Honduras, Iceland, lreland, Israel, Ita1y, Ivory coast,
Jamaica, Lesotho, Luxenbourg n Morocco, Netherlands, Nev Zealand-,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norvay, Panana, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Portugal , Rvanda, Spain, Surinarne, Svaziland' Sweden,
Turkey, Uniterl Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Repubfic cf Cameroon, linited States of Anerica, Uru€fuay,
Venezuela.

AbstaininA: Argentina, Baha,'nas, Rangladech, BarLados, BoIivia, BraziI. lJurrna,
Centra-L African Ernl ire, CyIlrL.s, Egypt, CL;yara, frdia, lndonesia.
Iran, JaFan, Jord.an, Kenya, ltalaysia, l{a1dives, l4auritania,
I'lexico, lTepal , .Pakistan o Peru, Philiplines, Senegal, Singatore,
Sona-Lia, lri Lanka, Sudan, Thajland " Tri r.-idad and lobago, Tunisia,United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Vo1ta, ZaiTe"



A/i3/\T\
English
Page 5

ld) Delete operative para.graph 3"
to !1, vith 3? abstentions. The voting

fhc lroposal \.as rejected by 36 votes
tras as fo- I ovs r

Tn favour: Afghanistan, A1geria, l.ngo1a, 3enin, Bulgaria" Byelorussian
Soviet Social-tsL Rcpubl ic) rongo, CLba" C lechos lo1-ahi a, DenlocraLic

r-,inFA-Riccqri tlrrrcerrr Trrn Tarn,r'il T ihvan Ar"a}l .lanq}irirre

l.liadagascar l I'longolia, l{ozanftique, Oman, Poland, Qata"r, Romania,
3ao ,Lor-e and Principc, Saud-i Arabia, Syrian Arat, Rep rblic, Lreanda,
Ullrainian Soviet Socialist Rer:ub1ic " Union of Soviet Soclalist

Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgiurn, Canada, Chad, Chi1e,
Coloribia, Costa Fica, Dennark 1 Dominican nepublic, Ecuador, Fiji,
Fihlrhd .Frh.a r:6ymqFar H6dEF4 | RAnlrl_,11. 

^l_ 
l:.^hq f,r^E.a

Cuar,ernala, Honduras, Tceland, lreland r Lsrael , ltaly, Ivo"ry CoasL )
Lesorho, Luxenbourg ) '4urocco, lletherLands. .N er"/ Zealand, llicaragua"
Ni,'Fr. l\Iireriq tlnrr.,ou pqh,ha T)anlrA NA1, r-rlih-a L.F4 r-rrar,rf oLr ) r reF, rq, ,ur wo,y ar 46qq,y ,
Fortugal , Rwanda, Spain, Sr.rjname, Sr,razi larrd, Sweder " 

ThaiIand,
Turkey, United Kingdon of Great Britain and llcrthern ITeland,
United Fepublic of Car:eronn" United SLates ol A"aerica, Upper Val ta,
TTYr r drr.\' Irc-a'rral.

Argentina" lJaharnas, aangladesh, Barbados, Bolivia, Srazil , Brrma,
flFnlr" l Afriaqn Fnnire cvnr:,a trdwnt- fl'l^n cr v'br lnrlio

Indonesia", Tran, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Ilalaysia, Iaaldives o
Verrriienia tlevinn I\lF^. I F.Li<rah Pozrr fhil inninpe gahAral

( Ti I ihLr qr1..h T-.^ Il ri ni,lr,{ rrd Tnhron
7-ir-'unrsfar ur:f Le4 'raputtllc o" 'anzanta) YJgoslavaa, -*_, .,

^1..+..."..-.nur L orrrruli r

(e) Operative paragraph L: add the liords 'when cor0pfeted'i at the end of the
paragraph (A/C"3/33/L"('8, para. 2). The proposal vas rejected blr [2 vobes to \5,
with 39 abstentions. The yotins was as follovs:

In favour: Afghanista.n, A-|geria, Arlgola, Bahrain, 3enin, llotswana, Sulgaria 
"Burundi ? Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo, Cut,a,

Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yernen, Djibouti" Egypt, Ethiopia,
G,.r-men DonrnnrqJ in Ranrrhlin ejjiha'-Pice',, H,rroo- r.v^r$aulL L,qPuet- 4r.oqrJ r r aj) uur uairt
Kuwait, Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya, l4ongolia, l{ozambique, Oman 

"Poland, Qatar, Fomania, Rwanda, sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabjar Syrian Arab Rerublic, Toqo, UgEnda, Llkra-Lnian Soviet
Socfafisb !eput.1ic, Union of SovieL Socialisr Repuolics, Unjted
Ar'rb LJnlraLes, Uni Ied Bepublin of Canel"oon, Unir,eJ Fepublic of
Tanzaniao Viet Nam, Yemen.

Austrafia, Austria, Belginm, Canada ? Chile? 0o1onbia, Costa Rica,
Denmark, Dominican itepubiic, Ecuador, I'iji, Finlandu France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras 

'Iceland, Treland! Israel, Italy, Lesotho) l,uxembcurg, i{orocco,
Tlethel lands , ti ei.r 1ealsn6J , t icaragua, Niger, Nir"eria , \orwqy,
Panana, Pacua Tr. err Guinea_ Paraguay, oortuga-l, S]:ain, Surinane,
Svaziland, Sweden, Turkey 1 United Kingdon of Great Britain and
Northern Trelano, Unj Led States of America, Upper 7,1ta, UruAuey,

Against:

Venezuela.



A/T/)+7)l
nnglish
Page 7

Abstaining: Ar€ientina, Bahamas, Bangladesh u Barbados, Bolivia, Br::.2i1, Eurma,
Central African firpire, Chad, Cyprus, Gabon? Guinea, Guyana,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Kerrya,
l{ad.agas car, Malaysia, Maldives, I4auritania, i\lexico, Ilepall
PakisLan, lerrr, Philippines, Senegal , Sinr,.apore, gorcaLia,
Sri lanka, Sudan, ?hailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisra"
Yugoslavia, Zaire.

. (f) Operative paragraph 5: delete the riords "vith high priority"(A/c,3/33/L.67" pa:ra, 2). The proposal was rejected by 38 votes to !b, with
37 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In fayoux: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Benin, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yemen, Ethiopia, German Democratic
Bepublic, Guinea-3issau, Hungary, Iraq, Jordan, Kur+ait " LibyanArab Jarnahiaiya, Madagascar, Mongolia, Mozambique, Onan, poland,
Qatar, Ronani€, Sao Tone and Frincipe, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab
Republic" Togo, Uganda, lJkrainian Soviet Social_ist Fepublic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Dnira.tes,
Viet Nam, Yemen, yugoslavia.

Againsti Australia, Austria, Belgium" Botswana, Canada, Chad, Chi1e,
CoJ-onbia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Dorninican nepubl.ic, Ecuador, Fiji,
Finland, I"ance, Gerrlany, Federal- Republic of, Gh$na, crsece,
Guaternala, Honduras, Tceland, Ireland, Israel , Itely, Ivary Coast,
Lesotho, Luxembourg, Morocco, lletherfands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Itriger, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, papua ltrew Guinea, paraguay,
Portugal, nwanda, Senegal , Spain, Suriname u Svazitand, Sweden,
Turkey, United Kingdon of Great Britain and Northe"n Irel,and,
United Republic of Ca-raeroon, United States of Aroerica, Uruguay,
Venezuela.

Abstaining: Argentina, Bahaxnas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazilo Burna,
Central African tupire, Cyprus, Erypt, Gabon, Guinea, cuyanz!,
Ind.iao Indonesia, Iran, Jarnaica, Japan, Kenya, l.{aIaysia, IUaldives,
l"{auritania, Mexico, Nepat, pakistan, peru, philippines, Singapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Zaire"

10, At the same
recorded vote of
was as follovs:

meetingl the draft resolution, as amended-, was adopted by a
10! to none, vith 25 abstentions (see para. 11 below). The voting

Argentina 
" Australia, Austria, Baharnas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,Sarbad.os, Belgiurn, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Canad.a,

Central African Empire, Chad, Chi1e, Colornbia, Costa Rica,
Cyprus, Denrnark, Djibouti, Dorninican RerubLic, Ecuador, Egypl,
Fiji, Finlande France) cabon, cernany, Federal Republic of,

In favour :



fage o

Ghana, Greece, Guatemalai Guinea, Grlyana, Honduras, Tceland,
Tndonesia, Iran, Iraq" Ireland, Israel" Ita1y, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuvait, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jaroahiriya 1 Lrxembourg, Madagascar, l4alaysia, Ifaldives,
Mali, l'lauritania, Mexico, Moroccoo Nepa1, Netherlands,
llew Zealand, Nicaragua, lliger, lligeria, lilorway, Ornan, ?alristan,
Panama, Papua Nev Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal"
Qa.tar, Rwanda, Senegal, Singapore, Soma1ia, Spain, Sri Lanka'
Sudan, Suriname " Swaziland, Sveden, Syrian Arab Republic,Thailand., Togo, Trilridad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey ' 

United
Arab Enirates, United Kingdoxo of Great Britain and Northern
Irefand, United Republic of Camercon, United Republic of
Tanzania, United States of Arnerica, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugostavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstainingr Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Benin, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Repubfic, Congo, Cuba,
Czechcslovakia, Democratic Yenen, Xthiopia, German Democratic
Republic, Guinea-Bissau, Hung&ry, India" Mongolia, Mozarrbique,
Poland, Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Sovict Socialist Rerrrhl ic, Union of SovieL Sociafist
Renublics.

TI]. NECOM.'IENDATION OF THE THIBD COMMITTEE

11. The Third Conmittee recorDmends to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
followinA draft resolution :

Xlimination of all forr0s of religious intolerance

The General Assenbl-y,

Recalling article 18 of the Universal Decls.ration of Hunan Bigtlts, V
proclaining that everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and
religion,

Noting that during the thirty years of its existence nany lortions of the
Declaration have been expand ed- into various international instmments, vhile
article 18 has thus far not been so elaborated,,

Stj.11 ri.esirous to see article 1B lollowed by a declaration on the elimination
.f all f^r.F.c nf relioinrrc in+^larun.a

1/ Resolution 217 A (III),



A./33/\7\
l,YrsLa str
eale 9

Fecallin,o iLs resolution JOZT (XXVIJ)of 18 Deceuber Ig72 in which it decided
+n pnnnr,l nrin-iiv +^ tha n^rr'tetinn nf i-l^F -p^taration on the Elinination of A1l
Forrc .rf Fel ipio-:q lnhol cranr-c t,.fnr,. reqrrmirr' consideretion of the dr8,ft
Tnternational Convention on this subject,

Recalling its resolution 326? (XXIX) of l0 Deceuber 197\ in vhich it requested
the Conmission on Human nights to subrnit to the General Assembly, through the
Econonic and Social Council, a single draft Declaration on the trlimination of A11
Forns of Intolerance and of Discrinination Based on Religion or Belief, and its
resolutions 31/I3B of t6 December L976 and. 32/1\3 of 16 Decernber l-977 in rrhich it
urged the Con",:nission to speed up its vork so that the draft Declaration night be
finalized,

Noting vith regret
the Economic and Socia1
Declaration,

ttre Conmi" 
"i 

on-ii-E nan
Declaration, taking into

that the Conmission on Human Rights has reported, thriough
Council, that it has as yet not completed the draft

efforts und ertaken by the infornal vorking group set up by
Rights in elaborating a gene/alJ.y acceptatle text of the

account the relevant United. Nations documents,

Taking account of the fact that, since the Connission on Hrulan Rights has
rnd.erta.ken to dTaft the Declaration in response to the request nade to ib in
Ceneral Asser0bly resolubion 3257 (XXTX), the informal working group set up by the
Commission ar each of its sessions since 197\ has so far adopted the title and
lleamble of a d.raft declaration,

f. Requests the Comission on Human Rights at its thirty-fifth session to
give high priority to the drafting of the Declaration on the lliminatlon of
Intolerance and of Discriroination Based on Religion or Belief, and to strive towards
completion of the draft Declaration at that session:

2, Requests the Secretary-Ceneral to nake available for the Cornmission on
Human Rights the provisions of existing internalionaI instrurents which relate to
the problern of religious intolerance;

3. Requests the Comnission on Human Rights to instruct its working group
which has been established to carry out this task to set a time-table for a fulf
consideration of the remaining articles of the draft Declaration during the
l hl ?f1f-t-1 i 1_h cP<<r 

^h.

l+. Requests the Cornnission on Human Rights to submit to ttre General Assenbly
at its thirty-fourth session" through the Economic and Social Council, a single
draft Declaration on the Eliraination of AlI Forms of Tntolerance and of
Discriminat,ion Based on ReliEion or Beliefi

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-fourth session
the item entitled "Blinination of all forrns of religious intolerance" and to give
i+ l"i 1L -'j ^-.i+'.




