








































UNITED NATIONS 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/33/525 

~ 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY • \i~ 19 December 1978 ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 
Thirty-third session 
Agenda item 110 

PERSONNEL QUESTIONS 

Report of the Fifth Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Hamzah H. HAHZAH {Syrian Arab Republic) 

I. INTRODUCTION 

1. At its 4th and 5th plenary meetings, on 22 September 1978, the General Assembly 
decided to include in the agenda of its thirty-third session the item entitled: 

"Personnel questions: 

(a) Composition of the Secretariat: report of the Secretary-General; 

(b) Other personnel questions: reports of the Secretary-General." 

and to allocate it to the Fifth Committee. 

2. The Committee considered the item at its 8th, 11th, 12th, 14th to 20th, 23rd, 
24th, 54th to 59th and 6lst meetings, held from 4 October to 14 December ~978. 
The views expressed by delegations during the discussion are reflected in the 
relevant summary records (A/C.5/33/SR.8, 11, 12, 14-20, 23, 24, 54-59 and 61). 

3. The Committee considered together with item 110 the reports of the Joint 
Inspection Unit on women in the Professional category and above in the United 
Nations system (A/33/105) and on the implementation of the personnel policy reforms 
approved by the General Assembly in 1974 (A/33/228), submitted under item 106 
(Joint Inspection Unit). 

4. At the suggestion of the Chairman, the Committee established, at its 
17th meeting, on 17 October, a Working Group on Personnel Questions with the 
representative of India as Chairman. The Working Group held 18 closed meetings 
between 21 October and 3 December 1978. 

78-31994 I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 2 

5. For its consideration of item 110 (a), the Committee had before it: 

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the composition of the Secretariat 
(A/33/176); 

(b) Report of the Secretary-General transmitting a list showing, by office, 
department and organizational unit, the name, functional title, nationality and 
salary level of all staff members of the United Nations Secretariat as at 
30 June 19"(8 (A/C.5/33/L.2); 

(c) Note sub~itted by the Secretary-General, in accordance with the request 
of the General Assembly in resolution 32/17 B of 11 November 1977, containing 
information on the recruitment missions undertaken between the adoption of the 
resolution and the opening of the thirty-third session which was issued as a 
Conference Room Paper; 

(d) List of all staff members appointed at the Principal Officer (D-1) level 
and above between 1 July 1977 and 30 June 1978 and the nationality of the staff 
members ifhom they replaced, and a list of staff members promoted to the Professional 
category during the same period, issued as a Conference Room Paper; 

(e) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting a statement addressed to the 
members of the Fifth Committee by the Chairman of the Staff Committee of the Staff 
Council at Headquarters, issued as a Conference Room Paper; 

(f) Note by the Secretary-General transmittin~ a letter addressed to the 
members of the Fifth Committee by the Chairman of the Staff Committee of the 
Staff Council at Headquarters, issued as a Conference Room Paper. 

6. For its consideration of item 110 (b), the Committee had before it the 
folloifing documents: 

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of personnel 
policy reforms (A/C.5/33/2); 

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the amendments made to the Staff 
Rules during the period from 1 July 1977 to 30 June 1978 (A/C.5/33/l). 

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS 

7. At the 54th meeting, on 7 December, the Chairman of the Harkin~ Group on 
Personnel Questions introduced a draft resolution (A/C. 5/33/L. 32) ~,rhich read as 
follows: 

"The Genera;t Assembly, 

11 Havinp; examined the reports of the Secretary-General contained in 
documents A/33/176 and A/C.5/33/2 on the composition of the Secretariat and 
personnel policy reforms respectively, 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 3 

"Concerned that the reforms of personnel policy as well as the 
implementation of the various resolutions on the composition of the 
Secretariat are proceeding too slowly and a coherent personnel policy 
has not yet been realized, 

11 Concerned with the urgent need to secure an improved representation 
of developing countries at senior and policy-making levels and reiterating 
the objective of achieving adequate representation of hitherto unrepresented 
and under-represented countries, 

''Reaffirming that the paramount consideration in the employment of staff 
at every level is the necessity for the highest standards of efficiency, 
competence and integrity and convinced that this is compatible Hith the 
principles of equitable geographical distribution, 

11Takin~ note with appreciation the reports of the Joint Inspection Unit 
contained in documents A/33/228 and A/33/105, 

11vlelcoming the intention of the Secretary-General to launch a plan of 
action to improve the geographical distribution of the Secretariat during 
1979-1980, 

11 Concerned about the need to improve the proportion of women in the 
Secretariat within the context of equitable geographical distribution, 

"Calling upon the Secretary-General and all the United Nations 
organizations to put an end to any form of discrimination based on sex, 
as laid down in Article 8 of the Charter of the United Nations, in 
conditions of employment, recruitment, promotion and training and to 
ensure that the opportunities for employment and promotion of women in 
the United Nations system are equal to those of men, 

I 

"1. Reguests the Secretary-General to adopt the follmring measures and 
guidelines regarding recruitment of Professional staff: 

(a) Bulletins containing a statement of all existing vacancies as well as 
all those expected to arise in the course of the following year be issued every 
six months, in order to facilitate the submission of candidates by Member 
States for recruitment; 

(b) Publicity be given regarding recruitment of personnel in co-operation 
with Member States, including through United Nations offices, universities, 
professional organizations including women's organizations whenever appropriate 
to fulfil the recruitment policies outlined in this resolution; 

(c) Composition of the roster of candidates be improved in order to make 
it more geographically representative and make it better reflect the recruitment 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 4 

needs of the Secretariat among various occupational groups as well as to 
increase the number of women in the roster; prior to filling a vacancy a 
thorough search be made of the roster for suitable candidates and a list 
of candidates considered be supplied to Member States on request; 

(d) Professional staff of the United Nations be encouraged to 'vork in 
more than one duty station and performance durin~ such tours of duty be 
considered an additional positive factor in evaluating, them for promotion; 

{e) Information on the over-all results of the staff performance 
review be made available to the General Assembly; 

(f) Regulations concerning definitions of occupational groups together 
with criteria for new definition of such groups be established and a list of 
occupational groups for General Service and Professional categories along 
with standards for entry, promotion and rotation of staff be drawn up; 

(g) Movement of staff from the General Service category to the P-1 and 
P-2 levels be permitted up to 25 per cent of the total posts available for 
appointment at those levels and such recruitment be conducted exclusively 
through competitive methods of selection from General Service staff with 
at least five years' experience; 

(h) Competitive methods of recruitment be used in consultation with the 
Governments concerned, organized on a national, subregional or regional 
basis, for selection of staff at the P-1 and P-2 levels with a view to 
making the geographical distribution of posts in the Secretariat more 
equitable; 

(i) Necessary measures to be devised to protect the confidentiality and 
objectivity of the methods of selection described above an~ to ensure that the 
methods of testing take into account the cultural and linguistic diversity 
of the membership of the United Nations; 

11 2. Reguests the Secretary-General to report on the implementation of 
the above measures with detailed numerical data wherever appropriate to the 
thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly; 

II 

iil. Requests the Secretary-General to establish a target of 4o per cent 
of all vacancies arising in Professional posts subject to ~eographical 
distribution during the period 1979-1980 for appointment of nationals of 
unrepresented and under-represented countries in order to ensure that all 
such countries achieve their desirable ranges during that biennium /in the 
appointment of nationals to other vacancies, the priority should be given to 
countries which have not yet reached the upper levels of their desirable 
ranges, without prejudice to the principles of efficiency, competence and 
integritlf; 

I . .. 



\ 

A/33/525 
English 
Page 5 

;!2. Reaffirms that no post be considered the exclusive preserve of any 
Member State,~group of States, and requests the Secretary-General to 
ensure that this principle is applied faithfully in accordance with the 
principle of equitable geographical distribution; 

n3. Requests the Secretary-General to apply the regulations regarding 
the age of retirement and not grant extensions beyond the established a~e of 
retirement except for the minimum time required to find a suitable replacement 
and to implement this request initially before the end of 1979; 

''4. Requests the Secretary-General to take further steps to increase the 
representation of developing countries at senior and policy-makin~ levels 
during 1979-1980 in implementing the relevant resolutions of the General 
Assembly; 

\
15. Requests the Secretary-General to reduce the average age of staff at 

the P-1 and P-2 levels to 35 by taking necessary measures for recruitment of 
young Professionals and the enhancement of their career opportunities within 
the United Nations; 

"6. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a progress report to the 
thirty-fourth session and a final report to the thirty-fifth session of the 
General Assembly on the implementation of the steps described above; 

"7. Expresses appreciation for the work of the Panel to Investigate 
Allegations of Discriminatory Treatment in the United Nations Secretariat and 
requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide the Panel with the 
necessary facilities for its activities; 

III 

"1. Requests the Secretary-General to take necessary measures to increase 
the number of women in posts subject to geographical distribution to 
25 per cent of the total over a four-year period in accordance with this 
principle of equitable geographical distribution and requests other United 
Nations organizations similarly to establish targets for this purpose; 

112. Requests the Secretary-General and other United Nations organizations 
to issue, in accordance with the principle of equitable geographical 
distribution, policy statements and directives necessary to foster equal 
employment and career development opportunities for women; 

11 3. Requests the Secretary-General and other United Nations 
organizations, in pursuit of these objectives, to: 

(a) Assure that women are henceforth fairly represented in personnel 
advisory and administrative boards; 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 6 

(b) Revie>r existing recruitment literature, vublicitv and promotion 
procedures, internal training pro~rammes, staff rules, to ensure that women 
and men enjoy equal opportunity for promotion and career development; 

(c) Revie;.r and revise, as necessary, staff rules and procedures covering 
assignments of married couples to the same duty station, maternity leave, 
part-time employment and flexible ;.rorkinc: hours; 

11 4. Invites the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination to review the 
situation regarding recruitment of and career development onportunities for 
women in the secretariats of the organizations and to submit periodic reports 
to the General Assembly incorporating specific proposals to achieve this 
objective from the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly omrards; 

··'5. Calls upon l1ember States to assist the United Nations and the 
specialized agencies to increase the proportion of uomen in the Professional 
category and above by nominating more ;.romen candidates and co-operating with 
the Secretary-General in the recruitment measures outlined in this 
resolution; 

11 6. Requests the Joint Inspection Unit to submit reports on the 
implementation of the provisions of this resolution to the thirty-fourth 
session. 11 

8. At the same meeting, the Chairman of the 'Horking Group orally revised the 
draft resolution as follovrs: 

(a) In section I, operative paragraph 1 (c), the words 11 and a list of 
candidates considered be supplied to Member States on request" were deleted; 

(b) In section I, operative paragraph 1 (f), the ;.rords "Regulations 
concerning· 1 were deleted. 

In addition, he said that consultations were beinP, pursued regarding the words nin 
the appointment of nationals to other vacancies, the priority should be given to 
countries which have not yet reached the upper levels of their desirable ranges, 
without prejudice to the principles of efficiency, competence and integrity", 
which vrere placed beti.reen square brackets in section II, operative paragraph 1, 
of the draft resolution. 

9. At the 55th meeting, on 8 December, the Chairman of the Working Group 
announced that agreement had been reached on the need to amend section III, 
operative paragraph 6, of draft resolution A/C.5/33/L.32 and that an alternative 
text would be submitted to the CorriDittee. 

10. At the 56th meeting, on 9 December, at the suggestion of the Chairman, the 
Committee considered a request by the Chairman of the Staff Committee of the Staff 
Council at Headquarters to be allowed to address the Committee on draft resolution 
A/C.5/33/L.32. The request was rejected by 39 votes to 16, with 22 abstentions. 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 7 

11. At the 57th meeting 9 on 12 December, the Chairman of the Working Group 
introduced a revised version of the draft resolution (A/C.5/33/L.32/Rev.l), in 
which: 

(a) In the fifth preambular paragraph, the \vords 11 and A/32/327 11 vTere added 
at the end of the paragraph; 

(b) In section I, operative paragraph 1 (g): 

( i) The 1-10rds ;'to the Professional category be limi ted11 vTere inserted 
between the words '~General Service categoryn and "to the P-1 and P-2 
levels'''; 

(ii) The words 1and post-secondary educational qualifications" were added at 
the end of the paragraph; 

(c) In section III, operative paragraph 6, the existing text was replaced by 
the follmdng: 

r;6. Requests the Joint Inspection Unit to continue to study and report 
on the provisions of this resolution dealing with personnel policy reforms 
and the improvement of the representation of women in Professional category 
and above in the United Nations system from the thirty-fifth session." 

(d) The following text was added as section IV of the draft resolution: 

111. Requests the Secretary-General to establish the qualifications and 
maximum levels of grades for various occupations of the General Service 
category in Geneva and finalize the classification of posts in the General 
Service category in Geneva before 30 April 1979; 

r'2. Further requests the Secretary-General to implement the 
recow~endations contained in document A/32/327 which will improve the 
efficiency of recruitment and effectiveness of the work of the General 
Service category in Geneva in co-operation with the agencies.n 

12. At the same meeting, the representative of Saudi Arabia proposed that the 
figure of 25 per cent in section I, operative paragraph 1 (g), should be replaced 
by 32 or 33 per cent, at the discretion of the Cow~ittee. 

13. At the same meeting, the representative of Belgium proposed that section IV, 
operative paragraph 1, should be amended through the insertion of the words 
11entrance level 11 between the words 11establish the~' and "qualifications 11 and the 
insertion of the words non the basis of the level of equivalent grades in 
New York 11 between the word "Genevan and the words 11and finalize 1'. 

14. At the same meeting, the representative of Japan asked for the carrying out 
of resolution 31/193 B, section II, of 22 December 1976 concerning non-payment of 
salary to staff members in respect of periods of unauthorized absence from work 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 8 

through the issuance of a relevant staff regulation. A note by the Secretary-
General containinG a proposed text for the regulation was subsequently circulated 
as a Conference Room Paper. 

15. At the 58th meeting, on 12 December, the Chairman of the Uorkin15 Group 
introduced a second revised version of the draft resolution (A/C.5/33/L.32/Rev.2). 
The amendments were as follous : 

(a) In section I, operative paragraph 1 (g), the 1.rords ;'25 per cent>~ had 
been placed between square brackets, pursuant to the proposal of the representative 
of Saudi Arabia at the 57th meetin~; 

(b) In section II, operative paragraph 
brackets had been replaced by the follmri ng: 
representation of countries w·hich are within 
and the brackets had been removed; 

1, the text that was bet•reen square 
11while ensuring that the 

desirable ranges does not decrease 11 

(c) In section IV, operative paragraph l, the amendments proposed by the 
representative of Belgium at the 57th meeting had been incorporated; 

(d) In section IV, operative paragraph 2, the following text had been added 
at the end of the paragraph: "in the light of the observations of the 
Administrative Committee on Co-ordination in document A/33/129 and taking into 
account the comments of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions in document A/ 33/7 (Paras. 4 3-4 7) ". 

16. At the same meeting, the representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics suggested the addition of the •rords nand respecting the princiPle of 
equitable geographical distribution in respect of these posts" at the end of 
section II, operative paragraph 4. 

17. At the same meeting, the representative of France proposed the deletion of 
the words "and post-secondary educational qualifications a from section I, 
operative paragraph 1 (g), of the draft resolution. 

18. At the same meeting, the representative of Australia suggested the following 
drafting changes: 

(a) In section I, operative paragraph 1 (a) , inserting the >vords :'by Member 
States 11 bet,veen the words 11 submission\j and "of candidates 01 ; 

(b) In section II, operative paragraph 3, replacement of the text following 
the words "suitable replacement" bv the following: 11which shall be initially 
until the end of 1979 and thereafter not normally for more than six months after 
the established age of retirement". 

19. At the 59th meetin~, on 13 December, the representative of India proposed 
that the figure of 25 per cent placed between square brackets in section I, 
operative paragraph 1 (g), should be replaced by the figure of 30 per cent. 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 9 

20. At the same meetin~, at the suggestion of the representative of Saudi Arabia, 
the Commdttee considered whether it should not accept any further amendments and 
take a decision on draft resolution A/C.5/33/L.32/Rev.2 as it stood, leaving the 
Secretary-General to take into account the points made during the debate. The 
Chairman of the Working Group specified that such a proposal would imply the 
removal of the square brackets in section I, operative paragraph 1 (g), and at 
the same time accepted the incorporation of the drafting changes proposed at the 
58th meeting by the representative of Australia. The representative of Belgium, 
supported by the representatives of Barbados and India, proposed that such a 
decision should not be made extensive to section IV of the draft resolution. 
The Committee then decided, without objection, not to accept any further amendments 
to sections I to III of A/C.5/33/L.32/Rev.2 and to take a decision on the text 
as it stood. 

21. At the same meeting, the representative of Belgium proposed to amend 
operative paragraph 1 of section IV through the insertion of the words 11 for the 
same occupations'; between the words 11equivalent grades" and the words "in New York11 • 

22. At the 6lst meeting, on 14 December, the representative of the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics requested that draft resolution A/C.5/33/L.32/Rev.2, 
except for section IV, should be put to the vote. The representative of Chad 
requested a recorded vote. 

23. The Committee subsequently adopted sections I to III of draft resolution 
A/C.5/33/L.32/Rev.2, except for section IV, by a recorded vote of 81 to none, 
with 8 abstentions (see para. 27 below). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, 
Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, 
Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Congo, Costa Rica, 
Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, 
France, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal 
Republic of, Greece, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, 
Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Kenya, Ku-vrait, Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Hauritania, Mexico, Horocco, Mozambique, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, 
Panama, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Senegal, 
Singapore, Spain, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, 
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United 
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United 
States of America, Uruguay, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: None. 

Abstaining: Bulgaria, Bvelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, 
Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics. 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 10 

24. At the same meeting, the representative of Barbados proposed to re~lace the 
words 11 in the light of the observations 11 , between the word 11agencies '1 and the 
words "of the Administrative Comnittee on Co-ordination11 in section IV, operative 
paragraph 2, by the following: 11with due regard to the need for econorr~y as 
suggested in the report n. 

25. The Committee subsequently adopted by consensus section IV of draft resolution 
A/C.5/33/L.32/Rev.2, as amended by the renresentatives of Barbados and Bel~ium 
(see para. 27 below). 

26. At its 6lst meeting, on 14 December, the Corrndttee decided, without 
objection, to approve the text of a new staff regulation in pursuance of 
section II· of General Assembly resolution 31/193 B of 22 December 1976 
concerning non-payment of salary to staff members in resnect of periods of 
unauthorized absence from work, to be incorporated into the Staff Regulations 
of the United Nations as paragraph 10 of annex I entitled 10Salary scales and 
related provisions" (see para. 28 belmr). 

III. RECOMf1ENDATIOHS OF THE FIFTH Cmill'HTTEE 

27. The Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

Personnel questions 

The General Assembly, 

Having examined the reports of the Secretary-General on the composition of 
the Secretariat 1/ and personnel policy reforms, ~/ 

Concerned that the reforms of personnel policy as well as the implementation 
of the various resolutions on the composition of the Secretariat are proceeding 
too slowly and a coherent personnel policy has not yet been realized, 

Concerned about the urgent need to secure an improved representation of 
developing countries at senior and policy-making levels and reiterating the 
objective of achieving adequate representation of hitherto unrepresented and 
under-represented countries, 

Reaffirming that the paramount consideration in the employment of staff at 
every level is the need for the highest standards of efficiency, competence and 
integrity and convinced that this is compatible with the principles of equitable 
geographical distribution, 

1/ A/33/176. 

2/ A/C.5/33/2. 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 11 

Taking note with appreciation of the reports of the Joint Inspection Unit 
on the implementation of the personnel policy reforms approved by the General 
Assembly in 1974, 3/ ·vromen in the Professional category and above in the United 
Nations system 4/ and General Service staff of the United Nations and Geneva-based 
specialized agencies, 2/ 

Helcoming the intention of the Secretary-General to launch a plan of action 
to improve the geographical distribution of the Secretariat during 1979-1980, 

Concerned about the need to improve the proportion of >mmen in the Secretariat 
within the context of equitable geo~raphical distribution, 

Calling upon the SecretarJ-General and all the United Nations organizations 
to put an end to any form of discrimination based on sex, as laid down in 
Article 8 of the Charter of the United Nations, in conditions of employment, 
recruitment, promotion and training and to ensure that the opportunities for 
employment and promotion of "~>TOmen in the United Nations system are equal to those 
of men, 

I 

1. Requests the Secretary-General to adopt the followin~ measures and 
guidelines regarding recruitment of Professional staff: 

(a) Bulletins containing a statement of all existing vacancies as well as 
all those expected to arise in the course of the folloving year should be issued 
every six months, in order to facilitate the submission by Member States of 
candidates for recruitment; 

(b) Publicity should be given re~arding recruitment of personnel in 
co-operation with Hember States, inter alia, through United Nations offices, 
universities, professional organizations, including women's organizations whenever 
appropriate, to fulfil the recruitment policies outlined in the present resolution; 

(c) Composition of the roster of candidates should be improved in order to 
make it more geographically representative and make it better reflect the 
recruitment needs of the Secretariat among various occupational groups as well 
as to increase the number of women in the roster; prior to filling a vacancy 
a thorough search should be made of the roster for suitable candidates; 

(d) Professional staff of the United Nations should be encouraged to work in 
more than one duty station and satisfactory performance during such tours of duty 
should be considered an additional positive factor in evaluating them for promotion; 

l/ A/33/228. 
!!./ A/33/105. 
2) A/32/327. 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 12 

(e) Information on the over-all results of the staff performance review 
should be made available to the General Assembly; 

(f) Definition of occupational groups together with criteria for new 
definition of such groups should be established and a list of occupational groups 
for General Service and Professional categories along -vri th standards for entry, 
promotion and rotation of staff should be dravn up; 

(g) Movement of staff from the General Service category to the Professional 
category should be limited to the P-1 and P-2 levels and be permitted up to 
25 per cent of the total posts available for appointment at those levels and 
such recruitment should be conducted exclusively through competitive methods of 
selection from General Service staff with at least five years' experience and 
post-seconda~J educational qualifications; 

(h) Competitive methods of recruitment should be used in consultation with 
the Governments concerned, organized on a national, subregional or regional basis, 
for selection of staff at the P-1 and P-2 levels with a view to making the 
geographical distribution of posts in the Secretariat more equitable; 

(i) Necessary measures should be devised to protect the confidentiality and 
objectivity of the methods of selection described above and to ensure that the 
methods of testing take into account the cultural and linguistic diversity of 
the membership of the United Nations; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to report on the implementation of the 
above measures, with detailed numerical data >-The rever appropriate, to the 
General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session; 

II 

1. Requests the Secretary-General to establish a target of 40 per cent of 
all vacancies arising in Professional posts subject to geographical distribution 
during the period 1979-1980 for the appointment of nationals of unrepresented and 
under-represented countries in order to ensure that all such countries achieve 
their desirable ranges during that biennium, while ensuring that the 
representation of countries which are within desirable ranges does not decrease; 

2. Reaffirms that no post should be considered the exclusive preserve of any 
Member State, or group of States, and requests the Secretary-General to ensure 
that this principle is applied faithfully in accordance with the principle of 
equitable geographical distribution; 

3. Requests the Secretary-General to apply the reg~lations regarding the 
age of retirement and not grant extensions beyond the established age of 
retirement except for the minimum time required to find a suitable replacement 
which shall be initially until the end of 1979 and thereafter not normally for 
more than six months after the established age of retirement; 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 13 

4. Requests the Secretary-General to take further steps to increase the 
representation of developing countries at senior and policy-making levels during 
1979-1980 in implementing the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly; 

5. Requests the Secretary-General to reduce the average age of staff at the 
P-1 and P-2 levels to thirty-five by taking necessary measures for recruitment 
of young professional persons and the enhancement of their career opportunities 
within the United Nations; 

6. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a progress report to the General 
Assembly at its thirty-fourth session and a final report to the Assembly at its 
thirty-fifth session on the implementation of the steps described above; 

7. Expresses appreciation for the work of the Panel to Investi~ate 
Allegations of Discriminatory Treatment in the United Nations Secretariat and 
requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide the Panel with the 
necessary facilities for its activities; 

III 

1. Requests the Secreta~J-General to take the necessary measures to increase 
the number of women in posts subject to geographical distribution to 25 per cent 
of the total over a four-year period in accordance with the principle of equitable 
geographical distribution and requests other United Nations organizations similarly 
to establish targets for this purpose; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the other 
organizations within the United Nations system to issue, in accordance with the 
principle of equitable geographical distribution, policy statements and directives 
necessary to foster equal employment and career development opportunities for 
women; 

3. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations and the other 
organizations within the United Nations system, in pursuit of these objectives: 

(a) To ensure that women are henceforth fairly represented in personnel 
advisory and administrative boards; 

(b) To review existing recruitment literature, publicity and promotion 
procedures, internal training prog,raiTmes and staff rules in order to ensure that 
women and men enjoy equal opportunity for promotion and career development; 

(c) To review and revise, as necessary, staff rules and procedures covering 
assignments of married couples to the same duty station, maternity leave, part-time 
employment and flexible worl~ing hours; 

4. Invites the Administrative Committee on Co-ordination to review the 
situation regarding recruitment of and career development opportunities for women 
in the secretariats of the organizations and to submit periodic reports to the 
General Assembly incorporating specific proposals to achieve this objective from 
the thirty-fourth session of the Assembly onwards; 

I . .. 



A/33/525 
English 
Page 14 

5. Calls upon Member States to assist the United Nations and the specialized 
agencies to increase the proportion of women in the Professional cate8ory and above 
by nominating more women candidates and co-operating 1-1ith the Secretary-General in 
the recruitment measures outlined in the present resolution; 

6. Requests the Joint Inspection Unit to continue to study and report on 
the provisions of the present resolution dealing with personnel policy reforms 
and the improvement of the representation of women in the Professional category 
and above in the United Nations system from the thirty-fifth session of tbe 
General Assembly onwards; 

IV 

1. Requests the Secretary-General to establish the entrance level 
qualifications and maximum levels of grades for various occupations of the 
General Service category at Geneva on the basis of the levels of equivalent grades 
for the same occupations in New York and finalize the classification of posts in 
the General Service category at Geneva before 30 April 1979; 

2. Further requests the Secretary-General to implement the recommendations 
of the Joint Inspection Unit contained in its report on General Service staff of 
the United Natio~s and Geneva-based specialized agencies 6/ I·Thich will improve the 
efficiency of recruitment and effectiveness of the work of the General Service 
category at Geneva in co-operation with the agencies with due regard to the need 
for economy as suggested in the report of the Administrative Committee on 
Co-ordination 7/ and taking into account the comments of the Advisory Committee 
on Administrative and Budgetary Questions in paragraphs 43 to 47 of its first 
report to the General Assembly at its thirty-third session. ~ 

28. The Fifth Committee also recommends that the General Assembly should adopt 
the following text to be incorporated into the Staff Regulations of the United 
Nations as paragraph 10 of annex I, entitled "Salary scales and related 
provisions; 1 : 

nlO. No salary shall be paid to staff members in respect of periods of 
unauthorized absence from work unless such absence was caused by reasons 
beyond their control or duly certified medical reasons." 

§} A/32/327. 

1/ A/33/129. 
§j A/33/7. 




