








































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/33/460 j&~, I
9 December 1978

ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Thirty-third session
Agenda item 24

I!WLEM&~TATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING
OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES

Chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Grantin~ of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples relatinp, to specific Territories

not covered by other agenda items

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Daniel DE LA PEDRAJA (Mexico)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 22 September 1978, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of its
thirty-third session an item entitled:

"Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples:

"(a) Report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
COlonial Countries and Peoples;

"(b) Report of the Secretary-General".

At its 5th plenary meeting, on the same day, the Assembly decided to allocate to the
Fourth Committee those chapters of the report of the Special Committee relating to
specific Territories.

2. The chapters of the Special Committee I s report concerning the Territories which
were not covered by other agenda items related to the following specific
Territories:

78-30635 1.0.



A/33/460
English
Page 2

Territory

Western Sahara

Gibraltar

Cocos :Kccling: Islands

Ne" Hebrides

Tokelau

Br-urie i

Pitcairn

Gilbert Islands

St. Eelena

American Samoa

Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

Bermuda

British Virgin Islands

l-lcnt.se r-r-at.

'I'urks and Caicos Islands

Cayman Es Lar.da

Uni t.ed States Virgin Islands

Guam

Falklalld Islands (Malvinas)

Belize

Antigua, Dominica, 1/ St. Kitts-Nevis-
Angui l La , St. Luc"ia and St. Vincent

Solomon Islands ~

Tuvalu ]/

Relevant chapter of the report
of the Special Committee

A/33/23/Add.3 and Corr.l, chap. IX

A/33/23/Add.3, chap. XI

A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XII

A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XIII

A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XIV

A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XV

A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XVI

A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XVII

A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XVIII

A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XIX

A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XX

A/33/23/Add.5, chap. XXI

A/33/23/Add.5, chap. XXII

A/33/23/Add.5, chap. XXIII

A/33/23/Add.5, chap. XXIV

A/33/23/Add.5, chap. XXV

A/33/23/Add.5, chap. XXVI

A/33/23/Add.6, chap. XXVII

A/33/23/Add.1, chap. XXVIII

A/33/23/Add.1, chap. XXIX

A/33/23/Add.8, chap. XXX

A/33/23/Add.8, chap. XXXI

A/33/23/Add.8, chap. XXXII

3. At its 3rd meeting, on 16 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 24, 92, 94, 96 and 12, 91 and 98, on the
understanding that individual draft resolutions on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

~ Dominica acceded to independence on 3 November 1918.

~ Solomon Islands acceded to independence on I July 1918.

}/ Tuvalu acceded to independence on 1 October 1918.

/ ....



A!33!460
English
Page 3

4. The Fourth Committee considered item 24 at its 20th to 33rd meetings, between
16 November and 5 December.

5. At the 20th meeting, on 16 November, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced the chapters
of the report of that Committee referred to in paragraph 2 above. The Fourth
Committee also had before it the following communications addressed to the
Secretary-General:

(a) Letters from Argentina dated 30 January and 21 August 1978
(A!33!57 and A!33!210);

(b) Letter from the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
dated 30 January 1978 (A!33!58);

(c) Letters from the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics dated 17 February,
24 May, 26 June and 14 August 1978 (A!33!59-S!12569, A!33!108, A!33!156 and
A!33!205-S!12811);

(d) Letter from France and the United Kingdom dated 11 April 1978 (A!33!80);

(e) Note verbale from Cuba dated 2 June 1978 (A!33!118);

(f) Letter from Senegal dated 14 June 1978 (A!33!151);

(g) Letter from Yugoslavia dated 6 September 1978 (A!33!206);

(h) Note verbale from Jamaica dated 29 September 1978 (A!33!278);

(i) Letters from Sri Lanka dated 2 October and 2 and 24 November 1978
(A!33!279-S!12875, A!33!355-S!12914 and A!33!390-S!12936);

(j) Letters from Algeria dated 5 October and 28 November 1978
(A!33!289, A!33!297);

(k) Letter from the Sudan dated 7 November 1978 (A!33!364).

In addition, the Fourth Committee had before it a communication dated
21 November 1978 from Cuba, addressed to its Chairman (A!c.4!33!14).

6. Further, the Fourth Committee had before it the report of the Secretary-General
(A!33!337) submitted in accordance with General Assembly resolution 32!22 of
28 November 1977 on the question of Western Sahara.

7. At its 22nd meeting, on 21 November, the Fourth Committee heard a statement by
Mr. George Kalsakau, Chief Minister of the New Hebrides.

/ ...



A!33/460
English
Page 4

8. At its 29th meeting, on 30 November, the Fourth Committee heard a statement by
Mr. C. L. B. Rogers, Deputy Premier of Belize.

9. The Fourth Committee granted the following requests for hearing in connextion
with its consideration of the item:

Meeting at which reguest
Petitioner for hearing was granted

Mr. Hakim Adel, Mr. Madjid Abdullah,
Mr. Yacoub Salem and ~tt. Tinguiri Mansour Omar,
Frente Popular para la Liberacion de Saguia
el Hamra y RlO de Oro (Frente POLISARIO)
(A/C.4/33/S) 8th

Mr. A. M. Azahari Al-Haj, President,
Mr. Yasin Affandy, Secretary-General, and
l1r. Mahmud Saedon A. Othman, Head, Foreign
Affairs Bureau, Partai Rakyat Brunei (PRB)
(People's Party of Brunei) (A/c.4/33/8) 8th

Mr. Alexander Vernon, Secretary-General,
Mr. Anthony Martlnez, Chairman,
Toledo Progressive Party of Belize,
Mr. Manuel Cirilo Caliz, Vice-President,
Belize Maya-Kekchi Committee (A/C.4/33/12) 21st

Mr. A. G. Kalkoa, Vice-Chairman, Executive
Committee, Vanuaaku Pati (A/c.4/33/13) 22nd

10. Mr. Omar made statements at the 22nd meeting, on 21 November, and, with the
Committee's consent, at the 30th meeting, on 1 December. Mr. Martlnez,
Mr. Vernon and Mr. Cirilo Caliz made statements at the 23rd meeting, on
22 November. Mr. Kalkoa made a statement at the 23rd meeting. Representatives of
the Partai Rakyat Brunei did not appear before the Committee.

11. At the 22nd meeting, on the proposal of the representatives of Benin and
Madagascar and following a statement by the Secretary of the Committee concerning
the related administrative and financial implications, as well as statements by
the representatives of Saudi Arabia, New Zealand and Oman, the Fourth Committee
decided that the statement made at that meeting by Mr. Omar concerning the question
of Western Sahara, should be reproduced as a Committee document (A/C.4/33/L.22).
At its 24th meeting, on 22 November, on the proposal of the representatives of
Guyana and Cape Verde and following a statement by the Chairman concerning the
related administrative and financial implications, the Committee decided without
objection that the statement made at that meeting by the representative of Algeria
should be reproduced as a Committee document (A/C.4/33/L.29). At its 29th meeting,

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 5

on the proposal of the representatives of Egypt and SeneBal and following statements
by the representatives of Guinea-Bissau and Morocco, as well as by the Chairman
concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the Committee
decided that the statement made at that meeting by the representative of Morocco
should be reproduced as a Committee docureent (A/c.4/33/L.30). At its 30th meeting,
on the proposal of the representatives of Benin and Democratic Yemen and following
statements by the representative of the United States of America as well as by the
Chairman concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the
Committee decided that the statement made at that meeting by Ilr. Omar, concerning
the question of Western Sahara, should be reproduced as a Committee document
(A/C.4/33/L.3l). At its 31st meeting, on 4 December, on the proposal of the
representatives of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar and Equatorial Guinea and
following a statement by the Chairman concerning the related administrative and
financial implications, the Committee decided without objection that the statement
made at that meeting by the representative of Algeria should be reproduced as a
Committee document (A/c.4/33/L.33). At its 32nd meeting, on 5 December, on the
proposal of the representative of Zaire and following a statement by the Chairman
concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the Committee
decided without objection that the statement made at that meeting by the
representative of Morocco should be reproduced as a Committee document
(A/c.4/33/L.34).

12. At its 23rd meeting, on 22 November, on the proposal of the representatives of
El Salvador and Costa Rica and following a statement by the Chairman concerning
the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth Committee decided
without objection that the statements made at that meeting by Hr. Mart'lnez,
Mr. Vernon and Mr. Cirilo Caliz concerning Belize should be reproduced as
Committee documents (A/c.4/33/L.26, L.27 erd L.28).

13. At its 25th meeting, on 24 November, on the proposal of the representative of
Australia and following a statement by the Chairman concerning the related
administrative and financial implications, the Fourth Committee decided without
objection that the statement made during the meeting by the Legal Counsel of the
United Nations (see para. 15 below) should be reproduced as a Committee document
(AI c. 4/33/15).

14. The general debate covering the items referred to in paragraph 3 above took
place at the 21st to 32nd meetings, between 20 November and 5 December,

15. At its 25th meeting, on 24 November, the Fourth Committee decided, by 89 votes
to 26, with 7 abstentions, to secure the advice of the Office of Legal Affairs in
connexion with document A/c.4/33/l4, referred to in paragraph 5 above. At the same
meeting, the Legal Counsel of the United Nations made a statement (A/c.4/33/l5).

16. At its 26th meeting, on 27 November, the Committee agreed that the Chairman
be authorized to bring to the attention of the President of the General Assembly
document A/C. II/33/l4 for such treatment as he mil'ht deem appropr-Lat.e .

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 6

11. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

17. In connexion with item 24, the Fourth Committee adopted eieht draft
resolutions and four draft consensuses concerning the following Territories:

A. Gibraltar

B. Tokelau

C. St. Eelena

D. Cocos (Keeling) Islands

E. New Hebrides

F. VTestern Sahara

G. American Samoa

H. Guam

I. United States Virgin Islands

J. Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos Islands
and Cayman Islands.

K. Belize

An account of the Committee's consideration of the draft resolutions and the draft
consensuses is given in subsections A to K below.

18. At its 33rd meeting, on 5 December, the Fourth Committee took decisions
concerning the questions of Brunei, of Pitcairn, of the Falkland Islands (l1alvinas)
and of the Gilbert Islands (see para. 55 below, draft decision I).

19. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee also took a decision concerning the
question of Antigua, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, St. Lucia and St. Vincent (see
para. 55 below, draft decision 11). In taking this decision, the Fourth Committee
noted that, subject to any directives ,rhich the General Assembly might give in
that connexion, the Special Committee had decided to give consideration to the
question at its next session.

A. Gibraltar

20. On 24 November, a draft consensus concerning Gibraltar (A/c.4/33/L.12) was
circulated.

21. At its 30th meeting, on 1 December, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
consensus A/c.4/33/L.12 without objection (see para. 54 be Lotr draft consensus I).

/ ...



A!33/1.60
English
Page 7

B. Tokelau

22. On 24 November, a draft consensus concerning Tokelau (A/C.4/33/L.13) >~s
circulated.

23. At its 30th meetin~, on 1 December, following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee under rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly
concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth
Committee adopted draft consensus A/c.4/33/L.13 without objection (see para. 54
below, draft consensus 11).

c. St. Helena

24. On 24 November, a draft consensus concerning st. Helena (A/c.4/33/L.14) was
circulated.

25. At its 30th meeting, on 1 December, following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee under rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly
concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth
Committee adopted draft consensus A/C.4/33/L.14 without objection (see para. 54
below, draft consensus Ill).

D. Cocos (Kee~in8) Islands

26. At the 26th meeting, on 27 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
consensus concerning the Cocos (Keeling) Islands (A/c.4/33/L.18).

27. At its 30th meeting, on I December, following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee under the terms of rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly concerning the related administrative and financial implications,
the Fourth Committee adopted draft consensus A/C.4/33/L.l8 without objection
(see para. 54 beLov, draft consensus IV).

E. Ne" Hebrides

28. On 22 November, a draft resolution concerning the ~ew Hehrides (A/c.4/33/L.Il)
,ras circulated, which was finally sponsored by the follouing 11ember States:
Australia, Canada, India, Indonesia, Japan, !Ialavsia, Ne>' Zealand, Papua Ne" Guinea,
Philippines, Samoa, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sweden and United Republic of
Tanzania.

29. At its 32nd meeting, on 5 December, following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee under rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly
concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth
Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.ll witho~t objection (see para. 53
below, draft resolution I).

I . . .



A/33/460
English
Page 8

F. vlestern Sahara

30. On 21 November, a draft resolution concerning Western Sahara (A/c.4/33/L.7)
vas oi.r-cul.at.ed , wh.ic h "as finally sponsored by the follmdnu; Hember States:
r,fghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Benin, Bots"ana, Burundi, Cane Verde, Congo, Cuba,
C\~rus~ Democratic Yemen~ Eauatorial Guinea~ Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Jamaica,
Lao People's Democratic Renublic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Ibzambique,
Panama, R"anda, Sao Tome and Principe, Seychelles, Toga, United Republic of
T'anzania and Vie-c Farn.

31. On the same day, a draft resolution concerning Western Sahara (A/c.4/33/L.8)
'ms circulated, vrri ch was finally sponsored by the following Member States: Egypt,
Gabon, Gambia, Guatemala, Jordan, 11aurit ius, .Q!!!!ill., Qatar, Senegal and Zaire.

32. On 24 November, the sponsors of draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.8, now
1182Fitania and Morocco, submitted a revi,;ed text (A/c.4/33/L.8/Rev.l).
draft resolution contained the f'o.ll.owi.ng changes:

joined by
The revised

(a) The following new p~ragraph wa,; added as the first preambular paragraph:

"Recallinp; its resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 Decemt>er 1960 and 1541 (XV)
of 15 December 1960,"

(b) Operative paragraph 2 of draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.8, which read:

"2. Trusts in the ad hoc Committee to cons i de'r all the data on the
question of \·Jestern Sahara; if

"as replaced by:

"2. Expr-esses its confidence that the ad hoc Committee viII consider
all the data on the question of Hestern Sahara ,rith a view to convening an
extraordinary summit mE'eting of the Or"anization of African Unity;>;

(c)

find

The following new paragraph was added as operative paragraph 3:

"3. Invites the Organization of African Unity to take prompt action to
a just and equitable settlement of the question of Western Sahara;"

33. On the same day, the sponsors of draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.7, who Were
SUbsequently joined by Barbados, Kenya, LE'sotho, the Syrian Arab Republic and
Trinidad and Tobago, submitted a revised text (A/c.4/33/L.7/Rev.l), by which the
follo"ing ne" paragraph vas added as the penultimatE' preambular paragraph:

"Reiterat ing it s fervent hope that, by the time of the thirty-fourth
session of the General Assembly, the Organization of African Unity "ill have
found, pursuant to the resolutions vhich it adopted at its thirteenth,
fourteenth and fifteenth ordinary sessions on the question of Hestern Sahara,
a solution to this problem in accordance "ith the right of peoples to self-
determination set forth in resolution 1514 (XV)," -

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 9

34. At the 30th meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Guyana introduced
the revised draft resolution (A/c.4/33/L.71Rev.l) referred to in paragraph 33
above.

35· At the 32nd meeting, on 5 December, the representative of Gabon introduced
the revised draft resolution (A/c.4/33/L.8/Rev.l) referred to in paragraph 32
above.

36. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted revised draft
resolution A/c.4/33/L.7/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 86 to 11, with 39 abstentions
(see para. 53 below, draft resolution 11 Al. The voting was as follo;,s:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeri~, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cape Verde, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, D.Jibouti, Ecuador, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Jamaica, Kenya, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, l'alaysia,
Maldives, Mali, l'alta, Mex i co , ;"'ongolia, Nozambique, Ne"
Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Phili~pines, Poland, Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and
Principe, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Sinsapore, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, &,aziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic of Tanzania,
Venezeula, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against: Central African Empire, Comor-o s , Fgypt, Gabon, Guatemala,
Indonesia, Israel, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Zaire.

Abstaining: Bahrain, Belgium, Burma, Canada, Chad, Chile, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, El Salvador, France, Gambia, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Grenada, Honduras, Iran, Ireland, Italy, Ivory
Coast, Japan, Jordan, Ku"ait, Lebanon, Luxembourg, Nepal,
Netherlands, Oman, Portugal, Qatar, Senegal, Sudan, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon,
United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay.

37. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.4/33/L.8/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 61 to 25, with 45 abstentions
(see para. 53 below, draft resolution 11 B). The voting was as follo"s:

In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia,
Brazil, Central African Empire, Chile, Colombia, Comoros,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, Gabon, Gambia,
Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran,

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 10

Israel, Jordan, Lesotho, Liberia, Malaysia, !Ialdives, Mali,
nauritania, Hauritius~ Horocco, Nepal, New Zeala.nd, Nicaragua,
Nic;er, Nort,ray, Oman 9 Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Senegal,
Sierra Leone) Sinrapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan j Suriname,
S"aziland, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab
Einirates, United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Zaire.

Against: Afghanistan, Algeria, Anf,ola, Barbados, Benin, Burundi, Cape
Verde, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic Yemen, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Jamaica, Kenya, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mozambique, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Syrian Arab Republic, United Republic of Tanzania,
Yugoslavia.

Abstaining: Bahamas, Belgium, Bhutan, Bot.srrana , Bulr;aria, Burma, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Chad, Costa Rica,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Djibouti, El Salvador, Fiji, France,
German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Repnblic of, Greece,
Hungary, India, Ireland, Ital,r, Ivory Coast, Japan, Kuwait,
Lebanon, Luxembourg, Mexico, :~ongolia, Netherlands, Nigeria,
Panama, Papua Ne,., Guinea, Poland, Portugal, Samoa, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Repuhlic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republic s , United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Repuhlic of Cameroon, Venezuela,
Zambia.

G. American Samoa

38. At the 26th meeting, on 27 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution concerning American Samoa (A/c.4/33/L.15) which Has finally sponsored
by the following l1ember States: Australia, Dominican Republic, Fi,H, Indonesia,
Japan, l1alaysia, New Zea~, Papua ll",., Guinea, ~, Sierra Leone, SiTI/l'apore
and United RepUblic of Tanzania.

39. At the 29th meeting, on 30 November, the representative of Australia, on
behalf of the sponsors, introduced a revised text of the draft resolution
(A/c.4/33/t.15/Rev.l), by which:

(a) Operative paragraph 7 of draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.15, which read:

"7. Calls upon the administering POHer to take all possible steps to
diversifY the economy of American Samoa and in order to work out concrete
progr-ammes of assistance and economic development for the Territory;"

was replaced by:

"7. Calls upon the e,dministerin@: Pewer to t ake all possible steps to
strengthen and diversifY the economy of American Samoa in order to "ork out
concrete programmes of assistance and economic development for the Terri tOIJ';"

/ ...



A/33/460
English
·Page 11

(b) Operative paragraph 9 of draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.15, which read:

"9. Urges the administering Power, with the co-operation of the
Government of }~erican Samoa, to safeguard the inalienable right of the people
of the Territory to the enjoyment of their natural resources by taldnr
effective measures which guarantee the right of the people to own and dispose
of those natural resources and to establish and maintain control of their
future development;"

was replaced by:

"9. Urges the administering P01Jer, ,dth the co-operation of the freely
elected authorities and representatives of the people of American Samoa, to
s.af'egua.rd the inalienable right of the people of the Territory to the
enjo)'ffient of their natural resources by taking effective measures which
guarantee the right of the people to O'TTl and dispose of those natural
resources and to establish and maintain control of their future deve.Lopmerrt ;"

40. At its 33rd meeting, on 5 December, following a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee under rule 153 of the rule of procedur-e of the General Assembly
concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth
Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.15/Rev.1 without objection (see
para. 53 below, draft resolution Ill).

H. Guam

41. At the 26th meeting, on 21 November, the Chairman drew attention to a
draft resolution concerning Guam (A/c.4/33/L.16) which ,ras sponsored by the
following Member States: Australia, Dominican Republic, Japan, New Zealand,
~a Ne'" Guinea, Samoa and Sierra Le;;-;;:;.----·

42. At the 29th meeting, on 30 November, the representative of Australia, on
behalf of the sponsors, who were subsequently joined by Costa Rica, introduced a
revised text of the draft resolution (A/c.4/33/L.16/Rev.l), by which:

(a) Operative paragraph 6 of draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.16, which read:

"6. Calls upon the administering Power to take all possible steps to
diversify the economy of the Territory and to work out concrete prograw~es of
assistance and economic development for Guam;"

was replaced by:

"6. Calls upon the administering Power to take all possible steps to
strengthen and diversify the economy of Guam and to work out concrete
programmes of assistance and economic development for the Territory;"

(b) OperativE' paragraph 1 of draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.16, which read:

/ ...



A!33!460
English
Page 12

"7. Reaffirms its stronz conviction that the presence of United States
bases on Guam should not prevent the people of the Territory from freely
exercising their right to self-determination in accordance with the Declaration
and >rith the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations;"

was replaced by:

"7. Recalls its relevant resolutions concerning military bases in
colonial and Fon-Self-Governing Territories, recognizes that the presence of
military bases could constitute a factor impeding the implementation of the
Declaration and reaffirms its strong conviction that the presence of military
bases in Gusm should not prevent the people of the Territory from exercising
their inalienable right to self-determination and independence in accordance
with the Declaration and the purposes and principles of the Charter of the
United Nations;"

(c) Operative p~ragraph 8 of draft resolution A!c.4!33!L.16, which read:

"8. Urp;es the administering Power, in co-oneration lTith the Government
of Guam, to safeguard the inalienable right of the people of the Territory
to the enjoyment of its natural resources, by taking effective measureS
which guarantee the right of the people to own and dispose of those natural
resources and to establish and maintain control of their future development;"

>ras repl~ced by:

"8. Urp;es the administering Pover , in co-operation with the freely
elected authorities and representatives of the people of Guam, to safeguard
the inalienable right of the people of the Territory to the enjoyment of
its natural resources, by taking effective measures which guarantee the right
of the people to own and dispose of those natural resources and to establish
and maintain control of their future development;"

(d) Operative paragraph 10 of draft resolution A!c.4!33!L.16, which read:

"10. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways
and means for the implementation of the Declaration with respect' to Guam,
ircluding the dispatch of a visiting mission in consultation with the
administering Power, to observe the constitutional referendum and conditions
in Guam, and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session
on the implementation of the present resolution."

was replaced by:

"10. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways
and means for the implementation of the Declaration with respect to Guam,
including the dispatch of a visiting mission in consultation >rith the
administering Power, to observe the constitutional referendum, to acquire
first-hand information on the situation in the Territory and to ascertain
the views of the people of Guam concerninG their future political status,
and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session on the
implementation of the present reSOlution."

I



A/33/460
English
Page 13

43. At its 33rd meeting, on 5 December, foUo,dne: a statement by the Secretary
of the Committee under rule 153 of the lCules of procedure of the GenelCal Assembly
concerning the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth
Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.lh!Rev,1 without objection (see
para. 53 below, draft resolution IV).

r. United States Vi:ridn Islands

44. At the 26th meeting, on 27 November, the Chairman drew attention to a
draft resolution concerning the United States Virgin Islands (A/C.4/33/L.17)
which was sponsored by th", fol101,ing .\'Iember St ates : AustlCalia, Bahamas,
J2.!2.l!tinican Republic, Fi,ji, Haiti, Japan, Hexico, HH' Zealand and Trin.j:'"d.ad and
Tobago.

45. At the 29th meeting, on 30 NovembelC, the representative of Australia, on
behalf of the sponsors, now joined by !laIi and Tunisia, introduced a revised text
of the draft resolution (A/C.4/33/L.17(Rev.l), by which:

{a} Operative paragranh 4 of draft resolution A/c.4/33/L.17, which read:

"4. Requests the Government of the United States of America, as the
administerin!\ Pover, to continue to take all necessary measures, in
consultation "ith the Government of the United States Virgin Islands, to
enable the people of the Territory to exercise fully their right to self-
determination in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter of
the United Nations and the Decl.az-at.Lon;"

was replaced by:

"4. Reguests the Government of the United States of America, as the
administering Power, to continue to take all necessary measures, in
consultation with the freely elected authorities and representatives of tJ
people of the United States Virgin Islands, to enable the people of the I
Territory to exercise fully their lCight to self-determination in accordar I
with the relevant provisions of the Charter of the United ~lations ana th,
Declaration'" I,

(b) Operative paragraph 6 of draft resolution A/C.4/33/L.IT, which rea' I

"6. Urlles thE' administering Pctrez , "ith the co-operation of the
Government of the United States Virgin Islands, to safeguard the inali'l
right of the people of the Territory to the enjoyment of its natural
resources by taking effective measures which guarantee the ri~ht of tl I
people to mm and dispose of those natural resources and to establish I
maintain control of their future development;"

was replaced by:

"6. Urf1;es the administering Power, in consultation with the fx



A/33/460
English
Page 14

elected authorities and representatives of the people of the United States
Virgin Islands, to safeguard the inalienable right of the people of the
Territory to the enjoyment of its natural resources by taking effective
measures Which guarantee the right of the people to own and dispose of those
natural resources and to establish and maintain control of their future
development;"

(c) Operative paragraph 7 of draft resolution A/c.4/33!L.17, which read:

"7. Expresses the view that measures to promote the economic development
of the United States Virgin Islands are an important element in the process
of self-determination and, to this end, calls upon the administering Power,
together with the Government of the United States Virgin Islands, to take
all measures necessary t~ achieve a viable and stable economy in the
Territory; t1

was replaced by:

"7. Expresses the view that measures to promote the economic
development of the United States Virgin Islands are an important element in
the process of self-determination and, to this end, calls upon the
adnlinistering Power, together with the freely elected authorities and
representatives of the people of the United States Virgin Islands, to take all
measur-e s necessary to achieve a viable and stable economy in the Territory;"

46. At its 33rd meeting, on 5 December, following a statement by the Secretary of
the Committee under rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly
roncer-nLng the related administrative and financial implications, the F.urth
ummittee adopted revised draft resolution A!C.4/33/L.17!Rev.l without objection
see para. 53 below, draft resolution V).

J. Bermuda, BritiSh Virgin Islands, Hontserrat, Turks
and Calcos Islands and Ca,vman Is~

On 28 November, a draft resolution concerning the Territories listed above
~.4!33!L.21 and Corr.l) was circulated, which was finally sponsored by the
owing Member States: Australia, Bahamas, Barbados, Canada, India, Jamaica,
apore, Trinidad and Tobago and United Republic of Tanzania.

At its 33rd meeting, on 5 December, following a statement by the Secretary of
:)mmittee under rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly
'ning the related administrative and financial implications, the Fourth
tee adopt~d draft resolution A!C.4!33/L.21 and Corr.l without objection
ara. 53 below, draft resolution VI).

I" ••



A/33/460
En~lish

Page 15

K. Belize

49. At the 30th meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Trinidad and
Tobago introduced a draft resolution concerning Belize (A/c.4/33/L.19) which was
finally sponsored by the following Member States: Algeria, Angola, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Botswana, Canada, Congo,
Denmark, Ghana, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, India, Jamaica, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mozambique, New Zealand, Norway,
Oman, Panama, Sao Tome ~d Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lank3,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania,
Yugoslavia and Zambia.

50. At the 31st meeting, on 4 December, the representative of Guatemala
introduced a draft resolution concerning Belize (A/c.4/33/L.24), which was finally
sponsored by the following Member States: Bolivia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic,
El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Horecco, Nicaragua and Paraguay. The draft
resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Having considered the question of Belize,

"Having examined the relevant chapter of the report e:" the Special
Committee On the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, 4/

"Having heard the statements by the representatives .of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 5/ and of Guatemala, 6/ as
well as the statements by the representatives ;f and petititioners from
Belize, lJ

"Reaffirming the principles established in the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples set out in its
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, in particular that "all peoples
have the right to self-determination, by virtue of which they freely
determine their political status and freely pursue their economic, social
and cultural development",

"Bearing in mind that the Governments of Guatemala and the United

~/ A/33/23/Add.7, chap. XXIX.

2/ A/c.4/33/SR.27, paras. 13-22, and A/c.4/33/SR.30.
§! A/c.4/33/SR.26, paras. 45-48, and A/c.4/33/SR.30.
lJ A/C.4/33/SR.23 and 29.

/ ...

I



A/33/460
Enr-"lish
Pa;'e 16

Kingdom have for many years been involved in a dispute eoncerning the
Territory of Belize, which is the subject of direct negotiations between the
parties,

"ConsiderinG that the Governments of Guatemala and the United Kingdom
have reiterated their intention to achieve, through the negotiations, a
speedy and satisfactory settlement of the dispute, paying particular
attention to the rights and interests of the parties involved in the question,

"1. Urges the Governments of Guatemala and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland to accelerate the negotiations in which they
are engaged in order to achieve a speedy settlement of the dispute;

"2. Recommends to both Governments that in the negotiations account
should be taken primarily of the rights of the parties and the vital
interests of the people of Belize, in accordance with the principle of
self-determination of peoples set out in the Declaration contained in General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

"3. Requests both Governments to report to the Special Committee On the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and to the
General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session, on the results achieved in
the aforementioned negotiations."

51. At its 33rd meeting, on 5 December, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.4/33/L.19 by a recorded vote of 116 to 5, with 12 abstentions (see
para. 53 below, draft resolution VII). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Empire,
Chad, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic ef,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory
Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peopleis Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mexico, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa,
Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire, Zambia.



A!33/460
English
Page 17

ARainst: Dominican Republ.i c , Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Saudi Arabia.

Abstaining: Brazil~ Chile~ Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Israel, Japan~
Mauritania, Morocco~ Spain~ United States of America? Uruguay.

52. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee rejected draft resoluti.n
A/c.4/33/L.24 by a recorded vote of 82 to l5~ with 33 abstentions. The voting
was as follows:

In f~: Argentina, Chile~ Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Greece, Guatemala, Honduras~ Morocco, Nicaragua, Peru,
Philippines, Spain, Uruguay, Venezuela.

Against: Afghanistan ~ Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austri a, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh ~ Barbados ~ Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada,
Cape Verde, Central African Empire ~ Chad, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia~ Democratic Yemen~ Denmark, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, Gambia, German Democratic Republic~ Ghana,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ira~,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, -Jordan , Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Haldive s , Mali, Mongoli a, Mozambique, New Zealand, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Poland, Rwanda~ Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, SUdan,
Suriname ~ Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and
Tobago, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic
of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Abstaining: Botswana, Brazil, Burma, Colombia, France, Gabon, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Mauritania~ Mexico, Nepal, Netherlands, Ni.ger ,
Nigeria, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Thailand, Toga, Tunisia~ Turkey, United Arab Emirates,
United States of America, Yemen, Zaire.

/ ...



A/33/460
Enr:lish
Par.e 18

& •

Ill. RECOMNENDATIOllS OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

53. The Four-th Connnittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
fol101,ring draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Question of the New Hebrides

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of the New Hebrides,

Havi~ examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the ImpJ.ementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, §j

Recallin~ its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaratio;:;-;n the Grant ing of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the Territory,
including General Assembly resolutions 3290 (XXIX) of 13 December 1974, 3433 (XXX)
of 8 December 1975, 31/51 of 1 December 1976 and 32/26 of 28 November 1977,

Havi'lf, heard the statements of the representatives of the Governments of
France 21 and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, !:2J as the
administering Powers, relating to developments in the New Hebrides,

~}ous of the need to accelerate progress towards the full implementation
of the Declaration with respect to the New Hebrides,

Bear~~K in mind the constructive results achieved as a consequence of previous
visiting missions to colonial Territories and reiterating its conviction that the
dispatch of such a mission to the New Hebrides is essential for securing adequate
and first·-hand information in regard to the conditions prevailing in the Territory
and to the views, wishes and aspirations of the people therein with respect to
their future status,

Taking note of the joint commitment of the two administering Powers to bring
the Territory to independence by 1980, ill

Q/ A/33/23 (Part 11), chap. Ill, and A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XIII.

21 See A/c.4/33/SR.32.
!Q/ A/c.4/33/SR.24, paras. 23-30, and A/C.4/33/SR.32.
11/ A/33/80.

/ ...



• • •

A/33/460
English
Paf';e 19

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Ne" Hebrides; 12/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the Territory to self-
determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

3. Reaffirms the territorial integrity and national unity of the
New Hebrides;

4. Wel~ the joint commitment of the two administering Pm",rs to
independence for the New Hebrides as reiterated in their letter dated 11 April 1978
to the Secretary-General 13/ and urges them to continue their efforts to"ards the
early independence of the Territory, in consultation with all the people of the
Territory;

5. Requests the administering Powers to t~<e all appropriate measures to
strengthen the economy of the New Hebrides, to continue taking steps to unify the
administration of the Territory and to work out concrete programmes of assistance
and economic development;

6. Urges the administering POI,ers to continue their efforts, in co-operation
"ith the people of the Territory, to promote a unitary system of education;

7. Requests the administering Powers to continue to enlist the assistance of
the specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system
in accelerating progress in all sectors of the national life of the Territory;

8. Urges the administering Powers, in co-operation with the Government of
the New Hebrides, to safeguard the inalienable right of the people of the Territory
to the enjoyment of their natural resources by t~ing effective neasures which
guarantee the rights of the people to own and dispose of those natural resources
and to establish and maintain control of their future development;

9. Requests the administering Powers in particular to t~e all necessary
measures to safeguard the full enjoyment by the people of the Territory of their
marine resources, through such measures as guarding ac;ainst over··,exploitation and
contamination, and to ensure that the rights of the people with regard to ownership
of land are fully safeguarded and respected;

10. Requests the Governments of France and the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland to facilitate the early dispatch of a United Nations visiting
mission to the Ne" Hebrides;

11. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways and means
for the implementation of the Declaration with respect to the New Hebrides, including
the early dispatch of a visiting mission to the Territory, and to report to the
General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session on the implementation of the present
resolution.

12/ A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XIII.

131 A/33/80. 1...



/ ...

•

A/33/460
English
Pai;e 20

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Question of Western Sahara

A

The General Assembly,

~aving considered the question of Western Sahara,

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Having considered the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, 14/

Having heard the statements on the subject of Western Sahara, including the
statements by the representative of the Frente Popular para la Liberacion de
Saguia el-Hamra y Rio de Oro, !21

~ecalling the conclusions of the 1975 United Nations Visiting Mission to
lfestern Sahara, 16/

Recallin& the advisory 0plnlon delivered by the International Court of Justice
on 16 October 1975 17/ on the question of "estern Sahara, particularly in relation
to the principle of--"tile right of the people of Western Sahara to self""-determination,

Bearing in mind the profound concern of the United Nations, the Organization
of African Unity and the non-aligned countries regarding the decolonization of
\'1estern Sahara and the right of the people of that Territory to self-·determination,

B.ec!'lling its resolution 32/19 of 11 November 1977 regarding coo-operation
between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity,

Recalling the decision of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the
Organization of African Unity at its thirteenth ordinary session, held at Port Louis
from 2 to 6 July 1976, to hold an extraordinary session devoted to the question of
Western Sahara, !§/

!~ A/33/23/Add.3.

15/ A/c.4/33/SR.22, paras. 78-93, and A/c.4/33/SR.30. See also
A/C.4/33/L.22 and L.31.

16/ 9fficial Records of the General Assembly, Thirtieth Session, Supplement
No. 23 (A/I0023/Rev.l) , vol. Ill, chap. XIII, para. 11.

17/ Western Sahara, Advisory Opinion, I.C.J. Reports 1975, p. 12. For the note
of transmittal to the members of the General Assembly, see A/10300.

18/ See A/31/136-s/12141, annex 11, resolution ARG/Res.Sl (XIII). For the
printed text, see Official Records of the Security Council, TI1irty-first Year,
Supplement for July, August and September 1976.

,



A/33/460
English
Page 21

Taking note of the decision of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government
of the Organization of African Unity at its fifteenth ordinary session, held at
Khartoum from 18 to 22 July 1978, to establish an ad hoc committee of Heads of
State to consider all the data on the question of Western Sahara, including the
exercise of the right of the people of that Territory to self-determination, 19/

Reiterating its fervent hope that, by the time of the thirty-fourth session
of the General Assembly, the Organization of African Unity will have found, pursuant
to the resolutions and decisions which it adopted at its thirteenth, fourteenth and
fifteenth ordinary sessions on the question of Western Sahara, 20/ a solution to
this problem in accordance with the right of peoples to self-determination set
forth in resolution 1514 (XV),

Welcoming the unilateral cease-fire decision taken on 12 July 1978 by the
Frente Popular para la Liberacion de Saguia el-Hamra y Rio de Oro, with a view to
promoting a drive t.owar ds peace in 1>/estern Sahara,

1. Reaffirms its commitment to the principle of self-determination of
peoples in accordance with the Declaration on the Granting of Inderendence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples;

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Hestern Sahara to
self-determination and independence;

3. Reaffirms the responsibility of the United Nations with regard to the
decolonization of Western Sahara, in accordance with the principles of the Charter
of the United Nations and of the Declaration;

4. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to keep developments in this matter under active
review with a view to the full and speedy implementation of General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV) and to report to the Assembly at its thirty-fourth session;

5. ReQuests the Administrative Secretary-General of the Organization of
African Unity to keep the Secretary-General of the United Nations informed of the
progress achieved with regard to the implementation of the decisions of the
Organization of African Unity concerning Western Sahara;

6. Invites the Secretary-General to submit a report on the question of
Western Sahara to the General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session.

19/ A/33/235 and Corr.l, annex 11, resolution AHG/Res.92 (XV).

gQ/ A/31/136-s/12141, annex 11, resolution AHG/Res.8 (XIII); A/32!310,
annex 11, AHG/Dec.110 (XIV); and A!33!235 and Corr.l, annex 11, resolution
AHG!Res.92 (XV).

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 22

B

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and 1541 (XV) of
15 December 1960,

Recalling its relevant resolutions and those of the Organization of African
Unity concerning the question of Western Sahara,

Considering the decision of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of
the Organization of African Unity at its fifteenth ordinary session, held at
Port Louis from 2 to 6 July 1976, to hold an extraordinary session devoted to the
question of Western Sahara, 21/

Considering also the decision of the Assembly of Heads of State and Government
of the Organization of African Unity at its fifteenth ordinary session, held at
Khartoum from 18 to 22 July 1978, to establish an ad hoc committee of Heads of
State to consider the data on the question of Western Sahara, 22/

Recalling the part of the Political Declaration adopted by the Fifth Conference
of Heads of State and Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Colombo from
16 to 19 August 1976, relating to Western Sahara, 23/

Taking note of the appeal addressed to States Members of the United Nations
by the current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity, contained in document
A/33/364,

Recalling its resolution 32/19 of 11 November 1977, regarding co-operation
between the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity,

1. Takes note of the decision of the Assembly of Heads of State and
Government- of the Organization of African Unity at its fifteenth ordinary session,
held at Khartoum from 18 to 22 July 1978, to establish an ad hoc committee of
Heads of State;

2. Expresses its confidence that the ad hoc committee will consider all the
data on the question of Western Sahara with a view to convening an extraordinary
summit meeting of the Organization of African Unity;

3. Invites the Organization of African Unity to take prompt action to find
a just and equitable settlement of the question of Western Sahara;

21/ See A/3l/l36-s/l2l4l, annex 11, resolution AHG/Res.8l (XIII). For the
printed text, see Official Records of the Security Council, Thirty-first Year,
Supplement for July, August and September 1!176.

22/ A/33/235 and Corr.l, annex 11, resolution AHG/Res.92 (XV).

?:l./ A/3l/l97, annex I, para. 35.

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 23

4. Appeals to all States in the region to refrain from any action that might
impede the efforts of the Organization of African Unity to arrive at a just and
peaceful solution of the problem;

5. Requests the Administrative Secretary-General of the Organization of
African Unity to inform the Secretary-General of the United Nations of the results
achieved by the ad hoc committee and invites the Secretary-General of the United
Nations to report thereOn to the General Assembly.

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 24

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Question of American Samoa

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of American Samoa,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 241

Recalling its resolution l5l4 (XV) of l4 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to American
Samoa~

Taking into account the statement of the administering Power relating to
developments in American Samoa, 25/

Conscious of the need to promote progress towards the full implementation of
the Declaration with respect to American Samoa,

Bearing in mind the constructive results achieved as a consequence of previous
visiting missions to Non-Self-Governing Territories and reiterating its conviction
that the dispatch of such missions is essential for securing adequate and first-hand
information in regard to the conditions prevailing in those Territories and to the
views, wishes and aspirations of the peoples therein with respect to their future
status,

Welcoming the positive attitude of the administering Power with respect to the
receiving of United Nations visiting miSSions,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and economic
conditions of American Samoa, and stressing the necessity of diversifying the
Territory's economy as a matter of priority, in order to reduce its dependence on
fluctuating economic activities,

l. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to American Samoa; 261

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of American Samoa to self-
determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

24/ A/33/23 (Part 11), chap. III and A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XIX.

251 A/c.4/33/SR.26, paras. l-9.

26/ A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XIX.

I ...



A/33/460
English
Page 25

3. Reaffirms its conviction that ~uestions of territorial size, geographical
location and limited resources should in no way delay the implementation of the
Declaration with respect to American Samoa;

4. Calls upon the Government of the United States of America, as the
administering Power, in consultation with the freely elected representatives of
the people, to continue to take all the necessary steps to ensure the full and
speedy attainment of the goals set forth in the Declaration with respect to the
Territory;

5. Urges the administering Power to continue its efforts to ensure that the
culture and identity of the people of the Territory continue to be reflected in the
Government and administration of the Territory and preserved to the fullest extent;

6. Welcomes the holding of the first gubernatorial elections in the Territory
on 8 November 1977, whereby the people of the Territory elected two American Samoans
as Governor and Lieutenant Governor respectively;

7. Calls upon the administering Power to take all possible steps to
strengthen and diversify the economy of American Samoa in order to work out concrete
programmes of assistance and economic development for the Territory;

8. Requests the administering Power to continue to enlist the assistance of
the specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system
in accelerating progress in all sectors of the national life of American Samoa;

9. Urges the administering Power, with the co-operation of the freely elected
authorities and representatives of the people of American Samoa, to safeguard the
inalienable right of the people of the Territory to the enjoyment of their natural
resources by taking effective measures which guarantee the right of the people to
own and dispose of those natural resources and to establish and maintain control
of their future development;

10. Urges the administering Power to continue to foster close relations and
co-operation with neighbouring island communities;

11. Reguests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways and
means for the implementation of the Declaration with respect to American Samoa,
including the dispatch of a visiting mission in consultation with the administering
Power, and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session on the
implementation of the present resolution.

I . . .



A/33/460
English
Page 26

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Question of Guam

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of Guam,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, ~

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to Guam,

Conscious of the need to accelerate progress towards the full implementation
of the Declaration with respect to Guam,

Having heard the statement of the administering Power, 28/

!oting that the administering Power continues to maintain military installations
in the Territory,

Considering that the policy of maintainin~ military bases and installations in
Non-Self-Governing Territories which inhibit the right of self-determination of
peoples is incompatible with the relevant resolutions of the United Nations,

Noting that a constitutional referendum is proposed to be held in the Territory
in May/June 1979,

Mindful that Guam requires the continued attention and assistance of the United
Nations in the achievement by its people of the objectives embodied in the Charter
of the United Nations and in the Declaration,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and economic
conditions of Guam, and stressing the necessity of diversifying its economy as a
matter of priority in order to reduce its dependence on fluctuating economic
activities,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to Guam; 29/

£I/ A/33/23 (Part 11), chap. Ill, A/33/23 (Part IV), chap. V, and
A/33/23/Add.6, chap. XXVII.

281 A/c.4/33/sR.26, paras. 1-9.

S2/ A/33/23/Add.6, chap. XXVII.
I . ..



A/33/460
English
Page 27

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Guam to self-
determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

3. Reaffirms its conviction that questions of territorial size, geographical
location and limited resources should in no way delay the implementation of the
Declaration with respect to the Territory;

4. Calls upon the Government of the United States of America, as the
administering Power, in consultation with the freely elected representatives of the
people, to continue to take all the necessary steps to ensure the full and speedy
attainment of the goals set forth in the Declaration with respect to Guam;

5. Welcomes the invitation extended by the Government of the United States
to the Special Committee to send a visiting mission to Guam to observe the
forthcoming referendum on a draft constitution and to observe conditions in the
Territory; 30/

6. Calls upon the administering Power to take all possible steps to
strengthen and diversify the economy of Guam and to work out concrete programmes
of assistance and economic development for the Territory;

7. Recalls its relevant resolutions concerning military bases in colonial
and Non-Self-Governing Territories, recognizes that the presence of military bases
could constitute a factor impeding the implementation of the Declaration and
reaffirms its strong conviction that the presence of military bases in Guam should
not prevent the people of the Territory from exercising their inalienable right to
self-determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration and the
purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations;

8. Urges the administering Power, in co-operation with the freely elected
authorities and representatives of the people of Guam, to safeguard the inalienable
right of the people of the Territory to the enjoyment of its natural resources by
taking effective measures which guarantee the right of the people to own and dispose
of those natural resources and to establish and maintain control of their future
development;

9. Requests the administering Power to continue to enlist the assistance of
the specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system
in accelerating progress in all sectors of the national life of Guam;

10. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways and means
for the implementation of the Declaration with respect to Guam, including the
dispatch of a visiting mission in consultation with the administering Power, to
observe the constitutional referendum, to acquire first-hand information on the
situation in the Territory and to ascertain the views of the people of Guam
concerning their future political status, and to report to the General Assembly
at its thirty-fourth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

30/ A/33/23/Add.6, annex 11, and A/AC.I09/575.
/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 28

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Question of the United States Virgin Islands

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of the United States Virgin Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation "ith regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Grant ing of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 31/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the
Territory,

Noting the active co-operation given by the administering Pover , both through
its active participation in the "ork of the Special Committee and through its
willingness to receive visiting missions to small Territories under its
administration,

Recalling the report of the 1977 United Nations Visiting Mission to the
United State Virgin Islands, 32/

Having heard the statement of the administering Power, 33/

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the United States Virgin
Islands; 34/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the United States Virgin
Islands to self-determination and independence in accordance "ith the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

3. Reaffirms its conviction that questions of territorial size, geographical
location and limited resources should in no way delay the implementation of the
Declaration with respect to the Territory;

31/ A/33/23 (Part 11), chap. 11; A/33/23 (Part IV), chap. V; and
A/33/~/Add.5, chap. XXVI.

32/ Official Records of the General Assemb Thirty-second Session,
Suppl€;ent No. 23 (A/32/23 Rev.l , vol. IV, chap. XXVII, annex.

33/ A/c.4/33/SR.26, paras. 1-9.

~ A/33/23/Add.5, chap. XXVI.

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 29

4. Requests the Government of the United States of America, as the
administering Power, to continue to take all necessary measures, in consultation
with the freely elected authorities and representatives of the people of the United
States Virgin Islands, to enable the people of the Territory to exercise fUlly
their right to self-determination in accordance with the relevant provisions of
the Charter of the United Nations and the Declaration;

5. Requests the administering Power to encourage fUrther and meaningfUl
discussion regarding the political and constitutional status of the Territory and
to take such additional measures as would ensure preservation of the identity and
cultural heritage of the people of the United States Virgin Islands;

6. Urges the administering Power, in consultation with the freely elected
authorities and representatives of the people of the United States Virgin Islands,
to safeguard the inalienable right of the people of the Territory to the enjoyment
of its natural resources by taking effective measures which guarantee the right
of the people to own and dispose of those natural resources and to establish and
maintain control of their future development;

7. Expresses the view that measures to promote the economic development of
the United States Virgin Islands are an important element in the process of self-
determination and, to this end, calls upon the administering Power, together with
the freely elected authorities and representatives of the people of the United
States Virgin Islands, to take all measures necessary to achieve a viable and
stable economy in the Territory;

8. Requests the administering Power to continue to enlist the assistance of
the specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system
in the development and strengthening of the economy of the United States Virgin
Islands;

9. Requests the Special Committee to continue the examination of this
question at its next session, including the possible dispatCh of a further visiting
mission to the United States Virgin Islands at an appropriate time and in
consultation with the administering Power, and to report thereon to the General
Assembly at its thirty~fourth session.

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 30

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Question of Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Montserrat,
Turks and Caicos Islands and Cayman Islands

The General Assembly,

Having considered the qnestion of Bermuda, British Virgin Islands, Montserrat,
Turks and Caicos Islands and Cayman Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 35/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the
Territories listed above, in particular General Assembly resolutions 32/29 and
32/30 of 28 November 1977,

Taking into account the statement of the administering Power relating to the
Territories listed above, 36/

Noting the continued readiness of the administering Power to gLant independence
to the peoples of the Territories under its administration on the basis of their
express wishes and aspirations in that regard, and its declared policy of fostering
the growth of free and democratic political institutions in those Territories,

Conscious of the need to accelerate progress towards the full implementation
of the Declaration with respect to the Territories concerned,

Bearing in mind the constructive results that can be achieved as a consequence
of United Nations visiting missions to colonial Territories, which provide an
effective means of ascertaining the situation in the Territories visited, and
reiterating its conviction that the dispatch of such missions is essential for
securing adequate and first-hand information in regard to the political, economic
and social conditions in those Territories and to the views, wishes and aspirations
of the peoples therein,

Mindful that those Territories require the continued attention and assistance
of the United Nations in the achievement by their peoples of the objectives
embodied in the Charter of the United Nations and in the Declaration,

35/ A/33/23 (Part 11), chap. 11; A/33/23 (Part Ill), chap. IV;
A/33/23 (Part IV), chap. V; and A/33/23/Add.5, chaps. XXI-XXV.

36/ A/c.4/33/SR.24, paras. 23-30.

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 31

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and economic
conditions of the Territories concerned, and stressing the necessity of diversifying
and strengthening further their economies as a matter of priority in order to
promote economic stability and reduce their dependence on fluctuating economic
activities,

1. Approves the chapters of the report of the Special COTIrraittee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to Bermuda, British Virgin
Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos Islands and Cayman Islands; 37/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the peoples of those Territories to
self-determination and independence in accordance with the DeClaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

3. Reaffirms its conviction that questions of territorial size, geographical
isolation and limited resources should in no way delay the implementation of the
Declaration with respect to the Territories concerned;

4. Calls upon the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, as the administering Power, in consultation with the freely
elected representatives of the peoples, to continue to take all the necessary steps
to ensure the full and speedy attainment of the goals set forth in the Declaration
with respect to the Territories;

5. Calls upon the administering Power to expand its programme of budgetary
aid and to take all possible steps, in consultation with the local authorities, as
appropriate, to diversify and strengthen further the economies of the Territories
listed above and to work out concrete programmes of assistance and economic
development for those Territories;

6. Urges the administering Power, with the co-operation of the freely elected
authorities and representatives of the peoples of the Territories concerned, to
safeguard the inalienable right of the peoples of those Territories to the enjoyment
of their natural resources by taking effective measures which guarantee the rights
of the peoples to own and dispose of those natural resources and to establish and
maintain control of their future development;

7. Requests the administering Power, in consultation with the freely elected
authorities and representatives of the peoples of the Territories concerned, to pay
particular attention to the training of qUalified local personnel;

8. Welcomes the positive attitUde of the administering Power with respect to
the receiving of United Nations visiting missions in the Territories under its
administration and requests the Chairman of the Special Committee to continue his
consultations with a view to the dispatch of such missions, as appropriate;

TIJ A!33/23/Add.5, chaps. XXI-XXV.

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 32

9. Reguests the administering Power to continue to enlist the assistance of
the specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system
in accelerating progress in all sectors of the national life of those Territories;

10. Requests the Special Committee to continue to seek the best ways and
means for the implementation of the Declaration with respect to Bermuda, British
Vir[lin Islands, Montserrat, Turks and Caicos Islands and Cayman Islands, including
the possible dispatch of visiting missions in consultation with the administering
Power, and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-fourth session on the
implementation of the present resolution.

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Parte 33

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Question of Belize

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of Belize,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee
on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, }!}j

RecallinB its resolutions 3432 (XXX) of 8 December 1975, 31/50 of
1 December 1976 and 32/32 of 28 November 1977,

Having heard the statements of the representatives of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland 39/ and of Guatemala, 40/

Having heard the statement of the representative of Belize, 41/

Having also heard the statements of the petitioners, 42/

Reaffirming the principles established in the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, set out in its resolution 1514 (XV)
of 14 December 1960, in particular that all peoples have the right to self-
determination, by virtue of which right they freely determine their political
status and freely pursue their economic, social and cultural development,

Recalling that, in the Bogota Declaration of 6 August 1977, it was agreed
that "a solution of the Belize question should be found by the peaceful methods
consecrated in the charters of the Organization of American States and the United
Nations, and in accordance with respect for its territorial integrity and with the
principle of the free self-determination of peoples",

Bearing in mind the relevant sections of the Declaration of the Conference of
the ilIinisters for Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from
25 to 30 July 1978, 43/

38/ A/33/23 (Part IV), chap. V; and A/33/23/Add.7, chap. XXIX.

39/ A/c.4/33/SR.27, paras. 13-22, and A/c.4/33/SR.30.

~ A/c.4/33/SR.26, paras. 45-48, and A/c.4/33/SR.30.

~ A/c.4/33/SR.29, paras. 42-57.

~ A/c.4/33/SR.23, paras. 46-52, 56-60 and 62-68. See also
A/c.4/33/L.26-28.

43/ A/33/206, annex I, paras. 122 and 123.

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 34

Reiterating its conviction that the people of Belize should be assisted in a
practical manner to exercise freely and without fear their inalienable right to
self-determination, independence and territorial integrity,

Deeply regretting the continued failure of the parties concerned to conclude
an agreement in conformity with the principles established in General Assembly
resolutions 3432 (XXX), 31/50 and 32/32, and the resultant delay in the speedy
achievement of the secure independence of Belize,

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Belize to self-
determination and independence;

2. Reaffirms that the inviolability and territorial integrity of Belize must
be preserved;

3. Urges the Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, acting in close consultation with the Government of Belize, and the
Government of Guatemala to pursue vigorously their negotiations with a view to
settling their differences over Belize, without prejudice to the right of the
people of Belize to self-determination, independence and territorial integrity,
and furthering the peace and stability of the region, and in this connexion to
consult as appropriate with other especially interested States in the area;

4. Reguests the Governments concerned to report to the General Assembly at
its thirty-fourth session on the outcome of the negotiations referred to above;

5. Calls upon the parties involved to refrain from any threats or use of
force against the people of Belize or their territory;

6. Recognizes that it is the responsibility of the United KinlJdom, as the
administering Power, to take all necessary steps to enable the people of Belize to
exercise freely and without fear their right to self-determination and to a firm
and early independence;

7. Urges all States to respect the right of the people of Belize to self-
determination, independence and territorial integrity, and to render all practical
assistance necessary for the secure and early exercise of that right;

8. Reguests the Special Committee on the Situation ;rith regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to remain seized of the question and to assist the people
of Belize in the exercise of their inalienable rights.

I ...



A/33/460
English
Page 35

54. The Fourth Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft consensuses:

DRAFT CONSENSUS I

Question of Gibraltar

The General Assembly; noting that, since the adoption of its resolution
3286 (XXIX) of 13 December 1974, talks have been held between the Governments of
Spain and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the question
of Gibraltar, and also noting that, in the course of the current year, joint
working parties have been established to study a number of fields and agreement
has been reached to discuss the future evolution of relations between Spain and
the United Kingdom with regard to Gibraltar, urges both Governments to make
possible without delay, taking due account of current circumstances, the initiation
of the negotiations envisaged in the consensus approved by the Assembly on
14 December 1973, 44/ with the object of reaching a lasting solution to the
problem of Gibraltar, in the light of the relevant resolutions of the Assembly
and in the spirit of the Charter of the United Nations.

DRAFT CONSENSUS II

Question of Tokelau

The General Assembly, having heard the statement of the representative of
New Zealand, as the administering Power, 45/ and having examined the relevant
chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to
the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples 46/ and endorsing the conclusions and recommendations
contained therein, 47/reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Tokelau
to self-determination in conformity with the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in Assembly resolution
1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960. The General Assembly notes that it is the stated
policy of the administering Power that it will be guided by the wishes of the
people of Tokelau concerning their future relationship with New Zealand in full
compliance with reSOlution 1514 (XV). The General Assembly commends the
administering Power for its continued co-operation and particularly for its efforts
to foster an increased awareness of all the possibilities open to the Tokelauans
through the process of political education. The General Assembly notes the various

!!!U Official Records of the General Assembl hth Session,
Supplement No. 30 (A/9030 , p. Ill, item 23.

45/ A/c.4/33/SR.25, paras. 23-33.

46/ A/33/23 (Part II), chap. Ill; and A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XIV.

~ A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XIV, para. 10.

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 36

steps taken in the economic and administrative fields to assist the development of
the Territory and to provide an administrative instrument responsible to the wishes
llild needs of the people. The General Assembly urges the administering Power to
continue to explore various avenues for diversifying the sources of revenue of the
Territory. The General Assembly again expresses its appreciation to the
specialized agencies and other organizations within the United Nations system and
in particular to the United Nations Development Programme, as well as to regional
organizations, for the assistance which they have rendered to Tokelau. In this
connexion, the General Assembly draws the attention of the specialized agencies
and other organizations within the United Nations system to the provision of
Assembly resolution 31/48 of 1 December 1976 re~uesting them to consider the
methods and scale of their operations and to ensure that they are able to respond
appropriately to the r-equi.r'emerrts of such small and isolated Territories as
Tokelau. The General Assembly re~uests the Special Committee to continue to seek
the best ways and means, in co-operation with the administering Power, of
implementing the Declaration with respect to Tokelau, including the possible
dispatch of a further visiting mission to the Territory at an appropriate stage,
and to report to the Assembly at its thirty-fourth session on the implementation
of the present consensus.

DRAFT CONSENSUS III

Question of St. Helena

The General Assembly, having heard the statement of the representative of
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as the administering
Power, !±.0' and having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, 491 reaffirms the
inalienable right of the people of St. Helena to self-determination in conformity
with the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples contained in Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960. Noting
the commitment of the Government of the United Kingdom to respect the wishes of
the people of the Territory in relation to their advance towards self-determination
and to carry out a policy aimed at implementing General Assembly decision 32/410
of 28 November 1977 on St. Helena, the Assembly reaffirms that continued
development assistance from the administering Power, together with any assistance
that the international community may be in a position to provide, constitutes an
important means of developing the economic potential of the Territory and of
enhancing the capacity of its people to realize fully the goals set forth in the
relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations. In this connexion, the
General Assembly notes the commitment of the administering Power to foster the
social and economic development of st. Helena in close co-operation with the
elected representatives of the people of the Territory. The General Assembly also

48/ A/c.4/33/sR.24, paras. 23-30.

49/ A/33/23 (Part 11), chap. Ill; and A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XVIII.

I . . .



A/33/460
English
Page 37

notes the positive attitude of the administering Power with respect to the question
of receiving visiting missions and requests the Chairman of the Special Committee
to continue his consultations in that regard with a view to the dispatch of such a
mission to the Territory, as appropriate. The General Assembly requests the Special
Committee, in continued co-operation with the administering Power, to seek the best
ways and means of implementing the Declaration with respect to St. Helena and to
report thereon to the Assembly at its thirty-fourth session.

DRAFT CONSENSUS IV

Question of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands

The General Assembly, having examined the relevant chapters of the report of
the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples 50/
and having heard the statement of the representative of Australia with regard to
the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, 51/ notes with appreciation the continuing co-operation
of the Government of Australia, as the administering Power, in reporting on the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, contained in Assembly resolution l514 (rv) of
l4 December 1960, with regard to the Cocos (Keeling) Islands, and its continued
preparedness to receive a further visiting mission in the Territory at an
appropriate time. The General Assembly reaffirms that it is for the people of
the Territory themselves to determine fully their future political status in
conformity with resolution 1514 (XV) and in this connexion, recalling the
responsibility of the administering Power to ensure that the people of the
Territory are fully informed of the options available to them in the exercise
of their right to self-determination, notes with satisfaction the commitment of
the administering Power to continue its policy of assuring the political, social
and economic development of the people of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands. In this
regard, the General Assembly welcomes the purchase by the Government of Australia
from Mr. John Clunies Ross of the whole of his interests in the Cocos (Keeling)
Islands, with the exception of his residence and an associated m,elling, and also
notes with satisfaction the establishment of the first elected Advisory Council,
as well as other measures announced by the Australian Minister for Home Affairs.
The General Assembly considers that the fulfilment of these measures would
constitute an important step towards the implementation of the Declaration
contained in resolution l5l4 (XV). The General Assembly requests the Special
Committee~ in continued co-operation with the administering Power) to seek the
best ways and means of implementing the Declaration with respect to the Territory,
in the light of the information to be provided by the administering Power in 1979,
and to report thereon to the Assembly at its thirty-fourth session.

50/ A/33/23 (Part 11), chap. Ill; and A/33/23/Add.4, chap. XII.

5l/ A/c.4/33/SR.26, paras. lO-l4.

/ ...



A/33/460
English
Page 38

55. Finally, the Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption
of the following draft decisions:

DRAFT DECISION I

Questions of Brunei, of Pitcairn, of the Falkland
Islands (Malvinas) and of the Gilbert Islands

The General Assembly decides to defer until its thirty-fourth session
consideration of the questions of Brunei, of Pitcairn, of the FallLland Islands
(Malvinas) and of the Gilbert Islands and requests the Special Comrnittee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples to continue to keep the
situation in the Territories under review and to report thereon to the Assembly.

DRAFT DECISION 11

Question of Antigua, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla,
St. Lucia and St. Vincent

The General Assembly decides to defer until its thirty-fourth session
consideration of the ~uestion of Anti&Ua, St. Kitts-Nevis-Anguilla, st. Lucia
and St. Vincent.


