








































=frEUN'IED NAT'ONS
GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

Distr .
GENEBAI,

A/T/I+6L
12 Decenber 1PJB

ORIGINAL: ENCLISH

Thirty-third session
Agend.a iten 125

IEVIEI,I 0F THE II,{P!$.,IENTATI0N 0I' TIIE RECoI\OISNDATIoNS
AI$D DECISIONS ADOPTED 3Y TIIE GE]{ERAt ASSETtsI.,Y AT

rTS TENTTI SPECTAI, SESSTON

Report of the tr'irst Connittee

Rapporteur; l4r. Miodrag I4IHAJIOVI6 (Yugoslavia)

T. INIBODUCTION

1. Tbe iten entitlecl:

':Review of the iuplementation of the recomendations and tl'ecisions
atlopted by the General Assenbly at its tenth special" session:

(a) Report of the Disarrnanent Connissionq

(b) Reports of the Secretary-Generalrl

was includ.ed in the Drovisional ageniia of the thirty-third session in accord.ance
rith paragraph 115 of the Final Docr.:ment of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Asserobly (resolution S-10/2), adoptecl on 30 June 1978.

2. At its l+th and 5th p1enary meetings , ot 22 Septenber 19?8, the Generat
Assenbly, on the reconnendation of the General Cornnittee, decided to includ.e
the iten in its agenda and aLlocate it to the First Connittee.

3. At its 3rd meetin8o on 6 october, the First Connittee decidett to consider
separately items 125 and 128 and. then to hold a cornbined. general debate on the
other itens s.I1ocated. to it relating to disarnanent, namely, it.*" 35 to t+9.
Iten 125 was considered at the l+ttr to tgtfr rneetings, frorn 16 to 2? Octobe?
(A/c.t/33/w.\-re) .

)+. fn connexion v-ith itern 125" the First Comrittee haal before it the fo1lowing
tlocunents:

?B-30917



A/T/\5r
English

(a) ieport of the Disarnament Cornnission; I
(b) R-^port of the Secretary-General Fursuant to paragra?h 108 of General

As senrbly resolution S-).0/2 (A/33i=O>);

(c) Report of the Se cretary-ceneral pursuant to paragraph gB of General
iissembll. resolution S-IA/Z (A/33i312 and Add.1);

(d) ifote by the Secretary-ceneral pursuant to paragraph 9l+ of General
.^.ssembly resolution S-10, 2 (A/ 33/ 317)l

(e) Letter dated 2 October 19?8 from the Permanent Fepresentative of
Sri Lanka to the United ltlations ad.dressed. to the Secret ary-General, transmitti.ng
the text of the conmr.miqu6 issued at the Extraordinary Meeting of l{inisters for
Foreign Affeirs of ltron-Atigned Countries, held at the United l$ations on
2 october 1978 (A/33/279).

IT. PROPOSAI,S

5" On 18
Democratic

october, Af ta" Bahrain
Y

Arabia an Arab Re
the United. Arab gmirates. Viet l{am and. Yemen s tted a draft resolution
(tr/c,t/lzll,i; 

="b*"q"*rtty "1=" "ponsFby 
Burundi, D,jibouti, Equatorial Guinea,

Guinea and Pakistan, which was introduced. by the representative of Iraq at the
12th neeting, on 23 October.

5. on 20 October, Atgeria, Argentina, cyprus, Ethiopia, Inali?. .Indqnes.ia'.
I'lalaysia" ifigeria ana Yugoslavia sulnittea a draft resolut ion (A/c.I/33/L.2)"
subsequently a].so sponsored by Bhutan, Bolivia, Burundi,

the Conao. Cuba. Ecuado Guinea " Jordan. Liberia
us" llorocco . Peru the an

vas introduced

7. 0n 20 October, Cyprus, Ethiopia. India, Indonesia" l{alaysia, N+geria'
Sri Lanka and. Yugoslavia subnitted a draft resolution (A/c.L/33/L.3) , which was
introduced by the representative of India at the l8th meeting, on 2? October.
Subsequently 

" on l- November, Japan sr.rbnitted anendments 
(A/C,I/33/L.8*) to the

draft resolution, which read as follows:

"In the operative paragraph,
ttl-. T,ine I fnr oll h,r.laa?-r-------- Jeapon

all- the nuclear-veapon States,
States read all States' in particular

V Official Reeords of the General Assenb1y, Thirttr'-third Session'
Supplement i,tro. l+2 11r133/\z) .



^/T/\6r

''2, Line 3, for nuclear riteapons rea{ nuclear ueapons and other nuclear
explosive devices. "

Later, on 1? l{ovenber, Sr're den subrnitted arendments (A/C.l/L,33) to the draft
resolution !'hi. ch read- as follows:

'First preambular paragralh shoufd read:

"qlavell_qonggglq! tbat continued testing of nucl,ear veapons exacertates
the arms race and constitutes a serious hazard to the environinent and the
bealth of present and future generations of rnankincl i

'rsecond. preambulax paragraph should reacl:

"!S:lgIgE!E its conviction that the cessation of huclear lleapons
testing in all environments would be a naior step toltard.s controlling the
d.evelopment of nuclear weapons antl an important contribution to the prevention
.f nuclear veapons proliferation. -

On 22 i'lovenber " ],lber.iq submitted amendments 
(A/C.l-/ 33/L,36 ) to tire clraft

resolution which read as follons:
, Fifth r.re"rbuiar pa

'1" Delete the vords the highest;

"2. After the vord priority ad{ the words seeond on.ly to the complete
abolition of all nuclear weapons."

Thereafter " on 2\ Novenber, Australia, 
Barbados, 3olivia" Coq8o, Cuba. C-v.Druq,

,Guinea, India, Tndonesia' Japan ' i'Ialays-,!-ai'

e
Yugosfavig and Zai"e subnitted a rerised draft resolution c.1/3 't*\
vhich r,ras suLsequentllr also sponsored by Liberia, Toeo- anr.l. Tr:nisia.

B. On 20 october, Afghani.g-Ern, the jerman lernocrat-ic. Repl-rblic, -Indiq ".ltr-ongo1ia,i{igeria arrd Venezuel€: subndtted a draft resolution \A/C.I/33/L.4), vhlch ltas
introduced. by the representative of llongolia at the l'2th meeting, on 23 october'
The draft resolution was subsequentLy rev-ised (A/C .f /T/L.l+/Rer-,f ) and sponsored
by AlslsLi rt€JgUJ{a, Colombia " Cuba

ratic ReDublic

l{a1i

Ivlauritius , i.{ongo,Lia. j.l
anct t:,atoDta- - ]]ne

Ni
the SYrian Arab ublic

ted Re
c and l4o ue later becane s?onsors of tbe

V

re'"'ised draft resolution "
g. on 2J October, IndiaJndonesia, Jan,aica, lienya " lfal-aysia, lliger. llie€ria"
Ug--ptti]i-Pd".!*Jgt"3lpE *a yugosl-avia surlinitted a draft resolution
TEI1 l/nft,il 

" 
-suusequently also sponsored by Eg4affas, BanAladesh ' ,



A/33/\6r
Enr.*isb
l8-tTe 4

!91*jt:%_-q9_tsv"na, C"sta Rica, ,
Lrlqfiq, ilali, llauritius, l{orocco, Pal(istan, Senegal- r Sierra Leone, Somali1,
S],raziland, Sveden, the S.yrian Arab Republic. the United. Republic of Caneroon,
iir., prr 

" 
:. an d-arlb i ",'rh i;h-r;; i nt r;;;a@ i-lEililT t rru33rd ueeting., on 9 l{ovember.

10, On 1 lloven,ber, qqSg4,r_ge-__C,&e-- Iran o Mexico, Sweden. Venezuela. and l,ar.1e_
subndtted a draft resolution (A/C"f /T/L.9), subsequently atso sponsored by
Alshanlslgl}_L JggrTl-ggsslf. Colonbia, the Congo" Jordaq and Peru, which rras introdueerl
by the re?resentative of llexico at the 35th neeting, on 13 November,

11 " 0n 1 i\Tovenber, ._lgggnt_lnq,_ treryLqrk, Ecuad.or " l,lexico " IliAeria, Rolmnia, llierra
,Igo:g--Qwg-4q n ""a 

vede--z,,lerz s u5ilt
'rii.s introduced brr the representative of Venezuela at the 30th meeting, on
7 l{oyember, ft vas subsequcntly revised (,\/C.f /T/L .f)/Rev. f ) anil sFonsored by
4:S9nt-_!g-__Ig:fgledesh, qhi]e , Colonbi. ,
liexico " l{iseria" ggkr_s-tan " Aatar" nor"nia, ,Svazilalrd, Srreden " the tlnited Republic of -9eggC9_9!=__!rr!gIg{. and !_enc lqglg and"later., by the gr_i11rp14e:;_"

12 " On 2 lovember" 4f :qrl e_r-_r\raenti n-a. Banf,lade rys ,_-:-.r4--!!hi_qd-a-" Ghan?.
Guyana, Inqia:_Irllgnqs_i_+_, IIsq" Jamaica, Tienya. the Libyan Arab Ja.rnahiriya,
lialaysia " uali " $is _4Ig!_
B9pUlr:g.--{ggqCrq&i-g.,- Zaiie ana zaggig sulrnittea a diait resolution (A/c"1/33/t.u).

rlrgentina. Bahanas sh. Barbados " Burundi nthiopia " Ghana,India. f sra Jamaica. J beria. the Libyan Arab
Jainahi ri car a sta.n,

the
Zaire and Zambia. The revised draft resolution was introduced
Peru. Satar a- Sri Lanka an Arab RepubLic
.^ v.r-^.l41zie a& +La q.1-h 1..t.inp" on 2L \overher.

Y

representative

IL rra.s subscquenL-Ly revisea (MC.IEZ/1".1]/Rev.1) a4d sDonsorcd by 4!:crI3,

13. 0n 3 .,lovenber, Canarla " Denmark o FranceIreland.. I
Federal-

tlalt L Indi a

.1Lr in nf r1?6a^a

Portusal . Romania

by Bangladesh, Bo1ivia, Sotswana " the Central can

enczuela, Y.rSoslavia a"d Zaire subnitted a draft resolutlon
was rGvi s ed-TA7E " 33/L.12lRev-;r) by its sponsors and subsequently a^lso

c .1/ 33
oIta,

sponsored

donesia, Jordalq,
the Svrian Arab

lred Craft
tr6d+i-r 

^n

ire. Chi1e. Co 1
Costa Ric 11 Salvador

t{a.rr-l Lius . .lev Zealand- ili Peru
ESpobljq_r and U"uguay . The re
resolution was introduced by the representative of France at the I,,6th
21 i\overnber. on 2l+ llovember, Pahistan, subnitted anendnents (A/C.1/33/L.]+L) to
the revised. dJaft resolution. virich read as follovs:

'Add a secon,l operative paragraph to read as follorvs;

"2. qeigg!_ts_ the group of governmental experts to inctude in their
report to the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly reconmenCations on
the various possible modalities to channel resources from arns expenditures to
the econonic and sociaL d.eveloFnent of Lhe devetooing counLries'



A/T/\6t
inRJ-rsh
pale 5

1\" On 3 Novexnber, Argentina, Belgium. France. Greece, Portuflal , Senegal, Tunisia..
lurlrey and Yugoslavia submitteat s. alraft resolution 6/C .f / T/L.B) . It was
i6fr"."try-?EiGeE-( Alc .I/ 33/L.I3lRev. r) and sponsored bv 4leent!.t:g."_4UStf}.e-.
Befgiun, Egypt, France, Ghana., Greece" Ilaiti" India, ItaLy. PortugaL " Seneqal:,Tunisia, Turkel and. Yu€:oslavia anclr later, also by the Central

E1
Pakistqn, Peru, lanka and Togo. It ras by the representative of
I'rance at the l+6th rneeting, onll ovenber. A statenent on the administrative
arld financi.al irnplications of the ilrafb resolution was subnitted by the Secretary-
General on 2? Ilovember (A/C .I/ 33/L.\7) .

15. On 3 trIovenber,
f Ireland. " I and

Yugoslavia subnitted a d.rafb resoL ch ras subsequently
al.so sponsorerl by .ca!__@p!Iglqh i 1e":_coE-!C

of Great Britqin and. i{orthern lreLand, Uruzuqy and The draft resolution
neeting, on 21 lilovenberr.ras introd.uceal by the relresentative of lrance at the

16, On B Noverober 
" Cuba" Cyprus, Romania " Sli Lanka., funisia, Urqgua-/ andYugoslavia subnitted. a alraft resolution (A/C.1./33/L"76) " It l{as subsequentl-y

revised (A/C .f / $/L.A6/Aev.1) and sbonsoretl by Costa Rica" Cube " Cyprus, liberia,Romania, Senegal " Sri Lanka " Tunisia" Uruguay and Ygggslalie, 3angladej:h,Bo1ivia" France and. !@gr:!!!us subsequently also becare sponsors of the revised-
draft resolution. The revised, draft resolution was intfoduced by the
representative of Sri Lanka at the L3rd neeting, on 17 Isovenber.

r"?.
the

Federal cof
Ni

of of Arnerica and Vene zuela
submitted a tlraft resoluE It was subsequently revised
\Alc.t/ 33llr,L1lRev.l) and sponsored by Dennark

f " Jamaica. Ids.uritius co. the
n and llort

Irel-and " the United States of Anerica. UruAuayllenezuela and Zambia" and
subsequentLy also sponsoreal by BangLadesh and Sarbados. fire revised draft
resolution was introd.ucea ly tfre representativ6-6?EJden a.t the LBth meeting,
on 22 Ifovember.

18. On 1)r Novenber, Liberia subnitted a draft resolution (A/C.f/T/L.20) vhich
vas introduced by its representative at the 39th neeting, on 15 lilovember, and vas
subsequently reviserl (A/C"f /n/L.zo/nev.l) by the sponsor.

On B Novenber,



A/ 3 3r/45-r,

Page 6

IT]. VOTING

f9. At its 51st meeting, op 2/ I-f ovember, the First Connittee adopted draft
resollition A/c.r/33/L"7 (see para. ! above) by a record.ed. vote of 69 to 21+, rr:i.th
33 abs'r.entions (see para. 33 be1ov, draft resolution A). The voting was as follovs:

fn favour: Afg.hanistan, Albania" Algexia, Ango1a, Bahrain, Bangl_adesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Botsvana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Chad, China, Congo" Cuba, Cze chosl-ovahia,
Denocratic Yemen, Djibouti, ngypt, Equatorial Guinea" Ceruan
Denocratic Fepublic, Ghana, Guinea" Guyana, Hungary, India"
Indonesia, Iraq" Jordan, I(trwait " Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic "Lebanon, Libyan Arab Janahiriya" Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali " I{alta, llauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, l,{ozambique, ltriger,I,trigeria, Onan, Pakistan, Po1and." Qatar" Romania, Saudi A.rabia,
Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka" Sudan, Syri an Arab Reptblic, fogo 

"Tmisia" Ugarda, llkrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United_ Arab nrrirates, United
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzalia, Viet Narn"
Yen,en, T igoslavia, Zambia,

Australia, Austria, Bahamas 
" 

Belgiun" Canada" Costa Rica,
Denmark, finland, France" Germany, Federaj_ lepublic of,
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras n lreland, Israel, ItaLy, Luxenbourg,
lletherlands, New Zealand, ltrorway, Paraguay " Sweden " UnitedKingdon of Great Britain arld Northem freland" United States of
Arneri.c a,

Abstainine,: Argentina 
" 

Barbados, Burma, Chi1e, Colombia " Doni.nic an Bepublic "Ncuador- nthiopja" Fiji" Creece, fceland, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Japan, I(enya, Liberia, Mauritius, Ilexico 

" 
Nepa1, Panama " PapuaNev Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal " Rwanda" Sierra Leone,Singapore, Spain, thailand, ltrinid.ad a.nd Tobago, Ihper Vo1ta,

Uruguay, Vene zuela.

?A, At its 51st neeting, before the lirst Conmittee proceeded
resolution A/C"I/33/L,2 (see para. 6 above), fndia a.nnoruced. a
operative para€iraph 2; the paragraph reads in part as follows:

to vote on draft
dJafting change to

"Requests all States, parti cularly nuclear-veapon States, to subnit
to the Se cnetary-General ) before the thirty-foulth session of the Geners.l
.{ssemb1y, proposaLs ccncerning the non-use of nucLear weapons ..,',

the rest of the paragraph remaining unchanged, Thereupon, the draft resol"ution,
as revised, \,ras adopted by a recorded vote of B)+ to f5" vith lB abstentions (see
para, 33 belor.r, draft resolution B). The votins was as follovs:



t\/T/)+6r
English
Page ?

In favour: Afghanistan 
" Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,Bangl-adesh, Sarbados, Benin, Bhut an " 

Botswana" Bra,zil, Burrna,
Burundi, Chad, Chile, Colonbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Democratic Yernen " Dominican Bepublic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,F'iji, Ghana, Guinea, cuyana, Haiti, Inclia, Indonesia, Iran"
Iraq, Ivcry Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya" Kuwait, Lao Peoplets
Democratic lepublic, lebanon" Liberia, Libyan A-rab Jsrahiriya,
Madagascar" IIa-Laysia" l{aldives, Mali, },lalta, Mauritania,
MauriLius " I.lexieo, Morocco, l.,lozambique, Nepal , Niger, Ni4eria,Oman, Fakistan" Parrama, Papua I'trew Guinea, ?araguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Bomania" Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri tarla,
Sudan " Syri a:r Arab Republic, Thailand" Togo, Trinidad andTobago, Tr.rnisia, Uganda, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, Upper- Voltar Uruguay, Venezue-La, Viet llan,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanrbia.

Against: Australia, Belgium" Canada" Dennark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic o-0, Creece" Ireland, fta1y, Luxembourg ) Netherl-ands,
New Zealand, Norway, Portugaf, United Kingdom of Great Britain
an d. l{orthern Ireland. United States of America.

Abstaining: Austria" Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Czechoslovakia, Finland, German Democratic Republic, Guatemafa,
Honduras, Hungary, lceland, Jsrael" Japa:r, Ii'longoli a, Poland,
Spain" Sweden, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics.

2L At its 52nd. meeting, on 27 November ? the First Conrnittee proceeded to vote
on draft resol-ution A/C.f /T/L.3/Fev.f x (see para. T above). The amendrents
contained in documents A/C"L/33/L"Bx " L"33 and L.36 were not 

pressed to the vote.
The draft resolution was then adopted by a recorded vote of 89 to 2, with
9 abstentions (see para. 33 beJ or,r, d.raft resolution c). The voting vas as
follows : 2/

In favour: Afghanistan " Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahrainu Bangladesh "Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, 3razil, Bulgaria,
Byelorusslan Soviet Socialist Repub.Iic, Ca"nada, Cape Verde' Chad,
Chile, Colombia, Cula " C;ec1,osJ ovakia, lenrnarl , rcraJor", E,"yFt,Ithiopia, Fiji, Ganrbia, Cerman Democratic Fepublic' Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, Iceland, India" Indonesia, Irano
fraq, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Jamaica" Japan, Kuvait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascare
I"lalaysia, I'aldives, Ma.Li, Ilauritania" llexico, Ilongo]ia' Morocco'

2/ Subsequently the delegations of Angola, Bumndi, Denocratic Yemen'
Guinea" Hond.uras, l.{auritius, Qatar, Paraguay " Togo and Venezuela indicated 

that'
had they been present, they vould have voted in favour.



A133/\6r
English
-Eage o

Mozambique, Nepalo New Zealand, Niger" Nigeria, Norway, Ornan,
Pakistan, Papua l{ew Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Samoa, Senegal, Sierra Leone" Singapore " Spain, SriLanka, Sr^reden, Syrian Arab Republic" Thaifand, Trinidad and
Tobago " Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet SocialistRepublic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Fepublic
of Cameroon, United Repr.rblic of fenzania, Upper Vo1ta" Uruguay,
Yenen, Yugosfavia, Zaire, Zambia,

Against; China, f'rance.

Abstaining: Belgiun, Finland, Gerrnany, Federal Fepr-rblic of, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Nether'lands, United Kingdom of creat Sritain and
Northern lreland" United. States of America.

?2. At its 52nd meeting, on 27 Novenrber, the First Coflnittee adopted drafb
resolution A/C")-/33/L.\/Rev.1 (see para. 8 above) by consensus (see para. 33
belov" draft resolution D).

23, At its 52nd meeting, before the First Connittee proceeded. to vote on draft
resolution A/C.f/33/L., (see para. 9 above), Morocco ora}1y proposed. a revision
to the d"aft resofution which was aecepted. by the sponsors, It consisteal of
adding an ad.ditionat operative paragraph 3 vhich read as follows:

"Requests ttle Secretary-General- to subnit to the thirty-fourttr session
of the General Assembly a report on the implementation of the fellovships
progra.nme . "

fhe"eupon, the dJaft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by consensus (see
para. 33 belov, draft resolution E).

D-+. At its 52nd meeting, the First Conmittee adopted draft resolution
A/o.I/33/L"9 (see para. 10 abor,'e ) by consensus (see para, 33 be1olr, draft
reso_tut]-on I I .

2r. AIso at its 52nd meeting" the First Connittee adopted. alTaft resolution
A/C.)-/ 33/L.Lo/Rev.1 (see para, 11 above) by consensus (see para. 33 beIow, draft
resolution G).

26. At its 52nd. nreeting, on 2f Novernber" the First Comittee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/33/L,!L/Rev.1 (see para, 12 above) by a recorded. vote of
l2o to none, with 10 abstentions (see para. 33 beIow, draft resolution H). The
voting was as fol-l-olrs: 3,/

V The delegation of the United Kingdon of Great Britain and Nortbern lreland
subsequently indicated that it had. intended to abstain.



In favour:

A/33/\6L
llng].i sh
Page 9

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia" Austria"
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, 3o1ivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Butgaria, Burna" Burund.i, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cape Verde" Central African Ernpire, Chad,
Chile, China, Colonbia" Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Denocratic Yemen, Dennark, Doninical Republi.c, Ecuador, Egypt,
E1 Salvador, lquatorial Guinea" Ethiopia, fiji, Finland" Gambia,
Gernan Denocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea" Guinea-Bissau,
Grryana, Haiti, Hond.uras, Hungary " Iceland, India, Tndonesia,Irans lraq, Ireland, Ivoly Coast, Ja,maica, Jofdan, Kenya,
Kuwait 

" lao Peoplets Democratic lepub.lic, Liberia, Libyan ArabJamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, l4aJ"i " l,Ialta,l'lauritania, lvlauritius, Mexi co, Mon golia u liorocco, Mo zamb ique,
NepaJ., Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan 

" ?ananur Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Penr, Philippines "Pol-and., Portugal, Qatar, Ronania, Samoa, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sonalia, Spain " Sri Lanka" Sudan " Suriname, Sweden,Syrian Arab lepublic, thaila:rd, Togo" Trinid.ad and Tobago 

"Twrisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socia^list Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United lepublic of
Ca:ne oon, United Republ-ic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
VenezueLa, Viet Nan, Yernen, Yugosla\ia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Belgiun, Canada, Francee Germany, Federal Republic of,
Guatenala, Israel, Ita1y, Japsn, Luxembourg, United States of
Ameri ca.

27. At its 52nd neeting" the First Conmittee took up draft resolution
A/C.l/ 33/L.12/Rev.1 (see para. 13 above) . pakistan &id not press to the vote its
auend&ents in A/C )-/33/L.)A. Ttre draft t."65IT;r, .to"s then adopted by consensus
(see para. 33 belov" draft resolution I).

28. At its 53rd neeting, on 28 Novenrb er, the First Comittee adoptecl draft
resolution A/Q.l/33/I'.13/Rev.1 (see para. 1)+ above) by a recorded vote of IOT to
none, l.l'itb L8 abstentions (see para. 33 be1ow" draft resolution J), The voting
was as follows: 4/

fn favour: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas " Sahrain,Sangladesh, Sarbad.os, Belgium, Benin" Bhutan, Sotswsra, 3razi1"
Burma, Surundi, Canada, Cape Verd"e, Central African Empire'
Cbad, Chile, China, Colonbia, Costa Ricau ffprus, Denmark,

V Ttre delegation of Luxenxb ourg subsequently indicated that, had it been
present, it wouLcl have voted in favour.



ir/331\5r
English
Page 10

Dominican Republic, ncuador, Xgypt " 
EI Salvador, I'iji' Finland'

Irance, Gabon, Ganbia, Gernany, Federal- Republic of, Ghana
Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, India,
Tndcnesia, Iran" fraq" Ire.land, Israel" ftaly' Tvory Coast,
Jamaica, Jalran, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia" l,ibyan Arab
Janahiriya" I"ladagas cax, Malaysia' Maldives, Mali, Ma1ta,
l,lauritania, l{auritius, Mexico, Morocco, Nepa1, Netherfands,
New Zealand, Irliger, Nigeria, lforway, Pakistan, ?anana, Papua
Ifer'r Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal' Qatar'
Rornania, Saudi Arabia, Senegaa" Singapore, Sornalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka" Suriname, Svaziland" Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand" Togo, Trinidad and Tobago ' Tunisia, 

Turkey' Uganda,
United I(ingdon of Great Britain and Northern lreland" United
Republic of Cameroon, United Fepublic of Tsnzania' Upper Vol-ta,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Yenen, Yugoslavia" Zaire" Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Afghenistan, Angola, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic" cuba, Czechoslovakia" Ethiopia, German Democratic
Fepub-lic, Curt.=nafa, Hul.:ary,'ondolir, I'ozenbiorrc, Poland"
ai.rr.- Loone, Sud- r, UJ:rain-lan Soviel Socialist Renublic, Union
of Sovic-c Socialist Renubfics - Unitecl States of A:nerica,

29, At its )2nd. meeLing" on 2T l{ovember, the First Connittee adooted draft
resolution A/c.r/ T/L"r\ (see para, 15 above) by consensus (see para. 33 be1ow,
olalt leso-Lutlon It).

30. At its 53rd rneeting, on 28 Ncvenber, before the lirst Comnittee proceeded
to 1'ote on draft resolution A/c.r/T/LJ6lnev.t (see para. 16 above), Nigeria
proposed, and the sponsors accepted, an oraf amendment to the draft resolution,

ruo uyurourvE paragraph 1, after the words ttinformation and conments
nade by l4ember States"" the words ''during the thirty-third session of the General-
Assenb1y", tiexico further orally proposed thal in operative paragraph 1" after
the words "parifraph ]25 of the Fina.l Document'l the words "together with all the
official records of the tenth special session of the General Assembly devoted to
d.i s arma.rnent'r be added. The revised operative paragraph 1 would read as fol-lows:

"Reouests the Se cret arv-General to transnit to the delibefative and'
negotiating as vell as stu y::ng organs dealing ltith the question of
disarmament aft the proposals and suggestions listed in paragraph 121
of the Final Document, together with a-Lf the offieial recoxds of the tenth
special session of the General Assembly as weff as information and conments
nade by Mernber States at che thirly-third session of the General Assexnbly
on those proposals and suggestions " except those 

covered by separate
resolutions ; " ,

The representative of l{exico also requestecl a separate vote on the retention of
the words tras vel1 as studyingrr in operative paragraph 1, and on its oral arnend.ment.



\/ i3/\6r
Ingl istl
Fe.ge i1

llith regard to the words 'ras well as studying'', their retention was decided upon
by a recorded vote of T6 to 1?" with 28 abstentions. fhe voting vas as follor,rs:

In favour: Af€hanistan, Algeria, Angol-a, Argentina, Austria, Ba.ngfad.esh,
Benin, Bhutan " Botswena, Bulgaria, Burna, Burundi, ByelorussianSoviet Socialist Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia" Democratic Yenen, Egypt, Fiji, France, Gabon,
Gambia, Geman Denocratic Republic, Ghana, culrana, Hrmgary,
India" Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland., Israel, Ita1y, Japan, Kenya,
Lao Peopleis Dernocratic Fepublic, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, I,lalaysia, llaldives, lla1i, l4alta, llauritius, l'ongolia,
l4orocco, I'4oza.nbique, Nepal, Onan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Poland, Roroania, Saudi Arabia, Senegalo Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland., Syrian Arab Repub1ic, Thailand, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda" Ukrainian Soviet Socia.list Repubtic, Union of
$oviet Socialist Republics 

" 
Unitecl Republic of Cameroon, United

Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia,
Zaire " Zambia.

Against: Austral-ia, Belgiurn, Canada, Doraini c a.n lepublic, Ecuador,
Dthiopia, FinJ'and, Gennany, FederaJ- Republic of1 Iiuwait,
Luxenbourg, Mexicou Netherlands " New Zealand, 

Paraguay, Spain,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern lreland, United
States of America.

AbstainipPj: 3ahamas, Sarbados, BraziJ-u Denmark, If Salvador, Greece,
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, f cel"and) Iran, Ivory Coasr:, Jamaica,
Jord.an, Ma.uritania, Niger, Nigeria, Norway e Pakistan, Peru,
Philippines 

" 
Portugal, Sierra Leone, Singapore " Sveden, 

Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Vene zuela,

I^Iith regard to the words "together with all the official records of the tenth
specisl session of the General Assembly devoted to disarr'rament", their insertion
nas d.ecided q)on by a recorded vote of l-03 to 9, with 12 abstentions. The voting
r,aB as fol-lows:

In falour: Afgbanistan, Angola, Austria" Ba.hrain, Bangladesh, Barbados 
"Bel-gium, Benin, Bhutsr, Botsvana, BrazII, Bulgaria, Burma,

Burundi, Syelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic " Canada, Chac1"Chi1e, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cubae Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Dennark, Doninican Bepublic, Ecuador, Eglfpt 

"nl- Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, Ganbia" Gernan Democratic
Republic, Gertany, Iedera.I Fepublic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemaf,a"
Ouyanau Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, fndia, Indonesia,
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, ftaly, Jamaica, Japan u Jordan ' Kenya"Kutait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Liberia, Libyall Arab
Jarmhiriya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar, I'{aL dives, l{a1i, I'{auritania'
l.{auritius " l4exico r Mongolia" }4orocco, Mozambique, 

Nepal- 
'Netherlands " New Zealald, Niger, Iiligeria, 

llorvay, Ona/l , Pahistan,



!\/.J3/\6L
En f+ i sil
I'a1;e 12

Paname" Paraguay, Peru, Polantl" Portugal, Qatar, Saudi Arabia"
Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, St'eden, Syrian Arab Bepublic"
Thailand, Togo, Trinitlad and Tobago, Tunisia, Tulkey, Uganda,
lJkraini an Soviet Socialist Bepublic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Bepublics, United Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern lre].and.,
Unitect Republic of Caneroon, United Republic of Tanzania,
Upper Volta" Venezuelao Viet lilan, Yugoslavia, Zaire " Zanbia.

Against: Australia, !'rance, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Ma1ay6ia, Papua New Guinea,
Senega.I, Sri Lanka, Uruguay.

llelgiging.: Algeria, Argentina, Bahanas, FiJi, Iran, l4alta, Philippines,
Ronania" Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sudan, United States of
Ar.eri ca.

fhereupon, the revised. draft resolution, as oralLy a.nend.et! " was adopted 
by

consensus (see para. 33 below, draft resolution f).

31, .A.t its 53rd neeting" on 28 Novenber, the First Co!finittee adopted draft
resolution A/ C.1/ 33/L.17/Bev.1 (see para. 1? above) by consensus (see para. 33
below, draft resolution 14).

32. Af-so at its 53rd Beeting, before the tr'irst Conxiittee proceeded. to vote on
draft resofution l,/C.l/33/L.20/Rev,l (see para. LB above), Liberia orally revised
the draft resolution by del-eting fron operative palagraph 2, after the word "with
assistance"" the vords "if necessarytt and trqualifieil experts " including". ltrus,the paragraph n as orally levjsetl, read as folLolrs;

"Requests the Secretary-General" with the assistalrce of the Advisory
Board, to study the ways and. means vtrereby the objectives in paragraptr f above
can be accomplished and report to the thirty-fourth reguLar session of the
General- Ass enbly; ".

ThereuFon 
' the revised draf'b resolution, as further orally revised, was adoptedby consensus (see para- 33 below, d,rafb resolution N).



rV, F]ICO}'II4NIIDATTOI\TS OF TIIE F]RST COI\O'TTTNN

Conmittee reconmends to the General As s enbl-y the ad-option of the
resol-utions:

Revier,r of fons
and d 1v at its

JJ. t',ne i ].rst
following draft

1'he Generall 4s semb l v -

Gravely concerned over the

Alarmcd lrrr I ha innr"-qcin-
:i==:-:i:_:l

-,r^ l aar

Ass
t enth sess]-on

continued. and rapid- fsraeLi military build-up,

evidence regarding fs"aeli att empts to acquire

.A

Ir,xbressin( its alarm oveT tt'e use ty Tsrael of cluster bonbs against 
"efueeecanps-;;;E;f-1ian target s in southern Lebanon 

"

Fecallinr its resolutions 3?63 (I.XIX) of ! lecernber f 97)+, 3)+?lr (X)fi) of
ff Ueceutrer f975, 3A/71 of 10 Decenter 1975 and 32/8? of 12 December 1977 on the
establishrnent of a nuclear-vealon-free zone in the region of the lfiddle ,!ast"

Reco€rnizing that the continued. escalation of Israeli armarllent constitutes a
Tcroal r< rerqie+anl-

of expansion, occupat ion
people ,

threat to international peace and security and underlies
defiance of General As sembly resolutions and. its policy
and denial of the inalienable riphts of the Palestinian

rr,rr+L^v ,^^-r 1.i-^ its repeated condemnations of the intensification of
!0ilitary col-laboration betveen fsrael and South Afraica and its resolution
32/Io5 T of ll+ Decembev 1977, entitled. "l.,tilitary a-nd nuclear col-laboration with
50utn Ar rlca- "

.' f Cal1s upon a1l- States to co-operate ful1y in effective international
actionu in accordance 1,tith Clapte" VTT of the clarter of the Unite,r l-ations, to
avert this Brave menace to international peace and security',

2, leouests the Securitv Council, in r:articular " to call unon al'l 
states 

'under chapter VTI of the eharter and irrespective of any existing codtracts:

(a) To refrain f"om any supply of arms, arnmunition " nilitary 
equipment or

vehicles, or spare parts thereof^ to Israel, without any exception:

(t) To ensure that such supplies do not reach Tsrael through other parties I

(e) !o end all tlansfer of nucLear equipment or fissionable material or
t echnologlr to fsrael .



!\/ fi/\6r
EngIish
Page iL

3. -e"rtlt.t_-"equ"=t "- 
the Security Oouncil to establish rnachinery for

sulervisine the inpl-elaent ation of the neasures referred to in laragraph 2 alrove'
11' fnvites all Goverlnnents and organizations to tal.e alf apDropriate

actions to pronote the lurposes of the present resoLution.

]J

The General As sembly,

llarmed by the threat to the survivaf of nankind. and to the life-sustaining
system posed by nuclear veaDolts and by tbeir use inherent in concepts of
deteryence,

lgI13SSg that nucl-ear disarmament is essential for the lrevention of
nuclear r\'ar arrd for the strengthening of international peace and security I

necalins the declaration of the ceneral A.ssembly contained" in the Final
Document adopted at its tenth special session that "a11 States should actively
participa-te in efforts to bring about cond.itions in internationa-l relations anong
States in lrhich a. cod,e of leaceful cond,uct of nations in intexnational affairs
could be agreed and r'.'hich would lreclud.e the use or threat of use of nuclear
r+eapons", l/

1. !.sglelss that:
(a) Tbe use of nuclear weapons wilL be a violation of the Charter of the

United l:lations and- a crirne allainst hunanity.

(b) The use of nuclear weapons should therefore be prohibited-, pending
nuclear d.is armanent I

2' lSgue:le all States, particularly nucl-eaf,-weapon States, to subnit to
the Secret ary-General _. before the thirty-fouyth session of the General Assenbly,
lroposals concerning the non-use of nuclear we.apons, avoidance of nucleaf ],tar
and related natters, in orrl-er that the question of an international convention
or s ol:re other agreement on the subJect nav be d-iscussed, et that session.

The flprerrl l e eonlrl rr

Gravely cqqcel4ld tha.t continued testing of nucl-e6r \.reapons exacer:bates the
arms race and constitutes a serious hazard to the environment and the health of
present and future generations of nankind 

"

5/ Resolution S".IO/2, rara. 58.



A/T/)r6t
EneJ.ish
page 15

&.-lt """tjg its conviction that the cessation of nuclear weapons testing inall environment s would be a major step towards controlling the development of
nuclear lteapons and an important contribution to the prevention of nuclear-weapons
proliferation,

Weapon Tests in
that Treaty to

the determination of the parties to the Treaty Banning lTuclear
the Atnosphere" in Outer Space and Under I.Iat er 5/ expressed in

continue negotiations to achieve the discontinu€.nce of all test
explosions of hucl-ear veapons for aJ-1 time,

lecall-ing its resolutions on the question
each year since 1958 by very large najorities
32/78 of 12 Decernber 1977,

of nuclear weapon testing ad.opt ed
and, in particular, resolution

Ig3lll"mms. that a conprehensive test ban is a rnatter of the highest priority,

Felalling the various views expressed by non-nuclear.-weapon States duri.ng the
tenth special session of the General As s enbl,y that pending the conclusion of
comrehensive test-ban treaty the world cornmunity would be encouraged if all the
nuclear-veapon States refrained from testing nuclear weapons,

ReEretting that the Conference of the Cornmittee on Disarmaaent has not been
aUte i6l6ffiiile negotiations on ttre Comprehensive l.luclear Test-Ban Treaty owing
to the non-subnission of the Joint d.raft treaty expected fron the three nuclear-
veaDon States.

Cal1s upon all States, in particular all the nuclear-1,/eapon States, pending
the conclusion of a comprehensive test-ban treaty, to refrain from conducting any
testing of nuclear veapons and ather nuclear explosive devices,

Itre General Assenbly,

Expressing its grave concern ove" the continued arms race,

Snphasizing the ulgent need for and the irnportance of
mobilization of world public opinion in support of hsfting
race, especially the nuclear arrns race in all its aspects,

wide and continued-
and. reversing the arms

Recalling that, at its special session devoted to disaflnanent, the General
Assembly proclaimed the week starting on 2)+ October, the day of the foundintT of
the United I'Tations, as a week d,evoted to fostering the obJeetives of disarmanent,

Desirous of pronoting broad measures on nobilization of world ptb1ic
opinion in the celebration of such a week in order to create an international
atmosphere conducive to the inplenentation of further practical neasures on the
cessation of the anls race and disarmament.

6/ unitea Nations, Treaty series, vot, L8o, trto. 695h, p, l+3.



AlT/t+6r
English
rage l-o

1. Invites afl" States to carry out through dissemination of infovroat ion and
organization of synposiurns, neetings, conferences anal other nationaL and
international foruns effective me&sures to expose the danger of the arms racet
protr)a6ate the need. fol its cessation and increase the public understanding of the
urgent tasks in the field of disarmament, in particular ' 

the provisions of the
Final Document ad.opted by the General AssernbLy at its specia] session devoted to
di samanent ! 7

2. Requestg the Secretary-Genera1 to prepare a model progrs.nne r'rhi ch nay
assist States that so deslre in developing their l-ocal programmes for Di sarma.ment
\^Ieek ;

3. Ilvites governnental- as well as non-governmental organizations to
undertake annual activities to pronote the objectives of Di sarmaroent l'leek and
invites Governments to inforn the Secretary-Generaf of such activities not later
than 30 April of each following year;

f+. Requestg the Secret arV-General to report to the General Assembfy at its
thirty-fourth anfsubsequent sessions on the inforrnati on obtained by hin in
accordance nith pa"agraph 3 of the present resolution.

_ti

The General Ass enbly,

RecaLtina its d-ecision at the tenth sleciel session to establisb a progranne
of fellowships on disarnament, B/

Haying considered the report of the S ecretary-Gene?al on the guidelines for
the progra.:nme of feLlovships. 9/

1. Approves the guidelines preDarecl by the Secretary-General l

2. Requests the Secretarv-General- to nal.e adeq-uate artangement s in order
that the p"ogr'atnne of fellowships on disanratnent c aln be comoenced during the first
balf of 1979 i

3, Fequests the Secretary-Generat to subrnit to the General Assenbly at
its ttrirty-.tourttr ,session a report on the ir'llle.n1ent at ion of the fellowships
prograr:ule.

?/ Resolution S-]-O/2.
9/ fti.e,. , para. 108.
2/ Al33/3o5.



A/33/\6r
English

The ceneral As s embly,

{aving eonsidered its resorution s-10/2 of 30 June L9T8 and the r.inar Document
embodied therein, with the view to exsnining the present status of the
implenentatj.on of the reconmendations and d_ecisions adolted at its tenth special
session' the first which the united llations has devoted entirely to disarmaraent,

_ Reaffilming the alarrn expressed in that resofution regard.iog the threat tothe very survivaL of rnankind posed by the existence of nucrear wea'ons and the
continuing arms race' and recal-ling the devastation inflicted- by ail vars,

convinced that tbe provisions of the !'inal Document constitute a consistent
and articulated. vhole vbieh provides a sorid basis to set in reotion an
international disarrnament strategy that permits at the same time:

!.) To carry out what is the nost acute and urgent task of the present day,
removing the threat of a r^'orld war, which wouLd inevitab!-y be a nuclelr.o"r,

(t) fo cha.nnel the neeotiations €mong states towards the final goaL of
generaL and coDrpl-ete disarnament under effective internationa-L control, in the
understanding that such negotiations shal-l be cond.ucted concurrently with
negotiations on partial neasures of disarmanent 

"

(t) To strengthen international peace and security and to promote the
econonic and. social advancement of al,1 peoples, thus facilitating the achievenent
of the new interTlational econonie order,

trlotinA that the reconinendat ions and d.ecisions adopted at its tenth special
session regarding the nultilateral disarmanent machinery, both negotiatinS as
vel1 as d.eliberative 

" have aIrea"dy resul-ted, or r,riI1 do so soon, in a consid.erablerevitali zat ion of that machinery,

- lloling also that various neasures have been, or are about to be, adoptedwhich will turn into reality several reconmendations and decisions rigard-inB
studies, info:mation, teaching and training on di sarmsnent incruded in the Final
Document of the special session,

Ilaving concluded that the situa-tion is quite different r/ith regard to the
other numerous recomend.ations and decisions contained in the Proqranme of Action
of the Final Docrnlent ,

_ Recalfing the consensus that, in the task of achieving the goals of nuclear
disarnament, which has maximurn priority, aI1 the nuclear-veapon States, in
particular thos€ a"nong thenrr,Jhi ch possess th-e nost inportant nuclear arsenals,
bear a specia] responsibility,

Bgsring in ninal that in adopting the FinaL Docunent Membe States soler:n1y
proclaimed in the Declaration contained therein that 'lthey will respect the



A/*/\6r
Eoglistr
f&se -Lo

obJectives and Brinciples stated.rr in it and tbat they will "nake every effort
faithi\rlly to carry out the Progra,rt[e of Action", I0/

1. Ta,kes note vith satisfaction of the measures aaiopted, o! about to be
adopted, tffi di sarma:nent nachinery available to the
United Nations among vhich, in particu.l,ar, the fact that the Di s araa.rnent
Corunission bas Just held its first seesion on organizational ms.ttels and that the
conrcittee on Di saruanent is alrea$r properly constituted in confornity with the
relevant provisions of the Final Docuuent enboclied in its General Assenbly
reso-Lullon s-LUIZi

2. &qlresses the hope that a1I nuclear-l'eaPon States will participate in
the Con.".i tiEEii-iEffiffi, and i.s confident that the Comittee will incfude in
its rules of proced.r:re provisions to ensure that it nay function effectively as a
nultilateral negotiating di sarn0ament body;

3, NotqE lllt! qellqlqStign that progreEs has been, or is being, nade in the
adoption of neasures ainea at pronoting studie6' infonnation, teaching and
training on d.isarnanent i

\. negrets, however, that with regard to the Programoe of Action it has not
yet been pGffiG to achieve any of the priority aeree!4ents enunciated. tberein ' 

in
particular the agreenent fOr a cOmprehensive test ban antl the agreenent pursued in
the second series of tbe Strategie A:us Liroitation Talks;

,. Urgently calLs upon all States, io particular the nuclear-l'eapon States,
to loake every etfort FEo proceed. along the road of binding and effective
international agreements in the fieLd Of disalnanentrt, in accord€nce with what was
approved at the tenth Epecial session, in order to traDslate into practical terrns
the measr:res cal-l-ed. fo' in the Progreme of Action;

6. Invites aLl States to coununi cate as appropriate to the Secretary-
Getrera] aLJ. those lreasures adopteat outsid.e the aegis of the United Nations
regarding the inplementation of tfre recomend.ations and decisions of the tenth
speciaL sessi.on, whether unilateral, bilateraf, regional or nultilateral;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to transldt periodically the above
infornation, togethev with arry reports he nay prepare on similar neasures taften
vitbin the fra,oework of the unitea! Nations and itg specialized agencies ' both tothe General Assenbly and the Dis armanent Conurission.

10/ ResoLution S-IO/2, para, \2.



Al331l46t
nn.g1i s h
Page 19

The Cen-ra1 Xssembly,

,lvare of tho 6rave dan{r€rs inhcrent in the arms race.

9pnylnced tbat it is essenti.aL tbet both the Governruents and the peopl_es of
the rtorld shouJ.d be better inforned of the ilangers of the arlas race, plrticu]arly
the nucLear &rns race, and of the efforts made to contain it,

Recal-1in6 that, at its tenth special session devoted to dj.sannaEeDt, the
General- Aesenbly recognized that ? irr ord.er to nobilize vorltl public opinion in
favour of disarmament, concrete neasures nr:st be ta.ken to increase the
dissenination of infor&ation on the arns race arld disaruauent,

1. Urees Merober States, the specializecl agencies and the fnternational
Atolxi.c -rrxer€y Agency, a9 ffel-l a,s non-govenulental organizations and concerneal
research institutes, to prooote ed.ucation and. infonnation progre.mres relating to
the a"us race and d.isamanent;

2. EgSSts_ Me&be! States to report to the General Asse6!1y, through the
Secretary-General, on their activities in tbe fielal of disseaination of
iufor:tlation on the a]:ns race and. d.isa::nanent;

3. llelcones the initiative of the United Natic0:s UducationaL, Scientific
and curturifGffiization in planning to hold a world con6ress on disalslment
education antl" in that connexion n inwites tbe Director-General of that
organization to report to the General Asserably, at its tbirty-fourth aession, on
the preparations for that event;

4. Requests the United ]lations Centre for Disarnanent, in preparing the
United Nations Yearbook lElDLgaqraqre4t and the di sama,nent perioclical, to talce
accowlt of the recomendations of the General -A,sseebly regerding the fotE antl
content of such publications:

,, ElEllggggglg the United Nations Centre for Di sarEament to increese
contasts rlitb non-govemmental organizations and research institutione, in
accordarce with para€raph I23 of the FinaL Docunent of the Tenth special_ Session
and, aftet appropriate consultations, to report to the General Assenbly at its
thirty-fourth session on other waye of encor:raging the role of such orgsrtizatlolla
and. institutions in the field of disaJqanent j

6, Bequests the Secretary-GeneraL to incLude in any studies on alms
Iindtation ald, disarnament prepared. unaler ttte auspiceE of the UBited Nations a
sutluarJr of tbose stud.j.es, drafted in easily wrd.erstooal laJxguage, to fecilitate
their disserdnation anong tbe general publici

7. Requests the Secretary-General- to expJ.ore the possibilities of
co-ord.inating the public infornation ectivities relating to di satranent of all
Unit€ci Nati.ons specialized agencies and the Intemational Ato dc Alergtr A€ency.



Al33/t+6!
English

i1

9S.-qe!Sg3l_4!:SinblX"

Havinp,-geviewed. the irapl ementat i on of the reconmendations and decisions
adopted by the General- Assembly at its ten'bh special session,

Ilavigre- in uind the cotrtribution of the tenth special session of the General
Assenbly lolraldsEghughting the grawity of the lrobIelos facing the internationaL
coumunity in the field of di s arnament and identifying the steps conducive to their
solution 

"

Conyinced. of the neecl to broaden alrd. d.eepen the degree of agreenent "eached
and- to presbrve the nonentun initiated at tbe tenth special session"

Conscious of the ffidely expressed. intelest of lulenber States in an urgent
impleloffiFon of the re conmend.at i on s and d.ecisions of tbe tenth special session,
which found expression in the course of the consideration of this item at the
thirty-third session of the General Assenbly,

Deternined to encourage the tahing of urgent neasures in oriler to Becure the
iaipteiEiTEli6i-of the reconnendations and. decisions endorsed. by i'{e!fter States in
the Final Docusent of the Tenth Speciel Session and. airned at halting the aIIlIs
race, particularly the nuclear arms race, errd. to proceed. to disal:nanent,

r

Reaffirraing that nuclear lreapons pose tfre most selious thleat tO na.:oki.nd antl
its ei;E ;I-Aa'that it is therefore essential to proceed to nuclear di s arrnaoent
and to the compl-ete elinination of nuclean weapons,

Reaffirming also that af1 the nucle€r-weapon gtates, in particuLar thos€
u.on6-ffiil-ifrIi[-lG-sess the Eost inportant nuclear arsenals, bear a special
responsibility for the fulfilnent of the task of achieving the €loal-s of nuclear
disa$rament,

-Idqpre.gElg. the d.eep concern and disappointment of the internatione'1 co! 
tunity

over ttre fact tfrat tbe ongoing negotiations have not yet been successfuLly
concLud.ed. ard tha.t urgent negotiations among the nucl-ear-weapon States have not
yet been initiated,

1. CaU-E llpe4 the nuclear-weaBon States invofved in the negotiations on ttre
conclr"ioo-FE-TEity on the prohibition of all nuclear-weapon tests to subnit to
the Comittee on DisaflG$ent the draft of such €, treaty, at the beginning of its
Iy (y sess].on:,

2, Cal]s upon the llnited. States of -Anrerica and on the {Ji:ion of Soviet
Socialist frE!ffiIG-to speecl. r.lp their negotiations on the second series of the
Strategic Arrns Liruitatiott Ta:-k" and to transmit the text of sucfr an agreenent to
the Generat Assembly in accordance with resolution 33/-;

3' -U!trg "1I 
nucLeax-$eapon States to proceed, in accord'anee with

paragraph 5O-iT th. !'ina.l Docunent of the Tenth SPecial Session, to consultations
regara,ing an early initiation of urgent negotiations on the hslting of the nuclear



A/T/It6r
h1glish
Paee 21

ar.nls raee and on a progressive and. balaJlced. reduction of stockpiles of nuclear:
weapons ancl their near. of delivery within a coiaprehensive phaied programne r^ri th
a6reed tine".franes, l-eading to their ultinate end complete ufi"irrriioo;

lg$es_ts.the nuclear-weapon States to inforn the United. Nations, at ttrethr-rty-fourth session of the General Assemb1y, of the results of their
consu-l-tations ancl eventual negotiations I

II

.llot4g-Yi-!}l-s-g&j-Elai!1on the decision of the ceneral Asse$bLy at its tenths?ecraL sesslon on the strengthening of the role of the united l,lation6 in thefield of d.i s arma:nent ,

!g1. co$i'.g the decision to establish the Disamament Cofi:nission as adeliberative body of the General Asseu.bly with the function of consideringn in
adtlit ion to tbe specific tasks iieriving fro& the decieions and. recoumendations
ai'opt:d at the tenth special session of the ceneral AEselrbly, various problens inthe field. of d.i E arnament and. to mahe reconnendations thereon,

L, Invites the Disa,rmar0ent Cornmission, taking into accorurt ceneraL Assenbly
re solut ion-lif] to consid.er on a regular tisi" tnu reports and other docunemsof the comlittee on Disaruaeent subnittecl by the secretaly-ceneral through the
Geneaal AssembLy;

2' Recoqrends the incr.usion in the agenda of the forthconing session of the
Disanqa&enl-GffiTffion, apart fron the consideration of elelaents of a
conprehensive progla.rule on d.i sarrnaloent as a priority iten, the following questions
rel-ated. to d.isarrnanent :

(a) Consid.eration of various as!€cts of the arns race, particul-arLy the
nuclear arms race antl nuclear d.isarma,nent, in order to expedile neflptiations aimed
at effective elinination of the danger of nuclear varl

(b) Harmonization of vi ens on concrete steps to be undertaken by states
regard.ing a grad.ua1, agreed. red.uction of military budgets and reallocation of
lesources nor'r beinei used for nilitary purposes to econo[dc and social aleve]-opment,
parti.cuLarly for the benefit of the cleveloping countries, noting the rel-evart
resolutions of the Genera"L AssenbLyi

rII

.Bealinejl nind. the d.ecision of the ceneral. Assenbly at its tenth specia"Isession to fix, d.uring its thirty*third gession, the date of the second. ,soeeie]
seggion d.evoted. to disarmament,

. .Desiring to contribute to the furthering and broadening of positive processesinitiated throu€g the l"a ing dor.rn of the foundations of sn international
disarmanent strate€y at the tenth special session of the General, Assen&ty 

"



I'/T/t+6t
English
PaEe 22

1' Decideg to convene a second special session of the General Asserrbll.
d.evoted. to di s ararament in 1982 at United iilations l{eadquarters in lilew York-

2. Decides ailso to set up, at its thirty-fifbh session, a preparatory
coru:-ittee for the=;c.nd special session of thl General AsEenbly devoted to
disarmanent;

IV

ltl.Lcgg$g the agreement reached. at the tenth special session of the General
Assembl.y on the constitution of the Coa:mittee on Disart'ranent,

IS-qfn€*1"-plng that the Co@ittee on Disarnasent wiIL meet at Geneva in
January L979 ,

1. Invites the Comittee on Di s arma.nent to take into account ' 
fitten

determininffillriorities and. progranme of vo"k, the priorities establisheit in
paragraph 4! of the FinaL Docrnent of the Tenth Special, Session of the Generaf
Assexobl.y and the lesolution adoptecl during the thirty-third session of the General
As 6enb1y i

2, Reque stas_ the Comittee on Disanoanent to unilertehe, at its first seseion
in January 1979, on a pri.ority basis, negotiations on:

(a) A treaty on the conplete prohibition of nucleax-$eapon tests;

(b) A treaty or convention oD the conpl-ete and. effective prohibition of tbe
developnent, prod.uction antt stockpiling of all tJryes of chenicaf lreapcns and. on
their clestruction;

3. Bequests the Conmittee on Dis amament to subtltit teports to t]:e General
Assenbly €nnual1y or ttrore frequentLy, aE appropriate, snal provide its fomsL and
other relevant d.oe@ent s to Member States on a regular basisi

\. Decid.es to include in the provisional agend.a of its thirby-fourth
session an-itEar-Entitl-ed rtConsi d.eration of the report of the Cotrmittee on
Di s sJnranoent " .

fhe Ceneraf Asserxbly,

@1Ig of the disproportion existing betveen tbe resources aflocate<l to
nilitary ereend.iture and tho8e devoted to d.eveLopnent assiatsrce'

Colf,inced of the need. to ta](e concrete neasures reflecting the desire of
l4enber States to encoura6e the allocation to d.evel,opnent assistance of the
reeources refeased by reductions in nilitary expenditures t

L:g}l:!C the concerns expressed in that regard by the Geuct..e'l Assenbly at



1\/ 33/\6t
English
r8-qe 4J

its tenth special- session, in parti cular concernina the harnful- economic and
social consequences of pursuing the antrs race,

Noti{tg that a study on the relationship }etween d.i s armament and d.eveloprdent
bas been initiated by the Secretary-Genera1, with the assistance of a group of
govern&ebtaL experts, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 9l+ and 95 ofthe Final locument of the tenth Speci€J- Session of the General Asslmbly,

_ Bequests the secretaly-GeneraL to transnit to tbe Group of GovernmentalEq)erts on the neLationship between Dis arnament and. Devel-opnent, for its
consideration, the proposa] to establish en internationar d.i sarmanent flmd for
d-eveLopment which vas submitted to the General AssenbLy at its tenth special
session. LL/

The Cene ral_ AssenbLy 
"

Alt?re of tbe essential role to be played by appropriate international
mrcnitoring measures, satisfactory to aLl interested pJrties, in establishing a.rrd
implementing d i s arnaroent agre€nents, and in strengthinin8 international secr:rity
and. confid.ence,

Consid.ering the progress uade in the fietd of earth observation satellite
techno].ory ,

convinced. of the ilrportant contribution which such technology can ne.ke to the
solution of nonitoring ?robl-ens, taking into account, in particular, the need to
provide for intenrational nreasures vhich are non-discriminatory and d.o not
constitute interference in the internal affairs of States,

1. Bequestg tbe Secret€4r-General to obtain, not later than 3l March 19?9,
the views of i'iember States on the propose] to establish alc international satellite
nonitoring agency, as explained in a nenoraldum dated 30 }aay 19TB subrritted to the
specia.l session of the General- Assenbly devoted to ilisa:ma;nent I 12/

2. nequests the Secretary-Generat to undertake, as fron f May l9?9, with
the assistarce of a group of qualified gove nsment a1 experts, a study on the
technical, Legal and financiat inplications of establishing a.r: international
sateLU.te nonitoring agency;

3. Bequests the Secretary-General to report to ttre Genersl Assenbly " at itsthirty-fourth session, on tbe replies received from Governments and the
prelininary conclusi.ons of the group of experts.

IV see Als-to / Ac.t/28 .
wl A/s-to/Ac.L/7.



^ 
I aa l\ (.1

.t,sEe 24

J.ne Gene rat- J\sseno-Ly,

Convinced. that negotiations on d.isarmament €nd the continuing effort to
eosur-S-ed[Ei security must be based. on obJective in-depth technical studies'

Convinced. al-so that sustained. research and study activity by the United
wations .in tfre fiefa of di saymament a'ould. promote infonred participation by all
States in d.i s armament efforts,

Considering that, in addition to the work being done in this field by the
United. Nationi Centre for Disarna.nent o with a viev to gathering basic d'at a on
d.i s armament probl"ems and, in particular u facilitating the negotiations curvently
in progress, it is advisable to und.ertake nore forrrard'-looking research, within
the fra.nework of the United ltrations 

"

Noting that various proposafs that studies of this t)'pe should be carried' out
have lEE-put fonr.ard at the tenth special session and thirty-third session of tbe
General Asselrbly" thus reflecting the need of tbe international conraunity to be
provid"ed. with ntre diversified ard conplete infofuation on probleras relating to
d.isarnament,

A\tare of the imporbance of ensuring that sucb studies should be conducted in
accordance with the criteria of scientific ind'ependence,

1. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly, at its
ttrirty-fouffiTEliion, on possible ways of establishing, operating and financing
a.n iniernationaL institute for disarmament research, 13/ under the auspiees of the

2, Bequests the Secretary-General to seek in ttrj s regard, inter- alia' the
advice of the advisory board established. in implenentatiott of put$i"pft Ta[ or tft"
Final Document of the tenth Special Session, in view of the conpetence to be
assigned to that body in respect of a prograrne of studies on d'isarrnament '

l)

The General Asserobly,

l"S-4.lilg its d.ecision at the tenth special session to request the Secretary-
General- to transrLit to the appropriate deliberative and. negotiating organs dealing
lrith the questions of ai s armi.ileni sI1 the official- record.s of the special session
clevoted to d.j.sarroanent, in accordance vitb the recoumendations vhich the General
Asserrbly may adopt at its thirty-third sessi.on'

lgtrnendi3g. the aetive participation of l{ember States in the consideration 
of

t3l see A/s-lo/Ac.]./8,



A/ r/ t+6t
Enolieh
Page 2J

the a€end.a items of the special session of the Genera.l Assenbl"y devoted to
d.isamament and the proposals end suggestions subnitted. by then,

Ifoting the va-luable contribution sueh proposals and suggestions have made to
the r.rork of the special session and its evuntrru.t outco&e,

Colsid-ering that further and. nore thorough st udy of the proposals and
suggestions contained in paragraph 125 of the F,ina.l" Docr:ment than r,ras Dossible at
the special session is essential-"

l-. Requests the secretary-General to transnit to the deliberative end.
negotiating as well as studying o?gans d.ea_ling with tbe questioD of di s amament
aJ-l- the proposaLs and. suggestions Listed in paragraph 125 of the trinal Document,
together with all the official record.s of the tenth special session of the Generat
Assenbly, as well as infomation a:ld co@ents made by Menber states at the thi$y-third session of the Asset!.b].y on those proposals and suggestions, except those
covered by separate resolutions I

2. f'urther requests the Disamament Conmission and the Connittee on
Disarna:nent to repoit on the state of the consid.eration of these proposars and
suggestions to the ceneral Asseubly at its thirty*fi fth session.

The CeneraL AssenrbLy

necalLing the provisions of the Final_ Docunent of the Tenth Specid_ Sessj.on
of the GeneraJ- As seribLy about the relationship betveen eis aru.ament and.
d.evelopment ,

Ilot:ng:v+lh :?ti:sfaction that the Secretary-Oenera1, pursuant to paragraphsy4 and 9) 01' the !'1na-1 Docunent, wittr the assistance of a group of quali fi ed.
govemnental experts appointed by hin, has initiated ar expert study on tbe
relationship betr'reen d.i s arrna,:nent a.nd. deveLopnent,

Re-enptrasizing tb.at a principal ain of the stu{y should be to proiluce results
that could effectively guide the forrrutation of practical neasures,

L Tekes note of the orga:rizational report of the Group of Governmental_
E4)erts on the Relationship betveen Di s ar:nalxent and Development; L!

2. Appeals to all Governments seriously to consider giwing, as supplement
to finar:cial- resources for the study fron the reguLar budget of the United
Nations, voh.:ntary eontributions to the Dis arrament proJ ect !\md oa to finance, on
a voluntary basis, in d-omestic currency, Lrhere appropriate, national research
proJects, i.n oxder to ensure ad.equate total_ resources necessary Eo carry out the
st udy ;

!/ a/33/2t7, errnex.



A/33/\6r
English
vaf.e 10

3. Appeals to Govemment s to uake available d.ata and. inforrnation relevant
to a meaningfu-1 corapletion of the studyt

\. Decid.es to includ.e in ttre provisional agenda of its thirty-fourth
session un itern .ntitl-eal rrfnterim reporb of the Se cretarXr-General with respect to
the expert study on the relationghip- between di sanDeent and development " '

N

Tbe General Assembly,

Recalling the Progrerue of Action adopted at the tenth specj.al session of the
cenerl-l-ssenbly, !!_/ Ievotea to rlisarroarnent, that an essential condition to the
hal-ting of the arnE-race, a.od al indispensabl-e step to tbe goal of di sarnsment is
the nobilization of a wor1d. public opinion in srpport of this effort,

Noting the enornous expansion of concepts of disarmement as d'eveloped at the
sp e c i6I--IEs si on and in the tr'irst Co@ittee at the thirty-third. session of the
General Assenbly,

Noting, in particular ' the &any new concepts 
developed as the result of

advanEEE-Ti- science arid. technology with respect to the gror,,'th of entirely neu
generations of veaponry' and tbeir i.npact on changing strategies with their
proliferation of nilitary €nd d.efence al-liances '

Noting a.lso the changj.ng concepts of tlisartanent in light of its relation to
tne eZ6GfrEl-iT nations" esleciel1y its effect on the global d,inensions of
development o

Aware of the grolring realization that the old balance-of-power approach to
secur-itJt is being radically altered by the rapid qusLitative changes in the ever-
rising tonrplexity and proliferation of t'Burprisett and irsecr'et" lreapons '

Talcing into eccount the pervading conviction of the obsolescence, in the
rierrt;TJh;TffiAE;;;iro4;bil1ty of th" rr"* $eapons and of the-o1d concept of
arded. national security to wbich tbe peoples of the $orld are conditioned'

Observing with interest the tend.ency to brand the arus race in te:ms of noral
and. ethical stri ctures ,

Convinced. that the vorld is in fact w"itnessing a revolution - i'1 its no'le of
thinkint;-lf,e historic ]-egacy of a:med national security and Siving way to nev
concepts in a manner that fiIL require the fu].L partnership of leoples,

Confronted by an explosion of nev id.eas" ne* theories, ne'\'t pfoposals arrd' new

"t"utEfr-.s 
in tte effort to cope with short- and long-tern pfans subnitted by

L5/ S-tO/?, sect. ITI.



Al33h5t
English
Parc 27

statesnxen and Governments as a;n intolerable fra.'nent at i on which need.s to be
forrmub"ted into a fused and. organized dcparture flon past outnoded prenises intoa nev phil-osophy on d.isarmarnent,

1. Considers it necessary that al1 the Dew ideas, new proposafs, ncwthinking anaiewErateiries, sei forth in iil" t-"."a ranile of generar alebatesprececlin3 a'd fo1lowin,1 the Fina.1 Document of the tenth special session devoted todisarrnament, be fornurated.. into a sin11le comprehensive and co-ord.inated system,into a new phiJ.osophy on disarmanent, in a rl""",ru that can effectively rea.ch theminds of rnen io a mobilization of vor].d. nublie opinion behind tne unitla |Iations
a?aL for the hattinfl of ule pxesent anrns race and eventuelLy for complete and
1'leneraI ali s armament pivoted on a new order of national and international security:

Reqr-lr'sts the secretary-Genera1, with th€ assistance of the AdrrisoryBoard, to stud.v we.ys and neans whereby the objectives in para^raoh 1 above can beaccomplisheti and report to the General Assenbiy at its thirty_rourth session:

^-----J.', ,iltqTessgs 
tlle hope that thj.s group x0ay be able to report resul_ts, asaDproprlate 

' ln time for consideration by the Generar As sernbly at its thirty-fourthsession.




