








































{/NIITD h{AT'ONS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

Distr.
GXNXNAL

A/T/t+86
13 Decenber

OXTGTNAI:

-^ 

E:
::=t all E::aJL.-

r9?8

II,IGLISH

Thlrty-thiTd session

IMPLIiUENTATTON OF THE DECI,AIATTON ON THE STREVGTIIENING
OF INTERNATIONAL SECURITY

Report of the First Corunittee

Rapport eur: !lr. Miodrag MIHAJLoVIC (Yugoslavia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled 'r Implesrentat ion of the Declaration .n the Strengthening of
International Security: reports of the Secretary-General" was included in the
provisional agend.a of the thj.rty-third. sessj.on in accordance vith General AssembLy
resol-utions 32/153 and.32/]-5t+ of 19 Decenber f977.

2. At its \th and 5th pJ-enarlr meetings, on 22 Septenber 1978, the General
Assenbly, on tbe reconmendation of the General Connittee, decided to include the
it ern in its agenda and to al]-ocate it to the First Cornoitt ee.

3. The first Con[rittee considered. the it ern at its 61st to 68th meetings, from
l+ to 8 Decenber (see A/c,r/T/pv.6r-68) ,

l+. The First Conrnittee had before it, in connexion v'ith agenda iten 50, the
folloving document s :

(") Report of the Secretarlr-Genera1 on non-int erfer enc e in the internaL
affairs of States (L/T/2f6 and Actd.l) ;

(b) Report of the Secretary-ceneral on the implementation of the Declaration
on the Strengthening of International Security (A/32/2]-T and Add,l- and 2);

(c) Letter dated 15 october 1978 from the Pernarent Representative of
l'fongolia to the Uni.ted Nations addressed. to the Secretary-General
(A/33/3L9) 

',

?8-3118o



A/ 33 / )+36

Page 2

(a)

of Cameroon.

reca]linA" in the last preambuJ.ar paragraph: t' . . . the Universal Declaifilii--on of

Letter d.ated ? November l9?8 from the pernanent Representatives of the
Union of Soviet Sociali.st Republics and Viet Nam to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General ( A/ 33/ 362_s / l:?gzo) t,
Letter dated 24 November 19TB fron the permaJrent Representative of the
Union of Soviet SociaList Republics to the United Nations aaldressed to
the Secret ary-General (A/33/392_shz939) )
Draft Declaration on the preparation of Societies for Life in peace
contained. in the letter dated. 28 September 19?8 from the l,{inister for
f'oreign Affairs of polancl to the Secretary_cenerlal- (A/C,t/33/2):,
Lettef dated 17 l[ovenber lp]B fron the pennanent Bepresentatives of
BuJ-garia and Democratic yemen to the United Nations aaldressed. to the
Secretary-General ( A/ C.I/ 33/ 6) :,

l,etter d.at ed 21 November 1978 frorn the permanent Aepresentatives of
Angola and 3ulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary_
cenera-r (A/ C ,r/T/ B) .

IT. CONSIDEFATION OF DRAI'T NESOLUTIONS
A, Draft resotution A/C.1/33/L.58

5' 
^ 

At its 61st neeting, on \ December, the representative of poland introatuced. adraft resolut ion (A/ c.L/ 33/L, :)B) " entitied "Deciaration on the preparation of
::yi:11:" I:: 11i.. l-L !:*:l'" on behar.f of Af-shanistan, Areeria, .Aieentina" Benin,
9***F;-qiq+q=g5Ete- t tt'e. Ger.ms+.aeqrocrElJ4T4if,-rjclGfif; ffi=I"srlslffis,H:tr=1, rjgl?ys i;, :perT, . tr'@' vGt-Nfi" "nd-#s*]+yie,.l!:.q,,:"t1vJ.il"d_w@,t*.or;*-ffi s".:.:,Ie!4rt!c,
Y:"911t", I4orocco , pa.nama, ttre syriEiEi-o neputtE and the United Republ-ic

(e)

(r)

(i' )

Tuni sia

6. At the STth meeting" on B Decernber, the representative of po].and moved, uponeonsultation vith the sponsors, to ad.d the following after the ,o"a"-,'f"rtfr."
Hr.rnan Rights of 10 December 19hB as *"i1 

-a"", 
The d.raft xesotution, as revised,

\"ras adopted by a ro11-calI vote of 100 to none" with I abstention i (see para. t3below" draft resotution f). Ihe votine vas as follovs:
In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria" Argentina" Austral-ia, Austria, Bahanas,

Bahrain, Belgiun, Benin, Bhutan, Botsvana, Brazil" lutgaria,
Burma, Buund.i, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada,
Cape Verde, Central African Snpire, Chad, Chi1e, Colombia,
Congo" Costa Rica, C].prus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yernen"
Denmark I 

. 
ncuad.or , Egypt, Ethiopia, Iiji, Finland, France, Gernan

Dernocratic Republic, Germany n Federal- Republie of, Ghana, Greece,
Guat em€"1_a, Gul.ana, Honduras e ilungary, Iceland, fndia, Indonesia,

V Subsequently the delegations of
Arabia, the United Republic oi Cam."oo.,
ths.t, had they been present, they would

Ango].a, Bang.ladesh, Cuba , l,{alaysia , Saud.i
anai the Upper Volta advised the Secretariat
have voted in favour,



A/T/)+86
Erglish
Page 3

Iran, fraq, Ireland, Italy " Janaica, 
Japan" Jordan' Kenya '

Kuuait ' 
Lao People's Denxocratic Republic, Liberiao Libyan Arab

Jamahiriya, Luxernbourg, Madagascar " 
Ma1i, l{al.ta' Mexico,

Ir{ongolia, Morocco,, Mozambique, Nethe"land's, New Zealand'
Nicaragua, Nigeria" Norway, ooan " Pakistan' 

Panama ' 
Pe?u'

Philippines, Po1and., Portugal, Qatar " Ronania, 
Sierra Leone'

Singapore" Sri Lanka, Sreden " Syrian Arab 
Republi'c 

' 
Thailard'

Togo, Trinidacl ancl Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey" Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics '
United Arab Emirates, Unitetl Kingd.orn of Great Sritain and
Northern freland., Urugu&y ' Venezuela, 

Viet Nam, Yugoslavia,
Zatre , La.nbLa.

Against: None.

AbstaininE: United States of Aroerica.

B. Draft resolution A/c.1/33/L.59

7. At its 65th meeting " on ? Decenber, 
the representative of Sri Lanka intToduce'l

a draft resolution G/c't/33/L.59)" entitled "Non-interferenc e in internal affairs
of States" sponsored by 3fgg4-4" Argentina" Bah"ain, Bhutan, Sotsw?n?" gubs"
Ethiopia, GqYana' fnaia, 5gnga, Madaeasc'ar ' 

Firu, Siqrra Leone" Sri Lqnlra' Umnda,
th@o Yusoslavia md @!q' subsequently ioined by
nrgn@, Bangla.d.esh n Barbados, the qongo"_ nggt" the
f,*q l.opf"'s letocr"ti. nip!.lil", lviarjlitius, Morocco, Moza$bique, Nt!+: f"ll*u,
Qatar., Ronaria, Tunisie, the United. Republic of Cameroon ' Uruguay and 

vrec l\an'

B. At the 6?th meetingo on I December, the sponsors agreed to the fol-Ioving
anendment s to the draft resolution:

(a) fn operative paragraph 1, afte" the vord "internal" insert "or erbernal" l
after the words "a11 Statesrr insert "in keeping vith the provisions of
the Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly
Rel-ations and Co-operation A.nong States in accordance vith the Charter
of the United Nat ions";,

(b ) In operative paragraph 2, replace the words "8"!g9=a ,otligllog" lyt'Reaffir'ms".

The draft resolution, as amended, was ad.opted' by a recorded vote of 110 to none,
with 13 abstentions 4 (tuu para' 3-3 below, draft resolution II) ' The voting r,ras
as follows:

2/ Subsequently the delegation of Saudi Arabia advised the Secretariat that,
had iT been present, it woul6 have voted in favo,r. Ttre delegation of Irels;1d
advised the Secretariat that it wouJ-d. have abstai.ned.



A/33/\85
Engli sh
fage 4

In favour:

Against:

Abstaining:

Afghanistari, Algeria, Angola, -Argentina, Australia, Austriau
Bahamas, Bahrain, Sangfadesh, Barbaalos, Benin, Bhutan" Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria" Burma, Buundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Social-ist Bepubl-ic, Cape Verd.e " Central African Ertrpire, Chad.,Chile, Colonbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia"
Denocratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuad.or, E6rpt, Ethiopia,
tr'iji" Finland, Gernan Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungaryu
Iceland, India, fndonesia, Iran, fraq" Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya" Kuwait, lao People,s Democratic Republic, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, MaLaysia, L{aldives 

" l{a1i,Malta, I,iauritania, I,{auritius, l4exico u Mongolia, Morocco,
l,loz ambique 

" Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua o Niger, Nigeria, Oman,Pakistan, Panama, Peru" Philippines, pol-and., portugal, Qatar,
Romania" Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka"
Surinarne, Sveden 

" Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand " Togo, Trinidadand Tobago, Tunisia" Turkey, Ugand.a, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
RepubJ-ic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republ_ics, United A_rab
Ilnirates, United Bepublic of Cameroon 

" United Republic ofTanzania, Upper Vofta" Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam" yernen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,

None ,

Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germar4r, tr'ederal Republic of,
Israel, Ita1y, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, United
Kingdorn of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

C. Draft resolutio4 A/C,f/T/L"60 and Rev.1
9. At the.55th rneeting, the representative of Sri l,anka introduced_ a drai.tresoluticn (A/C.L/33/L.60) entitl-ed "Irnplementat ion of the Declaration on the
Strengthening of fnternational Secr:rityir, Lrhich was subsequently revised(a/c"t/ZZ/r.6o/Rev.f) and sponsored by Aigeria, Botsvana, Conao, cuba" Cyprus -
l3*.-:_u.*]:?ii, cuLana, rn4ia, r,raq, lr"!Xq, %d"s"""""" @-i,{"1! 

-v;Giii;s,

*=ffl*: -++gq" . f?nan*, Pgru " Ronan:lg, sierra Leone " sri lanka " th. qgig!.-llry- ne!}!+lq) .L'unlsia) UAanda, the united Repuutic of Caneroon, yugostavJal-
ZamtJia ard. Zaire, Subsequently Afl,.franistan ana ganAaldesh beeame sronsors oj. the
draft xesolution.

19^ .11-ii",11ln r:"li"g: the con:nittee adopted d.raft resolution,.tu.tl 5i/L.oulHev.t by 9b votes to 2" with 20 abstentions (see para. 13 be1ow,
d.raft resolution fII).



A/T/\86

the 68th neeting, on B December, the representative of Venezuela introduced
a draft resolution (A/C)-/33/L,6I/Bev,1) , entitled "situation in Nicaragua", on
behal-f of Afghanistan " Algeria, Colombia, Cuba, 

Democratic Yenen, Guinea-Bissau,
Panama, Veqezuela and Viet Nan, later Joined by Ango]a. Subsequently--the sponsors
agreed to revise the fourth preanbular paragraph by adding the words "which had l-ed
some countries of the Anerican continent to attenpt to reach a peacefill solution lro
the interna"l conflict in Nicaragua by means of a friendly Comittee of conciliatory
Effortsrr after "basic rights ".

12. At the same meeting" the Connittee adopted draft resolution A/C.f/33/L.61/Rev"1,
as orally revised" by a recorded vote of 68 to Z, vith 3ll abstenti.ons (see para. 13
below" draft resolution IV). The voting was as fol].ovs;

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Ango1a, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas " Bahrai.n " Barbados, BeJ.gium" 

Benin, Bolivia" Bulgaria,
Byelorussian Soviet SociaJ-ist Republic " Carada, Colombia" 

Costa
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dennark,
Ecuad.or, tinland, German Democratic Republic, Gernany ' 

I'eders,l
Republic of, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau' Gulrana " Ilungary " fcelard'Iraq) Ireland, It6.1y, Ja.naica, Kuwait, l,ao Peoplers Democratic
Republic " Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, LuxembourS, Mad.agascar, 

Mali,
Mexico" Mongolia, Mozambique, Netherland.s, New Zealand, Norway,
Panama, Peru, Pol-and., Portugal, qatar, Ronania, Senegal, Spain"
Sli Lanlia, Suriname, Sweden " Spian Arab Republic' 

Trinidad- and
Tobago, Trmisia, Ukrainian Soviet Soeiafist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, Upper Volta'
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia.

Aflainst: Nicaragua, Paraguay,

Abstaining: Bargladesh, Botsffana, Burma, Central African Empire, Dominican
Republic, Egypt, Fiji, France, Ghana ' Greece, 

Guatemal-a ' Ilonduras eInd.ia' fsrae]' fvory Coast' Japan, Jordan" Liberia, l'{alays ia,
Mald.ives " 

Mauritania, Niger" Nigeria, Papua Nerr Guinea,
Philippines, Singapore, thailand " Uganda, 

United Kingdon of Great
Sritain and. Northern lreland, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, United States of America" ZalTe ' Zambia.

BECOMMENDATIONS OF IIIE FIRST CO}.{MITTNE

13. The First Conmittee recoumends to the General- Assenbly the adoption of the
followins draft resol-utians :

D.



AlT/)+86
lin rll i qh
faae b

Recalling that in
ttreir-iEl&ifi-ation to
one of the fundamental
r,ae-a.hd c a^.'-i +.'g!vsrfuJ,

DFAFT RESOLUTIOII I

Declaration, on th_e_ preparation ot' soc ieties fn+ Iifa ih n--^-

The ceneral As senbly,

the Charter the peoples of the United Irlations proclaimed
save succeeding generations fTom the scourge of rrar and that
purposes of the United lilations is to maintain international

Reafflrrning that, in accordance with General Assenbly resolution 9j G) ot
11 Decenber 1!J+5, planning, preparation, initiation or waging ot a var of agFression
are crimes against pes.ce ard that, pursuant to the Declaration on principles of
rnternational Lav concerning rriendly Relations and co-operation among states in
accordance vith the Clarter of the United ltrations, of 2l+ October f9TO, 3/ and the
Definition of Aggression of th Decenber ],9I\,1+/ a var of aggression coi-stitutes a
crime against the peace,

Reaffirraing the right of individuals, states and all nankind to life in peace,

Aware that, since vars begin in the ninds of r4en, it is in the ninds of nen
that the defences of peace must be constructed,

Recognizinq that peace among nations is roanhindr s paramount value, held in
the highest esteem by all principal political, social and religious movements,

Guided by the lofty goal of preparing societies for and creating conditions of
their common existence and co-operation in peace, equality, mutual confidence and
understanding,

Recognizing the essential role of Governments as i{e1l as governrnenta} and
non-governmentaJ- organizations, both nationar and international-, the mass media,
educational processes and. teaching nethods in promoting the ideals of peace and
understanding among nations,

Convinced that, in ttre era of modern scientific and technological progress,
mankindrs resources, energy and creative talents should be directed to the peaceful"
economic, social and. cul"tural clevelopment of aII countries, promote the
implenentation of the ner,r international economic order and serve the raisine of the
1ivin1 standard.s of al-1 nations,

Stressina rnrith utmost concem that the arms race, inclucling in particular in
the nucfear field, and the development of new types and sy€tens of weapons, based
on modern scientific principles and. achievements, threaten world peace,

General Assembly resolution 26?5 GKV).
General Assembly resolution 331\ (XXIX), arlnex.

zl
)4/



A/T/\e6
English
Page ?

Recalling that, in the I'inal Document 5/ of the specia.l session of the General
Assenbly devoted to disarmanent, the States l.{embers of the United ltrations solemnly
reaffirmed their deternination to rTrahe further collective efforts aimed at
strengthening peace and international security and eliminating the threat of war,
and agreed that, in order to facil-itate the process of ilisarmament, it is necessary
to take neasures and pursue policies to strengthen international peace and security
and to build confidence jrm.no Stcfps

Recal-ling the Declaaation on the Promotion arnong Youth of the ]deal-s of Peace,
l4utual-espect and. Understanding betlreen Peoples of ? December f96,, y

FurLher recalling the Universal- DecLaration of Human Rights of 10 Decernber 1!l+8,
as r,re11 as the fnternational Covena.nt on Civil and Political Rig,hts of
t5 December 1966, lo/ and bearing in mind that it states, inter aIia, that any
propagand.a for r,'ar shal1 be prohibited by 1aw,

International D6tente of

Solernnllr invites a1l-
recognition of the supreme
and strengthening a just and- durable peace for the present and future generations
and, in particular, olserve the fo]-].o1,ring principles:

1. Every nation and every hrman being, Tegardless of race' consciencet
language or sex, has the inherent right to tife in peace, Respect for that
right, as well as for the other human rights , is in the cornroon interest of alf
mankind snd an indispensable conttition of advsncement of all nations, large and
sma11, in all fields.

2. A ,war of aggression, its planning, preparation or initiation are
crimes against peace aJrd are prohibited by international law.

3. In acccrdance vith the purposes and principles of the United ir-€tions 'States have the duty to refrain from propaganda for wars of aggression.

Feaffirming the principles contained in the
Independence to Colonial Countries and. Peoples of
on the Strengthening of International Security of
Declaration on the Deepening and Consolidation of
19 December f977 , B/

Declaration on the G"arting of
1lr Decenrber 1960,6/ the Declaration
16 December I97O 7 / and the

I

states to gui d.e thenselves in their activities by the
importance and neeessity of establishing, rnaintaining

v
9/
u
8/

v
!0/

General

General

General

General

General

General

As s enbly

Ass enbly

Assembly

Assembly

As senbly

Assembly

resolution
resclution
resolution
res ofution
resolution
resolution

s-r} / 2.
r51\ (xv).
2?31 (xxv).

32/r55.
203? (xx).
2200 A (rXI) .



^/T/\85Xnglisb

4. ivery State, acting in the sDirit of friendshin anC pood-neighbourly
relations, has the duty to pronote all-round, nutually advantageous and
eouitable politicaf, econornic, social and cultural co-operation with other
States, notvithstanding theil socio-econor[ic s]rstens, vith a vjev/ to securin5
their common existence and co-operation in peace, in cond-itions of mutual
understand.ing of and respect for the identity and diversity of aft peoDles,
and the duty to take up actions cond.ucive to the lhrtherance of the ideals
of peace, hwraai sm and freedom.

5. Every State has the duty to respect the right of all peoples to
sel-f-detenainat ion , independence, equality, sovereignty " 

the territoria.l
integrity of States and the inviolability of their frontiers, including the
right to deternine the road of their develoDnent " without interference orintervention in their internaf affairs.

6. A basic instmment of the naintenance of peace is the elinination of
the threat inherent in the arns race, as vell as efforts toffards qenera-l and
conpl-ete disarnarnent, und-er effective international control, including pa.rtial
measures r'rith that end in view, in accordance with the principles agreecl upcn
lrithin the United l\'lations and relevant international agreements,

"1. Every State has the duty to discourage all nanifestations and
practices of colonialism, as lreI} as racism, racial- discrinination and
apartheid as contTaty to the right of peoFles to self-detemination and to
other hulan rights eld fundamental freedo!,ls.

B. Dvery State has the duty to discourage advocacy of hatred and
prejudice against other peopfes as contrary to the principles of peaceful
coexistence a.nd friendly co-operation.

Cafls upon all States, in order to inpleraent the above principles:
(a) To act Derseve"ingly and consistently, with due regard for

constitutional rigJrts and the role of the family, institutions ancl organizations
concerned!

(i) To ensure that their policies relevant to the irnpler.'rent ati on cf the
present Declaration, including edueational processes and teaching nethods
as uell as med.ia information activities, incorporate contents conrratible
ldth the task of the preparation for life in peace of entire societies
and, in particular o the young generations;

(11.1 Therefore, to discourage and elininate incitement to racial hatred,
naLional 01' otho- rricarjnina+iah ih irrcJ-.i^F .lr a.t.\.nr'2l-\r nf rrrllsngs
and. war;

(b) To develop various forns of bilateral and nrultilatera.l co-operatic,n , alsoin international, governmental snd non-governmental organizations, vith a ir ier,r to



enhancing rreparation of soeieties to 1ive in
experiences on projects pursued vith that end

AlT/\86
Englistr
Page 9

peace and-, in particular, exchanging
in vier'r;

]II

1. Reconnends that sovernmental and non-governmental or€ianizations concerned
the inplementation of the Presentshould initiate appropriate action towa"ds

Declaration;

2. States that e ful1 implenaentation of the principl-es enshrined in the
present D"ifEiiTion calls for J concerted action on the part of Governnents, the
United lrlations, the specialized agencies, in particular the United llations
nducatlonal, Scientific and Cu1tu"a1 Organization, as welJ- as other interested
international and national or4lanizations, both governmental and non-governnxental;

3. Requests the Se cretary-General to fofl-ow the progress nade i-n the
inple..ntalG-n of the present Declaration and to repolt thetleon periodically to
the General Assernbly, the first such report to be submitted not later than at its
thirtv-sirth session.

DMFT RNSOLUTTOI.] II

I'Ion-interference in the internal affairs of -qjg!g:-
The General As senbfy o

Recalling its resolutions 31/91 of 1l+ Decerxber 1976 and 32/153 of
1! Decernber ]9?7 on non-interference in the internal affairs of ststes.

'fal<inc note of the Teports of the SecTetan/-General " 11/ containinE 
the

vievs of l'lembe" States on rtays by r+hi ch greater respect for the lrinciple rf
non-interference in the internal affairs of States can be assured,

1. Urges all States to abide by the prcvisions of Genera1 Assenbly
resolution-s J1/!I aJrd, 32/153, which denounce ary foan of interference in the
internal or external affairs of States and call upon all States, in keeping with
the provisions of the Decla"ation on Principles on International Law Concerning
Friendly Relations and co-operation a,mong states in accordance a/ith the charter
of the United I'Iations, to undertake measures to plevent any hostile or agqressive
act or activity from taking place within their territory and directed against the
sovereignty, territorial integrity and political independence of another State;

2. Reaffirms that a declaration on non-interference in the internal affairs
of States vorld be an important contriblltion to the further elaboration of the
principles for strengthening equitable co-operation and friendly relations among
Statesr based on sovereign equality and mutual respect;

U t"/lz/*t+ €nd Add.f , A/32/J-65 a"rld Add.l and 2 and A/33/2J-6 ard Add'l'



Al33/\86
unnr].sh
rate ru

3. r'lotes that a nurber of I'lenber States have expressed. support for the
preparation of such a declaration;

l+. Considqrs that the expression of further views would facilitate the
e-Laboration of the principles and provisions of a d.eclaration on non-interference
in the internal affairs of Statesi

5. nequests the Secretary-General- once again to invite Meraber States 
"

es pec i aIJ-yTEitETh i ch have not yet done so, to express their views on the
question of non-interference in the internal affairs of states and to reporu -co
the General Assenbly at its thilty-fourth session.

DIAFT RESOLTITIOI'I IrI

Implenentation of the Declaration on the Strengtheninq
of International Security

The General Assenbly,

HavinA considered the iten entitleal irTmplementation of the Decla"ation on the
Strengthening of International Seeurityr',

satisfaction that
life as confimetl

the Declaration has played an important role
by relevant resolutions on its implernentation ,

Convinced that the Declaration continues to provide an
incentive for further action by the international conmunity
arrd consol,idating international peace and secu"ity as wel1
among States on the basis of the purposes ancl principles of

important basis and
towalds strengthening

as promoting co-operation

ltroting with concern that some of the iFportant provisions of the Declaration
have nevertheless not yet been inplenented and thet agreement concerning measures
for their implenentation has not been reached,

Deeply concerrted at the flequent acts of violation of the Charter of the United.
llations, breaches of the peace and threats to international 'oeace and security,
recouTse to the threats or use of fo?ce, non-compliaJrce by States \^'ith their
obU.gations to solve disputes by peaceful means in accordarce with the Charter,
d.isregard. of the r1cle of the United llations and the lessening of confid.ence in the
effectiveness of the Security Council in ensuring complialce with the Charter"

Consid.ering that continuation of such a situation is not conalucive to the
strengthening of the foundations on vhich the United nTations is based and threatens
international peace anal security,

lloting with profound concern the continued. existence of focal points of crises
anatffithellor]-dendangeringinternationa1peaceand
security, the continuation and. escalation of the alrns race, larticularly the
nuclear axms race, the nanifestations of tendencies to divid.e the vorld into
spheres of influence and domination, continued interference in the internal affairs



A/T/)'+86
English
Page 11

of States, including the use of mercenaries, the continuing existence of
coloni.alism, neo-coloniali srn, racism and anart-heid, which remain the main obstacles
to the strengthening of international peace and security,

Realfirrning the close link existing betr+een the strengthening of internationaL
peace and securityn disermament, d-ecolonization and development and stressing the
need. for concerted aetion to achieve lrogress in those areas and the inrportance of
the early implementat ion of the decisions adopted at its sixth 4 *d s eventtr lV
special sessions of the General Assembly on the establishxnent of the new
international economic order .

Recognizing sone encoura.ging signs and achievements '.rith reqard to the
stt..rffii[FiT internationa] security as lre1l as the neeessity to exert further
efforts tovards consolidating arrd expanding the resutts achieved,

Welcoming the struggle of people under colonial exploitation, foreign
occupation and raciai- oppression and other forms of alien domination and their
eontribution to the strengthening of international pea.ce and security,

Taking note of the actions of the international cornmunity ained at
s tr enft-Gii-i[-Titernat ional security, in particular the tenth" special session of
the General Assenbly devoted to d.isarnament, the ninth special session of the
Gener8,l Assembly on Narnibia, the Assembly of Heads of State and- Government of the
Organization of African Unity, held in Khartour from 18 to 22 July 1978, the
Conference of Foreign l.{inisters of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade
fron 25 to 30 July 19T8, the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrinination, heId at Geneva fron 1l+ to 25 August 19?8, the United Nations
Conference on the Support of the Peopl-es of Nanibia and Zimbabwe, held at Maputo
fron 16 to 21 lltay 19??, and others,

I Cal1s uton all States to adhele fully, in internaii.;nai relations, to 1,he
purposes a-IId. lrinciples of the Chalter of the United llations and to contribute
effectively to the inplenentation and furthel elaboration of the provisions
erirbodied in the Declaration on the StrenFthening of fnternational Security;

2. Urges all the members of the Security Council , especially its perrnanent
menbers, to consider and to undertake, as a natter of urgency, all the necessary
measules for ensuring the implement at i on of the decisions of the United llations
on the maintenance of international peace and security, particularly provisions
envisaged. in Chapter VIT of the Charter and provided in the Declaration in question,
for strengthening the confidence of States in the United l,trations and in the
effectiveness of the Security Council as the organ bearing prirnary responsibility
for the maintenance of international peace a.l1d security;

3. Reaffirrns the legitirnacy of the struggle of peoples under colonial" anal
alien domiiIlT6n-E achieve s elf-deterninat i on and indelendence and urges }{ember

12l See resol-utions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI).
reso"Luf,ron JJoz lb-vt-1/.



^/T/)]86lrin1_Lf sn
Page 12

States to increase their support for and- solidarity with then and their national
l-iberation movenents and to undertake urgent ancl effective measures for the speedy
compfetion af the implenentation of the Declaration on the Granting of Ind.epend.ence
to Coloni a,l, Countries and Peoples and of the other resolutions of the United llations
on the final elimination of colonialism, racisrn and apartheid,;

l+. ]!lqg ca11s fo} the d.eepening and extension of the process of relaxation of
international tensions, r,rh ich is stil1 lirnited in both scope and geographical
extent, Lo aII re-ions of the \rorld in order to help bring about Just and- lastinq
sol-utions to international problems with the particips.tion of all States so that
Feace and security vi11 be based on effective respect for the sovereignty 

"territorial integrity and political independence of all States and the inalienable
right of al1 'leoples to determine their ovn destiny freely and, rqithout outside
in+a'fa,an^a 

^^as^r_^h ^. -r lressure;

5. Reaffirms its opposition to any threats cr use of force, intervention,
aggression, foreign occupation and measures of political, and economic coercion,
rrhich atternpt to violate the sovereignty, teritorial integrity, independence
and security of States or their richt freely to dispose of their natural resources;

6. connends the holdins of the tenttr special session of the GeneraJ- Assenbly.-_:-:-devoted to d.isannament, vith the active participation of all l{ember States,
particularly its decisions aimed at strengthenina the rofe of the United llations
in the field of disarmament, including those relating to effective nachinery
f^r +ha .lalil.ara+i^- ^h-*, md negotiations of, disamament measures, and, in this
connexion n invites a].l Member States to take effective measures for halting the
arnLs race, partieula:'ly the nuclear arns }ace, and for d.isarmament, in accofdance
lrith the priorities agreed to during the tenth special sessionl

7. Considers that the implenentation of the ner,r international economic ord-er,
assuring, through the settlement of urgent international economic problens ' a 

sPeedy
development of the developing countries " narrowing. and 

overcor,:ing the existing gap
betueen the developed and the d.eveloping countries anct the democratization of the
process of de ci si on-making , constitutes an inseparable part of the efforts fo" the
strengthening of international peace and security;

B. Takes note of the ninth special session of the General Assembly on
llarnibia, supports the efforts for achievin5l the independence of Namibia and invites
all l.{ember States to contribute towards the successful inpfenentation of
resolutions and decisions of the Assembly and- the Security Council and" facil-itale,
within this framework, the fulfilnent of the mandate given to the Secretary-General
r,ri+h te<ncnr- +n rLiq nrrpcf r'nn l'rlth o t'nrrnai l.

9. iixpresses its concern over the worsening of the critical situation in
Zir,rbabve, urgei uernter st,aGs to increase their support to the peonle of Zinbabve
in its Legitirnate stTu€tgle against the rninority racjst r6eire for its continuous
atter'I-ots Lo inpede the attairunent of independence of Zir"babr.re ard for its
aggressions against the sovereignty and territorial intepgritv of neighbouring
countries I



Al33/\86
English
Page 13

10. Connend.s the decision of the Belgrade neeting of the Conference on
Security aid-GEieration in llurope on the continuation of efforts ained at
implementing fuu-y all the provisions of the Final Act of Helsinki, larticularly
the agreement on the impleirentation of the l)eclaration on the l{edite"ranear l
bearing in nind the close relationship between security in Europe and security in
the i4ed.iterranean , the }liddle nast and other regions of the vorld, supports the
proposal of the non-al-igned countries for the transforuation of the Mediterranean
into a zone of peaee and co-ot:eration with a view to prornoting good neig-hbourly
relations, the settlement of afl disputes between States by peaceful neans ' 

and
concrete rfleasures of co-operation s,]nong States of the region, in accordance with
their mutual- interest, to concert their vielrs and to seize opportunities to
contribute to the strengthening of international peace and security, in this
context, takes note of the meeting of experts, that is being held in accordance
rdth the d.ecision referred to above i

Ll" ISg-ryilg!--gqgg-g-ggln. the provisions of the Declararion of the Tndian
ocean as a zone of Peace and cal1s upon the great Povers to co-operate in its
irnplementation;

f2" !"ry_fd9f_" that dismant,ling of for--i6n nifitarrr bases -.rou d contribute to
the strengthening of international securityl

13. Takes noie of r,he relort of rhe Secr etarl.-Generai 1l+/ and, havin€i in rind
the forthcoming tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration on the
Strengthening of International Security, reo.uests hin to prepare a report on the
inplementation of the Declaration and on the vievs communicated by the Governments
of l4enber States conce"ning measures to be taken in order to realize those
provisions of the Declaration whi ch have not yet been irnplemented, r"rith a view to
considering this problem at the thirty-fourth session of the General Assernbly'

1[. Decides to inclucle in the provisional agenda of its thirty"fourth
session the item entitled. trlnplementat ion of the Declaration on the Strengthening
of International Security".

DRAFT RESOLUTIOIT IV

The situation in llicaragua

fhe Ceneral Assernbly,

Ileaffirrning its obligations with 
"egard 

to the naintenance of international
peace and security and the pronotion of universal respect fcr human rights and
fundamenta] freedoms,

in mind the statement of the Presid-ent of the Republic of Costa Rica
on
15/

the violaticn of his countrytsat the curent
sovereignty by

session of the General As senbly
rnilitary aircraft of I'Ti caragua 

"

]-\! tllllZtl and Add.1 and 2.
g A/33/P\t,t, pp. 32-51.



AlTlt86
rnprl sn
Page 14

I:loting further the messa€le sent to the President of the ceneral Assernbly
concerning this matter by the President of the Republic of Colonbia and the
President of the Republic of Venezuela on ?7 Septenrber 1978, !9!

Consideri4€ the extreme gravity of the events that have taken place and a?e
continuing to occur in Nicaraguan which have caused the death of thousands of
peopLe, incalcu].able destruction of property and Tepeated. violations of the rnost
basic rights, r.rhich hacl 1ed- some countries of the Anerican continent to attenpt to
reach a ]]eaceful solution to the internal conflict in Ni caragua by neans of a
friendly Conmittee of Conciliatory Efforts,

1. Censures the repression of the civilian population of Nicaragua and the
violation 6TE-the sovereignty of Costa Rica by llicaraluan nilitary aircraftl

2. E,+resses d.eep concern over the serious
situation in llicaragua ancl ovei its inplications

turn taken by the donestic
for Des.ce and- securitv in the

llicaraguan authorities to ensure respect for the human rights
that country, in accordarce with their international conriitments
of the Charter of the United Nations:

3. Demands that the I'Tiearaguan authorities stop nilitary and. other activities
that endanger the security of the region, in particular those that threaten the
sovereignty and. territorial inviolability of neighbouring countries;

h.
of the
and the

thei.r
their

Thrae tha

citiZEiF or
provisions

J, Cal-1s upon all States to ad.opt the necessaJy measures, in accordance with
constitutional procedures, to discourage the recruitment and- paxticipation of
nationals as rnercenaries in the conflict occurrin6l in that country j

6. Urges the continuation of international efforts to achieve a peaceful
settlenent of the internal conflict in llicaragual

7. Fequests the Secretary-General , through the appropriate channels e
ca"reful-l-y to follott developments in the situation in llicaragua and provide the
assistance needed to achieve the purposes of the present resolution.

yfrl a/33/z7J, annex.




