








































----------

~ 
-- - -- -

UNITED NATIONS 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBlY '~~ . ~~ ' ' { ~- Jl -==-~--.=o-

Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/33/495 
14 December 1978 

ORIGINAL: EEGLISII 

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------~~-~---

Thirty-third session 
Agenda item 111 

REPORT OF THE IJIJTERNATIONJl.L CIVIL SERVICE COHHISSION 

Report of the Fifth Committee 

Rapporteur: llr. Hamzah llohammed HAl'lZAH (Syrian Arab Republic) 

I, IITTRODUCTIQl\T 

1. At its 4th and 5th plenary meetinGs, on 22 September 1978, the General 
Assembly decided to include in its agenda the item entitled 11 Report of the 
International Civil Service Commission" and to allocate it to the Fifth Committee. 

2, The Fifth Committee considered the item at its 32nd, 34th, 37th, 38th, 40th to 
42nd and 56th meetings, on 13, 15, 20 to 22, 24 and 27 November and 9 December. 
Comments made by delegations in the course of the discussion of this item are 
reflected in the relevant summary records (A/C.5/33/SR.32, 34, 37, 38, 40-42 and 
56), 

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following 
documents: 

(a) Fourth annual report of the International Civil Service Commission, and 
addendum; y 

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the financial implications of 
recommendations and decisions contained in the report of the Commission 
(A/C.5/33/37); 

(c) Note by the Secretary-General on the amendments to the Staff Regulations 
of the United Nations (A/C.5/33/62), 

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-third Session, 
Suppl;ment No, 30 (A/33/30) and A/33/30/Add.l. 

78-31372 / ... 



A/33/495 
English 
Page 2 

4. In accordance "\·ri th article 17 of its statute (General Assembly resolution 
3357 (XXIX), annex), the International Civil Service Commission submitted its 
fourth annual report" coverinc its vorl{ in 1978, to the Assembly and to be 
transHli tted to the e;overnine; ore;ans of the other organizations in the United 
Fations system participating in its 1rork, throue;h their executive heads, and to 
staff represente,tives. 

5. In its report, the Co:r:;Jmission summarized the action taken by it in 1978, 
e;enerally civing priority to those questions on Hhich the General Assembly had 
requested it at its thirty-second session (resolution A/32/200) to report in 1978, 
I·Thile maintaininc on its agenda several other c-,uestions relating to the revieH of 
the salary system uhich it had itself previously noted as urgent and important 
or rertaining to its lone;-~tern: functions under aritcles 13, 14 and 15 of its 
statute, includinG such fundmr1ental personnel nanagement concerns as job 
classification, recruitment policies and practices, career development, staff 
evaluation and training. 'rhe Commission had also examined in 1978 the effects of 
currency instability on the common salary system, particularly the depreciation of 
the currency in w·hich the United I'Tations kept its accounts in relation to many other 
currencies. A summary of the Conmission 1 s recormnendations calling for a decision 
by the General Assembly of the United Nations and the legislative organs of the 
other on;anizations participating in the corr.mon system v.ras contained in the 
report, 2/ In addition, the Commission had reco:mrnended to the Director-General 
of the U~ited nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Or[Sanization (UITESCO) 
a salary scale for the General Service staff, reflecting tbe best prevailinc 
conditions in Paris as at 1 J anuoxy 1978. 

G. The Chairman of the Int-:rnational Civil Service Commission introduced the 
Commission 1 s report in an oral statement before the Fifth Committee at its 
32nd meetinc;, o~ 13 Nover1ber (A/C.5/33/SR.32, ps,ras. 26-·55). 

7. At thE 32nd meet inc;, the Chairman of tbe Advisory Comrni ttee on Administrative 
and Budgetary Questions presented that Comn,ittee 1 s oral report. (See 
A/C.5/33/SR.32). 

II. CONSIDEf:ATIOIT OF DDAFT RESOLUTION A/C. 5/33/L. 33/Rev ,l 

8. At the 56th meetinc;, on 9 Deceuber, the representative of Japan introduced 
a clr<:\ft resolution (A/C.S/33/1.33/Rev.l) 3/ on behalf of Arr:entina, Canada, Chad, 
Chi:L,e, Ecuador, Egypt, Qhana, India,, the Ivory Cos,st, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, the 
Libyan Arab Jmnahiriya, l1orocco, lTeu Zealand 5 PaJcistan, Pa~ and the United 
States of America, subsequently joined by !lexico. 

?) Ibid., p. viii. 

3/ 'The draft resolution, in it.s revised version, vras reissueo for technical 
reaso~s (A/C. 5/33/1, 33/PPV .l *·::·), 

f.,, 



A/33/495 
English 
Pac;e 3 

9. At the soJae meetine;, the represente,tive of Barbados proposed an oral amendment 
to draft resolution A/Co5/33/1o33/nevol vllereby section II, par2graph 2, •rould 
read as follous: 

"2, Approves the CoEnnission 1 s intention to lceep under revie-vr the effects 
of currency instabilitv upon the United Fations common system of saleries and 
allowances, to continue its efforts to eli0inate possible anonalies in post 
adjustments at certain duty stations. and to seek to improve the systel'l'" 

The oral amendment Has accepted by the sponsors. 

10. Also at the 56th meetin[", the representative of Belgium proposed an oral 
amendJ.;1ent vhereby section II, par<:\e;raph 3 • of the draft resolution 1rould read as 
follovrs: 

11
3o Approves also the Commission's intention to malce, as a matter of 

priority. a comprehensive exar;1ination of the functionin,c>;, methods of 
establishment and adjustment and appropriate level of pensjonable rePuneration, 
in particular vrith a viev to preparing, in coo-operation ~ori th the United 
Nations Joint Staff Pension Board, proposals to be submitted to the General 
Assembly at its thirty-fourth session for correcting anomalies in the United 
nations pension system broue;ht about by the current economic and monetary 
circumstances; 

The oral amendment ·Has accepted by the sponsors 0 

11. At the sw1e meeting, the representative of the United States of America 
proposed an oral amendment to the annex to the draft resolution "l·rhereby regulation 
3, ~· vrould read: 

''The amount of either of these allm-rances payable in local currency shall not 
be less than the local currency equivalent of the dollar ru'lount at the tine 
it vas established or last revised.'' 

This oral amendment uas adonted. 

IIL DECISION or TIIE CO!'liiTTEE 

12, At the request of the representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist 
nepublics, section IV of draft resolution A/C.S/33/1.33/Revol was put to the vote 
separately. That parac;raph v:as adopted by 65 votes to 9 9 ~orith 10 abstentions o 
The draft resolution as a \Thole 9 as orally amended, -vras ndopted by 7l~ votes to 
none 0 vith 11 abstentions (see para. 13 belmr), 

IV. nEcor~fCNDATION OF THE FHTH COI:'U'llTEE 

l3o The Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
follovinc; draft resolution: 

I .. 0 



[', /33/ l: 9 5 
Enc:lish 
Pap~e 4 

Report of the International 9ivil Service Conmission 

}-'he _Ge.!_1.er_9:.l_ Assembly, 

Takirw note -vri th appreciation of the fourth annual report of the International 
Civil Service Commission, ~ the report of the Secretary-General thereon 2./ and the 
related oral report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Bude;etary 
Questions,§) 

Reiteratinp the importance of the role of the Cowmission as a central point 
within the conmon system for questions of personnel policy, 

Reaffirmin,rr the objective -vrhich it stated in adopting article 9 of the statute 
of the International Civil Service Corr1nlission, naJl'l_ely, 11 the development of a single 
unified international civil service throurh the application of common personnel 
standards, methods and arrangements", 

yiewing with deep concern discordant actions taken unilaterally by several of 
the organizations in recent months, 

I 

l. Urges the competent authorities of all orc;anizations of the United Nations 
COJ:'lFlon system to refrain from actions which do not contribute to the strengthening 
and development of the common system: 

2. Requests the Secretary-General and his colleae;ues on the Administrative 
Committee on Co-ordination to study the feasibility of establishing a single 
administrative tribunal for the entire common system and to report to the General 
Assembly at its thirty~fourth session; 

3. Calls u-pon Member States to ensure that their representatives in the 
governinc; organs of the specialized a~encies do not take, on Jl'latters of concern to 
the conmon system, positions conflictinr -vrith those which they took in the General 
Assembly; 

II 

l. Expresses the hope that, notuithstandinp; the pressure of ure;ent problems 
concerning remuneration, the International Civil Service Commission -vrill be able to 
assu.me progressively its functions under articles 13 and 14 of its statute and make 
progress in 1979 in its consideration of those aspects of personnel policy other 
than remuneration mentioned in parac:raphs 309 to 329 of the report of the 

t1 I Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-third Session, Sup-plement 
No. 30- (A/33/30) and A/33/30 /J'_dfL L -··-· ---

'2) A/C. 5/33/37. 

~/ See A/C.5/33/SR.32. 

I ... 



A/33/4~r 

English 
?ape 5 

Cc,mrnission, in particular career develop)'Ylent and those ot'ner 3.ST.'t"cts .,,:i1ich hc:·.V'.~ 
occupied the i~eneral Assembly's attention at its current ses:3ion 

2. Appr_?_Ies the Comrn_ission' s intention to keep uncler revie1v the efi'e::ts u.f 
currency instability upon the United Nations common system of :;alarics Rnd 
allowances, to continue its efforts to eliminate possible anomalies in Dost 
adjustments at certain duty stations and to seek to improve the syste:n1 

3. Also approves the Comrn_ission's intention to uake, as a matter o.f priority, 
a comprehensive examination of the functionine-, methods of establish.rnent and 
adjustment and appropriate level of pensionable remuneration, in particular vrith a 
view to preparin~, in co-operation with the United Nations Joint Staff Pension 
Doard, proposals to be submitted to the General Assembly at its thirty-fourth 
session for correctinp anomalies in the United Nations pension system brour;ht about 
by the current economic and monetary circumstances: 

III 

l. Notes the report of the International Civil Service Commission on the 
evolution of the relationship between remuneration of the Professional and hi~her 
catee;ories of the United Nations common system and the comparator national civil 
sercice and the Commission's conclusion on safeguards existinr" against possible 
undue vridenine; of the mare:in betvreen the levels of the remuneration of the tHo 
services resulting from the operation of the post adjustment system; 

2. Approves the use, for the purpose of makinp: such salary comparisons of tlle 
table of pradin~ equivalencies recommended by the Commission in parae;raph 92 of its 
report and requests the Commission to continue its study of grade equivalencies 
betvTeen the United Nations common system and the comparator national civil service, 
in order to determine the proper eauivalent p:rades in the comparator system for the 
United ?Tat ions grades of D~2 and Assistant Secretary-General, and to report its 
findincr,s to the General Assembly at its thirty.-fourth session: 

3. Further requests the Com~ission to study the feasibility of identifyine; 
posts of equivalent functions and responsibilities for the post of Under-·Secretary-
General and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty·~fourth session; 

IV 

1. Decides that, lvith effect from 1 January 1979, the amount of the dependency 
allovrances payable in local currency to staff in the Professional and hir;her 
categories shall not be less than the local currency e~uivalent of the dollar amount 
of the allovrance at the time it 1-ra.s established or last revised:, 

2. Further decides that the scale of termination indemnities established by 
the General Assembly in resolution 31/141 of 17 December 1976 be amended to provide 
that the indemnity payable to a staff member holding a fixed-ter)'Yl appointment Hith 
less than six years' completed service shall not exceed three months' pensionable 
remuneration less staff assessment, 

I ... 



A/33/495 
:Cn[';lish 
Pac;e 6 

3. Requests the International Civil Service Corr:tr'lission to c:;ive further study 
to the question of an end--of-service c;rant payable to staff members vri th fixed-·· term 
appointl'lents in the context of its examination of the relationship between career 
staff and fixed~term staff in the common systerD, ensurinp: that such a r:rant does not 
become a forn of pre-pension plan, and make recommendations to the General Assembly 
not later than its thirty-fifth session; 

4. Decides that payment of the repatriation r-rant to entitled staff members 
shall be made conditional upon the presentation by the staff member of evidence of 
actual relocation, subject to the terms to be established by the Commission; 

5, Approves the rates of the payment to be made to the spouse or dependent 
children of a staff member vmo dies in service, as set out in the schedule contained 
in paragraph 194 of the Commission's report; 

6. Decides that the existin~ age limit for eli~ibility to the education grant 
be replaced by the f'orrr.ula 11up to the end of' the fourth year of post-secondary 
studies or the m-mrd of the first recognized de2:ree, whichever is the earlier 11 ; 

T. De~ide.s also that erpenses incurred by expatriate staff rne:mbers for the 
po·s:to..se<::.ondar-y studie·s of .their children in the country of the parent ts du:ty stat.:ion 
~hal.l o.e 6:li,giole for reiw.b.urs:em~-n.t UJ;l9.~:r: the education e;-raut, w.it·h effect from t:Q.e 
b'e:g$nn.i.t;J;g o.f' th~ :;tca.demic year i·ti ~ou;rse Qf ·], Jap.~~ry 1979; · 

-8. _fu:t"thev decides that when, for tl;le ·purpo-se of applyinp: tl}.e scale o·f 
·r·eimb.urse-mE:nts a_p.P:ro:v-e.d for the education grant> the expenses incurred by a staff 
metnper ·in a currency .other than the United States dollar are converted into dollars, 
the rate of exchange used shall be 1rhichever is the hi[':her of that vrhich was in 
force at the date when the existing scale of reimbursements came into effect or that 
in force at the date when the reimbursement is made, the same rate bein,...,. used in 
converting the dollar amount of the reinbursement into the currency in which it is 
to be paid; 

9. Approves the extension of the provision of the education Grant to include 
the reimbursements of the expenses incurred by staff members for the special 
education of their disabled children, upon the terms and conditions specified in 
paragraph 246 of the Commission's report and in the annex to the present resolution:. 

10. Invites the Commission to reconsider its intention to extend the 
assignment allowance from five to seven years~ 

ll. Approves the amendments to the Staff Regulations of the United Nations 
necessary to give effect to the above decisions, as set out in the annex to the 
present resolution, and invites the Secretary--General to make such consequential 
changes as are necessary in the Staff Rules and to report thereon to the General 
Assembly at its thirty-fourth session in accordance with the provisions of regulation 
12.2 of the Staff Regulations; 

12. Decides that the above decisions shall enter into effect on l JRnuary 1979, 
except vrhere otherwise specified. 

I ... 



i\J\JNEX 

Amendments to the S_taff Repulations of the United Nations 

Rep:~lation 3.2 

A/33/Lf95 
English 
Pa{':e 7 

In the first paragraph, delete the "rords "under the age of tl.renty-·one" from the 
first sentence and insert the followin~ text as the second sentence: 

"The c;rant shall be payable in respect of the child up to the end of the fourth 
year of post-secondary studies or the aNard of the first recognized degree, 
whichever is the earlier.;; 

Insert the following text as the third parapraph: 

11 The Secretary-General shall also establish terms and conditions under which an 
education grant shall be available to a staff member "rhose child is unable, by 
reason of physical or mental disability, to attend a normal educational 
institution and therefore requires special teaching or traininc; to prepare him/ 
her for full integration into society or, vrhile attendinr: a normal educational 
institution, requires special teachin~?, or traininp: to assist him/her in 
overcominf, the disability. The amount of this p:rant per year for each disabled 
child shall be equal to 75 per cent of the educational expenses actually 
incurred up to ~)4,000, subject to a maximum grant of ;[;3,000. 

Regulation 3.4 

Add the following sentence at the end of paragraph (a): 

"The amount of either of these allovrances payable in local currency shall not be 
less than the local currency equivalent of the dollar mnount at the time it was 
established or last revised. 11 

Annex III 

In the schedule of termination indemnities set out in paragraph (a) of Annex 
III, amend the >vording in the last column to read as follows: 

"One week for each month of uncompleted service subject to a minimum of six 
weeks1 and a maximum of three months 1 indemnity pay. n 




