








































=-l t-::-/ -|l E:re

{./NiTED NATfCINS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

Distr.
GENERAL

A/33/\69
13 Dec ernber 1978
ENGT,ISH
oRICINAL: SPANISI{

Thirty*third session
Agenda items ?8 ancL B0

IIATIO}IAL XXPERIENCE IN ACHIEVINO FAR-NEACIIING SOCIAL AND ECO}IOI.{IC
CHANGES FOR THE PURPOSE OI' SOC]AL PROGNESS

IMPORTANCE OF THE EQU]TABLE DISTRISUTION OF I]ATIONAL INCOI{E
FOn ECONOITIIC AllD SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT

neport of the Third Conmittee

Rapporteur: l4iss Ana RICHTER

]. INTRODUCTIOIV

1. The item entitled "llational experience in achieving fa"-reaching social and
econonic changes for the purpose of sociat progress" was incLuded. in the
provisional agenda for the thirty-third session of the General Assembly in
pursuance of As s etabl-y resolutions 3f/3T and 31/38 of 30 Novernber 19?6.

2' The iten entitled "Importance of the equitable distribution of nationaf incone
for economic and- social developnxent: report of the Secretary-General " was included
in the provisional agenda of the thirty-third session of the General Assembly in
pursuance of Economic and Social Council resolution 20?)r (LXII) of 13 t{ay 1977,

3. At its 4th and 5th plenary meetings" on 22 Septernber 19?Bj the ceneral
Assembly, on the reconmendation of the General Conmittee, decided to j.ncLude both
items in its a6genda and. to allocate them to the t'hird Connittee.

[. The Conmittee considered both itens at its thirty-first to thirty-eighth
neetings, fron 27 October to 6 llovenber, and. at its seventy-second meeting on
B December. The views exp"essed on those itens by representatives of Member States
and of the specialized. agencies and by observers appear in the sunnary recorcls of
those rreetings (A/c.3/33/sR.31^38 and T2).

5. In connexion with iten 78, the Conmittee had before it the folloving documents:

(a) llational experience in achieving far-reaching
for the purpose of social progress: tlote by
lA/33/272);

7B-30679

social and economic chanAes
the Secretary-General



t-/ )7t Lta9

6"

(b) National experience in proinoting the co-operative movement: Feport of
the Secretary-ceneral (E/f9TBh5 and Corr.2)"

(c) Iiational experience in achieving far.-reaching social and economic chanres
for bhe purlose of social prosless: Beport of the 3ecretarv-Ceneral
E/r97A/ry and Add. 1) .

l-n conne;rion r,rith item BO, ttre Cornmittee had before it the follorrinq docunrerts;
(") rnportance of the equitab.le distribution of national income for economic

anO social developnent: Iiote by the Secretar v*Cenera-L (L/j3/27I)

(b) Distribution of incone: trend.s and policies: leport of the Secretary.-
ceneraL (-. /tgTt /zg) .

7. A-t the thirty-.first r'reeting, on 27 October" the Assistant Secretary-General
fcr Developrnent Research and- Policv Analysis introduced both itens (see
Al C.3/33/SF. "31, paras. 1-5).

II. COIiISIDERATIOIiI OF DRATT RIISOLUTIOI.IS

A.@
B. At the thirty-filst roeetin}" on 27 October, the Assistant Secretary-General for
Social- Developrnent and Humanitarian Affairs introduced the text of the draft
resolution on national experience in promoting the co--operative movement recorouencled
by the Iiconomic and Social- Council in resolution L97B/8, of 5 l,iay 1978" for adoption
by tlre General Assenbly. The text vas circulated as document A/C.3/33/L,3.

9" At the seventy-second, meeting, on I December, the representative of the
!e@subuittedanamendrnentG/C.3/33/L.\B)todraft
::esolution 

^/C.3/33/L.3,, 
the text of the amendnent vas as fo11or,.'s :

"Replace operative paragraph 10

'lO. t)ecides to incluC.e in the

10. "A-t, the sDne nreetin6, the representative
rellccing 'Lhi-ty-.ifth by thirtt'-,sixth .

If" The revised amendment r.ras adopted in a
28 abstenlions. The result of the vote r^/as

hr +La f^'l-l^r-riha tavf .

r:rovisional a4enda of its Lhirtv-fifth

revised the text of the amendment by

recorded vote by 99 votes to none, tith
as fo11clrs:

session the iten entitled iNational experience in achieving far -rea.chin6 social
and economic changes for the purpose of social progress' and- to consid.er under
this iten the follor^'-up relort of the Secretary-General on national experience
in promoting the co=operative rnovement,l



In favour:

AAainst:

Abstaining:

Al33/\69
English
Pelrp ?

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina" Bahrain, Sangladesh-
pAhr'h T]]-,rl+-h rl^r i1.i- Rotsr"nna, Brazll , Bulgaria, Burna,
Burundi, Syelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verd,e,
l-artl-}.^ 1 t fri oan Emnj-a ch6d r-h.i r a r.nn .n n,,he , CyprUS,
Czechoslovakia" Democratic Yernen, Dorninican Republic a Ecua.dor,
iigypt, U1 Salvador " Equatorial Guinea_ Ethiopia, Finland., cabon,
Gambia, German Denocratic Republic ) Ghana 1 Guinea" Guinea Bissau-,
Guyana, Ilond-uras, llurfla.].v , Inrl-ia, Ind.onesia, Iran, Irao . Jamaica ,
Japan, Jordar, fenya, :(ur/ait, La.o Peoofets .Democratic Republie,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, i.iadal.ascar, ltlalaysia,, r{a1i1ives,
l.{ali, }4aurits"nia" l{ongo}ia, lrozarnbique, }1e!a1, lTicaraflua, lliger.
rligeria, Onan. Pakistan, Dananar Peru, Philippines, Oatar,
lomania., Rl,/anda, Sao Tone and. Frincipe, Saudi Arabia" Singapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanha, Sudano Suriname, Swa.ziland, Sr,reden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand,, Togo, Trinidad and Toba€lo, Tunisia.,
Turkey I Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist \errublicsl IIniteC ArFb t0irates, Ur.ited Repuhlic
of Carlreroon, United lepublic of Tanzania, ll"uguay, Venezuela,
Viet iian. Yemen, Yq16s1avia, lairen Za1ibia..

idone.

Australia., Austria" Bahamas, Belgiun" Canada, Colol'rbia, Denrnark,
fiji, France, Cernarry, federa-l llepublic of" Greece lceland,
Trelanc1, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Lesotho, Luxembour€!, lralar.ri,
I{exico , t-4.orocco , iiletherlands , New Zealand , i\orvay " Portugal .Spain, United liingd-orn of qreat Britain and llorthern Ireland -
United States of Aneric a "

lla. At tha.t me-^tinc the Oournittee approved the draft vesolution as anended
lJithout a vote ( see pal"a. ?O rrr.lr:r-, dr^ft resolution I ) .

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/33/L"?-3

f2. The Connittee had before it a clraft resolution entitled "Irnportance of the
equitable distribution of national incone for economic and social de-veloprnent ,
slonsored by Angola " jIgqgry, lladaAqg:ar I l.'1on{o1ia and Za.ire, of r+hich
 fiIgfdSlq subsequcnbLy bncar're a sponsor ihc text of the d.rarL reso.fut icn is
reproduced. below:

'!]1g_gs!ge1_4ns_.Ab-]J._"

ilavir5 considered the rc)ort of r"rrc Secretarl' t"'^n-aval l/ or ecuit,thle
a i sttitucion--ET-nit-ionrl inco"c .

r/ 8/a973/29.



t\t 53/ +o9

r-age 4

Iiaving regard to the Universal Declaration of lluman Rights and the
Tnternational Covenant on Xconomic, Social and Cul-tural nights'

'rRecalting the Deelaration on Social Pfogress and DevelopnenI, 2/ l]ne
Decfaration and Progrannme of Action for the Establishraent of a llew
International Economic Order, 3/ and the Charter of Economic Bights and Duties
of States , 4/

i'Being concerned at the persistence of poverty" inequality, social
injustice, unemplolrment and underemployment in a great many countries,

"Fxrrc,ssino its rrofound concern over the fact that colonialism and
neo-colonialisrn are impeding the economic and social progfess of many peoples'

"ltloting that economic developnent does not automatically entail an
iinprovement in the standard of living of large segments af the population,
-Dut requires a just and equitable distribution of national- income,

'Declarinir that d6tente and peaceful coexistence of countries tith
ctifferent sociat systems? development on the basis of mutual benefit and
equal rights in multilateral relations between States create favourable
conditions for eeononic and sociaL progress,

-r1. Tnvites Goverr tents to elaborate a concept of distribution of
national incorne capable of ensuring the increasing well-"being of large
secnenls of the population in material, social and cultural matterso and in
particular the right to work, to med-ica1 care, to education and to culturel

"2. Invites Goverdrents to keep in mind the necessity for ever-
increaslng participation in the nationaL incorne by the uorking classes !'tho
contribute to the production of the national rdealthx

Invites Governments to make more extensive use of their national
resources through joint planning of econornic and social development ' 

inter
qLLa_, through structural reforms, such as the expansion of the State sector,
the consolidation of the co-operative and social sectors, p"ogressi.ve
taxation of profits, and restrictions on the activities of tlansnational
corporations;

''[' Cal1s upon Governments to take the necessary neasures to achieve
the above-nentioned objectives" whieh would incfude, inter alia' the
imllementation of the lrovisions of the !'inal Document of the tenth special

2/ Resolution 2 542
J/ rleso-Lut10ns JZUI-

i/ nesotution 3a8t

( XXIV) .

(s_Vr) and 3292 (s_vr ) .
(xxrx ) .



^/T/1t69lin,qlish
Pa61e !

session of the united llations General Assenbly, 5/ the reduction of rrrilitary
ayr,FhAii-''a ah'r +1-'6 util-izat,ion of the resources-thus released in such a wav
as to promote the wel-l--being of all peoples and in particular to improve the
economic and social cond.itions of devetopins countries.

"5. Requejts the Colrmission for Sociat Development to accelerate the
developnent of appropriate guidelines, in accordance vith Economic and Social
Council resolution 1085 (XXXIX) of 30 Jufy 1965, for the formulation of social
policy rneasures that uould promote a .just and equitable dislriburtion of
national incone, and to subnxit thenr through the Economic and Soeial Council,
to the United Nations General Asser0bfyi

"6, Requests the Connittee for Development Planning to take acccunt,
when subnitting proposals for the preparation of an international development
strategy' of United llations reports ancl documents concerning the distfibution
of national income;

"7. Requests the Secretary-General , when preparing reports on the l.rorfd
social situation and other related l,rorJ.d reports, to take account cf the
Programme of Action adopted by the trIorld Conference on lbDloynent,
Distribution of Income, Social Progress and International Division of Labour,
and to analyse the basic obstacles preventing a just and, equitable
distribution of national income. "

13. At the seventy-second neeting" on B December, the representative o' Hungary
r.rithdrew draft resol_ution A/ c.3 / 33 |L, ?3.

C. Draft resolut ion A/C,3/33/L.25

14, The Cornmittee had before it a draft resolution (A/C,3/33/L.25) entitled
''koportance of the equitabl-e distribution of national income for economic and
social developn,ent", sponsored by Denmark, Fr:ancg, q9lggryrlg45lgl_I5_p$ljg_9-1,
Italy, lilethexlands and United l(ingd.om of Great Britain and Nort!9ln lreland, the
text of rrhich is reproduced bel-ow:

"The General Assa"nbly,

''Fecalling its resolutions 2626 (X)rV ) of 2l October l97O containing thc
InternElfEiif5evelopnent Strategy for the Second United Nations Development
Decade, 3201 (S-VI) antl 3202 (S-VI) of l May 197\ containing the Declaration
and the Programme of Action on the Establ-ishment of a Nev International
Econoraic Order, 3281 (}'-XIX) of 12 Decanber 1971+ containing the Charter ol
Eeonomic Rights and Duties of States and 3362 (S-VII) of 16 Septenber 19?5
on development and international economic co-operation,

!/ Itesolution S-I0/2,



A/331\59

rage b

]l"e"fl-i":: lcononic and. Social 0ouncil resolrttion 2OT)+ (LXTI) of
23 i:ay 19?7 on the distribution of national income.

"Ha-ving considered the report of the Secreta.ry--General on the distribution
u, :lcrLLun-r rncurne) o7 eonpiled in pursuance of tlle above-nentioned g"949mic
and Social Council resolution, anr-]' noting the discussion of the matter by the
Econornic and Sccial Council at its first retular session of 19?8.

Tl'rri hr ra-a rd to the retevant provisions of the UniversaL Declaration on
the Internati onal Covenants on jiconomic ? Social and
on Civil- and Poi:tical- Rights

lluman nights anal of
Cuftural Rights and

' rn1- in- al -^ t-ha v.l rrelr'l e r/( r' bein., clone bv the lnternatior.al Labour
orSanilETf6i and the Horld Bank in exploring the deternination of income
d.istribution,

lgupry_JgnCgnsg that atrout 800 ni]tion
poverty r.rith income too lor.r to ensure adequate
access to essential services ,

people sti1l live in absolute
footl- or shelter and vithout

''Recognizill6 the respons ibilitie s of alt Governrnents to worh towards the
eradication of absolute poverty and the creation of conclitions Fernitting the
fu11 ileplolment of human resources and potential,

-nphasizinr the need in furtherance of this obiective, to increase thc
product]6ilffifictivity and incone of the poor: in both rural and urb&n areas '
r'rith the airn of assisting then tovarcls self-Senerating growth,

-CSgal4SLi. "g" 
that such grovth and the equitabfe d-istribution of natlonal

incorne Cie tornplementary objectives of develo1lment 1lolicy"

"Considerin,l furthel, in this contexte that the equitable distribution of
nationif incJr,rJis essential for balanced economic and social pro{iress in
\..'hi ch the poorest strata of the population participate and thereby benefit
frora an improvement in their standard cf living,

'!91y:4S9g that the equitable distribution of national incolte as a fa.et'or
in achipwinz soc.i.l irrstice and accelerated economic development is an issue
r,rhich should be addressed in a ner,r international developnent strategJ'r

"1. Tahes note of the relort of the Secretary*General and d'ecides that
it should be broutjht to tfle attentlon of the approlriate bodies in the Unitecl
lilations system so that its conclusiorrs nay be talien into account in their
further r,rork i

6/ E/L978/29.



A/33/1t69
EnElish
page T

'2. llequcsts the Connissi<.:n for Social Develo?ment to continue its
consid-er:ation of the equitable distribution cf natior:'a1 income in the context
of alfeviating poverty and, promoting econonic grovth;

"3. fnvites the Connittee for Development Planning to continue to pay
close attention to this aspect of the developnent process and to conment upon
it in its next report'

"ll. Ul'Ees Goverrnnents to devote particular attention to the ecl,uitable
distribut.icn of income in the forrnulation of national economic and social
polic ies .

"5, Invites Governments to consider holr best to nake increased use of
ttreir internaf resources for the achievenent of the Aoal of r0ore equita.ble
distribution of nationaL i ncome -

'6. lry:t"_g- Governments further to consider imDroving the availability
of statistical data concerning distribution of national income, in c,rder to
acquire d.eeper hnowledge of the subject and to facilitate the preparation of
iuture reports'

"'(. Requests the Secretary-General ! in preparing reports on social and
econor,ric trends and policies, such as that on the lrorld social situation as
nrovided for in Ceneral qssenbly resolution 25113 (XXIV) of 1l Decenber 1969,
to talie into consideration the provisions of the present resolution and to
continue to stud). and docrment trends and poficies in relation to the
d-istribution of national ineome. "

15. At the seventy-second neetinil on I December the representative of the Federal
Republic of Germany nithdre-lr d.raft resofution A/C.3/33/L"25.

D. llraft resol-ut ion A./c.3/33/L"35

15. Tlre Corurittee had before it a draft resolution (L/C.3/33/L36) entitled
".'{ational experience in achieving far-reaching socj.al and economic changes for the
purpose of social progress" sponsored by _Uqolg, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic_" Congo, qeman Demqqrqlic nepublic and !!g[_!gm, of which Afshanistan,
3enj.n' Czechoslovakia and l.1ongglie subsequently became sponsors; the text of the
draft resoLution is reproduced belor,r;

"The General Assenbfy 
"

rrr'1"i 
'l 

oA hrli-h6 .:l6c i r::.-:: _- -"_ *'-__'e lO PfOmOte
employment and cond.itions of economic

a higher stand.arC of Iife, ful1
and social pro:lress un6- 43vslgnnent,

on Social Progress and Developroent, 7/''Bearina in rnind. the Declaration

7/ Resolution 251r2 ()il{IV).



A/33/ \59

rage o

,ilindful of the provisions of the Declaration and the Prograr,me of Action
on the Estabfishment of a llev International- Economic ortLer B/ as well as the
Charter of Econonic Rights and Duties of States, 9-/

"Notine resolutions 15BI A (L) of 21 Mav l'g1r, :-667 (T,rI) of l June 19?2
ana lTli6l-r,w ) of 16 llay 1973 of the Economic and Social Council about the
iroportance of fundamental structural socio-economic chanejes for the
stren3thening of national independence and achievement of the ultinate [oa1s
^f 

c^^ i r'l

"Recal1irur its resolution 32?3 (lffIx) of 10 December 797\ and" 31/38 of
30 ltoyE-rnler t9?6, in vhich the General- Assembly reaffirmed the importance
to exercise the inalienable right of every state to carry out fund-smental
social and economic changes for the purpose of social progress and the
necessity to study national erperience in this field'

"Desirous of securing a speedy a.rtd. conplete removal of obstacles to the
econonic-EiE'*Focial progress of peopl-es ' especially 

colonialisrn, racism,
racia] discrimination, -e!g4hejg-, aggressionl foreign occupation or donination
and all forns of inequality and exploitation of peoples,

"Convinceg that peaceful coexistence and co-operation among States
roithoul-EMlliination, cessation of the s"rms race and disarmament would
contritrute to economic and social developnent 3

'''f6kihp note of the report of the Secretary-General !Q./ lrepared on thei::= jil2_- ji:.i.:-
basis of inforuation reeeived from Govefnmentg On nattona-l exper]-ence ln
achieving far-reaching sociaf and economic changes for the purpose of social
progress 

?

"1' Reaffirns the sovereign and inalienable right of every State to
choose its-EE6nomic and. social systen in accordance vith the vill of its
people, without outside interference;

Declares that the elimination of all forms of subiugation and
dependence such as a65ression, foreign occupation, cofonialis"r, an?r-theid '
racisn and, raciaL discrinination constitute a prerequisite for social and
economic advanc ement ;

"3. Re-emphasizes- that the carlrilg out of internal basic sccio-econoraic
changes aesigneA to st*guard national ind-ependence and to ensure speedy
improvement of the lre1l-being of the population is of great importance for the
e-chievement of social and econonic pro3ress'

Resolutions 3201 (s-vr) and 3202 (s*vr).
Fesolution 3281 (XXIX) ,
EE97B/I9 and Acld.1.

a
2/

ro/



^/n/t+69Engli sh
page 9

")+. nequests the Secretary-General to malie arrangements for holdinr-,
i.rithin the programne of ad.visory serviees, regular interregional and regional
seninars to study the national experience of developing and developed
countries in carrying out far-reaching social and econonic changes for the
purpose of social plogress l

"5, Ca^lfs upon the Cornission for Social Development, the Economic and
Social- Councit and the regional cornniss_ions to continue, on reqular basis)
the studies and analyses of national experience in carrying out far-reachinC
socio-economic changes for the purpose of social progressl

'tA Fa^rrac t c i-ha q,:j:jr,:::_::- -^-- -ecretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its thirty-fifth session" through the Commission for ttte Social lrevelopnent
and the Economic and, Social Council" a comprehensive report prepared on the
basis of information received from Governrnents on national experience in
carrying out far-reachin6l changes for the purpose of social progress.

"7. Decides to include in the provisional aeenda of its thirtv-fifth
session the iten entitled "I'Tat ional exp€rience in achieving far-reaching
social and econonic changes for the purpose of socjal propress.';

I7. At the seventy-seconal neeting, on B December, the representative of the
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic r.rithdrew draft resolut j-on A/C.3/33/L,35"

E.

18. At the seventy-second. neeting on B December, the representative of Tunisia
introduced, on behal-f of States l.{embe"s of the United Nations which are me*bers
of the Group of 77, a draft resolution (A/c "3/33/L "6r/Rev.a) entitled 'iltorldsocial clevel-opment",

19, At that neeting the d,raft resolution vas approved by a recorded vote cf
l-21- to noner with 10 abstentions (see para. 20 infra" clraft resolution fI). The
result of the vote ffas as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia" Austria,
Baha.nas, Bahrain, BanlSladesh " Belgium, 

3enin, Bhrrtan, Bolivla,
Botsvana, 3raziI, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central A.frican Empire,
Chad, Chile, China, Colonbia " Congo, Cuba, Cl.prus,Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Dominican Fepublic, l-lcuador, Egypt r El Salvador, fquarorial
Guinea" Ethiopia, tr'iji, Fin1anc1, Gabon, Gambia, German
Democratic Republic " Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana " Honduras n llungary, Iceland, In,lia, fndonesia, 

Tran,
Iraq, Israel-, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Ja.pan" Jordan, lter-va,
Kuvait, Lao Peoplets Denccratic Fepublic, Lesotho, I'ibevia,



A/33/\59
English
Page 10

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya" llada6ascar" llalarri, lialaysia, Ialdives
l{ali' l''lauritania, Mexico, }longo}ia, l4orocco, Mozambioue, }lepal'
Ilern, Zealand " llicaragua, 

ltriger, Nigeria, Norvay, Oman, Pakistan'
Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland' Portugal " Qatar, 

Romania"

Rvanda " 
sao iome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Singapore' Sonalia'

Spain, Sri Lanka" Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and- Tobago ' Tunisia'
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic ' Union of
Soviet Socialist IiepubJ-ics, United A?ab Inirates, United
Republic of Cameroonr United nepublic of Tanzania. Upper volta'
Uruguay, Venezuela, tiiut ltut' Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire' Zarnbia'

+€a,ig:!: llone.
Abs-taining: Befgium, Denlrark u Trrance, Germany, Fed eral Bepublic of, Ireland"

Ita1y, Lunenbouri, ltletherlands, tlnited l(ingdon of Great Britain
and llorthern llelanil, United States of America'



.rII.

?0. Tlie Thirct_ 0onrnittee
d-raft resolutions:

Ai33/\69
nngli sh
Page 11

lECOr4,liIl,IDAIfONS OF THII TIiInD COi,,il4ITtEll

vecoaiilends that the General Assenbly adopt i,he fo1J.olrin41

.DFAFT RNSOI,UTION I
I'trational- exrgrience in p. ronotins._lhe ..So-:gpglglive -!favsl!C4r

the
afl

.Bearing in mind that r,he
r-mportant instrument s foi.
nembers of society 

"

4. Reco,qnizes that co-operatives
enployment opportunities for r,romen and
socieiy, into the d eveloprnent prccessl

5. Stre_sses also the iloport:m.h
Feople at the ;;ss-roots tevel in the
bheir daily lives;

establishnent an<l grovth of co-opelatives is one of
the ful"l- economic, social and. cultural_ develoirinent of

_ - qeggglieigg. the necessity of trainingleveLs for the growbh, diversification and
co-operatives,

._ 1: .rg&cE-rg!g of the report of the secretary-General on national exDeriencern pror,totrng bhe co_oDeratjve rnovcment. 11/

, ?.. . . Reilerqbes the necessity of an international exchange of experience as acontribution to the grorrbh and d.ivers ification of the co,operative movement I
strgsses the ror-e of co'-operatives in the dever.opme'.t of wearrer sectionsof the conmunity a,d in over -aJ-l social- and economic advancenent, particular:ly indeveloping countries;

and ed.ucational prograrrrres at various
profes s ionali zation of the mana_gement of

are an impoxtant means of increasinE
integraring themr as active menbers of

social. role of co..operatives in iilvolving
nlanning anrl d.ecision making,,,rhich affect

rnr"ites l'lertrber states, relevant specialized ageneies and other unitedNations organs to pay special attention to ihe training and ed.ucation aspects ofihe co'-opelative movenent at the loca.L, national- and internationar levels:,
7, Also invites Menber States, relevairt specialized agencies ancl other

ee_Sen.re].f€sesblL,

-^ - Ig994jlt6 its resofutions z\59 (Xxlrr) of 20 December 196g, 3273 (XXIX) of10 Decenber l97l+.and 3r/3T of:o noterrterl giZ, *ra irconomic and sociar councilresolution t65B (III) of L June 1972.

rJ-t EJi L,Io/L) a,llo UorI.2.



A/ 33 / \('.)
Inglish
Page 12

United liations crgans to subnit foLlow-up reports on their experience in promoting
the co-operative movement, referring especially to the participation of r'romen in
the co-operative movernent and to the role of co-operatives in achieving ovel-a11
social and economic development ;

8. Invites those i'lernber States which have not elready done so to submit
reForts on-iiI-ionat experience in prordoting the co-operative movenent I

g. Eequests the Secretary -General to submit to the General Ass embl-y at its
thirty-fifth session, through the Econonic and Sociat Council, a follow-up relort
on national experience in promcting the co -opevative moveroent, referring
especially to the pa"ticipation of women in the co-operative movenent and to the
rale of co-operatives in achieving over-a].l sociaf and econornic develolment " based
on data al-reacly available and on additional contributions frorl Member States and
re Levant specialized a3encies;

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-sixbh session
the iten 

"r,titrea "National 
experience in achieving far-reaching social arld

economic changes for the purpose of social progresstt and to consider under this
iten the folLolr,-up yeport of the Secretary-General on nationa] experience in
promcting the co-operative movement .

DRAI'T RESOLUTION II

tlorm--E_gg-cl_g{919rq9gl

rrhe Cpnozal Aceerrhl r---- ------ - ---- --.--.t .

I

Rc.al l in,' resolrrt ions 251+2 (XXIV) of 1I December 1969 concerning the1t:t-'l:=:jil:
lectara{ioi-6i Social Progress and. Developrnent and 2??f (}C(VI) of 22 Novernber 1971
and 3I/Bl+ of 13 December l-9?6 on the wor1d. social situation '

Fecalling also resolutions 2626 (xxv) of 2h October 1970 concerning the
ft t"rifrf6ill Dun"foprnent Strategy for the Second. Unj.ted l'iations Devel-opnent
Decad.e " 3201- 

(s-vr) ard 3202 (s-vr) of l- irlay r9?l+ concerning the DecLaration and
Progxanme of Action on the nstablishrnent of a Ne lnternational- nconomic older,
32Bi (XXIX) of 12 December l9?\ concerning the Charter of Econonic Rights and
Dui:ies of States. ana 3362 (S-Vff) of 16 Septertrb er L975 on d'evelopnent and
international economic co-operation,

Convinced. that the improvement of the I'iving conditions of peoples,
p"rti.of# trie au""roiing countries, depend.s on their rapid econotaic and social
progress,

Consi<lering, however, that the <lesired pace of soc io-"econornic progress in the
aevef6lTie-g ci-untries is h1ndered because of the nagnitude of their economic



A/33/t+59
English
Page 13

d.ifficulties arising from the unjust international- econoraic ordex which hasexisted. hitherto,

.cgnsiderifg arso that the vorr-d socio-economic situation is characterized bythe deterioration of the econonic situation in the developing countries and thecont inually widening gap between the developing countries and the developedcountries,

- congidFrilg f-urtrler that the objective of increasing the real nationalrncome of the developing countries and their social progress necessitates far_reachirrg cha'nges in the structure of the existing world. economic system asprovided in the Declaration and FrogranJne of Action on the Estabrishment of a Nerrfnt ernati onal Economic Ord.er,

Dgsirine to achieve the rapid and complete etimination of the obstacl-es to theecononic and soc'ar- progress of peopres, plrticu-larly col0nialism, neo-cor-onialism,racism' racia-l discrimination, 
"p.tirtuii, 

-.ggresslon 
o occupation and. foreigndonj.nation and a-LJ- other forms ot-inequJity and exploitation of peoples,

- i'lindful .f the social aspects of the efaboration of the nell internati.onald.eveloFrrent strategy,

*^__ -EFEll4*e!S.9-]rf 
the report of the Secrerary-Generat 

" 12l preparer). on theoasrs or r-n'ormation provided by Governments, on nat ionar- .*p."i.rc. in achievingfar-reaching social and. economic changes for the purpose of social progress,

. 1'. - Bgaffirns the inatienable right of al-1 nations to pursue theiy economicand. social d.evelop:nent freel-y an. to eiercise full and conpl-ite sovereignty overaJ-I their natural resources ;

._ ^^i:^-..F*:qgg 
the active and growing participation of al.t &embers of societyr-n economlc a"nd social developnent progranmes 

_

3. R€affirns also- that the elimination of alJ. fornxs of dependence anCLoppru_"sion-iZFEF-6!$Ession, foreign o""rpatiorr, colonialism, apartheicl anclraciaJ- d.is crimination, constitutes u-pru""qii"ite for world sociar- a,nd economicprogress;

.- 4. , Ulges the developed countries to ma.ire the structural changes included inthe xesolutions on the new international economic order aimed at erininating theinequities arid imbal-ances characterizing internationaL economic relations r.ririch are
necessary for the progress of the devel-oping countries;

* _5. Bequests the Comisslon for Social Development, the Conmittee for
Develotrflxent Planning, the Economic and. Social council roi th" regionat coramissionsto pay particuLar attention to studies and. a"naryses concerning nitional experience

a2/ EL97Bry9 and Add.r-,



A/33/)469
]ir41ish
fase r+

in achieving far-.reaching social and economic changes for the purpose cf social
progress l

6" Requests the Secretary- Gene"a1 to bear in nind, in preparing ihe reports
bn the vorFsocial- situation, the close relationship between economic c1evelopment
and. social develolment, and" the over-all situation of the developing couiltri es in
international economic relations 1

7. !sq-s-j.qe31q1s! that the new international development strategy shoulcl
duly stres-tt* neea for each country to define l"rithin the contelct of its
development plans anci priorities an appropriate social developrient pclicy tal-'ing
u""ootti of its socio -economic structure and its d.egree of development;

B. leque{g',,he Comnission for Socia.l Development to consider at its
ti.renty-sixth -seGilon the report on the lror11 social situation in the contet'r of
the worh on the nev international development strategy, and to transrlit its
recornmentlat ions tc tile bod.y entrusterl with the preparation of that strategy;

9. Bglgu€xs ihe Couniittee for Develolment Planning and the regional econotttic
c onrni s s ionilTn-t6eir contribltion to the work of the body e1.trustecl r'rith the
preparation of the ner.r lnternational cleveloprnent strategy to ensure tirat social
itevelopiaent objectives are integrated in the strategy in accord'ance nith the
relevant United. liations resolutions j

rrgg$r.lg resolution 3273 (XXIX) of Io December 197)+ in vhich the General
as s.r,r6fEi?rirmcd the liSht of evexy State to carry out social- and econonic
cllanges for the pulpose of social progress and the need to continue the stu(l.y of
national experie;ce in that field, and Econoraic ancl Social Council resofution
207)+ (LXII) af 23 itay l-97? requesting the Secretary-General to subndt a report on
the findings of various speciJized agencies and organs of the Unlte'-1 l'lations
q,rcto:: r,-lat.inr Lrr Lhc distribution of nationa-L income,

ilaving 
-c-gl1:-Ulergl 

the report of the Secretary 'General l'3/ on the equitable
Jislribu';ion of nabiol'lal incone,

l. Affirros that the social pro€5ress of all- countries iroplies ' arllong 
other

thin;5s, r Ji"t 
*J"a 

equitable distrj.luiion of income at the national and
international levefs I

2. !S:,1,rfS4-C- the Secretary*General to submit to the General- Ass er1lb].y 
at the

thirty. .f ourtr-:iiF.ion, tltrough lhe Econoni" ancl SocisJ Council, a repor'rl on the
conclusions of the stucly requested in Economic and Social Council resolu'':ion
1036 (xxxrx) of 30 July f965.

]:ti L/L97J/?-9.




