








































-A\::rt \-

UT.C'IEE NAT'OhIS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

!1Srr.
GENERAI

A/33/\\T
8 December I9?B
U{GI,ISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Thirty-thi.xd sessicn
Agenda item JL

WORID CONFEBENCE TO COMBAT RACISM A]\TD RACIAL DISCFIMINATION

Report of the Third Coumitt€e

Rapporteur i Ana ITICHTEF (Argentina)

I. II{TRODUCTION

1. The item entitfed rrWorld Conference to combat Racisn and Racial Discrimination:
report of the secretary-General" was included in the provisionar agenda of the
thirty-third session of the General Assembly, as a nnatter of high priority, in
accordance with As senbl-y resolution jz/Izg of 16 Decenber 197?.
2, At its )rth plenary neeting, on 22 Septenber 19T8, the General Assembly, on 1,he
recomnendation of the GeneraL conmittee, d.ecided tc incl_ude the iten in its agenda
a.nd to al-focate it to the fhird Cornnittee.

3. The Comrnittee considered this it erd at its l-6th to 2oth, 22nd to 3oth, 53rd,
53ra" 65tfr ana 66ttr meetings, on 13-26 Octoberu 2l-30 November and l+ December, The
vievs expressed by the representatives of Member states and by observers on this
item are contained in the surnmary record.s of those rneetings (A/c,3/33/s1.2o, zz-3o 

"53" 63" 55 ana 56).

)+. fn ccnnexion with iten 7)+ the Connittee had before it the following doclnents:
(a) worrd conference ia combat Racism and Raciar Discrimination: renort of

the Secretary-cene"al (A/ 33/ZGZ),
(b) Documents of the Conference of Ministers for Fareign Affai?s of

Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 2! to 30 Jut-y fgTB (A/33/206)

,. At the 20th meeting, held on 17 October, the item was introduced. by the
Presid'ent of the wor.rd conference to combat Racism and Racial Discrimination
(A/ c -3/ 33/sR.2o ' 

pa^l'as. 2-B) and by the secretary-Generar of the conference
(A/C.3/ 33/sR,2O, paras , 9-16).

78-30271 /



L / 2" 1),),r

TT. CONS]DIIFATIO.I]I OF T1II DRAFT NESOLUTTOI,JS

A. Draft resolution lV!:.!133/L.17
6, At its 63rd rceeting" on 30 llovenber, the repr es entat tr.rc
a draft resolution (A/C.3/33/L,IT ) entitlecl ,'I^iorld Conference
Racial Di s crimination " , nhich Liberia subsequently joined in

of Ghana intToduced
to Combat Racisn and

sponsoring.

7' The adn'-inistr ative and financ-ial imrfications of the dratL reso'lution are srt
out in document A/C.3/33/L.).+8 .

B. At the sane rneeting the representative of Burundi subnitted the foffowins
amendments (l',/C.3/33/L,3l1+), sponsorect by Algeria, Angola, Eenin, Burundi, Congo,
!i:!!ut1 ,_Llbv?n Arab Janahiriya, lraaaeas"ar,-i6ti;lGi-rit;lt lfozanbiqu*, .sao
gg--?!+, P+]]l:l!E-, Seneeal, Tunisia and zanbia, subsequentty ,joined Uy cu!g,-
leno:cl?tic Yemen, Esvpt, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, I,'longolia, takistan, syrGn-.ArabFetublic and Viet llam;

(a) "fn the fourth preambular paragraph of the draft resolution, section I,
delete the vords tthe convening ofr and insert the following words after
the word 'Conferencer: ',by the adoption of the Declaration and th.
Progranime of Act ion t "".

(b) "Replace paragraph 1 by the fouowing paragraphs:

"rakes nOtF nr th- ].r,rnrt ^f +.\-,a S
o r t re r,ro"rr c oirE#n ":'- :T J;:;';,:" J":":'fi ::Hi";ff :;ill,litlli 

*"n

the Declaration and Prograrme of Action ad,ol)t ed by
the Conference. "'

(.) 'tRenurnber the following paragraphs accordingly.,,
(d) "Add the following paragraph 6:

"'Requests the Econonic and Social Council to carry out an
evaluation of the activities undertaken in connexion with the Decade,
in accordance with paragraph 18 of the programme far the Decad.e, taking
into account the results of the Conference set out in the Declaration
and the Progranme of Action vhich it ad.apted.t"

9. At the 65th meeting, on L December, the amendment s were adopted by a
registered vot e;

(") The amendment s to the fourth preambular paragraph ot' the drsft
resolution, section I, (see para. I (a)) rrere adopted by 85 votes to 32"
r,rith 15 abstentions. The voting vas as fol1oI.rs:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, A161eria, Angola, Argeni:ina, Bahrain,
Eangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, hazil, Bulgaria, Burna,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde,

''2. IApl--roves
Conference. i "



Al 33 /t+\7

Chad, China, Congo, Cuba, Clrprus, Ozechosfovakia, Dernocratic
I(ampuchea, llemocratic Yenen, Djibouti, Icuador, Egypt ' 

Ithiopia,
Ganbia, Getman Democratic Republic n Greece, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana' Hungary, India, Indonesia, fran, TTaq' Japanl
Jordan, Kenya, I{uwait, lao Peoplers llemocratic Republic" libyan
Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar, l'Ia1avi, l4alaysi a, l'{aldives, l4a1i 

"
l{auritania, !{ongo1ia, I'lorocco, l{czambique, lTiger, Onan' Pakistan,
Peru, Philippines r Po1an.4,, Qatar, Romani a, Fvanda, Sao Tome and
lrjncipe, Siuai aratia, Senegal, Sona-ia, Soain, Sudan, Suriname,
Syrian Arab Fepublic, Trinidad, and Totrago, Tunisia, Turkey '
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Relublics" United Arab Fmirates, United Republic of
eaneroon ' United 

Republic of Tanzania' Venezuela" Viet llam,
Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zambia,

Against: Australia, Austria, Bahanas ' Barbados, 
Be1giun, Canada, Colombia '

Costa Rica" Denrlark, lominican Republic, Iinland, France'
Germany, Iederal Republic of, Ghana, Guatema1a, Iceland' Treland'
Tsrael, Italy' fYory Coast, T,esotho, Liberia', Luxembourg '
lletherlancls , If er,r Zealand, lTicarae+rar l\'lorway ' Papua lilew 

Guinea,
Svaziland, Sr,reden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and lYorthern
ITeland, Upaer Vo1ta.

Abstaining: Potsr,rana, Central African Enpire, Chile' Fijil Gabon, Honduras '
Jamaica, l4exico, llenal, Iligeria' Panama, Portugal, Singapore,
Thailand, Uruguay ' 

zaire '

(l) The amendments to the operative part of section I of the draft resolution
(see para. I (b)-(d) above) were a<lop-t ed by 81 votes to 32, with
18 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain '
Bangladesh, Benin" Bhutan, 3razi1, 3u1garia, Surna ' 

Burundi 
'

Byeiorussian Soviet Socialist Fepublic, Cape Verdeu Chad, China,
conoo orr},a rrvr.rr]s a z,.chos lovakia , Denocratic Kanpuchea '
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Iicuador, Egypt ' 

Ethiopia, German
Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana ' P;ungary 'India, Tndonesia, rran, Jraq, Japan, Jordan' I{enya, Kuwait ' T'ao
People's Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, I4adagascar'
l'{alaysia , l{alalives , l\faIi , Mauritania, lltongolia ' llorocco '
t'lozanbique, lliger' chan ' Pakistan' 

Peru, Phitippines, Poland'
qatar, Fomaniai Rvanda, Sao Tome ancl Principe, SaDdi Arabia'
Senegal, Somalia, Spaln, Sudan' Surinane, Syrian Arab iepublic '
TTinidad a.nd Tobago' Tunisia, l\rak-ey " Uganda, 

Ijkrainian Soviet
Socialist Eeprrblic o llnion of Soviet Socialist Republics, united
Arab finirates, United. Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of'
Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet lTan ' 

Yerten, Yugoslavia, Zanbia'



A/33lLr\T

fage rl

A rstrafiar -Auriria, Banamas, dar oados, Belgiur-, Crnada- Co)ornbia,
Costa Fica, Denmark, Dominican Fepub1ic, Finland, Irancel
Germany, Iederal Republic of, Chara, GuatenaLa, Tceland, freland,
Israel) Ita1y, Ivory Coast, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg,
Itretherlands , Ner,r Zealand , Nicara.gua, lilorway, Pap ua i,trev Guinea,
Swazrlancl , Swaden) Unit. l Kingdcl"l of Creat Britaln and lTor[hcrn
Trel-and. Upper Volta.

Abstaining: Bolivia, Botsr,rana, Central African Ernpire, Chile, Fiji, Gabon,
Greece" Honduras, Janaica, i.{exico, Nepal? Nigeria, pananal
Pcrtrrgal, Singapcre, Thaifand, Uruguay, Zaire.

10, AL thr sare ueerjng, Lhe fetr]n.j1169 adolrted Lh. dra"t rcsolution, as amended,
blr 101 votes to 18, rrith 13 abstentions (see para. 1l+ below, clrafb resoluticn I).
Tne voting was as fcllows:

In favour; Afghanistan r Albania, A1geria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
?rgladesh, lar bados" Benin, B\.lr-an, Boljvia, Botsnana" -drazi_l,
3 .l faria , 3"rna, Bur rrd_ , Bycl ol JSSian Soviel Sociali st Fcpublic ,
Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Cofonbia, Congo" Cuba, Cyprus,
Czecl:oslovakia, iemocratic Karopucnea, -Dernoc ra tic Yer en, Dji bo rri,
Dominican Fepublic, Ecuad.or, Egypt, Ethiopia" I'iji, Gambia,
German Democratic Republic, Gre-oce, Guineao Guinea*Bissau,
Guyana, licndufas, i{ungary, Indla, Indcnesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaicau
Jaoan, Jor'1an, denya) (uwait, Lao PcopIe/s Jeu,ocrar,ic pepublic,
Lioeria, Libyan Arab Jar:ahiriya, .laca€.ascar, Ilataysia, I,la1d j ves,
l{ali , l''fauritanla , l4exico , l,{ongalia, Mcrocco , Mozanbiquc , Nf 1lal ,
tliger, Iigeria, Oman, lakistan, Pananar Deru, Philjlpines,
Poland? Portugal, Qatar, Romania, lwanda " Sa'r Tcme and Principe,Saudi Arabia, Senegal , Singaporc, Sormtia, Spain, Sudan,
Surinafie o Syrian Arab Republic, Thaifand, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey., Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Sociafist Republic 

"Union of Sol.iet Socia-list Republlcs, United Arab Enirates,
United Republic of Caneroon. Jnited Republic of Tanzania,
llruguay, Venezuela" Viet NaI1, Yenen, iugosla-ria, Zarnbia.

Agairst: Austrafia, Austria, Befgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland" I.rance,
Gernany, Federal Republic of, Tceland, Irefand, Israel , fta1y,
Luxembourg, Netberlands, New Zealand, lTor.way, S eden, United
Kingclom of Great Britain and Northern laeland.

Abstaining: Bahamas, Central African llmpire, Costa Fica, Gabon? chana,
Guatenala, fvory Coast, l.lalawi, Nicaragua, ?apua IIer,. Guinea,
S'raziland: Upper Volta, Zaire.



Al 33/)+t]7
English
Page I

B" Draft resolrtlan A/c .3/33/L.35

ll. At the 53rd mecting) on 21 l\ovenber, the represenLative of llunurdi introduced
a draft resolutj.on (L/C,3133/L"35) entitled "!,lorld Conference to Combat Racism and
Racial Discriminaticn", sponsored by A1geria, 4lSEg]-?_, Benin, Burundi, Congo,
!i!X9!_413&__Janahi11Jql l4adasascar, t,iaLi, lla-.ritania, X{ozambique, Niser, Sao Tome
C4.._jj!Sj!q. t.mir.ir arlo Zarir,bia, subsequcntly joined by Af6'hanistan, Bulsaria,
Crh:r- tlz,-ohoc lorr=rr ir Tleranrn-in Yama- nii1.^',ii En'hf fa+hiarie t.arnat
DjIlSl!_LlSlglff!:LfS. Guin,^r r Cu inea-].lis sau., lrao , Jordan, i'lonsolia, Pakiscan "Suda"n, Syrian 'Jkrainian Soviet Socialist Berublic " United Retubfico" Tanzania and VieL Nam.

12, The adnrinistrative and financial implicatious of draft resolution A/C,3/33/L,3,
r'/ere jdbmitf ed, ir aceordance !,/itn rule .l53 ol' LhE r r'l es of lrocedure, jn loc J-'ner-t
A/c.3133/L.0+.

1.3. At the 66th meeting, on \ Ilecenber, the draft resolution vas adopted by a
rFSisL*.ed vote of 6T voi,-s lo l9r r,ritf IL abstcntions (see 1ara. l)+ belor../, draft
resolution ff). T'he votinA was as fol1or.rs:

In favour : Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina" Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan_ Dotsvana- Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic" Cape Verde, Chad, China,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dercocrati: Kanprrchea.)
Djibouti, ]icuador, Iigypt, Ithlopia, Fiji, Gernan Democratic
Rcpublic, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jarnaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, I{uwait,
Lao People?s Democratic Fepublic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab
.lorrhirivr'iorleorc-.r M.l.\rcir Nrlrli116c i,4eli "-,ril--:-,/G,.a+iLorLarr...df,dJn44
i.4origolia, l{orocco, Iulozamtrique, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan 

"
lanarrra 

" ?apua. lle\,r Guinea , Peru, Fhilippines , Polancl , Portu€ial ,Qatar, Romania, Ilvanda, Sac Tome and Principe" Senegal,
Singapore, Somalia, Spaln, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab
nepublic I Thailand, Trinidaci and. Tobago, Tunisia" Turkey ?
Ukra.inian Soviet Socialist Fepubfic" Union of Soviet Sociafist
Rcpublics, United Arao Lmiratcs, United Fepubl ic of t.ameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet lfam, Yugoslavia,
Zanbia.

l'lustralia, Austria, Be1 gi'un" Canade, Nenrark, Finland, fra.nce
Ccrr.any, l.ederal Fepublic o-[, Iceland, Treland, fsrael, fLa1y,
Ivory Coas1". Luxembourg, \el]her-Lands" .Jew Zea-Land, |\or\.ray 

"Sweden, United Kingclom of Great Britain and Northern Treland.

Bahamas, Barbados, Central African Empire, Colonbia, Costa Rica,
Dominican Republi-c 

" Ghana, Honduras ) 
Mexico, Nepa.f , Nicaragua,

Swaziland, Upper Vo1ta, Zaire,

Al,c+a i ni nc.



Al331)t\7
English
Pagc 6

I]I . EECOI,II,.'IEiiDATIOI]S OF THN THIRD COI."]1I,{IT'IIE

lll . the ThircL Conmittee recoitriends to l,he General As sen]bly the adopt ion of the
follorrin:: dri1ft resolution i

DMFT FNSOIUTIOIiI I

L{orld Conl'erence to Combat Racism and Racial lliscrimination

I

The Gen-^ra1 As senbllr' r

Recalling its resofution 3057 (XllrjII) ot 2llovember 1973 in vhich it
designated the LO-year pericC beginning cn rO October l9?3 as the Decade for Action
to Conbat nacism and Raciaf Discrimination and adotrted the Froaranme for the
Ilecade ,

Recalling a-l-so its resoluticn 32/L?g of 16 Decenbei: 19TT in which it decided
tc convene the Wcrld Conference lo Cornbat Racism and Racial Discrinination at
Generra frc:l 1\ to 25 August 1978,

Eglilg_qllilglgg the report of the Secretary- ceneraf on the vork of the
Colrierencc, 1,/

Noting that the Conf--rence, by the adoption of the Declaration and the
Progranme of Action, l/ focusea th-- attention of the international conrnuni.ty on the
-oroblers oF .racism, rac iaL discrirn-ioacionl dscolonizaL ion, Jioreign doninat ion and
arerl h-jd ano ocolided the inrernational con'[fiil-y with an opportuniry to revicr+
and evaluate thc activibies undcrtake! during the first half of Lhe Decade,

Stressing the importance of continuous action at all leveIs to eradicate the
cvi-s of rec is:1, racial oi sc ri minat ior_ , colonial and alien dominar-ion and a.parthe jo,

Tnsnircd by Lhe spirit of Lhe rhirtieth anniversary of Lhe Universel
Declaration of Huunan Rights anrl cf the International Anti-Apartheid year to
redouble the effortg of the international coumunity to et imIIETl-ih forms of racisn
and racial dise rirninat iorr.

l" Takes note of the report of the Se cret ary-Gencral on the work of the
ilorld Conference to Ccmbat Racism and naciat Discrimination;

2, 4nr)roves Lhe -)eel a"Tar,ior_ and Programme ol Action aocpted by rhc
Conference I

3" Reaffirms trat all forms cf racism, racial discrimination and apartheid
are abherrent, to Lhe conscie:tcc and il ignir.y cl rnank-ind and r.'ust o" 

".n-d 
icat.d-b!-

effective international action I

! A/T/D52.
z/ -Lilld., lart II1.



Al 331)t)tT
Ensli sh
iage f

! " IurLher reaj tirnc + n- enFni.r TAch^neilrility ol thr: I 
jrited i':i.i, i,:rirs .,nd

th. i''tern!ffinat;.3 ;;; ;;.';i;t;."Ji-l""lur ilisrri"icatiol.r :rr l'ear .:i
IoI l]eorlcs . -1...jected to cofonial or alien dor,ination;

,. qeqirests the se r:letary-General Lo circulate his report olr trle ri'.1 . of l,he
llol'icl Ccnlerence to Stabes, specralizerl alencies, regional j rrrergo'/e1'rllal'i'a1
orlarizrr:ons ono r on--Lvcrn-rr I al urral-7al ions rrir,r a- F(q*c:r io lLiLjz. I ui'
best endeavours in striving for the uni.rersal eliminaticn of r:rcisn, -racia1
discrinination and anarthei d t

('. Re r-rests the ncononic and Social Council to carry out an e-/aluation of
the activities underta-ken in connexion r.rith the Decade, in accordance with
rrra.r.r r 'l I of -.1'F Droorqnrra i1r' !-a 6-.r.4 '/ laki:1.' 

'e LO aCClLnl '1 e r . r.-t ,
of the Conference set out in the DecLaration anl ti't-- Plogaarme of Aclion r,r}li cl: it
aootreq. 4/

TI

lational and inl-ernational, reaLsures

stressing the impol:tance of action at the international, regional and national
1eve1s for the effcctive eliminabion of ra,cism and racial d:'.scrirnination,

1. Fecornnends to aff States, in t ergo--ernrnental and non-governmenta 1
nroeniz:tinns i...l .--or-pllr.F in nakino concert-ed ano dclen ired cflorLS aL lle
ne.tional, regional anrl international 1eve1s to corNbat racisn, raciaf discrimination
and apartheid in accordance with the Prograrrre foT lrhe Dece.de foT Action to conbab
lacili-Lr]a nu"ia1 Discrirnination and in light of the repcrt of the Secretary-General
on the rnork of the Uonld Conference to Combat Racism ancl Racial !i s crirniration i J/

2, AIrpeal s to at1 States to contjnue to co-operabe vith the Secretary-
General in tne lmptement ation of tlle froflramie for thc Decade, irter a1ia, by.
sul.nir-Ljnr 1lreit reoorts in coTpl iarce *ilr- r:re crovisior-s o' orrtlranl^ lU (e) o-
the Progranme for the lecade;

3. Further appeals to afl States to:

(a) leny all military, economic, Irolitical, diplonatic or other assisiance to
racist r6gimes lrhi ch enables and encourages these r6girnes to enforce and
perpetuaLe their racist policies;

(b) Xnsure the fullest implenentation of United ltlations resolutions relevant
to the compl-ete erarliczltion ol racisrn, racial discrinination and apartheid
in southern Afri ca;

t
v
)/

General Assembly resofution 3o5T (xxvIIT), Annex.
A/T/262, sect. IIr,
A/ 33/262,



A/ 33/\)47
English
Page il

felLerates -Li aI,o-a I ao a1l SLaLes inLe-gov-rrnenr rl or-an-z.rr- ion.:,private institutions anrl non-government a1 organizations to continue to render
trolitical and naterial assistance to the oppressed peoples of southern Africa and
'ne -l iberar,i -n n.ove er. s rcco5rized by L\- Orianiza+ ion of Africa:r Uniry,

5. JaIl s ri!on_ a-Ll qraLe-, int ergov e rnnenL al orgarr izar,i.,ns and
non-,gcver:nmental organizations to r,rork for the speedy relea,se of af-L lrolitical
pr-Lsotrer: i*r:risonel by the raci:.r 16gires for thcjr fi6.ht afainsr anartneid,
racism and raciaf discrirnination ancl for the right of their people to self-
d et crninat i on and independence",

III

Ue.s".es bV th" U"itt

Iecoer.i-inq lhe inportarrce of concerLed and co:ordinaLect actron cy L.- LJnjtcd
Nations systen to imlrlement the Progranlne for the Deca.de for Action to Combat
Racisn and Racial Discrininaticn,

SEgSilS_j!_*inq the report of the Secret ary-General on the vork of the World
Conference to Combat Racism and Facial Discrimination, !/

1r-vpnrlin- '.h^ ci--, + al-narl.r 1-el.an h\r '.arin-r. .T^.rq 4h.] -^/l ia- 'ilhin th--Tnil-a,l Tiri.j rq 16l ) rc \'. crF.ir'li.rnrl ooa-ni-- -. ;*-rc*-rl Lhqqr v,/ rP!L rerr!rs q6r!rr
Prograrnme for the Decade 

"

4tsrq of the need for flrther interagency co-ordination and co-operation
v-L'hin the Unitecl i.ations systern ,in rhe inplemenLaL ion of LLe l-rogrum-ne lor l.Le
Decade,

f!j5lzl:j!t rhe inlorEance ol' nublic ity as al'l insr'r-umer-i for J'urLl .rir'g che
goais and objectives of the lecade,

1" Stresses the urgent need for organizations within the United llations
sysLe' Lo cortinuc to in-ensify lheir elforts to rlro.rse rr..rr1 '1 p.]bl ic opinicn :n a

-- lne -vils ' I raci"n. r"ciirl discriminaLion and ;.*FFi -Fir'uo-'- dt_d!]r- u

?" Requests tlre Se crerary--C eneral Lo direcr rhe Lrcpartncnt of fublic
Inforrnation of the Secretariat to continuc to make every effort lo generate
prbl iciLy and disser,rinale infornalion virh a vi el'r to mcbiliz-ing publ ic support for
the goa.Ls and .-rbjectives of the Decade for Action to Conbat Racisn and Racial
Di scrimination;

3. Ilurther requ--sts bhe Unitcd ilations Educational, Scientif ic anc'L Citl tura.l
Crganization ',,o coni:inue its efforts in the fielal of -^clucation and inforna-tion,
e.j^-.ipl'-- r1. or-1pi-iro rntrl r,i-med,a earrrainns tO CO-bp- raciSn a:1.- 1'aciaL
discrimination;



A/33/)+)+T
English
Page 9

L. -?eouests trc Secretary.Cencral ro undertol'e dur"ing the ycar 1979 Lhe
f ollor"ing act ivities :

(") rhe cor-venin1 of a regiona-L seninar or recour se lrocedurcs available ro
victirns of racial discrimination ald activities to be undertahen at the
regiLnal -cvel .

(l) fhe convening of a round.-tahle of u:riversity professors and directors of
race relations instibutions on the teachina of problerns of racial
discrirnina l -ion

(") The undertaking of a study on eclueation activities and activities of the
rass 'reoia ir the lignt againsr, rac ial discriminatior;

5. Further reguests the Se cret ary-Cenera1 to subrnit to the nconomic and
Social Council at its first regular session in 1979 a report containing concrete
rnrl rletoil nrl <rroon<rinne .h 1-h^ f^ll^riro rairt-s

(".) Specific activities '.qhich could be urdertaken during the second half of
the Decade on a yearly basis in order to inplenent fully the Progranme
for Lhe -'ec ade ;

(" Ttsc orarring up of Lhe agenda of the Fconomic and Social Cor.rLci-L and tlre
General Assenbly, as regards the Decade, in a'way that permits separate
and detailed consideaation of the various aspects of the Progranme for the
Dec ade I

6. Requests the Economic and Social- Council to consider the report of the
Secretary-General relerred lo in laragra-h c abovF a:n to take tl-e necessary
decisions in ordef co enhance lhe inplerlentation of the Pt-ograrnl'le for the Decadel

T. Invites the Economic and Social Council , in order to evaluate the
acrivi-f ies of the Decad-, ro consider tne poss.ibility of selting up a l'lorking Grou-o
to assist it in this taskl

8. Urges United Nations ot:gans and spccialized agencies to strengthen and
enlarie t,he scoDe o-t Lheir acLiviLies in s rpnorr of the objectivcs of Lhe Progra:nme
fnr Lhe LecL'de and in J ighr- oT Lhe reForL of the Secretary-Gen e ral on thc vork of
the trtrorld Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination;

9. llequests the United Nations Institute for Trainin65 and Research to
organize an internationa-L ccJJoquiur on the prohibiticn of a-oartheid, racisrn and
racial discrinination and the achievement of self- determination in international
lrl^r,"r'ith soecial at,l -ont i.n '. +h,- *rin-irlcq r-f non-discrimination and self-
determination as i-'nperat ive norms of international 1ar,r;

IO, Tnvites the Se cre-t,ary-General to provide the necessary staff and resources
co ensLLre Lhe illecr-ive im!-Ler0enL ab ion of thc Progranme for lnc Decade, bearing in
rir' i'e nF^uici.rc .f 'Le Dresenl resolulion'



t"/ 33 / \\T
llngli sh
Page 10

11. r)ecicles to consider at its thirty*fourth session, as an item cf highpriority, TG-lr en entitlc-d rrfnnlement at ion of the },rograme for tlre recade for
Action to Combat lacisn and Racial Ttis crimination', .

DFAJT RISOTUT]OIT TT

F-esults of the l;orld co irerence to ccmbat Facism and lacial Discrinination
The General 4s sembly,

Recaling its resolution 3057
lecade for -A.ction to Combat Racism
Progr:anrne for the Decade, 5/

(X"-/f--) of 2 'overler 1?73 proclaininq thc
and Racial Discrimination and containine the

consiilering tLe repart of the se cret ary-General on the work of the l.Iorld
conl'erence to combat Fa-cisn and Racial liscrinination, held at Geneva fr.r 16
to 25 August \978, U

. Fecaliing the imrrortance of the attaiirrflent of the objectives cf the Decadei,rith a view to the strengthening of international. peace and security,
Taking into accourt i"he rrrovisions of the charter of the united ],.lat ions

r.rhereby i{emb er States unCertake to take a.ction separately and in co-operation with
the United ]lations to ensure respect for and universal observance of huma.n ri6tbts
and fundanental frredons for all r"rithout distinction as to race, sex, language
or religion,

Convinced that the Conference, by the adoltion of the Declaration and the
Prograrlne of Action, 8/ has made a valuable and constructive contribution to the
achievemenii of the objectives of the lecad-e for Action to conbat Racism and
Facial Discrinination,

Resolved to take all appropriate measLtres to bring about the total elimination
of racism, racial discrirnination and apartheid,

Insrired by the spirit vhich p1_^sj6gs over the observance of t\e thirtieth
anniversarl" of ihe llniversal Decla.ration of ll..lman Rr'.ghts and of the International
Anti-Ar'artheid Year to redouble eiforts to tut an end. to all fornrs of racism and
racial discrirnination.

1" Tahes note of the report of the gecr etary -General on the work of the
t"torld confeiEilFfJ-Combat Facisu and Racial Di s crirnination :

2. Ilndorses tlre Declaration and the progrirrnne of Action adopted by the
Conference'.

J. Proclaifs tl-al the eli-ination of a1l .ofis ol racis:n and of prejudices
and dr scrl*lnalfon ltascd on r.ice ar-e a naLLer o" high -orjoricy lor tneinlernaLional cur-u-un it'\r and acco-dino_Ly for the UniLed --alions;

t/
U
e/

R-e^lrr+i^^ lncz /wfirrrr\_'/r \" ! lr] Lnfe)/'

A/33 /262 .



5.
that the
in view

A/33/\\7
tLnc Lasn
Pale 11

4. -lnvites all States, the specialized agencies and other organizaticns ln
----::'----':-rne Unrted l,,latlons system, as ve11 as intergovernmental and non-governrnental

organizations particularly concerned with action against racism and racial
discrinination, to give priority to the f,11 inplementation of the provisions of
the Dec-Iar-alion and rhe ProgTalrme oC Accjon adooted by the Conference;

Requests the Se cretary-General to take the necessary measures to ensure
maximum publicity is given to the final docrments of the Conference

of the need Lo conbaL racisn, racial discrimination and apartheid;

6. Feo.rests Lhe Secret,a ry-Genera l to take the folloving rneasures, in
accordance vith the Progranme of Action:

(a) To prepare several strrdies analysing the struggle against all forms
of racial di s crimin ation I

(b) To organize during the second half of the Decade for Actiorr to Conbat
Eacism a.nd Racial Discrimination, at the fevel of each region of the United lrlations,
regional serrtinars on action aqainsl- racirn arLd Tacial discrimjnation;

(c) To study the possibility of establishing an internaticnal fund. on .the
basj.s of r"o1untary contributions 'nrith a vie'w to assisting peoples anrl nationafliberation movellents in their struggle against racism a.nd apartheid;

'I . Bequests the Econonic and Social Council to carry out an evaluation of
the activities undertaken in connexion ivith the Decade, in accordance with
paragraph lB of Lhe Progra.rcne for the Decade, raking into accolrnt the resu-LLs of
the Conference set out in the Decl-aration snd the Proara:flne of Action which it
adorted.


