








































UN,,TTD i\Arfoh/5
GENERAL
ASSEA4BLY

Distr.
GEI\]ERAL

Al33l)8'
13 December

ORIGINAI :

LgTB

NIIGLISH

f!rr u.y-ulf f u
Agenda rLem 4r

GXNEnAL Ai'lD COlllPLETll DISAFI'|tu'4ENT

Report of the First Conrmittee

HaDDorteur: LIr. 'lioctrae .:1 i.AJLOVTa (Yrfloslavia)

1.

I. TNTRONUCTION

The item entitled:

'Ce-errl 2r.l .^n1- I ^i./r ,li S f.ntAllent':

"(") Feport of the Conference of the Colrrmittee on Disarmament;

"(b) Report of the International Atomic Xnerfy Agency;

" (" ) fieporL of rl-e lnc i'et Ty-Gen e ro l '"

was includcd in the provisional agenda of the thirty-third session in accordance
l'/ith Generaf Assenrbty resolutions 32/87 A" D and F of 12 December 1977.

2, At its l+th and 5th p1enary meetings, an 22 seDtembeT 1978, the Genera.l Assenbly'
on the re cc'Icmendation of the General Cornrnittee, decided to include the itera in its
agenda and to allocate it to the lirst Corr,'nittee.

3. At its 3rd meeting, on 6 October, the first Comrnittee decided to consider
separately agenda items L25 and. 128 and then to hold a combined gen€ral debate on
the other items allocated to it re1a',ing to disarmament, namely, items 3t to )r9' The
genera- debale on tnese ilems took place ar- brre 29th to )Oth neetinfs' lror'L 6 to
2lf l'trovernlrer. (A/c.r/33/Px .29-5o) .

)+. In connexion with item )+7, tire First Comnittee had before it the following
document s :

(") Report of the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament; t/

l/ official Records of the ,
sopprJme

7B-31183



A/33/t:35
English

fb) Annual re'port t'o!: I7TT of the International Atonic nnergy AgeLcycirculated under a note by the Secretarv_ceneral (A/ 33/fl+r): '"

(") -Repcrt of ihe Disarrrra''rent Cormission: !/
(a) Rerort of the Secretary-General (A/33/389):, 3/

- 
(e) i{ote verbaie, dated 2 June l!JB, from the ferr:ranent Rerrresentative of

cuba tc the united ltrations addressed to the secretarrr-(ienerar , tr"ansnittrng theFinal ccrnrnuniqu6 aclopter1 at the llinisteriar llieeting of the co-crdinating Bureauof ltron-Aligned Countries, hefd at Havana from rj t; Za Uay rg7g (n/::/fi8):
(fl Letter dated IL June lgTB fron the permanent Representative of Sene€la1to the united ifations a..ldressed to the secretary-Generat 

" transrnitting the text ofthe resolutions oi the ltrinth rslamic Conference of Foreign lfinisters, held at Dakarfron 2l+ to 28 Arrit lgTg (.t\/33/L:)I)..

(g) Letter ciated 5 Sentenber 19TB fror4 the Charge d,affaires a,i. of the
Permanent l'lission cf Yugoslavia to the United lriations addressed to the Secretarv-
General) transmitting the documents of the confer:ence of l{inisters for ForeignAffairs of lilon-Aligned Countries, held at Relgrade fron 25 to 30 July 1978(A/T/za6),

lh) Letter dated r6 october 19?8 fron the permanent Representative ofllongolia to the Unite.l T,,tations addressed to the Secret ary_Generat (A/33/3:rg),
' 
' trq'Dnal

5, On 1\ i'fovember, .Lrgentina " Austria" Dulgaria, Cyprus, Denmark" Ghana, fndia,I'aC.aqascar! I'lexi co ana Yugmf
subsequently alsc sponsoz'ed by Bangladesh, 3olivia, the lvort/ Coast" l{auritius,
Romania" and Urugual., r"rhich was introduced hy the retresentative of Argentina;t the
49th rneeting. on 24 ltrovembet'" A statenent on the adninistrative and financial
irnplications of tl're clraft resofution vas submittFd bw the se..rFt.rv-cFnFral on
28 lToveriber (A/c.\/33/L"5l_) .

6. On 15 l,lovember r Canada" Denmal.k " Cermany, Fe{leral Republic of, chanq, Greece,Japan, Romania, Spain aJr
r-hi nn r.rrc i hl-F^n' -ai] l..,.J rl^e represenlaLiv- of rhe redere I De.ubl ic of lennany at tl.e
4Oth rneeting. on 16 lTovember. The dralt resolution was subsequentfy revised
(A/C"l/33/L"z|/nev"f ) and sponsoreal by Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Irenrnark, EI Salvador,

l'ederal R I ic of" Chana- Creece" Tt thF lTFthFr_l an,4 c
qomania n" Turk the 'tJnit ed of Great Britain d I'orthern freland and
the United States of Ameri ce" " The ed draft resoluL.ion lras + F^,:ll -6.] l-.-. +1" a

4/ trrrg.,
j/ aofcr" r

to 53, document

Supplement IIo. l+2 (1,/331421.
ThiTty-second Session, Arna:rec ecanrle irpm< ?1 J/l , JO rO ue ano )-L
Al 32/ lBa " 

pa.ras. B:.nd 16.



Al13/\35
Ennlish
page 3

representative of the Fed.eral RepubLic of cerYlany at the \9th meeting, on
2ir Novenber. Also, on 2\ Novenber, Pakistan subrnitted amendments (A/C.L/33/L.\5)
to the revised alraft resolution. They read as follows:

"1.

'rConsiclering that strict cnmpliance by al]. States to the lrinciples of
the United Nations Charter especially those relating to respect for the
sovereignty antl territorial integrity of States, non-interference j.n the
internal affairs of States and pacific settlement of disputes, is essential
to ease international- tensions a.nd create mutual confidence sfiong States,

"Reiteratine the necessity of the fulf irnplernentation by States of
international agreeeents and. the resolutions and decisions of the United
Nations concerning interns.tional disputes and differences'

"&P@!3!S. the prinary responsibility of the naJor military Powers
followed by otirei nilitary significant States to contribute to the creation
of confidence a.nong States about their security,

"2. Amend the last preanbular parag"aph to read as follows:

"Recognizing the neetl 8nd. urgency of steps to tliminish the danger of
arned conflicts, ".

Also on 2l+ Novenber, Jord.an subrnitted. alrendments (A/C.\/33/L.\6) to the draft
resolution. ltrey read as follovs:

"1. Delete present operative paragraph 1.
t'2. Renumber present operative paragraph 2 to read 1:
rfurther I sa that the paragr:rph cct-iJlences vith 'uhe vord
tt3. Tbe remaining operative paragraphs should be renumbered 2' 3 and' 4
respectively. "

On 28 Novenber, the sponsors of the draft resolution, nov Joined by Zaire'
subrnitted a furtber revision (A/C.1-/33/L.21/nev,2 ) . Latero Austria and Sueden
also became sponsors of the revised draft resolution. It vas introd.uced by the
representative of the Fed.eral nepublic of Gernany at the 55th meeting, on
29 Novenber .

7. On 1? Novenber, Ar8entina, Australia. Mexico, Jlolocco, Nigeria" Pefu' Sweden
and Yugoslavia suunitteo a drart reio:.ution (i/c.r/T/L.29 ) , subsequently also

"pot 
and laire '

vhich r'ras introduced by the representative of l'lexico at the Adth meetrng' on
22 November .

B. On 1J November, tria
tted a alraft resolution

delete the word
rFecornoends ' .

Indones Mexico
Pakistan, Sveden, Venezuela ancl lggg]gglg subn
(A/c.f/T/L.32), subsequently also sponso"ed by
and g=!-Iottk., which was introduced by the representative of Sweden at the
5?th-G;IGE; on 30 November ' A statement on the administrative anal financial /



A/33/185
Ingfi sh
Page Il

implications of the draft resolution was
28 November (A/c.I/T/L.\B) .

subnitted by the Secretary-General on

?:1^^^ll^33.Y]:0ber, Belsiln submitted a draft resolution (A/e.\/33/L.3il,
Coast, Rornalia 

" Singapore, Spairepresentative of Belgium at ihe 50th n;tGg, oi-?!-Iiove-mrr"". --n-"i.i"rent on theadnini strative and- financial inplication" .i"irr" draft resolution vas subnitted bythe secretary-General- on 30 Novenbe" (A/C.I/33/L.i5),
10. 0n 22 November. Af !enin Democratic YemenEthio Ghana the Lao s Democrat a. Polald,and the et Soc Republies submitted a draft resol,utiont; j^ 1 t.. /r\Arv.rIJ)/LJ,Jo,/, subsequently a-lso sponsored bv Eoursponsored by toria]. the German
le$ocTatig Fepublic and the Soc c" which wasintroduc ed by the represintative of the on of Soviet Socialist Repubtics at tneJ4th meeting, on 28 November.

]..t: On 22 November, Afgh?nistan, Barbados, Benin, Botswana, Burundi, Chad.. chana
e " the Ivory Coast , Jan-ica. JNev Zealand., the N

on of

e Unilea neputtic oi
tted draft resolution c.r/ 33

n/^rre==:I1tv,tt JJttJ.)4 / ro the t-evLsed draft resol_ution, vhich read as fo.Ilovs;

Greece. Oua the f vory coast . Jamai ca, ,foiaan ,-iileri"lJnEArab J tania, New Zealand Oman
the Sud.an" the Svrian Arab

the United. Republic oftlg _upper Yolta u"a3e$la 't\

r_rr-d.-L u reso_Lurlon \A/c.-Ll33/L.42) . Subsequently, on 2g Notatber-,
undi " Chad." Ct.prus " chana

:--T-rrnrcn ffas lntroduced by the representative of Tunisia at the 55th meeting" on29 ldovember ' Thereafter, on 30 November " areentina, cerr.ny, 
- 
FeJ"r-Ji i;pubric or,l{g{icg t-!4e rFlherlands, Nigeria, sveden 

'uiETIi"ruel. 
subnittecl amendments

"1" Replace the third preambular paragraph lrith the fouoi{ing two Faragraphs:

.. _ ^_l-Y*E+. 
that in. the same resoLution the ceneral Assenbly d.eclared that ,1n ordel to achieve maximum effectiveness in the sphere of disarmament, twotinds of bodies are required.; deliberative o in which af1 liember states shouldbe represented, and negotiating, which for itre sake of ccnvenience shoufd havea relatively sna1l xnenbership,

. "Recglling"_a-lso that, as a "esult of the d.ecisions adopted in theabove-mentioned special session" a Disarmament Conmission cimposed of alJ-
I4ember States of the United Nations has been established as a subsidiary
organ of the Assernbly, and that it has been constituted, as a negotiatirrg loay,a connxittee on Disarrnament open to the participation of the nucliar-rn eaponstates and of the fofroffins thirty-five statesi Algeria" Argentina, Austraria,Belgium" 3razi1, Bulgaria, Burma, Canada, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, lgypt, Ethiopia,
German Democratic Republic, Germany " FederaL Republie of, ttungary,- india,Indonesia, fran, Ita]-y, Japan, Kenya 

" Mexico, l{ongoIia, I\{orocco, Netherlands,ltrigeria, Pakistan, Peru, poland, Ronania, Sri Lanka " Sweden, Venezuela,Yugoslavia and Zaire" 
/___



Al33/\35
English

"2, Anend the first or:erative paraeraDh as follous;

"1. Reconmentls that the question of the review of the membership of the
Cormittee on Di sarmament be incluiled in the prov-isional agentla of the second
speciaf session of the General Assembly devoted to disa,rnmnent;

"3. Replace the second, third. and fourth operative parallraphs w"ith the
IO L LOII1NS:

"2. &S5!g the Connnittee on Disarmament, pending that review, to
male a.rrangements for interested States, not members of the Comittee' to
subnit to the Conmittee written proposals or vorking d.ocuments on nreasures
of dis armament that are the subJ ect of negotiation in the Comittee and to
participate in the d.iscussion of the subJect-natter of such proposals or
working documents l

"3. Reaffirms that States not members of the Connittee, upon their
request, should be invited by it to e:q)ress views in the Cou!4ittee when the
particular concerns of those States are under discussion.r'

A].so on 30 November. the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern lreland
subni.tted an amendment (A/C,f /T/L.57 ) to amendrnents contained in tlocurnent
A/C.L/33/L.)1, which reatl as follors:

'rReplace the proposed. amendment to the first operative paragraph of
A/c.U33/L.\2/Fev,1 by the follollins:

"1. Recoomends tbat the results of the reviev of the nernbership of the
Cormittee 6i-STJEiL.t t envisaged in paragraph 120 of the Final Document of
the tenth special session of the General Asserrbly devoted to disarna.&ent be
nade available to the l{ember States of the Unitett Nations during the next
sneclal- session devoted to disarr'anent.'"

On 1 December, Benin vaa Chad.
u-1100ur1- Guatemala Coast,

tania
Sonali

l'Iether
on

resolution vas introduced by the representative of Canada at the
{he dtaft

55th meeting '

50th neeting, on the sane day.

on 2! November .



A/33/\35
English
Page 6

13. 0n 28 November, Cyprus submitted. a draft resolution (A/C.f/T/L.l+9) which
r,ras introduced by itsEepresentative at the 55th neeting, on 2! Novenber.
1l+' At its 53rd, 5Ltrr, 5616 and 58th neetings, the First comlittee consiilered thereport of the Secretary-Gene"aL on the production of a Unitecl llations film on nars
and their consequences (A/33/389). At the 53rd rneeting, on 28 Novenber, the
under-secretary-General for public rnformation introduced the report of the
secretary-ceneral and indicated that the cost of the fir.n vourd ie approxinatety
$eOO,oOo. At the 5Bth ueeting, on 30 Novenber, at tbe request of the Co@ittee, the
Legal Counsel mad.e a statement on the question vhether, under the teros of
reference of the Advisory Board on Disarmament stuclies establisheal pursuant to
paragraph 124 of the tr'inal Document of the Tenth special session of the General
Assembl-y (resolution s-lo/z), the secretary-Generar coultt seek the advice of the
Board. on the question of the fifu'. At the same rneeting, the united states of
Anerica proposed that the General Assembry request the secretary-General to Lnvite
tate Advisory Board to express its opinion on the ad.visability of naking such afilm. The proposaL was rejeeted. by 62 votes to 33, vith 22 abstentions. rhereupon,
by p6 votes to none' with 26 abstentions, the Connittee decideit to recomend to the
General- Assenbly that the secretaly-ceneral shoultl proceed. w"ith the production of a
united Nations fiLn on wars and. their consequences at the cost of approxinately
$aOO,OOO (see para. 25 betor)

rII . VOTING
15, At its 56th.neeting, on 2p Noverrber, the First Conroittee ad.opted draft
resolution A/C.f/33/L.Ig (see para. 5 atove ) by consensus ("ue Il"-"", 2t+ belov,draft resolution A).

16. At the same neetingn before the First Counittee proceealed. to vote on rlrafb
resolution A/ c 'a/33/L.2L/Rev.2 (see para. 6 above), the delegation of patistan
announced. that its amendments (t/C -:-/SZ/t.ltj ) vould not be pressed to the vore;
siniLarly, the delegation of Joraran arlvised. that its amendmints G/c.L/33/L.\6i
I,Iould not be pressed for further s.ction. Thereupon, the revise<l d,raft resoLution
was adopted by a recorded vote of L1! to noneo witb 6 abstentions (see para. 2!
beLowr draft resolution B). fhe votj.nglras as follows:

fn favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahanas 

" Sangladesh, Barbados, Belgiun, Bhutan, Boliwia, Botswana,Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burund.i, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canaila, Cape Verd.e, Central African hpire, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Bica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakla,
Democratic Yemen, Denmerk, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Eg;ryt,
El Salvador, nthiopia, tr'iJi, Finland., France, Getran Denocratic
Republic, cermany, Fetteral Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Cua,temala,
Guinea, Guyana o Ilond.uras, I{ungary, Iceland, fndia, Inilonesia,
Iran, Irel_anal, fsrael, Italy, fvorv Coast, Janaica, Japan, Kenya,
Lao PeopLers Democratic RepubJ-ie, Liberia, Luxembourg,
Mad.agascar 

" Malaysia, Malclives, l.{ali, lfalta, }dauritania,llauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozanbique, I{epa},



A/33/\35
English
page T

Netherlands 
" New 

Zealand, Niger, $igeria, llorway " Pakistan,Panana, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
PortugaL " Ronania, Sautli Arabia, Sene€a1, 

Sierra leone, Singapore,
Sonalia, Spain, Sri larka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailantl 'Togo, Trinitlad anil Tobago, Tr:nisian Turkey, Uganda ' U)rainianSoviet SociaList Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern freland ' UnitedRepublie of Caneroon, United Republic of Tanzania u United States
of A.nerica, Upper Volta, Uluguay, Venezuela, Viet Nan, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire o Za.nbia.

Againgt: None.

@irit g.t Bahrain , Iraq, Jordan, Kuvait , Onan, Qatar.

I7. At its 55th neetilg, the First Cornmittee aalopted draft resolution
A/C.I/33/L.29 (see para. ? above ) by 115 votes to 1, with 10 abstentions (see
para. 2\ bel-ov, drs,fb resoLution C).

18. At its 5?th neeting, on 30 Novenber, the First Corrmittee adopted draft
resoLution A/C.I/T/I'.32 (see para. B above ) by 89 votes to none, with 19
abstentions (see para, 2l+ uelow, draft resolution o).

19. At its 59th neeting, on 1 Decenber " before 
the tr'irst Conmittee proceeded to

vote on rlrafb resolution A/c.l/33h,.35 (see para. p above), Pakistan orally
propo8ed. an anendnent to the last prea.mbular paragraph of the draft resolution to
aaLl afber the words "tahing fuLl-y into account the decisions and reconmend.ations of
the Fina.l Docullent ail,opteit at the tenth special session of the General Assembly'r the
words 'raril the vievs expressed by Member States at its thirty-third session,"'
TJrereupon, the clraf! resoLution, as ora]].y amended, vas adopted by a recoxded vote
of ?9 to none, I'l"ith )+o abstentions (see para. 2l+ below, draft resolution E). The
voting vas as follows:

& favour r Argentina n Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangl.ad.esh, Belgiun' Benin,
Solivia 

" 
Sotewana, Burundi, Canada, Central African Ernpi re, Chad'

Chile, Colonbia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Ecuado?, El SaLvador, FiJi'
Finland, Frarce, Getrany, Federaf Republic of' Gha.na ' 

Greece'
Guinea-Bissau, Gwana n Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Iran, freland'
Israel, ltaty, fvory Coast, Japan, Kenya, Liberia, Luxembourg,
l4atlagascar, MaIi, MaJ-ta, Mexico, Morocco" Nepal, Netherfands,
New Zea1and", Niger" Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama ' 

Papua Net
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines " Poland, 

Portugal-, Romania,
Saud.i Arabia ' Senegal, Sierra 

Leone, Singapore, Spain, Suriname,
S$azil-antl, Swealen, Thsiland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey ' Uganda,Unitett Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern lreJ.ancl" United
Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Upper VoJ"ta'
Uruguay, Venezuela, Zaire.

Against: Ilone.



A/T/tr35
Snglish
rage o

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria 
" Angola, Bahrain, Bhutan, BraziL, Bulgaria,Burma, Syelorussian Soviet Socialist Bepublic,, Congo" Cuba,

Czechosl.ovakia, Democratic yerlen, Erypt, Ethiopia, Gerrnan
Democratic Republic, Hungary, India, fndonesia, Iraq, Janaica,
Jordan, i(ulrait, l4alaysia, l.{aldives, ldauritius, l{ongo1ia,
i"lozanbique, Onan, Qatar, Sao Tone and princine, Sri Lanka,
Syrian Arab RepubJ_ic, Trinidad and. Tobago, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Betublic, Union of Soviet Social-ist Republics,
United Arab llnirates, yenen, yugoslavia, Zambia.

2O.. A.t lhe larr€ neeting, the First Conmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.!/33/L.38 (see para. 1O above ) by BJ votes to t-9, with 11 abstentions
(see para. 24 belov, draft Tesofution F).
2f, At the 60th meeting, on 1 December, before proceeding to vote on clraft
resolution A/c "L/ 33/L,\z/Rev.2 (see Dara. 1t above), llig:eria ora11y nroposed
additional smendments to the revised. operative raragrapbs L and 3 of the draft
resolution, Irhich were accepted. by its sponsors o as follows:

(") Operative paragraph 1 vouLd. read:

"Recomoend.s that the first review of the membership of the Corndttee
on OisEiffiEiTEoutil be conpleted, foll-o.wing appropriate consultati.ons

naintenance of international secuxity throuf.h the united Nations in accordance
fith the provisions of the Charter is .,.ii. fhereupon, the draft resolution, as
orarfy anend.ed, vas adopted by consensus (see para. 2l+ tetov" draft reso.l-ution r).

among I\Iember states, d.uring the next special session devoted to disarmanent;".
(b) In the first line of operative paragraph 3" delete the vords iipending
that reviewrr,

Thereafter, the United K!4gdon of Great 3ritain and Northern Irelanil rithdren its
amendment (A/c.l "i/gz/t .sl"Subsequently, the seconal prealbular parag?aph contained. in d.ocument A/C.I/33/L.rll
beginning vith the words "Recarling arsofl was put to a vote and. was rejected by
l+1 to 32, r,rith L3 abstentions. Thereupon, the sponsors agreed not to press the
remaining anendments contained in document A/C.I/33/L,5\ to the vote, and the
revised draft resolution, as further orally revised, vas adopted. by l-10 votes to
9, with 4 abstentions (see para. Zl+ below, d.raft resolution G).
2?. At its 57th meeting, on 30 llovenber, ttre First Comittee adopted. draft
resolution A/C.1-/33/L.\3 (see para. 12 above ) by !l+ votes to tO, ;ith 19
abstentions (see para. 2)+ below, draft resolution li).
23, At its 55th meeting, on 2! November, before proceedinA to vote on draft
resol"ution A/c.l/33/L.\9 (see para, f3 above), $ineria pronosed an oral arnendment
lftich $as accepted by the sponsor, to replace in operative paragraph 1 the word.s
"considers tbe question of international- security through the united Nations in
accord.ance vith the provisions of the Cha_rter as .. ,,' bv fiConsid_ers that the



I

A/33/435
nnglish

IV. INCOIC.{ENDATf OITS OT THE FIRST COI,O{ITTTE

il. The First Conrnittee reconnends to the General Asser0bly the adoption of the
followina draft resolutions;

Generaf and complete di sarmament

A

The General Assembly,

llaving resolved to 1ay the foundations of
vhich airns at general and complete dis armament
control, through co-ordinated and persevering
should play a rnore effective roleu

an inteTnational di sarrnament strategy
under effective international

efforts in which the United Nations

Specia.l Session of the General
it decided to establish the

necatling the lina"1 Document of the Tenth
ls s enllil-T/-/ aevoted to disarmament, in which
Dis armament Commiss ion,

Inphasizing the importance of an effective fo11or'r-up of the re]-evant
r.cotfi&? and decisions adopted at the tenth special session of the General
Assembly devoted to d.isarmement,

Having considered the report of tlre united Nations Disarnament cornrnission " J/

1. nndorses the re?ort of the united ltrations Disarmament cornnission and the
reconmendations contained therein ;

2" Requests the Disarmament cormrission to continue its work in accordance
with its nandate " as set dor,m in 

paragraph 118 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session, as well as the reconmendations eontainetl in its report and the
d.ecisions that tbe General Assembly has taften at its cuTrent session and which have
a bearing on the Connissionts progra;'nme of lrork ln 1979:'

3, Requests the Di s armalaent Cormission to subnit to the General Assembly at
its tnirtyJ6ii-tn session a report on its work, incl-uding a^rly reconmendations and
observacions it roay deem appropriate'

)+. Requests the Secretary-General to transnit to the Disarrna:r-Lent Commission
the tr'inal Docunent, together with a11 the official records of the tenth special
session, so that the views and proposals presented by States during the session will
be avaitabl-e in the implementation of the Conmissionts programe of work;

j+/ nesolution s;.o/2.
5/ Official- lecords of the Getlera1 Assenbly " Thirty- '

sunrlEment tto " ,, 1g1ji/\z).



A/33/ \35
nnglish
Page 10

5. Requests the secretary-General- to rend.er to the Disarna:nent comnission
all necessary assistance that it nay require for inpLenenting the present
resolution ;

o: -Further requests the Sec"etaly_General" to invite Menber States ro
conmunicate to hin, by 31 March 1979, their vi.ews and. suggestions on the
eomprehensive programe on d.i s armanent for transrdission to the Disarmamenr
Cornmission;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agend.a of its thirty-fourth
session an- ild-Entitled: "Beport of tf,e pi"".r"rent Cormission',.

D

The Ceneral Ass enbly,

- concerned at the fact that the arms race is accelerating and that the wor]alfigure for expenditures on armaments continues to increase,
Convinced that it is possible to d.evetop effectiye international nethod.s and

procedures to promote genera] and complete disarloatrent und.er strict and effective
internationaf control,

pgsiring to eliminate the sources of tension by peacefuJ- means and thereby to
contribute to the strengthening of peace and. security in the worl_d.,

-strgssing the importance of the statenent in the Final Document of the specialsession devoted to disarnament that it is necessaryo in ord.er to facilitate the
process of disarrnament, to take measures and to pursue policies to strengthen
international peace and security and to build confidence among States in accordance
with the purposes and principles of the Charte" of the United Nations,

qonsidering that strict compliance by all States vith the purposes and
principles of the cha"ter is essential to ease international- tensions and to
create nxutual confidence among States,

Recognizing the need. and urgency of first steps to climinish the danger of
armed confLicts resulting from mis,nderstandings or from nis interp"etations of
tnilitary activities,

Aware that there are situations peculiar to specific regions, which have a
bearing on the nature of confidence-building measures feasible in those regions 

"

nr'-pressing its coDviction that comdtnent to confidence-bui.lding measu?es
could. contribute to strengthening the security of States,

Noting the fact that at the special session devoted to disarmanent a number
of proposals for such measures have been subnitted to that effect which d.eserve
due eonsideration,



Al33/\35
English
Page 11

1. Recomenils to all States to consiaer on a 
"egional 

basis arrang€ments
for specifffii?fElnce-building measures, taking into account the specific
conclitions anrl requirements of each regioni

2, Invites all States to inforn the Secretary-Genera1 of the United Nations
of their vievi-ana e:cperiences of thoae confiaence-builcli.ng ueasures they consider
appropriate and feasible;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to transnit the vievs of Member States on
this question to the Genef,al Assenbly aluring its thilty-fourth session;

l+. Decides to include in the provisional agentla of its thirty-fourth session
an iten enffilFd--"conf itlence-builiti ng measures ".

Recal'lins its resolutions 2602 A ( locv) of 16 Decenbet L969 n 2932 B ()offrr)
or z9T6i6r-F l9?2, 318t+ A ernl c (xx\tur) of 18 Decenber 19?3, 3251 c (rxrx) of
9 Decesber 19?\, 3\6L c (xxx) of 12 Decenber 19?5 and 3r/189 A of 21 Deceubet L976,

Reaffirnins its resolutioa 3Z/87 G of l-2 Decenber 19??, in thich' iglg el!g,
it notect rith satisfaction the folloving declaratioas:

(a) the alec.Laration uade by the President of the United states of America'
on l+ october 19??, in these terns:

"The United. States is willing to go as far as possible, consistent r,rith
our security interests, in lirdting and retlucing our nuclear veepons. On e
reciprocal basis ne are willing now to tetluce then by L0 per cent, 20 Pe! cent
or even 50 per cent. Then ve r"ilI work for further realuctions w-ith a view to a
vorLd truly free of nuclear veapons. " 6/
(t) The declaration nade W the President of the Suplene Soviet of the

Union of Soviet SociaList Republics on 2 Novenber 1977 in theee tems:

"Today we are proposing a radicaL step: that agreeneDt be reached on a
sinuLtaneous tralt in the procluction of nuclear weaponB by aLl states. This
would apply to al1 such veapons - w?rether atolric, t\yalrogen or neutron bombs
or nissiles. At the eame time, the nucLear Powers could underta.he to start the
gradual reducti.on of existing stockpiles of such veapons and nove tovards
their conplete, total destruction. "

6./ tia., Thirty-seconil Session, Plenary Meetings ' 
l-Bth neeting, para' 15'



Al 33/\35
English

Bearing in rnind. that the Programme of Action adopted by the ceneral As sernbly
at its tenth special session 7/ incl-uded amonA those measures which d.ese"ve the
highest priority the one r,rhicl- is spelled. out in the folfoving terns:

"The Union of Soviet Soci.al-ist Republics and the United States of Anerica
should conclude at the earliest possible date the agreement tbey have been
pursuing for several years in the second. series of the strategic anns
l-initation ta1ks. fhey are invited to transnit in goorl time the text of the
s€yeenent to the ceneral Assembly. Tt should. be folloned pronrptly by further
strategic arnxs linitation negotiations between the two parties, leading to
agreed significant reductions of, and qualitative linitations on, strategie
arns. It should constitute an impor-tant step in the direction of nuclear
dis arna:nent and, ultinatel-y, of establ_ishment of a worl_d free of such
weapons . " 8/

Notine that in the sane Progran:ne of Aetion it was established that ',in the
task of achieving the goals of nuclear disarmament the all nuclear-weapon States,
in particular those amonu then which possess the most important nuclear arsenals e
bear a special responsibility", {

1. Deeply regrets that, in spite of al]- that has been d.eclared, resol_ved or
reiterated over the Last d.ecade, it has not yet been possible for the talks on the
linitation of stratepgic weapons, known a6 SAI,T " to achieve even the imlediateresults envisaged in the Final Docrment of the first special session of the
General Assenbly devoted to disarmanent;

2. Stresses once again with the greatest emphasis the necessity that the
Union of Soviet Social-ist Republics and the United States of America strive to
imtrlenent as soon as possible the cleclarations nade in f917 by their respective
lleads of State and reiterates its invitation to the Goverrunent s of both countries
to adopt ltithout delay al-I relevant measures to achieve that objective, vhich
coincid.es in essence with the one d.efined in ttris regard in paracraph 52 of the
Final Docunent of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assenbly !

3, Trusts that the two Goverrment s vil1 f\rIfil the invitation which the
Assenbly aaEies--sed to then in r:arane.oh s2 of the tr'inal Document of the tenth
speeial session, in order that -il;;' ii."l*it- t."it in Good time the text of the
agreement lrhi ch over the last four years has been pursued in the second series of
the strategic arms linitation tal-ks.

The General Assembly,

Conscious of its responsibility under the Charter of the United Nations for
d j. s arrrrament a-od the preservation of peace,

?/ Resol-ution S-IO/2, sect, TII .
o/ rp q,. pa,fa. >2.
9/ lbid. , para. 48.



utnor u_L
s ituation of

of the iroportant task of the First
the arms race and to deliberate on

Recal-ling the tr'ina1 Document of its special session

Al33/\35
Enclish
page 13

Connittee to evaluat e the
the issues of di s annament ,

devoted to disarmament,
of dis armament i.s that1n

of
vhich it lras underlined that the most inmediate goal
the eliuination of the danger of a nuclear war"

Recal.ling also that, as stated in the sa,ne docrment, it vas recor:rnended that
the United Nations shou]-d increase the dissemination of information of the arms
race and. disarTaament nith the full- co-operation of its ldenbex Statesr

that the on].y study on nuclear weapons carried out by the United Nations,
of b1e Use of and the

and
lras rrublish yeaTs ago e

Noting also that since then nany inportant devel-opments have taken place in
the nuclear arros sector,

Convinced that a broaat stud.y on various aspects of nuclear weapons caried out
by the United Nations vould uake a valuable contribution to the dissemination of
factual information and to the international- understanding of the issues inwolved.,

1. Requests the Secretary-ceneral, with the assistance of qualified experts,
to carry out a compTehensive study providing factual information on present nuclear
arsenals, tlends in the technological development of nuclear veapons systerns " 

the
effects of their use and the ir,rplications for international security as uell as for
negotiations on disarmament of:

(a) The d.octrines of deterrence and other theori.es concerninf, nucLean
weapons;

(b) The continued. quantitative increase and qualitative improvement and.
development of nuclear veapons systerns I

2. Reconmend.s that the study, while aining at being as comprehensive as
possible, s[6ilElE-las ed on o1len material and such further infornation that
l{ember States vish to na.ke available for the pupose of the study;

of

the

t}.
General

alf Governments to co-operate rn'ith the Secretary-General so that
the stud.y will be aehieved.;

nequests the Secretary-ceneraf to submi.t the final report to the
Assenbly at its thirty-fifth session.

3. fnvites
objectives of

l-O/ United Nations publication, Sales No" F,68.IX,1.



Al33/I+35
SlgLish
rage l4

E

The ceneral Assembly,

Conceraled about the arraments race and the continued increase in expenditures
on armaltrents ,

Recognizing the iaportance of pursuing every effort which night contribute to
progress tovard.s general and complete d i s ar:nament und.er strict and effective
international- control 

"

of the iroportance of regional measures already adopted, of studies
alreaqy carried. out, notably in the field of nuelear-weapon-free zones, and. of
legional efforts r:ndertaken on the nuclear and conventional leve].3, both in the
fieLd of measures ttesigned to increase confidence and in that of di s a:rna.nent and.
arms control",

Recalling its resol-ution 3e/87 D of 12 December I9T7 on the regional aspects
of tlisarmament,

Tahing note of national contributions nad.e in accordance vith the
aforenrentione'1, f esolution,

Taking ful-ly into account the d.ecisions and recormenalatious of the Finat
Docurnent adopted at the tenth special session of the ceneral Asserably antl the
views expressed by l4enber States at its thirty-third session,

1. lgcilgq to undertake a conprehensive stu y of all- the aspects of
regiobel di sarmament I

2. Specifies in that connexion that the study sha1l cover, inter alia:
(a) The basic cond.itions governinEl the re6ional approach, particularly frolt

the standpoint of security requirenents;
(b) fhe definition of measures which, on the initiative of the States

concerned., may lend thenselves to a regional approacb;
(c) The link betlreen regional neaaures snd the process of general and

coruplete dis armament ;

3. Requests the Secret€Jy-ceneral to ca:'ry out the study with the assistance
of a group of qualified governmental experts, appointed by hin on a ba].anceil
geograptrical basis, and. to submit it to the Oeneral- Assembly at its thirty-fifth
session;

l+. Requests the Secretary-General to subnit to the General As senbly at its
thirty-fourth session a progress repo"t on the work of the group of
lntergovernmental experts.



^/33/\3jEngl-ish

J

The General Ass€mbly

Conscious that a nuclear var vou.Ld. have d.evastating consequences for the
$hole of nankind,

Anxious to pronote the halting of the nucleax arns racer

Searing in nind the clearly expressed intention of nary States to prevent
the stationing of nucLear veapons on tbeir territories,

Considering that tbe territorial linitation of the stationing of nuclear
weapons is a measure closely related to the maintenance of peace and security in
various regions and to the prevention of nuclear war,

Considering that the non-stationing of nuclear lreapons on the territories of
States where there are no such ffeapons at present would constitute a step towards
the larger objective of the subsequent cotnplete w-ithclraval of nucfear veapons fron
the territories of other States,

Searing in nind. the desire to promote the establishment of nuclear-neapon-
free zones in various regions of the rro"ld, on the initiative of the States of

l. Cal-1s upon all nuclear-veapon States to refrain fron stationing nuclear
veapons on the territories of States where the"e are no such weapons at present;

?, CaLls upon all non-nuclear-lreapon States lrhich do not have nuclean
weapons on their tesitory to refrain fron sny steps {hich vould d.irectly or
intlirectly result in the stationing of such weapons on their territories.

tt

Ttre General Assenbly,

Recognizing that all" the peoples of the vDr1d have a vital interest in the
success of tli sarnarnent negotiations,

Recognizing further, in accordance vith its 
"esolution 

S-1o/2 of 30 June 1978
that all States have tl'.e right to participate in disarmement negotiations,

Recalling thet in the sa,ne resolution the General Assenbly decl-sred. that, in
order to achieve meximum effectiveness in the sphere of disarmsment, two kinds of
bodies were required: d.eliberative, in vhich all l4ember States should be
represented, and negotiating, vhich for the salre of convenience should have a
relatively snalf rnenbership,

Recalling that the mernbership of the Cornnittee on Disarmament is to be revievecl
at regul"ar intervals in accord.ance with paragraph 120 of the Final Document of the
tenth special session 

"



A/33/435
English
rase ro

1. Recommends that the first review of the membership of the Conmitte€ on
Disarmamenl6ilEE completed, folloving approtlriate consul-tations anong Menber
States, during the next special session devoted to disarrnament',

2" Requests the Comittee on Disarrnament to consider nod-alities of the reviev
of the membership of the Connittee and to report on this subject to the General
Assenbfy during its thirty-fifth sessionl

3. Requests the Connittee on Di s arrnament to mahe a."rangements for interestecl
States, not members of the Corrrnittee " to submit to the Coflnittee written 

proposals
or r,rorking do cument s on neasures of di sarnament that are the subJect of negotiation
in the Conmlttee and to participate in the discussion of the subject-nattel of such
proposals or r+orking documents;

l+. Reaffirms that States not members of the Coamittee, upon their request,
shouLd be invited by it to express views in the Coumittee when tbe paaticular
concerns of those States are under discussion:

). ,ecroes To lnc-Luoe fn the provisional agenda of its thirty-fifth session

H

basis are necessarv in ortler
the eventual complete

Convinced that the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weapons and
other nuclear explosive devices is closely linked to efforts to ha]'t anil reverse
the nuclear arms race,

Considering that the acceptance by all States of binding and verifiable
contro.Is in the form of full scope safeguards, on a non-discriminatory basis, on
al1 production of fissionable rnaterial" so as to ensu"e that it is not used. for
nucLear weapons or other nuclear explosive devices, r,rou]-d contribute toward.s the
efforts to promote non-proliferation , linit further production of nuclea" ffeapons
and facilitate nuclear disarmament,,

[olfng with satisfaction that the ceneral Assembly at its tenth specia]
sessi@h5oofitsFina1Document,thattheachievement
of nuclear d.isarmament lrould require, fECf_gUg., the urgent negotiation of an
agreerdent ? at sr appropriate stage and with 3dequate measures of verificatj.on
satisfactory to the States concerned, on the cessation of the production of
fissionable rnaterial for weapons purposes,

Ilequests the Connittee on Disarrnament " at 
an appropriate stage of its pursuit

of proposal.s contained. in the Prograrnme of Action adopted by the tenth special

an item relating to a review of the membership of the Comlittee on Disarmarnent.

r]rhc r:ahara l Accamhl l-.-- -.---.t ,

Conscious that effective measures on a universal
to facilitate the process of nuclear disarmsment and
elirnination of nuclear lreaDons -.



Al33/\35
English
Page 1"7

session, to consider ur'gently the question of an adequately verified. cessation antl
prohibition of the production of fissionable naterial for weapons purposes and
other nuclear explosive devices and to keep the General Assenbly inforned of the
progress of that consid.eration,

fhe Genere.l As sembly 
"

Reeafl-ing its resolution 2602 Y (XXIV) of 16 Decetnber f969, in ltrhi ch it
declared the decade of the 197os a Disarmament Decade,

Reaffirning the purposes and objectives of the Decade'

Bearing in nind the close aelations between disarmament, international security
and development ,

Recalling its resolutio\ 32/87 c of L2 December :1977 in which it requestecl the
Secr"6ry--G.tora1 to initiate a study on the interrelationship betreen alis amament
and international security, parallel rdth the study on the interrelationship
betveen di s arrnament and development,

ReceJ-fing further paragraph 97 of t;rle Final Document of its tenth special
s es s i6i-lf7-fiffrTiE-Tt requested the secretarv-Genera'l , with the assistance of
consuftaiT experts appointea by hin" to continue the study of the relationship
betveen dis amament and international sect:rity,

1. Considers that the maintenance of international seculity through the
united mati6iT-Ii-?c cordanc e vith the provisions of the Charter is an essential
obJective of the Disarmament Decade;

2'RequegtstheSecretary-Generaltoexpe.Iiteactionforthecontinuationof
the study 5i-Ttre re:-ationship between di sarmament and international security with a
view to subnitting a progress report to the General As sembly at its thirty-fourth
session and the final report to the As senbly at its ttrirty-fifth session'

25. The First Cornroittee also Tecormends that the General Assembly should lequest
the secretary-GeneTal- to proceed vi.th the production of a.united Nations filn on
vars and their consequences at the cost of approxinately $200,o0o'

'IV Resolution S-1O/2 '


