








































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-fourth session
Agenda item 80

Distr.
GENERAL

A/34/821
14 December 1979

ORIGINAL: ENGLISHI
RUSSIAN

UNITED NATIONS DECADE FOR WOMEN: EQUALITY, DEVELOPMENT AND PEACE

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Nikolai N. KOMISSAROV (Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist RepUblic)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1979, the General Assembly
decided to include in its agenda the item entitled:

"United Nations Decade for Women: Equality, Development and Peace:

"(a) Implementation of General Assembly resolution 3519 (xxx): report of
the Secretary-General;

nib) Status and role of women in education and in the economic and social
fields: report of the Secretary-General;

"(c) International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of
Women: report of the Secretary-General;

"(d) Voluntary Fund for the United Nations Decade for Women: report of the
Secretary-General;

"(e) World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women: report of the
Preparatory Committee for the Conference."

and to allccate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered the item at its 53rd to 58th and 60th to 63rd
meetings, held from 21 to 30 November. The views expressed by representatives of
Member States and observers on this item are contained in the summary records of
those meetings (A/c.3/34/sR.53-58 and 60-63).

79-38367 I ...



A/34/821
English
Page 2

3. The Committee had before it the followinr, documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of
resolution 3519 (XXX) of 15 December 1975 (A/34/471 and Corr.l);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the status and role of women in
education and in the economic and social fields (A/34/577 and Add.l);

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the International Research and
Training Institute for the Advancement of Women (A/34/579);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the Voluntary Fund for the United
Nations Decade for Homen

(e) Horld Conference of the United Nations Decade
the Preparatory Committee for the Conference:
General (A/34/657 and Add.l);

for \1omen: report of
note by the Secretary-

(f) Report of the Preparatory Committee on its second session, United
Nations Headquarters, 27 August-8 September 1979 (A/COl~.94/PC/12);

(g) Letter dated 8 Harch 1979 from the Permanent Representative of Angola
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/34/113);

(h) Letter dated 30 July 1979 from the Perm~nent Representative of Angola
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/34/391);

(i) Note verbale dated 13 June 1979 from the Permanent Representative of Iraq
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/34/321);

(j) Documents of the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of
~on-Aligned Countries, held at Colombo from 4 to 9 June 1979 (A/34/357);

(k) Final Declaration of the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from 3 to
9 September 1979 (A/34/542).

4. At the 53rd meeting, on 21 November, the Assistant Secretary-General for
Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs introduced subitems (a), (b), (c) and
(d), and the Secretary-General of the World Conference of the United Nations
Decade for \'1omen introduced subitem (e).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.42

5. At the 60th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of France introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.3/34/L.42) entitled "United Nations Decade for Homen",

/ ...



A!34/82l
English
Page 3

sponsored by France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Guatemala, Kenya, Morocco,
the Philippines, Thailand, Tunisia and the United Republic of Cameroon, subsequently
joined by Australia, Canada, the Central African Republic, Gabon, Greece, Italy,
the Ivory Coast, Japan and the United States of America. The draft resolution
read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling the Convention on the Political Rights of Women, particularly
article III thereof, as well as article 3 of the International Covenant on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, article 3 of the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights and article 5 (c) of the Declaration on Social
Progress and Development,

"Considering that there can be no genuine and full participation of women
in economic and social development unless they are fully involved in the
political decision-making process,

"Conscious of the inadequacy of the information provided by Member States
concerning the participation of women in local and national political
institutions,

"Bearing in mind the importance of equal access to education for men and
women to the achievement of a balanced distribution of positions of political
and economic responsibility in society,

"1. Calls upon Member States to ensure, as rep;ards both education and
access to public functions of a social, economic, administrative or political
character conditions of equality between men and women and promotion without
discrimination;

"2. Requests the World Conference to consider, under the general theme
"Development", appropriate means of ensuring more effective participation
of women in the planning policies of their Governments and more adequate
reflection of their needs and concerns in those policies;

"3. Further requests the Horld Conference to consider, under the subtheme
"Employment, Health and Education", the conditions necessary for ensuring
the access of women to positions of responsibility which will enable them to
participate in the formulation of national policies in those fields;

"4. Calls upon Governments to take steps to ensure effective
participation of women in the decision-making process with respect to foreign
policy and international economic and political co-operation, including steps
to ensure that they have equal access to diplomatic functions and that they
are represented in the United Nations and other international organizations."

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 4

6. At the same meeting, the representative of France orally revised the text as
follows:

(a) Add a new (second) preambular paragraph to read:

"Recalling also its resolution 3520 (XXX) of 15 December 1975 in which it
decided to convene a world conference in 1980 at the mic-term of the United
Nations Decade for Women, as well as its resolution 33/189 of 29 January 1979
establishing the agenda of the conference and the organization of its work";

(b) In the newly renumbered fourth preambular paragraph, replace the words
Hprovided by" by the words "available from";

(cl In the newly renumbered fifth preambular paragraph, replace the word
"education" by the words "all forms of education and training";

(d) Replace operative paragraph 2 by the following:

"2. Requests the World Conference on the Decade for Homen to consider,
under the r,eneral theme "development", appropriate means of ensuring the more
effective participation of women in the planning and policy processes of their
Governments and more adequate reflection of their needs and concerns in
those processes;"

(e) In operative paragraph 3, replace the words "the access of women" by
the words Hequal access of women and men".

7. At the 61st meeting, on 28 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.3/34/L.42, as revised, without a vote (see para. 39, draft
resolution I).

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.44

8. At the 61st meeting, the representative of Jamaica introduced a draft
resolution (A/C.3/34/L.44) entitled "The Voluntary Fund for the United Nations
Decade for 110men", sponsored by Barbados, the Dominican Republic, Grenada, Guyana,
Jamaica, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Papua Hew Guinea, Sweden,
Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
subsequently joined by Fi,i i, Guatemala, Honduras, Mozambique and Somalia.

9. The draft resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its decision of 15 December 1975 that the activities of the
Voluntary Fund for the International Women's Year should be extended to cover
the period of the United Nations Decade for Women,

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 5

"Recalling also its resolution 31/133 of 16 December 1976 containing the
criteria and arrangements for the management of the Fund,

"Noting with satisfaction the valuable programme policy developed by the
Fund in accordance with the criteria and arrangements for the management of
the Fund to assist projects in developing countries,

"Bearing in mind that by its resolution 31/133 it, inter alia requested
the Secretary-General to consult the Administrator of the UNDP on the use
of the Fund for technical co-operation activities,

"Taking note with appreciation of the ne", procedures for submission and
review of project proposals at country level, through the UNDP resident
representative,

"Conscious that the Fund was designed to supplement, through financial
and technical support, development activities invtlving women at national,
regional and global levels, in co-operation with rel~,~ -organizations of the
United Nations system,

"Recognizing the need for all operational activities and regional
commissions within the United Nations system to pay increasing attention to
including projects for women in their regular programmes,

"Recognizing also the necessity for continuing financial and technical
support to development activities which respond to the specific needs of women
in developing countries and the importance of incorporating in national and
international development planning, policies and pro0rammes aimed at the
mobilization and inteGration of women in development,

"Having considered the report of the Secretary-General contained in
document A/34/612,

"1. Notes "rith satisfaction the decisions of the Consultative Committee
during its Fifth and Sixth Sessions;

;'2. Requests the President of the General Assembly in accordance with
operative paragraph 3 of resolution 31/133 and with due regard to continuity,
to select five Member States to appoint representatives to serve on the
Consultative Committee;

"3. Expresses its appreciation to the relevant organs in the United
Nations system, and in particular to UNDP and UNICEF, for their invaluable
~ssistance to the ongoing work of the Fund;

"4. Desires to see the activities developed by the Fund continued beyond
the United Nations Decade for ,~men and in this regard requests the Secretary-
General to study this question in consultation with the Consultative Committee
on the Voluntary Fund and the Administrator of the United Nations Development
Programme as well as with other relevant United Nations agencies and report
thereon to the General Assembly at its thirty-sixth session;

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 6

"5. Decides that the Voluntary Fund for the United Nations Decade for
Women shall continue to be situated at Headquarters to maximize its potential
as a catalytic and innovative element to ensure close co-operation with the
United Nations Development Prosramme as mandated and with other operational
activities, thus facilitating the efficient technical and administrative work
of the Fund, and in order to maintain other administrative and financial
savings ,rhich accrue from its location at Headquarters;

"6. Expresse~ its appreciation for the voluntary contributions pledged
by Member States in the recent Pledging Conference and appeals to Member States
to consider giving or increasing their support to the Fund, in order to ensure
availability of resources sufficient to meet rapidly multiplying demands in
developing countries;

"7. Requests the Secretary-General:

"(a) To continue to report annually on the management of the Fund as well
as on the progress in the implementation of the activities of the Fund;

"(b) To continue to include the Fund on an ".nnual basis as one of the
programmes of the United Uations Pledging Conference for Development
Activities."

10. At the sanle meeting, the sponsors revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) A new sixth preambular paragraph is to be inserted to read as follows:

"Noting also with appreciation the expansion of the activities supported
by the Fund and the increased co-operation with the organizations within the
United Nations system";

(b) Operative paragraph 5 is to end by the word "Headquarters" in the second
line;

(c) A new operative paragraph 6 is to be added between the existing operative
paragraphs 5 and 6, to read as follows:

"Decides also to review this decision in the context of its consideration
and conclusions on the future of the Fund in the light of the study requested
in operative paragraph 4 of this resolution".

11. At the 62nd meeting, on 29 November, the sponsors further revised new operative
paragraph 6 to read:

"Decides also to review its decision, at its thirty-sixth session, on
the basis of the report to be submitted by the Secretary-General on his
consultations with the Consultative Committee, the Administrator of
United Nations Development Programme and other United Nations agencies directly
concerned, as well as on the views to be submitted by Member States by
1 June 1981,".

I . ..



A/34/821
English
Page 7

12. At the same meeting, the representative of Senegal proposed two oral
amendments to the revised new operative paragraph 6: replace "thirty-sixth
session" by l1thirty-fifth session" and replace "1 June 1981" by "1 June 1980".

13. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on the first amendment of Senegal
which it rejected by 32 votes to 41, with 47 abstentions. Subsequently, the second
amendment of Senegal was withdra,m.

14. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.44,
as revised, as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 5, as revised, was adopted by 64 votes to 29,
with 31 abstentions;

(b) The revised draft resolution, as a whole, was then adopted without a vote
(see para. 39, draft resolution 11).

C. praft resolution A/C.3/34/L.45

15. At the 61st meeting, the representative of Austria introduced a draft
resolution (A/C.3/34/L.45), entitled "The Voluntary Fund for the United Nations
Decade for Homen l1 , 1fhich read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 31/133 of 16 December 1976, containing the
criteria and arrangements for the management of the Voluntary Fund for the
United Nations Decade for Women,

"Recallinp: also its resolution 31/194 of December 1976 and 33/181
of 21 December 1978 concerning the transfer to Vienna of the Centre for
S~cial Development and Humanitarian Affairs,

"BeariniS in mind that the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian
Affairs is the focal point of the activities of the United Naticns Decade
for Women, and that the work of the Fund is a valuable component of the
programme of the United Nations Decade for Women,

"Desiring to see the activities carried out in implementation of the
programme of the Decade by the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian
Affairs, including the Fund as its operational basis, further strengthened
and expanded,

"Expressing its satisfaction with the expansion of activities supported
by the Fund, the procedural improvements made for submission and review of
project proposals and with the increased co-operation of the Fund with the
United Nations system,

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 8

HHelcor:ling i in particular the continued co-operation of the relevant
organizations of the United Nations system, especially FAO, ILO, UNESCO,
UllIDO, Ulm? and UNICEF, as well as the regional commissions, with the Fund,

"Taking note of the valuable support which UNIDO can lend to the
activities of the Fund,

Ill. ~Totes 'vith
during its fifth and

satisfaction the----_._-
sixth sessions;

decisions of the Consultative Committee

"2. Stresses the need for continuous co-operation behreen the Fund and
the relevant organizations of the United Nations system, including the regional
commissions;

"3. Reiterates its request to the Secretary-General, expressed in its
resolution 3520 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, to ensure, if possible within the
existing resources, that the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian
Affairs, as the secretariat unit responsible for women's questions, possesses
adequate personnel and budgetary resources in order to discharge its functions
under the World Plan of Action;

"4. Hequests_ the Secretary-General to ensure that the Fund receives
adequate personnel and budgetary resources within the resources allocated
to the Centre for Social Development and Humanitarian Affairs, and, if
necessary, to strengthen those resources;

"5. Requests, furthermore the Secretary-General to provide, through
UNIDO, the necessary assistance in the operational activities of the Fund;

"6. Requests the President of the General Assembly to appoint, in
consultation with the regional groups, five member States to be represented
in the Consultative Committee on the Fund for a period of three years, in
accordance with operative paragraph 3 of resolution 31/133;

117.
continued

Expresses its hope that the operations carried
beyond the United Nations Decade for llomen;

out by the Fund be

"8. Bxpresses its appreciation to those countries which have pledged
contributions to the Fund in the recent Pledging Conference;

"9. Strongly appeals to all member States, in a position to do so, to
consider giving generous and increased contributions to the Fund, in order to
enable it to further expand its activities;

"10. Requests the Secretary-General to continue:

"( a) To report annually on the management of the Fund as well as on the
progress in the implementation of Fund activities;

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 9

lJ(b) To include, on an annual basis, the Fund as one of the programmes
of the United Nations Pledging Conference for Development Acti.vit,ies."

16. At the 62nd meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Austria withdrew
draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.45.

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.4~

17. At the 60th meeting, the representative of Argentina introduced a draft
resolution (A/C.3/34/L.47) entitled "International Research and Training Institute
for the Advancement of Women", sponsored by Argentina, Barbados, Chile, Cuba,
France, Grenada, Pakistan, Panama, the United States of America, uruguay and
Yu~oslavia, subsequently joined by Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Guatemala, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Japan, Jordan, Honduras, the Ivory Coast, Nicaragua, Papua New
Guinea, _P_er_u_, the Philippines, Sierre Leon~, Somalia, _Ug_a_n_d_a. the United Ren~u~b~l~i~c~
of Cameroon, the Upper Volt~ and Venezuela.

18. At the same meeting, the representative of Argentina revised the text and
inserted a new operative paragraph 4 between the last two operative paragraphs
to read as follows:

"4. Requests the Secretary-General to consult Member States with a
view to nominate the Director of the Institute as soon as possible;".

19. At the 61st meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.47,
as revised, without a vote (see para. 39, draft resolution Ill).

E. Draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.48

20. At the 60th meeting, the representative of the German Democratic Republic
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/34/L.48) entitled nWorld Conference of the
United Nations Decade for Women", sponsored by Afghanistan, Benin, Cane Verde,
Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, the German Democratic Republic, Guinea-Bissau.,
Mada~ascar, Mongolia, Mozambique and the Syrian Arab Republic, subsequently
joined by Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Gabon, Guyana, Iraq, J1ali, Nicaragua,
Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone and Viet Nam. The draft resolution read as
follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 3519 (xxx) of 15 December 1975, 31/136 of
16 December 1976, 32/142 of 16 December 1977, 33/184 and 33/185 of
29 January 1978 as well as the Convention on the Political Rights of Women,

"Reaffirming the objectives of the United Nations Decade for Ivomen:
Equality, Development and Peace, and the decisions of the Mexico Conference
within the International Women's Year,

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 10

"Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General entitled "\{omen I s
participation in the strengthening of international peace and security and
in the strugc;le against colonialism~ racism, racial discrimination, foreign
aggression and occupation and all forms of foreign domination", V

"Bearing in mind that women will only be able to play an eQual and
effective role in the process of development if they have eQual opportunities
for education, employment, health care facilities and a social atmosphere
necessary for the utilization of these opportunities,

"Considering that the eQual participation of women in the development
process and in political life will contribute to the achievement of
international peace and to creating the new international economic order,

"Appreciating the contribution of women to the strengthening of
international peace and security and to the struggle against colonialism,
racism~ racial discrimination, foreign aggression and occupation and all
forms of foreign domination,

"Stressing the importance of the 1980 '1orld Conference of the United
Nations Decade for Women: EQuality, Development and Peace for the
implementation of the objectives of the Decade for Women,

"1. Calls upon all Member States to make all efforts in preparing and
carrying out the World Conference;

"2. Requests the Preparatory Committee for the I-Iorld Conference to
intensify its work in preparing an effective programme of action to be based
on careful review and evaluation of progress made in implementing the World
Plan of Action aiming at improving the status of women;

"3. Urges the Commission on the Status of Homen to consider with priority
at its twenty-eighth session the Question of elaborating a draft declaration
on the participation of women in the struggle for the strengthening of
international peace and security and against colonialism, racism, racial
discrimination, foreign aggression and occupation and all forms of foreign
domination in accordance with resolution 32/142."

21. The following two amendments to the draft resolution were submitted:

(a) ?enegal submitted an amendment (A/C.3/34/L.66) by which the fifth
preambular paragraph would be replaced by the following:

"Considering that the eQual participation of women in the development
process and in political life will contribute to the achievement of
international peace and to creating the new world cultural order and the
new international economic order,iI;

(b) Canada and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
submitted the following amendments (A!C.3/34/L.67):

(i) Rephrase the fourth preambular paragraph as follows:

V A/34/471.
/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 11

"Bearinp; in mind that women will only be able to play an equal and
effective role in the process of development if they have equal
opportunities with men for education, employment, health care facilities
and public functions of a social, economic, administrative or political
character, and a social atmosphere necessary for the utilization of these
opportunities,";

(ii) In the fifth preambular paragraph, after the word "peace", insert ", to
the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms";

(iii) In the sixth preambular paragraph, after the word "discrimination",
insert "all situations of violations of human ril'hts";

(iv) In operative paragraph 3, delete the words "with priority" and, after
"discrimination" insert the "ords "all situations of violations of human
rights". At the end of the paragraph, add: "Taking into account the
vie"s of Governments thereon and vie,.,s expressed during the thirty-fourth
General As sembly " •

22. At the 62nd meeting, on 29 November, the sponsors submitted a revised text
(A/C.3/34/L.48/Rev.l), taking into account some of the amendments proposed by
Canada and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (A/C.3/34/L.67)
(see para. 21 abovel, and an oral proposal by France to add the words "with men"
in the fifth preambular paragraph of the revised draft resolution. Subsequently,
the remaining amendments in document A/C.3/34/L.67 were withdrawn by their
sponsors.

23. At the same meeting, the r0presentative of Senegal withdrew his amendment
(A/C.3/34/L.66) (see para. 21).

24. The Committee then adopted the revised draft resolution (A/C.3/34/L.48/Pev.l),
as orally amended, by a recorded vote of 103 to 2, "ith 23 abstentions (see
para. 39, draft resolution IV). The result of the voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape
Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, De~ocratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, G~rman DeI!!ocratic Republic, Ghana, Gr~n8.da,
Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, LaD
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, l'Iadagascar, 11e.lawi, l1alaysia, l1aldives, l1ali,

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 12

!1cxico, Ilongolia, Mozambique, Hepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Surinarne, Svraziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Bel~ium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal RepUblic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, Luxembour~, IIDrocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Senegal, Spain, Sweden, United Kin~dom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland.

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.49

25. At the 60th meeting, th(' representative of Hongolia introduced a draft
resolution (A/C. 3/34/L. 49) entitled "Importance of the improvement of the status
and role of women in education and in the economic and social fields for the
achievement of the eQuality of WOmen with men", sponsored by Afghanistan, Eangladesh,
Benin, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, German Dem.ocratic Republic, Grenada,
Jamaica~o People's Democratic RepUblic, MadaF,ascar, Mali, r1onRolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Togo, U~anda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic
and Viet Ham, subseQuently joined by Algeria, An~ola, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Czechoslovakia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, the Ivory Coast, Liberia, Malaysia,
/lauritania, the Niger, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, the Syrian Arab Republic
and tbe Upper Volta.

26. At the 62nd meetin~, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.49
without a vote (see para. 39, draft resolution V).

G. Draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.50

27. At the 60th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/34/L.50) entitled "United Nations
Decade for Women - florId Conference of the' United ,Tati ons Decade for Homen",
sponsored by Afghanistan, Alperia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Comoros, Cub~,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Egypt, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, India, Iran,
Irao, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Ar~
Jamahiriya, rladagascar, Mal i, Mauritania" Mongolia, Morocco, Oman, Pakistan, Q,atar,
Somalia, Sudan, Syrian A~Republic, TuniSia, United Arab Em~es, Viet Nam,
Yemen and Yugoslavia, subsequently joined by Burundi, Nicaragua and Sao Tome and
Princine.

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 13

28. The Secretary of the Committee drew its attention to the financial
implications of the draft resolution.

29. At the 62nd meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/311/L.50 by a recorded vote of 109 to 2, with 20 abstentions (see para. 39,
draft resolution VI). The result of the voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape
Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, Fiji,
Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

H. Draft resolution A/C. 3/34/L. 52

30. At the 60th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of the Philippines
introduced a draft resolution (A/C. 3/34/L. 52), entitled "Homen refugees" which
was subsequently also sponsored by Australia, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica,
Cyprus, Ecuador, Ethiopia, Guatemala, Kenya, Morocco, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sudan, Thailand, the United Republic of Cameroon
and Venezuela. The Committee had before it a statement on the financial
implications of the draft resolution (A/C.3/34/L.68).

31. The draft resolution read as follows:

liThe General Assembly,

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 14

"Recalling its resolutions relating to the item on the Office of the
United ~ations High Commissioner for Refugees adopted by consensus at its
thirty-fourth session,

"Recognizinr: the urgent needs and problems of women refugees the
ivorId over:- ~

"Conscious that the situation of ,wmen refugees has not yet been
systematically studied,

"1. Decides that the situation of ,wmen refugees the ,wrld over
should be made part of the provisional agenda of the "orld Conference of the
United Nations Decade for Women as a subitem under the item of the programme
of action for the second half of the United lTations Decade for v/omen;

"2.
prepare a
its third

;; (a)

Requests the Office of the High Commissioner for Refupees to
report for the Preparatory Committee for the Horld Conference at
session as well as for th,:, T'orld Conference, which ,wuld:

RevielT the situation of women refugees the world over; and

;; (b) i~ake recommendations concerning measures which could be undertaken
by Hember States, the United nations system and non,·governmental organizations
to assist women refugees, taking into account the requirements of the regions
concerned~li

32. At the 61st meeting, the representative of the Philippines, on behalf of the
sponsors, revised the text so that the beginning of operative paragraph 2 read:

"2. Requests the Office of the Hie;h Commissioner for Refugees to
prepare a draft report for the Preparatory Conunittee, at its third session,
and a final report for the Forld Conference which would:

(a) Review the situation of women refugees the world over within the
frame,rorl, of the over-all problem with lThich his Office is seized and;".

33. At the 62nd meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.52,
as revised, without a vote (see para. 39, draft resolution VII).

I. Draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.53

34. At the 60th meeting, the representative of Yugoslavia introduced a draft
resolution (A/C. 3/34/L. 53) entitled "Preparations for the 1980 ,Iorld Conference
of the United Nations Decade for Homen: Equality, Development and Peace",
sponsored by Barbados, Egypt, Grenada, ~uyana, India, Jamaica, Papua :~ew Guinea,
the Philippines and Yu~oslavia and also by the Bahamas, Bolivia, Colombia, Cuba,
Ecuador, Ghana, the Ivory Coast, Nigeria, Peru ~nd Venezuela, subsequently also
joined by Benin, Burundi, Ethiopia, Gabon,~nea, Kenya, riger, Rwanda, Somalia,
Uganda, the United Republic of Cameroon, Upper Volta and Zaire.

/ ...



A/34/82l
English
Page 15

35. The draft resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 331189 concerning substantive and organizational
arrangements for the 1980 World Conference of the United Nations Decade for
Women: E~uality, Development and Peace,

"Recallinp; also its resolution 33/185, which adopted the subtheme
"Employment, Health and Education",

"Convinced of the need to ensure the most effective preparation of the
Conference, its success and the effectiveness of follow-up activities,

"ITotitll>. that regional preparatory meetings have taken place in Paris,
New Delhi and Caracas and that two more are scheduled to take place in Lusaka
and Damascus~

"Having considered the report of the Preparatory Committee of the
Conference on its second session,

"Having further considered the detailed proposals for the Conference
contained in the note of the Secretary-General,

H1. ~~'yes the recommendations contained in the report of the
Preparatory Committee concerning the activities related to the preparation
of the 1980 World Conference;

"2. Requests the Secretary-General of the United lTations to provide
the necessary budgetary appropriations specified in his note in respect of
the areas listed below:

11 (a) To ensure the participation of one representative of each of the
least developed countries in the 1980 World Conference;

"(b) To ensure the satisfactory preparation of the documentation for
the Conference;

"( c) To allo" ade~uate preparation for the presentation of the report
of the Conference to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session;

"(d) In relation to measures proposed by the Department of Public
Information, to strengthen the relevant activities planned for the period
prior to and during the 1980 Horld Conference;

"(e) To make the appropriate arrangements to ensure the success of the
preparatory seminars and meetings for the Ccnference;

I . ..



A/34/821
English
Page 16

"(f) To provide the Conference secretariat with the appropriate staff
and with the resources necessary for the travel of the Secretary-General of
the Conference;

"(g) To hold a third session of the Preparatory Committee in 1980;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General, further, to seek extrabudgetary
funds to ensure the participation of one representative from each of the
island and land·-locked developing countries in the 1980 World Conference;

"4. Further requests the Secretary-General to endeavour to find
extrabudgetary funds to provide for the information activities proposed for
the period after the Conference;

"5. Takes note of the provisional rules of procedure formulated by
the Preparatory Committee at its second session and recommends that:

"(a) The Conference shall elect Vice-Presidents according to the
following formula:

"(b) In accordance with the equitable geographical distribution the
offices of the Bureau shall be allocated as follows:

"6. !0'0tes with appreciation the statement of the representative of
Denmark concerning steps which the Danish Government, in line with General
Assembly resolution 33/189, has taken regarding the practical organization
of the work of the Conference;

"7. Stron",ly urges !1ember States to ensure their adequate preparation
for the Conference, including the presentation of studies of development
projects and programmes which have been successful in improving women's
condition and promoting their participation in economic and social
development, as required in Economic and Social Council resolution E/1978/32;

"8. Calls upon l1ember States, the competent organs of the United
Nations and the specialized agencies to take all necessary measures, including
the use of their information resources, to mobilize public opinion in support
of the 1980 Uorld Conference and its objectives."

36. At the 60th meeting, the representative of Yugoslavia, on behalf of the
sponsors, revised the text as follows:

(a) In operative paragraph 2, subparagraph (f), insert the words r; including
staff to carry out information activities after the Conference" between the words
"appropriate staff" and "and with the resources";

(b) In operative paragraph 5, delete the remaining part of the paregraph
after the words "second session", including subparagraphs (a) and (b).

/ ...



A!34/82l
English
Page 17

37. The Committee had before it a statement on the financial implications of the
draft resolution (A/34/657/~dd.l).

38. At the same meeting, on 29 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/34/L.53, as revised, as follows:

(a) In a separate vote, operative paragraph 2 "as adopted by 114 votes to
8, with 6 abstentions;

(b) The draft resolution, as revised, as a whole, was adopted by 122 votes
to none, with 9 abstentions (see para. 39, draft resolution VIII).

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

39. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

United Nations Decade For Women

The General Assembly,

Recallin~ the Convention on the Political Rights of Women, particularly
article III thereof, as well as article 3 of the International Covenant on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, article 3 of the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights and article 5 (c) of the Declaration on Social Progress
and Development,

Recalling also its resolution 3520 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, in which it
decided to convene a world conference in 1980 at the mid-term of the United Nations
Decade for Fomen, as well as its resolution 33/189 of 29 January 1979 establishing
the agenda of the Conference and relating to the organization of its work,

Considering that there can be no genuine and full participation of >TOmen in
economic and social development unless they are fully involved in the political
decision-making process,

Conscious of the inadequacy of the information available from Member States
concerning the participation of women in local and national political institutions,

Bearing in mind the importance of equal access to all forms of education and
training for men and women to the achievement of a balanced distribution of
positions of political and economic responsibility in society,

1. Calls upon Member States to ensure, as regards both education and access
to public functions of a social, economic, administrative or political character,
conditions of equality between men and women and promotion without discrimination;

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 18

2. Requests the 1'Iorld Conference on the United Nations Decade for Homen to
consider, under the ceneral theme "Development", appropriate means of ensurine
the more effective participation of women in the planning and policy processes
of their Governments and more adequate reflection of their needs and concerns in
those processes;

3. Further requests the World Conference to consider, under the subtheme
"Employment, Health and Education", the conditions necessary for ensuring equal
access of "omen and men to positions of responsibility "hich "ill enable them to
participate in the formulation of national pOlicies in those fields;

4. Calls upon Governments to take steps to ensure effective participation
of "omen in the decision-making process "ith respect to foreign policy and
international economic and political co·-operation, including steps to ensure tha.t
they have equal access to diplomatic functions and that they are represented in
the United nations and other international organizations.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

The Voluntary Fund for the United Nations Decade for v~men

The General Assembly,

Recalling its decision of 15 December 1975 that the activities of the
Voluntary Fund for the International Homen' s Year should be extended to cover the
period of the United Nations Decade for "'omen, ?!

Recalling also its resolution 31/133 of 16 December 1976 containing the
criteria and arrangements for the management of the Fund,

Noting with satisfaction the valuable programme policy developed by the Fund
in accordance "ith the criteria and arrangements for the management of the Fund
to assist projects in developing countries,

Bearing in mind that, by its resolution 31/133, it, inter alia, requested the
Secretary-General to consult the Administrator of the United ~ations Development
Programme on the use of the Fund for technical co-·operation activities,

Taking note with appreciation of the new procedures for submission and
review of project proposals at country level, through the resident representative
of the United Nations Development Programme,

Noting also "ith appreciation the expansion of the activities supported by
the Fund and the increased co-operation with the organizations within the United
Nations syst em,

2/ See Official Records of the General Assembl Thirtieth Session, Sup lement
Ho. 34 (A/I003 ), p. 100, agenda item 76, para. (a).

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 19

Conscious that the Fund was designed to supplement, through financial and
technical support, development activities involving women at national, regional
and global levels, in co-operation with relevant organizations of the United
Nations system,

Recov,nizing the need for all operational activities and regional commissions
within the United Nations system to pay increasing attention to including projects
for women in their regular programmes,

Recognizing also the necessity of continuing financial and technical support
to development activities which respond to the specific needs of women in
developing countries and the importance of incorporating in national and
international development planning, policies and programmes aimed at the
mobilization and integration of women in development,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General, 11

1. notes with satisfaction the decisions of the Consultative Committee on
the Voluntary Fund for the United Nations Decade for Women during its fifth.and
sixth sessions;

2. Requests the President of the General Assembly, in accordance with
paragraph 3 of resolution 31/133 and with due regard to continuity, to select
five Ilember States to appoint representatives to serve on the Consultative
Committee;

3. Expresses its appreciation to the relevant organs in the United Nations
system, in particular to the United Nations Development Programme and the United
Nations Children's Fund, for their invaluable assistance to the ongoing work of
the Voluntary Fund for the United Nations Decade for Women;

4. Expresses its desire to see the activities developed by the Fund
continued beyond the United Nations Decade for Women and, in this regard, requests
the Secretary-General to study this question in consultation with the Consultative
Committee on the Voluntary Fund for the United ~lations Decade for Homen and the
Administrator of the United Nations Development Programme, as well as with other
relevant United Nations agencies, and to report thereon to the General Assembly
at its thirty-sixth session;

5. Decides that the Voluntary Fund for the United Nations Decade for Women
shall continue to be situated at Headquarters;

6. Decides also to review its decision at its thirty-sixth session on the
basis of the report to be submitted by the Secretary-General on his consultations
with the Consultative Committee, the Administrator of the United Nations
Development Programme and other United Nations agencies directly concerned, as well
as on the views to be submitted by Member States by 1 June 1981;

'i/ Document A/34/612.

I ...



A/34/82l
English
Page 20

7. Expresses its appreciation for the voluntary contributions pledged by
Member States in the recent United Nations Pledging Conference for Development
Activities and appeals to Member States to consider giving or increasing their
support to the Fund, in order to ensure the availability of resources sufficient
to meet rapidly multiplying demands in developing countries;

8. Requests the Secretary-General:

(a) To continue to report annually on the management of the Fund as well as
on the progress in the implementation of its activities;

(b) To continue to include the Fund on an annual basis as one of the
programmes of the United Nations Pledging Conference for Development Activities.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

International Research and Training Institute
for the Advancement of Women

The General Assembly,

Recallinp, General Assembly resolution 33/187 of 29 January 1979 on the
International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women,

Taking into consideration Economic and Social Council resolution 1979/11
of 9 May 1979 on the establishment of the Institute in the Dominican RepUblic
and Economic and Social Council decision 1978/58 of 2 August 1979 on the
appointment of the Board of Trustees of the Institute,

Noting that the first session of the Board of Tr~stees of the Institute took
place from 22 to 26 October 1979,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General, ~

1. Endorses Economic and Social Council resolution 1979/11 and accepts
with appreciation the offer of the Government of the Dominican Republic to act
as host for the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement
of Women;

2. Expresses its desire that the necessary consultations concerning the
agreement with the Government of the host country will be expeditiously concluded;

3. Invites Governments to contribute to the United Nations Trust Fund for
the International Research and Training Institute for the Advancement of Women;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to consult Member States with a view
to nominating the Director of the Institute as soon as possible;

~ A/34/579.

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 21

5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General Assembly
at its thirty-fifth session, through the Economic and Social Council, on the work
of the Institute, together with the report of the Board of Trustees.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3519 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, 31/136 of
16 December 1976, 32/142 of 16 December 1977, 33/184 and 33/185 of 29 January 1979
as well as the Convention on the Political Rights of Women, 5/

Reaffirming the objectives of the United Nations Decade for Women: Equality,
Development and Peace, and the relevant decisions of the World Conference of the
International Women's Year, held at Mexico City from 19 June to 2 July 1975, §j

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General entitled "Women's
participation in the strengthening of international peace and security and in the
struggle against colonialism, racism, racial discrimination, foreign aggression
and occupation and all forms of foreign domination", 1/

Taking into account the report of the Conference of Non-Aligned and Other
Developing Countries on the Role of Women in Development, held at Baghdad from
6 to 13 May 1979, §I

Bearing in mind that women will only be able to play an equal and effective
role in the process of development if they have equal opportunities with men for
education, employment, health care facilities and public functions of a social,
economic, administrative or political character, and a social atmosphere necessary
for the utilization of these opportunities,

Considering that the equal participation of women in the development process
and in political life will contribute to the achievement of international peace,
to the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and to
establishing the new international economic order,

Appreciating the contribution of women to the strengthening of international
peace and security~ to the struggle against colonialism, racism, racial

21 General Assembly resolution 640 (VII).
6/ For the report of the Conference, see E/CONF.66/34 (United NAtions

publication, Sales No. E.76.IV.l).

11 A/34/471.
§I A/34/321, annex.

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 22

discrimination, ~oreign aggression and occupation and all forms of foreign
domination, and to the full and effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental
freedoms,

Stressinp, the importance of the World Conference of the United Nations
Decade for Women: Equality, Development and Peace, to be held in 1980, for the
implementation of the objectives of the Decade for Women,

1. Calls upon all !1ember States to make all efforts in preparing and
carrying out the World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women: Equality,
Development and Peace;

2. Requests the Preparatory Committee for the World Conference of the
United Nations Decade for ,romen to intensify its work in preparing an effective
programme of action to be based on careful review and evaluation of progress
made in implementing the World Plan of Action for the Implementation of the
Objectives of the International Women's Year aiming at improving the status of
women, and on the recommendations by the regional Preparatory Conferences;

3. Urges the Commission on the Status of Women to consider at its twenty-
eighth session the question of elaborating a draft declaration on the participation
of women in the struggle for the strengthening of international peace and
security and against colonialism, racism, racial discrimination, foreign
aggression and occupation and all forms of foreign domination, in accordance with
General Assembly resolution 32/142, and for the full and effective enjoyment of
human rights and fundamental freedoms, taking into account the views of
Governments thereon and views expressed during the thirty-fourth General Assembly.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Importance of the improvement of the status and role of women
in education and in the economic and social fields for the

achievement of the equality of women with men

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 3520 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, in which it
proclaimed the period from 1976 to 1985 the United Nations Decade for Women:
Equality, Development and Peace,

Recalling also its resolutions 31/134 of 16 December 1976 and 33/184, 33/185
and 3-3/189 of 29 January 1979,

Recognizing the urgent need to improve the status and role of women in
education and in the economic and social fields for the achievement of the
equality of women with men,

Recognizing also the importance of the exchange of experience in these
matters among States,

/ ...



A/34/82l
Englisl>
Pal'e 23

Takin~ note of the analytical report of the Secretary-General on the
importance of the improvement of the status and role of women in education and
in the economic and social fields 2! for the achievement of the equality of women
"rith men~

1. Urges States to take necessary measures to promote full equality of
women with men in education and in the economic and social fields;

2. Recommends that States envisage in their policies all appropriate
measures to create necessary conditions which 1fill enable women to participate in
work on an equal footing with men;

3. Recommends further that States should take measures to expand the
exchange of experience in matters concerning the improvement of the status and
role of women in education and in the economic and social fields for the
achievement of the equality of women with men;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to circulate his analytical report on
the status and role of women in education and in the economic and social fields
as a background document for the World Conference of the United Nations Decade for
Homen: Equality, Development and Peace under, item 8 of its provisional agenda; 10/

5. Invites the Conference to give due attention to the question of
improvement of the status and role of women in education and in the economic and
social fields for the achievement of the equality of women with men.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

United Nations Decade for Homen .. World Conference of the
United Nations Decade for Women

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3520 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, in which it decided
to COnvene a world conference in 1980, and 33/189 of 29 January 1979, in which,
it emphasized the subtheme "Employment, Health and Education" for the programme of
action for the second half of the United Nations Decade for ,~men: Equality,
Development and Pe8.ce,

Recalling also its resolution 33/185 of 29 January 1979, entitled HPreparations
for the 1Jorld Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women: Equality,
Development and Peace, including the adoption of the subtheme 'Employment, Health
and Education 117 ~

~/ A/34/577 and Add.l.

10/ General Assembly resolution 33/189, annex.

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 24

THkinp; note with interest and appreciation of the reports by the Preparatory
Committee for the vJorlc1 Conference of the United N'ations Decade for Homen:
Equality, Development and Peace and al~o the provisional agenda for the Conference
adopted at the 95th plenary meeting on 29 January 1979, 11/

Decides to include in the provisional agenda of the World Conference of the
United Nations Decade for v~men: Equality, Development and Peace an item on the
Palestinian women entitled:

"Effects of Israeli occupation on Palestinian 1.,romen inside and outside
the occupied territories:

(a) A review of the social and economic needs of the Palestinian women;

(b) Special measures for assistance to Palestinian women inside and
outside the occupied territories".

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

"Homen refugees

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 34/60, 34/61 and 34/62 of 29 November 1979 relating
to the item on the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,
adopted by consensus at its thirty-fourth session,

Recognizing the urgent needs and problems of women refugees the world over,

Conscious that the situation of women refugees has not yet been systematically
studied,

1. Decides that the situation of women refugees the world over should be
included in the provisional agenda of the World Conference of the United Nations
Decade for Women: Equality, Development and Peace as a subitem under agenda
item 9 on the Programme of Action for the second half of the United Nations Decade
for vJomen;

2. Requests the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
to prepare a draft report to be submitted to the Preparatory Committee for the
World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women at its third session and
a final report to be submitted to the Conference, which would:

(a) RevieH the situation of women refugees the world over within the
framework of the over-all problem with which his Office is seized;

(b) Mal<e recommendations concerninp, measures which could be undertaken by
11ember States, the United Nations system and non-governmental organizations to
assist women refugees, taking into account the requirements of the regions
concerned.

11/ Ibid.
/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 25

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

Preparations for the
Decade for Yomen:

The General Assembly,

\{orld Conference of the United Nations
Eguality, Development and Peace

Recallin~ its resolution 33/189 of 29 January 1979 concerning substantive and
organizational arrangements for the World Conference of the United Nations Decade
for Homen: Equality, Development and Peace,

Recalling also its resolution 33/185 of 29 January 1979, in which it adopted
the subtheme "Employment, Health and Education",

Convinced of the need to ensure the most effective preparation of the
Conference, its success and the effectiveness of follow-up activities,

Noting that regional preparatory meetings have taken place at Paris, New
Delhi and Caracas and that two more are scheduled to take place at Lusaka and
Damascus 9

Having considered the report of the Preparatory Committee for the World
Conference of the United Nations Decade for \Iomen on its second session, 12/

Having further considered the detailed proposals for the Conference contained
in the note by the Secretary-General, 13/

1. Approves the recommendations contained in the report of the Preparatory
Committee for the World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women
concerning the activities related to the preparation of the Conference;

2. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the necessary budgetary
appropriations specified in his note in respect of the areas listed below:

( a)
developed

To ensure the participation of one representative of each of the least
countries in the Conference;

(b) To ensure the satisfactory preparation of the documentation for the
Conference;

(cl To allow adequate preparation for the presentation of the report of the
Conference to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session;

(d) In relation to measures proposed by the Department of Public Information
of the Secretariat, to strengthen the relevant activities planned for the period
prior to and during the Conference;

12/ A/CONF.94/PC/12.

13/ A/34/657 and Add.l.

/ ...



A/34/821
English
Page 26

(e) To mal.e the appropriate arrangements to ensure the success of the
preparatory seminars and meetings for the Conference;

(f) To provide the Conference secretariat with the appropriate staff
including staff to carry out information activities after the Conference and with
the resources necessary for the travel of the Secretary-General of the Conference;

(g) To hold a third session of the Preparatory Committee in 1980;

3. Also requests the Secretary-General to seek extrabudgetary funds to
ensure the participation of one representative from each of the island and land-
locked developing countries in the Conference;

4. Further requests the Secretary-General to endeavour to find extrabudgetary
funds to provide for the information activities proposed for the period after the
Conference;

5. Takes note of the provisional rules of procedure formulated by the
Preparatory Committee at its- second session; 14/

6. Notes with appreci~tion the statement of the representative of Denmark
concerning steps which the Government of Denmark, in line with General Assembly
resolution 33/189, has taken regarding the practical organization of the work of
the Conference;

7. ?trongly urges Member States to ensure their adequate preparation for
the Conference, including the presentation of studies of development projects and
programmes which have been successful in improving women's condition and in
promoting their participation in economic and social development, as required by
Economic and Social Council resolution E/1978/32 of 9 Ilay 1979;

8. Calls upon Ilember States, the competent organs of the United Nations and
the specialized agencies to take all necessary measures, including the use of
their information resources, to mobilize public opinion in support of the
Conference and its objectives.

14/ A/CONF.94/PC/12, chap. 11, sect. 4.




