








































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Distr.
GENERAL

AI 341773
17 December 1979

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-fourth session
Al!enda item 104

PERSONNEL QUESTIONS

Report of the Fifth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr.- Ali Ben-Said KHAMIS (Algeria)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 11th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1979, the General Assembly decided
to include in the agenda of its thirty-fourth session the item entitled:

;lPersonnel questions:

(a) Composition of the Secretariat: report of the Secretary--General;

(b) Other personnel questions: reports of the Secretary-General."

and to allocate it to the Fifth Committee.

2. The Coro~ittee considered the item at its 23rd, 26th, 27th, 29th to 36th, 42nd,
57th, 59th, 62nd to 64th, 79th and 84th meetings, held from 22 October to
17 December. The views expressed by delegations during the discussion are
reflected in the relevant summary records (A/C.5/34/SR.23, 26, 27, 29-36, 42, 57,
59,62-64,79 and 84).

3. For its consideration of item 104 (a), the Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General on the composition of the Secretariat
(A/34/408);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General transmitting a list showing, by office,
department and organizational unit, the names, functional titles, nationality and
salary level of all staff members of the United Nations Secretariat as at 30 June
(A/C.5/34/L.4 and Corr.l);

79-38721 I ...



A/311/713
Bnglisll
Par~e 2

Cc) Note by the Secretary.·,Gen~ral on access cy staff rcnresentatives to the
F'ifth Committee (A/C, 5/34/29) ,

(d) :Note by the Secretary·..General on recruitment missions (issued as a
conference room paper)~

(e) Paper containing information requested by deleBations on the composition
of thc Secretariat (issued as a conference room paper);

(f) Note on the "ork of panels to investigate allec;ations of discriminatory
treatment (issued as a conference room paper)~

(g) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting a paper on access by staff
representatives to the Fifth Committee submitted by the President of the Staff
Committee at ~nited Nations Headquarters (issued as a conference room paper);

(h) r~ote by the Secretary-·General transmitting a. paper on access by staff
representatives to the Fifth Committee submitted by the Federation of International
Civil Servants Associations (FIC3A) (issued as a conference room paper).

l,., For its consideration of item 104 (b), the Committee had before it the
follm1ing o.ocuments:

(a) Hcport ot the Secretary-General on the amendments made to the Staff
HClles during the period from 1 July 1978 to 30 June 1979 (A/C, 5/3),/7) ~

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the
classifi.catioE systems for posts in the Professional and GGneral Service categories
([,/C, 5/34/37),

11, CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

5 0 ,~t the 42nd meeting ~ on '9 l\fovember} the representative of India, on beha1f
of the ,states Nembers of the United Nations which 2.re mer.:ibers of the Group of' TT j
introduced a draft dccision (A/C,5/34/L,13), 'lhich read as fo11o"s:

"1, The General Assembly requests the Secretary-General to submit at
its thirty-fifth session:

I; (,d A detai1ed repor"0 out1ining the basis OD which the desirable ranges
in eff'ct in 1979 (posts sClbject to equitable geographic distribution) have
been 8Etablished 5 including the factors and criteria \~¥ith their related
percentage distributions, which have determined these desirable ranges.

11 (b) A series of alternative tables of desirable representation for all
!',,'Iember States on the basis of a redistribution of the percentages used at
present for the criteria of contribution and membership so as to reflect a
membership percentage of 50 per cent or a membership percentage equal to
t,hat of contribution while maintaining the existing percentage in respect
of the population factor. These a1ternative tables, \vhich shall take into
accoc;nt the ne" scale of assessment for 1980--1982, shall include:

/, 00



/ ...

A/34/773
English
Page 3

"(i) A range of increases in the lower limit of the present minimum
desirable range;

"(ii) Increase in the upper limit of the present minimum desirable range;

"(iii) Suggested formulae for the removal or relaxation of the upper
limits of the desirable ranges of developing Member States;

"(iv) Formulae for relating the population criterion directly to regional
populations, with suggestions for its utilization by individual
Member States.

"(c) An outline of any possible additional criteria which in the
Secretary-General's considered view might also be utilized in determining
a system of desirable ranges or representation with suggestions for their
inclusion under (b) (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv).

"(d) A study on the implications of the establishment of a ceiling on
the percentage contribution for calculating the personnel entitlement of
any Member State.

"(e) A detailed description of the way the present weighted desirable
ranges have been calculated with information as to the basis of this
calculation, as well as a study dealing with an indicative evaluation of
posts so as to ensure that Member States will have a balanced Quantitative
and qualitative representation.

"2. The General Assembly also requests the Secretary-General to present
the reports and submissions outlined above for the consideration of Member
States at least six weeks before the commencement date of its next regular
session."

6. At the 57th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Australia, on
behalf of Australia, Denmark, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden,
the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and the United States of
America introduced an amendment (A/C.5/34/L.22) to the draft decision
(A/C.5/34/L.13), which read as follows:

"Delete paragraphs I (b), 1 (c) and 1 (d), as well as the second part
of paragraph 1 (e) from the words 'as well as a study ... '

"Renumber paragraph I (e) as new paragraph I (b);

"Insert the following new paragraph 1 (c):

"(c) A study of the composition of the Secretariat which outlines
in the light of the primacy of Article 101 of the United Nations Charter
and taking into account the views expressed in the Fifth Committee at
the thirty-fourth session, the criteria which, in the Secretary-
General's considered view, might be utilized in determining the system
of desirable ranges or representation, together with any factual data
and tables which the Secretary-General considers would assist the
discussion of this question at the thirty-fifth session."



A/341773
English
Page 4

T. At the same meeting, the COJl1.mittee rejected the amendment by a recorded vote
of 83 to 31, with 1 abstention. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Australia, Austria, Belgi~, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic~ Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, German
Democratic RepUblic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Hungary, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Mongolia,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain,
Sweden, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist RepUblic, Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Against: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burundi, Cape Verde,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Democratic
Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Abstaining: Burma.

8. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft decision A/C.5/34/L.l3 by
a recorded vote of 86 to 29, with 2 abstentions (see para. 19, draft resolution I,
sect. I). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Cape
Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana,
India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, 11auritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sudan,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Narn, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

/ ...



A/34/773
English
Page 5

Against: Australia~ Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, German
Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Hungary,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Mongolia, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of ~nerica.

Abstaining: Greece, Ivory Coast.

9. Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
Australia (also on behalf of New Zealand), Austria, Brazil, Canada, Chad, Egypt,
Ghana, Greece, Indonesia, Ireland (on behalf of the nine members of the
European Communities), Japan, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Morocco, the Netherlands,
Nigeria, Panama, Pakistan, Peru, Portugal, Spain, Sweden (on behalf of the Nordic
countries), Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, the United Republic of Cameroon, the United States of America and the
Upper Volta.

10. At the 62nd meeting, on 28 November, the Committee decided to recommend to
the General Assembly that it should take note of the report of the Secretary-General
(A/C.5/34/7) on the amendments made to the Staff Rules during the period from
1 July 1978 to 30 June 1979 (see para. 19, draft resolution I, sect. 11).

I ...



A/341773
English
Page 6

'1. At the 64th meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Japan, on behalf
of Australia, Japan and Trinidad and Tobago, introduced a draft decision
(A/C.5/34/L.25), which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"'Decides to request the Secretary-General to pursue the improvement of
the comp1rterized roster of candidates in accordance with resolution
33/143 I 1 (c)."

~2. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft decision A/C.5/34/L.25
without a vote (see para. l~, draft resolution I, sect. Ill).

13. At the 79th meeting, on 12 December, the representative of the Netherlands,
on behalf of Denmark, Finland, France, the Netherlands, Senegal and Sweden,
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.5/34/L.36), which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Decides to accord to the staff, without prejudice to the authority of
the Secretary-General as the chief administrative officer of the United
Nations Organization, an increased measure of access to the Fifth Committee
by:

"(a) Enabling the staff of the United Nations Secretariat to circulate
a paper to the Corr~ittee through the Secretary-General, setting out staff
views on matters affecting them under the agenda item entitled 'Personnel
questions v :,

"(b) Enabling a single recognized representative of the staff of the
United Nations Secretariat to make a statement to the Committee at the
beginning of the Committee's consideration of the item entitled 'Personnel
questions', in order to introduce the paper referred to under subparagraph (a)
of the present resolution;

"(c) Enabling the Federation of International Civil Servants Associations
(FICSA) to circulate a paper to the Committee through the Secretary-General,
setting out staff views on matters affecting them under the item entitled
'Report of the International Civil Service Commission' ;

"(d) Enabling a single recognized representative of FICSA to
make a statement to the Committee at the beginning of the Committee's
consideration of the item entitled 'Report of the International Civil
Service Commission', in order to introduce the paper referred to under
subparagraph (c) of the present resolution."

14. At the same meeting, the representative of Trinidad and Tobago, on behalf
of Australia, Barbados, Chad, Chile, Egypt, Kenya, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Morocco, Pakistan, Sierra Leone, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia and the United
States of America, submitted a draft resolution (A/C.5/34/L.37), which read as
follows:

/ ...



A/34/H3
Zne;lish
Page 7

"The General Assembly,

1';1.
documents

~akes note of the re~uests by members
A/c.5/34/CRP.5 and A/C.5/34/CRP.6,

of the staff set out in

"2. Further takes note of the comments and sUf':p:estions of the
Secretary-General on the requests by the staff set out in document
A/c.5/34/29;

"3. Reaffirms the responsibility and authority of the Secretary--
General as the Chief AQministrative Officer of the United Nations Organization
under Article 97 of the Charter of the United Nations;

"4. Expresses its readiness to receive and consider fully the views of
the staff as set out by a single recognized representative of the staff of
the United Nations Secretariat in a document submitted through the Secretary-
General under the agenda item entitled 'Personnel questions';

11 5• Expresses its readiness to receive and consider fully the views of
the staff as set out by a designated representative of the Federation of
International Civil Servants Association (FICSA) in a document submitted
through the Secretary-General under the agenda item entitled 'Report of
the International Civil Service Commission';

"6. Requests the Secretary-General to present to the General Assembly
at its thirty-fifth session a report on the various forms of participation
of staff in the consultative bodies of the United Nations Secretariat and
within the United Nations system which deal "'ith matters of direct concern
to personnel and on the extent to which these bodies have fulfilled the
purpose of better staff involvement; in preparing this report due account
should be taken of the views of the United Nations staff on the subject;

117. Expresses -further its disposition to consider i as and when
appropriate, other forms of communication between the staff and the Fifth
Committee. if

15. At the same meeting, a motion by the representative of Panama to give
priority in the vote to draft resolution Ale. 5/3"/L. 37 ""as aClopted by a recorded
vote of 51 to 19, with 17 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

Tu favour: Afghanistan~ Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain~ Barbados,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad,
Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Hungary, Iraq, Kenya, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Mexico ~ Mongolia, Mo zambique, Niger, Nir.;eria, NorTtTay, Pakistan,
Panama, Fapua Few Guinea, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Sierra Leone,
Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of _~erica,
Yugoslavia, Zambia.

I ...



A!34!773
English
Page 8

Against: Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Greece, Guinea, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Portugal, Senegal, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Venezuela.

Abstaining: Algeria, Belgium, Bolivia, Burundi, Cape Verde, China, Guyana,
Indonesia, Japan, Jordan, Mauritania, Philippines, Thailand,
United Republic of Cameroon, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Zaire.

l6. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A!C.5!34!L.37
by 68 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions (see para. 19, draft resolution 11). After
the adoption of the draft resolution, draft ~esolution A!C.5!34!L.36 was
withdrawn.

17. Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of
Australia, Brazil, Canada, Germany, Federal Republic of, India, Indonesia,
Ireland, Italy, Morocco, New Zealand, Nigeria, Peru, the Philippines, Portugal,
Senegal, Spain, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and the Upper Volta.

18. At the 84th meeting, on 17 December, the Committee, on the proposal of the
Chairman, decided, without objection, to recommend to the General Assembly that
it should take note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of the classification systems for posts in the Professional and General Service
categories (A!C.5!34!37) and of the oral report of the Chairman of the Advisory
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, and re~uested the Secretary-
General to report on progress in the implementation of these systems at its
thirty-fifth session (see para. 19, draft resolution I, sect. IV).

Ill. RECO~~ENDATICNf OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE

19. The Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Personnel questions

The General Assembly,

I

1. Requests the Secretary-General to subrrit to the General Assembly
at its thirty-fifth session:

(a) A detailed report outlining the basis on which the desirable ranges
in effect in 1979 (posts subject to e~uitable geographic distribution) were
established, including the factors and criteria, with their related
percentage distributions, which determined these desirable ranges;

! ...



A/34/773
English
Page 9

(b) A series of alternative tables of desirable representation for all
Member States on the basis of a redistribution of the percentages used at
present for the criteria of contribution and membership so as to reflect a
membership percentage of 50 per cent or a membership percentage equal to
that of contribution while maintaining the existing percentage in respect
of the population factor. These alternative tables, which shall take into
account the new scale of assessment for 1980-1982, shall include:

(i) A range of increases in the lower limit of the present minimum
desirable range;

(ii) An increase in the upper limit of the present minimum desirable
range;

(iii) Suggested formulae for the removal or relaxation of the upper
limits of the desirable ranges of developing Member States;

(i,) Formulae for relating the population criterion directly to regional
populations, with suggestions for its utilization by individual
Member States;

(c) An outline of any possible additional criteria which, in the
Secretary-General's considered view, might also be utilized in determining a
system of desirable ranges or representation with suggestions for their
inclusion under (b) (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) above;

(d) A study of the implications of the establishment of a ceiling on
the percentage contribution for calculating the personnel entitlement of
any Member State;

(e) A detailed description of the way the present weighted desirable
ranges have been calculated, with information as to the basis of this
calculation, as well as a study dealing with an indicative evaluation of
posts so as to ensure that Member States will have a balanced quantitative
and qualitative representation;

2. Also requests the Secretary-General to present the reports and
submissions outlined above for the consideration of Member States at least
six weeks before the opening of its next regular session;

11

Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on amendments made
to the Staff Rules during the period from 1 July 1978 to 30 June 1979; 11

l/ A/C.5/34/7.

/ ...



A/31!/773
English
Pace 10

IH

~~quests the Secretary-General to pursue the improvement of the
computerized roster of candidates in accordance with section I,
paragraph 1 (c) of General Assembly resolution 33/143, of 20 December 1978;

IV

Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the implementation
of the classification systems for posts in the Professional and General
Service categories 2/ and the oral report of the Chairman of the Advisory
Co~mittee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions, 1/ and requests the
Secretary-General to report on progress in the implementation of these
systems to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session.

DR~FT RESOLUTION 11

farticipation of United Nations staff in the consultative
bodies within the United Nations system

The General AssemblY,

1.
the notes
the Fifth

Takes note of the requests by members
by the Secretary-General on access by
CO~'1littee'

of the staff set out in
staff representatives to

2. Further takes note of the comments and suggestions of the Secretary-
General on the requests by the staff as set out in his note of
21 November; !±./

3. ~eaffirms the responsibility and authority of the Secretary-General
as the Chief Administrative Officer of the United Nations under Article 97
of the Charter of the United Nations;

4. Expresses its readiness to receive and consider fully the views
of the staff as set out by a single recognized representative of the staff
of the United "ations Secretariat in a docu-ment to be submitted through
the Secretary-General and issued under the item entitled "Personnel
questions \~:

5. Expresses its readiness to receive and consider fully the views of
the staff as set out by a designated representative of the Federation of
International Civil Servants Association in a document to be submitted
through the Secretary-General and issued under the item entitled "Report of
the International Civil Service Commission:!;

?cl A./C.5/34/37.
1/ See A/C.5/34/SR.84.
!±.! A/C.5/34/29.



A/34/H3
English
Yage 11

6. Requests the Secretary--·General to submit to the General Assembly
at its thirty-fifth session a report on the various forms of participation
of starf in the consultative "bodies of the United Nations Secretariat and
r,.,Tithin the United }\Jations system "Hh.ich deal w-ith matters of direct concern
to personnel and on tl:e extent to vhich these bodies have fulfilled the
purpose of better staff involvement~ in preparinr the report) due account
should be taken of the vie"rs of the United Nations staff on the subj ect ,;

7. Yxpresses further its disposition to consider, as and when
appropriate, other forms of communication betl,rEen the staff and the Fifth
CoIYtJnittee.




