








































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GEl'IERAL

A/34/T04
21 November 1979

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-fourth session
Agenda item 87

ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES AND WAYS AlJD MEANS WITHIN THE
UNITED NATIONS SYSTEM FOR IHPROVING THE EFFECTIVE
E~)JOYHENT OF Hill-lAN RIGHTS AND FillJDAMENTAL FREEDOMS

Report of the Third COID~ittee

Rapporteur: Hr. Nikolai N. KOMISSAROV (Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republics)

I. INTRODUCTION

L The item entitled "Alternative approaches and <lays and means within the United
Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental
freedoms" was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-fourth session of
the General Assembly in accordance with its resolution 33/104 of 16 December 1978.

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1979, the General Assembly decided
to include the item in its agenda and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

3. The Committee considered the item at its 24th to 30th and 33rd to 38th and
41st meetings from 22 to 30 October, from 1 to 7 November and on 9 November. The
views expressed by the representatives of Member States on the item are set forth
in the summary records of those meetings (A/C.3/34/SR.24-30, 33-38 and 41).

4. The Committee had before it the following documents:

(a) Report of the Commission on Human Rights; ]j

(b) National institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights:
note by the Secretary-General (A/34/196);

1/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1979, Supplement
No. C-(E/1979/36).

79-31525 / ...



A/341704
Ene-J-ish
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 6 July 1979 from the Permanent Representative of
Sri Lanka to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting documents of the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating
Bureau of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Colombo from 4 to 9 June 1979
(A/34/357);

(d) Letter dated 27 July 1979 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Ilission of Morocco to the United NatiGns addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmittinG the text of the resolutions and final
communique of the Tenth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held
at Fez from 8 to 12 May 1979 (A/34/389 and Corr.l);

(e) Status of international conventions in the field of human rights in
respect of which the Secretary-General performs depositary functions:
report of the Secretary-General (A/34/398);

(f) Letter dated 1 October 1979 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the Final Declaration of the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from 3 to
9 September 1979 (A/34/542);

(g) Letter dated 24 October 1979 from the Permanent Representative of
Democratic Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-
General (A/34/614);

(h) Letter dated 26 October 1979 from the Permanent Representative of
Democratic Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-
General (A/34/621);

5. At the 24th meeting, on 22 October, the Director of the Division of Human
Rie-pts introduced the item (A/C.3/34/SR.24, paras. 1-10).

11. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.15

6. At the 29th meeting, on 29 October, the representative of Cuba introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.3/34/L.15) entitled "Alternative approaches and ''lays and means
within the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedoms lf , sponsored by Algeria, Bangladesh" Renin, Cuba,
Democratic Yemen, Grenada, Guyana, India, Iraq, Jamaica, Pakistan, the Syrian Arab
Republic and Yugoslavia, subsequently joined by Angola, Argentina, Bolivia, Burundi,
the Congo, Ti:quatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Madagascar, Mali,
Mauritius, nicaragua, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Romania, SaD Tome and Princine,
Sri Lanka, the SUdan, Viet Nam, Yemen and Zambia: the draft resolution read as
follows: -----

/ ...



A/341704
English
Page 3

"The General As sembly ~

"Bearing in mind the Charter of the United Nations,

"Recalling its resolution 32/130 of 16 December 1977,

"Recallin~ also its resolution 33/104 that requested the Commission on
Human Rights to continue, with high priority, the over-all analysis which will
contribute to the implementation of resolution 32(130,

"Further recalling its resolution 32/197, in particular paragraphs 11.1 (b)
and VI.5 of its annex, regarding the responsibilities of the Economic and Social
Council to monitor and evaluate the implementation of over-all strategies,
policies and priorities established by the General Assembly,

"Noting with interest Economic and Social Council decision 1979/30 and
resolution 5 (XXXV) of 2 March 1979 of the Commission on Human Rights, which
reiterated that 'the right to development is a human right and that equality
of opportunity for development is as much a prerogative of nations as of
individuals within nations

"Recognizing the need to create satisfactory conditions at the national
and international levels for the implementation of human rights and fundamental
freedoms,

"Noting i'rith appreciation the relevant paragraphs in the final
Declaration of the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of the
Non-Aligned Countries, held in September 1979, in which the non-aligned
countries called on the United Nations 'to continue working towards ensuring
human rights in a comprehensive manner, to ensure the dignity of human beings'
and, in this regard, reaffirmed their own willingness 'to work actively for
the implementation of the steps outlined in the United Nations resolution
32(130 in the form which it prescribes, through existing structures of the
United Nations system',

"Takinp: into account resolution 1979/36 of the Economic and Social Council,

"1. Notes with satisfaction the report of the work relating to the over-
all analysis submitted to the General Assembly by the Commission on Human
Rights through the Economic and Social Council, in conformity with resolution
32/130;

"2. Requests the COl]1Inission on Human Rights to continue at its thirty-
sixth session its work on the over-all analysis with a view to further
promoting and improving human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the
question of the Commission's prograrmne and working methods, and the over-all
analysis of the alternative approaches and ways and means for improving the
effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms in accordance
with the provisions and concepts of its resolution 32/130;

/ ...



A/341704
English
Page 4

"3. Reaffirms the urgent need for eliminating the mass and flagrant
violations of human rights of peoples and persons affected by situations
such as those enumerated in ope~ative paragraph 1 (e) of its resolution
32/130 ;

"4. Recognizes that in order to fully guarantee human rights and
complete personal dignity, it is necessary to guarantee the right to work,
worker participation in management, and the right to education, health and
proper nourishment, primarily through the establishment of the new
international economic order;

tl5. Emphasizes, in this connexion, the need to create conditions on
the national and international levels for the full promotion and protection
of the human rights of individuals and peoples;

"6. Emphasizes also that the right to development is a human right and
that equality of opportunity for development is as much a prerogative of
nations as of individuals within nations;

"7. Requests the Economic and Social Council to consider the
advisability of establishing at its first regular session in 1980, an open-
ended working group to monitor and evaluate, in the light of resolution
32/130, the coherent, practical and operational implementation within the
United Nations system of over-all strategies, pOlicies and priorities
established by the General Assembly in the field of human rights, and to make
recommendations in this connexion to the General Assembly at its thirty-sixth
session.

"8. Requests the Secretary-General to give, through the advisory
services programme in the field of hQman rights, priority to the holding
in 1980 of a seminar on the effect the present unjust international
economic order has on the economies of developing countries and the obstacle
this constitutes for the implementation of human rights and fundamental
freedoms, and in particular for the right to enjoy an adequate standard of
living as stated in article 25 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights;

"9. Requests the Secretary-General and concerned organs and bodies of
the United Nations system to implement fully the recommendations contained
in Economic and Social Council resolution 1979/36;

"10. Reguests the Secretary-General to prepare and present to the General
Assembly at its thirty-sixth session a comprehensive study on the nature and
extent to which the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms are
affected by present conditions, especially by situations such as those resulting
from apartheid; all forms of racial discrimination, colonialism and
neo-colonialism; policies tending to divide the world into spheres of influence;
the arms race; foreign domination and 0ccupation; aggression and threats against
national sovereignty, national unity and territorial integrity; refusal to
recognize the fundamental rights of peoples to self-determination and of every
nation to the exercise of full sovereignty over its wealth and natural
resources; interference in the internal affairs, especially of developing
countries; as well as from the existence of the unjust system of international
Gcor.cmic relations;

I .....



A!341704
English
Page 5

"11. Requests also that the Secretary-General convey the present
resolution to the specialized agencies concerned and to all United Nations
bodies that deal with human rights;

"l2. Requests further that the Secretary-General p:resent to the General
Assembly at its thirty-fifth session a progress report on the implementation
of this resolution;

"l3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-fifth
session an item entitled 'Alternative approaches and ways and means within
the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights
and fundamental freedoms'."

The administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution were set out
in document A!C.3!34!L.2l.

7. At the same meeting, the sponsors introduced a revised text of the draft
resolution (A!C.3!34!L.l5!Rev.l), by which the following changes were made:

(a) The first preambular paragraph was revised to read:

"Bearing in mind the Charter of the United Nati()ns, the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenants on Civil, Political,
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights";

(b) The words "resolution 4 (xxxv) and" were added to the text of the
fi fth preambular paragraph;

(c) The seventh preambular paragraph was revised to read:

"Noting with appreciation that in the Final Declaration of the Sixth
Conference of Heads of State or Government of the Non-Aligned Countries, held
in September 1979, the non-aligned countries called on the United Nations
'to continue working towards ensuring human rights in a comprehensive manner,
to ensure the dignity of human beings' and, in this regard, reaffirmed their
own willingness 'to work actively for the implementation of the steps outlined
in the United Nations resolution 32!l30 in the form which it prescribes,
through existing structures of the United Nations system';"

(d) Operative paragraphs 4 and 5 were revised to read:

"4. Emphasizes the need to create conditions on the national and
international levels for the full promotion and protection of the human rights
of individuals and peoples;

"5. Recognizes that in order to fully guarantee human rights and
complete personal dignity, it is necessary to guarantee the right to work,
worker participation in management, and the right to education, health and
proper nourishment, through the adoption of measures at the national and
international levels, including the establishment of the new international
economic order;"

/ ...



A! 341704
En,,;lish
Page 6

(e) Operative paragraph 7 was revised to read:

"7. Requests the Commission on Human Rights at its thirty-sixth session,
to study the existin,,; human and other resources that the Division of Human
Rights has at its disposal for the implementation of General Assembly
resolutions, on the basis of complete data which the Secretary-General is
requested to provide to it and thereafter to make recoIT@endations to the
General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session with a view to further improving
the \'lOrking of the Division;"

( f)
1979!30"

The words "as already decided by Economic and Social Council decision
were added to the text of operative paragraph 8;

(g) Operative paragraph 10 was revised to read:

"10. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare, taking into account
relevant information already available within the United Nations, and present
to the General Assembly at its thirty-sixth session, a study on the nature
and extent to which the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms
are affected by present international conditions, with particular reference to
situations resulting from apartheid; all forms of racial discrimination;
colonialism~ neo-colonialism and imperialism; policies tending to divide the
world into spheres of influence; the arms race; foreign domination and
occupation; aGgression and threats against national sovereifnty, national
unity and territorial integrity; refusal to recognize the fundamental rights
of peoples to self-determination and of every nation to the exercise of full
sovereignty over its wealth and natural resources; intervention and
interference in the internal affairs, of States, particularly 1.;i th reference
to developing countries; as well as from the existenee of the unjust system
of international economic relations, taking into account the conclusions of
the seminar mentioned in paragraph 8 of this resolution."

8. The draft resolution was further revised as draft resolution
A!C.3!34!L.15!Rev.2. At the 36th meeting, on 6 November, the sponsors revised
operative paragraph 9 to take into account an oral proposal made by Ireland to the
effect that in operative paragraph 9 the word "studY" should be replaced by
Hconsider1t •

9. At the same meeting, the COIT@ittee adopted draft resolution
A!C.3!34!L.15!Rev.2, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 132 to 1, with
9 abstentions (see para. 31, draft resolution I). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
TIepublic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,

! ...



A/34/704
English
Page 7

Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuvrait, LaD People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Eadagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali 3 Hauritania, Mauritius, Hexico,
p1longolia, liJorocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands,. Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Toga,. Trinidad and Tobago,. Tmlisia, Turkey,. Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against:

Ab staining:

United States of America.

Austria, Belgium, France, GerwBny, Federal Republic of, Israel,
Luxembourg~ New Zealand, Uganda, United Kin~dom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.

B. Draft decision A/C.3/31,/L.32

la. At the 35th meeting, on 5 November, the representative of India proposed the
adoption of a draft decision relating to draft resolutions A/C.3I3iJ/L.16/Rev.l
(se~ para. 16), A/C.3/34/L.18 (see para. 21) and A/C.3/34/L.19 (see para. 25). The
proposed draft decision read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Requests the Commission on Human Rights, in the context of the over-all
analysis and of the stUdy it is to undertake at its thirty-sixth session
in pursuance of, respectively, operative paragraphs 2 and 9 of General
Assembly resolution A/34/ ••• , to examine also the proposals contained in
documents A/C.3/3iJ/L.16/Rev.l, A/C.3/34/L.18 and A/C.3/34/L.19, together
with the views expressed on these proposals at the thirty-fourth session
of the General Assembly, and thereafter to make recommendations to the General
Assembly at its thirty-fifth session."

In its revised form, the draft decision was contained in document A/C.3/34/L.32,
in which the words "documents A/C.3/34/L.16/Rev.l, A/C.3/3iJ/L.18 and A/C.3134/L.19"
>lere replaced by document A/C. 3/34/L .16/Rev.1" •

11. At the 36th meeting, on 6 November, the representative of India further
revised her draft decision, t&<ing into account proposals made by the representative
of Italy to the effect that in the fourth line of the text, the wordS "to examine
also" should be replaced by the >lords "to consider" and in the fifth and sixth lines

/ ...



A! 34/704
English
Page 8

the words "together with the views expressed on these proposals in the thirty-fourth
session of the General Assembly and thereafter to make" should be replaced by the
words "if adopted by the General Assembly, and to take due account of it in
formulating" •

12. After the adoption of draft resolution A/c.3/34/L.15/Rev.2 (see para. 9),
the representative of India asked for priority for the draft decision. The
Committee raised no objections to the proposal.

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the revised draft decision without
a vote (see para. 32).

C. Draft resolution A/c.3/34/L.16

14. At the 29th meeting, on 29 October, the representative of Italy introduced a
draft resolution A/c.3/34/L.16) entitled "Alternative approaches and ways and means
within the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedoms". The administrative and financial implications
of the draft resolution were set out in document A/c.3/34/L.25. The draft
resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling the determination of the peoples of the United Nations to
reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the
human person, in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and
small,

"Recalling especially that one of the most important purposes of the
United Nations is to achieve international co-operation in solving
international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian
character, and in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for
fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language
or religion,

"l1indful of the important contribution which the Division of Human Rights
of the United Nations Secretariat .has made to United Nations activities for
the promotion and protection of human rights since the inception of the United
Nations,

"Believing however that the activi ties of the human rights sector of the
United Nations Secretariat should be enhanced so as to better enable it to
meet the needs of the Organization and the international community,
particularly after the entry into force of the International Covenants on
Human Rights and the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment
of the Crime of Apartheid and bearing in mind policy-making resolutions of
the General Assembly such as 32/130,

I ...



A/34/104
English
Page 9

"Recalling the Secretary-General' s report on organizational nomenclature
in the Secretariat (A/C.5/32/17), the general direction of which was endorsed
ln General Assembly resolution 32/204 of 21 December 1977,

"1. Requests the Secretary-General to redesignate the Division of Human
Rights as a Centre for Human Rights, the head of which should be an Assistant
Secretary-General;

"2. Further invites the Secretary-General to ensure that adequate
financial and other resources are allocated to the Centre for Human Rights
so as to enable it to discharge its functions, and specifically requests the
Secretary-General to ensure that the importance of human rights in the goals
of the United Nations and its place as one of the most important programmes
should be reflected in the percentage of resourceS from the United Nations
budget allocated to the human rights programme;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to report on the implementation of
this resolution to the Commission on Human Rights at its thirty-sixth session
and to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session."

15. The Committee also had before it amendments to the draft resolution proposed
by Bulgaria and the German Democratic RepUblic (A/C.3/34/L.22) which read as
follows:

"1. In the third preambular paragraph replace the words 'united Nations
activities for' by the words 'assist the activities of the United Nations
organs dealing with' ;

"2. Insert a new fourth preambular paragraph reading as follows:

'Mindful of resolution 22 (XXXV) of the Corr~ission on Human Rights. ';

"3. In operative paragraph 1 after the word 'Requests' insert the
following: 'the Commission on Human Rights within its work on the over-all
analysis of the alternative approaches and ways and means to examine the
feasibility of recommending to' and delete the end of the paragraph beginning
with the words 'the head of which';

"4. In operative paragraph 2 replace the words 'Centre for Human Rights'
with the words 'sector of the United Nations Secretariat dealing with human
rights' and replace the end of the paragraph beginning with the words 'the
importance' with the following: 'an increased percentage of resourCeS
allocated to the human rights programme be reallocated to the most important
fields of activities such as those laid down in the General Assembly resolution
32/130;' ."

/ ...



A! 34/T04
Enf~lish

Page 10

16. At the 35th meeting, on 5 November, the sponsor of draft resolution
A/C.3/34/L.16 introduced a revised text of the draft resolution (A/C. 3/34/L.16/Rev.l).
As a result, the amenQments contained in document A/C.3/34/L.22 were withdrawn.

17. In the text of draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.16/Rev.l, operative paragraphs 1
and 2 of the original draft resolution were revised to read as follows:

"L Reguests the Secretary-General to re-designate the Division of
Human Rights as a Centre for Human Rights,

"2. Further invites the Secretary-General to ensure that adequate
financial and other reSOurces are allocated to the Centre for Human Rights,
so as to enable it to discharge its functions, in the light of the results
of the relevant study to be conducted by the COID~ission on Human Rights at
its XXXVI Session in accordance with operative paragraph 9 of resolution
34/ ••• ,".

18. At the 36th meeting, on 6 November, after the adoption of draft decision
A/C.3/34/L.32 (see para. 13), the representative of India proposed that, under
rule 131 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly, draft resolution
A/C.3/34/L.16/Rev.l should not be voted upon.

19. At the 37th meeting, on 7 November, the representative of India, withdrew
her procedural motion, as proposals made by India for the text of Graft resolution
A/C.3/34/L.16/Rev.l had been accepted by its sponsor. The effect of those proposals
was the following:

(a) In operative paragraph 1, to replace the words "to redesignate" with
the phrase "to consider the redesignation";

(b) To add at the end of operative paragraph 1 the phrase "in the li,,-ht of
the views expressed on the proposed redesignation at the thirty-sixth session of
the Commission on Human Rights H ;

(c) In operative paragraph 2, to replace the words "Centre for Human Rights"
with lithe sector of the Secretariat concerned with human rights";

(d) In operative paragraph 3, to delete the words "to the Com~ission on
Human Rights at its thirty-sixth session".

20. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the CODLmittee made a statement regarding
the administrative implications of the revised text and the representative of the
Legal Counsel made a statement.

21. Also at the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/34/L.16/Rev.l, as revised by 86 votes to none, with 49 abstentions
(see para. 31, draft resolution 11).

/ ...



A/341704
Enelish
Page 11

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.18

22. At the 29th meetine, on 29 October, the representative of Canada introduced
a draft resolution A/C.3/3L'/L.18) entitled "Alternative approaches and ways and
means l;,rithin the United Nations system for improvine; the effective en,joyment of
human rights and fundamental freedoms" which read as follO\fs:

f1The General Assembly,

"RecallinG the purposes and principles of the United I'lations as set forth
in the Charter, and in particular the need to promote and to encourage respect
for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to
race, sex, language or religion,

"Mindful of the importance of the role of the Secretary-General in
providing good offices and other assistance and services in accordance with
his responsibilities,

"1. Decides to invite the Secretary-General to appoint a Special
Representative of the Secretary-General for Human Rights and Humanitarian
Affairs, at a level of Under-Secretary<c.General, such person to be an eminent
perscn~;e of international stature~

"2. DeCldes also that the Special Representative shall carry out such
tasks in the field of human rights, including good offices, as aTe assigned
by the Secretary-General in accordance with the Charter of the United ~ations;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Special Representative
with such personnel and financial resources at United Nations Headquarters as
are necessary for the effective discharge of the Special Representative's
responsibilities. lI

The administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution were set out
in document A/C.3/34/L.26.

23. The Co~mittee had before it amendments to the draft resolution submitted by
Bulgaria and the German Democratic Republic (A/C.3/34/L.23), which read as follows:

"1. In operative paragraph 1 replace the word t appoint' by the following:
'consider the possibility of appointing, provided there will be general
agreement among the States Members,';

"2. In operative paragraph 2, insert the words t if appointed' after the
word 'Representative', and replace the words 'in the field of human rights,
including good Offices, as are assigned' by the words 'which are assigned to
him' ;

"3. In line 1 of operative paragraph 3 replace the word 'provide' by the
words 'study the possibility of providing' and insert the words 'if appointed'
after the word r Representatiye' ."

24. At the 35th meeting,
draft resolution.

on 5 November, the representative of Canada withdrew the

/ ...



A!34!704
English
Page 12

E. Draft resolution A!C.3!34!L.19

25. At the 29th meeting, on 29 October, the representative of Costa Rica introduced
a draft resolution entitled "Alternative approaches and ways and means within the
United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms" (A!C.3!34!L.19) sponsored by Costa Rica and Uganda.

26. At the 37th meeting, on 7 November, the sponsors revised the text to take into
account an oral proposal made by the representative of Lesotho to the effect that
the words "under the item entitled 'Alternative approaches and ways and means within
the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights
and fundamental freedoms'" would be added at the end of the operative paragraph.

27. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the revised draft resolution by
a recorded vote of 60 to 28, with 44 abstentions (see para. 31, draft resolution
Ill). The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Against:

Abstaining:

Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, Botswana, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Camoras, Costa Rica, Denmark, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Guatemala, Honduras,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Mexico, Morocco,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Portugal, Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal, Spain,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Tunisia, Uganda, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United RepUblic of Cameroon,
United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Zambia.

Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cape Verde, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Hungary, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Mongolia, Mozambique,
Oman, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia.

Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo,
Cyprus, Egypt, Gabon, Greece, Grenada, Guinea Bissau, Guyana,
India, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Nepal, Pakistan, Philippines,
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Turkey, United Republic of Tanzania, Yemen, Zaire.

/ ...



A/341704
English
Page 13

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.20

28. At the 29th meeting, on 29 October, the representative of India introduced
a draft resolution entitled "National institutions for the promotion and protection
of human rights" (A/C.3/34/L.20) sponsored by Australia, Ba~gladesh, India, Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Morocco, Sri Law<a and the Syrian Arab Republic,
subsequently joined by Mauritius, Norway, Peru and the Philippines.

29. At the 41st meeting, on 9 November, the sponsors revised the text to take into
account oral proposals made by the representatives of Guinea and the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

30. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution as orally
revised without a vote (see para. 31, draft resolution IV).

Ill. RECO~~lliNDATIONS OF THE THIRD CO~~ITTEE

31. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft resolut ions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Alternative approaches and ways and means within the United
Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of

human rights and fundamental freedoms

The General Assembly,

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations to
achieve international co-operation in solving international problems of an
economic, social~ cultural or humanitarian character, and in promoting and
encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without
distinction as to race~ sex, language or religion,

Recalling the importance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 2/
and of the International Covenants on Human Rights 3/ in further promoting -
international co-operation for respect for and obse;vance of human rights and
fundamental freedoms,

Considering that the acceptance by Member States of the obligations contained
in those Covenants is an important element for the universal realization of and
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms,

g; General Assembly resolution,217 A (Ill).
1/ General Assembly resolution 2200 (XXI), annex.

/ ...



A!34/704
TInglish
Page 14

necopnizinp: that, in accordance ,lith the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
the ideal of free human beings enjoying freedom from fear and want can only be
achieved if conditions are created vrhereby everyone may enjoy economic,. social,.
and cultural rizhts., as ·Hell as civil and political rights,

Recalling its resolution 32/130 of 16 December 1977 in which it was decided
that the approach to the future work within the United Nations system with respect
to human rights questions should take into account the concepts contained therein,

Recalling also its resolution 33/104 of 16 December 1979, in which it
reoyested the Commission on Human Ri['hts to continue vi th hiph priority the
over-all analysis of thc alternative approaches and vays and means vithin the
United Rations system for improvinp the effective enjoyr1ent of human rights and
fundamental freedoms, which will contribute to the implementation of resolution
32/130,

Further recallinp, its resolution 32/197 of 20 December 1977, in particular
paragraphs 5 (b) and 41 of its annex, regarding the responsibilities of the
Econon~ic and Social Council to monitor and evaluate the implementation of over-all
strategies, policies and priorities established by the General Assembly,

Noting with interest Economic and Social Council decisions 1979/29 and
1979/30 of 10 May 1979, and Com~ission On Human Rights resolutions 4 (XXXV) and
5 (XXXV) of 2 Harch 1979, the latter of vhich reiterated that the right to
development is a human riCht and that equality of opportunity for development is
as much a prerogative of nations as of individuals \·rithin nations,

Recognizing the need to create satisfactory conditions at the national and
international levels for the full promotion and protection of the human rights of
individuals and peoples,

Hoting ,·!ith interest that in the Final Declaration of the Sixth Conference
of Heads of State or Government of the Hon-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from
3 to 9 September 1979, the non-aligned countries called On the (Jnited Nations to
continue 'Jorking towards ensuring human rights in a comprehensive manner to ensure
the dignity of human beings and, in this regard, reaffirmed their O-Vffi willingness
to 1wrk actively for the ipplementation of the steps outlined in General Assembly
resolution 32/130 in the form which it ~rescribes, through the existing structures
of the United Hations system, ~

Taldnp, into account Economic and Social Council resolution 1979/36 of
10 !'Tay 1979,

1. Notes with satisfaction the report of the work relating to the over-all
analysis 21 submitted to the General Assembly by the Commission on Human Rights,
through the Economic and Social Council, in conformity with Assembly resolution
32/130;

~ A/34/542, annex, part I, para. 262.

5/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1979, Supplement
Ho. 6- (E/1979/361).

/ ...



A/34/T04
English
Page 15

2. Requests the Comrnission On Hurnan Rights to continue at its thirty-sixth
session its ongoing work on the over-all analysis ~ith a view to further promoting
and improving human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the question of the
Commission's programme and working methods, and on the over-all analysis of the
alternative approaches and ways and means for improving the effective enjoyment of
human rights and fundamental freedoITs, in accordance with the provisions and
concepts of resolution 32/130;

3. Reiterates its profound conviction that all human rights and fundamental
freedoms are indivisible and interdependent; and that equal attention and urgent
consideration should be given to the implementation, promotion and protection of
both civil and political, and economic, social and cJltural riehts;

4. Reaffirms the absolute necessity under all circumstances to eliminate
massive and flagrant violations of human ri~hts and of the rights of peoples and
individuals affected by situations such as those enumerated in paragraph 1 (e) of
resolution 32/130;

5. Reaffirms also that it is of paramount importance for the promotion of
human rights and fundamental freedoms that Mer1ber States undertake specific
obligations through accession to or ratification of international instruments in
this field, and that, consequently, the standard-setting work within the United
Nations system in the field of huma~ riphts and the QDiversal accept~Dce and
implementation of the relevant international instrur1ents should be encouraged;

6. Emphasizes the need to create conditions at the national and
international levels for the full nromotion and protection of the human rights of
individuals and peoples;

7. Recognizes that, in order fully,to guarantee human rights and complete
personal dignity, it is necessary to guarantee the right to work, participation
of workers in management, and the right to education, health and proper nourishment,
through the adoption of measures at the national and international levels, including
the establishment of the new international economic order;

8. Emphasizes that the right to development is a human right and that
equality of opportunity for development is as much a prerogative of nations as
of individuals within nations;

9. Bequests the Commission on Human Rights, at its thirty-sixth session, to
consider the existing human and other resources that the Division of Human Rights
of the Secretariat has at its disposal for the implementation of Ceneral Assembly
resolutions, on the basis of complete data which the Secretary-General is requested
to provide to it, <:.:.rH::' thereafter to F.d-::e recommendations, throu8h the Economic and
Social Council, to t',,·, Assembly at its thirty-fifth session, "ith a view to further
improvinG the workin" of the :Ji'lisioll;

/ ...



A/34/T04
English
Page 16

10. Requests the Secretary-General to give, through the advisory services
programme in the field of human rights, priority to the holding in 1980 of a
seminar, as already decided by the Economic and Social Council in its decision
1979/30, on the effect of the present unjust international economic order on the
economies of developing countries and the obstacle that this constitutes for the
implementation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and in particular for the
right to enjoy an adeQuate standard of living as stated in article 25 of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights;

11. Requests the Secretary-General and concerned organs and bodies of the
United Nations system to implement fully the recommendations contained in Economic
and Social Council resolution 1979/36;

12. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare, taking also into account
relevant information already available within the United Nations, and to present
to the General Assembly at its thirty-sixth session, a study on the nature and
extent to which the realization of human rights and fundamental freedoms are
affected by present international conditions, with particular reference to
situations resulting from apartheid, from all forms of racial discrimination,
from COlonialism, neo-colonialism and imperialism, from policies tending to divide
the world into spheres of influence, from the arms race, from foreign domination and
occupation, from aggression and threats against national sovereignty, national unity
and territorial integrity, from refusal to recognize the fundamental rights of
peoples to self-determination and of every nation to the exercise of full
sovereignty over its wealth and natural resources, from intervention and
interference in the internal affairs of States, particularly with reference to
developing countries, as well as from the existence of the unjust system of
international economic relations, taking into account the conclusions of the
seminar ment ioned in paragraph 10 above;

13. Also requests that the Secretary-General transmit the present resolution
to the specialized agencies concerned and to all United Nations bodies that deal
with human rights;

14. Further reQuests that the Secretary-General present to the General
Assembly at its thirty-fifth session a progress report on the implementation of
the present resolution;

15. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-fifth session
the item entitled "Alternative approaches and ways and means within the United
Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental
freedoms" •

/ ...



A/341704
English
Page 17

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Services of the Secretariat concerned with human rights

The General Assembly,

Recalling the determination of the peoples of the United Nations to reaffirm
faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person,
in the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small,

Recalling especially that one of the most important purposes of the United
Nations is to achieve international co-operation in solving international problems
of an economic, social~ cultural or humanitarian character, and in promoting and
encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without
distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

Mindful of the important contribution which the Division of Human Rights of
the Secretariat has made to United Nations activities for the promotion and
protection of human rights since the inception of the Organization,

Believing however that the activities of the human rights sector of the
Secretariat should be enhanced so as better to enable it to meet the needs of the
Organization and the international community, particularly after the entry into
force of the International Covenants on Human Rights 6/ and the International
Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid 7/ and
bearing in mind policy-making decisions of the General Assembly such as-resolution
32/130 of 16 December 1977,

Recalling the report of the Secretary-General on organizational nomenclature
in the Secretariat, 8/ the general direction of which was endorsed in General
Assembly resolution-32/204 of 21 December 1977,

1. Requests the Secretary-General to consider the redesignation of the
Division of Human Rights as a Centre for Human Rights, in the light of the views
expressed on the proposed redesignation at the thirty-sixth session of the
Commission on Human Rights;

2. Further invites the Secretary-General to ensure that adequate financial
and other resOurces are allocated to the sector in the Secretariat concerned with
human rights, so as to enable it to discharge its functions, in the light of the
results of the relevant study to be conducted by the Commission on Human Rights at
its thirty-sixth session in accordance with paragraph 9 of General Assembly
resolution 34/ ••• ; 21

3. Requests the Secretary-General to report on the implementation of the
present resolution to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session.

£I General Assembly resolution 2200 (XXI), annex.
11 General Assembly resolution 3068 (XXVIII), annex.
§! A/C.5/32/17.

21 Draft resolution I of the present report. / ...



A/34/704
English
Page 18

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Alternative approaches and ways and means within the United
)ations syster.l for the improvement of the effective en.joyment

of human rights and fundamental free dams

The General Assembly,

Recallinp that one of the purposes of the United Nations under !lrticle 1 of
the Charter is to promote and encourage resnect for the human rights and
fundanlental freedoms as embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 10/

Bearing in mind its resolution 33/105 of 16 December 1978, in which it requested
the Commission on Human Rights to take into account, in continuinr, its work on the
over-all analysis, the views expressed on the various proposals during the general
debate on the item at the thirty-second and thirty-third sessions of the General
Assembly, including a post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights,

Considering that the Working Group of the Commission on Human Rights was
nevertheless unable, in its consideration of the over-all analysis, to make a
thorough evaluation of the proposal to create a post of United Nations High
Commissioner for Human Rights,

Decides to consider at its thirty-fifth session the question of the creation
of a post of United Nations High COllLmissioner for Human Rights under the item
enti tIed "in ternative approaches and ways and means within the United Nations
system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental
freedoms".

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

National institutions for the promotion and protection
of human rights

The General Assembly,

Recallin~ its resolutions 32/123 of 16 December 1977 and 33/46 of
14 December 1978, as well as Commission on Human Rights resolutions 23 (XXXIV) and
24 (XXXV) concerning national institutions for the promotion and protection of
human rights,

Recallin~ also that its resolution 34/ .•• 11/ emnhasizes the need to create
conditions at the national and international levels f;r the full promotion and
protection of the human rights of individuals and peoples,

10/ General Assembly resolution 217 A (Ill).

11/ Draft resolution I of the present report.

/ ...



A/34/704
English
Page 19

Mindful of the guidelines on the structure and functioning of national and
local institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights adopted by
the United Nations Seminar on I'1ational and Local Institutions for the Promotion
and Protection of Human Rights 12/ and endorsed by the General Assembly in its
resolution 33/46,

Mindful also of the seminar on recourse procedures available to victims of
racial discrimination, held at Geneva from 9 to 20 July 1979,

1. Invi tes all Member States to take appropriate steps for the establishment
of national institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights, bearing
in mind the guidelines referred to above;

2. Emphasizes the importance of the integrity and independence of such
national institutions in accordance with national legislation;

3. Draws attention to the constructive role which national non-6overnmental
organizations can play in the work of national institutions;

4. Reluests the Secretary-General, in submitting to the General Assembly
at its thirty-sixth session the report requested in paragraph 6 of Commission on
Human Rights resolution 24 (XXXV), to draw also upon other relevant sources, such
as the reports and documents of the United Nations seminars on national and local
institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights and on recourse
procedures available to victims of racial discrimination, and, in presenting his
report to the Assembly, to describe the various existing types of national
institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights reflected in the
documentation received by him and in the above-mentioned sources.

5. Decides to include in the agenda of its thirty-sixth session a subitem
entitled "National institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights";

6.
national
subitem.

Recommends that Member States should associate representatives of their
institutions with the contents of the debate on the above-mentioned

32. The Third Committee also recorrrnends that the General Assembly should request
the Commission on Human Rights, in the context of the over-all analysis and of the
consideration it is to l.ll1dertake at its thirty-sixth session in pursuance of',
respectively, paragraphs 2 and 9 of Assembly resolution 34/ ••• ,13/ to consider
the proposals contained in resolution 34/ ••• , 14/ and to take them into due account
in formulating recommendations to the Assembly at its thirty-fifth session.

12/ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council. 1978, Supplement
No. 4-rE/1978/34), chap. XXVI, sect. A.

13/ Draft resolution r.
14/ Draft resolution II.




