








































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/34/635/Add.2· 3
5 December 1979
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH

Thirty-fourth session
Agenda item 12

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Second Committee (Part Ill)

Rapporteur: Miss Paulina GARCIA DONOSO (Ecuador)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Committee continued its consideration of the item at its 53rd meeting, on
28 November 1979. An account of the discussion of the Committee is contained in
the relevant summary record (A/C.2/34/SR.53).

11. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.52

2. At the 42nd meeting, on 16 November, the representative of Pakistan introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.2/34/L.52) entitled "Assistance to the Palestinian people"
on behalf of Algeria, Angola, the Comoros, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, D,iibouti,
Ethiopia, the German Democratic Republic, Grenada, India, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Jordan, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Nicaragua, Oman,
Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Turkey,
the United Arab Emirates, Yemen and Yugoslavia. At the same time, he orally
revised the draft resolution by inserting the words Ilta the Economic and Social
Council and" before the words "to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session"
in operative paragraph 4. Subsequently, Burundi, the Congo, Guinea, Indonesia,
Morocco and Senegal joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

3. At its 48th meeting, on 23 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/34/L.52, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 96 to 3, with
20 abstentions (see para. 19, draft resolution I). !I The voting was as follows:

!I At the 48th meeting, the representative of Cuba stated that, had his
delegation been present at the time of the vote, it would have voted in favour of the
draft resolution. The delegation of Bangladesh later informed the Secretariat that,
had it been present during the voting, it would have voted in favour of the draft
resolution.

79-34475 / ...



A/34/635/Add,2
English
Page 2

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil~ Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, f1adagascar, Malaysia,
Mali, Mauritania, }fuxico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nicaragua, NiReria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist RepUblics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
YugOSlavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Canada, Israel, United States of America.

Abstainin~: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, Burma, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Sweden,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

4. At the same meeting, statements in explanation of vote were made by the
representatives of Israel, the United States of America, the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Ireland (on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations
which are members of the European Economic Community) and Sweden.

B. Draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.54

5. At the 44th meeting, on 19 November, the representative of the Philippines
introduced a draft resolution (A/C. 2/34/L. 54) enti tIed "1'orld Tourism Orr;anization"
on behalf of Argentina, Austria, Bulgaria, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, the
Dominican Republic, Ecuador) Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Greece, Italy, Kenya ~ Peru,
the Philippines, Portugal, Spain and Yugoslavia. At the same time, he orally
revised the draft resolution by deleting the word "appropriate" before the words
"representation at the Conference" in operative paragraph 2. SUbsequently, Brazil,
Burundi" the Ivory Coast ~ Lebanon, Rwanda, Sene~al and Uganda joined in sponsoring
the draft resolution.

6. At the 48th meeting, On 23 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/34/L.54, as orally revised (see para. 19, draft resolution 11).

/ ...



A/34/635/Add.2
English
Page 3

C. Draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.55

7. At the 44th meeting, on 19 November, the representative of Tunisia introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.2/34/L.55) entitled llAssistance for the reconstruction and
development of Lebanon" on behalf of Argentina, Algeria, Brazil, Chile, 'Colombia,
Ecuador ~ France ~ Iran) Iraq") Italy j Jordan j Kuwait, the LaD People I s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Morocco, Pakistan,
Paraguay, the Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Tunisia, Uruguay
and Yemen. Subsequently, Costa Rica, Ethiopia, the Ivory Coast, Japan, Madagascar,
Oman, Peru, Somalia, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic, the United Arab Emirates
and the United States of America joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

8. At the 48th meeting, on 23 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/34/L.55 (see para 19, draft resolution Ill).

9.
and

Statements on the draft resolution were
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

made by the representatives of Lebanon

D. Draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.51

10. At the 42nd meeting, on 16 November, the representative of Jordan introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.2/34/L.51) entitled "Permanent sovereignty over national
resources in the occupied Arab territories ll on behalf of Algeria, Angola, the
Comoros,. Cuba, Djibouti '. Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, the German Democratic
Republic, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, India, Indonesia, Iran) Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Ma~nia , Nicaragua,_ Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi
Arabia, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.
Subsequently, Afghanistan, Burundi, Mali, Morocco, the Sudan and Yugoslavia joined
in sponsoring the draft resolution.

11. A statement of the administrative and financial implications of draft
resolution A/C.2/34/L.51 was submitted by the Secretary-General in accordance with
rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly (A/C.2/34/L.78).

12. At the 53rd meeting, on 28 November, the Secretary of the Committee made a
statement on the administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution,
as contained in document A/C.2/34/L.78.

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.51 by a
recorded vote of 104 to 2, with 23 abstentions (see para. 19, draft resolution
IV). 5./ The vot ing was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,

2/ At the 53rd meeting, the representative of Qatar stated that, had his
delegation been present at the time of the vote, it would have voted in favour of
the draft resolution.

/ ...



A/34/635/Add.2
English
Page 4

Burundi~ Byeloru8sian Soviet Socialist Republic~ Cape Verde)
Chad, Chile~ China~ Colombia~ Congo~ Costa Rica~ Cuba~ Cyprus'l
Czechoslovakia. ~ Democratic Yemen,> D,jibouti" Ecuador'l T:gypt ~
~l Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon~ German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary 'I India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq., Jamaica, J2~pan';l Jordan, Kenya" Km-rait,
1800 People's Democratic Republic" Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta~
f\'1auritania, r.'Iexico) I'iongolia, Morocco, I:Iozambique'l Nepal, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines) Poland) PortUGal, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia~ Senegal~
Sierra Leone, Singapore~ Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan" Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
RepUblic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United TIepublic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela~ Viet Nam~ Yemen,
Yugoslaviaj Zaire, Zambiag

Av,ainst: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgi~m, Canada, Central African Republic,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Finland, France, Gerflany, Federal
Republic of, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Ivory Coast, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Papua New Guinea, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

14. Statements in explanation of vote lTere made by the representatives of Israel,
Ireland (on behalf of the States [,embers of the United Nations ,rhich are members
of the Europeap- Economic Community), Japan, the Union of Soviet Socialist
RepUblic s, the Dni ted States of America and Portugal.

E. Draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.62 and nev.l

15. At the 47th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of !!ongolia introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.2/34/L.62) entitled "Role of the public sector in promoting
the economic development of developing cour:.tries 1: on behalf of Afghanistan, Algeria~
Pngola 9 Benin) Bul~aria, the Congo, Cuba J Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Ethiopia~ the Ger~~nDemocratic Repu~1 Grenada, Gui~~~ Guinea-Bi~s.auJ Hungary~
India~ Iraq, the Lao People's Democratic Republic~ Madagascar, }1ali, Mongolia,
IVlozambigue, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab RepUblic and Viet Nam.
Subsequently, Cape Verde and Sao Tome and Principe joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution,) \'Thich read as follows:

/ ...



A/34/635/Add 02
J:nglish
Page 5

~;The General Assembly)

"Referrinp; to its resolutions 2626 (XXV) of 24 October 1970 containing
the International Development StrateGY for the Second United ~ations
Development Decade, 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May 1971, containinc the
Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establish'l1ent of a He,',
International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974 containing
the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 September 1975 on development and international economic co--operation,

"Recalling also its resolutions 3335 (XXIX) of 17 December 1974,
3488 (xxx) of 12 December 1975, 32/179 of 19 December 1977 and 33/144 of
20 December 1978 and Economic and Social Council resolutions 19'78/60 of
3 August 1978 and 1979/48 of 31 July 1979,

"Taking into account the relevant provisions of the Lima Declaration and
Plan of Action on Industrial Development and Co-operation l/ adopted at the
Second General Conference of the United Nations Industrial Development
Organization, held at Lima from 12 to 26 March 1975, which, inter alia,
recoe;nized the importance of ensuring an adequate role for the public sector
in the expansion of the industrial development of developing countries 1

iJNotinr; the relevant provISIons of the Economic Declaration adopted by
the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries,
held at Havana from 3 to 9 September 1979,

i1Stressing the need for an expanded exchange of information and experience
regarding the role of the public sector through a more detailed examination of
its different aspects 5

"Reaffirming the right of p.very State to exercise full and permanent
sovereignty over its natural resources and economic activities for the benefit
of its people,

"I. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the role of the
pUblic sector in promoting the economic development of developing countries; ~

"20 Endorses Economic and Social Council resolution 1979/48 of
31 July 1979;

3, Requests the United Nations Development Prograrame and other competent
organizations to give 5 within the context of national development systems and
priorities, due consideration to technical co~operation projects for
strengthening the role of the public sector and improving the performance of
public enterprises;

1/ See A/IOl12, chap. IVo
~ E/1979/660

/.0.



A/3l"/63~/Md.2
English
PaGe 6

;;4. Recommends that the regional cOlYlI!lissions consider in detail the
role of the public sector in promoting the economic development of the
developing countries of their respective regions, giving particular attention
to the aspects noted in paragraph 5 of resolution 32/179;

"5. Reauests the Secretary-General to continue his detailed study of
the role of the public sector and submit through the Economic and Social
Council, a f~rther comprehensive report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session, paying special attention, inter alia, to the following
aspects~

Ii(a) Role of the public sector in the mobilization of national
resources for social and economic development;

"(b) Hole of public enterprises as main instruments of the public sector
and ways of increasing their efficacy;

;;(c) Hays and means of strengtheninG the public sector, including its
institutional and managerial capabilities, as the basis for developing
appropriate national and international measures~

"(d) The pUblic sector as a lever for introducing national development
plans and establishing soeial and economic development priorities;

H(e) Ways and means of ensuring the practical exchange of experience and
information among developing countries on the role of the public sector, for
example, the possibility of holding seminars and publishing handbooks on the
experience of different countries in the field of developing the public
sector:

\;6. Reaffirms :8conomic and Social Council reso1utjon 1978/60 of
3 August 1978 which~ inter alia~ invites regional commissions and other
relevant orGanizations of the United Nations system to assist the Secretary-
General continuously in preparing further studies on the role of the public
sector 0 !

16. At the 53rd meetinG, on 28 Eoven'ber, the representative of Mongolia, on behalf
of the sponsors, which had been joined by rlauritius and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics" introduced a revised text of the draft resolution
(A/C.2/34/L.62/Rev.l), vhich entailed the following ehan,~es;

(a) In the first preambular paragraph, the replacement of the words
"Referring to" by the ·Ford I1Recalling";

(b) In the third preambular paragraph, the replacement of the lrords nTakinr;
into account t; by the \.Jords "Bearin,o:: in mind t1 ;

(c) In the fifth preambular paragraph, the replacement of the word
;'Stressing;! by the \.Jord l1Emphasizing"; the deletion of the \'lOrds "'information and ';

/ ...



M34/635/Add,.2
English
Page 7

before the 'ITord ;;experience iJ ; and the insertion of the words liespecially am.ong the
developing countries;; before the words i1 t hrough a more detailed examination of its
different aspects\;;

(d) The insertion of a new seventh preambular paragraph, which read as
follows:

"Bearing in mind that every State has the sovereign and inalienable
right to choose its economic and social system in accordance vlith the will of
its people., without outside interference r; ~

(e) In operative paragraph 3, the replacement of the Hord "Requests" by
Hord "Invites", and the insertion of the lmrds '\.,here appropriate" before the
words Hdue consideration;:;

(f) In operative paragraph 4, the replacement of the Hords "Recommends
that the regional commissions consider'i by the 1-lords \:Invites the reGional
commissions to examine':;

the

(g) In operative paragraph 5, the replacement of the Ford "Requests" by the
word "Invites", and the deletion of the ,Tord "further" before the ,TOrds
Hcomprehensive report to the General A.ssembly"':~

(h) In operative paragraph 5 (c), the insertion of the lmrds"l'There
appropriate" after the I,rords i'\-Jays and means t,., and the replacement of the words
":as the basis:"· by the words "as a possible basis ti :

(i) In operative paragraph 5 (d), the replacement of the words :"The public
sector" by the lmrds"Role of th" public sector",

(j)
the word

In operative paragraph 5 (e), the replacement of the lmrd "ensuring" by
"facilitating" ;

The insertion of a new operative paragraph 5 (f), Hhich read:

'tiole of the public sector in relation to other sectors of economic
act i vi ty";

(1) In operative paragraph 6, the insertion of the words "continue to"
between the words l,ta l! and Hassist" ~ the deletion of the 1.,rord ';continuouslyf; ~ ano
the addition of the words r1in promoting the economic development of developing
countries" at the end of that paragraph.

17. At the same time, he orally revised the sixth preambular paragraph of the
revised draft resolution (A/C.2!34!L.62/Rev.l) to read as follows:

11Recall}ng the pertinent provisions of the above-mentioned resolutions,
Hhich reaffirmed the right of every State to exercise full and permanent
sovereignty over its natural resources and economic activities for the
benefit of its people".

/ ...



A/34/635/Add.2
English
Page 8

18. At the Game meeting, the Co~mittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/34/L.62/Rev.l, as orally revised (see para. 19, draft resolution V).

19. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the United
States of America made a statement.

IH. RECOMMErTDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMIHTTEE

20. The Second Committee recorr~ends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Assistance to the Palestinian people

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3236 (XXIX) and 3237 (XXIX) of 22 November 1974
and 33/147 of 20 December 1978,

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolutions 1978 (LIX) of
31 July 1975, 2026 (LXI) of 4 August 1976 and 2100 (LXIII) of 3 August 1977,

Taking into consideration the reuorts of the Secretary-General on assistance
to the Palestinian people, ~/

l'akin&: note of the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Development Programme on its twenty-sixth session, §J and of the response of the
Administrator of the Programme, 1/

1. notes with satisfaction the action taken by the Administrator and the
Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme in response to
General Assembly resolution 33/147;

2. Endorses decision C(9/18 of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Development P;ogramme §J on the implementation of resolution 33/147;

~ E/1979/61 and Add.l.

6/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1979, Supulement
No. la (E/1979/40 and Corr.l).

1/ Ibid., para. 111-
~/ Ibid., chap. XXI.

/ ...



A/34/635/Add.2
English
Page 9

30 Urges the relevant agencies, organizations, organs and programmes of the
United Nations system to take the necessary steps for the full implementation of
Economic and Social Council resolutions 2026 (LXI) and 2100 (LXIII);

4. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Economic and Social
Council and to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session on the progress
made in the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

World Tourism Organization

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 32/157 of 19 December 1977 and 33/122 of
19 December 1978 concerning the World Tourism Organization,

Noting with satisfaction the report prepared by the World Tourism
Organization and circulated under a note by the Secretary-General in response to
resolution 33/122, ~/

Further noting the work accomplished by the IJorld Tourism Organization in the
field of tourism and the steps it has taken in this regard, especially the
operational activities for the promotion of tourism, in particular for the
benefit of developing countires,

Recognizin~ that the programmes and activities of the World Tourism
Organization in the field of tourism contribute, in accordance with its
statutes, 10/ to global economic and social development and to international
understanding? peace and progress,

Further noting that the World Tourism Organization will convene a Ilorld
Tourism Conference at Manila in September 1980 to examine past and present trends
in tourism with a view to defining guidelines for its future development, planning
and promotion to enable States to formulate tourism development strategies,

1. Requests the World Tourism Organization to continue its efforts towards
the further development and promotion of tourism, especially in the developing
countries, through closer international co-operation pursuant to its statutory
objectives and having regard to its central and decisive role in the field of
tourism;

2. Urges States to give due attention and co-operation to the preparatory
work of the 110rld Tourism Organization for the World Tourism Conference to be held

~/ E/1979/99.

10/ E/4955, annex.

/ ...



A/34/635/Add.2
Lnglish
Page 10

at ~~anila in 1980, and to ensure representation at the Conference at the highest
possible level in order to achieve the most effective results, particularly in the
promotion and strengthening of tourism and in developing countries to enable them
to derive a fair and eQuitable share of the benefits of international tourism;

3. Reiterates its invitation, through the Secretary-General of the United
Nations, to State ~"embers of the United Nations which are not yet members of the
v!orld Tourism Organization to consider becoming members of that organization;

4. Reouests the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in collaboration
with the Secretary-General of the vwrld Tourism Organization, to submit the report
and recommendations of the World Tourism Conference to the General Assembly at
its thirty-sixth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Assistance for the reconstruction and develo~ment of Lebanon

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its resolution 33/146 of 20 December 1978 on assistance for the
reconstruction and development of Lebanon,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General of 26 September 1979, 11/

1. Notes with satisfaction the appointment by the Secretary-General of a
co-ordinator to assist the Government of Lebanon in the assessment, formulation
and phasing of aid and ensure its implementation within the framework of the needs
of Lebanon;

2.
General

Requests the Secretary-General to pursue his efforts to implement fully
Assembly resolution 33/146;

3. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the Economic and
Social Council at its first regular session of 1980 and to the General Assembly at
its thirty-fifth session on the progress achieved in the implementation of the
present resolution,

11/ A/34/504.

/ . . .



A/34/635/Add.2
English
Page 11

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Permanent sovereignty Over national resources in the
occupied Arab territories

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the relevant principles of international law and the
provisions of the international conventions and regulations, in particular the
Hague Convention IV of 1907 12/ and the fourth Geneva Convention of
12 August 1949, 13/ concerning the obligations and responsibilities of the
occupying Power,

Recalling its previous resolutions on permanent sovereignty over natural
resources, particularly their provisions supporting resolutely the efforts of the
developing countries and the peoples of territories under colonial and racial
domination and foreign occupation in their struggle to regain effective control
over their natural and all ot~er resources~ wealth and economic activities~

Bearing in mind the pertinent provisions of its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and
3202 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974 containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action
on the Establishment of a New International Economic Order and 3281 (A'XIX) of
12 December 1974 containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States,

Recalling further its resolutions 3175 (XXVIII) of 17 December 1973,
3336 (XXIX) of 17 December 1974, 3516 (XXX) of 15 December 1975, 31/186 of
21 December 1976 and 32/161 of 19 December 1977 on permanent sovereignty over
nationaJ. resources in the occupied Arab territories,

1. ~nphasizes the right of the Arab States and peoples whose territories
are under Israeli occupation to full and effective permanent sovereignty and
control over their natural and all other resources, wealth and economic activities;

2. Reaffirms that all measures undertaken by Israel to exploit the human,
natural and all other resources, wealth and economic activities in the occupied
Arab territories are illegal and calls upon Israel immediately to desist forthwith
from all such measures;

3. Further reaffirms the right of the Arab States and peoples subjected to
Israeli aggression and occupation to the restitution of and full compensation for
the exploitation, depletion and loss of and damages to their natural, human and
all other resources, "ealth and economic activities, and calls upon Israel to meet
their just claims;

12/ carnegie Endowment for International Peace, The Hague Conventions and
Decla;ations 1899-1907 (New York, Oxford University Pres s, 1915), p. 100.

13/ United Nations, Treaty_Series, vol. 75, No. 973, p. 287.

/ ...



A/34/635/Arid.2
Ene;lish
Page 12

4. Calls upon all States to support and assist the Arab States and peoples
in the exercise of their above-mentioned rights;

5. Calls upon all states~ international organizations~ specialized agencies,
investment corporations and all other institutions not to recognize, or coo-operate
with or assist in any manner in, any measures undertaken by Israel to exploit the
resources of the occupied territories or to effect any changes in the demographic
composition or geographic character or institutional structure of those
territories;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare and submit to the General
Assembly at its thirty-fifth session a report which takes into consideration the
provisions of paragraph 2 of its resolution 32/161.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Role of the uublic sector in promoting the economic
development of developing countries

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 2626 (,(XV) of 24 October 1970 containing the
International Development Strategy for the Second United Nations Development
Decade, 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974 containing the Declaration and
the Programme of Action on the Establis~ment of a New International Economic
Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974 containing the Charter of Economic Rights
and Duties of States and 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on development and
international economic co-operation

1

TIecallinp also its resolutions 3335 (XXIX) of 17 December 1974, 3488 (XXX) of
12 December 1975, 32/179 of 19 December 1977 and 33/144 of 20 December 1978 and
Economic and Social Council resolutions 1978/60 of 3 August 1978 and 1979/48 of
31 July 1979,

Bearing in mind the relevant provlslons of the Lima Declaration and Plan of
Action on Industrial Development and Co-operation 141 adopted at the Second
General Conference of the United Nations Industria~DevelopmentOrganization, held
at Lima from 12 to 26 March 1975, which, inter alia, recognized the importance of
ensuring an adequate role for the public sector in the exuansion of the industrial
development of developing countries~

Noting the relevant provisions of the Economic Declaration adopted by the
Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government of lIon-Aligned Countries, held at
Havana from 3 to 9 September 1979, 12/

14/ See n/lO/12, chap. IV.

151 A/34/542, annex, sect. IV.

I ...



A/34/635/Add.2
English
Fage 13

Emphasizing the need for an expanded exchange of experience regarding the role
of the public sector, especially among the developing countries, through a more
detailed examination of its different aspects,

Recalling the pertinent provisions of the abcve-mentioned resolutions, which
reaffirmed the right of every State to exercise full and permanent sovereignty over
its natural resources and economic activities for the benefit of its people,

Bearing in mind that every State has the sovereign and inalienable right to
choose its economic and social system in accordance with the will of its people,
without outside interference,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the role of the
public sector in promoting the economic development of developing countries; 16/

2. Endorses Economic and Social Council resolution 1979/48;

3. Invites the United Nations Development Programme and other competent
organizations to give, within the context of national development systems and
priorities, where appropriate, due consideration to technical co-operation projects
for strengthening the role of the pUblic sector and improving the performance of
public enterprises;

4. Invites the regional commissions to examine in detail the role of the
pUblic sector in promoting the economic development of the developing countries of
their respective regions, giving particular attention to the aspects noted in
paragraph 5 of resolution 32/179;

5. Invites the Secretary-General to continue his detailed study of the role
of the public sector and submit, through the Economic and Social Council, a
comprehensive report to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session, paying
special attention, inter alia, to the following aspects:

(a) Role of the pUblic sector in the mobilization of national resources for
social and economic development;

(b) Role of public enterprises as the main instruments of the public sector
and ways of increasing their efficacy;

(c) Ways and means, where appropriate, of strengthening the public sector,
including its institutional and managerial capabilities, as a possible basis for
developing appropriate national and international measures;

(d)
plans and

Role of the public sector as a lever for introducing national
establishing social and economic development priorities;

development

(e) Ways and means of facilitating the practical exchange of experience and
information among developing countries on the role of the public sector, for
example, the possibility of holding seminars and pUblishing handbooks on the
experience of different countries in developing the public sector;

16/ E/1979/66. / .••



A/34/635/Add.2
Ecglish
Page 14

(f) Role of the pUblic sector in relation to other sectors of economic
activity;

6. Reaffirms Economic and Social Council resolution 1978/60 in which the
Council, inter alia, invited regional commissions and other relevant organizations
of the United Nations system to continue to assist the SecretEry-General in
preparing further studies on the role of the public sector in promoting the
economic development of developing countries.


