








































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-fourth session
Agenda i tern 37

Distr.
GENERAL

A/3417 lf7
4 December 1979

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

ESTABLIsm~ENT OF A NUCLEAR-,~APON-FREE ZONE IN SOUTH ASIA

Rep0r:-t..-of the_!irst COYcllliij;tee

RaJ2J?£rteur: Mr. Ernst SUCHARIPA (Austria)

1. The item entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-·free zone in South Asia:
report of the Secretary-General" was included in the provisional agenda of the
thirty-fourth session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 33/65 of
14 December 1978.

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1979, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 3rd meeting, on 1 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate On the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 30 to 45, 120 and 121. Tne general debate on these items took place
at the 4th to 30th meetings, from 16 October to 5 November (A/C.1/34/pv.4-30).

If. In connexion with agenda item 37 the First Committee had before it the
following documents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General (A/34/527)

(b) Letter dated 27 July 1979 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of i'lorocco to the United ITations addressed to
the Secretary-General, transmitting the resolutions and final
communique of the Tenth Islamic Conference of Forc=ign I/jinisters,
held at Fez from 8 to 12 Hay 1979 (A/34/389 and Corr.l).

5. On 25 October, Pakistan submitted a draft resolution (A/c.1/34/L.2), which
was introduced by its representative at the 31st me~ting, on 6 November.

79-34193 / ...



A/341747
English
Page 2

6. At its 38th meeting, on 21 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/c.1/34/L.2 by a recorded vote of 86 to 3, with 38 abstentions (see para. 7). The
voting was as follows:

In favour: Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Burundi,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Democratic Yemen,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gambia,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Guatemala, Guyana, Honduras,
Iceland, Iran, Ira~, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, l~alaysia, Mali , Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab RepUblic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United
RepUblic of Tanzania, United States of America, Upper Volta,
Uruguayj VeL€z~ela, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Bhutan, India, Mauritius.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Ethiopia, France, German Democratic Republic, Greece, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Indonesia, Israel, Italy, Lao People's
Democratic RepUblic, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambi~ue, Norway,
Poland, Sweden, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia.

RECO~lENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Establishment of a nu~lear-weapon-free zone in South Asia

The General Assembly,

l'ecalling its resolutions 3265 B (XXIX) of 9 December 1974, 3476 B (XXX) of
11 December 1975, 31/73 of December 1976, 32/83 of 12 December 1977 and 33/65 of
14 December 1978 concerning the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in
South Asia,

Reiterating its conviction that the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones
in various regions of the world is One of the measures which can contribute most

I . ..



A/34/T47
English
Page 3

effectively to the objectives of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and general
and complete disarmament,

Believing that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia,
as in other regions, will strengthen the security of the States of the region
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Noting the declarations issued at the highest level by Governments of South
Asian States reaffirming their undertaking not to acquire or manufacture nuclear
weapons and to devote their nuclear programmes exclusively to the economic and
social advancement of their peoples,

Recalling that in the above-mentioned resolutions it called upon the States of
the South Asian region and such other neighbouring non··-nuclear-weapon States as
might be interested to make all possible efforts to establish a nuclear-weapon-free
zone in South Asia and to refrain, in the meantime, from any action contrary to this
objective,

Further recalling that, in its resolutions 3265 B (XXIX), 31/73 and 32/83, it
requested the Secretary--General to convene a meeting for the purpose of the
consultations mentioned therein and to render such assistance as might be required
to promote the efforts for the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in
South Asia,

Bearing in mind the provisions of paragraphs 60 to 63 of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly 1/ regarding the establishment
of nuclear-weapon-free zones, including in the region-of South Asia,

Noting the report of the Secretary-General on the establishment of a nuclear-
weapon·-free zone in South Asia, ?J

1. Reaffirms its endorsement, in principle, of the concept of a nuclear-
weapon-free zone in South Asia;

2. Urges once again the States of South Asia and such other neighbouring
non-nuclear-weapon States as may be interested to continue to make all possible
efforts to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia and to refrain, in
the meantime, from any action contrary to this objective;

3. Calls upon those nuclear-weapon States which have not done so to respond
positively to this proposal and to extend the necessary co-operation in the efforts
to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia;

1/ Resolution S-10/2.

y A/34/527.

/ ...



A/34/747
English
P~e4

4. Re~uests the Secretary-General to render such assistance as may be
required to promote the efforts for the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free
zone in South Asia and to report on the subject to the General Assembly at its
thirty-fifth session;

5. Decides to consider this item at its thirty-fifth session.




