








































-AF
:=/G'E E::...ff

{.,NIITD NAT'ONS

GENERAL
A S S E fuT B I.Y

Distr "
GENERAL

A/3\ /538 /Add". 2
lf December I9T9

ORTCINAL: ENGLTSH/SpnWrSH

Thirty-fourth session
Agend.a item 56

UNITED NATIONS CONFEFENCE ON TRADE AND DEVELOP}4NI\T

Report of the Second Committee (Part flf)

Rapporteur: Miss Paulina GARCIA DO\IOSO (Ecuador)

] " T}ITRODUCTION

1. The Committee continued. its consideration of the item at its 58ttr, 59th and
5oth meetings, on l-2, 13 and l-l+ December L979. An account of the discussion of
the Committee is contained" in the relevant Sllpnarrr rannrrilc (n/r, 2/!a/SA.1B, 59

- /^ 
\n/ v'

and ou

II " CO}ISTDERATTON OF PROPOSALS

A. _heft s9!_9-1$ tpp_tl e .z/Y!.59
2. At the l+6th meeting, on 21 November, the representative of Tndia, on beha1f
of the States Members of the United, Nations which are mernbers of the Group of 77,
introduced a draft resofution (A/C.Z/Z\/f.59) entitled o'Report of the United
Idations Conference on Trade and" Development on its fifth session - financial
aspects tt .

3. At its SBth meeting, on 12 December, the Committee decid.ed to transmit
draft resotution A/C"z/:\/t "69 to the Fifth Cornmittee.

B. nraft resotution A/ C.,2/3\/L.76

L. At the 5Oth meeting, on 25 November, the rer:resentative of fndia, on behaff
of the States l{embers of the United Nations vhich are members of the Group of TT,
introduced a d"raft resolution (A/c.Z/3\/L"75) entitted "Effects of the world
inflationary phenomenon on the d.evelopment process'?.

T9-38192



Ll?+/538/Add.2
English
Page 2

5. At the 59th meeting, on 13 December, the representative of India, on
behal-f of the States l{embers of the United" Nations which are remiEif-of the
Croup of TT, orally revised the second, preambular naragraph of draft
resolution A/C.2/Zt+/f.76 to read as fot_t_ows:

"Recalling its resol-utions
global negotiations on international-
to d.eal with raw material s , enerf_Ty,
and monetary cluestions,tt

and on the
economic co-operation development

trade, development and financiaf

b. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted. draft resolution A/C.2/3\/L.76,
as ora11y revised-, by 9T votes to none, with 20 abstentions (see para. 33,
draft resolution f).

T . After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were mad.e by the
representatives of Ireland (on behalf of States members of the European
Economic Community), Turkev, Australia, Bulgaria (on behal-f of Bulcaria,
the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, the German
Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland., the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic and the Union of Soviet Sociatist Republics ) , the United. States of
America and Spain (see A/c "z/Z\/sa.rg).

C. Draft resotutions A/C,Z/S\/f.81 and L/8f/nev.f

8. At the !2nd meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Afghanistan,
nn l'al.n'rr ^{'^€dhan'istan, Bhutan, Botswang, Burundi, the Centraf African Republ-ic,vf nr6.
Chad, tir. Lao-Gpfe's5e*o"".tic n"n,l-,lfiE, L""otho, f',t"lum
Niger, Rwanda, Svaziland, Ugand.a, the Upper Volta and Zambia. introd.uced- a draft
resolution (A/c.2/34/L.dL) en'.itied "speci.fic action relateci to t.he parri.cul_ar
needs and problems of land.-l_ocked developing countries". which read as fol_l-ows:

'?The General Assembl_v,

"Reiterating the special- measures in favour of the land-locked.
developing countries, narticularly those stated in resolutions 5: (fff)
of 19 May 1972, 98 (IV) or 31 l{av l-976 and- 123 (V) of the United Nations
Conference on Trad.e and Development "

"Bearing in mind. various other resolutions adopted- bv the General:---_:--Assembly, its rel-ated organs and the specialized agencies emphasizing
special and urgent measures in favour of land-locked developing countries,

"Recognizing that the l-ack of access to the sea, aggravated by great
d"istances to sea-ports, by remoteness' and isolation frorn world. markets and
by the greater difficulties and costs of their international transport
services, constitutes a major and persistent hindrance to the social and.
economic development of the land-locked d,evel-oping coun'bries,



^/3\/53}lAdd.2English
page 3

"Reealling the provisions of its resol-utions 31/157 of 2\ December 1976,
32/I9t of 19 December I9TT, 33/Iro of 20 Decenber I9TB, and other relevant
resolutions of the United. Nations with respeet to the exercise of the right
of l-and-locked developing countries to free access to and from the sea as
wel.l as their right to freedom of transit o

"1. Reaffirrns the right of land-locked developing countries to
free access to and from the sea and their right to freedom of transit;

"2. Call-s upon developed countries, other States, international
organizati;G€ndTinancial institutions to urgently inrplement the speeific
actions related to the particular needs and problems of land-locked
developing countries eontained in resolutions 63 (rrr), 98 (IV) ancl
123 (V) of the United. Nations Conference on Trad.e and Development and in
other relevant resolutions acloptecl by the United Nations;

"3. Notes with regret that the assistance given so far fal1s far
short of the need.s of the land-locked devel-oping countries;

"h. Urges the international community and international financial
institutions to provide increased. assistance to land-l-ocked d.evelooing
countries in the form of grants or coneessional loans for the construction,
improvement and maintenance of their transport and transit infrastrueture
antl facilities;

"r. Cornmend.s the Governing Council of the United. Nations Development
Programme, the United. Nations Conference on Tratle and Development and.
other related agencies within the United" Nations system for the vork ancl
assistanee they have proviclect to the land-locked. developing countries and
requests that those countries be'provided with increased. resources to
neet their needs;

"6. Invites the Preparatory Connittee for the ltlew International
Development Strategy to take fully into account, in the formulation of
the strategy for the third United Nations development decaden the special
problems relating to land-locked developing countries;

"7. Becornrnend.s intensified activities relating to conducting
necessary studies arrd the irnplenentation of special measures and action
progranmeso including those under tteeonomic co-operation anong developing
countriestt, &s well as those under the United. Nations Conference on Trad.e
and Development, at the regional and subregional leve1 in co-operation
with the regional commissions.tt

9. At the 58th neeting, on 12 December, &ngoh_ joined. in sponsoring the
d.raft resolution.

10. At the 59th meetingo on 13 December, the representative of Afghanistan,
on behalf of the sponsors, introduced. a revision to d.raft resolution
A/C.2/!+/t,.Bt/nev.l and ora1ly revised operative paragraph 5 by tteleting the
worcls ttand requests that those countries be provided. rvith increased. resources
to meet their needs 1'r. 

/ ...



A/3t+/538/Add.2
English
PaAe 4

11. At the same meeting, the representative of Eg,ypt ora11y suggested. the
following amendments to the last preambular paragraph and operative paragraph,,l
lrhich read as follows:

. "Reealling the provisions of its resol-utions 3J./t 7 of 2l December 1976,
32/I9I of 19 December I9T7 , 33/I|,O of 20 December I9TB, and other relevant
resolutions of the United. Nations with respect to the exercise of the
right of land-locked. developing countries to free access to and from
the sea as well as their right to freedom of transit, vithout prejud.ice
to the results of the third united. Nations conference on the Law of
the Sea;tl

"1. Reaffirms the right of land-l-ocked d.eveloping countries to
free acces!:[6Ga-from the sea and their right to freedom of transit
in accordance with the relevant articl-e of the forthcoming convention
on the Iaw of the sea:"

12. At the same meeting, the representative of Egypt vithdrew his amendments
after an apneal from the sponsors of d.raft resolution A/C.2/3\/L.Bt/nev.t.

13. Aiso at the same meeting, at the request cf a number of d.elegations, the
Cormittee took a separate vote on the last"prea:nbular paraEraph and operative
paragraph 1 of draft resolution A/C.2/3\/L.Bt/nev.r.

1)+. The l-ast prea:nbular paragraph was retained by a recorded. vote of 5t to 3,
witn 60 abstentions. The votins was as fo]-lows;

fn favour: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Botswana, BraziJ.o Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verd.e, Central African
Republic, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic,
Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Greece, Hungary, fraq,
Jordan,LaoPeop1ersDemocraticRepub1ic,Lesotho'Ma1i,
l{auritania, Mexico, }4ongolia, Nepal , Panama, Peru, Poland.o
Portugal, Rwanda, Sao Tome and. Principe, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Svaziland, Thailand., Togo, Ugand.a,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republies, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Zaire, Zambia.

Guinea, fnd.ia, Pakistan.

Algeriao Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbad.os, Belgium, Burma, Canada,
Chil-e, China, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Ecuad.or, Erypt , Fi ji , Finland, France, Gabon, Germany,
Fed.eral Republic of, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Iceland.,
Ind.onesia, Iran, Ireland., fsrael , fta1y, Tvory Coast, Jamaica,
Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, l4adagascar, Mal-aysia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Netherlancls, New Zealand., Nigeria, Norway, Papua ltrew Guinea"
Philippines, Romania, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senega-l , Swed.eno
Trinidad. and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, United- Kingd,om of Great
Britain and Northern freland, United Republic of Cameroon,
United. Republic of Tanzaniao United States of America, Yemen,
Yugoslavia' 

,/ ...

Aoer'ncf '

Abstaining:



L/3\/r3B/Add .2
English
Page 5

J-5. Operative paragraph 1 was retained. by a recorded vote of h5 to l, with
60 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

15. Draft resolution A/C.2/3\/L"Bf/nev.1 as a whole, as orally revised, was
adopted by a recorded vote of 111 to none, with 7 abstentions (see para. 33,
draft resolution f f ) . The votine lras as fol-l-ows :

In favour:

Against:

Abstaining:

fn favour:

Afghanistan, Argentina, Austral-ia, Austria, Bangladesh, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Central African Republic, Colombia, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, German Democratic
Republic, Greece, Hungary, Iraq, Jord-an, Lao Peoplef s Democratic
Republie, Lesotho, l4a1i, Mexico, It4ongolia, Nepal , Panama, Peru,
Po1and., Portugal, Rwandau Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Svaziland., Togo, Uganila,
ljkrainian Soviet Socia]-ist Re'publ-ic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zaire, Zambia.

Gabon, Guinea, Tnd.ia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Pakistan"

Algeria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belp5ium, Burma, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chi1e, China, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic
Yemenn Denmark, Ecuad-or, Egrpt, Finland, France, Germany,
Federal Republie of, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran, Ireland., Israel , ftaly, fvory Coas*,, Jamaica,
Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
l{alaysia, Mauritania, }4orocco, lt{ozambique, Netherland-s, New
Zea1and., Nigeriau Norway, Papua New Guinea, Philippines,
Romania, Samoan Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sweden, Thailand.,
Trinid.ad. and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey" United Kingdom of
Great Britain and. Northern Ireland., United Republic of Cameroon,
United. Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Yemen,
Yugoslavia.

Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Banglad.esh, Barbad-os, Belgium, Bhutan, Botsruana,
Brazil-, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canad.a, Cape Verde, Cen+-ra1 African Republic, China,
Colonbia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechosl-ovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, EgyFt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, German Democratic Republic,
Germany, Fed.eral Republie of , Ghana, Greece, Guinea.-Bissau,
Guyana, Hungary, Ice1and., Indonesia, fran, fraq, Ireland,
Israel , Ita1y, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jord.an, I(enya,
Kuwait, La.o Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Mali , l.lauritania, Mexico , I4ongolia, l4orocco ,
Mozanbique, Nepal , Netherland.s, New Zealand, l{igeria, Norway,
Oman, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romani-a,
Rwand.a, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal
Siema Leone o Singapore , Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaziland , Swed,en



A/3\/i3B/A.rcr.2
English
Page 6

Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad. and. Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingd.om of Great
Britain and" Northern Irelando United Republic of Cameroon,
Unitetl Republic of Tanzania, United. States of Americau
Uruguayo Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia.

Against: None,

Abstaining: Burmao Chi1e, Gabon, Guinea, fndia, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea.

17. Statements in explanation of vote were mad.e by the representatives of
Brazil , fnilia, Peru, Ecuador, Cameroon, the Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya, Yugoslavia,
Bangladesh' the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Thailand., freland (on
behalf of states members of the European Eeonomic corununity), usypt, rran,
Nigeria, Sri Lanka, Uruguay and Viet Nan (see A/C.2/3'l+/SR.j9).

D. Drart resolution A/C.2/3\/L.81+

18. At the 54th neetingo on 1 December, the representative of India, on behalf
of the States Membbrs of the Unitecl Nations whieh are membe"" oiTilE Group of 7T,
introduced a draft resolution (a/c.z/S\./r.B\) entitled "l4ultit_ateral trade
negotiations ".

19. At the 59th neeting, on 13 December, the representative of Indian on behalf
of the sponsors, ora11y revised. the draft resolution by replacing operative
paragraph p by the follor.ring:

"9. Reconmends that the United. Nations Development Programme
favourably consid.er requests for technical assistance to be given to
developing countries, inclucting for regional and interregional proJects
in order to provicle them with the fuIl benefit of the results of the
multilateral trade negotiations and to continue conilucting effectively
negotiations in the future upon the requests of those countries. tt

20. At the same meeting, the Cornmittee adopt draft resolution A/C.z/ j+/L.B\,
as orally revised., by 95 votes to 1o wit]n 22 abstentions (see para. 33, draft
resolution IfI).

21. After the atloption of d.raft resolution A/C.2/31+/L.Bl+, statements were
nad.e by the representatives of the United. States of Ameriea, Ireland (on behalf
of States l.{embers of the European Economic Conmunity), Swedenn Fin}and.o
Australia, Norway, Japan, Austria and New Zealand (see A/C.2/3\/5R.59).

E. Drart resolution A/C"2/31+/L.53

22. At the l+6th neeting, on 21 November, the representative of fndiau on behalf
of the States l{embers of the United Nations which are members of the Group of TT,

/...



Al*/r3B/Actd.2
English
Page 7

introrluced a draft resolution (n/C .Z/S\/t".63) entitlecl "Protectionism and
struetural adjustment"o which read a.s follows:

"The Genera] Assemb]y,

"Eg"a$ing- its resolutions 3201 (S-Vr) and 3202 (S-Vr) of 1 llay 19?\
containin-g the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishnent
of a New International- Economic Ord"er, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 19?\
containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, 3362 (S-Vff)
of 16 September L975 on development and international economic co-operation,
3]-/163 of 21 September 1975 and 33/195 of 2) January 1979,

"Affirming the relevant resol-utions ad.opted by the Unitecl Nations
Conference on Trade and Development, particularly resolution 96 (fV),
entitled "A set of interrelated. and mutually supporting measures for
expansion and. diversification of exports of manufactures and
serni-manufactures of develcping ccuntries" , ! ana 13f (V), entitled.rrProtectionism and struetural acljustment'r,

"RecognizinA that international tracle should play an essential rol-e in
economic growth and d"evelopment, particularly in that of developing countries,
and that the expansion of international trade on an equitable basis shoulcl be
beneficial to all countries,

"Noting with concern the increase in many developed countries of
subsidies to inefficient and internationally less competitive lines of
production which are of particular export interest to developing countries,

'rReeognizing also that a healthy worlcl economy would require, inter alia,
the establishment of long-term industrial structural acljustnent policies and
measures to facilitate a greater transfer of industrial capacities from
developed to d.eveloping countries in order to attain an equitable and
effective international division of labour as well as the promotion of a
substantial increase in the share of developing countries in worlct
industrial production and. exports of manufactures and semi-manufactures,
in the light of the targets set out in the Lima Plan of Action on
Ind.ustrial Development and Co-operation,

"Noting the deep concern of all countries about intensifiecl
protectionist pressures and that of the developing countries in partieular
about the serious consequences which the increase in recent years of .
protectionist measures in d.eveloped. countries may have for them by affecting
their exports, particularly in sectors in which the comparative advantage
has shifted in their favour and opened up inportant perspectives for growth
in their economies,

"L/ See Proceed.ings of the United Nations Conferencg on Trade and
Development, Fourth Session, vol. f, Report and Anngxes, (United Nations
publication, Sales No. E.?6.II.D.10 and corrigendr:m), part one, sect. A.



^/3\ 
/j3B /Add .2

English
YA OA (1

"Recognizing further that the current
countries cannot be solved by concealed. or
trade restrictive measures could" touch off
wid"ening series of acti.ons by an increasing

economic problems of d.eveloped
open protectionism and that
chain reactions involving a
mrmber of countries,

inter a1ia,
turn

t'Noting also with d.eep concern that these measures, bX delaying the
process of necessary structural change in the developed. eountries and
consequently liniting the market access for manufactured and.
semi-nanufactured. exports of d.eveloping eountries, have adverse effects
on the economies of d.eveloping countries,

"Realizing that increasing protectionist measures have,
aggravated, inflation in the d.evel_oped. countries, which is in
transferred to the developing countries,

"Emphasizing alqo. the inportance of structural adJustment for the
elimination of rrrotectionism and. for the promotion of greater international
trade in keeping with the interests of d.eveloping countries and with a
view tO the earlrr nf.l-qr'nmonl ^f their develOpment ObjectiVeS,

"1. Urges developed countries to inplernent ful1y ancl to adhere
strictly to the stand-still provisions they have acceoted by refraining
from introducing new tariff and non-tariff barriers affecting the exports
of developing countries and to substantially reduce tariff escalation so
as to provid.e improved. access to exports of manufactures and semi-manufactures
from the d.er,el-oping countries;

"2. Cafl-s on d.eveloped countries to el-iminate promptly the existing
tariffs analGiltariff barriers and- particularly the quantilative
restrictions and other measures, having an equivalent effect on the exports
of developing countries ;

tt3. Agreel that structural adjustment shoul-d be a constant and
global process which the internationaf community, in particular the
d"eveloped countries, should. facilitate by conscious efforts with a view
to ensuring acceJ-erated and sustained over-a1l grolrth of the developing
countr:ies, including the development and. diversification of the economies
and an effective international d.ivision of fabour involving both
interindustry and. intra-ind.ustry specialization, enabling d.eveloping
countries to secure an increase in their share in world trade, in processed
goods and. in manufacturing;

"\" Cal-ls on d.eveloped. countries to implement long-term inclustrial ,
structural adjustment policies i.rith a view to facilitating the establishnent
of an equitable and. effective international division of labour;

t'5 
" Requests the United Nations Conferenee on Trad.e and Development

to organize speedily the annual review of the patterns of production and
trade in the world economyo with a view to id,entifying elements or problems
most relevant to the attainment of optimum and healthy over-al1 economic



A/3\/r3B/Add.2
English
Pag,e 9

- grornrth, including the development and diversifieation of the economies of
d.eveloping countries in accoril,ance vith the dynamics of their comparative
advantage, as called for in naragraph 2 of section A of resolution f31 (V)
of the fifth session of the United. Nations Conference on Trade and
Development:,

"6. Calls on member countries of the United. Nations Conference on
Trad.e ana DGGli[-ent to undertake sectora] reviews within the framework
of the annual revielr referred to in paragraph 5 above with a view to
effective and ful-l implementation of paragraph 3 of section A of
resol-ution l-31 (V), ana invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development to formulate recommeniiations in the annual reviews on d.ifferent
al-ternatives to be applied by developed countries;

ttT. Requests the United. Nations Conference on Trade and Development
to review eontinuously developments involving restrictions of trade
affecting exports of d.eveloping countries with a view to exarnining and
formulating appropriate recommend.ations. This comprehensive review should
also deal with the monitoring of the evol-ution of the industrial capacity
in the d.eveloped. countries with a vier,r to recomrnending the necessary
measures that woul-d. avoid. protectionist d.emand.s in those countries. "

23" At the 50ttr meeting, on 1)+ December, the representative of Tndia on
behaff of the sponsors, informed the Conmittee that they would not ask for a
decision by the General Assembly on d.raft resolution A/C.2/3\/t.53 at its
current session.

F. Draft resolutions A/C.2/3\/L"61+ and L.130

2\. At the \6ttr rneeting, on 21 llovember, the representative of Tndi_a., on behalf
of the States Members of the United. Nations which are members of the Group of TT,
introduced a dra,ft resol-ution (A/C.2/j+/t.6)+) entitled trDevelopment aspects of
the reverse transfer of technologyn', which read as fol-lows:

ItFr"The General Assemb]y,

"ReCal-lins its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (s-vf ) of l May l-97)+
containing the Declaration and the Prograrnme of Action on the Establ-ishment
of a New fnternationaf Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 Decernber 1971+
containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States anil
3352 (S-VfI) of 16 September I9T5 on development and international economic
co-operation,

"Recafling further its resolutions 32/l.92 of 19 December L9T7 and
::/rrr@l8,entit1ed''Reversetransferoftechno1o6yl,,



A/ 3L+ /r3B /Add.. 2
Engl-ish
Page 10

"Taking note with satisfaction of the views and reconmend.ations of the
Sixth Conference of Head.s of State or Government of llon-Aligned Countries,
hel-d. at Havana, relating to economic problems, 1/

reTaking note further of the report of the United. Irlations Conference
on Trad.e and Development on its fifth session, of the Vienna Prograrnme of
Action on Science and. Technology for Development, adopted at the United
lTations Conference on Scienee and Technology for Development, and of the
report of the Trade and Development Board at its nineteenth session,

"Consid.ering that the nigration of skilled manpower from developing
countrF6FAQative effeets on the possibitities for the scientific
and technological d.evelopment of those countries and that it constitutes
a gratuitous anil reverse transfer of technology,

"Reiterating the urgent need to reduce, as part of the efforts of the
internffiffi-G]ilmunity towards the establishment of the New International
Economic Ord.er, the reverse transfer of technologp and to obviate its
adverse effects, especially those of a development nature on developing
countries,

ttReiterating further the importance of technical co-operation among
d.evetoffieexchangeofski11edmanpowerinthecontext
of economic co-operation towards col-lective self-reliance,

"Consid.ering that the proposals made by His Royal Highness Crown Prince
Hassan-ifr-GFof Jord.an concerning the establ-ishment of an international
labour compensatory facility 4 would constitute an important step towards
aLleviating the ad.verse effects of reverse transfer of technolog;r on
developing countries,

"1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General
entit1ed.rrffinsferortecrrno1ogy:a",-.".'"yofitsmainfeatures'
causes and policy implications" V and. of the report of the Secretary-
General of the Unitetl Nations Conference on Trad.e and Development entitled
ttDevelopment aspects of the reverse transfer of technology: an assessment
of the results achieved. at the fifth session of the United. Nations
Conference on Trade and Development., l+/

"1/ see A/3\/5\2"
"2/ See E/1976/92, paras. 100-10L.
"1/ a/zt',/592.
"U t/z\/h25, annex.



^/3\/538/Add.2English
Paee 11

"2. End.orses resolution l-02 (V) entitled "Development aspects of
the reverse transfer of teehnology", ad.opted at the fifth sessi.on of the
United. Nations Conference on Trade and Development, and decision 193 (XIX)
entitled ttDevelopment aspeets of reverse transfer of technologytt, adopted
by the Trade and Development Board at its nineteenth session;

"3. Enphasizes that the elements contained in the United. Nations
Conference on Trad.e and Development resolution ]02 (V) provide a good
basis for formulating a comprehensive set of measures for action in the
field of reverse transfer of technology at the national, regional and
international Ievel, including modalities for their implementation;

tth. Urges the international cornmunity to give urgent attention to
the formulation of sueh measures;

"5. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conferenee
on Trad"e ana Oevefopment to earry out a study on the feasibility of the
proposals macle by His Royal Highness Crown Prince Hassan bin Tal-al on the
establ-ishment of an international l-abour compensatory facility and to
report to the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly on the results
of this studyt

"6. Reqgqsts the Secretary-General of the United. Nations Conference on
Trade and Develffient, as called. for in conference resolution 102 (V), to:

"(a) Carry out studies on the development aspects of the reverse
transfer of technology, focusing on the experiences and policies of
individual eountries belonging to different geographical- areas, on the
nod.alities for co-operation at the bilateral, regional and international
leve1, anil to examine the feasibility of various proposals made hitherto
regarding co-operative exchanfle of skiI1s among developing countries I

"(b) Invite Governments to submit information on the inplementation
of resolution 102 (V) ana in accord.ance with paragraph 9 of that resolution
and with paragraph 5 of General Assembly resolution 33/151, to assist in the
fornulation of measures for action on the d.evelopment aspects of reverse
transfer of technology;

"7. Reguests the Trad.e and. Development Board to proceed at its
twentieth session with the consideration of appropriate arrangements,
including the necessitr,' of convening a group of experts, to examine the
feasibility of measuring hr.man resource flows, as envisaged in
paragraph 5 of resolution 102 (V);

"8. Requests the Seeretary-General of the United Nations to take the
necessary d.ecisions with respect to the co-orclination of the treatment of
the question of reverse transfer of technology within the United. Ilations
system, bearing in nind- relevant paragraphs of General Assembly
resolution 33/151 and United Nations Conference on Trad.e and Development
resolution 102 (v). "



Ali+/ j3B/Add.2
English
Page 12

25. At its 50th neeting, on 1l+ December, the Conmittee hadbefore it a draft
resofution (A/C.Z/j+/f "l3O) submitted by Mr. A. Ahsan, Vice-Chairman of the
Committee, on the ba,sis of informal consultations held on draft resolution
A/ c .2 /31+ /L.61+ .

26. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.Z/l\/r.no
(see para. 33, d.raft resolution IV).

27. In the light of the adoption of draft resol-ution L/C.2/3\/L.130, the
sponsors r,rithdrew draft resolution A/C.Z/*/f.6t+.

28" After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by
the representatives of Bulgaria (on behalf of Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Repub1ic, Czechoslovakia, the German Denocratic Republic, Hungary,
Mongolia, Po1and", the lJkrainian Soviet Social-ist Republic and the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics) and the United States of America (see A/c.2/!+/sR.50).

mart decision A/C.2/3\/L.125

2a At its sot\ ngst,ing, on 13 December, the Conmittee took up consicleration'/ .
of a draft d"ecision (A/C.Z/S\/l,.tZ6) entitled "Completion of the work of the
United Nations Conference on Restricted. Business Practices", submitted. by the
Chairman of the Conmittee.

30. A statement by the Secretary-General on the administrative and financial
implications of draft decision A/C.2/3)+/L,]-.26 was circulated. (a/C,2/3\/L.r2T).

31. At the same meeting, the Committee ad.opted. draft ciecision A/C.2/!+/L.I26
(see para. 3\) "

32, After the ad,option of the draft decision, the representative of Bulgaria.
(on behalf of Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia,
the German Democratic Republie, Hungary, Mongol.ia, Po1and., the Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) made a
statement (see A/c .2/ll+/sn.>g) .



Al 3t+ /538 /Add.2
English
vqtra | <

I]T. RECOM}.MNDAT]ONS OF THE SECOND COI\O4ITTEE

33. The Second" Conmrittee reconmend.s to the General Assembly the ad.option of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION ]

Effects of the world. inflationary phenomenon
on the d.evelopment process

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions Z6Z6 (y,W) of 2h October 19TO containing the
lnternational Development Strategy for the Second. United. Nations Development Decade,
3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-Vf) of l May 19?\ containing the Declaration and the
Prograrnrne of Action on the Establishment of a New fnternational Economic Ord.er,
3281 (XXIX) of l-2 December 1971+ containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties
of States and 3362 (s-vff) of 15 September I9T5 on development and international
economic co-operation,

Recalling its resolutions 3+/138 ana 3l+/139 of 1)+ December I9'(9 on the g1oba1
negotiations relating to internationaf economic eo-operation for d.evelopment to
deal- vith raw materials, energlf, trade, development and. financial and monetary
questions,

Reeallins its resofution 32/IT5 of 1p December 1977, in whieh it requested the
Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and. Development to
establish a governmental group of high-Ievel experts to prepare a study of the
inflationary phenomenon and to transmit it, together with the cornments of the Trad.e
and Development Board, to the General Assembly, so that the Assernbly might d.ecid.e
what action should be taken, inclutling the possibility of holcting a world conference
on inflation,

Recalling its resoluti.on 33/155 of 20 December
took note of the report of the Group of High-Level
Effects of the World Inflati.onary Phenomenon on the

L978, in which, inter alia, it
Governmental Experts on the
Development Process, y

Noting with regret that the United. Nations Conference on Trad.e and. Development
at its fifth session d.id. not take a firm d.ecision on international policy measures
to combat the world. inflationary phenomenon or on the conclusions and.
recommend-ations contained in the report of the Group of Experts,

Reealling also Trad.e and. Development Board decision fh\ (Xvr) of
zg ocT6Te:r-j-7Cffiit1ed "Arrangur"nt" to keep und.er review interrelated problems
in the field. of international trade and. re]-ated. areas of international economic
co-operation, in particular d.evelopment finanee and monetary issues" , ! in which,
inter a1ia, the Secretary-General of the United. Nations Conference for Trade and
Development was requested to keep such problems rxrder continuous review,

U rD/B/ToI+.
2/ See Official Record.s of the General Assembl

Supplement No. 15 3r/),5 , vo1. fI, annex I.
Thirt -first Sessioq,



Al 3\ / r38 /Ad.d . 2
English
Page 1)+

Bearing in mind that deteriorating international- economic cond.itions and the
high rates of world inflation are hindering the growbh of the economies of all
countries and., particularly, of the d.eveloping countriesu

Bearing also in mind that inflation internationally transmittecl to the
developing countries is acquiring increasingly alarming proportions,

Recognizing the fund"amental interconnexion between inflationary pressures,
protectionism, growbh, balance of paynents, disequilibriun and the uncontrolled
creation of international- monetary liquid"ity,

Taking note of the proposal made by the Government of Iraq concerning the
establishnent of an international fund to combat the adverse effects of imported.
infla.tion on the economies of the cieveloping eountries,

1. Reeognizes that the present worl-d inflationary process seriously affects
the economies of the developing eountries, because, inter aria;

(") It has increased. the cost of their essential imports, particularly
capital goods and manufacturesq

(t) ft has 1ed. to instability in the export earnings of their essential
conmod.ities;

(") It has caused considerable fluctuations in the exchange rates of the
countries with greater trading activity, with resultant adverse effects on world
trade and. partieularly on the exports of the developing countries;

(a) ft has substantially increased. the current, account d.eficit and the d.ebt
burtlen of the developing countries;

(e) ft has reduced. the real value of the flow of official- d.evelopment
assistance I

(f) ft has aclversely affected the net flow of real resources, thereby
aggravating the trad.e and dlevelopment problems of the developing countries;

(e) It has reduced the real val-ue of the monetary reserves of the d.eveloping
countries;

2. Affirne, thereforeo the urgent need. for the implementation of polieies,partieularfll]Tndustrialized cor:nt"i""o to control inflati." bt;-i"i;"-;ii;;-suerr
measures as elimination of protectionism, fiscal and. monetary policfefu 

-
acceleration of the transfer of real resourees to cleveloping eountries" structural
adjustments and. sust,ained real economic growbh;

3. .-Requests the Trad.e and. Development Boarcl, when considering the iternentitled "Interd.ependence of trade problems, financing of d.evelopment and the
international monetary system", which it naintains on its agenda by virtue of
ciecision 14t+ (xvr), to d.iscuss measures to combat the worlcl inflatlonary phenomenon
with a view to aeceLerating the real growbh of the cleveloping countries and.
increasing their import capaeity in a context of just and stable financia.l markets;



Al3\/538/Add".2
-Einal-1sn
Paee 15

h. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trad.e
and Developmento with the assistance of experts, if necessary, as envisaged. in
Trade and Development Board. d.ecision f\h (XVr), to prepare a report on this subject
for consideration by the Trad.e and Development Board" and. subsequently by the General-
Asserobly at its thirty-sixth session.

DMFT RESOLUTTON II

Speeifie action related to the particular neecls and problems
of 1and.-1ocked. d.eveloping countries

The General Assegplg,

Reiterating the specific
countries, particularly those
93 (rv) of 31 rr,ay 1976 and 123
on Trad"e and Development,

actions in favour of the land-locked d.eveloping
stated in resolutions 53 (fff) of 19 May I972n
(V) or J June L9T9 ot the Unitedt Nations Conference

Bearing in nind. various other resolutions ad.opted by the General Assembly,
its related organs and the specialized agencies emphasizing special and urgent
measures in favour of land.-loeked d.eveloping countries,

Recognizing that the lack of aecess to the sear ag€Favated by great d.istances
to seaportso by remoteness and isolation from vorld narkets, and by the greater
d.ifficulties and costs of their international transport serviees, constitutes a
maJor and. persistent hind.rance to the social and econornic d.evelopment of the lantl-
locked d.eveloping countries,

Recalling the provisions of its resolutions 3l-/I5T of 21 Deeember 1976"
32h9I of 19 December l97T and. 33/I5o of 20 December 1978, and other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations vith respect to the exercise of the right of
land-locked d.eveloping countries to free access to and. from the sea as well as their
right to freedom of transit,

1.
and. fron

Reaffirms the right of land.-locked developing countries to free access to
the sea ancl their right to freed.on of transit;

2. Cal1s upon all countries, international organizations and financial
institutio@ytoimp1enrentthespecificactionsre1atedtotheparticu1ar
need.s and problems of 1and.-1ocked. d.eveloping countries conta.inetl in resolutions
5: (rrr), 98 (rV) and 123 (V) of the Uniteci Nations Conferenee on Trade and
Development and in other relevant resolutions ad.opted by the United" Nations;

3. Notes vith regret that the assistance given so far fa11s far short of the
need.s of the land-loeked developing countries;

h. Urges all clonor countries as well as the international organizations
concerned. to provid.e land-locked. developing countries with appropriate financial
aid and assistance in the form of grants or concessional loans for the construction,
improvenent antl maintenance of their transport and transit infrastructures and
faeilities;

t---



Ll 3\/r38/Add.2
English

-/rage 10

5. Conmen€ the Governing Council of the United. Nations Development
Progranme, the United Nations Conference on Trad.e and Development and other relatetl
agencies within the United Nations system for the work and assistance they have
provid.ed. to the 1and-locked developing countries;

6. Invites the United. Nations Development Proeranne ancl the financial
institution" oEne United. Nations system t'o tate apfropriate and effective
measures in order to provide additional resources vithin their conpetence to meet
the particular needs of the l-and.-1ocked. d.eveloping countries;

T. fnvites the Preparatory Connittee for the New International Development
Strategy to take fully into account, in the formulation of the strategy for the
third. United. Nations d.evelopment clecade, the special problems relating to lancl-
locked developing countries;

8. Invites further the international cournunity to
interested transit and. land..locked d.eveloping countries
alternate routes to the sea:

support financially
in the eonstruction of

9. Recornrnend.s intensified, activities relating to eonducting necessary
stud.ies and. the implementation of speeial actions and action progravnnes, including
those und.er tteconomic co-operation among d.eveloping countries", as well- as those
under the United. Nations Conference on Trad.e and. Development, at the regional and
subregional leve1, in co-operation with the regional cornmissions.

DMFT RESOLUT]OI\ TTT

Multilateral trade negotiations

The General- Assembly,

Reca1ling its resotutions 3201 (S-VI) and 37oz (S-VI) of I May tgTh contqining
the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establ-ishment of a llev
International- Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of L2 December 1971+ containing the
charter of Economic Rights and Duties of states and3362 G-vrr) or
16 September ]975 on d.evelopment and international economic co-operation,

CoEsid"ering that the Tokyo Declaration of f9rc ! ca11ed for the Tokyo round
of nultilateral trad.e nego'biations and set forth the framework and principles and.
objectives to govern the negotiations, especially the objectives and commitments in
favour of d.eveloping countries, partieularly those regarding the principle of
non-reciprocity in trade relations between developed and devel-oping countries, the
special and differential treatment for devel-oping eountries and the securing of
ad.d.itional benefits for the international trade of developing countries and. the
naintaining and improving of the Generalized. Seheme of Preferences,

Bearing in mind" the modified Part TV of the Genera.l Agreement on Tariffs and
Trade stipulatingo inter a1ia, that the developed. countries should not expect
reciprocity in their trade relations with d.evel-oping countries,

3/ See General Agreement on Tariffs and. Trad.e, BASic h.ElrEqelqq and Selected
DoeumFntso Tventieth Supplement (Sales No. GATT/19fI+

I
l"



Al3\/538/Add.2
English
Page 17

Recal-1ing also its resolution 33/L99 of 29 January L9Tg, in which it
reite?ated., inter a1ia, the need. for continued" efforts ained at the reform of the
General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and. the international trad.e r6gine in
accordance with the principles of special and differential treatment of d,evelopins
countries u

. Recallins furtlrer decision 132 (V) of 3 Jrine a9T9 of the United Nations
Conference on Trad.e and Development requesting the Trad.e and. Development Board to
make a gIobal evaluation of the nu]tilateral irade negotiations,

Legretting that" contrary to the commitments made by the developed. countries
in the Tokyo Declaration, no real attempt was mad.e to extend. special and"
differential treatment to the developing countries and to secure additional benefits
for them in alJ. areas of negotiations in the multilateral trad.e negotiations,

Noting that the Trad.e and Development Board. at its nineteenth session d.ecid,ecl
to conduct a global evaluation of the results of the nul-tilateral trade
negotiations, \/

1. Takes note of the note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report
of the secrG$lGieral of the United. Nations Conference on Trad.e and Development
on multilateral trad-e negotiations; 5/

2" Takes note also of the report of the Director-General of the General
Agreement on Tariffs and Trad.e on the multilateral trad-e negotiations;6/

3. Notes with d.eep qoncern that the developed eountries which are
contracting parties to the
fu1Iy into account in all_
negotiations the interests
least d.eveloped countries;

General Agreement on Ta,riffs and Trade did not take
areas of negotiations of the multil-ateral trade
and concerns of d.eveloping countries, especially the

4. Notes with particular concern that the negotiations aimed at establishing
animproveuctofinteinati"''"it".aemoreresponsive
to the need.s and aspirations of d.eveloping countries had disappointing ruurrt-t";

5- _ Affirms that the interest and rights of d.eveloping countries must be fully
safeguard-ed- and.preserved. in the process of implementation of the results of the
nsulti1ateral trade negotiations ;

6.. Urggs that the negotiations on the safeguard.s cod.e be speedily concluded"
to provide for greater d.iscipline and fair and non-discriminatory rules for the use
of safeguard measures, vith a view to contributing significantly to meeting the main
?clcerns of the d.eveloping countries and enabling those countries to participate in
Lhe results of the multilateral trade negotiations on an equitable basis;

h/ See Trade and Devet_opment Board. decision 201 (XIX).
2/ t/ZU/t+t+S'
6/ General Agreement on Tariffs and. Trad.e, The Tokyo Round. of Multilateral-

Trade Negotiations: Report by the Director*Gene _3).



Al3t+/538/Add.2
English
Page 18

T. Reiterates the need for und.ertaking negotiations on a systematic basis
for the elinination of quantitative restrictions and other non-tariff as well as
tariff barriers against the exports of the d.eveloping countries and until the
objectives and cornmitments und,ertaken in the Tokyo Declaration, includ.ing,
inter a1ia, the need. for preferential- and special treatment in favour of d.eveloping
countries and explicit recognition of the principle of non-reciprocity, are
achieved;

B. Requestg the Secretary-General of the United. Nations Conference on Trad.e
and. Development to prepare, in conformity with d.ecision 132 (V) of the United.
Nations Conference on Trad.e and. Developme-nt, a eomprehensive report on the results
of the rnul-tilateral- trade negotiations in the light of the objectives and
conrnitments of the Tokyo Declaration, placing special emphasis on those sectors in
which the results obtained have not fuI1y responded. to the interests and. coneerns
of developing countries, for subnission to the Trade anil Development Board. at its
twentieth session for the purpose of undertaking a global evaluation of such
negotiations and. rrith a view to identifying possible eourses of action for the
attainment of the objectives pursued. by developing countries in these negotiations;

9. Recom.end.s that the United, Nations Development Progranne favourably
consid.er requests for technical- assistance to be given to developing countries,
including for regional and. interregional projects, in ord.er to provid.e themwith
the full benefit of the results of the mul-tilateral trad.e negotiations and. to
continue conducting effectively negotiations in the future upon the requests of
those countries.

DRAFT RESOLUTIO]-V TV

Development aspects of the reverse transfer of teehnologlf

The General Assembl]r"

Recaltine its resot_utions 3201 (S-VI) and 3ZoZ (S-Vf) of l May 19Th containing
the Decl-aration and. the Prograrnrne of Action on the Establishnent of a Nerr
International- Economic Ord"er, 32Bl (XX]X; of L2 December lpJl+ containing the
charter of Economic Rights and Duties of states and 3362 (s-vrr) of
16 Septenber I9T5 on d.evelopment and. international economic co-operationo

Recal-lins further its resolutions 32/l-92 of 19 December ISTT and 33/:-:j- ot
20 December 1978, entitled. ttReverse transfer of technologyt'u

Taking note of the views and. recommendations of the Sixth Conference of Head.s
of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countrieso he1d. at Havana from
3 to ) September L979" relating to economic problems, U

Taking note further of the report of the United. Nations Conference on Trade
and Devel-opment on its fifth session, of the Vienna Programne of Action on Science
and Technology for Development, adopted at the United Nations Conferenee on Seienee
and. Technology for Development, and of the report of the Trad.e and. Development
Board on its nineteenth session,

7/ See A/3\/5'l+2e annex.



^/3\ 
/ 538 /Add . 2

Ilnglish
Page 19

Consid-ering that the outflow of skil-led manpower from developing countries malr
have negative effects on the possibilities for the social and economic devetopment
of those countries and that it constitutes a. reverse transfer of technology,

Rcirprqri'q the urgent need to reduce. as part of the efforts of the
inte"natlottat --cor.mrrnity towards the establishment of the new interna.tiona.l economic
order, the reverse transfer of technology and- to obviate its adverse effects,
pqncnia-l -lrr ihnce\.,!!vra!rv u'wor of a d-evelopment nature on developing countries,

Reiterating further the importance of technical- co-.operation anong rievelopine'
countries in the erchange of skill-ed. manpover in the context of economic
co-operation tor.rard.s coll-ective self-reliance.,

Recall-ing the proposafs nade by His Royal Highness Crown Prince Hassan bin Talal
of Jord"an concerning the establ-ishment of an international labour compensatory
foai t.'+.' A / r.,hi.:h are d.irected toward_S alleviating the ad_verse effects of reverse\JI
transfer 6f technology on developing countries )

1" Takes note of the report of the Secretary*General entitled "Reverse
transfer of technology: a survey of its main features; causes and policy
irnplications't 9f and- of the report of the Secretary-Ceneral of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development entitled- "Development aspects of the reverse
transfer of technology: an assessment of the results achieved a.t the fifth session
of the United t\ations Conference on Trad.e and Development; 10/

2. Egegrsgg resolution L]Z (V) of 30 ltay I9T9 entitted "Devetopment aspects
of the reverse transfer of technology", ad-opted by the United lIations Conference on
Trad,e and Devefopnent at its fifth session, and decision f93 (XTX) entitled
irr)prralar'manr oonects of reverse transfer of technology", adopted. by the Trpde anrl
Development Boarcl at its nineteenth session., and- calls upon all l,{ember States ancl
the international conrnunity to qive urgent consicleration to the implementation of
the measures conta.ined therein;

3. Requests the Secretary-General of the United llations to take the necessary
measures with respect to the co-ord,ination of the treatment of the question of
reverse transfer of technolory r,rithin the llnited lTations systen, bearing in mind
relevant paragraphs of General Assembly resolution 33/151 and resol-ution 102 (V) of
the United Nations Conference on Trad,e and Develolrnent:

)+. Requests the Trad-e and Development Board., as envisaged in paragraph 5 of
roca-lrrii^' tno /y), to proceed at its tventieth session witir the consideration of\
anprolriate arrangements, including the necessity of convenine a group of experts,
to exa.mine the feasibility of measurinq human resource flows"

B/ See T/L978/92, paras. too*toh.
9/ als\/tgz"

r0/ A/3L,/l+25, annex.



A/ 3L+ /r3B /Add " 2
English
Page 20

5" ]teg!gg$- the Secretary-General, in close co-operation with the lrnited
Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the International Labour
Organisation and other relevant United Nations bod-ies " to carry out " on the basis^f +l^^ -^^+ .,* +ur Lrre rrLosu up-co*date data available, a study on the feasibil-ity of the proposals
of His Royal Highness Cror.vn Prince Hassan bj.n Tafal , in the establishnent of anj.nternational labour compensatory facility and to subrnit a progress report to the
General Assenbly at its thirty fifth session and a final renort to the Assembly at
iis. thirfrr-eiwlh sess]-On ",

6. Requests the Secretary-General of the United iiTations Conference on Trade
and Development to carry out the studies envisaged. in paragraph 7 of resolution
102 (v) of the United lTations conference on Trade and Development;

T " fnvites lnember States to respond favourably and to co-operate rrith the
Sporptqrtt-cano-'l of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development in the
implementation of paragraph 9 of resolution lO2 (V) of the United Nations
9?11:l*""e on Trade and Development and paragraph ! of General Assembly resolution3i/ L)L 

"

34. The Second Coramittee a,l-so recommend.s that the General- Assembly should:
(a) Take note of the resolution of the United Nations Conference on

Restrictive Business Practices on the completion of the work of the Conference.
a,d.opted on B Dece.mber :-9792,

/. \(b) ljecrd.e to convene
ouratl-on l_n lgou.

a resumed. session of the Ccnference of two weeks e

(") Request the Secretary-General of the United t\Tations Conference on Trad.e
and Devel-opment to take the necessary measures to that effect, including the
procedures for consultations provided. for in Trad,e and Development Board resolution
r).,3 (;:vr )




