








































UNITED
NATIONS

A

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/34/667
13 November 1979

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-fourth session
Agenda item 89

INFORMATION FROM NON-SELF-GOVERNING TERRITORIES TRANSMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 e OF THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ron S. MORRIS (Australia)

1. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1979, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of
its thirty-fourth session the item entitled:

"Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under
Article 73 e of the Charter of the united Nations:

n(a) Report of the Secretary-General,

"(b) Report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to
the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples".

At the same meeting, the General Assembly decided to allocate the item to the
Fourth Committee.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 27 September, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 89, 91, 93 and 12, 94 and 95, on the
understanding that individual draft resolutions on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately.

3. The Fourth Committee considered item 89 at its 12th to 25th meetings, between
17 October and 6 November.

79-30123 5500E (E) I . ..



A/34/667
English
Page 2

4. At the 12th meeting, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples introduced chapter XXXIII of the
report of that Committee relating to the item (A/34/23/Add.9).

5. The Fourth Committee also had before it the report of the Secretary-General
relating to the item (A/34/554).

6. In addition, the Fourth Committee had before it a note verbale dated
6 April 1979 from the Permanent Representative of Portugal to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/34/311).

7. The general debate covering the items referred to in paragraph 2 above took
place at the 12th to 23rd meetings, between 17 October and 2 November.

8. At the 24th meeting, on 5 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution (A/C.4/34/L.19) , which was finally sponsored by the following Member
States: Algeria, Angola, Barbados, Congo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau, Sierra
Leone, Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, united Republic of
Tanzania and Yugoslavia.

9. At its 25th meeting, on 6 November, the Fourth Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.4/34/L.19 by a recorded vote of 77 to none, with 4 abstentions
(see para. 10).1/ The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Against:

Abstaining:

Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Chile, China, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Finland, German
Democratic Republic, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire.

Austria, France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

1/
States:
Ireland.

Statements in explanation of vote were made by the following Member
Denmark, France, Japan and United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern

/ ...



A/34/667
English
Page 3

REOOMMENDATION OF TIlE FOURTH OOMMITTEE

10. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted
under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
requested the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation
of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples to study the information transmitted to the Secretary-General under
Article 73 e of the Charter of the united Nations and to take such information
fUlly into account in examining the situation with regard to the implementation of
the Declaration,

Recalling also its resolution 33/37 of 13 December 1978, in which it
requested the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions entrusted
to it under resolution 1970 (XVIII),

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee dealing
with the transmittal of information under Article 73 e of the Charter 21 and the
action taken by the Committee in respect of that information,

Having also examined the report of the Secretary-General on the item, 11

Deploring that some Member States having responsibilities for the
administration of Non-Self-Governing Territories have ceased to transmit
information under Article 73 ~ of the Charter,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information from
Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of
the United Nations,

2. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure of
self-government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering Power
concerned should continue to transmit information under Article 73 ~ of the
Charter with respect to that Territory,

3. Requests the administering Powers concerned to transmit, or continue to
transmit, to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in Article 73 e of
the Charter, as well as the fullest possible information on political and

21 A/34/23/Add.9, chap. XXXIII.

11 A/34/554.
I . ..



A/34/667
English
ftge 4

constitutional developments in the Territories concerned, within a maximum period
of six months following the expiration of the administrative year in those
Territories;

4. Requests the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in accordance with
established procedures, and to report thereon to the Assembly at its thirty-fifth
session.


