








































GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATiONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/3 l ,!l93
10 December 1979

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH

Thirty-fourth session
Agenda item 65

Hill1AN SETTLEMENTS

Report of the Second Committee

Rapporteur: Miss Paulina GARCIA DONOSO (Ecuador)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 4th meeting, on 21 September 1979, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, included in the agenda of its
thirty-fourth session the item entitled

"Human settlement s :

"(a) Report of the Commission on Human Settlements;

"(b) Report of the Secretary-General"

and allocated it to the Second Committee.

2. The Second Committee considered this item at its 20th, 23rd, 29th, 30th, 42nd,
44th, 46th, 48th and 54th meetings, on 2l , and 26 October, 2, 16, 19, 21 and
23 November and on 1 December 1979. An account of the Committee's discussion of
the item is contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.2/34/SR.20, 23, 29, 30,
42, 4!1, 46, 48 and 54).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council (chap. XIV); .:!c/

(b) Report of the Commission on Human S~ttlements on the work of its second
session; ?c/

!I To be issued as Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth
Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/34/3/Rev.l).

21 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session, Supplement
No. 8-(A/34/8).

79--37431 I ...



A/34/793
English
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 27 July 1979 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Morocco to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the resolutions and Final
Communique of the Tenth Islamic Conference of Foreign Lfinisters
(A/3l~/389);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the living conditions of the
Palestinian people in the occupied Arab territories (A/34/536 and Corr.l).

4. At the 20th meeting, on 24 October 1979, the Executive Director of the United
Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat) made an introductory statement.

11. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.53

5. At the 42nd meeting, on 16 November, the representative of Pakistan introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.2/34/L.53) entitled "Living conditions of the Palestinian
people" on behalf of Al;>;eria, An;>;ola, the Comoros, Cuba, Dj ibouti, Democratic
Yemen, Ethiopia, the German Democratic Republic~ Grenada, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait,~dagascar, tJIalaysia, Maldives, ;vlauritania, MoZambique-,--
Nicaragua, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan, Tunisia, Turkey, the
United Arab~rates, Yemen and Yugoslavia. SUbsequently, Burundi, Guinea, the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Morocco, Senegal, Somalia and the Syrian Arab Republic
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

6. A statement submitted by the Secretary-General on the administrative and
financial implications of draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.53 Has circulated in document
A/C.2/34/L.56.

7. At the 48th meeting, on 23 November, statements were made by the
representatives of Israel and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
(A/C.2/34/SR.48). The Committee then adopted draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.53 by a
recorded vote of 102 to 2, with 21 abstentions (see para. 15, draft resolution I).
The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bane1adesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
BulGaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Chad, Chile, China, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iraq, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplevs
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Haldives, Mali, Mexico, Hongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Pararuay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portu(;al, Qatar, Romania,

/ ...



A/34!T93
English
Page 3

Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Spain~ Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo , Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 2/

Against: Israel, United States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Papua New Guinea, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

8. Following the adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of
Ireland (on behalf of the States members of the European Economic Community) and of
the United States of America ffiade statem~nts (see A/C.2/34/SR.48).

B. Draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.68

9. At the 46th meeting, on 21 November, the representative of India, on behalf of
the States Members of the United Nations which are members of the Group of '7'7,
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/34/L.68) entitled "Resources for the
i~lementation of the work prograrr@e of the United Nations Centre for Human
Settlement s (Habitat) at the regional level".

10. A statement submitted by the Secretary--General on the administrative and
financial implications of draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.68 was circulated in document
A/C.2/34/L.82.

11. At the 54th meeting, on 1 December, on the basis of informal consultations,
the Committee decided to transmit draft resolution A/C.2/34/L.68 and the statement
of financial implications (A/C.2/34/L.82) to the Fifth Committee for its
consideration.

C. Resolutions recommended by the Economic and Social Council
in resolution 19'79/46

12. At its 48th meeting, on 23 November 19'79, the Committee considered the draft
resolutions contained in the report of the Commission on Human Settlements 4/
entitled "Global report on human settlements and periodic reports on international

]/ At the 48th meeting, the representatives of Argentina and Colcmbia stated
that, had they been present at the time of the vote, their delegations would have
voted in favour of the draft resolution.

4/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
SupPle;:;;ent No. 8 (A/3h/8).

/ ...



A/34/793
English
Page le

co-operation and assistance on human settlements" (resolution 2/3), "United Nations
Audio·-Visual Information Centre on Human Settlements (Vision Habitat)"
(resolution 2/4), and "Strengthening of human settlements activitips"
(resolution 2/6), recommended by the Economic and Social Council in resolution
1979/46 of 27 July 1979 for adoption by the General Assembly.

13. At the same meeting, the representative of Venezuela orally proposed
amendments to the draft resolution entitled "Strengthening of human settlements
activities" (resolution 2/6), which called for:

(a) The deletion of the seventh preambular paragraph;

(b) The insertion of the phrase "within
priorities" betv.reen the y,,'-crds "to dE:vote rt and
paragraph 1.

the context of their national
"1 h " ..a arger s are lD operatlve

The Corrmittee accepted these amendments to the draft resolution.

14, ,~so at the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolutions
contained in resolutions 2/3 and 2/4 (see para. 15, draft resolutions 11 and III
and in resolution 2/6, as orally amended (see para. 15, draft resolution IV).

Ill. RECOM~ffiNDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

15. The Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Living conditions of the Palestinian people

The Genera~ Assembl:r ~

Recalling the Vancouver Declaration on Human Settlements, 1976,
relevant recommendations for national action £I adopted by Habitat:
Conference on Human Settlements,

2! and the
United Nations

/ ...

Recalling also resolution 3, entitled "Living conditions of the Palestinians
in occupied territories!l'} contained in the recommendations for international
co-operation adopted by the Conference, 7/ and Economic and Social Council
resolutions 2026 (LXI) of 4 August 1976 ;nd 2100 (LXIII) of 3 August 1977,

Recalling General Assembly resolutions 31/110 of 16 December 1976, 32/171 of
19 December 1977 and 33/110 of 18 December 1978,

5/ Report of Habitat: united Nations Conference on Human Settlements,
Vm:couver, 31 11ay-ll June 1976 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E. 76.IV. 7
andcorrigenduml;- chap.~ T.~--

£J Ibid, , chap. 11.
1/ Ibid., chap. Ill.



A/341793
English
Page 5

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the living
conditions of the Palestinian people in the occupied Arab territories ~/ and notes
that, although it contains many relevant facts, it has not been sufficiently
analyt ical ;

2. Requests, therefore, the Secretary-General, in collaboration with the
relevant United Nations orga~s end specialized agencies, partic\uarly the United
Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, the
Economic Commission for Western Asia and the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Cccupied
Territories, to prepare and submit to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth
session a comprehensive and analytical report on the social and economic impact of
the Israeli occupation on the living conditions of the Palestinian people in the
occupied Arab territories;

3. Also requests the Secretary-General, in preparing the above-mentioned
report, to consult and co-operate with the Palestine Liberation Organization, the
representative of the Palestinian people;

4. Ur~es all States to co-operate with the Secretary-General in the
preparation of the report.

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Global report on human settlements and periOdic reports on international
co-operation and assistance on human settlements

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 2598 (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in which it
directed the Secretary-General to prepare a comprehensive housing survey every
five years,

Recallin~ Economic and Social Council resolution 916 G (XXXVI) of
1 August 1963, in which the Council requested the Secretary-General to prepare,
with the co-operation of the specialized agencies, regional corrmissions,
international finance agencies and governmental institutions, a biennial report on
the level and kind of Official assistance and international aid given to
developing countries in the field of housing, building and planning,

1. Decides that the quinquennial housing survey called for by General
Assembly resolution 2598 (XXIV) should become the "Global report on human
settlements" and should be issued every five years, according to the objectives,
format and contents set out in paragraphs 10 to 20 of the report of the Executive
Director of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat); 2J

2. Requests the Executive Director to undertake the preparation of a
biennial report in 1982, beg:inning with an interim report in 1981, on the following
subjects:

§j A/34/536 and Corr.l.

2J HS/C/2/8. / ...



A/31j1793
English
Page 6

(a) Financial and other assistance provided to and among developing
countries on human settlements, and on the h,wan settlements activities of the
United Nations system, according to the objectives, format and content set ~ut in
sections 11 and III of the report of the Executive Director, 2/ as modified by the
Commission on Human Settlements;

(b) Activities and collaboration between the United Nations Centre for Human
Settlements €.ud non-governmental organizations;

(c) Information on the human settlements activities of intergovernmental
organizations outside the United Nations system and co-operation between them and
the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements;

3. Urges all Member States to provide the necessary information for the
preparation of the above reports;

h Calls upon the Secretariat, particularly the Department of International
Economic and Social Affairs and the Department of Technical Co-operation for
Development, the regional commissions, the specialized agencies and all other
relevant bodies of the United Nations system, to provide the necessary information
for the preparation of the above reports and to collaborate with the United Nations
Centre for Human Settlements in their preparation;

5. Invites intergovernmental organizations outside the United Nations
system and non-governmental organizations working in the field of human
settlements to collaborate with the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements in
the preparation of these reports;

6. Requests the Eyecutive Director, in consultation with the relevant
bodies of the United Nations system, to explore the establishment of efficient
mechanisms for regular and systematic reporting and consultations for the above
reports.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

United Nations Audio-Visual Information Centre
on Human Settlements (Vision Habitat)

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 31/115 of 16 December 1976, by which it established
the United Nations Audio-Visual Information Centre on H1illlan Settlements,

Recalling further its resolution 32/162 of 19 December 1977, by which it
established the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Eabitat), entrusted
it with responsibility for prcmoting tre further and continued use of audio-visual
material relating to human settlements and decided that the Director of the United

/ ...



A/341793
English
Page 7

Nations Audio-Visual Information Centre on Human Settlements (Vision Habitat)
should report to the Executive Director of the United Nations Centre for Human
Settlements,

Recognizing that the effective dissemination of information, including the
use of audio-visual techniques and materials, will help accelerate the process of
development through the effective and rapid dissemination among policy makers,
experts and the public in all countries of information on the need for new
awareness and on new approaches, methods and techni~ues for improving human
settlements, especially their social, economic and environmental aspects, as well
as through their increasing use for project-monitoring, education, training and
public information,

Noting that the Agreement between the Government of Canada and the United
Nations On the operations of the United Nations Audio-Visual Information Centre on
Human Settlements expires on 31 March 1980,

Convinced that the programme developed by the United Nations Audio-Visual
Information Centre on Human Settlements should be continued,

Noting that the audio-visual activities have been fully integrated into the
work programme of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements,

1. Recommends that the Executive Director of the United Nations Centre for
Human Settlements (Habitat) should take the necessary steps to establish a
unified information service within the Centre to comprise a suitable range of
information and communications skills and capabilities, including an audio-visual
component at an appropriate level;

2. Decides that, upon the termination or expiration of the Agreement
referred to above, the functions and transferable assets of the United Nations
Audio-Visual Information Centre on Human Settlements (Vision Habitat) should be
transferred to the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to consult with the Government of Canada
on the appropriate formal arrangements regarding the termination or expiration of
the Agreement;

4. Encourages all Member States to make available to the United Nations
Centre for Human Settlements audio-visual material prepared for their programmes
of national action;

5. Appeals to all States and interested organizations to make available to
the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements the necessary resources for
continuing its audio-visual and information activities;

6. Re~uests the Executive Director to report to the Corrmission on Human
Settlements at its third session en tLe progress achieved towards the establishment
of a unified information service.

/ ...



A/34/793
English
Page 8

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Strengthening of human settlerrents activities

The General Assembly,

Recalling its relevant resolutions, in particular resolutions 2718 (XXV) of
15 December 1970, 3001 (XXVII) of 15 December 1972, 3327 (XXIX) of 16 December 1974
and 32/162 of 19 December 1977,

Noting that the report of the Commission on Human Settlements on the work of
its second session 10/ calls for Member States to deal with human settlements
programmes as an integral and important element of national development plans,

Recognizing that the goals of the new international economic order emcompass
both general economic improvements in developing countries and the achievement of
social eQuity in the distribution of benefits from economic gro,~h,

Convinced that human settlements activities can make an important contribution
to achieving both these goals of the new international economic order,

Recognizing that one of the most urgent needs in developing countries is to
upgrade the living and working conditions of low-income and disadvantaged groups
in both rural and urban areas,

Convinced that human settlements prograrr®es provide a direct mechanism for
redressing imbalances in access to shelter, utility services, health care,
education and community amenities, and hence can have a significant impact on the
immediate, day-ta-day needs of low-income and disadvantaged groups,

Convinced that human settlements programmes offer an effective tool for
generating the energy-conserving and resource-conserving community patterns which
will be called for,

1. Urges Member States to devote, within the context of their national
priorities, a larger share of national resources to the strengthening of human
settlements activities as vehicles of economic and social change;

2. Suggests that Member States should examine multilateral and bilateral
co-operation programmes, particularly those financed ay the United Nations
Development Programme, to determine whether an increased allocation can be made to
the human settlements sector;

3. Requests Member States to report every two years to the Commission on
Human Settlements on the progress made in implementing the recommendations for
national action adopted at the United Nations Conference on H,man Settlements
(Habitat) and, where possible, the level and sources of international and national
fundi.ng beinp: devoted to human settlements activities.

10/ Official Records of the General ~ssembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
Supple;;]ent No. 8 (A/34/8).




