








































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-fourth session
AGenda item 73

Distr.
GENERAL

A/34/618
29 October 1979
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/RUSSIAN

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGRA~iE FOR THE DECADE FOR ACTION
TO COMBAT RACISM Arm RACIAL DISCRIMINATION

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Nikolai N. KOMISSAROV (Byclorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1979, the General Assembly
included in the agenda of its thirty-fourth session the item entitled:
"Implementation of the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and
Racial Discrimination: report of the Secretary-General" and allocated it to the
Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered this item at its 5th to 15th and 21st to 23rd
meetings, from 27 September to 10 October and on 17 and 18 October 1979. The views
expressed by the representatives of Member States and by observers on this item
are contained in the summary records of those meetings (A/C.3/34/sR.5-15 and
SR.21, 22 and 23).

3. The Committee had before it the following documentation:

(a) Implementation of the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat
Racism and Racial Discrimination: report of the Secretary-General
(A/34/411), submitted in accordance with General Assembly
resolutions 3057 (XXVIII) and 33/98;

(b) Documents of the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Colombo from 4 to 9 June 1979 (A/34/357);

(c) Report of the Tenth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at
Fez from 8 to 12 May 1979 (A/34/389 and Corr.l);

79-27724 I ...



A/34/618
English
Page 2

(d) Final Declaration of the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or Government
of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from 3 to 9 September 1919
(A/34/542);

(e) Letter dated 8 October 1919 from the Permanent Representative of Viet
Ham to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/C,3/34/2).

4, At the 5th meetinG, on 2, September, the Chief of the Ne', York Office of the
Division of Human Rights made an introductory statement. The representative of
the Director of the Division of Human Rights introduced the item at the 6th meeting,
on 1 Oc tober .

11. CO'!SIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/34/L.9 AND
DRAFT PROPOSAL A/C.3/34/L.IO

5. At the 21st meeting, on 1, October,' the Chairman of the Committee drew the
COR~ittee's attention to the draft resolution recommended by the Economic and
Social Council in its resolution 19,9/3, entitled "Implementation of the Programme
for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination;;, the text of
which was distributed in document A/C.3/34/L.9.

6. At the 21st meeting 1 the representative of Nigeria introduced an amendment
(A/C.3/34/L.ll) to draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.9 as follows:

(a) Insert the following paragraph between the fifth and sixth preambular
paraGraphs:

!1Recof\nizing in particular, the serious plight of women and children
subjected to apartheid and racial discrimina tiOD 1 ':/

(b) Insert between operative paragraphs 6 and I the following three new
paragraphs:

(i) Commends the national liberation movements, anti-apartheid and anti-racist
movements 1 and other non-governmental organizations for their co-operation
in international efforts for the attainment of the purposes of the Decade;

(ii) Appeals to all mass media and educational and cultural institutions to
co-operate fully in the implementation of the Programme of the Decade;

(iii) Endorses the conclusions and recommendations of the International
seminar on children under apartheid (A/34/5l2);

(c) Renumber the subsequent paragraphs accordingly.

I. At the same meeting, the representative of Thailand orally proposed the
insertion~ in operative paragraph 3, of a comma between the words '[alien
domination lt and "'and for self-determination d •

/ ...



A/34/618
English
Page 3

8. At the same meeting, the representative of Lesotho, in her capacity as
Chairman of the African Group for the the month of October, introduced a revised
draft proposal (A/C.3/34/L.IO) entitled "Proposed draft programme of activities
to be undertaken during the second half of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism
and Racial Discrimination", to be annexed to draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.9. The
revised draft proposal was sponsored by Algeria, Benin, Burundi, the Conv,o,
Ethiopia, Gambia, the German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Hungary, India, Kenya,
the Libyan Arab JamahiriYa, Madagas~ar, ~lauritaniaj Mozambique, Pakistan, fuJanda)
the Syrian Arab Republic, Somalia, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the
United Republic of Cameroon, the United Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslavia and Zaire,
subsequently joined by Angola, Bangladesh, Cape Verde, Cuba, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Jordan, Liberia, 11ali~~golia, SaD Tome and
Principe, Senegal; the Sudan, Uganda, Viet Ham and Zambia.

9. The administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution and
the revised draft proposal are set out in document A/c.3/34/L.14 and Corr.l.

10. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeria submitted the following
amendments to the revised draft proposal (A/c.3/34/L.12):

(a) In paragraph 2:

(i) After Conference in support of the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia
(1977), and the insert Programme of Action Against Apartheid
formulated by the

(ii ) At the End of the paragraph insert a comma and add Adopted by
the General Assembly in resolution 31/6 G of 9 lTovember 1976

(b) In paragraph 5:

(i) After brochures insert posters, broadcasts and films

(ii) After by the issue insert of postage stamps

(c) In paragraph 7:

After the release of all insert persons detained, imprisoned or restricted
and delete political detainees imprisoned

(d) At the end of the paragraph 11 add related to the Programme of the Decade

(e) In paragraph 14,

After discrimination insert beginning on 21 March

(f) In paragraph 17 (b)

After the Commission on Human Rights insert in co-operation with the Special
Committee against Apartheid

I ...



A/34/618
English
Page 4

(g) In paragraph 18,

After make a study insert in consultation with the Special Committee against
Apartheid, the Special Committee of 24 and the United Nations Council for
Namibia

(h) Replace paragraph 23 by the following:

"Two separate and detailed studies should be prepared in 1981 by the
Commission on the status of women, one, study on the situation of women and
children living under the racist minority regimes in southern Africa, taking
into account the various reports and materials already prepared for the 1980
World Conference of the United Nations Decade for Women on the 'Effects of
Apartheid on Women in Southern Africa', and supplement with information on
children under apartheid including the information in document A/34/512;
and another, study on the situation of women and children living in the
occupied Arab territories, and other occupied territories, taking into account
the materials prepared for the 1980 World Conference of the United Nations
Decade for Women. The studies should be widely publicised."

(i) In paragraph 24,

After UNESCO insert a comma and FAO---
(j) In paragraph 25,

After round-table replace will by should

11. At the same meeting, the representative of Guinea submitted the following
amendment (A/C.3/34/13) to paragraph 25 of the revised draft proposal,

After regions insert , concerned in informing public opinion about the evils
of racism and racial discrimination

12. At the 22nd meeting, in 18 October, the representative of Lesotho revised
further the draft proposal taking into account all but three of the amendments
proposed by Nigeria (see para. 10) and the amendment proposed by Guinea (see
para. 11) with certain changes.

13. The representative of Nigeria withdrew two of the amendments not accepted by
the sponsors of the draft proposal and maintained the third amendment pertaining
to operative paragraph 23 (see para. 10).

14. The Committee then decided to vote jointly On the draft resolution A/C.3/34/L.9
and on the revised draft proposal A/C.3/34/L.IO and the amendments thereto.

15. At the 22nd meeting, the Committee considered the four amendments submitted by
Nigeria to the draft resolution (see para. 6) and adopted them separately, without
a vote.

/ ...



A/34/618
English
Page 5

16. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on the oral amendment proposed by
Thailand, (see para. 7) and rejected it by a recorded vote of 40 to 17, with 61
abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Argentina, Chile, Fiji, Guinea, Indonesia, Israel, Lebanon,
Malaysia, ?1aldives, Morocco, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Singapore, Suriname, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago.

Against: Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad,
Colombia, Camoras, Congo, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, German
Democratic Republic, Grenada, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iraq,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Madagascar, Malawi, I1ali, Mongolia, Mozambique, Poland, Sierra
Leone, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, Viet Nam.

Abstaining: Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Burma, China, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland,
France, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Iceland, India, Iran~ Ireland~
Italy, Japan, Jordan, Luxembourg, Mexico, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania~ Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swaziland,
Sweden, Tunisia, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zambia.

17. At the 23rd meeting, on 18 October, the Committee took the following decisions:

(a) It rejected the amendment of Nigeria to paragraph 23 of the revised draft
proposal (see para. 10) by 61 votes to 12, with 51 abstentions. The voting was
as follows:

In favour:

Ap;ainst:

Bahamas, Barbados, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Malaysia, Nepal, Nigeria, Philippines, Trinidad and Tobago,
Venezuela.

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde,
Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ethiopia,
German Democratic Republic, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Hungary, India, Iran, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Mali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger,
Oman, Pakistan, Poland, Qatar, Rwanda, SaD Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, l~rainian Soviet Socialist Republic,

/ ...



A/34/61fJ
English
Page 6

Union of Soviet Socialist Republics~ United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania~ Viet Nam 1 Yemen~ Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

A?~Jain~ng: Argentina 1 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Comaras, Cyprus, Denmark,
Dominican Republic., Egypt, Fij i., Finland., France., Gabon., Gambia.,
Germany., Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece') Guyana., Haiti,
Honduras, Iceland., Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
.nalawi., r,'1.aldi ves ') :Mexico., rIetherlands') :New Zealand, Norway., Fapua
New Guinea, Peru, Portugal, Romania, Sierra Leone, Spain,
Suriname, SHaziland, Svreden, Thailand., Toga, United Kinedom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay.

(b)
votes to

It adoptcd onerative paragraph 2 of the
19, 'fith 21 abstentions. The voting was

revised draft
as follo'fs:

proposal by 85

In favour: Afghanistan~ Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Benin, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic
RepUblic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, India, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, 1ao
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
,Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, rlali, Mauritania,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
lmion of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emiratcs, United
Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nan, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Dominican Republic,
Finland, Germany, Federal Republic of, Guatemala, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, ~'Tf'therlands, He,,! Zealand ~ HorHay ~ S"'leden, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Nor-thorn In'lar~d) Uruguay.

Argentina, Bahamas, 3razil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Fiji,
France, Greece, Ivory Coast, Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi, Mexico,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Portugal, Spain, Suriname, 7hailand~
Venezuela.

(c) It adopted thc amended draft resolution (A/C.3/34/L.9) and the revised
draft proposal (A/C.3/34/L.lO) by 109 votcs to 19, 'fith 2 abstentions (see para. 18).
The voting was as follows:

/ ...



In favour:

A/34/6H3
English
Page 7

Afghanistan, A13eria, Angola~ Argentina~ Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan) Botswana, Brazil, ~ulgaria,
Burma, Durundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape
Verd.e~ Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Camoras, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen~ Djibouti, Dominican
nepublic, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, t1adugascar,
i.Ialaysia) MaldivE:'s, I:'Iali~ Mauritania, rIexico, 1,1ongolia, r':'orocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia) Sierra Leone, Somalia,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan~ Suriname~ Swaziland~ Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Toga, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia.

Australia, Austria, Belgium~ Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Japan, Papua New Guinea.

IH. RECOMMENDATION OF THE THIRD COI'!llIl'TEE

18. The Third Committee recoIT@ends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Implementation of the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat
Racism and Racial Discrimination

Re~ffjrming its resolve to achieve the total eradication of racism, racial
discrimination and apartheid,

Recallinr, once again that, in its resolution 3057 (XXVIII) of 2 November 1973
and in the Progra~~e for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination annexed thereto, it called for a continuing effort by all peoples,
Governments and institutions to eradicate racisrn, racial discrimination and
apartheid,

/ ...



A/34/618
English
Page 8

Recalling its resolutions 31/77 of 13 December 1976, 32/10 of 7 November 1977
and. 33/98of 16 December 1978,

Tak~~p, into account its resolutions 33/99 and 33/100 of 16 December 1978,

Aware of the serious threat to international peace and security resulting from
the contil1ued defiance by the racist regimes in South Africa and Southern Rhodesia
of the resolutions adopted by the international community and of the will
manifested by the latter to put an end to the abhorrent policies of apartheid and
racial discrimination, the continuation of the illegal occupation of Namibia and
the refusal to respect the right of peoples to self-determination,

Re~ognizing in particular the serious plight of women and children subjected
to apartheid and racial discrimination,

Recallin€\., the importance of the attainment of the objectives of the Decade,

Expres~ing its satisfaction at the results of the World Conference to Combat
Racism and Racial Discrimination, held at Geneva from 14 to 25 August 1978,

Convinced that the Conference, which was held at the mid-point of the
Decade and constituted an outstanding event therein, has made a valuable and
constructive contribution to the achievement of the objectives of the Decade by its
adoption of the Declaration and Programme of Action, 11

1. Proclaims that the elimination of all forms of racism and discrimination
based on race and the attainment of the objectives of the Programme for the Decade
for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination and of the Programme of
Action adopted by the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination
are matters of high priority for the international community and accordingly for
the United Nations;

2. Strongly condemns the pOlicies of apartheid, racism and racial
discrimination practised in southern Africa and elsewhere, including the denial
of the right of peoples to self-determination;

3. Reaffirms once again its strong support for the national liberation
struggle against racism~ racial discrimination, apartheid, colonialism and alien
domination and for self-determination by all means, including armed struggle;

4. Invites all Member States, United Nations organs, specialized agencies
and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations to strengthen and enlarge
the scope of their activities in support of the objectives of the Programme for
the Decade;

5. Calls once again upon all the Governments which have not yet done so
to take legislative~ administrative and other measures in respect of their

1/ Report of the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination,
Geneva, 14-25 August 1978 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.79.XIV.2),
chap. II.

/ ...



A/34/618
English
Pa8e 9

nationals and the bodies corporate under their jurisdiction that own and operate
enterprises in southern Africa, in order to put an end to such enterprises
immediately;

6. Appeals to all States to continue to co-operate with the Secretary-
General by submitting their reports to him in accordance with paragraph 18 (e)
of the Progrmmne for the Decade;

7. Co~~~~ the national liberation movements, anti-apartheid and anti-racist
movements] and other non-governmental organizations for their co-operation in
international efforts for the attainment of the purposes of the Decade'

8. Appeals to all mass media and educational and cultural institutions to
co-operate fUlly in the implementation of the Programme of the Decade;

9.
Seminar

Endorses the conclusions and recommendations
on Childr;n under Apartheid, ~

of the International

10. Requests the Economic and Social Council to submit to the General Assembly
at its thirty-fifth session its report on the evaluation of the activities
undertaken in connexion with the Decade, in accordance with paragraph 18 of the
Programme for the Dccade~ taking into account the results of the Conference set
out in the Declaration and Programme of Action which it adopted;

11. Adop~ the four-year programme of activities designed to accelerate
progress in the implementation of the Programme for the Decade, as set forth in
the annex to the present resolution;

12. ~xpr_~sses its satisfaction to the Committee on the Elimination of Racial
Discrimination, the Special Committee against A~artheid, the United Nations Council
for Namibia, the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of
the Palestinian People and the Commission On Human Rights, through its Ad Hoc
Working Group of Experts on Southern Africa and its Sub-Commission on Prevention
of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, for their contribution to the
implementation of the Programme for the Decade;

13. Invites in particular the Com~ittee on the Elimination of Racial
Discrimination to monitor the implementation of the provisions of articles 4 and 7
of the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination 1/ in order to prevent any incitement to racism and racial
discrimination and to promote understanding~ tolerance and friendship among nations
and racial or ethnic eroups;

'5./ AI 31+ 1512.
]I General Assembly resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

I ...



A/34/61o
Englisil
Page 10

14.
priority,
Action to

Decides to consider at its thirty-fifth session, as a matter of high
the-item entitled l1Implernentation of the Programme for the Decade for
Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination;;.

ANi/EX

Prog~am~e of activities to be undertaken during the second half of the
Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination

1. During the second half of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination, efforts should be intensified by all States, United Nations organs
and intergovernmeptal and non-governmental organizations to achieve the speediest
attainment of thC' objectives of the Decade, aimed at the complete and final
elimination of all forms of racism and racial discrimination.

2. Particular attention should be paid to specific measures designed to ensure thc
implementation of the main provisions of the Programme for the Decade~ of the
Declaration and PrograwJIle of Action adopted by the "orId Conference to Combat
Racism and Racial Discrimination 4/ and of the other pertinent United Nations
resolutions On racism, racial discrimination, apartheid, decolonization and self-
determination, of the Lagos Declaration for Action against Anartheid ~ adopted by
the World Conference for Action against Apartheid held at Lagos from 22 to
26 August 1977, the r.1aputo Declaration 5/ adopted at the International Conference
in Support of the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia held at Maputo from 16 to
21 j'1ay 1911, and the Programme of Action against Apartheid recommended by the
International Seminar on the Eradication of Apartheid and in Support of the Struggle
for Liberation in South Africa, held at Havan;-in 1916, adopted by the General
Assembly in resolution 31/6 G of 9 November 1916.

3. Every effort should be made to bring about the complete isolation of the racist
regimes and the strict application by all States Members of the United Nations of
sanctions against these regimes, since any co-oppration with them in the political,
economic, military and other fields constitutes an impediment to the liberation of
southern Africa. Governments are duty-bound to create the necessary conditions to
ensure that transnational corporations cease to grant any assistance or support to
the racist regimes of Pretoria and Salisbury or to exploit the peoples of southern
Africa and the natural resources of their countries.

4. The Security Council is reQuested to consider urgently the possibility of
imposing complete and mandatory sanctions under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations against the apartheid regime of South Africa and the racist regimes
of southern Africa, and in particular:

(a) The cessation of all collaboration with South Africa in the nuclear field;

For the printed text, see Official Records
Year, Supplement for July, August and

~ Resolution 3051 (XXVIII).

~ A/32/109/Rev.l-S/12344/Rev.l.
of the Security Council~ Thirty-second

~-,-",-=-=....oCd-=,-""=--=,,,-,--=.c===,-,,-=-='----"-=,--,--=c=o,-,,-=

September 1971.

/ ...



A/34/6l3
Znglish
Page 11

(b) The prohibition of all technological assistance or collaboration in the
manufacture of arms and military supplies in South Africa;

(c) The prohibition of all loans to, and all investments In, South Africa
and the cessation of all promotion of trade with South Africa;

(d)
strategic

An embargo on the supply of petroleum, petroleum products and other
commodities to South Africa.

5. The efforts undertaken by the organizations of the United Nations system
should be intensified in order to keep public opinion constantly on the alert
against the evils of racism~ racial discrimination and apar~heid through
publications of the Centre against Apartheid of the Secretariat, the dissemination
of various brochures) by the issue by the Universal Postal Union, beginninG in 1980,
of a stamp to mark the Decade, etc.

6. The efforts of the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat should
be intensified in order to generate publicity and disseminate information with a
view to mobilizing public support for the goals and objectives of the Decade.
An~nnual report On the activities of the Department of Public Information should
form part of the report prepared by the Secretary-General in accordance with
paragraph 18 (f) of the Programme for the Decade.

7. All States, international agencies and non-governmental organizations should
intensify the campaigns organized to obtain the release of all political detainees
imprisoned by the racist regimes for their brave struggle against apartheid l
racism and racial discrimination and in defence of the rights of their peoples to
self-determination and independence.

8. The appropriate organizations of the United Nations system should continue
their investigation of the policies and practices in occupied Arab territories,
including Palestine, based on various forms of racial discrimination against the
peoples of those territories.

9. The Horld Conference of the United Nations Decade for \Iomen: Equality,
Development and Peace, to be held in 1980, should contribute to the struggle against
racism} racial discrimination and apartheid by recorunending the adoption of other
measures aimed at ensuring the active participation of wornen in the struggle
against these evils.

10. The Secretary-General should ensure the widest possible dissemination of the
study on the work of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, 61
prepared pursuant to Economic and Social Council resolution 2057 (LXII) of .-
12 May 1977, and of the brochure On the International Convention on the Elimination
of All Forms of Racial Discrimination} prepared by the Cornmittee as its
contribution to the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination.

§J A/CONF.92/8.

I . ..



A/34/618
English
Page 12

11. Regional seminars should be organized on an annual basis, at the level of the
regional commissions, on specific subjects.

12. The United Nations should adopt other measures aimed at improving the
situation and ensuring the human rights and dignity of all migrant workers,
including the drawing up of a convention on the protection of the rights of all
migrant workers.

13. Activities should be undertaken to encourage the effective contribution by
youth to the struggle against racism, racial discrimination and apartheid.

14. A week of solidarity with the peoples struggling against racism and racial
discrimination, beginning on 21 March, should be organized annually in all States.

15. All States should adopt as a matter of high priority measures to declare
punishable by law any dissemination of ideas based on racial superiority or hatred
and to prohibit organizations based on racial prejudice and hatred, including
neo-nazi and fascist organizations and private clubs and institutions established
on the basis of racial criteria or propagating ideas of racial discrimination and
apartheid.

16. All States should eliminate, through legislation and administrative measures,
all discriminatory practices against members of immigrant communities. They
should ensure that immigrants and their families are given treatment which is no
less favourable than that accorded to their own nationals in matters such as
education, employment, acquisition of property, health and housing facilities
and travel within and outside the country.

17. The main activities to be undert~<en for the achievement of these objectives
are set forth below. This implies that:

(a) The United Nations should provide adequate financial and human resources
according to the priorities established by the General Assembly in order to combat
racism, racial discrimination and apartheid;

(b) The specialized agencies and other intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations concerned must, within their respective fields of competence, make
an essential contribution to the attainment of these ends. In addition to the
preparation of the report by the Secretary-General requested in paragraph 18 (f)
of the Programme for the Decade, a certain number of activities should be
undertaken during the second half of the Decade in particular.

18. In the light of paragraph 13 (b) of the Programme for the Decade, a seminar
should be organized in 1981 by the Commission on Human Rights, in co-operation
with the Special Committee against Apartheid, in order to study the formulation of
effective measures to prevent transnational corporations and other established
interests from collaborating with the racist regimes of southern Africa. The
Commission on Transnational Corporations and the Commission on Human Rights should
make a study in co-operation with the Special Committee against Apartheid, the

/ ...



A/34/618
English
Page 13

Special Committee on the Situation with Regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and
the United Nations Council for Namibia with a view to enumerating specific measures
whose application by all States, intergovernmental organizations, private
institutions and non-governmental organizations will make it possible to end all
collaboration with the racist regimes and prevent the supply of capital, loans,
credits, foreign currency and any other form of commercial, financi~l and
technological assistance to the economies of South Africa, Southern Rhodesia and
Namibia by private banks, Governments and international agencies, such as the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the International Financial
Association, the International Monetary Fund and similar institutions.

19. In accordance with General Assembly resolution 3377 (XXX), the Commission on
Human Rights, in co-operation with the Sub-Commission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, should undertake a study on ways and
means of ensuring the implementation of the United Nations resolutions on apartheid,
racism, and racial discrimination and submit its conclusions to the Assembly at
its thirty-seventh session in 1982 through the Economic and Social Council.

20. A study should be undertaken in 1980 by the Ad Hoc Working Group of Experts
on Southern Africa on ways and means of implementing international instruments,
such as the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime
of Apartheid, including the establishment of the international jurisdiction
envisaged by the Convention.

21. The United Nations Institute for Training and Research should organize an
international colloquium in 1980 On the elimination of apartheid, racism and
racial discrimination and the achievement of self-determination in international
law, with special attention to the principles of non-discrimination and self-
determination as peremptory norms of international law.

22. A study should be prepared by the Secretary-General in 1981 on the links
between the struggle against racism and the struggle for self-determination in
southern Africa.

23. A study should be prepared in 1981 by the Commission On the Status of Women
of the situation of women and children living under the racist minority regimes
in southern Africa, especially under the apartheid regime, and of women and children
living in the occupied Arab territories and other occupied territories.

24. A study should be undertaken in 1981 by the Secretary-General, in co-operation
with the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and the World Health
Organization on the links between racial discrimination and inequalities in the
fields of education, nutrition, health, housing and cultural development.

25. Under the auspices of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization, a round table of editors of newspapers concerned in informing
public opinion about the evils of racism and racial discrimination and with wide
circulation from the various geographical regions should be convened in the

/ ...



AI 34/6li)
English
Page 1 1,

second half of 1980, on the basis of equitable distribution, to study the role of
the mass cm::mmnication media in combating racism, racial discrimination and
apartheid. A report on the work of the round table should be submitted to the
Econ~;;i-C-and Social Council at its first regular session of 1981.

26. An important feature of the second half of the Lecade should be the holding
of a second '.Torld Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, preferably
at the end of the Decade, in order to review and appraise the activities undertaken
during the Decade a~d to chart new measures where necessary. In accordance with
the mandate Given it, defined in paragraph 18 of the PrograOllJle for the Decade, the
Economic ancl Social Council would act, as it did in the case of the first
Conference, as a :9reparatory committee for this conference.

27. The Economic and Social Council should plan to begin considering the
preparations for the conference at its first regular session of 1980.


