





































































Name: 00000021


United Nations 

GENERAL 
ASSEMBLY 
Official Records 

Agenda item 106 

A N N E X E S  

THIRTY-FOURTH SESSION 

NEW YORK, 1979 

Agenda item 106:* United Nations pension system: , ; 
(a) Report of the United Nations Joint Staff Tension Board;** 
(b) Report of the Secretary-General 

C O N T  I .  N T S  
DiKumtnt So. Title . . Page 

A/34/775 Report of Ihc Fifth Commiltcc \e., . \. 1 
Action laktn by Ihe General Avumhly 5 

Check list of documents 5 

'For the discussion of the item, sec Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session, Fifth Committee, 61st, 
64th, 65th, 67th, 68lh, 70th, 77th, 78th and 79th meetings, ibid., Fifth Committee, Sessional Fascicle, corrigendum; and ibid.. Plenary 
Heelings, 111th meeting. 

"Since 1974, this question has been discussed by ihe General Assembly at the following sessions: twenty-ninth (agenda item 
83), thirtieth (item 106), thirty-first (item 104), thirty-second (item 110) and thirty-third (item 112). 

DOCUMENT A/34/775* 

Report of Ihc Fiflh Committee 

1. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 September 
1979, the General Assembly decided to include in the 
agenda of its thirty-fourth session the question of the 
United Nations pension system and to allocate it to 
the Fifth Committee for consideration and report. 

2. At its 61st, 64th, 65th, 67lh, 68th, 70th, 77th, 
78th and 79th meetings, from 28 November to 12 De­
cember 1979, the Committee considered the item. 
Comments made by delegations and the representatives 
of the Secretary-General in the course of the discussion 
are reflected in the summary records of the meetings 
(A/C.5/34/SR.61, 64, 65, 67, 68. 70, 77, 78 and 79). 

3- The Committee had before it the following doc­
uments; 

(0) Report of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension 
Board for 1979 (A/34/9 and Add.l), including the 
report of the Board of Auditors on the accounts of the 
United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund for ihc year 
ended 31 December 1978, and containing a draft res­
olution proposed for adoption by the General Assembly 
(A/34/9, part one, annex V, and part two. annex HI); 

(f>) Report of ihe International Civil Service Com­
mission (A/34/30 and Corr.l); 

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on investments 
°f the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund (A/ 
C.5/34/30): 

(<f) Report of the Advisory Committee on Admin­
istrative and Budgetary Questions (A/34/721), annex 
'I of which contained a draft resolution recommended 
for adoption by the General Assembly; 

'Incorporating document A/34/775/Corr.l of 19 Decem­
ber 1979. 

[Original: English] 
[17 December 1979j 

(e) Note by the Secretary-General (A/C.5/34/56) 
on the administrative and financial implications of pro­
posals contained in document A/34/9. 

4. At the 61st meeting, the Chairmen of the Pen­
sion Board and of the International Civil Service Com­
mission introduced the reports (A/C.5/34/SR.61, 
paras. 46-61 and 62-66). During the consideration of 
the item, supplementary information on various aspects 
of the reports was provided, at the request of several 
delegations, by the Chairmen of the Board and of the 
Advisory Committee, and by the representative of the 
Secretary-General. 

Consideration of proposals 

5. In connexion with this item, the Fifth Commit­
tee considered four draft resolutions as set forth below. 

A. DRAFT RESOLUTION RECOMMENDED RY THE AD­
VISORY COMMITTEE ON ADMINISTRATIVE AND 
BUDGETARY QUESTIONS (A/34/721, ANNEX 11) 

6 At its 78th meeting, on 12 December, the Com­
mittee took action on amendments to the text of the 
draft resolution as submitted by the Advisory Com­
mittee as follows: 

( a )  The Committee adopted, by 73 votes to 18, 
with 16 abstentions, (he first of two amendments which 
had been introduced by (he representative of Italy at 
the 77th meetine, on behalf of Colombia, C>pius, 
Fthionia, Italy, the Philippines, Trinidad and Tobago, 
Venezuela and Yugoslavia (A/C.5/34/L.40), whereby 
the words "articles 21 and 29 of" were deleted from 
part I of the draft resolution; 

Annexes (34) 106 



2 General Assembly—Thirty-fourth Session—Annexes 

Cb) The Committee adopted, without a vote, an 
amendment which had been introduced by the repre­
sentative of Australia at the preceding meeting (A/C.5/ 
34/L.31), whereby the following text was added at the 
end of part V, on interim measures: 

"This authorization is given on the clear under­
standing that it does not create any entitlement to 
these additional payments or their equivalent beyond 
1980 and that, should any long-term scheme adopted 
in 1980 result in a pension payment which would 
eliminate some or all of the additional payments de­
riving from the interim measures, the lower payment 
would be the one applicable for 1981 and beyond."; 
(c) The Committee rejected, by 73 votes to 11, with 

21 abstentions, an oral amendment which had been sub­
mitted by the United States at the 77th meeting, whereby 
part V of the draft resolution would be replaced by the 
following text: 

"Decides that the United Nations Joint Staff Pen­
sion Fund shall not implement in 1980 any interim 
measures". 
7. The Committee then considered further amend­

ments. The second of the two amendments contained in 
document A/C.5/34/L.40 proposed the addition of a 
new part VI, the text of which read as follows: 

"VI 
" 1. Requests the International Civil Service Com­

mission and the United Nations Joint Staff Pension 
Board to continue in 1980 their efforts in making a 
comprehensive examination of the functioning, meth­
ods of establishment and adjustment and appropriate 
level of pensionable remuneration with a view to sub­
mitting proposals to the General Assembly at its thirty-
fifth session for correcting anomalies in the United 
Nations pension system brought about by the current 
economic and monetary circumstances, and to that 
end 

"2. Invites the International Civil Service Com­
mission and the United Nations Joint Staff Pension 
Board to take full account of the views expressed 
on this and related matters in the Fifth Committee 
during the thirty-fourth session of the General 
Assembly." 

The sponsors agreed to accept a subamendment which 
had been submitted by Pakistan at the 77lh meeting 
(A/C.5/34/L.43), whereby the following text was 
added after the word "circumstances" in paragraph 1 
of part VI: 

"giving due consideration in the elaboration of 
those proposals to the fact that the adverse effects 
of currency fluctuations and inflation can less readily 
be absorbed by those with smaller pensions than by 
those with higher pensions". 

They further revised their amendment by replacing the 
words "to continue in 1980 their efforts in making a" 
by to conclude in 1980 their" and by adding the words 
"no later than January 1981" after "correcting" in 
paragraph I. 

8. Amendments which had been introduced at the 
77th meeting by the representative of Belgium on be­
half also of Tunisia (A/C.5/34/L.41) were then with­
drawn by the sponsors. The text read as follows: 

"VI 
"Requests the International Civil Service Commis­

sion in co-operation with the United Nations Joint 
Staff Pension Board to continue its work with a view 
to submitting to the General Assembly at the thirty-

fifth session a long-term solution to the pensions prob­
lem. and in particular a revised draft joint pension 
system that would come into effect no later than 
January 1981; 

"VII 

"Decides, pending a long-term solution, to main­
tain pensionable remuneration at its 1979 level, 
namely 125 per cent of gross salary." 
9. The Committee then adopted the draft resolution 

(A/34/721, annex II), as amended, by 86 votes to 
none, with 7 abstentions (see para. 19 below, draft 
resolution 1). 

B. DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.5/34/L.28 AND REV.I 

10. At the 65th meeting, on 30 November, the 
representative of Cuba introduced a draft resolution 
(A/C.5/34/L.28), sponsored also by Panama and sub-
scqucntly also by Afghanistan, Algeria, Costa Rica, 
Ethiopia, Madagascar, Mozambique and Nicaragua. 
The text read as follows: 

"The General Assembly, 
"Recalling its resolutions 31/197 of 22 December 

1976 and 32/73 A of 9 December 1977, in which 
it requested the Secretary-General to ensure that the 
resources which the United Nations Joint Stall Pen­
sion Fund holds invested in transnational corpora­
tions are reinvested, to the greatest extent practicable, 
in developing countries, 

"Recalling also its resolution 33/121, in which the 
provisions of the aforementioned resolutions were 
restated, 

"Reaffirming its belief that investments by the 
United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund in shares of 
transnational corporations might contradict the ob­
jectives and purposes of the organizations of the 
United Nations system, 

"Reiterating the need of the developing countries 
to obtain an increased flow of financial resources in 
real terms to help further their economic and social 
development processes, 

"Reiterating the importance of an appropriate geo­
graphical distribution of investments in developing 
countries, 

"Having considered the report of the United Na­
tions Joint Staff Pension Board (A/34/9 and Add.l) 
and the report of the Secretary-Genera! on invest­
ments of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund 
(A/C.5/34/30), 

"Noting with concern that investments by the 
United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund in develop­
ing countries have shown little increase in the past 
year and investments by the Fund in shares of trans­
national corporations have been maintained at an 
appreciable level, 

"1. Renews its request to the Secretary-General 
that, in pursuance of General Assembly resolution 
33/121, he redouble his efforts, in consultation wit 
the Investments Committee, to ensure that the re­
sources which the United Nations Joint Staff Pension 
Fund holds invested in shares of transnational co 
porations are reinvested in developing countries 
the greatest extent practicable, subject to careful o 
servance of the requirements of safety, prontaoi i • 
liquidity and convertibility, and in conformity w 
the Regulations of the Joint Fund; 

"2. Requests the Secretary-General to take 'c 



Agenda item 106 

necessary steps to ensure, without incurring an in­
crease in administrative costs, an appropriate 
geographical distribution of Fund investments in 
developing countries; 

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to report to 
the General Assembly at it thirty-fifth session on the 
implementation of the present resolution." 
11. At the 78th meeting, on 12 December, the 

representative of Panama introduced a revised text of 
the draft resolution (A/C.5/34/L.28/Rev.l), spon­
sored by Angola, Cape Verde, the Libyan Arab Jama-
hiriya and Malawi in addition to the sponsors of the 
initial text. The revised text incorporated the following 
changes: 

(a) In the first prcambular paragraph, the" words 
"reinvested, to the greatest extent practicable" were re­
placed by "placed in safe conditions and to the greatest 
extent practicable in sound investments"; 

(/>) At the end of operative paragraph 2. the words 
"in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1" were 
added. 

12. The sponsors further revised the text by replac­
ing the words "placed in safe conditions" in the first 
prcambular paragraph by "invested on safe and prof­
itable grounds" and by deleting the fourth and fifth 
prcambular paragraphs and operative paragraph 2; the 
remaining operative paragraph was renumbered. 

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted 
the revised draft resolution, as further revised, by 76 
votes to 18. with 4 abstentions (see para. 19 below, draft 
resolution II A). 

C. DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.5/34/L.32/REV.1 

14. At the 78th meeting, the representative of Mo­
rocco introduced a draft resolution (A/C.5/34/L.32/ 
Rev.I) sponsored also by Algeria, Chad. Egypt, Kenya, 
the Libyan Arab Jamnhiriya, Mauritania, Senegal, Togo, 
Tunisia and the Upper Volta, which were also joined by 
Cape Verde. Ghana, Guinea, Madagascar and Sierra 
Leone (for the text, sec para. 19 below, draft resolution 
II B). 

15. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted 
'he draft resolution without a vote. 

D. DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.5/34/1..39 

16. At the 78th meeting, the representative of the 
Coiled Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.5/34/L.39) spon­
ged also by Belgium, the Federal Republic of Ger­
many. France, Norway and the United States of 
America. The sponsors agreed to amend the text of 
operative paragraph I by adding the words "and is in 
accordance with the criteria of safety, profitability, 
liquidity and convertibility" (see para. 19 below, draft 
resolution II C). 

'T- At the same meeting, the Committee adopted 
'ac draft resolution, as revised, by a recorded vote of 

13, with 35 abstentions. The results of the voting 
as follows: 

In favour: Australia. Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, 
ulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, 
anada, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, 
fancc, German Democratic Republic, Germany, 
edcral Republic of. Greece. Guatemala. Hungary, 

'refund, Israel, Italy. Japan Liberia, Mexico, Mon-
jjPa* Netherlands, New Zealand. Poland. Portugal, 

omania, Spain, Sweden. Trinidad and Tobago, Tur-
*cy- Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of 

3 

Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of 
Cameroon, United States of America. Upper Volta 
Yugoslavia. 

Against: Afghanistan, Cape Verde. Chad. Congo, 
Costa Rica, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia. Iraq, 
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Panama, Peru. 

Abstaining: Algeria. Argentina, Bahrain, Barbados, 
Benin, Brazil, Burundi, Central African Republic, 
Chile, Ecuador, Ghana, Guyana, India, Indonesia, 
Jordan, Kenya. Lesotho, Malaysia, Mauritania, Mo­
rocco, Mozambique, Oman, Philippines, Rwanda, Sao 
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, 
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zaire. Zambia. 

E. DRAFT DECISION 

_ 18. At the 78th meeting, the Committee also de­
cided without a vote to recommend to the General As­
sembly the adoption of the draft decision orally pro­
posed by Pakistan (see para. 20 below). 

Recommendations of the Fifth Committee 

19. The Fifth Committee recommends to the Gen­
eral Assembly the adoption of the following draft resolu­
tions: 

Draft resolution I 

REPORT OF THE UNITED NATIONS JOINT STAFF 
PENSION BOARD 

The General Assembly, 
Having considered the report of the United Nations 

Joint StalT Pension Board to the General Assembly 
and to the member organizations of the United Nations 
Joint Staff Pension Fund for 1979 (A/34/9 and Add.l), 
chapter III of the report of the International Civil 
Service Commission (A/34/30 and Corr.l) and the 
related report of the Advisory Committee on Admini­
strative and Budgetary Questions (A/34/721), 

I 
Amendments to the Regulations of the United Nations 

Joint Staff Pension Fund 
Decides that the Regulations of the United Nations 

Joint Staff Pension Fund shall be amended, without 
retroactive effect, from 1 January 1980, as set forth in 
annex VI to part one of the report of the United Nations 
Joint Staff Pension Board; 

II 
Transfer of pension rights 

Concurs in the agreements (see A/34/9/Add.l, an­
nexes I-IV) approved by the United Nations Joint Staff 
Pension Board with the European Space Agency and 
the European Free Trade Association, and in the re­
vised texts of the transfer agreements with the Interna­
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Development and 
the International Monetary Fund, concluded in I960 
under article 13 of the Rceulations of the United Na­
tions Joint Staff Pension Fund, with respect to con­
tinuity of pension rights between those agencies and the 
Fund; 

III 
Emergency Fund 

Authorizes the United Nations Joint Staff Pension 
Board to supplement the voluntary contributions to the 



General Assembly—Thirty-fourth Session—Annexes 

Emergency Fund, for a further period of one year, by 
an amount not exceeding $100,000, 

IV 
Administrative expenses 

Approves expenses, chargeable directly to the United 
Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund, totalling $3,881,500 
(net) for 1980 and supplementary expenses of $42,500 
(net) for 1979 for the administration of the Fund; 

V 
Interim measures 

Authorizes the United Nations Joint Staff Pension 
Fund to implement in 1980 the interim measures rec­
ommended in paragraphs 34 and 39 of the report of the 
Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary 
Questions (A/34/721), this authorization being given 
on the clear understanding that it does not create any 
entitlement to these additional payments or their equiva­
lent beyond 1980 and that, should any long-term scheme 
adopted in 1980 result in a pension payment which 
would eliminate some or all of the additional payments 
deriving from the interim measures, the lower payment 
would be the one applicable for 1981 and beyond; 

VI 
Pensionable remuneration 

1. Requests the International Civil Service Com­
mission and the United Nations Joint Staff Pension 
Board to conclude in 1980 their comprehensive ex­
amination of the functioning, methods of establishment 
and adjustment and appropriate level of pensionable 
remuneration with a view to submitting proposals to the 
General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session for correct­
ing, no later than January 1981, anomalies in the United 
Nations pension system brought about by the current 
economic and monetary circumstances, giving due con­
sideration in the elaboration of those proposals to the 
fact that the adverse effects of currency fluctuations and 
inflation can less readily be absorbed by those with 
smaller pensions than by those with hieher pensions; 

2. Invites, to that end, the International Civil 
Service Commission and the United Nations Joint Staff 
Pension Board to take full account of the views ex­
pressed on this and related matters in the Fifth Com­
mittee during the thirty-fourth session of the General 
Assembly. 

Draft resolution // 
INVESTMENTS or TIIL UNITED NATIONS JOINT STAIT 

PENSION FOND 
A 

The General Assembly, 
Recalling its resolutions 31/197 of 22 December 

1976 and 32/73 A of 9 December 1977, in which it 
requested the Secretary-General to ensure that the re­
sources which the United Nations Joint Staff Pension 
Fund holds invested in transnational corporations are 
invested on safe and profitable terms and, to the greatest 
extent practicable, in investments in developing coun­
tries, 

Recalling also its resolution 33/121 of 19 December 
1978, in which the provisions of the aforementioned 
resolutions were restated. 

Reaffirming its belief that investments by the United 
Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund in shares of transna­
tional corporations might contradict the objectives and 
purposes of the organizations of the United Nations 
system. 

Having considered the report of the United Nations 
Joint Staff Pension Board (A/34/9 and Add.l) anj 
the report of the Secretary-General on investments nf 
the United Nations Joint Stuff Pension Fund (\ C"5' 
34/30), 

Noting with concern that investments by the United 
Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund in developing coun­
tries have shown little increase in the past year and 
investments by the Fund in shares of transnational cw-
porations have been maintained at an appreciable level. 

f. Renews its request to the Secretary-General thai, 
in pursuance of General Assembly resolution 33 121. 
he redouble his efforts, in consultation with the Invest­
ments Committee, to ensure that the resources which 
the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund holds in­
vested in shares of transnational corporations are re­
invested in developing countries to the greatest extent 
practicable, subject to careful observance of the re­
quirements of safety, profitability, liquidity and con­
vertibility and in conformity w ith the Regulations of 
the Fund; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the 
General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session on the imple­
mentation of the present resolution. 

B 
The General Assembly, 
Recalling its resolution 33 /121 B of 19 December 

1978. 
Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General 

on investments of (be United Nations Joint Stall Pension 
Fund (ibid.), 

1. Requests the Secretary-General to redouble his 
efforts w ith the Governments of all States members of 
the Organization of African Unity, as well as financial 
institutions in Africa, with a view to making substantial 
investments in Africa on safe and profitable terms, in 
keeping with the development requirements of the Afri­
can countries; 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to report on 
those efforts to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth 
session. 

The General Assembly, 
Mindful of the Secretary-General's fiduciary respon­

sibility for the interests of the participants and benefici­
aries of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension FunJ 
under the Regulations and Rules of the Fund. 

1. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to 
diversify the investments of the Fund in appropri.U 
investments in developing countries whenever this serves 
the interests of the participants and beneficiaries and o 
in accordance with the criteria of safety, profitubility-
liquidity and convertibility; 

2. A f f i r m s  its complete confidence in the Secretary 
General as trustee of the assets of the Fund. 

20. The Fifth Committee also recommends o * 
General Assembly that it decide that, if a long; v 
solution to the question of pensionable rc".,lincr:It!"l,;ve 
not forthcoming at its thirty-fifth session, it. r]ej 
serious consideration to the freezing of the . 
Average of Post Adjustment at its 1980 level, c c 
1 January 1981. 



Agenda ilcm 106 

ACIION I'AKI'.N BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY 

At its lllth plenary meeting. on 20 December 1979, the General Assembly 
voted on ili.itt resolutions I and II submitted by the Fifth Committee in its report 
(A 34 775, para. 10). Section 1 of draft resolution I was adopted by a vote of 122 
to 10, with 2 abstentions;* section V was adopted by a vote of 121' to 10, with 3 
abstentions;* draft resolution I was then adopted by a vote of 123 to none,'with 13 
abstentions * Diaft lesolution II A was adopted by a vote of 110 to 21, with 3 
abstentions.* iliaft resolution II B was then adopted; draft resolution II C was 
adopted bv a vote of ') I to 15. with 2S abstentions.* For the final texts, see resolu­
tions U 221 and VI 222 A. If and (V 

At the same nieeline. the General Assembly adopted the draft decision sub­
mitted bv the I if 111 Committee in its report (ibi<l.. para. 20) (see decision 34/456'). 

• Kco'tded vole. 
1 Vc (>"i nit Ki t ords i>l ihi- General A Jn'm/'/v, Thirty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 46. 

ClIliC K LIST OK DOCUMENTS 

tli.it 
Noli I his check list contains the documents pertaining to agenda item 106 

aie not reproduced in the present fascicle. 

Diicnmrnl So. 
A'34/I ami A4.1 I 

A'34/30 ami Corr I 

A'34/721 

A'C.J'34/30 

A'C.5/34/56 

A/C.5/34/L.28 

A/C.5- 34/L.2X / 
Rev. I 

A/CS/34/1..3I 

A/C.J/J4/I..32 

A C.5 '34/I..32/ 
Rev.) 

A C.5,'34/1,3«> 

A C.5/34/I..40 

A C.J 34/I..4I 

A C.5 34'! .43 

T i / f f  f t  d e s c r i p t i o n  

Report of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Hoard 

Krport of ihc IntcTn.tlion.il Civil Service C ommission 

Observations and references 

Official Records of the General 
Assembly. Thirty-fourth Ses­
sion. Supplement No. 9 and 
addendum 

Ihiil.. Supplement No. 30 and 
corrieendum 

Repel of ihc Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Mimeographed 

Investments »»f the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund: report of the Ditto 
Sewrct.tr> General 

Administrative and financial implications of proposals contained in docu- Ditto 
men I A 14. V: note by the Secretary-General 

ion «om»« in ' "" 

Draft resolution 

Revised draft resolution 

Australia- amendment to 
document A/34/721 

Draft resolution 

Revised Jrafl resolution 

Draft lesolution 
Amendments to Ihc draft resolution contained in annex 

A 34 721 

Ditto 
Pakistan amendment to 

For the sponsors and the text, 
see A/34/775, para. 10 

I Jem. paras. 10-12 and 19, 
draft resolution II A 

document A/C.5/34/L.40 

Replaced by A/C.5/34/I..32/ 
Rev. I 

For the sponsors and the text, 
see A/34/775, para. 14 

Idem. para. 16 

II to document Idem, paras. 6 (a) and 7 

Idem, para. 8 
See A/34/775, para. 7 

Printed in U.S.A. 




