








































UNITED NATiONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-fourth seSSlon
Agenda item 43

Distr.
GENERAL

A/341753
8 December 1979

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

STRENGTHENING OF GUARANTEES OF THE SECURITY
OF EOH-IVDCLEAR-HEAPOI' STATFS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ernst SUCHA~IPA (Austria)

1. The item entitled HStrengthening of guarantees of the security of
non-nuclear-weapon States: report of the Committee on DisarmamentO was included
in the provisional agenda of the thirty-fourth session in accordance with General
Assembly resolution 33/72 A of 14 December 1978.

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1979, the General Assembly, on
th~ recow~endation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 3rd meeting, on 1 October, the First COmBittee decided to hold a
combined general debate On the items allocated to it relatinc; to disarmament,
namely, items 30 to 45, 120 and 121. The general debate on these i teas took place
at the 4th to 30th meetings, from 16 October to 5 November (A/C.l/34/PV.4-30).

4. In connexion with item 43, the First Committee had before it the report of the
Corr@ittec on Disarmament. 1/

5. On 5 November, Afghanistan, An~ola, BulRaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic., Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia., the German Democratic
Republic j Hungary, the Lao People's Democratic Republic~ Liberia~ Mongolia~
Nicaragua, Poland) the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Repu~lic, the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/34/L.9), which
later was also sponsored by Guinea and Mali~ The draft resolution was introduced
by the representative of Bulgaria at the 33rd meeting, on 12 November.

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, ~hirty-fourth Session,
Suppl;ment No. 27 (A/34/27).

79-37292 / ...



A/34/753
English
Page 2

6. At the 44th meeting, on 27 November, the Committee proceeded to vote on draft
resolution A/c.1/34/L.9. The representative of Bulgaria, on behalf of the
sponsors, submitted an oral revision by which, in the eighth preambular paragraph,
the letter "A" 'Has deleted after "resolution 33/72". Thereupon, draft resolution
A/c.1/34/L.9, as orally revised, 'Has adopted by a recorded vote of 91 to 1, 'Hith
25 abstentions (see para. 7). The voting was as follo'Hs: ~

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Chile,
Congo, Costa Rica, CUba, Cyprus, -Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Indonesia~ Iran,
Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peopleis
Democratic Hepublic, Libyan Arab Je.mahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia~ Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, }1ongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, ~iger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper
Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia.

Against: Albania.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada, Dellrn.ark, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, India, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Portugal, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

REcm"~.r.m=,mATION OF TIll: FIRS'T COt-iIvIITTEE

7. The First Cormnittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
follo'Hing draft resolution:

Conclusion of an international convention on the strenRthening
of guarantees of the security o~ nOll-nuclear-weapon States

The General Assembly,

~I Subsequently the delegation of Mauritius advised the Secretariat that, had
it been present, it 'Hould have voted in favour.

I ...



A/34/753
English
Page 3

Convinced of the need to take effective measures for the strengthening of the
security of States and prompted by the desire shared by all nations to eliminate
war and prevent a nuclear holocaust,

~aking into account the principle of the non-use of force or threat of force
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and reaffirmed in a number of United
Nations declarations and resolutions,

Noting with satisfaction the desire of States in various regions to prevent
nuclear weapons from being introduced into their territories, including through the
establishment of nuclear-wEapon-free zones, on the basis of arrangements freely
arrived at among the states of the region concerned, and being anxious to
contribute to this objective,

Considering that, until nuclear disarmament is achieved on a Q~iversal basis,
it is imperative for the international community to develop, as appropriate,
effective measures to ensure the security of non-nuclEar-weapon States against the
use or threat of use of nuclear weapons from any quarter,

Recognizing that effective measures to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against
the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons can constitute a positive contribution
to the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons,

Mindful of the statements a.nd observations made by various States on the
strengthening of the security of non-nuclear-weapon States,

Desirous of promoting the implementation of para.graph 59 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 1/ in which it
urged the nuclear--weapon-·States to pursue efforts to conclude, as appropriate,
effective arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon states against the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Recalling its resolution 33/72 of 14 December 1918,

Welcoming the in-depth consideration of the item entitled "Effective
international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-·,Ttleapon States against the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons" by the Committee on Disarmament and the
establishment of an ad hoc working group open to all States members of the
Committee to conduct negotiations on the subject, ~I

Noting with satisfaction that, pursuant to this item, drafts of ~~
international convention were submitted to the Committee on Disarmament,

]/ Resolution S-10/2.

!±I Official Records of the General Assembly, 'T'hirty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 21 (A/34/21), paras. 44-51.

I ...



A/34/753
English
Page 4

Further noting the report of the Committee on Disarmament, including the
report of the ad hoc working group, ~

Noting with satisfaction that the idea of such a convention has gained broad
international support,

Desirous of promocing an early and successful completion of the negotiations
on the elaboration of the convention,

1. Welcomes the conclusion of the Co~~ittee on Disarma~ent that it is
urgent to reach agreement on effective international arrangements to assure
non·-nuclear--vTeapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear "lveapOlls;

2. Notes with satisfaction that in the CO~ffiittee on Disarmament there was
no objection~ in principle, to the idea of such an international convention;

3. Commends the decision of the Committee on Disarmament to continue the
negotiations on this subject at the beginning of its 1980 session;

4. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to continue the negotiations on
this subject on a priority basis during its 1980 session with a vie'" to their
early conclusion with the elaboration of a convention to assure non-nuclear-weapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear 1fleapOns;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-fifth session
an item entitled liConclusion of an international convention on the strengthening
of the security of non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of
nuclear weaponsiJ~

~ Ibid., appendix II.




