








































GENFRAl
ASSEMBLY

UNITED NATIONS
Distr.
GENERAL

A/34/699
19 November 1979

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-fourth session
Agenda item 92

ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN ECONOMIC AND OTHER INTERESTS HHICII A..'1E
IMPEDING THE HlPLEMENTATIO'l OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING
OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COU~ITRIES ~1D PEOPLES Li SOUTHERN
RHODESIA AND NAMIBIA AND IN ALL OTHER TERRITORIES UNDER COLONIAL
DOMINATION AND EFFORTS IO ELUUNATE COLONIALISM, APARTHEID AND

RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN SOUTHERN AFRICA

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Hr. Ron S. MORRIS (Australia)

1. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1979, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of its
thirty-fourth session ~he item entitled:

"Activities of foreign economic and other interests which are impeding the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples in Southern Rhodesia and Namibia and in all other
Territories under colonial domination and efforts to eliminate colonialism,
apartheid and racial discrimination in southern Africa: report of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples".

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Fourth
Committee.

2. The Fourth Committee considered the item at its 3rd to 11th, 27th and 28th
meetines, hetween 3 October and 19 November.

3. At the 3rd meeting, on 3 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
"f Independence to Colonial Countries and PcopIes introduced chapter V of the
report of that Committee (A/34/23 (Part Ill)) relating to the item.

4. In connexion with its consideration of the item, the Fourth Committee also had
before it a letter dated 11 October 1979 frow the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/34/542).

79- 31209 / ...



A/34/699
English
Page 2

5. Tr.e gEneral debate on the itemtcok place at··tte 3rd to 11th meetings,
between 3 and 15 October.

6. At the 27th meeting, on 14 November, the representative of the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya introduced a draft resolution (A/c.4/34/L.23), which was finally
sponsored by the following Member States: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Benin,
Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Guin~, Guinea-Bissau,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Nicaragua, Nigeria, 8ao Tome and Principe, Syrian Arab Republic,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam
and Zambia.

7. At the 28th meeting, on 19 November, the Chairman drew attention to an
amendment to draft resolution A/c.4/34/L.23 submitted by Argentina, Ecuador,
Mexico, Panama and Peru (A/c.4/34/L.25), by which, in operative paragrap~,
the words "as well as certain Latin American countries" would be deleted.

8. At the same meeting, the representative of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
informed the Fourth Committee that the sponsors of draft resolution A/c.4/34/L.23
had accepted the aforementioned amendment.

9. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted draft resolution
A/c.4/34/L.23, as amended, by a recorded vote of 86 to 15, with 32 abstentions
(see para. 10). 11 The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, BarbadOS, Benin, Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Derrocratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamapiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger~ Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea~ Peru, Philippines, Poland~ Qatar, Romania,

11 Statement s in explanation of vote were made by the following Member Stat es :
Belgium, Botswana~ Brazil, Burma, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Lcsotho, Malaysia, Netherlands, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Portugal,
Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Sierra Leone, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America
and Upper Volta.

/ ...



In favour:
-( continued)

A/34/699
English
Page 3

Saint Lucia~ Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone,
Somalia, Surina~c, Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United nrab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vict Nam,. Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zambia.

Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, GerTl"any, Federal Republic of,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Hew Zealand, Portugal, United Kin[';dom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Austria, Bolivia, Botswana, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
Camoras, Denmark, Finland, Gabon, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras,
Iceland, Ivory Coast, Lesotho, Malawi, Norway, Oman, Paraguay,
Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal, Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden,
Thailand, Togo, Turkey, United RepUblic of Cameroon, Upper Volta,

RECOMMENDATION OF THe: FOURTH COtfi,tfi,ITTEE

10. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Activities of foreign economic and other interests which are
impedTr;~e--iffiPl~ntati;~oftheDeclaration on the Grantinp:
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in Southern
RhZde~-N~bIa--anilj[~li--otherTerritories under" colonial
dominatioh.-"c~eff9_rts__t..'2._e}iminate ,,-~gmiaii~-apartheid, -

and racial discriminat ion in southern_Africa

The General Assembly,

Having considered the item entitled "Activities of foreign economic and other
interests which"- are i;;;-peding the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries ano Peoples in Southern Rhcdesia and Namibia
and in all other Territories under colonial domination and efforts to eliminate
colonialism, aparth~id and racial discrimination in southern Africall ,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Seecial Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to this question, gj

Taking into considerati?Jl the parts of the report of the United Nations Council
for Namibia relating to the question, 11

gj A/34/23 (Part Ill), chap. V.

3/ Official Records of tll~'_-.9~Eeral A~..sem}J:L].....L Thir.ty-fourth Session,
Suppi;;mentlfo.24-(A/34/24) vols. I and IT.

/ ...



text, see Offi£ial
fo~ Jul}G_~up;ust

A/34/699
English
Page 4

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and
its resolution 2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, containing the programme of action
for the full implementation of the Declaration, as well as all other resolutions of
the United Nations relating to the item,

Taking into account the Maputo Declaration in Support of the Peoples of
Zimbabwe-~and li21nibia and the ProgralIme of Action for the Liberation of Zimbablfe
and Namibia, 41 adopted by the International Conference in Support of the Peoples
of Zimbabwe ";;-d Namibia, held at Maputo from 16 to 21 May 1977, as well as the
Lagos Declaration for Action against Ap~~p~id 21 adopted by the World Conference
for Action against ApartheJ.'!,

Re~.a,lJinp: thp Declaration on :Iamibia and the Programme of Action in Support of
Self-Determination and National Independence for Namibia, contained in resolution
S/9-2 of 3 !lay 1978, adopted by the General Assembly at its ninth special session,

1l.earinf\ ~n_..l11iJl.s. the relevant resolutions adopted by the Assembly of Heads of
State and Government of the Organization of African Unity at its sixteenth ordinary
session, held at Monrovia from 17 to 20 July 1979, ~/

Bearinp; . i,,- mind--2cl..so the Declaration of the Sixth Conference of Heads of State
or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from 3 to
9 September 1979, .I!

Reaffirrninp; the solemn obligation of the administering Powers under the Charter
of thC-Un{te-6lNations to promote the political, economic, social and educational
advancement of the inhabitants of the Territories under their administration and
to protect the human and natural reSOurces of those Territories against abuses,

Reaffirming that any economic or other activity wtich impedes the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples and obstructs efforts aimed at the eliwination of colonialism,
apar!eei.s. and racial discrimination in southern Africa and other colonial
Territories violates the political, economic and social rights and interests of the
peoples of the Territories and is therefore incompatible with the purposes and
principles of the Charter,

Reaffirminp; that the natural resources of all Territories under colonial and
racist domination are the heritage of the peoples of those Territories and that the
exploitation a~d depletion of those resources by foreign economic interests, in
particular of southern Africa, in association with the illegal racist minority

~I A/32/109/Rev.l-S/12344/Rev.l, annex.V. Eor the printed
Rec_or-''ls 0.t:_thc_J3e..curitLC.o~~c.il.,. ~Th.ir!y::se.£o_n_d X~a.r-,._SUJll'le!Ilent
e.nd September .19U.

51 ReTort of the Tclorld Conference for Action against Apartheid, Lagos,
22-26 i'.1l.l;.ust iin (Un} te-d NatioD';-publi~ation-;-~SEQes11o~i7-:-X:i:v.2 ~dN~rrigendum)
sect. X.

~I A/34/552.

1/ A/34/542.
/ ...



A/34/699
English
Page 5

regimps constitutps a direct violation of the rir;hts of the peoples and of the
principles stated in the Charter and all relevant resolutions of the United Nations,

Noting \nth profound concern that the colonial Powers and certair States~
through the-fr-·~-ct-fv:lties-·-i~--tt:p---C;-olonial Territories j have continued to disregard
United l'lations decisions relating to the item and that they have failed to
implement in particular the relevant provisions of General Assembly resolutions
2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1910 and 33/40 of 13 December 1918, by which the Assembly
called upon the colonial Powers and those Governments which had not yet done so
to take legislative, administrative or other measures in order to put an end to
enterprises in colonial Territories, particularly in Africa, which are owned by
their nationals or bodies corporate under their jurisdiction, whenever such
enterprises are detrimental to the interest of the inhabitants of those Territories,
and to prevent new investments which run counter to such interests,

Con~~mn~~g the intensified activities of those foreign economic, financial
and other interests which continue to exploit the natural and human reSOurces of
the colonial Territories and to accumulate and repatriate huge profits to the
detriment of the interests of the inhabitants, particularly in southern Africa,
thereby impeding the realization by the peoples of the Territories of their
legitimate aspirations for self-deterTIlination and independence,

Strongly condemninc; the support '''hich th" racist minority regime of South
Afric-;'and theTL-l~gal racist minority regime in Southern Rhodesia continue to
receive from those foreign economic~ financial and other interests which are
collaborating "ith them in their exploitation of the natural and human resources
of, and in the further entrenchment of their illegal and racialist domination
over, the international T2rritory of Handbia and the Non-Self'-Governing Territory
of Southern Rhodesia (Zimbabwe), respectively,

Stron"ly condenminG the investment of foreign capital in the illegal
production' o':r-uranfum and the collaboration by certain \'Iestern countries and other
States with the racist L~nority regine of South Africa in the nuclear field which)
by providing that reGime with nuclear equipment and technology, enables the latter
to develop nuclear and military capabilities:l thereby promoting South Africa's
continued illegal occupation of Namibia and enabling it to become a nuclear Power,

Deeply concerned at the fact th8,t foreign economic, financial and other
interests- continue-t-~- deprive the indigenous populations of other colonial
Territories 3 including those in the Caribbean and Pacific Ocean regions, of their
rights over the wealth of their countries, and at the continued loss of ownership
of 18Ild by the inhabitants of those Territories as a result of the failure of
the administering Powp.rs to take effective steps to safeguard such ownership9

Conscious of the continuinc need to mobilize world public opinion against
the involvement of foreign econondc, financial and other interests in the
exploitation of natural and human reSOurces ~ which impedes the independence of
colonial Territories and the elimination of racism) particularly in Africa,

1. Beaffi:cms the inalienable right of the peoples of dependent Territories to
self-determination and independence and to the enjoyment of the natural resources

I . ..



11./ 3h/699
EnGlish
Page 6

of their Territories, as well as their right to dispose of those resources in their
best interests,

2. _~_aff~rms the relevant provisions of the Maputo Declaration in Support of
the Peoples of Zimbabwe and Namibia and the Proeramme of Action for the Liberation
of Zimbabwe and Namibia, adopted by the International Conference in Support of the
Peoples of Zimbabwe and ~amibia, as well as the Lagos Declaration for Action
aeainst !l:Partheid, adopted by the 1!orld Conference for Action aeainst Anartheid;

3. Reiterates that any administering or occunyinr Power which deprives the
colonial peoplesOfthe exercise of their legitimate> rights over their natural
resources or sUbordinates the rights an~ interests of those peoples to foreign
economic and financial interests violates the solemn obli~ations it has assumed
under the Charter of the United Nations;

4. Reaffirms that, by their depletive exploitation of natural resourceS,
the continued accumulation and repatriation of hUEe profits and the use of those
profits for the enrichment of foreir,n settlers and the entrenchment of colonial
domination over the Territories, the activities of forei~n economic, financial and
other interests operating at present in the colonial Territories of soutbern Africa
constitute a major obstacle to political independence and to the enjoyment of the
natural resources of those Territories by the indigenous inhabitants;

5. Condem~ all activities of foreign economic and other interests operating
in 3amibia, Southern Rhodesia and South Africa and declares thet their
collaboration with the racist minority regimes is detrimental to the interests of
the oppressed people and impedes the implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples;

6. Requests the Special Committee on the Rituatior 1{ith regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Grantin~ of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to monitor closely the situation in other
lJon-Self~GoverningTerritories so as to ensure that all economic activities in
those Territories are aimed at strengthening and diversifying their economies in
the interests of the indigenous people and their speedy accession to independence
and that those people are not exploited for political, military and other purposes
detrimental to their interests:

7. Cond~mns all tl10S2 countries which continue to maintain political,
diplomatic~ economic~ trade~ military~ nuclear ann other relations with the regimes
in South Africa and Southern Rhoo,esia in violation of the relevant resolutions of
the United Nations and the Organization of African Unity, in particular the United
Kingdom of' Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of America, the
Federal Republic of Germany, France, Japan, Belgium, Israel and Italy;

8. ~tronglo:-son_~e~~ the collusion of France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Israel and the United States -with South Africa in the nuclear fieli'_, and calls
upon all other Governments to continue to refrain from supplying the racist
minority regime of South Africa, directly Or indirectly, with installations that
might enable it to produce uraniur, plutoniurrl and other nuclear materials 3 reactors
or military equipment;

I . ..



A/34/G99
English
Page 7

9. Ci'll1s once again upon all Governments which have not yet done so to take
legislativ-e·~administ~at[~rp~-;-othermeasures in respect of their nationals and
the bodies corporate under their juric;cction who own and operate enterprises in
colonial Territories, particularly in "frica, which arE' detrimental to the
interests of tn.'-, inh2bitants of those '='(.:;rritories" in order to put an end to such
enterprises and to prevent new investments that run counter to the interests of the
inhabi tantG of those Territories;

10. Requests all States to refrain from makin~ any investments in, or
extending loans to, the minority racist regimes in ;outhern Africa and to refrain
from any agreements or measures to promote trade or other economic r~lations with
them;

11. Expresses its conviction that the scope of the sanctions adopted against
the illegal regime in Southern Rhodesia should be expanded to cover all the measures
contemplated in Article 41 of the Charter and calls upon the Security Council to
consider adoptinG appropriate measures to this end;

12. Condemns all violations of the mandatory sanctions imposed by the
Security Council against the illegal racist mino~ity regimE in Southern Rhodesia,
as well as the continued failure of certain Member States to enforce those
sanctions, as being contrary to the obli~ations assumed by them under Article 25 of
the Charter;

13. Strongly cond~mns the supply of petroleum and petroleum products to
Southern Rhodesia by United Kingdom oil cOI0panies which, by that deliberate act,
are circumventing United Nations sanctions and strengthening the illegal regime in
Southern Rhodesia;

14. Deplores the complicity of successive Governments of the United Kingdom
in the violation of United l{ations sanctions by United Kingdom oil companies, as
exposed in the Bingham report 81 on the supply of petroleum and petroleum products
to the illegal regime in Southern Rhodesia;

15. Condemns those oil-producing or oil-exporting countries which supply
crude oil -an~petroleum products to the racist regime of South Africa and demands
that they cease forthwith all exports of crude oil and petroleum products to the
racist regimes in southern Africa and take the necessary measures against oil
companies which, in violation of United Nations resolutions on sanctions~ continue
to deliver oil to those regimes;

16. Commends the new Government of Iran for severing diplomatic, military,
economic, trade and other links with the racist regime of South Africa and
particularly for enforcing effectively the oil embargo against that regime;

81 T. H. Binr;ham and S. M. Gray, Report on the Supply of Petroleum and
Petroleum Product~ to Rhodesia (London, H~-:;'--ilajestyl-s Statio~ary Office for the
Foreign and Commonwealt-hOiilce, 1978).

I . ..



/ ...

A/34/699
English
Page 8

17. Requests all States to take effective measures to end the supply of
funds and othe-r forms of assistance, includinv military supplies and equipment, to
the regimes which use such assistance to repress the peoples of the colonial
Territories and their national lioeration movements;

18. Reiterates that the exploitation and plunderinr of the natural resources
of Namibia by South African and other forei~n economic interests, in violation of
the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council and
of Decree Ho. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia, enacted
by the United lIations Council for Namibia on 27 September 197h '1./ is illegal and
contributes to the maintenance of the illegal occupation regime;

19. Strcngly condemns South Africa for its continued exploitation and
plundering of the nat~~;;-l-;esources of Namibia in complete disregard of the
legitimate interests of the Namibian people;

20. Calls once again~pon all States to discontinue all economic, financial
or trade relations with South Africa concerning Namibia and to refrain from
entering into economic, financial or other relations with South Africa, acting on
behalf of or concerning Namibia, which may lend support to its continued illegal
occupation of that Territory;

21. S~!ongly condemns the racist minority regime of South Africa which, in
violation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and in open
contravention of its specific obligations under Article 25 of the Charter, continues
to collaborate with the illegal racist minority regime in Southern Rhodesia, and
calls upon the Security Council to implement the provisions contained in the
present resolution by imposing economic sanctions against South Africa, including
an oil embargo and the withdrawal of investments from that country;

22. Invites all Governments and organizations within thp United Nations
system, having regard to the relevant provisions of the Declaration on the
Establishment of a New International Economic Order, contain~d in General Assembly
resolution 3201 (S~VI) of 1 May 1974, and of the Charter of Economic Rights and
Duties of States, contained in Assembly resolution 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974,
to ensure in particular that the permanent sovereignty of the colonial Territories
over their natural reSOurces is fully respected and safeguarded;

23. Calls upon the administering Powers to abolish every discriminatory and
unjust wage- system-which prevails in the Territories under their administration
and to apply in each Territory a uniform system of wages to all the inhabitants
without any discrimination;

24. Reque~~ the Secretary-General to undertake, throur,h the Department of
Public Information of the Secretariat~ a sustained and broad campaiGn with a view
to informing world public opinion of the facts concerning the pillaging of natural
resources in colonial Territories and the exploitation of their indigenous
populations by foreign monopolies and the support they render to the colonialist
and racist regimes;

9/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twe~ty~ninth Session, Supplement
j'T.9-,-_2_4_A (A!9624/Add.l), para. 84. The Decree has been issued in final form in
namibia Gazette No . __1.



A/34/699
English
Page 9

25. Endorses the proposal by the sixteenth ordinary session of the Assembly
of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity to convene
jointly ,nth the United Nations an international conference in 1980 to mobilize
world public opinion in support of the effective application of economic and other
sanctions against South Africa;

26. Appeals to all international non-governmental organizations to continue
their campaig;~to mobilize international public opinion for the enforcement of
economic and other sanctions against the Pr~toria and Salisbury regimes;

27. Reques~ the Special Committee on the Situatior with Regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this question and to report thereon
to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session.




