








































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thjrty-fourth sessjon
Agenda Hem 44

Distr.
GEFERAL

AI 34/75l,
8 December 1979

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

STRENGTHENING OF THE SECURITY OF NON-rruCLEAR-WEAPON STATES
[\GAINST THE USE OR THREAT OF USE OF NUCLEAR llEAPONS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ernst SUCHARIPA (Austria)

1. FTTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Strengthening of the security of non-nuclear-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons: report of the Committee on
Disarmament" vas included in the provisional agenda of the thirty~fourth_ session in
accordance with General Assembly resolutjon 33/72 B of 14 December 1978.

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 Sentember 1979, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Corr~ittee.

3. At its 3rd meeting, on 1 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, iteDls 30 to 45, 120 and 121. The general debate on these items took place
at the 4th to 30th meetings, from 16 October to 5 November (A/C.1/34/pv.4-30).

4. In connexion with item 44, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Committee on Disarmament; J!

(b) Letter dated 18 October 1979 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United r:ations [ulc1ressed to the Secreta.ry·-Genera1

J
transmitting

the text of the Final COlYlP1unique adopted by the ~xtraordinary i':ieeting of'
Ilinisters for Foreign Affairs and Heads of Delegation of Non-Aligned
Countries, held in New York from 4 to 6 October 1979 (A/34/599).

11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session, Supplement
No. 27 (A/34/27):

79-37309
I ...



A!341751,
English
Page 2

11. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.3 and Rev.l and 2

5. On 26 October, Pakistan submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/34/L.3) , which
was introduced at the 37th meeting, on 19 November, and later sponsored also by
Mali. The draft resolution was subsequently revised (A/C.l/34/L.3/Rev.l) with the
following changes:

(a) The sixteenth preambular paragraph, which read:

llHotinp; \.;rith satisfaction the drafts of an international convention
submitted on this item in the Committee,li

was replaced by:

In
"Not in!'; the drafts

. h -C-,---'tt "
G e OIDilll ee, &

of an international convention submitted on this item

(b) Two new preambular paragraphs, the nineteenth and twentieth, were added,
as follows:

1JAlso noting similar recorn...mendations made in the relevant resolution of
the Islamic Conference of Foreign Hinisters~

"Further noting the general support expressed during its thirty-fourth
session for the elaboration of an international convention to assure the
non-nuclEar-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons" F;

(c) Operative paragraph 1, which read:

"1. Affirms the conclusion of the Committee on Disarmament that it is
urgent to reach agreement on effective international arrangements to assure
non··nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear
\Veapons; d

was replaced by:

"1. Affirms the conclusion of the Committee on Disarmament that there is
wide recognition of the urgent need to reach agreement on effective
international arrangements to assure non-nucleaT~feaponStates against the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons; I;;

(d) Operative paragraph 5, which read:

/0 ••



A/341754
English
Page 3

"5. Urges the nuclear-,,,eapon-States to respond to the resolutions of the
General Assembly, of the Sixth Summit Conference of Non-Aligned Countries in
Havana and the Tenth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers in Fez on this
subject, thus rendering it possible for the Committee on Disarmament to
conclude during 1980 an international convention to assure the non·-nuclear-
T.,[eapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear veapons.;:

was replaced by:

1'5. Decides to consider the question of the t conclusion of an
international convention to assure the non-nuclEar-weapon States against the
use or threat of use of nuclear weapons' at its thirty-fifth session.".

6. The draft resolution was further revised (A/C.l/34/L.3/Rev.2) with the
following changes:

(a) The fourteenth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Recallinp: resolution 33/72 B which inter alia urged the consideration
of an international convention by the Corrmittee On Disarmwnent in order to
conclude effective arrangements~ as appropriate, to assure the non-nuclear-
weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, t!

was replaced by:

"Recalling resolution 33/72";

(b) Operative paragraph 4, which read:

ii4. Recommends that the Cornmittee conclude the international convention
to assure the non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of
nuclear weapons during its 1980 session on the basis of the draft of the
international convention submitted to it taking into account the relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly;"

was replaced by:

"4. Recommends to the Committee on Disarmament to conclude effective
international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the
use or threat of use of nuclear weapons during its 1980 session~ taking into
account the widespread support for the conclusion of an international
convention and giving consideration to any other proposals designed to secure
the same objective;n.

7. At the 44th meeting, on 27 November, before the Committee proceeded to a vote
on draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.3/Rev.2, the representative of Pakistan, in the
name of the sponsors, introduced a revision to the seventeenth preambular
paragraph, in accordance with which the last two words of this paragraph should
read "appendix 11" instead of "appendix In. Draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.3/Rev.2,

/ ...



A/34/754
English
Page 4

as orally revised, was then adopted by a recorded vote of 99 to none, with
21 abstentions (see para. 10, draft resolution I). The voting was as follows: 'IV

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
Peoplels Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
l.:lalaysia, Mali, 1,1a1ta, Mauritania., Mexico, I'vIongolia" Morocco,
1'!.Iozambique, Niger., :Nigeria, Oman ~ Pakistan ~ Papua Ne~,r Guinea,
Paraguay, Philippines, Poland~ Qatar, Romania~ Rwanda, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab L~irates, United
Republic of Cameroon, United RepUblic of Tanzania, Upper Volta,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam_~ Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France~ Germany~ Federal
Republic of~ Greece, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway~ Portugal,
Sweden, United Kingdom of Great 3ritain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

B. Draft resolution A/C.1131,/L.35

8. On 16 November, the United States of PJnerica, submitted a drazt resolution
(A/C.l/34/L.35), which was introduced at the 39th meeting, on 21 November.

9. At the 44th meeting, on 27 November, draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.35 was
adopted by a recorded vote of 81 to 1, .·rith 27 abstentions (see para.. 10, draft
resolution 11). The voting was as follows: 11

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium,
Burma, Burundi, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia~ Costa Rica,

~/ Subsequently the delegations of the Ivory Coast, Mauritius and Peru
advised the Secretariat that, had they been present, they would have voted in
favour.

11 Subsequently the delegation of the Ivory Coast advised the Secretariat that,
had it been present, it would have voted in favour.

/ ...



A/341754
English
Page 5

Cyprus, Denmark~ Dominican Republic, Ecuador 5 Egypt, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea:> Guyana, Honduras, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Mali, lialta, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal,
Romania, Rwanda, Saudi J~abia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Toga,
Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon,
United RepUblic of Tanzania, United States of Anerica, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia) Zaire, Zambia~

A~ainst: Albania.

Abstaining: Afghanistan) Algeria" Angola, Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria)
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Hungary, India, Iraq, Madagascar, Mongolia) Mozambique,
Niger, Pakistan, Poland, Sao Tome and Principe, Syrian Arab
RepUblic, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Upper Volta.

Ill. RECO~MENDATI0NS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

10. The First Co~mittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Conclusion of an international convention to aSsure the
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of

use of nuclear weapons

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the need to allay· the legitimate concern of the States of
the world with regard to ensuring lasting security for their peoples,

Convinced that nuclear weapons pose the greatest threat to mankind and to
the survival of civilization,

Deeply concerned at the continuation of the arms race, in particular the
nuolear arms race, and the threat to mankind due to the possibility of the use of
nuclear weapons)

I ...



A/34/754
English
Page 6

Convinced that nuclear disarmament and the complete elimination of nuclear
weapons are essential to remove the daneer of nuclear war~

Taking into account the principle of the non-use of force or threat of force
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,

Deeply concerned about the possibility of the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons,

Recognizing that the independence, territorial integrity and sovereignty of
non-nuclear-weapon States need to be safeguarded against the use or threat of use
of nuclear weapons,

Considering that, until nuclear disarmament is achieved on a universal basis~
it is imperative for the international corr~unity to develop, as appropriate,
effective measures to ensure the security of non-nuclear-weapon States against the
use or threat of use of nuclear weapons from any quarter,

Recognizing that effective measures to assure the non-nuclear-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons can constitute a positive
contribution to the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons,

Recalling its resolution 3261 G (XXIX) of 9 December 1974,

Further recalling its resolution 31/189 C of 21 December 1976,

Bearing in mind parabraph 59 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session
of the General Assembly, ~ in which it requested the nuclear-weapon States
urgently to conclude, as appropriate, effective arrangements to assure non-nuclear-
weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Desirous of promoting the implementation of the relevant provisions of the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session,

Recalling its resolution 33172 of 111 December 1978,

Felcoming the in-depth consideration of the item entitled "Effective
international. arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons" by the Committee on Disarmament and the
establishment of an ad hoc working group under the aegis of the Committee to
conduct negotiations on the subject, LI

Noting the drafts of an international convention submitted on this item in
the Committee on Disarmament,

~/ Resolution S-10/2.

L/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/34/27), paras. 44-51.

/ ...



A/J)~1754

F;nglish
Page 7

Further nuting the report of the Corr~ittee on Disermament 9 inclu~ing the
report of the ad hoc working group in its appendix 11, £!

Noting the decision of the Sixth Conference of the Heads of State and
Government of the J\Ton·-Alie;ned Countries 11 calling on the Committee on Disarmament
to elaborate the international convention to assure non-nuclEar-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons during its next session in
1980,

Also noting similar recommendations made in the relevant resolution of the
Tenth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, §j

Further noting the general support expressed during its thirty-fourth session
for the elaboration of an international convention to assure non-nuclear~!eapon
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons~

1. Affirms the conclusion of the Committee On Disarmament that there is
wide recognition of the urgent need to reach agreement on effective international
arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use
of nuclear weapons;

2. Notes with satisfaction that in the Committee on Disarmament there is no
objection, in principle, to the idea of an international convention to assure
non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons~

3. Endorses the decision of the Committee on Disarmament to continue
negotiations on this subject at the beginning of its 1980 session:

~. Recommends that the Corr@ittee on Disarmament should conclude effective
international arrangements to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons during its 1980 session~ taking into account the
widespread support for the conclusion of an international convention and giving
consideration to any other proposals designed to secure the same objective;

5. Decides to consider at its thirty-fifth session the question of the
f1Conclusion of an international cor.vention to assure non-nuclear-\Teapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons".

£! Ibid., appendix II.
11 A/34/542, annex, part I, paras. 219-220.
§I A/34/389 and Corr.l, annex 11, resolution 15/10/p.

I ...



A/3~ /751,
EnGlish
Pafe 8

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Strengthening of the security of non-nuclear-weapon States
~gainst the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons

The General Assembly,

Convinced of the need to promote international peace and security,

Recognizing the legitimate security concerns of all States,

Convinced of the importance of effective efforts to prevent the spread of
nuclear weapons,

Recognizing that effective measures to assure non-nuclEar-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons can constitute a positive
contribution to the prevention of the spread of nuclear weapons~

Taking note of paragraph 59 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly 2/ which called upon the nuclear-weapon States to
pursue, as appropriate, effective arrangements to assure non-nuclEar-weapon States
against the use or threat of use of nuclear vreapons,

Noting that the five nuclear-weapon States have recognized the significance
of action to meet the concerns of the great majority of States, which have not
sought to acquire or develop, alone or with others? any nuclear explosive devices~

Recalling that each of the five nuclear Powers has stated its willingness to
take action to affirm its support for and to conclude, as appropriate, effective
arrangements to assure non-nuclEar-weapon States against the use or the threat of
use of nuclear weapons,

Taking note of the various proposals and suggestions made in this re8ard~

1. Notes the statements that the nuclear-weapon States have made on
assurances to non--~nuclear-\{eaponStates "'\·;rith respect to the use of nuclear
weapons;

2. Helcomes the report of the Committee on Disarma'Ilent 10/ in which it
reported on the initial consideration of and negotiation on effective international
arrangernents further to strengthen the security of the non-nuclEar-weapon States;

3. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to continue its efforts at its
next session with a view to reaching agreement on such arrangements and report to
the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session;

~/ Resolution S-10/2.

10/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
SuppI;ment No. 27 (A/34/27).

/ ...



A/341754
English
Page 9

4. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Co~~ittee on
Disarmament all documents relating to the discussion of the General Assembly at
its thirty··fourth session of the i tems entitled "Strengthening of guarantees of
the security of non-nuclear-weapon States a and "Strengthening of the security of
non-nuclear-Tveapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons t1 ;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-fifth session
an i tern entitled "Strengthening of the security of non-nuclear-vTeapon States \i,




