








































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty--fourth session
Agenda item 36

Distr.
GENERAL

A/341746
5 December 1919

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

ESTABLISHllENT OF A 11UCLEAR-HEAPON-FREE ZONE
IN THE REGION OF THE cUDDLE EAST

Report of the First Co~mittee

Rapporteur: Hr. Ernst SUCHARIPA (Austria)

1. The item entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region
of the the "liddle East" was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-
fourth session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 33164 of
III December 1918.

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 Septep;ber 1979, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 3rd meeting, on 1 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general d.ebate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely items 30 to 45, 120 and 121. The general debate on these items took place
at the 4th to the 30th meetings, from 16 October to 5 November (A/c.1/34/pv.4-30).

4. On 16 November, Egypt submitted a draft resolution (A/c.1/34/L.28) , The
draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Pgypt at the 39th meeting,
on 21 November.

5. At the 41st meeting, on 23 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/c .1/34/1,.28 by a recorded vote of 130 to none, ,,,i th 1 abstention (see para. 6)
The voting was as follows: !I

!I SUbse~uently the delegation of Madagascar indicated that, had it been
present~ it would have voted in favour.

79-34503 I . ..



A/34/T46
English
Page 2

In favour: Afhanistan, Algeria~ Anp,olq~ Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Ban~ladesh, Barbados~ Belgium, Benin~ Bhutan,
Bolivia~ Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colorrbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, EVJ~t, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, G&~bia, German Democratic
Repuhlic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Honduras, Eungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq,
Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait J LaD People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Haldives, ]\'fali
Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius ~ nexico, f-longolia, I'JIorocco,
Hozambique, IJepal, Netherlands, Ne'\-! Zealand, Nieer,
Nigeria, norv.,ray, Oman, Pakistan., Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Q,atar, Romania, Ri-randa,
Sao Tome and Frinci~e, Saudi Arabia~ Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka~ Sudan~ Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden~ Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, TOGo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of CamerooD,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of A~erica,
Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire ~ Zambia.

Agal nst : None

Abstaining: Iarael

RECOHMENDATION OF THE FIRST CmUIITTEE

6. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of
the Middle East

The General Assembly,

Recallin~ its resolution 3263 (XXIX) of 9 December 1974, in which it
overwhelmingly commended the idea of the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone
in the region of the Middle East,

/ ...



A/34174C
English
Page 3

Recallinr; also its resolution 3474 (xxx) of 11 December 1975, in which it
recognized that the establishment of a nuclear-ueapon-free zone in the Hiddle
East enjoyed wide support in the region,

Bearing in mind ics resolution 31/71 of 10 December 1976, in ,rhich it
expressed the conviction that proeress towards the establishment of a
nuclear-"eapon-free zone in the Middle East ,",ould g,reatly enhance the cause of
peace in the region and in the world~

Considering its resolution 32/82 of 12 December 1977, in which it expressed
the conviction that the development of nuclear capability would further complicate
the situation and irr~ensely damage the efforts to create an atmosuhere of
confidence in the Hiddle East,

Guided by its relevant recommendations in the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, dealing with the establishment of
a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the I!iddle East, ?J

Recalling also its resolution 33/64 of 14 December 1978,

Recognizing that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the ~~iddle
East would greatly enhance interna~ional peace and security,

1. Urges all parties directly concerned seriously to consider taking the
paactical and urgent steps required for the implementation of the proposal to
establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East in accordance with the
relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and, as a means of promoting this
ob.i ective, invites the countries concerned to adhere to the Treaty on the
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons l!

2. Invites these countries, pending the establishment of such zone in the
l1iddle East and durinrs the process of its establishment, to declare solemnly that
they will refrain on a reciprocal basis from producing, acquiring or in any other
way possessing nuclear weapons and nuclear explosive devices~

3. Calls upon these countries to refrain, on a reciprocal basis, from
permitting the stationing of nuclear ,",eapons on their territory by any third party,
and to agree to place all their nuclear activities under International Atomic
Energy Agency safeguards'

4. Further invites these countries, pending the establishment of a
nuclear-wEapon-free zone in the tuddle East and during the process of its
establish'Ylent, to declare their support for establishing such a zone in the region
consistent with pararsraphs 60 to 63~ and in particular 63 (~), of the Final
DOCllment of the Tenth Special Session and to deposit these declarations with the
Security Council for consideration as appropriate;

?J Resolution 8-10/2, para. 63 (d).
l! Resolution 2373 (XXII) annex.

/ ...



A/341746
EnSlish
Page 4

5. Reaffirms apain its recommendation to the nuclear-weapon States to
refrain from any action contrary to the spirit and purpose of the present
resolution and the obj ective of establishinr in the rerion of the l"iddle East a
Duclear-weapon-free zone under an effective system of safeguards~ and to extend
their co-operation to the States of the region in their efforts to promote these
objectives;

6. Renews its invitation to the Secretary-General to continue to explore the
possibilities of making progress towards the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-
free zone in the region of the j',,~iddle East;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-fifth session
the item entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-"eapon-free zone in the rersion of
the Hiddle East".




