








































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Thirty-fourth session
AGenda it ern 126

Distr.
GENEFAL

A!34!191
11 December 1979

ORIGINAL: ~NGLISH

IHADllISSIBILITY OF THE POLICY OF HEGEMONISM
IH INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

Report of the First COmIilittee

Rapporteur: fir. Ernst SUGHARIPA (Austria)

1. INTRODUCTION

1. The inclusion of the item entitled l'Inaomissibility of the policy of hefemonism
in international relations l1 in the agenda of the thirty-fourth session of the
General Assembly 1<G.S proposed by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (A!34!243).

2. At its 19th plenary meetinC5 on 3 October 1979, the General P_ssembly, on the
recowJilcndation of the General COfimittee

9
decided to include the item in its agenda

and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. The First Gommittee considered the item at its 5th and 7th meetings, on
16 and 17 October. a.no at it.~ 46th to 51st meet inps, from 28 l'lovember to 4 December
(see fc(C.1!34!Vf.5, T LLd. 1,6-51).

4. j'he First Committee had before it a letter dated 25 September 1979 from the
.Hinister for Foreig'Il Affairs of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics addressed
to the Secretary-General (A/3 LI!243), ;rhich contained as an annex a draft resolution
on the inadmissibility of the policy of h~gemonism in international relations.

11. CONSIDERATION 0' DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolution AIC,1[311!L.1

5. On 12 October, the Union of Soviet Socialist Pepubl ies submitted a draft
resolution (A!C.l!34/L.1) , entitled "Inadmissibili'iy of the policy of hegemonism
in international relationsi'i, \·rhich \·12.8 introduced by the representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics at the 5th meeting~ on 16 Oct;ber. The draft
resolution read as follows:

79-37608 I ...



A/34/191
English
Page 2

"The General Assembly,

"'Considering that the most important task of the United Nations at
the nresent stage of the development of international relations is to
promote in every VTay positive movement to'wards easing international
tension and strengthening peace,

I1ExDressing its conviction that the interests of continuing and
deepening the process of normalization and development of relations
between States require strict observance by all States of the principles
on which the United Nations is based,

"Noting that the policy of hegemonism, i, e. the desire of some States
to dominate other States and peoples, is in flagrant contradiction to
those principles, first and foremost the principle of the sovereign equality
of States,

"Recalling that the policy of hegemonism has invariably led to ;Tars
which have brought untold suffering to mankind,

"Recalling further that manifestations of the policy of hegemonism
lead to the creation of hotbeds of tension, complicate relations betvreen
States and destabilize the international situation,

"1. R 1 t_e80. u ely condemns the policy of hepemonism, whatever the form in
which it is manlfested, as incompatible with the fundamental principles
of the Charter of the United Nations and with the task of preserving
peace and strengthening international security;

"2. Declares on behalf of the neoDles of the Cnited nations that States
groups of States should never, under any circumstances and for any reasons
whatsoever, claim hegemony in international affairs or seek a position of
domination either in the vTorld as a whole or in any of its regions. li

6. At the 50th meeting, on 30 November, the representative of the Union of
Soviet Socialist Repuhlic s stated that his delegation ,wuld not ask for a vote
on the draft it had submitted.

B. Draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.8

T. On 2 November, China submitted a draft resolution (A/C .1/34/L.IJ) entitled
"'Inadmissibility of the policy of hegemonism in international relations", "'hich
read as follows:

nThe General Assembly,

-"Noting that relying on their political, economic and, particularly,
military strength, the States which pursue the policies of global heremonism
trample upon the sovereir;nty of other States, occupy their territories and

/ ...

or



8.
that

A/3)+I791
English
Page 3

interfere in their internal affairs in an attempt to control, dominate
or rule other States, regions and even the whole world,

i1Seriously concerned over the fact that e;lobal hep;emonism, and resional
hegemonism supported by it, violate the independence, sovereir,nty and
territorial integrity of other States~ thus ~cnacing international peace
and security,

"Convinced that it is the common C:,esire of the people of the ",orld to
oppose hegemonism in defence of national independence and state sovereignty
and for the maintenance of the security of all States and world peace,

111.. Condemns hegemonism, super-Pmver global hegemonism in particular;

"2. Demands that the States which nuruse the policies of global
hegemonism and regional hegemonism immediately TtTi thdrm.; all their invading
forces back to their ol-m territories and end their military occupation of
other States 5 so as to enable the people of these States to determine
and administer their own affairs;

"3. Demands that the States which puruse the polioies of global
hegemonism cease and undertake not to carry out infiltration, interference~
subversion and aggression against other States 1 including the imposition of
'liw.ited sovereignty! upon other States, the dispatch of mercenaries, the
subversion of legal Governments, the setting up of p~ppet re~imes and the
waging of wars by proxies;

1/4. Calls upon the super-Pov..Ters to halt arms build--up and. 1·1ar
preparations, reduce substantially their nuclear and conventional ar~aments
and stop their export of military equipment to countries \.,hich are
carrying out aggression and expansion;

"5. Solemnly declares that all States should in their international
relations, strictly abide by the purnoses and principles of the Charter of
the United Nations and the principles of mutual respect for sovereignty and
territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, non-interference in each
other 1 s internal affairs, equality and mutual benefit, and peaceful
coexistence, that all States have the right to participate in international
affairs on an equal footing and that it is impermissible for any big
country to bully the small, for the strODe to oppress the weak or for any
State to impose its will upon others, to subject other States to political
control, economic pl~nder and military aggression or to occupy the
territories of other States. il

At the 49th meeting, on 30 November 1979, the representative of China stated
his doleGation "ould not ask for a vote on the draft it had submitted.

/ ...



/ ...

A/341791
Engli Gh
Page 4

C. Draft resolution A/C_.l/34/L.52

9. On 27 November Bangladesh, Cuba, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka and Yuv,oslavia
submitted a draft resolutionTAic.l/34/L. 52) entitled "Ina&'lissibility of the
policy of hec;emonism in international relations\! , which I'Tas subsequently also
sponsored by Guinea and Nigeria and introduced by the representative of Sri Lanka
at the ll7th meetinli, on 27 November.

10. At its 50th meeting, on 30 November, the First Committee voted on draft
resolution A/C.l/34/L.52, as follows:

(a) The words "including zionism" in the fourth Dreambular paragraph
and operat ive paragraph 5, on which a separate vote had been requested by the
representative of Israel, were adopted by a recorded vote of 65 to 22, with
24 abstentions. !/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cape Verde, China, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Kampuchea, Gabon~ German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea~Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab
Jarnahiriya, 11adagascar, Malaysia~ Haldives, l-~ali~ Malta,
Hauritania~ Hongolia, M:orocco ~ Mczambi'lue 9 Nigeria, Cman,
Pakistan~ Poland, Qatar, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone~ Sri Lanka~ Sudan, Syrian
Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Canada, Denmark, Fiji, Finland,
France, Germany, Federal RepUblic of, Greece, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norvay, Papua
tIel" Guinea, Portugal, SI"eden, United Kinp;dom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Bhutan, Eurma, Chile~ Colombia, Cyprus, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Guatemala, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
Lesotho ~ Hexico, Nepal, Peru") Philip!Jines, SiEgapore, Spain,
Surinarne, 'l'hailand, Toga, Uruguay, ·Venezuela.

(b) The draft resolution as a "hole was adopted by a recorded vote of 87 to 4,
with 24 abstentions (see para. 11). ~/

!I Subsequently the delegations of Burma and Democratic Yemen advised the
Secretariat that, had they been present, they Hould have voted in favour. The
delegation of Belgium advised the Secretariat that it had intended to vote against.

~/ Subsequently the delegation of Democratic Yemen advised the Secretariat that,
had it been present, it would have voted in favour.



A/34/791
Enp;lish
Page 5

I~ favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Baneladesh, Bhutan~ Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, China, Colombia, Congo,
CUba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Dominican
RepUblic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic
R€public, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, 1ao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotbo, Liberia,
Libyan Arab ,Tamahiriya, T.hdagascar, l<lalaysia, ~1aldives, Hali,
Malta, 1'!lauritania, }"exico') Hongolia, .r\-1orocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, Nigeria, Gman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar~
Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senefal, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka, SUdan, Suriname, ~rrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and TobaRo, Tunisia,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Pcepublic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Ham, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia.

Against: Australia, Canada, Israel, United states of ftnerica.

Abstaining: Austria, Belgium, Chile, Denmark, Fiji, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Guatemala, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Papua
New Guinea, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay, Venezuela.

Ill. P~CCVKF~rATICN CF THE FIRST COt~1ITTEF

11. The First Committee recow~ends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Tnad~issibility of the policy Of heGemonism
in international relations

The General Assembly,

Recognizing the primary responsibility of the United Nations to promote and
strengthen international peace and seeurity on the basis of strict respect for
the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, especially the princinle of
sovereignty, sovereign equality and national independence of States,

Recalling the duty of States to refrain in their international relations from
military~ political~ economic or any other form of coercion aimed against the
sovereignty, the political independence or territorial integrity of any State,

Noting that hegemonism is a manifestation of the policy of a State, or a
group of States, to control, dominate and SUbjugate, politically, economically,
ideologically or militarily, other States, peoples or regions of the world.

/ ...



A/3~179l
EnC;lish
Pac;e 6

Considering also that imperialism, colonialism, neo-colonialism, racism
includinc; zionism and apartheid are all forces which seek to perpetuate unequal
relations and privileges acquired by force and are, therefore, different
manifestations of the policy and pract ice of hegemonism ~

Concerned that hegemonism, 8100a1 as well as regional, pursued in the context
of the policy of division of the l"rarId into blocs or by individual states,
manifests itself in the use or threat of use of force, forei~n domination and
interventi on,

Concerned also that hec;emonism seeks to limit the freedom of States to
determine their political systems and to pursue economic, social and cultural
development without hindrance, intimidation or pressure,

Convinced that hegemonism, global and regional, and in all its different forms,
leads to a serious threat to international peace and security,

Considerin(~ that it is the common desire of all peoples to op:pose hegemonism
and to preserve the sovereienty and national independence of all States,

Bearinp.; in mind the importance and urgency of creating a new and equitaole
system of international relations based on the equal participation of all States
in the solution of international problems and the maintennllce of international
peace and secuirty~ one which ensures equal security for all States, and pro~ress
and prosperity for all pecples , through the establishment of the ne',T international
economic order,

1. Condemns hesemonism in all its manifestations, including that conducted
at the e;lobal, regional or subregioanl levels, pursued in the context of the policy
of division of the vrorld into blocs or by individual States;

2. Decla~es that no State or r;roup of States shall, under any circumst2.Dce
or for any reason whatsoever, pursue hegemony in international relations or seek
a position of dominance~ either globally or in any region of the world;

30 Re,lects all forms of domination, subjugation, interference or intervention
and all forms of pres sure, whether political, ideological ~ economic ~ military or
cultural, in international relations;

~. Resolutely condemns policies of pressure and use or threat of use of
force, direct or indirect aggression, occupation and the grmving practice of
interference and intervention, overt or covert, in the internal affairs of States;

5. Hesolutely conderrns imperialism, colonialism, neo-colonialism, apartheid,
racism including zionism and all other forms of foreign aggression, occupation,
domination and interference, as well as the creation of spheres of influence and
the division of the world into antagonistic political and military blocs;

6. Calls upon all States, in the conduct of international relations, to
observe strictly the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and those

I ...



A/31:179l
English
Page 7

regarding respect for the sovereienty, sovereign equality~ national independence,
unity and territorial integrity of States, non-interference in their internal
affairs, non-aggression, peaceful settlement of disputes and co-operation, as well
as the right of peoples under colonial and alien domination to self-determination;

7. Calls for the 1,!i thdrmml of all occupation forces back to their mm
territories, so as to enable the peoples of all States to determine and administer
their own affairs;

8. Further calls for strict respect for the right of all States to
determine their political and socio-economic systems and to pursue their national
economic, social and other policies without hindrance, interference or intimidation
from outside;

9. Resolves to continue the endE~vour to establish a ns, and equitable
system of international relations based on the equal participation of all States
in the solution of international problems Rnd for the maintenance of international
peace and security;

10. Further resolves to continue the endeavour for the establishment of the
new international economic order, so as to ensure the economic emancipation and
freedom of all nations, in particular the developing countries.




