








































UNITED NATIONS

GENERAL
ASSEMBLY

Distr.
GENERAL

A/341752
8 December 1979

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

-------------------------~"-~-

Thirty-fourth session
Agenda item 42

REVIEW OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS
AND DECISIONS ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AT

ITS TENTH SPECIAL SESSION

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ernst SUCHARIPA (Austria)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session:

"(a) Report of the Committee on Disarmament;

"(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission;

"(c) United Nations studies on disarmament: report of the Secretary-
General;

"(d) Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear war: report
of the Secretary-General;

"(e) Disarmament Week: reports of the Secretary-General;

"(f) United Nations programme of fellowships on disarmament: report
of the Secretary-General;

"(g) Implementation of the recommendations and decisions of the
tenth special session: report of the Secretary-General;

"(h) DissBmination of information on the arms race and disarmament:

(i) Reports of the Secretary-General;

(ii) Report of the Director-General of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization;

79-37353 I ...



A/341752
English
Page 2

H(i) Monitoring of disarmament agreements and strengthening of
international security: reports of the Secretary-General;

"(j) Programme of research and studies on disarmament: report of
the Secretary-General;

"(k) Study on the relationship between disarmament and development:
report of the Secretary-General;

"(1) New philosophy on disarmament: report of the Secretary-General."

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-fourth session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 33/71 B, D, E, F, G, H, J, K, M and N of
14 December 1978.

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 21 September 1979, the General Assembly, on
the recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its
agenda and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 3rd meeting, on 1 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 30 to 45, 120 and 121. The general debate on these items took place
at the 4th to 30th meetings, from 6 October to 5 November (A/C.l/34/pv.4-30).

4. In connexion with item 42, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Committee on Disarmament; y

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission; ?J
(c) Letter dated 13 February 1979 from the Permanent Representative of

the German Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the "Appeal of the special
session of the World Peace Council" (annex I) and the "Call to the
five nuclear Powers" (annex II) adopted at the special session of the
World Peace Council, held at Berlin from 2 to 5 February 1979 (A/34/85);

(d) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Director-
General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization on dissemination of information on the arms race and
disarmament, pursuant to paragraph 3 of General Assembly resolution
33/71 G (A/34/147);

y Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/34/27).

?J Ibid., Supplement No. 42 (A/34/42).

/ ...



A/341752
English
Page 3

(e) Letter dated 13 April 1979 from the Permanent Representative of Romania
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the text of Decree No. 69, dated 1 March 1979, of the State Council of
the Socialist Republic of Romania on the increase of the State allowances
for children (A/34/183);

(f) Letter dated 6 July 1979 from the Permanent Representative of Sri Lanka
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the doclnnents of the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of
Non-Aligned Countries held at Colombo from 4 to 9 June 1979 (A/34/357);

(g) Report of the Secretary-General on monitoring of disarmament agreements,
pursuant to paragraph 3 of General Assembly resolution 33/71 J (A/34/374);

(h) Report of the Secretary-General on Disarmament Week, pursuant to
paragraph 2 of General Assembly resolution 33/71 D (A/34/436);

(i) Report of the Secretary-General on non-use of nuclear weapons and
prevention of nuclear war, pursuant to paragraph 2 of General Assembly
resolution 33/71 B (A/34/456 and Add.l);

(j) Report of the Secretary-General on Disarmament Week, pursuant to
paragraph 4 of General Assembly resolution 33/71 D (A/34/457 and Add.l
and 2);

(k) Report of the Secretary-General on dissemination of information on the
arms race and disarmament, pursuant to paragraph 2 of General Assembly
resolution 33/71 G (A/34/458 and Add.l);

(1) Report of the Secretary-General on the implementation of the
recommendations and decisions taken by the General Assembly at its
tenth special session, pursuant to paragraph 7 of General Assembly
resolution 33/71 F (A/34/495);

(m) Report of the Secretary-General on the relationship between disarmament
and development, pursuant to paragraph 4 of General Assembly resolution
33/71 M (A/34/534);

(n) Report of the Secretary-General on monitoring of disarmament agreements,
pursuant to paragraph 2 of General Assembly resolution 33/71 J (A/34/54o);

(0) Letter dated 1 October 1979 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the Final Declaration of the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, hel d at Havana from 3 to
9 September 1979 (A/34/542);

(p) Report of the Secretary-General on dissemination of information on
the arms race and disarmament, pursuant to paragraph 5 of General
Assembly resolution 33/71 G (A/34/547);

/ ...



A/34/752
English
Page 4

(q) Report of the Secretary-General on United Nations studies on disarmament,
pursuant to paragraph 88 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly (A/34/588);

(r) Report of the Secretary-General on the programme of research and studies
on disarmament, pursuant to paragraph 1 of General Assembly resolution
33/71 K (A!34 /5 89);

(s) Report of the Secretary-General on the new philosophy on disarmament,
pursuant to paragraph 1 of General Assembly resolution 33/71 N (A/34/590);

(t) Letter dated 16 October 1979 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the text of the Final Communique adopted by the Extraordinary Meeting
of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of Delegation of Non-Aligned
Countries, held in New York from 4 to 6 October 1979 (A/34/599);

(u) Letter dated 16 October 1979 from the Permanent Representative of
Venezuela to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the texts of the resolutions adopted by the
Inter-Parliamentary Council at the 66th Inter-Parliamentary Conference,
held at Caracas from 13 to 21 September 1979 (A/34/619);

(v) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations programme of
fellowships on disarmament, pursuant to paragraph 3 of General Assembly
resolution 33/71 E (A/34/64o);

(w) Letter dated 31 October 1979 from the Permanent Representatives of
Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway and Sweden to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of a
memorandum stating the view of the five Nordic countries on the
question of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons (A/C.l/34/4);

(x) Letter dated 1 November 1979 from the Permanent Representative of
Ethiopia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the text of the message from the Organizing Committee for
the Observance of the United Nations Disarmament Week in Ethiopia
(A/C.l/34/6).

11. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resoluticn A/C.l/34/L.4

5. On 31 October the German Democratic Republic submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Negotiations on disarmament" (A/C.l/34/L.4), which was introduced by
the representative of the German Democratic Republic at the 32nd meeting, on
9 November. The draft resolution read as follows:

/ ...



A/341752
English
Page 5

"The General Assembly,

"Reaffirming the joint view expressed by States Members of the United
Nations in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly devoted to disarmament (S-10/2) that disarmament has become an
imperative and most urgent task facing the international community,

"Deeply concerned about the continued arms race that means a growing
threat to international peace and security,

"Recalling the will solenmly proclaimed by all Member States at the
tenth special session to take effective measures relating to the cessation
of the arms race and to disarmament,

"Calling attention to the measures qualified in the special session's
Programme of Action as being most urgent and feasible within a short period
of time and also calling attention to the task to enter into negotiations
on these measures without delay and to bring about effective agreements,

"Considering it necessary to make systematic progress in all
international negotiations dealing with issues of disarmament and military
detente,

"Noting that negotiations on the limitation of the arms race and
disarmament are being conducted in various bodies, among which the Committee
on Disarmament plays an important role,

"Noting with concern, however, that negotiations on a number of urgent
questions of arms limitations and disarmament make too slow progress and
have not yet led to tangible results, with certain negotiations even having
been suspended,

"Pointing out further that a number of important proposals designed to
bring about concrete measures of arms limitations and disarmament have not
yet become the subject of negotiations,

"Convinced that if States live up to their responsibility for arms
limitations and disarmament proclaimed in the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly and on the basis of the principles
established therein, concrete agreements on all aspects covering a wide
range of measures in the field of disarmament can be achieved by negotiations,

"Calls upon all States to increase their efforts for curbing the arms
race and for disarmament and, to this end, to

"(a) Expedite all current negotiations by conducting them with greater
intensity and singleness of purpose in order to reach a decisive breakthrough
in these negotiations in the near future and to successfully complete the
preparation of new effective disarmament measures;

"(b)
suspended

Resume negotiations on several aspects of disarmament which were
without any reason;

1...



A/341752
English
Page 6

"(c) Enter, without delay, into negotiations on current issues of
arms limitations and disarmament on which concrete proposals were submitted
which, however, have not yet become the subject of negotiations."

6. At the 40th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of the German
Democratic Republic stated that he would not insist on a vote on this draft
resolution since, as a result of appropriate conSUltations, it had been possible
to combine draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.4 with draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.15 (see
para. 12) and his delegation had agreed to sponsor the document resulting from
these consultations (A/C.l/34/L.15/Rev.l).

B. Draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.5 and Rev.l and 2

7. At the 24th meeting, on 31 October, CyPrus introduced a draft resolution
(A/C.l/34/L.5) entitled "Implementation of the recommendations and decisions of
the tenth special session". It was subsequently revised by the addition of the
words "and particularly the nuclear arms race" in operative paragraph 2
(A/C.l/34/L.5/Rev.l) and also sponsored by Argentina, Ecuador, India, Nigeria,
Romania, Sri Lanka and Yugoslavia, later joined by Algeria, Denmark, Ireland,
Mauritius, Peru and Uruguay.

8. At the 36th meeting, on 16 November, before action on the draft resolution
was taken, it was revised once again (A/C.l/34/L.5/Rev.2) and sponsored also by
Bangladesh, Brazil, Greece and Madagascar. The following changes were incorporated:

(a) The second preambular paragraph, Which read:

"Reaffirming the central role and primary responsibility of the United
Nations in the sphere of disarmament,"

was replaced by:

"Reaffirming that the United Nations has a central role and primary
responsibility in the sphere of disarmament,"

(b) Operative paragraphs 3, 4 and 5, which read:

1130
relations
and order

Calls upon all States to eliminate tensions and conflicts in their
and proceed towards measures for a system of international security
concurrently with efforts at disarmament measures;

"4. Calls upon all States also to take measures and pursue pOlicies to
strengthen international peace and security and to build confidence among
States;

"5. Requests the organs of the United Nations to initiate or accelerate
work on developing and strengthening institutions for maintaining peace and
security * 11

/ ...



A/341752
English
Page 7

were replaced by:

"3. Calls upon all States to eliminate tensions and conrlicts in their
relations and proceed towards effective, collective measures under the Charter
of the United Nations for a system of international order, security and peace,
concurrently with efforts at disarmament measures;

"4. Calls upon all States also to pursue policies to strengthen
international peace and security and to build confidence among States;

"5. Requests the organs of the United Nations to initiate or accelerate
work on developing and strengthening institutions for maintaining peace and
security, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter of
the United Nations."

9. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.5/Rev.2
without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution A).

C. Draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.13

10. On 8 November, Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Burma, ~, Egypt, Ethiopia, India,
Indonesia, Iran, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Sri Lanka, Sweden,
Venezuela, Yugoslavia and Zaire submitted a draft resolution entitled "Committee
on Disarmament" (A/C.l/34/L.13), which was introduced by the representative of
Yugoslavia at the 32nd meeting, on 9 November. The draft was later sponsored
also by Bangladesh, France, Ghana, Italy, Kenya, Mauritius, Romania, the United
Republic of Cameroon and Uruguay.

11. At its 38th meeting, on 21 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/34/L.13 by 114 votes to none, with 10 abstentions (see para. 39,
draft resolution B).

D. Draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.15 and Rev.l and 2

12. On 9 November, Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Cuba, CyPrus, EgyPt, Ghana,
Guyana, Indonesia, Jamaica, Nigeria, Peru, Romania, Senegal, Sri Lanka, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia and Zaire submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/34/L.15) dealing with the
implementation of the recommendations and decisions adopted by the General Assembly
at its tenth special session, which was introduced by the representative of
Yugoslavia at the 35th meeting, on 15 November.

13. The draft resolution was subsequently revised (A/C.l/34/L.15/Rev.l) and
sponsored also by the Germa~ Democratic RepUblic, Guinea, Mauritius, the United
Republic of Cameroon and Uruguay. The following changes were incorporated:

(a) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the word "continued" was added;

(b) A new fifth preambular paragraph was added;

(c) The subsequently renumbered sixth and seventh preambular paragraphs.
which read:

/ ...



Al3ll/752
English
Pa~e [)

1JBearii1r~ in mind. that necoti.s;tions have not ~ as yet:) started on a
nunber of issues uhich 'uere dealt 'toTith at the tenth special session':!

";Determine(~ to encourage the takinG of urgent measures in order to secure
the implementation of t:o.e reoomme1'0.ations and decisions endorsed by l1ember
States in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly (8-10/2) anil aiDed at haltinG the ~IT1S race, particularly the
nuclear-arms race, and to proceecL to disan'J.ament, l'

lrere re-rlac ed by:

"Bearinp, L1 mind that negotiations have not, as yet, started on a
number of issues ,·rhich are contained in the Pror,ramme of Action of the tenth
special session~

""Determined to encoure.ge the taJ:ing of urgent measures in order to
secure the inlplementetion of the recommendations and decisions endorsed by
!!ember States in the Final Docunent of the Tenth Speci",l Session of the
General Assem)ly (S~lO/2) and ained at halting and-reversing the arms race,
particu.larly the nuclear·-arms race, and to proceed to disarmament,"

(d) In operative parae;raph 2 (a), the <cords "and in a lipited or regional
frame\Torl;:;; uere ao.ded;

(e) Operative paragraph 2 (b), uhich reael:

1J(b) TIesume or undertake as soon as possible negotiClJtions on a bilateral,
rec;ional or multilateral basis on measures lll1ich have heen agreed unanimously
at the tenth s3?ecial session: ,I

TTas replaced by:

;; (b) Resume or un(1.ertake as soon as possible necotiations on a bilateral ~
regional or multilateral basis on measures 1~1ich have been agreed by consensus
at the tenth special session, ta'cinf': into consideration all relevant proposals;"

(f) The Hords :liD. conforr.1ity Irith the relevant provisions of the Final
DocwJ1ent of the Tenth Special Session" ·uere added to the end of operative
paragraph 3.

14. The ,~.raft resolution vas further revised vith the ad.dition of neu second and
third pr~eTIbular paragraphs and subseouent renumbering (A/C.l/34/L.15(Rev.2) and
also sponsored by AnGola, Bul~aria, Ethiopia, nun~ary, the LaD People's Den~cratic
Republic ~ 11adagascar, Honp;olia, ~=ozarllbiQue, the lTip.;er ~ the Union of Soviet Socialist
nepublics and -viet Uam. Subsequently~ it ~Tas sponsored also by Czechoslovakia and
Ind;a.

15. At its lf2nd ",eetinG, on 26 ITove",ber, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C .1/34/L .15/Rev. 2 uithout a votE" (see para. 38, draft resolution C).

/ ...



A/3ll1752
English
Pa{~e 9

E. Draft resolution A/C .1/31.> /T, .17

16. On 12 November, India, Indonesia, Jar:laica, !(enva, J'Ti{l'prip~, tb.€ Philippines,
Sweden anel Yugoslavia subm:;' tted a draft resolution (A/C .1/3), /L.IT) entitled
IlUnited lTations lJrOerarmne of fellm'Tsl1ips on disarmal:tent;;;l lrhich ~las introduced by
the representative of ITigeria at the 31~th meeting') on l~ lTovember. It vas
subs equently sponsored also by BanGladesh, Cuea, r,~ypt, T'thiopia, Greece, lIali,
;'la.uritius, the Syrian Arab nepublic, the United Republic 0;' Cameroon and Venezuela.

17. At its 38th meetin!", on 21 llovember, the l'irst COl,mittee adonted dro.ft
resolution A/C.l/3),/L.17 "ithout a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution D).

F. Draft resolution A/C. 1/3» /L. 21

18. On 13 November, Ar~entina, Australia, Austria, Banp,ladesh, Bel~ium, Bolivia,
Canada, the Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, r~v~t, France,
Ghana, Greece, Haiti;l India, Indonesia, Italy, Liberip~~ I'auritius, :r~exico,
Hif\l2ria, Paldstan, the Philipnines 'J Portw;al ';i Sener:al ~ Sri Lanle.a:) S'rreden::l Toga,
Tunisia, Turkey, Dr.:anda;l the Upner Volta~ Yup;oslavia and Zaire sub!?J.ittecl a draft
resolut ;.on {A/C. 1 /3~/L. 21 ), entitled "'IonitorinG of cU sarmament agreements and
strenrsthening of international security'), 1-Jhich ·vas introduced by the representative
of France at the 37th ",eetin:";, on 19 TTovember. The draft 'TaS sUbsequently sponsored
also by Brazil, Guinea, the Hetherlancls, Peru, the Sudan and the United l1epul11ic of
Cameroon. A statel'lent on the administrative and. finw.cial i",plications of the
draft resolution uas submitted by the Secretary·-General on 21 ,Tove'·".ber
(AlC .1/3l, /L.!f2).

19. At its !flst neetinr~, on 23 JTovepber, the First COl'llllittee adontecl draft
resolution A/C.l/34/L.21 by 113 votes to none, uith l~ abstentions (see para. 3G,
draft resolution E).

G. Draft resolution A/C.l/3l'/L.21:

20. On 14 Povember, J\ustria:; Indo:':lesia, rir;eri8" Peru, ROI!l.ania, R"uancla, Senepal
and Sueden submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/31'/L.24) entitled "Freezing and
reduction of military budgets", '"hich ,ras introduced by the representative of
Romania at the 35th meeting, on 15 lTovep.l)er. The draft \Tas subsequently also
sponsored by IrelaYld, l1auritius, Hir~er and Urur-.uay.

21. At the 38th meeting, on 21 ITovember, before the First Committee proceeded to
vote on draft resolution A/C.l/3~/T,.2l:, the representative of Romania orally revised
operative paraGraph J of the draft hy chan[!inc; the 1Tords ;1 and to reallocaten to
the 1-Tords II,Jith a vier to reallocatinG;; so that the paragraph read:

·;/Appeals to all States:> and in pcTticular the most heavily arr'1.ed States,
pending the conclusion of a~reements on the reduction of militar:r e:;::pena.itures:l
to exercise self~~restraint in their military expenditures 11ith a vieH to
reallocating the funds thus saved to economic and social development,
particularly for the benefit of developing cOllntries:".

The Committee then voted on draft resolution A/C.l/3l'/L.2~, as follows:

/ ...

,



,

A/341752
English
Page 10

(a) The fourth preambular paragraph and operative paragraph I, on "hich the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics had reQuested a separate vote, were adopted by
109 votes to none, with 14 abstentions;

(b) The draft resolution as a whole, as orally revised, waS adopted by a
recorded vote of 123 to none, "ith 1 abstention (see para. 38, draft resolution f): J!

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, CUba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, DeIl!'lark, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fij i, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia,
German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, IraQ, Ireland, Israel,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, iladaClascar, Malaysia, dali,
VIalta~ ~lauritania~ Hauritius, Mexico, Hongolia, Horocco,
MozambiQue, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria,
Non,ray, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portue;al, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, SomaJ.ia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, S'\Jeden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Toso, Trinidad and Tobaso,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist ~epublic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia

Against: None

AbstainiD§: India

H. Draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.26

22. On 15 November, Argentina, Cyprus, Egypt, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Iran,
Ni~eria, Sri Lanka and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution (A/C.11341L.~
concerning the non-use of nuclear weapons, which ,.as introduced by the
representative of India at the 36th meeting, on 16 November. The draft was
subsequently sponsored also by Qatar and Uruguay.

3/ The delegation of Italy subsequently advised the Secretariat that, had it
been 'Present, it would have voted in favour.

/ ...



A/341752
l':nglish
Page 11

23. At the 42nd meetinl3, on 26 IJovember, before the First Conmittee proceeded to
vote on draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.26 the representative of India orally revised
operative paragraph 2 by deleting the phrase "alonF, with other related items on
its agenda" after the 'Hord uconsiderationfl and inserting the "lord lIappropriate"
between the words "into" and "consideration" so that the paragraph read:

"Requests the Committee on Disarmament to take those views into
appropriate consideration and to report thereon to the General Assembly
at its thirty-fifth session".

1'he draft resolution, as orally revised, was adopted by
with 14 abstentions (see para. 38, draft resolution G).

a recordea vote of 100 to 16,
The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angolia, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Burundi,
Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Conl3o, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fij i, Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, India s Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali,
Malta, Hauritania, Hauritius, Hexico, Morocco, lvlozambique,
Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua l~eVT Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Guriname, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 'rogo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, UGanda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia

Against: Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Greece, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Portugal, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, BUlgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary,
Israel, Japan, Mongolia, Poland, Spain, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics

I. Draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.27 and Rev.l

24. On 16 llovember, Arl'entina, Bangladesh, Cyprus, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, India,
Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, the Syrian Arab Republic, Peru, Tunisia,
Yugoslavia and Zaire submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l!34/L.27 entitled "Report of
the Disarmament Commission", subsequently revised with changes in operative
paragraph 1 and the addition of the dates in operative paragraph 2
(AlC .1/34/L.27/Rev.l) and sponsored also by Uruguay. The draft "'as introduced by
the representative of Yugoslavia at the 39th meeting, on 21 November.

/ ...



1\/34/'752
English
Page 12

25. At its 40th Beeting, on 23 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/34/L.27/Rev.l without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution H).

J. Draft resolution A/C_:..Jj34/L.31

26. On 16 T!ovember, Afghanistan, J2.urun~, Cuba. Czechoslovakia. the German
Democratic Hepublic, Guinea, Indi"" Japan. Jordan, the Lao.J:.eople' s Democratic
Republic, Mongolia, Mozambique. Nigeria., the Syri~ Arab P,epublic, Venezuela and
Zambia submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/34/L.31) entitled "Disarmament Week",
subsequently sponsored also by Ethiopia.~~!~:~itius and Morocco. The draft was
introduced by the representative of r10ngolia at the 39th meeting, on 21 November.

27. At the 40th meeting, on 23 November, before the First Committee proceeded to
vote on draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.31, the representative of the Federal Republic
of Germany orally prc}ceed tbat in the last preambular Iaragraph the words
'\rithin their areas of competence" should be inserted after the words
"International Atomic Energy Agency" so that the paragraph would read:

"Hecognizing the need for active involvement of relevant specialized
agencies of the United Nations and the International Atomic Energy Agency
within their areas of competence in promoting the cause of disarmament and,
in particular, in holding Disarmament Week,".

The sponsors accepted this proposal and the draft resolution, as orally amended,
was adopted without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution I).

K. Draft resolution A/C.l/34/L.33 and Rev.l

28. On 16 Novembpr, Afghanistan, Angola, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia: the ~e~DemocraticRepublic, Hungary,
the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, the Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic and the Union of §J'viet Socia.li~~ RepUblics submitted a draft
resolution (A/C.l/34/L.33) entitled "Nuclear "eapons in all aspects", which was
introduced by the representative of the USSR at the 39th meeting, on 21 November.
The draft resolution read as follows:

"Tbe General Assembly,

"Reaffirming that nuclear weapons pose the most serious threat to
mankind and its survival and that it is therefore essential to proceed with
nuclear disarmament and the complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

"Reaffirming also that all nuclear weapon States, in particular those
which possess the most important nuclear arsenals, bear a special
responsibility fOr the fulfilment of the task of achieving the goals of
nuclear disarmament,

/ ...



A!3)r/752
Thelish
Paee 13

"Recalling that the tenth special session of the United Nations General
Aseembly stressed that priority in disarmament negotiations shoued be given
to nuclear weapons, and referring to paraeraph 50 of the Final Document
of that session,

"Bearinp; in mind that the elaboration and the implementation of measures
in the field of nuclear disarmament should go in parallel with political and
international legal measures to strengthen the security of all States, as was
stressed·in paragraphs 37 and 54 of the Final Document,

"Recalling its resolution 33/71 I-I of 14 December 1978,

•

"Noting that the aeenda adopted by the COImnittee on Disarmament includes
the item "Nuclear >reapons in all aspects" and that the agenda for 1979
included the item 'Cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament' ,

"Notinf': with satisfaction that in 1979 the Committee on Disarmament
started to consider the substance of this item and that a useful exchange of
views on various aspects of the preparation for negotiations on this problem
took p~ace, and believing that this is a good basis for further work,

"Recalling the proposals and statements made in the Committee on
Disarmament on the cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament,

"Hotinf': that such negotiations should be conducted with the
participation of all nuclear-weapon States as well as of a certain number
of non-nuclear-weapon States,

"1. Urges again all nuclear-weapon States to proceed, in accordance with
paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the tenth special session, with
consultations regarding the early initiation of urgent negotiations and
eventually with such negotiations on the halting of the nuclear arms race and
on a progressive and balanced reduction of stockpiles of nuclear weapons and
their means of delivery within a comprehensive phased programme with agreed
time frames, leading to their ultimate and complete elimination;

"2. Requests the nuclear-weapon States to inform the General Assembly
at its thirty-fifth session of the results of their consultations and ev~ntual
negotiations;

"3. Reauests the Committee on Disarmament to pursue on a priority basis
the consideration of the item "Nuclear weapons in all aspects", bearing in
mind the urgency of negotiations on the cessation of the production of all
types of nuclear weapons and on the destruction of their stockpiles
and to submit a report to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session. iT

The draft resolution was subsequently revised (A/C.l/34/L.33/Rev.l) and
sponsored also by Romania and Viet Ham.

/ ...



I

A!341752
English
Page 14

29. At the 44th meeting, on 27 November, before the First Committee proceeded to
vote on draft resolution A!C.l!34!L.33!Rev.l, the representative of !lexico orally
proposed that in operative paragraph 1 the verb ;'to undertake" be replaced by the
verb "to continue", the word "the" be inserted after the word "session" and the
'irords "initiated in 1979" be inserted after the words "preparatory consultations"
so that the paragraph would read:

"Requests the Committee on Disarmament to continue at the beginning
of its 1980 session the preparatory consultations initiated in 1979 on the
negotiations referred to in operative paragraph 2 of this resolution;".

At the same meeting, the representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
subsequent to the proposal made by Mexico, revised operative paragraph 1 of the
draft to read:

"Requests the Committee on Disarmament to continue at the beginning
of its 1980 session consideration of the item 'Nuclear weapons in all
aspects' and to undertake preparatory consultations on the negotiations
referred to in operative paragraph 2 of this resolution;;.

In view of this revision, the representative of Mexico did not press the proposal
to a vote and, thereafter, the draft resolution, as orally revised by the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics was adopted by 102 votes to 3, with 18 abstentions
(see para. 38, draft resolution J).

L. Draft resoluti.."!L!'.!Sl!34!L.34

30. On 21 November, Canada, Denmark, Egypt, Finland, ~~c~, ~~~~y, Federal
Republic of, India, Jamaica, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Norway, I:~..istan, the
Philippines, Romania. Senegal, Sri Lanka, Sweden and Venezuela submitted a draft
resolution (A!C.l!34!L.34) entitled nStudy on the relationShip between disarmament
and development", subsequently also sponsored by Brazil, Ireland, Uruguay and
Yugoslavia, which was introduced by the representati..re of Sweden at the
40th meeting, on 23 November. A statement on the administrative and financial
implications of the drat resolution was submitted by the Secretary-General on
26 November (A!C.l!34!L.46).

31. At its 43rd meeting, on 26 Hovember, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A!C.l!34!L.34 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution K).

M. Draft resolution A!C.l!3~!L.36

32. On 16 November, Burma submitted a draft resolution (A!C.l!34!L.36) entitled
"Committee on Disarmament", which was introduced by the representative of Burma
(Chairman, Committee on Disarmament) at the 39th meeting, on 21 November. A
statement on the administrative and financial implications of the draft
resolution was subl'litted by the Secretary-General on 27 November (A!C.l!3LI!L. 50).

! ...



11./3417'52
Enr"lish
Pa:,e 15

33. At its 44th meeting, on 27 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/34/L.36 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution L).

N. QFaft resolution A/C.1/34/L.37

34. On 17 November, Arl';entina. Austri~. Belgium, Chi,le, Coloml::>ia, Demnark, Ecuador,
France, Germany, Federal Republic of, ~~, Ha~ti, ~n~ia, Indonesia, Ireland,
Italy, Hexico, the Netherlands, Pakistan, the ~hi1ip'p.ine.s, Portug~. Romania,
Senel';al. Spain, SI,eden, TurkeX, the United Kingdom 0% Great .~itain and Northern
Ireland, Uru/<uay, Yugoslavia and Zambia submitted a draft resolution
(A/C.1/34/L.37) entitled "Programme of research and studies on disarmament",
subsequently also sponsored by Egypt and Liberia, which was introduced by the
representative of France at the 40th meeting, on 23 November.

35. At its 43rd meeting, on 26 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/34/L.37 by 106 votes to none, with 10 abstentions (see para. 38,
draft resolution M).

O. Draft decision A/C.1/34/L.40

36. On 19 November, Mexico submitted a draft decision entitled "Study on a
comprehensive nuclear test ban" (A/C.l/34/L.4o), subsequently sponsored also by
Arl';entina and the Philippines, which was introduced by the representative of
Mexico at the 37th meeting, on 19 November. A statement on the administrative
and financial implications of the draft decision was submitted by the Secretary-
General on 26 November (A/C.l/34/L.48).

37. At its 39th meeting, on 21 November, the First Committee adopted draft
decision A/C.1/34/L.40 by 84 votes to 9, with 6 abstentions (see para. 39).

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST CO/1MITTEE

38. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

Review of the implementation of the recom~~ndations and
decisions adopted by the General Assemt>ly at-i-t~.. tenth

special session

A

Disarmament and international security

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the responsibility of the United Nations under the Charter
for the maintenance of international ~eace and security,

/ ...



• •

A/31~!T52

~n~lish

Fac::e lG

Reaffirmin~ that the United Nations l,as a central role and primary
responsibility in the sphere of disarmament,

Recognizinr that genuine and lasting peace can only be created through the
effective implementation of the security system provided for in the Charter of
the United nations and through the speedy and substantial reduction of arms and
armed forces by international agreement and mutual example, leading ultimately
to general and complete disarmament under effective international control,

Convinced that disarmament, relaxation of international tension, respect for
the right to self-determinaticn and national independence, the peaceful settlement
of disputes in accordance with the Charter and the strengthening of international
peace and security are directly related to each other,

Recalling its resolutions 32/87 C of 12 December 1977, S-10/2 of
30 June 1978 and 33/91 I of 16 December 1978,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General entitled "Study on
the relaticnship between disarmament and international security"; ~

2. Considers that the halting of the arms race, particularly the nuclear
arms race, should be the first step in the implementation of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly; 21

3. Calls upon all States to eliminate tensions and conflicts in their
relations and proceed towards effective, collective measures under the Charter
of the United Nations for a system of international order, security and peace,
concurrently with efforts at disarmament measures;

4. Calls upon all States also to pursue policies to strengthen
international peace and security and to build confidence among States;

5. ~eauests the organs of the United Nations to initiate or accelerate
work on developing and strensthening institutions for maintaining peace and
security, in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter.

B

Report of the COmlilittee on Disarmament

The General AsseBhly,

TIxnressin~ its satisfaction over the establishment, in accordance with the
agreenent reached at its tenth sneciQl session, of the Committee on Disarnwment
alld the fact that the Coy,,",i"ctee held its first sesssion in the course of 197f1,

~/ A/34/465 and Corr.l.

~j Resolution 5-10/2.

/ ...



A/34/752
English
Page 17

Noting with appreciation the valuable results of the work of the Committee
on Disarmament concerning its organization and procedures,

Deploring that negotiations on priority tasks in the field of disarmament
have not yielded any concrete results so far, in spite of the repeated appeals
of the General Assembly,

Convinced that the Committee on Disarmament, as the single multilateral
negotiating body on disarmament, should become urgently and most directly involved
in sUbstantive negotiations on priority disarmament questions and play the
central role in the implementation of the Programme of Action adopted by the
General Assembly at its tenth special session,

Stressing that negotiations on specific disarmament issues conducted outside
the Committee on Disarmament should not in any way constitute an impediment to
the negotiations on such questions in the Committee,

Having considered the first report of the Committee on Disarmament, §j

1. Urges the Committee on Disarmament to proceed, without any further delay,
to substantive negotiations on the priority questions of disarmament on its
agenda, in accordance with the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly I/ and the other relevant resolutions
of the Assembly on these subjects;

2. Invites the members of the Committee on Disarmament involved in separate
negotiations-on-Specific priority questions of disarmament to make every effort
to achieve a positive conclusion of these negotiations without further delay
for submission to the Committee and, failing this, to submit to the Committee a
full report On the status of their separate negotiations and results achieved so
far in order to contribute most directly to the negotiations in the Committee in
accordance with paragraph 1 above;

3. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to initiate negotiations at its
next session on the comprehensive programme of disarmament, with a view to
completing its elaboration before the second special session of the General
Assembly on disarmament and, in doing so, to take as a basis the recommendations
adopted by the Disarmament Commission;

4. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to submit a report on its work
to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-fifth session
the item entitled "Report of the Committee on Disarmament".

6/ Official Records of the General Assembly. Thirty-fourth S~ssion.
Suppl;ment No. 27 (A/34/27).

11 ReSOlution S-10/7.
/ ...



A/341752
English
Page 18

C

Implementation of the recommendations and decisions
of the tenth special session

The General Assembly,

Having reviewed the implementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted at its tenth special session,

Recallin~ that disarmament has become an imperative and most urgent task
facing the international community and that all the peoples of the world have a
vital interest in the success of disarmament negotiations,

Calling attention to the measures qualified in the Programme of Action adopted
at the tenth special session §J as being KoSt urgent and feasible within a
short period of time and to the task of bringing about effective agreements,

Expressing its satisfaction over the fact that the tenth special session
greatly stimulated the involvement of all countries and set in motion a number of
new initiatives in the field of disarmament,

Noting with satisfaction that SOme initial results in the implementation of
the recommendations and decisions of the tenth special session have been achieved
primarily in the field of active involvement of the United Nations and in a
considerable revitalization of the multilateral disarmament machinery,

Deeply concerned about the continued arms race and the alarming increase
in expenditures on armaments,

Considering that it is necessary to make sustained progress in all negotiations
dealing with disarmament and arms limitation issues,

Noting with COncern that most negotiations on priority tasks in the field of
disarmament have not yielded concrete results so far, in spite of the repeated
appeals of the General Assembly,

Bearing in mind that negotiations have not, as yet, started on a number of
issues which are contained in the Programme of Action of the tenth special session,

Determined to encourage the adoption of urgent measures in order to secure
the implementation of the recommendations and decisions endorsed by Member States
in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assemoly and
aimed at halting and reversing the arms race, particularly the nuclear arms
race, and to proceed to disarmament,

§J Ibid., sect. Ill.

/ ...



A/34/752
English
Page 19

1. Expresses its deep concern over the continued arms race, nuclear as
well as conventional, and oVer constantly growing military budgets which bear
negative consequences and pose a growing threat to international peace and
security and also for the unhampered development of countries, particularly
developing countries;

2.
and other
effective
this end:

Urgently calls upon all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States
major military Powers, immediately to undertake steps leading to
halting and reversing of the arms race and to disarmament and, to

(a) To make every effort to bring to a successful end the negotiations which
are currently going On in the Committee on Disarmament and in a limited or
regional framework on effective international agreements according to the
priorities of the Programme of Action of the tenth special session;

(b) To resume or undertake as soon as possible negotiations on a
bilateral, regional or multilateral basis on measures which have been agreed
upon by consensus at the tenth special session, taking into consideration all
relevant proposals;

3. Invites all States which are engaged in bilateral, regional or
multilateral disarmament or arms-limitation negotiations outside the United Nations
framework to keep the General Assembly informed of the results of such
negotiations in conformity with the relevant provisions of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-fifth
session the item entitled "Implementation of the recommendations and decisions
of the tenth special session il.

D

United Nations programme of fellowships on disarmarrent

The General Assembly,

Recalling its decision at the tenth special session to establish a programme
of fellowships On disarmament, 2/

Recalling also its resolution 33/71 E of 14 December 1978, by which it
approved the guidelines prepared by the Secretary-General for the programme,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the
of the United Nations programme of fellowships on disarmament for

21 Resolution S-10/7, para. 108.
10/ A/34/640.

implementation
1979, 10/

/ ...



A/341752
English
Page 20

1. Till<es note with satisfaction of the report of the Secretary-General
on the United Nations programme of fellowships on disarmament;

2. Decides to continue the programme;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to make adequate arrangements regarding
the programme for 1980 in accordance with the guidelines approved by the
General Assembly at its thirty-third session;

4. Also requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly
at its thirty-fifth session a report on the implementation of the programme.

Monitoring of disarmament agreements and strengthening of
international security

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 33/71 J of 14 December 1978, in which it requested
the Secretary-General to undertake, with the assistance of a group of qualified
governmental experts, a study On the technical, legal and financial
implications of establishing an international satellite monitoring agency,

Reaffirming the essential role to be played by appropriate international
monitoring measures, satisfactory to all interested parties, in establishing and
implementing disarmament agreements, and in strengthening international security
and confidence,

Considering the important contribution which earth observation satellite
technology can make in this field,

Noting the views expressed by Member States, as compiled by the Secretary-
General, on the proposal to establish an international satellite monitoring
agency, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 33/71 J, III

Taking into consideration the report of the Secretary-General, 121 to
which are annexed the preliminary conclusions of the study that he has undertaken
with the assistance of qualified governmental experts, of the technical, legal
and financial implications of establishing such an agency,

III A/34/374.

121 A/34/540.

/ ...



A/341752
English
Page 21

Considering it necessary, in the light of the recommendations made by the
Group of Governmental Experts on the Question of the Establishment of an
International Satellite Monitoring Agency in its preliminary conclusions, 13/
that the study should be continued in depth,

1. Requests the Secretary-General to carry out such an in-depth study
with the assistance of the Group of Governmental Experts on the Question of the
Establishment of an International Satellite Monitoring Agency previously
constituted;

2.
subject
session

Requests the Secretary-General to
in time for the General Assembly to
devoted to disarmament in 1982;

submit a comprehensive report on the
take a decision at its special

3. Draws the attention of the Secretary-General to the fact that, in
pursuance of paragraph 2 above, the study should be submitted no later than in
June 1981 to the preparatory committee for the second special session of the
General Assembly devoted to disarmament.

F

Freezing and reduction of military budgets

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session
of the General Assembly according to which gradual reduction of military budgets
on a mutually agreed basis, for example, in absolute figures or in terms of
percentage points, particularly by nuclear-weapon States and other militarily
significant States, would be a measure that would contribute to curbing the arms
race and would increase the possibilities of reallocation of resources now being
used for military purposes to economic and social development, particularly for
the benefit of the developing countries, 14/

Recalling also its decision, inscribed in the Final Document, to
continue to consider what concrete steps should be taken to facilitate the
reduction of military budgets, 15/

Reaffirming that it is possible to achieve reductions in military budgets
without affecting the military balance to the detriment of the national security
of any State,

Recognizing the need for the availability of a satisfactory instrument for
standardized reporting on the military expenditures of Member States, such as
the one currently being tested within the framework of the United Nations,

13/ Ibid., annex.

14/ Resolution S-10/2, para. 89.

15/ Ibid., para. 90. / ...



A/341752
English
Page 22

Aware of the proposals submitted to date by States and of the activities
carried out thus far within the framework of the United Nations in the field of
the reduction of military budgets,

Taking into account that world military expenditures continue to grow at
an alarming rate, in stark contrast with the acute development needs of
States, in particular those of developing countries,

1. Considers that, in the light of the above-mentioned provisions of the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, a new
impetus should be given to endeavours to achieve agreements to freeze, reduce
or otherwise restrain, in a balanced manner, military expenditures, including
adequate measures of verification satisfactory to all parties concerned;

2. Requests, to this end, the Disarmament Commission to undertake during
1980 to examine and identify effective ways and means of achieving such
agreements;

3. Appeals to all States, in particular the most heavily armed States,
pending the conclusion of agreements on the reduction of military expenditures,
to exercise self-restraint in their military expenditures with a view to
reallocating the funds thus saved to economic and social development, particularly
for the benefit of developing countries;

4. Decides to consider at its thirty-fifth session, under the item
entitled "Reduction of military budgets" to b.. includoed in its provisional agenda
in purs1:ance of its resolution 33/67 of 14 December 1978, the most effective ways
and means of adopting practical measures in this field.

G

Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear war

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 33/71 B of 14 December 1978, in which, inter alia,
it called for prohibition of the use of nuclear weapons, pending nuclear
disarmament,

Taking into account proposals submitted by States concerning the non-use of
nuclear weapons, avoidance of nuclear war and related matters, 16/

1. Decides to transmit to the Committee on Disarmament the views of States
concerning the non-use of nuclear weapons, avoidance of nuclear war and
related matters;

2. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to take those views into
appropriate consideration and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its
thirty-fifth session.

16/ A/34/456 and Add.l. / ...



A/341752
English
Page 23

H

Report of the Disarmament Commission

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Disarmament Commission, 171

Emphasizing again the importance of an effective follow-up of the relevant
recommendations and decisions adopted at its tenth special session,

Welcoming the consensus recommendations of the Disarmament Commission adopted
by consensus concerning the elements of a comprehensive programme on
disarmament, 181

Considering the important role and contribution that the Disarmament
Commission can play in examining and making recommendations on various problems
in the field of disarmament and in the promotion of the implementation of the
relevant decisions of the tenth special session,

Recalling section 11 of its resolution 33/71 H of 14 December 1978,

1. Endorses the report of the Disarmament Commission and the
recommendations contained therein on the elements of a comprehensive programme
on disarmament;

2. Requests the Disarmament Commission to continue its work in accordance
with its mandate, as set down in paragraph 118 of the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly 191 and, to that end, to meet for
a period not exceeding four weeks during 1980,lbeginning on 12 May 1980;

3. !urther requests the Disarmament Commission to continue the consideration
of the agenda items contained in section 11 of resolution 33/71 H, with the aim
of elaborating, within the framework and in accordance with the priorities
established at the tenth special session, a general approach to negotiations on
nuclear and conventional disarmament;

4. Reguests the Disarmament Commission to submit a report on its work and
its recommendations on paragraph 2 above to the General Assembly at its
thirty-fifth session;

5. Reguests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Disarmament Commission
the report of the Committee on Disarmament, 201 together with all the official
records of the thirty-fourth session of the General Assembly On disarmament matters,
and to render all the necessary assistance that it may require for implementing
this resolution;

171 Official Records of the General Assemb Thirty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/3 I 2).

181 Ibid., para. 19 •

.!2l ReSOlution s-10/2.
201 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,

Supplement No. 27 (A/34/27). I ...



AI 341752
English
Page 24

6. Further requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Committee on
Disarmament the report and the recommendations of the Disarmament Commission on
the elements of a comprehensive programme of disarmament;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-fifth
session the item entitled "Report o·f the Disarmament Commission".

I

Disarmament Week

The General Assembly,

Gravely concerned over the continued arms race,

Emphasizing the urgent need for and the importance of wide and continu.ed
mobilization of world pUblic opinion in support of halting and reversing the
arms race, especially the nuclear arms race in all its aspects,

Noting with satisfaction the broad and active support of Governments,
international and national organizations for the decision taken by the General
Assembly at its tenth special session regarding the proclamation of the week
starting 24 October, the day of the foundation of the United Nations, as a
week devoted to fostering the objectives of disarmament,

Recalling its resolutions 33/71 D and G of 14 December 1978,

Recognizing the need for active involvement of the relevant specialized
agencies and the International Atomic Energy Agency, within their areas of
competence, in promoting the cause of disarmament and, in particular, in
holding Disarmament Week,

1. Takes note with satisfaction of the reports of the Secretary-General
on measures taken by governmental and non-governmental organizations to foster
the objective of disarmament and elements of a model programme for Disarmament
\/eek; 211

2. Invites all States that so desire, in carrying out appropriate measures
at the local level on the occasion of Disarmament Week, to take into account
the elements of the model programme prepared by the Secretary-General;

3. Invites the relevant specialized agencies and the International Atomic
Energy Agency to intensify activities, within their areas of competence, to
disseminate information on the consequences of the arms race and requests them
to inform the Secretary-General accordingly;

211 A/34/436 and A/34/457 and Add.l. I ...



A/341752
English
Page 25

4. Invites Governments, in accordance with General Assembly resolution
33/71 D, to inform the Secretary-General of activities undertaken to promote
the objective of Disarmament Week;

5. Invites international non-governmental organizations to take an active
part in holding Disarmament Week and to inform the Secretary-General of the
activities undertaken;

6. Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with paragraph 4 of
resolution 33/71 D, to submit to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth
session a report containing the information referred to in paragraphs 3 and 4
above.

J

Nuclear weapons in all aspects

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming that nuclear weapons pose the most serious threat to mankind and
its survival and that it is therefore essential to proceed with nuclear
disarmament and the complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

Reaffirming also that all nuclear-weapon States, in particular those which
possess the most important nuclear arsenals, bear a special responsibility for
the fulfilment of the task of achieving the goals of nuclear disarmament,

Stressing again that priority in disarmament negotiations should be given to
nuclear weapons, and referring to paragraphs 49 and 54 of the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 22/

Recalling its resolution 33/71 H of 14 December 1978,

Noting with satisfaction that in 1979 the Committee on Disarmament started
to consider the substance of the item of its agenda entitled "Nuclear weapons
in all aspects ll ,

Noting also the proposals and statements made in the Committee on Disarmament
on the cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament, 23/

Convinced that the Committee on Disarmament is the most suitable forum for
the preparation and conduct of the negotiations on nuclear disarmament,

22/ ReSOlution S-10/2.

23/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/34/27), paras. 41-43.

/ ...



A/341752
English
Page 26

1. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to continue at the beginning of
its 1980 session consideration of the item "Nuclear weapons in all aspects" and
to undertake preparatory consultations on the negotiations referred to in
paragraph 2 below;

2. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to initiate, as a matter of high
priority, negotiations, with the participation of all nuclear-weapon States, on
the question of the cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament,
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly;

3. Further requests the Committee on Disarmament to report on the results
of those negotiations to the General Assembly at its thirty-fifth session.

le

Study On the relationship between disarmament and development

The General Assembly,

Recalling the provisions contained in paragraphs 94 and 95 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly 24/ concerning
the relationship between disarmament and development, --

Recalling further its resolution 33/71 M of 14 December 1978 in which it took
note of the organizational report of the Group of Governmental Experts on the
Relationship between Disarmament and Development appointed by the Secretary-
General to assist him with the study on the relationship between disarmament
and development, 25/ and its resolution 33171 I of the same date in
which it requested the Secretary-General to transmit to the Group of
Governmental Experts, for its consideration, the proposal to establish an
international disarmament fund for development,

Re-emphasizing that one of the principal aims of this study should be to
produce results that could effectively guide the formulation of practical
measures,

1. Takes note of the interim report of the Secretary-General with
respect to the above-mentioned study; 26/

2. Requests the Secretary-General to take appropriate action to provide
the resources and expertise necessary to complete successfully the study in
accordance with paragraph 23 of the interim report;

24/ ReSOlution S-10/2.

25/ A/33/317, annex.

26/ A/34/534.
/ ...



A/341752
English
Page 27

3. Appeals to Governments to make available data and information
relevant to a meaningful completion of the above-mentioned study;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-sixth
session an item entitled "Study on the relationship between disarmament and
development: report of the Secretary-General f1 •

L

Committee on Disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling paragraph 120 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session
of the General Assembly, 271

Having considered the report of the Committee on Disarmament, 28/

Stressing once again that considerable and urgent work remains to be
accomplished by the Committee on Disarmament,

Noting that tne Committee on Disarmament adopted its rules of procedure, 29/
which contain detailed arrangements on all aspects relating to its work,

Noting also that rule 17 of the rules of procedure of the Committee on
Disarmament states that the Secretary-General of the United Nations will be
reQuested to provide the staff as well as the necessary assistance and
services needed by the Committee and any subsidiary bodies which it may establish,

Requests accordingly the Secretary-General to provide the staff as well as
the necessary assistance and services needed by the Committee on Disarmament
and any SUbsidiary bodies Which it may establish in acco~dance with the arrangements
contained in its rules of procedure.

M

Programme of research and studies on disarmament

The General Assembly,

Referring to its resolution 33/71 K of 14 December 1978, in which it
reQuested the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its

gzj Resolution S-10/2.

281 Official Records of the General Assembl
Supplement No. 27 A/34/27).

29/ Ibid., appendix I.
I . ..



A/34/752
English
Page 28

thirty-fourth session on possible ways of establishing, operating and financing
an international institute for disarmament research, under the auspices of the
United Nations,

1. Notes the information relevant to the matter contained in the report of
the Secretary-General on the programme of research and studies on disarmament; 30/

2. Welcomes the recommendations concerning the United Nations Institute
for Disarmament Research submitted by the Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies
and set forth in the report of the Secretary-General; 31/

3. Notes that, under those recommendations, the United Nations Institute
for Disarmament Research would be set up within the framework of the United Nations
Institute for Training and Research as an interim arrangement, for the period
until the second special session of the General AssemblY devoted to disarmament;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to hold consultations with the United
Nations Institute on Training and Research regarding the establishment of the
United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research;

5. Expresses the hope that appropriate steps will be taken as soon as
possible with a view to implementing the recommendations set forth in the report
of the Secretary-General;

6. Reguests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-fifth session.

*
* *

21. The First Committee also recommends that the General Assembly should request
the Secretary-General to prepare the study on the question of a comprehensive
nuclear-test ban recommended by the Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies and by
the Secretary-General himself and that the stUdy should include the chapters or
sections described in paragraph 14 of the report of the Secretary-General, 32/
should be completed in time to be transmitted to the Committee on Disarmament
in the spring of 1980, as indicated in the same paragraph, and should be carried
out in accordance with the procedure described in paragraph 16 of the
Secretary-General's report.

30/ A/34/589.

31/ Ibid., para. 7.

32/ A/34/588.




