








































UNITED
NATIONS

General AssemblY
Distr.
GENERAL

A/35/77s
8 December 1981
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 112

PROGRESSIVE DEVEIPPMENT OF THE PRINCIPLES AND NORMS OF INTERNATIONAL
LAVf, RELATING TO THE NEW INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORDER

Report of the Sixth Comnittee

RapporLeur: Mr. Antonio VINAL (spain)

I. INTRODUCTION

I. The item entitled ',Progressive development of the principles and norms of
international law relating to the new international economic order: report of the
Secretary-General, was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-sixth
session of the General Assembly pursuant to paragraph 4 of General Assembly
resolution 35/L66 of 15 December 1980.

2. On the recommendation of the General Committee, the General Assembly decided
at its 4th plenary meetingr oI1 18 Septenber 1981, to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Sixth Committee.

3. In connexion with the item, the Sixth Committee had before it a rePort of the
Secretary-General (p/35/L43 and Add.l and 2).

4. The Sixth Committee considered the iten at its 62nd to 65th meetings, held
between 30 November and 2 December 1981. The sunmary records of those meetings
(A/C.6/36/5R.62-65) contain the views of representatives who spoke during the
consideration of the item.

rr. CoNSTDERATTON OF DRAFT RESOLUTTON (A/C.6/36/L-L7)

5. At the 63rd neeting, on I Decernber, the
introduced a draft resolution (NC.6/36/L-I7')
EgIp!, Pakistan, the Philippines' Romania and
Morocco, and Nigeria, which read as follows:

representative of the Philippines
on behalf of Bangladesh, Ecuador'
Venezuela, later joined by Sri Lanka'

81-3s4I3 0030P (E)



A/35/775
English
Page 2

"The General lssembly,

"Bearing in mind that, in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nationsr the General Assembly is called upon to initiate studies and make
recommendations for the purpose of encouraging the progressive development ofinternational law and its codification,

uRecalling its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of I May Lg74,
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Estabtishment of
a New International Economic Order, 328L (XXIX) of L2 December Lg74,
containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, and
3362 (S-vIr) of 15 September 1975 on development and international economic
co-operation,

"Recalling its resolutions 34/L5O of L7 December Lg7g, and 35,/156 of
29 January 1981, entitled rConsolidation and progressive development of theprinciples and norms of international economic law relating in particular tothe legar aspects of the new international economic order'l

"Noting the report of the Secretary-Cieneral contained in document
A/36/I43 and the Study prepared by UNITAR entitled rList of existing and
evolving principles and norms of international law relating to the new
international economic order concerning the econornic relations among States,international organizations and other entities of public international law,
and the activities of transnational corporationsr, and its Compendiun and the
views subnitted by some states in response to resolution 35/LG6,

"Taking note in particular of the recommendation that UNITAR completes
the Study by prepararing the 'analytical study on the progressive developrnentof the principles and norns of international law relating to the new
international economic orderr, in accordance with operative paragraph I. (b)
of resolution 351156,

"Recognizing the urgent need for a systenatic and progressive development
of the principles and nonns of international law relating to the new
international economic order,

'1. Welcomes UNITARTs Studyl

"2. Requests UNfTAR to prepare the study referred to in the fifth
preambular paragraph above and to cornplete it in time for the
Secretary-General to subnit it to the General Assenbly at its thirty-seventh
sessioni

13. Urges Member States to subnit relevant information with respect to
the Study not later than 3l July 1982;

"4. Requests the United Nations Comrnission on International Trade Law,
the united Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the United Nations
Industrial Development Organization, the regional commissions, the United
Nations Centre on Transnational Corporations and other relevant
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations active in this field, as

/...



A/36/77s
. English

Page 3

deterrnined by the United Nations Institute for Training and Research, to
submit relevant information and to co-operate fully with the Institute in the
implementation of the present resolutiont

'5. neques'lg. the Secretary-General to waive control and limitation of
documentatT6ffis on UNITARTs studyl

'6. nequests. the Secretary-General to subnit to the General Assembly at
its thirty:Eeventtr session a report on the st,udy made by the United Nations
Institute for Training and Research for its consideration on a priority basis,
under an item entitled rProgressive development of the principles and norms of
international law relating to the new international economic order I to be
included in the provisional agenda of that session."

6. At the 64th rneeting, on the same datel the representative of the Philippines
orally revised draft resolution A/C"6/36/L.L1 as follows:

(a) In the third preambular paragraph, the words "29 January 198I" were
replaced by "15 December 1980".

(b) In the sixth preambular paragraph, the word "urgent" was deleted.

(c) fn operative paragraph l,
of the . .. tt.

the word "Welcomes" was replaced by t'Takes note

(d) Operative paragraph 5 was revised as follows:

"Resuests the Secretary-General to waive control and limitation of
documentation rulesr and exercise reasonable restraint with respect to
the volume of documentation on the UNITAR Studyl".

7. At the 65th meeting, on 2 Decemberr in the light of a statement made by the
Chief Editor, Department of Conference Services of the United Nations Secretariat,
concerning control and limitation of documentation, the representative of the
Philippines further orally revised draft resolution A/C.6/36/L.17 by deleting
operative paragraph 5.

8. The Corunittee had before it a statement of the adninistrative and financial
implications of the draft resolution (A/C.6/36/L.231.

g. At the 65th meeting, the Cornmittee adopted draft resolution A/C.6/36/L.17, as
orally revised, by a recorded vote of 77 Eo 1, with 32 abstentions (see para. 13).
The voting \das as follows:

fn favour: Algeria, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia' BtaziL'
Burma' Burundi, Central African Republic, C?tad, ChinaT Congo,
Democratic Yemen, Ecuador' E9YPI, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, Ghana, Greecer Guinear Guyuna, fndia, Indonesia, fran,
Irag, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanonr Liberiat
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Ivlaldives, Mali, Ivlauritania'



A/36/77s
English
Page 4

Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, paraguay, peru, philippines,
Rqmania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra l,eone, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Ihailand, Togo, Trinidad and 1robago,
Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Elnirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Llpper Volta, Venezuela,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Cuba.

Abstentions: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republicr Canada, Chile,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, German Democratic Republic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Hungary, fceland, IrelandT ltaly,
fvory Coast, Japan, Luxembourg, Ivlongolia, New Zealand, Norway,
Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, union of soviet socialist Repubrics, united Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern freland, United States of America,
Uruguay.

10. Statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the United
States of America and by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (also on behalf of
Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socalist Republic, Czechoslovakia, the German
Democratic Republic, Hungary, Poland and the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic).

11. Statements in explanation of vote after the vote were made by the
representatives of Argentina, BeIgium, Spain, Chile, Federal Republic of Germany,
!'rance' rtaly' the united Kingdom of Great Britain and Norther.n rreland and
Uruguay.

L2- The representative of Uganda stated that, had he been present during the
voting, he would have voted in favour of the draft resolution. The representative
of Cuba stated that her delegation had intended to vote in favour of the draft
resolution and that a negative vote had mistakenly been recorded.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SIX?H COMMITTEE

13. The Sixth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adopt.ion of the
following draft resolution:

Progressive development of the principles and norms of international
law relating to the new international economic order

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind that, in accordance wiLh the Charter of the United Nations,
the General Assembly is called upon to initiaLe studies and make recommendations
for the purpose of encouraging the progressive development of international law and
its codification,

/...



^/36/775English
Page 5

Recalling its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of I May L974'
containing the Declaration and the Programne of Action on the Establishment of a
New International Economic Order, 328L (XxIx) of L2 December L974' containing the
Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 September 1975 on development and international economic co-operation,

Recalling its resolutions 34/L50 of 17 December L979 and 3511166 of
15 Decenber 1980r entitled "Consolidation and progressive development of the
principles and norms of international economic law relating in particular to the
legal aspects of the new internationaL economic order",

Noting the report of the Secretary-Genera1 and the Study prepared by the
United Nations Institute for Training and Research entitled "List of existing and
evolving principles and norms of international la.,r relating to the new
international econonic order concerning the economic relations among States,
international organizations and other entities of public international law, and the
activities of transnational corporations", I,/ and its conpendiun and the views
submitted by some States in response to resolution 35/L66, !1

Takinq note, in particular, of the recommendation that the United Nations
Institute for Training and Research should cornplete the study by preparing the
'ranalytical study on the progressive development of the principles and norms of
international law relat,ing to the new international economic order", in accordance
with paragraph 1 (b) of resolution 351166,

Recognizing the need for a systematic and progressive development of the
principles and norms of international law relating to the new international
economic order,

1. Takes note of the study prepared by the United Nations Institute for
Training and Researcht

2. Requests the United Nations fnstitute for Training and Research to
prepare the study referred to in the fifth preambular paragraph above and to
complete it in time for the Secretary-General to submit it to the General Assembly
at its thirty-seventh sessionl

3. Urges Ivlernber States to submit relevant information with respect to the
study not later than 31 July 19821

4. Requests the United Nations Commission on International Trade Iaw, the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the United Nations Industrial
Developnent Organization, the regional commissions, the United Nations Centre on
Transnational Corporations and other relevant intergovernmental and

A/36/L43.

I/36 /L43 /Add .1 and 2.

v
u



A/36/775
Engl ish
Page 6

non-governmental organizations active in this field, as determined by the United
Nations Institute for Training and Researchr to submit relevant infornation and to
co-operate fully with the Institute in the implementation of the present resolutionl

5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the @neral Assernbly at its
thirty-seventh session a report on the study made by the United Nations fnstitute
for Training and Research for its consideration, on a priority basis, under the
item entitled 'rProgressive development of the principLes and norms of international
law relating to the new international economic ordern to be included in the
provisional agenda of that session.


