








































UNITED
l{ATtoNs

Distr.
GENER,At

^/36/6496 Novenber 1981
ETGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda iten 116

REPORT OF TIIE SPECIAL COMMIT?EE ON ENHA}rcIIG THE EFFECTIVENESS OF
TIIE PRINCIPI,B OF NON-USE OF EORCE IN INTtsRNATIONAI, RELATIONS

Report of the Sixth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Antonio Vifial (Spain)

1. The item entitled "ReSnrt of the Special- Corunittee on Enhancing the
Effectiveness of the Principle of lon-Uie of Force in rnternational Relations,, was
included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-sixth session of the General
Assenbly pursuant to paragraph 7 of Assenbly resolution 35,/50 of 4 December 19g0.
2. on the recommendation of the General Comnittee, the General Assembly decided
at its 4th plenary meeting, on 18 Septernber 1981, to include the itern in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Sixth Comnittee.

3. In connexion with this item, the Sixth Comrnittee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Special Corunittee on Enhancing the Effectiveness of the
Principle of tibn-Use of Force in International Relationsl V

(b) ReSnrt of the Secretary-General containing observations received from the
Governments of Algeria, Brazil, Czechoslovakia, Me:iico, Romania, Saint
Vincent and the Grenddines and Suriname lA/36/4LSl.

4. The Conuirittee also had before it the following communications:
(a) Letter dated 2 l"larch 198I from the Permanent Representative of India to

the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General {A/36/LL6 and
Corr.l) I

- _y 
Ol=fici?I .Re,9gl9i of the Generat Assembly, rhirty-sixth session,

Supplement li&c. 4I (A/36/4Ll .
81-2910s 3s8rf (E) /...



A/36/649
English
Page 2

Note verbale dated 15 July 1981 frorn the Permanent Representative of
Mongolia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/36/3881 t

(c) Letter dated 19 August 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Iraq to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/36/4461 i

(d) Letter dated 18 September 1981 fron the Charg6 drAffaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Iran to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/ 36/526) i

Letter dated 25 September 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Irag
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary{eneral @/36/5561t

Letter dated 5 october 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/36/5841 i

(S) Letter dated 9 October 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Mongolia
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/36/595r.

5. The Comnittee considered Lhe iten at its 2nd neeting, on 22 September 198I, at
its 7th to l6th meetings, from 29 Septernber to 8 October and it,s 27th meeting, on
2I October 1981. The summary records of those meetings (A,/C.6/36/SR.Z,
7-16 and 27) contain the views of representatives who spoke during the
consideration of the item.

6. The Comnittee had before it a draft resolution (A/C.5/36/L.3 and Corr.l)
sponsored by Afghanistan, A[1p!g., Benin, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, $$, g!9, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen-, Ecuador,
Ethiopiar the German Denpcratic Republic, Grenada, Hungaryr India, Iraq, the Lao
Peoplers Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambigue, Iigglgg,,
Eolqnd, Roryania' Uganda, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republicr the Union of
Soviet Socialist RePublicsr Venezuelar 8rd vieC uim, fater joinea Uy ttre glpyan
Arab Jamahiriva. The draft resolution read as followsl

' "The General Assembly,

"!g11!lflg its resolution 3L/9 of I tikevember L975, in which it invited
Ivlember States Lo examine further the draft World Treaty on the Non-Use of
Force in International Relations, !/ as weII as other proposals nade during
the consideration of this item,

"Recalling also its resolution 32/L50 of 19 December L977, whereby it
established the Special Comrnittee on Enhancing the Effectiveness of the
Principle'of trlon-Use of Force in International Relations,

(b)

(e)

(f)

u
annex.

rbid. , Thirty-fourth Session, Supplement lilc. 4I (A/34/4L and Corr.I),



A/36/649
English
Page 3

:

nRecallingT in particular, its resolutions 33/96 of 15 December Lg7g,
34/L3 of 9 November 19?9 and 35rl50 of 4 December 19g0, in which it decidedthat the Special Conrnittee should continue its work,

"Secal'ling further the imtrnrtant contribution made by the non-aligned
countries to the rmrk of the Special Conunittee, which resulted in the
presentation of their working paper ! on the subject during the session ofthe Special Committee in 1981,

rrHaving censidered the report of the special connittee, 4,/

_ 
oTaking into account that the Special Committee has not completed the

mandate entrusted to it,
rrReaffirming the need for universal and effective application of theprinciffif-Ei?-non-use of force in internationar retations and for

assistance by the United Nations in this endeavour,
rExpressing the hope that the Special Conmittee will, on the basis of the

proposals before it, conplete the mandate entrusted to it as soon as possible,
rI. Takes note

Effectiveness of the
of the report of the Special Committee on Enhancing the
Principle of lbn-Use of trbrce in International Relationsl

and to take
ensuring a

"2- Decicies that the Special Comnittee shall continue its r*ork with the
goal of draftingr at the earliest Snssible dater a world treaty on the non-useof force in international relations as well as the peaceful seitlement of
disputes or such other recommendations as the Cornnittee deenis appropriate;

o4. Inviteg the Governnents which have not yet done so to communicate
their 

"ot*6[tr suggestions or to bring then up to date, in accordance withGeneral Assembly resolution 3L/9t

_ '3. Resuests the speciar cornrnittee to consider thoroughry,duly into accountr the protrnsars submitted to it with a view to
successful completion of its nandatet

'5. Requests the Special Cornrnittee to be mindful
reaching general agreement whenever it has significance
uprk t

n6. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the
the necessary facilities and servicest

of the importance of
for the outcome of its

Special Comnittee with

n7. InYites the Special Comrnittee to submit a report on its r";qrk to the
General AssembLy at its thirty-seventh sessiont

v Ibid., Ttrirty-sixth Session, Supplenent lb. 41,
rbid.!/

sect. III.



7.

A/36/649
English
Page 4

'8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session the itern entitled "Report of the Special Comnittee on Enhancing the
Effectiveness of the Principle of tilon-Use of Fbrce in International Relationsn.

At the 27th rneeting, on 21 October, the representative of Mongolia introduced
a revised version of the draft resolution (VC.6/36/L.3,/Rev.1) (see para. 12)
on behalf of the following sponsors: Afqhanistan, @!g., Beninr Bulgariar
Byelorussian Soviet SociaList Repub1ic, !gs, $!gE, Czechgslgvaki?r
Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, .$gIP!, Ethiopia, German Denocratic RePubIict
Grenada, Eg!g-g., fndia, Iraq, Iao Peoplers Derpcratic Republic, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriva, Madaqascar, lbngolia, U9@, Mozambique, Nicaragua' 39$|,
Romania, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republicr Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Venezuela, and Viet Nam.

8. The Comnittee had before lt a statement by the Secretary-General
(A/C.5/36/L.41 of the administrative and financial irnplications of the draft
resolutionl ds well as observations by the Corunittee on Conferences submitted in
accordance with paragraph 6 of General Assembly resolution 35,/10 A
(^/ c. 6 /35 /L. 4 / AAd.Ll .

9. At the 27th meeting, on 2I October, draft resolution PdC.6/36/L.3,/Rev.1 was
put to the Comnittee for a decision. At.the reguesl of the rePresentative of the
United States, it was put to a vote. ltre representative of Mongolia requested that
the vote be recorded. lttre Cornmittee adopted the draft resolution by 87 \totes
to 15, with 9 abstentions. The result of the voting lras as followsr

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangaladesh,
Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
SociaList Republic, Central Afiican Repulrlic, Chile' Congo, Cubar
cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Despcratic Yemen, Doninican Republic,
Ecuador' Egypt, Ethiopia' Fiji, Finland' German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Guinear Honduras' Hungary, India, Indonesiar
Iranl lrag, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenyar Kuwaitr Lao
Peoplers Delpcratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Janahiriyar Madagascar, Malaysiar Maldives' Mali' Mauritania,
Mexico, llongolia, ltlorocco, l,lozambique, llepal' Nicaraguar Nigerr
Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, PhilipPines, Polancit
Qatarr Ronaniar Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sonalia' Sri lanka' Sudan,
Surinamer Syrian Arab RePubJ.ie, Thailanci, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of.Soviet
Socialist Republics' United Arab Ernirates' United Republic of
Cameroon, United RepubLic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
Venezuelar Viet Namr Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia' Zimbabwe.

Belgium, Canada, Dennark, France, Ice1and, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Luxenbourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugalr. Spain' United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern lreland' United States of America.

Against:

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, China, Germany' Federal RepubLic of, Greece,
Ireland, Malawi, New zealand, Turkey.



v36/64e
English
Page 5

10. Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of lrtorway,
the united trirqdom of Great Britain and Northern rreland (on behalf of the members
of the Drropean Qornmunities), Spain, ChiLe, the ttnited States of Anerica,
Argentinar Brazil, fsrael, China, Tunisia, Australia and ,fapan.

11. The representatives of the Bahamas, Panama, Uganda, Benin, Nigeria, Saint
Lucia, Costa Rica, Guyana, Togo and Eguatorial Guinea stated that, had they been
present during the votingr they would have voted in favour of the drafE
resolution. The representatives of Sweden and naiti indicated that they would have
abstained.

RECOMTTIENDATTON OF THF STXTH COMMTTTEE

L2. The Slxth 6mnittee recommends to the Ccneral Assernbly the adoption of the
followirq draft resolution:

Repoft of,thg S-pecial Coumittee on Bnhancing the Effectiveness of
the Prineiple of Non-Use of, fbrce in fnternational Relations

The General Assembly,

Recallirg its resol-ution 3L/9 of I November L976, in which it invited Member
States to examine further the draft World Treaty on the tipn-Use of Frrce in
rnternational Relations, ! us weLl as other proposals made durirq the
consideration of the item' entitled trReport of the Special Oommittee on axhancing
the nffectiveness of the erinciple of Non-use of Fbrce in hternational Relationsrr,

Recalling also its resolution 32/LSA of 19 tncember L977, whereby it
established the Special Committee on Enhancing the Effectiveness of the principle
of lFn-Use of brce in International Relations,

Recallirg, in particuLar, its resolutions 33/96 of 16 Decenber 1978, 34A3 of
9 lbvenber 1979 and 35rl50 of 4 December 1980, in which it decided that the Special
Connnittee should continue its work,

necallirg further the irnportant contribution made by the non-aligned countries
to tbe work of the Special oommittee, which resulted in the presentation of their
workirg Paper on the subject during the session of the Special Committee in I9BI, 6/

Itraving considered the report of the Special Oommittee, /

2/
annex.

rbid., Thirty-fourth session, supprement No. 4l (V34/4L and corr.l),

Ibid., Thirty-sixth Sessiol, Fupplernent Uo. 41, sect. III.

., Supplernent tib. -41 (V36/4Ll .

v
u



v36/64e
Englleh
Page 6

Taklng lnto.cqount th€ fact that the Speclal Connittee has not completed the
mandate entrusted to lt,

Reafflrmlrg thc need for unlversal and effectlve application of the principle
of non-use of force ln international relatlons and for asslstance by the Unlted
Natlons in thls endetvour,

prpressing the hope th.t the gpeclal Comittee rill, on the basis of the
proposals before lt, cooplete the nandate entrusted to it a6 soon as possible,

I. Iekes note
Ef fectlvenEFFiffiE

of, tbe rdport of the Special Committee on Blhancirg the
Prlnclple of lFn-ttse of Frce ln International Relations;

2. Decldes that the Special Comlttee shall contlnue its work with the goal
of draftltrgr at thd earLicat posslble date, a rorld treaty on the Don-us€ of force
in lnternatlonal relatlong as rell as the peaceful settlenent of disputes or such
other reconmendatlons as the omtttee deems appropriate'

3. RequeSts th€ Spaclal Connlttee to conslder thoroughlyr and to take duly
into accountl th6 pratposals submltted to lt vith a vier to eneurlng a successful
conrpletlon of lte rand.tet

4. Request3 the'Speclal Cormittee to take due account of the ef forts made by
the non-allgned countsles durlng the Grnmitteerg session tn 1981 to facilitate the
organlzation of th€,t-otk of the Comnltteel

5. Invltea the Governnents that have not yet done so to conmunlcate their
conments or suggettlons or to brlng thenr up to date, in accordance with General
Assenbly reeolut,lon .;tL/9 1

5. Requedtd th.c Speclal @nnlttee to be rnindful of the funportance of
reachlng general a9i''6i'nent vhenever lt has algniflcance for the outcone of its workl

,,:,,1: ,i

7, nequests 9|€:Secretary-General to provlde the Special Conrmittee with the
necessary facilttlii'' Xnd gervicest

8. tnvltes thc, Sp€ctal Comlttee to submit a report on its work to the
@neral Aseembly at its thlrty-eeventh sessionl

9. Dealdes to lnclude ln the provlslonal agenda of lts thlrty-seventh
sesslon the lten enti,'tled 'Report of the Special Oommittee on Enhancing the
Ef,fectlveness of, the Prlnciple of lton-Use of lorce in fnternational Relationsrr.

"::.1t .. l

i':;,',"
1 .,.,;


