








































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

^/36/7809 ttecernber I98l-
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 120

REVIEW OF THE MULTILATERAL TREATY-MAKING PROCESS

Report of the Sixth Conmittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Antonio VIftAL (Spain)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Review of the nultilateral treaty-making process! report
of the Secretary-General" was included in the provisional agenda of the
thirty-sixth session of the General Assembly pursuant to paragraph 7 of Assembly
resolution 35/L62 of 15 December 1980.

2. On the recommendation of the General Committee, the General Assembly decided
at iLs 4th plenary meetingr oD 18 Septernber 1981, to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Sixth Committee.

3. In connexion with the item, the Sixth Committee had before it a report of the
Secretary-General (A/36/553 and Add.l and 2) submitted pursuant to paragraph 6 of
resolution 35/L62.

4. The Sixth Committee considered the item at its 54th to 57th' 63rd and
64th meetings, from 19 to 23 November and on 1 December 198I. The summary records
of those meetings (A/C.6/36/SR.54-57, 63 and 64) contain the views of
representatives who spoke during Lhe consideration of the item.

II. CoNSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C. 6/36/L.I3lRev.1

5. At the 64th meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Australia introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.6/36/L.I3lRev.1) on behalf of Argentina, Australia,
Bahrain, Banqladesh, 9g|g, Egypt, Indonesia, Kenya, Mexico, the Netherlands,
Niqteria, tfre efrilpgines., Senegal , Sri Lankar and Uruguay, subseguently joined by4'
Fiji, MaIi and the sudan. Bahrain later announced that it withdrew as a co-sponsor-

81-35663 0366a (E)



A/36/780
English
Page 2

6. In accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly,
the Secretary-General submitted a statement (A/C.6/35/L.22') on the administrative
and financial impJ-ications of the draft resolution. On behalf of the sponsors, the
representative of Australia stated that, on the basis of further consultations of
the parties concerned, the total financial implications should be $26,100, it being
understood that the Secretariat would prepare and publish the Handbook of Final
C]auses, as requested of in paragraph 6 of the draft resofution, over a period of
three years.

7. At its 64th meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.6/36/L.13lRev.1 by 94 votes to none, with 17 abstentions (see para. 9).

8. The representatives of the USSR, the German Democratic Republic and Brazil
explained their vote before the vote. The representatives of Algeria and Zaire
explained their vote after the vote.

III. RECOMMENDATTON OF THE SIXTH COMMITTEE

9. The Sixth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Review of the multilateral treaty-making process

The General- Assembly,

Bearing in mind that multitateral treaties are an important primary source of
international law,

Conscious, therefore, that the process of elaboration of multilateral
treaties, directed towards the progressive development of international law and its
codification, forms an important part of the work of the United Nations and of the
international community in general,

Recal]ing its resolution 35/L62 of 15 December 1980, in which it invited
Governments and international organizations to submit their observations on the
report of the Secretary-General submitted to the General Assembly at its
thirty-fifth session, U as well as their conments on any other aspect of the
subj ect,

Al'tare of the heavy burden which active involvement in the process of
multilateral treaty-making places upon Governments,

Convinced that the most rational use should be made of the finite resources
available for the elaboration of multilateral treaties,

U A/35/3L2 and Corr.I and Add.l and 2 and Add.2/Corr.I.



A/36/780
English
Page 3

Taking into account statements made at the current session in the debate in
the Sixth Ccimmittee, 2/

1. Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General subrnitted to the
General Assembly at its thirty-fitEh L/ and thirty-sixth 3,/ sessions; including thereplies and observations made by Governments and international organizations on the
review of the multilateral treaty-making processi

2. Decides, in the light of statements made on this item at the thirty-sixth
session of-Tilceneral Assembly, to establish at the thirty-seventh session a
working group of the Sixth Corunittee:

(a) To consider the questions raised in annex I of the report of the
Secretary-General to the General Assembly U and any other relevant material
submitted by Governments and internationalorganizations;

(b) To assess the methods of multilateral treaty-making used in the United
Nations and in conferences convened under its auspices to deLermine whether the
current methods of multilateral treaty-making are as efficient, economical and
effective as they could be to meet the needs of the Members of the United Nations;

(c) To make recommendations on the basis of the above-mentioned assessmenti

3. Invites Governments and international organizaLions to submit by
30 June 1982 their observations on the reports submitted by the Secretary-General,
taking into account the specific questions contained in annex I of the report
submiLted to the thirty-sixth session as well as their compents on any other aspect
of the subject, as they consider desirable;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its
thirty-seventh session a report containing the observations and comments received
pursuant to paragraph 3 above;

5. Further requests the Secretary-General to prepare documentation
containing the material and information listed in annex II of the I98l report of
the Secretary-General in the form of a provisional version of a volurne in the
Legislative Series, as well as a topical analysis of the observations and replies
received, in time for use by the working group referred to in paragraph 2 abovei

A/C.6/36/SR.54 to 57, 63 and 64.

A/36/553 and Add.I and 2.

A/36/533.

2/

1/
4/



^/36/780English
Page 4

6. Also rggle the secretary-Genera1 to prepare and publish as soon as
possible nffiitiotrs of trre Handbook of Final criuses 5/ and the Summary of the
Practice of the Secretary-General as Depositary of Multilateral Agreements, 6/
taking into account relevant new developments and practices in that respect;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session the item entitled "Review of the multilateral treaty-naking process".

2/ S'.r/LEG/6.

9/ sr/LEG/7.


