








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
LIMITED

A/36/77 2
7 December

ORIGINAL:

19 8l

ENGLTSH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 102

FINANCIAL EMERGENCY OF THE UIiITED }IATIONS

Report of the Fj.fth Conmittee

Sapporteqrs Mr. Mario MARTORELL (peru)

I. TNTRODIJCTION

1' At its 4th plenary meeting, on 18 september lggl, the General Assembly decide<ito include in its agenda the iter,r entitled:

"Financial emergency of the United Nations;

" (a) Report of the negotiating @mmittee on the Financial Bnergency ofthe United Nationsi

" (b) Report of the Secretary_General,',

and to allocate it to the Fifth Oommittee.

2. The Fifth committee had before it the forrowing docunents:
(a) Report of the secretary-Generar (A/c.5/36/28 and corr"1
(b) Report of the Advisory committee on Administrative and

Questions (A/3G/70I).

and 2) i

Budgetary

3' The Committee considered this item at its 56th, 57th, Sgttr, 63rd and 64thmeetings' herd on 27 lbvember and 1, 2, 4 and 7 December 19g1. comments andobservations made in the course of the committeers consideration of the item arerefrected in the rerevant sunmary records (A/c.5/36/sR.56 , 5'r, ut, u, and 64).

8L-35226 01379 (E)



A/36/772
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolution A/C.5/35lL.l4lRev. I

4. At the 55th neeting, on 27 lilovenber, the representative of Pakistan introduced
draft resolution A/C.5/36/L.L4/Rev.1 on behalf of Bangladesh, Colombia, the
Co{bros, Irlauritania, Pakistan, Bgg, peru, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Tunisia andZaire, subsequently joined by €g4alia.

5. At its 57th rneeting, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.5/36/L.14lRev.1 by a recorded vote of 94 to 12, with 2 abstentions (see
para. 8, draft resolution A). The voting was as fo1lows.. !/

In favour: Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barba&s, Belgium, Bhutan, BraziI, Burma, Burundi,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, China, @lombia,
Cofipros, Congo, @sta Rica, Democratic Kampuchea, Denmark,
Djibouti, bminican Republic, Ecuador, E9ypt, El Salvador,
Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, India, fndonesiar Ireland, Israel,
Italy, fvory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Mali,
Mauritania, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria,
llcrway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Irortugal,
Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierre Leone, Somaliar Sri
lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sureden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and lbbago, Tunisia, Turkeyr ttsandar United Arab
Bnirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and I'trrthern lreland,
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United
States of Arnerica, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German D,emocratic nepublic, Hungary,
tbngolia, Poland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, Viet Nam.

Abstaining: Ethiopia, Spain.

B. Draft resolution A/C.5/35lL.17

6. At the 58th rneeting, on I December, the representative of Panama introduced
draft resolution A/C.5/36/L.17 on behalf of Ecuador, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Mauritania, Pahistan, lrc and Peru.

V At the 53rd meeting, on 4 Decenber, the representatives of Guinea and
Rnanda indicated that, had they been present, they would have voted in favour of
the draft resolution.



7. At its 63rd
A/c.s/36/t.17 by
draft resolution

fn favour:

Against:

Abstaining:

A/36/772
English
Page 3

meeting, on 4 December, the corunittee adopted draft resolution
a recorded vote of 69 to 19, with 6 abstentions (see para. g,B). The voting vras as follows:
Algeria, Argentinar Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Burna, Burundi, Canada, Centralofrican Republic, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Denmark, Ecuador,
ESypt' Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon. Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, India, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Lesotho,
Liberia, Malaysia, Mali, llauritania, Mexico, ltk)rocco, lrbpal, libw
Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, llcrhray, enan, pakistan, panama, peru,
Qatarr Rwanda, Sierra I€one, Singapore, Spain, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Trobago, Tunisia, Llganda,
united Arab Bnirates, uniteo Repubric of Tanzania, tlSrper vorta,
Uruguay, Venezuela, yemen, yugoslavia, ,Zaire, Zambia.
Afghanistan, Belgiun, Bulgaria, Byelorussian soviet socialist
Republic, czechoslovakia, France, German Derpcratic Repubric,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Hungary, Italy, Japan,
Ivlongolia, poland, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist n public,
union of soviet socialist Republicsr united Kingdom of Great
Britain and lrlcrthern Ireland, United States of America.
Austral-ia, Congo2 Ivory @astr lihtherlands, portugal, Flrmania.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS
8. The Fifth Oommittee recommends to the
following draft resolutions:

OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE

General Assenbly the adoption of the

A

The General Assembly,

- . 
ngcalling the consensus of the speciar committee on peace-keeping operationsadopted by the General Assembly on I September Lg65t 2/

FgaffirFing the collective res;nnsibility of lvlenber states for the financialsecurity of the United t€tions ,
l' Takes * tnat the rate of assessment of china between 25 october 1g71and 31 oecffiFlffi was estabrished at 4 per cent and for the period 1974 to l9Z9

Records of the General Assembly, Nineteenth Se
11, decision adop[e-
September 1965.

by the General assenbly at its



A/36/772
English
Page 4

at 5.5 per cent, whereas after national income and related data became available,
the rate was established at L.62 per cent for 1980-82i

2. Requests the Secretary-General to compute and transfer to a special
account the balances of the assessed contribution due from China between
25 October 1971 and 31 December 1981 in respect of peace-keeping operationsi

3. Welcomes the understanding that as from I January 1982 China will
contrinute its snare of assessed expenses for the United Nations Disengagement
Observer Fbrce and the tlnited l€tions Interim Fbrce in Lebanoni

4. Decides in the light of the special circumstances, that the question of
the applicaUifity of Article 19 of the Charter of the United l,lations in respect of
the unpaid assessrnent referred to in paragraph 2 above shall not be raised.

B

The General Assembly,

Having considered the relDrt of the Secretary-@neral on the analysis of the
financial situation of the United lilations, !/ as well as the related report of the
Advisory Cornmittee on Adninistrative and Budgetary Questions, 4/

Recalling its resolutions 3049 (XXVII) of 19 December Lg72. 3538 (XXx) of
17 December 1975, 32/LO4 of 14 December 1977 and 35/LL3 of 10 December 1980,

lbting with concern the continuing increase in the short-term deficit of the
Organizat ion,

Bearing in mind that a partial or interim solution of parts of the problem
could enhance the liquidity of the Organization and might facilitate the
achievement of further progress towards a comprehensive'settlement, which is
desired by all Member States,

Concerned that delays in the payment of assessed contributions by Member
States exacerbates the financial difficulties of the Organization'

Reaffirming the resolve of Member States to achieve a comprehensive and
lasting solution to the financial Problems of the Organization,

Convinced that in the circumstances an appropriate increase in the level of
tneffipita1Fundisrequiredtoassuretheorganization|sabi1itytomeet
on a current basis the expenditure needs of the regular budgett

?/ A/c.5/36/28 and corr.l and 2.

L/ A/36/70L.



A/36/772
English
Page 5

1. Decides to accept tbe recommendations of the Advisory committee 
on

Adninistrative ana Budgetary Questions that"

(a) The l{orking CaPital FUnd
arnount of $I00 milliont

for the biennium 1982-1983 be established in the

(b) The provisions of regulations 5'2 (d), 4'3 and 4'4 ot the Financial
Regulations of the United tttations be suspended in respect of the surpluses 

arising

at the end of the 1930-198I and 1982-L983 bienniunsl

2.RqqueststheSecretary-Generaltogiveeffecttothedecisionin
paragraph t anovfin the irnplementation of the relevant draft resolutions to be
subrnitted under the agenda item on the progralnme budgeti

3. Urges all Member States to review their patterir of gafmelt ":^ -^..:-^
contributions to the regular budget of the United l'lations with a view 

to paylng
future contributions in good time in accordance with regulation 5'4 of the
Financial Regulations of the United l'lations?

4. Bequests the Negotiating @nunittee on the Financial Bnergency of the
United libtions to keep the financial situation oi ii't OrSanllafion under 

review and

to report, as appropriate, to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session?

5. F,urther requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General 
Assembly

at its thirty-seventh session:

(a)Aprogressretrnrtonthestatusoftheprojecton.theissuanceofthe
special postage stamPt 5/

(b) Detailed information relating to the
contrnsition of the deficit of the Orqanization
received from Member States and other sourcesi

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session the iten entitled ,,Financiar emergency of the united Nations: report 

of

the N,egotiating Comnittee on the Financial Bnergency of the United Nations"'

extent, rate of increase and
and to voluntarY contributions

!/ See General Assembly resolution 35/lt3'


