
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

A/36/7 49
4 December 1981

ORIGINAL: ENGLISE

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 48

PROHIBITION OF THE DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURE OF NEI,I TYPES OF WEAPONS
OF IiIASS DESTRUCTION AND NET{ SYSTEMS OF SUCH WEAPONS

Report of the First Cornnittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Alemayehu I4AKONNEN (Ethiopia)

I. INTRODUCTTON

l. Thre item entitled "Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types
of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons: report of the
Committee on Disarmament" was included in the provisional agenda of the
thirty-sixth session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 35/L49 of
12 December 1980.

2. At its 4th plenary meetingr or 18 September 1981, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Oomrnittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting' on 7 October, the First Conmittee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the iterns allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 39 to 56' 128 and I35. The general debate on these items took place
at the 3rd to 26th meetings, from 19 october to 4 l{ovember (see A,/c.L/3G/pv.3-26).

4. In connexion with item 48, the First @mmittee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Committee on Disarmanentl lrl

^ .L/ . 
officl3l Rlcords of the General Assembly, thirty-sixth Session,

Supplement lrb. 27 (A/36/2j

81-3475s (E) 36s8f



A/36 /7 49
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 18 September 1981 from the Permanent Representative of
Romania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-GeneraI (A/36/528 and
Corr.l);

(c) Letter dated 30 Septernber 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting the
conununiqu6 of the Meeting of the Ministers of Fbreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegations of the l,lon-Aligned Countries, held in New York on 25 and 28 September
1981, to the thirty-sixth session of the General Assembly (A/36/566-3/L47L3)i

(d) Letter dated 5 October I98I from the Permanent Representative of Cuba to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the resolutions
adopted by the 68th Inter-Parliamentary @nference, held in Havana from
15 to 23 Septernber l-98l (A/36/584) .

rr. coNsrDERATroN oF DR.AFT RESOLUTTON A/C.I/36/L-L3

5. On 12 )bvember, Afghanistan, Egnln, Bulgaria, Burundi, the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, the Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denpcratic Yemen' E!b!gpi3'
the German Democratic Republic, S'!39e, Hungary, the Lao Peoplers Democratic
Republic, Iuladagascar, Irbngolia, I'dozambique, Poland, Romania, the Syrian Arab
Republic, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, Viet Nam and Yemen submitted a draft resolution (A/C.I/36/L.13), which
was subsequently also sponsored by Angota, g@n, the Niger, and Sao Ttrme and
Principe. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of the
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist RepubJ-ic at the 35th meeting, on 19 liovember.

6. At its 40th
A/c.L/36/L.13 by
The voting was as

In favour:

meeting, on 23 l{ovember, the Cornrnittee adopted draft resolution
a recorded vote of 95 to none, with 27 abstentions (see para.7).
follows:

Afghanistan, Algeria, AngoIa, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Boliviar Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde'
Central African Republicr Chad, Chile' Congo, Cubar Cyprus'
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Guinea, Guyana, IIaiti, Ilungaryr India, fndonesia, f ran, Iraqt
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuvrait, Lao Peoplers
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
I\{orocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Gnan,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Polandr Qatar, bmania,
Rwandar Sao Tbne and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Tbgo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukraini.an Soviet Socialist Republicr Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Bnirates, Venezuela, Viet Narn,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.



A/36/7 49
English
Page 3

Against: ldone.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, canada, Denmark, France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, Ireland,
lsraelr ftalyr Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, lbrway, Paraguay,
Portugal, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and lrlorthern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon,
United States of America.

ITI. RXCOM},IENDATION OF TI]E FIRST COWITTEE

7. The First Comrnittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

PROHIBITION OT'THE DEVEIOPMENT AND MANUF'ACTURE OF NEW TYPES OF WEAPONS
OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND NEW SYSTEV1S OF SUCH h'EAPONS

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3479 (XXX) of 11 December 1975,3L/74 ot
10 Decernber 1976, 32/84 of L2 December L977, 33/66 B of 14 December 1978, 34/79 of
lI December 1979 and 35/149 of L2 December 1980 concerni.ng the prohibition of new
types of weapons of mass destruction,

Bearing in mind the provisions of paragraph 39 of the Fina1 Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 2/ according to which qualitative
and quantitative disarmament measures are both important for halting the arms race
and efforts to that end must include negotiations on the limitation and cessation
of the qualitative improvement of armaments, especially \^/eapons of mass
destruction, and the development of new means of warfare,

Recalling the decision contained in paragraph 77 of the Final- bcument to the
effect that, in order to help prevent a qualitative arms race and so that
scientific and technological achievements might ultimately be used solely for
peaceful purposes, effective measures should be taken to prevent the emergence of
new types of weapons of mass destruction based on new scientific principles and
achievements, and that efforts aiming at the prohibition of such new types and new
systems of weaSrcns of mass destruction should be appropriately pursued,

D<pressing once again its firm belief, in the light of the decisions adopted
at the tenth special session, in the importance of concluding an agreement or
agreements to prevent the use of scientific and technological progress for the
deveJ-opment of new types of wealrcns of mass destruction and new systems of such
rdeapons,

?/ General Assembly resolution S-L0/2.



A/36/7 4e
English
Page 4

Ibting that, in the course of its session held in 19B1 ' 
the Cornmittee on

Disarmament considered the item entitled "New types of weapons of mass destruction
and new systems of such !/eapons: radiological weapons",

loting with satisfaction that, in the course of its session held in l98I' the
coruniinforma1meetingswiththeparticipationofqualified
governmental experts on this. item'

Convinced that all ways and means should be utilized to prevent the
Ae,r.topr*nt attd manufacture of new types of weaSnns of mass destruction and new
systems of such weaponst

Taking into consideration the part of the report of the Committee on
Disarmament relating to this question, 3/

l. Reguests the Committee on Disarmament, in the light of its existing
priorities, to intensify negotiations, with the assistance of qualified
governnental experts, with a view to preparing a draft comprehensive agreement on
the prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of weapons of mass
destruction and new systems of such weapons, and to draft possible agreements on
particular types of such weaPons?

2. Once again urges aII States to refrain from any action which could
adversely affect the talks aimed at working out an agreement or agreements to
prevent the emergence of new types of weapons of mass destruction and new systems
of such v/eapons?

3. Calls upon the States permanent members of the Security Council, as well
as upon otFmiffifrily significant States, to make declarations, identical in
substance, concerning the refusal to create new types of weapons of mass
destruction and new systems of such weatrnns, as a first step towards the conclusion
of a comprehensive agreement on this subject, bearing in mind that such
declarations would be approved thereafter by a decision of the Security &unci1;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Comrnittee on
Disarmament aII d5cuments relating to the consideration of this itern by the General
Assembly at its thirty-sixth sessionl

5. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to submit a report on the results
achieved to the General assembly for consideration at its thirty-seventh sessioni

6. trecides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session thilCemlntitled "Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new
types of wealnns of rnass destruction and new systems of such weaponss report of
the @runittee on Disarmamenttt.

1/ official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-sixth Sessionr
Supplement Dlc. 27 (A/36/271, Sect. III.E.




