
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/36/7s6
7' Decernber 1981

ORIGTNAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 55

GENERAL AND COMPTETE DISARMAMENT

Report of the First Comrnittee
Rapporteur: Mr. Alemayehu MAKONNEN (Ethiopia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:
rGeneral and conplete disarnamentl

(a) Report of the Connittee on Disarmamenti
(b) Study on the institutional arrangements relating to the process of

disarmament: report of the Secretary-General;
(c) Confidence-building measures: report of the Secretary-General;
(d) lbn-stationing of nuclear vreapons on the territories of States where

there are no such weapons at present: report of the Comnittee on Disarmamenti
(e) Study on all the aspects of regional disarmament: report of the

Secretary-General;

(f) study on the relationship between disarmament and internationalsecurity: report of the Secretary-Generali
(9) Prohibition of the developrnent, production, stockpiling and use ofradiological weapons: report of the commiltee on Disarm.ment;
(h) Review of the membership of the Cornnittee on Disarmament: report of the

Comnittee on Disarmamenti

(i) Disarmament and international security: report of the secretary-General;
(j) Strategic arms limitation talks.

B1-3s217 0024E (E) /...



A/36/7s6
English
Page 2

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-sixth session in accordance
with General Assenbly resolutions 35/L55 A, B, C, D, E, G, f, J and K of
12 December 1980.

2. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 Septenber 1981, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the FirsL Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 7 October, the First Conmittee decided to hold a
conbined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 39 to 56 and 128 and 135. The general debate on these items took
place at the 3rd to 26th meetings, from 19 October to 4 November (see
A/C.L/36/PV.3-26).

4. In connexion with item 55, the Committee had before it the following documents:

(a) Report of the Committee on Disarmament @/36/271 i
(b) Report of the Secretary-General containing the views of Mernber States on

the study on all the aspects of regional disarmament lA/36/343 and Md.I);

(c) Report of the Secretary-Genera1 on the study of the institutional
arrangements relating to the process of disarmament (A/36/3921 i

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on confidence-building measures t
containing the comprehensive study of the Group of Governmental Experts on
Confidence-building Measures (A/36/474 and Corr.l) ;

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the study on the relationship between
disarmament and international security (A/36/5971 i

(f) tetter dated 26 February 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Egypt
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General @/36/LI2l i

(S) Letter dated 2 March 1981 from the Permanent Representative of India to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-GeneraI, transmitting the documents
of the Conference on Ministers for Foreign Affairs of l.tron-Aligned Countries' held
at New Delhi from 9 to 13 February 1981 (A/36/LL6 and Corr.l);

(h) Letter dated 24 June 1981 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/36 /3a7 ) i

(i) Letter dated 2 July 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Romania to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/36/3581 i

(j) Letter dated 3 July 1981 from the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of the German Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/36/359 and Corr.l) i



A/36/756
English
Page 3

(k) li&cte verbale dated 25 June 1981 frorn the Permanent Mission of Bulgaria to
the united Nations addressed to the secretary-Generar (A/36ft6a1 i

(1) tiote verbale dated 20 July 1981 from the Permanent Mission of Bulgaria to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/36/39L and Corr.I);

(m) Letter dated 5 August 1981 from the Permanent Representative of frag to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General containing the final
communigud of the T'welfth Islanic Conference of Foreign uinisters held at Baghdad
from I to 5 June 1981 (A/36/42L and Corr.t);

(n) lt&cte verbale dated 4 August l98I frorn the Permanent Representative of
Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/36/422,).,

(o) li&cte verbale dated 26 August 1981 from the Permanent Representative of
Viet Nam to the united Nations addressed to the Secretary-General ey'36/Ai6) t

(p) Letter dated 18 September 1981 fron the Permanent Representative of
Ronania to the united Nations addressed to the secretary-General
(A/36/528 and Corr.1)i

(e) Letter dated 30 September 1981 fron the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General containing the communiqu6
of the Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Heads of Delegations of ine
Non-Aligned Countries to the thirty-sixth session of the General Assembly of the
United Nations held on 25 and 28 September t98I (A/36/5661 t

(r) Ietter dated 5 October 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba to
the united Nations addressed to the Secretary-General containing the resolutions
adopted by the 68th Inter-Parliamentary Conference held at Havana from
15 to 23 Septenber 19BI @/35/58a1 i

(s) Letter dated 9 October IggI from the Permanent Representative of
Australia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General containing the
final communiqu6 and declaration of the Meeting of Cornmonwealth Heads of Government
held at Melbourne from 30 Septenber to 7 October 1981 (A/36/5971.

rT. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION

A. Draft resolution A/C. I/36/L. 3,/Rev. I
5. On 5 November, Denmark submitted a draft resolution (A/C.L/36/L.3') entitled
"Study on conventional disarmament", which was introduced at the 28th meeting, on
I0 November. The draft resolution read as follows;

rrThe General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 35/156 A of 12 December 1980 in which it
approved, in principle, the carrying out of a study on alr aspects of'the



A/36/7s6
English
Page 4

conventional arms race and on disarmament relating to conventional weapons and
armed forces, to be undertaken by the Secretary-General with the assistance of
a group of qualified experts appointed by him on a balanced geographical basis,

"&eqalling the discussions at the 1981 substantive session of the United
t'lationFTi-sarlnament Commission on the general approach, scope and structure of
the study on all aspects of the conventional arms race and on disarmament
relating to conventional neapons and armed forces,

'I. Rgquests. the Secretary-General to initiate the work of the expert
group in aEcoiaance with the provisions contained in paragraph 1 of its
resolution 35/L56 A, taking as guidance on the general approach, scope and
structure of the study the deliberations at the 1981 substantive session of
the United Nations Disarmament Comrnission, in particular reflected in
paragraph 21 and annex III of the report of that session to the General
Assembly; !

"2. Requests the Secretary-General in accordance with paragraph 4 of its
resolution-:SlfSe a to submit a progress report on the study to the General
Assembly at its second special session devoted to disarmament and a final
report at its thirty-eight session."

6' on 23 November, Denmark submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.L/36/L.3/Rev.rt ilfiffias introduced at the 42nd meeting, on 24 November.
Under the revised text, operative paragraphs I and 2 were deleted and replaced by
nelr operative paragraphs I to 4.
7. On 24 November, Brazil submitted
draft resorution (A/:WL. 3/Rev. I)
43rd neeting. The amendment proposed
the third line of operative paragraph[and" and "the deliberationsi.
8. At the 43rd meeting, on 25 November,
adninistrative and financial implications
(A/C.L/36/L.SllRev.1) . rhe observations
administrative implications of the draft
(A/ C. L/ 36 /L. sLlAdd. r ) .

an amendment (A/C.L/35/L.55') to the revised
, which r.ras accepted by Denmark at the
the insertion of the words "if necesshry'r in
3 of the revised draft resolution, betr,reen

a statement was submitted on the
of the revised draft resolution

of the Committee on Conferences on the
resolution had also been circulated

9. At the same meeting, the First Comrnittee adopted draft resolution
a/c.L/36/L.3,/Rev.1, as amended, by a recorded vote of 98 to none, with 2l
abstentions (see para. 38, draft resolution A). The voting was as follows:

^ -y 
Official Records of the ceneral Assembly, Thirty-sixth session,

supprement No. 42 (A/3G/42).



In favour:

Against:

Abstaininq:

A/39/zsa
English
page 5

Afghanistan, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Burundi,Canada, Cape Verde, CenLraI African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,congo' cyprus, Denocratic Kampuchea, Derr*ark; Djibouti, Ecuador,Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, cermany, r6aerat Repubricof, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinla, Guinea_Bi-""uu,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, fndonesia, Iran, Ireland,Israel, Italy, fvory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lesotho,Liberia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldirr.s, Mali, ialta, Mauritania,
Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,Niger, Nigeria, Norhray, pakistan, panama, papupa New Guinea,Paraguay, peru, philippines, portugal, Roma'iul n"urrda, Senegal,Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uganda,united Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern rrerand, united
Repubric of caneroon, united Repubric of Tanzania, united statesof America, Uruguay, Venezuela, yugolslavia, Zaire, Zanbia.
tilf,ne.

Benin, Burgaria, Byerorussian soviet socialist Repubric, cuba,
czechoslovakia, Dernocratic yemen, German Denocratic Repubric,Hungary, rndia, rraq, Lao peoplers Democratic nepublicl Mongoria,
Mozambigue' Poland, eatar, sao Tome and principe, saudi Arabia,Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of ioviet SocialistRepublicsr United Arab Emirates, Viet Nam.

B. Draf t resolution ArlC.l/36,/L.6
10' on l0 Novemberr.Hungary submitted a draft resorution (A/c.r/36/L.61 entitledI'conclusion of "n intillEnal convention prohibiting the development, production,stockpiling and use of radiological weapons, which was introduced at the 35thmeeting, on 19 November.
11' At the 38th neeting, on 20 November, Argentina proposed, and the sponsorsaccepted, an oral amendment to operatirr. plEfrpt, I of the draft resorution, bywhich the words "if possible" would be insertld arter the words ,,may besubmitted,,. The paragraph would thus read:

--. -. ]t: . 
cal1s upon the conmittee on Disarmament to continue negotiationsnltn a vie!" to an earry conclusion of the elaboration of a treaty prohibitingthe development, production, stockpiling and use of radiological weapons, inorder that it may be submitted if possible to the General Assembry at itssecond speciar session devoted to disarmament, to be held in L9g2i,

L2' At its 38th meeting, on 20 lbvernber, the committee adopted draft resolutionA/e'L/36/L'6' as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution B).



A/36/755
English
Page 6

C. Draft resolution VC.I/35,/L.7
13. or t0 Novemberr 

-AusF-raria, 
Belgiun, France, Germany, F.ederar Repubric of ,

Ia"lI, the Ngtherlapds_, IgLz."I"tal, undlilcfthern rrerand submitted a draft resolution@ich was
subseguently sponsored also by Barbadosr gg5!3, Denmark, Greecel Japan, the Niger,
!?tY""' and uTuguay. the draft-resolution was introaucea by the representative ofItaly at the 30th meeting, on 13 November.
14' At its 39th meeting, on 23 November, the connittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.-L/36/L.7 by a recorded vote of 110 to none, with 14 abstentions (see para. 38,draft resolution C). The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Against:

Abstaininq:

Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burundi, Canada,
Catrn Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chi1e, China, Congo,
Clzprus, Democratic Kanpuchea, Democratic yemen, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Fin1and, France, Gabon,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, fceland, fndia, Indonesia, Iranl frag,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Iesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
l"ladagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, l"lali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Morocco, Nepal, l€therlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norvray, Ornan, pakistan, panama, papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, portugal, eatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegalr Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thai1and, Togo,
Trinidad and Ttobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab
Enirates, united Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern rreland,
united Repubric of cameroon, united states of Anerica, uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

tt&cne.

Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Repub1ic, Hungary, Lao
Peoplers Democratic Republic, Mongo1ia, poland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Viet Nam.

D. Draft resolution A,/C. I,/36,/L. 9
15- on 11 likcvember, A{gentina, Bahamas, Bangladesh, S, r'inrand, France, Mexico,Itloroqco' the Netherlands,,oi*rip, *"r"."ffi.illF sffi ,-th" @g-
I(ingdom.of gIe.et Britain and NorltrslnlelenQ and yugoslavia, submitted a draftresol n.f .rr"ngements relating to theprocess of disarmament", which was subsequently sponsored also by Belgium, Ecuador,



A/36/756
English
Page 7

Gelmany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Ireland, 3g4g4g, the Philippines and
Sri Lanka. The draft resolution vras introduced by the representative of Argentina
at the 29th meeting, on 12 li&cvember.

15. At its 38th meeting, on 20 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/36/L.9 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution D).

E. Draft resolution A,/C.1/36,/L.20

L7. On t3 November, Afghanistan, Angola, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, the Gernan
Denocratic Republic, Hungary, the Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Madagascar,
Mo+goliar Mozambique, Poland, Romania, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Viet Nam suOmittea a araft resoluLion
(A/C.L/36/L.20) entitled "Non-stationing of nuclear $reapons on the territories of
States where there are no such weapons at present". The draft resolution riras
introduced by Bulgaria at the 31st meeting, on 16 November.

18. At its 43rd
A/C.L/36/L.20 by
draft resolution

In favour:

Against:

Abstaining:

meeting, on 25 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
a recorded vote of 67 to 17, with 38 abstentions (see para. 38,
E) . The voting lras as follows:

Afghanistan, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bhutan, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde,
Chad, Chile, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German Democratic
Republic, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India,
fndonesia, Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic
Republic, Liberia, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Irlali, Mexico,
l,lcngolia, l,bzambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, Panama,
Philippines, Po1and, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Swaziland, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United erab Elnirates,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Gerrnany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand,
librr,tayr Portugal , Spain, Turkey, United Kingdon of Great Britain
and Northern freland, United States of America.

Algeria, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Brazil, Burma, Central
African Republic, C,lzprus, Djibouti, Gabon, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Haiti, Honduras, Ireland, Israel, Ivory Coast, Kenya,
Lebanon, rVauritania, Morocco, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Senegal, Sierra I€one, Singaporer Somalia, Sri
Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United
Republic of Caneroon, Yugoslavia, Zaire.



A/36/7s5
English
Page 8

F. Draf t Resolution VC.l/36,/L.23rlRev.2
19' on 13 November, Austria, Belgiumr- ggrivia, ganada, chire, Denmark, Ecuador',
$11."9, {.ranger certrany, reaeiar. nep-uuffiT @gIg."e, rEjIiE rEFdeNetherlands, New Zealagd, ,the_Ylit.g_.Isinogo* gf cr€ar Brirain ;;ffi;EIA; iE;A; @'
T.tt=.r?, Uruguay and Zaire submitted a aiaft resofution (A/C.fffia
"confidence-uuitaing i,Jffires". The draft resolution read as folrows:

'rThe General Assemb1y,

. "Recalling its resolution 33/gL B of 16 December 1978 requesting Memberstates to submit their views and experiences on confidence-building measures,

. .. "l{oting with s-atisf?ction that numerous lr{ember staLes replied in responseto that request and provided the Secretary-General with substantive
information,

_ "Recalling also its resolution 34/g7 B of ll December Lg7g,Generar Assembly reguested the secretary-General to carry out astudy of confidence-building measures, with the assistance of aqualified governmental experts appointed by him on an eguitable
basi s,

in which the
comprehensive
group of
geographic

. "Expressing its concern about the deterioration of the internationalsituation and the further escalation of the arms race resulting from andcontributing to an unsatisfactory international political climite, tension andmistrust,

"Desirous of strengthening international security and, at the same tine,creating and improving conditions conducive to further measures of disarnanent,
"Believing that real disarmarnent can only be achieved on the basis ofmutual trust and confidence between States, thus relieving people from thefear of armed conflict,

"Reaffirming its conviction of the need for the exchange of pertinent andtimeryE6iilfEon on military activities and other matters pertaining tonutual security,

. "C-onvilced of the usefulness of confidence-building measures freelyarrived at by the States concerned and agreed upon, taking into account theparticular conditions and requirements of the regions concerned,

, . - -nbloting with satisfaction the encouraging results of some confidence-Durrorng measures agreed upon and implemented in some regions,



A/36/7s6
English
Page 9

"1. Takes note of the comprehensive study on confidence-building
measures prepared by the Secretary-GeneraLi !/

_ 
n2. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General and to the group

of qualified governmental experts which assisted in the preparation of thestudy;

"3.'- Realizes that confidence reflects a set of interrelated factors of a
nilitary as well as of a non-military character and that plurarity of
approaches is needed to overcome fear, apprehension and mistrust between
States and to replace then by confidence;

u4. Recommends that building on the results of the study and on the
experienc.SEEE-From the application and development of confidence-building
measures further efforts should be made, both within and outside the UnitedNations, to widen their scoper so that account is also taken of non-military
approaches;

r'5. Regards the concept of confidence-building measures as outlined in
the study as a useful approach in reducing and eventually elininatingpotential causes for nistrust, misunderstanding, misinterpretation and
miscalculationi

'6. Believes that promotion of confidence-building measures where
appropriate conditions exist will significantly contribute to facilitating the
process of disarmament;

n7. Invites all States to consider the possible introduction of
confidence-building neasures in their particular regions and, where possible,to negotiate on them in keeping with conditions and reguirements prevailing inthe respective region;

'8. Decides to submit the study to its second special session devoted
to Disarmament, scheduled for L982, for further consideration.,,

20. On 19 November, the sponsors subnritted a revised draft resolution
(A/c.L/36/L.23/Rev.1), which was introduced by the representative of the Federal
Republic of Germany at the 38th meeting on 20 November. The draft resolution
contained a revision providing for the insertion, after paragraph 2, of thefollowing paragraph:

'3. Requests the Secretary-Genera1 to make the necessary arrangements
for the reproduction of the study as a united Nations publication and to give
it the widest possible distributionl,l

2L. On 23 li&cvember, the sponsors submitted a nerv revised draft resolution
Gr'c.L/36/L.23/Rev.2), which vtas sponsored also by the Bahamas, Bangladesh, the

u A/36/474 and Corr.t.



A/36/7s5
English
Page l0

congo, czechoslovakia, Mauritania and lbrway and was introduced by the
representative of the Federal Republic of Germany at the 44th meeting,
on 25 November. The draft resolution r{as revised as follows:

(a) In the preambular part of the draft resolution:
(i) Ttre sixth preambular paragraph was replaced by the following paragraph:

"!'!indful of the fact that, while confidence-building measures cannot
serve as a substitute for disarmament measures, they play a very
significant role in achieving disarmamentrr';

The seventh preambular paragraph was deleted;

Mter the eighth preambular paragraph, the folrowing paragraptr was
inserted:

nEt<pressing its conviction of the need for the exchange of pertinent
and timely information on military activities and other natters
pertaining to mutual security, which wilr contribute to an inproved
climate of trust and confidence among States, and the conviction that
agreenent can be reached on measures to this end".

(b) In the operative part of the draft resolution:
(i) rn operative paragraph 4, the word nRealizes" at the beginning of

the paragraph was replaced by ,,Recoqifffi

(ii) operative paragraph 5 was replaced by the following paragraph:

'5. fgca4fnends that building on the experiences gained from the
applicatio"E?aGlopment of conf idence-building measures further
efforts should be made, both within and outside the United Nations, to
widen their scope, so that account is also taken of non-nilitary
approachesT "

(iii) rn operative paragraph 6, the words ',as outlined in the study', ruere
deleted.

(i i)

(iii)

22. At its 44th meeting, on
A/C.L/36/L.23 /Rev.2 wirhout a

25 November, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
vote (see para. 38, draft resolution F).

G. Draft resolution ArlC.t/36lL.2g
23' on 15 November, Agst{alia, Austriar the Bahamas, Bolivia, Canada, Denmark,
Sf#' . rBdonq g i a, r r e ranq,,raEaifEEfr.re tr, erMtilNeilffinalE"aylEirrr*rrPprnes, singapore and Sweden submitted a draft resofution teTUt/Ze/L.29,)entitled "ptohT6Gi1r tnfllElauction "t rissionabte materiat for weaponspurposes", which was subseguently sponsored also by Bangladesh, the Niger and



A/36/756
English
Page 11

Romania. Ttre draft resolution riras introduced by Canada at the 33rd meeting,
on 18 November.

24. At its 4tst
A/c.L/35/L.28 by
draft resolution

In favour:

meeting, on 24 November, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
a recorded vote of 99 to 13, with 6 abstentions. t/ (see trnra. 38,
G). The voting ldas as follows:

Algeria, Angola, Australiar Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivid, Burmar Burundi, Canada,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo, Cyprus, Democratic
Kampuchea, Democratic yemen, Denmark, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Iceland, Indonesia, Iran, Irag, Ireland, fsrael, Italy, Ivory
Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Iesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malaysia, MaIi, Malta,
llauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norvray, Ornan, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Portugal, eatar,. Romania, Sao Tome and principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra I€one, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swazilandr Sweden, Syria, Thailandr Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab
Bnirates, United Republic of Cameroon, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Mghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Repubtic,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungaryr Lao
Peoplers Demgcratic nepublic, Mongolia, poland, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Soeialist Republics' Viet Nam.

Argentina, Brazil, France, India, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and lilcrthern Ireland, United States of America.

Against:

Abstaining:

H. Draft resoh-rtion VC.1/36lL.32
25- on 16 November, Argentina, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, @,Belqiun, Chile, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, firrf"rrar-f5"rr"..
9f, Ggatemala, Greece, rndonesiE, rt-dll', the Netlgrlands, Niqeria, pakistan,
Folald, Foftugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden .na
and Northern rrerand subnitted a draft resolution study
on all aspects of regional disarnamentor which was subsequently sponsored also by
Eglivia, lreland, librway, Singapore and Viet Nan. The diaft resolution was
introduced by Belgium at the 32nd meeting, on tz ti&cvember.
26. At its 38th meeting, on 20 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
P{9-L/35/L.37 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resorution H).

y The representatives of papua New
that h:rd they been present, they would have

Guinea and Rrvanda subseguently indicated
voted in favour of the draft resolution.

/...



A/36/755
English
Page 12

I. Draft resolution VC.l,/36,/L.42 and Rev.l
27. At the 33rd rneeting on rg libvember, Argeria, Argentina, @, Mexico,Pakisgan' Peru, sweden and Yugoslavia suumittea a arart resorution @/sa/L.4zlentitled rrstrategic arms limitation talkstr, which was introduced by Mexico at the
34th meeting on 19 November. The draft resolution read as follows:

,,The General Assembly,

nRecalling its resolutions 2602 A (xxlv) of 16 December Lg6g,
2932 B (XXWI) of 29 libvember L972,3184 A and C (XXVIII) of 18 December Lg73,
326L c (xxlx) of 9 Decenber 1974, 3484 c (xXX) of 12 December 1975,
3L/L89 A of 2t December L976, 32/87 G of 12 December 1977 and 35/LSG of
12 December 1980,

"R.affflgilg-g-egait, its resolution 33/gL C of 16 Decenber I9Zg, inwhichit, iffi

(a) Reiterated its satisfaction for the solemn declarations made Ln L977
by-the heads of State of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the
United States of America, in which they stated that they were ready to
endeavour to reach agreements which would permit starting the gradual
reduction of existing stockpiles of nuclear weapons and moving tovrards their
complete, total destruction, with a view to a world truly free of nuclear
weaPons,

(b) Recalled that one of the disarmament neasures deserving the highestpriority, included in the Progranme of Action set forth in section III of theFinal Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, was the
conclusion of the bilateral agreement known as SALT II, which should be
followed promptly by further strategic arms limitation negotiations between
the two parties, leading to agreed significant reductions of and gualitative
limitations on strategic arms,

(c) Stressed that in the Programrne of Action it was established that, in
the task of achieving the goals of nuclear disarmament, aII nuclear-neapon
States, in particular those among them which possess the most inportant
nuclear arsenals, bear a special restrnnsibility,

trRecalling that the SALT II agreement - which bears the official title of
"Treaty between the united States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics on the Limitation of Strategic offensive Arms" - was finally signed
on l8 June L979, after six years of bilateral negotiations, and that its text,
together with the texts of the Protocol to the Treaty and a joint statenent,
both signed on the same date as the Treaty, and a joint conununiqud issued aiso
on 18 June 19792 w€ts issued as a document of the Comnittee on Disarmament,

nReaffirning that, as stated in its resolution 34/87 F of
tr pec66Fffid, it shares the conviction expressed by the union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and the United States of America in the joint statement of
principles and basic Auidelines for subseguent negotiations on the limitation

/...



A/36/7s5
English
Page 13

of strategic arms that early agreement on the further limitation and further
reduction of strategic arms would serve to strengthen international peace andsecurity and to reduce the risk of outbreak of nucrear war,

'rPearing in mind that in the same resolution it expressed its trustthat the SALT rr Treaty would enter into force at an early date, inasmuch asit constituted a vital element for the continuation and progress of the
negotiations between the two States possessing the most important arsenals ofnuclear weapons,

"Recallilg that, at its first special session devoted to disarmament, it
proclaimed that existing arsenals of nuclear lreapons alone were more thansufficient to destroy all life on earth, that the increase in weapons,
especially nuclear weapons, far from helping to strengthen internationalsecurity, on the contrary weakened it, and that the existence of nuclear
weapons and the continuing arns race posed a threat Lo the very survival of
mankind, for which reasons the General Assembly declared that all the peoplesof the world had a vital interest in the spheri of disarnament,

nRecalling also that in the rDeclarat,ion of the I9B0s as the second
Disarmament Decader annexed to its resolution 35/46 of 3 December 1980 it
recommended that special priority be given to the ratification of the SALT II
Treaty' in order that it may come into force prior to the second special
session of the General Assenbry devoted to disarmament, and to the
conmencement of negotiations for a sAtr rrr agreement,

. "convinced that the signature in good faith of a treaty, especiarlyif it is the cuLmination of prolonged and conscientious negotiations, carrieswith it the presunption that its ratification will not be undufy delayed,
oI. Deplores once aqain that the Treaty between the United States of

America and the Union of Soviet Socialist nepublics on the Limitation of
Strategic Offensive Arms (SALT II) has not yet been ratified, notwithstandingthat it was signed on 18 June 1979 and in 

"pite of the many other reasonsexisting for sueh ratificat.ion as iLlustrated by those summarized in thepreamble of the present resolution;
n2. Ulqes aneht the two signatory states not to delay any further the

rmprementation of the procedure provided for in artic1e XIX of the Treaty for
its entry into force, taking particularly into account that not only theirnational interests but also the vitaL inlerests of all the peoples are at
stake in this question;

'r3. Trusts. that, pending the entry into force of the Treaty, the
signatory 6EG, in conformity with the provisions of the Vienna Convention
on the taw of Treaties, will continue to refrain from any act which woulddefeat the object and purpose of the Treaty;

n4' Reiterates its satisfaction, al.ready expressed in its resolutions
34/87 F of of L2 iecember I9g0, at the agreement
reached by both parties in the joint statement of principJ.es and basic

/...



A/36/7s6
English
Page 14

guidelines for subsequent negotiations on the limitation of strategic arms,
signed the same day as the Treatyr to the effect of continuing to pursue
negotiations, in accordance with the principle of equality and equal security,
on measures for the further limitation and reduction in the number of
strategic arms, as well as for their further qualitative limitation which
should culminate in the SALT IfI treaty, and to the effect also of
endeavouring in
objectivesl

such negotiations to achieve, inter aliar the following

(a) Significant and substantial reductions in the numbers of strategic
armsi

(b) Qualitative limitations on strategic offensive arms, including
restrictions on the development, testing and deploynent of new types of
strategic offensive arms and on the modernization of existing strategic
offensive armsi

rr5. Welcomes the agreed decision of both parties to begin negotiations,
on 30 lilcvenber 198I, on the intermediate range nuclear weapons of the European
theatre, and trusts that such negotiations will facilitate the achievement of
the objectives enunciated in the above-nentioned joint statement of principles;

'6. Invites the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
and the United states of Anerica to keep the General Assembly appropriately
informed of the results of their negotiations, in confornity with the
provisions of paragraphs 27 and 114 of the Final Document of the first special
session of the General Assembly devoted to disarnament;

't7. Deqi4eq to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session ttrffi-Lntitled rstrategic arns rimitation talksr.rl

28. On 2 December, the sponsors subnitted a revised draft resolution
(A/c.L/36/L.42/Rev.l), which ldas sponsored also by Bpngladesh, the Congo, panama
and Ronania, and which was introduced by ttlexico at the 53rd neeting, on a pecember.
The new revised text includes the following changes:

(a) A second preambular paragraph was added which reads as follows:

"Recgflilg that the sAtT I agreement - which bears the official titlerlnterim Agreement between ttre United States of America and the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics on Certain Measures with Respect to the Limitation
of Strategic Offensive Armsr - entered into force on 3 October 1972, following
more than two years of bilateral negotiations, and that its text was issued as
a docunent of the General Assemblyro

(b) llhe fifth, seventh and eighth preambular paragraphs were deleted.
Operative paragraphs I to 5 were deleted and replaced by operative paragraphs I to
5 and 6 in the new revised text (A/C.L/36/L.42/Ref.L).

29. At the 53rd neeting on 4 December, draft resolution MC.L/36/L.42/Rev.1 was
adopted without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution I).



J. Draft resolution A,/C.11136ll,.44
30. on 16 tibvember, the Bahamas,, chile, Ghana, Guatemala, Jamaica, Liberia,
!{a{agaFcar, New Zealaqd, ttt. IiSf, port,ugal, Senegal, Spain, the Sudan, Trinidad
""9:Fb?og, Turkev and uruguav suumittea a araEf resolution (A/c.L/3G/L.44)entitled,neport of the commiEtee on Disarmamentrr, which was subsequently sponsoredalso by the Ivory coast, Mauritania and Si,erra Leone. The draft resolution lvas
introduced by the represenEEtiiG mrrfrEl[F56'tr, *..ti"gl-"n t9 November.
3l' At its 42nd neeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
ar/C.tt197l.44 by a recorded vote of 118 to none, with l0 abstentions 4,/ (see
Para. 38, draft resolution J). Ttre voting vras as forlows:

A/36/7s6
English
Page 15

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China,
Congo, Cuba, Clprus, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic yemenl
Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, Germany, F.ederal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Iceland, fndia, Indonesia, Iran, Irag, Ireland, Israe1, Italy,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Kuwaitr Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab ilamahiriya, Madagascar, l,talaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands,
New zearand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeriae Norway, onanr pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, paraguay, peru, fhiJ_ippines, portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Rrvanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sonalia, Slnin,
Sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Swedenr. Syrian Arab
Republic, lltrailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda' United Arab Bnirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern rreland, united nepublic of cameroon, united states of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia, Zaire, r
Zambia.

tibne.Against:

Abstaining: Burgaria, Byelorussian soviet socialist nepublic,
Czechoslovakiar German Democratic nepublic, Hungary, Lao peoplers
tlemocratic nepublic, Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

K. Draft resolution A,/C.I/36/L.45 ?nd Rev.l
on 16 lbvember, otprus submitted a draft resolution (py'c.L/36/L.451 on32.

!/ Jordan subseguently indicated thatr'had it been present, it would have
voted in favour of ttre draft resolution.



A/36/7s6
English
Page 16

disarnament and internationar security, which was introduced at the
on 19 November. lltre draft resolution read as follows:

35th neeting,

'rThe General Assembly,

frRegalli{rg its resolutions 34/83 A of l1 December 1929 and 35/LS6 J of
12 December 1980,

rrAlarmed by the present grave state of international affairs
characterized by narked deterioration in the relationship between the major
nilitary Powers, which seriously jeopardizes the process of d6tente and
results in the flaring up of new and in the continuation of old conflicts in
various parts of the'world,

. 
nf,teeply concerned with the Long stagnation in the disarmament process,

the intensification of the arms race, quantitative and qualitative, and the
increased threat of a nuclear conflagration,

"convinced that for any progress on the reduction of arms and
armaments, the arms race nust first be stopped,

"Convinced further that the arms race cannot be stopped as long as its
generating cause - the balance of deterrence or doctrines of strategic
superiority - continues to be regarded as the sole means for the security of
nations,

nAware that the only hope for arresting the pernicious spiral of the arms
race is by providing alternative means of security for nations beyond reliance
solely on the balance of armaments or of deterrence,

"Aware further that the only rational alternative means for such security
is to move towards a gradual halt in the arms race by developing in a parallel
way the measures and rnodalities for collective security as mandatoril.y
reguired by the Charter of the United Nations,

rrRecalling the FinaL Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly' which states that: 'rGenuine and lasting peace can only be created
through the effective inplementation of the security system provided for in
the Charter of the United Nations and the speedy and substantial reduction of
arms and arrned forces, by international agreement and mutual example ...4
(para. 13) ,

nConsidering that it is of essential importance to create a climate of
confidence in the United Nations which will open the way to co-operation anong
!{enber States, Particularly between the two major Polrers, in fulfilling the
comnon and basic obligations under the Charter,

'rNoting with satisfaction the references to statements made by
representatives of the two najor Powers in the First Comnittee during this
Assembly session, indicating conciliatory attitudes towards effective use of
the United Nations in improving the international situation and preventing war,

/..'



v36/7s6
English
page 17

oReaffirming its resolution 35/L56 J of 12 December 1980 adoptetl by
consensusr whichr inter alia, reconnends that the main organs of the United
Nations responsible for the naintenance of international peace and security
should give early conslderation to the requirenents for halting the arms race,
particularly the nuclear arms racer dnd developing the nodalities for the
effective application of the system of international security provided for in
the Charter,

trReiterating emphatically its reguest to the permanent members of the
Security Council to facilitate the work of the Council towards carrying out
this essential responsibility under the Charter,

'1. Calls upon all States to take prompt action for the implementation
of resolution 3511156 ,J which would render effective the decisions of the
Security Council in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and
thereby be conducive to meaningfur disarnanent negotiations;

n2. 
A3gidegg that, as a first step in this directionr the Security

Council str6ufa tat<e the necessary neasures towards the inplementation of
Article 43 of the Charter, which would reihforce the foundations of peace,
security and order through the United Nations and avert the growing threat of
nuclear conflagration. "

33. At the 38th meeting, on 20 November, the representative of Clrprus introduced
revised draft resolution (A/c.L/36/L.45/Rev.l), sp,onsored by Argentina, the
Babanas, Olprus, Ecuador, India, the Niger, pakistan, Sri Lanka and.@.,
subsequently joined by Bangladesh, Egypt and ggnle, in which the following
revisions were made:

(a) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the word "anyo was deleted before the
word "progressn;

llhe fifth and sixth preanbular paragraphs were revised to read as followsc
nConvinced further that the arms race cannot be stopped as long as

its generating cause - the doctrine of deterrence and of strategic balance -
continues to be regarded as the sole means for the security of nations,

"Awalg that the best hope for arresting the pernicious spiral of the
arms race is by providing alternative means of security for nations rather
than through reliance on the balance of armaments or on the doctrine of
deterrence r x i

(c) In the seventh preambular paragraph, the words oonlyo and "gradualr were
deleted before the phrases nrational- alternative, and "halt in the arms tacer,
respectivelyl

(d) rn the ninth preambular paragraph, the phrase r, particularly between the
two major Powersrn lras deletedl

(b)



^/36/756Engl-ish
Page 18

(e) In the tenth preambular paragraph, the phrase 'a number of It{ember States
including" vtas inserted after the words trby representatives of", and the word
"positive" tilas substituted for the word ,,conciliatory" ,

(f) In the twelfth preambular paragraph, the word "emphatically" was deleted
after the word ,,Igi$Ig!i!g,,i

(S) In operative paragraph 2, the phrase nConsiders that[ was replaced by the
phrase nDeems it necessarytr.

34. At the 44th meeting, on 25 November, Clzprus further revised the draft
resolution as follows:

(a) The fifth preambular paragraph was reworded to read as follows:
nConvinced further that the arms race cannot be stopped as long as

the concept of balance of weapons or of deterrence continue to be regarded as
the sole means for the security of nationsrn
(b) In the sixth preambular paragraph, the words "the doctrineo were deleted.
(c) Operative trnragraph 2 was reworded to read as follows:

"2. Deems it necessary, as a first step in this direction, that the
Securityc@uiredmeasurestowardstheimp1ementationof
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, which would reinforce the
foundations of peace, security and order through the United Nations and avert
the growing threat of nuclear conflagration.',

35. At its 44th neeting, on 25 lfovember, the Committee adopted draft resolution
l/C.L/t.45lRev.1, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 114 to noner with
9 abstentions 5rl (see para. 38, draft resolution K). The voting was as followsl

rh favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, AustraLia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad' Chile, Congo,
Cuba, Clprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic
Yemen' Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji'
Finland, Gabon, German: Denocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemal.a, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungaryt
Iceland, India, fndonesiae Iran, Irag, Ireland, Israel, Ivory
Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers
Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
!{orocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,

2/ The representative of
present, he would have voted in

Senegal subsequently indicated thatr had he been
favour of the draft resolution.



P'/36/756
English
Page 19

Against:

m?!f Pakistan, panama, papua tilrew Guinea, paraguay, peiu,
Philippines, poland, eatar, Romania, Rrvanda, S;o $orne and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Ttrailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia, ZaLte,
Zanbia.

lbne.

Abstaininq: Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Repubric of, rtary,
Netherlands, New Zealand, portugall United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

L. Draft resolution VC.1/36IL.46
36. on 18 Novemberr the Philippines subnitted a draft resolution (A/C.L/36/L.46')
entitled "Study on the relationship between disarnament and international
securityn, which was subsequently sponsored also by qncrus and Ecuador. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative ot- tE-F[-ff ippiiG at ttre
36th meeting, on 19 lilovember.

37. At its 4l-st meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/9-L/36/L.46 without a vote (see para. 38, draft resolution L).

III. RECOM!{ENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMIT{ITTEE
38. lftre First Committee recommends to the General assembly the adoption of the
foLlowing draft resolutions:

General and compLete disarmament

A

Study on conventional disarmament

Ttre General Assembly,

Recallinq its resolution 35/L56 A of 12 December 1980 in which it approved, in
principle, the carrying out of a study on all aspects of the conventional arms race
and on disarmament relating to conventional weapons and armed forces, to be
undertaken by the Secretary-@neraL with the assistance of a group of qualified
experts aptrrcinted by him on a balanced geographical basis,

Recalling the discussions at the 1981 substantive session of the Disarnanent
Connission on the general approach, scope and structure of the study on all aspectE



A/36/7s6
English
Page 20

of the conventional arms race and on disarmament relating to conventional weapons
and armed forces,

1. Requests the Secretary-General to establish the group of experts in
accordance with the provisions contained in paragraph I of General Assembty
resolution 351156 A; .

2. Requests the Disarmament Commission at its substantive session in 1982 to
conplete its consideration of the general approach to the study, its structure and
scope and to transmit the conclusions of its deliberations to the group of expertsl

3. Agrees that the group of experts should pursue its work after the
above-mentioned session of the Disarmament Corunission, taking into consideration
such conclusions as the Commission may subnit to it, and, if necessary, the
deliberations at the substant,ive session of the Commission in 1981, in particular
those reflected in paragraph 21 and annex III of the report on that session; 6,/

4. Requests the Secretary-General in accordance with paragraph 4 of
resolution 35/L56 A to submit a final report to the General AssenbLy at its
thirty-eighth session.

B

Conclusion of an international convention prohibiting the development,
production, stockpiling and use of radiological weapons

The General Assembly,

Recalling the resolution of the Commission for Conventional Armaments of
12 Ausgust 1948' which defined rreapons of mass destruction to include atomic
explosive weapons, radioactive material weagrons, letha1 chemical and biological
weapons and any vteaPons developed in the future which have characteristics
comparable in destructive effect to those of the atomic bomb or the other neapons
mentioned above,

Recalling the resolution 2602 c (xxrv) of 16 December 1969,

Recalling paragraph 76 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special session of
the General Assenbly, U in which it is stated that a convention should be
concluded prohibiting the development, production, stockpiling and use of
radiological weapons,

Reaffirming its resolutions 34/87 A of ll December 1979 and 35,/156 G of
12 December 1980 on tbe conclusion of such a convention,

y Offici?l Re.cor.ds of the General Assenbly, thirty-sixth Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/36/421.

U Resolution s-IO/2.



A/36/7s6
English
Page 21

. convinced that such a convention would serve to spare mankind the potentiardangers of the use of radiological weapons and thereby contribute to strengtheningpeace and averting the threat of war,

- -l9tinq that negotiations on the conclusion of an internationar conventionprohibiting the development, production, stockpiting and use of r.ai"i"gi;;i-"weapons have been conducted in the comrnittee oi.' oi""rrament,
T?ki$g ngtg of that part of the report of the comnittee onwhich dears with these negotiations, incluaing the report of theGroup,

Disarmanent'!/
Ad Hoc Working

lecogr:Iizing that divergent views continue to exist in connexion with variousaspects relating to a convention prohibiting radiological r,veapons,

- .. 
lloling with Patisfactig{r the wide recognition of the need to reach agreementon the text of a treaty prorriuiting radioroiicat weapons,
1' Calls upon the conmittee on Disarnament to continue negotiations with a

vler't_ to an early conclusion of the elaboration of a treaty prohibiting thedevelopnent, production, stockpiling and use of radiological weapons, in order thatit may be submitted if possibl- to the General Assembly at its second specialsession devoted to disarmament, to be held in L9g2i
2. lqles noter in this connexion, of the recommendation of the Ad Hocworking Group, in the report adopted by the committee on Disarmanent, t" s"t up atthe beginning of its session to be herd in 1982 a further a4 !roc. working g.oup,under an appropriate nandate to be determined at that tilnel-filontinue

negotiations on the elaboration of a treaty prohibiting radiological weapons;
3' Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Committee on

Disarmament all documents reLating to the discussion by the General Assembly at itsthirty-sixth session of the prohiuition of the development, production, stockpiling
and use of radiological weaponsi

.4. Degides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventhsession the iten entitled I'Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling
and use of radiological weatrronsn.

V Official Records of
Supplenent No. 42

the General Assembl Thirty-qixth Session,



^/36/756English
Page 22

c

Prevention of an arms race in outer space

The General Assembly,

Inspired by the great prospects opening up before mankind as a result of nanrs
entry into outer space,

Believing that any activity in outer space should be for peaceful purposes and
carried on for the benefit of all peoles, irrespective of the degree of their
economic and scientific derielopment,

Recalling ttrat the States Parties to the Treaty on Principles Governing the
Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the lbon
and Other CeLestiaL Bodies, U have undertaken in article III to carry on
activities in the exploration and use of outer space, including the moon and other
celestial bodies, in accordance with international law and the Charter of the
United Nations, in the interest of maintaining international peace and security and
promoting international co-operation and understanding,

] Recalling also article fV of the said Treaty'

RecalLing paragraph 80 of the Fina1 Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly, which states that, in order to prevent an arms race in outer
space, further measures should be taken and appropriate international negotiations
heLd in accordance with the spirit of the Treaty on Principles Governing the
Activities of States in the Drploration and Use of Outer Strnce, including the l@on
and Other Celestial Bodies,

Notinq the important and growing contribution of satellites both for civilian
purposes and the verification of disarmament agreements and anare of the
possibilities of their use to promote peace, stability and international
co-operation,

!'tindful of the widespread interest expressed by Member States to ensure that
the exploration and use of outer space should be for peaceful purposes' inter alia,
in the course of the negotiations on and following the adoption of the Treaty of
1967 and taking note of protrnsals subnitted to the General Assembly at its tenth
special session, devoted to disarrnament, to the regular sessions of the General
AssernbLy and to the Comnittee on Disarmament,

Ayrare of the need to prevent an arns race in outer space and in particular of
the threat trnsed by anti-satellite systems and their destabilizing effects for
international peace and security,

2/ General assembly resolution 2222 (XXI).



Convinced that further measures are needed to prevent outer space from

A/36/756
English
Page 23

military confrontation, contrary to the spirit of the Treaty on
the Activities of states in the Exploration and use of outer
Moon and Other Celestial Bodies,

becoming an area of
Principles Governing
Space, including the

Considering it necessary for the international conmunity to give attention to
specific measures regarding the question of anti-satellite systems in the Conmittee
on Disarmament,

Pearing in mind that the restraint of anti-satellite systems has already been
a subject in negotiations between the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the
United States of America,

t. Considers that further effective measures to prevent an arms race in
outer space should be adopted by the international conmunityi

?: Urge9 all States, in particular those with major space capabilities, tocontribute actively to the goal of preventing.an arms rtce in outer space and to
refrain from any action contrary to that aim;

- 3. Requests the Conmittee on Disarmament to consider, as fron the beginningof its session in 1982, the guestion of negotiating effective and verifiable
agreements aimed at preventing an arms race in outer space, taking into account all
existing and future proposals designed to neet this objective;

4. Requests the Comnittee on Disarnament to consider as a matter of priority
the question of negotiating an effective and verifiable agreement to prohibit
anti-satellite systems, as an inportant step towards the fulfilment of the
objectives set out in paragraph 3 abovel

5. Requests the Corunittee on Disarmament to report on its consideration of
this subject to the GeneraL Assembly at its thirty-seventh sessionl

6. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Committee on
Disarmament all documents relating to the consideration of this subject by the
General Assembly at its thirty-sixth session;

7. Decidee to incLude in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session anGEntitled 'rPrevention of an arms race in outer spacei prohibition of
anti-satel,lite systens rr.

D

Institutional arrangenents reJ.ating to the process of disarmament
The General Assembly,

Recalling it's resolution 34/87 E of II December Lg79, in which it requested
the Secretary-General, with the assistance of qualified governmental expeits, to
carry out a comprehensive study assessing current institutional requiremens and



A/36/756
English

,,. "an" 
,n

1 ;: future estimated needs in the United Nations management of disarmarnent affairs and
.'- 

- outlining Possible functions, structure and institutional framework that could meet
' .,i those requirenents and needs, including legal and financial irnplications, and-'" 

'-1 fornulating reconmendations for Snssible later decisions on the matter,
Having considered the report of the Secretary-General g/ to which the study

prepared b1z the group of governmental experts to study the institutional
arrangements rerating to the process of disarmanent is annexed,

1. Takes not,e of the report of the Secretary-General and of the study
contained therein;

assisted hin for the efficient manner in which the report was prepared;

3. Recommends that all Member states should study the report;

. 4. Invites all Menber States to transmit to the Secretary-General by
- "" 3l March 1982 their comments on the study and its conclusions and recommendations;

5. Resuests the Secretary-General to transmit the study to the Committee on
Disarmament;

* ,: 6. Decides to transmit the report and the comments of Member States to the
". .1." General Assembly at its second special session devoted to disarmament for
I ,., ",rb"tantive consideration and the adoption of appropriate decisions;

': -., 7. Furthe! 4eqlqes to include in the provisional agenda of its
:l thirty-seventh session an item entitted "Institutional arrangements relating to the

..,r *. process of disarnament'.
-'- 't' E

-.':1; lilcn-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of States
where there are no such weaSrons at present'-'-'

llhe cenelal Assemb[,

'".' "t' Conscious that a nuclear war would have devastating consequences for the whole

Recallinq its resolution 33/9L F of 15 December L978, which contains an appeal
".'""i'to all nuclear-weapon States to refrain from stationing nuclear weapons on the
"" ' ":territories of States where there are no such weapons at present, and to a1l

non-nuclear-vteapon States which do not have nuclear weapons on their territories to

..,,.11:
:'.:".' ;

,..:ii

.& ' :":.!-
:: : ar

!9/ A/36/3e2.



A/36/7s5
English
Page 25

refrain fron any steps which would directly or indirectry resurt in the stationingof sucb weapons on their territories,
Rgc?lling furiher its resolution 3s/L56 c of t2 December 1980, in which itrequested the Committee on Disarnament to proceed without delay to talks with avrelr to eraborating an international agreement on the non-stationing of nuclear

rteapons on the territories of states where lhere are no such weapons at present,
tiloting with regret that this appeal by the Generar Assembly remains unheeded,
considerinq. that the non-stationing of nuclear lreapons on the territories ofsEaces vthere there are no such weapons at present would constitute a step towardsthe larger objective of the subsequent complete withdrawal of nuclear yreapons fromthe territories of other states, thus contriuutfrrg to the prevention of the spreadof nuclear neapons and leading eventually to the total elimination of nuclear

weaPons,

. . .Be?ring _in nind the clearly expressed intention of manystationing of nuclear weapons on their territories,

- 
Deeply alarned by plans and practical steps leading to anuclear-weapon arsenals on the territories of other states,

States to prevent the

build-up of

. 1: sgguests once again the committee on Disarmament to proceedto talks with a view to eraborating an international agreement on thenon-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territori." oi states.wheresuch weapons at present;

without deJ.ay

there are no

2' CaIIs upon all nuclear-weapon states to refrain from further action. 

-- 

--:'v-rY'.rnvorvrng the stationing of nuelear lreapons on the territories of other Statesi
3- Reguests the secretary-General to transmit to the

Disarmament all documents relating to the discussion of thisGeneral Assernbly at its thirty-sixth session;

Committee on
guestion by the

Req9ests the Connittee on Disarmament to subrnit a report on the questionto the General Assernbly at its thirty-seventh sessionl

_^__.:' Dgcides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventhsession an item entitled ntibn-stationing of nucrear weapons on the territories ofstates where there are no such weapons at present: report of the committee onDisarmamentrr.

F

Conf idence-building measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 33rl91 B of
l{ember States to submit their views and

16 December I978r. in which it reguested
experiences on confidence-buildinn ."."):::,



^/36/7s6English
Page 26

Noting with satisfaction that numerous Member States responded to that reguest
and provided the Secretary-General with substantive information,

Recalling also its resolution 34/87 B of 11 December LgTg t in which the
General Assenbly reguested the Secretary-General to carry out a comprehensive study
on confidence-building neasures with the assistance of a group of qualified
governmental experts appointed by him on an eguitable geographical basis,

Expressing its concern about the deterioration of the international situation
and the further escalation of the arms race, which both reflects and aggravates the
unsatisfactory international political climate, tension and mistrust,

Desirous of strength6ning international security and, at the same time,
inproving conditions conducive to further measures of disarmament,creating and

Mindful of the fact that, while
substitute for disarmament measures,
disarmament,

conf idence-building measures
they play a very significant

cannot serve as a
role in achieving

freely arrived at
particular

Convinced of the usefulness of confidence-building measures
by the States concerned and agreed utrnn, taking into account the
conditions and requirements of the regions concerned,

Expressing its conviction of the need for the exchange of pertinent and timely
information on nilitary activities and other matters pertaining to mutual security,
which would contribute to an improved climate of trust and confidence among States,
and the conviction that agreement can be reached on measures to this end,

llotinq with salisfaction the encouraging results of some confidence-building
neasures agreed upon and implemented in some regions,

1. Takes note of the comprehensive study on confidence-buitding measures
prepared by the Secretary-General; 1/

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-Genera1 and to the Group of
Governmental Experts on Confidence-building lleasures which assisted in the
preparation of the study;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to make the qecessary arrangements for the
reproduction of the study as a United Nations publication and to give it the widest
possible distribution;

4. Recognizes that confidence reflects a set of interrelated factors of a
military as well as of a non-nilitary character and that a plurality of approaches
is needed to overcome fear, apprehension and nistrust between States and to replace
then by confidencel

!/ P{36/474.



A/36/7s6
Engtish
page 27

5' Recornmends that, building on the experience. gained from the applicationand develoFmEFor confidence-building *"""url=, further efforts shourd be made,both within and outside the united walions, to wider their 
".op., so that accountis also taken of non-military approaches;

in reducing and eventually eliminating trntential causes for mistrust,nisunderstanding, misinterpretation and miscarcuration;
7 ' . Believes that the promotion of confidence-building measures whereappropriate conditions exist will significantly contribute to facilitating theprocess of disarmarnenti

, 8. Invites all States
conf idence-bu ilding measures
negotiate on them in keeping
respective regions;

to consider the possible introduction of
in their particular regions and, where possible, towith conditions and requirements prevailing in the

9. Decides to submit the study to its second special session devoted todisarmament, to oe held in L982, for further consideration.

G

Prohibition of the production of fissionable material
Eor weapons purposes

The General Assembly,

- 
Recitligg its resolutions 33/gL H of 16 December LITB | 34/87 D of11 December 1979 and 351156 H of 12 December 1980, i" 

"t 
i.t ii'i"eu""ted theconnittee on Disarmament' at an appropriate stage of the implementation of theProgramme of Action set forth in section rrr of the Final 00cument of the Tenthspecial session of the General Assembly, 9/ ana of its work on the item entitled

"Nuclear weapons in all aspectso, to consider urgentry the guestion of adeguatelyverified cessation and prohibition qf the production of fissionable material fornuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive devices and to keep the Assernblyinformed of the progress of that consideration,
l0oting that the agenda of the committee on Disarnament for lggl included theitem entitled 'rNuclear weapons in all aspects'r and that the committee,s programmeof work for both parts of its session held in 1981 contained the item entitledt'cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament,,, - 

--

Rggalling the proposals and statements made in the committee on Disarmament onthese items,

&/ Resolution S-L0/2.



A/36/7s6
English
Page 28

Considering that the cessation of production of fissionable material for
weapons purposes and the progressive conversion and transfer of stocks to peaceful
uses would be a significant step towards halting and reversing the nuclear arms
race,

Considering that the prohibition of the production of fissionable material for
nuclear weapons and other explosive devices also would be an important measure in
facilitating the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear vreapons and expl-osive
devices,

Requests the Committee on Disarmament, at an appropriate stage of its work on
the item entitled "Nuclear weapons in all asSrectsn, to pursue its consideration of
the question of adequately verified cessation and prohibition of the production of
fissionable material for nuclear rreapons and other nuclear explosive devices and to
keep the General Assembly informed of the progress of that consideration.

H

Study on all the aspects of regional disarmament
The General Assembly,

- Regalling its resolution 35/L56 D concerning the study on all the aspects ofregional disarmament,

l. Tates note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General
containing n the study; 13,/

2. Requests the Secretary-General to submit the study on all the aspects of
regional disarmament L4/ and his report containing the views of Member States to
the General Assembfy .T its second special session devoted to disarmament, so that
it nay consider their substance and any action on then that may be required.

I

Strategic arns limitation talks
The General Assembly,

Recallinq its resolutions 2602 A (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, 2932 B (xXvII) of
29 ldovenbet L9'72,3184 A and C (xxvIII) of 18 December L973,326L C (XXIX) of
9 December L974, 3484 C (xxx) of 12 December 1975, 3L/L89 A of 21 December Lg76,
32/87 G of 12 December 1977 and 35/tS6 K of 12 December 1990,

A/36/343 and Add.1.

A/3s/4L6.

L3_/

y/



A/36/7s6
Engtish
Page 29

Recalling that the SALT r agreement - which bears the official title of"rnteifr-lffiment between the united states of America and the union of sovietsocialist Repubrics on certain Measures with respect to the Limitation of strategicOffensive Arirs', - entered into force on 3 O.toU", , L972 following more than two
U:Ii.it^3:ffii;:t nesotiations and that its texr vras issued as a documenr of rhe

Recarlino that the SALT rr agreement - which bears the officiar titre of'Treaty between the united states of Anerica and the union of soviet sociaristRepublics on the Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms,, _ was finally signed on18 June L979' after six years of bilaier"r i"gotiations, and that its text,together with the texts lr tr,. Protocor to tni Treaty and a joint statement, bothsigned on the same date as the Treaty, and a joint cornmunigud issued also on|8 June l-97g' were issued as a document of th! cornmittee on Disarmament, r5,/
Reaffirminr

rE, rnter alia:g 
once again its resolution 33/gl c of 16 December Lg7g, in which

(a) Reiterated its satisfaction at the solemn declarations made in 1g77 bythe heads of state of the union of soviet sociatist Repubrics and the united statesof America, in which trrev siai"a tr,"t air.v-""i" ready to endeavour to reachagreements which would permit starting tr,l graauar reduction of existing stockpilesof nuclear weapons and moving towards their complete, totar destruction, with aview to a world truly free oi nuclear weapons,
(b) Recarred that one of the disarmament measures deserving the highestpriority' included in the Programme of Action set forth in section rrr of the FinarDocunent of the Tenth special session of the General Assembry, 16l was theconclusion of the bitareral agreemenr known as sALT r;;-il;; sioura be followedpronptly by further strategic"aims limitation negotiations between the Lwo parties,leading to agreed significint reauctions of and qualitative limitations onstrategic arns,
(c)StressedthatintheProgramrneofActionitwasestabIishedthat,inthe

task of achieving the goatrs of nuclear disarmament, arr nucrear-vreapon states, inparticular those anong them which possess the most important nuclear arsenals, beara special responsibiLity, L7t/
Reaffirming that, as stated in its resolution 34/g7 E of 11 December Lglg, itshares the conviction expressed by the union of-soviet sociarist nepubJ.ics and theunited states of America in the joint statement of principles and basic auiderines

E/ See CDl53,/Appendix

&/ Resoturion S-I0/2,
llJ lbid. r pard. 48.

IIIlVo1. I, documenE CD/2g.
para. 13.



A/36/7s6
English
Page 30

for subsequent negotiations on the linitation of strategic arms that early
agreenent on the further linitation and further reduction of strategic arms would
serve to strengthen international peace and security and to reduce the risk of
outbreak of nuclear lvar,

Recallinq that, at its first special session devoted to disarmamentr it
proclaimed that existing arsenals of nuclear weapons alone were more than
sufficient to destroy all life on earth, that the increase in weapons' especially
nuclear rdeapons, far from helping to strengthen international security, on the
contrary weakened it, and that the existence of nuclear weapons and the continuing
arns race posed a threat to the very survival of mankind, for which reasons the
General Assembly declared that alt the peoples of the world had a vital interest in
the sphere of disarmament,

Recalling also that in the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament
Decade annexed to its resolution 35/46 of 3 December 1980 it recommended that
special priority be given to the ratification of the SALT II Treaty,

1. tilctes that the Treaty between the United States of America and the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics on the Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms
(SALT II) has not yet been ratifiedi

2. Urges that the process begun by the SALT I Treaty and signature of the
SALT II Treaty should continue and be built u6,oni

3. Trusts_ that the signatory States will continue to refrain from any act
which woulfr-efeat the objeci ana purpose of that process;

4. Urges the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republicsr with reference to resolutions 34/87 F of 11 December 1979 and 35/L55 of
12 Decenber'1980, to pursue negotiations, in accordance with the principle of
equality and equal security, looking towards the achievement of an agreement which
will provide for substantial reductions and significative qualitative linitations
of strategic arms;

5. Welcomes the conmencement of negotiations at Geneva on 30 November 1981
between representatives of the United States of Anerica and the Union of Soviet
Socialist nepublics on nuclear arms congrol in accordance with the joint comnuniqu6
issued by Secretary of State Haig and Foreign Minister Gromyko on
23 September 1981, and trusts that such negotiations will facilitate the
enhancement of stability and international security;

6. Stresses the need that both parties bear constantly in mind that not only
theirnatiffitaIsothevita1interestsofalIthepeoplesofthe
world are at stake in this question;

7. Invites the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and
the United States of America to keep the General Assembl-y appropriately informed of



the results of their negotiations,
27 and 114 of the Final Document of
Assembly;

in conformity with
the Tenth Special

the provisions
Session of the

8' Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventhsession thffi; entitred rstrategic arms rinitation tarks',.

J

Report of the Committee on Disarmament

rules of procedure of the Comnittee on
invited to participate in the work of the

the Committee on Disarmament is to be
with paragraph I20 of the Final

relevant parts of the report of the Conmittee onheld in L98L !2r/ in which various options and different

The General Assembly,

' Recogni?ing that alr the peoples of the world have a vitar interest in thesuccess of disarmament negotialions,

-^ 
Recognizing also that all states have the duty to contribute to and the rightto participate in disarmament negotiations, as icknowledged in paragraph 2g of theFinal Document of the Tenth speciar session of the cenerit assernoty, 1g,/
Recalling, to that effect, its resolutions 33/gl G of 16 ilcernoer lgzg and35/Ls?-fiffi December t98o,
Noting that under section IX of the

Disarmament non-member States have been
Conmittee,

. Regalling also that the membership ofreviewed at regular intervals in accordance
Document,

1. Takes note of the
Disarnanet Ei-ft" sess ion
views were statedi

2' Recomrnends that the first review of the membership of the conunittee onDisarmamenffiEETe completed, tottowing appropriate consurtation among Memberstates' during the next special session or ttrl General Assenbly devoted todisarmament i

3' Reaffirms that states not members of the cornmittee on Disarmament should
:pon.trreir@st continue to be invited by it to participate in the work of theConmittee.

!3/ Resolution S_LO/2.

,uoo.*l,'. ,

P{36/7s6
English
Page 31

of paragraphs
General



A/36/755
English
Page 32

K

Disarnament and international security

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 34/93 A of rl December 1979 and 35,/156 iI of
12 December 1980,

Alarmed by the present grave state of international affairs characterized by
narked deterioration in the relationship between the najor military Powers, which
seriously jeopardizes the process of d6lente and results in the fllring up of new
and in the continuation of old conflicts in various parts of the world,

Deeply concerned over the long stagnation in the disarmament process, the
intensification of the arms race, both quantitative and qualitative, and the
increased threat of a nuclear conflagration,

Convinced further that the arms race cannot be stopped as long as the concepts
of balance of weapons or of deterrence continue to be regarded as the sole means
for the security of nations,

Convinced that for
trre alffilEFnusr first

Aware that the best hope for arresting
is by the provision of alternative means of
through reliance on the balance of armaments

achieving progress on the reduction of arms and armaments,
be stopped,

the pernicious spiral of the arms race
security for nations rather than
or of deterrence,

Aware further that the ratonal alternative means for such security is to nove
towarEGlGffitne arms race uy deveroping in a pararrer way the measures and
nodalities for collective security as mandatorily required by the Charter of the
United Nations,

Recalling paragraph 13 of the Fina] Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly, in which it is stated that genuine and lasting peace can only
be created through the effectice implementation of the security system provided for
in the Charter and the speedy and substantial reduction of arms and armed forces,
by international agreement and mutual example,

Considering that it is of essential importance to create a climate of
confidence in the United Nations which will open the way to co-operation among
Member States, in fulfilling the conmon and basic obligations under the Charter,

_ Noting with satisfaction the references to statements made by representativesof a number of l,tember States, including the two najor Porrrers, in the First
Committee during the current session of the Assembly, indicating positive attitudes
towards effective use of the United Nations in improving the international
situation and prevent.ing war,



A/36/7s6
English
page 33

Reaffirming its resolution 35/L56.r of 12 December 19g0, adopted by consensus,
'"-,t,@.lie,itrecommendedthatthemainorgansoftheUnitedNationsreslnnsible for the rnaintenance of international p.""i .ia-"."urity should giveearly consideration to the requirements for halting the arms racer particularly thenuclear arms race, and developing the rnodalities for the effective application ofthe system of international sLcurity provided for in the charter,

neiterating its reguest to the permanent members of the security council toracitTilFl[frork of the council towards carrying out this essentialresponsibility under the Charter,

Generar Assenbly resolution 351156 J which would render effective the decisions ofthe security council in accordance with the charter of the united Nations andthereby be conducive to meaningfur disarmament negotiationsi
2. Deems it necessarv, as a first step in this direction, that the SecurityCouncilu@Surestowardstheinp1ementationofChapterVIIofthe

charterr which would reinforce the foundations of peace, security and order throughthe united Nations and avert the growing threat of nucrear conflagration.
L

Study on the relationship between disarmament and
international security

The General Assemb1y,

Recalling its resolution 32/87 c of 12 December Lg77 | in which it requestedthe secretary-General to initiate a study on the relationship between disarnamentand international security,

- .Recallipg 
further paragraph 97 ot the Finar Document of the Tenth specialsession of the General Assembly, U Ln which it reguested the secretary-Generar,with the assistance of consultint experts appointed by him, to continue the studyon the rerationship between disarmament and lnternationar securityr-

Rgc?lling also its resolution 34/g3 A of rt December Lglg, by which it took
l9i9-9f the progress report of the secretary-cenerat, as well as resorution35/L55 E' in which it requested the secretaiy-Generar to submit the finar report tothe General Assembly at its thirty-sixth session,

Having exanined the report of the secretary-General containing the study, 2r/

Resolution S-10/2.

A/36/597.

4/
4/



A/36/756
English
Page 34

1. Notes with satisfaction the study on the relationship between disarnament
and internationat security prepared by the Secretary-Generalt

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General and to the Group of
ExpertsonDisarmamentandInternationaISecuritywho
assisted him in the preparation of the studyi

3. Commends the study and its conclusions to the attention of all Member
Statest

4. fnvites aII Member States to inform the Secretary-General, no later than
15 April Lgg2, of their views regarding the studyl

5. Requests the Secretary-General to make the necessary arrangements for the
reproduction of ttre study as a United Nations publication and to give it the widest
possible distribution;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the study, together with the
views oe f'lelnUer States, to the General Assembly at its second special session
devoted to disarmament, to be held in L982.




