
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Digtr.
GENERAI,

A/36/7s7
4 December 1981

ORIGTNALc ENGLISH

llhirty-sixth session
Agenda iten 55

rsRAEt,I NUCLEAR ARMAMENTS

Report of the F'irst @mnittee

Repporteur: Mr. Alemayehu !,IAKONNEN (Ethiopia)

I. INTRODI'CTION

1. ltre item entitled 'rlsraeli nuclear armament: re;rort of the Secretary-General,l
was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-sixth session in accordance
with General Assembly resolution 3S/LS7 of L2 December 1980.

2. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 September 1981, the General Assemblyl on the
recommendation of the General @mmittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and allocate it to the First Oonmittee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 7 October 1981, the First Conunlttee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely items 39 to 56' L28 and 135. The general debate on these items took place
at the 3rd to 26th neetings, from 19 @tober to 4libvember (see A,/c.L/36/pv.3-26't.

4. fn connexion with itern 55, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) I€tter dated 25 tlarch 1981
Permanent Mission of Saudi Arabia to
Secretary-@nera1, transmitting the
lA/36/L381 t

(b) Ietter dated L2 June 1981
the llnited l'trations addressed to the

from the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the
the United lilations addressed to the

resolutions of the Islamic @hference

from the Permanent Representative of Yemen
Secretary-General (M36/3201 t

to

(c) Ietter dated 5 August I98I from the permanent
the United lilations addressed to the Secretary-General,
of the fslamic Conference (A/36/42l and Corr.l) i
8L-.34627 011sh (E)

Representative of Iraq to
transmitting the resolutions



A/36/757
English
Page 2

(d) Report of the Secretary-General (A/36/A3Ll i

(e) L€tter dated 30 Septenber 19gI from the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting a communigu6
of the non-aligned countries (A/36/566).

rr. coNsrDERATroN oF DRAFT RESOLUTTON A/C.L/36/L-30

5. Ox t6 llrvember, Bahrain, Derpcratic Yemenr -Ig, Jordan, Lebanol, the tihyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Uorocco,rOman, Qatar, the Sudan, the Unitell--Ageb Eg!g!99 and
yemen submitted "-lEt 

resorution O/c.r/36/L.jo) wtrictr was subseguently sponsored
aFo-Uy Chad and Mauritania. The draft resolution r^tas introduced by the
representative of Irag at the 38th neeting, on 20 tibvember.

6. At its 42nd meeting, on 24 l.tovernber, the Committee voted on the draft
resolution as follows:

(a) Operative paragraphs 5, 6r and 7 were adopted by a recorded vote of
82 to 17 I with 25 abstentions. lltre voting rdas as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Beninr Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cape Verde, Chad, China, Congo' Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Dernocratic l(ampuchea' Denocratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Ethiopia, German Derpcratic Republic, Ghana; Greece,
Guinear Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary' India, Indonesiar Iranr
Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwaitr Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic'
Lebanon, tibyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldivest
MaIi, Malta, l,!,auritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, l{ozambigue,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan, Panama' Peru'
philippines, Poland, Qatar, Rlvanda, Sao Trome and Principer Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra I€one, Somalia, Sri Iankal Sudan;
Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and ltobago,
Tunisia, Ttrrkey, t$anda, Ukrainian soviet socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Cameroon' Venezuela, Viet Nam' Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zanbia.

Austria, Be1gium, Canada, Denmark, Francel Germanyr Federal
Republic of, Haiti, Icelandr lreland, Israel, Italyr
Netherlands, librway, Portugal, sweden, United Kingdon of Great
Britain and tilrrthern Ire1and, United States of America.

Against:

Argentina, Australia, Bahamas, Brazil, Burma, Chile, Ecuador,
Egypt, Fijir'Finland, Gabon, Guatemala, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Japan, Lesotho, Nepal, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Spain, Srwaziland, lrhailand, uruguay, zaire.

Abstainingl



A/36/757
s]glish
Page 3

(b) Draft resolution A/C.L/36/L.30 as a whole was adopted by a recorded vote
of 93 to 2, with 32 abstentions L/ (see para. 7't. Ttre voting ldas as follows:

fn favour:

Against:

Abstaining:

llhe General AssemLbzr

Recalling its relevant
nuclear-wea;nn-free zone in

resolutions on
ttre Middle East

the establishrnent of
region,

Mghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas'
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verder.
Chad, China, @ngo' Cuba, Cyprus' Czechoslovakia, Derrocratic
IQmpuchea, Denocratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Ethiopiar Gabonr
German Democratic Republicr Ghanar Greecel Guinea'
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Ilungary, India, Indonesia; Iran2 lraq'
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait' Lao Peoplers Denpcratic Republic'
Lebanon, Iesotho, Libya Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, I{alaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexicor I'longolia' l"torocco,
I"lozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeriil Ottdn2 Pakistan' Panamar
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, bmania, Rtvanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra L€one' Somaliar Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand'
Ibgo, Trinidad and Tbbago, Tunisia, Turkey, ['lganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republicr Union of Soviet Socialist Republ-ics'
United Arab Snirates, United Republic of Caneroon, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Israel, U:ited States of America.

Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burma, Canadal Chile' Denmark,
Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Ebderal Republic of,
Guatemala, Haitir lceland, Irelandr Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica'
Japan, tilepal, l.letherlands, New Zealand, llcrway, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Portugal, Swazilandr Sweden, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and lbrthern lreland, Uruguay, Zaire.

III. RECOMMXNDATION OF THE TIRST COMTT'IITTEE

7. lttre First @mmittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Israeli nuclear armament

L/ Subsequently, the delegation of the Dominican Republic
had intended to abstain"

indicated that it



Pd36/157
English
Page 4

Recalling also its resolution 33/7L A of 14 December 1978 on nilitary and
nuclear collaboration with Israe1 and its resolutions 34/89 of 11 December 1979 and
35/L57 of 12 December 1980 on Israeli nuclear armamentl

Alarmed by the increasing evidence regarding Israelrs attempts to acquire
nuclear weatrDns,

libting with concern that Israel has persistently refused to adhere to the
Treaty on the lilrn-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons despite repeated calls by the
General Assembly and the Security Council to place its nuclear facilities under
International Atomic Energy Agency safeguardsl

Recalling Security Oouncil resolution 487 (1981) of 19 June 198I'

Recalling the resolution adopted on 12 June 1981 by the Board of Governors of
the International Atotnic Energy Agency 2/ and resolution GC(XxV) /XES/3BL adopted on
26 September 1981 by the C;eneral Oonference of the Agency, in which the @nference,
inter alia, considered the Israeli act of aggression as an attack against the
Agency, and its safeguards rdgime, and decided to suspend the provision of any
assistance to Israel,

Recalling its repeated condemnation of the nuclear c-ollaboration between
fsrael and South Africa,

Taking note of the retrnrt of the Secretary-General on fsraeli nuclear
armament, 3/

L. Erpresses its appreciation to the Secretary-Genera1 for his retrnrt on
Israeli nuclear armament,

2. .Drpresses its deep alarm that the retrnrt has established that Israel has
the technical capability to manufacture nuclear yreapons and possesses the means of

''tlelivery of such weaponst

3. also expresses its deep con that Israel has undermined the
credibility of the fnternational Atomic Energy Agency safeguardsr in particular by
the bombing of the-Iragi nuclear facilities which were under Agency safeguards;

4. Reaffirns that Israelrs attack on the Iraqi nuclear facilities and
Israelrs capability constitute a serious destabilizing factor in an already tense
situation in the Middle East, and a grave danger to internationaL peace and
securityl

?/ See GC(xxv)/643.
y 

^/36/43L.



A/36/7s7
&rglish
Page 5

_ :.. R9questP the Security Ouncil to prohibit all forns of cooperation withfsrael in the nuclear fieldr

5. calls upon all states and other parties and institutions to terminateforthwith all nuclear collaboration with Israelr

. 7. Resuests the security @uncil to institute effective enforcement actionagainst Israel so as to prevent it from endangering international peace andsecurity by its nuclear-weatrDn capabilityl
8. Demands that rsrael should renounce, without delayr any lDssession ofnuclear weEffi-and place arl ils nuclear activities under international safeguardsl

_ ?. Requests the Secretary-General to give maximum publicity to the retrnrt onrsraeli nuclear armament and to distribute it to Member states, the specialized
agencies and the rnternational Atomlc Erergy lgency and nongovernmentalorganizations, so that the international cornmunity and public opinion nay be fulJ.yaware of the danger inherent in rsraelrs nuclear capabiiityl

10- Frrrther requests the secretary-Generar to forlow
nuclear activity and to report thereon as appropriatel

closely Israeli military

11' Ftrrther, req.uests the secretary-General to transmit the report on rsraelinucrear arnament to the General Assembly at its second special session devoted todisarmamentl

to include in the provlsional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session the itenr entitled ilsraeli nuclear armatnentr.

L2. Decides




