
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAI,

v36/52L
26 October 198I

ORTGINAL: ENGTISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 74

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROGR,AII{ME FOR THE DECADE FOR ACTION
TO CO!{BAT RACISM AIID RACIAL DISCRIMINATION

Report of the third Conunittee

Erpporteurs Mr. Naoharu FWII (JaPan)

I. INTRODIJCTION

l. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 Segrtember 1981r the General Assenrbl-y decided
to include in its agenda the item entitled trfmplementation of the Programme for the
Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discriminationt and to allocate it to
the lltrird Comnittee.

2. Tlre Conunittee considered this iten jointly with items SL and 82 at its 4th to
I4th, 18th, 20th and 22nd neetings, on 25 Septenber and on l, 5 to 9 and 14 to
16 October 1991. lhe views expressed by the representatives of l'lember States,
specialized agencies and observers on this iten are contained in the sunnary
records of those meetings (A/C.3/36/SR.4-I4, 18, 2O and 221.

3. The Cornnittee had before it the folLowing documentation:

(a) Inplenentation of the Programne for the Decade for Action to Combat
RaciErn and Racial Discrirninationl report of the Secretafy-General
lA/36/5L5) r sub,rnitted in accordance with General Aseernbly resolution
30s7 (x)ffIlI) t

(b) Education activities and activities of the mass nedia in the fight
against racism and racial discrininationl relnrt of the Secretary-
General (A/36/75't r submitted in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 33/99t

81-27516 0041g (E)



A/36/62L
English
Page 2

(c) Report of the Ebonomic and Social Council, chapter XXI (A/36/3/Add.2Ll 7 \/
(d) Letter dated 2 l4arch 1981 frorn the Permanent Representative of India to

the United ltlations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
documents of the Conference of Ministers for Ftrreign Affairs of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at New De1hi from 9 to t3 February 1981
(A/36/LL6 and Corr.l) i

Letter dated 5 October 1981 from the Permanenl Representative of Cuba to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
resolutions adopted by the sixty-eighth Inter-Parliamentary Conference,
held at Havana from 15 to 23 September 1981 lA/36/584).

4. At the 4th meeting' on 25 Septernber, the Director of the Division of Human
Rights made an introductory statemen!.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION

5. The Committee had before it the text of the drafl resolution recommended by
the Economic and Social Council in its resolution 1981/30, entitled ,,fmplementation
of the Programme for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination". The text was distributed as document A/c.3/36/L.3.

6. At the 20th meeting, on t5 October, the representative of Morocco proposed
that the words: "in certain parts of the worrd" be added at the end of the
fifteenth preambular paragraph.

7. At the same meeting, the representative of Algeria proposed that the addition
at the end of the fifteenth preambular paragraph read as follows: "wherever such
discrimination existstr. Subseguently, the representative of Morocco proposed that,
in the text proposed by Algeria, the words nsuch discrimination existsn be replaced
b1f "such problens exist{.

8. The amendment pro;nsed by the representative of Algeria, as amended by the
representative of l.,lorocco, was then accepted by the Conrnittee.

9. At the same meeting, the @mmittee adopted the draft resolution, as amehded,
by 110 votes to 19, with 4 abstentions (see para. f0).

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

10. The Third Conmittee recommends to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

(e)

y Bo be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Thirtv-sixth Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/36/3/Rev.1).



^/36/62tEnglish
Page 3

Inplementation of tbe Programme for the Decade -for Action
to Combat Racisrn and Racia1 Discrimination

The General Assemblyr

Reaffirming its resolve to bring about the total and unconditional eradication
of racisnr, racial discrinination and aBartheidr which sti[ represent serious
obstacles to further progress and to the strengthening of international p('race and
security,

Recalling that, in its resolution 3057 (XXVIII) of 2 tikevember 1973 and in the
erogrlffi tci-the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination
annexed thereto, and in other relevant resolutions, it caIled uSnn all peoples,
Governments and institutions to continue their efforts to eradicate racism, racial
discrimination and apartheid and thus to promote respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms for all, without distinction as to race' colour, descent or
national or ethnic origin,

Taking into account the Dectraration and the Programne of Action adopted by the
World Conierence to 6mbat Racism and Racial Discrimination' 2,/

Recalling thatr in the progranrne of activities to be undertaken during the
second half of the Decade for Action to Cornbat Racism and Racial Discrimination
contained in the annex to its resolution 34/24 of 15 ti&cvember L979, it called upon
all States, United Nations organs and interEovernmental and non-governrnental
organizations to intensify their efforts to achieve the speediest attainment of the
objectiveE of the Decade, aimed at the conplete and final elinination of all forns
of racism and racial discrinination'

Bearing in mind the resounding victory of the people of Zirnbabwe' achieved as
a result of the struggle which it waged for the reconquest of its sovereignty and
independence against the racist colonial 169ime that was oppressing it,

Expressinqr howeverr its serious concern at the situation prevailing in South
efrica ana througb ica as a result of the trnlicies and actions of
th..@r6gine,particuIar1yitseffortstoperpetuateandstrengthenracist
donination of the country, its lnlicy of rbantustanization", its brutal repression
of optrnnents of apartheid and its renewed acts of aggression against neighbouring
States'

Reaffirrning that apartheid is a crime against humanity,

Particularlv concerned at the persistence of the illegal occupation of Nanibia
by the racist ninority r6gine of South Africar

U ReEprt of the World Conference to Cgnbat Racism an9 Baci?l
Discrinination, Geneva, 14-25 August 1978 (United Nations publication' Sales li&c.
8.79,XIV.2) r chap. II.



A/36/62L
English
Page 4

DisaPlpinted that the talks between the united Nations and the South African
racist and lIlegal occupation r6gime aimed at reaching a negotiated settLement of
the guestion of Namibia have thus far failed because of the bad faith of that
r6gime,

Reaffirming that any collaboration with the racist r69ine of South Africa
constitutes a hostile act against the oppressed people of South Africa and a
contemptuous defianee of the United Nations and the international corununity,

- Considerinq that such collaboration strengthens the racist r6gime, enctouragesit to persist in its repressive and aggressive policy and seriously aggravates the
situation irr southern Africar thus constituting a threat to internltionaf peace and
security,

Seriogsly concerned at the fact that the principal gfestern and other trading
partners of South Africa are continuing to collaborate with the racist r6gine and
that their collaboration constitutes the nain obstacle to the abolition of that
r69ime and the elirnination of the inhuman and criminal systen of alrartheidl

Alarmed at the persistent collaboration by certain Western states and Israel
with the racist r6gime of South Africa in nuclear natters,

_ - Aware of the constant need to nobitize public opinion against any trnlitical,military' econonic and other assistance granted to the racist r6gine oe-Souttr
Africa,

Aware of the need to pronote soLutj.ons to the problems of discrinination
facing nigrant workers and their fanilies wherever such problems exist,

Recalling its resolution 35/33 of 14 litcvember 1980, in which it decided to
hold in 1983 a Second worLd @nference to Combat Racisn and Racial Discrimination,
which' while reviewing and assessing the activities undertaken during the Decade,
should have as its rnain purpose the fornulation of ways and means and of specific
measures ained at ensuring ttre fuLl and universal inplementation of United Nations
decisions and resorutions on racism, racial, discrimination and elrartheid;

Stressing the irntrnrtance of attaining the objectives of the Decade,
Convinced that the Second World Conference to Combat Racisrn and Racial

Discrimination will nake a useful and constructive eontribution to. thc attainnent
of those objectives;

I. ProcLaims that the elinination of all forns of racism and of
discrimination based on race and the attainment of the objectives of the prograntne
for the Decade for Action to Conbat Racism and Racial Discrirnination and of the
Programme of activities to be undertaken during the second half of the Decade are
natters of high priority for the international comnunity and, therefore, for ttre
United Nationsl



v36/62L
English
Fage 5

2. Stronqlv coEdgnns ttre policies of aoartheidr riclan and raclaldiscrlmina@uthernAfrlca1aiIoccupiedArabterr1toriesand
elsewhere, including the denial of the riini 

"t 
peoptes to self-deternlnatlon andindependencel

3' Reaff$g its strong support for the natlonal llberation struggle agalnetracismr raGffirirninationl aparthetd, colonLallsm and foreign donination andfor serf-determination b1r au affi5E-m,eans, including 
"rr.i struggle,

_^,- 1.. n?affirns the inarienabre rights of ttre Nanlbian people toseu-determination and indep,endence,
5' Yiogrougly. congenns ttre repeated acts of aggression comltted by southAfrica against neignrowlng statesl partlcularry against Angola, Botswana,lbzambique and Zambial ----w!"-7

6' Expresses its profound solidarltv rittr the front-rine states that arevictins 
"f lizatlon attentrts of gre pretorla169inel

7' Fce aqain invltgs arl ttlernber states, united NationE organa, speclallzedagencies, intergovernmental organlzations, natlonal llberation rcvenents,antt-ry!!g!$ and anti-raclst organlzations and other Eolidarity groups tostrengthen and enlarge the scrope of their activltles rn ippoii or-tr,e-objecttveeof ttre Programe for tte Decadet

.8. .lgain feguFFts the security councll to conslder, as a natter of urgency,the iqnsitlon of fuIl nandatory sanctlons under chapter vrr of the charter of theunited Natlons against ttre racisr r6glne or soutn lfilca, inctudinj, 
-ii-"";alloi.r,

an embargo on the delivery of oil and oll products to south Africa and ttreEtrengthening of the embargo on arns, rlth a view to puttlng an end to alt. nilltaryand nuclear collaboration rlttr Souttr Africal
9' Sprove? ttre Declaration of the rnternational Seninar on grernplementatlon and Reinforcerrent of the Arms Enbargo agalnst, south Afrlcar !/ rtrtchwas held in rondon fron I to 3 April 1981 under ttri sponeorshlp of t5e spgclalConmittee against Apartheidl

- 10' -viggrougly. ssndeqrns_the collaboratlon of certain lfestern countrlesltrsraer and ether statcs and of transnatlonal -corlnratlone.and othe:. organizatione,which are maintalnlng or continuing to increase thelr collaboratlon rlth the raclstr6girne of Souttr Af,ricar trnrtlcutariy tn ttre poifti.calr eoononlcl nilltary andnuclear flelds, tlereby encouraging ttrat r69l.me to persist rn iie lnhunan andcrininal policy of brutal oppression of the peoples of southern Afrlca and itsdenial of hunan rightsl s'Y 'be

v V36/L9O-9/L1442, annex.

/...



A/35/62L
English
Page 6

11. Calls once again upon all Ciovernments which have not yet done so to talk
1egis1ati"@othermeasuresinrespectoftheirnationa1sand
tfre Uoaies corporate under their jurisdiction that own enterprises in southern
Africa in order to Put an end to such enterprisesl

L2. Calls upon all States to adopt, as a matter of high Priority, measures
declaring lfiisnaUfe by law any dissemination of ideas based on racial superiority
or hatred and outlawing organizations based on racial hatred and prejudicer -
including neo-Nazi and Fascist organizations and private clubs and institutions
established on the basis of racial criteria or proPagating ideas of racial
discrimination and g@5!.t

13. Invites Member States, the organs and bodies of the United Nations system
and the "pffi"d 

agencies to continue their efforts with a view to the
protect.ion of the rights of aL1 rnigrant workers and their familiesi

14. Takes note of the progress.nade by the Economic and Social Council at its
firstreguffinof1981inconnexionwiththepreparatoryworkfortheSecond
l{orld Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discriminationl

15. Decides ttrat the Preparatory Sub-Comnittee for the Second World
Conference to co;bat Racism and Racia1 Discrinination, established by the President
of the Economic and Social Council in accordance wibh Council decision 1981/130
of G May l9gl, Shall hold its first session in New York duriflg the first guarter
of L982, for a period of two weeks, and shalI rePort to the Council at its first
regular session of L982, the Council being the Preparatory Conmittee for the
Conferencet

15. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Preparatory Sub-Committee
with all necessary assistancet

L7. Furlher requests the Secretary-General to apSnint' in 1982' after
consu1tatiffina1groups,asecretary-General.fortheSecondWor1d
Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination, who shall have the rank of
Assistant Secretary-@nera1 and shatrL be restrnnsible for the organization of the
Conference and co-ordination with Member States, orEans and bodies of the United
Nations, specialized agencies and intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations;

18. Invites llember states to continue to co-oPerate with the
Secretary-Ge"eral as part of the Progranme for the Decade and the preparations for
the Conferencet

19. Invites ttre appropriate organs and bodies of the United Nations system to
contribute to the preparations for the Conferencet

20- Expresses its satisfaction to the Conunittee on the ELinination of Racial
Discrirnination, the speciar confii-ue against Apartheidr the united Nations council-
for Namibia, the SpeciaL Comnittee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of ttre Declaration on the Granting of Independence to colonial



A/36/62L
English
Page 7

Countries and Peoples, the Committee on the Exercise of the Inatienable Rights of
the Palestinian People and the Cornnission on Human Rights, through its aO ioc
Working Group of Experts on Southern Africa, for their contribution to Efre
implenentation of the Progranme for the Decade and invites then to include in their
activities the preparations for the Conference,

2L. Decides to consider at its thirty-seventh session the status of
preparations for the Second World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrinination;

22. Decides to consider at its thirty-seventh session, as a natter of highpriority, th;Item entitled nlnplementation of the Programme for the Decade to
Combat Racism and Racia1 Discriminationr'.




