








































UN]TED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

^/36/66L16 November 1981

ORIGINAT: ENGLISg

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda itern 85

HUIvaN RrGHts AND SCIENTIFTC AND TEcHNoLocrcAr. DEVELOPMENTS

Report of the Third Comnittee

Raplprteurs Mr. Naoharu FtlJII (Jatrnn)

I. INTRODTETION

1. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 Septenber 1981, the General Assernbly decided
to incLude in its agenda the item entitled 'rltuman rights and scientific and
technological developments: report of the Secretary-Genera}tr and to allocate it to
the Third Comnittee.

2. The Corunit,tee considered this iten jointly with items ?5, 86, 87 anci 91 at
27th to 38th neetings from 22 Eo 30 Octoberr dnd on 2 and 3 November 1991. The
views expressed by representatives of Menber State,s on this item are containetr
the sumnary records of those meetings (MC.3/36lSR.27-38) .

its

in

3. The Conunittee had before it the report of the Secretary-General on human
rights and scientific and technological develo[xnents (A/36/429 and Ado.l and 2),
4. At the 27th meeting, on 22 october, the Deputy Director of the Division of
Human Rights made an inEroductory staternent on the itern.

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A,/C.3,/36,/L.3I
t. At the 3?th meeting, on 2 November, the representat,ive of the Byelorussian
soviet Socialist Republic introduced a draft resolution (A/c.3/36/L.3Ll sSnnsored by
Argentina, Bulgaria, the Byeloruss.ian soviet socialist Republic, czechosllvakia,

"g"""ar, Maur+tani., Morrgoli., 
pol"rrd, Romrria 3n6

81-30831 0133b (E)



F{36/66L
English
Page 2

Viet Nam, later joined by 5$9, 99I9SEia, the Co?go, gg.ggl.Grenader Malir-S9S,
GzarnoGue, Nicaiasua ""a G_elG* 

ttre arart resolution read as follows:

l"@,
nNoting that scientific and technological progress is one of the imtrnrtant

f,actors in Ehe development of human societyr
rReaffirming that scient,ific and technological progress is a necessary

prereqffi for-accelerating social and economic develoPment in aL1 countriesr

"Noting once again the great imtrnrtance of the Declaration of the Use of
Scientific and lffio-ofogical Progress in the Interests of Peace and for tbe
Benefit of li!"ankindr adopted by the General AssembLy in its resolution
3384 (xXx) of 10 November 1975,

"Considering that inplementation of the said Declaration will contribute
to the strengttrening of internationar peace and security of peoplesr their
economic and social development as well as international co-oPeration in the
fleld of hunan right,s,

..@thattheresu1tsofscientificandtechnoIogica1
progress couLd Ue used for the arms race to the detrlnent of international
peaie and security and social progress' human rights and fundamental freedoms,
the dignity of the human person'

oConvinced that, in the era of modern scienLific and technological
progress, mankitrdts resources and scientistsr activities should be used for
the peaceful economic, social and cuLtural oevelopnent of alL countries and
for the raising of the living standards of peoplesz

"Igggggigilg that rhe establishr8ent of the new international economic
order am-In particular for an intrnrtant conEribution to be nade by science
and technology to economic and social progress,

uBearing in mind that exchange and transfer of scientific and
technoElical knowledge is one of the basic ways to accelerate econornic
developnent of the developing countries,

"Ie!-ig?_g of ttre report of, the Secretary-General on human rights and
scientific and technological developnentl !/

ol. Stresses the inSnrtance of inplenentation by aL1 States of the
provisions ana prfnciples contained in the Declaration on the Use of
Scientific and Technological Progress in the Interests of Peace and for tbe
Benefit of trlankind in order to prorrcte human rights and fundamental freedqns
under conditions of scientific and technological Progresst

v hl36/42e.



tt2. Calls upon all States to
of scienceE-T.cnno1ogy in order
development;

tr5. Requests the Conmission on Human
item entitled nHuman rights and scientific
give special attention to the question of
of the Declaration;

A/36/661,
English
Page 3

make every effort to use the achievements
to ensure the right to work and right to

Rights in its consideration of the
and technological developments' to

the implementation of the provisions

13. Requests the specialized agencies and bodies of t,he United Nations
syscem to take into account in their prograrnmes and activities the provisions
of the above-mentioned Declaration;

n4. Invites those Member states, the specialized agencies and other
bodies oe llffi-fted Nations, which have noL yet done sor to submit their
information in accordance with resolution SS/1:0 a;

-'5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventhsession the item entitled rHuman rights and scientific and technological
developnent | . tr

6. At the 38th meeting, on 3 November, the represenlative of the Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic orally revised operative paragraph 2 of the draft
resolution to replace the words "ensure the right to work and right to developmenttr
by the words "promote economic and social development and progress,.

7. At the same meeting,
suggestions:

the representative of Somalia nade the following

(a) In the eighth preambular paragraph, insert the words othe social and"
between the words nto accererate' and ,economic deveropmenttrl

(b) In operative paragraph 2, as orally revised,
and social development and progressn by the words "the
econornic and cultural development of aII countriesr.

replace the words ,,economic
over-all peaceful social,

8. lltte representative of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic subseguently
further revised the draft resolution as follo!'rs to take into account some of the
suggestions nad'e by Somalia:

(a) ltte words "social andtr were inserted between the words "to acceleratetrand "economic development" in the eighth preambular paragraph;
(b) In operative paragraph 2r- the words j'prornote the peaceful social,

economic and cultural development ind progress-were inserted after "in order !o".
9. At the same lReeting, the Connittee adopted the draft resolution, as orally
revised, by 116 to none, with 25 abstentions (see para. 18, draft resolution lj.



A/36/65L
English
Page 4

B. Draft resolution A,/9.3/36lL.32

10. At the 37th meeting, the represenLative of_ the United Kingdom introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.3/35/L.32), 

"Eott"oted 
by botswana, @sta Rica, Fijir Ghan?r

Guatemalar It Lesotho, Morocco Netherlands Panama, Sierra
Singapore' and the United of Great Bri Northern Ire , Iater
joined by the Gambia. Ttre draft resolution r as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 33/53 of 14 December 1978, in which it
requesffi-Etre Commission on Human Rights to urge the Sub-@mmission on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities to undertake as a
matter of priority a study of ttre question of the protection of those detained
on the grounds of mental ill-health with a view to formulating guidelines,

,'EgSlI!pg. also its resolution 35/L3O B, which welcomed the action taken
fo implernent its resolut.ion 33/53 by the Sub-Commission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities,

"@atrePortsfromseveralPartsofthewor1dofpersonsbeing
detained in mental institutions on accqrnt of their Snlitical views and on
other non-medical grounds.

,,theworkbein9undertakenbytheSub-Cornmission
on prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities on this subject
in accordance with its resolutions 33/53 and 351130 B,

"B9SS the Conunission on l|uman Rights to continue its consideration of
thisquffiinthe1i9htoftheactionbeingtakenbytheSub-oommissionon
Prevention of Discrinination and Protection of Minorities' with a view to
submitting a report to the General Assernbly at its 38th session through t'he
Economic and Social Council-."

11. At the 38th meeting' the representative
preambular paragraph of the draft resolution

India suggested to replace the third
the following SnragraPh:

of
by

',9@thatdetentionofpersonsinmentaIinstitutionsonaccountof
their potiti.cat views or on other non-medical grounds is a viol-ation of their
human rightsr tt.

The suggestion was accepted by the representative of the United Kingdom and the
draft resolution vras revi.sed accordingly.

L2. At the same meeting, the Conrnittee adopted the draft resolution, as revisedt
without a vote (see para. 18' draft resolution B).



v36/56L
English
Page 5

C. Draf t decision VC.3,/36lt.35

13. At the 37th rneetingr tbe repreaentatlve of EIglg, lntroduced a draft decielon
(VC.3/36/L.35) which read as follws;

'@,
".!9gg!g, the Department of Rrblic Infornatlon, through the

Secretary-Generalr to preparer h the varloua rorklng languagel of the Unlted
l{ations ao as to give tben the wldest lnsstble prbtrtcttyr a booklet outlinlng
the nain points of the studies on'hunan rlghta and scientlfle ard
technologicaL develotrments whlch rrere preprred by the gecretary-General ln
trf,rrEuance of General Assembly resolgtton 2150 (nlltl tnd tere guhttted to
the General Assenbly and the Conmisslon on nunrn Rlgbtr..

14. Ttre Comnittee had bef,ore it a statenent on the adnlnlatratlve and flnancial
lnplicationi of the draft decision lVC.3/t6/L.lOl.
15. At the 38ttr neetingr the draft declslon rag revlaed at follorgr

(a) the words "using the avallable resourcesr rere iheert€d b€treen the sordaoto prepare' and tin the varioue uorlring languageert
(b) iltre words iand other relevant resolutiont' rere lnecrted after the rordsoresolution 2{50 (XXIII)n.

16. Ttre Comnittee was informed that the draft declslonr as revi,eedl had no
f inancial implications.

L7. At the sane meetingr the Comittee adopted the draft dcclllon, as revleed,
without a vote (see trnra. 19) .

III. RECOI0,ENDATIONS OF TBE TtrIRD @lf|Il[:lEB
18. Ttre Ttrird Ommittee recmends to th€ General Areobly tlrc e&ptlon of th6
following draft resolutions.r

tlurnan rlghts and sclentlflc and tedrnolooletl develoninte
'^

The General Assemblyr

tfotinq tltat scientlf,ic and technologlcal progrers lr one of tlre ln6nrtant
factors in the develotrnent of bunan socletyr

Reaffirninq that ecientif,ic and teclrnologlcal l,rolrra3f lr a ncce33ary
prerequisite for accelerating aocial and econolc develolrnt ln rll aqrntrtes,

/, ..



^/36/66LEnglish
Page 6

ti*rting once, again the great imgnrtance of, the lleclaration on the Use of
Scienmic and Technologieal Progress in the Interesta of Peace and for the Benefit
of Mankin$r adopted Uy ihe General Assenbly in its resolution 3384 (xxx) of
l-0 Novernber L975 . .

Considerinq that implementation of the said Declaration wlll contribute to the
strengttlening of international peace and security of peopJ.esr their economic and
social developnent as well as. international co-operation in the field of hunan
rights,

Seriously concerned that the results of scientific and technological. progress
could be usea for the arlns race to the detriment of international peace and
security and social progress, human rights and fundamental freedons, and the
dignity of the human Person,

Convinced that, in the era of nodern scientific and technological progress'
mankindrs resources and scientistsr activities should be used for the peaceful
economic, social and cultural development of all countries and for the raising of
the living standards of PeoPIes,

Recognizing that the establishnent of the new international economic order
calls in particular for an irqnrtant contribution to be made by science and
technology to economic and social progress,

Bearing in rnind that exchange and transfer of scientific and technological
knowledge is one of the basic lrays to acceLerate social and economic development of
the develoPing countries

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on human rights and
scienElEic andEchnological developmentsl !i/

1. Stresses the imSnrtance of the implenentation by all States of the
provisions ana piinciples contained in the Declaration on the Use of Scientific and
Technological- Progress in the Interests of Peace and for the BenefiL of Mankind in
order to promote human rights and fundamental freedoms under conditions of
scientific and technological progressi

2. Calls upon all States to make every effort to use the achievements of
science an{ technology in order to profipte peaceful social, econqnic and cultural
development and Progresst

3. Requests the specialized agencies and bodies of the United Nations system
to take into account in their prograrmrcs and activities the provisions of the
DeclarationT

4. Invites those Member States, the specialized agencies and other bodies of
the UniteaTu-i" which have not yet done so to submit their information in
accordance with General Assembly resorution 35rl130 A of 11 December'19801

U N36/429 and Add.l and 2.



A/36/66L
English
Page 7

5. Requests the Comxnission on lturnan Rigtrts in its consideration of the item
entitled nHuman rights and scientific and technological develolxnents" to give
special attention to the guestion of the inplenentation of the provisions of the
Declaration;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of, its thirty-seventh session
the iten entitled nlluman rights and scientific and technological cievelopmentsn.

B

The General Assembly'

Recalling its resolution 33/53 of 14 Decenber 19780 in which it requesteci the
Cornmission on lfuman Rights to urge the Sub-Commission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities to un,Jertake as a matter of priority a
study of the guestion of the protection of those detained on the grouncis of, mental
ill-health with a view to formulating guidelines,

Recalling also its resolution 35rl130 B of 1I December 1980, in which it
welcomed the action Eaken by the Srb-Cornmission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities to implenent resolution 33153r

Convinced that ctetention of persons in mental institutions on account of their
or on ottrer non-medical grounds is a violation'of their humantrnlitical views

rights,

Noting with satisfaction the work being undertaken by the Sub-Conrnission on
Prevention of Discrinination and Protection of Minorities on this subject in
aqcordance with General Assernbly resolutions 33rl53 and 35,/130 Br

Requests the Coruniseion on ItunaR Rights to continue its consideration of this
question in the li.ght of the action being taken by the Sub-Corunission on Prevention
of Discrimination and Protection of Minoritiesr with a view to subrnitting a report
to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session through the Econonic and
Social Council.

***

t9. The Third Cqnrnittee also reconunends to the General Assembly t*re adoption of
the following draft decision:

$uman rights and scientific and technological developments

The General Assembly requests the Secretary-General to instruct the Department
of Public rnf,ormation to prepare, using the available resources, ln the various
working languages o,f the United Nations so as to give them the widest possible
publicity, a booklet outLining the main points of the studies on human rights and
scientific and technorogical developnentE which lrere prepared by the
Secretary-C'eneral in pursuance of C'eneral Assembly regolution 21150 (XXIXI) of
19 Decenber L968 ano ouher relevant, resolutionE and were suinnitted Lo the Assenbly
and the Comriseion on Human Rights.


