








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/36/6e4/Add.9
l0 December 1981

ORIGINAL: ENGLTSH

Thirty-sixLh session
Agenda item 69 (j)

DE\IEIDPMENT AND TNTERNATIONAL EcoNoMrc co-opERATroN: ENVTRoNuENT

Beport of the Second Comrnittee (p?rt X)
Rapporteur: Mt. Ahmed OULD SIDTAHMED (Mauritania)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Second Commj.ttee held a substantive debate on item 69 (see A/36/694,
Para. 2',,. Action to be taken on subiten (j) was considered at the 25Lh, 2gth,
3lst, 35th' 44th and 46th meetings of the Committee, on 27 and 30 october, 6,
11 and 27 !0ovember and 7 December 1981. An account, of the committeers discussion
is contained in the relevant sunnary records (ArzC.2/36/5R.25r 2g, 3I, 35,
44 and 46).

II. CONSTDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolutions a/C.2/36rlL.12 and Rev.t
2. At the 25th meeting, on 27 october, the representative of the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya' on behalf of lgrlnocratic, I?men, nthiopia, the I,ibyan Arab Jamahiriva,Ma4agaqcar, and the svrianffiintioaucea u araffitution
(A/C.2/36/L.12), entitled "Problem of remnants of war'r. Subseguently Algeria,
f?"lu'cgb?'-J..o{dan, Kuwait, Mozambigue, Nicaragua, eatar and the unigea arausnirate6 jolned in sponsoring tne resorution-which-reaa as ro11owsT

rrThe General Assemblv,

_ "IggIElg its resolution 2995 (Xxvrr L 2996 (xxvlr I and 2997 (xXVIr) of15 Decenber L972, pertaining to co-operation among StFtes in the field of the
environment, the international responsibility of States in protecting the
environment and the establishment of the Governing Council of tne United
Nations Environment progralune,

"Recalling also its resorutions 3435 (xxx) of 9 December 1975 and
35/7L of 5 December 1980,

81-36017 0r29h (E)



A/36/694/Add.9
Engl ish
Page 2

'rRecalling further decisions 80 (IV) of 9 April 1976, !/ LIL (V) of
25 taay L977 U and 9/5 of 25 May 1981 1_/ ot the Governing Council of the
United Nations Environment programme,

"Convinced that the removal of remnants of war should be the
responsibility of the countries that implanted them and should be carried out
at their expense.

"1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General; 4/
u2. Regrets that no real action has been taken to solve the problem of

remnants of war despite the various resolutions and decisions adopted by both
the General Assembly and the Governing Council of the United Nations
Envj.ronment progr amme ;

"3. Rg,4gqalSs its support for the demand of the States affected by the
irapl-antati;t of;ines on their lands for compensation for the losses incurred
from the States which planted the mines;

"4. Appeals to all States to co-operate with the Secretary-General in
order to enable hirn to make specific recorunendations for solving the problem
of remnants of war i

"5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue his contacts and
consultations with Member states pursuant Lo General Assembly resolution 35/7L
in order t.o find ways and means for solving the problem of remnants of war,
and to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session."

3. At the 35th meeting, on 11 Novembgr, the representative of the tipygp Ara,b
Jamihiriya, on behalf of the sponsors, introduced a revised draft resolution
(A/C.2/36/L.L2/Rev.I), which contained the following changes:

(a) Operative paragragh 3 was revised to read as follows:

'3. Reiterates its support for the demand of the States affected by
the implanllG-iF*ines and the presence of other remnants of war on
their l-ands for compensation for the losses incurred from the States-
responsible for those remnants,';

L/ See Offici3l Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-first Session,
Supplement No. 25 (A/3L/25), annex I.

U Ibid., Thirty-second Session, Supplement No. 25 (A/32/25,), annex f.

1/ Ibid., Thirty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 25 (A/36/25 and Corr.l),
annex I.

u' A/36/s3L.



A/36/694/Ad.d.9
English
Page 3

(b) Operative paragraph 4 was revised to read as follows:

"4. Appeals to atL states, particularly those responsible for the
presence of remnants of war in developing countries, to eo-operate with
the Secretary-General in order to enabLe him to make specific and
effective reconunendations for solving the probLem of remnants of wartri

(c) Operative paragraph 5 was revised to read as follows:
tr5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue his contacts and

consultations with Member States pursuant to General Assembly resolution
35/7L and to collate all relevant information received from States, in
order to find ways and means, inctuding the lnssibility of convening a
conference under the auspices of the United Nations, for solving the
problem of remnants of war, and to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-seventh session".

4. Malta and Mauritania subseguently joined in sponsoring the revised draft
resolution.

5. Statements htere made before the vote by the representatives of the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.

6. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution by 97 votes to
none' with 28 abstentions'y (see para. 29, draft resorution r).
7. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Italy, the Federal Republic of Gernany and the United K,ingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ire1and.

B. Draft resoLution A,/C.2,/36,/I,.21. and Rev.l
8. At the 28th meeting, on 30 october, the representative of Sweden, on behalf of
EnglaggE!, @1|9, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, India, Kenyar lggggl, Sweden and
Yugoslavia, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/36/L.2Ll entitled "session of a
special character of the Governing Council of the United Na,tions Environment
Progranne in 1982", which read as foll_ows:

rrThe General AsSemb1y,

"Recalling paragraphs 13 to 15 of its resolution 35/74 of 5 Decernber 1980
on international co-operation in the field of the envi,ronrnent,

2/ Subsequently, the delegations of Madagascar and Malta indicated that, had
they been present during the vote, they r.rourd have voted in favour



v36/6e4/Add.9
English
Page 4

."Concerned that there is need to revive the sense of urgency and
connitment by Governments for national and international co-operative action
to protect and enhance the environment which found expression at the United
Nations Conference on the Human Environnent, held at Stockholm in June 1972,

"Considering that the fundamental changes in the perception of the
environment and of environmental problems which have occurred since that
Conference require the formulation of an adequate response by the world
comnunity which takes into account the interrelationships between people,
resources, environment and development,

'1. Decides that the session of a special character of the Governing
Council of the United Nations Environment Programrne should be held at Nairobi
fron 10 to 18 !{ay 1982 and should report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-seventh session;

s2. Recommends that at that session there should be a linit of
15 minutes-6liffients by heads of delegation to the plenary;

n3. Approves the draft provisional agenda of the session as set forth in
section f of the annex to the present resolutiont

rr4. Further decides that the rules of procedure of the Governing Council
wi11app1vEffinofaspecia1chara"t"',withmodificationsto
rules 17,18, L9r 3l and 67 as recommended by the @verning Council and set
forth in section II of the annex to the present resolution;

n5. Reiterates its invitation to Governments to prepare thoroughly for
and to participate in the session of a special character at the highest
political level, and specifically invites ministers dealing with the
environment to participate;

'5. Agrees that there should be a special public information programme
alorig the lines indicated by the Executive Director of the Unit,ed Nations
Environment Progr amme 3

"7. "Etcourages the participation of non-governmental organizations in
the session of a special character, in accordance with the practices normally
followed by the C;overning Council.

trANNEX

"Session of a special character of the Governing Council of the
United Nations Environment Prograrnme in 1982

trI. Draft provisional agenda

nl. Opening of the session



n2. Adoption of the rules of procedure
n3. Election of the president of the session

"4. Organizational and procedural rnatters
o (a) Moption of the agenda and organization of work

" (b) Election of officers other than the president

"5. Credentials of representatives

'6. Review of the major achievements in the inplementation of
for the Human Environment

n7. Future action and international co-operation in the field
environment

" (a) Preparation of the Environmental perspective Document
2000 and beyond

A/36/6e4/Pd,d.e
English
Page 5

Che Action Plan

of the

to the year

[ (b) Major environmental trends to be addressed by the united l€tions
Environment Progratnme over the next l0 years

"8. Moption of the report of the session

'9. Closure of the session

"rr. Anendments to the rules of procedure of the Governing
Council for the session

"Rule 17 (Representation and credentiars). rn view of the broader
participation to be expected at the session of a special characterr the
Council may wish, in line with rule 28 of the rules of procedure of the
General Assembly, to establish a Credentials Comnittee of nine rnernbers, with
the same composition as the Credentials Comnittee of the General Assembly at
its thirty-sixth session. rf this proSnsal is found to be acceptable,
paragraph 2 of rule 17 of the rules of procedure of the Governing Council
should be suspended for the duration of the session.

"Bule 18 (Elections)
tt (.) Paragraph I of rule 18 shourd be amended as folrows:

'At the commencenent of the first meeting of the session of a
speciar character, the c;overning council shall eLect, for the
duration of that session, a president, three vice-presidents and a
Rapporteur from among its members. Those officers shall constitute
the Bureau of ttre Governing councir. The Bureau shall asslst the

/...



A/36/6eA/Pd.d.9
English
Page 6

President in the general conduct of business of the Governing
Council. The Chairman of such sessional committees or working
parties as may be established under rule 50 below shall be invited
to participate in meetings of the Bureau.l

" (b) Paragraph 2 of rule 18 should remain unchanged

" (c) Paragraph 3 of rule 18 should be suspended for the duration of the
session.

"3glS-E (Terms of office) should be suspended for the duration of the session
of a special character to permit that session to elect its own officers. If
rule 19 is not suspended, the officers of the Council at its ninth session
will remain in office during the session of a special character until the
first neeting of the regular tenth session.
rRule 3l (Quorum). Again, in view of the broader participation to be expected
at the session of a special character, it would be advisable to anend this
rule to bring it into line with rule 67 qf the General AssembJ.y on quorums.
The amended rule might read:

rThe President may declare a meeting open and permit the debate to start
when at least one third of the members of the session of a special
character of the Governing Council are present. The presence of a
majority of the members shall be required for any decision to be taken. I

nRule_€ (Participation of States members of the Governing Council). Since
the General Assembly has decided that the session of a special character shall
be open to all Statls, this rule should be suspended for the duration of the
segsion. o

9. A statenent by the Secretary-General on the adrninistrative and financial
inpJ.ications of draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.21 was circulated (A/C.2/36/L.621.

10. At the 44th rneeting, on 27 November, the representative of Sweden, on behalf
of the sponsors, now joined by l{ew Zealand, introduced a revised draft resolution
(F /C.2/36/L.21,/Rev.l), which contained the following changes:

(a) lltre third preambular paragraph was revised to read:,

"!gggg!gi!g that iry>ortant changes in the trnrception of the environment
and of environnental problems have occurred since that Conference and
recognizing also the importance of the interrelalionships between peopl.e'
resourcesr environment and developneDtrti

(b) A new fourth preambular paragraph was added, reading as follows:
iConvinced that the session of a special character represents a unique

optrnrtunity for Governments to re-emphasize their continued commitment and
support to the cause of ttre environment and to the United Nations Environment
Programmert; 

I



A/36/694/Add.e
English
Page 7

(c) Operative paragraph 2 was deleted and the subseguent paragraphs
renumbered accordingly?

(d) A new operative paragraph 6 was inserted before paragraph 7, reading as
follows:

"6. Decides that the present resolution should be inplemented with due
regard for the need for economy in respect of the preparations and
arrangements for the session of a special characteri"i

(e) The foltowing foot-note was added to item 4 of the draft provisional
agenda:

"J Statements in plenary meeting are expected to be made in accordance
with decision 9/2 of 26 l,tay 1981 of the Governing Council of the United
Nations Environment Programme. " i

(f) ftem 7 of the draft provisional agenda was revised to read:

"7. zuture perspectives, action and international co-operation in the
field of the environrnent, and major environmental trends to be
addressed by the United Nations Environment Progranme over the next
10 yearstt.

11. A statement by the Secretary-General on the administrative and financial
irnplications of revised draft resolution A/C.2/35/L.2L/Rev.1 was circulated
(A/c. 2/36 /L. 6 2/Rev. I ) .

J-2. At the same meeting, a representative of the Secretariat made a statement in
which he further revised the statement of administrative and financial implications
(A/C.2/36/L.62/Rev.1) with the following changes:

(a) In section II, entitled "fnformation programme to support a session of a
special character" subparagraphs 8 (b), (d), (e) and (f) were deleted. Similarly,
in the table summarizing the public information activities estimated to reguire
additional provisions, items (b), (d), (e) and (f) with their corresponding
estimated figures were deleted. The total figure of "82r800" was accordingly
revised to read "43 r000t';

(b) In section IV, entitled "summary", item 2, the figure "82i800" was
replaced by the figure u43r000", and the total figure of "7021000" was accordingly
revised to reaci "662 r 200".

13. Ttre Comrnittee then adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.2L/Rev.1 without a vote
(see para. 29 ' draft resolution II) .

14. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the rePresentative of the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics made a statement.

15. At the 47th meeting, on I December, the Rapporteur orally corrected section If
of the annex to the draft resolution. 

/...



A/36/594/Add.9
English
Page 8

C. DxafL resoLuLion AC.2/36/L.22 and A/C.2/36/L.5L
16. At the 28th meeting, on 30 October, the representative of the Gambia, on
behalf of Benin, Canada, Cape Verde, Chadl
Gambia, Ma.li, Mauritania, the Niger, eatar,
Sudanr the United Republic of Cameroon, th1
a draft resolution entitled nfmplementation

Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, @, the
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, the
Upper Volta and Yugoslavia, introduced
in the Sudano-Sahelian region of the

Plan of Action to Combat Desertification". Banqladesh, the
Republic, Ecuador, the Netherlands, Ig!g31, Sweaen ana ttre United States of America
subseguently joined in sponsoring the draft resolution, which read as follows:

rrThe @neral Assembly,

"Recalling its resorutions 32/L7o of r0 Decenber L977, 32/L72 of
19 December L977, 33/88 and 33189 of 15 December L979, 34/L94, 341185 and
34/L87 of lB December L979, and 35/72 and 35/73 of 5 December 1980,

"Eecalling also Ebonomic and Social Council resolutions L978/37 of
21 July L978. L979/5L of 2 August 1979, L98O/52 of 23 .IuIy 1980 and 1981,/72 of
23 July 1981,

'rNoting decisions 9/22 B of 26 lr{ay l98I of the Croverning Council of the
United Nations Environment Programme and decision 8L/4 of 19 rJune I98I of the
Governing council of the united Nations Development. programme,

"Having considered the report of the Governing Council of the United
Nations Environment Prograrnme on the implementation in the Sudano-Sahelian
region of the PIan of Action to Conbat Desertification, 5/

"Reiterating its concern over the severe effects of desertification, a
najor form of environmental degradation and an obstacle to development in
fragile ecosystems, on the socio-economic development and the way of life of
the people of the Sudano-Sahelian region, and emphasizing again the need to
hasten the implementation in the region of the Plan of Action to Combat
Deserti fication,

"r.
Nations
Combat

Takes note of the report of the @verning council of the united
Environment Prograrnme on the implementation of the plan of Action to

Desertification in the Sudano-Sahelian regioni 6/

. 
n2. Expresses its satisfaction with the progress made by the United

Nations Sudano-Sahelian office in assisting the Governments of the region, on
behalf of the United Nations Environment Prograrnme and under a joint venture
of the Environment Programme and the United Nations Development programme, in
inplementing the Plan of Action to combat Desertificationi

u3. AIso notes with satisfaction
coun tr ies
efforts to implement the plan of Action

the addition of Benin to the list of
Nations Sudano-Sahelian Office in the
to Conbat Desertificationi

Central African

9./ A/36/L44, annex.



F{36/6e4/Ad,d.9
English
Page 9

n4. Commends the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment
Programme and the Administrator of the united Nations Developnent progranme
for the effective and co-ordinated manner in which they have continued to
develop the joint venture through the instrumentality of the united llations
Sudano-Sahelian Of f ice I

rr5. Takes note of the decisions of the Governing Councils of the united
Nations Environment Progranune and of the united Nations Development prograrnme
aimed at expanding and strengthening the joint venturee drd invites ttrem to
continue to intensify their support for the United Nations Sudano-Sahelian
office in order to enable it to carry out its increased responsibilities at aIevel cotnmensurate with the pressing needs bf the countries of the region;

u5. r;cpfggESs jle gralllggg to the @vernments, agencies of the UnitedNationssvffio,9ani,.tionsandotherorganizationsthat
have contributed to the implementation in the Sudano-Sahelian region of the
Plan of Action to Conbat Desertification;

, "7. Urges all Governments, organizations of the United Nations system
and other intergovernmental bodies, private organizations and individuals tocontinue to repond favourably, bilaterally or through the united Nations
Sudano-Sahelian office or any other intermediary, to requests for assistance
from the Governments of the Sudano-Sahelian region in combating
desertification I

'8. Requests the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment
Programme to continue to report annually, through the Economic and social
Council, to the General Assernbly on the implementation of the plan of Action
to Combat Desert,ification in the Sudano-Sahelian region.',

17. At the 35th meeting, on ll litrcvember, the Corunittee had before it a draft
resolution |A/C.2/35/L.5L) submitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, vice-Chairman of the
Committeer on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution
A/C.2/36/L.22.

18. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/c.Z/36/L.5L
without a vote (see para.29, draft resolution III), in the light of which draft
resolution A/C.2/36/L.22 was withdrawn by the sponsors.

19. Statements were made by 'the representatives of the Gambia and poland (also on
behalf of Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, the
German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics).

D. praft resoLuEions A/C.2/36/L.32 and A/C.2/36/L.LL0
20. At the 3lst meeting, on 6 November, the representative of Janaica introduced adraft resolution (A/c.2/35/L.32) entitled "Study on financing the plan of Action to
Conbat Desertification'r. The Central African Republic, Ethiopia, Guinea, pakistan



v36/594/Add.9
English
Page l0

and the Sudan subsequently joined in sponsoring the draft resolution which read as
follows:

,r@,

"Sgggfllg its resolution 32/L72 of 19 December Lg77, in which it
approved the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification, !/ and its resolutions
33/88 and 33189 of 15 December 1978, 34/L84, 34/L85 and 34,/187 of
l8 December 1979 and 35/72 and 35/73 of 5 December 1980, dealing with the
various aspects of the implementation of the Plan of Action,

"Taking note of the relevant sections of the report of the Governing
Council of the United Nations Environment Progranme on its ninth session 8,/
and Governing Council decision 9/22 ot 26 laay 1981 on the implenentation of
the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification, 9,/

"@ the report on financing the PIan of Action ' Wpreparea by the Secfetary-General in consultation with the United Nations
Environment Programme and with the assistance of groups of experts on the
subjects concerned, convened by the Dcecutive Director of the Programme,

'1. libtes vrith concern that the problen of insufficient f inancing and
the increasing demands on the scarce resources of countries suffering from
desertification are constraining the inplementation of the PIan of Action to
Combat Desertif ication;

u2. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-Genera1 and the annex
thereto containing feasibility studies on and detailed modalities for
financing the Plan of Action to Combat Desertification prepared by a group of
high-level specialists in international financing;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General and the Director-General for
Development and International Economic Co-operation:

"(a). To examine the recommendations on the additional neans of financing,
including those providing for a predictable flow of fundsr BDd to consider how
these may be implemented within the context of continuing efforts to
strenghten international economic co-operation;

y A/CoNr.74/36, chap. I.

y Official Records of the Gengral Assembly, Thirty-sixth Session,
Supplement No. 25 (A/35/251.

2/ rbid., annex r.

p/ A/36/r4L.



A/36/6e4/ed'd.e
English
Page 1l

" (b) To determine the most appropriate ways and means by which the
organizations of the united lilations system, Member states, the regionar
deveropment banks and other intergoveinmental and private sources of financingcan initiate concrete measures for the apptication- of the *Juiili.; ;; 

-- -
obtaining financial resources on a concessionary basis;

n4. Reqges]lg the Secretary-General, in co_operation with the E:<ecutiveDirector of the united Nations Environment programme, to obtain the views ofGovernments and Member states on their interesf i; ;;rai.ipatittg linu".i.rivin the establishrnent of an independent corporation for the financing ofdesertification-control projects according to the plan presented in the annexto the report of the Secretiry_General;
r'5. Ftfrther requests the secretary-Generar to report on the

lmprementation of the above-mentioned measures to the General Assembly at itsthirty-seventh session. tr

2L' At its 44th meeting, on 27 November, the Comnittee considered a draftresolution (A/g-2/36/L.LLO) submitted by t'tr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-chairman of thecottuttittee, on the basis of infornar consultations held on draft resolutionA/c.2/36/L.32.

22' At the same meeting, the committee adopted draft resolution Fy'c.2/36/L.LLLwrEnout a vote (see para. 29, draft resolution IV).
23' rn the light of the adoption of draft resolution F,/C.2/36/L.LL0, draftresolution A/c.2/36/L.32 was withdrawn by the sponsors.
24' After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by therepresentatives of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and lilerthern rreland (onbehalf of states members of the European Economic conmunity) and porand (also onbehalf of Bulgariar the,Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, czectr""r""Ji.l--*"German Denocratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, the-ukr;ili;;-Jovret sociatistRepublic. and the Union of Soviet Socialist nepublics).

E. M"tt r"r"t"C^ etC
25' At the 35th rneeti.g, on ll l{ovember, the representative of rndia, on behalf of
lrgentrnar lceland:, tn9i?, Kenva, *.@_,-trre-NeLerranas, pakistan, senegar, sierra
*l ,g=4ka, $:-ry, €""d.";a vuqosFiSEodffid-. drafr resotution(A/c'2/36/L'45) entitled tntEiEEonar EiFilTTon on the environmenr,: report ofthe Governins council of rhe united Nations il;i;;;; ;;n;;ri" or, its ninrhsessionnr which read as follows:

"Ttra G"n.ral a"".rnbly,

'ttaving considered the report of the
Nations Ervironment progranme on the work

Governing Council of the United
of its ninth session, !/ and the

Supplement No. 25 1$6m
raI Thir sixth Sess!]/ official



v36/6e4/Add.e
English
Page 12

lu
!1/

L!/
E/
L9/

!11

&/
!3J

UNEP/GC. 9/2/Ad!,.4' annex II.

^/36/s7L.
See N36/452.

*e A/36/233.

A/36/L42.

A/36/53L.

A/36/539.

A/36/532 and Corr.I.

report of the D<ecutive Director sf the united lilations Environment Programrne
on the interrelationships between resources, environmentr people and
developmentt W prepared on the basis of the recorunendations of a high-level'
group of experts,

" 13g. Economic and Soclal Council resolutions 1981,/73 of 24 JuIy 1981

"onc"rning 
international co-operation in the field of the environment and

LggL/sL oi ZZ July 198I on the interrelationships bettteen resources'
environment, peopLe and developmentl

,,lbtf!g-3E, the note by the secretary-GeneraL transnitting the report of
ttre Director-GenEra1 for Development and International Economic Co-oPeration
on the interrelationships between resources, environment, peopJ.e and
development, U

"Taking into account the report of the Governing Council of the United
Nations Environment Progranme on problems relating to narine pollutlon, W
and the report of the Inter-Goverimental Maritine Consultative Organization on
the same subject, f!./

nTaking into account also the note by the Secretary-General on
international conventions and protocol.s in the field of environment !fu/ and,
the reports of the Secretary-General on the problem of rennants of war r W
ttre draft world charter for nature Iy and on the historical restrnnsibility of
States for the preservation of natuE for present and future generationst W

oBearing in nind the importance which the International DeveloPment
Strategy foi tfre ftrira United Nations Development Decade attaches to an
ecologically sustainable development process, the need for further
internationil co-operation in the field of the environment and that
environmental considerations should be viewed in ttre context of national plans
and priorities and development objectives of all countries, in particular the
developing countries,



A/36/6e4/Add.e
English
page 13

- '1. Takes note of the report of the Cioverning Council of the UnitedNations Environment Progranme on the work of its ninth session 20l and thedecisions adopted by the Governing councir at that session; 2trl=
n2. Takes note also of the efforts of the unlted Nations EnvironmenE

Programme with regard to the implementation of the rnternational Developrnentstrategy for the Ttrird united Nations Development Decader as reflected in its
medium-term plan for 1982-1983 and in the objectives of the Systern-Wide
ltedium-lterm Environment Progranme for L984-rigg, as endorsed by the GoverningCouncilr 22l

'r3. Requests organs' organizations and bodies of the United Nations
system to take fully into account the view of the Ailministrative Conmittee onCorcrdination that the system-l{ide Medium-Term Environment programme should be
seen not only as a document of use to the Governing Council of the Unitedl€tions Ervironment Programme, but also, to the extent relevant to theirparticular mandates, as a document of basic interest to their governingbodies' 23t/ and exPresses its appreciation for the continued efforts nade bythe United Nations Environment Programme, in co-operation with the entireunited lihtions system, in the developnent of the system-wide Medium-Term
Environment programme i

'r4. Calls upon the united Nations Environment programme to continue top1ayitsr6@in*reirnpIementationoftheInternationa1DeveIoPment
strategy for the lrtrird United Nations Development Decade, and stresses the
need for all Governments and United lilations agencies to take environmental
considerations fully into account when participating in negotiations and
conferences organized by the United Nations on subJects other than the
environment.,

15. Eldorses, as reconnended by the Governing Council of, the United
Nations Environment Progra^?, U. ttre proposals made by the high-level groupof experts on the interrelation$ips oelwein resources, environment, peopte -

^ -29/ . seffiry, Thirty-sixth ses ,Srrpplement No

-

2L/ I!!|., annex I.

Z/ Ibid., decision 9/LO B.

A/ See ttNEp,/cl.g/e/l&tcl.l, para. 5.

_ _4/ off iciSl.Eg.ggqgE of the General Assenbly, Thirty-sixth Session,Suool"r"tt 11, sect. ff.



A/36/694/Add.9
English
Page 14

and developnent 25,/ and the inportant role which the United Nations
Environment erogranne shoul-d assume in this regard, consistent with its
mandate, and reguests the Director-General for Development and International
Economic Co-operation to provide for the inplenentation of those protrnsals
within the framework of the progranme of work which is being established
pursuant to Ceneiii assemUly-relolution 35/74, taking into account Economic
and Social Council resolution 1981r/5ti

'6. Stresses the importance it attaches to the development of the
Environmental eeiEpective to the year 2000 and beyond and invites the session
of a special character of the Coverning Council and the Governing Council at
its tenth session to consider instituting a suitable process for the
preparation of the Environmental Perspective document and to make such
recommendations as may be appropriate in this regard to the General assembly
at its thirty-seventh session;

n7. Stresses the need for additional resources to be made available to
the Fund of the Git"a t€tions E:nvironment Programme for developing countries
to deal with their most serious environmental problems such as soil
degradation and deforestation and in this context welcomes the consultations
by-the D<ecutive Director of the United Nations Environment Programne with
@vernmentst

rg. libtes that the Economic and social council has agreed to consider at
its second regular session of L982, u the report of the Governing council of
the United Nations Environment erogriime on additional resources for serious
environmental pioblems in developing countries, reguested by the General
assembly in paragraph 12 of its resolution 35/74

,,9. Welcomes the stress placed by the United lilations Conference on libw
and Renewable Sources of Energy on the environmental effects of the Production
and use of various renewabLe sources of energy and calls utrnn the United
lilations Environnent Programme to play an active role in the inplementation of
ttre l{airobi Progiato" oi Action for the Development and Utilization of lilew and
Renewable Sourcls of Energy, U as regards the relationship between new and
renewable sources of energy and the environmenti

'I0. Also welcomes the growing co-operation between the united Nations
Elvironment erog}ffi and the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements
(Habitat) ana uiges them to intensify that co-operation through, inFer alia,
joint meetings of their bureaux with the Executive Directors of both
organizations on an annual basis;

E/ ., Suppleinent ldo. 25 (A/36/251, annex rI'

25/ Economic and Social council resolution L98L/73, para. 8.

2J/ t of the United ldations Confer on libtd and Re le Sour
Energy, ldairobi, 10 to 21 Auqust l98l
lilo. 8.81. I.24) , chap. I r s€ct. A.

(United Nations Publication' SaIes



A/36/6e4/AAd.9
English
Page 15

,'II. lgg the report of the Governing @uncil of the United Nations
Environment progranme concerning problems relating to marine pollution 4/ ana
the report of the Inter-Governmental Maritime Consultative Organization on the
sane su5iec1l 25r/ submitted in pursuance of paragraph 5 of General Assembly
resol-ution 34/L83 of 18 December L979t

t'12. S<presses its appreciation to Governments that continue to
contribut.theUnitedNationsBrvironmentPrograrune;

',13. !pp* to all @vernments to increase substantially their
contributions to the Fund and to nake before the end of L981' firm pledges of
contributions to the Fund for the period 1982-19831 taking into account
decision 9/23 of 26 May 198L of the Governing Oouniil of the United Nations
Environment PrografiIll€1 ES adoptedl

,.I4.@toGovernmentsthathavenotyetcontributed
to the funa to ao so before ttre end of 1981 and lo lhose Coverdnents still
contributing amounts below their means t.o increase their contributions for the
period 1982-1983."

26. At its 46th neeting, on 7 December the Conmittee considered a draft resolution
(A/C.2/36/L.L32, submitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of the @mmittee,
on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.45.

27. At the same meeting, draft resolution x/C.2/36/L.45 was withdrawn by the
sponsors, and the Comnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.132 without a vote
(see para. 29, draft resolution V).

28. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the FederaL Republic
of Germany.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

29. The Second Committee recommends to the Gener'al assemUly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION T :

Problem of remnants of war

ltre General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 2995 (X)ffII) , 2996 (XX\ruI) and 2,997 (XXVII) of
15 December L972r Pertaining to co-operation among States in the field of the
environment, the international resSronsibility of States in protecting the
environment and the establishnent tt tn" Governing Council of the United tilations
Environment Progranune r 

./. . 
"



A/36/694/Add.9
English
Page 16

Recalling also its resoLutions 3435 (XXX)
5 December 1980,

Recalling further decisions g0 (Iv) of 9
3-s.Yuv L977.22_/ and 9/5 of 25 !{ay t98t g/ otNations Envirorunent programme,

of 9 December 1975 and 35/7L of

April Ls76t &/ LoL (v) of
the Governing Council of the United

convinced that the removal of remnants of war should be
the countries that implanted them and should be carried out

the responsibiLity
at their expense,

of

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-Generall 3V
2. Reqrets that no real action has been taken to solve the problem of

remnants of war despite the various resolutions and decisions adopted by both the
General Assenbly and the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment
Programmet

3. Reiterates its support for the demand of the States affected by the
implantation of mines and the presence of other remnants of war on their lands for
compensation for the losses incurred from the states responsible for those remnantsl

4. Appeals to aLl states' particularly those responsible for the presence of
remnants of war in developing countriesr to co-operate with the Secretary-Generalin order to enable him to make specific ahd effective recommendations foi solving
the problem of remnants of wary

5. Requests the Secretary-General to continue his contacts and consultations
with Member states pursuant to Creneral A.ssenbty resolut ion 35/7L and to colLate al1
relevant information received from States, in order to find ways and means,
including the possibility of convening a conference under the auspices of the
united Nations, for solving the problen of remnants of war, and to report to the
Assembly at its thirty-seventh session.

?3/ See official f the Gener Thirt irst
Supplement No. 25 3L/251 , annex f.

29/ rbid., Thirty-second session, supplement No. 25 (A/32/2sl, annex r.
g/ Ibid., ltrirtv-sixth Session, Supplement No. 25 (A/36/25 and Corr.l),

annex I.

!]/ 
^/36/53L.



opportunity for
to the cause of

A/36/594/Add.e
English
Page 17

DR,AFT RF*SOLUTION II

Session o ecial racter of verninq Council-
utit.d H.tion" Enrrirot*"nt proor.r*" io b. t"ld i.r lgg2

the General Assembly.

Recallinq paragraphs 13 to L5 of its resolution 35/74 of 5 December l9g0 on
international co-operation in the field of the environment,

Concerned that there is need to revive the sense of urgency and commitment by
Governments for national and international co-operative'action to protect and
enhance the environment, which found expression at the united Nations Conference onthe Human Environment, held at stockholir fron 5 to 16 June 1922,

, Recognizing that inportant changes in the perception of the environment and ofenvironmental problens have occurred since Lhat oonference and recognizing also the
inportance of the interrelationships between peopLe, resources, environment and
development,

Convinced that the session of a special character represents a unigue
Governments to re-emphasize their continued conmitment and support
the environment and to the united Nations Environment programme,

1. Decides that the session of a speciaL character of the Governing CounciLof the uniG-TETions Environment Programme should be held at Nairobi from l0 to
18 May L982 and should report to the @neral Assembly at its thirty-seventh sessi.onS

2. Aprroves the draft provisional agenda for the session as set forth in
section f of the annex to the present resoLution,

3. Further decides that the rules of procedure of the Governing councit wiLl
aPply to the session of a special character, with modifications to rules l?, lg,
19, 31 and 67 as lecommended by the Governing Council and set forth in section Itrof the annex to the present resoLutionl

4. Reiterates its invitation to Governments to prepare thoroughly for and toparticipat;-T;6-ession of a special character at the highest potitiial leve1,
and specifically invites ministers dealing rith the environnent to participate in
the sessionl

5' Agrees that there should be a special public information progratnme along
the lines indicated by the B<ecutive Director of the United li&ations Environment
Prograrnner $rhich should to a large extent be financed within existing resourcest

6. Decideg that the present resolution should be implenented with due regard:for the neffi-economy in- respect of the preparatiorr" 
"r,a-"irung.*..ts 

for the
session of a special charactert



^/36/694/ed'd.eEnglish
Page 18

7. Encourages the participation of non-goverrunentaL organizations in the
session of a special character, in accordance with the practices normally followed
by the Governing Council.

A}TNEX

1.

2.

3.

4.

ssion of a ia1 ter of the n1 Council of the
nt n

I. DRAFT PROVISIONAL AGENDA

Opening of the session.

Adoption of the rules of procedure.

Election of the President of the session.

Organizational and procedural mattersl f!/
(a) Adoption of the agenda and organization of workt

(b) Election of officers other than the President.

Credentials of representatives.

Review of the major achievements in the implementation of the Action PIan for
the Hunan Btvironment.

Future perspectives, action and international co-operation in the field of the
environment, and major environmental trends to be addressed by the United
tiliations Environment Programme over the next 10 years.

Adoption of the rePort of the session.

Closure of the session.

?.

5.

6.

Sr

g.

II. ATTIENDMET{TS $O TTIE RUI.Efi
CPUNCIL FOR THE SE;SION

RuIe 17 (Representation and credentials).
followsa

OA PRCEDURE OF TITE @\'ERNING

Paragraph 2 shall be amended to read as

2U Statements
decision 9/2 of the

in plenary neeting are expected
C;overning Council of the United

to be made in accordance with
Nations Environment Progranne.



A/36/594/!d'd.9

::;:'ii

"A credentials comnittee of nine menbers shalr be appointed at the
beginning of the session of a special character. Its composition shall be
based on that of the redentials Conmittee of the General Assembly at its
thirty-sixth session. rt shall examine the credentials of represlntatives andreport to the session of a special character without deray."

Rule 18 (Elections)

Paragraph I shall be amended as followss

"At the commencement of the f,irst meeting of the'session of a special
character, the Governing Council shall eiect, for the duration of that
session, a President, three Vice-Presidents and a Rapporteur from anong its
members. Those officers shall constitute the Bureau of the Coverning
Council. The Bureau shall assist the President in the general conduit of
business of the Governing council. ltre chairman of such sessional committees
or working parties as may be established under rule 60 below shall be invitedto participate in meetings of the Bureau."

(b) Paragraph 2 shall remain unchanged,
(c) Paragraph 3 shatl be suspended for the duration of the session of a

special character.

RuIe 19 (Terms of office) shall be suspended for the duration of the session of a
special character.

Rule 31 (euorun) shall readr

"The President may declare a meeting open and permit the debate to start when
at least one third of the members of the session of a special character of the
Governing Council are present. The presence of,a majority of the membersshall be reguired for any decision to be taken., -

T19=6J (Participation of States members of the Governing Council). Trris ruleshall be suspended for the duration of the session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Implementation in the, Sujlato:Sajreliln==r,egr,o,n of the plan of Action
to Combat Desertification

(a)

l9
18

The General- Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 32/L70 of
December L977, 33/88 and 33,/89 of 15
December 1979, and 35/72 and 35/73 ot

10 Decembet L977, 32/L72 of
December L978, 34/L84, 34/LgS and 34/LB7 of
5 December 1980,



2L
24

A/36/694 /Add.e
Engl ish
Page 20

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolutions L978/37 of
July 1978, lgTg/sL of 2 August 1979, L98O/52 of 23 JuIy 1980 and 1981,/72 of
July 1981,

Noting decisions 9/22 B of 26 May 1981 of the Governing Council of the United
Nations Environment Programne !!../ and decision 8L/4 of 19 June 1981 of the
Governing Council of the United Nations Development Progranuner 33/

Ilaving considered the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Programme on the implementation in the Sudano-Sahe1ian region of the
Plan of Action to Combat Desertificationr 35,/

Reiterating its concern over the severe effects of desertification, a major
form of environmental degradation and an obstacle to development in fragile
ecosystems, on the socio-economic development and the way of life of the people of
the Sudano-Sahelian region, and emphasizing again the need to hasten the
implementation in the region of the Plan of Action to Combat Desertificationt !!1/

1. Takes note of the report of the Governing Council of the United
Nations Environment Programme on the inplementation of the PIan of Action to
Combat Desertification in the Sudano-Sahelian regionl 35,/

2. Eb<presses its satisfaction with the progress made by the United
l.htions Sudano-Sahelian Office in assisting the Governments of the region' on
behalf of the United Nations Environment Programme dnd under a joint venture
of the Environment Programme and the United Nations Development Programne2 in
implenenting the Pl-an of Action to Combat Desertificationl

3. Also noles with satisfaction the addition of Benin to the list of
countriesNationsSudano-Sahe1ianofficeinthe
efforts to impLement the PIan of Action to Combat Desertificationt

4. Commends the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment
Progranme and the Mministrator of the United Nations Development Programme
for the effective and co-ordinated manner in which they have continued to
develop the joint venture through the instrumentality of the United Nations
Sudano-Sahelian Of f ice I

g/ See Official Records of the C'eneral Assembly, Ttrirty-sixth Sessionr
Supplenent No. 25 (U36/25 and Corr.l), annex I.

Y/ See official Records of the Econonic and Social Councilr 1981r Supplement
l0o. 11 (E/L98L/6LlRev.1) , annex f .

y/ 
^/36/L44, 

annex.

X_/ A, )ttF.74/36, chap. I.



^/36/6e4/M.d.eEnglish
Page 21

5. 
- 

T?kes note of the decisions of the Governing councils of the unitedNatlons Environment Programme and the Governing council of the united NationsDevelopment Programme aimed at expanding and slrengthening the joint ventureand invites them to continue to intensiiy their support for the united Nationssudano-sahelian office in order to enabll it to carry out its increasedresponsibitities at a revet commensurare wirh rhe ;;:";i;g-;;J; of rhecountries of the regionl
6' &<presses its gratitude to the c,overnments, agencies of the unitedNations system' intergovernmental organizations and other organizations thathave contributed to the implementation in the sudano-sahelian region of thePIan of Action to Combat Desertificationg
7 ' urges all Governments, organizations of the united Nations system,other intergovernmental bodies, non-governmental and other organizations tocontinue to respond favourably, bilaierally or through the united Nations

sudano-sahelian office-or. any other internediary, to reguests for assistancefrom the Governments of the Sudano-sahelian ,.gion in combating-
desertif ication I

8' Requests the Governing counciL of the united Nations Environment
Programme to continue to report annually, through the Economic and Socialcouncil, to the General Assenbly on the implenentation in the sudano-saherianregion of the pran of Action to conbat Desertification.

DRAFT RESOLUTTON IV

on fi PIan of Action to t Desertification

Ihe General Assembly,

- Rqcauing its resoLution 32/172 of 19 December Lg77. in which it approved thePlan of Action to combat Desertification, 37t/ and its resolutions 33/g8 and 33lggof 15 December 1979, 34/194, 34/Lg5 ana iaEbZ-oe fe December 1979 and 33/72 and35/ll of 5 December 1980, dealing with the various aspects of the implementation ofthe Plan of Action,

T?ki4g note of the relevant sections of the report of the Governing council ofthe united Nations Environment programme on its ninth session 3g,/ and d""r;i;;-council decisions 9/22 A and B ot 2e uay r98i 
"" itt" i*pi.r.rggion of the ptan ofAction to Combat Desertification, 39,/

3l_/ A/cour. 7 4 /36, chap . r.

&/ ef f icial Records of
Supplement No. 25 (^/36/2s).

y-/ Ibid., annex I.

the General Assembl Thirt ixth Sess



A/36/6e4/M.d.e
Eng I ish
Page 22

1. tibtes with concern that the problen of insufficient financing and the
increasing demands on ttre scarce resources of countries suffering from
desertification are constraining the inplementation of the Plan of Action to Combat
Desertificationl

2. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-@neral !!/ and the annex
thereto containing feasibility studies on and detailed modalities for financing the
Plan of Action to Combat Desertification prepared by a group of high-leve1
specialists in international financingl

3. Reguests the Secretary-General to obtain the views of Member States on
the feasibility -studies and concrete recommendations for the implementation 

of the
additional measures of financing deemed practicable by the Secretary-General, and
also on the modalities for obtaining financial resources' as described in
paragraphs 13 to 17 of the report of the Secretary-General;

4. AIso requesls the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the Dcecutive
Director oFTf,?-uniteA uations Envirorunent Programme, to obtain the views of Member
States on the establishment of an independent corporation for the financing of
desertification-control projects on the basis of the plan presented in the annex to
the report of the Secretary-General and also to ascertain the views of Governments
as to their interest in participating financially thereinl

5. Further reguests the Secretary-General to report on the implementation of
the present r.solution to the General Assenbly at its thirty-seventh session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

International ration in the field of the environment

The General Assembly,

Having_ considered the rePort of
Environrnent Progranme on the work of
there to,

Noting Economic and Social Council resolutions 1981'/73 of 24 July 1981'
concerning international co-operation in the field of the environment, and I98L/5L
of 22 July I98I on the interrelationships between resources, environment, people
and development,

!9-/ ^/36/r4L-
!L/ Official Records of the General Assenbly, Thirty-sixth Sessionr

Supplement No. 25 (A/36/25 and Corr.l).

the Governing Council of the United Nations
its ninth session, 4I/ including annex If



A/36/694/ed,d.9
English
Page 23

Takinq into account the note by the Secretary-General on international
conve@ in the field of the environmentt lU

Bearinq in nind the inportance which the fnternational Development strategy
for the Ttrird United Nations Development Decade Q/ aEtaches to an ecologically
sustainable development process and the need forTurther international co-operation
in the field of the environmentr and considering that environmental considerations
should be viewed in the context of national plans and priorities and developnent
objectives of all countries, in particular the developing countriesr

Welcominq the convening of an Ad ltroc Meetlng of Senior Government Officials,
n<perffiEronrnental Law at tuont&i6 frorn 28 october to 6 November 1981,

Stressinq the need for additional resources to be made available to the
Environment Fund for the developing countries to deal with their most serious
environmental problens, such as soil degradation and deforestation, which are
examples of very severe deterioration of natural resources that call for particular
attention,

Recognizino that environmental deficiencies generated by the conditions of
underdevelopment pose grave problems and ean best be remedied by accelerated
development through the transfer of substantial guantities of financial and
technical assistance as a supplement to the domeEtic effort of the developing
countries and such timely assistance as may be reguired,

1. Takes note of the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Environment Progranme, as adopted, on the work of its ninth session l! and the
decisions adopted by the Governing Oouncil at that session; 1!1/

2. Takes note also of the efforts of the United Nations Environment
Progranme with regard to the inplementation of the International Development
strategy for the l*rird United lilaEions Developnent Decader as reflected in its
medium-term plan for 1982-1983 and in ttre objectives of the Systen-Wide Mediun-Term
Environment Programme for 1984-1989, as endorsed by the Governing Councill

3. Requests organs, organizations and bodies of the United Nations system to
take into account the view of the Adninistrative Conunittee on Co-ordination that
the Systern-l{ide Medium-Term Environnent Prograrme should be seen not only as a
document of use to the Governing Council of the United tlations Envi.ronment
Prograrune but -a1so-as a doqnrent of bastc interest to ttretr governingr .bodiesr -to

lU 
^/36/L42-

E/ General Assembly resolution 35/56t annex.

!!/ Official Records of the General Assembly, ltrirty-sixth Sessionr
Supplement No. 25 lA/36/25 and Corr.I), annex I.



A/36/694/Pd,d.e
Engl ish
Page 24

the extent that they deem appropriate and to the extent relevant to their
particular mandates, and expresses its appreciation for the continued efforts made
by the united Nations Environment Progranune, in co-operation with the entire united
Nations system, in the development of the System-Wide t'ledium-Term Environment
Programmet

4. Call-s upon the United Nations Environment programme to continue to play
its role fully in the inplementation of the International Development Strategy for
the Third United Nations Devel-opment Decade and stresses the need for all
Governments and bodies of the united Nations system to take environnental
considerations fully into account when participating in negotiations and
conferences organized by the united Nations on subjects other than the environment;

5. glelcomes the recommendations of the Governing Council of the United
Nations Environment Progranme as contained in section II of its decision 9/I of
26 l{ay 1981, as well as those made by the Economic and Social Council, in its
resolutions 1981r/51 and L98L/73, concerning the system-rrride programrne of work on
the interrelationships between resources, environment, peopl-e and development and
the important role which the United Nations Btvironment progranme should assume in
this regard consistent with its mandate, and requests the Director-&neral for
Development and International Economic Co-operation to take the reguisite steps for
their implernentationi

6. Stresse,s the importance it attaches to the development of the
Environmental Perspective to the year 2000 and beyond and invites the Governing
Council' at its session of a special character and at its tenth sessionr to make
such recommendations as may be appropriatel

7. Reaffirms the catalytic rnandate and roLe of the United Nations
Environment Prograruner 3V recognizes the desirability of nob-ilizing voluntary
resources for meeting the most serious environmental problems of developing
countries, wel-comes the consultations being undertaken by the Drecutive Director of
the united Nations Envirorunent Programme oi possibl-e *".is of providing additional
resources for developing countriesr and notes that the Economic and Social Council
has agreed to consider at its second regular session of l9B2 the report of the
Governing Council- on this subject, as reguested in paragraph L2 of General Assernbly
resolution 35/74 of 5 December 19g0;

8. Welcomes the stress placed by the United Nations Conference on New and
Renewable Sources of Ettergy on the environmental effects'of the productton and use
of various renewable sources of energy and calls upon the United Nations
lnvironment Programme to play an active role in the implementation of the Nairobi
n{-}gralnme of Action for the Development and Utilization of New and Renewable

!2/ See General Assembly resolutions 2997 (xxvll) of 15 December 1972 and
3325 (XXIX) of 16 December L974.



A/36/6s4/}d.d.9
English
Page 25

Sources of Energy, !il as regards the relationship between ner^, and renewable
sources of energy and the environmentl

9. Also welcomes the growing co-operation between the united Nations
Environment Programme and the united Nations centre for Human settrements (Habitat) t

l0' Takes Fgte of the report of the Governing Council of the united Nations
Environment programme on marine pollution, g/

- 11. Takes note also of the report of the Inter-Governmental Maritineconsultative Organization on marine pollution, g/
12' - ETprggses its appreciation to the Governments that continue to contributegenerously to the F\rnd of the uniteA Nations Environment programmel
13' Appeals to all Governments to increase substantially their contributionsto the Fund of the united Nations Environment programme and to make, before the endof 1981, firn pledges of contributions to the Fund for the period 19g2-19g3, takinginto account decision 9/23 of 26 lr4ay 1981 of the Governing council of the unitedNations Environment programme, as adoptedl
14. Reiterates its appeal to Governments that have

Fund of the united Nations Environment programme to do soand to those crovernments still contributini amounts berow
their contributions for the period I9g2-1993.

^ 
g/-- Ttpgt: of the united Ng!-ion-g--ggttrerence--en t.revl arrd Renewabte sources of

9gstl, N.No. 8.8I.I.24), chap.'I, sect. A.
lJ-/ A/35/452, annex.

!9/ 
^/36/233.

not yet contributed to the
before the end of 1981
their means to increase


