








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/36/694/Add.1
12 Decenber 1981

ORTGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda iten 59

DEVELOPII,IENT AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC CO-OPER,ATION.

Report of the Second @mnittee (Part fI)

Rapporteuri Mr. Ahned OULD SfDTAHMEE (l,lauritania)

I. INTROD(rcTION

1: The Second Connittee held a substantive debate on iten 69 (see A/36/694,
para. 2). The Oommittee considered draft resolutions submitted under agenda
item 69 as a whole at the 26thr 28th, 35th, 39th to 41st, and 45th to 47th
rneetings, on 28 and 30 October, Il, 13, 15 and 18 lbvemberr aDd lr 7 and 10
December 1981. An account of the Committeers discussion is contained in the
relevant summary records (A/C.2/36/SR.26, 28, 35, 39-41 and 45-47).

II. CONSIDERAI'ION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolutions A/C.2/36/L.L7 and A/C.2/36/L.40

2. At the 25th meeting, on 28 @tober 1981, the representative of Zaire
introduced a draft resoltltion (A/C.2/36/L.17) entitled "Corcperation between the
United Nations and the Agency for Cultural and Technical Co-operation"r on behalf
of Angola, Belgiumr Eg!g, Burundi, Canada, the Gentral African Republic,9!d,
the Comoros, the Congo, Djibouti, E9ypt, Equatorial Guinea, France, Gabon, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, the Ivory Coast, the Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, tiberia, Luxembourg, 4i, Mauritania, Mauritius, the Niger, Romania,
Rwanda, Senegal, Seychelles, !g9., Tunisia, the United Republic of Cameroon,
the Upper Volta, Viet Nam and Zaire, which read as follows:

rrThe General Assembly,

"!g!!!!39, it resolution 33,/18 of 10 bbvember L978,
observer status to the Agency for Cultural and Technical

8l-35338 0100i (E)

by which it acc.orded
Co--operation,



A/36/694/Add.1
English
Page 2

nRecalling Economic and Social Council decision 190 (LXI) of
s auguffiEluy which the oouncil designated the Agency for Cultural and
Technical Co-operation to participate on an g5|@ basis in the deliberations
of the @uncil on questions within the scope of its activities,

,.thedesireexpressedbytheAgencyforCu1turaI
and Technical Co-operation to establish close co-operation with the United
Nations in all fields of common interest, notably training, desertification
control, science and technology for development, new and renewable sources of
energy and technical co-operation among developing countries,

"Egggglgiry. the imlnrtance of these sectors,

nl. Welcones the participation of the Agency for Cultural and Technical
@{perati;n in the work of the United Nations in fields of common interestl

"2. Decides to strengthen co-operation between the United Nations and
the Agency for Cultural and Technical @-operationT

'3. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations, in
co{peration with the Secretary-General of the Agency for Cultural and
Technical Co-operation to consider ways and means of strengthening
co.operation between the United Nations and the Agency for Cultural and
Technical Co-operation and to subnit a report on that subject to the General
Assenbly at its thirty-seventh session. "

3. At its 35th meeting, on 1I ldovernber, the Comrnittee had before it a draft
resolution (A/C.2/36/L.401 submitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of the
@nmittee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution
A/c.2/36/ L. 17.

4. At the same meeting' the representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republicsora11yproposedanamendmenttooperative1ution
A/c.2/35/L.40 to insert the words "through the Economic and Social Council" after
"thereon". The amendment was accepted.

5. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.40, as
orally amended (see para. 43, draft resolution I).

6. fn the light of the adoption of the draft resolution, the sponsors of draft
resolution A/C.2/35/L.17 withdrew their text.

B. Draft resoLution A/C.2/36/L.24

7. At the 28th meeting, on 30 @tober, the representative of Bolivia introduced a
draft resolution lA/C.2/36/L.24), entitled "Specific action related to the
particular needs and problems of land-locked developing countries'r, on behalf of
Afghanistan, Bolivia, Botswana, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lgsotho,
Nepal, Paraguay' Rwanda, Uganda, Zambia and Zimbabwe. Subsequently, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Burundi, g69 Central African Republic, @|, Mali, Mongolia, the Niger and
Zaire joined as sponsors.

/...



^/36/694/Add. 
L

English
Page 3

8. At its 39th meetingr on 13 t{ovember, the Conunittee proceeded to vote on draft
resolut ion A/C. 2 /36 /L. 24.

g. Statements in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the
representatives of Pakistan, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, the United Republic of
Cameroon, Senegal, Indiar Nigeria, Yemen, Mauritania, Algeria' l4)rocco' Thailand,
t'bzanbique, Benin, Sierra l€one, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Tunisia,
Angola, Viet Nam, Jordan, the Sudan and Liberia.

I0. The Oomnrittee voted on draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.24 as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph I was adopted by a recorded vote of 46 to 11, with 65
abstentions. Ttre voting h'as as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Austriar Bangladesh, Bhutan,
BoIivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Central African Republicr Chad, Colombia,
Czechoslovakia, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republicr Hungary'
fndonesia, Iraq, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
!,talawi, MaIi, Mexico, I,longolia, Nepal , Niger' Peru, Poland,

Against:

Rwanda, Singapore, Spain, Sri tanka, Suriname, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
States of America, tl)per Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Angola, India, Iran, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Nigeria, Pakistan' Sierra I€one, Thailand, Yemen"

Abstaining: Algeria, Bahrainr Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Burma, Canada, Cape
Verde, Chiler China' Comorosr Oongo' Cyprus' Defipcratic Yemen,
Denmarkr Ecuador, Egypt, @uatorial Guinea, Fiji, Finland,
Francel Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greecer Guyanar
Icelandr Ireland, fsrael, Italy, fvory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
,Jordan, Kenya, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritaniar
I'dorocco, l"lozambique, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaraltua, llcrhray,
Onan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Sao Tbme and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia,
Sudan, ,Sweden, Ibgo, Trinidad and ltobago, Tunisia, Turkeyr United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and I'lrrthern
Irelandr United nepublic of Cameroon, Yugoslavia.

(b) Draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.24 as a whole, was adopted by a recorded vote
of I20 to none, with 7 abstentions (see para.43, draft resol-ution II). The voting
lras as followsl

fn favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, BeIgium, Benin, Bhutan, BoIivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Bu1garia, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic,



A/36/694/Add. r
English
Page 4

Against:

Chadr China, Colonbia, Cotoros, @ngo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Etenmarkr Ecuador, Egyptr
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finlandr France, German
Denpcratic Repub1ic, Germany, Fbderal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Ivory @ast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, I€o
PeopLers Democratic Repub1ic, Lesotho, Liberia, l,ibyan Arab
Jamahiriya, tuxembourg, Madagascarr !{alawi, }lalaysia, Maldives,
MaIir Mauritania, Mexico, llcngolia, I\brocco, !4ozambigue, Nepal,
Itbtherlands, l$ew Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, lbrway,
Gnan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, poland,
Portugal, Qatar, bmania, Rlvanda, Sao tbme and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Ianka, Sudanl
Suriname, Swaziland, Sl.reden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republicsr United
Arab Emirates, United Kingdon of Great Britain and l,tcrthern
Irelandr United Republic of Cameroon, United States of America,
ttpper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

libne.

Abstaining: Burma, Chile, fndia, Iran, Lebanon, pakistan, Sierra Leone.
11. At the same meeting, statements were made in explanation of vote after the
vote by the representatives of Peru, Ghana, Uruguay, the Syrian Arab Republic and
Guinea.

C. Draft resalutions A/C.2/36/L.35 and A/C.2/36/L.67

L2. At the 35th meeting, on 11 litrvember, the representative of Benin, on behalf of
A]geria' Angola, Benin, Ebtsr{rana, Cape Verde, the Central African Republicr Chad,
the Corproe, Dernocratic Yemen, Djibouti, Eg.Ip!, Fjquatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, ggg,
the GaTbial Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Lesothor Liberia, the Libyan Arab
Janarhiriya, Madagascar, IgB!, Mali, Mozambique, the Niger, Nigeria, Rwanda, sao
lbme. ??d Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, the Sudan, Swaziland, !ae., the UnitedRepublic of Tanzania, the Upper Vo1ta, Zaire, Zambia, and Zimbabwe introOuced a
draft resolution (A/C.2/36/L.35) entitled 'rD<pansion of the conference facilities
of the F,conornic Commission for Africa at Addis Ababa". Subsequently, Burundi and
Kenya joined as sponsors. The draft resolution read as follows:

'rThe General Assembly,

"Eecalling Economic and Social Council resolution ]:98L/65 of 24 July 1981,
rrBecalling also that the Ebonomic Commission for Africa was established

at Addis Ababa in 1958 and that its conference facilities, which were donated
to the United l{atioqs by the @vernment of Ethiopia, were designed to service



A/36/694/Add.1
English
Page 5

the limited number of African countries that were States Members of the United
Nations in the late 1950s and early L960s.

nltbting with satisfaction the increase in the nunber of independent
States f decolonization,

"tbti.g-€gl!!g that there are at present 50 African State Members of the
Unitea-G6ns ana ttrat there is the prospect of more joining the United
t€tions fanily,

rrl,tindful of the heavy restrnnsibilities entrusted to the Economic
conrnis3ffr-Ei Africa as the main centre for the pronotion of the economic
development of Africa in general and for the implementation of the Lagos plan
of Action for the fmplementation of the t"tonrovia Strategy for the Economic
Developnent of Africa, L/ in particular, in the decade to come,

"tilrting tht the present conference facilities at the headquarters of the
conunisffiTave proved grossly inadequate to meet the needs of the large
number of African States that have become menbers of the Conmission since its
establishment and the growing number of international, intergovernmental and
regional organizations participating in conferences there,

trI. Requests the Secretary-General to undertake as a matter of urgency a
study of the adequacy of the conference facilities at the headquarters of the
Economic Commission for Africa to meet the denands thereon as a result of the
Oommissionrs enlarged membership and increased activitiesl

u2. Further requests the Secretary-General to report the findings of the
study, including the financial implications thereof, through the @mnission at
its seventeenth session and through the Economic and Social Council at its
second regular session of 1982, to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh
session. rl

13. At its 40th neeting, on 16 l.frrvember 1981, the Comrnittee had before it a draft
resolution (A/C.2/36/L.67) submitted by Mr. Enrique G. ter Horst, Vice-Chairman of
the Committee, on the basis of infornal consultations held on draft resolution
A/c.2/36 /L.3 s .

14. A statement by the 6ecretary-General on the administrative and financial
inplications of draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.35, which also applied to draft
resolution A/C.2/36/L.67r was circulated (A/C.2/36/L.44) .

15. At the same meeting, the @runittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.67
(see para. 43, draft resolution III).

15. In the light of the adoption of the draft resolution, the sponsors of draft
resolution A/C.2/36/L/35 withdrew their text.

L/ See A/S-IL/LA, annex I.



A/35 /6eA/Add. r
Erglish
Page 5

L7. Fbllowing the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of the united States of America.

D. Draft resoluEilons A/C.2/35/L.23, A/C.2/36/L.L25 and A/C.2/36/L.L42

18. At the 28th neeting, on 30 October, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf
also of Angola, Nigeria, Senegal, Ilganda, Zaire and Zambia, int6aucea a draft
resolution (A/C.2/36/L.23) entitled 'rTransport and Communications ttecade in
Africa". Subseguently, the Central African Republic, 9!99, the Ganbia, 59.W.,
Rwanda, and the United Republic of Carneroon joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution. Ttre draft resolution read as follows:

. 'r1tre General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 32/L60 of 19 December L977 e 33/L97 ot
29 January L979, 34/L5 of 9 lrbvember 1979 and, in particular, 35/108 of
5 December 1980 on the Transport and Communications Decade in Africa, in vrhich
it approved the organization of consultative technical meetings for the
various Afr ican subregions,

"Eecalling also Economic and Social Council resolutions 19 79/6L of.
3 August 1979, L980/46 of 23 July 1980 and 1981,/67 of 24 JuIy 1981 on the
Transport and Communications Decade in Africa,

"Taking_3glg of resolution 341 (XIV) adopted on 27 lnlarch 1979 by the
EcononffifEFlon for Africa at its fourteenth session and fifth meeting of
the Oonference of Ministers, in which States members of the Commission rrrere
urged to participate effectively in the Conference of African Ministers of
Transport, @mmunications and Planning held at Addis Ababa from 9 to
12 May L979, for the purpose of reviewing and adopting the programme for the
first phase of the Decade,

"fP!!!g. resolution CM,/Res.738 (XXXIII), adopted by the Council of
Ministers of the organization of African Unity at its thirty-third ordinary
session, held at lvkrnrovia from 6 to 20 July 1979,

"OonscrsgE_ej tle 4eed, during the Decade, to implement fully national,
re9ion@jectsgearedtotheestab1ishmentofanintegrated
transtrnrt and conununications network in Africa in support of the accelerated
developnent of the African region,

I'ltbting with appreciation the considerable financial efforts provided by
the Governments of African States to enable the financing and execution of a
Iarge part of the programme of the first phase of the Decade,

,@nsiderinq the need for sustained efforts to rnobilize additional
resourEFffit implementation of the progranme for the Decade,



^/36/694/Add.lEnglish
Page 7

"&@g the decision of the Oonference of African Ministers of
Transtrnrt, Communications and Planning at its second meetingr held at Addis
Ababa fron 16 to 18 l,larch 1981, in which the Conference authorized the
Executive Secretary of the Economic Cornmission for African to organize four
technical consultative meetings between member States, African
intergovernmental. organizations concerned and donors,

'rMindful of the role of the Economic Oomnission for Africa as the lead
agency-G-E? implementation of the Transport and Communications Decade in
Afr ica,

"Hj!g_jg!31! resolution 422 (xvl) of 10 Aprit 198I, adopted by the
Conference of Ministers of the Fbonomic Commission for Africa at its seventh
meeting, held at Freetown from 5 to 11 April 1981, in which, inter a1ia, the
Conference requested the E:<ecutive Secretary of the Conmission, in
collaboration with the Secretary-Genera1 of the Organization of African Unity,
to embark urgently on the preparation of the plan of action for the second
phase of the Decade,

nI. ttbtes with satisfaction the retrnrt of the Secretary-General on the
Transport ffie in airica, ?/

"2. Takes note of the results of the technical consultative meeting on
transport and communications for the West African subregion, held at lom6 frorn
I to 11 June 1981, and the relnrt of the organization of three other rneetings
scheduled for L982t

n3. lbtes with appreciation the contribution nade by certain countries
towardsth@TranstrnrtandConununicationsDecadein
Afr ica i

"4. FXpresses disaptnintnent, however, at the over-all level of
resources so far made available, which is far short of that required for
financing the subregional programmer and appeals to donor countries, the
funding agencies and the various financing institutions to increase their
financial support fo'r regional and subregional projects of the Decadet

tr5. Further notes with appreciation the steps taken by the Economic
Comnission for Africa with regard to the scheduling of the remaining technical
c'onsultative meetings, which will be held, respectivelyr at Ouagadougou (from
20 to 23 January 1982), Yaound6 (from 15 to 17 March L982't and Abidjan
(May 1982) r

'5. Reiterates its appeal to States members of the Economic Commission
forAfrica@tpriorityintheirdevelopmentp1ansto
transport and comrnunications projectsT

?/ A/36/342.



A/36 /6e 4 /Add . r
English
Page 8

u7. Appeals to the funding agencies and the various financing
institutiois to participate fully and trnsitively in the three technical
consultative meetings scheduled for 1982 and to consider, with the Econonic
Cornmission for Africa, lnssible h'ays of financing those projects of the Decade
that are not national in characterl

'8. Urges the Executive Secretary of the Economic Comnission for Africa
to maintain close collaboration with member States, the Organization of
African Unity, the regional African development organizations, the development
institutions and the specialized agencies c-oncerned in bringing up to date, on
a regular basis, the progranme for the first phase of the Decadel

o9. gffs__upon member states of the Organization of African Unity to
intensify efforts-to explore possible sources of finance to execute projects
adopted for the DecadeT

"I0. Bgggg$ the Executive Secretary of the Economic Conunission for
Africa to maintain co-ordination between funding agencies and African
countries in ensuring the successful implementation of the programme for the
first phase of the Decade;

"I1. Requests the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for
Africa to organize in L982, with groups of donor countries and financing
institutions and with the participation of Covernments, United Nations
institutions and African intergovernmental organizations, the three scheduled
consuLtative technical meetings, for the purpose of finding the additional
financial resources necessary to implement those projects for the DecadeT

"I2. I'urther requests the Executive Secretary, in collaboration with the
Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity, to proceed as early as
possible with the prearation of the plan of action for the second phase of the
Decade?

'rI3. Requests the secretary-General to provide the Economic Commission
for Africa with the financial means and resources necessary to enable it
effectively to organize the three consultative technical neetings scheduled
for 1982, to carry out the preparations for the prograrnme of the second phase
of the Translnrt and Communications Deca.de in Africa, and to fulfil its role
as the lead agency for the ?ransport and @nmunications Decade in Africa, and
to submit to the Economic and Social Council, at its second regular session of
L982, a progress report on the implernentation of the prograrnme for the Decadet

"14. \gquests the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for
Africa to Eontinue to subnit progress reports on the implementation of the
programme for the Transport and Communications Decade in Africa."

19. At the 45th neeting, on I December, the representative of Algeria, on behalf
of the States Members of the United Nations which are members of the Group of 77,
introduced a draft resorution (A/c.2/36/L.r25) entitred "Transport and
Communications Decade in Africa". The draft resolution read as follows:



A/36/694/Add .1
English

_ Page 9

"The General A.ssembly,

''.@itsreso1utions32/L60ofI9DecemberL977,33/L97of
29 January L979 and 34/L5 of 9 tsvember 1979 on the Transtrnrt and
Cornmunications Decade in Africa and, in particular, its resolution 35,/108 of
5 December 1980, by which it approved the organization of consultative
technical meetings for the various African subregions,

"39 g!g. Economic and Social @uncil resolutions L979/6L of
3 August L979, L980/46 of 23 July 1980 and L98L/67 of 24 Juty 1981 on the
Transtrrort and Communications Decade in Africa,

'rRecalling resolution 341 (xlv), adopted on 27 March 1979 by the
Conference of Ministers of the Ebonomic Oommission for Africa' !/ in which the
Conference recommended that member States should give the highest priority to
the development of transtrnrt and communications,

"!g!!39. resolution CM/Res.738 (xxxIII), adopted by the Council of
Ivlinisters of the Organization of African Unity at its thirty-third oridnary
session, held at !4onrovia from 6 to 20 JuLy L979 t 4/

"Aldare of the need to implement fully, during the Decade, nationalr
subreg6ifr and regional projects aimed at establishing an integrated
transport and communications netr.rork in africa to suptrnrt the accelerated
development of the continent,

''theconsiderabIefinanciaIeffortsnadebythe
Governments of African States to enable a considerable part of the programme
for the first phase of the Decade to be financed and implemented,

,'@g'thatsustainedeffortsmustbeexertedtomobi1ize
additional resources in order to ensure the implementation of the progralnme
for the Decade,

"Recalling the decision by which the Conference of African Ministers of
Transport, Oommtrnications and Planning, at its second neeting, held at Addis
Ababa fron 16 to 18 March 1981, authorized the Executive Secretary of the
Economic @mmission for Africa to organize four consultativg technical'
neetings between rnember States, interested African intergovernmental
organizations and donors, 5/

"@ of the role played by the Economic Comrnission for Africa as the
lead agency in implementing the Transport and @mmunications Decade in Africat

2/ See ,
Supplenent lb. 15 (E/L979/50) r part two' sect. D.

!/ See A/34/552r annex r.

2/ See E/CN.L4/8L2.



A/36/694/Add.L
English
lage 10

"E€raring in mind resolution 422 (XVI) of 10 April 198L, adopted at the
seventh meeting of the @nference of Ministers of the Economic Oonunission for
Africa' held at Freetown fron 5 to 11 April 1981, by which the Conference,
inter alia, reguested the Executive Secretary of the Commission, in
collaboration with the Secretary-Cieneral of the Organization of African Unity,
to embark as early as possible on the preparation of the plan of action for
the second phase of the Decade, 6,/

'1. tibte? with satisfaction the report of the Secretary-Genera1 on the
Transtrnrt and Cornmunications Decade in Afticat 7/

"2. Takes note of the results of the consultative technical meeting on
transtrnrt and communications for West Africa, 9,/ which was held at Iom6 from
8 to 11 June l98lr and of the retrnrt on the organization of three other
meetings scheduled for 19821

13. lbtes with satisfaction the contribution made by some countries to
the implementation of the Transport and @nununications Decade in Africal

"4. D<presses its disappointment, howeverr at the over-all level of
resources npbilized so far, which is far below the level reguired to finance
the subregional progranme, and appeals to donor countries, funding agencies
and the various financial institutions to increase their financial support to
the regional and subregional projects for the Decadel

'5. Also notes with satisfaction the measures taken by the Eoonomic
Conunissionheorganizationandschedu1ingofthe
three other consultative technical meetings, which are to be herd at
Oragadougou (20 to 23 January L982), Yaound6 (15 to 18 March L9821 and Abidjan
(l{ay 1982) , respectivelyt

n6. Reiterales its appeal to States members of the Economic Commission
for Africa@riority in their development plans to
transtrnrt and cornmunications projects;

tt7. Appeals to donor countries and funding agencies to participate
constructively and in large numbers in the three consultative technical
meetings scheduled for 1982 and to consider, together with the Economic
&nmission for Africa, possible ways of financing those projects of the Decade
which are not nationaL in character;

n8. Urges the Executive Secretary of the Economic Commission for Africa
to naintain close co<peration with member States, the Organization of African

9-/ Ebr the text of the resolution, see A/3G/342, annex IV.

u A/36/342.
y See DEC,/TMNSCOIT,/ESC/R/BL/Ai1.L.



A/35/69A/Add.1
English
Page 11

gnity, regionaL African development organizations, development agencies and
interested specialized agencies, with a view to the regular updating of the
prograrnme for the first phase of the Decadel

n9. Calls upon States members of the Organization of African Unity to
step up their efforts in connection with the study of the possible sources of
finance for the inplernentation of the projects adopted for the Decadet

',10. 3gg@ the Drecutive Secretary of the Economic @mmission for
Africa to maintain the necessary co-ordination between the sources of finance
and the African countries to assure the success of the implementation of the
programne for the first phase of the Decadel

"11.4l.@'theD<ecutiveSecretaryoftheEconomic@mnissionfor
Africa to organize in L982, with groups of donor countries and the financing
institutions, and with the participation of @vernments' United Nations
institutions and African intergovernmental organizations the three
consultative technical meetings scheduled, vrith a view to finding additional
financial resources for the inplenentation of the projects of the Decadel

,.12.@theE<ecutiveSecretarytobeginassoonas
possible, in collaboration with the Secretary-General of the Organization of
African tlnity, the trlreparation of the plan of action for the second phase of
the Decader

tr13. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Economic @mnission
for Africa witfr ttre financial means and resources necessary to enable it to
organize the three consultative technical meetings scheduled for 1982t
oomplete the preparation of the progranme for the sec-ond phase of the
Transport and Conmunications Decade in Africa and fulfil effectively its role
as the lead agency for the Transtrnrt and Communications Decade in Africar aDd
to submit to the Economic and Socia1 Council, at its second regular session of
L982, a progress retrnrt on the implenentation of the Progranme for the Decadet

"14. Rgggg the Executive Secretary of the Econonic Oommission for
Africa to 6FG to subnit progress reports on the implementation of the
Transtrnrt and Conununications Decade in AfricaT

nI5. Requqsts the Secretary-GeneraL to submit to the General Assembly, at
it thirty-sevenLtr session, a retrnrt on the progress achieved in implenenting
the present resolution. "

20. At the same meeting, the representative of Nigeridl oll behalf of the sponsorst
withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.23, in Light of the introduction of draft
resolution A/C. 2 /36 /L. L25 .

2L. At its 46th meeting, on 7 Decenber, the Conunittee had before it a draft
resoLution $/e.2/36/L.142) r which was submitted by !4r. Errique G. ter llorst,
Vice-Chairman of the Comnittee, on the basis of informal consultations held on the
draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.L25.



A/36/694/Add.1
English
Page 12

22. A statenent by the Secretary-General on the administrative and financial
implications of draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.23, which also applied to draft
resolutions A,/C.2/35/L.L25 and A/C.2/36/L.142, was circulated (A/C.2/36/L.421 .

23. At the same neeting' the Oommittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.L42
(see para. 43, draft resolution IV).

24. In the light of the adoption of the draft resolution, the sponsors of draft
resoLution A/C.2/36/L.L25 withdrew their text.
25. Statements ltere nade by the representatives of the Union of Soviet socialist
Republics and the United States of America.

E. praft resorutions:L/c.2/36/t .72 and A/c.2/36/L.L4o

26. At the 41st meeting, on 18 litrvenber, the representative of $g!4r on behalf ofthe States Members of the united Nations which are members of trrffiican Group,
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/36/L.721 entitled "Multinational programming
and OperationaL Centrestr. In introducing the draft resolution, the representative
of Benin orally corrected the title of the resolution to read xMultinational
Progranming and Operational Planning Centrestr. Ttre draft resolution read as
follows:

tr1lhe General Assembly,

" flilg its resolutions 32/L97 of 2O December I9?7 and 33/202 of
29 January L979 on restructuring the economic and social sectors of the United
Nations system so as to make it nore fully capable of dealing with problens of
internationaL economic co<peration and development in a comprehensive and
effective manner,

"Recalling in particular section IV of the annex to resolutLon 32/L97 on
structures for regionaL and interregional co<peration, through which the
Genera1Assemb1ydesignatestheregionalconunissions,@,asthemain
general economic and social development centres within the United Nations
system for their respective regions,

trRecalling further its resolution 35/64 of 5 llecember 1980 on special
measures for the social and economic develotrrnent in Africa in the 1980s,

"Recalling also the final Act of Iagos, 9,/ adopted at the second
extraordinary session of the Assembly of Heads of State and Covernment of the
Organization of African Unity held at lagos on 28 and 29 April 1980r which
called, inter alia, for the establishment of a subregional cotrunon market by
1990 as the first step towards the establishment of an African economic
community by the year 2000,

2/ A/S-LL/LA, annex rr.



A/36/6e /Add. r_
English
Page 13

rrTaking note of resolution 311 (XIII) of I March 197? of the @nference
of Ministers of the Economic Comnission for Afr Lca, L}l whereby the Conference
decided to create a certain number of lvlultinational Eogramning ana
operationar centres (MULpocs) at the subregional lever,

- 
rBegring in nind also that the Multinational progranuning and operational

centres have become an integral part of the Economie @mmission for Africa,
through which the oornmission effectively carries out its terms of reference
not onJ-y with regard to studies, research, the organization of meetings and
consultations but also with regard to its operational activities as an
executing altency,

rrEn[*rasizing the importance of the activities of these Centres for the
African countries and the need for substantial and adequate financial and
human resources to sustain the activities of the centres,

trI. Calls YPon the Secretary-General to provide additional and adequate
human ano EiilfGl-resources fron the regular budget to enable aII the
Centres to carry outr at the subregionaL level, their work progranme in thefield of general programning, research, studies and the organization ofneetingsl | -

'2. Welcomes the financial support which the United Nations Development
Programme has extended to the Centres since their inception and urges the
Administrator of the Prograrune to continue with this essential supiort to the
operational activities of the Centres during the third progranming-cycl.e of
the United Nations DeveJ-opment programme, I9g2-I9g6f

n3. Calls also upon other organs, organizations and bodies of the United
Nations syEEffis well as intergovernnenta]- and non-governmental
organizations, to render their fullest support to the activities of the
Centresl

-'1. Requests the Secretary-Genera1 to provide to the General Assembly atits thirty-seventh session a report on the implementation of the present
resoLution. tr

27. A statement by the Secretary-Genera1 on the adninistrative and financial
implications of draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.72 was circulated in document
A/c.2/36/L.123.

28, At its 46th neeting, on 7 December, the Conmittee had before it a draft
resol'ution (Fdc.2/36/L.140) subnitted by Mr. Enrigue G. ter lbrst, Vlce-Ctrairman of
the Conunittee, on the basis of informal consuLtations held on draft resolution
A/c.2/36/L.72.

^ _ -g/ . $,!ar Reoords of the Economic and ,Suppternent



A/36/69A/Add.1
English
Page 14

29. The Chairman inforned the Comnittee that draft resolution A,/C.2/36/L.L40 did
not entaiL adninistrative or financial inplications.

30. At the same rneeting, the @nmittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.L4O
(see para..43, draft resolution V).

31, In the light of the adoption of the draft resolution, the sponsors of draft
resolution A/C.2/36/L.72 withdrew their text.

F. Draft resoLution A,/C.2/36/L.75 and A/C.2/36/L,.L33

32. At the 41st neeting, on 18 ldovernber, the representative of Sweden, on behalf
of fg!!r Pakistan and Svreden, introduced a draft rgsolution (A/C.2/36/L.75)
entitled'rfnterrelationships between resources, environment, people and
developmentrr, which read as foLlowsr

I'Having considered the report of the Director-General for Development and
International Economic Co-operation on interrelationships between resources,
environment, people and development, 4./

r'@nscious of the interrelationships between resources, environment,
people and developnent, as stressed in the International Developrnent Strategy
for the Third United lilations Decade , W

"Awals of the need to use the available resources of the United Nations
system in an efficient manner through, inter alia, the application of existing
krowledge of the interrelationships,

"3g@g. its resolution 35/74 of 5 December 1980, in paragraph 5 of
which the Assembly requested the Secretary-General to take the requisite steps
for inplementation of a system-wide progralnme of work on the
interrelationships between resources, environment, people and development,

trHaving regard to Ebonomic and Social &unciL resolution 1981/51 of
zz .rut@F wtrich the council welcomed the statement of the
Director-@neral in which he outlined the elements of a system-wide Programne
of work, welcomed also, the establishnent of the general trust fund for the
purlpse of faciLitating the implementation of the vork progranme and reguested
the Director-ceneral to finalize the proposals for a system-wide programne of
work for full consideration by the General Assenbly at its thirty-sixth
session,

\/ A/36/57L, annex.

Y/ See General Assembly resolution 351156, annex.



A/36/6e4/Md.1
English
Page 15

nBearing in mind Econonic and Social @uncil resolution L98L/73 of
24 July 1981,

ul. Endorses the proposals to initiate a co-ordinated nultidisciplinary
prograrune 6TGTx--rx on inierielationships between resources, environnent, peopte
and development' as contained in the retrnrt of the Director-General, taking
into account also paragraph 5 of Assembly resolution ( ) on the report
of the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment Programme on its
ninth sessionl

t'2. WeLcomes the arrangements proposed by the Director-General for
interagen"i:Effirtations and programme support in the inplementation of the
progranne of work, including the establishment of a srnall advisory body to
assist him in the over-alt guidance of the programme of r.rork and to oversee
the operation of the above-mentioned general trust fundT

n3. Appeals to @vernrnents to make every effort to pledge substantiaL
contributions to the trust fund which has been established for financing
activities on interrelationships between resources, environment, people and
developmentl

n4. Decides to review progress in the inplementation of this resolution
at its thi;Gl;hth sessior,." -

33. At its 46th neeting, on 7 December, the Committee considered a draft
resolution (A/C.2/36/L.133) submitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, vice-Chairman of the
Comnittee, on the basis of infornal consultations held on draft resolution
A/C.2/36/L.7s.

34. A representative of the Office of the Director-General for DeveloSrnent and
InternationaL Econonic Co<peration made a statement.

35. At the sane meeting, draft resoluton A/C.2/36/L.75 was withdrawn by the
slDnsors, and the Comnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.133 without a vote
(see para. 43, draft resolution VI).

36. After the adoption of the resorution, statements were made by the
representatives of the United Kingdorn of Great Britain and llcrthern lrelandl Canada
and the Fbderal Republic of Crermany.

c. praft resoluEion I/C.2/36/L.LL9 and A/C.2/36/L.L46
37. At the rl5th meeting, on I December, the representative of Alger:h, on behalf
of the States Members of the united Nations which are members offiroup of ZZ,
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/36/L.119) entitled ',Special measures for thesocial and economic developnent of Africa in the t980sn, which read as follows:

"The Generat Assembly

"Recalling its resorutions 320r (s-w) and 3202 (s-vr) of t t{ay 1974,
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishnent

/.
of



^/36/694/Add.1English
Page 16

a New International Economic Order, 328L (XXIX) of L2 December L974,
crontaining the Charter of Ficonomic Rights and Duties of States, 3362 (S-VII)
of 15 September 1975 on development and international economic co<perationt

"SggeIf!-E its resolution 35/64 of 5 December 1980 advocating the
adoption of a wide range of special measures for the economic and social
development of Africa in the I980s, -

"@!!!4g its resolution 35/66 of 5 December 1980 on the fndustrial
Development Decade for Africa,

"Eeply concerned at the worsening of the current world economic crisis
and its devastating effects on the particularly vulnerable ecgnomies of the
African countries,

lF\rlly aware that the Lagos PIan of Action for the fnplementation of the
!4onrovia Strategy for the Economic Development of Africa D/ provides a
frameroork of priority actions for achieving the rapid over-all eccnomic and
social development of Africa,

"Convince9 of the need for increased and sustained external resources to
achieve the aims and objectives of the Iagos PIan of Action,

"Welcom.iry. the initial measures adopted by the organs, organizations and
bodies of the United lilations systen to inplenent paragraph 3 of resolution
35/64 of 5 December 1980,

nl. Takes note of the interin report of the Secretary-General concerning
special measures for the social and economic development of Africa in the
1980s , U/ which indicates the contributions by organs, organizations and
bodies of the United tttations to the inrplementation of the Iagos Plan of Actiont

"2. Reaffirms the need for the organs, organizations and bodies of the
United lilations system to examine tdays and means including the possibility of
additional resources to devote larger resources to the execution of the
progranmes for the Development Decade for Africa and to apply the special
measures in a comprehensive and co-ordinated mannert

rr3. UrS. donor crountries to provide additional resources for the
effective Gptementation of the Lagos Plan of Actioni

"4. Invites all international financial institutions, and particularly
.the lrlorld Bank and the International Fund for Agricultural Development to
increase substantially their development assistance to Africa during the
Decadel

E/ A/9-IJ-/LA, annex r.

y/ A/36/sL3.



A/36/69A/Add.1
English
Page 17

n5. Renelrs its invitation to the non-governmental organizations in
consultatiiE-Etus with the Economic and Social Council to submit to the
Secretary-@neral, for transmission to the Council at its second regular
session of 1982, suggestions for the contribution which they intend to make
towards the implementation of the Lagos Plan of Actioni

"5. Requests the Secretary-e,eneral to allocate adequate resources to the
Economic @nmission for Africa which, in acc-ordance with General Assembly
resolutions 32/197 of 20 December 1977 and 33/202 of 29 January L979, is the
main economic and social development centre within the United Nations system
for the African regionl

',7. Frrrther requests the Secretary-Genera1 to submit to the General
A.ssenbIya@nthsession,throu9htheEconomicandSocia1
Council at its second regular session of L982, a reSnrt on the progress made
in the inplenentation of the present resolution. rl

38. At the 47th meeting, on 10 December, the Conunittee had before it a draft
resolution (A/C.2/36/L.I46) subnitted by Mr. Enrique G. ter Horstr Vice-Chairman of
the Committee, on the basis of informal consultations on draft resolution
A/c.2/36/L.lle.

39. At the same meeting, the Oorunittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.L46
(see pra. 43r draft resolution VII).

40. fn the light of the a&ption of the draft resolution, the sponsors of draft
resolution A/C.2/36/L.J-L9 withdrew their text.

41. A statement was made by the representative of the Union of Soviet socialist
Republics.

H. Draft decision on Charter of Ebonomic Rights and Duties of States

42. At its 47th meeting, on 10 Decernber, the Committee decided to recommend to the
C,eneral A.ssembly the.inclusion in its agenda for the thirty-seventh session, under
the iten entitled 'rDevelopment and international ecronomic co-operation", of a
subiten entitled 'rCharter of Economic Rights and Brties of States" (see para. 44).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

43. llhe Second Onunittee reoonmends to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
following drdft resolutions:



A/36/6eL/Add.1
English
Page 18

DRAFT RESOLUTION T

CoPperetion between the tnited Wations and the Agency for
Cultural and 1rectrnical Co.operation

llhe General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 33/LA of l0 titrvenber Lg78, by which it accorded
observer status to the Agency for Cultural and Technical Co<peratlon,

Recalling Economic and social councir decision r90 (txi) of 5
which the Ouncil designated the Agency for cultural and Technicar
participate on an ad hoc basis in the deliberations of the council
within the scope oF-iFactivities,

August L976, by
Co-operation to
on guestions

lbting with satisfaction the desire expressed by the Agency for Cultural and
rechnical Co'operation to establish close corcperation with the urited llations inall fields of common interest, in particular training, desertification oontrol,
science and technology for develotrnent, new and renewable sources of energy and
technical co-operation annng developing countries,

Recognizing the intrnrtance of those sectors,
l'. Welcones the participation of the Agency for Cultural and llechnical

co'operati5il5-trre vprk of the united r€tioni in fietds of coruiron interestl
2. lieoognizes the necessity of strengthening co-operation between the united

t{ations and the Agency for culturar and Technical co<perationl
3. Requests the Secretary-c€neral- of the United Nations, in collaboration

with the Secretary-General of the Agency for Cultural and Technical Co<peration,
to examine ProlDsals by the Agency ained at reinforcing ca-operation with the
thited libtions and to submit a report thereon through the Elcononic and SociaL
council to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session.

DRAF'T RESOLUTION IT

SPecific actiol -relgted to the particular needs and problemsof land-locked developing countries
the @neral Assenbly,

Reiterating the specific actions related to the particular needs of the
Land-Iocked developing crountries stated in resolutions 63 (III) of 19 May Lg720 gl

-E/ se Plogeedings of the
Peyelop$ent,-Third Sessionr ro ublication,
Sales tib. E.73.fI.D.4), annex. I.A.



N36/694/ld,d.L
EngLish
Page 19

9g (Iv) of 3t !{ay Lg16 L6r/ and 123 (v} of 3 June LgTg L7/ of, the united liliatlons
Conference on Trade and Develotrmentt

Recalling the provisions of its resolutions 31,/15? of 2L December Lg76. 32/LgL
of 19 December Lg?7, 33/L5O of 2O lbcember L978, 34/L98 of 19 Decmeber 1979 and
3S/Sg of 5 llecember 1980 and other resolutions of the United l{ations relating to
the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing countries'

Bearing in nind various other resolutions adopted by the General Assenb1y, its
retatea orgars anO tne strncialized agencies, enphaslzing special and urgent
measures in favour of land-locked developing countries,

Recalling the relevant provisions of the International Developnent Strategy
for the Third tllrited lhtions Developrnent Decade , 9/

Recognlzing that the lack of territoriaL access to the sea, aggravated by
rermtEiffiifrsolation from world narketsr ind the prohibitive transit, translnrt
and transshiprnent costs impose serious constraints on the socio-economic
developnent of land-locked developing countries,

tibtlng with concern that the measures taken so far in favour of land-locked
aevet@'theassistance9ivenfa11farshortoftheirneeds'

l. Reaffirms the right of Land-locked developing countries to free accesa to
and from the sea and their right to freedom of transitt

2. Appeals to all States, international organizations and- financial
instltutlons to Trnplementr 6 i matter of urgency and priorityr the speclflc actions
related to the particular needs and probLems of land-locked developing oountrl€s
envlsaged in resolutions 63 (III), 98 (IV) and 123 (V) of the United Nations
@nferece on Trade and Developnent, in the International Development Strategy f,or
the Third Unlted Natlons D,evelo;xnent Decade, in the Substantial New Programme of
Action for tbe Ieast Developed @untries for the 19g0s and ln other relevant
resolutions of the united Nations

3. Urges all donor countries, as well as those in a position to,do-sor and
the intern!ffiiaf organizations concerned, to provide land-locked developing
countries with appropriate financial and technical assistance in the form of grants
or concessional loans for the construction and lmprovenent of their transPort and
transit lnfrastructures and facilitiest

g/ &I9., Egrs Session, voI. I,
publlcationr Sales Ib. E.73.II.D.10 and

Relprt and Annexes (United Nationg
co-rigendum), Part oner sect. A.

n-/ $5!.r !!',1!![.1!g!51g1 voI. Ir @ (united Nationg
publieatlon, Sales t'b. 8.79.II.D.14) r Part one' sect. A.

g/ General Assenbly resolution 35/56t annex.

/...



A/36/69A/Add. r
English
Page 20

4. - Yrge? alPo the internatlonal crorununity and rnultilaterar and bilateralfinancial institutions to intensify efforts in iaislng the net flow of resources toland-locked developing countries to help offset the adverse effects of their
disadvantageous geograptrical situation on their economic developnent efforts, in
keeping with the over-alL develotrment needs of each land-Iocked developing countryl

5. IlVLteS. the transit ountries to co-operate effectively with theland-lockeE-Elililoping countries in harmonizing transtrnrt planning and pronntingother joint ventures in the field of transtrnrt at the regional, subregional andbilateral levelsl

6. @nmends the united Nations Develotrrnent programme, the united lgationsoonferenceAi-G?e and Developnent and othei ttrrited t€tions agencies for their
work and the assistance they have provided to the land-locked developiig-.ouiaii."
and invites them to oontinue to take appropriate and effective measures to respondto the specific needs of those countries,

7 ' zurthcr. invit-es the international comrnunity to give f inanciar suptrnrt tointerested transit and land-locked developing oountries in the construction ofalternative routes to the seat

_ 8_.. Regonunends continued and intensified activities relating to theconducting of necessary studies and the inplementation of special actions andaction Prograllunes for the Land-Iocked developing countries, including those in thearea of economic co'operation anong developing countries, as well as those that
have been envisaged in the programne of work of the united litations Conference on
Trade and Developnentr the regional corunissions and other prograunmes and activitiesat the regional and subregional levels.

DRAFT RESOLUTON III

ExPansion of the conferelle,facili!ig? of the economic Comnission
for africa at Addis ababE-

ltre General Assenbly,

Recallinq Dcononic and social council resolution t9gl,/65 of 24 July 19g1,
Recalling ?Iso that the Economic Oonurnission for Africa was estabtished at

Addis Ababa in 1958 and that its conference facilities, which were donated to the
urited tihtions by the Gbvernrnent of Ethiopia, were designed to service the linited
number of African countries that were States ltlembers of the United Nations in thel-ate 1950s and early 1960s.

lbting with s?tisfaction the increase in the nunber of independent States inafrica as a result of decolonization,

lbting further that there are at present
thited Nations and that there is the prospect
membership in the United Nations,

50 African States lrtembers of the
that rpre will be adrritted to



^/36/6e4/Add.LEnglish
Page 21

- Mindful of the heavy responsibilities entrusted to the Economic Conunission forAfrica as the main centre for the prorotion of the economic development of Africa
in general and for ttre implenentation of the lJagos Plan of Action for the
Implementation of the Monrovia Strategy for the Economic Development of Africa, !fo/in particular, in ttre present decadeT

Noting that the present conference facilities at the headquarters of the
Economic Conunission for Africa are believed to be inadequate in relation to the
needs of the large number of African States that have become members of the
Oomnission since its establishnent and the growing number of international,
intergovernmental and regional- organizations participating in conferences there,

_ Sgggests the Secretarfceneral to undertakel €ls d natter of urgency astudy of the adeguacy of the conference facilities at the headquarters of the
Economic Oonunission for Africa to meet the demands thereon as a result of the
enrarged rnenbership and increased activities of the corunission;

2. E\:rther requests the Secretarfceneral to report the findings of the
study together with his suggestions, through the Economic Comnission for Africa at
its seventeenth session and the Economic and Social Oouncil at its second regular
session of L982, to the General assenbLy at its thirty.-seventh session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Transport and Oonnunications Decade in Africa
The General Assembly,

Recalling its resorutions 32A60 of 19 December L977, 33fL97 of
29 January L979 and 34rl15 of 9 lilrvember 1979 on the Transport and @mmunications
Decade in Africa andr in particular, its resoLution 35A08 of 5 December 1980,
by which it approved the organization of consultative technical meetings for the
various African subregions,

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolutions L979/GL of
3 August L979' L98A/46 of 23 JuIy L980 and 198V67 of 24 Jul-y 1981 on the Ttansport
and Cornmunications Decade in Africa,

Recalling resolution 341 (XIV),
Ministers of the Economic Oommission
member States to give high priority
conmunicationsr

adopted on 27 March 1979 by the Conference of
for Africa, U in which the Oonference urgedto the development of transport and

L9/ See A,/S-IULA, annex I.

_ 20/ See official Reqords of the Economic and Socia1 Council,, 1979,
Supplenent l$o. L5 (E/L979150) , part tno, sect. D.



A/36/6e4/Add. r
English
Page 22

lloting resolution CM,/Res.73g (xxxlrl), adopted by the Council of Ministers of
the Organization of African Unity at its thirty-third ordinary session, held at
Monrovia from 6 to 20 July 1979, L/

Aw?re of the need to inplenent fully, during the Decade, national-, subregional
and regional projects aimed at establishing an integrated transport and
conununications network in Africa to support the accelerated development of the
continent,

Noting wittr appreciation the considerable financial- efforts made by the
Governments of African states to enable a considerable part of the programme for
the first phase of the Decade to be financed and irnplemented,

Considerinq that sustained efforts must be exerted to mobilize additional
resources in order to ensure the implementation of the prograrune for the Decade,

Recallinq the decision by which the Oonference of African Ministers of
Transport' Corununications and Planning, at its second neeting, held at Mdis Ababa
fron L6 to 18 l,I;arch 1981' authorized the &<ecutive Secretary of the Economic
Comnission for Africa to organize four consultative tecfinical neetings between
member States, interested African intergovernmental organizations and donots, fu/

A$tare of the role played by the Economic Conmission for Africa as the tead
agency in inplementing the Transport and Conmunications Decade in Africa,

Bearing in mind resolution 422 (xw) adopted on l0 April r9g1 by the
Conference of !{inisters of the Econonic Conmission for Africa, held at Freetown
from 6 to 1l April 1981' by whictr the Conference, inter a1ia, requested the
Executive Secretary of the Oomnission, in collaboration with the Secretary-General
of the Organization of African Unity, to enbark as early as possibLe on the
preparation of ttre plan of action for the second 5*rase of the Decade, /!1/

1. Notes with satisfaction the report of the Secretary-General on the
Transport and Communications Decade in Africat ry

2. Takes note of the results of the tectrnicaL consultative meeting on
transp,ort and communications for West Africa, 25/ whic}. was held at Iom6 from
8 to 1l- Jurre 1981-, and of the report on the orga-nization of three other meetings
scheduled to be held in L982t

L/ See x/34/552, annex I.

?u see E/cN.L4/8L2.

For the text of the resolutionr

^/36/342.
see DEC/TRANSCOI4/ESC /\/ 8t/ Md,.L.

23J

?3/

2s/

see A/36/342, annex IV.



A/36/6e4/Add.1
English
Page 23

3. Irlrtes with satiEfaction the contribution made by some c€untries to the
implementa d Conrnunications Decade in Africal

4. b<presses its disappointment, however, at the over-al1 level of resources
rnobilized so far, which is far below the level required to finance the subregional
progranmer €rnd appeals to donor countries, funding agencies and the various
financial institutions to increase their financial support to the regional and
subregional projects for the Decadel

5. Also notes with satisfaction the measures taken by the Economic
oorunissionheorganizationandschedu1ingofthethree
other consultative technical meetings, which are to be held at Ouagadougou from
20 to 23 January L982, at Yaound6 fron 15 to 18 t4arch 1982 and at Abidjan in
!,tay 19821

5. Reiterates its appeal to States members of the Economic @mmission for
Africatoffirityintheirdeve1opmentp1anstotranstrnrtand
communicat ions pro jects I

7. Appeals to donor countries and funding agencies to participate
constructively and in large numbers in the three consultative technical meetings
scheduled to be held in 1982 and to consider, together with the Economic @nmission
for Africa, lnssible ways of financing those projects of the Decade which are not
national in characterl

8. Urges the Executive Secretary of the Economic Conmission for Africa to
maintain cl.ose co-operation with member States, the Organization of African Unity,
regional African development organizationsi development agencies and interested
specialized agencies with a view to the regular updating of the progranme for the
first phase of the Decade and with a view to better relating the projects to
national and subregional plans;

9. CaIIs upon States members of the Economic Commission for Africa to step
up their efforts in cronnexion with the study of the possible sources of finance for
the implementation of the projects adopted for the Decadet

10. Requests the D<ecutive Secretary of the Economic Connission for Africa to
naintain the necessary co-ordination between the sources of finance and the'African
countries to assure the success of the impJ-ementation of the progranme for the
first phase of the Decadel

11. AIso requests the Executive Secretary of the Ebonomic @nmission for
Africa to organize in L982, with groups of donor countries and the financing
institutions'and with the participation of Governments, United Nations institutions
and African intergovernmental organizations, the three consultative technical
meetings scheduled with a view to finding additional financial resources for the
inplementation of the projects of the Decadel

L2. Further requests the Executive Secretary of the Economic Conunission for
Africatoffipossib1e,incollaborationwiththeSecretary-Genera1of
the organization of African Unity, the preparation of the plan of action for the
second phase of the Decadel 

/...



A/36/694/Add. t
E4glish
eage 24

13. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Economj.c Commission for
Africa with the financial means and resources necessary to enable it to organize
the three consultative technical meetings scheduled to be held in L982t inter alia'
using extrabudgetary funds and existing resources, to the maximum extent lnssible,
to complete the preparation of the programme for the second phase of the Transport
and Oommunications Decade in Africa and to fulfil effectively its role as the lead
agency for the Transport and Communications Decade in Africa, and to submit to the
Economic and Social @uncil, at its second regular session of 1982, a progress
report on the implementation of the progranme for the DecadeT

14. Requests the Executive Secretary of the Economic borunission for Africa to
continue to subnit progress reSnrts on the implementation of the Transport and
@mmunications Decade in Africal

15. Requests the Secretary-General to subrnit to the General Assembly at its
thirty-seventh session a report on the progress achieved in implenenting the
present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Multinational Programning and Operational Planning Centres

The @neral A^ssenbly,

Recalling its resolutions 32/L97 of 20 Etecember 1977 and 33/202 of
29 January L979 on restructuring the economic and social sectors of the United
Nations system so as to make it more fully capable of dealing with problems of
international economic co<peration and development in a comprehensive and
effective nanner,

Recalling in particular section IV of the annex to resoluEion 32/197 on
structures for regional and interregional co-operation, through which the General
Assemb1ydestgnatedtheregionaIcommissions,@,asthemaingenera1
economic and social development centres within the United Nations system for their
respective regions,

Recalling further its resolution 35/64 of 5 December 1980 on special measures
for the social and economic development in Africa in the 1980s,

Recalling also the Final Act of tagos, 26/ adopted at the second extraordinary
session of the Assenbly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of
African Unity' held at Lagos on 28 and 29 April 1980, which caIIed, inter alia, for
the establishment of a subregional connon market by 1990 as the first step towards
the establishment of an African economic community by the year 2000,

26-/ A/S-LL/L4, annex II.



A/36/6e4/ Add. I
English
Page 25

- .Teking note of resolution 311 (xrrr) adopted on I March l9z7 by the conferenceof Ministers of the Economic commission for airica, 27/ wheteby the conferencedecided to create a certain number of Multinational Fiogrammin! ana operationar
Planning Centres at the subregional level,

Bearinq in mind aLso that ttre Multinational programming and operationalPlanning centres have become an integral part of the Economic commi""ior,'ioiAfricar through which the oomnission effectively carries out its terms of referencenot only with regard to studies, research, the organization of meetings andconsultations but also with regard to its operational activities as an executing
agency,

_ Emr:haPizing the importance of the activities of the Multinational prograrnning
and operationaL Planning Centres for the African countries and the need forsubstantiar and adequate financial and human resources to sustain the activities ofthe Centres,

1. calls upon the secretary-General urgently to seek to provide
extrabudgetary resources to enable all the Multinational progrirnrning anaoperational Pranning centres to carry out, in 1982 at the subregionar level, theirwork progranme in the field of generil prograrnrning, research, studies and theorganization of meetings;

_ 2' wslcomes the financial support which the united Nations Deveropment
Progranme has extended to the Multinational Programning and operational planning
Centres since their inception and urges the Adninistrator of the programme tocontinue this essential support to the operationar activities of the centres duringthe third programming cycle of the united Nations Development programme, 19g2-1986;

3. Calls also upon other'organs, organizations and bodies of the UnitedNations sffillas wett as intergovernmentar and non-governmental organizagions, torender their fullest support to the activities of the Multinational programming andoperational planning Centres;

4' Invites the Secretary-General, in consultation with the Adninistrator ofthe uniteE'GGns Developmenl Progranme and the D<ecutive secretary of the
Flcononic commission for Africa, to submit to the Economic and social council, atits second regular sessidn of 1982, a report on the rinancing 

"i tn" MurtinationalProgramming and operational Pranning cenlres on an establishla uasi=;

,5. Requgsts the secretarlz-General to submit to the General Assembty at itsthirty-seventh session a report on the implenentation of the present resolution.

Supplement No. 7, vol. I (E,IS94L,) , part rII.
CouncilU/ Official Records of the Economic and Socia third Session,



A/36/594/ Add. l
English
Page 25

Having considered
International Economic
environmentT people and

DRAFT RESOTUTION VI

Interrelationships between resourcesr environment,
people and develoPnent

The General A.ssemb1y,

the report of the Director-General for Development and
Co-operation on interrelationships between resourcest
developmenE, U

Conscious of the interrelationships between resources, environment, people and
development, as noted in the International Development Strategy for the third
United Nations DeveJ-opment Decade, U

Recognizing that the application of existing knowledge concerning those
interrelationships could lead to a more efficient use of available resources in the
United Nations systemt

Recalling its resolution 35/74 of 5 December 1980, in paragraph 5 of which it
requested the Secretarlz-General to take the requisite steps for inplementation of a
systemwide programme of work on the interrelationships between resources,
environment, people and development,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolutions 198L/5L of 22,Iuly 1981 and
L98L/73 of 24 July 1981,

Avrare that the fornulation and implementation of policies and strategies in
the fields of resources, environment, people and developmentr at the national
Ievel, fall within the prerogative of Governments,

1. Requests the Director-General for trevelopment and International Economic
Co-operation:

(a) so initiate implementation of a co-ordinated nultidisciplinary programme
of work on interrel-ationships between resources, environment, people and
development, as outlined in his report, U and within this framework the
recommendations of the verning Council of the United Nations Environment
Programme 30,/ and of the Fconomic and Social Council 3L/ on this subjecti

4/
u/

A/36/57L, annex.

See General Assembly resoLution 35/56, annex.

?9/ See Official Records of the General Assembl Ith i rt -sixth Session,
SuppLement No. 25 ( , annex I, ec].slon , sect. II.

!J/ See Economic and Social Council resolution L98L/73 of 24 July 198I.



A/36/6e4/Add .1
English
eage 27

(b) Urgently to consult Governments on the elements contained in his rep,ort,
as he proceeds in the implementation of the above-mentioned prograrme of work;

2. Supports the arrangements proposed by the Director-General forlnteragency consultations and progranne support in the implementation of theprogramme of work' as well as the establishment of a smal-l advisory body, to be
financed through the trust fund which has been established for financing activitiesconcerning interrelat,ionships between resources, environment, people anddevelopment, to assist him in the over-all guidance of the progranune of work and to
oversee the operation of the trust fund;

3. Appeals to Governments to contribute to the above-mentioned trust fundi
4. Decides to review at its thirty-eighth session the progress made in theinplementa6-n-i? the pr esent r esolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Special measures for the social and economic

the General Assembly,

Begalli.ng its resolutions 3201 (s-vr) and 3202 (g-vr) of I May Lg74,
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of at€w rnternational Economic order, 3281 (xxrx) of L2 December Lg74, containing the
Charter of Economic Right,s and Drties of States, 3362 (s-VIr) of 16 septembei l9Z5
on deveropment and international econonic co-operation, and 35/56 of
5 Decernber 1980, containing the International Development, Strategy for the T?rird
United Nations Development Decade,

Recalling its resolution 35/64 of 5 December 1980 in which it advocated the
adoption of a wide range of special measures for the social and economic
developnent of Africa in the 1980s,

Recalling also its resolution 35/66 B of 5 December r9g0 on the
Development Decade for Africa,

at the worsening of the current world economic
the particularly vulnerable economies of the

Industr ial

crisis and its
Africancountriesr'

Tlly aware that the Lagos Plan of Action for the Implementation of the
Monrovia Strategy for the Economic Development of Africa f2/ provides a frameworkof priority actions for acfrieving the rapid over-all economic and social
development of Africar

concerned
effects on

32/ A/9-LVLA, annex r.



A/ 35 /6e 4 /Add . r
Snglish
Page 28

Recognizing the primary restrnnsibility of the African countries for their
development and the inportance of the npbilization of their national resources for
their socio-economic development,

Convinced of the need for increased and sustained external resour"."t ao
act ieET[il-Ims and objectives of the Iagos Plan of Action,

Welcoming the initial measures adopted by the organs, organizations and bodies
of the United litrations system to implenent paragraph 3 of resoluLion 35/64,

1. Takes note of the interin retrnrt of the Secretary-General concerning
special measures for the social and economic development of Africa in the 1980s,
33,/ which indicates the contributions by organs, organizations and bodies of the
United llations to the implementation of the Iagos PIan of Action for the
fmplementation of the lvlcnrovia Strategy for the Economic DeveloSment of Africat

2. Inviteer in this context, the organs, organizations and bodies of the
United llatT6Tffistem to examine ways and means of increasing the resources for the
execution of the progranmes for the Development Decade for Africa and to apply the
special measures in a comprehensive and co-ordinated manne4

3. Urges donor countries to provide the necessary resources for the
effective implernentation of the Lagos plan of Actionl

4. Invites all international financial institutions, particularly the
InternatioilGEn-k for Reconstruction and Development and the International Fund
for Agricultural Development, to continue to consider actively increasing
substantially their development assistance to Africa during the Decadel

5. Renews its invitation to the non-governmental organizations in
consultative status with the Ftconomic and Socia1 Council to submit to the
Secretary-General , for transmission to the @uncil at its sec'ond regular session of
L982, suggestions for the contribution which they intend to make towards the
implementation of the Iagos Plan of Actionl

6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to allocate necessary
resources to the Economic @mmission for Africa, taking into account its role as
the main economic and social developnent centre within the United Nations system
for the African region, in accordance with General Assembly resolutions 32/L97 of
20 December 1977 and 33/202 of 29 January 1979t

7. Further requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assenbly
at its thirty-seventh session, through the Economic and Sociat Council at its
second regular session of L982, a report on the progress made in the implementation
of the present resolution.

g/ A/36/5L3.

***



A/36/694/Add.1
English
Page 29

44. *te Second Connittee also recomnends to the General Assenbly the adoption ofthe following draft resolutionc

Charter of Econonic riqhts and Duties of States
ilhe General Assenbly decides to include in the provisional agenda of itsthirty-seventh session, under the iten entitled noeveloprnent and internationaL

econonic ceoperationtr, a subitem entitled rCharter of Econonic Rights and Dutiesof Statesi.


