
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/36/545
3 llcvember 1981

ORIGINAI,: ENGLISH

lltrirty-sixth session
Agenda iten 90

CRIME PREVE}NION AND CRIMINAI, JUSTICE AND DEVET,OPMEMI

Report of the Thifd bmmittee

Rapporteurr Mr. tilaoharu Ft'Jff (Japan)

I. INMOD(rcTION

1. At its 4th plenary meetingr oh lB September lgglr the General Assembly decided
to include in its agenda the itern entitled trCrime prevention and criminal justice
and developnent: report of the Seeretary-General" and to allocate it to the Third
@rmittee.

2. lthe Comrittee considered the item jointly with items 76, 77, 78r 80 and 84 at
its l5th to ITth' L9th and 2lst to 29th meetings fron 12 to 26 October 1981. ltre
views exlxessed by the representatives of Member States and specialized agencies
and by observers on this item are contained in the sunmary records of those
neetings @/e.3/36/5R.15-17 , L9, and 21-29) .

3. Ttre ltrird &nmrittee had before it the following documents:
(a) Report of the Secretary-General @/36/4421 t
(b) Report of the Economic and Social Council, chapter xlx lA/36/3/Add.L9l. L/

4. At the 15th and 15th meetings, on 12 and 13 October, the Under-Secretary'
General for fnter.nationa! Economic and Social Affairs and the Assistant Director
for the tirime Prevention bnd Criminal Justiee Branch of the Centre for social
Development and Eumanitarian Affairs made introductory statements.

L/ Ib be incorporated in pffic-ial Records of the General /lgSnbII,
lhirtv-sixth Session, Supp+enent

81-2854s 3s77f (E)



A/36/645
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDEBATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. oraft resolution A/C.3/35IL.22

5. At the 27th meeting, on 22 October, the representative of Venezuela introduced
a draft resolution @/e3/36/L.22, entitled nCrime prevention and crininal justice
and developnentl, sponsored by Austria, Costa Rica, {gE!, the Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, llbroccor Vgngauela and Zarnbiar ind also Nepal, later joined by the
Bahamas, Barbados, Bolivia, Colombia, F,gypt, Equatorial Guinea, Finland, gbg,
Guatemala, the lvory Ooast, Jamaica, IgIIg, Iesotho, Nicaragua, Pakistan, the
Philippines, 3g!9, Romania, the Sudan, Sweden and Zaire. The draft resolution
read as follows:

"lltre Generel Assembly,

'rConcerned at the escalation of crime and violence in many parts of the
world r-

"99!SS!9E of the forms and dirnensions crime has assumed in the context
of socio-ecnonomic develo;xnent, and the increasing difficulties encountered,

"St*-s"ing the vital contribution that the United Nations Congresses on
the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders make to improving the
quality of life,

tRecalling its resolutlon 35/l7I of 15 December 1980 in which it endorsed
the Caracas Declaration and reconmendations reLating to the new perspectives
for international co-operation in crime prevention in the context of
developmenL, ?/

"Mindful of the new international ecnonomic order designed to achieve
devel-opment and guarantee a decent life for allr as expressed in General
Assembly resolution 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-W) of 1!4ay L974, containing the
Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a lilelv
International Economic Orderr

"F\rrther mindful that the International Development Stfategy for the
Third Uni6d !'lations Development Decader contained in the annex-io resolution
35/56 of 5 December 1980, declares that the "ultimate aim of developnent is
the constant improvement of the well-being of the entire population on the
basis of its full participation in the process of development and the fair
distribution of the benefits therefromr,

11. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on crime
pr ev e n t, io nl]G-. r i r-f na I j u s t i c e a nd d ev e lotrne n t 7

u A/cONr.87 /L4/Rev.L.



A/36/645
English
Page 3

n2. Reaffirtns that crine prevention and criminal justice should be
considered in the context of economic development, political, social and
cultural systems and social values and changes, as weLI- as in the context of a
New International Economic Orderr

tr3. Invites Member States to intensify efforts to nake the crininal
justice syffire responsive to changing socio-econonic conditions, also
through the appropriate development of indigenous forns of social control?

n4. Urges the Department of Technical Co<peration for Develo;xnent and
the United Nations Develotrment Progranune to increase their level of support to
progranmes of technicaL assistance in the field of crirne prevention and
criminal justice, and of technical. co-operation arpng deveLoping countriesl

"5. Reguests the Secretary-General to take the necessary measures for
the ful.lest implementation of the Caracas Declaration and for the appropriate
preparation of the Seventh Ulrited Nations Oongress on the Prevention of Crime
and the Treatment of Offenders, in close co-operation with alt the relevant
United Nations organizations and in particular the regional corunissions and
United Nations trainlng and research institutes in crine prevention;

tr6. Calls gp the Oonunittee on Crime Prevention and Control, entrusted
with the pi$ra- of the United l,tations congresses on the Prevention of
Crime and the Treatment of Offenders, to give particular attention, in the
formulation of the agenda of the Seventh United Nations @ngress, to current
and emerging trends in crime prevention and criminal justicer with a view to
defining new guiding principles for the future course of crime prevention and
criminal justice in the c-ontext of developnent needs and the goals of the
international Strategy for the lltrird United Nations Develotrxnent Decade and the
New fnternational Econonic Order, taking into account the political, economic,
social and cul.tural circumstances and traditions of each country, and the need
for crime prevention and criminal justice systems to be consonant with the
principles of social justicel

n7. Requests the Secretary-General, in relnrting to the Economic and
Social Oouncil at its first regular session in L982 on the preparatory work
for the Seventh United Nations Oongress on the Prevention of Crine and the
Treatment of Offenders, also to take into account the relevant recornmendations
of the Oonunittee on Crirne Prevention and Control at its seventh session,
without prejudice to the existing reporting procedures. "

6. At the same meeting, the representative of
paragraph 2 of the draft resolution by replacing
International Ecorpmic Order' by the rrord ntheo.

Venezuela
the vrord

revised operative
tatr before trNevt

7. Also at the same meeting, the representative of l,tali proposed thatr in
operative paragraph 5, the words tren ce qui Ie concerne' be inserted between the
nords "dislnsitions n6cessaires' and the words "i lrapplication Ia plus cornplBte".



A/36/645
English
Page 4

8. At the 29th meeting, on 26 October, the sponsors further revised the draft
resolution as follows:

(a) They rerrcrded the fifth preambular paragraph to read:

"Recalling its resolutions 320I (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May L974'
contaifrffiE6EDeclaration and the Prograrme of Action on the Establishment of
a New fnternational Econonic Order, which is one of the principal guarantees
for the creation of better conditions so that all peoples can attain a decent
lifer"t

(b) llhey reworded operative paragraph 5 to read:
trRequests the Secretary-e€neral to take the necessary measures for the

fullest implernentation of the Caracas Declaration and for the appropriate
preparation of the Seventh ttrrited Nations Gngress on the Prevention of Crime
and the Treatment of Offenders, in close co-operation with all the relevant
United liliations bodies and, in particular, with the regional comnissions and
the United Nations training and research lnstitutes in crime preventionr'1

(c) lthey capitalized the words rNew International Econonic Ordertr wherever
they appeared in the draft resolution.

9. At the same meeting, the representative of Somalia made the following
proposal.s, which were aecepted by the strnnsors of the draft resolution:

"(a) Replacement of the word 'the'by the rrcrd ntheirn in the phrase rrto
make the criminaL justice systems" in operative paragraph 31

"(b) Insertion of the r.rords oto encouragen between the words: "justice,
and" and "of technical co-operationo in operative paragraph 4, with the
conseguent drafting changes.

10. Also at the same meeting, the rprds nUnited Nations organstr in the revised
operative paragraph 5 were further revised to read "United tilations bodies" in
accordance with proposals by the representatives of Clprus and Onan.

11. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolutionl is revised
and amended by 136 rrotes to none, with I abstention (iee para. 14, draft
resolution I).

B. Draft resolution ArlC.3/35,/L.24

L2. At the 27th meeting, on 22 October, the representative of Belgiurn introduced a ,
draft resolution |A/C.3/36/L.241 entitled rArbitrary or sumnary executionsn,
sponsored by Belgium, Q€ggjica, @, Japan, the NetherLands, Papua New Gulnea
and Portugal' later joined by Austriar Pgg.!, 9g!9, Igry, New Zealandr l'brway
and Uruguay.

13. At the 29th rneeting, on 26 October, the Conunittee adopted the draft resolution i
without a vote (see para. 14r draft resolution fI).



A/36/645
English
Page 5

III. REC1CMMENDATIONS OF TIIE TTIIRD CUqMTTTEE

14. llhe llhird Conunittee recromnends to the General Assernbly the adoption of the
following draft resolutionsr

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Crime prevention and criminal justice and development

flhe General Assenbly,

Concerned at the escalation of crirne and violence in many parts of the rrnrld,

Gnscious of the forms and dimensions crime has assumed in the context of
socio]E6i6'iiE developrnentl and the increasing difficulties encountered,

Stressing the vital contribution that the tlnited Nations Oongresses on the
Preventlon of Crime and the Treatment of Offenders make to lmproving the quality of
life,
' Recalling its resolution 35/L7L of 15 December 1980 ln which it endorsed the
Caracas Declaration and recornnendations relating to'the new perspectives for
international co-operation in crine preventlon in the cont,ext of developnent, 2/

Recallinc its resolutions 3201 (S-W) and 3202 (S-VI) of l May L974.
containing the Declaratton and the Progranme of Action on the Establishrnent of a
New fnternational Economlc Order' which is one of the principal guarantees for the
creation of better onditione so that all peoples may attaln a decent life,

Frrther nindful that the International Develotrment Strategy for the Ihird
Unlted l{ations Ilevelotrnent D,ecade, contained in the annex of General Assenbly
resolution 35/56 of 5 lbcember 1980, declares that the uttimate ainr of development
is the constant inprovement of the well-being of the entire population on the basls
of its full participation in the process of developnent and the fair diatribution
of the benefits therefrom,

:crlnlnal j;EG; and developnentr

: '2."' -n6effilitrta "thdt aiine tiEvei.rtlon' and'Ciirnlna'I' juCtfce should 'be ciinbidered
in the context of econonic develotrf,nent, political, social and cultural systems andrsoclal values and changesr as well as in the context of a New Internatlonal
Eoonomic orderl

3. I4ttlgg Member States to intensify efforts to make their crininal justice
;systens mtre restrDnsive to changing socio-economic conditions, also through the
appropriate develotment of indigenous forms of social controlt



A/36/645
English
Page 6

4. Urges the Department of Technical Co-operatlon for DeveloPment of the
Secretariat and the United !{ations Developnent Irrograrmrc to increase their level of
support to programnes of technical assistance in the fleld of crine prevention and
criminat justice, and to encourage technica!. co-operation among developing
countriesi

5. Requestg the Secretary-General, to take the necessary measures for the
fullest implenentation of the Caracas Declaration and for the appropriate
preparation of the Seventh Unlted llations Oongress on the Prevention of Crine and
the Treatment of Offenders, in close co-operation with all the revelant United
Nations bodies and, in particular, wlth the regional comissions and the United
Nations training and research institutes in crime preventionl

6. Calls upon the Conmittee on Crime Prevention and Control, entrusted with
the preparation of the ttnited t{ations Congresses on the Prevention of Crime and the
Treatment of Offenders, to give particular attentionr in the formulation of the
agenda of the Seventh United liliations 6ngress, to current and emerging trends in
crine prevention and crininal justice, with a view to defining new guiding
principJ-es for the future bourse of crime prevention and criminal justice in the
context of develotment needs and the goals of the fnternational Strategy for the
Third United Nations Development Decade and a t{ew International Ebonomic Order,
taking into account the political, e@nonl.c, social and cultural circumstances and
traditions of.each country, and the need for crime prevention and crininal justice
systems to be consonant with the principles of soclal justicet

7. Requeqts the Secretary-General, in reporting to the Economic and Social
Council at its first regular session of 1982 on the preparatory work for the
Seventh United Nations Ongress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of
Offenders, also to take lnto account the relevant recomtendations of the Comnittee
on Crime Prevention and bntrol at its seventh session, without prejudice to the
existing reporting procedures.

DPAFT RESOLUTION II

Arbitrarv or sumnary executions

The General Assembly,

Having regard to the provisions bearing on capital punishment in the
rnternational Ovenant on Civil and Political Righits, !/ particuLaiiy its
articles 6, 14 and 15,

Recalling its resolution 2393 (XXIII) oE 26 lbvember 1968r in which it invited
Covernments of lrlember States, inter alia, to ensure the most careful legal

!/ Resolution 22OO A (XXI), annex.



for the accused

A/36/64s
English
Page 7

in capital cases inprocedures and the greatest possible safeguards
countries where the death penalty obtained,

Recalling also its resolution 3S/L72 of 15
sunmary executions,

December 1980 on arbitrary or

Bearing in nind its resolution 35/L7L of L5 December 1980, in which it,
inter alia, endorsed the Caracas Declaration adopted by consensus at the Sixth
United Nations Congress on the Prevention of Crime and the Treatment of offenders,

l. Gndemns the practice of sununary executions and arbitrary executions;
2. Strongly deplores the increasing number of summary executions as wel1 as

the continued incidence of arbitrary executions in different parts of the world;
3. lbtes with concern the occurrence of executions that are widely regarded

asbeing@al

'4. Urges all States coneerned to respect the ninimum standard of legal
safeguards referred to in paragraph I (a) of General Assembly resolut ion 35/L72i

5. Again reguests the Secretary-General to use his best endeavours in cases
where this minimum standard of lega1 safeguards appears not to be respectedl

6. Invites Member statesr specialized agencies, regional intergovernmental
organlzations and relevant non-governmental- organizations in consultative spatus
with the Economic and Social Council to answer the Secretary-Generalrs request for
their views and observations concerning the problem of arbitrary executions and
summary executionsl

7 - Requests the @nnnittee on Crine Prevention and Control to examine the
problen of arbitrary executions and sunmary execution at its seventh session with
view to naking recommendations.




