
















































=a=4- F
==taD E:€

UNITED NAT'ONS

GENERAL
A S S E M B LY

Dis'cr"
GENERAL

^86/52326 october

ORTG]}TAL:

19B1

ENGLTSH

Thirty-sixth session
Agend.a iten 82

ELI].{INATION OF ALL FORI,{S OF RACTAL D]SCRIMINATTON

Report of the Third Comrnittee

Rapporteur: l4r. irlaoharu FUJfI (.lapan)

I. I}NRODUCTION

1. At its hth plenary meetingr otr 18 September 1981, the General Assembly
decid.ed. to include in its agend.a the item entitled:

"Elimination of all forms of racial d.iscrimination:
t'(a) Report of the Conmittee on the El-imination of Raeial Discrinination;

"(f) Status of the International Convention on the Elirnination of Alf Forms
of Racial Discrini.nation: report of the .Secretary-General;

"(") Status of the fnternational- Convention on the Suppression and
Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid:, report of the Secretary-General"

and to allocate it to the Third. Committee.

2. The Comnittee considered this item jointly with itens 7l+ and 8t at its
l+ttr to thth, l8th, 2Oth and 22nd meetings, on 25 September, on 1, 5 to 9 and th to
15 October 1981. The views expressed by the representatives of l4ember States,
specialized agencies ancl observers on this item are contained in the surunary
records of those meetings (a/c.3/55/sn.4-t-\, 18, zo and. 22).

3. The Connittee had before it the fol.l-owing documentation:
(a) Report of the Conmittee on the Elimination of Raeial Discrininati,on, If

1/ Official Record.s of the Generaf Assembly, Thirty-sixth Eession,
supplernent No. 18 (t/16/l8).

g:--zTit\ /...



L/36/623
Linsl-r_ sn
Pale 2

subnitted in accord.ance with articl-e 9 of the International Convention on the
El-inination of All- Forms of Racial Diserimination (General Assembly resolution
2106 A (xx));

(l) Status of the International Convention on the Elinination of A11 Forms of
Raeial Discrimination: report of the Secretary-Genera1 (AB6/l+n), subnittetl in
accordance with GeneraL Assembly resolutions 2105 A (Xx) ancl 35/38;

(c) Status of the International Convention on the Suppression and Funishment
of the Crime of Apartheid; report of the Secretary-General (l/26/l+St+ and Adlct.l)u
submitted in accord.ance with General- Assembly resolutions 3380 ()Ofi) anct
3>t 3y;

(a) Letter d.ated 2 March 1981 from the Permanent Representative of fnclia to
the United Nations add.ressed. to the Secretary-General, transmitting d.ocunents
of the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of Non-Alignect Countries, held
at New Delhi from 9 to 13 February 1981 (A/36/l.]-6 and Corr.l);

(") Letter d.ateil 25 March 1981 from the Charg6 dtAffaires a.i. of the
Permanent I''{ission of Saudi Arabia to the United, Nations adclressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting d.ocuments of the Third. Islamic Conferenee (the
Conference on Palestine and Jerusalenn), held at Mecca-Taif from 2J to
28 January rg8r (A/36/88);

(f) Letter clated. 5 August 1981 from the Permanent Representative of lraq
to the United. Nations add.ressed. to the Secretary-General, transmitting clocuments
of the Twelfth fslamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, heId. at Baghclad from
1 to 5 June 1981 (a/56/\zt-s/A626 and Corr.1 /Englisrr only_7);

(e) Letter d.ated. lO Septenber 1981 from the Permanent Representative of
Cuba to the United. Nations addressed. to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
communiqu6 of the l4eeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and. Head.s of
Delegations of the Non-Aligned. Countries to the Thirty-sixth Session of the
General- Assembly (a/Ze / >ee-slr)+713 ) ;

(ir) Letter dated. 5 October 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United Nations atldressed. to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
resolutions adopted by the 68tn tnter-Parl-iamentary Conference, held at
Havana fron 15 to 23 Septenber 1981 (A/36/5il+).

t+. At the hth neeting, on 2l Septenrber, the Director of the Division of Human
Rights mad.e an introductory statement.

/...



6139/Gz3
English
Pnoa ?

II. CONSTDMATTON OF DRAFT RESOTUTIONS

n. Drart resolution A/C.3/35lL.7

,. At the l8th meeting, on fl+ October, the representative of Belgir.m introd.uced.
a d.raft resolution (a/C.3/56/1".7) entitled "status of the fnternational
Convention on the Elinination of A11 Forns of Racial Discrimination", sponsored. by
AlAeria, Argentina. Australia" Banglad.esh" Barbad.os, Belgir:m" Eulgariau Cuba_,
.C_yprgs. Egypt,.Ger+any" Fgderal Republic of . Ghana, Hunearyl fndia,-Moroceo,
{ew Zealand" Nieerfu. Pakistan. Epain" ttre Syrian lraU heputlic. the Upper Votta.,

" subsequently joined. by Benin, Cape Verge, Ciecfrosfovatia,l4a1i, l.{ozambiquen }Iicaragua, Rr.iand.a and Zambia"
6. At the sa.rne meeting, the representative of Uruguay introducecl anendments
(l/c.3/16/r.12) to the draft resolutione sponso".affi by costa Rica and Ecuadoru
which read. as foll-ows:

ttl. Insert a new operative paragraph
I a--^^t ^ +^ol,puq+p "- States Farties to theof rnaking the d.eel_aration provided for

!, reading as follows:

C'-r.vcntion to eonsid.cr thc possibility
in article 1l+ of thc Convention.c

T. At
to none,

B. At
without

Renu:nber the remaining paragraph accord.ingly. tt

the 2Oth meetingo on 15 Octobero the anendments were adopted. ty BO votes
with 50 abstentions.

the same neeting" the Committee adopted. the draft resolution, as amendeilo
a vote (see para. l-6, d.raft resolution I).

P. Draft resolution A/C. 3/35lL. B

9. At the l8th meeting, on t)+ Oetober, the representative of Yugoslavia
introduced a draft resotution (t/C.3/36/f.B) entitled 'tReport of the Cornmittee
on the Elimination of Racial Discriminationtr, sponsorecl by Banglad.esh, Cuba,
Eg.I?tr Ghana, Guyanau rndia, Jamaica, Jord.an" Mad.agascal . l,{oroceo" Nieeria,
fakistan. U$anda" Yugoslavia. Zaire, ZamUia and Zirqbibwe; subsequently joined byAngola, Benin, Moza^mbique and Sierra Leone.

10. At the 2Oth meeting, on 15 October, the representative of Yglavie oralIy
revi.sed. the draft resolution as follows:

.. (a) In operative paragraph 3" the word.s trconcentrating itsrt were replaced byttpaying greatertt and. the word ttontt by the word. rrtoft;

(u) After operative paragraph T, a new paragraph 8 was inserted. to read.
as fol-Iows:



^/361623English
Page l+

"8. g_ggge.nqg a-1so +-he Comrnittce for paying d.uc attcntion to the steps
talien tV ttrC-statcs parties to the Convention *uo assllre within their
jurisd.iction a.vailabilit-l of apprci.riate reeourse proccdurcs for thc victirns
of racial d-iscriminationr' I

(") The renaining paragraphs were renr:mbered accordingly;

(a) Operative paragraph 12 of the draft resolution was replaeed by the
following:

ttTqkeF-rrcte of thc tlecision of +"hc Corunittec on the Elirnination of Racial'
Discrimination to holct its spring 1982 session at the United Nations offices
in llairobi and. requests the Seeretary-General to explore the possibiLities
for holding this session in Nairobi within the context of the implenentation
of the Progra:rne for the Decade for Action to Combat Racisir and Racial
Discrinination" .

11. At the same neeting, the representative of &lralia proposed that the new
operative paragrapb sfrouia be inserted after operat paragraph 5. The
representative of Yugoslavia agreed. to the propcsal, with the consequent clrafting
changes.

L2. The Conmittee had before it a statement on the adninistrative and financial
inplications of the tlraft resolution (a/C.3/36/L.13 and Atlct.l anct 2, ffid
Al C. 3 / 35 /r,. t3lRev. 1) .

13. At the 22nd neeting, on t6 October, the Conmittee voted as follows on drafb
resolution A/c.3/E6/l'.8, revised as above:

(a) It ad.opted. operative paragraph 2 by a reeorded vote of 115 to 1, with
19 abstentions; 2/

(t) It aclopted. operative paragraph 5 by a recorded vote of 112 to none, with
20 abstentions. The result of the vote was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil,
Bu1garia, Burman Burund.i, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republie,
Cape Verde, Central African Republicu Chacl, Colombia, Conoros,

i,ffift ":::5"llll;!l'i:-!fi"81 
i.rff :';Hfifli; RiTiii?: :"

Ecuadorn Egypt, E1 Salvaclor, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, FiJi'
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Grenad'a, Guatenala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau' Guyana, Hungary, Ind.ia, Ind'onesia, Iraq,
Ivory Coast, Ja"naicao Japan, Jordan, Kenyao Kuwait, Lao Peoplers
Denccratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesothoo Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, l.{adagascar, Malaysia, Malciives o lt{a1i, Malta'
Mauritania, l,Iexicou Mongolia, Iriorocco, Mozambique, Nepal ,

2/ T]he result of the vote is not available because of an aecitlental failure
in seTting the voting machine . 1...



^136/623Engl-ish
Page 5

New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, pakistan, panaloa,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, poland, eatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saud.i Arabia, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudano Suriname, Swaziland.,
Syrian Arab Republie, Thailand., Togoo Trinidad. and Tobago,
Tunisia, Ugancla, Ukrainian Soviet Soeialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab &nirates, United
Republic of Cameroon, United. Republic of Tanzaniau Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet ltfam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbiau Zimbabwe.

Against: None.

Absta'ining: Austria" Belgium, Canad.a, Denmark. FinLand, France, Germanyn
Federal Republic of, Greece, fceland, freland.o lta1y" Luxembourg,
Malawi, Iletherlandsu l{crvayo Pcrtugal , Spain, Swed.en, Turkey,
Unitetl Kingdon of Creat Eritain and. llorthern lrelancl.

(c) The Conmittee then adoptett the tlraft resolution as a whoLe by a recordecl
vote of f3h to l, (see para. 15, ctraft resolution rr). The result of the vote r,ras
as follows:

In favour: Afgbanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Banglad.esh, Belgir:m, Benin, Bhutan,
3oIivia" Botsvana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burmar Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Soeialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verd.e,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czeehoslovakia, Democratie
Kanpuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dcminican
Republic, Eeuador, Egyptn E1 Salvador, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, FiJi, Finlancl, France, German Democratic Republico
Germany, Federal Republic of , Ghanau Greeee, Grenada, Guatemal-a,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, fcelandn fnclia,
Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, fvory Coast, Ja,naica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Ja^unahiriya, Luxembourg,
i'{adagasear, }iialaysia, Mald.ives, Ma1i, Ma1ta, Mauritania, }itexicou
Mongolia, l,{orocco, Mozambiqueo Nepal, Netherl_ands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Omann pakistan, panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Po1and., Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tone and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sud.ann Suriname,
Swazilandn Sved.en, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand.n Togo, Trinidacl
end Tobagon Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainia,n Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Soeialist Republies, United. Arab
Enirates, Unitect Kingd.on of Great Britain and Northern freland,
Uniteci Republic of Cameroon, United. Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nan, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

/.,.



Al36/623
H:nc | 1 qn

-Hage o

Against: tlni'ted. States of Ameriea.

Uganda. ttre Uhrainian.Soviet Soeiallst
nzania" Viet Nan.and Yggoslavia, subsequently

Abstainins: None.

C. Draft resolution AlC3/361L.9,

Il+. At the l-Bth meetingu on th Octoter, the representative of the German
Democratic Republic introduced. a d.raft resolution (a/C 3/36/L.9) entitled "Status
of the International Convention on the Suppression and Rrnishment of the Crime
of Apq4heidr" sponsored. by Angola, Barbados, B9ni4" B9]sari3." the 9ongo" cuba,
DenffiIT6-Tenen, Fthiopia, t-hJGeinan Denocratic RepuF]+c. 9-h?na" Guvana

, @!-, l4ozambique, Iliearagua, Sao-Iprrte
and Principe, Sierra Leone, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

15. At its 20th neeting, on 15 October, the Committee adopted_the clraft
resolution by 115 votes to 1, r.rith 23 abstentions (see para. 15, draft
resolution III).

III. RECOMMU$DATIONS OF THE THIRD COM,{ITTEE

L6. The Third. Conmittee reconmend.s to the General Assembly the ad.option of the
following d"raft resolutions :

DMFT RESOLUTION I

Status of the International Convention on.the.Efimination
of A11 Forms of Eacial Discrimination

The General- Assembly,

Recatling its resolutions 3O5T (nfVfff) of 2 November 1973,3135 (XXVIII) of
rt+ neffirET3,32zj (xxrx) of 6llovember 19?4, 3381 (xxx) of 10 November 1975,
3;./7g of 13 December 1;976" 32/II of ? idovenber 1977, 33/101 of 16 December lt978'
3\/26 of 15 }lovember !979 and 35/38 of 25 llovember 1980.

l-. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General tr/ on the status of
the Internatiooaf Corlention on the Elimination of A11 Forns of Racial
Discriraination; l+/

Al36 /L+n.

Resolution 2106 A ()O(), annex.
1l
\/



A/35/623
Enal].sn
vqoa t

2. Exprgsses its satisfaction with the increase in the number of States
which have ratified. the Convention or acced.ed thereto;

3. Reaftirms once again its conviction that ratification of or accession to
ancl implementation of its provisions arethe Convention on a universal basis

necessary for the realization of the objectives of the Decade for Action to Comba-u
Racism and Racial Discrilrination;

l+. Requests States which have not yet become parties to the Convention to
ratify it or accede thereto;

5. Appeals to States parties to the Conventj.on to consid"er the possibility
of making the d.eclaration provid.ed for in article 1]+ of the Convention;

6. Reguests the Secretary-General to continue to submit to the General
Assenbly annual reports concerning the status of the Convention, in accorilanee
with Assembly resoluticn 2tO6 A (XX) of 2I Deeember 196r"

DRAFT RESOLUTTON I]

Report of the Cornmittee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 35/\O of 25 Novenber 1980 on the report of the
Connittee on the Elinination of Racial Diecrinination and 36/_r+ of

- 

Ncvcmbcr l98L on the status of the fnterneticnal Convention on the Elinination
of All Forrus of Racial Discrimination, as well as its other relevant resolutions
on the inplenentation of the Programe for the Decad.e for Action to Combat
Racism ancl Racial Discrinrination,

Having considered the report of the Cornmittee on the Elimination of Racial
Discrimination on its twenty-third. and. twenty-fourth sessions, ful submitted. underarticle p, paragraph 2o of the fnternational Convention on the Htimination of A11
Forms of Racial Discrimination,

fuphasizing the importance for the successful struggle against all practices
of racial d.iscrimination, inelud.ing the vestiges and manifestations of racist
itleologies wherever they exist, that all l,{enber States should. be guid.ed. in their
internal and foreign policy by the basic provisions of the Convention,

Mindful of the obligation of the States parties to the Convention to comply
fully lrith the provisions of the Convention,

ls See clraft resolution I.
5/ Official RecordE 9f the General Assemblyo Thirty-sixbh Session,

suppt6ne

I



Al36/623
English
Page 8

Weleoming the continued co-operation of the Conmittee on the Elirnination of
naciat l'iscrimination rrith the eompetent specialized agencies and other United
Nations bod.ies, especially with the Unitecl Nations Educational, Seientific and
Cultural Organization and International Labour Organisation,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Cornmittee on the
E1ininatioitstwenty-thirdand.twenty-fourthsessions1

) Strongly cond.enrns the policy of apartheid. in South Africa and Na,nibia
f. etrhnrr^ent formof ra.eia.l discrimination and urEes all l4ember Statesas the most abhorrent form of racial- d.iscrimination and urges

to ad.opt effeetive politicale economic and other measures in ord.er to secure
elinination of that policy and. to achieve full- implementation of the relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly, the Security Council and other United Nations
bod.ies;

3. Cor'mend.s
the elinination of
to the elimination
Non-Sel-f -Governing
Assembly resolution

the Conmittee for paying greater attention to the question of

of acts ana prictices of raeial ctiserimination in Trust and

h. Calls upon the United Nations bod.ies concerned to ensure that the
Conmittee ffi-p-tiea with all relevant information on all the Teritories to
which General Asiembly resolution 1511+ (XV) applies and urges the administering
powers to co-operate with these boclies by providing all necessary information
in order to enable the Coromittee to d.ischarge full-y its responsibilities under
article 15 of the Convention;

5. Once again invites States parties to the Convention to furnish the
Committee,ffiitsgenera1guid.e1ines,r.dththeinfornationonthe
implementation of the provisions of the Convention, including information on the
d,eiographic composition of their population and on their relations with the racist
r6gine of South Africa;

6" Calls upog all Member States to ad.opt effective legislative,
socio-eeonoillF anA otner necessary measures for el-imination or prevention of
d.iscrinination based on ?ace, colour, ileseent or national or ethnic origin;

T. Conmend.s the Conmittee for paying due attention to the steps taken by
the Stateu parti.es to the Convention to assure within their jurisd.iction
availability of appropriate recourse procedures for the victims of racial
d.iscrimination;

8. @ the Committee for taking up the problems ofnarties to the Convention

the policy of apartheid in south Africa and. Nanibia, as well as

Territories and in all other Territories to which General
151\ (XV) of 1\ Decenber 1950 applies;

migrant workers and requests States
the rights of those r^rorkers;

tliscrircination of
fully to protect



Al36/623
English
Page 9

9. Calls upon States parties to the Convention fu11-y to proteet, through
the introduction of relevant legislabive and. other measures, the rights of
national or ethnic rninorities, as wel-l as rights of indigenous populations:

10" Reiterates its grave_concern that sone States parties to the Conventiono
oiving to reasons beyond their control, are being prevented from fulfilling their
obligations uncler the Convention in parts of their respective territories;

11. Takes note with apprec:Latiog of the Conmnitteers plans to participate in
the preparations and the work of the Seeond Unitecl Nations Conference to Conbat
Bacism and Racia1 Discrinination;

12. Requests the Committee in actditj.on to studies on the implementation of
artieles l6a f .f the Convention to explore the possibility of preparing also
for the Conference a study on the implenentation of subparagraph (e) of
article 5 in conJunction r^rith paragraph 2 of article 2;

13. Takes noge of the decision of the Conmittee to hol-tt its sprine 1-982
session at the Unitetl Itlations offices at Nairobi and requests the Seeretary-
General to explore the possibilities of holding this session at Nairobi within
the contexb of the irnplementation of the progranme for the Decade for Action to
Combat Racisn and Racial Discrinination.

DRAFT RESOLUTTON III

ltatqs ol the International gonvention on the Sunpression antl
Punishnent of the Cgigq_o3 Apgrthei9

fhe General Assernbly,

Recalling its resolution 3O5B (nfWII ) of 30 Novenber l-9?3, by which it
aaoptea ana opened. for signature and ratifieation the International Convention
on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, &nd its resolutions
3380 (xxx) of 10 November 1975, 31/80 of l-3 December 1976,32/lz ot
J liovenber 1977, 33/103 of 16 December 19T8, 3l+/27 of 15 llovember 1979 anct
35/39 of 25 }trovember 1980,

11
t2
23

Recalling also Cornmission on lluman Rights resol-utions 13 (ffXfff ) of
M#"hIm(xxxrv)of22Februarylg7B,!to(xrrrv)of5Marchl979,a
(xnrvr) ana rS (xrxvr) ot 26 February 1980, Zf-ana 6 (xrxvrr) or
February 19Bl-, 10/

6/ $ee Official Recorcls of lhqEeonomic and Sogia-1 Council, Sixty-second
S.""i6-rr, Snp A.-

1/ See Ql!!cig! Re-qgrds of t-he Economic,-qld' Sqgial Council, 19?8,
S.rppflement W ' *"t. 

A.

1919, Supploent No. 6
1980. Suoplement No. 3

!./ $ia.,
g/ rbid.,

f!L/ rbid.,

(g/tglg/55), chap. xxI\ro sect. A.
(n/ryBO/t3 and Corr.l), chaB. xxvr' sect.
(E/r98a/25), ehap. )onrlrro sect. A.

A.

1981 r-S.upp1ement No. 5



LB6/623
English
Page 10

Convinced. that the Decl-aration and the Prograrune of Action adopted by the
worta-GTffice to Combat Racism and RaciaJ- Discrimination, U/ as well as the
progranne of activities to be und.ertalcen during the second. half of the Decade for
Aetion to Combat Racism and Raeial- Discrinination, ad.opted by the General Assenbly
in its resolution 3\/Zl+ of 15 November 1979, and their fu]-1 implementation will
contribute to the final- eratlication of all vestiges of aparbheict, racism ancL racial
cl.iscriminat j.on o

Reaffirning its conviction that aperltleid constitutes a total negation of the
purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and is a gross
violation of human rights ancl a erime against hunanity, seriously threatening
international peace and security,

Strongly cond.emning South Africars stepping up its poliey of apartheidl,
repreffiization''arrtlitscontinued.i11ega1occupationofNanibia,
thereby perpetuating on Namibian temitory its od.ious policy of apartheitl, racial
cliscrinination and fragmentation,

Deeply concerned. about South Africars repeated. acts of aggression against
sover@esuwhiehconstituteamanifestbreachofinternationa1
peace and security,

Und.erlining that the strengthening of the existing manclatory arms embargo
ana tfre-Eppfication of comprehensive mandatory economic sanctions under Ctrapter VII
of the Charter are vital in ord.er to compel the South AfYican racist r6gine to
aband.on its policy of apartheid.,

Cond.emning the continued coll-aboration of certain States and. transnational
eorporations with the racist r6gine of South Africa in the political, eeonomie,
nilitary and. other fields as an encouragement to the intensification of its ocfious
policy of aparthei4,

Corrmending the Paris Declaration on Sanctions against South Africa 9/ *d
the Special Declaration on Namibia $/ adopted by the International Conference
on Sanctions against South Africa, -trefa in Paris, from 20 to 2l May 1981"

Streising the need. to clisseminate on a wider basis more infotmation on the
crimes conmitted. by the racist r6ginne of South Af?ica taking into consitleration
the reeonmend.ations contained. in the d.ocument , LJ! adoptect by the Seminar on
Publicity and RoI.e of l{ass Med.ia in the International Mobilizaiion against
Apartheid., helcl from 31 August to 2 September 1981 at Berlin, German Denocratie

ff./ Bepor!- of tire Worfa Co 'Genega" 1\-25 Ausust 197[ (UniteA Nations publication, Sales No. 8.79.XIV.2),
chap. II.

tA Mse/319-s/1\531, annex r.
13/ Ibid. o annex ff.
rv see A/36/\96-sl14686.

/...



A/36/623
English
Page 11

Und.erlinlng that ratification of and accession to the Convention on a
universal basis and the irtplementation of its provisions without any clelay are
necessary for its effectiveness and woul-d be a usefirl contribution towards
achieving the goals of the Decad.e for Action to Combat Racism antt Racial-
Diserimination u

Firmly convinced. that the legitinoate struggle of the oppressecl peoples in
southern Africa against apartheid., racism and colonialisn and for the effective
implenentation of their mffiaFie rights to self-tletermination and independence
d.emand.s more than ever all necessary support by the international community and.,
in partieularu further action by the Security Cor:ncil,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the status of the
Tnternationffi.tionontheSuppressionarrt1Pr:nishmentoftheCrimeof
Apartheid ; fJ!

2" Comend.s those States parties to the Conventionn that have submittect their
reportsunffic]eVIIoftheConvention,inparticu1a'tt.o""whichpresented'
their second. reports, and. appeals to those States parties that have not yet done so
to submit their reports as soon as possible;

3. Appeals once again to those States that have not yet done so to ratif!
or to acced.e to the Convention without further delay;

. - l: Rgqrlests States 
parties to the Convention to take fu11y into account the

guicielines \bl prepared. by the Working Group on the fmplementation of the
fnternational Convention on the Suppression and. Punishnent of the Crime of
Apartheid. established in aecord.ance with article fX of the Convention;

5. 9911s upg4 all States parties to the Convention to inplement ful1y
articl-e IVE:me Convention by attopting legislative u jutlicial ana *Onirristrative
measures to prosecute, bring to trial and pr.rnish, in aceord.anee with their
jurisd.ietiono persons responsible foro or aceused. of, the acts enmerated in
article If of the Convention;

6. Again eaIIs upon all States parties to the Convention anct the competent
United. Nations organs to eonsid.er the conclusions and recommendations of the Group
of Three contained. in its reports {/ and to submit their views and comments to the
Secretary-General:

7 . Requests -the Secretary-GeneraJ. to intensify his efforts throughappropriats cnanners to clisseminate infornation on the Convention antl its
implementation with a view to further prcmroting ratification of or aceession to
the Convention;

A! A/36/l+5h ana Adtt.l.
W E/6.1+/:-z16e annex.
U-/ u/ctu.\/tZz9, sect. vr, and E/ctf.l+/tlS9, sect. rv.

/.".



A/ 35 /623
English
Page 12

B. ReLuegts the Connission on Hunan Rights to continue to unilertake the
functions set out in article X of the Convention endl invites the Cornrnission to
intensif!, in co-operation with the Special Connittee against Apartheitl, its
efforts to conpile periodically the progressive list of inctivictuals, organizations,
institutions and representatives of States deemed responsibLe for crimes
enunerated in article fI of the Convention, as well as of those against whom or
whieh legal proceedings have been undertaken;

9. Rsrquests the Cormrission on Human Rights to tal<e into account General
Assenbly resolutions 33/23 of 29 November l-978 and 35/32 of th lrlovember 1980 as
well as relevant clocuments of the Connission and its suborgans reaffirming,
igter a1ia, that States giving assista^nce to the racist r6gine of South Rf"i"a
beeome accompliees in the inhurnan practices of racial ctiscrinination ancl -4.ar.l!heid;

10. Calls_upon all States parties and eompetent Unitett llations organs to
continue to provid.e the Cornmission on Human Rightsn through the Secretary-General,
with infornation relevant to the periottie compilation of the above-mentioned"
list as well as with information concerring the obstacles which prevent the
effective suppression and punishruent of the erime of apartheitl;

11. Appeals to all States, United. Nations organso speeialized. agencies and,
internationaL and national- non-governmental- organizatioas to step up their
activities in enhancing public awareness through clenouncing the erimes committecl
by the South African racist r6gime;

l:2. Requegls the Economic and Socia1 Council in preparing for the Seeond
Wor1d Conference to Combat Racism and. Racial Discrinination to give special
attention to the activities aimed. at erad.ication of apartheig;

13. Wefcomes the active ca,npaign waged by the Special Conurittee against
Aparbheiclr in eo-operation v'ith the Connission on lluman Rights, to publicize
the importance of the Convention;

Lh. Reguests the Seeretary-General to ttistribute the above-mentioned. list
alnong al-I States parties to the Convention and all Meniber States and to bring such
facts to the attention of the public by all means of mass cowu:nieation;

15. Reques$ the Secretary-General to include in his ne:rt annual report
under General Assembly resoLution 3380 (XXX) a special- section concerning the
implenentation of the Convention.




