
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAT

A/36/678
19 November 1981

ORTGINAL: ENGTTSH

lhirty-sixth session
Agenda item 92

INFORMATION FROM NON-SELF-GOVERNING TERRTTORTES TRANSMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 E OF THE CHARTER OF THE TJNITED NATIONS

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: l4r. Ibrahim o. ADDABASHI (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya)

1. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 19 September 1981, the General Assembly, on the
recommendalion of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of it.s
thirty-sixth session the item entitled:

"Information from Non-Self-C;overing Territories transmitted under
Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nationsr

" (a) Report of the Secretary-General

" (b) Report of the Special Conmittee on the Situation with regard Lo the

:::.i::::ff :'i:'::,3." il'.ff ; lli ::':lu"l.$i.:r 
an r i ns o f

At the same meeting, the General Assembly decided to allocate the item to the
Fourth Committee.

2. At its 3rd meeting' on 7 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items L9r 92, 93r 95 and L2, 96 and 97, on the
understanding that individual draft resolutions on matters covered by those items
would be considered separately. The Committee held the general debate on these
items at its 9th to 20th meetings, between 19 october and 4 November.

3. The Fourth Committee considered item 92 at its 9th to 20tht 22nd and 23rd
neetings, between 19 october and 17 November (see A/c.4/36/sR.9-20 and 22 and 23).

4. At the 9th meetinlt, on 19 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the fmplementation of the Declarati-n on the Granting

81-31450 0020n (E)



A/35 / 67 I
English
Page 2

of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which he gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 1981 and drew
attention to chapter VII of the report of that Committee relating to the itern
(A/36/23 (Part fir)). y

5. The Fourth Committee also had before it the report of the Secretary-General
relating to the item (A/36/563).

6. tn addition, the Fourth committee had before it a note verbale dated
26 March 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Portugal to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-ceneral (A/36/L6O).

7 At the 20th meeting, on 4 November, the Chairman drew attention to a draft
resolution (A/C.4/36/L.10), which was finally sponsored by the following Member
States: Algeriar' Angola, Barbados, Colgo, Egypt, Ethiopia, Guinea, Guyanq,
Lu?o!!"1 Madagascar, Ir4g!!, eatar, Romanii, sietra Le-one, syrian Arab Repubric,
Trinidad and Tobagg, Tunisiar l}ganda, qnited Republic of ta@!a.

8. At its 23rd meeting, on 17 November, the Fourth Cornmittee adopted draft
resolution A/C.4/36/L.10 by a recorded vote of L22 to none, with 3 abstentions (seepara. 9). U The voting was as followsr Z/

rn favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angora, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgiurn, Benin, Bhutan,
Bo1ivia, Bots\,rana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African Repub]ic,
Chad, Chil-e, Chinar Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Eguatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, fndonesia,
Iraq, frelandr Israelr Ita1y, fvory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao peoplers Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, l4aldives, I,lali, I{auritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambi.gue, Nepal, Netherlands, New zealand, Niger, Nigeria,
Norhray, Oman, pakistan, papua New Guinea, paraguay, peru,
Philippines, poland, portugal, qatar, Rornania, Rranda, Samoa,
Sao Tome and principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon

y fo be incorporated in Official Records of the General- Assembl-v,
thirty-Si*th S.""ion, Supplu*" '

/ Statements in explanation of vote were made by the foll-owing Member
States: united Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern rreLand and Japan.

/ Subsequently, the delegations of the Doninican Republic, Malawi and
zimbabwe advised the Secretariat that, had they been present at the time of the
voting, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.



Aqainst:

Abstaining:

A/36/67 8
English
Page 3

IsLands, Somalia, Spainr Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkeyo Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
union of soviet socialist Repubrics, united Arab Emirates, united
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
YugosJ-avia, Zaire, Zambia.

None.

France, united Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern rreland,
United States of America.

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FOURTH COI4MITTEE

9. The Fourth Conmittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutionl

rnfor=matio.,, ffom Non-se1f-Gover.ring Terri tori"s transmitted
under Article 73 e of the charter of ttre uniteo Nations

The General Assembl_y,

Recalling its resoLution 1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
requested the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementationof the Declaration on the Granting of rndependence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples to study the information transmitted to the Secretary-General under Article
73 e of the Charter of the united Nations and to take such information fully into
account in examining the situation with regard to the implementation of the
Declaration,

Recalting also its resolution 35/26 of 11 November 1980, in which it reguested
the Special Comrnittee to continue to discharge the functions entrusted to it under
the resolution 1970 (XVIII),

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee dealing
with the transmittal of information under Article 73 e of the Charter y and the
action taken by the comrnittee in respect of that information,

Having also examined the report of the Secretary-General on the item 5/

Deploring the fact that some Member States having responsibilities for the
administration of Non-SeLf-Governing Territories have ceased to transmit
information under ArticLe 73 e of the Charter,

A/36/23 (Part III), chap. VIr.

^/36/563.

!/
1/



^/36/578English
Page 4

l" Appqoves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to ColoniaL Countries and Peoples relating to the information from
Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the Charter of the
United Nations;

2. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full- measure of
self-government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering power
concerned shouLd continue to transmit information under Article 73 e of the Charter
with respeet to that Territoryi

3" ReguegLs the adrninistering Powers concerned lo transmit or continue to
transmit to the Secretary-General the information prescribe<l in erticle 73 e of the
Charter' as well as the fullest possible inforrnation on political and
const,itutional developments in the Territories concerned, within a maximum period
of six months following the expiration of the administrative year in those
Ter r i tor ies .'

4- BegusEts the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to i.t under General Assenbly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in accordance with
established procedures, and to report to the Assembly at its thirty-seventh session.


