
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

A/36/792
11 December 1981

ORIGINAL: EIIGLI$t

lltr irty-sixth session
Agenda iten 12

REPOBtr OF THE ECONOIi{IC AND SGIAL COUI\TIL

Report of the third Conmittee

Rapporteurs Mr. Naoharu FII]II (JaPan)

I. INTRODIrcTION

1. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 September 1981, the General Assembly
decided to include in its agenda the item entitled "Report of the Economic and
Social Council" and to allocate to the lttrird Comnittee chapters If, V, XIX to
xxVIII, XXXII, xxXIV' XXXVI and XUVII of the rePort.

2. lttre chapters of the report of the Economic and Social Council pertaining to
agenda iterns 74, 83, 87 and 88 were considered separately under those items (see
A/36/62L, A/36/725, A/36/663 and A/36/7891.

3. Ttre Committee considered the remaining chapters of the retrrort of the-
Economic and Social Council jointly wittr items L29 and 138 and some matters
relating to item 30 at its 56th to 58th, 50th to 70th, 72nd and 73rd neetings, on
L9, 23 to 25, 27 and 30 November and I to 4 December L981. llhe views expressed
by representatives of Menber States and specialized agencies on this item are
contained in the sunmary records of those meetings (p/c'3/36//sR'56-58' 60-70'
72 and 73).

4. At its 4th meeting, on 25 September, the Committee established an open-ended
Working Group on the diafting ot in international convention on the Protection of
the rights of all migrant workers and their farnilies.

5. At the same meetingr the Conmittee established an open-ended Working Group
on the elaboration of the draft declaration on the hunan rights of individuals
who are not citizens of the country in which they live.

81-36176 0153s (E)



A/36/7e2
Eng lish
Page 2

6. the Conrnittee had before it the following documents:

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council; V

(b) World population situation in 1981: report of the Secretary-General
(A/36/LL7l t

(c) Assistance to refugees in Somalia: report of the Secretary-Genera|
(A/36/L3 6 and Add.1 and Add .Uur r.1) t

(d) Measures to be taken against nazL, fascist and neo-fascist activities
and all other forms of totalitarian ideologies and practices based on
racial intolerance, hatred and terror! relnrt of the Secretary-General
(A/36/209 and Add.1) ;

(e) Humanitarian assistance to refugees in Dj ibouti: report of the
Secretary-General (A/36/ 2L4l .,

(f) Situation of refugees in the Sudan: report of the Secretary-General
(A/36/2L6 and Add. l) ;

(S) Exchange of information on banned hazardous chemicals and unsafe
pharmaceutical products: report of the Secretary-General (A/36/255)i

Il). .3.ports of th'e Atliltoc Working croup of Experts on southern Africa:
note by the Secretary-General (A/36/35D i

(i) Regional arrangements for the promotion and protection of human
rightss report of the Secretary-GeneraL (A/36/3551i

(j) Measures to improve the situation and ensure the human rights and
' dignity of all migrant workers: letter dated 25 May 1981 from the

Chairman of the Open-Erded tlorking Group on the Drafting of an
International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of A1 I lrligrant
workers and their Families to the Secretary-Ceneral (A/36/378) -,

(k) Measures to improve,the situation and ensure the hurnan rights and
dignity of all migrant workers: note by the Secretary-General
(A/36/383) i

(1) Assistance to student refugees in southern Africa: report of the
Secretary-General (A/36/ 423) i

(m) Observance of the thirty-fifth anniversary of the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights: note by the Secretary-GeneraL (A/36/500)i

!/ To be issued as official.Records of the General Assembly, Thirtv-sixth
Sessign, Supplement No. 3 (A/36/3/Rev.1).



^/36/7e2English
Page 3

(n) ltre right to education: note by ttre Secretary-Gene taL (A/35/52a1 i
(o) Proposals on arrangements for the management of the United Nations

voluntary fund for victims of torture: note by the Secretary-Gener,al
(A/36/sa0l t

(p) United Nations Trust Fund for Chile: report of the Secretary-General
@/35/5601i

(g) Protection of human rights in Chile: note by the Secretary-General
@/36/5eal t

(r) Situation of hunan rigfits and fundamental freedons in EI Salvador:
note by the SecretarleGeneral- lx/36/6081t

(s) Situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Guatenala'.
report of the Secretary-C'eneral (A/36/705li

(t) Draft declaration on social and legal principles relating to adoption
and foster placement of children nationally and internationally: note
by the Secretary-@neral lA/C.3/36/31 i

(u) International co-operation in drug abuse control: report of the
Secretary-@neral lP,/C.3 /36 /71 .0

(v) Retrnrt of the OperrEnded Working Group on the orafting of an
International. Convention on the Protection of the Rights of A11 Migrant' workers and their Families (A/C.3/36/]-0lt

(w) Retrnrt of the open-ended Working Group on the elaboration of the draft
declaration on the human rights of individuals who are not citizens of
the country in which they Iive (VC.3/36/LLl i

(x) Question of human rights in southern Africa: note by the Secretary-
General (Vc.3 /36/L.61 .,

(y) Draft declaratlon on social and legal principles relating to adoption
and foster placement of children nationally and internationally:
report of the Secretary-General (A/35/336 and Add.l) i

(zl Question of international legal protection of the human rights of
individuals who are not citizens of the country in which they live:
note by the SecretarrGeneral (A/35/3631i

(aa) Letter dated 5 January 198I from the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the
Pernanent Mission of Democratic frampuchea to the United tilations
addressed to the Secretary-General (e/36/5Ll i

(bb) Letter dated 25 !,Iarch 198I from the Charg6 d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Saudi Arabia to the United Nations addressed to



A/36/792
Eng lish
Page 4

the Secretary-General transmitting the resolutions and the final
communiqu6 of the Ttrird Islamic Conference, held at Mecca - Taif fron
2 5 to 2 8 ,January t9 8t (A/36/L3 Bl i

(cc1 Letter dated 9 April 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Boliviato the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/36/L7gl.,

(dd) Letter dated 13 April 1981 fron the Permanent Representative of Egyptto the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (t/36/Lg1j1

(ee1 Letter dated 22 tt16y 1981 from the Permanent ltepresentative of Bolivia
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/36/284).,

(ff) Letter dated 5 August 1981 from the Permanent Representative of lrag to
the united Nations addressed to the Secretary-GeneraI t,ransmitting a
set of resolutions and the final communigu6 of the Tvelfth Islamic
Conference of Foreign ttinisters, held at Baghdad from I to 5 June L981
(A/36/42L-9/L4626 and Oorr. I) i

(gg) Letter dated 30 September 198I from the Permanent Representative of
Cuba addressed to the SecretarleGeneral transmitting the comnuniqu6 of
the Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegations of the lt*cn-Aligned Countries to the thirty-sixth session of
the General AssembLy (A/36/566-S/L4713) i

(hh) Letter dated 5 october 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting
the resolutions adopted by the 68th Inter-Parliamentary Conference held
in Havana fron 15 to 23 September lg8l (A/3G/5g4,) .

7. At the 56th meeting, on 19 lilovember, the United Nations High Comrnissioner
for Refugees, the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator, the Assistant
Secretary-General for Social Development and Humanitarian Mfairs, the Director
of the Division of Human Rights, the Executive Director of the United Nations
Fund for Drug Abuse Control and the Deputy Director of the Division of trbrcotic
Drugs made introductory statements.

8. At the 58th meeting, on 23 November, the Special Raplrcrteur on the situation
of human rights in Cbrile made a statement.

9. At the 54th meeting, on 27 November, the Chairman of the open-ended Working
Group on the drafting of an international convention on the protection of the
rights of all migrant workers and their fanilies introduced the report of the
!{orking Group (Py'c.3/36/L0') .

10. [tre Comnittee also had before it the report of the operrended Working Group
on the elaboration of the draft declaration on the human rights of individuals
who are not citizens of the country in which they live (ArlC.3/36/LLl.



A/36/792
English
Page 5

II. @NSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution ArlC.3,/36,/L.5

lL. lltre Conrnittee had before it the draft resolution reconmended by the Economic
and Social Council in its resolution L98U39 of 8 l,lay 1981' entitled "United
Nations voluntary fund for victims of torture'r. Ttre draft resolution was
distributed in document A/C.3/36/L.5.

L2. At the 66th meeting, on 30 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resol-ution by 73 votes to 17, with 40 abstentions (see para. 84, draft
resolution I) .

B. Draft resolution A,/C.3/36lL.55

13. At the 53rd meeting, on 27 Novenber, the representative of Romania
introduced a draft resolution \A/C.3/36/L.551 entitled "ltre right to educationn
sponsored by Algeria, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bolivia, Bulqaria, Cape Verde, the
Central African 39g1p.!!g., Colombiar Costa Rica, 9gB, Democratic Yemen' theaofrg-t, ,
Honduras, .!Igggg)L, Indonesia, Jordanr Liberia, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya'
Madagascar, Moroccor Nepal, Nicaraoua, Nigeria, Pakistanr $gg4g, the
Philippines, !g!g1!, Qatar, Romania, Rlvanda, Saint Lucia, Senegal, Somalia, Sri
@!g, Suriname, the Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and $obaqo, Tunisia, the
Upper Volta, VenezueLa, Yugoslavia, and Zimbabwe, Iater joined by Bhutan, the
Congo, 9prusr Ethiopia, Guyana, Mauritania, Sierra teone and Viet Nam.

14. At the 55th neeting, on 30 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/35/L.55 without a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution II).

C. Draft resolution A,/C.3,/36/L.59 and Rev.l

15. the Corunittee had before it a draft resolution (A,/C.3/36/L.59) ' entitled
"A$sistance to refugees in- Somaliarr, sponsored by Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh'
$!!9'China, the Comoros, Costa Ricar Djiboutir.&Ip!, Ilgf1, Jordan' Kuwait,
Mauritania, @g, 1\g!, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, the Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Tunisia and Zaire. ltre draft
resol-ution read as follows:

"lltre General Assembly,

"RecalLing its resolution 35/L80 of 15 December 1980 on the question of
assistance to refugees in Somalia,

"Recalling further resolution E/L98L/31 of 5 May 198I, adopted by the
Economic and Social Council at its first regular session,



A/36/792
English
Page 6

"Taking note of the report of the United Nations Review Mission and the
report of the United Nations High Comnissioner for Refugees providing
up-to-date information on the conditions of the refugees in Sonalia and
containing an assessment of their over-all needs,

"Having heard the statement of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees,

"Deeply concerned of the need to continue to provide assistance to the
refugees in Somalia,

'1. Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-C;eneral and of the
United Nations High Comnissioner for Refugees on the situation of refugees
in SomaliaT

"2. Elggsses appreciation to the Secretary-General and the United
Nations ffigfr Corunissioner for Refugees for their continued efforts to
nobilize international assistance on behalf of the refugees in Sonalia;

. '3. Takes note with satisfaction of the assistance rendered to
refugeesi;ffibyvariousMemberstates,theUNHCR1V|FP1UNIcEF'and
other concerned intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations;

tr4. Appeals to Menber States, international organizations and
voluntary agencies to render maxiumu material, financial and technical
assistance to the Government of Somalia in its efforts to provide all
necessary assistance to the refugees;

tr5. Rg-Sests the Secretary-@neral, in co-operation with the United
Nations ni!fi-Gffissioner for Refugees to dispatch a mission to Somalia in
early 1982 to make a conprehensive review of the short and rnedium terrn needs
of the refugees inctruding those aspects relating to their temporary
settlement and rehabilitationi

"6. nSguests the Secretary-@neral , in co-operation witJr the High
ComnissionFeornefugees,tosubmitthereportoittreproposedreview
mission on the refugee situation in Somalia to the Economic and Social
Council at its first regular session ot L982i

'17. Furthgl requests the Secretary-@neral, in co-operation with the
HighCorruni@ees'tosubmitareporttotheGeneralAssemb1y
at its thirty-seventh session on the progress achieved in the implementation
of the present resolution."

15. At the 64t,h meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Zaire introduced
a revised draft resolution (p,/C.3/36/L.59/Xev.1) sponsored by Algeria, !g@!g,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Eggln, Eg.'!gry, canada, the central African Republic,
ChiLe' China, Colombia, the Comoros, Oosta Rica, Djibouti, Eg1pg, Honduras,
rndonesia' I!gE, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanol, Liberia, Maravsia, t4auritania,
Morocco' Nepal, @, Pakistan, the Philippines, .EEg, Saudi Arabia, @.f.,



A/36/792
English
Page 7

Sigrra Leone, Sinqapore, Sonalia, the Sudan, Suriname, SwaziLand, Thailand,

--# 

I 

-'-t+

Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, $!gI, the united Arab Hnirates, the united
Republic of Tanzania, ZaLre and Zanbia, Iater joined by Burundi, Cape Verde,
Guvana, Lesotho and Madagascar.

L7. At the 66th neeting, on 30 November, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/36/L.59,/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution III).

D. Draft resolution A/C.3,/36lL.50

18. Ttre Committee had before it a draft resolution (VC.3/36/L.601
I'Protection of human rights in Chile", sponsored by Algeria, Cuba,
Yugoslavia. The draft resolution read as follows:

, entitled
Mexico and

"@'
"$[9g!gg of its responsibility to promote and encourage respect for

human rights and fundamental freedons for all, and determined to remain
vigilant with regard to violations o,f human rights wherever they occur,

"Igsj4g that Ciovernments naveYn obligation to respect, protect and
promote human rights and to carry out the responsibilities they have assumed
under various international instruments,

"Recal-ling its resolutions 3L/L24, 32/IL8, 33/L75, 34/L79 and 35/L88,
which reLate to ttre protection of human rights in Ctrile, and resolution
33/L73 on person who have disappeared,

trRecalLing also resolution 1I (XXXV) of the Commission of Human Rights,
in which it was decided to aptrnint a Special Rapporteur to investigate the
situation of human rights in Chile,

rrDeeply alarned at the fact that the Ctrilean authorities not only
continue to refuse to co-operate in United l'trations proceedings relating to
the human rights sitdation in Chile, in particular with the Special
Rapporteur, but have now announced their decision not to participate in any
way in the efforts of the international cornmunity aimed at protecting hurnan
rights and fundamental freedoms in general,

"Gravely concerned about the persistence and, in some respects, the
deterioration of situations affecting the enjoyment and exercise of human
rights and fundamental freedoms in Chile, as evident fron the report of the
Special Rapporteur contained in document A/36/594,

"!g!!gg with growing concern that the whereabouts of numerous persons
who have disappeared are still unknown and the the Chilean authorities
continue to ignore the repeated appeals of the international cornrnunity, made
in various resolutions of the General Assembly and other international
organs, and have failed to take urgent and effective measures to investigate
and clarify the fate of such persons,



A/36/7e2
English
Page 8

r!1. Commends the Special Rapporteur for his re5nrt on the situation of
hunan rights in Chile, prepared in accordance with resolution 9 (XXXVII) of
the Commission on Human ni$rts;

tt2. Requests the Comnission.on Human Rigfrts to study thoroughly the
report of the Special Rapporteur at its thirty-eighth sessioni

rr3. Expresses its grave concern at the presistence and, in some
respects, the deterioration of the human rights situation in chile, as
stated by the Special Rapporteur, and particularly:

(i) The subversion of the traditional democratic legal order and its
institutions through the maintenance and extension of the
energency legislation and the promulgation of a constitution that
fails to reflect a freely expressed popular will, the provisions
of which clearly prejudice the human rights and fundamental
freedoms of the Chilean people and establish new mectranisns of
State repressioni

(ii1 Ttre continuation and intensification of the practice of arbitrary
detention and confinement in secret places, often accornpanied by
torture and inhuman or degrading treatment which, on occasion,
result in unexplained deaths?

(iii) The persecution, intimidation and imprisonment, as well as the
banishment and exiling, of persons who participate in trade union,
academic, cultural and humanitarian activitiesi

(iv) the extreme poverty and lack of protection of vast sectors of thepopulation and their ignorance of tneir economic, social and
cultural rights;

n4. severely condemns the forced exile of various chilean
parlianentarians and leaders, including the recent violent expulsion of,
persons engaged in activities of an unmistakably hunanitarian character, asin the case of senator Alberto Jetez, Judge Jaime castillo velasco,
President of the Chilean Comrnission of lluman Rights, and Carlos Briones and
Orlando Cantuariasi

rr5. once more strongly urqes the Chilean authorities to respect and
promote human rights in accordance with their obligations under various
international instruments and, in particular, to take the concrete steps set
forth in resolution 9 (XXXVII) of the @mmission on Human Rights;

u5' concludes that, given the disdain expressly shown by the chilean
authoritieffiatl that relates to the protection of human rights, and on
the basis of the report of the special Rapporteur, continued vigilance wit5regard to the grave situation prevailing in cnire is essential; -



A/35/792
English
Page 9

tt7. E!<presses its deep concern at the lack of information on the
numerous persons who have disappeared or died for political reasons, a
situation which continues to be a gross and flagrant viol-ation of human
rights,and@theChi1eanaut}roritiestoinvestigateand
clarify the fate of such persons, to inform relatives of the outcome of
their investigation and to punish those responsible for the disappearances
and deathsi

rr8. Once more calls upon the members of the Chilean judiciary, in
pursuance of their duty to afford legal protection to citiZ€ns7 to assume
their obligations fuLly and perform their functions honourably, especially
with regard to the remedies of habeas corpus and ry. or Protection, so as
to put an end to a situation in which persons have no defence against
frequent measures of repression, in the form of arbitrary detention and
inprisonment, and so as to prevent disappearances, torture and other inhuman
or degrading treatment;

tr9. Denands that the Chilean auttrorities croperate fully with the
Special Rapporteur and abandon their unwarranted attitude of contempt for
international mechanisms for the protection of human rights, an attitude
which places then outside the framework of the international instruments to
which Chile is a partyT

nIO. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to extend the mandate of
the Special Rapporteur for another year and to rePort on ttre human rights
situation in Chile, through the Economic and Social Council, to the General
A":.mbly at its thirty-seventh session.'

l-9. At the 72nd neeting, on 3 December, the draft resolution r.tas withdrawn by
the sponsors.

E. Draft resolution A/C.3,/36lL.61

20. At the 63rd meeting, on 27 November, the representative of Sri Lanka
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/36/L.51), entitled "Regional arrangements
for the promotion and protection of human rights'r ' sponsored by Bangladesh,
Icu?dorr-Ifela{rdr Jem.a:!gg, Keny-qr-l,ilew Zeelandr-Nigeria, @, Sri Lanka ands$teoen, Iacer .rolnect bv ry. Malr an(-i seneoal-

2L. At the same meeting, ttre attention of the Committee was drawn to the
statement on the administrative and financiaL implications of the draft
resolution (A/C.3/36/L.82) .

22. At the 56th meeting, on 30 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution MC.3/36/L.5L without a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution IV).



A/35/7e2
English
Page I0

F. Draft resolution A/C.3,/35,/L.62
23. At the 68th meeting, on I December, the representative of Mexico introduceda draft resolution (A/c.3/36/L.621, entitled nrhe situation of human rights andfundamentar freedoms in Er salvador", sponsored by llqeria, Dgnmark, Frince,
-Gjeece' rrerand, Mexico, tie lget@., sweden ;n@ei$T-nea uyNicaiigua.

24' At the 72nd neeting, on 3 Decenber, the relxesentative of Mexico orally
revised the draft resolution by inserting the following operative paragraph g andrenumbering the remaining paragr aphs:

'8. urges the parties concerned to co-operate and not interfere withthe activiEies of thL humanitarian organizations which are dedicated toalleviating the suffering of the civitian population in El Salvador.r,
25. At the same mee.ting, the corunittee adopted, as orally revised, draftresolution A/C.3/36/L.62, as orally revised-, by a recorded vote of G5 to 21, with54 abstentions (see para. 84, draft resol-ution v). Ttre voting r{as as follows:

rn favour: Afghanistan, Argeria, Angola, Austria, Barbados, Benin,
Botsnana, Bulgaria, Byerorussian soviet socialist Republic,
Cape Verde, Central African Republicr Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
czechosrovakia, Denocratic yemen, Denrnark, Ethiopiar- Finland,
France' German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic
of, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Iraq, Ireland, Italyl Kenya, Lao peoplers
Democratic Republic, Iesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malil Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozanbigue, the
tiletherlands, Nicaragua, llorr.ray, panama, Foland, Romanial
Rruanda, Sao Tome and principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Swaziland,
Stveden, Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, Ukrainian Sovietsocialist Repubric, union of soviet sociar.ist Republics, united
Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Viet Nam, yugoslavia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

As ains t : 
f,' SliJlil,i"Liiil;"i'" I "iii.ii'i:fulllST'ii;"1lxll, 

*l:li" 
r,

Morocco, Pakistan, paraguay, philippines, Tunisia, Turkey,
ttnited States of Arnerica, Uruguay, Venezuela.

Abstaining: Austraria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bergium, Bhutan, Burma, Burundi,
Canada, Grad, Ctrina, Comoros, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, Ghanar Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Japan, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia,
Nepal, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, papua New Guinea,
lgru, Portugalr eatar, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Sierra l€one,singapore, solomon rsrands, Somaria, spain, sri r,anka, sudan,
Suriname, Ttrailand, Trogo, Trinidad and ltobago, United Arab
Emirates, united Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern rreland,
United Republic of Cameroon, Upper Volta, Zaire.



p{36/7e2
English
Page 11

G. Draf t resolution A,/c.3,/36,/1.63

26. Al the 64th neeting, on 27 November, the representative of Zaire introduced
a draft resoLution (NC.3/36/L.631, entitLed "Humanitarian assistance to the
refugees in Djiboutitr, sponsored by Bahrain, Banqladesh, Beninr the Central
African Republic, Chad, the oomoros, Djibouti, @, Guinea-Bissau' I|ox|gg3g'
Indonesia, !!3.II, Jordan, &gg, Kuwait, lesotho, Liberia, the Libtran Arab
Jarnahiriva, Madaqascarr l,lalawir Mauritania, Morocco, @' Pakistan, Qatarr
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabi.a, SenegaL, Somalia, Sri Lanka, the Sudan,

Sao

Swaziland, Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates, Zalre and Zambia, later joined by,
Botswana, Cape Verde, $!1$!g, @, .@9, Sigrra Leone,
Sinqapore, Turkey, and the United Repuhlic of TalzaniS.

27. At the 66th meeting, on 30 November, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/36/L.53 without a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution VI).

H. Draft resolution A,/C.3/36lL.64 and Rev.l

28. The Cormnitte had before it a draft resoLution
trProtectlon of human rights in Chilen, sponsored by
as follows:

lPJc.3 /36/L.64), entitled
the Netherlands' which read

''@,
nReaffirmilg its responsibility to promote and encourage respect for

human ;ighffiffundanenial freedoms for all,

"Un4g4iq!49 the obligation Governments have to protect and promote
hurnan Egh-C a-nilto carry out responsibilities they have undertaken under
various international instruments,

"@toremainvigiIantwithregardtovio1ationsofhuman
ri*rts wtrerever they occur and to take measures in order to restore respect
for human rights and fundamental freedoms,

"RecalLing it resolutions 3L/L24 of 16 December L976t 324LLB of
16 lbcember L977, 33/L75 of 20 Decenber L978, 34/L79 of 17 December 1979 and
35/L88 of 15 December 1980 on the protection of human rights in Chile and
33/L73 of 20 December 1978 on disappeared personst

nRecalling also Comnission on Human Rights resolution 11 (XXXV) of
6 !4arch 1979 on violations of human rights in Chile, in which the
Conmission,@,decidedtoappointaspeciaIrapPorteuronthe
situation ot trurnan rigtrts in Chile and resolution 9 (XXXVII) in which it
decided to extend the nandate of the special rapporteur for another yeart

"Dislurbed by the fact that the Chilean authorities have consistently
refuseElffi-perate with the special. Rapporteur aptrninted by the
Connission on ltuman Rights,



A/36/792
English
Page 12

"concerned by the refusal of the ctrilean authorities to co-operate wittr
the llunan Rights Oommittee in order to fulfil their reporting obligation
under the rnternational covenant on civir and poLitical Rights,

_ "Peep1v-ggngerned about the persistence and, in certain respects, incomparison with tast lzear, the delerioration of situations whictr affect the
enjolment and exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Chile, asstated in the report of the Special Rapporteur lM36/5941 ,

- -'&<pre-ssinq deep concern that the whereabouts of ttre numerous personswho have disappeared over the past years are still unknown and that thechilean authorities continue to cail to take urgent and effective measuresto investigate and clarify the fate of persons who have disappeared,
nNotinq with grave concern ttrat the new constitution in force in Chileas from LI March 198I, which has been prepared wittr a lack of popular

Participation, does not fully guarantee the protection of human rights andfundamental freedoms,
nl. coqnenaF the Special Rapporteur for his report on the situation of

human rigtrGE-dfi'ile, piepared in accordance with Comnission on Human
Rights resolution 9 (XX)ffII) of 26 February L98ti

n2. Re$ests. the oonunission on zuman Rights at its thirty-eighth
session to-@trorougtrry the Report of the speciar n"ppoit.or;

"1 . Otc-e more expresses its gr,ave concern at the persistence of
vrolations of human rights in Chile as retrnrled by the Special Rapgnrteur
and at the deterioration of the human rights situation in certain respects,in conparison with the same period last year, particurarry the
lntensification of arbitrary detention and the expulsion irom the country of
Persons who participate in trade unions, academic, cultural and humanitarianactivities;

n4. Expresees also great concern at the fact that the remedies of
habeas cor6T3Tiffimparo irove to be not effective due to ttre fact that thejudiciary in Chite exercises its potrers in that respect with the utrpstrestrictions;

n5. Urges the Chilean authorities to respect and promote human rlghtsin accordai?E witt, their obligations under various international instruments
and, in particular, to take the following concrete steps that would enable
the Oonunission on lluman Rights to consider terminating the nandate of ttre
Special Rapporteurs

o (a) To put an end to the state of emergency, under which continued
hurnan rights violations occur and resbore the democratic institutions andconstitutional safeguards formerry enjoyed by the chirean peoplel



A/36/792
English
Page 13

n (b) To put an end to arbitrary detentions, physical. or psychological
"intimidation and prosecution of persons who exercise their right to freedom
of expression and opinion, incl-uding the right to petitioni

" (c) Iro separate persons detained for political reasons from those
detained for crininal offencesi

" (d) To take effective measures to prevent torture and other forms of
inhuman or degrading treatment and to prosecute and punish those responsible
for such practices;

n (e) lto investigate and clarify the fate of persons who are claimed to
have disappeared for political reasons, to inform the relatives of those
persons of the outcome of the investigation and to prosecute and Punish
those restrnnsible for such disapPearancesi

u (f) To restore fulIy trade union rightsl especially the freedom to
form trade unions which can operate freely without governmental control and
can exercise fully the right to strikei

n (g) To guarantee the freedom of assembly and association, and the
freedom of Chilean citizens freely to enter and leave the country' and to
end ttre practice of banishments applied to nationals, which practice amounts
to forced exile fron the countryT

n6. Urges the Chilean authorities to co-operate $tith the Special
Rapporteur and to comply with their retrnrting obligations under the
International Oovenant on Civil and Politica]- nightsi

n7. Invites the Commission on Human nights to extend the mandate of
ttre Special Rapporteur for another year and reguests the Commission to
report on the human rigfits situation in Chile, through the Economic and
Social Council, to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventtr session.

29. At the ?2nd meeting, on 3 Decenber, the representative of the Nettrerlands
introduced a revised draft resolution |A/C.3/36/L.64/Rev.Ll sSnnsored bY 419gb,
$1!3, Denmark, !@, @, &xico, the Nglherlaqds, Sweden and Iylgg$lg'
later iolned bv Nicaraqua.

30. At the same meeting, the Comrnittee adopted draft resoLution
A/C.3/96/L.64/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 83 to 20, with 36 abstentions (see
para. 84, draft resolution VII) . lltre voting rdas as follons:



A/36/7e2
English
Page 14

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, Barbados,
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist nepubLic, Canada, Cape Verder
Central African nepubl-ic, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ethiopia, Finland, France, German
Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana,
Greecer Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary,
Ice1and, India, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lesotho, tiberia, Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, Iuxembourg, Madagascar, Maldives, Mali, liliauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambigue, the Netherlands, New Zea1and,
NicaraguaT lbrway, poland, Fortugal, Romania, Rlrandar Sao $ome
and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra teone, Spain, Sri
Ianka, Sudan, Swaziland, $reden, Trinidad and Trobago, Uganda,
ukrainian soviet sociarist Republic, union of soviet socialist
Republics, ttnited Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern.
Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzaniar Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yugoslavia, Zambia,
Zimbabne.

Argentina, Bolivia, BraziL, Ctrile, Costa Rica, El Salvador,
Guatenala, Haiti, lbnduras, Indonesia, Israel, Iebanon,
Morocco, Pakistan, paraguay, philippines, Ttrailand, Tunisia,
United States of America, Uruguay.

Bahamas, Bahrain, Belize, Burma, Chad, China, CoLombia,
Ibminican Repub1ic, Ecuador, E9ypt, Fiji, Gabon, Ganbia, Ivory
Coast, Japan, Jordanr Malawi, Malaysia, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria,
Onan, Panana, Papua New Guinea, peru, eatarr Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, Solomon fslands, Somailia, Suriname, Togo, Turkeyl
United Arab Enirates, {tpper Volta, zaLre.

Against:

Abstaining:

I. Draft resglution A/C.3/36,/L.66
31. At the 54th meeting, on 27 November, the representative of zaire introduced
a draft
Sudann,

resolution (A/c.3/36/L.661, entitled "situation of refugees in ttre
sponsored by 4l-qeria, Bahrain, BanqLadesh, the comoros, Djiboutir rndiar

Indoqesia, I!gIL, Jordan, tGnya, fuwait, f.eUanon, tOrocco, qnan, gg!:gt.rr@,,
9au9i.Arabia, Sgnegall Somalia, ttr" $!g
S, the uqited Arab Enirates, yemen, zaiieZaire and Zanbia, later joined by
Eotpyana' canada, gaeeErde, costaE;; c"!g, gqs, M."r,it..i", sinsapoie,
suriname, swaziland, Turkev and the uni[ea nepuuric or ranz.ania.
32. At the 66th rneetingl on 30 lfovember, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/c-3/35/L.66 without a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution vrrr).



A/36/7e2
EngJ-ish
Page 15

J. Draft resoLution VC.3/36rlL.6? and Rev.I
33. The Conunittee had before it a draft resolution (VC.3/36/L.67), entitlednSocial aspects of the development activities of ttre United l€tionsn, sponsored
by Algeria, India, Italy, the Netherlands, the philippines, @1g and
Yusosl-avia' later joined by Bdngladesh. :[tre drAEt iesoluEion rEailas follows:

nllhe General Assembly,

rTaking note of E@SC resolution L98L/24 of 6 May 1981 on the social
aspects of the development activities of the United Nations,

xMindful of the fact that the recomnendations contained in the
retrnrt Z/ ot the Ad lbc Working Group on the Social Aspects of the
Developnent Activities of the United Nations wil-I be further discussed at
the first regular session of E@S€ in 1982, in accordance with ECASOC
decisions L98L/L7 5 and r98l/L76 of 23 ilury 1981r in which the
SecretarlnGeneral has been requested to pretrnre and subnit comments on the
feasibility' progranune and co-ordination irnplications as well as the
resources inplications of t*re rnain reconunendations submitted by the Ad lloc
Working Groupl

nl. fry1$ ECOS@' in the lidrt of its above-mentionedl decisions, to
give at itE-iE reguLar session in fggZ due consideration to the
inplernentation of the recorunendations contained in document E,/198L/3 on
social aspects of development activities of the United libtions, together
with the corunents of the Secretary-@nerali

' 12. \gquests. the Secretarfceneral to take necessary measures for theinplementaffi-r the a f orement ioned r econrmendations i n accordance w ith
ECoSOC decisions, taken and to be taken on this issue;

rr3. Requests also the Secretary-General to subnit under item 12 a
retrnrt to the thirty-seventh sessign of the @neral Assenbly about the
inplernentation of the reconunendations contained in document E/L981/3."

34. At the 54th meeting, on 27 t{overnber, the representative of Yugoslavia
introduced a revised drat resolution IP,/C.3/36/L.67fi.ev.L), sponsored by Algeria,
BanqLadesh, Ig&, Ita1y, ttre lletherlands, the Philippinesr @$! and
Yuqoslavia.

35. At the 66th meeting, on 30 tibvember, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/36/L.67/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution IX).

u E/t98L/3.



A/36/792
English
Page 16

K. Draft resolution A/C.3/35lL.68

36. At the 63rd neeting, on 27 November, the representative of Mexico introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.3/36/L.681, entitled nMeasures to improve the situation
and ensure the human rights and dignity of all migrant workersn, sponsored by
Algeria, Arqentina, Barbadosr Ecuador, ESIEE_, Finland, Etancer Ghana, Italy,
Jamaica, Kenya, Mexico, Norway, pakistan, the philippines, portugal, $1!5}!,
Trrrkey and Yuqoslavia, later joined by Cape Verde, @f, India and !4a1i.

37. At the same meeting, the attention of the Conmittee was drawn to the
statement on the administrative and financial irnplications of the draft
resolution (A/c. 3 /36/L.83) .

38. At the 65th meeting, on 30 November, the C.ornmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/36/L.68 without a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution X).

L. Draft resolution A/C.3,/36,/t.69 and Rev.l -\

39. fre Conunittee had before it a draft resolution (VC.3/36/L.69), entitledtrAssistance to displaced persons in Ethiopia", sponsored by Algeria, !4p}g.,
Bangladesh, Benin, Botswana, Chad, Cuba, Cyprus, Djibouti, ESIE, Ethiopiar
IqI!j!, Kegat the rao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Morocco, 31Eig!g, Viet lihm,
Zambia and Zimbabwe, later joine
Concro' Oosta Rica, Democratic Yemen, Iesotho, Liberia, the Libyan Arab
Jamahir-ivar ggp4, the philippines, Sierra Leone, the United Republic of Tanzania
and Zaire. l[?re draf t resolution read as follows:

trlttre General Assembly,

rkcalling its resolution 35/gL of 5 December L980 and resolution
L980/54 of the Economic and Social Oouncil of 24 July 1980,

"llaving heard the statement of the representative of the
Secretarlt-General, and the United Nations High Conmissioner for Refugees,

nliaving heard the statement of the representative of Ethiopia,
nTaking note of the report of the SecretarlnGeneral on assistance to

displaced persons in Ethiopia, prepared pursuant to Economic and Social
Council resolution 1980,/8 of 28 April 1980,

nTaking note also of the appeal of the Secretary-General in his note
verbale of 11 lbvember 1980,

nI. Endorses once again the appeals of the Secretary-General and the
Economica@

n2. Regrets that the appeals of the Secretary-General and the Econonlc
and Social Oouncil have yet to mee! adequate responsei



A/36/792
English
Page 17

n3. Requests the United Nations High Connissioner for Refugees to
-continue his efforts to nobilize humanitarian assistance for the relief and
rehabilitation of the large number of voluntary returneesi

n4. Requests the Secretary-General to retrnrt to the Econonic and
Social Council at its first regular session of 1982 and to the General
Assembly at its thirty-seventh session on the progress achieved in the
inplenentation of the present resolution.n

40. At the 64th neeting, on 27 November, the repnesentative of Zaire introduced
a revised draft resolution (A/C.3/36/L.69/Rev.1), strnnsored by Algeria, @}3,
Bangladesh, Eg!&, E9Ere, Burundi, the Central ,Mrican Republic' @i!, the
.@., Cuba, Crrprus, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, ESIP!, Ethiopia' India' Kenya,
the lao Peoplets@, Lesotho, Liberiar the Libvan Arab4
Jana stan, the philippinesr Fierr-a Ipone, the United
Republic of Tanzaniar 1]!g, @, zambia and Zimbabwer later joined by Cape
Verde, Costa Rica and Madagascar

41. At the same meeting, the representative of Zaire further orally revised the
draft resoLution by adding, at ttre end of operative paragraph I' the words
'concerning assistance to displaced persons in Ethiopia".

42. At ttre 56th meeting, on 30 Uovenber, the Comrnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/36/L.69,/Rev.1, as oraLly revisedl wittrout a vote (see para. 84, draft
resolution XI).

M. Draft resolution A/C.3/36lL.70

43. At its 68th meeting, on I December, the representative of the Gernan
Denocratic Republic introduced a draft resolution (P/C.3/36/L.7Ol r entitled
trDteasures to be taken against nazi, fascist and neo-fascist abtivities and all
other forms of totalitarian ideologies and practices based on racial intolerance,
hatred and terrorn, sponsored by Afqhanistan' .}4g!g, Fulqaria, $@,
Czechoslovakiar the German Democratic Republic, Grenada, SggL' the Iao
Pdopleta Democtatic nepublic, 3g}g9, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and
@!-@, later joined by the Oonqo and Zimbabwe.

44. Itre draft resolution reads as followsl
n@'

"Recalling that the United litations energed from the struggle against
nazism, fascism, aggression and foreign occupation, and that the peoples
expressed their resolve in thg CLrarter of the United Nations to save future
generations from the scourge of war,

oBearing in mind the suffering, destruction and death of rnitllonE of
victims oe aggrression, foreign occupation, nazism and fascism,



A/36/792
English
Page 18

"Reaffirning the purposes and principles laid dovrn in the Charter,
which are;G;Ct maintaining inteinational peace and security, developing
friendly reLations among nations based on respect for the prlnliple oe 6qulf
rights and selfdeternination of peopJ.es, and achieving international
ceoperation,

nEtnphasizing that nazlsm and fascisn in all their nanifestations nay
jeopardize world peace and international security, and constitute an
obstacle to friendly relations between States and peoples and to the
promotion and observance of human rights,

"Reaffirning that the prosecution and punishment of war crimes and
crimes against peace and humanity, as laid down in General Assenbly
resolutions 3 (r) of 13 February 1946 and 95 (r) of ll December L946,
constitute a universal corunitment for all States,

"Recalling its resolutions 2331 (XXII) of 18 Decenber L967,
2438 (xXIrI) of 19 December L968. 2545 (XXIV) of Ll Decenber 1969,
27L3 (XXV) of 15 December 1970, 2839 (XXVI) of 18 Decenber L97L0 34/24 of
15 tfovenber 1979 and 35/200 of 15 December 1980,

"Sgqalling also the Declaration on Social
Declaration on the Elimination of All F'rorms of
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Peoples,

Progress and DeveLopnent, the
Racial Discrimination and the
Colonial Countries and

"urderlining the irntrnrtance of the universal lleclaration of Human
Rights, the International Oovenants on Ilunan Rightsr the International
Convention on the Elimination of AIL Forms of Racial Dlscrirnlnation, the
Convention on the Prevention and Rrnishnent of tfie Crine of Genocide and
other relevant international. instruments,

rBearing in mind ttrat nazi, fascist and neo-fascist activities and aLL
other forns of totalitarian ideologies and practices based on racial
intolerance, hatred and terror, and those based on the systenatic denial of
human rigttts and fundamentaL freedomsr are totally incompatible wlth the
Charter of ttre United Nations, t}re Declaration on the Strengthening of
International Security, the Declaration on Principles of International Law
concerning FriendLy Relations and Co-operation anong States in accordance
with the charter of the united Nations and the Declaration on the
Preparation of Societies for Life in peace,

trconunending the fact that a number of states provided the
SecretarlFGeneral lrith their comments on those problems reflected in ttre
report of the secretary-Generar contained in document,s A/36/209 and
A/36/2Oe/Add.1,

nAcknowredging the fact that a number of states have set up legal
regulations which are suited to prevent the activities of nazi, fasclst and
neo-fascist groups and organizations,



A/36/7s2
English
Page 19

oWelconing resolution 3 (XXXVII) adopted by the Comnission on Human
Rights on 23 February 1981 providing measures on this subject including the
consideration of elaborating a draft declarationr

"Noting with deep concern that the proponents of fascist ideologies
have, in a number of countries, intensified their activities and are
increasingly co-ordinating them on an international scale,

n1. Aqain condemns nazi, fascist and neo-fascist activities and all
ottrer forms of totalitarian ideologies and practices based on racial
intolerance, hatred and terror;

n2. Urges all States to give due consideration to inplenenting in
accordance with the national constitutional systems the provisions laid down
in General Assernbly resolution 2839 (XXVI) in accordance wittr the provisions
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International Covenants
on Human Rights and especially to taking the necessary measures against
activities of groups and organizations practising nazism, fascism,
neo-fascism and other ideologies based on racial intolerance, hatred and
terror,

n3. Calls upon the appropriate specialized agencies of the United
Nations as well as intergovernmental and international non-governmental
organizations to initiate or intensify measures against the dissemination of
nazi, fascist and neo-fascist ideologies and practices;

tr4. Invites member States to adopt, as a matter of high priorityl
meisures d;claffi'g punishable by law any dissemination of ideas based on
racial superiority or hatred and of war propaganda, including nazi, fascist
and neo-fascist ideologiesi

tr5. Appeals to aII States which have not, yet done so to ratify or to
accede to the International Covenants on lluman Rights, the Convention on the
Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, the Convention on the
Elimination of All Ftorms of Racial Discrinination, the Convention on the
Non-Applicability of-statutory Lirnitations to war Crimes and Crimes against
Humanity, and the Convention on the Suppression and Punishnent of the Crime
of Apartheid;

u6. Calls once again upon all States to provide the Secretary-@neral
with theirffitioni

n7. Requests the Conmission on Human Rights to continue the
consideration of this subject at its thirty-eighth sessioni

'8. Requests the Secretary-General to submitr through the Economic and
Social @uqgil, to the Ceneral A.ssembly at its thirty-seventh session a
re;nrt in the light of the discussion that would take place in the
Comnission on Human Rights and on the basis of comrnents provided by States
and international organizations. "



A/36/792
English
Page 20

45. Iater the Committee had before it amendments
S!r?fla, _99893, Greece' the NetherLands and the

- 

-r

Brrtain and Northern lreland. lhe amendments were
(a) Replace ttre fourth preambular paragraph by the following:

" (4) En[*rasizing that all totalitarian or other ideologies and
practices' in particular nazi, fascist and neo-fascist, based on racial or
ethnic exclusiveness or intolerance, hatred, terror, systematic denial of
human rights and fundanental freedoms, or which have such consequences, may
jeopardize world peace and constitute obstacles to friendly relations
between states and to ttre realization of human rights and fundamental
freedons. n

(b) Replace the ninth preambular paragraph by the following:

" (9) Reaffirninq that all totalitarian or other ideologies and
practices, ri-ElffiIar nazi, fascist and neo-fascist, based on racial or
ethnic exclusiveness or intolerance, hatred, terror, systenatic denial of
hunan rights and fundamental freedons, or which have such consequences, are
inconpatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations, the Universal Declaration of Hunan Rigtrts, the International
Covenants on Human Rights, the International ConvenLion on the Elimination
of A1I Forms of Racial Discrimination, the Convention on the
lbn-Applicability of Statutory Limitations to war Crimes and Crines Against
Humanity, the International Convention on the suppression and Punishnent of
the Crine of Apartheid, the Oonvention on the Prevention and Punishment of
the Crime of Genocide and other relqvant international instrumentsrtr
(c) Replace operative paragraph 1 by the following:

rr1. Again condemns a1l totalitarian or other ideoJ-ogies and practices,
in particuGfr?'ffiEist and neo-fascist, based on racial or etinic
exclusiveness or intolerance, hatred, terror, systematic denial of human
rights and fundamental freedoms, or which have such consequencesi"
(d) Replace operative paragratr*rs 2, 3 and 4 by the following:

"2. Urqes all states to draw attention to the threats to democratic
institutions by the above-mentioned ideologies and practices and to consider
taking measures, in accordance with their national constitutional systems
and with the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the
International Covenants on Human Rights to prohibit or otherwise deter
activities by groups or organizations or whoever is practicing those
ideologies I "

n3. Calls upon the appropriate specialized agencies of the United
Nat ions asEfatnte rgovernienta I and internationa I non-goverrunenta 1
organizations to initiate or intensify neasures against the ideologies and
practices described in paragraph I abovein

(Py'c.3 /36/L.921 subrnitted by
Ilnited Kingdon of Great
as folLows:



^/36ne2English
Page 21

(e) Add to operative paragraph 7 the foJ.lowing words: ounder the title:
rl'Gasures to be taken against all totalitarian or other ideologies and practicesl
includlng nazL, fascist and neo-fascist, based on racial or ethnic exclusiveness
or intolerance, hatred, terror, systematic denial of human rights and fundamental-
freedons, or which have such consequencesr".

45. At the 72nd neeting, on 3 December, the representative of the Gerrnan
Democratic Republic accepted the amendments contained in document P/C.3/36/L.92
with the exception of the proposal to delete operative paragratrfi 4 of the draft
resolution, and revised ttre draft resolution accordingly.

47. lltre Comnittee then voted on the draft resolutiopl:J= revised, and the
amendment thereto as follows: l--.. .

(a) Itre amendment to delete operative paragratr*r a wa3 rejected by 58 votes
to 52, wlth 18 abstentionst

(b) Draft resolution A/C.3/36/L.70, as revised, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 125 to none, with 13 abstentions (see para. 84' draft resolution XII).
The voting nas as follows:

In, favour: Afghanistan, Albaniar A1geria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsrvanat
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burmar Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cape Verde, Central African nepubtic, Chad, Chile'
Otina, Colombiar CongoT Costa Ricdr Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Denocratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fijir FinLand, France,
Gabon, German Denocratic nepublicr Germany, Federal Republic
of, Greece, Grenadar Guatenala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissaur Guyana'
Iionduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Irag, Ireland, Israelt
IEaly, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, tao eeoplers Democratic RePub1ict
Iebanon, Iesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourgt
Madagascar, Ma1aysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, llexico,
Mongolia, Moroccor !trozambique, tlepal, libtherlands, Nicaragual
Niger, Nigeria, Omanr Pakistan, Panamar Papua New Guineat
Paraguayr Peru, ehilippines, Foland, Portugal, Qatar, Romaniar
Rlvanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegalt
SeycheJ.les, Sierra I€one, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Iankat
Sudan, Suriname, Swazilandr SFian Arab Republic, ll'hailand,
Togo' Trinidad and lbbago, Tlrnisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Enirates' united Kingdom of Great Britain and
tilcrthern lreland, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic
of Tanzania, ttpper Voltar Uruguay, Vanuatu, venezuelar Viet
Nam, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia, Zimbabwe.

Against: lilcne.



A/36/792
English
Page 22

Abstaining: Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, canada, Ghanar rcerand, rvory
Ooast, Jamaica, Japan, t€w Zealand, lbrway, Sweden, United
States of America.

N. Draft resolution A/C.3,/36,/L.71

48. At the 64th neeting, on 27 November, the relresentative of France introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.3/36/L.71), entitled reqestion of involuntary or enforced
disappearances", sponsored by canada, costa Rica, Denmark, Eg!E, Germany,
Federal Reoublic_9,[, creecg, t\e Netherrands, @, senegal, sweden and the::=-t=----uniteal Kingdom of, Great Britain and titcrthern Ire$!, later joined by Cvprus and

49. At the same meeting, tte representative of France orally revised the draft
resolution by deleting the words "with all due effectivenessn in operative
paragratrh 3, which read as follows:

''3. \gquests ttre Cof;mission on Hunan Rights to continue to study this
question aE a lnatter of priority, and to take any step it may deem necessary
to the pursuit with all due effectiveness of the task of the working group,
when it considers the report to be subrnitted by the group at its
th irtlee ighth session; "

50. At the 56th neeting on 30 November the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/36/t.7I, as orally revised, rrithout a vote (see para. 84, draft
resolution XIII) .

o. Draft resolution A/C.3/36/L.72 and Rev.I

51. The Conmittee had before it a draft resolution (VC.3/36/L.72), entitled
"Missing persons in Qrprusr', sponsored by q/prus. Ttre draft resolution read as
follows:

"The General Assembly,

nRecal!!3g its previous resolutions on the question of the missingpersonffi{!-rus,

"Reafflg!3g the basic human need of families to be inforned, without
furtneiEay, about the fate of their missing relatives,

',H"'i'g@thatAgreementwasreached,on19MayLg7g,duringthe
nign r&JlTffifn'erd in Nicosia under rhe auspices of lhe
Secretary-General of th.e United Nations,

'Welcoming the furttrer Agreement on the establishment of the
Investigatory Commfttee, reached between the parties concerned, which was
announced by the SecretarrGeneral of the United Nations on 22 April 1981



A/36/792
English
Page 23

and formalized and officially recorded in the minutes of the Conmitteers
first neeting on 14 July 1981,

nEgretting the fact that due to procedural difficulties and deviations
fron the above Agreement of 22 April 1981, no progress has been achieved
towards the conrmencement of the Committeers investigative workr

nf.. Urqes tfie fuIl inplenentation, without further delay, of the
agreed terns of reference for the work of the Investigatory Committee in
accordance with tlre Agreement of 22 April 1981i

n2. Calls upon the parties concerned to facilitate, in a spirit of
co-operation and goodwill, the Investigatory Corunittee in carrying out the
investigation itself on the basis of the Agreement enbodied in the terms of
reference of the Cornmittee, thus ensuring the early tracing and accounting
for the missing persons in Cyprusl

n3. Requests tie SecretarfC€nera1 to continue to provide his good
offices for the unhindered functioning of the Investigatory Committee.rl

52. At the 73rd neeting, on 4 Decenber, the representative of CYprus introduced
a revised draft resolution (Vc.3/36/L.72t\ev.L) .

53. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution
A/C.3/36/L.72/?ev.1 by a recorded vote of 89 to 7, wiUr 30 abstentions (see
para. 84' draft resolution XIV). tte voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistanl Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, Barbados,
Benin, Bhutan, Botsr.rana, Bulgaria, Burma' Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic' Cape Verde, CentraL
African Republic, Chad, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprust
Czedtoslovakia, Etemocratic Yemen' Denmarkr Ecuador' Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyanar Hungary, Iceland, India, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya' -Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
tiberia, t'ladagascar, Malawi, Maldives' MaIi, Malta, llexico,
Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaraguar li&crway, Oman,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Poland, Rtranda' Samoa,
Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seyctrellesr Sierra teonet
Singapore, Sri Iankar Swaziland, Sweden' Syrian Arab Republic,
logo, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic
of Caneroonr United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta,
Uruguay' venezuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, zaire, Zambia,
zinbabvte.

Bangladesh, El Salvador, Guatemala, Indonesia, Pakistan' Saudi
Arabia' Turkey.

Ag ainst:



A/36/7e2
Engl-ish
Page 24

Abstaining: Argentina, Bahrain, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazilr Canada,
Colombia, Dominican RepubLic' Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, ltalaysia, Mauritaniar the
Netherlands, Niger, Nigeria, Paraguayl Portugal, Somalia,
Spain, Sudan, Suriname, Ttrailandr Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab
Bnirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and lbrthern
Ireland, United States of America.

P. Draft resolution A,/C.3/36,/L.73 and Rev.l

54. At the 63rd meeting, on 27 November, the representative of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and titrrthern freland introduced a draft resolution
(VC.3/36/L.731, entitled 'rQuestion of the international legal protection of the
human rights of individuals who are not citizens of the country in which they
livetr r sponsored by Australia, @, Ghanar Greece, Mexico, Dlorocco and the
United Kinqdon of Great Britain and Dbrthern lreland, later joined by Barbados'
9@., Canada, Costa Rica, Germany, Federal Republic of , Jamaica, the
Nettrerlandsr and Uruguay. ltre draft resolution read as follows:

"@,
"B.arig,Si!9 Economic and Social Council resolutions 1970 (LIV) of

ra ruay.-E-aidEfi(pvr) of L7 May 1974 concerning the guestion of the
international legal protection of the human rigtrts of individuals who are
not citizens of the country in which they live,

"Ig!.igg Commission on Human Rights resolutions 8 (XXIX) of 2L
March 1973, Ll (xxx) of 6l{arch L974, 15 (xxxv) of 14 March 1979 and
19 (XXXVI) of 29 February 1980, on the same subject,

"I,lcling also resolution 9 (xxxl) of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of
Discrifr i jiEFionanaprotectionof Minorities,

trRecallinq that the Econornic and Social 6unci1, by its resolution
L98o/2ffiv198o'decidedtotransmittotheGenera1Assenb1yatits
thirty-fifth session the text of the draft declaration on the human rights
of individuals who are not citizens of the country in whictt they live7
prepared by ttre Special Rapporteur of the Sub-@mmission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of tvlinorities, the Baroness Ellesr drrd anended
by the SuFConmission, together with the comments on the text received from
Member States in response to decision L979/36 of the Council of 10 May 1979
and recomnended that the General Assembly should consider the adoption of a
declaration on the subject,

"bking_f€g! General Assembly resolution 35499 ofrspecffi
'L. Takes note that

entrusted with the task of
the open-ended working group, which has been
elaborating a final version of the draft



declaration on the hunan rights
country in which they live, has
time to conclude its taskr

A/36/792
English
Page 25

of individuals who are not citizens of the
done useful work but has not had sufficient

n2. Decides to establish, at its thirty-seventh session an open-ended
working 9r5u-[-G ttre purpose of concluding the elaboration of the draft
declaration on the human rights of individuals who are not citizens of the
country in which they live;

"3. E:<presses the hope that a draft declaration on the hunan rigtrts of
individuals who are not citizens of the country in which they live will be
adopted by the GeneraL assembly at its thirtleseventh session.n

55. At the same meeting, the attention of the @mnittee was drawn to the
statenent on the adninistrative and financial implications of the draft
resolutio^ (A/C.3/36lL.81) .

56. At the 68th neeting, on 1 Decenber, the representative of the United Kingdon
of Great Britain and ldorthern Ireland introduced a revised draft resolution
lVC.3/36/L.73,/Rev.I), sponsored by Australia, Barbadosr Be1gium, Canxb,
Costa Ricar Egy-g!, France, Germanv, Federal Republic of, Ghanal Greece, Jamaica,
Mexico, Morocco, the netherlandsr United Kingdom and Uruguay.

57. At the same meeting, the Connittee adopted the draft resolution
VC.3/36/L.73Ztev.1 wittrout a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution Xv).

a. Draf t resolution A,/C.3/36lL.74

58. At the 64th neeting' on 27 November, the reEresentative of Argentina
introduced a draft resoLution (A/C.3/36/L.741 entitled "D<change of inforrnation
on banned hazardous chemicals and unsafe pharnaceutical products", sponsored by
Algeria, Angolar Arqentina, the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Jordan, Ig!8,
Morocco, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, the philippines, Somalia, Tunisia,
rytL and Yusosravia.
59. At the same meeting, the representative of Argentina orally revised the
draft resolution as follows:

(a) In the last preambular paragradr, whictr read as follows:

"@ that the production and export of banned or severely restricted
substances - including pharnaceuticals, pesticides and industrial chenicals
endanger public health and the environmentr"

the word trhazardouso was added between the word "restrictedn and isubstancestr;

(b) Operative paragraph 2, which read as foLlows:



A/36/792
English
Page 26

n2. Takes not also of the conclusions and reconnendations of the
Commissiotr6iFlifiE[T6ial corporationsr report U Eo its seventh sessionltr

r,ras reworded as foLlows:
n2. Takes note also of the conclusions and recommendations in the

rePort !/ of the United tilations Centre on Transnational Corporations which
was submitted to the seventh session of the Commission on Transnational
Oorporations i o

(c) Operative paragraS*r 7, which read as follows:

"7. fnvites Member States to consider the need to deal with this
subject ttr?6@Gnactment of legislation at national levels, where they do
not yet exist, and at international level1tr

was rehrorded as follows:

"7. Invites Member States to deaL with this subject through
appropriate means, including lnssible legislation at national Ievel, where
they do not yet exist?n

60. At the 66th meeting, on 30 tilcvember, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/36/L.'74, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 84, draft
resolution XVI).

R. Draft resolution A/C.3/36lL.75
61. At the 64th meeting, on 27 Novenber, the retrresentative of Sweden subnitted
a draft resolution lA/C.3/36/L.7 5) entitled trDraft declaration on Social and
Legal Principles relating to the Protection and Welfare of Children, with Special
Reference to Foster Placement and Adoption NationalJ.y and Internationallyrr, the
operative paragraSirs of which read as foll_ows:

nThe General Assembly,

'1. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtrseventh
session an iten entitled rDraft declaration on social and legal principles
relating to the protection and welfare of childrenr with special reference
to foster placement and adoption nationally and internationaLlyn with a view
to allocating the item to the Sixth Conunittee;

1/ E/c.Lo /eo.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 27

a2. Reconunends, in order that the further action prop,osed in Economic
'.and Sociaf Councit resolution L979/28 may proceed, that appropriate measures
be taken at its ttrirty-seventh session to finalize the draft decLaration."

62. At the 65th meeting, on 30 November, the retrxesentative of Sweden orally
revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) In operative paragraph 11 the words "with a view to allocating the itern
to the Sixth Conmitteen irere deleted from the end of operative paragraph I;

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the word nRecommendsi was replaced by
oDecides'.

53. At the same meeting, the representative of t"lorocco proposed an amendment to
reintroduce the words "rrith a view to allocating the item to the Sixth Committeetr
at the end of operative paragraS*r I. Fo1lowing a proposal by Ethiopia, the
amendment was subsequently revised to read trwith a view to the possible
allocation of the item to the Sixttr Connitteeo.

64. ALso at the sarne meeting, the Comrnittee voted on draft resolution
VC.3 /36/L.75 as followsl

(a) the amendment by lt{orocco, as revised (see para. 63) was adopted witttout
a votet

(b) Itre draft resolution as a whole, as revised and amended, was adopted
without a vote (see para. 84' draft resoLution XVII).

S. Draft resolution A,/C.3/36,/L.77

65. At the 63rd neeting, on 27 November, the retrresentative <if the United States
of Anerica introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/36/L.771, entitled trInternational
drugabusecontro1strategyo'sponsoredbyAustral.ialBo1ivia,@,@'
Turkev and the tfirited Staies of Anerica, Later joined by l,talaysia, 49IL, I{orocco
and Sneden.

66. At the 66th meeting, on 30 llovernber, ihe retresentative of the United States
of Anerica revised ttre draft resolution as follows:

(a) In operative paragraFh 3' which read as follows:
n3. Requests ttre Oornnission, within available resourcesr to establish

a task force, in consultation with the Directors General of the appropriate
specialized agencies and other. United l{ations drug-related bodies, comtrpsed
of representatives of these agencies and bodies and rePresentatives of the
member States nost interested in and affected by the production,
trafflcking, and consumption of and demand for illegal drugs, as well as
those lnterested in and affected by the abuse of J.egally produced drugs, to
review, monitor and ceordinate the implementation of the international



A/36/792
English
Page 28

control strategy and the progralme of action and to subrnit a retrnrt to eactr
session or special session of the Colrunission on the progress made in
inplementing the drug strategy and progranune, and to provide any
recormnendations it deens necessary regarding future revision of such
strategy and prograrmne of actionrr

the words nabuse of legally producedtr between the words traffected by the" and the
word ndrugs' were replaced by the words rlicit production of.nl

(b) Operative paragraFh 5, which read as follows:
n5. @.!g the Secretarfceneral to take the necessary steps within

availabLe iesources to assist in implementing the international-drug control
strategy and fivelear prograrnme of actionlr

was deletedl

(c) T?re renaining paragragrs nere renumbered accordingly.
67. At ttre same meeting, ttre attention of the Conunittee was drawn to the
statement on administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution
(A/C.3/36/L.88).

68. At the same meeting, the Conunittee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/35/L.77,
as revised, without a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution XVrrr).

T. Draft resolution A,/C.3/36lL.28
69. At the 63rd meeting, on 27 Novenber, the representative of Canada introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.3/36/L.781, entitled I'observance of the thirty-fifth
anniversary of the Universal DecLaration of Human Rightstr, sponsored byAustralia, canada, costa Rica, grsg, rndia, Japan, -ggr""." anal Egi_fug, later
1"1"."9.by luslria, thg Cenuaf efrican nepuUfic, """ruJ, 

C.rrou*,ffi
Republic of , @, Samoa, Seneqal and Sneden.
70. At the 56th meeting, on 30 November, the re[resentative of Canada revised
the draft resolution by deteting paragraph 2 (c) of the annex which read as
follows:

(c) Adoption of arrangements for the award of hurnan rights prizes as
envisaged in recommendation C of the annex to General Assenbly resolution
22L7 (XXI) of 19 December 19661

tre renaining subparagraphs were renumbered accordingly.
7L. At the same neeting, the attention of the Conunittee was drawn to the
statement on the adrninistrative and financial implications of the draft
resolution (A/C. 3 /36/L.g9l .



Pd36/7e2
English
Page 29

72. i\J.so at the same meeting, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution
NC.3/36/L.78, as revised, without a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution XIX).

U. Draft decision VC.3,/36,/L.87

73. Itre Conmrittee had before it a draft decision (VC.3/36/L.87) ' entitledtrWelfare of migrant workers and their familiesnr spoDsoEed by 3199.i9, Barbados,
$!!g, BII, rylgg, Pakistan, Turkev and !g!g!g. lltre draft decision read
as followsc

n@,

trRecalling Economic and Social CounciL resolution L98L/2L of.5 !{a! 1981
ana taffifrG of the views expressed in the Second negular Session of
Economic and Social Council in 1981 as iqdicated in the sunmary records of
the 15th meeting on 15 July 1981 (Doc.: E/L98VC.3/SR.15) with resPect to
the retrnrt of the @nunittee for Prograrune and Co-ordination on the work of
its twenty-first session,

n@EconomicandSocia1Counci1requestinreso1ution198I/2Lof
6 !{ay 1981 to incl-ude in t}re progranme budget of ttre United liliations for
1982-1983 studies on the questions concerned witJr the welfare of migrant
workers and their families."

74. At the 65th rneeting, on 30 Novenber, the representative of the United States
of Anerica proposed an amendment to add, at the end of the second paragraph, ttre
following:

trand reguests the Secretary-General to include this reguest witiin the
appropriation for Section VI by eliminating an eguivalent programme of Lorer
priorityn.

75. At the 68th neeting, on 1 December, the representative of f.'19lg!g!3 revlsed
the draft decision by adding, at the end of the second paragraPh' ttre following:

nwhich would take account of, and complement the studies already undertaken
byr the International Iabour organisationo.

76. lltre United States of Anerica subseguently wittrdrew its amendment.

77. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted ttre draft decision, as revised,
without a vote (see para. 85, draft decision I).

v. Draf t decision VC.3/36lL.91 and Rev.l

78. At the 68th meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Ghana lntroduced a
draf,t decision (A,/C.3/36/T..9L| r entitled trsituation of human rights and
fundarnental freedoms in Guatenala", sponsored by Ghana and the Nettrerlalrds. lltte
draft decision read as follows:

/...



A/36/792
EngJ-ish
Page 30

trtre General Assemb1y,
rrTaking note of the report of the Secretary-General on the situation of

human rights and fundamental freedoms in GuatemaLa, 4/

"Sharing the views extrxessed by the Conmission on Human Rights at the
situation of human rights in Guatemala,

'Requests the Secretary-General to continue his efforts to establish
direct contacts with the Government of GuatemaLa.,

79. At the 70th neeting, on 2 December, the representative of Ghana introduced a
revised draft decision (A/C.3/36/L.9L/Rev.Ll .
80. At the 72nd neeting, on 3 December, the telresentative of Ghana further
orally revised ttre draft decision by replacing, in operative paragraph 2, .the
words "Appeals totr by "3ggg$gn and inserting the word trfurthertr after the word
"co-opeiEEF

81. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft decision, as further
revised, by a recorded vote of 68 to 18, with 41 abstentions (see trnra. 85, draft
decision II) . lltre voting yras as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, Barbados,
Belgiun, Benin, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Social-ist RepubLic, Canada, Cape Verde, Congo, O.rba,
Czechosl,ovakia, Democratic yemen, Dennark, Ethiopia, Finland,
France, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic
of, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Iraq, Ireland, ItaLy, Jamaica, Kenya, Lao peoplers llernocratic
RepubJ.ic, Libryran Arab Janahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Mali,
l,lauritania, trlexico, Mongolia, Mozambigue, Netherlands, lilew
Zealand, Nicaragua, Norrday, papua tihw Guinea, portugal,
Romania, Rranda, Sao ltrme and principe, Spain, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Utnion of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern rreland, united Republic
of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet l,itam, yugoslavia, Zarnbia,
Zinbabwe.

Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Costa Ricar El Salvador,
Gabon, Guatemala, Ilaiti, Iionduras, Indonesia, Israel, Pakistan,
Paraguay, Trrnisia, Turkey.T United States of America, Uruguay.

Against:

!/ A/36/705.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 31

Abstaininq: Bahamas, Bahrain, Bhutan, Botslrana, Brazil, Burma, CentraL
African Republic, Ctrad, China, Ibminican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Fiji, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Ivory Coast, Japan,
Iesotho, Liberia, Malaysia, Morocco, Nepalz Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sierra I€one, Singapore'
Solomon Islands, Sonalia, Sri Lanka, Surinamer Swaziland,
Ttrailand, Togo, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, ttpper Volta, Zaire.

w. Draft resolution VC.3,/36IL.93

82. At the 70th meeting, on 2 Decenber 198I, the representative of Botswana
introduced a draf t resolution (NC.3/36/L.931, entitled trAssistance to student
refugees in southern Africa', sponsored by Algeriar Angola, pglgg, ESIS!,
Kenva, Lesotho, Madaqascar, 4g@, Pakistan, Senegal, Sierra Ieone, Eggglig,
Swazilandl Uganda, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia and Zimbabwe, later joined by the
Comoros, the Oonqo, Costa Rica, O]lprus, Djibouti, Ethiopia, !!@!g, Mali'
Mauritania, !{orocco, Mozambique, the United Republic of Caneroon, the United
Republic of Tanzania and the Upper VoLta.

83. At the 72nd meeting, on 3 Decenber, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution without a vote (see para. 84, draft resolution XX).

III. REC\]MMENDATIONS OF TITE TIIIRD COMMISIEE

84. the llhird Cornrnittee recommends to the @neral Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAE'T RESOLUTION I

United Nations voluntarv. fund, for vigtims of torture

the General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 33A74 of 20 December Lg78, by which it established
a Unlted Nations Trust Frrnd for Chile as a voluntary fund to receive
contributions and dlstribute hurnanitarian, legal and financial aid to persons
whose human rights had been violated by detention or lmprisonment in Chile,

Recalling also its resolution 35A90 of 15 D,ecember 1980, by which it
requested the Oomnission on ltuman Ftights to study ttre trnssibility of extending
the mandate of the Unlted Nations lrust Frrnd for Chile,

Takinq note of Economic and Social Oouncil resolution L98U39 of 8 !{ay 1981
and Comnission on Human Rights resolution 35 (XXtffII) bf 1I !,larch 1981,



A/36/7e2
Hrglish
Page 32

Noting that all Governments have an obligation to respect and prornote hunan
rights in accordance with the responsibilities they have undertaken under varlous
international instr uments,

lbting with deep concern that acts of torture take place in various
countries,

Considerinq the plight of victims of torture wherever it takes placel

Recoqnizinq t}re need to provide assistance to ttre victims of torture in a
purely hunanitarian spirit,

1. Decides:

(a) To extend the mandate of the United Nations Trust Fund for Chiler
established by its resolution 33/L74, in order to make it capable of receivlng
voluntary contributions for distribution, through established channels of
hunanitarian assistance, as humanitarian, legal and financial aid to individuals
whose human rights have been severely violated as a result of torture and to
relatives of such victims, priority being given to aid to victins of violations
by States in whictr the human rigtrts situation has been the subject of resolutlons
or decisions adopted by eittrer the General Assembly, the Econonic and Social
Council or the Conunission on Human Rightsl

(b) llhat such a United tilations voluntary fund for victims of torture shall
be administered in accordance wittr the financial regulations of the United
Nations by the Secretary-General, with ttre advice of a board of trustees composed
of a chairman and four members with wide experience in the field of human rights,
acting in their personal capacity, to be appointed by ttre SecretarfGeneral with
due regard to equitable geogrraphical distribution and in consultation wittr thelr
Governrnentsi

(c) To redesignate the United Nations Trust Fund for Chile as the United
Nations Voluntary Fund for Victins of Torturei

(d) lto adopt the arrangements for the management of the Fund set forth in
the annex to the report of the SecretarfCenerall !./

(e) tro authorize the Board of Trustees of the Fund to pronote and solicit
contributions and pledgesl

(f) To request the Secretary-General to give the Board of Trustees all the
assistance it nay require;

2. Appeals to all Governments to respond favourably to requests for
contributions to the Fund.

v A/36/540.



A/36/792
English
Page 33

DRAF'T RESOLUTTON II

1l?re right to education

llhe General Assemblv,

Recalling its resolutions 34A70 of L7 December 1979 and 35/L9L of
15 December 1980 on the right to education,

Recalling the International Covenant on Economic, Social- and Cu1tural
Rightsr adopted by its resol-ution 22OO A (xXI) of 16 December L965' which
recognizes the rigfrt of everyone to education,

Bearinq in mind the inportance of the Convention against Discrimination in
Education, ful adopted on 14 Decenber 1960 by the General Conference of the United
Nations Educational, Scientific and QrLtural Organization,

Reaffirming the paramount importance of the implenentation of the right to
education for ttre fuIl development of human personality and for the enjoyment of
other fundamental human rights and freedoms,

Reeoqnizinq that for effective impLenentation of the right to education the
eradicatlon of illiteracy has a particular priority and urgency,

Convinced that the educationa.l process could bring a substaritial
contribution to social progress, national development, mutual understanding and
co-operation anong peoples and to strengthening peace and international security,

Recalllng that the establishrnent of the new international economic order
requires effective support for the improvement and expansion of educational
systems and for the training of specialized personnel and quaLified cadres for
the economlc development of ttre developing iountries,

Convinced of the topicality and urgency of provisions on education contained
in the International Developrnent Strategy for the Ttrird United tilations
Ilevelopment Decade, /

Recalling that, since its establishment, the United Nations Educational,
Scientiflc and Cultural Organization has constantly striven for effective
realization of the right to education and equality of educational optrnrtunities
for all, without distinction as to race, colour, sex, Languager religion,

United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 429, lilo. 6193, p. 93.

General Assembly resolution 35/56, annex, sect. O.

g
U

/...



^/36/792English
Page 34

political or other opinion, national or social originl economic status or birth
and that, for many years past, activities directed to securing the right to
education and the extension and improvement of educational and training systens
in Member States, and more particularly in the developing countries, have
occupied a central place in that organizationrs progranme,

Takinq note with satis{action of interest shown by the Brecutive Board of
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization for the
inplementation of General Assembly resolutions 34rl170 and 35/L9L,

1. Invitegggig all States to consider the adoption of appropriate
1egis1ativffiistrativeandothermeasures,inc1udlngmaterit19uarantees,in
order to ensure the full implenentation of the right to universal education
through, inter alia, free and compulsory prirnary education, universal and
gradually free-of-charge secondary education, equal access to all educational
facilities and the access of the young generation to science and culturer'

2. Invites all States to give all necessary attention to defining and
deternining in a more precise manner the means for implementing ttre provisions
concerning the role of education in the International Development Strategy for
the lthird United Nations Development Decadei

3. Invites aLl specialized agencles to ceoperate with the United Nations
Educationaffintific and Cultural organization to ensure education a high
priority in the implementation of various prograrunes and projects, in the
framework of the InternationaL Developrnent Strategy for the ltrird United tilations
Development Decadel

4. Appeals aqain to al1 States, in particular to the developed countries,
to support activeLy through fellowships and other means, incl-udlng the general
increasing of resources for education and training, the efforts of the developing
countries in ttre education and training of national personnel needed in industry,
agriculture and other economic and sociaL sectorsi

5. E<presses its thanks to ttre Director-General of ttre United tihtions
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization for the report on the right to
education prepared pursuant to General Assernbly resolution 35/L9Li 9/

5. Requests the Director-General of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural organization to subnit to the General Assembly at its
thirtfseventh session a report dealing wittr the questions raised in its
resolution 35/L9L and also in ttre present resolution, on ttre basis of the broad
lines of approach established in the draft nediun-term plan of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Qrltural Organization for 1984-1989, with a view to
fostering the fulI implementation of the right to education.

y A/36/524.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 35

DR,AFT RESOLT'TION III

Assistance to ref,ugeeE in Somalia

The General Assemblyr

Recallinq its resolution 35480 of
assistance to refugees in Sonaliar

15 Decenber 1980 on the question of

Recalling further Economic and Socia1 Council resolution 1981,/31 of
6 !{ay 1981'

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General transmitting the review
mission to Sonalia / and ttre report of the United Natione lligh Corunissioner for
Refugees lU on the conditions of the refugees in SomaLia and eontaining an
assessment of their over-all needs,

Having heard the statement of the United Nations High Comnissioner for
Refugees, 1I,/

Deeply concerned at the need to continue to provide assistance to the
refugees in Sonalia,

l. Takes note of the reports of the Secretary-General and of the United
Nations lfigh Comnissi.oner for Refugees on the situation of refugees in Sonalial

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General and the United
lihtions High Oonnissioner for Refugees for their contlnued efforts to mobilize
international assistance on behalf of the refugees in Sonalial

3. Takes note with satisfaction of ttre assistance rendered to refugees in
Sonalia by various Member States, the United Nations High Conmissioner for
Refugees, ttre $Iorld Food Progranne, the United tilatlons Childrenrs Eund and ottrer
concerned intergovernmental and norrgovernmental organizations;

4. Appeals to ![ember States, international organizations and voluntary
agencies to render maxLmum material, financial and tectrnical assistance to the
Government of Somalia in its efforts to provide all necessary assistance to the
refugeesl

y A/36/L36.
LO/ P{36/t36/ldd.L

!!/ vc.3/36/SR.s5,

and Corr.1

paras. l-3.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 35

5. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the United Nations
Ifigh Commissioner for Refugeesr to dispatch a mission to Sornalia early in 1982 to
nake a comprehensive review of the over-all needs of the refugees, including
those aspects relating to their settlement and rehabilitation;

6. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the United Nations
High Conmissioner for Refugees, to submit the report of the proposed review
mission on the refugee situation in Somalia to the Economic and Social Council at
its first regular session of 19821

7. Further requests the Secretary-@neral, in co-operation with the United
Nationsrri@orRefugees,tosubnitareporLtotheGeneraI
Assembly at its thirty-seventh session on the progress actrieved in the
impLementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Reqional arranqements for,the promotion and protection of
human riqhts

the @neral Assemblv,

Recallinq its resolution 34A7L of L7 December L979, in which it reiterated
its appeal to States in areas where regional arrangements in the fieLd of human
rights do not yet exist to consider ag'reements with a view to the establishnent
within their respective regions of suitable regional arrangements for the
promotion and protection of human rights,

Recalling also its resolution 35/L97 of 15 December 1990,

Having considered the retrnrt of the Secretary-General, I2,/

Iilelconinq recent developments in the Organization of African Unity towards
the establishment of regional arrangements for the promotion and protection ot
human rights,

1. Comnends the Organization of African Unity on the adoptlon of the
African Charter of Human and Peoplers Rights;

2. tibtes with satisfaction that consultations were held with Mernber States
of the asi the holding of a seminar at @Iombo, to
consider appropriate arrangenents for the promotion and protection of, human
rights in the regioni

L2/ 
^/36/355.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 37

3. Requests the Secretary"-Genera1 to organize the above-mentioned seminar
at Golqnbor in 1982, and to retrnrt to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh
session on the deliberations of the seminar.

DRAFT RESOI,UTION V

Situation of hunan rights and fundamental freedoms
in El Salvador

lltre General Assenbly,

Recognizinq the permanent validity of the principles enshrined in the
Charter of the United Nations and in ttre Unlversal Declaration of Human
Rtghts, !/

Oonsclous of its responsibility to prornote and guarantee the nraintenance of
those principles and to contribute to ensure respect for human rights and
fundarnental freedoms for a1I,

Relteratihg once more that aII. Member States have an obligation to protect
hurnan rights and fundamental freedoms and to fulfil in this respect the
obllgations they have undertaken through the various international instruments in
this fieldr

RecaUing its resolution 35A92 of t-5 December 1980, in whictr, anong ottrer
thlngsr lt expressed deep concern for violations of hunan rights and fundamental
freedoms ln EI Salvador, especialLy in view of the death of thousands of people
and the clfunate of repression and insecurity which prevaiLed in that country and
deplored the assassinations, disappearances and other serious violations of hunan
rlghts ln nI Salvador,

Reiteratinq the appeal made by the General Assembly in that resolution for
the ceesation of violence and ttre re-establishrnent of full respect fcir hunan
rlghts ln El Salvador and forGovernments of all States to refrain from supplying
arms and lendlng ottrer forme of nilitary asslstance in the current circumstances'

Bearing in rnind Conmission on Human Rights resolution 32 (xxX\ruI) of
11 !,larch 1981r approved by ttre Economic and Social Oouncil in !{ay 198I, whictt
notes the perslstence of the cllrnate of violence and insecurity whictr prevails tn
EI Salvador'

EndorElnq the appeal to the Salvadorean parties involved, made by the
Comlssion on Human Rlghts in its pesolution 32 (XXXWI), to arrive at a peaceful
settlenent and put an end to vlolence in order to prevent further loss of lives
and alleviate the suffering of ttre people of EI Salvador,

L3/ General Assernbly resolution 2L7 A (III).



A/36/792
English
Page 38

Taking note of resolution 10 (xxxlv) adopted by the SutsOommission on the
Prevention of Discrirnination and 'ttre protection of Minorities, which states that
only respect for article 25 of the InternationaL Covenent on Civil and Political
Rights will assure to ttre Salvadorean nation, through the participation of all
its political forces, the full exercise of its fundarnentaL rights in establishing
a denocratically elected government, but also notes that at the present time
these conditions do not exist in El Salvador,

Itravirrg studied tfre interin report on the situation of huoan rights and
fundamental freedoms in EI Salvador prepared by the Special Retrresentative
appointed by the Oommission on ltuman Rights, !/ which confirms the seriousness
of the siutation prevailing in El Sal-vador and, among other things, provides
evidence on the general attitude of passiveness and inactivity of ttre present
Salvadorean authorities with respect to the constant human rights violations in
that country,

lloting that the situation in EI Salvador, as clearly shown in the interim
report of the Special Representative, has its root causes in internal political,
economic and social factors,

1. Reiterates its deep concern for the situation prevailing in El Salvador
and the suffering of the Salvadorean peoplel

2. Requests once more the Salvadorean parties involved to arrive at a
nego'tiated political solution in order to establish, in an atnosptrere free from
intimidation and terror, a democratically elected government?

3. Deep1v deplores all acts of violence and all grave violations of human
rights and fundamental freedoms, and regrets in particular the persistence of a
situation in which governmental paranilitary organizations and other armed groups
continue to act with total contempt for the life, securlty and tranquility of the
civilian populationi

4. Drar.rs the atteqtip4 of all parties concerned to the fact that the rules
of internaffiined in cotnnon article three of the Geneva
Conventions of 12 August L949, are appLicable to armed confllcts not of an
international character and requests the parties involved to apply a ninimum
standard of protection to the affected population;

5. Reiterates its appeal to all States to abstain from intervening in the
internaL situation in EI Salvador and to suspend all supplles of arns and any
tlrPe of military support, so as to allow the political forces in that country to
restore peace and securityl

6. Mfirms once more that it is incunbent only to the Salvadorean people
to exercise its right to determine freely its political status and freely pursue

Ly A/36/608, annex.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 39

its economic, social and cultural development and to establish the conditions and
under'take the changes most adequate to its aspirations as a people and as a
nation without external interference of any kind;

7. _ _ grges the Government of EL salvador to adopt the necessary measures toensure fuIl respect for ttre hunan rights of its popuiation in al1 their
expressions, primarily by creating conditions which could Lead to political
solution to the present crisis through the full participation of allrepresentative poJ.itical. forces in that countryi

9:. Urqes, the parties concerned to co-operate and not interfere with theactlvities of the hunanitarian organizations wtricn are dedicated to alleviating
the suffering of the civirian population in Er salvadorS

_ Requests the Connisston on Human Rigrtrts at its thirty-eighth sessionthoroughly to examine the situation in El Salvador on the basis of the final
report of the SpeciaL Representative of the Commission on Human Rights;

.10. Pgcides to naintain under consideration, during its thirty-seventhsessionr the situation of human rigirts and fundamental freedoms in EI Salvador,in order to examine anew this situation in the J.ight of additional elements
provided by the Conmission on llunan Rigtrts and the Economic and social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUIION VI

Ilunanitarian assistance to refuqees in Di ibouti
the General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 35A82 of 15 December 1980 on the humanitarian
assistance to refugees in Djibouti,

Recalring also Economic and social.council resolutions 19g0,/lr of
28 April 1980' L98O/44 of 23 JuLy 1980 and 198/4 of 4 May 1.981 on assistance to
the refugees in Djibouti,

Havinq heard the statement of the United Nations Higtr Comnissioner fornefugffi-

T?king nole with satisfaction of the report ofsitua ti and ttri report
Comnissioner for Refugees annexed thereto, fll

the Secretary-General. on the
of the United tdations High

- - 4eeplv concerned about ttre persistence of ttre food shortage in the gountry,which has been aggravated by the devasting effects of the prolonged drought,

Ly r{36/2L4.



^/36/7e2English
Page 40

Aware of the deternined efforts
with the refugee situation, despite
prolonged drought,

nade by the Government of Djibouti to coPe
ttre impact of the devastating effects of the

Aware aLso of the consequences of the sociaL
the Government and people of Djibouti as a result
the subsequent inpact on the national development
country,

and economic burden placed on
of the influx of refugees and
and the infrastructure of the

libting with satisfaction the concern and continued efforts of the Office of
the United Nations Itigh Comnissioner for Refugees, the United Nations Developnent
Prograture' the United Nations Ctrildrenrs Fund, the World Health Organization' the
World Flood Programme and the intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations, which have worked closely with the Government of Djibouti in the
relief and rehabilitation progranune for the refugees and drought-stricken
population in Djibouti,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on
hurnanitarian assistance to the refugees in Djibouti and that ol ttre United
Nations High Comnissioner for Refugees annexed theretoT

2. Appreciates tbe efforts nade by the United Nations High Comnissioner
for ltefugees to keep the refugee situation under constant review and invite him
to continue his humanitarian assistance to the refugees in Djibouti;

3. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to continue
to ensure that adequate assigtance progranmes are organized for the refugees and
to maintain close contact with Member States, intergovernmental- and
non-governmental organizations concerned to mobilize the necessary assistance to
the Government of Djibouti to cope effectively with the refugee situation
aggravated by the clebilitating effects of the drought;

4. Calls upon all Member States, the organizations of the United Nations
system, the specialized agencies and the intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations to continue to support the efforts nade by the Government of
Djibouti to cope with ttre needs of ttre refugee trnpulation and other victins of
the droughtl

5. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation wittr the United Nations
High Conunissioner for Refugees, to review the present situation of refugees in
oj tbouti and to report to the Econonic and Social Council at its first regular
session of 1982 and to the General Assernbly at its thirty-seventh session on the
progress achieved with regard to the refugee situation in Djibouti.



DRAFT RESOLUTION V]I
protection of human riqhts in Chile

lbe General Assenbly,

Reaffirning its responsibility to promote and encourage respect for humanrights and fundamental freedoms for all,
underlining the obligation of Governments to protect and pronote humanrights and to carry out the responsibiLities they have undertaken under variousinternational instr uments,

Deternined to remain vigilant with regard to violations of human rightswhereiFTifficcur and to tike measures ii order to restore respect for human
rights and fundamental freedoms,

Rec3Lling its resolutions 3L/L24 of 16 December Lg76, 32/LL8 of
15 December L977r 33/L75 of 20 December Lg78r 34/L7g of 17 December 19?9 and
35/LAA of 15 December 1980 on the protection of human rights in Chi1e, and 33[23of 20 December 1978 on disappeared persons,

Rgc?lfing also Conunission on llurnan Riglrts resolution lI (xxxvl !!r/ of6l'tarch 1979 on violations of human rights in Chile, in which tfre Coffiission,
tPtgr aLia, decided to apSnint a speci"r n pporteur on the situation of human
ligfls-in Chiler iDd resoLutlon 9 (xxxvlll "i 

Ze February LggL !lJ/ in which itdecided to extend the mandate of the Special napporteur for another year,

_- _ tolotit}!, ttre fact that the chilean authorities have consistently refused toceoperate wittt the Special Raptrnrteur appointed by the Conmission on Hunan
Rights and with other United Nations bodies in the field of human rights,

_ PeePIY concerned about the persistence and, in certain respects, thedeterioration of situatlons which affect the enjoyment and exercise of humanrights and fundamental freedoms in Chile, as stated in the retrnrt of the Speciat
Rapporteut, W

.@thatthewhereaboutsofthenumerousPersonswhohave dtsappeared over the past years are still unknown and that ttrl ctritean
authorities continue to fail to take urgent and effective neasures to investigate
and clarify ttre fate of persons who have disappeared,

A/36/792
English
Page 41

L6./ See Official Records of The Economic nd Social
Supplernent l{o. 6 lEllt1t7t6l , cbap. xxtv,-seEe A.

lll see rbid.r 1981r supprenent ti&c. 5 (E/L91L/25), chap. xxvrrr, sect. A.
ly v36/ss4.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 42

Noting,with grave concern that the new constitution in force in Chile as
fron 1l !{arch L981' which sras prepared with a lack of popular participation, not
onJ.y fails to guarantee fulJ.y, but in certain respects allows interferences with,
human rights and fundamental- freedoms,

1. Commends the Special Raptrnrteur on the situation of human rights in
Chile for his report, prepared in accordance with Conunission on lluman Rights
resolution 9 (XnffII) of 26 February 19811

2. Reiterates its qrave concern at the persistence and, in some respects,
the deterioration of the hunan rights situation in Chile, as stated by the
Special RapSnrteur, and particularly:

(a) the disruption of the traditional derrccratic lega1 order and its
institutlons by maintenance and expansion of the emergency legislation and the
promulgation of a constitution that fails to reflect a freely.'expressed popular
will' and which clearly hampers ttre hunan rights and fundamental freedoms of the
Chilean PeoPle and allows interferenced witlr suctr rights and freedons;

(b) Gte intensification of practices such as arbitrarlz detention and
confinement in secret places, often accompanied by torture and inhuman or
degrading treatment which, on occasion, result in unexplained deathsl

(c) llhe persecutionr intinidation and imprisonment, as well as the
banishment and forced exile of a number of persons who participate in trade
union, academic and cultural and hurnanitarian activities;

3. Reiterates also lts great concern at the fact that the renedies of
habeas corpus or .rygp prove to be not effective owing to the fact that thejudiciary in Chile does not fully exercise its powers in this respect and
performs its functions with utmost restrictions;

4. Urqes the Chilean authorities to respect and pronote human rights in
accordance with their obLlgations under various international instruments and, in
particular, to take the following concrete steps that could enable ttre Conunission
of Human Rights to consider terminating the mandate of the Special Rapporteurs

(a) To put an end to the state of emergency, under which continued human
rigttts violations occur and to restore the democratic institutions and
constitutional guarantees fornerly enjoyed by the Chilean people;

(b) !o put an end to arbitrary detentions, physical or psychologicaL
lntinldatlon and prosecution of persons who exercise their right to freedon of
expression and opinion, including the right to petition;

(c) To respect ttre human rights of persons detained for poJ.itical reasons
and to separate them from those detained for crininal offences;

(d) To take effectlve measures to prevent torture and other forms of cruel,
inhuman or degrading treatment resulting, inter alia, in unexplained deaths and
to prosecute and punish those responsible for sruch practicest



^/36/792English
Page 43

(e) lto investigate and clarify the fate of persons who have disappeared forpolitical reasons, to inforn the relatives of those persons of the outcone of theinvestigation and to prosecute and punish those resp6nsible for such
disappearancesi

(f) To restore fully trade union rights, especially the freedon to form
trade unions which can operate freely without governmental control and can
exercise fully the rlght to strikeT

(S) [to guarantee the freedom of assenbly and association, and the freedom
of Chilean citizens freeLy to enter and leave the country, and to end thepractice of banishments applied to nationals, a practice which amounts to forcedexile from the countryg

5' urges once more the Chilean authorities to co-operate with the special
Rapporteur and to comply with their obligations under various international human
rights instrunentsl

. _ 6:. Req.ugsts the comnission on Human Rights at its thirtreighth session tostudy thoroughly the report of the Special Rapporteury
7. Invites the Cotnnission on Human Rights to extend the mandate of thespecial RappdG;r for another year and request the bnunission to report on the

human rights situation in chiler through the Economic and social council, to the
General Assenbly at its thirty-seventh session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VITI

Situation of refugees in the Sudan
The Creneral A.ssemblv,

Recalling its resolution 35/LBL of 15 December 1980 on the situation ofrefugees in the Sudan,

- Rgg?lling further Economic and Social Council resolution 19g1,/5 of4 May 198I,

_ Having heard the statement delivered by the united Nations High Commissionerfor Refugees before the Ttrird conmittee on 16 November LggL, W
Taking note of the ever increasing number of refugees arriving in the Sudan,

- -Appr-eciating the measures which the Government of the Sudan, a leastdeveloped country, is taking in order to provide shelter, food and other servicesto the growing number of refugees in the Sudan,

p/ A/c.3 /36/SR.50, paras. 2-2O.



^/36/792English
Page 44

Recognizing the heaqy burden placed on the Government of the Sudan in caring
for the growing number of refugees and the need for adequate international
assistance to continue its efforts to render assistance to the refugees,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-C'eneral containing the
findingsoFttresectora1fo11or+-upnissionswhichhavesofarbeencomp1eted74/

2. Requests Ure Secretary-General, in co-operation with the relevant
agencies, to arrange for the conpletion of the remaining tectrnical follonup
missionst

3. Expresses lts appr.eciation to the donor Governrnent, intergovernmental
organizations, non-governnental organizations, the Secretary-General and the
UNITCR for their valuable assistance rendered to refugees in the Sudani

4. Appeals to alI Membe,r States, international organizations and voluntary
agencies to render the naximun possible financial, material and technical
assistance to the Government of ttre Sudan in its efforts to provide all- necessary
service to the refugees;

5. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the United Nations
High Corunissioner for Refugees, to submit a conprehensive report to the Economic
and SociaL Council at its first regular session of 1982 as well as to the General
Assernbly at its thirty-seventh session on the progress achieved in the
implementation of the present resol,ution.

DRAFT RESOTUTION IX

Social aspects of the development activities
of the united Nations

@,
Taking note of Economic and Social Council resolution L98L/24 of 6 May 1981

on the social aspects of the development activities of the United Nations,

!,tindful of the fact that the recormnendations contained in the report 2L/ oe
tne AaTilworking croup on ttre Socia1 Aspects of the Development Activities of
the United Nations will be further discussed at the first regular session of the
Econonic and Social Council in 1982, in accordance with Council decisions
L98L/L75 and 198L/L76 of 23 July 1981, in which the Secretary-ceneral has been
requested to prepare and submit conments on the feasibility, prograrnme and
co-ordination inplications as well as the resources implications of the rnain
recornmendations subnitted by the Ad lloc Working Group'

A/36/2L6 and Add.l.

E/Ls}t/3.

p/
4/



^/36/7e2English
Page 45

1. r4y:ites the Economic and sociar council, in the light of its
above-mentlSiEdf,-ecisions, to give at its first regurar session in I9g2 due
consideration to the implementation of the recommendations contained in the
I.rytl of the T Hoc Working Group on the Social Aspects of DevelopnentActivities of the United Nations;

Reqgests the Secretary-GeneraL to subnit to the General- Assembly at itsthirty-seventh session a report on the implenentation of the relevant decisionsof the Econonic and social council pertaining to the recomrnendations contained in
the above-rnentioned report under the agenda item entitled trReport of the Econonic
and Social Councilr.

DRAFT RESOTUTION X

Measures. to improve the situation and ensure the human
rights and diqnitv of all migrant workers

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the pernanent validity of the principles and standards embodied
in the basic instruments regarding the international protection of hunan rights,in particular in the universal Declaration of Human Rlghts, 22i/ the rnternational
Convention on the Elirnination of A11 Forms of RaciaL oiscrirnT-nation, U tfrrernternational Covenants of Hunan Rigtrts 2i!/ and the Convention on the Elimination
of A1l Forms of Discrimination against wornen, 25rl

Taking into account the principJ-es and standards established wittrin the
framework of the International Iabour Organisation and the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and cultural orglnization, and the imp,ortance of the task
carried out in connexion with migrant workers and their fanilies in other
specialized agencies and in various orgSns of the united Nations,

-ReiteIating. that' in spite of the existence of a body of principles andstandards already established, there is need to make further efforts to inprovetlre situation and ensure the human rights and dignity of all migrant workeis and
their fanilies,

BFcaUing its resolution 34A72 of L7 December Lg7g, in which it decided to
establish an open-ended working Group to elaborate an internationaL convention on
the protection of the rights of aII nigrant workers and their families,

g General Assembly resolution 2L7 A (III).

23/

4/
?!/

General A.ssemb1y resolution 2106 A (XX), Annex.
General Assembly resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

General Assembly resolution 34/L80, annex.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 45

Recalling also
renewed the mandate
its work,

its resolution 35498 of
of the open-ended Working

15 December 1980, in
Group and reguested

which it
it to continue

Having exanined the progress made
intersessional meeting held from 1I to
various Governments, 26/

the open-ended Working Group during its
May 1981 and the contributions of

by
22

Having also considered the report of the operrended Working Group during the
current session of the General Assemblyr 27/

1. Takes note of the report of the open-ended l{orking Group and expresses
its satisfaction with the substantial progress that the Working Group has so far
nade in the accomplishnent of its nandatel

2. .Decides that, in order to enable the Working Group to complete its task
as soon as possible, the Working Group shall hold again an intersessional meeting
of two weeks duration in New York, in !4ay L982, inunediately after the first
regular session of the Economic and Social Councili

3. Invites the Secretary-General to transmit to Governments the report of
the Working croup so as to allow the nernbers of the Working Group to continue its
task during ttre intersessional neeting to be held in May 1982, as well as to
transmit the results obtained in this neeting in order that the General Assembly
may consider them during its thirty-seventh sessionl

4. Invites also the Secetary-General to transmit the above-mentioned
documents to the competent organs of the United t€tions systen and to
international organizations concerned for their informationr so as to enable them
to continue their co-operation with the Working Group;

5. Decides that the Working croup shall neet during the thirty-seventh
session of the General Assenbly to continue and, if possible, to complete the
elaboration of an international convention on the protection of the rights of all
migrant workers and their fanilies. .

DRAFT RESOLUTION XI

Assistance to displaced persons in Ethiopia

The General A.ssemblv,

Recalling its resolution 35/9L of 5 Decenber 1980 and Economic and Social
Council resoLution L980/54 of 24 JuIy 1980,

g 
^/36/378 

and A/36/383.

27 / See Vc.3 /36 /L0 .



A/35/7e2
English
Page 47

- Eavinq he-ard ttre statenent of the representacive of the secretarrGeneraland of the llnited Nations High commissionlr for Refugees, 2g/

-Takinq note of ttre report of the secretary-General on assistance toolsplaced persons in Ethiopia, prepared pursuant to Economic and Social Councilresolution 1980,/8 of 28 April !SAO, ry 
-

-- ..Tgking.notg-31so of the appeal of the secretary-General in his note verbaleof II November 1980,

. -DeFply=concrelned-that the appeals of the secretary-ceneraL and the Economicand Social councir and the General Assembry have yet to meet adeguate response,
I' Endorsgs-ogce ag3in the appeals of the secretary-Generar and the. 

--
Economic and Socia1 oouncil concerning the assistance to displaced persons inEthiopial

?' Requests the united Nations High cornnissioner for Refugees to continuehis efforts to nobilize humanitarian assistance for the relief and rehabilitationof the large number of voluntary returneesi

- :' 
Rgquesqs the secretarrceneral to report to the Economic and socialcouncir at its first regular session of 1982 .na to the General Assenbry at itsthirty-seventh session on the progress achieved in the impternentation of thepresent resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XII

Measur be ains t i, fascist and neo-fascis t activities
and other litarian ideoloqies and practices based on

into hatred and terror: draft resolution
The General Assemblv,

Recalling that the united Nat,ions ernerged fron the struggle against nazism,fascism, aggression and foreign occupation, and that the p"ofi"" expressed theirresolve in the ctrarter of the united Nations to save future generations fron thescourge of war,

- 
Bearilg in mind the suffering, destruction and death of millions of victimsof aggression, foreign occupalion, nazism and fascism,

A/C.3 /36/sR.50.

A/35/360 and Corr.I-3.

4/
?9/



v36/7e2
English
Page 48

Reaffirning the purposes and principles laid down in the Charter, which are
alneaE lnainEifning international peace and security, developing friendly
relations among natlons based on respect for the principle of equal rights and
selfdeternlnation of peopl-es, and achieving international co-operation'

End'rasizlng that al-l totalitarian or other ideologies and practlces, in
p"rtiEffiffi fascist and neo-fascist, based on racial or ethnic exclusiveness
or intolerance, hatred, terror, systematic denial of hunan rights and fundamental
ir..dot", or which have such consfuuences' nay jeopardize world peace and
constitute obstacl-es to friendly relations between states and to the realization
of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

leaffirning that the prosecution and punishment of war crimes and crimes
against peace.rrd hor.rrity, as laid down in General Assernbly resolutions 3 (I) of
fl feUrulry 1946 and 95 (I) of 11 December L946, constitute a universal
cormitment for all States,

(xxII) of 18 December L967, 2438 (XXIII) of
December L969, 27L3 (XXV) of
December 1971, 34/24 of 15 tibvember 1979 and

Recalling also the Declaration on Social Progress and Develolxnent, 3!.rz the
United Nations ptlfaration on the Elimination of A11 Forms of Racial
Discrinination 3tr/ and the Declaration on the granting of independence to
colonial countries and PeoPIes, U

Recalling its resolutions 2331
19 Decenber 1968, 2545 (xxlv) of Ll
l-5 Decenber 1970, 2839 (XXW) of 18
35/200 of 15 December 1980,

Underlining the intrnrtance
the International Covenants on
the Elimination of All Forms of
Prevention and Punishnent of the Crime of Genocid" W and other relevant
international instr uments,

g General Assenbly resolution 2542 (xxlv).

1]/ General A.ssembly resolution 1904 (xVIII).

e/ General Assembly resolution 1514 (xV) .

?y General A.ssembly resolution 2Ll A (III) .

L!/ General Assembly resolution 2200 A (xxl), annex'

2:/ General A.ssembly resolution 2106 A (xx), annex'

13/ General Assernbly resolution 250 A (III) ' annex'

of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights' 33/
Human Rights, U t}re International Convention on
Racial Discrimination' U the Convention on the



A/36/792
English
eage 49

Reaffirming that all totalitarian or other ideologies and practices, inpartiEiGfriE fascist and neo-fascist, based on raciaL or ethnic exclusivenessor intolerance, hatred, terror, systematic denial of human rights and fundanental
freedoms; or which have suctt consequences, are incompatiure wl*r the purposes andprinciples of the charter of the united Nations, the universal Declaration ofHuman Rights, the International covenants on Human Rigfits, the rnternational
convention on the Elirnination of All Frorms of Racial Discrimination, the
convention on the NoFApplicabirity of statutory Lirnitations to war crines andcrimes Against Humanity; L/ t}." rnternational 

-convention 
on the suppression and

Punishment of the crime of Apartheid, 4/ the convention on the prevention andPunishment of ttre crime or cenociae anFother relevant international instruments,
conTending the fact that a number of states provided the secretary-ceneralwith their comments on those problens discussed in the report of theSecretary-General, f/
Acknowredgrl$ the fact that a number of states have set up regar regurationswhich are suited to prevent the activities of nazi, fascisi ani neo-eascist

groups and organizations,

wercoming comnission on Human Rigfits resorution 3 (xXXVrr) of
23 February 1981 providing measures on this subject, including the considerationof elaborating a draft declaration,

Iotinq with deep conc that the proponents of fascist ideorogies have, ina number of countries, intensified their activities and are increasingry
ceordi.nating them on an international scale,

Aqain cgndeqnF all totalitarian or other ideologies and practices, inparticular nazi' fascist and neo-fascist, based on raciaL or ethnil 
"*.ru"i,r.i"",or lntolerance, hatredr terror' systematic denial of human rights and fundamentalfreedoms, or which have suctr conseguencesi

I

institutions by the above-mentioned ideorogies and pru"ti.""-uni ao considertaking measures, in accorclance with their riational constitutional systems andwith the provisions of the universal Declaration of Human Rights and thernternational covenants on Human Rights, to prohibit or otheiwise deteractivities by groups or organizations or wholver is practicing those ideologies;

General Assembly resolution 239I (XXIII).

General A^ssembly resolution 30G8 (XXVIII) .
A/36/209 and Md.t.

3t/
g/
y/



A/36/792
Brglish
Page 50

3. Calls upon the appropriate specialized agencies as well as
intergovermnentaf and international non-goverrunental organizations to initiate or
intenlify neasures against the ideologies and practices described in paragraph 1
abovet

4. Invites Member States to adopt, as a matter of high priority, measures
declaring punishable by law any dissenination of ideas based on racial
superiority or hatred and of vrar propaganda, including nazL, fascist and
neo-fascist ideologies t

5. Appeals to all States which have not yet done so to ratify or to accede
to the fntilE-rnational Covenants on ttuman Rights, the Convention on the Prevention
and hrnishnent of the Crime of Genocide, the International Convention on the
Elimination of AII Erorms of Racial Discrimination, the Convention on the
NorFApplicability of Statutory Lirnitations to llar Crimes and Crines Against
Hurnanity, and the Convention qn the Suppression and Punishment of the Crine of
ApartheidT

6. Calls gnqe again ppon all States to provide the Secretary-General wittt
their comments on this question;

7. Requests the Comrnission on Human rights to continue the consideration
of this soUiect at its thlrty-eighth session under the tit1e3 'Measures to be
taken against aLl totalitarian or other ideologies and practices, including nazi,
fascist and neo-fascistr based on racial or ethnic exclusiveness or intolerance,
hatred, terror, systematic denial of hunan rights and fundamental freedoms, or
which have such conseguences"t

g. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report through the Econornic
and Social Councif , to the @neral Assernbly at its thirty-seventh session in the
light of the discussion that would take place in the Commission on Human Rights
and on the basis of comments provided by States and international organizations.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIII

Question of involuntarv or enforced disappearances

@,
Recalling its resolution nn73 of 20

persons", and its resolution 35/L93 of 15
enforced d isaPpearances,

Bearing in mind Conunission of ltuman Rights resolution l0 (xXxVII) of
zsre@Gwhichitwasdecidedtoextendforoneyearthetermofthe
worklng grouprs mandate, and Economic and Socia1 Council decision L98L/L39 which
approved that decision,

December L978t entitled "Disappeared
December 1980 on invoLuntary or



a/36/7e2
English
Page 51

Convinced that ttre action taken, in consultation with the Governments
concerned, to promote the irnplenentatlon of the provisions of General Assembly
resolution 33/L73 and other United tibtions resolutions relevant to ttre plight of
missing or disappeared persons, should be continued,

D<pressinq its emotion at ttre anguish and sorrow of the farnilies of victirns
of involuntary or enforced dlsappearances,

1. Welcomes the decision of the Comrnission on Human Rigtrts to extend for
one year the term of the working Grouprs nandate, as Laid down in @mmission
resolution 10 (XXXVII) r

2. Expresses its aptrreciation to the Working Group for the work done and
to those Governments which have co-operated with itf

3. Requests the Cornmission on Hunan Rights to continue to study this
question as a matter of priorlty, and to take any step it nay deem necessary to
the pursuit of the task of the norking groupr when it considers the report to be
subnitted by the group at its thlrty-elghth sessionl

4. Appeals to aLl Governments to provide the lforking Group and the
Conmission on Euman Rights with trhe full co-operation warranted by their strictly
humanitarian objectives and their norking methods based on discretion;

5. Renews its request to the Secretary-General to continue to provide the
Working Group with all necessary assistance.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIV

Missinq persons in Clrprus

The General Assemblv,

Recalling its previous resolutions on the question of the nissing persons in
C)zprus,

Reaffirrni.nq the basic human need of tarnilies to be informed, witlrout further
delay, about the fate of their missing relatives,

Itaving in rnind that agreernent was reachedr on 19 Mai Lgig, during the
high-level held at Nicosia under ttre auspices of the SecretaryGeneral,

$felcoming also the agreement establishing the Conmittee on Missing Pereons
in Clprus !!1/ teferred to in tlre report of tlre Secretary-@neral of 27 l,lay 1981,

!9/ See S/14490.



v36/792
English
Page 52

including the oral agreement of 26 March lgSL concerning the attendance of
representatives of the Committee of Relatives of trlissing Persons at the neetings
of the Corunittee,

Regretting the fact that owing to procedural difficulties no progress has
been achieved towards the conmencement of the Comnitteers investigative work,

1. Urges that the Comnittee on lrlissing Persons proceed,
further delay, with its investigatlve work for the tracing of
nissing persons in Cyprus,

wittrout any
and accounting for

2. Ca1ls upon the parties concerned to assist, in a spirit of co-operation
and goodwill, the Committee in carrying out its investigative taskl

3. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide his good officee
for the unhindered functioning of the Comnittee.

DRAFT RESOLTXIION XV

Questlon of ttre international leoal protection of the hunan riqhts of
lndividuals wtro are not citizens of the countrv in which they Live

Ihe General Assemb1v,

Bearing in nind Economic and SociaL Council resolutions 1790 (LIV) of
18 llay 1973 and 1871 (LVI) of 17 !,lay D74 concerning the question of the
internationaL legal protection of the human rights of individuals who are not
citizens of the country in which they live,

lloting Conrnission on Human Rights resolutions 8 (XXIX) of 2I March L973,
fl (XXx) of 6l4arch 1974, 16 (xxxv) of 14 March 1979 and 19 ()(XX\II) of
29 February 1980, on the same subject,

Notinq also resolution 9 (XXXI) of the Sub-@mnission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities,

RecalLinq that the Econqnic and Social OounciL, by its resolution L980/29 of
2 May 1980, decided to transmit to the GeneraL Assembly at its thirtffifth
session the text of the draft declaration on ttre hunan rights of indivlduale who
are not citizens of the country in which they live, prepared by the Special
Rapgnrteur of ttre SubOomnission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection
of Minorities, the Baroness Elles, and amended by the Sub-bnrmission, together
with ttre comtrents on the text received fron Member States in resp,onse to Councll
decision L979/36 of I0 tt{ay 1979 and recorunended that the General Assenbly should
consider the adoption of a declaration on the subjectr

RecaLLing also its resolution 35f:;gg of 15 December 1980' in which lt
declded to establish an open-ended t{orking Group for ttre purpose of concludlng
the elaboration of the draft declaration on the hunan rights of individuals who
are not citizens of the country in which they live'



A/36/792
English
Page 53

.- 
Havinq considered the report of ttre open-ended Working Group, 1!!
l. Takes note of the report of the open-ended Working Group and of the

factthat,@_theWorkingcrouphasdoneusefu1work,ithasnothad
sufficient tine to conclude its task;

2. Decides to establish, at its thirty-seventh session, an open-ended
Itorking Group for ttre purpose of concluding the elaboration of the draft
declaration on the human rigtrts of individuals who are not citizens of the
country in which they livel

3. E:<presses the hope that a draft declaration on the human rights of
individuals r*ro are not citizens of the country in which they Live will be
adopted by the General Assenbly at its thirtlnseventh session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVI

Exchange of information on banned hazardous chemicals
and unsafe oharnaceutical products

@'
Recalling its resolution 34A73 of I? December L97g, in which it recognized

the urgent need to take concrete measures to prevent adverse effects on health on
a worl&wide basis,

Recalling also lts resolution 35A86 of 15 December 1980, in which it
invited Member States to provide information on measures they have taken on
exchange of inf,ormation on hazardous chemicals and unsafe pharmaceutical products
that have been banned in their territories and requesting the SecretarfGeneral
in ceoperation with the United Nations organs, organizations and bodies
concerned to subrnit a report to the General Assembly at its thirty-sixth session
on the exp,erience of Menber States and the United ltrations organs' organizations
and bodies concerned,

Conscious of the lmportance of the information system on transnationaL
corporatlons for ttre analysis of the activlties in these corporations in certain
sectors of special social and humanitarian interest to the countries in which
op,erations take place, particularly developing countries,

Taking into account that in resolution 35/L86 the GeneraL Assembly reguested
the Commission on Transnational Oorporations to study, during its seventh
session, ways and means within the infornation system on transnational
corporations to improve ttre exchange of inforrnation on those products with a view
to fornulating appropriate recommendations.

g/ A/c.3 /36/Lr.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 54

Bearing, in nind the importance of objective information on banned hazardous
chenicals and unsafe plrarmaceutical products,

Awarb that the production and export of banned or severely restricted
hazardous substances - including pharmaceuticals, pesticides and industrial
chenicars - endanger public health and the environment,

1. Takes nole of ttre report of the SecretarlnGeneral LU on ttre exchangeof informa6iaiTEnned hazarlous chemicals and unsafe phar-naceutical producls;

2. Takes note al-sg of the conclusions and recommendations in the
reportgi/ffitionsCentreonTransnational-Corporationswhichwas
subnitted to the Conmission at its seventh session;

3. Reiterates the need to intensify international co-operation in the
search for the solution to problens arising from ttre production and export of
banned or severeJ.y restricted substancesi

4. Urges lt{enber states and ottrer interested parties, including
transnational corporations to co-operate more.fully in providing data on banned
or severely restricted substances to the appropriate organs, organlzations and
bodies of the united Nations system wittr responsibility for information exchange
in regard to such substancesi

5. Calls upon the organs, organizatlons and other competent United Nations
bodies involved in disseminating information on this subject to ensure ttrat the
documentation they prepare is adequatel-y suited to the needs and clearly
understood by all those engaged in processingr. handling, dispensing or using all
banned hazardous chenicars and unsafe pharmaceutical productst

6. Requests t}te Secretary-General, the organs, organizations and other
comPetent United Nations bodies to provide, within avaitable resources, the
necessary technical assistance to ttre developing countries, at their request, to
heJ.p then establish an adequate system for monitoring the inport of unsafe
tr*tarmaceuticaL products of doubtful therapeutic value and banned hazardous
chemicalsl on the one hand, and to train scientific personnel to handle these
problems, on the other;

7. fnvites lrlember States to deal with this subject through appropriate
neans, including lnssible legislation at national levelr where they do not yet
existi

lu
!:/

A/36/255.

E/C.tt/90.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 55

8. (hce aqain reouests the Secretary-@neral to consult Menber States on
the existirrg information systems on banned hazardous chemicaLs and unsafe
pharnaceuti,car products and to report to the General Assembly at the
thirty-eighrth session through the Econonic and social council..

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVII

p!aft Dlclaration on Sogial and LeqaL principles rqLatinq to the
$otection. and Welfare of Children, with Special Reference to

Foster Placement and Adoption Nationallv and InternationalLy

ltre Gerneral A.ssembly,

Recall;ipg Economic and social council resolution 1.9g1,/Lg of 6 tt{ay 19gr
entitled'Draft declaration on social. and !.egal principles reLating to adoption
and foster placement of children natlonally and internationallytr, whereby the
Council requested the General Assembly to consider at its thirty-sixth s6ssion
the draft dieclaration whictr is annexed to the present resol.ution so that the
further act,ion proposed in oouncil resolutLon L979/2g nay proceed,

Bearinrg in mind the retrnrt of the Secretary-General on views of Menber
States on the test of tire draft declaration, LU

Convinrced that adoption of the draft declaration will promote the well-being
of children, with special needs,

1. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtleseventh
session arilEEii-entltled trDraft declaration on so.iat and Legal principles
relating to the protection and welfare of children, wittr speciat reference to
foster placernent and adoption nationaLLy and internationallytr with a view to the
possible al.location of the ltem to the Sixth Connittee'

2. Decides in order that the further action proposed in Economic and
Social Council resolution L979/28 may proceed, that aptrxopriate measures be taken
at its thirty-seventh session to finarize the draft decraiationt

!!/ A/35/336 and Md.l.



A/36/792
English
Page 56

ANNEX

Draft Declaration on SociaL and Legal Principles Relating to the
Protection and !{elfare of Children, with Special Reference to

Foster Placement and Adootion Nationallv and Internationallv !!/
A. General familv and child weLfare

1. It is in the best interest of every nation to give a high priority to fanily
and chiLd welfare as it plans for ttre use and fuither development of national
resources.

2. It is recognized that the best child welfare is good farnily welfare.

3. It is affirned that tfie first priority for a child is to be cared for by the
biological parents. Other fanily members should be the first alternative'if the
biological parents cannot provide care for the child.

4. t{hen bioLogical fanily care is unavailable or inappropriate, substitute
family care shoul-d be considered.

5. It nust be recognized that there are parents who cannot bring up thelr own
children and that t}te childrenrs rights to security, affection and continuing
care should be of greatest imtrnrtance.

6. Providers of service should have professional social work training in family
and child welfare.

B. Foster placenent

7. Eltery child has a right to a farniLy. Children who cannot remain in their
biological family should be placed in foster faurily or adoption in preference to
institutions, unless the chiLdrs particul.ar needs can best be met in a
specialized facility.

8. Children for whorn institutional care was formerly regarded as the only
option should be pLaced with fanilies, both foster and adopt,ive.

9. Provision should be made for regulation of placenent of children outside of
their bioLogical- family.

10. Foster family care should be a planned, temporary service as a bridge to
pernanency for a child, which includes but is not linited to restoration to the
biologlcal family or adoption.

9:/ Previousl-y issued under the synbol E/CN.5/574.



A/36/792
English
Page 57

lt. Planning for the chiLd in foster family care must involve the biological
family, foster fanily and child, if appropriate, under the auspices of a
conpetent author ized agency.

C. Adoption

L?. l*re prinary purpose of adoption is to provide a pernanent family for a child
who cannot be cared for by his,zher biological family.-

L3. Adoption procedures should be flexible enough to meet the childrs needs in
various situations.

14. In considering possible adoption pJ.acenents, those responsible for the chiLd
should seLect the most appropriate environment for the particular chiLd concerned.
L5. Sufficient time and adequate counselling should be given to the bioLogical
Parents to enabLe them to reach a decision on their childrs future, recognizing
that it is in the childrs best interest to reactr this decision as early as
trnssible.

16. Iegislation and services should ensure that the child becomes an integral
part of the adoptive family.

L7. lltre need of adult adoptees to know about their background should be
recognized.

18. llhere should be recognitionl in the law, of traditional adoption within the
family' to ensure ttre protection of the children and to assist ttre fanily by
counselling.

19. Governments should determine the adequacy of their national services for
children, and recognize those children, whose needs are not being net by existing
services. For sqne of these children, intercountry adoption may be considered as
a suitable means of providing thern with a farniLy.
20. l{tren intercountry adoption is considered, policy and legislation should be
established to protect the children concerned.

2L. In each country, placenents should be rnade through autlrorized agencies
cornPetent to deal with intercountry adoption services and providing ttre sarne
safeguards and standards as are applied in national. adoptions.

22. Proxy adoptions are not acceptable- {n consideration of ttre childrs legal
and social safety.

23. No adoptlon plan should be considered before it has been established that
the child is legally free for adoption and ttre pertinent documents necessary to
complete the adoption are available. A11 necessary consents must be in a form
which is legally valid in both countrles. It must be definltely established that



A/35/792
EngJ.ish
Page 58

the child will be able to irnmigrate into the country of
and can subsequently obtain their nationality.

24. In intercountry adoption, legal validation of the
in the countries involved.

the prospective adopters

adoption should be assured

25. the child should at iIl times have a name, nationality and legal guardian.

DRAFT RESOLT'TION )ffIII

International Druo Abuse Control Stratecv

ilhe General Assemblv ,

Having received fron the Econonic and Social Council the retrnrt contdining
the proposed international drug abuse controL strategy that was requested by the
General Assenbly in resolutions 32A24 of 16 Decenber L977, 33/L6g of
20 December 1978, 34/L77 of 17 December t979 and 35/L95 of 15 lbcenber 1980,

Considering that the scourge of drug abuse continues to spread and has
reached epidemic proportionE in rnany parts of ttre worldr ind ttrat, as specified
in the request for the inclusion of an iten entitled nlnternational Canpaign
against Traffic in Drugstr in the agenda of the thirty-sixth sesslon of the
General Assenbly, !S/ Lt is necessary to adopt scientific, technical and
political measures cormrensurate with the gravity of the problem,

Emdrasizing the conclusion of Conunission on Narcotic Drugs
resolution I ()$IX) of 1l February 1981 that, in order for any international
action in the field of drug abuse to be successful, the ful1 and active
co-operation and dedication of all. countries must be forthconing,

Recognizing the urgent need for an effective, comprehensl.ve, ceordinated
global strategy to pfevent and control drug trafficking, illicit denand and drug
abuser as well as for conprehensive, co-ordinated strategies at regional and
national levels,

1. Adopts the Internatlonal Drug Abuse ControL strategy and basic
fivelear progranme of action to resolution I (XXIX) of the Commission
transmitted by the Econonic and Social Councll in its decision 1981/113 of
6 May 19811

2. Urges that the International Drug Abuse Control Strategy and the
Progralme of action be given priority by al.l Goverrunents and be irnplemented as
quickly as possible by the relevant bodies of the United Nations and other
internationa J. organi zations t

!s/ A/36/Le3.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 59

. ?'. -.Resuests ttre cornnission on lihrcotic Drugs, within available resources,to establish a task forcer in consurtation wittr the Directors-General of theappropriate specialized agencles and other United tihtions ctrug-i.1"ted bodies,
conposed of representatives of these agencies and re;resentatives of the MemberStates most interested in and affected by the proauclion, trafficking andconsunption of and demand for illegal drugs, as weLI as those interested in andaffected by ttre licit production of drugs, to review, nonitor and co-ordinate theimprenentation of the lnternational control strategy and the progranuoe of actionand to submit a rePort to each session or special iession of -trre conmission onthe progress made in irnplementing the drug 

"tr"t.gy and 
prograrme, and to provideany reconnendations it deerns necessary regarding future revision of such sirategyand progranme of action;

^__' 1:___Rg.ggepts 
the Cornnission on Narcotlc Drugs to review the regnrt of itsEasK rorce anct to report thereon, through the Economie and Socia1 Council, to theGeneral Assembly at its thlrty'-eigtrth session and annually thereafterl

5. Urqes all Member States and nonqnemb€r States parties to theinternational drug control treaties, specialized agencies and other internationalorganizations and private institutions concerned with the drug abuse problern toparticipate in and supPort actlvities related to internationai dr,-,g controlstrategy and policiest

6' AIso u5ggg, in order to ensure success of the international drugcontrol stET'G ana to give a firn impetus to the battl-e of the world comnunityagainst international drug traffickers, that Menber states initiate or increasecontributions to ttre united l{ations Etrnd for Drug Abuse controll
7 ' Sequest-s the secretary-General to transmit the text of the presentreso1utionFre1ateddocument3toa11MernberStatesandnon.memberstates

parties to the lnternational drug control treaties and to aII relevantinternational r intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIX

of thirty-f if th anniversar

The General Assemblyr

congidering that the year 1983 will mark the thirty.-fifth anniversary of theuniversal Declaration of Human Rights fl/ whLch, conceived 'as a conunon standardof acfiievement for all peoples and.alr nations", has been and rightly ;";i;;;;;-to be a fundamental source of inspiration for nationar ana inteiiati6nal erfJiisfor the protection and promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

g/ General Assenbly resolution 2L7 A (III).



A/36/792
English
Page 60

Aware that for their full observance human rights must be ensured to all
human beings and that this aim cannot be attained unless human rights are made
known to them, particularly through teaching and education,

Recallinq, in this respectr that the General Assenbly in proclaiming the
Declaration, demanded that "every individual and every organ of society, keeping
this Declaration constantly in rnind, shall strive by teaching and education to
promote respect for these rigtrts and freedoms'1

Recallinq elso its resolution 32/L23 of 16 December 1977 concerning the
observance of the thirtieth anniversary of the Declaration,

Appealinq to Member States, the specialized agencies and aLl international
organizations, governmental and norFgovernmental, concerned with the protection
and promotion of human rights, to take appropriate measures to ensure that the
thirty-fifth anniversary of the Declaration of Human Rights is the occasion of
special efforts to promote international understanding, co-operation and peace as
wel-I as the universal and effective respect for human rights, particularly by
laying stress on the educational approach both within and outside formal school
systems,

Desiring to give appropriate significance to the thirty-fifth anniversary of
the Declaration,

Taking note with appreciation of the suggestions contained in the note by
the Secretarl-General concerning the observance of the thirty-fifth anniversary
of the Declarationt W

1. Invites Member States, the specialized agencies, and regional
intergovernmental organizations and nonjovernmental organizations to take
appropriate measures, suctr as those contained in the annex to the present
resolution, to celebrate the thirty-fifth anniversary of ttre Universal
Declaration of Human Rigtrtsi

2. Requests the Secretary-C€neral to initiate appropriate activities at
the United tilations level, such as those indicated in the annex to the present
resolution, to ceLebrate the thirtffifth anniversary of the Declarationi

3. Invites the United ldations Postal Mministration to consider issuing
conmemorative postage stamps on the occasion of the thirty-fifth anniversary of
the Universal Declaration of Human Rightsi

4. Decides to incl-ude in the provisional agenda of its thirty.-eighth
session an item entitled "thirty-five years of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights: internatlonal co-operation for the promotion and observance of civil,
politicalr economicr social and cultural rightsrr and recornmends that this item
should be considered in plenary neetingT

!3/ 
^/36/soo.



A/36/792
English
Page 51

5' Flrrttrer deqides to hold a special conmenrorative neeting to celebratethethirtffiryoftheDec1aration,;1;.;;ri"-""..ioDecernber1983'
and requests the secretary-General to make the necessary preparations for ttreprograrme of this rneeting.

I.
level:

es for the celebration of the thirty-fifth
of the Universal Declaraiion of Human Riqhts

the following suggestions are rnade for possible action at the national

(a) ltte formal proclamation of 10 December 19g3 as Human Rights Day;
(b) ltre issuing of speciar messages on r0 December 19g3 by Heads of stateor Government or other prominent civil per"orriiiti"";
(c) special meetings of parlianentary and other pubLic and privateinstitutions on Human Ri$ts Gy,
(d) the undertaklng of special efforts by states that have not yet ratifiedor acceded to tfie internationar instruments of the united Nations in the field ofhunan rights, including those instruments specifically related to the rights ofwonen, to become parties to these internationar instrunents;
(e)' ltre establishment of strengthening of national or local institutionsfor the promotion and the protection of humin rights;
(f) ltte encouragement of teaching progranmes on human rights at the variousIevels of educationi

(s) Ttre dissenination of the universal Decraration of Hunan Rights innational language, including languages of rninorities;
(h) Ttre issuing of human rigfits stamps, first-day covers and specialcancellations during I9g3 3
(i) The encouragement of non-governmental organizations to participatefulLy in the cerebration and to organize activities of their ownT
(j) lttre undertaking of activities in the framework of and in support ofcurrent Decades and rnternational Years being prepared on human righti issuesl
(k) Ttre organization of a special essay competition for secondary or highschool children on the topic rrl{hat the univeisal peclaration of Hunan Rightsshould mean to our generalion',.



^/36/7e2English
Page 52

2. It is recorunended that the following measures, among others' shouLd be
taken at ttre United Nations level:

(a) organization of commemorative events at United Nations Headguartersr at
the United Nations Office at ceneva and at the Vienna International Centre on or
around 10 December 1983;

(b) organization in 1983 at Geneva of a special international seminar to
discuss the experiences of different countries in the implementation of
international standards on human rights;

(c) Dissemination by the Department of Pub1ic Infornation of the
Secretariat of appropriate public infornation, broadcasting and audio-visual
material designed to draw attention to and entr*rasize the inportance of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the role played and work done by the
United Nations to ensure the effective enjoynent of human rights and fundamental
freedomsl

(d) Issuance of updaLed versions in all official languages of the United
Nations of the publications Human ldghts: A Conpilation of International
Instruments of the United Nations and
Rightsi

(e) lttre design and distribution of an appropriate United Nations poster to
conmemorate the thirty-fifth anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XX

A.ssistance to student refugees in southern Africa

The General Assemblvt

Recalling its resolution 35A84 of 15 December 1980, in which it,
interllia, requested the Secretary-Genera1 in co-operation with the United
Nations High Conunissioner for Refugees to organize and implement an effective
programme of educational and other appropriate assistance for student refugees
from Namibia and South Africa who had taken asylum in Botswana, Lesotho,
Swaziland and Zambial

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General 49,/ containing the
review by the United Nations High Conmissioner for Refugees of the assistance
programnes for student ref,ugees from Namibia and South Africa,

4e/ A/36/423.



^/36/7s2English
Page 63

Sqtisfied that some of ttre projects recommended in the report on assisLanceto student refugees in southern Africa have been successfuly completed;
titrting with concern the continued influx into Botswana, resottro, Swaziland

and Zanbia of student refugees from South Africa as well as from Nanibia,

_.CqnYinced ttrat the discrirninatory policies and repressive measures beingapplied in South Africa and Narnibia will Lead to a further exodus of student
refugees fron these countries,

Conscious
administrative
refugees,

of the burden placed on the Limited financial, material and
resources of the host countries by the presence of those student

Appreciating the efforts of host countries to deal adequately with their
present student refugee populations and also to be prepared to meet any nerd
emergency by sharing the responsibilities and obligations wittr the international
conununity,

Noting with satisfaction that provisions rilere made to allow former student
their education in the country of asylum or to

alternative arrangements can be made for the
refugees fib@Lete
continue with their studies until
completion of their education in their own country,

I. Endorses the assessments and recommendati.ons contained in the retrnrt of
the secretE$-ceneral and conmends hin and the united Nations High corunissioner
for Refugees for their efforts to nobilize resources and organize the progranune
of assiitance to student refugees in tJle host countries of southern Africai

2. Expresses its appreciation to the C€vernments of Botswana, Lesotho,
Swaziland and zanbia for continuing to grant asylum and make educational and
other facilities available to the student refugees in spite of the pressure which
the continuing influx of those refugees exerts on facilities in their countries;

^ .1. - ExPressgg its appreciation to the Governments of Botsvrana, Lesotho,Swaziland and Zambia for the co-operation which they have extended to the
Secretary-General and to the united Nations High cornnissioner for Refugees on
matters concerning the welfare of these refugees;

4. lsotes with apFeciation the f inancial and material support provided for
thestuden@ates,theUnitedNationsHi9hConnissionerfor
Refugees, other bodies of the United Nations systen and intergovernmental and
non-governmenta I organizat ions ;

5. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees, to continue to organize and implement an
effective programne of educational and other appropriate assistance for student
refugees from tilanibia and South Africa who have taken asylum in Botswana,
Lesotho, Swaziland and Zambial



A/36/792
English
Page 64

6. Urges all Member States and intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizationJ to contribute generously to the assistance Programmes for the
student refugees, through financial support of the regular prograrunes of the
United titations High Commissioner for Refugees of the projects identified in the
report of the Secretary-@nera1, and of the projects and Progratnnes subnitted to
the tnternational Conference on Assistance to Refugees in Africai

7. Appeals to the Office of the United Nations High Conunissioner for
Refugeesr ffiited Nations Development Programme, the united Nations
EducationaL, Scientific and Cu1tural Organization, the World Food Progranune, the
World Bank and the United Nations Childrenrs Fund, as well as other international
and non-governmental bodies, to provide hunanitarian and development assistance
to expedite tJre resettlenent and integration of refugee fanilies fron South
Africa who have been given asylum ln Botswanar Lesotho, Swaziland and Zanbiai

8. Cal1s upon all agencies and programnes of the United Nations systen to
ceoperate wittr the Secretary-ceneral and the United Nations High Conmissioner
for Refugees in the implementation of humanitarian progranmes of assistance for
the student refugees in southern Africa?

9. Requests the Secretary-General, in co-operation wittr the United Nations
High Comnissioner for Refugees, to continue to keep the matter under review and
apprise the F,conornic and Social Councilr at its second regular session of L982,
of the current status of t*re programmes, and to report to the General Assembly at
igs thirtlz-seventh session on the implementation of the present resolution.

85. Ttre lttrird Comnittee also reconmends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the following draft decisions:

DRAFT DECISION I

Welfare of miqrant workers and their families

Ttre General A.ssembly, recalling Economic and Social Council resolution
L98L/2L of 6 llay 1981 and taking note of the views expressed in the Second
Regular Session of Economic and Social Oouncil of 1981 as indicated in the
summary records of the 15th meeting, on 15 JuIy L98L fu/ wittr respect to the
report of the Comnittee for Programme and Co-ordination on the work of its
twenty-first session, reaffirms the reguest in Council resolution 1981,/21 to
incl.ude in the programne budget of the United l€tions for 1982-1983 studies on
the guestions concerned with the welfare of migrant workers and their fanilies
which would take account of, and complement the studies already undertaken bY,
the International Labour Organisation.

ly E/Legr/c.3/sR.Is.



A/36/7e2
English
Page 55

DRAFT DECISION TI

The General Assenbly, taking note of the report of the secretary-Generar onthe situation of human rights and fundamental freedons in GuatemaLa U and ofcommisslon on Human Rights resolution 33 (xxxwr) on the hunan rights situationin Guatenrala:

(a) Requests the secretary-General to continue hls efforts to establishdirect contacts with the Government of cuatenalai
(b) Requests the Government of Guatenala to co-operate further with thesecretarln@nerar in his efforts to estabrish these contacts.

L/ A/36/705.




