








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/36/7 3L
3 December

ORIGINAL:

t9 8l

ENGLISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 79

ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES AND WAYS AND MEANS WITHIN THE UNITED NATIONS
SYSTEM FOR IIUPROVING THE EFFECTIVE ENJOYMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND

FUNDAII,IENTAL FREEDOMS

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Naoharu FUJII (Japan)

1. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 september 1981, the General Assembly decided
to include in its agenda the item entitled "Alternative approaches and ways and
means within the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of
human rights and fundamental freedoms:

(a) Implementation of General Assembly resolutLons 34/46 and 35/L742
report of the Secretary-General?

(b) National institutions for the promotion and protection of human
rights: report of the Secretary-Genera1,'

and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2- itre Committee considered this item jointly with item 73 at its 35th, 37th to
40th, 42nd,43rd, 49Lh,50th, 55th and 64th meetings, on 29 october, 2 to 4, 6, g,
13, L6,18 and 27 November 1981. The views expressed by the representatives of
Member States on this i.tem are set forth in the summary records of those meetings
(A/C.3/36/SR.35 | 37-40, 42, 43, 49, 50, 55 and 64).

3. The Committee had before it the following documenrs:

(a) National institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights:
report of the Secretary-General (A/36/440).1

81-34354 00I6q (E)



A/36 /7 3r
English
Page 2

(b) Present international conditions and human rights: retrnrt of the
Secretary-General (A/35 / a62) i

Seminar on the Relations that Exist between Human Rights, Peace and
Development: note by the Secretary-General (A/35/a821 i

Report of the Economic and Social Council, chapter XXIII
(A/36/3/Add.23 (Part r))i L/

Letter dated 2 March 198l- from the Permanent Representative of India to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
documents of the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of
llcn-Aligned Countries, held at New Delhi, from 9 to 13 February 1981
(A/36/J-L6 and Corr.l) 7

Letter dated 5 October 1981 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
resolutions adopted by the 58th Inter-Parliamentary Conference, held at
Havana frorn 15 to 23 September 1981 (A/36/584)i

(S) lbte by the Secretary-GeneraI, transmitting the text of resolution
23 (XXXVII) of the Commission on Human Rights (A/C.3/36/2li

(h) Report of the Commission on Human Rights on its thirty-seventh
session, 2/ chapter IX.

4. At the 35th meeting, on 29 October, the Deputy Director of the Division of
Human Rights made an introductory statement on the itern.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. Draf t resolution A/C.3,/36_,/L.4I

5. At the 42nd meeting' on 6 \Iovember, the representative of Cuba introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.3/36/L.41) entitled "Alternative approaches and ways and
means within the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of
human rights and fundamental freedoms", sponsored by A1geria, Angola, Beninr guh,
Dernocratic Yemen, Ethiopia, Grenada, India, Madagascar, Nicaragua, BIjE@,
bmania, Sao Tome and Principe, the Syrian Arab Republic and Yugoslavia, later
joined by Argentina, pgyg, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Panama and Viet Nam. The
draft resolut.ion read as follows:

L/ To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Thirty-sixth Session, Supplement lb. 3 (A/36/3/Rev.1).

?/ Official Records of the Economic and Sociat Council, 1981, Supplement
lb . 5 (E/19 81/251 .

(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)



A/36/73L
English
Page 3

"@,
"39^@ the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United

l€tions to achieve international co-operation in solving international
problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character, and in
promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental
freedoms for aIl without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

"39!!g!!!g the inportance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and of the fnternational Covenants on Human Rights in promoting respect for
and observance of human rights and fundamental freedorns,

"Eglilgjgi$ its resolution 32A30 of 15 December L977, in which it
decided that the approach to the future work within the United l€tions system
with respect to human rights guestions should take into account the concepts
set forth in that resolution,

"lgggjgilg that work should continue towards ensuring human rights in a
comprehensive manner to ensure the dignity of human beings and, in this
regard, to work actively for the irnplementation of the concepts contained in
resolution 32/L30 through the existing structures of the ltrited l'tations system,

"F\rrther recognizing that the establishment of the new international
economic order is an essential element for the promotion and full enjoyment of
civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights,

"Reiterating the need to create satisfactory conditions at the national
and international levels for the full promotion and protection of the human
rights of individuals and peoples,

"Flrrther reiterating that in order to fully guarantee human rights and
complete personal dignity it is necessary to guarantee the right to work, the
participation of workers in management, and the ri.ght to education, health and
proper nourishment through the adoption of measures at the national and
international levels, including the establishment of the new international
economic order,

"39€ that it is necessary for the Commission on Hurnan Rights to
continue its current work on the over-al1 analysis of the alternative
approaches and ways and means for improving the effective enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedoms, including the question of the Oommissionrs
progralnme and working nethods in accordance with the provisions and concepts
of General Assembly resolution 32/L30,

"?lel,coming the decision of the Commission on Human Rights under its
resolution 36 (XXXVII) to set up an Ad H.oc t{orking Group to study the scope
and contents of the right to development and noting with satisfaction the
commencement of the work of the Working Group, 3rl

v Ibid. r chap. XXVIff, sect. A.



A/36/73L
English
Page 4

"Recognizing that the right to development is an inalienable human right
belonging to all peoples and every individual,

"Taki.g itto accoutt that international peace and security are essential
elenents for the full realization of the right to developmenti

qNoti@ionthereportoftheSeminarontheRe1ationsthat
s<ist@PeaceandDevelopmentorganizedbytheUnited
Nations at its Headquarters from 3 to 14 August L98L, g/

trNoting with satisfaction the study prepared by the Secretary-General in
accordance with the reguest in paragraph L2 of resolution 34/46, !1/

"3gg{ipg. its resolutions 34/46 of 23 llcvember 1979 and 35/L74 of
15 December 1980, as well as Commission on Human Rights resol-ution
36 (xnn/rrl , u

o1. Requests the Comnission on Hurnan Rights to continue its current work
on the over-all analysis with a view to further promoting and improving human
rights and fundamental freedons, including the question of the Commissionrs
progranme and working methods, and on the over-all analysis of the alternative
approaches and ways and means for improving the effective enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedons, in accordance with the provisions and
concepts of General Assembly resolution 32A3Oi

"2. Rgflgfgqes the absolute necessity under all cireumstances of
eliminatin6-frlffinE' flagrant violations of human rights and of the rights of
the peoples and individuals affected by situations such as those enumerated in
paragraph I (e) of resolution 32430i

tr3. E!rther reiterates that the establishment of the new international
economic order is an essential element for the effective promotion and the
full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all;

tr4. Reaffirms the need to create satisfactory conditions at the national
and international levels for the full promotion and protection of the human
rights of individuals and peoples;

'5. Further reaffirms that, in order to fully guarantee human rights and
complete personal dignity, it is necessary to guarantee the right to work, the
particiPation of workers in management, and the right to education, health and
proper nourishment through the adoption of measures at the national and
internati.onal levels, including the establishment of the new international
econonic orderi

!/ srlHR/sER.A/I0.

2/ A/36/462.



A/36/73L
English
Page 5

'5. Declares that the right to development is an inalienable human right
betonging to-tl p"oples and to every individual;

'7. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to take the necessary
neasures to promote the right to development, taking into account the work of
the Ad IIoc Working Group set up under oonrmission resolution 3G (xX)ffII) i

o8.@thatinternationaIpeaceandsecurityareessential
erements f; the full realization of the right to development;

"9. *quqsts the Secretary-General, starting fron the thirty-eighth
session, tti6;TE biennially a progress report to upitate the study contained
in document A/36/462i

_ 
"10. Degides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh

session the itern entitled rAlternative approaehes and ways and meani within
the United Nations system for inprovirq the effective enjolrment of hunanrights and fundamental freedomsr, "

6. Subseguently, the Connittee had before it a revised draft resolution(A/C.3/36/L.4llRev.l) sponsored b{ atg"ri., Angota, Arqgntina, Hi]l, Orbar
Pe{pcratic ye4en, Ethiopi.a, grenaga, Cuvanar@, ,
tladPqg scar I . Ni"e,I "!u,1, 

pak r,s ta n, p= an?mEEmiiG,sao roffi rianArab Repubric, viet Nan ana yuqoslavia, wEE[-Ead as follows:
"lltre General Assembly,

"Recalling the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
tilations to achieve international co-operation in soLving international
problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian character, and inpronoting and encouraging respect for hunan rights and for fundanental
freedoms fqr all without distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

trReiterating the importance of the tfiiversal Declaration of Human Rights
ana ofTifrEinational Covenants on Human Rights in promoting respect for
and observance of human rights and fundanental freedoms,

rPearing in nind its resolution 32A30 of 16 December Lg77, in which it
decided that the approach to the future work within the United litations system
with respect to human rights guestions should take into account the conceptsset forth in that resolution,

"RecogiSllg that work should continue towards ensuring human rights in a
comprehensive manner to ensure the dignity of human beings ind, in this
regard, to work actively for the implementation of the concepts contained in
resolution 32/L30 through the existing structures of the ttrrited t{ations



N35/73L
English
Page 6

system, in confornity with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights fu/ and
the International Covenants on Human Rights, 7/

'rE\rrther recognizing that t\e establishment of the new international
econonic order is an essential element for the effective promotion and the
full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all,

"BgiEEgElg its profound conviction that all hunan rights and
fundanental freedoms are indivisible and interdependent, and that equal
attention and urgent consideration should be given to the inplementation,
promotion and protection of both civil and political, and economic, social and
cultural rights'

"Ef@g the decision of the Cornrnission on Human Rights under its
resolution 36 (XXXWI) to set up an Ad Hoc Working Group to study the scope
and contents of the right to development and noting with satisfaction the
commencement of the work of the l{orking Gtoup, 3/

"399S9. in accordance with General Assembly resolution 32/L3O that all
human rights and fundamental freedoms of the human person and of peoples are
inalienable,

nEnphasizing that the right to development, is an inalienable human right
belonging to aLl peoples and to every individual,

rrNoting with appreciation the reSnrt of the Seminar on the Relations that,
Exist between Ifuman Rights, Peace and Development organized by the United
Nations at its Headquarters from 3 to 14 August L9BL, t/

"libting with satisfaction the study prepared by the Secretary-General in
accordance with the reguest made by the General Assembly in paragraph 12 of
its resolution 34/46, y

" }fi!g its resolutions 34/46 of 23 November L979, 35/L74 of
15 December 1980, as well as resolut,ion 36 (XxxVII) of the Conmission on Euman
Rights,

rrl. Requests the Comnission on Human Rights to continue its current work
on the over-aIl analysis with a view to further promoting and improving human
rights and fundamental freedoms, including the question of the Commissionrs
programme and working methods, and on the over-all analysis of the alternative
approaches and ways and means for improving the effective enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedoms, in accordance with the provisions and
concepts of General Assembly resolution 32/L30, bearing in mind also other
relevant textst

Y General Assembly resolution 2L7 A (III).

U General A.ssembly resolution 2202 A (XXI) .



F,/36/73L
English
Page 7

"2. Reaffirms that it is of paramount importance for the promotion of
human rightsr dnd fundarnental freedoms that Member States undertake specific
obligations through accession to or ratification of international instruments
in this field; conseguently, the standard-setting work within the Unir,ed
Nations system in the field of human rights and the universal acceptance and
implementation of the relevant international instruments should be encouragedi

'3. Reiterates that the international community should accord, or
continue to accord priority to the search for solut,ions to mass and flagrant
violations of human rights of the peoples and individuals affected by
situations such as those enumerated in paragraph 1 (e) of resolutLon 32/L30s
paying due attention also to other situations of violations of human rights;

tr4. Further reiterates that the establishnent of the new international
economic order is an essential element for the effective promotion and the
fu1l enjo)rment of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all;

"5. Affirms that the efforts of the United Nations and its Member States
to promote and to protect civil and political rights as well as economic,
social and cultural rights should continue?

116. Reaffirms the need to create satisfactory conditions at the national
and international levels for the full promotion and protection of the human
rights of individuals and peoples;

"7. Ftrrther reaffirms that in order to ensure the full enjoyment of all
human rights and conplete personal dignity it is necessary to guarantee the
right to work and the right to education, health and proper nourishment,
through adoption of measures at, the national leveI, including those that
provide for the right of workers to participate in management, as well as
adoption of measures at the international level, including the establishrnent
of the new international economic orderi

'8. Declares that the right to development is an inalienable human right
belonging to all peoples and to every individuali

u9. Requests the Conmission on Human Rights to take the necessary
measures to Pronote the right to development, taking into account the work of
the Ad ltroc lforking Group set up under the Commissionrs resolution 36 (XXXVII) i

"I0. Recognizes that international peace and security are essential
elements for the full realization of the right to developmentT

rrll. Requests the Secretary-Cieneral to submit a biennial progress report
to update the study contained in document A/35/462, starting from the
th irty-e ighth session;

'r12. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session the item entitled rAlternative approaches and ways and means within
the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedomsr .n



A/36/73L
English
Page 8

7. At the 49th meeting' on 13 llovernber, the representative of Cuba further
revised the draft resolution orally as follows:

(a) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the words nthrough the existing
slructures of the United lthtions system'r were deletedT

(b) In the ninth preambular paragraphl the words I'belonging to all people and
to every individual'r were deletedi

(c) Operative paragraph 6 was reworded as follows:
trReiterates the need to ensure economic and political stability at the

national and international levels for the full enjoyment, promotion and
observance of human rights of peoples and individualstrl

(d) In operative paragraph 7:

(i)Thewords''@..atthebe9inningoftheparagraPhwere
replaced by the words nReaffirms alsont

(ii) The word rrguarantee" between the words "necessary to" and the words rrthe
right to workr were replaced by the word rrpronnte"l

(e) In operative paragraph I, the words "belonging to all peoples and to
every individual" at the end of the paragraph were deletedt

(f) Operative paragraph I0 was inserted in the preamble as the tenth
preambular paragraph, with the corresponding editorial changes.

8. The representative of Cuba further revised operative paragraptr 7 of the draft
resolution taking into account a proposal by Morocco to invert the order of the
words "the right to work and the right to education" so that they would read "the
right to education and the right to workrr.

9. At the same meeting, the Comnittee voted on the revised draft resolution, as
further revisedr as folLows:

(a) It adopted, in a separate vote, the words "oe peoptes and individuals" in
operative paragraph 6 by I02 votes to 4, with 24 abstentionst

(b) It adopted draft resolution A/C.3/36/L.AL/Frev.I, as orally revised, by a
recorded vote of lI8 to Ir with 16 abstentions (see para. 20, draft resolution I).
The voting r{as as follows:



In favour:

Agatnst:

Abstainins:

A/36/73L
English
Page 9

Afghanistan, Algerial Angolar Argentina, Australiar Baharnas,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bu1garia,
&rrmar Brrundi; Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape
Verder Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Oongo, Costa Rica, Cuba, qTprus, Czechoslovakiar
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, EI Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Greecel
Guinear Guinea-Bissau' Guyana, Honduras, llungary, Iceland, Indiar
Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait' Lao
Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mexicor Mongolial Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal' Netherlands' New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norr,ray, Oman' Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Qrinea' Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland'
Qatarr Romania, Rwanda, Saflpa, Sao Tome and Principel Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somaliar Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Trrnisia, llrrkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon' Upper Voltar Uruguay,
Vanuat,u, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

United States of America.

Atrstria, Bahrain, BeIgium, Canada, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Qratemala, Israel, Itaty, Jamaica' Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi'
Portugal, Saudi Arabiar Spain, United Kingdom of Gieat Britain
and lbrthern lre1and.

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/36,/L.42

I0. At the 42nd meeting, on 6 November, the representative of India introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.3/35/L.421 entitled "National institutions for the promotion
and protection of human rights", sponsored by Austratia, $!!31l Jamaica, $ and
the United Kinqdom of Great Britain and Norhtern lreland, later joined by Ghanal
!ii]5f!!9,, Nesr zealand and Sri Lanka.

11. At the 43rd neeting, on 9 November, the sponsors orally revised operative
paragraph 9 of the draft resolution, which read as follows:

"!9ggg!g. the Secretary-General to submit to the thirty-eighth session of
the General Assembly a report, drawing upon a1l available sources of
infornation, providing detailed information on the various types of national
institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights, taking into
account differing social and legal systems and the contribution that national
institutions can make towards the irnplementation of the international human
rights instrumentsi"

by deleting the words "drawing uSnn aII available sources of information'".



P{36/73L
English
Page 10

L2. At the sarne meeting,
without a vote (see para.

the Committee adopted the draft
20' draft resolution II).

resolution, as reviseci,

c. Dr af t, resolution_U C.U_36 /L. B_

13. At the 42nd meeting, on 6 November, the representative of Costa Rica
introduced a draft resolution (P{C.3/36/L.43) entitled I'Alternative approaches and
ways and means within the United Nations system for improving the effective
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms" sponsored by Canada, Costa
Rica, @!, the Dominican Republic, Equatorial Guinea, the Gambia, Germanv,
Federal Republic of , Ghana, Honduras, Italy, Jamaica, Lesotho, the !g!@!gg|g,
Norway, Panama and Sweden, later joined by Botswana, @r Solomon Islands and the
United Kinqdom of Great Britain and lilcrthern Ireland. The draft resolution read as
follows:

"The General Assembly,

"$!ff3g. its resolution 35/L75 of 15 December 1980, in which it decided
to consider at its thirty-sixth session the guestion of the establishment of a
post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights under the agenda
item entitled rAlternative approaches and ways and means for improving the
effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedomsr,

..@thereportoftheCommissiononHumanRightsatits
thirty-seventh session, /

"Igjj4g with regret that the Commission on ltuman Rights has informed the
General Assembly that it had not been able to reach a decision at its
thirty-seventh session on the desirability of the establishment of a post of
High Commissioner for Human Rightsi

"Eg!g!, however, that a decision must be made on this imSnrtant
question,

'1. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to consider this question at
its thirty-eighth session as a matter of highest priority under the item
entitled rFurther promotion and encouragement of human rights and fundamental
freedoms, including the methods of work of the Commissioni alternative
approaches and ways and means within the United Nations system for improving
the effective enjoynent of human rights and fundamental freedoms I ?

u2. Urges ttre Conmission on Human Rights to submit, through the Eoonomic
and Social Council to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh sessiont
substantive recommendations in regard to this question;



A/36/73L
English
Page 11

n3. Decides to resume consideration and to take action on the question
of the establishment of a post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human
Rights, also taking into account the substantive reconmendations to be
submitted by the Commission on Human Rights under the item rAlternative
approaches and ways and means within the United Nations system for improving
the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedomsr with a view
to reaching a decision on this question."

14. Later the committee had before it amendments (A/c.3/36/L.44) sponsored by
Alqerial $1s, India and Yugoslavia, which read as follows:

"Pr e ambu la r 
-ea 

ragr aph_3.

Delete the words rwith regretl

"@
Delete this paragraph

"@
Delete the words ras a matter of the highest priorityr

"@
Replace the words rsubstantive recommendationsr by the words rthe results

of its discussionsr

"@
Delete the words rand to take actionr

Replace the words rsubstantive recommendations to be submitted by the
Conunission on Human Rightst by the words rresults of the discussions in t,he
Conunission on Human Rights and also the views expressed by Member States at
the thirty-sixth session of the General Assemblyl

Delete the words rwith a view to reaching a decision on this guestionr'.

L5. At the 43rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Italy submitted
amendments to docunent VC.3/36/L.44, which were later issued in document
A/C.3/36/L.45. They read as follows:

trI. At the end of the amendment to the fourth preambular paragraph add
the following words:

rand replace it with the following:



A/36/73L
English
Page 12

r'Also noting that the Commission on Human Rights has been seized of
this important guestion since its thirty-fourth session., .
n2. At, the end of the amendment to operative paragraph I add the

following words:
rand at the end of the paragraph add the words "with the urgency required
by the inportance of the issue" I.

rr3. In the amendment to operative paragraph 2 add, after the wordrdiscussionr, the words rincluding concrete proposals,.

n5. In tbe relevant amendment to operative paragraph 3 add the following
words:

rand replace them by the words 'rand to examine the possibility of acLing
on these proposals at its thirty-seventh session"r."

15. At the 55th rneeting, on 18 l$ovember, the representative of Costa Rica
introduced a revised draft resolution lNC.3/36/L.43/Rev.L) sponsored by Botswana,
9anada, Cosqa R+ca, Denmark, the Dominican Republic, Equatorial Guinea, the Gambia,
Germanvr Federal Republic of , 99, Honduras, Italy, Jamaica, f,esotho, the 

-
Nqtherlands, &gg31., Panama, Samoa, Solonon Is1ands, Sweden and the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern lre1and, which read as follows:

nlhe General Assembly,

"Eg!Li!g its resolution 35/L75 of 15 December 1981, in which it decided
to consider at its thirty-sixth session the guestion of the establishment of a
post of United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights under the agenda
item rAlternative approaches and ways and neans for improving the effective
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedomsr,

n4. In the relevant amendment to operative paragraph
rincluding its concrete proposalsr, between the words
Human Rightsr and the words tand also the views'.

ntlaving considered the report of the Commission on Human
thirty-seventh session, /

rNoting that the Commission on Human Rights has informed
Assembly that it had not been able to reach a decision at its
session on the desirability of the establishnent of a post of
Commissioner for Human Rights,

3 add the words:
rCommission of

Rights at its

the General
th irty-seventh
High

I'AIso noting that the Commission on Human Rights has been seized of this
question since its thirty-fourth session under the item 'Over-all analysis'1



A/36/73L
Brglish
Page 13

.1. Resuests the Oonunission on Human Rights at its thirty-eighth session
to consifei this question with the attention required by the imtrnrtance of the
issuet

"2. Further requests the Conmission on Human Rights to submit the
conclusions ind recommendations adopted at its thirty-eighth session to the
General Assembly at its thirty-seventh sgssionl

n3. Decides to resume consideration of this question at its
thirty-seventh session, also taking into account the retrnrt of the Commission
on Human Rights on its thirty-eighth sessionr under the iten rAlternative
approaches and ways and means within the United Nations system for improving
the effective enjolzment of human rights and fundamental freedomsr and to
examine what steps may be taken in this regard."

L7. At the same meeting, the revised draft resolution nas withdrawn by its
sponsors.

18. At the 54th meeting, on 27 libvenber, the representative of Italy introduced a
further revised draft resolution (A/C.3/36/L.43,/Rev.2), sponsored by EgSsggls'
@!g, Oosta Rica, Denmark, the Doninican Republic, Equatorial Guinea' the Gamb.La'
@rnany, Federal Republic of , @, @!g, Italy, Jgige' @!!g' the
libtherrands, .lW, 3ry, 8ry9, solotnon rsrands, 8]9g and the united Kingdorn
of Great Britain and }brthern lreland, taking into account the amendments contained
in document A/C.3/36 /L.44.

19. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution, as further
revised, without a vote (see para. 20r draft resolution III)

III. RECOMI.{ENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COIIIvIITTEE

20. Ttre lltrird Comnittee recommends to the Cieneral Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Alternative approaches and ways and means within the Unitei Nations
system e4

fundanental freedoms

Ttre General Assembly'

Recalling the purlnses and principles of the Charter of the United Nations to
acnieve international co<peration in solving international problems of an
e@nomic, social, cultural or humanitarian character, and in promoting and
encouraging respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without
distinction as to race' sexr language or religion,



Py'36 /7 3L
English
Page 14

Reiteratinq the inSnrtance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights B,/ and
of the International Covenants on Human Rights L/ in promoting respect for and
observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Bearinq in mind its resolution 32/L30 of 15 December L977, in which it decided
that the approach to the future work within the United Nations system with respect
to human rights questions should take into account the concepts set forth in that
resolution,

Recognizinq that work should continue towards safeguarding human right,s in a
cornprehensive manner to ensure the dignity of human beings and, in that regard,
that active efforts should be made to irnplement the concepts set forth in
resolution 32/L3O, in conformity with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and
the International Covenants on Human Rights,

Elrrther recoqnizinq that the establishment of Lhe new international economic
order is an essential element for the effective promotion and the full enjolment of
human rights and fundamental freedoms for all,

Reiterating its profound conviction that all human rights and fundamental
freedoms are indivisible and interdependent, and that equal attention and urgent
consideraLion should be given to the implementation, promotion and protection of
both civil and politicarr dDd economic, sociar and culturar rights,

Welcoming the decision of the Commission on Human Rights in its
resolution 36 (xxxwl) of 11 lvlarch 1981 ].1Q-/ to set up an Ad Hoc Working croup to

st'udy the scope and content of the right to development and not,ing with
satisfaction the conmencement of the work of the Working Group,

Recallinq that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 32/L30r all
human rights and fundamental freedoms of the human person and of peoples are
inalienable,

Hnphasizinq that the right to <leveloprnent is an inalienable human right,

Recoqnizinq that international peace and security are essential elements in
the full realizatioh.,of the right to development,

Y General Assembly resolution 2L7 A (III).

L/ General Assernbly resolution 2200 A (XXI).

-L9-/ 9ffi-cial Records of the Economic and Social Council, 198I, Supplement,No. 5 (E/L98L/25), chap. XXVIII, sect. A.



p{35/73r
English
Page 15

tibting with appreciation the retrnrt of the Seminar on the Relations that Ftr(ist
Uetween Hulnan nigrtrts, Paace and Development , organized by the United Nations at its
Headquarters from 3 to 14 August L98L, &/

t.1

lbting with satisfactio! the study on international conditions and human
rights prepared by the Secretary-General U in accordance with the request made by
the General Assembly in paragraph L2 of its resolution 34/46 of 23 lbvember L979 '

Recalling its resolutions 34/46 of 23 tibvember 1979 and 35/L74 of
15-De;6ffi;rr0-80, as well as Commission on Human Rights resolution 36 (XXXVrr),

I. Requests the @mmission on Human Rights to continue its current work on
the over-all analysis with a view to further promoting and improving human rights
and fundamental freefums, including lhe question of the @mnissionrs programme and
working methods, and on the over-all analysis of the alternative approaches and
ways and means for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms, in accordance with the provisions and concepts of General
A.ssembly resolution 32/L30, bearing in mind also other relevant textsT

2. Reaffirms that it is of paranrcunt inportance for the pronotion of human
righs and fundamental freedoms that Member States should undertake specific
obligations through accession to, or ratification of, international instruments in
this field and, consequently, that the standard-setting work within the United
libtions system in the field of human rights and the universal acceptance and
implementation of the relevant international instruments should be encouraged;

3. Reiterates that the international community should accord, or continue to
accord, priority to the search for solutions to mass and flagrant violations of
human rights of the peoples and individuals affected by situations such as those
mentioned in paragraph I (e) of resolution 32/L30, paying due attention also to
other situations of violations of human rightsi

4. Further reiterates that the establishnent of the new international
econonicoffile1ementfortheeffectivepromotionandthefu1l
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms for alll

5. Affirns that the efforts of the United Nations and its Member States to
prouote and to protect civil and trnlitical rights as well- as economic, social and
cultural rights should continuei

6. Reiterates the need to ensure economic and trnlitical stability at the
national and international levels for the full enjolzment, pronotion and observance
of human rights of peoples and individualst

sTl4R/SER.A/L0.

A/36/462.

\1
g/



A/36/73L
English
Page 16

7. Reaffirms also that in order to ensure the full enjoyment of all human
rights .naGiutffil"-tsonal dignity it is necessary to pronote the right to
education and the right to work, heatth and proper nourishment, through adoption of
measures at the national level, including those that provide for the right of
workers to participate in management, as well as a&ption of measures at the
international level' including the establishnent of the new international economic
order;

8. Declares that the right to development is an inalienable human rightf

9. Requests the Oonmission on Human Rights to take the necessary measures to
prornte the right to development, taking into account the work of the Ad Hoc
l,lorking Group set up under Commission resolution 36 (XXXVII)i

10. Requests the Secretary-General to'subnit to the General Assenbly, from
the thirty-eighth session on, a biennial progress report bringing up to date the
study on international conditions and human rightsl L2/

11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session tnffienr entitred "Alternative approaches and ways and means within the
{frrited t€tions system for improving the effective enjoyrnent of human rights and
fundamental freedomst,.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

lilational institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights

llhe @neral Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 32/L23 of 16 December Lg77, 33/46 of 14 December 1978
and 34/49 of 23 lttrvember 1979 concerning national institutions for the pronotion
and protection of human rights,

Mindful of the guidelines on the structure and functioning of national and
local institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights endorsed by the
General Assembly in its resolution 33/46,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on national institutions
for the pronntion and protection of human rights, 13/

Mindful also of the need to create conditions at the national and
interiEEl6iETFels for the pronotion and protection of the human rights of
individuals and peoples,

E/ A/36/440.



v36/73L
English
Page 17

Bnphasizing the importance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 14/
the International covenants on Human Rights 157 and other international human
rights instruments for promoting respect for and observance of human rights and
fundamental freedoms,

Reiterating its conviction that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interdependentr and that egual attention and urgent consideration
should be given to the implenentation, prornotion and protection of both civil and
politicalr dnd economic, social and cultural rights,

tbting that the Conunission on Human Rights and the Economic and Social Council
have been giving attention to the development of public information activities in
the field of human rights,

1. fnvites all Member States to take appropriate steps for the establishment
or, where they already exist, the strengthening of national institutions for the
pronntion and protection of human rightsi

2. Enphasizes the
national institutions, in

3. Draws attention
organizations can play in

6. Recommends that all Member
encourage the exchange of experience
for the pronotion and protection of

imtrnrtance of the integrity and independence of such
accordance with national legislaturesl

to the constructive role that national non-governmental
the work of national institutionsi

4. Invites all Menber States to take appropriate steps to disseminate the
texts of human rights instruments, including international covenants and
conventions, in their respective national or local languages in order to give the
widest possible publicity to these instruments;

5. Recommends that all Member States should consider including material
relevant to a comprehensive understanding of human rights issues in their
educat ional curr iculum;

7. Requests the Secretary-@neral, in carrying out public infornation
activities in the field of human rights, to give due attention to the role of
national institutions and non{overnmental organizations concerned with the
pronotion and protection of human rightsr

8. Requests the Secretary-e€neral to provide a1l necessary assistance to
Menber StaEes upon ttreir request in the inplementation of paragraph 4 abover high
priority being accorded to the needs of developing countries?

y/ General Assembly resolution 2L7 A (III).

E/ General Assembly resolution 2200 A (XxI) .

States should take appropriate steps to
in the establishnent of national institutions

human rightsr



A/35/73L
English
Page 18

9. Requests the Secretary-e€nera1 to submit to the General Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session a retrnrt providing detailed information on the various types
of national institutions for the prorotion and protection of human rights, taking
into account differing social and lega1 systems and the contribution that national
institutions can make towards the inplenentation of the international human rights
instruments,

10. Reoonunends that Member States should bring the present resolution to the
attention of representatives of their national institutionsi

11. Decides to include
a subitem entitled ilrlational
rights".

in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
institutions for the prorotion and protection of human

DRAFT RESOLUTION ITI

Alternative approaches and ways and means in the United libtions
system for improving the effective enjovment of human rights and

fundamental freedoms

lltre @neral Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 35/L75 of 15 December 1981, in which it decided to
consider at its thirty-sixth session the guestion of the establishment of a lnst
United titations High Comnissioner for Human Rights under the itern entitled
'rAlternative approaches and ways and means for improving the effective enjolmrent
human rights and fundamental freedoms,,,

Having considered the report of the Oomnission on Human Rights on its
thirty-seventh session, 16,/

lbting that the Conunission on Human Rights informed the General Assernbly that
it had not been able to reaeh a decision at its thirty-seventh session on the
desirability of the eEtablishment of a lnst of High Commissioner for Human Rights,

Also noting that the 6nrnission on Human Rights has been seized of this
guestion since its thirtyfourth session under the item rrF\rrther promotion and
encouragement of human rights and fundanental freedoms, including the questlon of
the prograrnme and nethods of rrprk of the Conmissionl alternative approaches and
ways and means within the ttnited Nations system for inproving the effective
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms',

A-/ Official Records of the.Econonic and Social Councilr 1981, Suqplemgnt
l.lo. 5 (E/L98L/251 .

of

of



A/36/7 3r
English
Page 19

l. Requests the @mmission on Human Rights at its thirty-eighth session to
consider this question with the attention it deservesi

2. F\rrther requests the Commission on Human Rights to submit a report on il
deliberations and their results to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh
session through the Economic and Social Council;

3. Decides to resume consideration of this question at its thirty-seventh
session, also taking into account the re1rcrt of the Cornmission on Human Rights on
its thirty-eighth session and the views expressed by Member States at the
thirty-sixth session of the General Assembly under the itern entitled "Alternative
approaches and ways and means within the United Nations system for improving the
effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms" and to examine what
steps may be taken in this regard.




