
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Di str
GENERAL

A/36/G3z/Md.t
12 Decenber 198I

ORIGINAL! ENGLISH

Ttrirty-sixth session
Agenda item 64

REPORf OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO TIWESTIGATE ISRAELI
PRACTICES AFFECTING THE HUMAN RTGHTS OF THE POPULATION

OF THE OCCTTPIED TERRTTORTES

Report of the Special Pol-itical Oolnmittee (part II)

Rapporteur: Mr. Zahary RADOUKCI/ (Bulgaria)

I. INTRODTtrTION

1. The item entitled "Report of the Special Connittee to Investigate Israeli
Practices Affectjng the Human Rights of the Poputation of the Occupied Tterritoriesl
was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-sixth session of the General
Assembly in accordance with resolution 35/L22 c of 1l December 1980.

2. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 September 1981, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Comnittee, decided to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Special political Conrnittee.

3. the Special Political Committee had before it the fo)-lowing documents:
(a) lilote by the Secretary-General transrnitting the report of the Special

Comnittee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the
Population of the Occupied Territories (p{36/5791.,

(b) Report of ttre Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of resolution
35n22 D and.security council resolution 484 (1980) (A/36/95-s/L4350).,

(c) Report of ttre SecretarlnGeneral submitted in pursuance of resolution
35n22 c (^/36/s88' .

4. In accordance with a decision taken at its llth rneeting, on 22 october 1991
at the request of representatives of the Arab Group and of the Organization of the
Islamic Conferencer the Conmitteer at its 13th meeting, on 2G october, considered

81-35314 3113e (E)



A/36/632/Add.1
English
Page 2

as a matter of urgency recent developments in connexion with excavations in
eastern Jerusalem, and adopted draft resolution A/SPC/36/L.3 (see A/36/6321. At
its 42nd plenary meetingr on 28 October, the General Assenbly adopted the draft
resolution recommended by the Special Political Conmittee (resolution 36/L5).

5. Ttre Special Political Committee considered the item further at its 33rd to
39th and 46th meetings, held between 17 and 30 tibvember.

6. At the 33rd meeting, on 17 November, the representative of Sri Lanka' on
behalf of ttre Special Comnittee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the
Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories, introduced the report
of that Comnittee.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

7. In the course of its deliberations, the Special Political Committee considered
seven draft resolutions, as set forth below.

A. Draft resolution A/SPC/36/L.Lg

8. At the 39th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Indonesia
introduced a draf t resolution (A/SPC/36/L.L}) strnnsored by Bangladesh, Irullg'
Indonesia, Madagascar, Maldives, @!i, Malaysia, Pakistan and Yugoslavia.

g. At the 45th rneeting, on 30 \trovember, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/SPC/L.I8 as follows:

(a) paragra6tr l was adopted by a recorded vote of lt8 to 1. lltre voting was
as follows:

In favour: AfghanisLan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana'
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burmar Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Congo' 6sta
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Djiboutir Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Fin1and, France, Gabon'
German Denocratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of' Ghana'
Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Hondurasr Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanonr Iesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Luxembourg' Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives'
Mauritania, Mexicor Mongolia' Morocco, Mozambigue' Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Omanl Pakistan,
Perur Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rlvandal sao
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegall Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalial Spain, Sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia' Turkeyt
uganda, ukrainian soviet socialist Republic, union of soviet



Against:

A/36/632/Add.1
English
Page 3

Socialist Republicsr United Arab Emirates, united Kingdon of
Great Britain and Dilorthern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon'
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America' Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, ZaLre, Zambia.

IsraeI.

(b) Paragrapr 2 was adopted by a recorded vote of 114 Eo 2, with 2
abstentions. tre voting leas as follows:

fn favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutanr
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Burma' Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet SociaList Republic, Cape Verde, Chad' Cktile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Ricar Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakiat
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador' EgyPt,
Ethiopia, Fijir Finland, Francer Gabon, German Democratic
Republicr Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guinea, Guyanar Honduras, Hungary' Iceland, Indial
Indonesia; Irag, Ireland, Ita1yr lvory @ast, JaPan, Jordant
Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon' Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascarl trtalaysia, Maldives,
Mauritaniar Mexicor Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambigue, Nepal,
tiletherlandsr libw Zealand, Niger, Nigeria' librr'tay' qnan'
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rvandar Sao ltome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, thailandl Togo,
trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkeyr Ugandar Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Bnirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and llorthern IreLand, United Republic of Caraeroon,
United Republic of, Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuelar Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia' Zairer Zambia.

IsraeL, Uni.ted States of America.Against:

Abstaininqr canadai .ramaica

(c) Ttre draft resolution as a whole was adopted by a recorded vote of
117 to I, With 2 abstentions (see para. 27, draft resoLution A). The voting \tas
follows:



^/36/632/Add.1English
Page 4

In favours Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia,
Atrstria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutanl
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burna, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada' Cape Verde,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
C)zprus, Czechoslovakia, Ilemocratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti t
Ecuador, E9ypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Fin1and, France, Gabon,
German Democratic Republic, Germany, Eederal- Republic of,
Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Ice1and, India,
Indonesia, Irag, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Ooast, JaPanr Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Iebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, tibyan Arab
Jarnahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar' Malaysia, Maldivesr
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, ltorocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Netherl-andsl lilew Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, lbrway, Onan,
Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatarr Ronania, Rlranda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia' Spain' Sri lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, ltrailand'
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda'
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Bnirates, United Kingdon of
Great Britain and Dbrthern Ireland, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet t{am, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaite, Zambia.

Israel.

Jamaica, United States of America.

B. Draf t resolution A,/SpC,/36lL.19

10. At the 39th rneeting, on 23 November, the representative of Pakistan
introduced a draft resolution (A/1PC/36/L.L9, sponsored by Bangladesh, I!!b'
Indonesia and Pakigtan.

11. At the 46th rneeting, on 30 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/9PC/36/L.L9 by a recorded vote of I17 to I, with 2 abstentions
(see para. 2'7, draft resolution B). Ttre voting \.ras as follows:

In favour: Afghanislan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Auslralia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundil Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colornbia, Congo, Costa
Rica' Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Djiboutir Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fijir Finland, France, Gabon,
German Denocratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana,
Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indiat
Indonesiar lraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberiar Libyan Arab ,Jamahiriya,

Against:

Abstaining:



!/36/632/Md.rEnglish
eage 5

hrxembourg, Madagascar, MaLaysia, I.{aldives, Mauritania, Mexico, lrlongolia,
!{oroccor lttozanbigue, Nepal, Netherlands, New zealand, Nigerl Nigeria, ![orway,
onan, Pakistanr Paraguay, peru, philippines, poland, noriugar, gatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Sao some and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra teone, Singatrnre,
somalia, spain, sri ranka, sudan, suriname, sweden, syrian Arab Republic,
thailandr Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, uganda, ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Bnirates,
United Kingdorn of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of
cameroonr united Republic of Tanzania, uruguay, venezuela, viet Nam, yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia.

Aqainst: Israel.

Abstaining: Jamaica, united states of America.

C. graft resolution A/SPCr/36rlL.20
12. At the 39th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Bangladesh
introduced a draft resolution |A/SPC/36/L.20 and Corr.1) sponsored by Bangladesh,
cuEr_ Inaia, rndonesia and Fakistan, subsequently joined uy ttre cerrnanffillTfcRepublic, Hungarv and the ukrainian soviet sociarist Republic.
13. on 27 l*rvember, the Secretary-General, in accordance with rule 153 of the
rules of procedure of the C'eneral Assembly, submitted a statement (A/SPC/36/t.28)
on the a&ninistrative and financial inplications of the draft resolution.
14. At the 45th meeting, on 30 lbvember, the Conmittee voted on draft resolution
A/SPC/36/I.20 and Corr.l as fo.llows:

(a) Paragraph 5 was adopted by a recorded vote of 8l to 17, with
2I abstentions. T?re voting $ras as follows:

rn favour: Afghanistan, albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan,
Botsnana, BraziL, Bulgaria, Byerorussian soviet sociarist

. Republic, Cape Verder Chad, China, Congo, Cuba, Clprus,
czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Dj iboutir Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Gabon, German Denocratic Republic, Gtrana, Guinea,
Guyana, Hungary, Indial Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwaitr Iebanon, Iesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar' Mardives, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongoria, Morocco,. Mozambique, lGpal, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, pakistan, peru, poland,
Qatar, Ronania, Rwanda, sao Tome and principe, saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Ieone, Somalia, Sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname,
syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, uganda, ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republicr Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
united Arab Emirates, united Republic of cameroon, united
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, VenezueLa, Viet Nam, yemen,
yugoslavia, zaire, Zannbia.



A/35/632/Add.1
English
Page 6

Against: Australia, Belgiumr Canadar Denmarkr Francer Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy1 Japan, tuxembourgt
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and ltcrthern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstainings Argentina, Austria, Barbados, Burma, Burundi, Colombia, Costa
Rica, Fiji, Finland, Greece, Honduras, Jamaica' }lalaysia, Panama'
Paraguayr Philippines, Portugal' Singapore, Spain, Sweden,
llrailand.

(b) Paragraph 15 was adopted by a recorded vote of 91 to 18r with
abstentions. 8te voting ldas as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, AJ-geria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Bhutan, Bots$rana, Brazill Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Chad, China, Colombiar Congo,
Costa Ricar Cuba, Clzprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Guinear Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Irag,
Ivory Coast, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, t"ladagascar, Malaysia, Maldives'
Mauritania, Mexicor Mongolia, Moroccor Mozambique, Nepal, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru' Philippines, Poland' Qatar'
Romania, Rvranda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra I€onel Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Ttrailand' Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Trrnisia, Turkey, ttrganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republicr Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
snirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemenr Yugoslavia, Zaite,
Zanbia.

Australia, Belgiumr Denmark, Finland, Francel Germany' Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norvtay' Sweden, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and llorthern Ireland, United States of America.

Austria, Burma, Canada, Greece, Honduras, Jamaica, Portugal.

Against:

Ab staining:

(c) Ttre draft resolution as a whole was adopted by a recorded vote of
93 to 2, with 26 abstentions (see para. 27, draft resolution C). ltre voting r{tas as
follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh'
Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria' Burma' Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verd€, CLtad, C?tina' Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, q/prus' Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia' Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana' Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya' Kuwait' Lao Peoplers



Against:

Abstaining:

15. Statements
representatives

A/35/632/Add.1
English
Page 7

Democratic Republicr Lebanon, Iesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania' Mongolia,
Moroccor Mozambiquer Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Omanr Pakistan, Perut
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Ryranda, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal-, Sierra I€one, SingaPore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab RepubJ-ic,
TtraiLand, Togo, Trinidad and ltobago, Tunisia, Turkey' ltgandat
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Repub1ic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republ-ic of Carneroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Ufuguay, Venezuelar Viet Nam, Yement
Yugoslaviar Zaire, Zambia.

Israel, United States of America.

Australia, Austriar Barbadosl BeLgium, Canada, Denrnark' Fijit
Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Honduras, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, tuxembourg, Mexico,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norwayr Panamar Paraguay' Sweden,
United Kingdon of Great Britain and llorthern lreland.

in explanation of vote after the vote were made by the
of Canada, l0ew Zealand and ll?railand.

D. Draft resolution A/SPC/36,/L.21

16. At the 39th meeting, on 23 Novenber, the representative of Bangladesh
introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/36/L.2L! sponsored by BangLadesh, s!!'
Indonesia and Pak:!g!an, subsequentLy joinect by Alqeria, Bahraiir' @,
Djibouti,
@,
Trrnisia,

IlS,, ilordan, Kuwait' Iebanon, the tibyan Arab Jarnahiriya, @L!4b,
Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, @!!g, the Sudan, the @,
the United Arab Enirates and Yemen.

L7. At the146th meeting, on 30 November, the Cornmittee adopted draft resolution
A/S9C/36/L.21 by a recorded vote of 118 to 1, with I abstention (see para.27,
draft resolution D). iltre voting vras as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austrial
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Botswanar Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Cape Verder Chad, Ctrile, Chinar Colombia, Congol Costa
Ricar Cuba, C,!prus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Djiboutir Ecuador, Egypt' Ethiopia, Fiji' Finland, Frandel Gabont
German Democratic Republicr Germany, Federal Republic ofr Ghana,
Greecer Guinear Guyana, Honduras, Hungaryr Iceland, Indiat
Indonesiar lrag, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Ooast, Janaicar Japant
Jordan, Kenyar Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, tiberiar Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysiar Maldivest
Mauritania, triexico, Mongoliar Moroccor Mozambique, Nepalt
tibtherlands, New zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norwayl OttlioT Pakistant



A/36/632/Add. r
English
Page 8

Against:

Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rlranda, Sao lbne and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, lltrailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist nepublic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern lreland, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, ZaLre, Zambia.

Israel.

Abstaining: United States of America.

E. Draft resolution A,/SPC,/36/L.22

18. At the 39th neeting, on 23 Novenber, the representative of Bangladesh
introduced a draft resolution (A/WC/36/L.221 sponsored by Bangladesh, Cubar India,
Indonesia and Pakistan, subsequently joined by the German Democratic Republic,
Ilunqary and the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic.

19. At the 96th meeting, on 30 llovember, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/SPC/36/L.22 by a recorded vote of 96 to 2, with 24 abstentions (see para.27,
draft resolution E). Ttre voting was as follows:

In favour:

Against:

@s

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahr.ain, Bangtradesh,
Barbados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, BraziL, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Chadl Chile,
China, Colonbia, Congo, Costa Ricar Cubal Cyprus, CzechosLovakia,
Denocratic Yenen, Djibouti, Ecuador, E9ypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
@bon, German Democratic Republic, Gttana, Greece, Gulnea, Guyana,
Hungary, Indial Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jordan; Kenya,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Iesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, l,[alaysia, ptaldives, l{auritania, lrlexico, MongoJ.ia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan, Peru,
Philippines, Po1and, Qatar, Romania, Rrvanda, Sao llcme and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic,
thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisial Turkey, Uganda,
Ilkrainian Soviet Socialist RepubLic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republ-ic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet l{arn, Yenen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Israel, United States of Anerica.

Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burma, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
Francel Germany, Federal- Republic of, llonduras, Iceland, Ire1and,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Iuxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Portugal, Srveden, United Kingdorn of
Great Britain and lilorthern lreland.

/...



20. A statement in explanation of vote
representative of New Zealand.

A/35/632/Add.l
English
Page 9

was made after the vote by the

2L. At the
introduced a
Cuba, India,

22. At the 46th
A/sPc/36/L.23 by
draft resolution

F. Draft resoLutlon A/SPC/36/L'23

39th meeting, on 23 Novenber, the representative of Bangladesh
drafL resolution (A/SPC/35/L.23 and Corr.l) strnnsored by Bangladeshr
Indonesia and Pakistan.

In favour:

@,e:
Abstaininq:

23. A statement i.n explanation of vote after the vote was rnade by the
representative of lGq'r Zeal"and.

meeting, on 30 November, the Corunittee adopted draft resolution
a recorded vote of 94 to 2, with 25 abstentions (see para.27,
F). the voting Yras as foLlows:

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
BangJ-adesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Botswana; Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, ByeLorussian Soviet SociaList Republic, Cape Verde,
Chad, China, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Jordan, Kenyal Kuwait, I€banon,
tresotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mauritania, Mexicor Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, Pakistanr Peru, PhiLippines, Poland,
Fortugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Some and Principer Sdudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singatrnre, Somalia, Spain, Sri
Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, ltrailand, Sogo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ugandaz tlkrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet SociaList Republics, United
Arab trnirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet llam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Israel, United States of America.

Australial Belgium, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Denmark, Finland,
g"rance, Germany, Federal Republic of, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland,
Italyr l\rory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, lilew
Zealand, ti&crway, Panama, Paraguay, Sweden, United Kingdorn of
Great Britain and lbrthern Ireland, Uruguay.



A/36/532/Add.1
English
Page 10

G. D{aft resolution A,/SPC/36,/L.24

24. At the 39th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Pakistan introduced
a draft resolution (A/SgC/36/L.24 and Oorr.l) sponsored by Bangladesh, 9E1' India,
Indonesia and Pakistan, subseguently joined by Alqeria, $@!g, Dernocrati.c Y9men,
DICEILCg;!'"8"-r, zuwa:i.1r, Iebanon, tte@, @'
tlorocco, Or*; g_t.g., S.uai er"Ui+ ;ig!!g, the $!gg, the Syrian Arab Republict
Tunisia, the United Arab Emirates and Yemen.

25. At the 46th meeting, on 30 lilovember, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/SuC/36/L.24 by a recorded vote of 119 to 1, with 1 abstention (see para.27,
draft resolution c) . lltre voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Atrstralia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswanar Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Sqcial-ist Repub]ic, Canada, Cape Verder Chad, China, Colonbia,
Oongo, Oosta Rica, Cuba, q/prusr Czechoslovakia, Denocratic
Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, EgyPt, EthioPia, Fiji,
Finland, Etance, Gabon, German Denocratic nepublic, Germanyt
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras,
Hungaryr lceland, India, Indonesia, Iraqr Ireland, Italy, fvory
Coast, Jamaica, Japanr Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanonr Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Ilxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Ivlauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
l*lozambique, tibpal, Netherlands, t€w Zealandr Niger, Nigerial
Iibrwayr omanr Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, PortugaL, Qatar, Romanial Rranda, Sao llome and Principel
Saudi Arabia, Senegal2 Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sonalia, Spaint
Sri lanka, Sudan, Surinane, Sweden, Syrian Arab Repub1ic,
iltrail-andr ltogo' Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey' Uganda'
Iftrainian Soviet Sociali.st Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Enirates' United Kingdon of Great Britain
and Northern lreland, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuelar Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zairer Zambia.

Asainst: Israel.

Abstaining: United States of America.

26. Before ttre voting at tlie 46th neeting, on 30 November, the representative of
Israel spoke in explanation of vote on all the draft resolutions. Mter the
voting, statements in explanation of vote on alL the draft resolutions were made by
the repesentatives of Australia, Sweden, Tri.nidad and Tobago, the United Kingdom
of Great Britain and lbrthern Ireland (on behalf of the States rnembers of the
European Conununity) and the United States of America.



A/36/632/Md.1
EngJ.ish
eage 11

III. RE@MMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL @!,l!{ITTEE

27. Ihe Special PoliticaL Comnittee reconrnends to the General Assembly the
adoption of ttre following draft resolutions:

Report of the Special Corurittee to Investiqate Israeli Practices Affectinq
the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories

A

the General Assenblv,

Recalling its resolutions 3092 A (x)vIII) of 7 December 1973 , 3240 B (xxlx) of
29 l{ovember 1974, 3525 B (XXx) of 15 December L975, 3L/LO6 B of 16 Decenber L9761
32/9L A of 13 December L977t 33/LL3 A of 18 December L978, 34/90 B of
12 December 1979 and 35/L22 A of 11 December 1980,

Reca1ling also Security Council resolution 465 (1980) of I March 1980 in
which, inter aIia, the Oouncil affirmed that the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Tirne of War, of 12 August 1949' U is applicable
to the Arab territories occupied by Israel since L967, including Jerusalem'

Considering that the promotion of respect for the obligations arising fron the
Charter of ttre tlnited lrhtions and other instruments and rules of international law
is among the basic purposes and principles of the United Natlonst

Bearinq in mind ttre provisions of the @neva Convention'

Noting that Israel and those Arab States whose territorles have been occupied
by Israel since ilune L967 are parties to that Convention,

Taking into account that States parties
accordance with article 1 thereof, not only
for the Convention in all circumstances,

1. Reaffirms that the Geneva Convention relative to ttre Protection of
Civillan Persons in Time of l{ar, of L2 August L949, is applicable to Palestinian
and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since L967, incl.uding Jerusalem;

2. Condenns the failure of Israel as the occupying Power to acknonledge the
applicability of that Oonvention to ttre territories it has occupied since L967,
including Jerusaleml

3. Derirands that Israel acknowledge and conply wittr the provisions of that
Oonvention tn Bafestinian and other Arab territories it has occupied since l:967.
including ilerusal.eml

to that Convention undertake, in
to respect but also to ensure respect

y United Nations, Treatv Series, voJ.. 75, No. 973, p. 287.



A/36/632/Add.1
English
Page 12

4. Urgently calls upon aLl States parties to that Convention to exert all
efforts in oraer to ensure respect for and conpliance with its provisions in
Palestinian and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since L967, including
Jerusalem.

The Generql Assenblv,

Recalling its resolutions 32/5 of 28 October L977, 33A33 B of t8 Decenber
1978, 34/90 C of 12 Decenber L979, and 35r1L22 B of 11 llecember 1980,

Recalling also Security Council resolution 465-(1980) of I March L980,

situation in the
occupied PaLestinian and other Arab territories, including Jerusalem' as a resull
of the continued Israeli occupation and the measures and actions taken by the
Government of Israel, as the occupying Fower, designed to change the legal status'
Eeographical nature and demographic composition of those territories,

Considerinq that the Geneva Oonvention relative to ttre Protection of Civilian
Persons in Tine of War, of L2 August L949t U is applicable to all Arab territories
occupied since 5 ilune L957, Including Jerusalem,

1. Determlnes that all such neasures and actions taken by Israel ln the
Palestiniailii?-6-Ur-er Arab territories occupied since L967, including Jerusalem,
are in violation of the relevant provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to
the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of L2 August 19491 and
constitute a serious obstruction of efforts to actrieve a just and lasting peace in
the Middle East, and therefore have no legal validityf

2. Strongly deplores the persistence of Israel in carrying out sucfi
measures, in particular the establishment of settlements in the Palestinian and
other occupied Arab territories, including Jerusalem,

3. Demands that Israel comply strictly with its internatlonal obligatlons in
accordance with the principles of international law and the provisions of the
Geneva Conventioni

A United Natlons, Treaty Series, vol. 75, tib. 9731 p. 287.

3/ General AssembLy resolution 2L7 A (III).

9/ United Nations, Tfeaty Seriesr voI. 75, I\b. 973, p. 287.

B



A/36/632/Add.1
English
Page L3

. Demands once more that the Government of fsrael, the occupying porrer,
desist forthwith,from taking any action which would result in changing the legal
status' geogratr*rical nature or denogratrhic cornlnsition of the paleitinian and otber
Arab territories occupied since L967, including Jerusarem;

5' Urqentlv calls upon all States parties to the Geneva Convention to
respect and to exert all efforts in order to ensure respect for and compliance with
its provisions in alL Arab territories occupied by Israel since Lg67, including
Jerusalem.

c

The @neral Assenblyr
' Guided by the purposes and principles of the

by the principles and provisions of ttre Universal
Bearing in mind the provisions of the Geneva

Protection of Civilian persons in Time of War, of
other relevant conventions and reguLations,

Charter of the United Nations and
Declaration'of Human Rights, /
Convention relative to the
12 August L949, U as well as of

^ .--Recallinq all- its resolutions on the subject, in particular resolutions32/9L B and C of L3 December L977, 33AL3 C of tg oecember 1978, 34/90 A of
12 December 1979, and 35/L22 C of 11 December 1980, and also those adopted by ttre
Security Council, the Conmission on Human Rights and other United Nations organs
concerned and by the specialized agencies,

Having considered the retrnrt of the Special Conmittee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of ttre Occupied
Territoriest il which contains, inter alia, public statements made by the leaders
of the Government of Israel,

L. Commends the Special- Comrnittee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting
the Human RightS of the Fopulat,ion of the Occupied Territories for its efforts in
performing the tasks.assigned to it by the General Assembly and for lts
thoroughness and impartialityi

2. DepLores the continued refusal- by IsraeL to allow the Special Cornnittee
access to the occupied territories;

3. Demands that Israel allow the Special Comnittee access to the occupied
territoriest,

4. Reaffirms the fact that occupation itself constitutes a grave violatlon
of the human rights of the civilian trnpuLatlon of ttre occupied Arab territoriest

v
^/36/579.



^/36/632/Add.1English
Page 14

5. Oondemns the continued and persistent violation by Israel of the Geneva
@nvention-ffie to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Tine of war, of
12 August L949, and other applicable international instruments, and condemns in
particular those violations which that @nvention designates as "grave breachesn
thereofT

6. Declares that Israelrs grave breaches of the Geneva Convention, are ldar
crimes and an affront to hunanityl

7. Strongly condemns the following fsraeli policies and practices:

(a) Annexation of parts of the occupied territories, including Jerusalem7

(b) Establishment of new Israeli settlements and expansion of the existing
settlements on private and public Arab landsl and transfer of an alien trnpulation
theretoT

(c) Evacuation, deportation, expulsion, displacement and transfer of Arab
inhabitants of the occupied territories and denial of their right to returnt

(d) Confiscation and expropriation of private and public Arab property in ttre
occupied territories and all other transactions for the acquisition of land
involving the Israeli authorities, institutions or nationals on the one hand and
the inhabitants or institutions of the occupied territories on the othert

(e) s<cavations and transformations of the landscape and the historical,
cultural and religious sites, especially in Jerusalemt

(f) Destruction and denclition of Arab housesl

(S) Mass arrests, administrative detention and ill-treatment of the Arab
populationl

(h) Ill-treatment and torture of persons under detentionl

(i) Pill-aging of archaeological and cultural propertyl

(j) Interference with religious freedoms and practices as well as farnily
rights and customsS

(k) Interference with the system of education and with the social and
economic developnent of the popul-ation in the occupied Pal-estinian and other Arab
teritoriesT

(1) Interference with the freedom of movement of individuals within the
occupied Palestinian and other Arab territoriesS

(m) Illegal exploitation of the natural wealth, resources and population of
the occupied territoriesl



A/36/632/Add.1
English
Page 15

8. Reaffirms that all measures taken by Israel to change the physical
character, denographic composition, institutional structure or status of the
occupied territories, or any part thereof, including Jerusalem, are null and void,
and that Israelrs policy of settling parts of its population and new immigrants in
the occupied territories constitutes a flagrant violation of the Geneva @nvention
and of relevant United Nations resolutionsl

9. Demands that Israel desist forthwith fron the policies and practices
referred t-TFlEragraphs 7 and 8 above?

10. Urges the international organizations and specialized agencies, in
particular the International Labour organisation to examine the conditions of the
Arab uprkers in the occupied Palestinian and other Arab territoriesl including
Jerusalemt

11. Reiterates its call upon all States, in particular those States parties
to the c"nEilGnvention, in accordance with article I of that Convention, and ulnn
international organizations and the specialized agencies not to reoognize any
changes carried out by Israel in the occupied territories and to avoid actions,
including those in the field of aid, which might be used by Israel in its pursuit
of the trnlicies of annexation and colonization or any of the other policies and
practices referred to in the present resolution;

L2. Requests the Special Committee, pending the early termination of the
Israeli occupation, to continue to investigate fsraeli policies and practices in
the Arab territories occupied by fsrael since J.967 e to consult, as appropriate,
with the rnternational Committee of the Red Cross in order to ensure the
safeguarding of the welfare and human rights of the population of the occupied
territories and to reSnrt to the Secretary-General as soon as trnssible and whenever
the need arises thereafteri

13. Requests the Special Conunittee to continue to investigate the treatment
of civilians in detention in the Arab territories occupied by Israel since L967t

14. Requests the Secretary-General:

(a) Ib provide all necessary facilities to the Special @nmittee, including
those reguired for its visits to the occupied territories, with a view to
investigating the tsraeli policies and practices referred to in the present
resolut iong

(b) llr continue to make available additional staff as may be necessary to
assist the Special @nnittee in the performance of its taskst

(c) To ensure the widest circulation of the reports of the Special Committee,
and of information regarding its activities and findings, by all means available
through the Department of Public Information of Lhe Secretariat and, where
necessary, to reprint those re[nrts of the Special Oonmittee which are no longer
availableT

(d) To report to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session on the
tasks entrusted to him in the present paragraphi

/...



A/36/632/Add.I
English
Page 15

15. Requests the Security Council to ensure Israelrs respect for and
conpliance with aLl- ttre provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August L949, in Palestinian
and other Arab territories occupied since L957, including Jerusalen' and to
initiate measures to halt Israeli policies and practices in those territories;

16. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session the item entitl-ed rReport of the Special Conmittee to Investigate Israeli
Practices Nfecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories".

D

ltre. General Assembly,

Recalling Security Council resolutions 468 (1980) of 8 !4ay 1980, 469 (1980) of
20 !4ay 1980 and 484 (1980) of 19 December 1980,

Deeply concerned at the expulsion by the Israeli nilitary occupation
authorities of the Mayors of Hebron and IIaIhuI and of the Sharia Judge of Hebron,

Recalling the Geneva Cc;rvention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons
in Tirne of War of L2 Ar.rgust i)49, fu/ and in particular article I and the first
paragraph of article 49, whieh r{iad as foll-ows:

"Article I

"llhe High Contracting Parties undertake to respect and to ensure respect
for the present Convention in all circumstances."

'r Art icle 4 9

"fndividual or mass forcible transfers, as well as deportations of
protected persons from occupied territory to the territory of the occupying
Power or to that of any other country, occupied or not, are prohibited,
regardless of their motive . ..",

Reaffirning the applicability of the Geneva Convention to the Palestinian and
other Arab territories occupied by IsraeL since L967, including Jerusalem,

1. Demands that the Government of Israel, the occupying Polrer, rescind the
illegaI measures taken by the Israeli military occupation authorities in expelling
and inprisoning the Mayors of Hebron and Halhul and in expelling the Sharia Judge
of Hebron and that it facilitate the immediate return of the expelled Palestinian
leaders so that they can resume the functions for which they were elected and
appointedl

9/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, tto. 973, p. 287.



2. Reguests ttre SecretarleGeneral
as possible on the implementation of the

A/36/632/Add.1
EngLish
Page 17

to report to the General Assembly as soon
present resolution.

E

The General Assenbly,

DeePIy concerned that the Arab territories occupied since lgGZ have been under
continued illegal Israeli nilitary occupation,

- - 
Recalling its previous resolutions, in particular resolution 3414 (xx)

of 5 December 1975, 3L/6L of 9 Decernber 1976-, 32/20 of 25 l{ovenber L977, 33/2g
and 33/29 of 7 December 1978, 34/70 of 6 December 1979, and 3s/L22 E of
11 Decenber 1980, in which it, inter alia, called upon Israel to put an end to its
i!-legal occupation of the lrau ffiE6ffis and to wittrdraw from arr those
terr itor ies,

Gravely concernej at reports indicating measures being taken by the Israeli
authorities to enact legislation embodying changes in the character and status of
the occupied Syrian Arab Golan Heights,

Reaffirning that the acquisition of territory by force is inadrnissible under
the Ctrarter of the United tibtions and ttrat all territories thus occupied by Israel
must be returned,

Re.calling the Geneva Convention relative to the protection of Civilian pers*n.":
in Tine of l{ar , of L2 Arrgudt L949, 7 /

I. Condemns the pe,rsistence of Israel in changing the physical character,
dernogratr*riG;ilF;ition, institutional structure and legal staEus of the occupied
Syrian Arab Golan Heights;

2. Strongly condemns the refusal by Israel, the occupying power, to conply
with the relevant resolutions of the General A.ssembly and the Security CouncilJ

3. Determines that all legislative and administrative measures and actions
taken or to be taken by Israel, the occupying Power, that purport to alter the
character and legal status of the Syrian Arab Go1an Heights are nulL and void anrl
constitute a flagrant violation of international law and of the Geneva Convenfir::::
relative to the Protection ef Civilian Persons in Time of war and have no leg*.l
effectS

-4.. SgronglY condemns Israe{- for its attempts and measures to inlnse for:*iL,:,,Israeli citizenship and Israeli identity cards on the Syrian citizens in the
occupied Syrian Arab Golan Heights and to desist fron its repressive measures
against the population of the Syrian Arab @1an lteights;

U United Nations, Treatv Series, vol_. 75, No. 9?3, p" ?g?.



A/36/632/ Add. l
English
Page 18

5. Calls upon Member
administrative measures and

States not to recognize any of the legislative or
actions referred to abovei

6. Ca1ls upon Israelr the occupying Power, to desist forthwith from enacting
such legislative or adninistrative measuresi

7. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a rePort on the inplementation
of this resotution to the General Assenbly at its thirty-seventh session.

F

Ttre CeneFal Assenblyr

Bearing in mind the Geneval Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian
Persons in Time of War, of L2 Argust L949, 8/

Deeply shocked by the mosl recent atrocities committed by Israel, the
occupfig powerl agtainst educational institutions in the occupied Palestinian
terr itor ies,

I. Reaffirns the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the
protection of Civifian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August L949' 8,/ to the
palestinian and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since f,967, including
Jerusalemi

2. Condemns Israeli policies and practices against Palestinian students and
faculty in sctroofs, universities and other educational institutions in the occupied
palestinian territories, especially the policy of opening fire on defenceless
students, causing many casualtiesi

3. Condemns the systematic Israeli campaign of repression against and
closing ofG$Gities in the occupied Palestinian territories, restricting and
impeding academic activities of Palestinian universities by subjecting the
selection of courses, texlbooks and educational programmes, the adnission of
students and the appointment of faculty menbers to the control and supervision of
the military occupation authorities, in clear contravention of the Geneva
eonvention;

4. Demands that Israel, the occupying Po\rer, conply with the provisions of
the Geneva Convention and rescind all actions and measures against all educational
i;istitutions and ensure the freedom of these institutions, and that it rescind
irnmediately orders for the closure of the universities of Bir Zeit, Bethlehen and
Al-llajah and facilitate the resumption of education in the above-mentioned
institutions i

9/ United Nations, Treaty Seriesr vol. 75, No. 973, p. 287.



A/36/632/Add. r
English
Page 19

5. Requests the Secretary-General to subnit a report on the implementation
of the present resolution before the end of 1981.

G

The General Assembly,

Recalling Security Council resolution 471 of 5 June 1980, in which the Council
condemned the assassination attempts against the Mayors of Nablus, Ramallah and
A1 Beireh and called for the imnediate apprehension and prosecution of the
perpetrators of these crimes,

Recalling once again the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of
Civilian Persons in Time of war, of L2 August L949, \/ and in particular articLe 27,
which states, inter alia:

rrProtected persons are enLitled, in all circumstances, to respect for their
persons .... they shall at all times be humanely treated, and shall be
protected especially against all acts of violence or threats thereof".

Reaffirminq the applicability of the Geneva Convention to the Arab territories
occupied by Israel since L967, including Jerusalem,

1. Expresses deep concern that fsrael, the occupying Por,eer, has failed so
far to apprehend and prosecute the perpetrators of the assassination attempts;

2. Demands that Israel, the occupying Power, inform the Secretary-General of
the results of the investigations relevant to the assassination attemptsi

3. Requests the Secreta'ryeC'eneral to submit a report not later than
31 December 1981 on the inplementation of the present resolution.

2/ United Nations, Treaty Series, voI. 75, No. 973, p. 287.




