
















































UNITED
NATIONS

@ 
Generar Assembrv

Distr.
GENERAL

A/36/75e
7 December 1981

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 135

PREVENTION OF NUCLEAR CATASTROPIIE: DECLARATION OF THE GENERAL ASSET,IBLY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Alemayehu MAKONNEN (Ethiopia)

I. INTRODUCTION

I. The item entitled "Prevention of nuclear catastrophe: Declaration of the
General Assembly" was included in the draft agenda of the thirty-sixth session on
the basis of a request contained in a letter dated 22 September L98I fron the
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the
Secretary-General (p/36/24L') .

2. At its 28th plenary meeting, on 6 October 1981, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd neeting' on 7 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
combj.ned general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmanent,
namelyr iLems 39 to 56, L28 and 135. ltre general debate on these items took place
at the 3rd to 26th meetings, from 19 october to 4 November (see A,/c. L/36/pv.3-26, .

4. In connexion with item 135, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Let.ter dated 22 September 1981 from the Minister for Forelgn Affairs of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the Secretary-General (A/36/24L1 i

(b) Letter dated 2l October 1981 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (p/C. L/36 /7) .

8l-352s5 3662f (E)



A/36/7s9
English
Page 2

rI. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.I/36/L.2 and Rev.l and 2

5. On 3 llovember, the Union qf Soviet Socialist !gg!,!!cs submitted a draft
resolution (A/c.L/36/L. 2

"The General Assembly,

"Beariry.j.,_rnfnd that the foremost task of the United Nations, born in the
f1amesffir1dWar,hasbeen,isandwilIbetosavethepresent
and succeeding generations from the scourge of war,

"Recognizing that all the horrors of past wars and all other calamities
that have befallen people would pale in comparison with what is inherent in
the use of nuclear weapons capable of destroying civilization on earth,

"ON BEHALF OF THE STATES MEIvIBERS OF THE UNITED NATTONS SOLEMNLY PROCLAIMS:

"1. States and statesmen that resort first to the use of nuclear weapons
will be committing the gravest crime against hunanityl

"2. There will never be
would take the decision to be

justification or pardon for statesmen who
first to use nuclear weaponsi

any
the

u3. Any doctrines allowing the first use of nuclear hreapons and any
actions pushing the world towards a catastrophe are inconpatible with human
moral standards and the lofty ideals of the United Nations;

"4. It is the supreme duty and direct obligation of the leaders of
nuclear-weapon States to act in such a way as to eliminate the risk of the
outbreak of a nuclear conflict. The nuclear arms race must be stopped and
reversed by joint effort, through negoLiations conducted in good faith and on
the basis of equalityi

"5. Nuclear energy should be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and
only for the benefit of rnankind.',

6. At the 35th neeting, on 19 l{ovember, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
submitted revisions to draft resolution A/C.L/36/L.2. Under those revision.s a
third and a fourth preambular paragraph were added, which read as follows:

"Reaffirming that the universally accepted objective is to elirninate
compteEdf@ssibility of the use of nucrear weapons through the cessation
of their production followed by the destruction of their stockpiles and that,
to this end, priority in disarmament negotiations should be given to nuclear
disarmament,

"Convinced that, as the first step in this direction, the use of nuclear
weapons and the waging of nuclear war should be outlawed".

The revised draft resolution (A/C.L/36/L.2/Rev.1) was subsequently sponsored also
by Angola.



A/36/75e
English
Page 3

7. At the 41st meeting, on 24 lbvember, the representative of Mexico prolnsed,
and the sponsors accepted, an oral amendment to operative paragraptt a of draft
resolution A/C.L/36/L.2/Rev.1, which would add at the end of the paragraph the
words "having as their ultimate goal the complete elimination of nuclear weapons'r.

8. The amended draft resolution (A/C.L/36/L.2/Rev.2) was subsequently strnnsored
also by the German Democratic Republic and lr,trongolia.

9. At its 43rd meeting, on 25 lbvember, the @nmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/36/L.2/Rev.2 by a recorded vote of 67 to 18, with 37 abstentions (see
para. 10). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Ango1a, Bahrain, Benin, Bhutan, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde,
Chad, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Ecuador,
Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-
Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, fran, Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kuwaite Lao peoplers Democratic Repubtic,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, MaIir Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, l"longolia, lbzambique, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, peru, ehilippines, poland, eatar,
bmania, Sao Tbme and Principe, Sierra l€one, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
syrian Arab Republic, uganda, ukrainian soviet sociarist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republicsr United Arab Bnirates, United
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, yugoslavia.

Australia, Belgiurn, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Israell lta1y, Japan, Netherlands, New
Zealand, lbrlvay, portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and ltcrthern Ire1and, United States of America.

Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bolivia, BtaziJ-, Burma, Central
African Republic, Chile, Democratic lGmpuchea, Egypt, Finland,
Gabon, Ghana, Greece, Honduras, Ireland, fvory Coast, Kenya,
Lesotho, Malaysia, lbrocco, Niger, Onan, papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Rr,vanda, Senegal, Singatrnre, Somalia, Swaziland, Sweden,
Sudan, Ibgo, Trinidad and 1tobago, Tunisia, Zaire, Zambia.

rIT. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FTRST COMMITTEE

Against:

Abstaining:

10. The First @mrnittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:



A/36/75e
English
Page 4

Declaration on the Prevention of Nuclear Catastrophe

The General Assemb1y,

Bearing in mind that the forerncst task of the United Nations, born in the
flames of the Second !{orld War, has been, is and will be to save present and
succeeding generations from the scourge of war,

Recognizing that all the horrors of past wars and all other calanities that
have befallen people would pale in cornparison with what is inherent in the use of
nuclear $reapons capable of destroying civilization on earth,

Reaffirming that the universally accepted objective is to eliminate completely
the possibility of the use of nuclear weapons through the cessation of their
production, followed by the destruction of their stockpiles, and that' to this end'
priority in disarmament negotiations should be given to nuclear disarmament'

Convinced that, as the first step in this direction, the use of nuclear
weapons and the waging of nuclear rdar should be outlawed'

SOLEMNLY PRGLATMS, ON BEHALF OF THE STATES MU\,IBERS OF THE UNITED NATIONS,

1. States and statesmen that resort first to the use of nuclear weatrnns will
be committing the gravest crime against humanityT

2. Ttrere will never be any justification or pardon for statesmen who would
take the decision to be the first to use nuclear weaponsi

3. Any doctrines allowing the first use of nuclear rdeapons and any actions
pushing the world towards a catastrophe are incornpatible with human moral standards
and the lofty ideals of the United Nations;

4. It is the supreme duty and direct obligation of the leaders of
nuclear-weapon States to act in such a way as to eliminate the risk of the outbreak
of a nuclear conflict. The nuclear-arms race must be stopped and reversed by joint
effort, through negotiations conducted in good faith and on the basis of egualityl
having as their ultirnate goal the complete elimination of nuclear weaponsi

5. Nuclear energy should be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and only
for the benefit of nankind.




