
















































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

^/36/7828 December 1981
ENGLISH
ORIGINALi: SPANISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 122

FEPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS
AND ON THE STRENGTHENING OF THE ROLE OF THE ORGANTZATION

Report of the Sixth Committee

R4Pporteur: I"1r. Antonio VINAL (Spain)

r. INIRODrcTION

1. the item entitled "Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
ttrited l'lations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization'! was
included in the provisional- agenda of the thirty-sixth session of the General
Assembly pursuant to the provisions of paragraph L2 of Assembly resolutioA 35/L64
of 15 December 1980.

2. on the recornmendation of the General Conmittee, the General- Assembly decided
at its 4th plenary meetingr or 18 September 198I, to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Sixth Committee.

3. In connexion with this item, the Sixth Committee ha'cl before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Special Committe€ on the Charter of the United Nations and
on the Strengthening of the RoIe of the Organi.zatLoni L,/

(b) Report of the Secretary-C'eneral on the Repertoire of the Practice of the
Securitv,Council and Repertory of Practice of United Nations organs (A/C.6/36/2').

4. the Committee considered the item at its 25th neeting, on 21 October, at its
28th to 35th meetings, from 22 Lo 29 October, and at its 37th, 38th, 59th and

y OfficiaL Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-sixth Session,
9upplement No. 33 (M35/33) .

81-35638 009si (E)



A/36/782
English
Page 2

54th meetings, on 2 and 25 Novernber and 1 December 1981. [?re sunmary records of
those meetings (A/C.6/36/SR.26,28-35,37,38,59 and 64) contain the views of
representatives who spoke during the consideration of the item.

5. At its 4th and l3th meetings, on 24 September and 5 october, the Committee
made decisions concerning its consideration of item 122 ("Report of the Special
Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the RoIe
of the Organization") and item 118 ("Peaceful settlement of disputes between
States"). It was decided that the two items would be considered in the same r,ray as
at the thirty-fifth session of the General Assembly. Ttrus, in princii:le six
meetings were allocated to item L22 and four to item 118, it being understood, in
view of the elements common to the two items, that all necessary flexibility would
be applied in order to allow individual delegations to deal with the two items in
the way which seemed to them to be the most appropriate. on 22 September, at its
2nd meeting, the Sixth Comnittee decided, in l-ight of paragraphs 20 and 2l- of the
report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on the
Strengthening of the Role of the Organization on its L981 session, U to set up an
open-ended working group with a view to finalizing the draft Manila declaration on
the peaceful settlement of disputes. The results of the deliberations of that
Working Group are contained in its report subnitted to the Sixth Committee
(A/c.6/36/L.re',) . 3/

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

6. At the 59th meeting, on 25 lrlovember, the representative of the Philippines
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.6/36/L.I0), sponsored by Argentina, Bahamas,
Banqladesh, @'i!, Ctrile, the Congo, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt, Germany' Federal
Republic of, Indonesia, J-!gIy., Jamaica, Japan, Liberia, Madagascar, Mexico, New
Zealand, Nigeriar Panama, Paraguay, the Philippines, Romania, Rranda, $i3gapore_,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, -Wuay, YgEEgq}g,
Yuqoslavia, Zaire and Zambia, later joined by Colonbia, El Salvador, Suriname and
the United Republ-ic of Cameroon (for the text of the resolution, see para. 16).

7. Ihe Conmittee had before it a staternent subnitted by the Secretary-General
(P/C.6/36/L.14) on the administrative and financial implications of the draft
resolution (A/C.6/35/L.10) , as well as observations by the Committee on Conferences
submitted in accordance with paragraph 6 of General Assembly resolution 35/L0 A
(a/ c.6 /36 /L. l4lAdd . 1) .

8. At the same meeting, the representative of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.6135/L.12 and Corr.I (English only)), sponsored
by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriva and Mauritania (for the text of the resolution, see
para" 17).

u rbid.

!/ See also the report
item I18 (A/36/778).

of the Sixth Committee on its consideration of



A/36/782
English
Page 3

9. 9n I Decemberl at the 64th rneetlng, the representative of Mexico introduced
and oralty revised a draft resolution entitled'r,tJpdating of the Repertoire of the
Practi.ce of the Securi.ty Oouncil and the Repertory of Practice of United Nations
organs' _(A/C.6/36/L.18) , gPonsored by Argentinar ![i!g, Egypt, Germanv, Federal-
Republic of, ftalyr J?pqn, !!exico, ldew Zealand, the Phil-ippines, Roman:lg, Spain,
and'Veneztfgla, J.ater joined by Eeuado.r, Greece and Sierri Leone (for the text of
the resolution, see para. 18).

10. At the same meeting, the Cornnittee proceeded to take a decision on draft
resolution AC.6/36/L.LA. Separate votes rrere requested on the words "and to make
recommendations thereon'r contained in operative paragraph 2 (b) and operative
paragraph 4 (a). Ttre representatives of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
the United States of America and France explained their vote before the separate
votes.

11. By a recorded vote of 89 to 15r with 6 abstentions, the Comnittee at that
rneeting retained the words "and to make recommendations thereon" contained in
operative paragratr*r 2 (b) of draft resolution A/C.6/36/L.L0. The voting \^ras as
followss

fn favour: Algeria, Argentina, Austral-ia, Austria, Bahanas, Bahrain,
Bargladesh, Barbados, BeJ-giumrBhutan, BraTiL, BurmgT Burundi,
Canada, Chad, Chiler Chinar Congo, Cyprusr Denmark, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Germany, Fbderal RepUblic of,
Ghanar Greece, Guinea, Guyana, fcel-and, fndia, Indonesia, fran,
fraql frel-and, ftalyl Ivory Coast, JapanT Jordan, IGnya, Kuwait,
Iebanon, Liberiar Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Maldives,
MaIi, !,lauritania, llexico, Morocco, t€pa1, titretherlands, libw
?ealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panamal Papua lbw Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Ptrilippines, Romania,
Rwanda, Saudi. Arabia, Sgnegal-, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain,
Srri lanka, Sudan., Suriname, Sweden, Ihailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia and
imbabwe.

Afghanistanr Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
9uba, Czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic Republic,
Hungary, Lao People's DemoCratic Republic, Mongolia, Po1and,
Llkrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Ilnion of Soviet SociaList
Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
and Lhited States of America.

Against:

A,bgtaining: Central African Republ-ic, Democratic Yemen, Finland, fsrael,
Portugal and tBper Volta.

L2. Ttre Committee then decided, by a recorded vote of 8l to 16, with
14 abstentions, to retain operative paragraph 4 (a) of draft resolution
VC.6/36/L.I0. Ttre voting lras as foll-ows:



A/36/782
English
Page 4

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Austra!-ia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladeshr Barbados, Bhutan, BraziL, Burma, Burundi, Canada,
Chadr Chile, China, Congo, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Gabon, Germany, Ebderal Republic of, Glrana, Guinea, Guyana'
Indonesia, Iran; Iraq, Italyr Ivory Coastr Japan, Jordan, Kenyal
Kuwaitr Iebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar,
Ma1dives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal1 New Zea1and,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Omanl Pakistan, Panama, Papua tibw
Guinear Paraguay, Perul Philippines, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Ieone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Ianka,
Sudan, Surinamer Ttrailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
tlanda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroonl
Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemenl Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

Afghanistan, Bulgariar Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cubar Czechoslovakia, FinLand, France, Gernan Democratic
Repub1ic, lfungary, Iao Peoplers Emocratic Republic, Mongolia,
PoLandr Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republicsr tlnited Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, and United States of America.

Againstr

Abstaininq: Belgiurn, Central African RepubLic, Emocratic Yemen, Denmark,
Greece, fceland, fndia, Irel-and, Israel, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Srveden and upper Volta.

13. Draft resolution A/C.6/36/L.10 as a whoLe was adopted by the Committee at the
same neeting by a recorded vote of 100 to noner with 14 abstentions (see para. 15).
Ttre voting nas as follows:

fn favour: Algeria, Argent,ina, Austral-ia, Austria, Bahanas, Bahrain,
Bangladeshr Barbados, Belgium, Benin, BhutanT Bolivia, Brazil,
Burma, Burundi, Canada, Central- African Republicl Chad, Chile,
China, Oongo, Clzprus, Democratic Yemen, Enmark, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia' Fijir Finland, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghanar Greece, Guinea, Guyana, IceLand, India, fndonesia, franl
Iraqr freland, fsrael, ftalyl lvory Coast, Japan, Jordanr Kenyal
Kuwaitr Iebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Ma1dives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands,
tibw Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigerial llorway, Qnanl Pakistan,
Panatna, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, PhiLippines, Portugal,
Romania, Rranda, Saudi Arabiar Senegal, Sierra leone, Singapore,
Spain' Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and llobago, l\rnisia, Qanda, United Agab Enirates,
United Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern Irel-and, United
Republic of Cameroon, United States of America, Upper VoJ-ta,
Uruguay' Venezuela, Yetnen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zarnbia and Zimbabwe.

None.Againstt



v36/782
English
Page 5

Abstaininq: Mghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Sovlet Socialist Republic,
Cuba, Czechoslovakiar France, German emocratic Republic,
Hungary, Iao Feoplers Demociatic Republic, Mongoliar bland,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, and Viet Nam.

Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of the United
States of America, the German Denocratic Republic and Foland.

L4. Also at the 54th meeting, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution P{C.6/36/L.12
and Corr.l (English only) by a recorded vote of 34 to 33, with 43 abstentions
(see para. 17). The voting ldas as followsl

In favour: Algeria, Bahrain, Benin, Burundir Clrad, China, Congot
Guinear Guyana, Indonesia, Iran, fragr Jordanr Kenya'
Kuwait, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexicor Nicaragua, Niger,
Panama, Romania, Sierra Ieone, tlandar United Arab Elniratest
United Republic of Cameroon, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia
and Zinbabwe.

Against: Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Byelorussian Soviet SociaList Republic, Canadar Cubar
Czechosl-ovakia, Denmarkr Finland, France, German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Hungary,
fceland, Irel-and, IsraeJ-, ItaLyr Lao Peoplers Democratic
Republic, Luxembourg, t"tongolia, tibtherlands, Iibw Zealandt
Norway, Poland, Portugal, Sweden, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Ilnion of Soviet Socialist Republicsr United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and United
States of America.

Abstaining; Argentina, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan' Boliviar
Brazi]-t Burma, Central African Republic, Chile, hnocratic
yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ghana, India'
fvory Coast, Japan, Iebanon' llbroccor tilePal, Nigeriar Onan,
Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Perul PhilipPinest
Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sri Iankar Sudan, Surinamer
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobagor Tunisiar Upper Vol-ta,
Uruguay, Zaite r and Zambia.

Statements in expJ-anation of vote were made by the representatives of the Federal
Republic of Germany, the llnited States of America, Italyr Ftance, the Uirited
Kingdomof Great Britain and Northern freland, Panamdr Perur Egypt, BrazLI, Zairet
Spain, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and Japan.

15. FinaL1y, the Committee adopted at the same meeting draft resolution
P{C.6/36/L.1-8 without a vote (see para. 18).



A/36/782
English
Page 6

III. RECOMI4ENDATIONS OF THE SIXTH COMMITTEE

16. lttre Sixth @mmittee recommends to the CieneraL A.ssembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

The Ceneral Assembly,

Reaffirming its suplnrt for the purposes and principles set forth in the
Charter of the United ltbtions,

Recalling its resolutions 586 (VII) of 5 December 1952, 992 (X) of
2l libvenber 1955 , 2285 (xxII) of 5 Decenber 1967 , 2252 (XxIv) of L2 December L969,
2697 (XXV) of 1I lrecenber 1970 , 2968 (XXWI) of 14 December 1972 and 3349 (XXIX) of
17 Decenber L974,

Recalling also its resolutions 2925 (Xx\ruI) of 27 lilrvember 1972, 3073 (XXVIII)
of 30 libvember 1973 and 3282 (XXIX) of L2 Decernber 1974 on the strengthening of the
role of the United Nations,

Recalling especially its resolution 3499 (XXX) of 15 Decernber 1975, by which
it established the Special @runittee on the Charter of the tlnited Nations and on
the Strengthening of the b1e of the organization, and its resolutions 3L/28 of
29 l$vember 1976, 32/45 of 8 Decenber 1977, 33/94 of 16 lbcember L978, 34/147 of
17 December 1979 and 35/154 of 15 December 1980,

Having considered the retrnrt of the Special Oorunittee, 4,/

lbting that significant progress has been made in fulfilling the mandate of
the Special @mmittee,

tibting also the progress of the debate held during the thirty-sixth session on
the iten entitled "Peaceful settlement of disputes between States"r included in the
agenda in pursuance of General Assembly resolution 35/L64 of 15 Decenber 198I,
especially concerning the consideration of the draft ltlanila declaration on the
peaceful settlement of international disputes, 5,/

lbting the importance that pre-session c'onsultations among the members of the
Special Committee and other interested States may have in facilitating the
fulfilment of its task,

@nsidering that the Special Committee has not yet completed the mandate
entrusted to it,

!/ Official Records of the General Assemb1y, Thirty-sixth Session,
Supplenent lb. 33 (A/36/33').

z/ rbid., Thirty-f ifth session, supplenent litr. 33, (A/35/33), para. 159.



A/36/782
English
Page 7

1. Takes note of the retrnrt of the Special. 6nunittee on the Ctrarter of the
United l€tions and on the Strengthening of the ble of the Organization;

2. Decides that the Special Oommittee should continue its work in pursuance
of the following tasks with which it is entrusted:

(a) To list the protrnsals which have been made or wiLl be made in the
Coltuttittee and to identify those which have awakened special interestt

(b) Itr examine proposals which have been made or will be made in the
@mmittee with a view to according priority to the consideration of those on which
agreement seems trnssible and to make recommendations thereonl

3. Also decides that the SpeciaL Committee shall convene its next session
fron 22 February to 19 March L982t

4. Requests the Special Committee at its next session:

(a) Ib accord priority to its rrcrk on the proposals regarding the question of
the maintenance of international peace and security, including those relating to
the functioning of the Security @uncil, with a view to ontinuing its examination
of the conpilation of protrnsals contained in its retrnrt on the work of its L980
session 5/ and to onsidering the recommendations and protrnsals submitted during
its 1981 session or thereafterl

(b) ilb consider proposals made by Mernber States on the question of
rationalization of existing procedures of the Utited lilations and, subsequently, any
protrnsals under other topicsl

5. Also requests the Special Conunittee to finalize the draft Manila
declaratioiGEe peacetut sltttement of international disputes with the view to
its consideration and adoption by the General Assembly and to submit it to the
Assembly at its thirty-seventh sessionl

6. ltrrther requests the Special Conmittee, in the light of the progress it
has achieved concerning the guestion of the peaceful settlement of disputes to
continue its work on this question by considering the rernaining protrnsals oontained
in the list prepared by the Oonunittee in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 33/941

'1. Requests the Special Conunittee to be mindful of the imtrnrtance of
reaching general agreement whenever it has significance for the outome of its workt

8. Urges members of the SpeciaL Conmittee to participate fully in its work
in fulfilnent of the mandate entrusted to itl



v36/782
EngLish
Page 8

9. Decides that the Special Conmittee shall accept the participation of
observers 6ffiffier States in its meetings and, paying -ue reglrd to its efficiency
and the time at its distrnsal, allow their participation in the meetings of its
working groupst

10. fnviges Governments to submit or to bring up to date, if they deen it
necessary' their observations and proposals in accordance with General Assenbly
resolution 3499 (XXX) r

11. Requests the Secretary-@neral to prepare an
oontaining an analytical sunmary of the statements made
the iten during the thirty-sixth session of the General
to the Special Oomnittee at its next sessionT

L2. Requests the Secretary-General to render all
Oomnittee, including the provision of summary recordsT

informal working paper
in the Sixth Conmittee on
Assembly and to submit it

assistance to the Special

13. Requests the Special Conrnittee to subnit a retrnrt on its work to the
GeneraL Assembly at its thirty-seventh sessionl

14. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session the iten entitled I'Retrnrt of the Special @nunittee on the Charter of the
United lihtions and on the Strengthening of the ble of the Organization".

L7. The Sixth @mmittee also recommends to the General Assernbly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Ttre General Assembly,

Recognizing the imtrnrtance of the fundamental role entrusted to the Security
Oouncil in the maintenance of international- peace and security,

l{oting that the experience of previous years regarding the application of the
rule that decisions of the Security Oouncil on all non-proceduraL matters reguire
the concurring votes of alL the permanent members has shown abuse in many cases,
causing thereby a default in the fulfilment of the imtrnrtant tasks of the Council,

libting also that several times the application of that rule has weakened the
enhancement by the United llations of the inalienable rights of peoples suffering
from the policies of apartheid, foreign domination and occupation,

Taking into account resolution 486 (XXvII) , !-/ abVted by the @uncil of
Ministers of the organization of African Unity at its twenty-seventh ordinary
session, held at Port Iouis from 24 June to 3 JuIy L976, resolution 4, Z/ adopted
by the Fifth Conference of Heads of State or C;overnment of libn-Aligned Countries,

See A/3L/196 and Corr.l, Annex.

*e A/3L/197, Annex IV, section B.

9/

!/



held at @lombo from 16 to 19 August
held at Havana from 3 to 9 September
Eighth fslamic Gonference of Fbreign
22 r{'ay 1977,

A/36/782
&rglish
Page 9

L976, resolution 7 of the Sixth Conference, 9/
L979, and resolution 3/8-p, 9/ adopted by the
Ministersr held at Tritrnli from 15 to

1. Decides that the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations
and on the Strengthening of the ble of the Organization shall examine the abuse of
the rule requiring the unanimity of the permanent members of the Security @uncil
for the adoption of decisions on non-procedural matters, namely, those relating to
the inalienable rights of peoples struggJ-ing against racism including apartheid,
and all other forms of foreign domination and occupation, taking into
consideration, inter alia:

(a) The need for the strengthening of the role of the Security @uncil in the
maintenance of international peace and securityl

(b) llhe fact that the maintenance of international peace and security under
the Charter is the primary responsibility of the Security Council requiring the
active participation of all Member States of the organization to maintain
international peace and securityT

(c) Ttre need for assessing the best means to eliminate the harmful and
detrinental effects to international peace and security as a result of the abuse in
the application of the rule of unanimityT

2. Requests the Special Oorunittee to include its deliberations concerning
the aforementioned paragraph I in its retrnrt to the General Assembly at its
thirty-seventh session.

18. The Sixth Committee also recommends to the General Assenbly the adoption of
the following draft resolution:

Ulgdating of the Repertoire of the Practice of the Security Council
and the Repertory of Practice of United litations Organs

The C€neral Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 602 (VI) of 1 February L952 and 586 (vII) of
5 December L952 concerning the preparation and publication of the Repertoire of the
Practice of the Security Council,

Recalling also its resolutions 796 (VIII) of 27 litrvember 1953 and 992 (X) of
2l lbvember 1955 concerning the preparation and publication of the Repertory of
Practice of United tihtions Organs,

See A/34/542, section VI A.

A/32/235, Annex I.

g./

2/



v36/782
ErgLish
Page l0

Recalling as well its resolution 2482 (xxIII) of 2L December 1968 on the
budget for the financial year 1969 which provided new posts for the continuing rprk
on the repertories relating to the Charter, the practice of United Nations organs
and the rules of procedure of the Ceneral Assembly, to be undertaken by the General
Icaal Division of the Office of Iega1 \ffairs of the Secretariat,

further its resolution 35/L64 of 15 December 1980 concerning the
of the supplements to the Repertoire and the Repertory,publication

Taking note of paragraph L3 of the report of the
Charter of the United titriations and on the Strengthening
Organization on its 1981 sessionr 10,/

Special @nnittee on the
of the Role of the

Taking note also of the retrnrt of the Secretary-General on the status of the
prelnration and publication of the Repertoire and the Repertory, U

Reognizing the intrnrtance and usefulness of the Repertoire and the Repertory
ae the principal sources of reoords for the analytical studies of the application
and interpretation of the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations and of
the rules of procedure made thereunder,

Itequests the Secretary-General to give high priority to the preparation and
publication of the supplements to the Repertoire of the Practice of the Security
Oouncil and the IGpertory of Practice of United Nations organs in order to bring
those publications up to date as quickly as possibLe and to submit a progress
re1Drt on the matter to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session.

!9/ Official Records of the General
Supplement lib. 33 (A/36/331.

g/ A/c.6/36/2.

Assembl Thirt ixth Session,




