








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/35/694/8dd.LO
1 December 1981

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 69 (k)

DEVEIOPMENT AND INTERNATIONAL ECONCI4IC CO-OPERATION:
HTJMAN SETTLEMENTS

Rapporteur: Mr. Atrmed OULD SIDTAHMED (Mauritania)

I. INTRODT'CTION
1' the second corunittee held a substantive debate on item 5g (see A/36/6g4,para. 21. Action to be taken on subiten (k) was considered at the 25th, 2gEh,3lst' 35th, 39th and 40th meetings of the comnittee, on 27 and 30 october and 6,11' 13 and 16 trtrovember 1981. An account of the connitteers discussion is containedin the relevant sutnmary records (A/c.2/36/sR.2a, 2g, 3L, 35, 39 and 40).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

t.
2' At the 25th meetingr gn 27 october, the representative of Algeria, on behalfof the States Menbers of the United N'3tigns lrhi;h "r. 

,.r.U"r;-"f the Group of 77,introduced a draft resotutj.on (F,/c,z/;ze/r.13) r entitled nrnternationar year ofShelter for the Homeless,', wtrich'r."i 
"" i;ii;r;;

"Ttre ..lFngr?l As.seqPly,

trRecalling its resolution 33/76 of 5 f,recember 19g0, in which it expressedt'he view that an international year devoted !o the pgobrems of homeless peoplein the urben and rural areas of the developing co,rriri.s ,ouii f. .nappropriate ocQasiol to focus Lhe attention of the internatipnal community onthose problems,
,tRecogn iz ino

in ttreffiEEb
81-34046 O23Oz (E)

the grave and generarly worsening situation of, the homeressccuntr ies,

resolut



^/35/694 
/Add.to

English
Page 2

"S!-g!3!g that the building, improvement and maintenance of shelter,
related thysic.l infrastructure and social facilities can contribute
signif icantly to national development,

''@oftheimperativeneedtornobi1izeeffective1ythe
considerable skills and resources that the homeless themselves possess for
building, improving and maintaining their own shelter and neighbourhoods,

"gryig! that, because of their complexity and magnitude, the problems
of the homeless require co-ordinated and concerted action at all levelsr'

'.@thataninternationa1yearofsheltetforthehonre1esswou1d
serve to increase public awareness at the local, national, regional and gtobal
levels and set in motion a process which would lead to significant improvement
in the situation of the homeless,

"Aware that, for an international year of shelter for the honeless to be
successful, adequate preparation and the support of Covernments, specialized
agencies, intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations and the public
at large would be required'

" the follow-up action so far taken by Member
States on tf,e impf.n..ULion of the recommendations of Habitat: United
Nations conference on Human settrements r,/ and the support being provided by
the United Nations Centre foi Human Settlements (Habitat) to developing
countries to facilitate that action,

"Recalling in that connexion its decis ion 35/424 of 5 December 1980 and
Sconomia ana Social Council resolution 1980/67 of 25 July 1980 on the guestion
of international years and anniversaries'

"Taking note of Economic and Social Council resolution 1981/69 B of
Za J,tryTA--.-tfre proposal to declare an international year of shelter for
the homeless,

'1. Decides to declare 1987 as the International Year of Shelter for the
Homeless and that financing of the Year should be based in principle on
voluntary contr i butions ;

ttz. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report on the
administrative and financial implications of holding the International Year of
Shelter for the Homeless in 1987, to be submitted to the General Assembly at
its thirty-seventh session, through the Cornmission on Human Settlements at its
fifth session and the Economic and Social Council at its second regular
session of L982i

L/ See neport of Habitat: United llations Cg?felgnce gn_Humgn Sgt9le$-e-n!sr
vancouver, 31 , sales No. 8.75.IV.7 and
corrigendum) .

/...



p/36/694/Pd'd,.LO
English
Page 3

'3. bsiqnales the .Conmission on Human Settlements as the United Nationslntergovernrnental body responsible for organizing the rnternational year ofShelter for the Honeless;

'4' I@' the Comnission on Human Settlements at its fifth session toformulater-for tonsideration by the General Assembly, a specific progrgmme ofneasures and activities to be undertaken prior to and during the rnternationar
Year of Shelter for the ltroneless on the basis of the draft progratnne to be

. prepared by the Secretary-General and to submit its first report on the yearto the Assembly at its thirty-seventh session,
"5' Appeals to all states, intergovernrnental and non-governmental

organizations and the public at large to support the preparations for thernternationar Year of shelter for the Honeless and to make generouscontributions to them.,,
3' At its 40th meeting, on 16 November, the committee considered a draftresolution @/e-2/36/L.59) submitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of thecommitteer oD the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolutionA/c'2/36/L.13. rn introducing draft resolution A/c.2/36/L.6g, the vice-chairmanorally revised operative paragraph 1 by replacing the words ',will be' with the word"arett.

4' At the same meeting, the committee adopted draft resolutio n A/c.2/35/L.6g, asorally revised, without a vote (see para. rg, draft resolution r).
5' rn the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/c.2/36/L.6gr draftresolution A/C.2/36/L.13 was withdrawn by the sponsors.

5' At the 28th meeting, on 30 october, the representative of the philippines, onbeharf of Argenginar.Bangradeshr_canadi, co.sga.nica, Ecuador, Fiji, rinrana,France" Kenva' *i":!1?, Noiwav, p"ru, ttr.@ introduced three

-

draft resorutions (A/c.2/36/L.25), undet tf,ffitt.rar title "Huma" settlementso.ti't9ii and-New ?ealand subsequently joined in sponsoring the draft resorutions,which read as followJ:

xA

"Report of the commission on Human settlements
"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 32/L62 of 19 December L977 on institutional
arrangements for international co-operation in the field of hunan settfemeitsand 341116 of 14 December 1979 on the strengthening of human settlementsactivities,

2. resolutions



A/36/694/Add,.LO
English
Page 4

u1.

the work

"@
the work of its fourth

"@itsresoIutions3201(s-vI)and3202(S-VI)of
I May Lg74, contJning the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the
nsta6lishnent of a New International Economic Order, 328L (XXIX) of
12 December l-974r containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of
States, and 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on developnent and international
economic co-oPeration t

"@theadoptioninL976oftheVancouverDec1arationon
Human Settlements and the other recomrnendations of Habitat: United Nations
Conference on Human Settl-emenEs, 2/

,,sgigilg the irnportance of the pronotion of human settlements
develoltent as a distinct and specific policy measure for the attainnent of
the goals and objectives of the International Development Strategy for the
Third United Nations Development Decade, adopted by the General Assembly in
its resolution 35/55 of 5 December 1980,

,'@thathunansett1ementsdeve1opmentshou1dbeviewedand
taken into account in the context of national plans and priorities and the
development of all countriesr in particular the developing countries,

"Recognizing that the Conmission on Human Settlenents has continued to
addresE itself effectively to substantive issues in the field of human
settlements of priority concern to Member States, particularly developing
countr ies r

''.@ofEconomicandSocia1Counci1resolution198t/59Aof
za .rufiTEGn international co-operation in the field of human settlementsr

Takes note of
of its fourth

the report of the Commission on
session, /
the rePort of the Commission on

sessioni

Human Settlements on

Human Settlenents on

n2. Welcomes resolution 4/L of 6 !,tay I98I , entitled "Manila Comrnuniqde
on Human Settlernents Movement", adopted by the Commission at its fourth
sessioni

n3. Urges the Commission on Human Settlenents to continue to take
account of and to provide adeguate supPort to technical co-operation among
developing countries in the formulation and implementation of its Programmes
on human settlements.

z/ rbid.

Supplement No. 8 (A/36/8') -
, Thirt -sixth Session,3/ Official Records of the General Assemb

J



A/36/6e4/ed,d.L0
English
Page 5

,IB

"Renewable souqces of energv for human settlements
ttTtte General Assemblv,

- ^ _ "Regarring its resorutions 33/L4g of 20 December r9zg, 34/L90 of18 Decenbet L979 and 35/204 of 16 December 1980 on the convening of the UnitedNations conference on New and Renewabre sources of Energy,

- 'Takinq 
note of Economic and social council resolution 19g1,/69 c of

24 July 198L on renewable sources of energy for human settlements,

- 'rTaking note also of the report of the United Nations Conference on Newand Renewable sourcesbf Energyr held at Nairobi from l0 to 2l August LggL, gl
'1. Welcomes the contributions made by the United Nations Centre for

Human settGEiF(Habitat) to the preparations for and success of the unitedNations conference on New and Renewable sources of Energyt
n2' Requests the Executive Director of the united Nations centre for

Human settlements (Habitat) to take the appropriate steps for the
implenentation of those recommendations ol- *rl united Nations conference on
New and Renewable sources of Energy within the mandate of the centre.

nMobil off

tc

aI resou the United Nations
t

"The General Assembly,

rRecalling its resolution 35/77 D of 5 December 19g0, in which it
urgently appealed to a1l States and appropriate financial institutions
or increase their voluntary contributions in support of the activitiesunited Nations centre for Human settlenents (nalitat),

oNotinq the continued need for financial resources for the fulL
inplementation of the projected activities of the Centre under the work
programme for the biennium 1982-1983 and the draft rnediun-term plan for
period I984-f989 approved by the Oommission on Human Settlements at itssession,

_ 'llotiTg arso Economic and sociar council resorution 19gr,/69 A of24 JuLy 1981, particularly paragraphs 4 and 5 thereofl on the need for
adequate financing for the centrers project activities,

to nake
of the

the
fourth

!/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.gl. I.24.



A/36/594 /add.LO
English
Page 6

'E:<pressing its appreciation to those Governments that have so far made
financial contributions for the activities of the centrer

"Igj@1!g its urgent appeal to Member States to continue andl if
possiUG, to increase their contributions to the United Nations Centre-for'-Human Settlements (niUitat), and io those that have not yet contributed,
particularly deveJ-oped countries and other countries in a position to do sor
Lo nake volirntary contributions in support of the activities of the Centre.tr

7. At its 39th meeting, on 13 Novemberr the Cornmittee had before it three draft
resolutions (VC.2/36/L.551 subnitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Otairman of the
Committee, on the basis of informal consultations held on the draft resolutions
contained in document A,/C. 2/36/L.25.

8. At the same meeting, the Chairman informed the Committee that as a result of
further consultations the operative paragraph of draft resolution C, which read as
follows:

nReiterates its urgent appeal to Member States to continue and, if
possible, to increase their contributions to the United Nations Centre for
Hunan Settlenents (Habitat), and to those that have not yet contributed,
particularly developed countries and other countries in a position to do so,
to nake voluntary contributions to the United Nations Habitat and Human
Settlements Foun-clation in support of the activities of the Centre",

should be replaced with the following text:

"@'itsurgentappea1toMemberStatestocontributeandlif
possible, to increase their contributions to the United Nations Habitat and
Human Settlements Foundation in support of the activities of the United
Nations Centre for tluman Settlements (Habitat) and appeals to those that have
not yet contributedr particularly developed countries, and other countries in
a position to do so, also to make voluntary contributions".

9. ltre Cornmittee then adopted draft resolutions A to C contained in document
A/C.2/36/L.55, as orally revised, without a vote (see para. 18, draft resolutions
II A to C).

10. fn the light of the adoption of the draft resolutions in document
A/C.2/36/L.55, draft resolution A,/C.2/36/L.25 was withdrawn by the sPonsors.

11. The representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics made a statement.

3. Draft resolution A/C.2/35,/L.3llRev'1

L2. At the 3lst neetingl on 6 Novemberr the representative of the SITi3" T.b^.
Republic on behalf of afqhanistan, !1!gg5!3., Clrprlus, gzeqhpsLqrrakiq, DJibouti' the
Cerman oenocratic nepublic, -ttunqirv, Indonesia, Xg@, the Iao PeoPlef g D9mocratic
R"@ t'lati, Nicaraqua, @, Pakistan, E!?t, the qliial trFP
nepuElic, Tunisia, the Ukrainian Soviet Socia\lst RepubLic, the tnited Arab

/...



A/36/694/Ad'd.LO
English
Page 7

hil?!"!,.."9t9n-u11-{i?"!l?"tg,.introduced a drafr resolurio n (A/c.2/36/L.3L,/Rev.1)entitled 'rliving conaiEGnt? the palesti"iu"-p.o9re". subsequentty AlserialAnoora, BanqladeFhr.cuba,l Ethiopia, an. *rfi.,r'Guin.., Guinealnissau, rndia, theLibvan Arab .ramahirivil Ueg."*..r, $auriTanG, ii.ffio..o, Niqeria,
?:o 3m: i?q 

pri"TE{sa@G, 6EiiEld**i., rhe sudan and vier Nam joinedrn sponsoring the draft resolution.
13' A statement by the secretary-General on the administrative and financialimprications of arirt resotutioi o/".2/g6/L.3L/Rev.l was circulated in documentA/C.2/36/L.41.

14' At the 35th meeting, on 11 November, the representative of ,rgrdan proposedthat in operative paragraph 1 the words "!i!b gatisfact:lon,, after the words ,,Takesnotetrshou1dbedeleted.Theamend'.'t"lilGptedbyttresponl";:"---

15' The representatives of the union of soviet socialist Republics, rsrael, Jordanand rraq nade staternents in explanation of vote before the vote.
16' ltre conmittee then adopt'ed draft resolutio n A/c.2/36/L.3L/Rev.l, as orall-yrevisedr by a recorded vote of 98 to 2, with 26 abstentions (see para. Ig, draftresolution III). The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Asainst:

Abstaining:

Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin,Borivia, Botswana, Brazil-, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byerorussian sovietSocialist Republic, Cape Verd-", Cn.a, China, Comoros, Congo,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakiar' Democratic yemen, Djibouti,Ecuador, Egy?t, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gambia, German
Detocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinear Guinea-Biss€lur
Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran, frag, Jordan, Kenyal
IYyuil, La9 Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar, Mal-aysia, Mar.divesrMali, Irtauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nicaragua, Niger,Nigeria, Oman, pakistan, panama, papua New Guinea, peru,
Philippines, Poland, portugal, eatar, Romania, Rlranda, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi erabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Thailand,
Togor Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, uganda, ukrainiansoviet sociatist Repubri.c, union of soviet sociarist Repubrics,United Arab Enirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia,Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Israel, United States of America.
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burna, Canada, Central African
Republic, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Fiji, Finland, France,
9?P", Germany, Federal Repubic of, Guatemala, Iceland, Ireland,rtaly' rvory coast, Janaici, rapan, r,u*.*uouigr-tt.th"rrands, Newzearandr Norway, sweden, united Kingdom of Great Britain andNorthern freland



A/36/6e4/Ad,d.to
English
Page I

L7. After the adoPtion of the draft
were made by the representatives of
United Kingdom of Great Britain and
members of the European Conmunity) '

III. RECOTTII{ENDATIONS OF

18, The Second Conmittee reconmends to the
following draft resolutions:

resolutionr statements in explanation of vote
Japan, the United States of Anerica and the
uoitnern lreland (on behalf of the States

THE SECOND COMI'IITTEE

General Assernbly the adoption of the

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

rnternational Year of Shelter for the Honeless

llhe General AssemblY,

RecaLling its resolution 35/76 of 5 llecenber 1980, in which it e:<pressed the
view that an international y.ut b".roted to the problems of homeless 

people in urban
and rural areas of the developing countries would be an appropriate occasion 

to

focus the attention of the international community on those problens'

Recognizinq the grave and generally worseninq situation of the homeless in the
developing countriesr

Elnphasizinq that the buildingr inprovgment and maintenance of shel-ter' related
physical infrastructure and sociai facilities can contribute significantly to
national deveLoPmentt

Convinced of the imperative need to mobitize effectively the considerable
skiLl and resources that ttre homeless thenselves possess for building, improving
and maintaining their own shelter and neighbourhoods'

Also convinced that, because of their compLexity and magnitude, the 
problems

of the homeless Fquire co-ordinated and concerted action at all levels'

Confident that an international year of shelter for the horneless could 
serve

as a means of increasing public .rur.rr.s" at the local, national, regional and
global levels and set in motion a process which would lead to significant
itnprovenent in the situation of the homeless,

considering that hunan settlements activities constitute an irnportant 
policy

measure for the attainment of the toafs and objectives bf the International
Development Strategy for ttre ttriia-U"it"a nati6ns Development Decade' 

adopted by

the @nera1 Assembi' in its resolution 35/56 of 5 Decernber 1980t

Notinq with satisfaction the follow-up action so far taken by Menber 
States on

the irplementation of the recommendations of Habitat; United Nations Conference 
on



A/36/694/ed'd,LO
English
Page 9

Human Settlemenls, il and the support being provided by the United Nations Centre
for Human SettlemenEs (Habitat) to developing countries to facilitate that action,

Recalling in that connexion its decis ion 35/424 of 5 Decenber 1980 and
econotfil;mocial Council resolution 1980 /67 of 25 JuIy 1980 on the question of
international years and anniversariesr

Takins note of Economic and Social Council resolution |l98L/-69 B-of
Za .fufy fsaf on the proposal to declare an international year of shelter for the
homeless,

l. g.;41g, in principler to designate 1987 as the International Year of
Shelter for the ltomeless, on the understanding that ttre criteria for financing and
organizing international years set out in Economic and Social Council resolution
L98O/67 are complied withl

Z. Requests the Executive Director of the United Nations Centre for Human
Settlements (Habitat) to prepare a proPosal containing a specific progJramme of
measures and activities to be undertaken prior to and during the International Year
of Shelter for the Homeless and to report to the Econonic and Social Council
through the Conunission on Human Settlementsl

3. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare, on tlre basis of the
above-mentioned ffoposal, a report on the organizational matters regarding-the
holding of the International Year of Shelter for the Horneless in 198?, including
the aviilability of voluntary funds, to be submitted to the @neral Assernbly at its
thirty-seventh session through the Econonic and Social Council during L982t

4. Appeals to all States, intergovernnental and non-governmental
organizations and the public at large to indicate appropriate support f,or the
International Year of SheLter for the Horneless.

DRAHT RESOLUTION II

Human settlements

A

Report gf the Commission on Human Settlements

The General Assemblyr

Recallinq its resolutions 32/L62 of t9 llecember 197? on institutional
arrangen";[J ior international co-operation in the field of hurnan settlements and
34/LL6 of 14 December 1979 on the strengthenirg of human settlements activities,

y See Report of Habitat: United Nqtions Conf,erence on lluman Settlementst
Vancouver, 31 !,1af,11--llgqe 1975 l ana
corrigendun).

/...



A/36/694/Add.L0
English
Page 10

. FegaUiFg also its resotutions 3201 (S_vI) and 3202 (S_VI) of l May Lg74,containing the Declaration and ttre Progr.il. ;l Action on the Estabrishment of aNew rnternational order, 3281 (xxrx) of L2 Decenber Lg74, containing the charter ofEconomic Rights and Duties of states, and 3362 (s-vrr) of 16 septenber 1g75 ondevelopment and international economic co_operation,
Further recallinq the vancouver Declaration on Human settl-ements, rg76 and theother recommendations of ttabitat: united Nations conference on HumanSettlements, 9/
Affirming the importance of the promotion of human settrenents developtnent asa distinct and specific policy measure for the attainment of the goals andobJectives of the rnternationil o..r.lopment strategy for the ttrird united NationsDeveropment Decade, adopted by the Genlral Assembly in its resolution 35/56 of5 December 1980,

\eaffirrninq that hurnan settlements development should be viewed and taken intoaccount in the context of national plans ana piiorities and the development of allcountries, in particular the developirg countiies

-Bgcognizinq that the commission on Human settlenents has contlnued to addressitself effectively to substantive issues in the field of human settrenents ofpriority concern to Member states, particularly deveroping countries; - --

Taking note of Economic and social council resolution 1gg1/6g A of24 JuLy 1981 on international co-operation in ttre field of human settlenentsl

. H?v*ng considered the report of the commission onwork of its fourth session, !r/

- 1'- Takes ngte of the report of the commission on Human settrementE on thework of its fourth sesslonl

'', l{elcornes 
resolution 4/L of 6 May 1981 entitled oganila cormunlqu5 on aHuman se'ttlements llovenenti, adopted by the cornnjssion on Human settlements at itsfourth sessionl !/ 

- 
l

urqes the conunission on Human settlements to continue to take account ofand to provide adequate support to technical co-operation among developingcountries in the fornulation and implenentation of its programrnes on humansettlements.

Human Settlenents on the

9/ rbid.

^ -y .o.tf,iclal-4ggo-rgs of the General Assembly, Ttrirty-sixth seesion,SuppLement No. S An
9/ Ibid., annex I, resolution 4,/1.

/...



^/36/6e4/Add.10English
Page 11

.:
i,. Renewahle sources of enerqv for hunan settleneqts

Ttre Gqneral Assembly ,

Recaltring its resolutions 33/L48 of 20 December L978, 34/L9O of
18 December 1979 and 35/204 of 15 December 1.980 on the convening of the United
Nations Conference on New and Renewable Sources of Energyt

Taking note of Economic and Social Council resolution 1981r/69 C of
24 July 1981 on renewable sources of energy for human settlements,

Takinq note also of the report of the United Nations Conference on New and
Renewable Sourcel of Energy, held at Nairobi fron 10 to 21 August L98L, 2/

t. Welcomes the contributions made by the United Nations Centre for Human
Settlements (Habitat) to the preparations for and success of the United'Nations
Conference on New and Renewable Sources of Energyl

2. Requests the E:<ecutive Director of the United Nations Centre for Human
Settlements to tafe the appropriate steps for the implenentation of those
recommendations of the United Nations Conference on Nevt and Renewable Sources of
Energy within the mandate of the Centre.

c

Mobilization of financial resources for the. United Nations
I

T'lre General Assemblvr

Recallinq its resolution 35/77 D of 5 December t980r-in which it urgently

"pp.aFa- 
to atl States and appropriate financial institutions to make or to

increase their voluntary contributions to the United Nations Habitat and lluman
Settlements Foundation in support of the activities of the United Nations Centre
for Human Settlements (Habitat),

Noting the continued need for financial resources for the full implementation
oe tfre prot"cted activities of the Centre under the work Progranme for the biennium
19g2-l-983 and the draft mediun-term plan for the period L984-1989 approved by the
Commission on Human Settlenents at its fourth session, W

t of the United Nations Conference on New and Renewa rces2/
Enerqv, Nairobi, I0 to 21 Auqust 198I
E.81.1.24).

g/ Official Records of the General Assembly, TtrirtJ-sixth Sessionr
Supptement tt@i l, decisions 4/L7 and A/Lg.

(tlnited Nations publication, Sales No.



A/36/6e4/ed,d.L0
English
Page 12

..tlolin? qlso Economic and social council resotution r98L/69 A of 24 July 198r,particularly paragraPhs 4 and 5 thereof, on the need for adeguate financing for theproject activities of the centre, sssYqqL'

financial contributions for t$lctivities of the centre,

- Reiterates its urgent appear to Menber states to contribute and, if possiblelto increase their contributions to the united Nations Habitat and Human settlementsFoundation in support of the activities of the united Nations centre for Humansettlements (Habitat) and appears to ttrose that have not yet contributed,particularly developed counlri." and other countries in a position to do so, alsoto make voluntary contributions.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

an people

The General Assemb1y,

Recallinc the varrcouver Declaration on lluman settlements, 1976 , !/ and therel"evant reconunendations for national actio" 97 adoptea uJ-tt"ulaut, unitedNations Conference on Hunan Settlements,

- Recallirg also resolution 3, entitred "Living conditions of the parestiniansin the occupied territoriesr', contained in the recomrnendations for internationaleo-operation adopted by Habitat: united Nations conference on Humansettlemenl?,- u and Economic and social council resolutions 2026 (Lxr) of4 August 1976 and 2100 (LXIII) of 3 August L977t
Recallins fg+++.-^r.rs_resolutions 3236 (xxlx) and 3232 (XXIX) ofzzNo@0of16oecernberLg76;32/L7lof19DecemberLg77'33,/110of

18 Decenber 1978, 34/LL3 of 14 Decenber 1929 and 3S/tS of 5 December 19g0,
1: Takes note of the report of the secretary-Generar on the rivingconditions of the palestinian people, y/

A/ see
r, 3L

corrigendun) ,

LU lbid., chap. fr.
g/ rbid., chap. rrr.
W A/36/260 and Add.tl 2 and 3.



A/36/694/Add.LO
English
Page 13

2. Denounces Israel for refusing to allow the Group of E:<perts on the Social
and Economic rmpact of the fsraeli occupation on the Living Conditions of the
Palestinian People in the Occupied Arab Territories W to visit the Palestinianterritories occupied by Israel;

3. Condemns Israel for the deteriorating living conditions of the
Palestinian people in the occupied palestinian territories,

4. Affirns that the elinination of the rsraeli occupation is a prereguisite
for the social and economic developnent of the Palestinian people in the occupied
Palestinian terri toriesl

5. Recognizes the need for a comprehensive report on the deterioration in
the social and economic conditions of the Palestinian people in the occupied
Palestinian territoriest

5. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare and submit to the General
Assembly at its thirty-seventh session, through the Economic and Social Council, a
comprehensive and analytical report on the deteriorating living conditions of tl:e
Palestinian people in the occupied Palestinian territoriest

7. Also requests the Secretary-General2 in preparing the above-mentioned
report' to consult and co-operate with the Palestine Liberation Organization, the
representative of the Palestinian people.

E-/ For the report of the Group of Experts, see A/35/533 and Corr.l, annex I.


