
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly Distr.
I,IMITED

A/36/737
3 December

ORTGINAL:

L9 81

ENGLI$I

Ttrirty-sixth session
Agenda iten 72

SPECIAL E@NOMIC AND DISASTER REIIEF ASSISTAI\EE

Report of the Second Committee (P.art I)

Rapporteur: Mr. Atrned OULD SIDTAHMED (l,tauritania)

I. INTROD(rcTION

1. At its 4th.plenary meetingr on 18 September 1981, the GeneraL A.ssenbly, on the
reconmendation of the General Oonmittee, decided to include in its agenda the iten
entitled:

"Special economic and disaster relief assistance:

(a) Office of the United ltions Disaster Relief Co-ordinator: reports of
the Secretary-General;

Special- economic assistance progranxmes: reports of the Secretary-Generall

Implementation of t*re mediun-term and long-term recovery and
rehabilitation programme in the Sudano-Sahelian region: retrnrt of the
Secreta ry'-Generalt'

and to allocate it to the Second Comnittee.

2. Ttre Committee considered this item at its 6th, 7th, 21st, 22nd, 25th, 27th.
29th to 34th, 36th to 37th and 39th to 43rd meetinEs, on 2, 6, 22, 23, 27 and
29 Octoberr frorn 5 to 10 November, and on 11 , 12, 13' 16' 18, 20 and 24 ttbvember.
The Committee held substantive debates on the iLem aL its 2lst to 33rd meetings.
An account of the Conmitteers discussions on the iten is contained in the relevant
sunmary records (p,r/C.2/36/sR.5, 7t 2L, 22, 25, 27, 29-34, 36-37 and 39-43).

(b)

(c)

8L*3429L 0t69b 0179b (E)



A/36/737
English
Page 2

3. At the 6th meeting, on 2 october, the co-ordinator of the united
Assistance for the Reconstruction and Development of Lebanon made an
statement under subitem.(a) G{C.2/36/SR.G, paras L3-271 .

4. At the 7th meeting, on 5 october, the co-ordinator of special
Assistance Programmes made an introductory statement under subiten
(A/C.2/36/SR.7. paras. 6-37, .

Nations
introductory

Economic
(b)

5. At the 25th rneeting, on 27 october, the Adninistrator of the United Nations
Developnent Progranrme made an introductory statement (A/C.2/35/5R.25, paras. 55-69).

6. At the 29th neeting, on 5 November, the United Nations Disaster Relief
co-ordinator made an introductory statement (A/c.2/36/sR.29, paras. 33-40).

7. Ftrr its consideration of the item, the Comnittee had before it the following
docunentation:

(a) office of the united Nations Disaster Relief co-ordinator
(i) Report of the Committee for Progranune and Co-ordination on the work ofits twenty-first session; I,/

(ii) Report of the Secretary-@neral on the activities of the office of the
United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator (A/36/2591i

(iii) l{ote by the Secretary-ceneral transmitting the rep,ort of the Joint
Inspection Unit entitled nErraluation of the office of the United Nations
Disaster Relief Co-ordinatorn and the conunents of the Secretary-General
thereon (A/36/73 and Add.t)i

(iv) Note by the Secretary-ceneral on international efforts to meet
humanitarian needs in emergency situations (A/36/63G1.,

(v) Sununary retrnrt on international efforts to meet humanitarian needs in
emergency situations (E/LggL/L6 and Oorr.l, annex);

(vi) Annual overview report of the Mministrative Committee on Co-ordination
for 1980-1981 (E/198V37 and corr.l, chap. rV, sect. A, and annex rV);

(vii) ReSnrt of the Chairman of the Corunittee for programme and Co-ordination
and the Chairman of the Mministrative conmittee on Co-ordination on the
Joint Meetings of those Cornnittees (E/l9gL/96, sect. II).

^ -!/ .gfficial Records of the General Assembly, Ttirtv-sixth sesSupptement



^/35/737English
Page 3

(b) Special economic assistance progranmes

(i) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to the Central African
Republic (A/36/L83ll

(ii) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to Chad (V36/26L and
Add.1) ;

(iii) Report of the Secretary-Genera1 on assistance to Sao $ome and Principe
(^/35/2621 i

(iv) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to Guinea-Bissau (A,/3 6/2531 i

(v) Report of the Secretary-GeneraI on assistance to Botsvtana
(P{36/254-s/L4AeLl -,

(vi) Report of the Secretary-@neral on assistance to Cape Verde (M36/2651t

(vii) Report of the Secretary*General on assistance to Lesotho
(N36/266-S/L44e7l -,

(viii) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to Mozarnbique
(A/36/267-S/L4627) -,

(ix) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to the Comoros (A/36/258
and Corr.l) t

(x) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to Benin lM36/2691 i
(xi) Report of ttte SecretarleGeneral on assistance to Zanbia (P{36/270-S/L4673

and Corr.1) .,

(xii) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to Zirnbabwe lA/36/271
and Corr.I);

(xiii) Report of the Secretary-@neral on assistance for the reconstruction and
development of lebanon (A/36/27 2l',

(xiv) RePort of the Secretary-General on assistance to St. Lucia lA/36/273
and Corr.l) ?

(xv) Report of the Secretary*General on assisLance to drought-stricken areas
in Uganda lp./36/2741i

(xvi) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to drought-stricken areas
in Somalia (A/36/2751i

(xvii) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to drought-stricken areas
in oj ibouti @/36/27 6't i



^/36/737English
Page 4

(xviii) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to drought-stricken areas
in the Sudan (A/36/2771t

(xix) Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines (A/35/27 8l i

ReSnrt of the Secretary-General on assistance to Grenada (V36/27g1.,

Report of the SecretarfGeneral on assistance to Nicaragua (A/36/2801 i
Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to Djibouti lA/36/28Lli
Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to Doninica (A/36/2821 i
Report of the Secretary-General on assistance for the reconstructionr
rehabilitation and development of Equatorial Guinea (F/36/283) i
Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to Benin, Botsvrana, Cape
Verde, the Central African Republic, CLrad, the Comoros, Djibouti,
Equatorial Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Lesotho, Mozambigue, Sao Tone and
Principe, Tonga, IJganda, Zanbia and Zinbabwe (V36/5991i

Report of the Secretary-General on assistance to drought-stricken areas
in Kenya (A/36/7L21 .

(xx)

(xxi)

(xxii)

(xxii i)

(xxiv)

(x><v)

(x:vi)

(c) Implementation of the mediunrterm and lonq-term recoverv and rehabilitation
progranme in the Sudano/Sahelian reqion

Report of the Secretary-@neral on the implementation of the mediunrterm and
long-term recovery and rehabilitation progranme in the Sudano-Sahelian region
(ry'36/208 and Md.I) .

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS

A. DrafL reFoLutLons A/C.2/35/L.28 and F,/C.2/36/L.98

8. At the 31st neeting, on 6 November, the representative of the Gambia, on
behalf of Banqladeshe Cape Verde, Chad, Ecuador, Egypt, @, ttre Gambia, MaLi,
MFuritania, I!E!' Senegal, Sierra Leone, the United Republic of Cameroqn,
the upper Volta anC Yusoslavig, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/35/L.28)
entitled "Implementation of the mediunpterm and long-term recovery and
rehabilitation progranme in ttre Sudano-Sahelian region'r. Subsequently, the
Central African Republi_c and the United States of Anerica joined in sponsoring the
draft resolution, which read as follows:



^/36/737English
Page 5

"@,
"RecaLling it resolutions 28L6 (XXVI) of L4 December L97L, 2959 (X)ffII)

of L2 December L972, 3054 (XXVIII) of 17 Deeember L973' 3253 (XXIX) of
4 Decenber L974, 35L2 (xxx) of 15 December L975, 3I/L8O of 2L December L975,
32/L59 of l-9 December L977' 33/L33 of 19 D'ecember L978, 34/L6 of
9 tibvember L979 and 35/86 of 5 Decenber 1980, as well as its resolution 35/69
of 5 December 1980 t '

"Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolutions L918 (LVIII) of
5 lfay L975,2LO3 (LXIII) of 3 August 1977, L978/37 oE 2L July 1978, L979/5Lof
2 August L979, 1980,/51 of 23 JuIy 1980, and L98L/55 of 22 July 1981,

trTakinq note of decision 8V5 of 19 June L981 'of ttre Governing Council of
the United Nations Developnent Programne concerning the implementation of the
mediun-term and long-tern recovery and rehabiLitation progratnme in the
Sudano-SaheLian region, !

nlibting with satisfaction the decisive role played by the United Nations
Sudano-Sahel,ian Office in helping to combat the effects of the drought and to
inplernent the mediurFterm and long-term recovery and rehabilitation programne
adopted by ttre States members of ttre Permanent Inter-State Committee on
Drought Control in the Sahel, and in mobilizing the necessary tresources to
finance priority projects,

nConsidering that the nature and magnitude of the needs of the countries
of ttre Sudano-Sahelian region, which are anong the least developed countries,
urgentLy call for the continuation and further strengthening of actions of
solidarity by the international community in support of the recovery efforts
and the economlc developnent of those countries,

rHaving considered the retrnrt of the SecretarleGeneral on the
implementation of the mediurr--term and long-term recovery and rehabilitation
progranme in the Sudano-Sahelian region, 2/

trl. Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the Secretary-General
on the inplementation of ttre medium-term recovery and rehabilitation Prograluoe
in the Sudano-Sahe1ian region;

n2. s<presses its gratitude to the Governmentsr agencies of the United
ttions system, intergovernmental organizations, private organizations and
individuals that have contributed to the irnplementation of the nediutn-term and
long-term recovery and rehabilitation progranme in ttre Sudano-Sahelian region;

y See Official Records oE lhe__Esenomiq 3n@,
suppl6nent uo.

u A/36/208 and Md.l,



^/36/737srglish
Page 6

'3. Strongly urges all Governments to make special. efforts to increase
the resources of tlre united ttions Sudano-Sahelian office, including
voluntary contributions through the United titations Pledging Conference for
Developnent Activities, so as to enable it to respond more fully to the
priority reguirements of the Governnents of the States members of the
Permanent Inter-State Colrunittee on Drought Control in the SaheL;
' n4. Bgquests all United Nations organs, agencies and progratnmes to
continue aiFfiGase their assistance tirougtt joint unaeitixings wittr-trre
United Nations Sudano-SaheLian office, in response to reguests from the
Governnents of tlte Sudano-Sahelian countries, for the inplementation of their
recovery, rehabil_itation and developnent progr arrutresi

n5. bvites the Secretarfceneral to pursue furttrer the consultation
envisaged TiEr-agraph 5 of Economic and Social CounciL resolution 1980,/51 of
23 July L980, with a view to working out specific arrangements for joint
undertakings between the United Nations SudaneSahelian Office and the
appropriate organs, agencies and prograrnmes of the United Nations;

tr6. @nas the Administrator of the United Nations Development
Programe 6;E;results achieved through the united lfations Sudano-Sahelian
Office in assisting the States members of the Permanent Inter-State Committee
on Drought Control- in the Sahel- in the implenentation of their medium-term and
long-tern recovery and rehabiLitation prograrme?

'n7. $:affirrns the role of ttre llnited Nations Sudano-Sahelian office as
the centraTffiG-nd princitrnr body responsibLe for co-ordinating the efforts
of United ltions agencies to help the countries of the SaheL to implement
their recovery and rehabilitation prograrune?

n8. 
@ the effective manner in which ttre UnitedNationssuffidischargingitsresponsibi1itiesin

res;nnding to the prograrune priority fron the States members of ttre Permanent
Inter-State Conunittee on orought ControL in the Sahe1i

n9. Invites ttre United Nations Sudano-Sahelian office to continue to
strengthen its close ceoperation wlttr the States members of the permanent
rnter-State Oommittee on Drought Control in the Sahe1 and with ttre Conmittee,
with a view to hastening the implementation of the mediunrterm and long-term
recovery and rehabilitation prograrnme in the Sahell

ol0. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to report to the General
Assenbly' through the Governing Oouncil of the United t{ations DeveLopment
Progralnne and the Economic and Social Councilr on the implementation of the
nediun-term and long-term recovery and rehabilitation prograrune in the Sahel."

9. At its 42nd meeting, on 20 Novenber, the Connittee considered a draft
resolution (MC.2/36/I'.981, subrnitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of the
Corunitteel on the basls of informal consultations held on draft resolution
VC.2/36/L.28. Draft resolution NC.2/36/L.98 was orally revised at the suggestion



\

^/36/737English
Page 7

of the @mbia on behalf of the sponsors, and draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.28 was
withdravm. :Itre revision to operative paragragfi 8 lras as follows:

(a) fire words 'progranune priority fromtr were replaced by ttre words npriority
requests of";

(b) Mter the word'Sahel', the words "wittrin the framework of their
progranunen were added

10. A statement was made by the representative of Poland (al-so on behalf of
Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakiar the German
Oenocratic Republic, Hungary, Mongoliar the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and
ttre Union of Soviet Social,ist Republics) . 

i

1I. At the same meeting, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/35/L.98, as
oralLy revised, without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution I).

B. Draft reso,LutLons A/C,,2/36/L.33/\ev.L and A/C.2/36/L.L02

L2. At the 33rd meeting, on 9 November, the representative of Egypt, on behalf of
@]g, @ig, Cape Verde, ttre Central African Republic, @{, Chinar CoLonbiar
ttre @noros, Costg;$!g, .9i@i, Ecuador, .&,Ipg' EL Sa1vador, Ethiopia' @'c"U". , MoroCcor Panamar Peru, Sao Sone and
Principe, Spain, Toqo, the United Republic of Cameroon, the United States of
America, Venezuela, @!3 and Zimbabwer introduced a draft resolution
WEsm.r)GTrtreaGGnceforthereconstruction,rehabi1itation
and development of Equatorial Guineatr. Subsequently, lladagascar' l,tali and Ihai].and
joined in sponsorlng the draft resoLution which read as follows:

nlfhe @neral Assenbly,

"Reca1ling its resolution 35/LO5 of 5 llecember 1980, in which iiter alia,
it recognized the need for ttre adoption of special measures of assistance to
enabLe Equatorial Guinea to rebuild its econony and to restore to normal the
social and public services of ttre country, and drew ttre attention of the
international community to the critical social and economic situation
confronting Equatorial Grinea and to t*re list of urgent short-term and
long-term projects reguired by the Government to carry out its programne of,
rehabllitation and reconstruction,

rTaking note of the address delivered by the First Vice-President of the
Supreme Military Council and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Equatorial Guinea
to the General AssembLy on 28 septenber 1981, in which he described the grave
soclal and economic Foblems of his country, and expressing ttte hope that tbe
internat,ional corurrunity will contribute generously towards satisfylng the
needs of Equatorial Guinea at ttre conference of donors to be held at the
beginning ot tlAZ, y

!/ See A/36/Pv.15r pp. 5V72.

/...



7

^/36/737EngJ.ish
Page 8

'.Ig3ig@thattherearenoofficia1nationa1i'ncomestatistics
available for Equatorial Guinea and that, since there has been no official
census since L964, official popuLation figures will be forthcoming only after
the census proposed for the second guarter of L982,

ffHaving examined the retrngt of the Secretary-General, U whLcl: contains
ttre report of ttre review nission which visited Equatorial Guinea in
September 1981,

trlloting fron the retrnrt that the economic and financial situation in
Equatorial Guinea remains grave, and that the tight budgetary situation and
the Large externaL trade deficit constitute a constraint on the Governmentrs
ability to embark on a progranme of reconstruction and rehabilitation and that
external financiaL assistance is essential for the Government of Equatorial
Guinea to provide the population with health, education and other essential
social and public services,

ol. D<presses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his report
describing the economic situation in Equatorial Guinea and the additional
assistance required for the reconstruction, rehabilitation and developnent of
the country;

''2. Enqqrsgs_fgl$ the assessment and reconunendation of the mission to
Equatorial.ffiG-6nETned in the annex to the report of the
Secretary-Generali

n3. Urgently reiterates its appeaL to all Menber States to contribute
generously, through bil-ateral or nultilateral channels, towards satisfying the
reconstruction, rehabiLitation and devetopment needs of Equatorial Guineai

n4. Invites the Economic and SociaL Council to reguest the Committee for
Development Planning to study the situation of Eguatorial Guinea as a matter
of priority and to explore, in the light of updated statistics, the
possibility of including the country in the new list of lebst developed anong
developing countries to be prepared in the context of the Third United Nations
DeveJ.opment Decadei

o5. Requests the appropriate organizations and progranmes of the United
Nations sysEelnrTn particular the United Nations Develotment Progranuner the
Food and @riculture Organization of the United Nations, the International
Fund for Agricultural Development, the World Bank, the World Food Prograrunet
the World Health Organization, the United Nations Childrenrs Fund and the
United Nations Fund for Population Activities to malntain and expand their
progranmes of assistance to Eguatorial Guinea and to co-operate closely with
ttre SecretarrC,eneral in ttre work of organizing an effective international
prograrune of assistance, and to report periodically to the Secretary-General
on the steps they have taken and,the resources they have made avaiLable to

!/
^/36/283.



A/36/737
English
Page 9

help that qrntry, and to provide all. possible assistance to help in neeting
ttre critical hunanitarian needs of the population and to provide food,
medicines and essential equipment for hospitals and sctroolsi

''5. aIls upon regional and interregional organizations and other.. .
intergovernmental. bodies and non-governmental organizations, as well as
international financial and development institulions, to give urgent
consideration to the lnssibility of establishing a progranme of assistanee to
Equatorial Guinea and, where one is already in existence, to the expansion of
ttrat programte, and to contribute generously towards satisfying the needs of
Equatorial Guinea at the forthcoming conference of donors;

n7. Reguests ttte SecretaryGeneral to assist the Government of
Equatorial Guinea in preparing new official national- incone statistics and new
population figures and to ensure that these data are brought to the attention
,of the Conunittee for Devel.opnent Planning so that it can re-examine the
request of Equatorial Gulnea for inclusion in the list of the least developed
countries on the basis of these new statisticsi

ng. Ftrrther requests Ure Secretary.:General-:

" (a) To continue his efforts to mobilize the necessary resources for an
effective programme of financial, technical and naterial assistance to
Equatorial Guineai

n,(b) To ensure that the necessary financial and budgetary arrangements
are made to contlnue and rnobiLize the organization of the international
progratnme of assistance to Equatorial Guineai

o (e) To keep the situation in Equatorial Guinea under constant review, to
maintain close contact with Member States, the specialized agencies of the
United ldationsl regionaL and other intergovernmental organizations and the
international financial institutions concerned and to apprise the Economic and
Social Oounci}, at its second regular session of 1982, of the status of ttre
special economic assistance progranne for Equatorial Guineal

" (d) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Equatorial
Guinea and the progress made in organizing and implementing the special
econonic assistance progralune for that country and to submit it for
consideration by the General Assembly at its thirtlnseventh session.'

13. At its 43rd neetlng, on 24 tilovenber, the Corunittee considered a draft
resolution (P{C.2/36/L.L02I submitted by l4r. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman
of the Conmittee, on the basis of inforrnal consultations held on draft
re solution A/ C. 2 /36 /L. 33,/Rev. 1.

14. the Conunittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/35/L.L02 without a vote (see
para, 85, draft resolution II), in the light of which the strnnsors withdrew draft
re solution A/ C. 2 /36 /L.33,zhe v. 1.



A/36/737
Eng lish
Page I0

15. After the adoption of the draft resolution,
Guinea made a statement..

the representative of Eguatorial

C. DrafL resoLuLlons A/C.2/36/L.37 and A/C.2/36/L.96

16. At the 34th rneeting, on 10 Novenber, the representative of Kuwait' on behalf
of Belgiun, Costa Rica, Djibouti, I@, India, Jordan, the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, .\9ry1, @, Pakistan, the ![!}!p-p&9g, 9a!g, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, the Sudan, the Syrian erab nepublic, the United Arab Emirates, the
United States of America, gggggy and Yemenr introduced a draft resolution entitled
"Asffinstruction and developnent of Ibanon". Subsequently,
Algeria, Bangladesh, Ecuador, Romania and @!f41! joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution, which read as follows:

rrThe General Assembly,

"&calling its resolutions 33/L46 of 2O D,ecember L978' 34/L35 of
14 December L97 9 and 35/85 of 5 December 1980 on assistance for the
reconstruction and developrnent of Lebanon,

"Recalling also Economic and Socia1 Oouncil resolution 1980r/15 of
29 April 1980,

"Having considered the retrnrt of the Secretary-General on assistance for
the reconstruction and development of lebanon, 9J

"Taking note of the statement nade by the United Nations Co-ordinator of
Assistance for the Reconstruction and Devel.opment of Ibanon before the Second
Comnitteer 6,/

trl.
has taken

Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-C'eneral for the steps he
to nobilize assistance for Iebanoni

tt2. Commends the continuous efforts of the United Nations Co-ordinator
in ttre aisdlG-f his dutiesi

il3. Requests the Secretary-GeneraI to continue and intensify his efforts
to provide all bossible assistance, within the United Nations system, to help
the Government of Lebanon in its reconstruction and development plans and in
their implenentation;

*4. Invites the specialized agencies, organs and other bodies of the
United lilations system to expand and intensify prograrnmes of assistance within
the franework of the needs of Lebanoni

^/35/27 
2.

See A/C.2/36/5R.6, paras. L3-27.

v
v



A/36/737
English
Page 11

"5: RPqgests the Secretarfceneral to provide, in the nanner he deems
appropriate, aII possible assistance to the Resident Co-ordinator, so that he
may engage in co-ordinating the ongoing United tilations activities in lebanon,
with a view to ensuring their harmony and successl

n6. 
Bgqueslg the SecretarrGeneral to report to the General Assernbly at

its thirtY=seventtr session on the progress actrieved in the inrplementatlon of
the present resolution.n

17. At its 43rd neeting, on 24 Novernber, the Comnittee considered a draft
resolution (MC.2/36/L.961 subnitted by Itlr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of the
comnittee, on the basis of informar consultations heLd on draft
reeolution UC.2/35/L.37 .

18. Statenents were made by the representatives of Lebanon and of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and tibrthern lreland.

19. At the same meeting, the Corunittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.96
wlthout a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution III), in the light of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.37.

D. tri:aft resolutLons Py'C.2/36/L.39 and A,/C.2/36/L.97
20. At the 34ih neeting, on I0 November, the retrEesentative of Senegal, on behalf
of-Angglar Penin, Cape Vgrde, the Cgqtral.African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
9ol.qnbia, !h" grgt"", t!" Conso, ea, ntnEffi, 666i, the
9?mbia, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Igre., Lesotho, Mali, lrozanbique, Rlanda, senei-al,
sier-ra. Teong, . Tqgr ..!rg3?da, the upper vo.lta anryea i aiaetreaolution (A/C.2/36/L.39) entitled trAssistance for ttre reconstruction,
rehabilitation and development of the Central African Republicr!. Subsequenfly,
P4adg?E' PgE:lFrta' Burundir _DeLroct?tic.Kampughea, ESXE, France, Ghana, India,Japan, Liber ia, M?dagascar, g!aw!, NiEei iEl- pEkfstan, pananErFnanTai-3ao-6i5
gnd Principer 4tailand, the United Republic of Carneroon, the unitea nepublic of
T3Pz.ania, Yugoslavia, Zambia and Zinbabwe joined in sponsorlng the arait resotutlon
which read as follows:

'Ihe General Assembly,
nFcalling its resolution 35/87 of 5 December 1980, whereby it affirned,

inter alia, the need for urgent international action to assist the Central
African Government in its reconstruction, rehabilitation and develotrrment
efforts,

trtilrting the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Af fairs of the
Central African Republic to the General AssenbJ.y on 7 October I98I, describing
the serious economic and financial problems of the country and affirming that
the situaion had deteriorated owing to the insufficiency of financial
resources and that external assistance lras essential,



A/36/737
English
Page 12

trNoting further the statenent made by the representative of the Central
African Republic in tfie Second Oomnittee that t.he response of the
international community to the urgent appeal of the General Assembly has not
been adequate to meet the needs of the situation,

nBearing in rnind that the Central African.Republic is land-locked and is
classified as one of the least developed among the developing countries,

"!gSiEi3g, the Substantial New Programne of Action adopted unanimously at
ttre United t{ations Conference on the Least Developed Oountries, held at Paris
from I to 14 September 1981, calling for increased aid to these countries,

"Havinq examined tlre report of ttre secretarlnGeneral 7 / wl:ic}r contains
the report of the interagency nission dispatched to the Central African
Republic to consult with the Government on the additional assistance needed
for the reconstruction, rehabilitation and development of the country,

nldoting that ttre budgetary situation in the Central African Republic,
according to the report, makes it impossible for the Government to embark on a
prograrnme of reconstruction and rehabilitation and that external financial
assistance has been essential for the functioning of basic administrative
services,

"Particular@thattheCentra1AfricanGovernmentisunab1eto
provia@deguatehea1th,educationa1andotheressentiaI
social and public services because of an acute shortage of financial and
material resources,

tr1. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-Genera1 for his report
describing the economic situation in ttre Central African Republic and the
additional assistance reguired by that country for its reconstruction,
rehabilitation and developmentT

n2. Endorses fullv the assessment and recormrendations of the mission
contained in the annex to the report of the Secretarlz-General;

n3. Urgently reiterates its appeal to all Menber States to contribute
generously, through bilateral or nultilateral channels, to the reconstruction,
rehabilitation and deveLopnent of the Central African Republici

't4. Reguests the appropriate organizations and programmes of ttre United
Nations system - in particular the United Nations Development Progranune, the
World Bank, the F'trod and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the
International Fund for Agricultural Developrnent, the World Food Programme, the
l{orld Health Organization, the United Nations Childrenrs Fund and t}re United
Nations Industrial Development Organization - to maintain and expand their
prograrnmes of assistance to the central African nepublic and to co-operate

u A/35/L83.



^/36/737English
Page 13

closely with the secretarfGeneral in his efforts to organize an effective
international programne of assistance, and to retrnrt periodically to the
SecretarfGeneral on the steps taken and the resourcel made avaiiabLe by tiren
to help that countryT

n5. Calls upon regional and interregional organizations and other
intergovernmental bodies and non-governmental. organizations as wel1 as
international financial institutions - in particular the European Economic
Corununity, the European Developrnent Fund, the African Development Bank, the
Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa and the opEC Fund for
rnternationar Development, the rnternational Fund for Agricultural
Development, the Kuwaiti Fund and the Abu Dhabi Fund - to give urgent
consideration to the establishment of a progranme of assistance to ttre Central
Mrican Republic or, where one is already in existence, to the expansion ofthat programnet

-"6: Urges Menber States and relevant United Nations agencies - inparticular the united t{ations f,bvelopment Programne, the woita Fbod programne,
the United Nations Childrenrs Fund, the world IIeaIth organization, the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities and ttre United Nations Industrial
Development Organization - to provide all possible assistance to help the
Government of the Central African Republic to cope with the critical
hunanitarian needs of the population and to provid1 os appropriate, food,
nedicines, and essential eguiprnent for schools and hospitals as well as to
neet the emergency needs of the population in the drought-stricken areas of
the country;

n1 - I4vites the United Nations Developnent Programne, the United Nations
Childrenrs Fund, the World Food Progranme, the world ltealth Organization, tlre
United Nations rndustrial Develognent Organization, the Food and Agriculture
organization of ttre United ldationsr the world Bank and the International Fr:nd
for Agricultural Development to bring to the attention of their governing
bodies for their consideration the special needs of the Central African -
Republic and to retrnrt the outcome to the Secretary-ceneral by 15 July L982i

n8. Requests the Secretary-General:
o (a) To organize a special emergency assistance progranne with regard to

food, health, especialy medicaments, vaccines, hospital equipnent, generating
sets for field hospitals, water [rumps, food products, etc., in order to help
the vulnerable populations whose steadily deteriorating situation is becoming
a matter of increasingly serious concerni

" (b) To continue his efforts to mobilize tlre necessary resources for aneffective progratnme of financialr tec*rnical and material aisistance to the
Central African Republici

tr (c) Tb ensure that the necessary financial and budgetary arrangements
are nade to continue the organization of the international prograrmre of
assistance to the Central African Republic and the mobilization of this
assistancei



^/36/737English
Page 14

" (d) To keep the situation in the Central African Republic under constant
review, to maintain close contact with Mernber States, the specialized agencies
of the United Nations, regional and other intergovernrnental organizations and
ttre international financial institutions concerned and to apprise the Economic
and Social Council, at its second regular session of L982, of the status of
ttre special econornic assistance prograntrne for the Central African RePubLicl

" (e) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of the CentraL
African Republic and the progress made in organizing and implementing the
special economic assistance progiranrme for that country in time for the natter
to be considered by the General assenbly at its thirty-seventh session.'

2L. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee considered a draft
resoluiton (A/C.2/35/L.971 subrnitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairnan of
the Comnitteer on the basis of infornal consultations held on draft
resolution A/ C.2/36 /L.3 9 .

22. At the same meeting, the Corunittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.g7
without a vote, in the light of which the sponsors withdrew draft resolution
A/C.2/36/L.39 (see para. 85, draft resolution IV).

E. Draft resol.utions A/C.2,/35,/L.38 and Rev.1 and VC.2/36/t.99

23. At the 36th neeting, on 11 Novenber, the repnesentative of Gabon, on behalf of
Anqola, Benin, the Comoros, China, E9ypt, Gabon, the Gambia, Guinea-Bissaur f!.9,
Kenya, Liberia, Madagascar, 1]ry, Mozambique, $!!g!g, Saint Lucia, Egry,L,
Sierra Ieoner Somaliar Swaziland, and tlganda, introduced a draft resolution
(VC.2/36/L.381 entitled I'Assistance for the reconstruction, rehabilitation and
developrnent of Liberiatr. Subseguently Algeria, gginea, India, Ttrailand and the
United states of America joined as sponsors of the draft resolution, which read as
follows:

"@,
"Having examined the l-etter dated 20 October 198I from the Permanent

Representative of Liberia addressed to the President of the Economic and
Social Councilr S/ analysing the critical condition of the economy of Liberia,

''@abouttheweakandunderdeveIopedstateoftheeconomic
and social infrastructure of Liberia, which is a serious obstacle to the
economic developnent of the country and to the raising of the Living standards
of its population,

"fPE-ry, the statements nade by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of
tiberia to the General Assembly on 26 Septenber L980 2/ and on
28 September 198J- W in which he described the unsatisfactory conditions

9/ E/Le8L/LL'.



A/36/737
English
Page 15

which had prevailed in his country under the previous rdgime, including 
,

extremely high rates of illiteracy and infant mortality and unacceptably low
levels of income aflpng t*re vast mijority of ttre populaiion,

nAffirrning the urgent need for international action to assist the
Government of tiberia in its efforts for the reconstruction, rehabilitation
and developnent of the country,

'1. Urgently appeals to all Member States, the specialized agencies and
organizations of ttre United Nations system and international development and
financial institutions to contribute generously through bilateral or
nultilateral channels to the reconstruction, rehabilitation and development of
Liberai

n2. Requests the Secretary-General to organize an international
progranme of financial-, tectrnical and material assistance to Liberia to enable
it to meet its long-term needs wittr reppect to reconstruction, rehabilitation
and developnent;

- 
n3. Request9 the approlriate organizations and programnes of the United

lilations system - in particular the united Nations Development progratune, the
United Nations Fund for Population Activities, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of t*te tnited Nations, the International F'trnd for Agricultural
Developnerlt' the Wor1d Food Prograrure, the World Health Organization, the
United Nations Industrial Development Organization and the United lihtions
Childrenrs Fund - to expand their progranmes of assistance to Liberia, to
co-operate closely with the Secretary-General in organizing an effective
international programne of assistance, and to report periodically to him on
the steps they have taken and the resources they have made available to assist
that countryi

n4. Calls upon regional and interregional organizatipns and other
intergoverffiffiffiaiei and non:goverrunental orgaiizations as well as
international developnent and financiar institutions to give urgent
consideration to the establishrnent of a progranme of assistance to Liberia orr
where one is already in existence, to the expansion of that programnei

'r5. Urqes Member States and relevant tnited Nations agencies - inparticurar, the united Nations Development programne, the world Food
Progranuner the United lilations Industrial Development Organization, the United
Nations Childrenrs Fund, the world Health Organization and the United Nations
Fund for Population Activities - to provide all trnssible assistance to help
the Government of Liberia meet the critical humanitarian needs of the
popuration and to provide, as appropriate, food, medicines and essential
equipnent for hospitals and sctroolst

A/35/PV.13r pp. 6L-67.

A/36/Pv.L6.

2/
g/



u36/737
English
Page 16

tr6. Invites the United Nations Development Progranme, the United Nations
Ctrildrenrs Fund, tlre V{or1d Food Programne, the World Health Organization, the
United Nations Industrial DeveLopment Organization, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, the World Bank and the International Fund
for Agricultural Development to bring to the attention of their governing
bodies for their consideration the special needs of Liberia and to report ttre
outcome to the Secretary-General by 15 July 19821

n7. fqv_l!g_g- the Government of Liberia to provide the Conmittee for
DevelopmenETf--ning wittr up-to-date statistical data and infornation
pertinent, on the basis of existing criteria, to the examination of ttre
countryrs economic situation, wittr a view to its inclusion in the list of the
least developed among the developing countriest

tr8. E{equests the Committee for Development Planning, in light of the
data and infornation provided by the Goverilnent of tiberia, to examine' as a
priority matter at its next session, the economic situation of that country
with a view to deternining, under established criteria, its eligibility for
inclusion in the list of the least developed countries;

r'9. Requests lrlenber States and the organizations of the United ltrations
system to accord tiberia, in view of its critical economic situation, a
special measure of assistance similar to those accorded to countries included
in the list of the least developed countriesl pending the exanination of its
situation by the Comnittee for Development Planningi

n10. Also requests the Secretary-@nera1 to dispatch a mission to Liberia
with a view to holding consultations with the Ciovernment on the additional
assistance which it needs for the reconstruction, rehabilitation and
development of the country and to communicate the report of ttre mission to the
international community, the Economic and Social Council and the General
Assenbly;

"11.Fg.@theSecretary-Genera1toensurethatadequate
financial lirangements are made for the organization of an effective
international progranune of assistance to Liberia and for the mobilization of
international assistanc et

tr12. Requests the Secretary-General to inform the Economic and Social
Council, at its second regular session of 1982, of the assistance granted to
Liberiai

"13. Rggglg the Secretary-General to keep the situation in Liberia
under revi& ana to report to the General essenbly at its thirty-seventh
session on the inplementation of the present resolution."

24. the sponsors revised tjre draf t resolution (MC.2/36/t.38/Rev.Il by:

(a) Replacing operative paragraFh 5 with the following text:



P{36/737
English
Page 17

nrnvites tfie Unlted t{ations Development Progranune, the United Nations
Childrenrs Fund, the World Food Progrartrne, the World Health Organization, the
United Nations Industrial Development Organization, the ltood and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nationsr the World Bank and the hternational Fund
for Agricultural Developnent to bring the special needs of Liberia to the
attention of their governing bodies for consideration and to reSnrt the
outcome to the Secretary-General by 15 July 1982tr1
(b) Replacing operative paragraph 8 with the following text:

"!ggg*g. the Economic and Social Council to invite the Committee for
Development Plann.ing' in the light of the data and information provided by the
Government of Liberia, to examine, as a priority matter at its next session
the economic situation of that country wittr a view to determining, on the
basis of the existing criteria, its eligibility for inclusion in ttre list of
the least developed countriestr;

(c) Replacing operative paragraph 9 with ttre following text:
trRequests Member States and the organizations of the United Nations

systen to accord Liberia, in view of its critical economic situation, a
special neasure of assistance, pending the examination of its situation by the
Conmittee for Developnent Plannlngtr

Algeria, Indonesia and the United States of Amerlca joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

25. At the 43rd rneeting, on 24 November, the Oonunittee considered a draft
resolution (NC.2/36/L.99, subnitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, vice-Chairman of the
Conmittee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft
resolution NC.2/36/L.38/Rev.L. [tre Vice-Chairman oratly revieed the title of ttre
draft resolution A/C.2/35/L.99 to read nAssistance for the develotrxnent of
Liberia". At the same neeting the Comnittee adopted draf,t resolution NC.2/36/L.99
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution V), in the light of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resolution NC.2/36/L.38/Rev.L.

F. Draft resolutiorl VC.2,/36,/L.46 and A,/_C.2 , < .95

25. At the 36th meeting, on 1.1 November, the relresentative of Algeria, on behalf
of Afshanistan, A1qeria, 4qp.!3, Banqladesh, 4i, Benin, E9SE, gurundi, Cape
Verde, the Central African Republic, Chad, the @, gg$, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djiboutir Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, ,ry,
Ghana, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, @!!i, ilamaica, .[gg, the Lao Peoplers De[pcratic
.@., Iriberia, Ma1ir Nigerla, Romania, Sao llrme and Pringlpe, Sierra Ieone, the
United RepubLic of Tanzania, the Upper Volta, viet tihn, Yugoslavia and Zimbalnre,
introduced a draft resolution IA/C.2/36/L.46 entitled "Speclal economic assistance
to Benin". subsequentry, china, Madagascar, Ig!!g!3g, :thairand and the united
Bepgblic of carneroon joineffisponsors of ur;T;i?T-;effiIii, which rEt-iE
follows:



^/36/737English
Page 18

"@,
obcalling its resolution 35/88 of 5 December 1980, in which, ig$!3!!g,

it appealed to ttre international comnunity to provide effective and continuous
financial, material and technical assistance to Benin so as to help that
country overcome its financiaL _and economic difficulties,

trRecalling also Security Council resolution 419 lL977l of
24 l[overnber 1977, which, inter alia, appealed to all States and all
appropriate international organizations, including the United Nations and its
specialized agencies, to assist Benin'

"Eggi.*$ the statement made by the representative of Benin before
the Second Conmittee on 29 October 1981 describlng his countryrs serious
economic and financial situation, U

trHaving considered the report of ttre SecretarlnGeneral, p/ containing
an annex the reSnrt of the interagency nission which he dispatched to Benin
!4ay 1981'

trtibting fron the report the serious economic and financial problene that
confront Benin, which arise primarily from the weak and underdeveloped state
of its economic and sociaL infrastructure, lts lack of financial and materlal
resources and its chronic foreign trade deficit,

trt{oting further that Beninrs terms of trade have deteriorated sharply and
that ttre production of exp,ort crops has been adversely affdcted by drought,

trTaking note of, the reconmended progranune of assistance to Benln drawn up
by the mission in consultation with the Government'

trNoting further Beninrs urgent need for internatlonal assistance ln its
health progranmes, as well as for food aid,

nAware of the desire of the Government of Benin to organize, with the
assistance of the United ldations DeveLopment Programme, a round-table
conference of providers of funds in 1982 to dlscuss the countryrs develotrnent
needs and consider ways and means of backing the Governnent in its efforts to
meet those needs,

'Bearing in mind that Benin is classified as one of the least developed
anong the developing countries,

nI. Expresses iE aplreciation to the Secretary-General for the measures
which he has taken to organize an international- economic assistance prograflrne
for Benin;

lY see A,/c.2 /36/sR.27.

LU V36/25e.

in
in



A/36/737
English
Page L9

n2. p4dorSes fulll the assessment and recornmendations of the mission,
contained 5E; anne:. to the retrnrt of the secretary:e"".r.il lal

tr3. Urqentlv reiterates its appeal to all Member States to provide anple
and appropriate assistance, through bilateral and rnutiLateral channels,
wherever trnssible ln tfie form of grants or concessionary l.oans, in order to
enable Benin to impJ-ement fully the reconunended special economic assistance
prografime?

||4. Urges Menber states, organizations and programtres of the United
lfations system' reglonal and interreglonal governmental bodies, developnent
and financiaL institutions, and non-governmental organizations to support
fully the efforts of the Government of Benin to rnobilize funds for lts speclal
economic assistance progranune and, to this end, to respond generously to the
needs of Benin at the forthcoming round-table conferencel

15. Requests the aptrropriate bodies and programmes of the United NationE
system - in particular ttre tlnited Nations Development Progranune, the Erood and
Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Fund for
Agrlcultural Development, the world Frood progranme, the world Health
Organization and the United Nations Childrenrs Fund - to maintaln and expand
their progranmes of assistance to Benin, to co-operate closeJ.y with the
Secretary-General in the work of organizing an effective international
progr.unme of assistance and to report periodically to the Secretary-General on
the measures which they have taken and the resources which they have nade
availabl.e to help that countryt

n6. Calls upon regional and interreglonal organizations and other
intergoverffi6Gf uoales and non-governmental organizations, as well as
international develotrment and financial institutions, to give urgent
consideration to ttre establishrnent of a progranme of assistance to Benin or,
where one is arready in existence, to the expansion of that progriuune?

"7. Urqes Member States and appropriate United llations agencies - in
particular the United Nations Development Programne, the lforld Food Programtre,
the United l{ations Childrenrs firnd, the World ttealth Organizatlon and ttre
ttrrited Nations Fund for Population Activities - to provide all possible
assistance to help the Government of Benin to meet the critical humanitarian
needs of the population and to provide to that Goverrunent, as approprlate,
food, nedicines and eguipment for hospitals and schoolsl

'8. Invites the United Nations Development Prograrmre, the United Nations
Childrenrs firnd, the World Fbod Progratune, the World lleaLth Organization, the
United Nations Industrial Developnent organization, the Food and Agrlcultural
Organlzatlon of the United ldations, the world Bank and tbe Internatlonal Frrnd
for Agricultural Development to bring to the attention of their governing
bodles for their consideration ttre special needs of Benin and to report the
outcome to the Secretary-General by 15 iluly 1982,

/...



M36/737
English
Page 20

n9. Requests the Secretary-GeneraL:
n (a) To continue his efforts to nobilize the necessary resources for an

effective programne of financial, tectrnical and material assistance to Benin;

" (b) To ensure that ttre necessary financial- and budgetary arrangements
are made to continue the organization of the international programne of
assistance to Benin and the nobilization of that assistancet

n (c) To keep the situation in Benin under constant review, to maintain
close contact with Mernber States, the specialized agencies of ttre United
Nations, regional and ottrer intergovernmental organizations and the
international financial institutions concerned, and to apprlse the Econonlc
and Social Council at its second regular session of L982 of the status of the
special economic assistance progralruoe for Beninl

" (d) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Benln and the
progress made in organizing and implementing the special economic assistance
prograruoe for that country in tine for the natter to be considered by the
General Assernbly at its thirty-seventh session.o

27. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the Comnittee considered a draft
resolution (MC.2/36/L.951, submitted by Mr. Gerben ningnalda, Vice-Chairnan of the
Connittee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolutlon
A/C.2/36/ L.4 6.

28. At the same meeting, the Corunittee adopted draft resolutlod A/C.2/36/L.95
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution VI), in ttte light of which ttre
sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/35/L.46.

29. After Lhe adoption of the draft resolution, tlre representative of t*re
Byelorussian Soviet SociaList Republic nade a statement.

G. Draft tesoLutions A/C.2/36/L.47 and NC.2/36/L.LOL

m""a*r, 
"-presentative 

of Benin, on bahalf of30. At the 37th
!lg.ig.r Angola, Benin, Brazil, Cape Verde, the Comoros, .$i;!$!L, Bquatorial

' Ethiopla, the Garnbia, $!q4!gg4, Sg|ryg, I*tozambique' Nicaragua t
.@.L' krandar Saint Lucla, Sao ltrme and Prlncipe' SgEl., Sg33!}g1| and
Zinbabwe, introduced a draft resolution (VC.2/36/L.471 entitled trAsslstance to Sao
some and Principeo. Subsequently, BotswanP, the ,
the ggg9, $!3, France, Guyana and Viet ldam joined as sponsors of the draft
resolution, which read as follows'.

"@,
'-@g its resolution 3L/Le7 of 21 December Lg76, in which,

inter alia, it expressed deep concern at the serious econonic and social
sltuation in Sao ltome and erlnci[n as a resuLt of the total lack of,



A/36/737
English
Page 21

infrastructure for development and appealed urgently to ttre internationalcomnunity to assist the Government of sao Tome and erincipe to enable it toestablish the necessary social and economic ineiastructur! for development,

.^ - 
trRegall'ilrg alsP.its resolutions 32/96 of 13 December Lg77, 33/L25 of19 December ,L978, 34/L3L of 14 December 1979 and 3s/g3 of 5 pecenber 1980, inwhich it reiterated its appeal to the internationar comnunity to providefinancial, material and tectrnical assistance to Sao rtome and principel

-trBe3ring 
in nind its resoLution 3L/L56 of 2L December Lg76t in which iturged aLl Governments, in particular those of ttre developed countriesr to lendtheir supportl in the context of their assistance prograrmes, for theimprementation of ttre specific action envisaged in favour of developing islandcountriesr iDd its resolution 32A85 of 19 Decenber L}TT, in which it urgedall organizations in t:l-e united i'tations sy"i.*-lo impteneni, *iitti" ttreiirespective spheres of conpetence, appropriate specific action in favourof developing island -countries, as well. as its iesolution 34/2o5 of19 Decernber 1979, which sets out a specific action programme in favour ofdeveloping island countries,

- 
nRecalligq its resolutions 32/L6o of 19 Decenber 19ZZ and 33/L97 of29 January L979 on the Transport and Communicatlons Decade in africa, 

--

trtlaling considered the conclusions and recommendation contained.in thereport of the Cornmittee for Development Planntng on its seventeenth
session 13l concerning identification of the least developed arong thedevelopii! countries,

nl'ibti{ts an.^::Tle! 
19eu.est of sao Tome and principe that irs exceptionateconomic clrcumstances again be reviewetl by-t*r. cornrtttie eoi oeveloprnentPlanning,

_ "Taling accoung of the statement made by the reSresentative of the
Government of sao lbme and Principe trrat there are nl recent officiar national
incorne statistics available for sao ttrne and principe and that availablepublished data are out of date and do not reflect ti. currettt-"itu"tion inthat countryl

trIlaking note of the report of 30_Jyll 1981 of the Secretary-ceneraL Lt!/on economic assistance to'sao lbme and principe, to which 
"as 

airre*ed thereport of the review nission to Sao Tome and principer

g/ See Official Records of
Supplenent I\b.-7

!!/ A/36/262.
t

il,1981,

/...



v36/737
English
Page 22

n@ that the economic and sociaL developrnent of Sao Tome and Principe
has been seriously hindered not only by inadequate health, educational and
housing facilities but also by inadequate infrastructure' and that urgent
lmprovement in these sectors is a prerequisite for ttre countryrs future
Progress,

"Taking note of the current development priorities of the Government of
Sao Tome anlEincipe, notably in agriculture and livestock, fisheries,
manufacture, mining, iransporl and ottrer infrastructure, as weLl as in
education, training, health and housing,

,Iilcting that substantial international assistance is needed to improve
ttre intrastructure in sea, air and land transPort in Sao llrme and Principet

"@paragra5*r2ofdecision80,/3oof26iIune1980adoptedbythe
eovern6ffiGEff ot Ure united ltions llevelopnrent Programne, E/

n@ that a large number of the projects and progralmles
taentitieryf the Secretary-General lV have not yet been
financed,

iAlso concerned by the conclusion of the retrnrt that, unless there ls a
stgniftcant increase in the voluure of international assistance, the Government
of Sao Tome and Principe wiII not be able to finance a develoEment progralmle,

r'1. S<presqes its appreciation to ttre Secretarfceneral for the steps he
has taken ao $ome and PrinciPef'

n2. Endorses fullv the assessment and reconunendations contained ln ttre
annex to ttre repo:t of the Secretary-@neral; !f

n3. Erpresses its appreciation to Member States and international
organizati ided to Sao Tome and Principe, both ln
food aid and development assistanceT

'4. Egglets, bowever, that the assistance so far provided falls far
short of the needs of Sao llrme and PrinciPel

i5. AIso reqrets that no resources have been provided to Sao Sone and
prlncipe eot Ut.-Trpferoentation of ttre action progranme in favour of island
developlng countries;

n6. Renews its aptrnal to Member States, regionaf .19 interregional
organizations an'a other intergovernmental bodies to provide financial'
rnalerial and tectrnical assistance to Sao Tome and Principe to pernit the
lnplenentation of tfie projects and progranmes identified ln the annex to the

Ly lbid.r 1980, Supplernent No. 12 lE/L980/42,/Rev.1), chap. XI.

/...



F{36/737
English
Page 23

report of the Secretary-General as well as that of t.Le action programmed in
favour of island deveLoping countries to enable the Government to launch aneffective progranme of economic and social deveJ-opnent;

n7. Requests the Secretary-General- to assist the Government of Sao Tome
and Principe to prepare new official national income statistics on the country
and to ensure that these data are brought to the attention of the Committee
for Development Planning so that it can, on the basis of these new statisticsr
re-examine the request of Sao Torne and Principe for inclusion in the list of
the least deveLoped countries;

n8. Requests the Economic and Social Council to recornmend that the
Conmittee for DeveLopment Planning should re-exanine in the light of tlre
additional data and infornation provided by the Government of sao Tome andPrincipe, the economic situation 6f tnat country with a view to determining,
on the basis of exlsting criterial its eligibil.ity for inclusion in the List
of least devel.oped countries?

. 
o9. Requests Member States and the organizations and prograrnnes of the

United llations systen to accord Sao Tlme and principe special measures of
asslstance sinilar to those calred for in operativJparlgraph 4 of its
resolution 34/L23 of 14 Decenber L9797

nlO. Urges the United Nations lbveLopment Prograrune, the appropriate
specialized agencies and other organizations of the tlnited uations system to
respond favourably to reguests from the Government of Sao some and princitrn
for technical assistance to help in fornulating development projects and to
assist ln the implementation of its develotrment prograrnmei

n11. Invltes ttre United llations Development progranme, the United
Natlons chriFE;G'Fund, the worl.d Food progi;lrrune, the world Health
Otganization, the Unlted Nations Industrial Development Organization,
the Erood and Agriculture organization of the Unite-cl Nationl, the world Bank
and the International Elrnd for Agriculture Developnent to bring to ttre
attentlon of their governlng bodiesr.for thelr consideratlon, tne special
neede of Sao lbme and Principe, and do report the decisions 6f thos-e bodies to
the Secretary-General by 15 August l9g2i

'12. Requests the appropriate speciarized agencies and ottrer
organizations of the Unlted l{ations system to report periodically to the
SecretaryGeneral on the steps ttrey have taken and ttre resources they have
made avallable to assist Sao lome and principel

"13-. .@1 to F9 international cornmunity to contribute to ttre specialaccount whictr was established by the Secretary-Genera1, in accord.n". 
"i-ttGeneral Assenbly resolution 32/96 of 13 December L977, for ttre purtrnse of

facilltating the channelling of contributions to sao some and principei

"14. Resuests the Seqretary-GeneraI:



u36/737
English
Page 24

" (a) So continue his efforts to mobilize the necessary resources for an
effective prograrnme of financial, technical and material assistance to Sao

' Tone and Principei

" (b) Ib ensure that adequate financial and budgetary arrangements-are
made to continue the organization of ttre international progranme of assistance
to Sao l1cme and Principe and lhe nobilization of assistance;

" (c) To keep the situation in Sao Tome and Principe under constant
review, to maintain close contact wittr !,tenber Statesl reglonal and other
intergovernmental organizations, ttre specialized agencies and international
tinariiiat lnstitutions concerned and to apgise the Econonic and Social
Council, at its second regular session of 1982, of tlre current status of the
special economic assistance Programne for Sao Tome and PrinciPel

" (d) To arrange for a review of ttre econqnic situation of Sao lbme and
Principe and the progress nade in organizing and implernenting the speclal
economic assistance progranne in that country in time for the matter to be
considered by the General Assernbly at its ttrirty-seventb session.'

31. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 lfovernberr the Comnittee considered a draft
resolution (A/C.2/36/L.LOL\ submitted by llr. Gerben Ringnalda' Vice-Chairman
of the Colrunittee, on the basis of informal consultatlons held on draft
resolution A/ C. 2 /36 /L. 47 .

32. At the same meeting, the Conrmittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.LOL
without a vote (see pari. 85, draft resolution VII) in ttre light of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.47.

33. After the adoption of tfie draft resolution, the representatives of ttre United
States of America and Sao lome and Principe made statenents.

H. Dr.aft' teso].:u|-'Lons NC-2/36/L.48 and NC,.2(36/L'L,OA

34. At the 37th neeting, on L2 Novernber, the representative of Benin, on behalf of
Algerla, 49@., Eg!b, Cape Verde, the gentral Af,fican Repuplic, @r,China,

. c"t-t"",, 4!!9g!g, g!g, Guinea-Bissaur gnva, Tosor the lJppgalg$. ard
@aF;e-sotfr T6-n@6-.27i6E76i6'Eitreanffi-crto
Chad". Subsequently, Bangladesh, SEwang, tbe .@, 9JIEE, F,rarlge, _@r.
Indla, ttre Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mali, Pekls-tan, qai+anal "19 -ut.iit'TEi nep as sponsors 5=The dFresolution, which read
as follows:

trlltre General Assembly,

n@g'itsreso1utions34/L2o"!l4December1979and35/92AandBof
S OeceffiilF6-O'{ on reconstruction, rehabiLitationr development and emergency
hunanitarian assistance to Chad,



v36/737
English
Page 25

rTaking into account the report of the SecretarleGeneral on emergencf-
hunanitarian assistance to Chad, !!-/

,lbting with satisfaction the dispatch to Chad by the secretary-General
of a mission to review with ttre Chad authorities the needs of ttre count4/, in
accordance with paragratr$ 3 of resolution 35/92 A,

- 'Deeplv concerned about the massive destruction of property and ttre 'serious darnage to the economic and social infrastructure of Chad caused by the
deterioration of the political situation marked by armed conflict during
the past fifteen years,

"Af,firning the urgent need for financial and naterial suptrnrt from
the international conrrunity to ttre Government of Chad in its efforts for the
reconstruction, rehabilitation and development of the country and to meet
inmediate humanltarian needs,

nBearing in nind the concern extressed by Member States about the
deterioration of the socio-economic situation as a result of, the fighting in
chad and the interest they have shown in its speedy return to nornal
conditions of life and its reconstruction and development,

"Considering that Chad is in a particularly disadvantageous position as
oneofEFdeve1opedcountrieswhichis1ind-1ocreJaiasurieii"g-ir"'
drought,

trllcting the urgent appeal made to the international community by the
Eighteenth Surnmit Conference of Heads of State and Government of the
Organization of African Unity and by the Chairman of the Chad delegation
in the General Assernbly on 7 October 1981. J.7

trlbting also that measures have been taken to organize a predging
conference in order to nobilize assistance,

"Recalling resolution !b; AI|G,/RES,1O2 (XWII) adopted by the Eighteenth
Sununit Conference of Heads of State and Government of the Organization
of African UniEy, W

r'1. Comnends and encouraqes the efforts exertecl by the Governnent and
people of Chad for national reconstruction, rehabilitation and development
and for assistance to victins of the civil wari

L6/ A/36/26L and Add.l.

w A/36/PV.3O.
g/ See A/36/534.



A/36/737
English
Page 25

't2. S<presses its gratitude to Member States, institutions and agencies
that have provided assistance to Chad but regrets that all the emergency
humanitarian needs Listed in the Secretary-Generalrs retrnrt 16/ have not
yet been met;

'r3. A[>peals to aII Member states, governmental and non-governmental
organizations, and the specialized agencies and programmes of the United
li&ations system, in particular the United Nations Childrenrs Fundr the Office
of the United Nations High Oommissioner for Refugees, the World Ebod Progranune
and the World Health Organization, to provide the necessary assistance, as a
natter of urgencyr to the Government of Chad to enable it to come to the aid
of the people affected by the civil war, in confornity with the retrnrt of the
Secretary-General in document A/36/261 of 26 l[ay 1981i

n4. Urgently appeals to all Menber Statesr the specialized agencies and
other bodies of ttre United lilations system and the international financial and
econonic institutions to provide emergency assistance to Chad, through
bilateral or multilateral channels, to meet its reconstruction, rehabilitation
and development needs, in conformity with the reSnrt of the review mission
that visited Chad from 26 October to 6 titcvenber 1981;

tr5. Urges Member States and governmental and non-governrnental
organizations in a position to provide assistance to take part in any pledging
conference organized to mobilize assistance to ChadT

r6. Reqqests the competent prograrnmes and agencies of the United Nations,
inparticuffiuniteduitionsiev6toprnentProgianune,thet.oodand
Agriculture Organization of the United ltions, the International Fund for
Agricultural Development, the WorId Food Progrdrrm2 the World Health
Organization, the United t'trations Industrial Development Organizationr the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization and the
United Nations Childrenrs Fbnd, to co-operate closely with the
Secretary-General in organizing an effective international progranne of
assistance and to report periodicall-y to him on the steps they have taken and
the resources they have mobilized to assist Chadi

n7. Invites the Urited ttions Development Progranune, the United Nations
Childrenrs Fund, the WorId Food Progranme, the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cu1tural Organization, the World Hea1th Organization, the
United Nations Industrial Developnent Organization, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the tlnited litations, the world Bank and the International Fund
for Agricultural Development to bring the special needs of Chad to the
attention of their governing bodies with a view to considering the special
needs of Chad, and to report on the decisions of those bodies to the
Secretary-General by 15 July 1982i

tr8. Appeals to the international conununity to contribute to the special
account for Chad which has been established under the auspices of the United
Nations Trust Fund for Special Econonic Assistance Progranmes for the purpose
of facilitating the channelling of contributions to Chad;



A/36/737
English
Page 27

"9. &quests the Secretary-General:

" (a) To organize an international- programme of financial, technieal and
materiaL assistance for Chad so as to enable it to meet its short- and
long-term reconstruction, rehabilitation and development needsl

" (b) To have the report of the review nission that visited Chad from
25 October to 6 November 198I disseninated as widely as possible;

n (c) To contact the Government of Ctrad with a view to the appointment
of a special representative for reconstruction, rehabil-itation, developrnent
and emergency relief operations in Ckrad;

" (d) To ensure that appropriate financial and budgetary arrangements are
nade for the establishment of an effective international programne of
assitance for Chad and for mobilizing that assistancei

" (e) To keep the situation in Ckrad under review and to report to the
Economic and Social Council at its second regular session and to the General
Assemby at its thirty+eventh session on the inplementation of this
resolution. rr

35. At its 43rd rneeting, on 24 November, the Conmittee considered a draft
resolution (A/i.2/36/L.100) subnitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman
of the Committee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft
resoLution FlC.2/36 /L.48.

35. At the same meeting, the Comrnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.LO0
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution VIIf), in the light of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/36/L. 48.

I. waft rcsoLutlons P,/C.2/36/L.52 and A/C.2/36/L.83

37. At the 40th meeting, on 16 November, the representative of Benin, on behalf of
Ngeria, Angola, Benin, Canada, Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, $1!,
China, the Comoros, $@, Democratic Yemen, ojibouti, .&Ip!, Ethiopia, Ghana,
Guinea-Bissau, India, Japan, the Iao Foplers Democratic Republic, Liberia,
Madagascar, $!!, ttozambique, Niqeria; Portugal, Romania, @|g, Saint Lucia,
Sao ltrne and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, $,razilandr Sg5]gr the Syrian Arab
Repub1ic, Uganda, the Upper Volta, Uruguay, Zaite, Zanbia and Zimbabwe, introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.2/36/L.52, entitled 'rAssistance to Cape Verder'.
Subsequently, BangLadesh, Brazi]-, the Congo, ES, the Gambia, Qg3, Pakistan,
Panamar the United Republic of Tanzania, the
joined as sponsors of the draft resolution,

United States of Fmerica and Viet tibm
which read as followsr



^/36/737English
Page 28

nThe General Assgllyr

"&ca1ling its resolutions 35/L04 of 5 December 1980, 34/LL9 of
14 Decenber 1979,33/L27 of 19 Decenber L978, and32/99 of 13 December L977,
in whictt the international comnunity was requested to provide an appropriate
level of resources for implenentation of the prograrnme of assistance to Cape
Verde as envisaged in the subsequent reports of the Secretary-Ceneral, I9,/

''.@'!'CapeVerde,oneofttre1eastdeve1oped,aswe11asamost
seriously affected island country, is a member of the Permanent Inter-State
Committee on Drought Control in ttre Sahel and is in need of increased
substantial assistance to overcome its economic backwardness,

"E!Si!g the urgent need to implenent the relevant resolutions of the
General Assembly, which endorsed the prograrune of assistance of Cape Verde,

"Recognizinq the strenuous efforts displayed by the Government and people
of Cape Verde in the process of their socio-economic developrnent, despite
existing constraints,

trRecognizing also the essential role of bottr short-term and long-term
international assistance in the process of develoment of Cape Verde,

nGravely concerned that the expected harvest for 1982 has been lost as a
a result of the failure of the seasonal rain and the recurrence of drought,

"Taking into account the results of the United Nations Conference on teast
Developed Countries, held at Paris from I to 14 September 1981, in particular
the Substantial New Progranme of Action for the 1980s for the Ieast Developed
Countries, adopted on 14 September L98L, L/

"iaking into account also the country progranune of Cape Verde presented to
the Conference, in which a five-year plan as well as long-term planning were
delineated,

ff Having examined the re;nrt of the Secretary-General, 2L,/ containing a
retrnrt of the review mission which visited Cape Verde in regard to the
implenentation of General Assernbly resolution 35/L04,

I'1. E<presses its satisfaction to the SecretarfGeneral for the efforts
displayed in the process of mobilizing resources for the inplementation of the
progranme of assistance to Cape Verde;

P/ A/33/L67 and Corr.L, A/34/372 and Corr.L, A/35/332 and Corr.l
and A/36/265.

4/ A,/AOUr.lA4/22, part onel sect. A.

U A/36/265, annex.



P{36/737
EngLish
Page 29

n2. E<presses its gratitude to States, international, regional and
interregional organizations and other intergovernmental organizations for
their contribution to the programme of assistance to Cape Verdei

l|3.

annex to
have not

Calls the attention of the international
the report of tfie SecretarrGeneral t.'!lich

community
contains

to table 10 in the
projects which

yet been financed?
n4. Urges the States' as well as international, regional, interregional

and other inteigovernmentaL organizations, to extend and intensify
substantially their assistance with a view to inplenenting the prograrme of
assistance to Cape Verde as soon as possible;

n5. fnvites the international community, in particular donor countries,
to take appropriate and urgent measures to support ttre realization of ttre
Five-Year Plan of Cape Verde, in accordance wit*r the Substantial- Nerir progranme
of Action for ttre 1980s for the Iast Developed Countriesi

'6. Requests the organizationsr organs and bodies of the United Nations
system to continue, and to increase their assistance to cape verde, to
co-operate with the Secretary-GeneraI in his efforts to nobilize resources for
the imptementation of tlre progratnme of assistance and to report periodically
to the Secretary-General on measures taken and resources made available for
assistance to that countryi

n7. Calls upon the international community to continue to contribute
generously-ffiFppeals to food and fodder asiistance made by the Government
of Cape Verde or on its behalf by the specialized agencies and the other
competent organizations of the tfrrited Nations system to help it cope with the
critical situation in the countryT

tr8. Draws once again the attention of the international conununity to the
special account which was established at United Nations lleadquarters Uy the
Secretary-General, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 32/99, fot
the purtrnse of facilitating t*re channelling of contributions to Cape Verde;

r'9. Invites the United Nations Development Prograrnme, the United Nations
Childrenrs l\rnd, the World Ebod Progranme, the World Health Organization, the
United Nations Industrial Developnent organization, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the united Nations, the WorLd Bank and the fnternational Fund
for Agriculture Development to continue, through their governing bodies, to
consider the special- needs of Cape Verde and to report the decisions of those
bodies to the Secretary-General by 15 August L9B2i

n10. Requests the SecretarrGeneral:

" (a) To continue his efforts to nobilize the necessary resources for
inplementing the prograrnme of development assistance to Cape Verdei



al36/737
English
Page 30

" (b) To keep the situation in Cape Verde under constant review, to
maintain close contact with Mernber States, regional and other
intergovernmental oiganizations, the specialized agencies and other
international financial institutions concerned and to apprise t.he Economic and
Social Council, at its second regular session of L982, of the current status
of ttre special economic assistance progranme fo.r Cape Verdet

" (c) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Cape Verde and
the progress made in organizing and implenenting the special economic
assistance progranune for that country and to report to the General Assembly at
its thirty-seventh session. "

38. At its 43rd meeting, held on 24 November, the Comnittee considered a draft
resolution (A/C.2/36/L.83) submitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, ViceChairman of tfie
Conunitteer on the basis of infornal consultations held on draft resolution
A/C.2/36/L.52.

39. At the same meeting, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.83
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution Ix), in the light of which ttre
sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.z/36/L.52.

40. After the adoption of ttre draft resolution, the representative of Cape Verde
made a statement.

J. Draft resoLutLons A/C.2/36/L.53 and A/C.2/35/L.84

41. At the 40th meeting, on 15 November, the representative of Benin, on behalf of
Bahrain, Benin, Bots!'rana, Burundi, Cape Verde, the Central African Republicr 94t
China, Colonbia, the Cornoros, Djibouti, @g, the Galn$!g, $!g, Guinea-Bissau
India, Indonesia, .@!,, &ryg, Kuwait, Morocco, Nicaragua, @, Pakistan,
Sao lone and Prinicipe, Senegalr Somalia, the Sudan, the Svrian lrab_FepuElicr
trogo, th"UnitedAra na the united nepublic of Tanzania, introduced a
draft resolution (VC.2/36/L.53) entitled rrA.ssistance to the Conoros".
Subsequently, A1geria, 4!g9fg, Bangladesh, $gE, Madagascar' s1!i, and Sfninjoined as sponsors of the draft resolution, which read as follows:

"@,
,'@g,itspreviousreso1utionsonassistancetotheComoros,

particularly resolution 3V42 of I December 1976, in which it urgently
appealed to the international corununity to assist the Comoros in an effective
and continuous manner so as to enable it to face successfully the critical
situation resulting fron the economic difficulties experienced by that newly
independent country,



"Havinq examined the report of ttre Secretary-General of
22 septenber 1981, U to which was annexed the report of the review
nission which he sent to the Comoros,

tTaking note of the special_
developing island country and as
developing countries,

"Iibting the priority which
the questions of infrastructure,

^/36/737EngJ-ish
Page 31

problens confronting the Cornoros
one of the least developed among

the Government of the Comoros has assigned to
transport and telecornmunications,

asa
the

trlbting further the grave budget and balance-of-payments problems facing
the Conoros,

rrRecalling its resorution 35/97 of 5 December 1980, in which it
reiterated its appeal to the international conmunity to assist tlre Comoros in
overcoming its financial and econonic difficulties,

nI. E<presses its appreciation to the Secretary.-General for ttre steps he
has taken to nobilize the assistance for the Cororos;

n2. Notes with satisfaction ttre response by various Member States and
organizations to its appeal and that of the Secretary-General for assistance
to finance, in whole or in part, a number of projects identified in the annex
to the report of the secretary-General of 3 November 1977 23./ and in
subsequent reports;

n3. lbtes with concern, however, that the assistance thus provided
continues to fa1l short of tJre countryrs urgent requirenents and that a
substantial anpunt of assistance is still urgently required to carry out the
projects identified in tjre annexes to the reports of the SecretarleGenerali

n4. Reiterates its appeal to Menber States, regional and interregional
organizati6iilia oUrer intergovernnental bodies to provide effective and
continuous flnancial, material and tectrnical assistance to the Comoros to help
it overcome its financial and econonic difficulties, in particular its
budgetary and balance-of-payments def icitsi

i5. Urges Menber States to.give special consideration to ttre inclusion
of the Conoros in their bilateral and nultilateral prograrunes of development
assistance and, in cases where assistance programmes for tlre Comoros are
already in force, to exSnnd them, wherever possible;

4/ A/36/268 and Corr.1.

Zy A/32/208 and Add.l and 2.



v36/737
English
Page 32

"6. Also urges the international conununity to take fu1ly into account,
in providing assistance, tlre priority which t}re Comoros gives to projects in
the fields of infrastructure, transport and teLeconununicationsi

o'1. Invites the United Nations Development Progranme, ttre United tilations
Childrenrs-FGa.-a, the world Food Programme, the.world-Health organization, the
United Nations Industrial Development Organization, t}re F\rod and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, the Wor1d Bank and the International Fund
for Agricultural Development to bring to the attention of their governing
bodies' for their consideration, the speciaL needs of the Connros, and to
report the decisions of those bodies to the SecretarlnGeneral by 15 JuIy 1982i

n8. Appeals to the international conmunity to contribute to the special
account which was established at United Nations Headguarters by the
Secretary-@neral, in accordance with General Assenbly resolution 32/92 of
13 Decenber 1977, fot the purtrnse of facilitating Lhe channelling of
contributions to the Comorosi

'r9. Requests the appopriate organizations and programmes of the United
Nations system to increase their current prograrunes of assistance to the
Comorosr to co-operate closely with the Secretary-General in organizing an
effective international progranme of assistance and to report periodically to
him on the steps they have taken and the resources they have nade available to
assist that countryt

n10. Requests the Secretary-General:

" (a) To continue his efforts to rnobilize the necessary resources for an
effective programme of financialr technical and naterial assistance to the
Comorosi

" (b) To keep the situation in the Comoros under constant review, to
maintain close contact with Uenber States, regional and other
intergovernmental organizations, the specialized agencies and international
financial institutions concerned and to apprise the Economic and Social
Councilr at its second regular serssion of 1982, of the current status of the
special economic assistance progralme for the Comorosi

" (c) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of the Comoros and
the progress made in organizing and inplementing ttre special economic
assistance progranme for that country in time for the matter to be considered
by the General A.ssembly at its thirty-seventh session."

42. At its 43rd meeting' held on 24 November, the Comnittee considered a draft
resolution (A/C.2/36/L.841 subnitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of the
Comnittee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution
^/c.2/36/r.s3.
43. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.84
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution X) r in the light of which the
gponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.53.



A/36/737
EngLish
Page 33

K. Draft resoLutions MC.2/36/L.54 and F,r/C.2/36/L.L06
44. At the 40th neeting, on 16 Novernber, the representative of llexico, on behalf
9f AlgeTia, @$.' Banqladesh, Belize, Botswana, Bulgaria, Cape Verde, the Congo,
Cgsta Rica, $s, CYprusr Czectroslovakia, the D,onican Repub1ic, Ecuador,
the Gernan Democratic Repub1ic, Grenadai erinea-gijsau; cgy"".., UafUr."-g"U.
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, EEi, Monqolia, Mozambique, .Panama, H, Saint Lucia,
sao sone and Principe, !pa!g,, suriname, the svrian'arab Repubric, llhailand,

-

viet tilam, and Yugoslavia introduced a draft resoLutio^ A/C.Z/561v.54 entitled
oAssistance to Nicaraguatr. Subseguently, Austria, BtazLL, Denrnark, Fr,ance, India
and Sweden joiqed as sponsors of the draft resolution, whictr read as follows:

rlhe General Assembly

"Recalling its resolutions 34/S of 25 October L979 and 35,/84 of
5 Decenber 1980 concerning assistance for ttre reconstruction of Nicaragua,

trt{oting with satisfaction the retrnrt of the secretary-General on
assistance fo Nicatagua, !!/

trlibting further the support whictr Member States and the organizations and
specialized agencies of tlre ttrrited ldations system have given to the efforts of
the Government of Nicaragua for the reconstruction of the country,

"Considering that, despite ttre efforts of the @vernment, the economic
situation of Nicaragua has not yet returned to normal and continues to reguire
the assistance of tie international cotununity,

n1. Expresses its apxeciation to the Secretary-Genera1 for his efforts
regarding

''2. Urges aLl Governments to continue contributi.ng to the reconstructlon
and development of Nicaragua;

'3. Requests the organs in the United Nations system to continue and
increase their assistance in this str*rerei

'r4. Recommends that Nicaragua should continue to receive special
treatment until Ure econonic situation returns to normali

tr5. Requests ttre Secretary-General to retrnrt to the General Assembly at
its ttrirty-seventh session on ttre progress nade in the irnplementation of ttris
resolution. r

45. At its 43rd meeting, held on 24 November, the Comnittee considered a draft
resolution |A/C.2/36/L.L06) subnritted by Mr. @rben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of ttre
Cornnittee, on the basis of inforrnal consultations held on draft resolution
A/C.2/36/L.54.

2!J A/36/278.

/,;.



A/36/737
English
Page 34

46. , At the same meeting, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution I/C.2/36/L.LO6
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution XI), in the light of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resoLution A/C.2/36/L.54.

47. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Nicaragua
nade a statement

L. Draft resoLutilons A/C.2/36fi..56 and A/C.2/36/L.85

48. At the 40th meeting, on 16 Novenber, the representative of Benin, on behalf of
Algeria, Benin, Botsvrana, China, Denmark, Djibouti, Egyptr Ethiopia, @, Indlar
Kenya, Lesotho, Mozanbiquer Nicaraqua, Niqeria, Paklstan, Senesal, Sierra Ione,
the Sudan' Uganda, ttre tlrnited Republic of Carneroon, the ttrrited Republlc of
Tanzania, Yugoslavia and Zinbabwe introduced a draft resolution (VC.2/36/L.561
entitled trAssistance to Zambiar, Subsequently, Angola, Banqladesh, $$, ttre
Gambia, Guinea, Guyana, the Libyan Arab ilanahirivar trtadagascar, @@!, @!!,
Norway, Srveden and Viet l{am joined as sponsors of ttre draft resolution, wblch read
as follows:

tr5he General Assemhlv,

nFcalling previous United Nations resolutions concernlng the question of
assistance to zambia, in particular Security Council resolution 329 (19?3) ,of
10 March L973 and Economic and Social. Council resolutions 20L2 (LXI) of
3 August 1976 and 2093 (LXIII) of 26 iluly 1977, which commended tlre decision
of the Government of Zanbia in 1968 to inplement progressively United t{atlons
nandatory sanctions against Southern Rhodesia in accordance wlth Security
Oouncil resolution 253 (196S) of 29 !{ay 1958,

"Recalling further Security Oouncil resolution 455 (19?9) of
23 November 1979 and General Assembly resolution 33,/l3l of 19 December l9?8,
in which ttre Assenbly strongly endorsed the appeals made by the Council and
the Secretary-General for international assistance to Zarnbia,

"Having exarnr@ the report of the SecretarfGeneral of
sosepffiEr@torohictrwasannexedthereportofthereviewmisel'on
which he sent to Zarnbia in restrrcnse to @neral Assernbl.y resolution 35/94 of
5 December 1t80,

nFgretting that the international community has not thus far provided
assistance to Zambia on a scale comnensurate wlttr the costs as called for in
Security Council resolutions 253 (f968) of 29 tttay L9681 277 (1970) of

. 18 March 1970 and 329 (1973) of L0 March L973,
nl. Endorses the assessment and recorurendatlons contained in the annex

to the retrnrt of ttre Secretary-Generall 25,/

25/ A/36/270-S/L4673 and Corr.1.



v36/737
English
Page 35

n2. E<presses its appreciation for ttre assistance provided thus far to
Zarnbia by various states and regionaL and international organizations,

n3. Draws the attention of the international conmunity to the additional
financia1ffi].assistancerequiredbyzambia,asidentitied
in the annex to ttre report of the SecretarrGeneral, ind to the particular
need for assistance in the transport sectorl

'4. 9q11s upon Member States, regional and interregional organizations
and other EFgoveinmental and non-governmental. organizations to provide
financial, material and tectrnical assistance to Zambia, wherever possible in
the forn of grants, and urges thern to give special consideration to the early
inclusion of Zambia in ttreir progranmes of bilateral or nultilateral
development assistance, if it is not al.ready included;

n5. Requests the appropriate organizations and progranmes of the united
Nations systen - in particular the United lilations Develognent Progranme, the
WorLd Bank, the Etrod and Agriculture Organization of ttre United Nations, tbe
International Fund for AgricuLtural Development, the World Food prograruae, the
tforld Hea1th Organization and ttre tlnited Nations Ctrildrenrs Elrnd - to maintain
and increase their current and future progralunes of assistance to Zanbia, in
order to enable it to carry out its planned developnent projects wittrout
interruptionl

'6. Elrrther requests the appropriate speciaLized agencies and other
organizations of the tlnited t{ations systen to report periodically to lfie
Secretary-General on the steps they have taken and the resources they have
made available to assist Zambiai

n7. Invites the United Nations lbveLopment Progr.rmne, the united NationE
Childrenrs Fund, the World Erood Programme, tbe World Health Organization, the
United Nations Industrial Developnent Organizationr the Frood and furicuLture
Organization of ttre tlnited t{ations, ttre !{orld Bank and the fnternalionaL Fund
for Agricultural Develotrxnent to bring to the attention of their governing
bodles, for their consideration ttre special needs of Zanbia and to report the
decisions of those bodies to the secretary-General by 15 August L982i

n8. Requests tjhe United ttions High CornniEsioner for Refugees to
continue his humanitarian assistance progranmes on behalf of refugees in
Zambia, and urges lrlenber States and tlre international connunity to provide him
speedily with the necessary means to carry out those prograrmes as contalned
in the Secretary-Generalrs reporti

iRequests the Secretary-Generall

" (a) To continue his efforts to mobilize ttre necessary resources for an
effective programne of financlalr tecfinical and material assistance to Zarnbial

n (b) To ensure that idequate financial and budgetary arrangements are
made for continuing the organization of the international prograrme of
assistance to Zambia and the rnobilization of resources;

/.. ..



A/36/737
English
Page 36

n (c) lo keep the economic situation in Zambia under constant revLew, to
maintain cLose contact !ilith !'tenber States, regionaL and other
intergovernmental organizations, the specialized agencies and international
financial institutions concerned and to apprise the Econonic and Social
Council, at its second regular session of L982 of the current status of the
special economic assistance pr.ogranme for zanbiai

u (d) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Zambia and the
progress nade in organizing and irnplementing the special economic assistance
progralnme for that country in tine for the matter to be considered by the
General Assenbly at its thirty-seventh session.'

49. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the Cornmittee considered a draft
resolution (MC.2/36/L.85) subrnitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairnan of ttre
Comnittee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution
A/C.2/36/L.55.

50. At the same meeting, the Conunittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.85
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution Xf), in the Light of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.56.

M. Draft. resoLutLon MC.2/36/L.57 and MC.2/36/L.88

51. At the 40th neeting, on 16 tlovernber, the representative of Benin, on behalf of
NqeriFr Anggla, Benin, _Brazil, Cape Verde, the Central African.Republic, China,
Denmafl(, Ethiopia. the German Denbaratic Reorrblir:- Guinea-Bissau. India- Likrariama?F, Effiia7E GeFman pe Guinea-Bissau, $!!, Liberia,
Madaqascar, Mozambique, Nigeria, 3e@, Portugal, Sao llome and Principe, the
United RepubLic of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Zaire, Zanbia and Zimbabne, introduced a
draft resoLution (pJC.2/36/L.571 entit,led oAssistance to l,[ozambique".
Subsequently, Afghanistan, Bangladesb, Bulqaria, the.@, $!g, $!g,, the
Libvan Arab Jamahiriva, Mali, Mongolia, Nicaragua, !gM[., Sierra Ieone, 8g!@!,
Sweden' the Upper Volta, Venezuela, Viet tihn and YuqosLavia joined as sponsors of
the draft resolution, which read as follows:

nlhe General Assembly,

rFcalling the decision of the Government of ltlozambique to implement
mandatory sanctions against the il-legal rdgirne in Southern Rhodesia in
accordance with Security Council resolution 253 (1968) of 29 !,tay 1968,

trRecognizinq ttre substantial econonic sacrifices made by l{ozanbique in
the inplementation of its decision to enforce United Nations sanctions and to
close its borders with Souttrern Rtrodesia,

trRecalling Security Council resolution 386 (1976) of L7 tlarch 1976, in
which the Oouncil appealed to all States to provide, and reguested the
Secretary-@nera1, in coll-aboration with the appropriate organizations of the
United tilations system, to organize with imrnediate effect, financiaL, technical



A/36/737
English
Page 37

and material assistance to enable Mozanbique to carry out its economic
deveLopment progranme normally and to enhance its capacity to inpLernent fully
the United Nations mandatory sanctions,

"Noting wittr deep concern the loss of Life and destruction of such
essential- infrastructure as roads, railways, bridges, petroleum facilities,
electricity suppJ.y, scttools and hospitals identified in the annex to the
report of t.he SecretarleCieneral of 15 August L979. 26/

oRecaLling further its resolutions 3L/43 of I December 1976, 32/95 of
13 December L977r 33/126 of 19 December L978,34/L29 of 14 December 1979 and
35/99 of 5 Decenber 1980, in whictr it urged the international- conununity to
reslnnd effectively and generously with assistance to Mozambique,

nNoting that the independence of zimbabwe provides both an optrnrtunity
and a challenge for ttre international community and particularly for those
neighbouring States whose economies have been so closeLy linked to that
country,

"Bearing in mind the fact that
provinces of l,lozambique has attained
calamity,

the drougtrt whictr affected 6 out of the 10
naturaLdramatic proportions of a

"Having examined the paper on drought in Mozambiguel 27/ wlr,ic}: contains
an assessnent of t*te irunediate reguirements for urgent assistance from the
international colununity,

nlibting that a nission of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the
United ttions, the World Ebod Prograrrne and the World Meteorological
Organization visited Mozambique in ilu1y 1980 in order to assess the emergency
food situation in terms of ttre trnrtial loss of cereals due to the drought
whictr devastated part of the country,

trltaving examined the report of the SecretarfGeneral on assistance to
!{ozambique, & and noting wittr concern that the economic and financial
trnsition of tiat country remains grave and beset by budget and
balance-of-payments deficits and that, in the absence of increased
international assistance, the Government will have to reduce major irnports
that are essential for its development programnes and for restorlng industrial
production to pre-sanctions leve1s,

nl. Strongly endorses the appeals made by the Security Council and the
SecretarlnGeneral for fnternational assistance to Mozanlciquei

zsl

2y
29/

A/34/37 7 .

A/C.z/35/5, annex.

N36/267-S/t4627 .



al36/737
English
Page 38

n2. 
{1!9g.seSlgl! the assessment and rnajor reconrnendations contained in

tlre annex to Ule report of the Secretary-Cenerilt
n3. to the secretary-Genera1 for the neasures

he has taf onal economic assistance prograrune for
MozambiqueT

4. for the assistance provided thus far
to !'tozambi al and international organizationsl

n5. Regnets, however, that the total assistance provided to date falls
far short of Mozambiquers pressing needs;

o6. praws the attention of the international comnunity
financialr conomic and naterial assistance identified in the
Secretary-General as urgently required by Mozambique;

n7. Urses Member States and organizations which are already inplenenting
or are negotiating assistance prograrunes for Mozambique to strengthen theml
wherever possiblel

n8. Appeals to the international conrmunity to provide the urgently
needed external assistance on foodstuffs and medicines and technical
co-operation for disaster preparedness and prevention;

r9. qeflg_-gpon l*lember States, regional and interregional organlzations
and other Ei-e'-@vermental and non-governmental organizitton to provide
financLal, material and tectrnical assistance to llozanbique, wherever trnssible
in the form of grantsr and urges them to give special consideration to the
early inclusion of Mozambique in t*reir prograrures of development assistancer
if it is not already incLudedT

"10.Appgglg to the international conrmunity to contribute to the special
account for Mozambique establ-ished by the Secretarfceneral.for the Purpose of,
facilitating the channelling of contributions to Mozanbiquei

nll. Inv:Lggg the United l{ations Developnent Progranune, the United t{ations
Childrenrs Fund, the World Food Programne, the World llealttr Organization, the
United lfations Industrial Development Organization, the Ftqod and Agriculture
Organizatlon of the United Nations and the International Frrnd for Agricultural
Development to bring to ttre attention of their governing bodies, for ttreir
consideration' the special needs of Mozambique and to report the decisions of
those bodies to t*te Secretary-General by 15 July J.982;

oI2. Requests the appropriate organizations and prograrunes of the United
tihtions systen - in trnrticular, ttre tlnited t{ations Development Programne' t}re
Food and furiculture Organization of the United Nations, the International
Itrnd for Agricultural Development, the World fbod Prograrme, the W<irld Uealth
Organization and the United Nations Chil-drenrs Fund - to maintain and Lncrease
their current and future prograrmes of assistance to Mozanbique and to

to the additional
report of the



^/36/737English
Page 39

co-operate closely with the Secretary-General in organizing an effective
international prognanrne of assistance, and to report periodically to the
Secretary-General on the steps they have taken ana tnl resources they have
made available to assist Mozanbique;

trI3. Requests ttre Secretary-General:

" (a) To continue his efforts to mobilize.the necessary resources for aneffective Progralnme of financial, technical and material a-ssistance to
!,tozambiquel

" (b) lto keep the situation in Mozambique under constant review, to
naintain close contact with Member states, regional and other
intergovernmental organizations, the specialized agencies and internationalfinancial institutions and other bodiel concerned ind to apprise tfr. nc"no*ic
and Social Councilr at its second regular session of L982, of the current
status of the special economic assistance prograrnme for Mozanbique;

" (c) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Mozambique and
the progress made in organizing and implenenting the special econonic
assistance Programme for that country in tine for the matter to be considered
by the General A.ssembly at its thirty-seventh session.tr

52. At its 43rd neeting, on 24 Novenber, the Connittee considered a draft
resolution (Ac.2/36/L.881 submitted by Mr. Gerben ningnalda, Vice-Chairman of the
Comnittee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolutionA/c.2/35/L.s7.

53. At the same meeting, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.gg
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution XIII), in the light of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.z /36/L.57 .
54. After the adoption of t*re draft resolution, the representative of Mozarnbique
made a statement

N. Draft resolutions a/C.2/36ll.5g and A 2,/36 .103
55. At the 40th meeting, on 15 Novernber, the representative of Benin, on behalf of
P3hrainr-EdE, Cape Verge, the Central African Republic, the Comoros, Detpcratic
I"pi"' PjlPouti, e ca,nuEEfnelEEiil
I4i!' Ltalrr , uaffiTiahllETidan,Qatar, Sao ltone gqd principe, S
tt. i="t@", rrg".d.r ,the gniSgd nepublli of Carneroonr , Zaire
and z-arnbia, introduced a draft resoluti aGistance to
Djibouti'. Subseguently, ilgeria, Angola, Guinea and Jordan joined as sponsors ofthe draf t resolution, whicE- reaE-asEFowsF-

/...



A/36/737
English
Page 40

"@,
n&calling its resolutions 32/93 of 13 December 1977, 33/L32 of

19 Decernber 1978 and 34/L24 of L4 December L979, in which it, SSgI-3S,
expressed its deep concern at the serious economic situation prevailing in
Djibouti and strongly appealed to l.tember States and to ttre international
institutions concerned to offei effective and sustained assistance to Djibouti
to enable it to deal with ttre critical situation arising from its economic
difficulties and requested the Secretary-General to continue his efforts to
mobilize the necessary resources for an effective progralme of financial,
technical and material assistance,

trFcalLing also its resolution 35/89 of 5 llecernber 1980, in which it drew
ttre attention of the international comnunity to the critical econonic
situation stilL confronting Dj ibouti and to the list of urgent short-term and
long-term projects submitted by the Government of Djibouti,

nHaving exanined the retrnrt of the Seeetary-@neralr 2! to which was
annexed tJle retrnrt of t*re mission which he sent to Djibouti in response to
GeneraL Assembly resolution 35/89,

I

"1!akinrylg of the critical econonic situatlon of Djibouti and the list
of urgent and priority projects, formulated by the Covernment of DJibouti'
tlrat require international assistance, l

"Notinq with concern that the harsh effects of the prolonged drought
contin@aceseriousstrainsonthefragiIeeconomic,socia1
and adninistratlve infrastrucfure of the country,

nNoting the conclusion of the Conunittee for llevelopnent Planning at its
, seventeenth session, U Ln response to the application of Djibouti for

inclusion in the list of the Least developed countries' that Djibouti did not
satisfy ttre existing criteria for inclusi,on in tirat list'

trNoting the statement made before the Second Connlttee on 5 October 198L
Uy ttreE6i,ainator of Special Economic Assistance Progranmes, in which he
erq*rasized the irntrnrtance of priority projects for diversification of the
economy and ttre urgency of providing lncreased financial, naterial and
technical assistance to Djibouti, 3tr/

tr1. Erpresses its appreciation of ttre Secretary-General for ttre steps he
has taken to organize an international economic assistance prograrmte to
Djibout ii

?2/ A/36/28L.
g Official Records of the Economic and Soclal @unciI, !.981r

suppleTent tlo. 7 (E/L98V271, para. 104.
3L/ A/C.2/}6/5R.7, paras. 28 and 29.



A/36/737
English
Page 41

n2. Endorses fullv the assessment and recommendations contained in the
annex of the retrnrt of the Secretary-Generall 32,/

:1. Notes wiSh appreciation the assistance already provided or pledgedto Djibouti by Menber states ana organizations of the United Nations system;

"1. Djaws the attention of ttre international community to the critical
economic situation confronting Djibouti, to the assistance irnnediately neededfor the victins of the drought and to the list of urgent short-term and
long-term pqojects subnitted by the ciovernnent of Djibouti for financial
assistance as described in the annex to the report of the Secretary-Generalg

n5. rnvites. the Economic and social council to request the committee for
DevelopmenE-FGffiing to rerxamine the situation of Djibouti as a priority
matter and, in the light of the statistical data now available and other
relevant indicators, to give further consideration to ttre inclusion of
Djibouti in the list of the least deveroped countries;

n6. Rqnew? its appeal to Member states, the specialized agencies and
other organizations of the united Nations system and international economic
and financial institutions to provide ojibouti with ample and appropriate
assistance' bilaterally and multiJ.aterally, whenever possible in the form ofgrants, to enable Djibouti to cope with its special- econonic hardship;

n7. calls upon the international conmunity to contribute generously tothe speci"GGunt which was established at united Nations Headquarters bythe Secretary-Genera1 for the purpose of facilitating the channeiling of
contributions to Djibouti;

n8. Invites the United Nations Development Progranrme, the United Nations
Childrenrs Frrnd, the World Ebod Progranme, the World Health Organization, the
Food and Agriculture organization of the united Nations, the world Bank andthe rnternational Ftrnd for Agricultura} Development to bring to the attentionof their governing bodies, for their consideration, the special needs of
Djibouti and to report tlre decision of those bodies to thl secretarfGeneral
by 15 JuIy 19821

'r9- _Requests the appnopriate specialized agencies and otherorganizations of the United l{ations system to maintain and increase t}reir
current and future progranmes of'assistance to Djibouti, to co-operate closelywith the secretaryGeneral in organizing an effective international prograruleof assistance and to report periodicalfy to him on the steps they have iaken
and the resources they have made avairable to assist ojiboutii

?3/ A/36/28L.



A/36/737
English
Page 42

"I0. -$g.g!g the Secretary-General:

" (a) To continue his effort to mobilize the necessary resources for an
effective programme of financial, tecfinical and naterial assistance to
Dj ibout i;

" (b) To continue to ensure that adequate financial and budgetary
arrangements are rnade to mobilize resources and to co-ordinate international
assistance to Dj iboutii

"(c) To keep the situation in Djibouti under constant review, to maintain
close contact with Menber States, regional and other intergovernmental
organizations, the specialized agencies and international financiaL
institutions concerned and to apprise the Economic and Social Councilr at its
second regular session of 1982, of the current status of the special economic
assistance programne to Djiboutii

" (d) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Djibouti and
the progress made in organizing and inplenenting the assistance programme for
that country in time for the matter to be considered by the General Assenbly
at its thirty-seventh session.o

56. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 Novenber, the Connittee considered a draft
resolution lA/C.2/36/L.L03l subnitted by Mr. @rben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of the
Committee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution
A/C.2/36/ L.s 8.

57. At the same meeting,
without a vote (see para.
withdrew draft resolution

58. After ttre adoption of
made a statement-

the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.103
85, draft resolution xlv), in light of which the sPonsors
^/c.2 

/36/L. s 8.

the draft resolutionr the representative of Djibouti

O. Drafr- resoLuEions. A/C.2/36/L.59 and A/C.2/36/L.86

59. At the 40th meeting, on 16 November, the retrresentative of Benin, on behalf of
A1geria, Angola, Belize, Beninr Brazil, Burundi, Cape Verde, the Central African
Republic, Chad, China, the Comoros, the Congo, Djiboutir ESIS!, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, France, Gabon, the C'ambia, 99, Grenada, Guinear Guinea-Bissau, $gg,,
Japan, Kenya, Liberia, Madagascar, !]g@i, Mal-i, Mauritania, @9, @[!gg,,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Fortugal, &g!, Sao ltrme and Principe, Senegal, $!g@g,
Somalia, Swazilandr Ss@r !9gg, Trinidad and Tobaqo, the Upper Volta, Vanualg,
Viet Narn, Yuqoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia and Zimbablre, introduced a draft resolution
(A/C.2/36/L.59) entitled "Special economic assistance to Guinea-Bissau".
Subsequently, Banqladesh, $g$, Panama, Pakistan and Romania joined as sponsors of
the draft resolution, which read as follows:



A/36/737
English
Page 43

trIhe General A.ssemblyr

, "Recalllng its resolution 3s/95 of 5 December 1980, in which it
relterated its appeal to ttre international community to provide continuous
financial, material and tectrnical assistance to Guinea-Bissau to help it
overcome its economic and financial difficulties and to pernit ttre
inprementation of the projects and programnes reconrmended by the
SecretarleGeneral in his report submitted in response to Ge,neral Assenbly
resolution 3442L of 14 December L9791

"Recalling also its resoluticin 3339 (xxlx) of L7 December L974, in whictr
it invited Member States to provide economic assistance to the then newly
independent State of Gr:inea-Bissau, and its resolutions 32/lO0 of
13 Decenber L977 and 33fi24 of L9 December L979, in which it, !!gI3!!g,
expressed deep concern at t.he serious economic situation in Cuinea-s:Issau and
apSnaled to the international conununity to provide financial and economic
assistance to help that countryl

trH3ving exanined the report of the Secretary-General of 31 July 198I, Uto which was annexed the report of the mission which he sent to Guinea-Bissau
in response to General Assenbly resolution 3S/95,

"394l!.gg. ttrat Guinea-Bissau is arnong the 31 least developed countries,
nlilrting with concern that Guinea-Bissau continues to be beset by a wide

range of economic and financial difficulties,

"Ig3!!g that the Government of Guinea-Bissau, by the application of a
Enlicy of economic austerity, was able to reduce the budget deficit in 1980 to
a level substantially lower than in the two preceding years, alttrough the
country will continue to be dependent on external sources for public capital
expenditure,

'lUrther noting lrith concern the chronic deficit in the balance of
pa1'men in loans and the inordinately low level of
foreign exc*range reserves,

ilbting that Guinea-Bissau again experienced a poor harves! in 1980 owing
to irregular and inadequate rainfall and ttrat the country needs emergency food
aid,

trlilcting with concern that the response of the international conununity to
date has not been conmensurate with the needs of the situation and tlrat many
of the projects approved for the special economic assistance progrmne by the
General Assembly at its thirty-third session have not yet been financed,

E/ A/36/263.



A/36/737
English
Page 44

"$!1gg.g!9 of the results of the United Nations Conference on
Developed Countries, held at Paris frorn I to 14 Septenber 1981, and
particularly of the Substantial tibw Progranune of Action for the L980s
least developed countries, U

rrI. E:<presses its aplxeciation to the Secretary-General for the
has taken to mobilize assistance for Guinea-Bissaui

the Ieast

for the

steps he

n2. Brdorses fully the assessment and reconrmendations contained in the
annex to ttte report oe the Secretarfceneral and draws the attention of the
inlernational community to the reguirements for assistance for the projects
and progranmes identified thereini

n3. Expresses its appreciation to those
have provided assistance to Guinea-Bissau in
General Assembly and the Secretary-GeneraL;

States and organizations which
response to appeals by the

rr4. CaIls upon Member States and the international organizations
concerned to be generous in granting Guinea-Bissau the food aid it needsl

'5. Renews its urqent appeal to lilember States, regional and
interregional organizations and other intergovernmental bodies to provide
continuous financial, material and technical assistance to Guinea-Bissau to
help it to overcome its economic and financial difficulties and to enable the
projects and prograrunes identified in the annex to the report of the
Secretary-@neral to be inplementedi

tr5. Appeals to the international conrmunity to contribute to the special
account established at United ttions Headguarters by the Secretarlz-General,
in accordance with General Assembly resolutions 32/LO0t for the purpose of
facilitating ttre channel-Ling of contributions to Guinea-Bissaui

"7. Invites the United Nations Development Progranme, the United Nations
Childrenrs l\rnd, the World Ebod Programme, the Wor1d Health Organization, the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations' the World Bank and
the International Fund for Agricultural Development to bring to ttre attention
of their governing bodies, for their considerationr the special needs of
Guinea-Bissau and to report the decisions of those bodies to the
Secretary-General by 15 July 19821

'8. Requests the specialized agencies and other competent bodies of the
United }lationa sftem to report periodical.ly to the SecretarlnGeneral on the
steps they have taken and the resources they have made available to assist
Guinea-Bissaui

34/ A/AONF.L04/22, part one; sect. A.



A/36/737
English
Page 45

n9. Requests the Secretary-GeneraL:

, " (a) To continue his efforts
effective prograrnme of financial,
Gu inea-Bissau?

to mobilize the necessary resources for an
technical and material assistance to

" (b) To keep the situation in Guinea-Bissau under constant review, to
naintain close contact with Member states, regional and other
intergovernmental organizations, the specialiied agencies and the
international financial institutions concerned, and to report to the Ebonomic
and Social CounciLr at its second reguJ-ar session of L982, on the status ofthe special economic assistance progianrme for Guinea-alssiu;

" (c) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Guinea-Bissau
and the progress nade in organizing and implementing the special economic
assistance Progratnme for that country in time for the matter to be considered
by the General Assembry at its thirty-seventh session.,,

60. At its 43rd rneeting, on 24 November, the Committee considered a draftresolution |A/C.2/36/L.861 submitted by Mr. cerben Ringnalda, vice-Chairman of the
Conunittee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution
A/c.2/36/L.s9.

6I. At the same meeting, the cornnittee adopted draft resolution pJc.2/36/L.g6
without a vote (see para. 85' draft resolution XV), in the l-ight of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.Sg.

62. At the ar.r r." on behalf ofBilinr.Botgpana, 3pe Y?taer the centqal African Republic, pjibouti, EgIp!.,
E!:higpiar- the ganpig, ristia a;-ffiGi,@!g,
uqanqar -the un,ited nepublic of Tanzania, Zambia anE zirnuauwe, introaucea a araftresolution (A/C.2/3G/L.60,) entitled "Assistance to Uganda\ Subseguently, Algeria,
$gola' B?ngladesh, 9!g, Madaqascar, Mali, Niqeria and the unitda nepiofffiT
Cameroon joined as sponsors of the draft resofution, which reailas follows:

!rThe General Assemblv,

"RggaLling it resorution 3s/Lo3 of 5 Decenber 19g0, in which it,
intgr aU,a, expressed its deep concern at tlre tragic loss of life, widespread
destruction of property and severe damage to the economic and sociaL
infrastructure of uganda and urgently appealed to the international conununityto contribute generously to the reconstruction, rehabilitation and develoS*"rrt
needs of the country,



A/36/737
English
Page 45

rTaking into account the ten-year development plan of Uganda presented to
ttre United Nations Oonference on the last Developed Countries' held at Parls
frorn I to 14 Septenber 1981, and the Substantial tw Prograrune of Action for
ttre 1980s for ttre Ieast Developed Oountries adopted by the Oonference, W

"Recognizing that Uganda is not only land-Iocked but also one of the
least devetopea ind rnost seriously affected countries,

"Recalling the donorsr meeting on assistance to Uganda, held in Paris
from 6 to 8libvenber 1979 under the auspices of the World Bank,

nNoting with concern that severe drought has destroyed the livelihood of
several hundred thousand people and that urgent assistance is reguired for the
rehabilitation of essential cornmunity facilities and services in the affected
areas,

nNoting the appeals of the Secretary-General and the United Nations lligh
Connissioner for Refugees for emergency humanitarian assistance to Ugandat

''.@theretrnrtoftheSecretary-Genera1of15october1981
submitted in iesponse to General A.ssembly resolution 35/L03, ]i1/

"Reaffirning the urgent need for international action to assist the
Governrnent of Uganda in its efforts for national reconstruction,
rehabilitation and development and for resettling the large numbers of
returning refugees and displaced persons into the permanent fabric of societyt

r'L. Expresses its aplreciation to the Secretary-General for the steps he
has taken to mobilize assistance for Uganda;

n2. rurthe to those States and organizations
which tave-frffiea assistance to rganaa;

r'3. Requests once aqain the Secretary-General to dispatch a mission to
Uganda to consult with the Government on its most urgent reconstruction,
rehabilitation and development needs and to subnit the re;nrt of the mission
to the GeneraL A.ssembly at its thirty-seventh session through the Economic and
Social Council at its second regular session of L982i

'4. Further reguests the Secretar1l-ceneral to ensure that adequate
financial and budgetary arrangements are made for the organization of an
effective international programme of assistance to Uganda and for the
mobilization of international assistancei

A/@lW.LO4/22, part one, sect. A.

A/36/27 4 .

w
v/



Pl36/737
English
Page 47

tr5. fnvites the international community, in particular the gnited
Nations syffia donor countries, to make avairable the necessary resources
to implenent the countryrs tenlear development programme, in accordance with
the substantial New Pl-an of Action for the I980s for the Least Developed
Ooun trie s

16. urgently renews its appeal to all Member states, specialized
agencies and other organizations of the United lilations system and
international economic and financial institutions to contribute generously,
through bilateral or mul-tilaterar channels, to the reconstruction,
rehabilitation and development needs of uganda and to its emergency
regu irenents;

n7. Urges Member states and international economic and finanacial
institutions once again to respond generously to the appeal made at the
donorsr neeting in paris;

'8- Renewlj.lg3ppg! to the international comrnunity to contribute tothespeciaffisestablishedattlrritedlitrationsI{eadguartersfor
the purpose of facilitating the channelling of contributions to Uganda;

'9- rnvites the appropriate organizations and progranmes of the urrited
Nations syGfrTin particuiar the united Nations conference on Trade and
Fvelopmen, the ulrited l.lations Industrial Fvelopment Organization, the
united Nations Chil-drenrs Fund, the United Nations Development programme, the
world Fbod Pro ramme, the fnternational Ftrnd for Agricultural Evelopment, the
International Labour Organization, the Food and Agriculture organization of
the ttrrited t'lations, the ttrrited ttions Hucational, Scientific and Orltural
Organization, the world Health Organization and the world Bank - to maintain
and increase their current and future programmes of assistance to uganda ahdto report periodically to, the Secretary-General on the steps they have taken
and the resources they have made avairabre to assist that -ountry;

"10. rnvites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, thethited lutlEffibustrial Evelopment organization, the united l.trations
Childrenrs Fund, the united Nations Development Programme, the world Food
Programme, the rnternationar Fbnd for Agricultural Fveropment, the
International Labour organisation, the Food and Agriculture organization of
the tlnited l.Iations, the tfrited tilations Elucational, Scientific and Cultural
organization, the World Health organization and the World Bank to bring to the
attention of their governing bodies, for their consideration, the special
needs of uganda and to report the'decisions of those bodies to the
Secretary-General by 15 JuJ_y 1982;

"J-1. Requests the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to
continue his hunanitarian assistance progranmes in tryanda;



A/35/737
English
Page 48

"12. Requests the Secretary-General:

" (a) To continue his efforts to mobilize the necessary resources for an
effective programne of financial, tectrnical and material assistance to Uganda;

" (b) To keep the situation in Llganda under constant review, to maintain
close contact with Member States, regional and other intergovernmental
organizations, the specialized agencies and international financial
institutions concerned and to apprise the Economic and Social Council, at its
second regular session of 1982, of the current status of the special economic
assistance progranme for Uganda."

63. At its 43rd neeting, on 24 tlovember, the Comrnittee considered a draft
resol-ution (A/C.2/36/L.871 submitted by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of the
Committee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution
A/C.2/36/L.50.

64. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.87
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution XVI) ' in the light 

of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.z/36/I'.50.

65. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of llanda made
a statement.

A. DxafE resoLuEions A/C.2/36/L.73 and A/C.2/36/L.LO5

66. At the 41st rneeting, on 18 Novenber, the representative of Benin' on behalf of
Angola, Banqladeshr Benin, Botsvrana, Cana<!g, the Central African Republicr Pg1!@,
Ethiopia, Lesotho, tiberia, Madagascar, $!g!, Swaziland, Eg@' and @[5!r
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/36/L.731 entitled "Assistance lo lsothor'.
Subsequently, Algeria, the 1j4[!g, Guinea, Ireland, M?dagascarr P?kiPtan and Sierra
Leone, joined as sponsors of the draft resolution, which read as follows:

"@'
"kcalling Security Council resolution 402 (L9761 of 22 December L976' in

which the Council, inter alia, expressed concern at the serious situation
created by South Africars closure of certain border posts between South Africa
and Iesotho aimed at coercing Isotho into according recognition to the
bantustan of the Transkei,

"$ry!!gg the decision of the @vernement of Lesotho not to recognize
the Transkei, in conpliance with United tilations decisions, particularJ-y
General Assembly resolution 3L/6 A of 26 october L976,

decision of the Governrnent of Iesotho not to
inposed a special economic burden upon its people,

the
has

'rFuIIy aware that
recognize the Transkei



A/36/737
English
Page 49

"Stronglv endorsinq the appeal-s made in Security Council resolutions
402 (1975) of 22 December 1926 and 407 (L9771 of 25 tray L977, in Genqrar
A.ssembly resolutions 32/98 of 13 December L977, 33/L28 of 19 December L978,
34/L30 of 14 December 1979 and 3s/96 of 5 December 19801 and by the
SecretarlnGeneral, calLing up,on aIJ- States, regional and intergovernmental
organizations and the appnopriate agencies of the United Nations system to
contribute generously to the international programme of assistance to enable
Lesotho to_ca-rry out its economic development'and enhance its capacity to
implenent fuLly resolutions of ttre United Nat,ions,

"Having examined the reSnrt of the Secretary-General of 2O March LggL, 37/
to which was annexed l*re report of ttre mission which he sent to Lesotho, in -response to General Assembly resolution 35/96, to review the economic
situation as well as progress in the implementation of ttre special. economic
assistance programne for tesotho,

nlibting the priority which the Goqernment of Lesotho accords to raising
level-s of food production through increased productivity, thus lessening the
countryrs dependency on South Mrica for food inp,orts,

trBeinq aware that the high prices paid by Isotho for its imports of
petroleum products as a result of the oiL embargo on South Africa have become
a serious inpediment to the development of the country,

"Recognizing, in connexion with such embargoes, the obligation of the
internationaL community to heLp countries such as lesot.to ttrat act in support
of the Ctrarter of the United ltations and in compliance with General essemUfy
resolutions,

trRecalling its resolutions 32/L6O of L9 December 1977 and 33/L97 of
29 January L979, concerning the Transport and Conmunications Decade in Africa
and' in this regard, noting r,esottrors geoporitical situation, which
necessitates the urgent development of air and telecommunication links with
neighbouring countries of Africa and the rest of the world,

trTakinq account of Iesottrors need for a national network of roads, both
for its planned social and economic development and to lessen its dependence
on South African network, to reach various regions of ttre country affected by
the imtrnsition of travel restrictions by Souttr Africa,

nTaking note of Iesottrors special problems associated with the employnent
of large numbers of its able-bodied men in Souttr Africa,

'Takinq note also of ttre priority which the Government of Iesottro has
accorded to the problem of absorbing into the economy the younE generation, as
well as migrant workers returning from South Africa,

3ll A/36/266.

/r..



A/36/737
English
Page 50

',@theactiontakenbytheGoverrunentofLesothotomakemore
effective use of rrromen in the developnent process by prornoting their
participation in the economic, social and cultural life of the country'

nTaking account also of Iesothors position as a least developed, nost
seriously affected and lan&Locked country,

"RecaLling its resolution 32/98, in which it, inter alia, recognized that
the continuing influx of refugees from South Africa inposed an additional
burden on Iesotho,

nl. Expresses its concern at the difficulties that confront the
Government of Iesotho as a result of its decision not to recognize the
so-called independent Transkei?

n2. Eadorses fully the assessment of the situation contained in the
annex to tfr?Gffir ure secretarrcenera L, Y

n3. Takes note of the requirements of Lesotho, as described in the
report of ttre SecretarrGeneral, to carry out tlte remainder of its development
programmeT to implement projects necessitated by the present political
situation in the region and to lessen its dependence on South Africat

n4. S<presses it apueciation to the Secretary-GeneraL for the measures
he has taken to organize an international economic assistance progranune for
LesothoT

n5. tilctes with aplreciation the response made so far by the
internationaL community to the special economic assistance progranrme for
Iesotho, which has enabled it to proceed with the impl,enentation of parts of
the recommended prografiune,

n6. Reiterates its appeal to Member States, regional and interregional
organizations and other intergovernmental bodies to provid financial'
material and tectrnical assistance to Lesotho for the implernentation of the'several projects and progranmes which are still unfunded, as identified in the
report of the Secretary-Genera}i

n7. CaLls upon Member States and the appropriate agencies, organizations
and financffiEEitutions to provide assistance to resotlto so as to enable it
to achieve a greater degree of self-sufficiency in food productiont

|l8. Al-so calls upon Menber States to give all trnssible assistance to
Iesotho to ensure an adequate and reguLar suppJ.y of oil to meet its national
requirementsi

n9. Furtheggffs opor Member States to assist Lesottro in developing its
interna1rffianditsa1rcoruaunicationwithttrerestofthe
worldi



Pd35/737
EngLish
Page 51

"I0.@.tJreeffortsoftheGovernmentofIesotttotointegratev'omen
more fully into deveJ.opment efforts and reguests the Secretary-General to
consult with the Government on tlte type and amount of assistance it will
reguire to acfiieve this objectiveT

trll. TakeS note of tlre neeting of donors heLd in Lesottro fron 5 to
9Novenberffi'e11astheagricu1turalsectorconferencehe1dinLegotho
fron 20 to 24 October 1980, and urges Menber States and the appropriate
agencies and organizations to provide assistance to Lesotho in accordance with
the outcome of those meetings;

nl2. Draws the attention of the international community to the special
account which was established at United Nations lleadguarters by the
Secretary-General, in accordance with Security Council resoLution 407 (L9771,
for tfie purpose of facilitating the channelLing of contributions to Isothot

n13. Invites the United Nations Development Progranrme, the United Natlons
ChildrenrsEE|tfre world Health organization, ttre unitea Nations Industrial
Developnent Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization of, the United
t{atlons and the International Fund for Agricultural Development to bring
further to the attention of their governing bodies the special needs of
Iesottro and to report to the Secretary-General by 15 August 1982 on ttre steps
they have taken;

n14. SggS the aplropriate specialized agencies and other organizations
9f the United l{ations systen to co-operate closely with the SecretarleGeneralln organizing an effect-ive internatibnal programne of assistance to Lesotho
and to report periodically to him on the steps they have taken and the
resources they have made available to assist that country?

' '15. Requestq tJre SecretarrGeneral:

' n (a) To continue his efforts to rnobilize the necessary resources for an
effective progranne of financial, tectrnical and material assistance to Isothoi

n (b) !o consuLt wittr the Government of r,esotlro on the guestion of migrant
workers returning from South Africa and to report on the type of assistance
which the Government requires in order to establish labour-intensive projects
to deal with their absorption into the economy;

n (c) to ensure that adequate financial and budgetary arrangements are
nade to contLnue the organlzation of the international progranme of assistance
to Isotho and the molilization of assistancei

" (d) To keep the situation in lesottro under constant review, to malntain
close contact with uenber States, regional and other intergovernmental
organizations, tire specialized agencies and international financial
institutions concerned and to apprise the Fjconomic and Social Council, at its
second regular session of '1982, of the current status of ttre special econonLc
aseistance progralme for Lesothol

/...



^/36/737English
Page 52

" (e) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Lesotho and the
progress nade in organizing and implementing the speciaL economic assistance
progranme for that country in time for the matter to be considered by the
C'eneral Assernbly at its thirty-seventh session."

67. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the Comnittee considered a draft
resolution (P,/C.2/36/L.I05) subnittdd by l,,tr. Ccrben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of the
Conunitteer on the basis of informai consultations held on draft resolution
P'/c.2/36/L.73.

68. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution FJC.2/36/L.LO5
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution XVIf), in the Light of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.73.

R. DrafE resoLutions NC.2/36/L.74 and AC.2/36/L.LO4

69. At the 4lst meeting, on 18 Novenber, the representative of Benin, on behalf of
A1qeria, Arsentina, Bangladesh, Egglg, !g@, the '@!or, Ethiopia, @, the Gambia, 9gg, rndiar I$}1, !i^$!g, Madasascarr
Mauritania, @, Niqeria, Pakistan, Seneqal, Sierra Ieone' $[-!3g@, 99499,
the United Republic of Caneroon, the United Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslaviar tnd
Zimbabwe, introduced a draft resolution (VC.2/36/L.74) entitled "Assistance for
the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Gambia". Subsequently, @, Guinea,
Indonesia, dap4, MaIi, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates joined as sPonsors of
the draft resolution, which read as follows:

"@,
,,@abouttheextensivedestructlonof1ifeandpropertyas

well- as the severe damage to infrastructure which were inflicted on the Gambia
as the resuLt of recent events,

dtibting that the Ganbia is a least developed country with acute economic
and social problens arising from its weak econonic infrastructurer

"li|g!!gg-1!g!@ that the Gambia also suffers fron many of the serious
problems common to countries of the Sahelian regionr notably drought,

"Convinced that the Governnent of the Gambia needs urgent international
assistance to rehabilitate and reconstruct its damaged economy,

nl. Notes witlr Sa$;LsfacllqO the efforts exerted by the Governnent and
peop1eorffirehabi1itat'ionandreconstructionl

x2. Urgentl-y appeals to all Menber States, the specialized agencies and
other organizations of the tlrited l{ations systen, as well as international
development and financial institutions to contribute generously, through
bilateral or multiLateral channels, to the rehabiliation and reconstruction of
the Ganbial



P,/36/737
EngJ.ish
Page 53

tr3. Calls upon regional and interregional organizations and other
intergovernmental bodies and non-governmental. organizations as well as
international development and financial institutions to give urgent
consideration to the establishment of a programme of assistance to the Ganbial

"4. @.!.g. the appropriate organizations and programtnes of the United
Nations syGTn particular the united Nations oevetolnent progranme, the
United tihtions Children's F\rnd, the World Ftood progranme, the WorLd tbaLth
Organization, the United Nations Industrial and Development Organization, the
Food and Agriculture Organization of the Writed tilations and the fnternationaL
Fund for AgrieuJ-tural Developnent - to increase their current and future
programmes of assistance to the Garnbia, to co-operate closely with the
Secretary-General in organizing an effective internationaL progranme of
assistance and to report periodicalty to him on the steps they have taken and
the resources they have made available to assist that countryT

'5. fnvites the United tlations Evelopment Prograpme, the ttnited tGtions
Childrenrs Fund, the World Food Progranme, the World Health Organization, the
United tilations IndustriaL Eveloprnent Organization, the Flood and Agricul-ture
Organization of the United Nations, the WorLd Bank and the International Fund
for Agricultural Evelopment to bring to the attention of their governing
bodies, for consideration, the special needs of the Gambia, and to report the
decisions of those bodies, to the Secretary-General by 15 JuLy 1982t

'6. Requests the Secretary-Generall

" (a) To organize a special emergency assistance progranme of financial,
technical and material assistance to the Gambia to enable it to meet its
urgent needs for rehabilitation and reconstructiont

" (b) To ensure that the necessary financial and budgetary arrangements
are made to organize an international programme of assistance to the Garnbia
and to mobilize this assistancet

" (c) To dispatch a mission to the Ganbia with a view to holding
consultations with the Government on the additional assistance which it needs
for rehabilitation and reconstruction and to communicate the report of the

. mission to the international communityl
u (d) To apprise the Economic and Social Oouncilr at its second regular

session of 19 82, of the assistance being provided and the progress nade in
mobilizing assistance to the Gambiai

" (e) To keep the situation in the Gambia under review and to report to
the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session on the implementation of
the present resolution. r

70. At the 43rd meeting, on 2$ Novenber, the Cornmittee considered a draft
resolution (t{C.2/36/L.IO4) suUliritted by Mr. Ccrben Ringnalda, Vice-Ctrairman of the
Committeer on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution
vc.2/36/L.74.



v36/737
English
Page 54

71. At the same meeting, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution P/C.2/36/L.LO4
(see trnra. 85, draft resolution XVIII), in the light of which the sponsors withdrew
draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.7 4.

S. Draft- resoLvELons

72. At the 42nd meeting, on 20 November, the representative of the Sudan, on
behalf of Bangladesh, Djibouti, .&y!9, Ethiopia, Ghana, G,rinea, IGnya, I0wait,
@, Onan, Pakistan, Qatar, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Somalia, tl" Sudan,
9ge4, the United Arab ltnirates, the ltnited Re of Ta4q4qnrg and Zambia'Ilrrited Republic of Tanzania and
lntroduced a ckafE iesorution (Vc.2/36/L.61,/Rev.1) entitled "Assistance to the
drought-stricken areas in Djibouti, Ethiopia, IGnya, Somalia, the Sudan and
Uganda", which read as follows:

,r@,

"ElI$g its resolutions 35/90 and 35,/91 of 5 Decenber 1980 on the
question of assistance to the drought-stricken areas of Djiboutl' Ethiopla,
Somalia, the Sudan and Uganda,

,.@EconomicandSocia].Counci]-reso1utionL98L/48of
20 Juty l98L regarding assistance to the drought-stricken countries as well as
to Kenya'

,'.@'thestatementmadebeforethesecondccrmmitteeon
6 libvember 1981 U bV the head of the tlrrited libtions multi-agency mission
which visited thilse countries to assess the immediate nediurt-term and
long-terrn needs of the Governments concerned for their drought-affected
populations,

"tibting with satisfaction the reports of the Secretary-Genera1 on
assistance to tne drought-stricken areas in Djibouti, W Yenya, !!1/
Somalia, Q/ the Sudan 42/ and Uganda, 43/ Eo which ltere annexed the relevant
reports of the multi-agency mission,

n@ of the adverse effects of drought on the economic and social
development of the countries concerned as well as on their ecology'

y/
2y

see vc.2/36/SR.3l.

Py'36/276.

A/36/7L2.

A/36/275.

N36/277.

v36/274.

g/
ly
p/
!3/

^",1...&.he.+:; d.rdB



A/36/737
Engl-ish
Page 55

"Bearing in mind the imperative need for the international community to
render assistance to Member States in the event of najor natural disasters,

"Recalling its resol-utions and those of the Ebonomic and Social Oouncil-
concerning assistance in cases of natural disaster, in particular Assenbly
resolutions 2816 (xxvr) of 14 Ecember 1971 and 2959 (xxvrr) of
12 Decenber L972,

- "Rking into account the regional nature of the drought and the practicaland regioanl co-operation arrangements which already exist among the affected
countr ies,

. "Recalling its recommendation in paragraph 5 of, its resol-ution 35rl90 thatthe Governments of the drought-stricken countries of the region shouLd
consider the establ-ishnent of an intergovernmenta]_ body with the
resPonsibility for co-ordinating and supporting the countries' efforts to
combat the effects of drought and other natural disasters and to deal with the
probrem of medium-tern and rong-term recovery and rehabilitation,

ntloting that in response to paragraph z of its resorution 35/9o,
arrangenents have been made by the Secretary-General for a unit within the
united Nations Development progranme t,o be created and to be assigned
responsibility for assisting the countries of the region,

nlbting further that, in paragraph z of its resolution 3s/90, the
Secretary-GeneraL appealed to lrGmber States and international organizations
for voluntary contributions to meet the costs of such a unit to enable it toprovide the assistance envisaged in that paragraph,

[1. Oommends the Secretary-Cenera]- for his positive response to the
urgent situation of the drought-stricken countries of .ojibouti, IGnya,Somalia, the Sudan and Uganda, and for his action in d'ispatching a multi-
agency mission to those countries to assess their medium-tern and long-term
needs, and also cornmends the nuLtiagency mission for the excelLent efforts it
has deployedl and requests the Secretary-General- to send a similar mission to
those countries for which such a reSrort does not exist.,

'n2- Endorses the recommendations made by the multi-agency mission in its
reports, which were annexed to the reports of the secretary-cenerarl

-"1: Aplreals to Member states, u:rited rtions organizations andspecialized agencies, and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations
to contribute generously, in the form of financialr rlraterial and technical
assistance, towards the projects and programmes to help the affected
populations, as described in the reports of, the nulti-agency nission;

n4. Urges the Governments of the drought-stricken countries of the
region to continue their cansultations and to finalize the necessary
ariangements for the establishlnent of an intergovernmental uoay witir tfre
responsibility for co-ordinating and supporting each countryrs efforts to
conbat the effects of drought and other natural disasters and to deal with the
problen of medium-term and long-term recovery and rehabirii.ii"il----- 

---. -''-
./...



v36/737
English
Page 55

'5. Invites the Secretary-General, in close co-operation with the
Adninistra$ffithe tfiited ttions Evelopment Programme' to assist those
countries in the establishment of the proposed intergovernnentaL bodyl

'5. Re-iterates its appeal to litenber States and international
organizations to lnafe vol-untary contributions to meet the cost of the special
co-ordinating unit, to be created within the llnited tihtions Development
progranme, and to enabl-e it to provide assistance to the Governments of the
affected countries to strengthen their national and regional caPabil-ities to
mitigate the effects of drought and to promote sustained economic and social
development;

n7. Requests the Secretary-@neral, in close co-operation with the
Administrator of the tirited l.Iations Development Programme:

"(a) Iro extend alI necessary assistance to the Crovernments of Djibouti,
IGnya, Sona1ia, the Sudan and Qanda in establishing detailed policies for
dealing with drought as a recurring phenomenon within the context of their
national development programmes t

u (b) To mobilize international assistanee for the populatlons affected as
a result of drought and other natural disasters in the countries concernedt

rr8. F'urther requests the Secretary-General to keep the situation under
review and to report to the Eonomic and Social Oouncil at its second reguLar
session of L982, as well as to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh
session, on the progress achieved in the inplementation of'the present
resolution. r

73. At its 43rd neeting, on 24 Novenber, the Cornmittee considered a draft
resolution (A/C.2/36/L.It3) submitted by I'lr. Cerben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of the
Conrmittee, on the basis of infornal consultations held on draft resoLution
VC.2/36/L.61,/Rev.1. Statements t{ere nade by the representatives of the Llnion of
Soviet Socialist Republics, the Sudan, Kenya and Uganda.

74. At the same meeting, the Connittee adopted draft resolution F'/C.2/36/L.LL3
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution XIX), in the Light of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resolution FJC.2|36/L.6L/Rev.L.

75. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of lGnya and the ttrrion of Soviet Socialist repub1ics.

76. In the light of the adoption of the draft resolution, and folLowing the
statement made by the representative of lGnyal the Oornnittee decided not to take
action on a resolution recomrnended by the Econonic and Social Council in its
resolution L98l-,/48 to the General Assembly at its thlrty-sixth session entitled
oAssistance to the drought-stricken areas of Kenya".

77. the resolution recommended for adoption by the General Assenbly read as
followsl



p{36/737
English
Page 57

tt@t

"Ig4g its resolutions 35/gO on assisEance to the drought-stricken
areas in Djiboutir Somalia, the Sudan and tlanda, and 35/9L on assistance to
the drought-stricken areas of Ethiopia, of 5 December l-980,

"Recalling also Economic and Social Oounc,iI resolution 1980,/43 of
23 July 1980 on international efforts to neet humanitarian needs in emergency
s ituations,

".39gg the Secretary-@neral to send, as a matter of urgencyr after
consultation with the Covernment of lGnya and under the terms of Ceneral
Assembly resolution 35/9O, a nulti-agency mission to Kenya which would,
inter alia, survey the drought-stricken areas of the country and assess the
shortG'rn, mediunrterm and long-term needs of the Government in the current
situationr ind to report to the General assernbly at its thirty-seventh
session, through the Economic and Social Council at its second regular session
of 1982 on the results of the nission and on the progress achieved in the
inplementation of the present resolution. "

78. At the 42nd meeting, on 20 November, the representative of Mozambique, on
behalf of Bangladesh, @!g, E9@, Chad, Ethiopia, the Ganbia' MadagasFa['
t,tozambique, ttre Sudan ana Uganaa, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/36/L.781
entitled "Assistance to Botswana". Subsequently, Algerig, }gg!g, the Central
African Republic, the Conoros, Denmark, @!g3, Isotho, !4a1?wi, Nigaraguerpakistan, Sro trome-and principe, Sierra Ieone, $vaziland, $g91!9g' @_ana
ZGbablre ioinea-aE--ponsorea of the draft resolution, which read as follows:

,r@,

"Recalling Security Council resolutions 403 (Lg77l of 14 January 1977 and
406 (1977) of 25 May 1977, concerning the conplaint by the Government of
Botswana regarding acts of aggressiori committed against its territory by the
ill-egal rdgime in Southern Rtrodesia,

"3g93}!!3g.g!g Security Council resolution 460 (1979) of
Zf mcelnUer LS79, in which aLl !{ember States and specialized agencies were
called upon to provide urgent assistance to Zirnbabwe and the front-line Statest

trRecalling Gneral Assembly resolutions 32/97 of 13 Ecember Lg77' 33/L3O
of 19 pecernUer f978 and 34A25 of 14 December LgTg' in which the Assembly,
inter al-ia, recognized the special economic hardship confronting Botswana as a
resuft of aiverting funds from currenL and planned development projects to
effective arrangements for security against attacks and threats by Southern
Rtrodesia, and endorsed the assessments and recommendations contained in the

T. resolutions



v36/737
EngIish
Page 58

notes by the secretary-General dated 28 March l:g77 g/ and 25 october :-|g77 !2/and in his reports of 7 July LgTg g/ and 2g arugust 1979, U

. . "Il-aving examined the report of the secretary-General of 23 June lggl- , !!to which was annexed the report of the mission which he sent to Botsr{ana inresponse t,o General Assembl_y resolution 35,/9g of 5 December l_9g0,
nllctir,tg the need of the dovernment of Botswana to rehabilitate anddevelop effective road, rail and air colununications, both internalry and withthe rest of the world, in view of the uncertain trnlitical situation in theregion, Botswanars vulnerability as a land-locked country and its dependenceon externally controlled railway systems for the transport of its prlncipal

exports and imports,

. "tbting with appreciation Botswanars desire to estabLish its own railwaysystem,

- 
nN'oti{rg.also the urgent need to complete speedily the projects that havebeen identified in the annx to the report of the secretary-@nerar,
Itl. titrtes with satisfaction

deveropmenffi
"?' Endor.g- f ury the revised programme of assistance contained in theannex to the report of the Secretary-General 48t/ and calls the attention ofthe international community to the outstanainfneeas for assistance identifiedtherein;

'3. liotes that, while the response from some Member states andinternational organizations to the appeals of the secretary-Generar has beenencouraging, there is urgent need to naintain the flow of contributions tocarry out the remainder of the emergency progranme, the implementation ofparts of which rernains a critical necessityl
n4. Draws the attention of states and internationar- and

intergovernmental organi-ations particul.arly to the projects in the fieLd oftransport and communications, as well as to the prioiity requirements to

- _y/ Official Records of thfot 
"inu.ry /LZ3O7.
g/ rbid.,

s/t242L.

Botswanars efforts in implementing its

document

g/
!t/

A/33466 and Corr.l.

v34/ 4L9-Sl13 s0 6 .

Lg77 ,



A/36/737
English
Page 59

rehabi!.itate the border areas most adversel'y affected by the war in accordance
with the recomnendations contained in the annex to the rePort of the
Se cretary-Ceneral i

tr5. Reiterates its appeal to all States and intergovernmental
organizati;-s to-p-rcviae generous assistance to enable Botsrdana to carry out
the remainder of its planned development projects, as well as those made
necessary by the current political and economic situation;

.,6. Appeals to alI Member States, regional and interregional
organizations and other intergovernrnental bodies to provide financial'
material and technical assistance to Botswana to enable it to carry out its
planned development programme without interruption;

n7. Urges Member States and organizations which are already implenenting
or negotiaffig-assistance progranmes for Botswana to expand them, wherever
possible 7

ng. Invites the united Nations DeveLopment Programne, the united Nations
Childrenrsffifthe world Fbod Programme, the World lbalth Organization, the
United Nations Industrial Developmeit Organization, the World Bank and the
InternationaL F\rnd for Agricultural Evelopment to bring to the attention of
their governing bodies, for their considerationr the assistance they are
rendering to Botswana, for which the @nera} Assembly has requested. the
Secretary-GeneraI to implenent a special economic assistance prograinne, and to
report on the results of that assistance and their decisions to the
Selretary-General in tine for consideration by the Assenbly at its
thirty-seventh sessionl

19. Appeals to the international community to contribute to tlr:.spe:ial
account established by the secretary-@neral for the Purpose of facilitating
the channelling of contributions to Botswanat

nlo. &quests the approPriate special-ized agencies and other
organizati6iilof *te United Nations system to co-operate closely with the
Secretary-GeneraI for the purpose of facilitating the channelling of
contributions to Botswanat

"11. Requests the Secretary-@neral:

'(a) To continue his efforts to mobilize the necessary resources for an
effective prograrune of financial, tectrnical and material assistance to
Botswanat

n (b) To keep the situation in Botswana under constant review, to maintain
close contact wiit r.cnUer States, regional and other intergovernmental
organizations, the specialized agencies and lnternational financial
institutions concerned and to apprise the Economic and Social Oouncil, at its
second regufar session of 1982, of tn" current status of the special economic
aseistance Programme for Botswana;



P{36/737
English
Page 60

" (c) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Botswana and
the progress made in organizing and implenenting the special economic
assistance programme for that country in time for the matter to be considered
by the General- Assernbly at its thirty-seventh session. "

79. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 Novehber, the Committee considered a draft
resolution lAc.2/36/L.111) submitded by Mr. Gerben Ringnalda, vice-Ctrairman of the
Conunittee, on the basis of informal consuLtations held on draft resolution
vc.2/36/L.78.

80. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resol-ution A/c.2/36/L.LLL
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution xx), in the J.ight of which the
sponsors withdrew draft resoLution A/C.2/36/L.7g.
8l-. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Botdwana

Imade a statement.

u- ptufL t"tolutionb A/c.2/36/L.Bo 
^nd 

A/cr2/36/.L.LL2

82. At the 42nd meeting, on 20 November, the representative of Mozambigue, on
behalf of Al-aeria' $ngola, Banglagesh, gape verde, Ettriopia, Madagascar, uatawi,MaIi, YozanPiaue., Nigeria, @r 

-

E1?"!i9,- .99! Nam, Yr.rgoslavia and zirnbaUwe, intioaucea a araft resolution(A/c.2/36/L.801 entitled "assistance-To-ffi'babwetr. Subseguently, the central
@, 9g!, the c'anbia, Pakistan, sao rome and principe anF-sierra Leone joined as sponsors of the draft rffiead as forlows:

nTtre General Assembly,

. "libting the statement made before the General Assembly at its eleventhspecial session, on 26 Ar:gust 1980, by the Prine Minister of the Republic of
zimbabwe, U in which he outlined his Governmentrs economic developmentpriorities and invited the international community to render assistance in
dealing with serious economic and social problens in zimbabwe,

"Recalling Security 6uncil resolution 460 (1979) of 2L Fcember I9Z9 and
Cieneral Assenbly resolution 35rl100 of 5 December I9g0, in which the
international community was called upon to provide urgent assistance for the
reconstruction and rehabit itation of Zimbabwe,

_ 'Taki$g into accoun! the econornic policy statement of the nepublic ofzinuau@ity",ontheLasis-otwhichathree-yearpIanwas

3-7-- offici4l B-ecordF.of the Genefal-Assernbly, nleventtr speciat session,
Plenary lGetinqs, 4th neetingr ptlds, 2-90.-



P{36/737
English
Page 51

preparedr outlining short-term, medium-term and long-term national measures
being undertaken to establish an egalitarian socialist society under
conditions of growth with equitY,

"@thereportoftheSecretary-Genera1of27october1981'
on assiEtance to Zinbabwe, W prepared in response to General Assenbly
resolution 35400,

nI. Endorses the assessments and recomnendations contained in the report
of the Secretary-General on asslstance to Zinbabwe ' W

n2. s<presses its appreciation to Member states' regional- and
internatioextendedeconomicassistancetoZinbabwe
through bilateral and nultilateral arrangements;

tr3. Etnphasizes that the social and economic reconstruction of Zinbabwe
is an ongoing exerclse that will continue to require a massive injection of
external assistancei

n4. fnvites appropriate organizations and progralunes of the United
libtions system - in particular, the United ttions EveLopment Progranune,
the World Bank, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
the International Fbnd for Agricultural Evelopmentr the WorLd lbalth
organization, the United Nations Childrenrs Fund, the United Nationi
Scientific and Orltural Organization and the International Iabour
Organisatlon - to bring to the attention of their governing bodies the
urgent and special needs of Zinbabvre and to report the decisions of those
bodies to the Secretary-General by 15 AuguSt L982t

15. requests the Secretary-General:

" (1) no continue his efforts
programne of financial, tectrnical

" Q) ro ensure that adequate
made to continue the nobilizatlon

to mobilize resourc'es for an effective
and material assistance to Zimbabwei

fihancial and budgetary arrangements are
of international asslstance to zinbabwe;

" (g) lo keep the situation in Zinbabwe under constant review, to maintain
close contact with lbnber States, regional and other intergovernmental
organizations, the specialized agencies and international financial
institutions concerned and to apprise the Ebonomic and Social Oouncil, at its
second regular session of L982, of the current status of the special economlc
assistance prograrnne. for zinbabwet

99/ V36/27L.



v36/737
English
Page 62

'(l) fo arrange fop a review of the
inplementing the assistance progranme for
to be considered by the General Assembly

progress made in organizing and
that country in time for the natter

at its thirty-seventh session. n

83. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 lilrvenber, the @mmittee considered a draft
resolution (Ve.2/36/L.LL2l subnitted by !{r. C,erben Ringnalda, Vice-Chairman of the
Oonrnittee, on the basis of informal bonsultations held on draft resolution
vc.2/36/L.80.

84- At the same meeting, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.LL2
without a vote (see para. 85, draft resolution xxl), in the light of which the
co-sponsors withdrew draft resolution A/C.2/36/L.gO.



v36/737
English
eage 63

III. RE@MIIENDATIONS OF THE SE@ND @MII{ITTEE

85. llhe Second Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resoLutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Implementation of ttre mediun-term and long-tern recoverv and rehabilitatlon
prograrnne in the Sudano-Sahelian region

' The General Assembly'

Recalling its resolutions 2816 (x)ffI) of l-4 December L97Lr 2959 (xXvII) of
12 December L972r 3054 (XXWII) of 17 December L973r 3253 (xXIx) of
4 December L974, 35L2 (XXX) of L5 December L975, 3L/L8O of 21 December L976, 32/L59
of 19 Decernber L9770 33/L33 of 19 December L978, 34/L6 of 9 lbvember t979 and 35,/86
of 5 December 1980, as well as its resoLution 35/69 of 5 December 1980'

Recallinc also Economic and Social @uncil resolutions 1918 (LVIII) of
5 !{ay L975, 2LO3 (LXIII) of 3 August 1977, L978/37 of 2L JuLy 1978, L979/5L of
2 August Lg7g, LISO/SL of 23 July 1980 and L98V55 of 22 July 1981

Taking note of decision 8L/5 of L9 June L98l of the Governing Council of the
United Nations Development Progranune concerning ttre implenentation of the
mediurrterm and J.ong-term recovery and rehabil-itation prograrnne in the
Sudano-Sahelian region, 5/

Noting with satisfaction the decisive role ptayed by the United ti&ations
Sudano-Sahelian Office in helping to combat ttre effects of the drought and to
irnpleraent the mediurn-term and long-term recovery and rehabilitation Progralme
adopted by the States members of the Permanent Inter-State &nunittee on Orought
Control in the Sahel, and in nobilizing the necessary resources to finance priorlty
projects,

. Considering that the nature and magrnitude of the needs of the countries of ttre
Sud-ano-Sahellan region, which are .rmong the least developed countries, urgently
call for the continuation and further strengthening of actlons of solidarity by the
international conrmunity in support of ttre recovery efforts and the economii
developnent of those countries,

Ilaving considered the rep,ort of the Secretary-@neral on the inplenentation of
ttre nedium-term and long-term recovery and rehabilitation prograltrne in the
Sudano-Sahelian regLou !!/

W See Official Records of
Supplement t{o. Ll ( 981'/6

52/ A/36/20g and Add.1.

annex I.
l- Council

/...



A/36/737
English
Page 64

.t'. TaFe:.note-with satisfaction of the report of the secretary-GeneraL onthe imprementation of ttre rnedium-term and long-term recovery and rehabilitationprogranme in the Sudano-Sahelian region;

..^ -, -2. ETpresgeF its 
gratitude to the Governments, agencies of the UnitedNaclons system, intergovernmental organizations, private organizations andindividuals that have contributed td ttre inplenentation of the rnediun-term and

long-term recovery and rehabilitation progtir*" in the Sudano-sahelian region;
3. Stronqlv urqes all Governments to make special. efforts to increase the

resources of the United Nations SudaneSahelian office, including voluntarycontributions through the United llations Pledging Conference for-oevelopne-nt
Activities, as well as ottrer, bilateral channels, so as to enable it to respond
more fully to the priority requirements of the Governments of ttre States mernbers ofthe Pernanent Inter-State Comrnittee on Drought control in the saheli

. a:. RequgsE all organs, agencies and programres of ttre united Nations systemto continue and increase tbeir assistance ttrioutrr joint undertakings with the
united Nations sudano-sahelian office, in response to requests from the Governments
of the SudaneSahelian countries, for the irnplenentation of their recovery,
rehabiLitation and deveLopment prograrnmes i

5. lnyite5 the secretary-Genera1 to pursue further the consultations
envisaged li-EEgraph 5 of pc6nomic and sociar councit resorutio"-ig-6,ilii] with a
view to working out specific arrangements for joint undertakings between the united
Nations sudano-sahelian office and ttre appropriate organs, agencies and progranmesof the United Nations systen?

6. Conunends the Adninistrator of the United Nations Development programnefor the reffiE3-Enieved through ttre llnited t{ations sudano-saheLian office in
assisting the States members of the Permanent rnter-state comrnittee on Drought
Control in the s"n:}-in t*re impLementation of their mediun-term and long-teimrecovery and rehabilitation progranme

7. BeqffiEms the role of the United Nations sudano-sahelian office as thecentraL poTi'ffiiiiffirincipal body responsibile for co-ordinating the efforts of
United Nations agencies to help the countries of the Sahel to implernent their
recovery and rehabil.itation prograrunei

8' lPtes with appreciation the effective manner in whictr the united Nations
sudano-sahelian office is disctrarging its responsibilities in restrnnding to t1.epriority requests of the states nembers of th; Permanent rnter-state cornmittee onDrought Control in ttre Sahel within the framework of their prograrnmei

9. Invites the United Nations SudaneSahelian office to continue to
strengthen its close co-operation with the States members of the permanent
rnter-State Corunittee on Drought Control in the Sahe1 and with the Conmittee, witha view to hastening the implementation of t*re medium-term and f"ng-i.6-;;;;";;
and rehabilitation prograrune in the sudano-sahelian region;



A/36/737
English
Page 55

I0. Resuests the Secretarfceneral to continue to report to the General
Assembly, through the Governing Council of the United Nations Development Programme
and the Ebonomic and Social Council, on the implenentation of the medium-term and
long-term recovery and rehabilitation programne in the Sudano-Sahelian region.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Assistance for the reconstr
dev nto

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 35/L05 of 5 December 1980, in which, inter alia, it
recognized the need for the adoption of special measures of assistance to enabLe
Equatorial Guinea to rebuild its economy and to restore to normaL the sociaL andpublic services of ttre country, and drew the attention of the international
community to the critical social and economic situation confronting Equatorial
Guinea and to the list of urgent short-term and long-term projects required by the
Government to carry out its programne of rehabititation and reconstruction, -

Taking note of the address delivered by the First Vice-President of the
Supreme Military Council and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Equatorial Guinea to
the General Assembly on 28 September t9 8L, W in which he described the grave
social and economic problems of his country and expressed the hope that the
international community would contribute generously towards satisfying the needs of
Equatorial Guinea at the conference of donors to be held at the beginning of 1982,

l.loting further that there are no official national income statistics available
for Equatorial Guinea and that, since there has been no official census since Lg64,
official trnpulation figures wil-l be forthcoming only after the census proposed for
the second quarter of l-982,

l0oting from the retrnrt of the Secretary-&neral, W to which is annexed thereport of the review mission to Equatorial Guinea, that the economic and financial
situation in that country remains grave, that the tight budgetary situation and the
Iarge externaL trade deficit constitute a constraint on the Governmentrs ability to
enbark on a programme of reconstruction and rehabilitation and that external
financial assistance is essential if the covernment is to provide the population
with health, education and other essential social and public services,

L. Urqently reiterates its appeal to all Member States to contribute
generously, through bilateral or rnultitateral channels, towards satisfying the
reconstruction, rehabilitation and development needs of @uatorial Guinea;

See A/36/PV.15r pp. 58-72.

A/36/283.

E/
!!/



v36/737
English
Page 66

2. Requests the Economic and Socia1 Council to invite the Committee for
Development Planning' in the light of the new data and information provided bv
the Government of Eguatonial Guinear to consider, on the basis of elisting
criteria' its eligibility for inclusion in the list of the least developed
countr ies;

3. Requests the appropriate organizations and programmes of the United
Nations system - in particular the United lilations Development progranme, the F'tood
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the International Flrnd for
Agricultural Development, the World Bank, the World Frood progralnme, the World
Heal-th organization, the United Nations Ctrildrenrs Fund and the United Nations Fundfor Population Activities - to maintain and expand their programmes of assistance
to Eguatorial Guinea, to co-operate closely with the Secretary-@neral in the work
of organizing an effective international progranme of assistance, to report
periodically to the Secretary-General on the steps they have taken and the
resources they have made availabl-e to help that country and to provide a1l possible
assistance to help in meeting the critical humanitarian needs of the population and
to provide food' medicines and essential equipment for hospitals and schools;

4. Call-s upon regional and interregional organizations and other
intergoveriilSEl uoaies and non-governmental organizations, as well as
international financial and development institutions, to give urgent consideration
to the possibility of establishing a progranme of assistance for Eguatorial Guinea
and to the expansion of any progranrme already in existencer and to contribute
generously towards satisfying the needs of Equatorial Guinea at ttre forthcoming
conference of donors;

5. li&ctes that the United Nations Development Programne will assist the
Government of Equatorial Guinea in preparing new official national income
statistics and new population figures so that the Government can bring these data
to the attention of the Comnittee for DeveLopment Planning to enable the Conunittee
to re-exanine the reguest of Equatorial. Guinea for inclusion in the list of the
least developed countries on the basis of the existing criteria and those new
statisticsl

5, Requests the Secretary-General:

(a) To continue his efforts to nobilize the necessary resources for an
effective progranme of financial, technical and materiaL alsistance to Equatorial
Guineat

(b) Tlo ensure that the necessary f inancial and budgetary arrangements are
made to continue to mobilize the organization of the international programme of
assistance to Equatorial Guineai

(c) lto keep the situation in Equatorial Guinea under constant review, to
maintain close contact with Member States, the specialized agencies, regional and
other intergovernmental organizations and the international financial institutions
concerned and to apprise the Ebonomic and Social Council, at its second regular
session of 1982, of the status of the special economic assistance progranme for
Equatorial Guineai



N36/737
English
Page 67

(d) To arrange for a review of ttre economic situation of Equatorial Guinea
and the Progress made in organizing and implenenting the special economic
asslstpnce progranune for that country in time for the rnatter to be consldered by
the General Assembly at its thirtlnseventh sessLon.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Assistance for the reconstruction and development of Ibanon

lfhe General Assembly,

Recalling lts resolutions 33/L46 of
14 Decenber L979 and 35,/85 of 5 Decernber
and development of Lebanon,

20 Decenber 1978, 34/L35 of
1980 on asslstance for the reconstruction

Recalling also Economic and Social Council resolution 1980,/15 of
29 April 1980,

Ilaving considered the retrnrt of the Secretary-General on aseistance for the
reconstruction and development of Iebanon, E/

Taking note of the statement made by the United Nations Co-ordinator of
Assistance for the Reconstruction and Development of Ibanon before the Second
Connittee, W

1. Dtpr,esses its aplreclation to the Secretary-General for the steps he has
taken to nobilize assistance for Lebanon?

2. Comnends
Assistance for the
hls dutieEi

the continuous efforts of the United Nations Co-ordinator of
Reconstruction and Developnent of Iebanon ln the discharge of

.1. T.equests the Secretary-ceneral to continue and intensify his efforts toprovide all possible assistance within Lhe lJnited Nations system to help the
Government of Lebanon in its reconstruction and developnent plans and in their
implernentation i

4. Invites the speclalized agehcies, organs and other bodies of the United
llatlons systen to expand and intensify programmes of assistance within the
framework of the needs of Lebanon;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to provide, in the manner he deens
appropriate, all possible assistance to the Resident Co-ordinator, so that he may
engage in co-ordinating the continuing United Nations activities in Lebanon, wittr
view to ensuring their harnxqny and success;

El A/36/272.

!S/ A/C.2/36/9R.6, paras. 13-22.



A/36/737
Erglish
Page 68

. -E: Also reguests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly atits thirty-seventh session on t.he progress achieved in ttre implementation of ttre
present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV.

Assistance fgr t*re-rggonEtructlon,. Tehabititatic)D and deve]g@!.
o

t1re General Assenbly,

Recalling its resolution 35/87 of 5 llecenber 1980 in whictr it affirmed the
urgent need for international action to assist the Government of ttre Central
African Republic in its reconstruction, rehabilitation and development efforts,

lbtinq the statement made by. the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Central
African Republic to the General Assembly on 7 October 198L, fl in which hedescribed the serious economic and financial problens of ttreEountry and affirmed
that the situation had deteriorated owing to the insufficiency of financial
resources and that external assistance was essential,

Noting further the statement made by the representative of the Central African
Republic in the Second Committee !g/ that ttre response of the international
coNnunity to the urgent appeal of the General assembly has not been adequate to
meet the needs of t*re situation,

_ Fe?ring in mind that the Central African Republic is land-Iocked and isclasslfied as one of the least developed arpng the developing countries,
Recalling the Substantial New Progranune of Action for the l980s for the Least

Developed Countries, W, adopted unaninously at ttre United Nations Oonference on
the Ieast D,eveloped Countries, held in Paris from I to 14 Septenber 1981, calling
for increased aid to these countries,

- Having examined the rep,ort of the secretary-General, 9/ to which was annexedthe re;nrt of the interagency nission dispatctred to the CenEral African Republic to
consult with the Government on the additional assistance needed for the
reconstruction, rehabilitation and deveropment of the country,

t3/ A/w.2er pp. s6-58.

E3/ A/C.2/36/PV.27t paras. s4-57.

92/ A/@NF.L04/22, part I, sect. A.

99/ A/36/L83.



A/36/737
English
Page 59

l{otinq that the budgetary situation in the Central African Republic, according
to the report, makes it ingnssible for the Government to enbark on a programne of
reconslruction and rehabilitation without sufficient external financial aid,

Particularry, concsrneg that the Government of the Central African Republic is
unaut@tionwithadequatehea1th,educationa1andother
essential social and public services because of an acute shortage of financial and
material resources,

1. Notes with satisfaction the efforts exerted by the Governnent and people
of the Central African Republic for national reconstruction, rehabilltation and
developmentT

2. Expresses its aplreciation to the Secretary-General for his report on the
economic situation of the Central African RepubJ.ic and the additional assistance
required by that country for its reconstruction, rehabiLitation and developnentT

3. Endorses fulLv the assessment and reconunendations of the nission
contained in the annex to the report of the Secretary-Generall

4. Urqentlv reiterates its appeal to all Menber States to contribute
generously, through bilateral or multilateral channels, to the reconstruction,
rehabilitation and development of the Central African Republici

5. nequests the aptrxopniate organizations and programnes of the United
tilations system - in particular the United ttions Development Programme, the Wor1d
Bankr the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the
International Fund for Agricultural Developnent, the World Food Programme, the
World Health Organization, the United Nations Childrenrs Fund and the United
Nations Industrial Development Organization - to maintain and expand their
progratnmes of assistance to the Centr'al African Republicl to co-operate closely
with the SecretarpGeneral in his efforts to organize an effective international
progranne of assistance and to report periodically to hin on the steps they have
taken and the resources they have made available to help that countryt

5. Calls upon regional and interregional organizations and ottrer
intergovernmental bodies and non-governmental. organizations, as well as
international financial institutions - in particular the European Econonic
Connunityr the European Developnent Fund, ttre African Development Bank, ttre Arab
Bank for Economic Development in Afriba and the Organization of the Petroleum
D<trnrting Countries Fund for International Developrnent, the International Ftrnd for
Agricultural Development, the Kuwaiti l\rnd and the Abu Dhabi Fund - to give urgent
consideration to the establishrnent of a programme of assistance to the Central
African Republic or, where one is already in existence, to the expansion of that
Pro9rarunet

7. Urges Member States and relevant United Nations bodies - in particular
the United Nations Development Progranrme, the World Food Prograrilne, the United
Nations Childrenrs Fund, the World Health Organization, the united Nations Fund for



v36/737
English
Page 70

Population Activities and the united Nations Industrial Developnent organization -to provide all trnssible assistance to help the Government of the centril African
Republic to coPe with ther critical humanitarian needs of the population and to
provide, as aPpropriate, food, medicines, and essential eguipnent for sctrools and
hospitals, as well as to meet the emergency needs of the population in the
drought-stricken areas of ttre countryt

8. Invites the United ltlations Development Programne, the United Nations
childrenrsEdl-trre 9{orld Frood Progranme, itr" world Health organizaiionr-ut;-
United Nations Industrial Develotrxnent Organization, the Food and Agriculture
organization of ttre United t{ations, the world Bank and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development to bring to the attention of their governing bodies, for
their consideration, the special needs of the Central African nepublic and to
rePort the decisions of those bodies to the Secretary-General by 15 .Iuly 19821

9. Requests the Secretary-General:
(a) $o organize a special emergency assistance progratnne with regard to food

and healthr especially rnedicaments, vaccines, hospital equiprnent, generating sets
for f,iel-d hospitals, nater pumps, food products, etc., in order to help the
vulnerable populations, whose steadily deteriorating situation is becoiing a natter
of increasingly serious concerni I

(b) Tro continue his efforts to mobilize necessary resources for an effective
Progranme of financial"' technical and material assistance to the Central African
RepublicT

(c) To ensure that the necessary financial and budgetary arrangements are
made to continue the organization of the international programme of assi.stance to
the Central African Republic and the nobilization of that assistance;

- (d) To keep the situation in the Central African Republic under constantreview' to maintain close contact with Member States, thJ specialized agencies,
regional" and other intergovernmental organizations and the international financial
institutions concerned and to apprise the Economic and Social Council, at its
second regular session of L982, of the status of the special economic'assistance
programne for the Central African Republici

(e) To arrange for a revlew of the economic situation of the Central African
Republic and the progress made in organizing and implementing the special economlc
assistance progranune for that country in tine for the matter to be considered by
the General Assenbly at its thirtrseventh session.



v35/737
English
Page 71

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

A.ssistance for the developrnent of tiberia

Ihe General Assenbly

tlaving examined the letter dated 20 October 1981 fron the Permanent
Representative of Liberia to the United Nations addressed to ttre President of the
Economic and Social Council, U analysing the critical condition of the economy of
Liberia,

Deeply concerned about the weak and underdeveloped state of the economic and'
social infrastructure of tiberia, which is a serious obstacle to the economic
developnent of the country and to the raising of the living standards of its
trnpulation,

Noting ttre statements nade by the llinister for Foreign Affairs of Liberia to
the General Assenbly on 25 September 1980 62/ and on 28 September 1981' U in
which he described the unsatisfactory conditions prevailing in his country,
including extremely high rates of iLt iteracy and infant mortality and unacceptably
low levels of income among the vast najority of the population,

1. Urgently appeals to all Member States, the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United lilations system and international development and
financial institutions to contribute generously, through bilateral or multilateral
channels, to the reconstruction, rehabilitation and development of Liberial

2. Requests the Secretary-@neral to organize an international programne of
financial, technical and material assistance to Liberia to enable it to neet its
long-term needs with respect to reconstruction, rehabilitation and developnenti

3. Requests the appropriate organizations and programmes of the United
Nations system - in particular the United Nations Development Programme, the United
Nations Fund for Population Activities, the lbod and Agriculture Organization of
the United Nations the International Fund for Agricultural Development, the !{orld
Food Progranune, the World Hea1th Organization, the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization and the United Nations Childrenrs Fund - to expand
their progranmes of assistance to Liberia, to co-operate closely with the

affirminq. the urgent
Liberia in its efforts for
the country,

E/Lg8L/LL5.

A/35/Pv .13 r pp.

A/36/Pv.16 r pp.

need for international action to assist the Government of
the reconstruction, rehabilitation and develotrment of

6L-57.

2-Ls.

9J/

9U

Q/



A/36/737
English
Page 72

secretary-Ccnera1 in organizing an effective international progranme of assistance
a3d t9 report periodically to him on the steps they have taken and ttre resources
they have made available. to assist that counlry;

4. Calls upon regionaL and interregional organizations and otherintergoverirmdEfr6aiel and non-governmental orgaiizations, as weII as the
international developnent and financial institutions, to give urgent consideration
to the establishment of a prograrune of assistance to Liberia or, where one is
already in existence, to ttre expansion of that progranmei

- 5: Urges Member States and relevant United Nations bodies - in particularthe United Nations Development Prograrune, the world Food prograrnme, ttrl unitea
Nations Industrial Developnent organization, the United Nations Childrenrs Fund,
the World Health Organization and the United lilations Fund for popuJ-ation
Activities - to provide all possible assistance to help the Goverrunent of Liberia
meet the critical humanitarian needs of the population and to provide, as
appropriate' food, nedicines and essential equipnent for hospitals and schools;

5. Invites the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations
children'sE4-the vlorld Food Prograrnme, the world Health organization, the
United Nations Industrial Development organization, the Food ana agriculiure
organization of the united Nations, the world Bank and the rnternational Fund for
Agricultural Development to bring to the attention of their governing bodies, for
their consideration, the special needs of Liberia and to retrnrt the decisions of
those bodies to ttre Secretary-General by 15 July 1982;

7. Invites the Government of Liberia to provide the Committee for
Development Planning with utr>totate statistical data and infornation, on the basis
of the existing criteria, pertinent to the exanination of the countryrs economic
situation' ldith a view to considering the possibility of its inclusion in the list
of the least developed among the developing countries;

8. Resuests the rbonomic and Social Council to invite the Corunittee for
Development Planning, in the light of the new data and inforrnation provided by the
Government of Liberia, to consider, on the basis of the existing criteria, its
eligibility for inclusion in the list of the least developed countries;

. 9. _ Bggueqts Member states and the organizations of the United Nations systernto accord Liberia, in view of its critical economic situation, assistance that- is
adeguate to tlre needs of tlre country until the situation returns to normal;

10. Requests t4e Secretary-General:

(a) To dispatch a mission to Liberia with a view to holding consultations
with the Government on the additional assistance which it needs ior the
reconstructionr rehabilitation and development of the country and to communicate
the retrnrt of the mission to the international conununity, the Economic and social
CounciL and the General Assernblyi



A/36/737
English
Page 73

(b) To ensure that adequate financial arrangements are nade for the
organization of an effective international prograrnme of assistance to Liberia and
for the rnobilization of international assistancet

(c) To inform the Economic and Social Council, at its second regular session
of 1982, of the assistance granted to Liberiai

(d) To keep the situation in Liberia under review and to retrnrt to the
General Assenbly at its thirty-seventh session on the impLementation of the present
resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Special economic assistance Fo Benin

ltre General Assenbly,

Recalling its resolution 35/88 of 5 December, I980r in which it appealed to
tfre inffiionaL community to provide effective and contlnuous financial, material
and technical assistance to Benin so as to help that country overcome its financial
and economic difficulties'

Recalling also Security Council resolution 419 l$g77l of 24 llovember Lg77 0 ln
which the CounciL appealed to all States and all appropriate international
organizations, including the United Nations and its specialized agenciesr to assist
Benin,

Having heard the statement made by the representative of Benin before the
Second Conrmittee on 29 October L981 describing his countryrs serlous economic and
financial situation, W

Itaving considered the retrnrt of the Secretary-General, E/ to which is annexed
tJle repoit of ttre interagency rnission whi.ch he dispatched to Benin in l,tay I981t

Noting from the report the serious economic and financial problens that
corifrona Benin, which arise primarily from the weak and underdeveJ.oped Etate of its
ec-onomic and social lnfrastructure, its lack of financial and material resources
and its chronic foreign trade deficit,

Noting further that Benints terms of trade have deteriorated sharply and that
the production of extrnrt croPs has been adversely affected by droughtr

g A/C.2/36/9R.27, paras. 30-33.

65/ U36/269.



A/36/737
English
Page 74

Taking ?ote of the recouunended programne of assistance to Benin drawn up bythe mission in consurtation with the covernment, 6G,/ --'-- -s -r

Noting further Beninrs urgent need for international assistance in its heaLthprograntnes, as weLl as for food aid,
AYtare of the desire of the Government of Benin to organize, with the

assistance of ttre united Nations Development Progranme, a round-taue conference ofproviders of funds in 1982 to discuss the countryrs development needs and toconsider ways and means of backing the Government in its eiforts to meet those
needs,

-Be+!g-ln nlnd that Benin is classified as one of the least developed amongthe developing countries,

- 1-' Expresses its aplxeciation to the Secretary-General for the measures hehas taken to organize an international economic assistance programne for Beninl

?' _ Fndo.rses fully the assessment and recomnendations of the mission,contained in the annex to ttre report of ttre secretarrGeneraLl !!./
3'. Urgently reiter,ates its appeal to all lrtember states to provide ample andappropriate asslstance, through bilateral and multilateral channels, whereverpossibre in the form of grants or concessionary loans, in order to enabre Benin toimplenent fully the recornmended special economlc assistance programme,
4. urges Dlenber states, organizations and programnes of the united Nations

system, regional and interregionar governmentar bodies, development and financialinstitutions and norFgovernmental oiganizations to support i"riy-tn.-.ie"il"--"iat.
Government of Benin to mobilize funds for its speciaL-economic issistance progranme
and, to this end' to respond generously to the needs of Benin at the tortniominf
round-table conferencei

5. RequePts the appropriate bodies and programnes of the tlnited Nations
system,- in particular the united t{ations Devel.opment progranute, the tbod andAgriculture organization of the united Nations, ih" rrrt.r""ti"".r r.r"l-i"r----Agricultural Development, ttre lilorld Ebod Progranne, the world Health organization
and the united Nations chirdrenrs Fund - to maintaln and expand their piograr*es otasslstance to Benin, to co"operate closely "i[[-tr,.t,seii"iiir-edt;i l"-it"'ri"irof organlzing an effective international prograrune of assistance and to reportperiodicall'y to him on the measures tley [ave tarett 

"na 
th.-;;;;r;;;"-.h;;T;;.

made available to help that countryT , 
,,

6. Calls g$,,regionaL and interregional organizations and other
i nters overit6EffiSaiel a nd norFsover nmenta r 

"t; 
;;;;;;;; -";'rerr a s

international development and financial institutions, to give urgent consideratlon
to the estabrishment of a prograilne of assistance to Benin or, where one is alreadyin exlstence, to the expansion of ttrat programne, : .

93/ &.'.l!1.1 Btltlxo



A/36/737
Englieh
Page 75

7. Urqes Member States and appropriate United lfations agencies - in
partlcular the United Nations Developnrent Prograrune, the World Food Progranme, the
United Nations Childrenrs E1rnd, the World Health Organization and the United
NatlonE Sund for Population Actlvities - to provide all possible assistance to help
the Governrent of Benin to meet ttre critical humanitarian needs of ttre population
and to provide to that Government, as appogiate, food, medicines and equipnent
for hospitals and sctroolsl

8. Invites the United Nations Development rrogralrune, the United Nations
Childrenrs nrna, Ure World Elrod Prograrune, the World llealth Organization, the
United Nations Industrial Development Organizationl the Food and Agricultural
Organization of tire United tdations, the World Bank and the Internatlonal Flrnd for
Agricultural Development to bring to the attention of their governing bodlesr for
thelr consideration, ttre special needs of Benin and to report the decisions of
those bodies to the Secetary-Genera1 by 15 July 19821

9. Requests the SecretarrGeneral:
(a) Xb continue his efforts to nobilize the necessary resources for an

effectlve progrunme of financial, tectrnical and material assistance to Benini

(b) So ensure that the necessary financial and budgetary arrangements are
nade to continue the organization of t*re international programme of assistance to
Benin and the nobilization of that assistancet

(c) !o keep tfie situation in Benin under constant review, to maintain close
contact with Member States, the speciallzed agencles, regional and other
intergovernmental organlzations and the lnternational financial institutions
concernedr and to aptrrise the Economic and Social Counc,ilr at ite second regular
Eesslon of 1982, of the status of ttre special econonic assistance programne for
Beninl

(d) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Benin and the
progress made in organizing and implementing ttre special econonic assistance
Progratme for that country in tlme for the matter to be considered by the General
Assenbly at its thlrty-seventh session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

Assistance to Sao lrone and Principe

llhe General Assenblyr

Reca11ingitsresoIution3L/L87of2LDecernberLg76'inwhichr.l.@,it
exgxessed deep concern at the serlous economic and social situation in Sao llcne and
PrinciPe as a result of the total lack of infrastructure for develoSment and
appealed urgently to the international cormrunity to assist the Government of Sao
trome and Principe to enable it to establish the necessary soclal and economic
lnfrastructure for development,

/...



^/36/737English
Page 76

.^ _ re.,.l1tpg="t"9 its resorutions 32/96 of 13 Decenber Lg77, 33/L25 of19 December 1978, 34/L3L of 14 December 1979 and 3s/g3 of 5 December r9g0, in whichit reiterated its appear to the internationar corununity to provide erianii"i, 
'

naterial and technical assistance to sao Tome and trincipe,

-Bearing 
in ming its resolution 1L/tsa of 2L Decenber Lg76, in which it urgedall C'overnments, in particular those'of the developed countrles, to lend ttrelrsupport' in the context of their assistance prograrunes, for the implenentation ofthe specific action envisaged in favour or alveioping island countries, and itsresol'ution 32/L85 of 19 December L977, in whlch it urged all organizations in theunited Nations sys-ten to inplenent, within their respective s1*reres of competence,appropriate specific action in favour of developing island co-untries, as 

"-"tt ."its resolution 34/205 of L9 December Lg7g, which sets out a specific action
programne in favour of developing island countries,

_ Recalll{tg its resolutions 32/L6O of 19 December ISZZ and 33/L97 of29 January L979 on tbe Transport and Connunlcations Decade in Africa,

- - 
HaYinq.considered the concLusions and recomendation contained in the reportof the conmittee for Development Planning on its seventeenth session Sy conclrningidentification of the least developed arnong the developing countriesr-

\!i"9 the renewed request of Sao Bome and Princitrn that its exceptional
economic circumstances should again be revlewed by ttre-corunittee eor oiverofnentPlanningl

- _ 
Taking acgount of thd statenent made by the representatlve of the Governmentof sao trome and Principe W to the effect ttrat theie are no recent officialnational income statistics available for sao some and principe and that availablepublished data are out of date and do not reflect the current situation in ttratcountry,

Taking note of the report of the secretary-Generar g2/ on economic assistanceto sao lome and Principe, to which was annexed ttre reporFof $re.review mission to
Sao Tome and Principe,

Aware that the economic and social development of sao Tome and principe has
been seriously hindered.not only by i_nadequate health, educationar and housingfacirities but also by inadequaEe infrastiucture, and that uitent irnprovement inthese sectors is a prerequisite for tlre countryrs future progi.s",

6U See ficial of th
Supplerent No. 7 (E/Le I chap. IV.

68/ A/C.2/36/5R.27, paras. 52-53.

92/ A/36/262.



pl36/737
EngLish
Page 77

Takinq note of ttre current developnent priorities of the Government of
Sao Tome and Principer notabLy in agriculture and livestock, fisheries,
manufacturel mining, transport and other infrastructure, as well as in educationt
trainingr health and housing,

tilotino that substantiaL internatlonal assistance is needed to improve the
infrastructure in sea, air and land transport in Sao llrme and Principe,

Noting aLso paragratr*r 2 of declsion 80/30 ot ZO June 1980 of the Governlng
Council of ttre United Natlons Developnent Programne, LU

Noting with concern that a large number of the projects and prograrunes
identified in the report of ttre SecretarlnGeneral 6lNl have not yet been financed,

Concerned by the concLusion of the report that, unless there is a significant
increase in tJre volume of lnternational assistance, the Government of Sao trome and
Principe wiLl not be abLe to finance a development prograrnne,

1. D<presses its appreciation to the SecretarleGeneral for the steps he has
taken to nobilize assistance to Sao Tome and Principe;

2. Endorses fullv the assessnent and recorunendations contained in the annex
to the report of the Secretary-Generall !!/

3. E<presses its appreciation to ltember States and international
organizations for the assistance provided to Sao some and Principe' both in food
aid and development assistancei

4. Regrets, however, that the assistance so far provided falls far short of
the needs of Sao $ome and Principe;

5. 4lgg lgl-ets that no resources have been provided to Sao lome and rrincipe
for ttre inffi6iETii6n of tfie action programme in fivour of island developing
countr iesl

5. Renews its appeal to !,lember States, regional and interregional
organizations and other intergovernnental bodles to provide financial' material and
technical assistance to Sao Tome and Princlpe to perrnit the implenentation of the
projects and prograrunes identifiedl in ttre annex to the report of the
Secretary-GeneraL, as weLl as that of the action progratnme in favour of island
developing countries, to enable the Government to launch an effectlve programrre of
economic and social developnent.,

7. Requests the Secretary-General to assist the Government of Sao Some and
Principe to prepare new officlal national income statistics on ttre country so that
the Government can bring these data to the attention of the Conunittee for
Development Planning so ttrat it can, on tlre basis of existing criteria and of

L9/ See Official necords of the Econonic and SociaL Council' 1980t
Supplenent tib. 12 (E/1980/42/kv.Ll , . xr.

/...



A/36/737
English
Page 78

these new statistics, re-examine the request of sao Tome and principe for inclusionin the list of the least developed countries i
8. Requests the Economic and social Council to invite the conunittee for

Development Planning, in the light of new data and inforrnation provided by the
Government of Sao lbme and Princitrn, to consider, on the basis of existin!
criteria' its eJ.igibiLity for incluiion in the list of the least developed arpng
the developing countries;

9. Requests ltember States and the organizations and prograrmes of the United
ultigns system to accord sao Tome and Principe special measures of assistancesimilar to those carred for in paragral*r a o? itl resolution 34/L23 of
L4 December 1979 t

-19: urges the united Nations Development programme, the appropriatespecialized agencies and other organizations of the United l{ations system to
respond favourably to requests from the Government of Sao ttome and principe fortechnical assistance to help in formulating developnent projects and to assist in
the implementation of its development programne,

11. Invites Ure united lilations DeveLopment prograrune, the united Nations
Children's Fund, the World Food Prograrmre, the World Health Organization, the
United Nations Industrial Developrnent organization, the Food and Agriculture
organization of the united Nations, the $Iorld Bank and the rnternational Fund for
Agriculture Development to bring to the attention of their governing bodies, for
their consideration, the special needs of sao $ome and principe, and to retrnrt thedecisionsofthosebodiestottresecretarrGenera1byt5iIu1yt6ezi

--L?: -Requists 
the appropriate specialized agencies and other organizations ofthe united lfations system to report periodically to the Secretary-General on the

stePs they have taken and the resources they have made available to assist sao lome
and Principet

13. $ppeals to the international conununity to contribute to the special
account which was established by the secretarfGeneral, in accordance with General
Assembly resoLution 32/96, for the purpose of facilitating the channelling of
contrlbutions to Sao 1bne and principe;

14. Requests the Sesetary-General:

(a) To continue his efforts to rrcbilize the necessary resources for an
effective progranme of financial, tectrnicaL and material aisistance to sao Tome and
Prlncipel

(b) To ensure that adequate financial and budgetary arrangements are made to
continue the organization of ttre lnternational progranme of assistance to Sao Tome
and Principe and the mobilizatlon of assistancei



A/36/737
Engllsh
Page 79

(c) To keep the situation in sao lbme and Principe under constant review, to
naintaln close contact with Member States, regional and other intergoverrunental
organizations, ttre specialized agencies and internationaL financial institutlons
concerned and to aptrrise the Economic and Social Council, at its second regular
session of 1982, of the current status of ttre special economic asslstance progratme
for Sao ltone and principet

(d) $o arrange for a review of the economic eituation of Sao some and
Prlnclpe and ttre progress nade in organizing and irnplenenting ttre special econornie
assistance Progralme for that country in tirne for the rnatter to be considered by
tlre @neral Assenbly at lts thirty-seventh session.

DRAFT RESOLUIION VIIT

Assistance to Chad

t e General Assembl-v ,

Recallinq its resolutlons 34A20 of 14 December 1979 and 35/92 A and B of
5 Decernber 1980 on reconstruction, rehabilitation, development and emergency
hunanitarian assistance to Chadl

Taking lnto account the relnrt of the Secretary-General on emergency
hunanltarian assistance to Chad, 4/

lbting with satisfaction that a mission was dispatched to Chad by the
SecretarlnGeneral to review with the Chad authorities the needs of the country, ln
accordance wittt paragraph 3 of General Assembly resolutlon 35/92 A,,

Deeplv concerned about the nassive destruction of property and the serioug
danage to the ec"onomic and social infrastructure of Chad during the past fifteen
years,

Mfirnlng the urgent need for f inancial and naterial support from the
lnternational cornmunity to the Government of Chad in its efforts for the
redonstructlon, rehabilitatlon and develoEment of the country and to neet lmediate
humanltarian needs,

Bearing in mind the concern exlressed by Menber States about the deterioration
of the socio-economic Eituation as a result of the flghtlng in Chad and the
interest they have shown in lts speedy return to normal conditions of llfe and ltE
reconstruction and develo[ment,

ConEidering that Chad is in a particularly disadrrantageous position as one of
the leaet developed countries which is land-locked and suffering from drought,

Zy A/36/26L, and Add.l.

/...



A/36/737
English
Page 80

_ Ngtinq the urgent appeal nade to the international corununity by the Assenblyof Heads of State and Government of the organization of African unily at its
eighteenth ordinary session, in its resolulion NlGfies. Lo2 (xwrl) , Lu and by theChalrnan of the delegation of Chad in the General AssembLy on 7 @toad :-set, fut

, liloting, ?lEo that measures have -been taken to organize a pledging conference inorder to mobilize assistance,

1. Cotm.nds ?nd encouraqes the efforts exerted by the Government and peopleofChadeon,rehabi1itationanddeve1opnentandfor
assistance to vlctims of the civil warl

2- Expresses its gratitude to !{enber states, institutions and agencies that
have prorrided asslstance to Chad but regrets ttrat all ttre emergency humanitarian
needs listed in the report of the secretary-General f!/ bave n6t ylt been met;

?. -.Appeals-to alL Menber States, governmental and non-governmentalorganizations' and the specialized agencies and programfles of the United Nations
system' in particular ttre United ttions Childrenrs Fund, the office of ttre United
Nations ltigh.Conunissioner for Refugees, the World Food prograrf,ne and the world
Health organization, to lxovide the necessary assistance, is a matter of urgency,
to the Government of Chad to enable it to come to the aid of the people affected by
the civil war, in confornity with the report of the secretarrGeneral;

4. Urgently appeals to all Mernber States, the specialized agencies and other
bodies of the United tihtions system and ttre international financial and economic
nultilateral channels, to meet its reconstruction, rehabilitation and development
needs, in confornlty with the rep,ort of ttre review nission that visited Chad fron
26 Oc'tober to 6 Novenber LgSLt 74/

5. Ytg"" I*tenber states and governrnental and non-governmental organizationsin a lnsition to provide assistance to consider taking part in a pledglng
conference organtzed to provide assistance for Ctradi

-6._ Reguests the competent prograrunes and agencies of tlre United l{ations - inparticular the United Nations Development Programne, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of ttre tlnited t{ations, tt. rnternational Rrnd for Agricultural
oevelopnent' the World Food Prograrutre, the Wor1d Health organizatLon, the United
tilations Industrial Developnent Organization, the unlted Uations Education,
Scientlflc and Cultural organization and the United t{ationE Childrenrs Fund - to
co-operate closeJ.y with the SecretarlnGeneral in organizing an effective
internatlonal prograrune of assistance and to re;ort periodicalLy to him on the
steps they have taken and the resources they have mobiLized to assist Chadl

L?/ A/36/534, annex rr.
13/ A/36/Pv.30r pp. 41-ss.

1_!/ A/36/26L/Add.1, annex.



A/36/737

:H:TI

7. Invites ttre United tilations Developnent Programne, the United tiliations
Childrenrs Fund, the WorLd Food Progranme, the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Wor1d Health Organization, the United
Nations Industrial Development Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization
of the llnited Nations' the world Bank and the International Etnd for Agricultural
DeveLopment to bring the special needs of Chad to the attention of their governing
bodies with a view to considering the special needs of Chad, and to report on the
decisions of those bodies to the secretary-General by 15 iluly 19821

8. Appeals to the international conmunity to contribute to ttre special
account for Ctrad which has been established under the auspices of the United
Nations Trust Fund for Special Economic Assistance Programmes for tlre purtrnse of
facilitating the channelllng of contributions to Ctradi

9. Requests the SecretarlnGeneral:

(a) To organize an international progranune of financial, tectrnical and
materiaL assistance for Chad so as to enable it to rneet its short-term and
long-tern reconstruction, rehabilitation and development needsi

(b) To have the report of the review mission to Chad disserninated as widely
as possibleT

(c) Tlo contact the Government of Chad with a view to the urgent appointnent
of a resident co-ordinator who will also be his special representative for
reconstruction, rehabiLitation, development and emergency relief operations in Chadi

(d) To ensure ttrat appropriate financial and budgetary arrangements are made
for the establishment of an effective international programne of assistance for
Chad and for mobilizing that assistancei

(e) Tro keep the situation in Chad under review and to retrnrt to the Economic
and Social Council at its second regular session of 1982 and to the General
$ssenbly at its thirtrseventh session on the implernentation of the present
resolution.



A/36/737
English
Page 82

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

Assistance to Cape Verde

-..c General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 32/gg of 13 December Lg77, 33/L27 of
19 December 1978, 34/lL9 of 14 Decenber L979 and 35/LO4 of 5 December 1980,
in whictt the international comnunity nas reguested to provide an appropriate level
of resources for the inplenentation of ttre prograrnme of assistance to Cape Verde as
envisaged in the subseguent reports of the Secretary-General, l!/

t{otinq that Cape Verde' one of ttre least developed, as well as a most
seriously affected island country, and a member of the Permanent Inter-State
Oorunittee on Drought Control in ttre Sahel, is in need of increased substantlal
assistance to overcone its econonic backwardness,

Stressinq the urgent need to irnplement ttre relevant resolutions of the General
Assenbly, which endorsed the programne of assistance to cape verde,

Recoqnizinq the strenuous efforts displayed by the Government and people of
Cape Verde in the process of their socio-economic development, despite existing
constraints,

Recognlzing also the essential role of both short-term and long-term
international assistance in the process of development of Cape Verde,

Gravely concerned that the expected harvest for 1982 has been lost as a result
of the failure of tfie seasonal raln and the recurrence of drought,

Taking into account the results of the United ttions Conference on the last
Developed Countriesr held in Paris from 1 to 14 Septenber 1981, in particuLar the
substantial New Progralilne of Action for the 1980s for the Ieast Developed
Oountriesl adopted on 14 Septernber LgeLt 79/

Taking into account also the country progranune of cape verde presented to the
Conference, in which a fivelzear plan as well as long-term planning were delineated,

Ilaving examined the report of the Secretary-General, lJ/ xo which was annexed
the reSnrt of the review nission which visited Cape Verde in irnpLementation of
General- Assenbly resolution 35404,

1:/ A/33/L67 and Corr.L, A/34/372 and Corr.L, A/35/332 and Corr.1
and M36/255.

13/ A,/@liIF. Lo4/22, part one, sect. A.

lu A/36/265.



^/36/737English
Page 83

1. D<presses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for the efforts
deployed in the process of rnobilizing resources for the inplenentation of the
prograrqne of assistance to Cape Verde;

2. Expresses its gratitude to States, international, regional and
interregional organizations and ottrer intergovernmental organiiations for their
contribution to the progranune of assistance to Cape Verde;

3. Calls ttre attention of the international conununity to tabLe 10 in the
annex to the report of the Secretary-General, which contains projects that have not
yet been financedl

4. Urges States, internationaL, regional, interregional and other
intergovernmental organizations to extend and intensify substantially their
assistance with a view to implementing the programne oi assistance to Cape verde as
soon as possiblel

5. fnvites the international conununity, in particular donor countries, to
take appropriate and urgent neasures to support the realization of the Five-year
PIan of Cape Verder in accordance with the Substantial New programrne of Action for
the 1980s for the Ieast Developed Countries;

6. Requests the organizations, organs and bodies of the United Nations
system to continue and to increase their assistance to Cape Verde, to co-operate
with the Secretary-General in his efforts to nobilize resources for the
inplenentation of the progranme of assistance and to report periodically to the
Secretary-Genera1 on the neasures they have taken and the resources they have rnade
available for assistance to that country;

7. Calls upon the international community to continue to contribute
generously to aI1 appeals for food and fodder assistance made by the Government of
Cape Verde or on its behalf by the specialized agencies and the ottrer competent
organizations of the United l{ations systen to help it cope with ttre critiial
situation in the countryT

8. Draws once aqain the attention of the international conununity to the
special account which was established at United litiations Headguarters by the
Secretary-General, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 32/99, for the
Purpose of facilitating the channelling of contributions to Cape Verde;

9. Invites the United Nations Development Progranune, the United Nations
Children'sTii?7ttre world Frood Progranme, th. world Health organization, the
United Nations rndustrial Development Organization, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, the world Bank and the rnternational Fund for
Agricultural Development to continue, through their governing bodies, to consider
the special needs of Cape verde and to report the decisions of those bodies to the
Secretary-General by 15 July 1982;



A/36/737
English
Page 84

10. Requests the Secretary-General:

(a) To continue his efforts to nobilize the necessary resources for
imprenenting the progranne of developnent assistance to cape verdei

(b) To keep the situation in Cape verde under.constant review, to maintain
close contact wittr l4ember States, regional and other intergovernmental
organizations, ttre specialized agencies and ttre international financial
institutions concerned and to apprise the Economic and Social Council, at its
second regular session of I982r of t*re current status of ttre speciaL economic
assistance prograrune for Cape Verde;

(c) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Cape Verde and the
Progress made in organizing and impJ-enenting the special economic assistance
progranme for that country and to retrnrt thereon to the General Assenbly at its
thirty-seventh session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION X

A.ssistance to the Oomoros

The General Assembly,

-nggaffir=t!.its previous resol-utions on assistance to the Cornoros, particularlyresolution 3V42 of 1 December 1976, in which it urgentLy appealed to the
international- community to assist the Comoros in an effective and continuous nanner
so as to enable it to face successfully the critical situation resulting from the
economic difficulties experienced by that newly independent country,

Having examined the report of the Secretary.-General, 78/ to which was annexed
the report of the review nission which he sent to the como6s,

T=akinq note of the special problems confronting the Comoros as a developing
island country and as one of the least developed among the developing countriesl

Istinq _tlre_priority which the Government of the comoros has assigned to thequestions of infrastructure, transport and telecomnunications,

- 
l{oting further the grave budgetary and balance-of-palzments problems facing ttre

Comorosr

Recalling its resolution 35/97 of
appeal to the international community
financial and economic difficulties,

5 December 1980, in which it reiterated its
to assist the Comoros in overcoming its

l3/ A/36/26e and Corr.l.



A/36/737
English
Page 85

- 1. Erp,rqsses its appreciation to the SecretarlnGeneral for the steps he hastaken to mobilize assistance for the ComorosS
2. Notes with satisfaction the response by various l'Iember States andorganizatiatoftheSecretary-GeneraIforassistanceto

finance, in whole or in part, a number of projects ilentified in tlre annex to the
report of the Secretary-General of 3 November 19 77 12/ and in subseguent reportsi

_ 1: - tilrtes with concern, however, that the assistance thus provided contlnuesto fall short of the countryrs urgent regui,rements and that a substantial amount of
assistance is still urgently required to carry out ttre projects identified in the
annexes to the reports of the Secretary-Generali

4. S"igsreteF, its-appeal to Member States, regional and interregionalorganizati6iE-?iF6Ttrer inl-ergovernmental bodies to provide effective and
continuous financlal, material and technical assistance to the Comoros to help it
overcome its financial and economic difficulties, in particular its budgetary andbalance-of-payments def iclts i

^ 5. Urge? Member states to give special consideration to the inclusion of theoomoros in their bilateral and multilateral progranmes of developnent assistance
and, in cases where assistance programnes for the Comoros are already in force, to
expand them, wherever possible;

6l Also urqes the international conmunity to take fully into account, in
p_roviding assistance, the priority which the Comoros gives to projects in thefields of infrastructure, transport and teleconununicalions;

7. rnvitee the United lfations Development Progranune, the United NationsChildrenrs-ltiiElthe world Food prograrme, lhe worla Health organization, the
United Nations Industrial Developnent Organization, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, the World Bank and the International Fund forAgricultural Development to bring to the attention of their gotr"rttitrg b"di;"; ;;ttheir consideration, the special needs of the Comoros, and to report the decisionsof those bodies to ttre Secretary-GeneraL by 15 July l9g2;

8. lppeals to the international conrmunity to contribute to the special
account which was established at united Nations Headguarters by the
Secretary-General-, in accordance with General AssembLy resolution 32/92 of
13 December 1977, for ttre purpose of facilitating the channelling of contributionsto the Comoros;

9. Requests the appropriate organizations and progranunes of the United
lilations system to increase their current progranmes of assistance to ttre comoros,to croPerate closely with the Secretary-Genera1 in organizing an effective
international programne of assistance and to report periodically to him on ttre
stePs they have taken and the resources they have made available to assist that
counLryi

12/ A/32/208 ancl Md.l and 2.



v36/737
English
Page 85

10. Itequeits the Secretary-General:

' (a) To continue his efforts to npbilize the necessary resources for an 
:

effective programne of financial, tectrnical and material assistance to the Comoros;
(b) To keep the situation in the Comoros under constant review, to maintain

close contact with Melnber States, regional and othei intergovernmental
organizations, the specialized agencies and international financial institutions
concerned and to apprise the Economic and Soclal Council, at ite Eecond regular
session of 1982, of the current status of ttre special economic assistance programne
for the Comorosi

(c) To arrange for a review of the economic sltuatlon of the Comoros and the
progress made in organizing and implenenting the special economic asslstance
programne for that country in time for the natter to be considered by the General
Assembly at its thirty-seventh session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XI

Assistance to Nigggg

ilhe Genera! A.ssembly,

Recalling its resolutions 34/8 of 25 October L979 and 35,/84 of 5 December l9g0
concerning assistance for the reconstruction of Nicaragua,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on assistance to
Nicaragua, W

Noting with satisfaction the support which Member States and the organlzations
and specialized agencies of ttre ttrrited Nations system have given to the efforts of
the Government of Nicaragua for the reconstruction of the country,

Considering that, despite ttre efforts of the Government, ttre economic
situation of Nicaragua has not yet returned to normal and continues to require the
assistance of the international comnunity,

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his efforts
regarding assi.stance to Nicaraguai

2. Urges all Governments to continue contributing to the reconstruction and
development of Nicaragua;

3. Resuests the bodies of the United Nations system to continue and increase
their assistance in ttris sphere,

89/ A/36/280.



Y"trYt'"l'
Page 87

4. Reconunends ttrat Nicaragua should continue to receive treatment that lrill
be appropriate to the special needs of the country until the economic situation
returng to normal

5. Reqlrests the Secretary-General to retrnrt to the General Assembly at its
thirty-seventh session on the progress made in the implementation of the present
resolution.

DRAET RESOLUTION XII

Assistance to Zanbia

The General Assembly,

Recalling previous United tilations resolutions concerning the question of
assistance to zambia, in particular Security Oouncil resolution 329 (1973) of
l0 March L973 and Econonic and Social Council resolutions 2012 (LxI) of
3 August 1976 and 2093 (Lxrrr) of 26 July 1977, which commended the decision of the
Government of zanbia in 1968 to inplenent progressively United Nations mandatory
sanctions against Southern nhodesia in accordance with Security Council
resolution 253. (1968) of 29 l,tay 1968,

Recalling also Security Council resolution 455 (I9?9) of 23 November 1979 and
General Assernbly resolution 33rl131 of 19 December Lg7g, in which ttre Assenbly
strongly endorsed the appeals made by the Council and the Secretary-General for
international assistance to zambia,

Having exanined the report of the Secretary-General L/ to which was annexed
the report of tfie review mission which he sent to Zambia in response to General
assenbly resolution 35/94 of 5 December 19g0,

- Reqrettinq that the international conununity has not thus far providedassistance to zambia on a scale conmensurate with the costs as call-ed for in
Security Council resoLutions 253 (1968) of 29 tt.E,y L968, 277 (1970) of 18 !{arch t9Z0
and 329 (f973) of I0 March L973,

1. Endorses the assessment and'recomnendations contained in the annex to the
report of the SecretarrGeneral;

2. Expresses its aplreciation for the assistance provided thus far to zambia
by various States and regional and international organizations;

g/ A/36/270-s/L4673 and Corr.t.



A/36/737
English
Page 88

3. Drana the attention of the international corununity to the additional
financial,malassistancereguiredbyzambia,asidentifiedin
the annex to the retrnrt of the Secretary-@nera1, and to the particular need for
assistance in the transp,ort sector i

4. Ca1ls upon Member States, regional and interregional organizations and
other intergovernmental and non-governmental organlzations to provide financial,
material and technical assistance to Zanbia, wherever possible in the forn of
grants, and urges then to give special consideration to the early inclusion of
Zanbia in their prograrurcs of bilateral or multilateral developrnent assistance, if
it is not already includedl

5. Requests the appnotrriate organizations and progranmes of the United
tilations system - in particular ttre United Nations Development Prograrune, the World
Bank' the Flood and Agriculture Organization of the United llations, the
International ltnd for Agricultural Development, the World Frood Progranune, the
World llealth Organization and the United Nations Childrenrs Fund - to maintain and
increase their current and future prograrunes of assistance to Zambia, in order to
enable it to carry out its planned developnent projects without interruption;

6. Further resuests the appropriate specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United !{ations system to report periodically to the
Secretary-General on the steps they have taken and the resources they have nade
available to assist Zanrbial

7. Invites the United Nations llevelopment Programne, the United Nations
Ctrildren's-ffiilthe World Flood Programme, th. world Health organization, the
United Nations Industrial Developrnent Organization, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of tlte United l{ations, the World Bank and t}re International Flnd for
Agricultural Development to bring to the attention of their governing bodies, for
their consideration, t*re special needs of Zanbia and to report the decisions of
those bodies to the Secretary-General by 15 July 19821

8. Resuests the United ttions lligh Comnissioner for Refugees to continue
his humanitarian assistance programnes on behalf of refugees in Zambiar and urges
Member States and ttte internatio:ral community to provide hin speedily with the
necessary means to carry out those programnes, as contained in the
Secretary-Genera 1r s report?

9. Requests the Secretary-General:

(a) To continue his efforts to mobilize t.he necessary resources for an
effective progranne of financial, tectrnical and material assistance to Zambia;

(b) To ensure that adequate financial and budgetary arrangements are made for
continuing the organization of the international progranne of assistance to Zanbia
and tlre nobilization of resourcest



A/36/737
English
Page 89

(c) To keep tJre economic situation in Zarnbia under constant review, to
naintain close contact with Menber States, regional and otlrer intergovernmental
organizations, ttre specialized agencies and international financial institutions
concerned and to apprise the Economic and Social Council, at its second regular
session of 1982, of the current status of ttre special economic assistance Prograrme
for Zambia;

(d) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Zambia and the
progress made in organizing and implementing ttre special economic assistance
progra:nme for that country in tirne for the matter to be considered by the General
Assembly at its thirty-seventh session.

DRAFT RESOI,UTION XIII

Assistance to !4ozambique

Ttre General Assemb1Y,

Reca1ling the decision of the Government of Mozambique to irnplenent mandatory
sanct6iffiInst the ill-ega1 rdgine in Southern Rhodesia in accordance wittr
Security Council resolution 253 (I968) of 29 !{ay 1958,

Recoqnizinq ttre substantial economic sacrifices made by !4ozambique in tlre
impteilffitionEf its decision to enforce United tilations Sanctlons and to close lts
borders with Southern Rhodesia,

RecalLing Security Council. resolution 386 (1976) of L7 lrlarch L976, in whictr
tne 6fiffilpealed to all States to provide, and requested the Secretary-General'
in collaboration with the apgopriate organizations of the United llations system,
to organize with inunediate effect, financial, technical and nateriaL assistance to
enable Mozanbique to carry out its econornic development Progranne nonnally and to
enhance its capaclty to implernent fully the llnited Nations nandatory sanctionsr

tibting with deep concern the loss of life and destruction of suctt essential
infrastructure as roaas, raifways, bridges, petroleum faciLities, electricity
sufply, sctrooLs and hospitals identified in the annex to the rePort of the
Secretary-General of 16 August L979, W

Recalling further its resolutions 3L/43 of 1 Decernber 1976r.32/2?-2f -
rg Dem6 of 1g December L978, 34/L29 of 14 Decenber 1979 and
35/gg of 5 Decenber I-980, in whictr it urged the international corununity to respond
effectively and generously with assistance to lilozambiquel

Noting ttrat the independence of Zinbabwe provides both an opSnrtunity and a
ctrattenge for the international comunityr particuJ,arly for those neighbouring
States whose economies have been so closely linked to that country'

92/ A/34/377.

/.1.



^/36/737English
Page 90

Beiring in mind the fact that the drought which affected 6 out of the
10 provinces of !{ozambique has attained dramatic proportions of a natural calamity,

llaving gxqrningd the paper on drought in Mozarnbique, g3rl which contains an
assessment of t}Ie inunediate requirements for urgent assisEnce from tlre
international conununity,

lfoting that a mission of the iood and Agriculture organization of the UnitedNations, the worLd Ebod Progratnne and the world Meteorological organization visited
uozambique in JuLy L980 in order to assess the emergency food situation in terns of
the partial Loss of cereals due to the drought which had devastated part of the
country,

Itaving examined the retrnrt of the Secretary-General on assistance to
l{ozambique, 84./ and noting with concern that the econonic and financial. position of
that country renains grave and beset by budgetary and balance-of-payments deficits
and that, in ttre absence of increased internationa!. assistance, the Government will
have to reduce najor intrnrts that are essential for its developnent programnes and
for restoring industrial production to pre-sanctions levers,

1- Strongly endorses the aptrnals nade by the Security Council and the
secretary-General for internationar assistance to lrlozambiquel

2. En4orses ggllX the assessment and major recomnendations contained in the
annex to tfiGport or the secretarrcenerari

3. ExpreEses its aptreciation to the secretary-General fcjr the measures he
has taken to organize an in-teJnational economic assiitance prograrune for !,lozanbique,

l: Elpresses its aplreciation also for the assistance provided thus far to
l{ozambique by various stateaEnA regional and internatlonal organizations;

- 5. _ Regrets, however, that the total assistance provided to date falls farshort of !,tozambiquers pressing needsl

6. Drans ttre attention of the international comunity to thefinancia1,ma1assistanceidentifiedintie-.,.,,"*
of the secretary-Generar as urgently required by Mozanbiquei

7 - Urqes Menber states and organizations which are aLreacly irnplernenting or
are negotiating assistance Progratmes for Mozanbique to strengthen then, whereverpossiblel

- ApPeals to-the international comnunity to provide the urgently neededexternal assistance in foodstuffs and medicines and Lechnical co-operation for
disaster preparedness and preventionl

additionaL
to the report

9v
9!J

A/C.z/35/5, annex.

A/36/267-s/r4627 .



Al?6/737
EngLish
Page 91

9. CaIIs upon Menber States, regional and interregional organizations and
other inteigovernmental and norrgovernmental organizations to provide flnancial,
naterial and technical assistance to Mozanbique, wherever trnssible in the form of
grants, and urges then to give special consideration to the early inclusion of
l{ozanbique in their prograrr[nes of development assistance, if it is not already
includedt

10. Appeals to the internationaL cotununity to contribute to. the sPecial-
account toFMozanUique estabLished by the secrelarl-GeneraL for ttre purpose of
facilitating the channelling of contributions to Mozambiquet

11. Invites ttre United llations Development Programme, the United tibtions
ChlLdrenrs Fund, the World Food Prograrune, the World llealth Organization, the
United tdations Industrial Developrnent Organization, ttre Flmd and Agriculture
Organlzation of the United Nations and the International Fund for Agricultural
Oevelopnent to bring to ttre attention of their governing bodies, for ttreir
consideration, the special needs of Mozanbique and to report the decisions of those
bodles to ttre SecretarlnGeneral by 15 iluly 19827

L2. Requests the approgiate organizations and progratmnes of the United
llatlons syffi- - f n particular the ttrrited titations Development Programne, the Food
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, the fnternational Fund f,or
Agrlcultural Developnent, the Wor!.d Ebod Programme, the WorLd ltealth Organization
and the United Nations Childrenrs Fund - to maintain and increase their current and
future programnes of assistance to ttlozarnbique and to co-operate closely with the
Secretary-General in organizing an effective internationat progranune of asslstance,
and to reSnrt periodicatty to the Secretary-Genera1 on the steps they have taken
and the resources they made avallable to assist Mozarnbique?

13. Requests the Secretarln@neral:

(a) To continue his efforts to mobllize the necessary resources for an
effective piogratnme of financial, tectrnical and material assistance to lbzanbiquel

(b) To keep the situation in Mozanbique under constant review, to rnaintaln
close contact with Menrber States, regional and other intergovernmental
organizations, the specialized agencies and internatlonal financlal institutionE
and other bodies concerned and to apprlse the Econonic and Social Oouncilr at its
eecond regular session of L982, of the current status of the special econmic
assistance prograrutre for !,tozambiquei

(c) tro arrange for a review of the economic situation of !,tozarnbique and the
progress rnade in organizing and inplernenting the special economic assistance
prograrune for that country in tine for the matter to be consldered by the General
Aseembly at its ttrlrty-seventh session.



A/36/737
English
Page 92

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIV

Assistance to Djibouti

the General Assemb1v,

-^ _ re...Ililg,its resorutions 32/i3 of 13 Decernber Lg77, 33/L32 of19 Decenber 1978 and 34/L24 of 14 Decenber Lg7g. in which it, -l"t.g-_gl!.,expressed its deep concern at the serious econonic situation p6.iri"g in Djibouti
and strongly appeaLed to Member states and to the internatlonil institutions
concerned to offer effective and sustained assistance to Djibouti to enable it todeal with ttre critical situation arlsing fron its economic difficulties and
requested the secretary-Genera1 to continue his efforts to nobllize the necessaryresources for an effective progratnme of financial, tectrnical 

""a 
riteii.i-------'

assistance,

Fgcallinq alpo its resolution 3S/Ag of 5 Decernber l9g0r in which it drew theattention of the international comrunity to the crltical econonic situation still
confronting Djibouti and to the ll-st of urgent short-tern and long-term projectssubnitted by the Government of DjiboaEl, !11/

the retrnrt
resolution 35/89,

Taking note of the critical economic si.tuation of Djibouti'and the 1ist ofurgent and priority projects, fornulated by the Government of Djibouti, thatreguire international assistance,
t{og'ing with.concern that the harsh effects of the prolonged drought continueto persist and place serious strains on the fragile economic, social ina

administrative infrastructure of the country,

Ioti?rq the conclusion of the Connittee for [bvelopment planning at itsseventeenth session' W in response to the applicatio-n of DJiboutl for inclusionin the list of the least deveLoped among the devefoping couniriesr that Djibouti
did not satisfy the exiEting criteria for incrusion in that rist,

Ngtinq the statement made before the second @mnittee on 6 october 1gg1 by ttreco-ordinator of special Econonic Assistance Programes, in whlctr he emSftasizea trre

report of the secretary-Generalr g3/ to which was annexed
which he sent to ojibouti in restrnnse to General Assembly

g See Fd35/415, annex.
86/ U36/28L.

^ 9J/ .official-4scggdsr-gf 
the Ecglromic and sociar council, 198rr

Supplement No. 7 (E/L98V2Z), trnra. 'tOl



v36/737
English
Page 93

lmportance of priority projects for diversification of the economy and the urgency
of providing increased financial, material and technicaL assistance to Djibouti, 88,/

I. B<presses its appreciation to the SecretarfGeneral for ttre steps he has
taken to organize an international economic assistance programre for njiboutii

2. Endorses fullv the assessnent and reconrmendations contained in the annex
to the report of the Secretary-@nerall 89rl

3. Notes with appreciation the assistance already provided or pledged to
Djibouti by l{ember States and organizations of the United Nations system;

4. Draws the attention of tlre international conrnunity to the critical
econqnic situation coneronting Djibouti, to the assistarrce irnrnediately needed for
the victims of tJte drought and to ttre list of urgent short-term and long-term
projects subnitted by the Government of Djibouti for financial assistance as
descrlbed in t*re annex to tfie report of the SecretaryGeneral;

5. Requests the Economic and Social Council to invite the Conmittee for
Developnent P1anning, in the light of ttre new data and inforrnation provided by the
Government of Djibouti to consider, on the basis of existing criterial its
eltgibility for inclusion ln the list of ttre least developed anong the developing
countries

6. Renews its appeal to llember States, the specialized agencies and other
organizations of tfie United l{ations system and international econonic and financial
institutions to provide Djibouti wit*r ample and appnopriate assistance, bilaterally
and rnultilaterally, whenever possible in ttre forn of grants, to enable Djibouti to
cope with its special economic hardshipsl

7. Calle Spgn the international cornmunity to contribute generously to the
special ac6iffin was established at United litations Headquarters by the
SecretarfGeneral for the purpose of facilitating the channelling of contributions
to Dj iboutiT

8. Invites the United Nations llevelolment Programe, tJte United !{atlons
Childrenrs6E]Ure tforld Ibod Progranne, the World Health Organi.zation, tiLe Frood
and'lgriculture Organization of the United Nations, the t{or1d Bank and the
International Ftrnd for Agricultural Development to bring to t*re attention of their
governing bodies, for thelr consideration, the special needs of Djibouti and to
retrnrt tfie decisions of those bodies to the Secretary-@neral by 15 iluly 19821

g. Requests the appropiate specialized agencies and other organizations of
ttre United tfatlons system to maintain and increase their current and future
programnes of assistance to Djiboutlr to co-operate closely with the Secretary-
General in organizing an effective lnternational progranme of assistance and to

98/

8el

A/C.2/36/5R.7, paras;,.-28. and 29.

A/36/28L.

f...



^/36/737English
Page 94

retrnrt periodicaLly to him on the steps they have taken and the resources they have
made available to assist Djiboutil

L0. Requests the Secretary-@neral:

(a) To continue his efforts to nobilize the necessary resources for an
effective prograrune of financial, tei:trnical and material assistance to Djiboutil

(!) To continue to ensure ttrat adequate financiaL and budgetary arrangements
are made to mobilize resources and to co-ordinate international assistance to
Djibouti;

(c) ttr keep the situation in Djibouti under constant review, to naintain
close contact with Menrber States, regional and other intergovernnental
organizations, the specialized agencies and international iinancial institutions
concerned and to apprise ttre Economic and Social Council, at its second regular
session- of 1982 of the current status of the special economic assistance prograrme
for Djibouti;

(d) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Djibouti and the
Progress made in organizing and implementing the strncial economic assistance
prograNne for that country in tine for the matter to be considered by the General
Assembly at its thirty-seventh session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XV

Special economic assistance to elinea-Bissau

ltre .greqrFFal Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 35/95 of 5 Decenber 1980, in which it reiterated its
appeal to t:lle internationaL comnunity to pro.vide continuous financial., material and
technical assistance to Guinea-gissau to help it to overcome its economic and
financial difficulties and to permit ttre implenentation of ttre projects and
Progralunes reconmended by the Secretary-Genera1 in his retrnrt submitted in response
to General Assernbly resolutlon 34/121 of 14 December Lg7g,

Recarling also its resolution 3339 (xxrx) of rz December L974, in which it
invited Mernber States to provide economie assistance to ttre ttren newly independent
State of Guinea-Bissaur and its resolutions 32/L0O of 13 Decenber ISZZ and
33/L24 of 19 December L978, in which it, inter alia, expressed deep concern at the
serious economic situation in Guinea-Bissau aqd appealed,to the international
comtunity to provide financial and economic assisiinc" t" n.if that country,



Al36/737
English
Page 95

Itavinq exanined the rep,ort of the Secretary-General, W to which was annexed
tner@sionwhichhesenttoGuinea-BissauinresponsetoGeneraI
Assernbly resolution 35/95,

Recalling that Guinea-Bissau is among the thirtfone least developed countries,

Notinq with concern tfiat Guinea-Bissau continues to be beset by a wide range
of economic and financial difficuLtiest

t{oting that the Government of Guinea-Bissau, by the application of a policy of
econoilG-usterity, was able to reduce tfie budget deficit in 1980 to a level
substantially lowLr than in the two preceding years, altttough the country will
continue to be dependent on external sources for public capital exPenditure,

Further noting with concern the chronic deficit in the balance of palments,
ttre s s and tfie inordinateLy low Level of foreign
exctrange reservest

Noting that Guinea-Bissau again experienced a poor harvest in 1980r owing to
irr.gffiEtrd inadequate rainfali and i*rat tfie country needs emergency foqd aiclr

Noting with concern that the response of the international comaunity to date
nasn@ratewithttreneedsoft}resituationandtlratrnanyofthe
projectJapproved for the specific economic assistance programtre by the General
Assembly at its thirty-ttrlrd session have not yet been financed,

Taking note of ttre results of the United Nations Conference on the Least
Oevetopea Countiie=, held in Paris frorn I to 14 Septernber 1981' and particularly of
the Substantial New Prograrnme of Action for the 1980s for the Least Developed
Countries, U

I. Drpresses its appreciatio{r to the Secretary-Cieneral for the stePs he has
taken to rn ea-Bissaui

2. Endorses fullv the assessment and recomrnendations contained in the annex
totherepoFretar1r_Genera1!!.,/anddrawsttreattentionofthe
lnternational connunity to the requirernents for assistance for the proJects ancl
prbgranrmes identified thereini

3. SrpresEeq its appreciation to those States and organizations which have
provided a in response to apPeals by ttre General Assenbly

4. CaI-Ls upon ltember States and the international organizations concerned to
be generouFfr-lEi[ing Guinea-Bissau the food aid it needs,

eo/

2]i

A/35/263.
i,,

4/@!U'.L04/22, part one, sect. A.



^/36/737English
Page 96

5. Renews its urgent appeal to lrlember States, regional and interregional.
organlzatf6iGa other intergovernrnental bodieE to provide continuous financial,
naterial and tectrnicaL assistance to Guinea-Bissau to help it to overcome its
econonic and financial difficuLties and to enable ttre projects and prograrnnes
identified in the annex to the report of the Secretary-General to be irnplemented;

6. Appeals to t*re lnternatiqrr"l .o-ounity to contribute to the speclal
account established at United Natlons Headguarters by the Secretary-General, in
accordance with General Assenbly resolution 32/L0o, ior the purtrnse of faciiitating
the channelling of contributionl to Gulnea-Bissau;

- Invites t*re United tdations Development prograrnne, tlre United ttionsChil'drenrs Fund, the World Food ProgramTle, the l{orld Eea1th Organization, the Food
and Agriculture Organization of ttre llnited l{ations, the world Bank and the
International Fund for Agricultural Developrnent to bring to the attention of their
governing bodies, for their consideration, the special needs of Guinea-Bissau and
to report the decisions of those bodies to the Secretary-General by 15 July l9g2;

8. Requests the speclalized agencies and other competent bodies of ttre
united Nations system to retrnrt periodically to the Secretary-General on the steps
they have taken and the resources ttrey have made available to assist Guinea-Bissaut

9. Requests the Secretarv-General:

(a) To continue his efforts to rnobilize the necessary resources for an
effective Programte of financial, tectrnical and material asslstance to
Guinea-Btssau,

(b) lto keep the situatlon in Gulnea-Bissau under constant review, to
malntaln close contact with Menber states2 regional and other intergovernmental
organizations, the specialized agencies and the international financial instltutions
concernedr and to report to the Econmic and Soclal Council, at its second regular
session of 1982r on the status of the special economl.c assistance prograruoe for
Guinea-Blssaui

(c) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of Guinea-Bissau and
the progress rnade ln organizlng and irnplernenting ttre special econonic asslstance
Progrume for that country in tfune for the matter to be consl.dered by the General
Assembly at its ttrirty-seventh sessLon.

PRAFT RESOLTnTON XVr

Assistance to Uqanda

the General Assembly,

Recalling lts resolution 35A03 of 5 December 1980, in w[ictr it, inter alia,
expressed its deep concern at ttre traglc loss of life, widespreaa aestffii6iTi
proPerty and severe darnage to the'economic and social infrastructure of Uganda and

1...



^/36/737English
Page 97

urgently appealed to ttre international community to contribute generously to the
reconstruction, rehabilitation and development needs of the country,

Takinq into account ttre l0-year development plan of llganda presented to the
United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countriesr held in Paris from
1 to 14 Septenber 1981, and the Substantial tdew Programne of Action for t}te 1980s
for the Ieast Developed Countries adopted by the Conference, 9.!

Recoqnizinq ttrat llanda is not only land-Iocked but aLso one of the least
developed and most seriously affected countries,

Recallinq the donorsr meeting on assistance to tlganda, held in Paris fron
6 to 8 November 1979 under the auspices of the l{orld Bank,

Notinq with concern ttrat severe drought has destroyed ttre livelihood of
several hundred thousand people and that urgent assistance is requlred for the
rehabilitation of essential cormrunity facilities and services in the affected areas,

Notinq the appeals of the Secretary-Genera1 and the United Nations lligh
Conmissioner for Refugees for emergency humanitarian assistance to Ugandat

Having examined the regnrt of the Secretary-GeneraL subrnitted in response to
General A.ssernbly resolution 35/L03, pl/

Reaffirming the urgent need for international action to assist the Government
of Uganda in its efforts for national reconstruction, rehabilitation and
developnent and for resettling the lapge numbers of returning refugees and
displaced persons lnto the permanent fabric of society,

1. Expresses its aplreciation to the Secretary-General for the steps he has
taken to rnobilize assistance for Lbandal

2. Further expresses its apseciation to those States and organizations
which have provided assistance to tJgandal

3. Requests once again the Secretary-General to dispatch a mlssion to Uganda
to cansult wittt the Government on its most urgent reconstruction, rehabilitation
and development needs and to subrnit the regnrt of the mission, through the Economic
and Social Council at its second regular session of 1982, to ttre General Assenbly
at its thirty-seventh sessionl

4. Further requests the Secretary-General to ensure that adequate financial
and budgetary arrangements are made for the organizatlon of an effective
international progratnne of assistance to llganda and for the mobilization of
international assistancei

23/ A,/@NF.L04/22, part one, sect. A.

e3/ N36/see.



v36/737
English
Page 98

5. fnvites the international conurrunity, in particular the United Nations
system and donor countries, to make available the necessary resources to inplement
the countryrs terryear development prograrme, in accordance with the Substantial
New PIan of Action for the 1980s for the Iast Developed buntries,

5. Urgently renews its appeal to all Menber States, specialized agencies and
ottrer organizations of ttre United tfatlons system and international economic and
financial institutions to contribute generously, through bilateral or multilateral
channels, to tfie reconstruction, rehabilitation and development needs of lganda and
to its emergency reguirements;

7. Urges Member States and international econonic and financial institutions
once again to res;nnd generously to the appeal made at ttre donorsr neeting in Parisl

8. Renews its appeal to the international conmunity to contribute to the
special account which was established at Ulrited tilations Headquarters for the
purpose of facllitating the channelling of contributions to Ugandai

9. Invites the appropriate organizations and progranmes of the United
tilations system - in particular the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Developnent' the United tihtions Industrial Development Organization, t*re llnited
tfations Childrenrs Fund, the united !{ations Development Programne, the World Food
Programer the International Fund for Agricultural Developnent, the International
Iabour Organisation, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations,
the United Nations Educationat, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the Wor1d
Heal-th Organization and the World Bank - to maintain and increase their current and
future progrannes of assistance to tlganda and to report periodically to ttre
Secretary-General on the steps they have taken and the resources they have nade
availabLe to assist that country;

10. Invites the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the
United Nations Industrial Developnent Organization, the United Nations Childrents
Fund, the United Nations Developrnent Prograrune, the l{or1d Food Programme, the
International Frrnd for Agricultural Developnent, the International Iabour
Organisation, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United tilations, the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, the world Health
Organization and the World Bank to bring to the attention of their governing
bodies, for their consideration, the special needs of tganda and Lo report the
decisions of those bodies to the Secretary-C,eneral by 15 July 19821

lL. Requests the United Nations High Comnissioner for Refugees to continue
his hurnanitarlan assistance programres in tbandai

L2. Reguests the Secretary-General:
(a) To continue his efforts to nobilize the necessary resources for an

effective programme of financiaL, tectrnical and material assistance to uganda;



Pd36/737
English
Page 99

(b) To keep the situation in lJganda under constant review, to maintain close
contact with Menber States, regional and otler intergovernmental organizations, the
specialized agencies and international financial institutions concerned and to
apprise the Econonic and Social Council, at its second regular session of 1982, of
the current status of the special econonic assistance prograrme for Uganda.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVII

Assistance to Iesotho

Ttte General Assembly,

Recalling Security Council resolution 402 (L976) of 22 December L976, in which
the Council, inter alia, expressed concern at the serious situation created by
Souttt Africars closure of certain border posts between Souttr Africa and Lesotho
aimed at coercing Iesotho into according recognition to ttre bantustan of the
Tr anskei,

Co{unepding the decision of the Government of tesotho not to recognize the
Transkei' in compliance with United llations decisions, particularly General
Assenbly resolution 3L/6 A of 26 October L976,

Frrllv aware that the decision of the Government of Iesotho not to recognize
the Transkei has intrnsed a special economic burden upon its people,

Stronqlv endorsinq the appeals made in Security Oouncil resolutions 402 (I976)
of 22 December 1976 and 407 (L977', of 25 Ntay L977, in General Assenbly resolutions
32/98 of 13 December L977, 33/L28 of 19 December L978, 34/L3O of L4 Decernber 1979
and 35/96 of 5 Decenber L980r 6rrd by the Secretary-General, calling upon all
States' regional and intergovernmental organizations and the appropriate agencies
of the United Nations system to contribute generousLy to the international
programme of assistance to enable lesotho to carry out its economic development and
enhance its capacity to implement fully resolutions of the United Nations,

- Havinq exapined the retrnrt of the Secretary-General, W xo which was annexedthe retrnrt of the mission which he sent to tesotho, in response to General Assernbly
resolution 35/96, to review the economic situation as well. as progress ln the
implenentation of the special economib assistance programme for Lesothie,

_ lPtinq the priority which the Government of Iesotho accords to raising levelsof food production through increased productivity, thus lessening the countryrs
dependency on South Africa for food imports,

Being aware that the high prices paid by Lesotho for its inports of petroleum
Products as a result of the oil embargo on South Africa have become a serious
inpediment to the developnent of the country,

y/ A/36/266.



^/36/737English
Page 100

Recognizing, in connexion with suctr embargoes, the obligation of the
international commrunity to help countries such as Iesotho that act in support of
the Charter of the United Nations and in compliance wittr General Assernbly
resolutions,

Recalling its resolutions 32/L6O of 19 December 19?7 and 33/L97 of
29 January L979 concerning tlte Transport and Conununications Decade in Africa and,
in this regardl noting Lesothors geotrnlitical situation, whictr necessitates the
urgent developnent of air and telecomnunlcation links with neighbouring countries
of Africa and the rest of the world,

Taking account of lesothors need for a national network of, roads, both for
its planned social and economic developnent and to lessen its dependence on the
South African network' to reach various regions of the country affected by the
intrnsition of travel restrictions by South Africa,

Taking note of Iesothors special problems associated wit*r the ernployment of
large-nurnEEiE-oE its able-bodied nen in South Africa,

Taking note also of the priority whictr the Government of Lesotho has accorded
to the problen of absorbing into the economy t}te young generation, as well as
nigrant workers returning fron Souttr Africa,

Welconinq the action taken by the Government of Iesotho to make more effective
use of wonen in the develotrxnent process by promoting their participation in the
economic, social and cultural life of the country,

Taking account also of Iesotttors position as a least developed, most seriously
affected and land-Loeked country,

Recalling its resolution 32/98, in which it, inter alia, recognized that the
continuing influx of refugees from South Africa imposed an additional burden on
Iesotlro,

1. Erpresses its cohcern at the difficulties that
Lesotho as a result of its decision not to recognize the
Transkei;

2. Endorses fully the assessment of the situation
the retrnrt of the Secretary"-@nerali 94/

confront the Government of
so-called independent

contained in the annex to

3. Takes note of the requirements of Lesotho, as described in the retrnrt of,
the Secretarl'*General, to carry out the remainder of its development prograrune, to
inplenent projects necessitated by the present political situation in the region
and to lessen its dependence on South Afrieat

4. Expresses its aplreciation to the Secretary-General for the measures he
has taken to organize an international economic assistance progranme for Iesottroi



^/36/737EngLish
Page 10L

5. Notes wlth appreciation ttre resp,onse made so far by ttre internatlonal
conununlty to the special economic assistance progranne for Iesotho, which has
enabled it to proceed with tihe implementation of parts of the recommended programel

6. Reiterates its appeal to Menber States, regional and interregional
organizati6il'ETiETTtrer inlergovernmental bodies to irovide financial, material and
technical assistance to Isotho for the implementation of the several. projects and
Programnes which are still unfunded, as identified in the report of the
Secretary-Generall

7. Ca$S g;1]1g Member States and the appropriate agencies, organizatlons and
financial :n-3Elffions to provide assistance io iesottro Jo as to enible lt to
actrieve a greater degree of self-sufficiency in food productionl

8. Also calls upon lrtember States to give all possible assistance to Iesottro
to ensure an adeguate and regular supply of oil to neet its national requirementsl

9. Frrrther calls upon I'lenber States to assist Iesotho in developing its
interna1r@sanditsairco:tmunl.cationwittrtherestoftheworIdi

10. Ootmends the efforts of the Government of Iesotho to integrate wonen nore
fully intoffilnent efforts and reguests the secretary-General to consurt with
the Government on the tlpe and amount of assistance it will require to actrieve this
objective ?

11. Takes note of the rneeting of donors held in Lesotho fron 5 to
9November%-rreI1asttreagilcultura1sectorconferencehetdinIesotlrofrom
20 to 24 October 1980, and urges Menber states and the approtrxiate agencies and
organizations to provide assistance to Iesotho in accordance with the outcome of
those neetings;

L2. Draws the attention of the international cormunity to the special account
whichwasffidN.ationsHeadquartersbytheSecretar1l-ceneraIin
accordance wittt Security CounciL resolution 407 (L977't, for the purpose of
facilitating the channelllng of contributions to Isothot

13. Invites the United Nations DeveJ.olment Progranme, the United Nations
Childrenrs Fund, the world Health Organization, the United tiliations hdustrial
Development Organization, the Food and @riculture Organization of the United
Nations and the International Flrnd fot Agricultural Development to bring further to
the attention of their governing bodies the speciaL needs of Lesotho and to report
to the Secretary-C'eneral by 15 Alrgust 1982 on the steps they have taken;

14. Requests the approlriate specialized agencies and ottrer organizatlons of
the United ltions system to co-operate closely with the Secretary-General in
organizing an effective international programne of assistance to Lesotho and to
report periodically to him on tlre steps they have taken and the resources they have
made available to assist that country;



A/36/737
English
Page 102

15. Requests the Secretary-@neral:

(a) To continue his efforts to mobilize the necessary resources for an
effective programme of financialr technical and material assistance to Isotho,

(b) so consult with the Government of Iesotho on tlre question of migrant
workers returning from South Africa and to report on the tlpe of aseiEtance whictr
the Government reguires in order to establish labour-intensive projects to deal
wlth their absorption into the economyi

(c) 5o ensure that adequate financial and budgetary arrangements are made to
continue ttre organization of t*te international progranne of assistance to Lesotho
and the rnobiLization of assistancel

(d) ltr keep the situation in Lesotho under constant review, to maintain close
contact with Menber States, regional and other intergovernmental organizationsl the
specialized agencies and international financial institutions concerned and to
apprise tlre Economic and Social Council, at its second regular session of L982, of
the current status of the special economic assistance,programne for Lesotho;

(e) I1c arrange for a review of the economic situation of Iesottro and the
progress made in organizing and implernenting the special economic assistance
prograrure for that country in tine for the matter to be considered by the General
Assenbly at its thirty-seventh session.

DR,AE T RESOLUTION XVIII

Assistance for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Ganbia

The General AssembLy,

Deeply concerned about the extensive destruction of life and property as well
as the severe damage to infrastructure which were inflicted on the @mbia as the
result of recent events,

lbting that the Gambia is a least developed country with acute economic and
social problens arising fron its weak economic infrastructure,

l$oting further that the Ganbia also suffers from many of the serious problems
connon to countries of tbe Sahelian region, notably drought,

Convinced that the Government of the Garnbia needs urgent international
assistance to rehabilitate and reconstruct its damaged econonryr,

1.Notes@theeffortsexertedbytheGovernmentandpeop1e
of the camU itation and reconstru;tiont



v36/737
English
Page 103

2. Urgentlv appeals to aII Member States, the specialized agencies andl other
organizations of the United Nations system, as well as international development
and financial institutions, to contribute generously, through bilateral or
multilateral channels, to the rehabilitation and reconstruction of the Gambiai

3. QaLIs upon regional and interregional organizations and other
intergoveriilre T Uoaies and norFgovernmentaL organizations, as well as
international developnent and financial institutions, to give urgent consideration
to the establishment of a programme of assistance for the Ganbiai

4. Requests ttre appropriate organizations and progratnnes of tlre United
Nations system - in particular the United Nations Develotrment Progranune, the United
Nations Childrenrs Fund, tJre !{orld Fbod Programme, the Wor1d Health Organization,
the United Nations Industrial Developnent Organization, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United ttions ana t}re tnternational F-und for Agriiultural
Development - to increase their current and. future programnes of assistance to the
Ganbia, to co-operate closely with the Secretary-General in organizing an effective
international programne of assistance and to report periodically to hirn on the
steps they have taken and the resources they have rnade available to assist that
country?

5. Invites the United Nations Development Programne, the United Nations
ChiLdrentsffir-ttre world Erood Progranune, the world Health organization, the
United Nations. fndustrial Development Organization, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United llations, the Wor1d Bank and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development to bring to the attention of their governing bodiesr for
their consideration, the special needs of the @mbia and to report the decisions of
those bodies to the Secretary-@neral by 15 JuIy 19823

6. requests the Secretary-General:

(a) lto organize a special emergency assistance prograrme of financial,
technical and material assistance to the Gambia to enable it to meet its urgent
needs for rehabilitation and reconstructiont

(b) To ensure that the necessary financial- and budgetary arrangements are
made to organize an international programne of assistance to the Garnbia and to
mobilize that assistancei

(c) $o dispatch a mission to th'e Gambia wittr a view to hoLding consultations
with the Government on the additional assistance which it needs for rehabilitation
and reconstruct,ion and to connrunicate the report of the nission to the
international communityi

(d) To apprise the Economic and Social Council, at its second regular session
of 1982, of the assistance being provided and the progress made in rnobilizing
assistance to the Gambiat

(e) so keep the situation in the Ganbia under review and to report to the
General Assenbly at its thirty-seventh session on the irnplenentation of ttre present
resolution.



A/36/737
English
Page 104

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIX

Assistance to the drouqht-stricken areas in Djibouti, Ethiopia,
Icnya, Somalia' the Sudan and Uganda

lftre General Assernbly ,

ReqaUing its resolutions 35/90 and 35,/91 of 5 llecernber 1980 on the guestion
of assistance to tlre drought-stricken areas of Djibouti, Ethiopiar Somalia, the
Sudan and Uganda,

Recalling further Econornic and Social Council resolution 198I,/48 of
20 JuIy 1981 regarding assistance to the drought-stricken countries and to Kenya,

Having heard the statement made before the Second Conmittee on
6 November 1981 W bV the head of the United tilations nultiagency mission which
visited those countries to assess the immediate, mediunr-term and Long-term needs of
the Governments concerned for their drought-affected populations,

ldoting with satisfaction the retrnrts of the Secretary-General on assistanmce
to the drought-stricken areas in Djibouti, W Kenya, 97_,/ SonalLa, 2y ttre Sudan !/
and Uganda, W to which were annexed the relevant retrnrts of the nultiagency
ml.ss10n,

4ryele of the adverse effects of drought on the. economic and social development
og tnE6untries concerned as well as on their ecology,

Bearing in mind the imperative need for the international corununity to render
asgistance to Menber States in tfie event of major natural disasters,

Recalling its resolutions and those of the Economic and Social Council
concerning assistance in cases of natural disaster, in particular AssembLy
resolutions 2816 (X)ryI) of 14 December 1971 and 2959 (XXVrI) of L2 December L972,

Takinq into account ttre regional nature of the drouEht and tbe practical and
regional co-operation arrangements which already exist among the affected countries,

2! A/c.z/36/sR.31.

93/ A/36/275.

2l/ A/36/7L2.

w A/35/275.
y/ A/36/277.

!39/ A/36/274.



A/36/737
EngLish
Page 105

Recallinq its recomnendations in paragraph 6 of its resolution 35/90 that the
Governments of the drought-stricken countries of the region should conslder the
establishment of an intergovernnental body with the responsibility for
co-ordinating and supporting the countriesr efforts to conbat the effects of
drought and other natural dlsasters and to deal wlth tfie problen of mediun-term and
long-term recovery and rehabilitation, .

lloting that, in response to paragraph 7 of its resolutiol 35/90, arrangements
have been rnade by the Secretary-GeneraL for a unit within tjhe tlnited Nations
DeveJ-opment Programe to be created when funds are made available through voluntary
contributions and to be assigned resp,onsibiJ.ity for assisting ttre countries of the
region,

ldoting further that, in response to paragraph 7 of resolution 35/90, the
SecretarleGeneral appealed to Menber states and international organizations for
voluntary contributions to rneet the costs of suctr a unit to enable it to provide
the assistance envisaged in that paragraph,

I. 9gtnnen1le the Secretary-General for his positive responee to the urgent
situation offie?rought-strickln areas in Djibouii, renya, s6nalia, the sudin and
Uganda, and for hls action in dlspatching a multiagency misslon to those countries
to assess their mediurn-term and long-term needsl and aleo cornnends the rnultiagency
mission for the excellent efforts it deployed, and requests the Secretary-General
to send a similar nission to those countries for which such a report does not existl

2. Endorses the reconmendations rnade by ttre rnultiagency rnission in its
reportsr which were annexed to the rep,orts of the secretarrGeneralt

3. APpeals to Menber states, United llations organizations and specialized
agencies, and intergoverrunental and non-governmental organizations to contribute
generousS.Yr in the form of financial, material and technical assistance, towards
the projects and programnes to help ttre affected trnpuLations, as described in the
reports of the multiagency missionl

4. Urges the Governments of the drought-stricken countries of the region to
continue their consultations and to finalize the necessary arrangements for the
establishment of an intergovernmental body wittr the responsibiJ.lty for
co-ordinating and supporting each countryis efforts to cornbat ttre effects of
drought and other natural disasters and to deal. with the problem of mediumterm and
long-term recovery and rehabiJ.itationl

5. Invites the Secretary-General, wittrin existing resources, in close
co-operation with tlre Administrator of ttre united ttions Development Programne, to
assist those countries in the establishirent of the proposed i.ntergovernmental body;



N36/737
English
Page 106

6. Reiterates its appeal to Mernber States and international organizatlons to
make voluntary contrlbutions to meet the cost of the special co-ordinating unit, to
be created within the United NationE Development Progranrne, and to enable it to
provide assistance to the Governments of the affected countries to strengthen their
national and reglonal capabilities to mltlgate the effects of drought and to
pronote sustained economic and social developrnentg

7. Requests ttre Secretary-General, in close co-operation with the
Mministrator of tfie tlnited llations Invelopment Progratmleg

(a) !o extend alL necessary assistance to the Governments of Djiboutil
Ethiopia, Kenyar Sonalta, the Sudan and tlanda in establishing detailed Snlicles
for dealing with drougtht as a recurring .1*renomenon within the context of their
national development prograrmes; 

I

,(b) To mobilize internatlonal assletance for the populationE affected as a
resuLt of drought and other natural dlsasters in ttre countries concernedl

8. nrrther requests the Secretary-6sn"ra1 to keep the situation under reviewr
and to report to the Economic and Social &uncil, at its second regular session
of J.982, and to the General Assenbly at its tbirty-eeventh sesEion on the progress
actrieved in the inplementation of llre present resolution.

DRAFT RESOIJUTION XX

Assistance to Botswana

ltre General Assemblv,

Recalling Securlty Council resolutions 403 (19?7) of 14 January 1977
and 406 (L9771 of 25 t{ey 1977, concerning the conplaint by ttre Government of
Botswana regarding acts of aggtresslon conunitted against its terr5.tory by the
illegal r6gime in Southern Rhodesla,

Recalling also Security Councll resolution 460 (1979) of 2L December 19?9, ln
which all Mernber States and specialized agencies were called upon to provide urgent
assistance to zinbabwe and the front-line States,

Recallinq General Assernbly resolutions 32/97 of 13 December L977, 33/L3O
of 19 December 1978 and 34A25 of 14 December L979, in whictr the Assembly,
inter a1ia, recognized t*re special economic hardship confronting Botswana as a
resuft of diverting funds from current and glanned develotrment projects to
effective arrangenents for security against attacks and threats by Southern
Rhodesia, and endorsed the assessnents and recormendations contained in ttre notes



u36/737
English
Page 107

Secretary-GeneraL dated 28 l,larch L977 LOLi/ and 25 october L977 LOZ| and in his
retrnrts of 7 July L978 LOr/ and 28 August L979, tOA/

. . . Havinq exanlnel ttre retrnrt of the SecretarlnGeneral of 23 June l9gl, LOS/ towhich was annexed the report of the mission wtrtch he sent to Botsyrana in r$ot 
".to General Assenbly resolution 35rl99 of 5 Decenber 1990,

Tdgting the need of the Government of Botswana. to rehabilitate and develop
effective road, rail and alr conmunications, both internally and with the resi of
the worldr in view of the uncertain political situation in the region, Botswanats
vuLnerability as a land-Locked country and its dependence on exteinally controlled
railway systems for the transport of its principal extrnrts and imSnrts,

Notinq with appreciation Botswanars desire to establ.ish its own railway systemo

- F!itg,"f"o the urgent need to cornplete speedily the projects that have beenidentified in the annex to t*re report of the SecretarlnGeneral,
1. lfotes with satisfaction Botswanars efforts in inplementing its

development projectsl

2. Endorses fully the revised programne of assistance contained in the annex
to the report of the -secretary-General lQ!/ and calls the attention of theinternational conmunity to the outstandin! needs for assistance identified therein;

3. Notes that, while t.Le resp,onse f,rorn some Member States and international
organizatiffio the appeals of thisecretary-General has been encouraging, there
is urgent need to maintaln ttre flow of contributions to carry out the remainder of
the emergency programme, the implementation.of parts of whictr remains a critical
necessityl

4. Draws the attention of States and internationaL and intergovernmental
organizati@t*reprojectsinttrefie1doftranspor['ana
conununications, as well as to the priority requirements to rehabititate the border
areas rpst adversely affected by ttre war, in accordance with the recosmendations
contained in the annex to the report of the secretary-Generari

- -!94 
Official records of ,

Supplement for Januqrv, F.ebruarv and March 197

_ ry &ig. r Supplement for Octoberr .tdovember and December 1977rdocunent S/L242L.

Lgy A/33/L66 and Oorr.1.
LO!/ A/34/4L9-S,/r3506.

LgtJ A/36/264-s/L44sr.



A/36/737
English
Page 108

5. Reiterates its appeal to al-l States and intergovernmental organlzations
to provide generous assistance to enable Botswana to carry out ttre remainder of its
planned development projects, as weLl as those made necessary by the current
trrcliticaL and economic situationt

6. Appeals to all ltember Stales, regional and interregional organizations
and other intergovernmental bodies. to provide financial, material and technical
assistance to Botswana to enable it to carry out its planned developnent programne
without interruption;

7. Urges Member States and organizations which are already implementing or
negotiating assistance progrannes for Botswana to expand them, wherever trnssibLe;

8. Invites the United Nations Development Programne, the United l'ttriations
Orildretrrs-ffir-Ure World fbod Progranurie, ttr" worLd Health Organization, the
United Nations Industrial Develotrment Organization, the WorLd Bank and the
International Fund for Agricul.tural Development to bring to the attention of tfieir
qoverning bodies, for their consideration, the assistance they are rendering to
Eotsrf,ana, for which the General Assembly has requested the Secretarf@neraL to
$.mplement a speciaL economic assistance prograrune, and to retrnrt on the results of
that assistance and their decisions to the secretarl'-Generar in time for
eonsideration by the A.ssenbly at its thirtlnseventh session,

9. Appeals to ttre international community to contribute to the special
aceeiunt established by the Secretary-ceneral for the purpose of facilitating the
channell-ing of contributions to Botswanai

10. Requests the appnopniate specialized agencies and other organizations of
the United tiliations system to co-operate closely with lhe Secretarfceneral for the
purpose of facilitating the channelling of contributions to Botsnanai

LI" Requestq the Secretary-General:

(a) lto continue his efforts to rnobilize the necessary resources for an
effective programme of financial, technical and material assistance to Botswanai

(b) Tro keep the situation in Botswana under constant review, to naintain
cLose contact with Member States, regional and other intergoverrunental
organizations, the speciaLized agencies and international financial institutions
concerned and to apprise ttre Econonic and Social CounciL, at its second regular
sbssion of 1982, of the current status of the special econonic assistance prograrune
for Botswanai

(c) To arrange for a review of the economic situation of gotswana and the
progress rnade in oiganizing and irnpLernenting ttre special economic' assistanCe
programme for that country in tirne for the matter to be considered by the General
Assennbly at its thirty-seventh session.

,/*,*



A/36/737
English
Page 109

DRAFT RESOLUTION XXI

Assistance to Zimbabwe

l*re General A.ssembly,

.Noting the statement made before the Generar Assenbry at its ereventh specialsession, on 26 August 1980' by the Prirne Minister of zimbibwe, L06/ in-r"tictr'-treoutlined his Governmentrs economic development priorities and invited theinternational community to render assistance in dealing with serious economic andsocial problems in zinbabwe,

- 
Rgcglling security council resolution 460 (1979) of 2L December tg?g andGeneral A.ssembly resolution 351100 of 5 Decernber 1980, in which the internationar

conununity was calleg opott to provide urgent assistance for the reconstruction andrehabilitation of Zimbabwe,

. TSking i.nto account the econornic policy statement of zimbabwe, 'Growth withequitytr, on the basis of which a three-year plan vras prepared, outrining short-term,mediurr-term and rong-term nationar measlres Leing undertaken to establish anegalitarian sociarist society under conditions of growth with equity,

zirnbabwe prepared in resSronse to @neral A.ssernbry resolution 35lr00 , W
I' Endorses the assessments and recommendations contained in the report ofthe Secr etiffiner a I on ass is tanc" -i; ; iil;;.i- " ^""- 

vv' Lq r'cL

2' Expresses its appreciati to Menber states and to regional and.._=_rnternationar organizations that have extended economic assistance to zirnbabwethrough bilateral and multilateral arrangements;

.3' Enp4asizes that the social and economic reconstruction of zinbabwe is anongoing exercise that will continue to reguire a massive injection of externalassistancei

.Invites appropriate organizations and programmes of the united tilationssystem - in particular the united ltions Development prograrmne, the worLd Bank,the Food and Agriculture organization'of the united Nations, the rnterrlat,ional Fundfor Agricurturar Development, the worrd Hearth organization, the u"it.J-H.;i;r-Childrenrs Fund, the united Nations Educational, scientific and culturalorganization and the rnternational rabour organisation - to bring to t5e attentionof their governing bodies the urgent and special needs of zimbabwe and to reportthe decisions of those bodies to the secreiary-General by 15 July 1982,

W Official Records of the a1 A
Plenarv Meetinqs, 4th meeting,

L07/ A/36/271 and Oorr.t.

paras, 2-90.
Eleven



A/35/737
English
Page 110

5. Requests the SecretarY-@neral:

(a) .Itr continue his efforts to mobilize resources for an effective progranme
of financial, technical and material assistance to zimbabwei

(b) !o ensure that adequate financial and budgetary arrangements are made to
continue ttre rnobilization of international assistanie to Zimbabwet

(c) To keep the situation in zirnbabwe under constant review, to maintain
-:Lsse contact with !,tember States, regional and other intergovernmental
organizations, the specialized .g...i." and international financial institutions
cc::cerned and to .ppii". ttre pcoiornic and Social 6unci1, at its second regular
session of Igg2, of the current status of the special economic assistance programme
for zimbabrei

(d) To arrange for a review of the progress made in organizing and
implernenting the special econonic assistance prograrune for that country in time for
th-e natter io be cbnsidered by the General Assembly at its thirtlnseventh session.




