








































UNITED
NATIONS

Di str .
GENERAL

^/36 
/77 4

8 December 198I
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 111

DRAFT CODE OF OFFE}rcES AGAINST THE PEACE AN]D SECURITY
OF MANKIND

Report of the Sixth Oommittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Antonio VIfiAL (Spain)

I. INIRODIJCTION

1" The item entitled "Draft Code of Offences against the Peace and Security of
Itlankind: report of the Secretary-C,eneral'was include in the provisional agenda of
the thirty-sixth session of the General Assembly pursuant to paragraph 4 of General
Assembly resolution 35/49 of 4 December 1980.

2. On the recommendation of the General Committee, the General Assembly decided
at its 4th flenary meetingr on 18 September 1981, to include the itern in its agenda
and to allocate i-t to the Sixth Committee.

3. In connexion with the iten, the Sixth Committee had before it the report of
the Secretary-ceneraL (A/36/4L6) and an analytical paper prepared by the
Secretary-General pursuant to paragraph 2 of General Assembly resolution 35/49
(A/36/s35) .

4. Ttre Sixth iommittee consi,lered the item at its 58th, 60th, 6lst, 66th and 69th
meetings, on 24,27 and 30 lbvember and on 2 and 4 December 1981. The summary
record of these meetings (A/C.6/36,/SR.58, 60-61, 66 and 69) contain the views of
representatives who spoke during the consideration of the item.

rr. CoNSTDERATTON OF DRAFT RESOLUTTON A/C.6/36/L.26

5. At the 66th meeting, on 2 December, the representative of Zaire introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.6/36/L.26) sponsored by Algeria, &nin, Burundi, the Congo,
Egypt, the German Democratic Republic, Madagascar, !1!!, Mongo1ia, Nigeria'
the Philippines, @]g, Sierra Leone, Somalia, ZaLre and Zarnbia, later- joined by
Liberia, the lJkrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and C.lzprus.

81-3s4I9 0r36j (E) 
/. . .



A/36 /77 4
Engl ish
Page 2

6. At its 69th meeting, on 4 December, the Comrnittee adopted draft resolution
A/c.6/36/L-26byareqordedvoteofSgtonone'ttithlTabstentions(seepara'9)
The voting was as follows.'

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh'
Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, hrrundi, Byelorussian soviet socialist
Republic, Central afiican Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
congo, cuba, cyprus, czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmarkt
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Hondurast Hungary'
tn-Oit, Indonesia, Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Kuwaitr Lao
peoplers Democratic nepublic, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya'
Madagascar, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia'
Morocco, lrlozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Ni-geria, tilorway, onant
Pakistan, Panamar Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Poland'
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Ianka'
suriname, sweden, Tunisia, uganda, ukrainian soviet socialist
Republic, union of soviet socialist nepublics' united Arab
Emirates, united nepublic of cameroon, united Republic of
Tanzania, Ilpper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam' Yement
Yugoslavia, Z,aite, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: ldone.

Abstaining: Australia, Belgium, Burma, Canada, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Ireland, fsrael, ftaly, Japan, Luxembourg'
uelherlands, New Zealand, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern lreland, United states of America.

7. Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representaLives of the
United States of America, Brazil, the Netherlands, Sltreden (on behalf of Denmark'
Finland, Norway and Sweden), Mexico, Federal Republic of Germany, fsrael'
Bangladesh, the United Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern Ire1and, Italy and
Turkey.

8. The representatives of Togo, the Sudan, Kenya and Sierra Leone stated that'
had they been present during the voting, they would have voted in favour of the
draft resolution.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SIXTH COMMITTEE

g. The Sixth @rnmittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Draft Code of Offences against the Peace and Securit
of Mankind

lltre General Assembly'

Mindful of Article 13, paragraph 1 (a) ' 
of

"tricf,-16.t-ia.s 
that the General Assembly shall

recommendations for the purpose of encouraging
international law and its codification,

the Charter of the United Nations'
initiate studies and make
the progressive develoPment of



A/36 /77 4
English
Page 3

Recalling its resolution 177 (II) of 21 litrvember L947 ' by 
which it reguested

the International Law Commission to prepare a draft code of offences against the
peace and security of mankind,

Having considered the draft Code of Offences against the Peace and Security of
Mankind prepared by the International Iaw Commission and submitted to the General
Assembly in 1954, U

Recalling the belief that the elaboration of a Code of Offences against the
peacJ ana Security of Mankind could contribute to strengthening international peace
and security and thus to promoting and inplementing the purposes and principles set
forth in the Charter of the tlnited lihtions,

Bearing in mind its resolution 33/97 of 16 December 1978, by which it decided
to accord priority and the fullest consideration to the item entitled "Draft Code
of offences against the Peace and Security of Mankind",

I{aving considered the report of the Secretary-GeneraI submitted pursuant to
resolution 35/49, U

Having considered that the International Law Commission has just accomplished
an important part of its work devoted to the succession of States in respect of
State property, archives and debts and thus the programme of work is at present
1i ghtened ,

Taking into consideration that the membership of the International Law
Oonmission was increased during the thirty-sixth session of the General Assenbly
and that it has at its disposal a new mandate of five years to organize its future
work,

Taking into account the views expressed during the debate of this item at the
current session,

Taking note of paragraph 4 of General Assembly resolution 36/_ of _ 1981
on the report of the International Iaw Commission'

1. Invites the International Iaw Commission to resume its work with a view
to elaborating the draft Code of Offences against the Peace and Security of t"lankind
and to examine it with the required priority in order to review it, taking duly
into account the results achieved by the process of the i2rogressive development of
international lawi

V Official Records of the General Assembly, Ninth Session' Supplement No. 9
(A/2693), para. 54.

2/ A/36/s35.



A/36 /77 4
English
Page 4

2. Eeggssts the Tnternational Law Commission to consider at its next session
the question of tt e arait Code of Offences against the Peace and Security of
Mankind in the context of its five-year progralnme and to report to the General
Assernbly at its thirty-seventh session on the priority it deerns advisable to accord
to the draft Code, and the possibility of presenting a preliminary report to the
Assembly at its thirty-eiEhth session bearing, inter a1ia, on the scope and the
structure of the draf,t Codei

3. Rqques_Ls the Secretary-General to reiterate his invitation to Member
SLa.tes and relevant international intergovernmental organizations to present or
update their comrnents and observaLions on the draft Code of Offences against the
Feace and Seeurity of ilIankindr and to submit a report to the General Assefiibly at
its thirty*serrenth session;

4. ngqqqj!€ the Secretary-General to submit to the International Law
Oommissien all Lhe r:ecessary documentation, comments and observations presented by
Member States and the relevant international intergovernmental organizations on the
item entitlecl "Draf't Oode of Offences against the Peace and Security of Mankind";5-

5. lgqtdeg to include in the provi,sional agenda of its thirty-seventh
session tire :.tem entitled "Draft Oode of Offences against the Feace and Security of
Mankind" and to accord it priority and the fullest possible consideration.


