
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Di str .
GENERAL

^/36/7s84 December 1981

ORIGTNAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 128

CONCLUSTON OF A TREATY ON THE PROHIBITION OF THE
STATTONING OF WEAPONS OF ANY KIND IN OUTER SPACE

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Alemayehu I4AKONNEN (Ethiopia)

I. INTRODUCTION

I. The item entitled "Conclusion of a treaty on the prohibition of the stationing
of weatrnns of any kind in outer space" was included in the supplementary list of
items protrnsed for inclusion in the agenda of the thirty-sixth session on the basis
of a reguest contained in a letter dated 10 August 1981 from the Minister of
Ibreign Affairs of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/36 /L9 2l .

2. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 September 1981, the General Assembly,
recommendation of the General @mrnittee, decided to include the item in its
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

on the
agenda

3. At its 2nd meeting' on 7 october, the First @nmittee decided to holcj a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 39 to 56, I28 and 135. The general debate on these items took place
at the 26th to 32nd rneetings, from 19 October to 4 irlcvember (see A/C. L/36/pv.3-26).

4. In connexion with item 128, the Comrnittee had before it a letter dated
10 August 1981 from the Minister for Fbreign Affairs of the Union of Soviet
sociarist Republics addressed to the secretary-General (A/36/rg2).

8I-34633 0092d (E)



A/36/758
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.I/36/L.8

5. On tl lbvember, Bglgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, @|'
Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic' Hungary, the Lao Peoplers
Democratic Republic, I"longolia, !9b9, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republicr the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republ-ics and !!g!_$g submitted a draft resolution

fy afso sponsored by Angola. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Mongolia at the 29th meeting, on
12 \lovember.

6. At its 39th meeting, on 23 hlovernber, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.L/36/L.8 by a recorded vote of 105 to none, with 20 abstentions (see
para. 7). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, A1geria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, BoIivia, Btazil, Bulgaria'
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Congo, Cuba'
Cyprus, Czechosl-ovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ecuadorr Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hondurasr Hungaryt
India, fndonesia, Iran, Iraq, freland, Ivory @ast, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Defipcratic Republict
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya' Madagascar'
Malaysia, MaIdives, I"lali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
l.{ongolia, }llorocco, I"lozambique, Nepa1, Nicaragua, Niger t
Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan, Panama, Papua N€w Guinea, Paraguayt
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rtuanda'
Saint Lucia, Sac Trome and Principer Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra I€one, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic' Thailand,
Ibgo, Trinidad and Ilobago, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics'
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zairer Zambia.

Against: I\bne.

Abstaining: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmarkr France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Israel, Italy' Japan,
Netherlands, New zealand, librway, Portugal, Spainr Tunisiat
Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and tbrthern
Ireland, United States of America.



A/36/7s8
English
Page 3

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Committee recommends
following draft resolution:

to the General Assembly the adoption of the

Conclusion of a treaty on the hibition of the stationi

The General Assembly,

Guided by the goals of strengthening peace and internationar security,

- 
Expressing the common interest of all mankind in furthering the exprorationand use of outer space for peaceful purposes for the good of al1 states and in theinterests of deveroping friendly rerations and mutual understanding between them,
cgnscigus of the danger which would threaten mankind if outer space became anarena for the arms race I 

vt'svv vqvq.re (.

Desiring not to arrow outer space to become an arena for the arms race and asource of strained relalions between States,
Takilg into account the draft rreaty on the prohibition of the stationing ofwealnns or AntEm;Tuter space, submitted to the Generar Assembry by the unionof soviet socialist Republics, and the views and comments expressed during theconsideration of that item at the thirty_sixth session,
1.. Colsiders it necessary to take effective steps,appropriate internationar treaty, to prevent the spread of

space?

by concluding an
the arms race to outer

. ?' 39rc9!E the comrnittee on Disarmament to embark on negotiations with aview to achieving agreement on the text of such a treatyi
3' Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventhsession th;E; entitred ,,@nclusion of a treaty on the prohibition of thestationing of weapons of any kind in outer 

"p."";,.




