
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENER,AI,

^/36/7544 December 1981

ORIGINAL: ENGI,ISH

Ttrirty-sixth session
Agenda item 53

COI\TLUSION OF AN INTERNATIONAL COI\MENTION ON THE STRENGTITENING
OF THE SEC{'RTTY OF NON-NrcLEAR-VIEAPON STATES AGAINST THE USE

OR THREAT OF USE OF N(TLEAR WEAPONS

Report of the First Conmittee

Rapporteurs t{r. Al-emayehu ITTAKONNEN (Ethiopia)

r. INTRODTTTION

1. the item entitled 'Conclusion of an international convention on the
strengthening of the security of non-nuclear*reapon states against the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons: report of the Committee on Disarmament' was
included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-sixth session in accordanee with
General Assembly resolution 35,/l54 of 12 December 1980.

2. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 Septenber 1981, the General Assenbly, on the
recorunendation of the General Conmittee, d'ecided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Oonnittee.

3. At its 2nd meeting on 7 October,
combined general debate on the itens
namely, items 39 to 56, 128 and I35.
at the 3rd to 26th neetings, from 19

the First Conmittee decided to hold a
alLocated to it relating to disarmanent,
The general debate on these items took place

@tober to 4 libvember (see A/C.L/36/PV.3-26).

4. In connexion wittr item 53, the First Committee had before it the report of the
Oonmittee on Disarmament. 1,/

y Offici.al Record
Supplement tdo. 27 (

81-34761 0173b (E)

36/271
of the General Assenbl Thirt sixth Session,



A/35/754
English
Page 2

rr. coNsrDERATroN oF DRAFT RESOLUTTON A/C.l/36/L.LO

.5. On 12 tilrvenber, Angolar B.rlgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Repub1icl
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, Mongolia, Nicaragua and the Union of
societ socialist Republics submitted a draft resolution (A,/c'V36/L'Lol ' The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of Bulgaria at the 31st meetingr
on 16 lilrvember 1981.

,,6. At the 39th meeting, on 23 Novenber, the Cornnittee adopted draft resolution
.'n/C.l/36/L.10 by a recorded vote of 93 to 16' with 14 abstentions (see para. 7).
''The voting was as followsl

In favour: Nghanistan, Algeria, Angolal Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrainr
Bangladesh, Barbados, BoIiViar Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Central
African Republic, Chadr Chile, Congo, Orba, Czechoslovakiat
Democratic Yemen' Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Fin1and, Ciabon, Gernan Democratic nepublic, Ghana, Guinea,
Guyana, Haitir Honduras, Hungary, fndonesia, fraq, Ivory Coastr
Jamaica, Jordan, IGnyal Kuwait, Iao Peoplers Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
lilaldives, !{ali, Malta, lihuritania, Mexico, llcngolia, Mozambique,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeriar Omanr Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Ptrilippinesr bland, Qatar, Romania, Rwandar saint
Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabiar Senegalr Sierra
Ieone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian
Arab Repub1ic, Thailand, Togo' Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, tlnion of Soviet Socialist
Republicsr United Arab Emiratesr United Republic of Cameroon,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet lilam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zambia.

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France' Gernany, Federal
Republic of , Iceland, ftalyr tGtherlands, libw Zealand, Norway,
portugal, Swazilandr Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
litcrthern frelandr tfiited States of Anerica.

Abstaining: Austria, Burma, Greece, Guatemala, fndiar Irelandr Israel' JaPanr
Morocco' Niger, Spain, Sweden, Trrnisia, Zaire.



A/36/754
English
Page 3

III. RE@MII4ENDATION OF THE FIRST @MMITTEE
7. Ttre First Cornnittee recornmends to the General- Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Conclgsion.of an international convention on the strengthening of the
security of non-nuclear-weapon States aqainst the use or threat of

gse of nuclear weapons

lttre C;eneral Assembly,

Convinced of the need to take effective measures for the strengthening of
the security of States and prompted by the desire shared by atl nations to
elininate wdr and prevent nuclear conflagration,

Takinq into account the principle of non-use of force or threat of force
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and reaffirmed in a number of
ttnited Nations declarations and resolutions,

Noting with satisfaction the desire of States in various regions to
prevent nuclear weapons from being introduced into their territories,
including through the establishrnent of nuclear-weapon-free zonesl oD the basis
of arrangements freely arrived at anong the States of the region concerned,
and being anxious to contribute to the attainment of this objective,

Considering that, until nuclear disarmament is actrieved on a universal
basis, it is imperative for the international communlty to develop effective
measures to ensure the security of non-nuclear-treapon States against the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons from any quarter,

. Recoqnizing that effective measures to assure non-nucLear-{reapon States'against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons can constitutJ a positive
contribution to the prevention of the spread of nucrear weapons,

Mindful of the statements nade and views expressed by various States on
the strengthening of the security of non-nuclear-*reapon states,

Concerned at the continuing escalation of the arms race, in particular
the nuclear arms race, and the increased danger of recourse to the use or
threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Deeply concerned at the plans for further stationing of nuclear lreapons
on the territories of non-nuclear{reapon States that could directly affect
security of non-nuclear-weapon States, :

Desirous of prompting the implementation of paragraph 59 of the FinaL f,iccument
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 2/ Ln which it urged the

U Resolution S-L}/2.



A/36 /754
English
Page 4

nuclear-weapon States to pursue efforts to conclude, as appropriate, effective
arrangements to assure non-nuclear{eapon States against the use or threat of
use of nuclear weapons,

Recalling its resolutions 33/72 of 14 Decernber l-978, 34/84 and 34,/85 of
11 Decenber 1979, 35/L54 and 35/155 of L2 December 1980 and the relevant
provisions of its resoLution 35/46 of 3 December 1980,

lbting the consideration by the Oomnittee on Disarmament in 1981 of the
item entitled rrEffective international arrangements to assure
non-nucl-ear{eapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons"
and the setting up of an ad hoc working group to continue the negotiations on
this item,

Recallinq the drafts of an international convention submitted on that
item to the Conmittee on Disarmament in L979. and noting with satisfaction
that the idea of concluding such a convention has received widespread
international support,

Taking note of the report of the Comnittee on Disarmament, including the
report of the ad hoc working group on this guestion,

Wishing to promote an early and successful completion of the negotiations
on the elaboration of a convention on the strengthening of the security of
non-nucLear-weapon States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

ldotinq further that the idea of interim arrangements as a first step
towards the conclusion of such a convention has also been considered in the
Committee on Disarmament, particularly in the form of a Security Council
resolution on this subject, and recalling the recomnendation nade in that
respect by the General A.ssembly in paragraph 6 of its resolution 35/L54,

Mindful of the forthcoming second special session of the General Assembly
devoted to disarmament, at which the Assembly will review the progress
achieved in the field of disarmament, including the inplementation of
paragraph 59 of the Final bcument of the ltenth SpeciaL session of the C'eneral
AssembIy,

1. Welcomes the conclusion of the Committee on Disarmament that there
is continuing recognition of the urgent need to reach agreement on effective
international arrangernents to assure non-nuclear-yreapon States against the use
or threat of use of nuclear $reaponsi

2. Notes with satisfaction that in the Committee on Disarmament there
isonceag@ncipIe,totheideaofaninternational
convention on this subjecti



A/36/7s4
::. English

page 5

Requgsts the Grmlttee on Dtsarmanent to continue the negotiations
on the question of streng,thening the security guarantees for
non-nuclear-0eapon states during its session in Lgg2t

4' Calls uPon all States participating in these negotiations to make :etrorts for the elaboration and conclusion of an international convention onthis matter;
I'

5. Calls once aqain uoon all nuclear-neapon States to make solemn 
::

dec1arations,1dentica1insubstance,concern1ngthenon-useof.nuc1ear
weaPonsagainstnotpnuclear-weaponstate8havirrgnosuchweaPonsontheir
territorieE, as a first step torards the conclusion of an iniernati";;i-- . .,.':'convention, and recormends that the Security Council should exanine suctrdeclarations and, if they arl neet the aboviaentioned objeeti"", 

"nouil adoptan appropriate resolution approvlng theml

.6. . Degides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventhsession the ltem entitled iConclusion of an international conventioi 
"; 

il;strengthening of the security of non-nuclear{eapon states against the use orthreat of use of nuclear weaponsr.
:,::.,

,i:




