
















































UNITED
NATIONS

@ 
Generar Assembrv Distr.

GENERAL

^/36/6373 libvember 1981

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

ltrirty-sixth session
Agenda item 76

INTERNATIONAI., YOUTH YEAR: PARTICIPATION, DEVELOPMENT, PEACE

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Naoharu FUJIf (Japan)

r. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 September 1981, the ceneral Assembly decided
to include in its agenda the item entitled "International Youth Year: Participation'
Development, Peaces report of the Secretary-General" and to allocate it to the
Third Committee.

2. The Corunittee considered this iten jointly with itens 7'1, 78, 80, 84 and 90 at
its 15th to 17th, 19th and 2lst to 29th meetings, from 12 to 26 October 1981. The
views expressed by the representatives of Member States and specialized agencies
and by observers on this item are contained in the summary records of those
meetings (A/c.3/36/SR.15-17, 19 and 2L-29').

3. The @mmittee had before it the following docunents:

(a) Retrnrt of the Secretary-General (A/36/2L5 and Add.l);

(b) Iilnte verbale dated 12 October 198I from the Permanent Mission of Romania
to the United Nations addre,ssed to the Secretary-General (A/C.3/36/91.

4. At the l5th and 16th meetings, on 12 and 13 October, the
Under-Secretary-Gener,al for fnternational -Economic and Social Affairs and the
Assistant Director of the Centre for.social Development and Humanitarian Affairs
made introduetory state{ents.

81-286s1 0I04b (E)



A/36/637
English
Page 2

5.

II. CONSTDERATION OF DR.AFT RESOLUT.IONS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3,/35lt'.15

At the 27th neeting, on 22 October, the representative of Fbnania introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.3/36/L.f5) entitled ofnternational Youth Years
Participation, Development, Peacerr, strnnsored by Afghanistan, Algeria, l!gg!g,
Argentina, Bangladesh, Barbados, !g!;i3, Bhutan, Bolivia, Cape Verde, the Central
African Republic, @|, Colonbia, the Congo, Costa Rica, 1!$, CypTus, Democratic
Yemen' Djibouti' the Doninican Republicr Ecuador, &Ip!, El Salvador, Ethiopia,
Guatemala, Guinqa, cuyana, Honduras, Indonesia, the Ivory eoast, {gpg!, Jordan,
Lebanon, Iesotho, Liberia, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, !,lali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, I9l9cco, Mozanbique, lgpgl,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan, lglggg, Peru, the philippines, Romania, Sg!99,saint Lucia, Eg, sao Tome and principe, somalia, sri r,anka, the syrian Arab
Republic, Ibgo, Trinidad and Sobago, Tunisia, Turkey, !g!.3y, Venezuelar
Yugoslavia, Zairel Zambia and Zirnbabwer and also by Chile, Equatorial Guinea,
GEegce, Guinea-Bissau, the tGtherlands, Sierra Leone, !gg!€, the United Republicot Cameroon, the Upper Volta, Viet Narn and yemen.

6. In an oral statement made at the 28th meeting, on 23 @tober, the attention of
the Conunittee was drawn to the financial irnplications of the draft resolution, and
in particular to the report of the Secretary-General (A/36/2L5) and the addendum
thereto lA/36/2L5/Add. I) .

7. At the same meeting, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution (A/C.3/36/L.L5\
without a vote (see para. 14, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolution A/C.3,/36IL.20 qnd Rev. I and 2

8. At the 27th neeting, on 22 October, the representative of Czechoslovakia
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/35/L.2Ot entitled nMeasures for securing the
rights of youth, with special regard for the right to work'r, sponsored by Algeria,
Angola, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Congo, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Denpcratic Yemen, Grenada, Mongolia and the Syrian Arab Republic
and also by Nicaragua, Iater joined by Benin, the German ttemocratic Republic,
Guinea, Madagascar, l,bzambique, Venezuela, yemen and Zimbabwe. The draft
resolution read as follows:

"ttre G".eral AssembU,

"IIESI of the provisions of the Universal tteclaration of Human Rights
and of the International Covenant of Econonic, Social and Cultural Rights,

"&ge.!!!lg. its resolution 34/L5L of L7 December 1979 | by which it decided
to designate 1985 as fnternational Youth Years Participation, Development,
Peace,

"Recognizing the profound importance of the role of youth for all-round
development of each country,



^/36/637English
Page 3

trOonvlnced of the need for the codification and irnplenentation of the
rtgtrts-6ffiGfi'wiih special regard for the right to work as one of the most
fundamenta} human rights,

rAware of the fact that the unemployment of youth is a hindrance to the
turf pLilSEipation of young peopLe in the socio-economic life of their country
and lirnits their possibility to participate in the development process and is,
furthernore, a source of increased criminality, drug abuse and other
anti-social behaviour of youth,

rConsiders it necessary that States, international organizations and
their bodies should deal in a more comprehensive, systematic and effective
tnanner with the securing of the rights of youth, with special regard for the
right to work,

nl. Calls upon all States with regard to the approaching rnternational
Youth Year, to adopt all the necessary legislative, administrative and other
measuresr as appropriate, for the realization of the rights of youth. with
special- regard for the right to worki

tt2. APpeaLs to the respective governmental and non-governmentaL
organizations to pay during the preparation and observation of the
International Youth Year increased attention to the securing and realization
of the basic right of young people to r+ork;

o3. Requests the Conmission for Social Development, the Economic and
Social 6unci1, the Omnission for Human Rightsf as well as other relevant
bodies of the United Nations and specialized agAncies to give increased
systematic and continuous attention to the probtems of the unenplolzment of
youth and securing of its right to work. n

9. Subsequently, the Committee had before it a revised draft resolution
lVC.3/36/L.20rlRev.1) entitled 'Measures for securing human rights of youth, with
special regard for the right to work", sponsored by Al-geria, Angola, Benin,
Eurgirig, th. gy"roru""iun sorri"t so"iuli"t B.pubrig, th. cotgo, gqb.-
Wr Dgqrocratic lgnen, the cernaqr Denpcrat.ic Republ:ic, ggSlga", Guinea,
Lladagascer,.l,bngoliar ttrozambique, NicaraguEi ,
Yemen and Zimbabwe. The draft resolution read as foffows:

trThe General Assembly,

"Mindful of the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
of ttreTffiational oovenant on Economic, Social- and Cultural Rights, and the
International Covenant on Civil and potitical Rights,

trRecalling its resolution 34/LSL of 17 December Lg7g, by which it decided
to designate 1985 as International Youth Year: participation, Development,
Peace,.

"Sgcognieing the profound imtrnrtance of the role of youth for all-round
develotrrnent of each country,



A/36/637
English
Page 4

"@nvinced of the need for the codification and implementation of the
rignts@;If, with special regard for the right to work as stipulated in
article 6 of the Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights as one of
the fundamental human rightst

I'Aware of the fact that the unemployment of youth is a hindrance to the
fuff pffiipation of young people in the socio-economic life of their country
and linits their possibility to participate in the development process and is'
furthermore, a source of increased criminalit,y, drug abuse and other
anti-social- behaviour of youth, and in this regard enphasizes the inportance
of access to appropriate technical, vocational guidance and training
progranrnes,

''@thatStates,internationa1organizationsand
their bodies should deal tn a more comprehensive, systematic and effective
manner with the securing of human rights of youth, with special regard for the
right to work, as well as the problems of youth unemployment'

' trI. Calls upon all States with regard to the approaching International
youth year, to adopt necessary legislative, administrative and other measures,
as appropriate, for the realization of the human rights of youth, with special
r.S"rd ior the right to work as well as resolving the problems of youth
unemployment;

"2. Appeals to the respective governmental and non-governmental
organizations to pay during the preparation and observation of the
International Youth Year increased attention to the securing and realization
of the basic right of young people to work, incJ.uding the opportunity to tvork
and access to technical, vocational and training progrannest

il3. Requests the Economic and Social @uncil, the @nunission for Social
Development, the Conunission for Human Rights, as well as other relevant bodies
of the United tibtions and specialized agencies to give systematic and
continuous attention to the problems of the unemploynent of youth and securing
of its right to worki

t'4. Reguests the Advisory Committee to ensure that in the context of the
preparations for the International Youth Year, systematic and continuous
attention is given to the promotion of human rights of youth with special
regard to the right to work, as well as to resolving the problems of youth
unemployment. n

10. At the 28th meeting, on 23 October, the representative of Morocco subnitted
amendments to draft resolution A,/C.3 /36/L.20/Rev.1, wbich she subseguently revised
to incorporate a subamendment protrnsed by the representative of Sweden aimed at
replacing the r,ords "human rights of youthtr, wherever they appeared in the text of
the draft resolution, by the words "enjoyment by youth of hunan rightsn. The
amendments submitted by ltorocco, as revised (A/C.3/36/L.30) ' were as follows:



A/36/637
English
Page 5

"Subt itle

"Replace the subtitle rMeasures for securing human rights of youth, with
special regard for the right to work' by rEfforts to ensure the implementation
and the enjoyment by youth of human rights, including the right to education
and the right to work'.

ttPreamble

"gr!!_rcr.S
"fnsert the words rwhenever possibler after the word 'implementation' and

before the phrase rof the rights of youth ...r.

"Fifth paragraph

1. Delete the word remphasizesr betlreen the words rin this regard'and
Ithe importancer and replace it by the word 'emphasizing'.

2. fnsert the words rsecondary and higher education and' between the
words rthe importance ofr and taccess to appropriater.

"9irlGrggtgb.
Redraft the paragraph as follows:

rOonsidering it necessary that States, internationaL orsanizations
anA tn in a nore cornprehensive, systematic and
effective manner ways of ensuring the implementation and enjoyment by
youth of human rights, including the right to education and the right to
work, the only; solutions to the problems of youth unemployment; I

"@
Redraft the paragraph as follows:

"Calls upon all States, in view of the forthcoming fncernational Youth
Year' to adopt the necessary legislative, administrative and other measures,
if they deem them to be possible and appropriate, for resolving the problenrs
of youth unernploynent; "

"Operative paragraph 2

1. Insert the words rto education, vocational- training and' between
Ithe basic right of young peopler and 'to workr.

2. Delete the words rincluding the opportunity to work ano- access to
technical, vocationaL and training programmesi I



A/36 /637
Engl ish
Page 6

"operative paragraph 3

Delete the words rsecuring
resolving them; I

"Operative paragraph 4

of its right to work' and repl-ace by tto

Redraft the paragraph as follows:

"Requests the Advisory Committee to ensure that in the context of the
preparations for the International Youth Year, systematic and continuous
attention is given to the efforts to be made to promote human rights and their
enjoYment by youth, including the right to education and the right to rdork. "

11. At the 29th meeting, on 26 (Xtober, the sponsors revised the draft resolution,
taking into account some of the amendments contained in document A/C.3/36/L.30, anci
further revised the text incortrxrrating oral amendments by Ethiopia and Ghana. The
draft resolution, as further revised (A/C.3/36/L.20/Rev.2), was sponsored by
Alcteria, Angola, Benin, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, the
Congo' 9&9, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Equatorial Guinea, the German
?emocratic Republic, Grenada, Guinea, Madagascar, Mongolia, Mozamhique, Nicaragua,
the Syrian Arab Republic, Venezuela, Yemen and Zimbabwe, and read as follows:

"Eff.orts and measures for securing the i.nrplementation and the enjoyment by
youth of human rights, particularly the right to education and to roork

-'

"Mindful of the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Hurnan Rights,
of the fnternational Clrvenant on Econornic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the
fnternational Covenant on CiviI and political Rights,

"3""ulli-ry. its resolution 34/L5L of 17 December 1979, by
to designate 1985 as International Youth Year: Participation,
Peace,

"Recognizing the profound importance of the role of youth
derrelqppsnt of each country,

which it ciecided
Development,

for all-round

"Convinced of the need for further action aimed at the codification and
implementation of the rights of youth with special regard for the right to
work as stipulated in article 6 of the Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Riqhts as one of the fundamental human riohts'

"4ters of the fact that the unemployrnent of youth is a hindrance to the
full partieipation of young people in the socio-econornie life of their country
and Iimits their ability to participate in the development process and is,
ftirthermore, a source of increased social il.fsr and in this regard emphasizes
the importance of secondary rtln higher education of youth as well as of iLs
access to appropriate technical, vcrcational guidance and training programmes,



A/35 /637
English
Page 7

"oo..ideri.g it .ecutuary that states, international organizatic'ns and
theirbodGsffiamorecomprehensive,systematicandeffecLive
manner ways and neans to secure the implementation of human rights ancl t-heir
enjolzment by youth, particularly the right to education and the right to work,
aimed at solving the problem of youth unemployment,

"l' cgllr gpgn all states in view of the forthcoming rnternational youth
Year' to aEopt appropriate legislative, administrative and other measures, for
the inplementation and the enjolzment by youth of human rights, particularly
the right to education and to work aimed at solving the piobl-em of youth
unemployment;

"2. APpegIs to the respective governmental and non-governmental
organization.s to pay during the preparation and observation of the
rnternational Youth Year increased attention to the securing and realizationof the basic right of young people to education, vocational training and to
workt

n3. nggu9s!" the Economic and Social Council, the corunission for Social
Developme"t, tfr" i"rnmission on Human Rights, as well as other relevant bodiesof the united Nations and specialized agencies to give continuous attention tothe problems of the unempJ_oyment of youth and the securing of its right to
work;

"4- RgggsEts the Advisory committee to ensure that in the context of thepreparatio"s-E tfte International Youth Year, systematic and continuous
attention is given to the efforts aimed at the promotion of human rights andtheir enjoYment by youth particularly the right to education, vocational
training and to work, with a view to resolving the problem of youth
unemployment. tt

l'2. The representative of Morocco subsequently withdrew all the amendments
contained in documenL A/C.3/36/L.30 (see para. l0 above), with the exception of
those relating to the fourth preambular paragraph and to operative paragraph 3.
13- The Connittee then took the following action on the revised draft resolution(see para. fI) and the amendnents thereto (see para. l0):

(a) rt adopted the amendment by Morocco to the fourth preambular paragraph by86 votes to 25r with 19 abstentions;

(b) It adopted the amendment by lbrocco to operative paragraph 3 by g0 votesto 30, with 18 abstentionsT

(c) It adopted the fourth prearnbular paragraph, as amended, by a recorded
vote of 99 to none, with 32 abstentions. The voting $ras as follows:

rn favgur: Afghanistan, Argeria, Angora, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, BraziI, Bulgaria,
Burma' Burundi, Byelorussian soviet sociarist Repubric, cape
Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, @lombia,



^/36/637English
Page 8

Comoros' @ngor Costa Rica, Cubar Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, bminican Republic, Ecuador' Egypt'
EI Salvador, Equatorial Guinear Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, German
Democratic Repub1ic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haitit
Ilonduras, Hungary, India, Iraqr Ivory Ooast, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Iebanon, Iesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Ivlali, Malta,
Mauritania, Dbngolia, llcrocco, Irbzambique, l.Iepal' Nicaragua'
Nigerr Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan, Panamar Peru' Poland' Qatar'

. Romania, Rllandar Sao IOme and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, To9o, Trinidad
and tbbago, TunisiaT ttgandar Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic'
Union of Soviet Socialist Republicsr United Arab Bnirates, United
Republic of Cameroonr United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuelar Viet
Nam' Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zinbabwe.

Sgeinst: Ibne.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada' Denmark' Finland, France,
Germany, Fbderal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Icelandr
Indonesia, Ireland; Israel, Italy, Jamaica, JaPan, Luxembourg,
Malaysia, Mexicor tiletherlands, New zealand, litrrwayr Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay' Philippines' Fbrtugal, Singapore, Spaint
Suriname, Swdziland, Sweden, Thailandr Turkey, United Kingdon of
Great Britain and lbrthern lreland, United States of America.

(d) It adopted draft resolution A/c.3/36/L.20/Rev.2, as amended, by a
recorded vote of 129 to none, with 11 abstentions. (see Para. L4, draft
resolution II.) The voting vtas as follows: :i

In favour: Afghanistan, AJ-bania, Algeria' Angola' Argentina, Australia'
Austriar Bahamas, Bahrainr Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgiumr Benin,
Bhutan, Boliviar Brazil, Bulgar:i.a, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chiler China, Colombia, Concros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba'
Cyprus, CzeChoslovakia, Denpcratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemenr
Denmark, Djibouti, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Egyptr El
Salvador, Eguatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Finlandr France, Gabon,
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Germanyr Federal RepubLic of'
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyanat Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, Icelandr India, Irelandr'Italy, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, I"ao Peopl-ers Denpcratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Luxembourg,
Madagascarr Malawir Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, I'tongoliat
l'loroccor lbzanbigue, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria; librway, Onan, Pakistanr Panama, Perut Poland,
Portugal, Qatar' Romania, Rwandar Sao Sorne and Principer Saudi
Arabia, Senegalr Somaliar Spain, Sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Svreden, Syrian Arab Repub1ic, Thailand, lbgor Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkeyr Ilganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist



iii:{;r'

Republic, Union of Soviet Social-ist Republicsr United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdon of Great Britain and lbrthern Ireland,
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper
Volta, Uruguay, Venezuelar Viet Nam, Yemen, yugoslavia, Zairer
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: libne.

Abstainingl Canada, Fiji, Indonesia, Israel, Japan, ltalaysia, papua New
Guinea, Philippines, Sierra I€one, Singapore, United States of
America.

III. RECOMI,IENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

14. llhe third @mnittee recommends to the General AssembJ,y the adoption of the
foJ-J-owing draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOIUTION I

International- Youth Yeqr: , Participation, Development, peace

The General Assenbly,

RecaLling its resolutions 34/LSL of 17 December 1979 and 35/L26 of
ll Decenber 1980, by which it decided to designate and observe I-985 as
International Youth Year: Participation, Develotrment, peace,

Recalling also its decision 35,/318 of 1l December 1980 on the appointment of
the members of the Advisory Committee for the International Youth Year,

Recognizing the profound
shaping the future of mankind
the implementation of the new
j ust ice,

importance of the direct participation of youth in
and the vaLuable contribution that youth can make in
international economic order based on eguity and

Considering it necessary to disseminate among youth the ideals of peace,
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, hunan solidarity and dedication
to the objectives of progress and development,

Convinced of the imperative need to harness the energies, enthusiasms and
creatfillTfties of youth to the tasks of nation-building, the struggle for
selfdetermitration and national independence, in accordance with the Charter of the
United Nations, and against foreign domination and occupationl for the economic,
social and cultural advancement of peoples, the inplementation of the new
international economic order, the preservation of world peace and the promotion of
international- co<peration and understanding,



A/36/637
English
eage 10

Emphasizing again that the United Nations should give more attention to the
role of young people in the world of today and to their demands for the r,prld of
toflprrow,

Recalling the topicality of assessing the needs
reaffirrning the importance of current and projected
designed to increase the opportunities for youth and
in national development activities,

and aspirations of louth, and
United l.lations activities
for its active participation

Believing that it is urgently desirabLe to consolidate th€ efforts of aLl
States in carrying out specific progralunes concerning lzouth and to improve the
activities of the United Nations and the specialized agencies in the fieLd of
youth, including youth exchanges in the cultural, sgnrting and other fields,

Reaffirming the necessity for better co-ordination of efforts in dealing with
specific problems confronting young'people and in examining the manner in which
those problems are being treated by the specialized agencies and by various United
Nations bodies,

Convinced that the preparation and observance in 1985 of the fnternational
Youth Year under the motto "Participation, Developnent, Peace" will offer a useful
and significant optrnrtunity for drawing attention to the situation and specific
needs and aspirations of youth, for increasing co-operation at all levels in
dealing with youth issues, for undertaking concerted action progratnmes in favour of
youth and for involving young people in the study and resolution of najor
international, regional and national problems,

@nfident that the International Youth Year will serve to mobilize efforts at
tne rffi-iiTional, regional and international levels in order to promote the best
educationalr professional and living conditions for young people, to ensure their
active participation in the over-all development of society and to encourage the
preparation of new national and local policies and progranmes in accordance with
each countryrs experience, conditions and priorities,

Recognizing that the preparation and observance of the fnternationaL Youth
Year will contribute to the reaffirmation of the goals of the new international
econonic order and to the implenentation of the InternationaL Developnent Strategy
for the Third United Nations Development Decade, 1,/

Recalling also in this eonnexion its decis ion 35/424 of 5 December 1980 and
Economic and Social CounciL resolution L980/67 of 25 July 1980 on the question of
guidelines for international years and anniversaries,

A?rare that, for the International Youth Year to be successful and to maximize
its inpact and practical efficiency, adeguate preparation and the widespread
support of @vernments, all specialized agencies, international intergovernmental
and nonjovernmental organizations and the public will be required,

L/ General Assenbly resolution 35/56r dnll€xo



A/35/637
English
Page 11

-- . lbtingJith great satisfaction the interest of Menber States, various unitedNations bodies and specitfited agencies and youth organizations in the decision to
designate and observe 1985 as International Youth Year: participation,
Developnent, peace,

Taking note of the rePort of the Advisory @mrnittee for the rnternational
Youth Year on its first session, held at vienna fron 30 March to
7 April L98L, 2/

1. Endorses the specific Programme of Measures and Activities to be
undertaken prior to and during the International youth year, as adopted by the
Advisory @nmittee for the International Youth year and contained in the report
the Secretary-General of 19 June 1981, 3/ bearing in nind that continued review
revision of the Progranme should be cariied out in the coming years,

2. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the specific programme of
Measures and Activities to all states, united Nations bodies, specialized agencies
and regional cornmissions as well as to international intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations concerned with a view to its early implementationi

3. Invites. all States, all United Nations bodies, specialized agencies,
regional Effiions and internationar intergovernmental and non-governmentar
organizations concerned, as well as youth organizations, to exert all possible
efforts for the implementation of the specific progranme in accordance with their
experience, conditions and priorities;

4. Stresse€ the importance of active and direct participation of youth
organizatEffi-the activities organized at the local , national, regional and
international levels for the preparation and observance of the rnternational youth
Year t

5. Reguests the Secretary-General to take the necessary measures to ensure
the proper co-ordination of the implementation and follow-up of the progranme,
including the provision of informationl

6. Requests the Secretary-General, in consultation with Governments of Member
States, specialized agencies and all international bodies and organizations
concerned, to prepare for submission to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh
session, through the Advisory oonunittee, a progress retrnrt on the implementation of
the specific Progranme of Measures and Activitiesl

7. Further requests the Secretary-General to convene the second session ofthe Advisory comnTEEe-uring the second half of !g82, prior to the thirty-seventh
session of the General Assembly, to provide it with all necessarv assistance and t<>

A/36/215, annex.

A/36/215, annex, para. 43.

of
and

?/

t/



A/36 /637
English
Page 12

subrnit to it a progress retrnrt on the implementation of the specific Programme of
Measures and Activitiesl

8. fnvites the Advisory Conunittee to pay particular attention to the
irnplenentllEli6r the specific programme of Measures and Activities and, to this
end, to submit adequate recorunendations to the General Assemblyl

9. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to take concrete measures,
through all the comnunications nedia at his disposal, to give widespread publicity
to the activities of the United lbtions system ih ttre field of youth and to
increase the dissemination of information on youthT

10. Sgggglg the Secretary-ceneral to take all necessary measures in order to
enable the Centre for Social ftevelopnent and Humanitarian Affairs of the
Secretariat to perform its tasks and responsibilities for the adequate preparation
and observance of the fnternational Youth Yeart

11. Appeals again to all States, to international goverrunental and
non-governmentaL orgtanizations and to the public to make in due time generous
voluntary contributions to supplenent funds provided under the regular budget of
the United Nations for the costs of the specific Progranune of Measures and
Activities to be undertaken prior to and during the International Youth Year and
reguests the Secretary-General to take all appropriate measures for obtaining such
voluntary contr ibut ions t

12. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-seventh session
the item entitled Ilnternational Youth Year: ParticipaLion, Development, Peace"
and to grant it high priority.

DR,AF'T RESOLUTION II

Efforts and rneagures for securing tlgr lmplementqtion_and the enjoyment by
youth of human rights, particularly the right to education and to work

The General Assembly,

Mindful of the provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 4/ the
tnterilffiEl Oovenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, 5,/ and the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, !/

necalling its resolution 34/L5I of 17 December L979, by which it decided to
designate 1985 as fnternational Youth Year: Participation, Development, Peace,

!/ General Assenbly resolution 2L7 A (III).

2/ General Assembly resolution 2200 A (xxl) -



A/36/637
' English

Page 13

Recognizing the profound importance of the role of louth for the
all-round development of each country,

Oonvinced of the need for further action aimed at the codificatlon and
impteilffi,wheneverpossib1e,oftherightsofyouth,withspeciaI'regard
for the right to work, as stipulated in article 6 of the fnternational
Covenant on Economic' Social and Cultural Rights as one of the fundamental
human rights,

Anare of the fact that the unemployment of louth is a hindrance to the
full participation of lzoung people in the socio-econornic life of their country
and limits their ability to participate in the develotrnent process and is,
furthernpre, a source of increased sociaL iLLsr 8Dd, in this regardl
emphasizing the inportance of the secondary and higher education of youth as
well as of its access to appropriate technical, vocational guldance and
training progratnmes,

Considering it necessarv that States and also international organizatlons
and their bodies should examine in a rnore comprehensive, systematic and
effective manner ways and means to secure the implementatlon of human rights
and their enjoyment by youth, particularly the right to education and the
right to work, aimed at solving the problen of youth unenplolment,

1. Calls upgg all States' in view of the forthcoming International louth
Year, to EE6[G![i,opriate legislative, adminlstrative and other meaEures for
the implementation and the enjolanent by louth of human rlghts, partlcularly
the right to education and to workr ained at solving the problem of youth
unemploymentT

2. ApPeals to the respective governmental and non-governmental
organizations to pay, during the pretrnration and observance of the
International Youth Year, increased attention to the securing and realizatlon
of the basic right of young people to education and rrocational training and to
workt

3. Reguests the Economic and Social Councilr the Cormission for Soclal
Developnent and the Commission on Human Rights, as well as other relevant
bodies of the United Nations and specialized agenciesl to glve continuous
attention to the problems of the unenploynrent of youth and to resolvlng themt

4. niiquCsts the Advisory coiruui.ttee'for ttre lnteinatlonai youth Tear"tb
ensure that, in the context of the preparations for the International youth
Year, systenatic and continuous attention is glven to the efforts afuned at the
pronotion of human rights and their enjoyrnent by louth, particularly the rlght
to education and vocational training and to vrorkr with a vier to resolvlng the
problen of youth unenployment.

/...




