
















































UNITED
NATIONS

@ 
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/36 /7 48
4 December l-981

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-sixth session
Agenda item 47

ESTABLISHMENT OF A NUCLEAR-WEAPON-FREE ZONE IN SOUTH ASIA

Report of the First Conmittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Alemayehu I"IAKONNEN (Ethiopia)

r. IN?RODUCTION

1. Ttre itern entitled'rEstabl-ishment of a nuclear-hreapon-free zone in South Asia:
report of the Secretary-General" was included in the provisional agenda of the
thirty-sixth session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 35/148 of
12 December 1980.

2. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 18 September 1981, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First conmittee.

3. At its 2nd meeting' on 7 October, the First Cornmittee decided to hold a
combined debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament, namely,
items 39 to 56, L28 and 135. The general debate on these items took place at the
3rd to 26th meetings, from 19 October to 4 November (see A/C.L/36/PV.3-26',.

4. In connexion with item 47, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the SecreLary-GeneraI (A/36/ OB) i

(b) Ietter dated 3 February 198I from the Chargd d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Pakistan to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/36/921 i

(c) IeLter dated 5 August 1991 from the Permanent Representative of Iraq to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting documents of

8L-34779 40522 (E)



A/36/'7 48
English
Page 2

the Twelfth Islanic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Baghdad from
I to 5 June 1981 IA/36/42I-S/L4626 and Corr.l).

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.L/36/L"L8

5. On 12 November, Pakistan submitted a draft resolution (A/C.L/36/L.18) o which
was introduced by its representative at the 31st meeting, on 16 November.

6. At its 44th meeting, on 25 November, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/36/L.18 by a recorded vote of 82 to 2, with 38 abstentions (see para.7). The
voting was as foLlows:

In favour: Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgiumr Burundi, Canada,
Chad, Chile, China, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen'
Ojibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, Gabon, Germany' Federal
Republic of, Ghanar Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, IceLand, Iran, fraq, lrelandr Ivory Coastr Jamaieat
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Malaysiar Maldives, Malit
MalLa, trlauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherl-ands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistanr Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguayr Peru, philippines, Portugal-r Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leoner Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda' United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United States of America,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Za!r.e, Zambia.

Against; Bhutan, India.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Benin, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Central African Republic, Cuba,
Czechosl-ovakia, Denmark, Ethiopia, Fiji' Francer German
Democratic Republic, Guinea-Bissaur Hungary, Indonesia, Israel,
ftaly, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Norway, Poland, Sao Tome and Principe, Swedent
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Repub1ic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and l.lorthern Ireland,
Viet Nam, Yugoslavia.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMIVI]TTEE

7 " The First Committee recommends to the GeneraL Assembly the adoption of the
followinq draft resolution:



A/36/7 48
English
Page 3

Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia

The General Assembly,

Rec3lling its resol-utions 3265 B (xxrx) of 9 December 1974 , 3476 B (xxx) of1l December 1975 , 3L/73 of 10 December L976, 32/83 of 12 December Lg77 , 33/65 of
14 December 1978, 34/78 of 11 December 1979 and 35/L48 of L2 December I9g0
concerning the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia,

Reiterating its conviction that the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones
in various regions of the world is ode of the measures which can contribute most
effectively to the objectives of non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and general
and complete disarmament,

Believinq that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in
as in other regions, will strengthen the security of the states of the
against Lhe use or threat of use of nuclear weapons, .

South Asia,
region

l0oting the declarations issued at the highest level by Governments of South
Asian states reaffirming their undertaking not to acguire or manufacture nuclear
hreapons and to devote their nuclear prograrmes exclusively to the economic and
social advancement of their peoples,

Recalling that in the above-mentioned resolutions it called upon the States of
the South Asian region and such other neighbouring non-nuclear-weapon States as
might be interested to make all possible efforts to establish a nuclear-weapon-free
zone in South Asia and to refrai.n, in the meantime, from any action contrar| to
this objective,

Further recalling that, in its resolutions 3265 B (xxrx) , 3I/73 and 32,/g3, it
request'ed the Secretary-General to convene a meeting for the purpose of the
consultations mentioned therein and to render such assistance as mighL be required
to promote the efforts for the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in soutn
As ia,

Bearing in mind the provisions of paragraphs 60 to 63 of the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly / regarding the establishment of
nucLear-weapon-free zones, including in the region of south Asia,

Dioting the report of the Secretary-General on the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia, 2/

General Assembly resolution S-L}/2.

A/36 / 408 .

v
2/



A/36/7 48
English
Page 4

, l' Reaffirms its endorsement, in principre, of the concept of anuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asiai
2' urges once again the states of south Asia and such other neighbouringnon-nuclear-\4teapon sLates as may be interested to continue to make all possibleefforts to estabrish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in south Asia and to refrain, inthe meantime, from any action contrary to this objective;
3' carls upon those nuclear-weapon states which have not done so to respondpositivery to ;hi"Ttoposal and to extend the necessary co-operation in the effortsto establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in South Asia;

Requests the secretary-General Lo render such assistance as may bereguired to promote the efforts for the estabrishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zonein south Asia and to report on the subject to iFe Generar Assembry at its secondspecial'session devoted to disarmament as well ls at its thirty-seventh session;
5' Decides to include in the provisionar agenda of its thirLy-seventhsession tnG-m entitled I'Estabrishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in southAsia tt.




