








































UNITED
NATIONS

Di str.
GENERAL

p{37 /646
29 lbvernber 1982

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-seventh session
Agenda items 62, 63 and l3I

INTERNATIONAL CO-OPERATION IN THB PEACEFUL USES OF OUTER SPACE

PREPANATION OF AN ITiITERNATIONAI CON\IENTION ON PRTINIPLES @\IERNTNG
TTIE USE tsY STATES OF ARTIFICIAT EARTH SATELLIIES FOR DIRECT

TELEVIS ION BROADCASTING

QUESTION OF 'THE REVIEd OF THE CONVEMION ON TNTERNATIONAL LIABILI1Y
FOR DAMAGE CAUSED BY SPACE OBJECTS

Report of the Special Political Conmittee

Rapporteurs Mr. Faruk IPGOGIII (Turkey)

I. IN1RODTTTION

1. The following items were included in the provisional agenCa of the
thlrty-seventh sessj.on in accordarre with @neral Assembly resolutions 36/35' 36/36
of 18 Novenber L98I and a reguest for inclusion of an item correrning the question
of the review of the Oonventi.on on International Liability for Damage Caused by
SSnce Objects, contained in a not,e by the Secretary-Generel (N37AaLlz.

"62. International cg-operation in the peaceful uses of, outer s[rces
o (a) trleport of the Connittee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Spacet

" (b) Second United liliations Conf ererce on the E<ploration and Feaceful
Uses of Outer Spacet

(i) Report of the Preparatory Cornnittee for the Confere:nce;

(ii) Report of the Oonferenee."

82-337Le 0620j (E)



tt/37/646
English
Page 2

n63. Preparation of an international convent,ion on prirciples governing the
use by States of artificial earth satellites for direct television
broadcasting: report of the Cornnittee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer
Space. r . ..

'rl3l. Question of the review of the Convention on International Liability for
Damage Caused by Space Objects" ,..

2. At lts 4th plenary meeting , on 24 September 1982, the General Assembly, on the
recquerdation of the Ceneral Oorunitteer decided to irrcIude the three iterns in its
agenda and to allocate them to the Special political Comnittee.

3. At its l5th meeting, on 1l'lcvernber, the Special Folit,ical @nunittee decided to
hold a cqnbined general debate on items 62, 63 and I3I. The general.debate on
ttrese items took place at the 15th to 20th, 23rdr 25th, 33rd and 34th lneetingsr
held between I and 22 Novenber (see a/sPc/37/sR.l5-20, 23, 25, 33 and 34).

4. The Oomnittee had before it the following documentss
(a) Report of the Conrnittee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Spacei gZ
(b) RePort of the Preparatory Conrnittee for the Second United. l,lations

Confererre on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Spacei !/
(c) Report of the Second United lrlations @nfererce on the Fxploration and

Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (A,/@NF.10Llf0 and Corr.l and 2) i
(d) Request for the irclusion of an iten in the provisional agerxla of the

thirty-seventh session: question of the review of the Convention on
International Liabllity for Damage Caused by Space objects - note by the
Secretary-General (Ar/ 37 A4L') .

At the 15th meetirg, Mr. Peter ilankowitsch (Austria) r Chairman of the Committee on
the haceful Uses of O:ter Space, introduced the reports listed under (a) and (b)
above ard Prof . Yash Pal, Secretary-General of the Secoruil united Nations Confererpe
on the Brploration and Feaceful Uses of Orter Space, introduced the report of the
Conf ererre.

IT. @NSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOTUfIONS

r meeting, on 9 lilrvember, the representative of Austria introduced5. At the ISth
draf t- resolutions A/SPC/37 /L.6, VSPC/31 /L. 7 and A/SvC/31 /L.g .

_ _y Offici?l Rqcoqds of the General Assembly, Thirty:eqventh Session,Swlpleneht No. 20 (A/37/201 .

y rbid.l supplement No. 46 (A/37/46).



^/37 
/646

English
Page 3

6. Draft resolution A/*t;:/37/L.6r entitled trInternational co-operation in the
peaceful uses of outer space", was s;ronsored by Argentina, Australia, AllggIli,
Brazilr Rrlgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist RepubLic, Canada, Chile,
Czechoslovakiar Egyptr Frarce, the German Denrocratic Repu , Germany, Federal
ReJublic of , Sgg, Itungary, ln9ig, Italy, ggpgg, l,brsolia, the Netherlands,Nigeria, Rornania, Sweden, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republicr the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, the United States of Anerica, Venezuela and
Yugoslavia. Subseguently, Bangladesh, Belgiumr !g]igie, Pa,kistan, the Philippinesl
Boland, IgIlgL, the United Kinqdorp of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and
Uruguav joined in sponsorirg the draft resolution.

7. Draft resolution A/ffi,/37/L.1r entitled nsecond United Nations Oonfererce on
the EXpLoration and Peaceful Uses of Outer SSracer', rf,as sponsored by austria.

8. Draft resolution {sirc/37/L.8r entitled rQrestion of the review of the
Convention on International Liability for Damage Caused by Space Objectsn, lras
sponsored by AUE-ggi.g., @!!r -Brlgaria., the ,Chile, Czechslovakia, the German Denocratic Republic, Germany, Federal R ,
Hungary, India, lbngolia, the tietherlards, bmania, €g99g, the Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, the Union of Soviet Soclalist Republics and the United.states
of Anerica. Subsequentlyr Australiar Belgium, &!$.1!3g, FoLand and the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

9. A statement on the adrninistrative and financial inplications of draft
resolution MW,/37/L.7 was submitted by the Secretarfceneral on 17 lbvember in
dtrument A/SPC/31 /L. 9.

10. At the 33rd meeting, on 19 November, the representative of Brazil introduced
draf t resolution A/5rc,/37/L.s/Rev.L. Previously, draf t resolution A/*<:/37/L.5
arrl Corr.l entitled trPreparation of an international convent,ion on prirrciples
governing the use by States of artificial earth satellites for direct television
broadcastirg', had been circulated. That draf t, resolution rdas sponsored by
Arqenti.na, Brazill $!!g, Oolqnbiar Egypt, India, Indonesia, -Irgg, Kgnyal Sjgg,the Niger, Nigeria, the Philippines, Romania, .llgggg and Venezuela. Subsequently,Bolivia' Ibuador and Peru joined in sponsoring that draft resolution. Also,
Pakistan joined in sponsorirg draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.57trev.1.

11. At the same meetingr the Corunittee adopted draf t resolution NSrc,/37/L.6
without a vote (see para. 18, draft resoLution I).

L2. Also at the same meeting, the representative
introduced an oral anendment to add at the end of
resolution A/ffi,/37 /L.7 the following g*rrase:

of the United Staqes of America
operative paragraph 9 of draft

"but in no case will financial obligations incurred exceed the level of
resources approved in the 1982-1983 progranme budget (General Assernbly
resolution 36/2401 ."



^/37 
/646

English
Page 6

Deeply convinced of the conunon interest of rnankind in pronnting the
exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes and in continuing efforts
to extend to all States the benefits derived therefrom, and of the imSnrtarrce of
international co-operation in this fieldr for which the United Nations shouLd
continue to provide a focal point,

Reaffirming the importarpe of international co-operation ln develoPing the
rule of law for the advancement and preservatlon of the expl,oration and peaceful
uses of outer space,

Taking note with satisfactlon of the progress achieved in the further
deveJ.oprnent of peaceful space expJ.oration and application as well as in various
national and ceoperative space projectsl whictr contribute to international
co-operation in this field,

Having considered the report of the Cornmittee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer
space on its twenty-fifth sessiont U

1. Endorses the report of the Corunittee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space
on its twenty{if th sessioni

2. Invites States that have not yet become parties to the international
treaties governing the use of outer space 9/ to give consideration to ratifying or
accedirg to those treatiest

3. Takes note with aplxeciation of the successful corcluslon of the Secord
United uat ation and FeacefuL Uses of Orter Spacel

4. libtes that the Legal SubCommittee of the Comnittee on the Peaceful Uses
of . O.rter Space at its twenty-f irst session:

(a) Continued its efforts to formulate draft prirciples relatirg to the Legal
irnpLications of remote senslng of the earth fron strncel

!/ Official Records of the G ,
Supplement No, 20 (A/37/2O1.

y Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of States in the
E<ploration and Use of orter Space, including the I'bon and Other CeLestiaL Bodies
(General Assernbly resolution 2222 (XxD , annex) ? Agreement on the Rescue of
Astronauts, the Return of Astronauts and the Return of Objects Iaunched into Orter
SSnce (Genera1 Assembly resolution 2345 (XXII) , annex), Convention on International'
Liabitity for Danage Caused by Space Objects (GeneraL AssenbLy resolution
2777 (X*II) , annex), Convention on Registration of Objects Laurched into Outer
Space (General A.ssembly resolution 3235 (XXIX), annex) t Agreement Governing the
Actlvities of States on the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies (General Assenbly
resolution 34/68, annex) .



A/37/646
English
Page 7

(!) Considered the possibility of suppJ.ementing the norns of internatlonal
law relevant to the use of nuclear power sources in outer space through its working
grouPi

(c) Continued its discussion of matters relating to the definition an4/or
delinitation of outer space and outer space activities, bearing in nindr
inter alia, guestions relating to the geostationary orblti

5. Decides that, the Iegal Srb-Conunittee on the Feaceful Uses of qrter Space
at its twenty-second session should:

(3.1 Cont.inue on a priority basis its detailed consideration of the lega1
irnplications of remote sensing of the earth from space, with the aim of formulating
draft prirriples relating to renote sensingT

(b) Continue its consideration of:

(i) The possibility of supplementing the norms of international Law reLevant
to the use of nuclear power sources in outer space through its working
groupt

(ii) Matt,ers relat.ing to the definition an{,/or delimitation of outer space arrl
outer space activitiesr bearing in rnind, inter alia, questions relating
to the geostationary orbit, and devote adeguate tirne for a deeper
consideration of this question;

6. ltlotes that Lhe Scientific and Technical SutsCorunittee of the Conmitt€e on
the Feaceful Uses of Otrter Space at its nineteenth session continueds

(gt Its consideration of guestions relating to renrc,te sensing of the earth by
satellitest

(!) Its consideration of the United Nations Programme on Space Applications
and the co-ordination of s[>ace activities within the United Nations systemt

(c) Its exarnination of the physical nature and technical attributes of the
geostationary orbit;

(cl) Its consideration of technical aspects of and safety measutes relating to
the use of nuclear power sources in outer spacet

(gt Its consideration of questions relating to space transportation systema
and their implications for future activities in strnce1

(ll Preparations for the Second United Nations Confererpe on the Exploration
and Peaceful Uses of Orter Space as Advisory Oomnittee to the Pretrnratory Corunitteel

7. Endorses the reconmendation of the Comrnittee on the peaceful Uses of
Outi r space that the Scientific and Technical $rb-Comnittee at its tw€ntieth
session stpuld:



A/37 /646
English
Page 10

1. Expresses its appreciat,ion and thanks to the Government and people of
Austria for the excellent facilities and generous hospitality provided for the
Second United Nations Confererpe on the Exploration and peaceful Uses of Outer
Spac e?

2. Endorses
the exploration and
Conf erercet

the recornmendations pertaining to international co-operation in
peaceful uses of outer space, as contained in the report of the

3. Invites all Governments to take effective action for the implementation
of the recorunendations of the Conference;

4. Invites all Menber statesr in particular those with major space
capabiliLies, to contribute actively Lo the goal of preventing an arms race in
outer space, as an essential condition for the promotion of international
co-operation in the exploration and uses of outer slnce for peaceful purposesl

5. Requests aII organsl organizations and bodies of the United Nations
system and other intergovernmental organizations which are working in the fietd of
outer space or spacerelated matters to co-operate in the inplementation of the
recommendations of the Confererce;

6. Takes note of the recomrnendations of the Confererne regarding study
projects and invites all specialized agerrcies and other intergovernmental
organizations concerned to contribute within their f ield of cornpeterce to the
elaboration of these studies;

7. Decides, upon the reconmendations of the Confererpe, that the United
Nations Programe on Space Applications should be directed towards the following
objectives:

(a) Prornotion of greater exchange of actual experierces with specific
applications;

(b) Promotion of greater co-operation in space scierce and technology between
developed and developing countries as well as among developing countries;

(c) Developrnent of a fellowship programrne for in-depth training of space
technologists and applications specialists, with the help of Member SLates and
relevant international organizations and establishrnent and regular up-dating of
lists containing available fellowships in all States and relevant international
organizat,ionsl

(9t organizat,ion of regular seminars on advanced space appJ-ications and new
system developments for managers and leaders of space application and technology
development activities as well as seminars for users in specific applications for
durations, as appropriate;

{S} Stirnulation of the growth of indigenous nuclei and an autonomous
technological base, to the exLent possible, in space tectrnology in developing



N37/646
English
Page J.I

countries with the co-operation of other United tihtlons agences and/or l,{ember
States or members of the specialized agerriesl

(f) Disseminationr ttrrough trnnel meetings and seminars of information on nert
and advanced technology and applications, with e4*rasis on their relevance and
ftnplications for developing countriesl

(gl Provision or arrangements for provision of technical advisory services on
space applications projects, upon reguest by l,tember States or any of the
speclalized agerpiesl

8. Decides to establish an Internatlonal Space fnformation Servicer
lni.tiaLly consisting of a dlrectory of sources of information and data services to
provide dlrection upon request to accessible data banks and information sourcest

9. Requests the SecretarfceneraL to strergthen the Outer S5nce Af,fairs
Divislon of the Secretariat with an aptrropriate augmentation of technical personnel
and decid€s, upoo the recqunendation of the Confererrer that all new or exSnnded
actlvities contained in the present resolution are to be funded mainly through
voluntary contributions of States in noney or in kind, as well as through the
rearrangement of priorities within the United Nations next regular budgeti

10. Appeals to alL Governments to make voluntary contributions, either in
money or in kind, towards carrying out the recorunendations of the Confererpet

Ll. Ipproves the recorunerdattons of the @nfererre regarding the
establlshnen€ ana strengthening of regional nechanisns of co-otrreratlon and their
pronotion and creation through the United l€tions systemt

U. Enphasizes the need for close co-operation between all United Nations
bodies ergaging fn space or space-reLated activlties' as we}l as the desirabillty
of close c6peration with lnternational f,unding agerries and subsidiary bodiesr
such as the United Nations Development Prograrnnei

Ut. Resuests the Secretary-General to assure the availability and appropriate
dissemination of the report of the Conferencet

14. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the General A.ssenbly
at its ttrirty-eir6an 

".r"*n 
on the implementation of the present resolution.

DBAFT RESOLTITION III

o.restion of the review of the Convention on Internqtional

-

Ttre Generql Assgmbly'

Reaffirning the importarrce of internationai co-operation in the fieLd of the
exploration and peaceful uses of outer space, including the moon and other
celestial bodies, and of promoting the law in this field of human endeavour,

/.. .



^/37/646English
Page 14

ANNEX

Princlples qoverninq the use bv States of artificial earth satellites
tgr international dltect televisio4 lgoadcastlng

A. Purposes and objectives

l. Activities in the field of international direct television broadcasting by
satelLite shouLd be carrled out in a manner compatible with the sovereign rights of
States, includirg the prirriple of norrintervention as well as wittt the right of
everyone to seek, receive and impart information and ldeas as enshrined in the
relevant United Nations instruments.

2. Such activities should pronote the free dissemination and mutuaL exchange of
lnfornation and knowledge in cultural and scientific fields, assist in educational,
social and economic development, particularly in the deveLopir4t countries, enharrce
the qualities of life of aL1 peoples and provide recreation with due respect to the
political and cultural integrity of states.

3. These activities should accordirrgly be carried out in a manner cornpatible with
the development of nutual understanding and the strengttrening of frierrlly relations
and co-operation arpng all States and peoples in ttre interest of maintaining
international peace ard security.

B. Applicability of international law

4. Activities in the field of international direct television broadcastirg by
satellite should be conducted in accordarrce with international lawr including the
Charter of the United Nations, the Treaty on Principles Governing the Activities of
States in the E<ploration and Use of Orter space, irrcluding the l,bon and other
Celestial Bodies, of, 27 January L967t the relevant provisions of the International
Telecornmunication Convention and its Radio Regulations and of international
instrunents relatitT, to friendly relations and co-operation among States and to
huraan rights.

C. Rights and benefits

5. Every State has an egual rlght to condrrct activities in the field of
internationaL direct television broadcasting by satellite and t,o authorize such
activities by persons ard entities under its jurisdiction. A11 States and peoples
are entitled to and should enjoy the benefits fron such activities. Access to the
technology in this field should be available to all States without discrimination
on terms nutually agreed by all concerned.



N37 /646
Englisir
Page 15

D. fnt,ernational corcperation
6. Activities in the field of international direct television broadcasting by
satellite should be based upon and encourage international co-operation. Such
co-operation should be the subject of appropriate arrangements. Special
consideration should be given to the needs of the developing countries in the use
of international direct television broadcasting by satellite for the purpose of
accelerating their national development.

' E. peaceful settlement of disputes

7. Any international dispute that may ari.se from activities covered by t,hese
principles should be settled through estabLished procedures for the peaceful
settlemenL of disputes agreed upon by the parties to the dispute in accordarrce with
the provisions of the Charter of the United lilations.

F. State responsibilitv

8. States should bear int,ernational responsibility for activit,ies in the field of
international direct television broadcasting by satellite carried out by them or
under their j urisdiction and for the confornity of any such activities with the
principles set forth in this document.

9. When international direct television broadcasting by satellite is carried out,
by an international intergovernmental organization, the responsibility referred to
in paragraph 8 above should be borne both by that, organization and by the States
participating in it.

' G. Dgty and right to consult

10, Any broadcast,ing or receiving State within an international di.rect television
broaclcasting satellite service established between them reguested to do so by any
other broadcasting or receiving State within the same service should prornptly ent,er
into consr.lltations with the reguesting State regarding its activi.ties in the field
of international direct television broadcasting by satelliter without prejudice L<:
other consultations which these States may urxlertake with any other State on that
subject,.

H. Copyright and neighbouring righ'9e

lI. Without prejudice to the relevant provisions of international law, Stat,es
should co-operate on a bilateral and multilat.eral basis for protecti.on of ccgryright
and neighbouring rights by neans of appropriate agreenents between the interested
States or Lhe cotnpetent legal entities acting under their juris<liction. fn sucil

' c*-operation they should give specj.al consideration to the interests of develnping
countries in the use of direct television broadcasting for the purpose of
aq:celeratrn$ ttli€ir nabional develoSrrnent.


