












































UNITED
NATION$

General Aeeembly DIBtr.
GENERAI,

A/37/680/ed,d,L
16 December 1982

ORIGINAIJT ENGI,ISH

ThlrtY-seventh sese ton
Agenda ltem 71 (a) and (b)

DETIEIDPMENT A}iID INTERNATIONA], ECONCMIC CO.OPERATION

IntefnaLlqnal pevelopnent Stratesy for the Third United Natlong
Development Decade

Charter of Eicono4lc Rlqhte and Drties of Statee
Report of the Secend Cqmmittee (part I-!)

Rapporteurs Mr. Stoyan Bakalov (Bulgarla)

I, INTRODUCTION
l. The Second Commlttee held a substantive debate on item 7l (see A/3?/6g0,
para. 2). Action to be taken by the Comrnittee on subitems (a) and (b) was
consrdered at the 40th, 45th, and A8th meetings on lg November, r, g and
13 Decenber L982. An account of the Committee rs discussion is contained in the
relevant sunmary records (VC.2/37/SR.4O, 45, 47 and 4g).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAI,S
A. Intefnational Development Stratqgv for the Third lJnlted l{ations

Develofxnent Decade (subitem (a) )

1. Draft resolution A/C.2/37lL.91
2, At the 45th meeting, on I December, the representative of Bangladesh, on
behalf of the states Members of the United Nati.ons which are members of the Groupof 77, introduced a draft resolution (A/c.2/37/L.91), entitled 'rReview andappraisal of the impJ-enentation of the International Development Strategy for the
Third United titations trevelopnent Decader!.

82-37262 0753c (E)



Py'37/680/Add.1
English
Page 2

3. A statement by the Secretary-ceneral on the administrative and financial
implications of the draft resolution was circulated in document VC.2/37/L.LOg.
4. At its 47th meeting, on 8 ttecember, the Committee was informed that, at the
informal consultations held under the chairmanship of Mr. George papadatos, Vice
Chairman of the Committeec it had been agreed to revise the draft resolution as
follows:

(a) In the eighth preambular paragraph, to insert the word ',especially" after
the words "economic crisist';

(b) fn paragraph 8, to delete the words "process of',.

5' A representative of the Budget Division rnade a statement on the administrative
an<l financial implicat.ions of the draft resolution.

6. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the resolution A/C.2/37/L.91, as
orally revised (see para. 16, draft resolution I).

7. The representatives of Bangladesh (on behalf of the States Members of the
Unifed Nations which are members of the Group of 77 ), Bulgaria (also on behalf of
the Byelorussian Soviet sociatist Republic, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic
Repub1ic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) and Denmark (on behalf of the States
members of the European Economic comrnunity) made statements.

2. Draft resolution A,/C.2/37,/L.94 and Rev.l

8. At the 45th rneeting, on 1 December, the representative of Bangladesh, on
behalf of the States Members of the united Nations which are members of the Group
of 77, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/37/L.94), entitled 'rNegative trends inthe world economy", which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalring its resolutions 3201- (s-vr) and 3202 (s-vr) of I May rgi4.,
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of
a New rnternational Economic orderr 32gL (xxrx) of 12 December L974,
containing the charter of Economic nights and Duties of states, and
3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on development and international economic
co-operat ion,

"Recalling also its resolution 35/56 of
which contains the fnternational Development
Nations Developnent Decade,

5 December 1980, the annex to
St,rategy for the Third United

"Expressing concern about the hardening of certain trends in
international economic relations which run counter to the objectives of
international co-operation contained in the above-mentioned resolutions and
constitute serious obstacles to the economic growth of the developing
countries as well as to their development process,



A/37 /680/Add.1
English
Page 3

rConcerned that the international econorny renains in a state of
structural disequilibrium characterized by a slowing-down of acEivities and of
economic Arowth, accotrnpanied ry, inter alia, prolonged ilpnetary instability,
intensified protectionist pressures, structural problems and naladjustnent and
uncertain long-term growth prospects,

rl. Conglgel_g. that the continuation and worsening of the present
situation cot*a feaa to a clirmte of mistrust in international econornic
reLations, with unpredictable consequences for international econqnic
co-operation as well as for world peace and securityT

n2. about the grave economic situation of the
developing rspect,ives arising from the current
trends in the world econony, which, if they continue, will obstruct the
realization of the goals and objectives of the International Development
Strategy for the Third ttnited tibtions Develo;ment Decadei

13. Urges all States, in particular the developed countries, to pursue
concerted efforts to reverse the present negative trends and to overcome the
critical economic si.tuation currently affecting the developing countries;

o4. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report on the present
negative trends in the world economy which affect international economic
co-operation and frustrate the efforts toltards the fulfilnent of the goals and
objectives of the International Developrnent Strategty r €rnd to submit it to the
General assembly at its thirty-sighth session.

9. At the {8th meeting, on 13 December, the representative of Bangladesh' on
behalf of the States l'lembers of the united lilations which are members of the Group
of 77, introduced a revised draft resolution (Py'C.2/37/L.94/gev.l).

10. At the sarne meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution
P'/C.2/37/t.94y'Rev.l- (see para. 15, draft resolution II).

11. Mter the adoption of the draft resolution, statenents were made by the
representatives of the tnited States of Arnerica and Bulgarla (also on behalf of the
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic
Republic' trtungary, l4ongolia, Poland, the Ukrainian soviet Socialist Republic and
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics).

B. Charter of Eqononic RightS end urties of States (subj.tem (b) )

Draft resolution A/C.2,/37lL.26 and Rev.l

L2. At the 40th meeting, on 18 lfovember, the representative of Bangladesh, on
behalf of, the States Merbers of the United Nations which are members of the Group
of 77, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/37/L.261, entitled xCharter of Eonomic
Rights and Duties of States", which read as follows:



^/37 
/680/Add.1

English
Page 4

I'The General Assembly,

f'Recarling its resolutions 3201 (s-vr) and 32o2 (s-vr) of I !4ay L974,
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of
a lileht International Econqnic order, 328L (XXIX) of L2 tlecember L974,
containing the charter of Economic nights and Duties of states and
3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on developnent and international economic
co-operation, which laid down the foundations of the new international
econqnic order,

"Bearing in mind article 34 of the Charter of Economic Rights and Drties
of States and General Assembly resolution 3486 (XXX) of 12 Decernber 1975,
relating to the review of the implementation of the Charter,

"Mindful of the importance of the principtes contained in the Charter of
Economic Rights and Duties of States and the close relationship between the
Charter and the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishrnent
of a New International Econqnic Order,

"Conscious that the inmediate launching and the successful conclusion of
ttre gtoSSfEGa of negotiations on internalional economic co-operation for
development will be an important contribution towards the implenentation of
the Charter of Econqnic Rights and Drt,ies of States, as an integral part of
the objective of establishing the new international economic order,

"1. Decides to conduct at its thirty-ninth session, on the occasion of
the tenth irilnTlEsary of the adoption of the Charter of Economic Rights and
Duties of StaLes, a comprehensive review of its implementation, as provided
for in article 34 thereof;

"2. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report on the
implementation of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, based
on information provided by Governments as well as intergovernmental
organizations concerned and to subnit it to the General Assenbly at its
thirty-ninth session through the Econqnic andiSocial Council at its second
regular session of 1984i

"3. Calls upon all Member States to co-operate with the efforts of the
Secretary-G""erallfi the preparation of the report requested in paragraph 2
abovei

n4. Invites all Member States
the impletnEo:Elffin of the Charter of
be undertaken in 1984;

to participate actively in the review
Economic Rights and Drties of States

of
to

5. rrDecides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-ninth
session an fffiGtitled nReview of tire implementation of the Charter of
Economic Rights and DrEies of Statesr.

13. At the 47th meeting, on 8 Decenber, the representative of Bangladesh, on
behalf of the states Members of the tlnited Nations which are membeis of the Group
of 77, introduced a revised draft resolution (Nc.2/37/L.26,,/nev.l).



^/37 
/680/Add.1

English
Page 5

14. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
P{C.3/37/L.26/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of L27 to 1, with 4 abstentions (see
para. 16, draft resolution IIf). The voting riras as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Aust,ralia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, BhuEan, Boliviar
Botsvrana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Blzelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republicr Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chite, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Denrocratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican
Republicr Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenyar Kuwait, Iao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourgr Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria,
lilcrvtay, qnan, Pakistan, Panama, Papua tihw Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Po1and, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rvranda, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Ieone, Singaporer Somalia, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, ltogo, Trinidad and Tobago, Trrnisia, Turkeyz lJganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Enirates, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Za|re, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

United States of America.Against:

Abstaining: Germany' Federal Republic of, Israel, Japan, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

15. Statement,s after the vote were made by the representatives of Canada, the
United States of America, Denmark, Japan, France, the Netherlands, Norway, Belgium,
Israel, Italyr Austria, the United Kingdon of Great. Britain and llorthern lreland,
the Federal Republic of Germany and Bulgaria (also on behalf of the Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republicr Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary,
Mongolia' Poland, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

16. The Second Committee recornmends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following drafL resolut,ions:



u37/680/Add.L
English
Page 6

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Beyiew ?qd apprais?l of the implementation of the
International _oevelopnBnt Strategrv for the ihiE

tlniEed llations Oevelognent OecCde

The General .{.ssembly,

Begalling its resolurions 3201 (s-w) and 3202 (s-vr) of t !4ay Lg74,
containing the DecLaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a
New International Econqnic order, 328L (xxlx) of L2 December Lg74, containing the
charter of Economic Rights and Duties of states, and 3362 ls-vrr) of
15 September 1975 on developnent and international econqnic co-operation,

Becallinq also its resolution 35/56 of 5 December 1980r the annex to which
contains the rnternational Develotrment Strategy for the Third.United Nations
Developrnent Decade,

Aldare of its responsibility to carry out in 1984 the first over-all review and
appraisal of the implementation of the International Development Strategy,

_ _ Recalling also that the process of review and appraisal forms an integral partof the rnternational Development strategy and provides an opportunity to sirengthenit as an instrument of policy for the attainment of the goafs and objectives set
out therein,

Recalling further that the process of review and appraisal shouldr within the
context of an over-aIl review of the international econonic situation, scrutinize
the state of the implenentation of the International Developnent strategy andidentifythefactorsresponsibIefortheshortfal1s,

Stressing that such a review and appraisal should be undertaken within theulited l€tions system at the regional, sectoral and global levels, and by the
respective Governments at the national leve1,

lloting with deep regret that global negotiations relating to international
economic co-operat'ion for develoSrnent, which are intended to be one of the
principle instruments for facilitating the implementation of the rnternational
Developnent St,rategy, have not been launched,

Conscious that the adverse effects of the continuing international economic
crisis, especially on the econqnies of the developing count,ries, make particularty
necessary the task of carrying out such a review and appraisal with a view to
considering the adjustment, intensification or reformulation of the policy measures
reguired in the light of evolving needs and developments, in order to achieve the
goals and objectives of the rnternational Develotrxnent strategry,

1. Reaffirnrs the decision to
first, overEfflffiew and appraisat
measures, as well as the realization

carry out in L984, at the global level, the
of the state of implementat.ion of the policry
of the goals and objectives, of the



A/ 37/ 680/Add.I
English
Page 7

International Development Strategy for the Third United Nations Developnent
Decadel !/

2. Stresses that the process of review and appraisal at the global level
shall take into account the results achieved at the sectoral, regional and national
1eve1s,

3. Emdrasizes that the review and appraisal shall, at all levels' take into
account the resul-ts of various United Nations conferences as well as the results of
relevant regional and interregional neetings, and that the agreed results will be
incorporated in ttre International Development Sbrategy by the General Assembly when
and as appropriate, with a vis,y to contributing to its effective implenentationt

4. Emphasizes further that the review and appraisalr based on an assegsment
provided for in General Assembly resolutions 33/20L of 29 January L979, 35,/8I of
5 Decenber 1980 and 36,/f99 of 17 Decenber 1981, should ensure that the operational
activities of the United Nations systen contribute effectively to the
implementation of the International Development Strategyl

5. Decides to establish a conunittee of universal membership to carry out the
review and appraisat of ttre implenentation of the International Development
Strategy in 1984, and further decides that the Conunitteer which will meet in a
brief organizational- session during the thirty-eighth sessionr of the General
Assembly, will report to the General Assembly at its thirty-ninth session ttrrough
the Economic and Social Council at its second regular session of 1984t

6. Calls upon the'relevant organsr organizations and bodies of the United
Nations system to report on the results achieved in their respective sectors in
applying the International Development Strategy as the trnlicy framework in the
formulation and implementation of ttreir programmes of work and medium-term plans to
the Comrittee referred to in paragrag*r 5 above for considerationl

7. Requests the regional commissions to carry out in 1984' as part of their
regular activity of preparing economic surveys of the regions' a review of the
implementation of ttre International Developrent Strategy in their respective
regionsl

8. Invites the Corunittee for Development Planning to submit its observations
and recommendations regarding the review and appraisal to the General Assenbly at
its thirty-ninth session, through the Cornnittee referred to in paragraph 5 above
and the Economic and Social Council at its second regular session of 19841

9. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare and submit to the General
Assenbly at its thirty-ninth session, through the Conmittee referred to in
paragraph 5 above and the Economic and Social Councilr. a comprehensive report and
other appropriate documentation in order to assist the review and appraisalt

y See resolution 35/56, annex' para. l-80.



A/37/680/Add.L
English
Page 8

10. rnvites Governments to reflect appropriateLy, at the national level, in
accordance with their national priorities and plans, the goals and objectives and
the policy measures of the rnternational Development Strategy in their policy
formulationl

I1' rnvites developed countries, individually or through their relevantorganizations, to transmit reports of ttreir development assistance efforts in thelight of the commitments undertaken by them under the rnternational Development
Strategy and in relevant international forums,

L2. Decides to considerr €rt its thirty-eighth session, other arrangenents
necessary for fulfilling its task in connection with the review and appraisal ofthe International Development Strategy.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Negative trends in the world economy
The General Assenbly,

Recarling its resolutions 3201 (s-vr) and 3202 (s-vr) of I May Lg74,
containing ttte Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a
New rnternational Econcrnic order, 32gL (xxrx) of L2 December Lg74, containing tl,echarter of Economic Rights and Duties of statesr and 3362 (s-vrr) of
16 september 1975 on developnent and international economic co-operation,

Recalling also its resolution 35/56 of 5 Decenber 1980, the annex to r*rich
contains the International Development Strategy for the Third United Nations
Developnent Decade,

ExPressinq corrcern about the worsening of certain trends in international
economic relations, l*rich run counter to the objectives of international
co-operation contained in the above-nentioned resolutions and constitute serious
obstacles to the international economy, in particular to the econornic arowth anddevelopnent prospects of the developing coulrtrie",

Concerned that tie international economy remains in a state of structural
disequilibrium characterized by a slowing-donn of activities and of economicgrowth, accontpanied by, inter alia, prolonged rpnetary instability, intensifiedprotectionist pressuresr structural problems and maladjustment and uncertain
long-term growth prospects,

Considers that the continuation or worsening of the present situation
could lead to a clinate of mistrust in international economic relations, with
unpredictable conseguences for international econornic co-operation as werl as for
world peace and securityl

2. Expresses its about the grave international economic
countries and about the perspectivessituationz in particul_ar of the developing



A/37/680/Ad'd.L
English
Page 9

arising fron the current trends in the world economy, r*rich, if they continuer will
endanger the realization of the goals and objectives of the International
Developrent Strategy for the Third United Nations Development Decadet

3. Urges al-I States, in particuLar the developed eountriesl to pursue
concerted efforts to reverse the present negative trends and to overcome the
critical economic situation currently affecting in particular the developing
countries,

4. Requests the Secretary-General, as part of the preparations for the
review and appraisal of the International Development Strategyr to analyse also the
present negative trends in the world economy, which affect international econonic
co-operation and endanger the efforts toiards the fulfilment of the goals and
objectives of the International Developnent Strategy, and to reflect such analysis
appropriately in the World Economic Survey and other docunentation to be prepared
for the review and appraisal of the International Developrnent Strategy.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Charter of Econornic Riqhts and Duties of States

The General Assenblyr

Recalling its resolutions 3201 (s-VI) and 3202 (S-vI) of I May L974,
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a
New International Economic Order, 3281 (xxIX) of L2 December L974' containing the
Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 September 1975 on development and international economic co-operation, whieh
Iaid down the foundations of the new international economic order,

Bearing in mind artlcle 34 of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of
States and General Assenbly resolution 3486 (XXX) of 12 Decenrber 1975, relating to
the review of the inplementation of the Charter,

Mindful of the importance of the principles contained in the Charter of
Econcmic Rights and Duties of States and the close relationship between the Charter
and the Declaration and the Programnd of Actioh on the Establishment of a New
International Economic Order,

Conscious that the immediate launching and the successful conclusion of the
global round of negotiations on international economic co-operation for developnent
will be an important contribution to the solution of international econonic
problems, within the framework of the restructuring of international economic
reLationsr dnd to steady global development, in particular the development of
developing countries,

1. Decides to conduct at its thirty-ninth session, on the occasion of the
tenth anniversary of the adoption of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of
Statesr a comprehensive review of its imptementation, as provided for in article 34
thereofl



A/37/680/Add.L
Engl ish
Page 10

2. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report on the inplementation
of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of Statesr based on inforrmtion
provided by Governments as well as intergovernmental organizations concerned, and
to subnit it to the General Assenbty at its thirty-ninth sessionr through the
Economic and Social Council at its second regular session of 1984f

3. Ca1ls upon all l,lember States to co-operate with the efforts of the
Secretary-General in the preSnration of the retrnrt requested in paragraph 2 abovel

4. fnvites all Member States to participate actively in the review of the
implenentation of the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States to be
undertaken in 1984t

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-ninth session
an item entitled "Review of ttre imptementation of the Charter of Economic Rights
and Drties of Stateso.


