












































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAssembly
Di str .
GN.IERAL

N37 /722
14 December I98 2

ORIGIML: ENGL TSII

Thirty-seventh session
Ag enda iteft 127

the

l.

TPO RT OF TIIE SPECIAT COMMI TTEE ON TIiE CHARTER OF T TiE U!iI?ED NATIONS
AND ON THE SIRENGTHENING OF THE ROLE OF THE ORGANIZAT ION

Report of the Sixth Comrnittee

RaPporteur! Miss Sah^ta Gabriel BERBLIRI {Sudan)

IN 1ROD UCT IO N

The iten entitled:

"RePort of the special corunittee on the charter of the United Nations and on
Streng thening of the Role of the organization!

'r (a) Report of the special comoitteet

" (b) Updating of the Repertoire of the Practice of the sec
the Repertory of Practice of United Nations organs! report of Che
secretar!F General"

vtas included in the Provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh sessj'on of lhe General
Assembly pursuant to Paragrat$ 14 of Assembly resolution 36/1jl2 of tL Decenber 1981'

2. On Che recomlendation of the ceneral Comnittee, the General Assenbly decided
at its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 Septenber 1982, to include the item i.n its agenda
and to allocate it to the Sixth corunittee.

3. In connection with this iten, the sixth conmittee had before it the follov'lng
documentsS

and

82-36829 0 4s8v (E)

UNITED
NATIONS A

General Assembly

Di str.
GENERAL

A/37/722
14 December 1982

ORIGINAL: ENGL T"H

Thirty-seventh session
Ag enda item 127

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON TIlE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS

AND ON THE STRENGTHENING OF THE ROLE OF THE ORGANIZATION

Report of the Sixth Committee

Rapporteur: Miss Salwa Gabriel BERBERI (Sudan)

I. IN TROD UCT ION

1. The item entitled:

"Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the Un ited Na tions and on
the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization:

"(a) Report of the Special Connnitteel

"Cb) Updating of the Repertoire of the Practice of the security Council and
the Repertory of Practice of United Nations Organs: report of the
secretary-General"

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session of the General
Assembly pursuant to paragrap, 14 of Assembly resolution 36/122 of 11 December 1981.

2. On the recommendation of the General Committee, the General Assembly decided
at its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 september 1982, to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Sixth Committee.

3. In connection with this item, the Sixth Committee had before it the following
documents:

82-36829 0458v (E) / ...



A/37/722
Engl ish
Pag e 2

(a) Report of the Speciat Corunittee on the Charter of the United Nations and
on the Streng thening of the Role of the Organizat ioni y

(b) Report of the Secretary-C€neral containing observalions and proposals
rece ived frorn the covernment of Egypt lA/37/3841t

(c) Iteport of Lhe Se cre tary-ce ner aI on tlre @
S€curj.tv Council and Repertory of Practice of t-hited l,lations Organs (A/C.b/37/41 .

4. The Co)nrflittee also had before it the fotlowing corrunun ications;

(a) I€tler dated 3 I'Iay 1982 from the Permanent Representat ive of Israel Co
the United Nations addressed to the Secre lary-ceneral (N37/2I7) z

(b) I€tter dated 16 Argust 1982 fron the Pernanent Representative of Israel
to the United i.la tions addressed !o the Se cre tary-cener at (A/37/392) i

(c) Letter dated 12 October 1982 fron the Perrnanent RepresenCative of fsrael
to the United Nations addressed to the Se cre tary-ce ner al (A/37/542).

5. At its 9th meeting, on 5 October 1982, the Sixth Comnittee agreed on a
timeEable whereby four meetings vrere allocated to item 122 (Peaceful settlenent of
disPutes between States) and six to item L27 (IGport of t}le Special Conunittee on
the charter of the Un i.ted Nations and on the Serengthening of the Role of the
Organizatiou), it being understood, in view of the elements connon to the tvro
items, that the delegations could deal wj.th the two itens in the way which seened
to then to be the most convenient.

6. Tile Corffnittee consideted item 12? at its 20th to 29th meetings, from
l8 October to 2? Octobe! 1982, and at its 57Ch to 59th meetings, frorn 29 libvenber
to 2 December 1982. The surunary records of those meetings (A/C.6 /37 /SR.Z0-2 9 and
57-60) contain the views of representatives who spok e during the consideratj.on of
the i ten.

I I. @},ISIDEiATION OF PROPOSAIS

7. At the 5?th neeting, on 29 itovenltrer, t}le representative of the Libyan Arab
.fanahiriya introduced a draft resolution @/C.6/37/L.5lRev.1) , sponsored by Benin,
Iran (Islanic Sepublic of) , t}le Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya, I'ta1i and I'4auritania. 2/
The draft resolution read as folloh's:

V Official Records of the ceneral As serdfly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 33 {A/37,/33) .

2/ Draft resolutian A,/C.6/37/L.57Rev.1 replaced draft resolution
A/C.6/37/L.5' sponsored by the Libyan Axab Jamahiriya and i"tauritania.

A/37/722
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Special Conuni ttee on the Ch arter of the Un i ted Na tions and
on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization; y

(b) Report of the Secretary-General containing observations and proposals
received from the Government of Elgypt (A/37/384) I

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the Repertoire of the Practice of
Security Council and Repertory of Practice of Uhited Nations Organs (A/C.6/37/4).

4. The Committee also had before it the following cOllununications:

(a) Letter dated 3 l~y 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Israel to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/37/217);

(b) Letter dated 16 August 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Israel
to the Un ited Ha tions addressed to the Secretary-General (A/37/392) I

(c) Letter dated 12 October 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Israel
tc the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/37/542).

5. At its 9th meeting, on 5 OCtober 1982, the Sixth Conunittee agreed on a
timetable whereby four meetings were allocated to item 122 (Peaceful settlement of
disputes between States) and six to item 127 (Report of the Special Conunittee on
the Charter of the United Na tions and on the Strengthening of the Role of the
Organization) lit being understood, in view of the elements conunon to the two
items, that the delegations could deal with the two items in the way which seemed
to them to be the most convenient ..

6. The Conunittee considered item 127 at its 20th to 29th meetings, from
18 OCtober to 27 OCtober 1982, and at its 57th to 59th meetings, from 29 November
to 2 December 1982. The summary records of those meetings (A/C.6/37/SR.2Q-29 and
57-60) contain the views of representatives who spoke during the consideration of
the i teme

rI. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAIS

7. At the 57th meeting, on 29 November, the representative of the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya introduced a draft resolution (A/C.6/37/L.5/Rev.l), sponsored by Benin,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mali and Mauritania. ~/
The draft resolution read as follows:

y Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 33 (A/37/33).

~/ Draft resolution A/C.6/37/L.5/Rev.l replaced draft resolution
A/C.6/37/L.5, sponsored by the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Mauritania.

/ ...



A/37 /722
English
Pag e 3

"@9!ulAESntblY.,

"ttayig--g.on€ldered the report of the sPecial coflnittee on the charter
ot ttre ttrited tgtl.ons ;d on the strengthening of the RoIe of the
Organization, V in part icular concerning the maintenance of internatlonal
peace and security '

'I9.5!g the increasing co-oPeration among all nations with the ain of
naintainlng the interests anal aspi-rations of all nenlcer s of the international
cornnuniby 

"o 
as to adtieve greater harrnony for the Un ited Nations system under

the ctlanged and Present c lrcumstances,

"R"coq"i4!S tha! the strergthening of confidence in the united Nations
org.rlt ,"quires the strengthening of the ir effectiveness in performing their
functions, Particularly the role of the security Council as the organ
entrusted wiln tne primary responsiblllty for the naintenance of lnternational
peace and s ecurl ty,

"-efesCilS itg concern that the Security Council has not always been in
. po=itiot to aisdlarge its respons ibilities to ensure inPlementation of iEs
deiisions regarding maintenance of international peace and security,

. particularly on matters relating !o tie exercise of the rights of people to
I eLfdeterrnination and the struggle against colonlaliem, all forrns of racist
policies including apartheid, foreign domination and occupatlon due to the
abuse of the rule whictr requires the concurring votes of all the permanent
net$er s,

'Re c\cqn izilg tha! Articles IO and 1I of the charcer ve€t the General
nf s.rnOIffiEn--iut ctions and power s in t1'e field of maintaining international
peace and s ecuri ty,

'R€cagl4 resolution 485 (x)ffI) a atopted by the council of MiniFters of
ur. orffiiltion of African Lttlty at its twenty-seventh sesslon, held in Port
roulE fron 24 June to 3 July 1976' whictr calls for finding an effective
alternatlve to t$e right of veto, resolution 4 (v) of t'he Fifth @nference of
Heads of state or Gover nnents of NorFAl igned countries of August 1976'
resolution 3 (VIII) of the Eighth Islanic conference of Foreign Minlsters of
I'lay 1977 and resoLution ? (vr) of the sixth conference of Heads of state or
Government of tiorFAligned Countries of 1979, which calls for the amendtuent of
the charter, particul.arly lts provisions relatinq to the right of veto,

'-gaking-not€ of the report of the secretarf General on the work of the
organ 1z a-El6if/* i 11 a view that the organizalion should develop its caPacity
as an essentiaf Uoay for the naintenance of international Peace and security'

A/37/722
English
Page 3

"The General Assembly,

"Having considered the report of the Special Committee on the Charter
of the United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the
Organization, 11 in particular concerning the maintenance of international
peace and security,

"Noting the increasing co-operation among all nations with the aim of
maintaining the interests and aspirations of all members of the international
community so as to achieve greater harmony for the United Nations system under
the changed and present c ircurnstances,

"Recognizing that the strengthening of confidence in the United Nations
organs requires the strengthening of their effectiveness in performing their
functions, particularly the role of the Security Council as the organ
entrusted with the primary responsibility for the maintenance of international
peace and security,

"Expressing its concern that the Security Council has not always been in
a position to discharge its responsibilities to ensure implementation of its
decisions regarding maintenance of international peace and security,
particularly on matters relating to the exercise of the rights of people to
self~eterminationand the struggle against colonialism, all forms of racist
policies including apartheid, foreign domination and occupation due to the
abuse of the rule which requires the concurring votes of all the permanent
members,

"Recognizing that Articles 10 and 11 of the Charter vest the General
Assembly wi th functions and power s in the field of maintaining international
peace and securi ty,

"Recalling resolution 486 (XXVI) adopted by the Council of Ministers of
the Organization of African Unity at its twenty-seventh session, held in Port
Louis from 24 June to 3 JUly 1976, which calls for finding an effective
alternative to the right of veto, resolution 4 (V) of the Fifth Conference of
Heads of State or Governments of Non-Aligned Countries of August 1976,
resolution 3 (VIII) of the Eighth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers of
May 1977 and resolution 7 (VI) of the Sixth Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries of 1979, which calls for the amendment of
the Charter, particularly its provisions relating to the right of veto,

"Taking note of the report of the secretary-General on the work of the
organization, l/ with a view that the Organization should develop its capacity
as an essential body for the maintenance of international peace and security,

l/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 1 (A/37/1).

/ ...



A/37 / 7 22
EngI ish
Page 4

'rl. comnends the special conmittee on
and on the streng thenlng of the RoIe of the
in its valuable workt

12. Decldes that the special Comnittee
according to t.rle relevant resolutions of the

the Charter of the United Nations
organization for the Progress made

should continue its rdorK
General Aaaenblyt

"3. Decldes also that the speciaL comittee shall examine the
possibility of elininating the adverse effects for the nalntenance of
international peace and security arising out of the abuse of the rule of
unaninity, taking into account, inter alla:

i(a) The need to ensure that the ruLe of unanimity is not reaorted to on
natters relating to the inaLienable rights of t€ople6 struggl.ing for
s elf-determ inationl against coloniali€n, .eEgEill, foreign donination,
intervention, aggression and occupationt

"(b) The facc that the naintenance of internatlonal peace and security is
a cornnpn responsibility of all. states lGnber s of tlre lrnlted Natiqts, based on
the prirrciple of s overe lgn equality and denpcracyt

" (c) The elaboration of proposals rnade in the Special Corf,aittee with
a vlew to atrengthening the role of the General As ser$ly accord ing to
Article 11, paragraph 2, of the chartert

' (d) The undertaking of a study of the possibtlity that resolutions of
the General Assembly relating to the naintenance of international peace and
security be considered b inding and are to be lnpleflEnted?

dell.berat.ions concerning paragraph 3 of the present resolution to the ceneral
Aesembly at its thirty-ighth sesslon.i

8. At the 58th neetingr on 30 November, the representative of the philippines
introduced a draf t resolution (A/C.6/37 /L.L9) , sponsored bl' Arqentlna, the @rg,
Barbados, Bolivia, BraziI, Chile, Colonbia, the g-gg]g, CVrrus, @q, Eg.@,
8l salvador. Gernany, Federal Republic of, chana, Oryana, Indonesia, Ery,
.farna lca. .:lgE, Kenva, Madaqascar, Malavsla, I'l'alt, .@]i!@!e, &4:9, !Cp4,
Ne Zealand, Niqeriar Papua lGrrr Grinea, Paraquay, tJle Philippines. &gegig, R{anda'
seneqal, Slngaporer Solalia, spain, surinane, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobaqo,
Ttnlsia, Uruquay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire and @Eb, later joined byAustralia, Benin and Sierra Leone (for the text of the resolution, see para. t7).

9. ltle conmitbee had before it a statenent submitted by ttre secretarf ceneral
lNC.6/37/I'.20) on the adrninistrative and financiaL implications of draft
resolutlon A/C.5/17 /L.L9.

10. At the 59th meeting, on 1 Decernber, the representative of the Un ited states of
Anerica introduced an amendment (A/C.6/37 /I'.zL) to dlaft resolution
The anendnent read as followsr

A/37/722
English
Page 4

"1. Conunends the Special Conunittee on the Charter of the United Nations
and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization for the progress made
in its valuable work,

"2. Decides that the Special Conunittee should continue its work
according to the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly!

"3. Decides also that the Special Comnittee shall examine the
possibility of eliminating the adverse effects for the maintenance of
international peace and security arising out of the abuse of the rule of
unanimity, taking into account, inter alia.

"(a) The need to ensure that the rule of unanimity is not resorted to on
matters relating to the inalienable rights of peoples struggling for
self-determination, against colonialism, apartheid, foreign domination,
intervention, aggression and occupation,

"(b) The fact that the maintenance of international peace and security is
a cOlllJllOn responsibility of all States Members of the United Nations, based on
the principle of sovereign equality and democracy)

"(c) The elaboration of proposals made in the Special Conunittee wi th
a view to strengthening the role of the General Assembly according to
Article 11, paragraph 2, of the Charter,

"(d) The undertaking of a study of the possibility that resolutions of
the General Assembly relating to the maintenance of international peace and
security be considered binding and are to be implemented)

"4. Requests the Special Conunittee to submi t a report on its
deliberations concerning paragraph 3 of the present resolution to the General
Assembly at its thirty-eighth session."

8. At the 58th meeting, on 30 November, the representative of the Philippines
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.6/37/L.19) , sponsored by Argentina, the Bahamas,
Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, the COll9o, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Germany, Federal RepUblic of, Ghana, G1yana, Indonesia, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Nepal,
New Zealand, Nigeria, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, the Philippines, Romania, Rwanda,
Senegal, Sill9apore, Somalia, Spain, Suriname, Thailand, Trinidad and Tbbago,
Tunisia, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire and zambia, later joined by
Australia, Benin and Sierra Leone (for the text of the resolution, see para. 17).

9. The Conunittee had before ita statement submitted by the secretary-General
(A/C. 6/37/L. 20) on the administrative and financial implications of draft
resolution A/C.6/37/L.19.

10. At the 59th meeting. on 1 December, the representative of the United States of
America introduced an amendment (A/C.6/37/L.21) to draft resolution A/C.6/37/L.19.
The amendment read as follows.

/ ...



N37/722
English
Page 5

trAdd the following oPeratlve Paragraph to the draft resolutiont

"19' 4S!@g the secetary-c€neral to irnplement the activitles
approveal under the present reaolution only to the extent that tltey can be
financed tr tthout exceeding the level of resources aPproved in the prograrune
budget for the blenniun 1982-1983 (General Assenbly resoLution 36/240 Ar."

11. At the sane neeting' the represenlatlve of ljlgna subxoicted an oral
subamendnent to the amendnent of the thited States rfiich he subsequently wi thdrew.

12. Also at the 5 gth meellrg, the rePresentative of Australia moved, under
rule 116 of the ru1e5 of procedure, ttra t the cotuni ttee should not pronounce itself
on draft reaolution 4C.6/37/L.5/Rev.L. lttre rePresentatives of the tibyan Alab
Janahlriya and Benln spoke againat the rption. The flption vraa adopted by a
recorded vote of 52 xo 32. wiur 24 abstentions. rtle votlng was as follo'rst

In favour I arscralia, Austrla, Bahanasr Barbados' Belglum, Bulgariar
Byelorusslan soviet socialist Republic, Canada, Ctlile' Colonbia,
czedroslovakla, Denmarkf Egypt, Equatorial 6ri.near Fiji' Finlard '
France, German DelFcratic RePublic. Germariy ' Federal 

Republic of,
Greece, Hungar?r lceland, Irelandr Israel, Italy' Ivory Coast t
Japan' Lao People's DerFcratic Republic, Luxenbourg, Malaysia,
!,bngol ia, lGpal, l€therlands' Nen zealand, Nofitay, Papua l|ett
cuinear Paraguay, Philippines, Polandr Portugal, sanpa'
slngapore, solonon Islanda, spainr sweden, Ihalland, Ukrainian
soviet socialist RePub1ic, Un ion of soviet Socialist faePublics,
Ihited Klngaton of Great BEitain and Northern lreland' thited
Republlc of caneroon, Un ited states of Alerica, uruguay.

dgeria, Bahrain, Benin, Burundi, central African &pubf ic,
chld, congo, Denocatic Yenen, Ethiopia, Qryanar rran (rslanic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Ituwait' Libyan Arab
Janahiriya. Uadagascar, Malir Nigeria' ftian, Panama, Qatar,
Ronania, h{anda, sudan, syrian Arab RePubllc, Trinidad and
lobago, Ilnigla, Unlted Arab Enirates, venezueLa, Yenent
:fugoslavia.

Sggins!!

Abstaining: Argentina, Brazll, Burmar chinar cuba, Denocratlc KanPuclrea,
Ecuador, Ghanar Indla, Indonesia, Xenya, lFxico, Moroccot Nlgert
Pakistan, Peru, Senegal, Sonallar Surinarner Swaziland, Lganda,
thited &plblic of Tanzanla , Taite t zanbia.

13. The Conuniteee then rejected the anendment of the Un ited States (VC.5/37fi'.2L1
by a recorded vote of 85 to t2r rri th 1l abEtentions. The voting was as followsr {,/

!/ At the 60th meetirg, on 2 December 1982' the delegation of Norway
tndlcated that it had lntended to vote agalnsc tbe amendment of the lrnited states.

A/37/722
English
Page 5

"Md the following operative paragraph to the draft resolution:

"13. Authorizes the Secretary-General to implement the activities
approved under the present resolution only to the extent that they can be
financed without exceeding the level of resources approved in the programme
budget for the biennium 1982-1983 (General Assembly resolution 36/240 A).'

11. At the same meeting, the representative of Ghana submitted an oral
subamendrnent to the amendment of the United States which he subsequently wi thdrew.

12. Also at the 59th meeting, the representative of Australia moved, under
rule 116 of the rules of procedure, that the Conunittee should not pronounce itself
on draft resolution A/C.6/37/L.5!Rev.l. The representatives of the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya and Benin spoke against the motion. The motion was adopted by a
recorded vote of 52 to 32, with 24 abstentions. The voting was as follows.

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Chile, Colombia,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Finland,
France, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast,
Japan, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Luxembourg, Malaysia,
Jol:>ngolia, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Samoa,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Spain, SWeden, Thailand, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
RepUblic of Cameroon, United States of America, Uruguay.

Against: Algeria, Bahrain, Benin, Burundi, Central African Republic,
Chad, Congo, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, Guyana, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kuwait, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mali, Nigeria, Oman, Panama, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and
TObago, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yugoslavia.

Abstaining: Argentina, Brazil, Burma, China, CUba, Democratic Karnpuchea,
Ecuador, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Mexico, Morocco, Niger,
Pakistan, Peru, Senegal, Somalia, suriname, Swaziland, Uganda,
Uni ted Republic of Tanzania, za ire, zambia.

13. The Committee then rejected the amendment of the United States (A/C.6/37/L.2l)
by a recorded vote of 85 to 12, wi th 11 abstentions. The voting was as follows: !/

!/ At the 60th meeting, on 2 December 19 82, the delegation of Norway
indicated that it had intended to vote against the amendment of the United States.

/ ...



M37 / 722
Engl ish
Pag e 6

In favourt Bu lgar ia, Byeloruss ian soviet Social ist Republic, Cz echoslovak la,
ttance, Gernan DerDcratic l€F.rblic, Hungary' Israelr Po1and,
Ukrainian soviet soclalist Republicl Union of soviet SocialiEt
Republics, Ihited Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern Irelatrd,
Un ited States of Alerica-

Algeria, Argentina, Au6tralia, Austria, Bahana sr Bahrain,
Barbados, Benin. Brazil, Burundl' central Afr ican Republicl
Chile, China, Colornbial congor cuba, qprus, Deflbcratic Yenen,
Denflark, Ecuador' Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji' Finland, Germany,
&deral &public of , Ghanal Greece' Grinea, O.ryana, Iceland,
Indla, Indonesia, Iran (Islamlc Republic of) r rraq' Ireland,
Italy, Janaicar Japan, ilordan. Nenya, Kuwaitr libyan Arab
Jarnahlr iya, t'tadagascarr MaIays ia, Ma li, Mexico, Itorocco,
I'tozarnb ique, l€pal, !,le!r z€aland, Niger, Nigeriar Qnan' PakIstan,
Papua New cu inea, Paraguay, Perur Philippinesr Qatar, Roroania,
&vanda, samoa r senegal, sierra I€one, singaPore, solomon l8landa.
sonalia' spain, sudan, surinanE, Sr*azilandr Sweden, syrian Alab
ReF$Iic, thailand, Trinidad and Ibbago, Ttnisia, tbanda, thlted
Arab Enirates' United Republlc of Caneroon, un ited Republic of
?anzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

lqa ins t!

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Belgium. Canada, Equatorial Guinea, Ivory Coastr Lao
PeoPLers Derpcralic Republic, Ilxenlcourg, l€therlands' Norway t
Portugal, Za ire.

14. At the sane meeting, the representative of Ronania' in relation to oPerative
Paragraph 10, indicated that the co-sponsor s exPected tlte secretariat to make
available to the Special CornnitEee at its next session an informal index to the
statements nude in the course of the thirty-seventh session of the General Assenbly
both in pler)ary and ln the sixth corunittee regarding the strengthening of the role
of the organization in the areas of the peaceful settlernent of international
disputes and the rnaintenance of international peace and security.

15. TtIe conmittee then proceeded to vote on dtaft resolution A/c.6/37 /I',L9 as
follows!

(a) The words rand to ruake recomrnendatlons thereon[ in operative
paragraph 3 (b) were adopted by a recorded vote of 94 to 16, with 3 abstentiqla.
The voting r.eas a9 follolrs:

rn favour: Algeria. Argentina, Arstralia, arstrj.a' tsahamasr Bahrain,
Barbados, Belgiun. Benin, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, canada, central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, qzfus,
DetDcratic KanFrctrea, DelDcratic Yemen, Dennar k, Ecuador, Egypt,
Equatorial Guinear Ethiopia, Fiji, Gernany, Federal Republic of1
Ghana, Greece, Grinea, Q,ryana' Iceland' rndia' Indonesial Iran
(Islanlc Republic of), rraq. Ireland, Italy' ilanaica, ,rapan'
.fordan, Kenya, Ifuwalt, Libyan Arab .fanahiriya, Idxeldtourg,
Madagascar, l,lalaysia, Mali, !'Ie xico, !4orocco, Mozarnbique, Nepalt

A/37/722
English
Page 6

In favour:

Against:

Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia,
France, German Delrocratic flepublic, Hungary, Israel, Poland,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Fepublics, U1ited Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Barbados, Benin, Brazil, Burundi, Central Afr iean Republic,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyl"'US, Delrocratic Yemen,
Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Germany,
Federal flepublic of, Giana, Greece, Q.linea, Q.lyana, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic RepUblic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mexico, Morocco,
loi:>zambique, Nepal, New zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sololron Islands,
Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Suriname .. Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Fepublic, Thailand, Trinidad and ibbago, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Belgium, canada, Equatorial Guinea, Ivory Coast, LaO
People's Democratic Republic, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Portugal, Za ire.

14. At the same meeting, the representative of Romania, in relation to operative
paragraph 10, indicated that the co-sponsors expected the Secretariat to make
available to the Special Committee at its next session an informal index to the
statements made in the course of the thirty-seventh session of the General Assembly
both in plenary and in the Sixth Committee regarding the strengthening of the role
of the Organization in the areas of the peaceful settlement of international
disputes and the maintenance of international peace and security.

15. The Committee then proceeded to vote on draft resolution A/C.6/37/L.19 as
follows:

(a) The words "and to make recommendations thereon" in operative
paragraph 3 (bl were adopted by a recorded vote of 94 to 16, with 3 abstentions.
The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Barbados, Belgium, Ben in, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Canada, Central
African RepUblic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cyprus,
Democratic Kampuchea, Delrocratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,
Equatorial GUinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic ofl, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,

/ ...



lGtierlands, lGYt zealand, Nigerl Nigerta' lilorway ' 
otran' Pakistant

Panana, Papua Ner, Gu lnea, Paraguay, Peru, PhilipPlnes' Portugal,
Qatar, ronania, R{anda, satFa ' senegal' 

sierra r"€one t singaPore '
solorDn rsrandl, sonElia' sPaln' su 

'lan' 
surinarne' swaziland'

g{eden, 
"vtiun-*tu 

nepuirri' rhailand' l\rnisia' uganda' -thited
lraU nr iratesl Un itea i.p"Ufic of Caneroon, United Republic. of
Tanzania, ui,rguay, venezuela, Yernen' Yugoslaviat zaire' uanbia'

Againsc: Afghanlscan, Bulgartar Byelorussian soviet socialist RePubllc'
cuba, czecnostovit< la, Frlnce, Gernan Detpcratic Republic '
Hungary, *o p""pf"'" DerFcratic RePublic' !4ongoliar Polandr
ukrainian sovlet soclalist epubf,lc; urion of soviet socialist
Republicsr Un ited Kingdom of Great Britain and Norlhern lreland'
ttrtited states of Anerica, viet lilan '

3qg@s Finland, Israel, Trinidad and Tobago'

P./37/722
Bnglish
Page 7

recorded vote of 87 to 14,

waa adoPted bY a recorded vote
fhe voting was aE followsr

(b) operat lve lEragraPh 5 (a) was adopted by a
w itl1 l,l abstentionE. ltle voting wa€ as follffE'

In favour !

ha lnst:

3getainig,

Ngeria, Argentina, arstralia, Austria' Baharnas ' 
Bahrain'

sai bados, Benin, Brazil, Burna, Burundi' canadat centraL Af,rican
&pubtic, Chadl Ctriler china, colornbia, congo, CYprus, De[Dcratic
G'rp,r.tt.l, Demcratic Yenen' Ecuador' EgyPt' Equatorlal Gu inea'
suliopia, Fijl, Gernany ' Federal 

kPublic of' Ghana' Greece'
gu inei, qry.rr., Indiar Indonegla, rran (rslanlc Republic of)'
rraq, irelina, rtal'y, Janaica, Japan"tordan' I(enya' Kuwait '
iiilan arau .ranahiriya, !'!a atagascar ' l'talays 

ia' Mali' Mexico'
Morocco, l,bz anb ique r r*pat, t'lev' zeaLand ' 

Niger' Nigeria' cnan'
Pakistanr Panaflla, PaPua NeId Gu inea, Paraguayt Peru' Phllippines'

Qatar, bmania' &tanda, sanoa, senegal' sierra r-€one ' 
singaPore'

i. f"n"" IsLandsr sonalia, sPain, sudan' surinarne' swaziland'
iyii"i 

^."r 
kpubric, g:i ana, Trinidad and lob€go' nmisia'

UganaLa' Un ited Arab unirut"t, United RePublic of Caneroon' Unlted
tpubfic of Tanzania, uruguay, venezuela' Yenent Yugoslavia'
zalre' zanbi'a.

Af gh anistan, Bu lgaria. Byeloruss ian sovlet soclalist Republic'
czechoslo\tak ia, !'rance, 

-German oerpcratic Republic' Hungary' Iao
p.lpi"'" Delrccratic RePublic, lbngolia, Poland' ukrainian soviet
s""i"fi"t RePublic, union of soviet sociali€t rbpublics' United
xi ttg;. Jr eieat siitain and l'brther n rreland' unlted states of
Anerica.

Belgium, cuba, De nark, Finlandr Iceland' Israel' Luxenbourg '
t€ ther lande, Norway r Portugall $reden'

(c) Draft resolutLon Nc.6/37/L'19 as a whole
99 to none ' 

tti tb 15 abstentione (see tEra' l7) 'c|I

A/37/722
English
Page 7

Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Onan, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal,
Qatar, Ibmania, lWanda, Samoa, senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
SWeden, Syrian Arab Hepublic, Thailand, TUnisia, Uganda, united
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zambia.

Against: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic Hepublic,
Hungary, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Hepublic, union of SOViet Socialist
Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America, Viet Nam.

Abstaining: Finland, Israel, Trinidad and Tobago.

(b) Operative paragraph 5 (a) was adopted by a recorded vote of 87 to 14,
with 11 abstentions. The voting was as follows.

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Barbados, Benin, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Canada, Central African
Hepublic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cyprus, DellDcratic
Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic RepUblic of),
Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, KUwait,
Li~an Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mexico,
Morocco, It>zambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Quan,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, SOnalia, Spain, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and Tbbago, Tunisia,
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
zaire, zambia.

Against. Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic,
Czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, lao
People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

Abstaining. Belgium, Cuba, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Israel, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Soieden.

(c) Draft resolution A!C.6/37/L.19 as a whole was adopted by a recorded vote
of 99 to none, with 15 abstentions (see para. 17). The voting was as follows.

/ ...

•



A,/37/722
Engl ish
Pag e 8

In favour:

Aga ins t:

Algeria, Argentlna, Arstralia, Austria, Bahanas, BahEain,
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, &azil, Bunna, Burundi, Canada, CentralMrican Republic, Ctrad, Chile, Chlna, CoLombia, Congor q,trEus,
DenDsatlc Kantrrr ctlea, brDEatic yemen, Dennark, Ecuador, Egypt,
Eguatorla.L Gulnear Ethiopia, Flji, Finlanat, cernany, Federal
Republlc of, chana, creece, erlnea, qlyana, Iceland, fndia,
Indonesla, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, fsrael,
ftaly, Ivory Coast, Jamalca, Japan, ,tordan, IGnya, Kuwalt, Libyan
Arab ,tarnahiriya, Ixxembourg, Madagascar, l,ta laysla, Mallr Mexico,
Morocco, lbzanbique, lGpal, t€ tierlands, libw Zealand, Niger ,Nigeria, I'lcrway, Onan, pakietan, panana, papua Nbl, cuinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Irhilippineg, portugal. eatar, bmania, R"randa,
Safitoa, Senegal, Sierra I€one, Singapore, SoIorDn Islands,
sonalia, SIEin, $Jdan, surlnane, grazlland, Ireden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Ihailand, Trlnidad and tiobago, $rnisiar tbanda, United
Arab qrilatesr Ihited &public of Caneroon, thited REpublic of
Tanzaniar Uruguay, Venezuelar viet !,tan, yenen, yugoslavia, zaire,
zambia.

None.

Abstaining! Afghanistan, Bulgarlal Byelorussian Soviet Soclalist Republlc,
Cuba, Cze droslorrak ia; France, cernan DenDcratic hpublic,
Hungary, Lao peoplers DerDcratic Republic, Uongolii, polandl
Ukrainian Soviet socialist RezubLic, ttn lon of soviet socialis!
Republics, united Kingdon of creaL Britain and Northern rrerand,
thited States of Aterica.

16' statements in expranation of vote were nade by the representacives of theIrnited states of Anerica, tlre lb therlands, Grina, France, the Irnlted Kingdom ofcreat Britain and Northern lreland, the Un ion of Soviet iocialist n"puUiics and the
German Delpcratic Republ ic .

III. RECOIII,GM)ArD N OF THE Sr)gH @I,S,ITfEE
L7- The sixch conunlttee recorunends to the ef,neral AssenbLy the adoption of thefollo,cing draft resolution:

fbe General Assenbly,

Reaffirning its support for the purposes and principles set forth in the
Charter of the ihited lhtions,

Recallinq its resolutions 6g6 (VII) of 5 Decenber J9j2, gg22l Noverber L955, 2285 (XXIr) of 5 Decenber Lg67, 2552 (XXIV) of
2597 (Xfin of 1I Decenber Ig7O, 296g (X.XVII) of t-4 DecenJcer 1972
17 Decenber 1974,

(x) of
12 Decenb er 1959,
and 3349 (XXI)Q of

A/37/722
English
Page 8

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, ~azil, Burma, Burundi, Canada, Central
Atr ican Republic, Chad, Chile, China, COlombia, COngo, Cyprus,
Democratic l(ampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ek:uador, :EJ;Jypt,
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Germany, Federal
RepUblic of, Ghana, Greece, GUinea, GUyana, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mexico,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Ne therlands, New zealand, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Bwanda,
Samoa, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands,
SOmalia, Spain, Sudan, Suriname, SWaziland, SWeden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and TObago, Tunisia, Uganda, United
Arab &1irl'ltes, lhited Republic of Cameroon, United RepUblic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
zambia.

1¥Jainst: None.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic Republic,
Hungary, Lao People's DellDcratiC Republic, Mongolia, Poland,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, union of Soviet SOcialist
Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

16. Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of the
united States of America, the Netherlands, China, France, the united Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Union of Soviet SOcialist Republics and the
German Democratic Republic.

Ill. RECOMl4l>NDATlDN OF TIlE SIXTH COMMIT'l'EE

17. The Sixth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
Un ited Na tions and on the Strengthening of the Role

of the Organization

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming its support for the purposes and principles set forth in the
Charter of the united Nations,

Recalling its resolutions 686 (VII) of 5 December 1952, 992 (X) of
21 November 1955, 2285 (XXII) of 5 December 1967, 2552 (XXIV) of 12 December 1969,
2697 (XXV) of 11 December 1970, 2968 (XXVII) of 14 December 19 72 and 3349 (XXIX) of
17 December 1974,

/ ...



N37/772
Engllsh
Page 9

Recalling also ius resolutions 2925 (XXVIII of 27 l,lovetoer 1972, 3073 (XXVIII)
of 30 Novenber 1973 and 3282 (xxIS of 12 Decenber 197{ on the strengthening of the
role of the l.trlted l'btions'

Recalling especiall.v its resolution 3499 (xx{ of l'5 DecenbeE L975, by whictt
it e.EIGfrEE- tfr. spe"Gl Co*-'ittee on tlre Ctrarter of the utrited Nations and on
the strengtiening of the RoIe of che organizationr and its resolutions 3V28 of
29 tlovenber Lg76,32/45 of 8 Decenber Lg77,33/94 of 16 Decenbe! L978' 34/L47 of
1? De cenlcer J97g, 35/764 of 15 Decenber 1980 and 35A22 of 11 December 1981r

vlelcoming the report of tlre Secretarf General on the work of the
organizationr ff

Having considered the rePort of the SPeclal Cottmittee on the charter of the
United libttons and on the Strengthening of the RoIe of the Olganization on t}le work
of the session it held Ln L982, 6/

Noting that significant progress has been made in futfilling the nandate of
the special Conuni ttee I

l'lo tinq the importance that Pre-sesslon consultations anong the menbers of the
speciar colnmittee and otlrer interested states rmy have in facilitating the
fulfilnent of its task,

considering that the Special Comnittee haE not yet conPleted the nandate
entrust€d !o it,

I. Takes note of the report of the sPeclal Connittee on the Charter of the
Irnited Natlons and on the Strengttrening of the nole of the organlzation' 5'l

2. we lcofiEs the aatoption of lhe llanila Declaration on the Peaceful
Sehtlement-6E-Internabionai Disputes by t1,e ceneral Assetnlcly at its thlrty-seventh
session as a significant achievernent of the sp€cial comnitteet f/

3. Decides that tie sPecial oonnittee should continue its r'tor k in pursuance
of the follo&ring tasks with whictr it is entrustedr

(a) To list the proposals which have been nade or will be nade in tshe
conniltee anal to identify those whlch have awakened sPeclal interestl

(b) To examlne proposals which have been rnade or will be nade in tshe
cornnittee with a view to according priorlty to the consideration of those on which
agreement seems Possible and to make recotT[nendations ther€ont

t/ official Records of

!/ &ie., Egl*men!_!9:--1! (v37/33',, '
7/ Resolutlon 3 7/10.

A/37/722
English
Page 9

Recalling also its resolutions 2925 (XXVII) of 27 November 1972, 3073 (XXVIII)
of 30 November 19 73 and 3282 (XXIX) of 12 December 19 74 on the strengthening of the
role of the Uni ted Nations,

Recalling especially its resolution 3499 (XXX) of 15 December 19 75, by which
it established the Special Committee on the Charter of the United Nations and on
the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization, and its resolutions 31/ 28 of
29 November 1976, 32/45 of 8 December 1977, 33/94 of 16 December 1978, 34/147 of
17 December 1979, 35/164 of 15 December 1980 and 36/122 of 11 December 1981,

Welcoming the report of the Secretary-General on the work of the
Organization, ~/

Having considered the report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization on the work
of the session it held in 1982, E./

Noting that significant progress has been made in fulfilling the mandate of
the Special Committee,

Noting the importance that pre-session consultations among the members of the
Special Committee and other interested States may have in facilitating the
fulfilment of its task,

Considering that the Special Committee has not yet completed the mandate
entrusted to it,

1. Takes note of the report of the Special Committee on the Charter of the
United Nations and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization, y

2. Welcomes the adoption of the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful
Settlement of International Disputes by the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh
session as a significant actlievernent of the Special Committee, 1/

3. Decides that the Special Committee should continue its work in pursuance
of the following tasks with which it is entrusted.

(a) To list the proposals which have been made or will be made in the
Committee and to identify those which have awakened special interest,

(b) To examine proposals which have been made or will be made in the
Committee with a view to according priority to the consideration of those on which
agreement seems possible and to make recommendations thereonl

lY Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty:-seventh session,
Supplement No. 1 (A/37/l).

2/ .!£i2., Supplement No. 33 (A/37/33).

1/ Resolution 37/10.

/ ...



A/37/722
EngI ish
Page 10

_ 1: Also decides that the special Corrtrittee shall convene its next aesaiontron 11 April to 6 May 1983,
5. Requesta the Special Comittee at. its next session,

.. (i) To accord priority in its work to the proposal s regaraling the question ofthe naintenance of internationar peace and security, to section rri g ot the reportof the speclal connittee g.z a1a 1o other goposals rnade in regard to this subject,incLudihg tbose relating Eo the functionirq of lrre securlty Council,
(b) To continue its work on the queation of the peaceful aettlemen! of

d-isPu tes by consldering the renaining iroposars contained in the list prepared bythe Connittee in accordance with C,eneril Asser$Iy reoolution 33/g4t g/
(c) b conslder proposals made by l.bnber States on the guestion ofrationalization of existing procedures of tlte ilrited l,btiqrs, as agreed by urespecial conmittee at its session in 19g2, and to consider any proposalg under ourerrelevant topicst

.1. Sequesls the special conmlttee to be mindful of the importance ofreaching general agreenent rhenever that has significance for the out@ne ot itswor k,

in fulfilnent of tlle nandate entrusted to it'

Pecldes that lhe speclal contrittee shall accept the particlpation ln itsneetings of obs eurver s of lGl&er states and, Sx.ying due regard to ite efficiency andthe tine at its disposalr arrors tne i.r particilitton in the rneetings of its working
9roupst

9. h,vi !,es @vernnents to submi! or to bring up to date, if they deen itnecessary, the 1r ob'ervations and proposars in accordance with G€neral Asserbryresoluti.on 3 499 ( X)(J() ,

^ .19. 
Requests the secre cary-Ge neral to render aII asslstance to the specialComnitt€et

- 
11- Reqpests the special conrnittee to s ubrtrit a report on its work to theGeneral Assenbly at its thirty-eighth seasion,

-the_iten entitred 'Report ot the speciar @r'nittee on tbe charter or the Ihitedl,la tions and on the strengulening of the no1" ot tne organizationn.

!/
2/

Do cunent A,/AC. LB Zfi.. 29,/Rev .L.

Supplem{:nt Nb. 33 34/33, , para.t3.
th Session,t

A/37/722
English
Page 10

4. Also decides that the Special Co...ittee shall convene its next session
from 11 April to 6 May 19831

5. Requests the Special Co...ittee at its next session'

(a) To accord priority in its work to the proposals regarding the question of
the maintenance of international peace and security, to section III E of the report
of the Special Committee AI and to other proposals made in regard to this subject,
including those relating to the functioning of the Security Councill

(b) To continue its work on the question of the peaceful settlement of
disputes by considering the remaining proposals contained in the list prepared by
the Committee in accordance with General Assembly resolution 33/94/ 21

(c) To consider proposals made by Member States on the question of
rationalization of existing procedures of the lliited Nations, as agreed by the
Special Committee at its session in 1982, and to consider any proposals under other
relevant topicsl

6.
reaching
work,

Requests the Special Committee to be mindful of the importance of
general agreement whenever that has significance for the outcome of its

7. Urges member s of the Special Committee to participate fully in its work
in fulfilment of the mandate entrusted to itl

8.
meetings
the time
groupsl

Decides that the Special Committee shall accept the participation in its
of observers of Member States and, paying due regard to its efficiency and
at its disposal, allow their participation in the meetings of its working

9. Invites Governments to submit or to bring up to date, if they deem it
necessary, their observations and proposals in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 3499 (XXX) I

10. Requests the Secretary-General to render all assistance to the Special
Committee,

11. Requests the Special Committee to submit a report on its work to the
General Assembly at its thirty-eighth sessionl

12. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item entitled "Report of the Special ColQlllittee on the Charter of the lliited
Na tions and on the Strengthening of the Role of the Organization".

l!/ Document A/AC.182/L. 29/Rev.l.

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
Supple~nt No. 33 (A/34/33), para.13.


