








































UNITED
NATIONS

(@ General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/37 /702/Md.r
15 December 1982

ORIGINAL: E}GLISH

Th irty-seventh session
Agenda item 74 (a)

SPECIAL ECONOIvIIC AND DISASTER RELIET A.SSISTANCE

office of the United Nations oisaster ltelief Co-ordinator

Beport of the Second Commi9tee (Part II)

Rapporteur: Mr. Stoyan BAKATOV (Bulgaria)

I. INTROD{'CT ION

1. The Second Committee held a substantive debate on item 74 lsee A/37/7O2,
para. 2). Action to be taken on subitem (a) was considered at the 44th' 47th and
48th meetings, on 27 November and 8 and 13 December. An account of the Committeers
discussion is contained in the relevant summary records (p/C.2/37/SP'.44, 47 and 48).

rr. coNsrDERATroN oF DRAFT RESOTUTTON A/C.2/37/L.82 and Rev.l

2. At the 44th rneeting, on 29 November 1982, the representative of !ryr on
behalf of the States Members of the United l,lations which are members of the African
croup, joined by Kuwait, introduced a draft resolution (Py'C.2/37/L.82) entitled
nOffice of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator". Subsequently, Iebanon
and Turkey joined as sponsors of the draft resolution, which read as follows:

"@,
"Recal!!3g its resolution 36/225 of L7 December 1981' by which it

reaffi6&-EE-mandate of the office of the United Nations Disaster Relief
Co-ordinator and called for the strengthening and improvement of the capacity
and effectiveness of the Office,

82-35883 44492 (E)



v37 /702/Add.l
English
Page 2

"glIiEE its resolution 35/LA7 of 5 December 1980' by which it
reaffirrned the neffisity of ensuring a continued sound financial basis for the
Office of the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator and extended the
term of the trust fund established pursuant to its resolution 3243 (XXIX) of
29 November t974r and modified under its resolutions 3440 (XXX) of
9 December L975 and 3532 (XXX) of 17 December 1975, until 3I December 1983,

"Recalling furthel its resolution 34/55 of 29 November L979, by which it
requested a1 irr"ilffi-in ernergency disaster assistance, with a normal ceiling
of $301000 per country in the case of any one disaster,

',.@abouttheadditionaIeconomicburdentherebyp1aced
upon thE developll-o,rntries and by the increasing number of natural
disasters and other disaster situationsr its well as Lhe disruption caused to
their develoPment Process'

"Sgsgggi3ilg the contribution made by the lJnited libtions system to the
relief of suffer:ing ana provision of humanitarian relief in natural disasters
and other disaster situations'

',lgi$g._1!g thar the primary responsibilities of adninistration,
relief operations and disaster pi"p.t.attess Iie wittr the affected countries
and thaCthe major part of the material assistance and human effort in
disaster relief comes from the Governments of those countries,

,,Recognizing further the imSnrtance of the contribution of the
tnternffi the ned Cross, the League of Red Cross and Red
crescent societies and appropriate voluntary organizations,

',_@iqg. that, in order to attain an effective co-ordination system
of numiiffinJnd disaster relief assistance, it is essential to strengthen
and improve the capacity and effecLiveness of the Office of the United Nations
Disaster Relief Co-ordinator and the United l'lations system as a whole in order
to enable the Office to respond to natural disasters and other disaster
situations speedily, efficiently and effectively, thereby ensuring prompt
delivery of concerned relief,

"Ig.@Sg- t.hat a major constraint with respect to the ability of the
united Nations 

"y"t"* 
to respond effectively to natural disasters and other

disaster situations has been the shortage of resources,

trI. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General
on the worf oe tne Office of itrJUnited Nations Disaster Relief
Co-ordina tor L/ and of the statement made by the Co-ordinator before the
Second Committee on 2 November L982t U

p/37 /235.

A/c.2/37/sR.27.

L/

u



A/37 /702/Add.r
English
Page 3

42. welcomes the action taken by the Secretary-General to improve the
managemenE operations of the Office of the tJnited lbtions Disaster Relief
Co-ordinator and to establish modalit,ies for the inplementation of the
procedures, outlined in General Assembty resolution 36/225, for dealing with
reguests for disaster relief from a disaster-stricken State and for dealing
with conprex disasters and emergencies of exceptional nagnitudel

13. CAlls for a flexible interpretation of administrative regulations
and proceau-iFEiffiacilitate a rapid temporary appointment of staff and
procurement of supplies in order to permit a timely response to reguests for
emergency assistancel

"4. Requests the Secretary-General to raise the normal naximun of
$301000 to $501000 to Permit the United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator
to respond to requests for emergency disaster assistance on at least
12 occasions in any one year with grants having a normal ceiling of g50r000
per country in the case of any one disaster;

'5. Authorizes the Secretary-General to pernit the Co-ordinator to make
available EEffiffiI resources to meet the needs presented by comprex
disasters and emergencies of exceptional magnitude;

16. pgg!4eE to maintain for an undetermined trnriod, as fromI January 13d?Irre trust fund and its sub-accounts as they stand at presentl
17. Reiterates, in particular, the appeal_s made in its

resolutiqrs 35/Lo7 and 36/225 for increased contributions to the trust fund of
the office of the united Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator, established
pursuant to its resolution 3243 (xxrx), and rnodified under its
resorutisn 3532 (xxx) and under paragraph 4 of the present resolution;

n8. Endorses the measures taken by the Secretary-General and theAdrninistraffi6ftnittee on co-ordinatiln to irnliement ceneral Assernbry
resolution 36/225 and calls on the Secretary-General and the United Natiqrs
Disaster &lief Co-ordinator to develop concerted relief programmes in
consultation with the agencies of the United Nations system concerned as a
basis for united appeals for funds to be launched by the united l,lations
Dlsaster klief co-ordinator on behalf of the secretary-Generali

]9: Reiterates its desires to further strengthen and inprove thecapabitity of the office of the united Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator to
take full advantage of information provided by existing early-warning systems
and to co-ordinater to the extent feasibre and useful, alr relevant
e31lV;larning systems, taking into account new technological developments inttris field, including conrnunicationst

'r10- Calls upon the constituent organizations of the United llations
system anaEffiEalized agencies, in order to eliminate wastefur
duplication of reso{lrces, to co-ordinate, in accordance with the provisions of
lnragraph 3 of Assembly resolution 36/225, their efforts at all stages of the
re9ponse of the international community to natural disasters and other
dlsaster situationsi



N37 /7o2/Add.1
English
Page 4

"Il. Reaffirms its belief that the strengthening and reinforcing of the
office of 6e-a Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator offers the most
efficient and economic means of effectively co-ordinating the relief
activities of the United Nations system as a whole in the interest of the
survivors of disasters, and requests the Secretary-General to assign a higher
priority to serengthening the financial and manpovter resources of the Officei

"I2. .@!g. the Secretary-General to submit a rePort on the
implementation of the present resolution to the General A.ssenbly at its
thirty-eighth session, through the Ebonomic and Social Cotrncil at its second
regular session of 1983."

3. A statement by the Secretary-General on the adrninistrative and financial
implicat,ions of the draft resolution was circulated in documenE A/C.2/37/I'.LO7.

4. At the 44th meeting, the representative of Turkey proposed an arnendment to the
draft resolution. The proposed amendment lvas to insert between operative
paragraphs 2 and 3 a new paragraph which read as follows:

nli&ctes that the @vernments of Chad and Lebanon have expressed their
appr"cliElon for the activities undertaken by the united lilations Disaster
Relief Co-ordinator in Chad and Lebanon and requests the United Nations
Disaster Relief Co-ordinator to continue his energency relief activities in
these two countries.tt

5. At the same meeting, statements were made by the representatives of Bangladesh
(on behalf of States Members of the United Nations which are members of the Group
of 771, the Sudan and Kenya.

6. At the 47th meeting, on 8 December, the representative of Kenya, on behalf of
Algeria, Angola, Benin, !g!ry, Burundi, Cape Verde, the Central African
nepublic, Chad, the conoros, the 5@., Djibouti, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Gabon, the Gambia, @, Guinea, Guinea-Bissaur the Ivonf Coast, .l@t
xuwaft, r.e6anon, resothor EiUa*; the Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya, Madagascar, $!g!'
Mali, Mauritaniar Mauritius, ypl9g, Mozambique, the Niger, Nigeria, @!g,
Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra leone, Somalia, the Sudan,
Swaziland, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, I8anda, the United Republic of Cameroon, the
United Republic of Tanzania, the ttpper Volta, Zaire, Zambia and zimbabwe,
introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.2/37/L.92/IEv.I) entitled nOffice of the
United Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator", which he further orally revised as
follows:

(a) Reversing the order of paragraphs 5 and 5l

(b) In paragraph 13, adding the words ", preferably within the means at its
disposal, n after the word "strengthening preferably within the means at his
dislnsal" and deleting the word 'aid".

7. At the same meeting' the representative of the
proposed an amendrnent to insert a ner/t paragraph 15,

united



A/37 /702/Add.1
English
Page 5

rAuthorizes the Secretary-General to implement the activities approved
under ETFE;olution only to the extent that they can be financed without
exceeding the level of resources approved in the 1982-1983 progratnme budget
(General A.ssembly resolution 36/240 A) .,'

8. Statements r,tere made by the representative of Kenya (on behalf of the
sponsors) and Bangladesh (on behalf of the States Members of the Urrited tlations
which are members of the Group of 77).
9. At the same meeting, the comnittee, by a recorded vote of g6 to Ig, with
12 abstentions, rejected the amendment protrnsed by the united States. The voting
was as follows:

In favour: Belgium, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
canada, czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic Repubric,
Germany, Ebderal Republic of, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Mongolia, New Zealand, poland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republicr Union of soviet socialist Republics, united Kingdom of
Great Britain and librthern rreland, united states of America.
Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsleana, Burma, Burundi,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Democratic yemen, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuadorr E9ypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, cabon,
Gambia, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, fndia,
fndonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Irag, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Jordanr Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, l,!,aldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, IGxico, l"loroccol Mozambigue, Nepal, Netherlands,
Niger, Nigeria, qnan, pakistan, papua ltew Guinea, peru,
Philippines, eatar, bmania, Rlvanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra l€one, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
swaziland' syrian Arab Republic, Thairand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Trrrkey, Uganda, United Arab Bnirates, United
Republic of caneroon, unit,ed Republic of Tanzania, upper volta,
Venezuelaz Yemen, yugoslavia, zaire, Zambia, Zinbabwe.
Australia, Austria, Barbados, Denmark, Finland, rcerand, rreland,
fsrael, librr,fay, Portugal , Spain, Sweden.

Against:

Abstaining:

10. Also at the same meeting, the committee adopted draft resolution
Py'c-2/37/L.82/Rev.r, as orarry revised, by a recorded vote of 119 to 8, with2 abstentions (see para. r3). The voting lras as fotlows: f/

v
Ehey been

Subsequently,
presentl they

the delegations of C)zprus and panama indicated that, had
would have voted in favour of the revised draft resolution.



PJ37/7o2/Md.L
English
Page 5

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Ango1a, Argentina, Atrstralia, Austria, Bahraint
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Beninr Bhutanr Bolivia, Botswanat
Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African
Republicr Chad, Chiler China, Colombiar cdnorosr Congo'
Costa Rica, Democratic Yemen' Denmarkr Djibouti, Dminican
Repubtic, Ecuadorr E9ypt, Ethiopiar Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
Garnbia, Germany, Federal Republic ofr Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyanar Honduras, Iceland, Indiar Indonesia, Iran
(Islarnic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, ItaLy' Ivory Coastr
Jamaica, Japanr Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia, Libryran
Arab Jamahiriya, Ilxembourg, Madagascar, Ma1awi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Ma1i, lrlaltal Mauritania, l'lexico, Moroccor Mozambiguet
Netrnl1 Netherlandsr tihvt Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, tibntay, qnan,
Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar,
Ronania, Rnanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra l€one' Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri lanka, Sudan, Suriname, SlraziLand, Sweden,
Syrian Arab republic, lhailand, lbgo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Ilganda, United Arab Emlrates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and tilerthern Ireland, united Republic of Cameroont
United Republic of Tanzania, Ifirper Voltar Uruguay' Venezuela,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zarnbia, Zinbabwe.

Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, CzechosLovakia,
German Democratic Repubtic, Hungaryr Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
nepublic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United States of
America.

Against:

Abstaining: Mongolia' Poland.

11. After the adoption of the resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Union of Soviet Sociatist Republicsr the United States of
Anerica, Canada, Argentina, the German Dernocratic Republic and Panama.

L2. At the 4Eth meeting, on 13 December, statements were also made by the
representatives of Poland, the Ebderal Repubtic of Germany, France' Czechoslovakial
Ecuador and Cfprus.

III. RECOMI,IENDATION OF THE SECOND COMI'IITTEE

13. The Second Conrmittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Office of the United tihtions Disaster Relief @-ordinator

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 36/225 of 17 December 1981, by which it
reaffirmed the nandate of the Office of the United li&ations Disaster Re1ief
Co-ordinator and called for the strengthening and improvement of the capacity
and effectiveness of the office,

/...



A/37/702/Md.r
English
Page 7

Ecalling also its resolution 35/LO7 of 5 December 1980, by which it
reaffirmed the necessity of ensuring a continued sound financial basis for the
Offlce of the ttnited tiliations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator and extended until
3I ltscember 1983, the term of the trust fund established pursuant to its
reeolution 3243 (xxlx) of 29 llovenber L974, and modified under its resolutiqrs
3440 (xxx) of 9 December 1975 and 3532 (xxx) of lz December Lg7s,

reguested an increase
of $301000 per country

lts resolution 34/55 of 29 November L979, by which it
in emergency disaster assistance, with a normal ceiling
in the case of any one disaster,

Ibeply concerned about the additional economic burden placed utrnn the
developing countries by the increasing number of natural disasters and other
disaster situations, as well as the disruption caused to their development
process,

Recognizing the contribution made by the Utrited ltliations system to the
rellef of sufferlng and provision of hunanitarian relief in natural disasters
and other disaster situations,

Recognizing also that the prinary responsibilitles of administration,
re}ief operatlons and disaster pre5nredness lie with the affected countries
and that the major part of the naterial assistance and human effort in
disaster relief comes from the Governments of those countriesr

Recognizing further the intrnrtance of the contribution of the
International Comnittee of the Red Cross, the League of Red Cross and kd
Crescent Societies and appropriate voluntary organizations,

Fc'oqnizing that, in order to attain an effective co-ordination system of
hunanitarian and disaster relief assistance, it is essential to strengthen and
improve the catrncity and effectiveness of the office of the united l,&ations
Disaster Flief Oo-ordinator and the united lfations system as a whole i.n order
to enable the offlce to restrnnd to natural disasters and other disaster
situations speediLyr efficientLy and effectively, thereby ensuring pronrpt
dellvery of concerned relief,
' Recognizing that a najor constraint on an effective response of the

Itnited lihtions to natural disasters and other disaster situations has been the
shortage ef resources,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General
on the work of the Office of the United Nations Disaster ReLief
Co-ordinabt !./ and of the statement made by the Co-ordinator before the
Second Committee on 2 llovenber L9821 !/

A/37/235.

See VC.2/37/sR.27.

v
v



v37/702/Add.r
English
Page 8

2- Te!sg--!q!g. of the progress nade by the Secretary-ceneral and the
Adninistraffiffittee on co-ordination in initiatlng iinprovements in the
management operations of the Office of the united lihtions Disaster Relief
Co-ordinator and in establishing modalities for the implementation of the
procedures, outlined in General Assembly resolution 36/225 and decision L982/L
of the Mninistrative Comnittee on Co-ordination, for deallng with requests
for disaster relief from a disaster-stricken State and for dealing with
complex disasters and emergencies of exceptional magnitude?

3. Teleg_-1qoge of the appreciation e:<pressed by the Goverrunents of Chad
and rcbanoilFEfiE-activities undertaken by the united Nations Disaster
Relief Co-ordinator in those two countries, and requests hin to continue his
action in response to needs as they arisel

4. Requestg the Secretary-General to facilitate, when neeesaary, rapid
aptrnintrnenfrFGporary staff lnd procurement of supplies by the unilea
Nations Disaster Relief O-ordinator in order to trnrmit a tlmely response to
requests for emergency assistancel

5. neSggsts the Secretary-General to raise the normal rnaxinum of
$301000 to-'j$5dl66-d', the additio-nal g20r0o0 to come from voluntad sJurcee, to
pernit the Ilnited I'llations Dlsaster Relief Co-ordinator to respond wlth grants
to reguests for emergency disaster asslstance up to a total of $6001000 in any
one year' with a normal ceiling of $501000 trnr country in the case of any one
disastert

6- Aqlhorigeg. the Secretary-General to pe'rmit the {Inited Nations
Disaster 6lfeflo-ordinator to nobilize additional voluntary resources to
meet the needs presented by complex disasters and emergencies of exceptional
magnitudel

7. Ilecides to rnaintain as frorn I January 1984 the Trust Rrnd of the
office of the lrnited liliations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator and its sub-accountsl

8. Re-Ltelgtes' in particular, the appeals made ln its resoLutions
35/Lo7an@iincieasedcontributionstotheTrustFundestab1ished
pursuant to its resolution 3243 (XXIX) r and modified under its resolution
3532 (XXX) and under paragraph Z abovel

9. gnlo!-qeq the measures taken by the Secretary-General and the
administraffiirnittee on co-ordination to inplemenl ceneral Assembly
resolution 36/225 and calls upon the Secretary-General., who will normally be
represented by the United liliations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator, to consult
with the concerned agencies of the utrited tilations system in order to develop
concerted relief progr.uunes as a basis for united appeals for funds to be
launched by the co-ordinator on beharf of the secretary-General'



al37/702/Md.L
English
page 9

10. Reiterates its desire further to strengthen and improve thecapauitity-6F61-3?rice of the tnritea luti"i"-oi.saster Retief @-ordinaror totake full advantage of inforrnation provided by existing early-warning systeros
and to co-ordinate, to the extent feasible and useful, all rerevantearlyrrarning systems, taking into account new technoiogical developments inthis fie1d, including corununicationsg

lL. urgeF all Governments and relevant organs and organizations to
co-operate with the United lilations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator and to improve
in particular their flow of inforrnation on retief assistance, actions andplansl

12. Calls upon the constituent organizations of the united t'16tions
system ana-EffiGlalized agencies, in order to eliminate wasteful
dupJ.ication of resources, to co-ordinater in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 3 of General Assenbly resolution 36/225, their efforts at all stagesof the response of the international cotununity to natural disasters and other
disaster situationst

13. Reaffirms its belief that the'strengthening and reinforcing of theoffice or EffiEEa Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordinator offers the nost
efficient and econqnic means of effectively co-ordinating the relief
activities of the ltnited lilations system as a whole in the interest of the
survivors of disasters, and requests the Secretary-General to assign a higherpriority to strengthening, preferably within the means at his distrnsall thefinancial and manpower resources of the Officel

. .14: Requests the Secretary-@neral to submit a comprehensive report onthe implementation of @neral Assembly resolution 36/225r incLuding a report
on the inplernentation of the present resolution, to the Assenbty at its
thirty-eighth session, through the Economic and Social CounciL at its second
regular session of 1983.




