












































AUNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/37/67g/Pd,d.L
15 December 1982

ORIGIIIIAL: ENGLISH

Th irty-seventh session
Agenda item 12

REPOST OF THE EC1ONOMIC AND SCIAL CI]UICIL

Report of the Second Oornnittee (Part II)*

Rapporteurt Mr. Stoyan BAKAIOV (Bulgaria)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The Second Committee held a substantive debate on agenda item 12 (see
P{37/67g, Para. 3). The Second Oonmittee continued its consideration of the
agenda itern at its 33rd, 42Jrdr 46th and 47th rneetings, on 12 and 19 Novernber and
2 and 8 Decenber Lg82, an account of which is contained in the reLevant surunary
records (see A,/C.2/37/8R.33, 42, 46 and 47) .

II. @NSIDERATION OF PROPSAI.S

2. The Comnittee had before it a note by the Secretariat (VC'2/37/}','21 ,
containing ttre text of &onomic and Socia] Council resolution D82/65 B of
30 July tigZ, entitl-ed "Activities of the Economic Connission for Africar
derrcgraphic data collection and analysis". In ttrat resoLution, the Oouncil decided
to transmit to the General- Assenbly for consideration the followirg textc

A.

"@
'1. Requests the Secretary-General

S<ecutive Director of ttre United l€tions
take the necessarY measures to alleviate
for ttre regional trnpuJ.ation Progranmet

of the United Nations and the
Fund for PoPulation Activities to
the current reduction in resources

* The report of the Comnittee on this iten will be issued in two parts.

82-37022 0752c (E)



A/37/679/Nd.L
English
Page 2

t2. 
P34!9g to allocate the necessary infrastructure posts to the

&onoluic Comnission for Afrlca to enable it to meet its increased
responsibilities in the field of population.'

3. A statement by the SecretaryGeneral on the adrninistrative and financial
inplications of the draft transmitted by the Economic and Social council was
circulated in docunent A,/C. 2/37 /L.30.
4. At its 45ttr meeti.ng, on 2 Decemberr the Conmittee considered a draf,t
resoLution lA/C.2/37/L.L02l entitled trbpulation activities in the regional
comnissionsr, submitted by Mr. Qazi shaukat Fareedl vice-Chalrman of the Corunitteeron the basis of informal consultations on the draft contained in document A/C,2fiu.2.
5. At the sarc meeting, the comnittee adopted draft resolution A,/c.2/37/r..Loz
(see lnra. 30, draft resoLution f) .

B- Dr.ef} rgqolutions contained in docunents vc.2/32./L.3 and
NC.2/37/L.65 and Rev.L

6- The corunlttee had before it a note by the secretariat (Vc. z/37/L.31 .containing the text of a draft resolution entitled nProtectlon against harmful or
Stotentially harmful productstr transrnitted to the @neral Assembly at itsthirty-swenth session session for consideration pursuant to Econonic and $cialcouncil decision L982/L8o of 30 July 1982. The draft resolution read as follonsr

'The Ceneral Assernbly,

"considerig. the profoundr widespread and often irreparable danage that
continues to be caused by some manufactured products, in particular
foodstuffsl pharmaceuticals, pesticides, clothing and slmthetic packaging, to
the people of ttre derreloping countriesl

'9ggi€E!g, that many of these products continue to be exported to
doreloping countries despite the fact ttrat, owing to tieir harmfulness orpotential harmfulnessr their consumption, use and/or sale have been prohibited
in the producing cotrntryl

"congiderig. that many developing countries lack the necessary expertiseto keep up with deveJ.opments in this field,

'Cogtir.ng of the fact that alnpst all these products are rnanufactured
and exported by corPorations that have their main ieat of business in alimited nunber of industrialized counEries,

_ ltn p$suglgg of Ebonomic and Social Council resolution i9}1/62 of23 July U,8I,



N37/67g/Pd'd.L
English
Page 3

"I. Urqes all countries ttrat have prohibited the consumptionr user
and,/or sale of, harnful or potentially harmful products to ensure that these
are not produced or extrrorted by corporations or individuals t}rat have ttreir
main seat of business in their territoryl o! 6r€ otherwise liable to their
j urisdictiont

12. Requests the Sccretary-@neral to continue to ensure the provision
of the necessary assistance by ttre ttnited lilations to strengthen the national
capacities of developlrg countries in protecting themselves from the
consumption and use of harmful or ;ntentially harmful Productst

'3. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare and regularly update a
consolidated llst of products whose consumptionr use and,/or sale have been
prohibited by national Governments or challenged by auttroritative
institutions, and to nake that list available to Governments. tr

7. At the 42nd rneetirg, on 19 November, the representative of Venezuelar on
behalf of A1geria, Argentinae Bangladesh, 9gpg, Etttiopiar Gtryanqr Hond\rrqs, Indiae
fran (fslamic Cepublic of) r Nigeria, Pakistan, Senegal, the Sudan, Tu+isial
Trinidad and Sobagor llganda and Venezue.Ig, introduced a draft resolution
(NC.2/37/L.65') entitled oProtection against banned, severely restricted and
non-approved productsa, which read as folLowsr

"?he General Assernblv,

"3ggg that the production and exp,ort of banned and severly restricted
productsl includlng foodstuffsl 5*rarmaceuticals' pesticides, consumer products
and industrial chemicals and wastes, endanger public healttt and the
environment,

"@thattheproductionandexportofnon-appnovedproducts
normalty suU3ect to government approval in ttre producer country often endanger
public health and the environrnentr

"Congl&gilg that many of these products continue to be exported to other
countriesr especially to developing countriesr despite the fact that their
consumption, use anVor sale have been either banned, severely restricted or
not approved in the producer country,

'Congi$Illg that many developing countries lack the necessary
infornation ana expertise to keep up with developments in this fieldr

"Congig@, the need for countries that have banned the domestic
consumption, uJe and,/or sale of such products to cease the manufacture of
these products for export to other countriesr

"Considering the need for countries ttrat have severely restricted or not
approved the consumpt,ion, use anVor sale of such products to provide the
necessary information and assistance to permit the importing countries to
adequately control and regulate their consurnption use and,/or sale,

/...



A/37/67e/4dld.L
English
Page 4

"cogniSan! of the fact that alnost all of these products are presently
manufactured and exported from a llmited number of countries,

"tkitrg into account that the primary responsibility for consumerprotection rests with each Stater

"Reca$lEg its resolution 36n66 of 15 December 1982 and acting in
pursuance of Economic and Social Oouncil resolution L98l/62 of 23.fufy U)gI,

'1. Agrees that all countries that have bannedz severely restricted ornot approved the domestic consumption, use and/ot sale of products which
endanger public healttr and the environment should ensure that these products
are neittter produced nor exported by corporations or individuaLs subject totheir jurisdictionl

n2.@thatexceptiona1ty,theseproductsshou].donIybe
produced 

"nd 
e"portea at the reguest of the intrnrting countryl

!r3' 
Wsts,, to this end, all countries that have bannedr severelyrestrictea-or not approrred the consumption, use and/or sale of such productsto subject their export to export liclnses, to be granted only witl theprevious written consent of the inporting country,

n4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to ensure the provisionof ttre necessary inforrnation and assistance by the tfrrited trlations in order tostrengthen the national capacities of developing countries to protect
themselves from the consumption, use andr/or sale of bannedr severelyrestricted or norapproved products;

'5. Requests the SecretarlnGenerall based upon the work already being
doner to Prepare and regularly update a consolidated list of products wtrose
consumptionr use andr/or sale have been banned, severely restricted or not
aptrroved by Goverrunents, and to make this list available as earry as possibrel
and in any case, not Later than Decenlcer l9g3f

'5' Agrees that the consolidated list referred to in paragraph 5 should
be easy to read and understandable and contain both generic and brand-names inan alphabetical order, as well as the nanes of the manufacturers and referenceto the grounds and decisions taken by Governments ttrat have led to the banningor severe restriction of suctr products,

u7. l@sts Governments and relevant organs, organizations and bodiesof the unrE-iiTlons system to provide alr the information and assistance
necessary for the prompt and effective fulfillment of the task entrusted tothe Secre tary-General. "

8' A statement,by the Secretary-GeneraI on the administrative and financialimprications of draft resorution A/c.2/37/L.65 nas.circulated in
docunent At/C. 2/ 37 /L. 99,



9. At the 47th meetingr on

N37/67e/}d,d.L
English
Page 5

g Ecedcerr the representative of Venezuelar on behalf
of Algeria, .@!!g, Colombla, Cubar E!!igg!g, Ghanar Sg.@,

rblic of l, Nicaragua, -!@ig,, Pakistan, SaudiHonduras' I34!$., Ig
Arabia, Senegal, the Sudan, Trinidad and Tobagor Sggiglge lJsanda, Venezuela,
Viet Narn and gig!g@, introduced a revised draft resolution lA/C.2/37/L.65/Rev.Ll
entitled rProtectLon against products harnful to healttr and the environmento.

lO. The representative of ttre ttnited States of Anerica protrnsed an amendment to
deletee in operative paragraph 41 the worde tto the maximum extent possible". The
representative of Venezuela made a statement.

1I. At the sane meetingr the Comnittee voted on draft resolution
A/c.2/37/L.65,/Rev.1 and on the amendment ttrereto as folLowsr

(a) The anendment was rejected by 111 votes to 8, with 10 abstentionsl

(b) The draft resolution was adopted by a recorded vote of I32 to L
(see 1nra. 30, draft resolution II). The voting was as follons; !

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Ango1a, Argentina, Australia,
Austriar Bahrainr Bangladeshr Barbadosr Belgiumr Beninr Bhutanz
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazilr Bulgariar Burma, Burundir Byelorussian
Soviet SociaList Republic, Canadar Cape Verder Central African
Republic, Chad, Chiler Chinar Colonlciar Comoros, Congo, Costa
Ricar Cubae Czechoslovakiar Denocratic Yernenr Denmark, Dj iboutir
Doninican kpublic, Ecuador, EgyPt, Ethiopiar Fiji' Finlandl
Francer Gabonr Ganbiar German Denocratic Republicr GermanyT
Federal Repubtic of, Ghana, Greece, GraternaLar Qtyanar Hondurasl
Hurgary, Iceland, Indiae Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic of) r
Irag, Ireland, Israelr ltaly, Ivory Coast, Jamaicar Japanr Jordanr
Kenyae Kuwaitr Iao PeopJ.ers Dernocratic Republicr Iesotho, Liberiar
Libyan Arab Janrahiriyar Irrxenbourg, t{adagascar, l{alawi' lrblaysia2
Maldives, Malir Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, llongoliar Morocco,
lbzanbiguel hPal, l€ttrerlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeriar
lbrwayr Onanr Pakistanl Panama, Papua New Guinear Perue
Philippinesr Poland, Portugalr Qatar, bmaniar Rrandar Saudi
Arabiar Senegalr Sierra I€one, Singapore, Sonaliar Spainr Sri
Iankar Sudan, Surinamer Snaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab hpublicr
Thailandr Togo' Trinidad and lobagor Tunisiar Turkeyr Ugandar
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist bEublicr tlnion of Sorriet Socialist
Republicsr United Arab Enirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Irelandr tlrited &public of Cameroon, united Republic
of Tanzaniar Up[nr Voltar Uruguay, Venezuelar Viet Nam, Yement
YugosLavia, Zairel Zambia, Zinbatxpe.

UniEed States of Anerica.Against:

y The delegation of Guinea subsequently indicated thatr
at ttre time of tlre voting, it would have voted in favour of the
resolution.

had it been present
revised draft



A/37/679/Md.L
English
Page 6

n' After the adoptlon of the draft resoLution, statenents were rnade by the
representatives of Bulgaria (also on betralf of ttre Byelorussian Sorrlet SocialistRepublic' Czecfioslorrakiar the Gernan Derrccratlc Republicr Hungaryr lbngollar
Polandr the tlkrainian Soviet Socialist &public and the ttrrion of Sorrlet SoclalistRepublics), the united states of anerlcal Grlnea and venezuela.

C. Draf t resolution A/C.2/37,/L.19
13' At the 33rd meeting, on 12 Noveruber, the representative of Bangladeshr
on behalf of the states l&dcers of ttre llnited Nations that are merlbere of ttre
Group of 77t introduced a draft resolutton (A/c.2/37fi..Lg, entltled .Flnanclng of
the ltuItinational Programning and operatlonal Centres of the Economlc comissionfor Mrica on an established basiEr.
14. A statement by the secretary-Gneral on the admlnlstrative and financial
implications of ttre draft resolution nas circulated in document A/C.2/37/L.66.
15' At the 47th meeting, on 8 Deccenber, staterentg were nade before the vote bythe representatives of Bangladesh (on behalf of ttre States tGr6ers of the unitedNations that are members of the Group of 771 and ttre Unlted states of anerica.
L6. At the same lreeting ttre Comnittee adopted draft resolutlon A/C.2/37/L.Lgby a recorded vote of 98 to 14r wlth 16 aU-stentions (see 5nra. 30r draftresolution III). The voting naE aa folLowss !/

In favour: Algeriar Angolaz Argentinae Bahrain, Bangladeshr Barbados, Beninr
Bhutan, Bolivar Botswanar Brazlrr Burma, Burundil cape verde,
central Af,rican Repubricl chadr chirer china, colombiar conoros,
congol costa R:icae cubar Delpsatic yenenl Djibouti, bminican
Repubricl Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopiar Gabonr Ganbiar Ghanar Greecer
Guatemala' Qryanal rndiar rndonesia, rran (rslanic &publlc of ),rragr rvory coastl ilanaicar ilordanr Kenyar Kuwait, rao peoprers
Derccratic Retrublic, resotlro, r,iberia, r,ibyan Arab ilarnahiriya,
!,ladagascarr Malawir Malaysiar Maldives2 Mali1 Ualtar Uauritania,l&xico, I{orocco, tbzal$ique, t€pal, Niger, Nlgerial Onanr
Pakistane Panana, papua lrbw Guineae perue philippinesr eatarr
Romania, Rranda, saudi Arabiar senegall sierra reone, slngapore'
Sonaliae Sri Lankar Sudanr Surlnaner Swaziland, Syrian Ar;t
RepubJ.lc, rtrailand, Tbgol Trinidad and rlrbago, Tunisla, Turkeyl
ttsandar united Arab Eniratesr unlted Republic of caneroon, unlted
RepubJ-ic of Tanzanial upper voltar urug.uayl Venezuela, viet thn,
Yernenr Yugoslaviar Zairer Zanblar Zinbabwe.

2/ The representative of the tGtherrands stated that his
abstained but tiat the voting rnactrine had not reccirded lt. The
Guinea subsequently indicated thatr had it been present at the
it would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

delegation had
delegation of

time of the voting,



lgqis*s

N37/679/}d'd.L
English
Page 7

Belgiun, Brrlgariar Byelorussian Soviet Sociallst FPublic,
Czectroslovakia, Francer @rmany, Federal Republic ofl Hungaryr
ilatrnnl Iuxel$ourg, Foland, [krainian Sorrlet Socia].ist Fptblic,
Unlon of Soviet Sociatist Republicsr United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Island, tfrrited states of America.

Abstainimt Afghanistanr Agstraliar Austriar Canadar Denrnark' FinLandr German
Detpcratic bprblic, Iceland, Ireland, Israelr Italy, New
Zealandr llorwayl Fortugalr Strnln, Sneden.

17. After tlre adoptlon of ttre draf t resolutlonr gtatements were raade by the
representatives of Bulgaria (also on behalf of, the Byelorusslan Soviet Socialist
Reptrbltcr Czectroslovakiar the Gernan Derpcratic Fgrblic, HungarTr Polandr the
Ukiainian Soviet Sociallst Republic and the tlnion of Sovlet Socialist RePubllcs) r
the llettrerlands, ilatrnnl Canadar France and Qrinea.

D. Draf t resolutlon A/C.2./374,.20

L8. At the 33rd neetingr on 12 Novenberr the representative of Bangladeshr on
betralf of ttre States lb$ers of ttre ttrrited t€tions that are merdcers of the
Group of 7'l t introduced a draft resolution lV9.2/3?fi'.20, entitled 'Special
measures for t*re social and economlc develotrment of Afrlca in ttre 1980s".

19. At the 4?th neetlngr on I Decenber, the Chairrnan inforrned the Connittee thatr
in informal consultations held under t*re chairmanship of Mr. Qazi Shaukat Fareedr
Vice-Chairman of the Comitteer it had been agreed to revise the draft resolution
as followsr

(a) In ttre sixttr preanbular trnragraph, the word "gglg!f[' was replaced by
the words 'Igl}g]r

(b) In operative paragra[*r 3r the word "concrete" was deletedt

(c) In operatlve paragraph 4, ttre word 'rising' was replaced by the word
"sustainedo.

20. At the sarre meetingr the Corunittee adopted the draft resolutiotlr Es oral-Iy
revised (see Inra. 30, draft resoLution IV).

ZL. Af,ter the adoption of, the draft resolutlone staternents were made by the
representativeE of Denmark (on betralf of, ttre States nedrerg of the European
nclnornic Comglrnity), frinea and Bulgaria (also on behalf of the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republicr Czechoslorrakiar tlre Gernan Derncratic epubllcl Hungaryl
Poland, the Ukralnlan Soviet Sociallst Republic and the Uniop of Sovlet Sociallst
Republics) .

E. Draf t resolution A/9.2/37,/L.21

22. At the 33rd meetingr on 12 Novenberr the representatlve of Bangladeshr



A/37/679/Pdid.L
Engl ish
Page 8

on behalf of the States &tembers of the tlnited Nations that are mernbers of the
Group of 77 r introduced a draft resolution lA/C.2/37/L.2L) entitled oTraneport
and Comnunications Decade in Africai.

23. A statement by ttre Secretary-@neral on the adrninistrative and financial
implictions of the draft reso}ution wae clrculated in docunent A,/C.2/37/L.3L.

24. At the 47th neetingl on 8 December, the Chairrnan of tbe Corunittee informed the
Cornmittee that, in infornal consultations held under the chairrnanship of
Mr. Qazi Straukat Fareedr Vice-Chairman of the Comnittee, it had been agreed to
insertr in operative trnragratr*r 111 the words 'ugingr lnter aliae extrabudgetaryfunds and existing resources to the naximrn extent poEffi-i?ter the woids
"financing and other resourcesi.

25. E\rrtherr the Chairman of the Conunittee stated that the last sentence of
paragraph 3 of document A/C.2/37/L.31 should be revised to read as followss

"A special report (VC.5/37/L3| requesting an aplEopriation ln the arrcunt
of $5421400 for that purpose was subnitted to the Fifth Oonunittee. On tlre
basis of that report r and of the related report of the ACABQ G/37/7/Add.7, ,
the Fifth Cornrnitteer at its 30th neeting, on l0 rdorrenber 1982, reoornrnended an
additional aptrropriation of tf4g3rl00 under section 13 EcA of ttre prograrEre
budget for 1982-1983." (See A/C.2/37frR.{Z)

26. The representative of the proposed an amen&nent to
theoral1yreviseddraftreso].uffiewords"interalia"and.totlre
maxinun extent possible". The representative of Banrgraaes6l-oliGf,iu of the
sponsors, rnade a statement.

27- At the sarne meeting, the Cornnlttee voted on draft resoLution A/C.2/37fi..21r as
orally revisedr and the amendment ttreretol as follonsr

(a) The anendment was rejected by 1L0 votes to 8, wlth 1l abstentlons,
(b) The draft resolution was adopted by a recorded vote of 130 to 1

(see para. 30, draft resolution v) . Ttre voting wa€, as follor,rsr 3,/

In favour: Af,ghanistan, Algerial Angola, Argentina, Australiar Austria,
Bahraine Bangradesh, Barbadosr Belgium, Beninl Bhutanr Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgariaz Burmal Burundi, Byelorussian Sorriet
sociarist Republic, canadar cape verder central Af,rican Republicr
Chad, Chiler China, Colonbiar Oomorosl Congo, Costa Ricae Cuba,
Czechoslovakiar Derrccratic Yenen, Dennark, Djiboutlr Doninican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Etlriopiar Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
Ganbiar German Denrccratic Repubric, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghanar Greece, G:atenala, Qryana, Honduras, Hungary, IceLand,

2/ The delegation of Gulnea subsequently indicated thatr had it been present
at the time of t*re votirg' it would have voted in favour of ttre draft resolutl.on,
as orally revised.

/...



SsSs:

A/37/679/?d,d.L
EngJ.ish
Page 9

Indiar Indonesia, Iran (IsLanic b$tblic of)r Iragr lreJ.and,
Israelr Italy, Ivory Coastz ilanaica, ilapanl Jordanl Kenyal
Krrwait, Iao Peoplers Dermcratic Ffub}icr Lesotho, Liberiar
Libyan Arab ilanahiriyal Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malayslar
Mal.dlves, Mali, l{altar l{aurltania, lbxico, l.lorocco, l,bzardcigue,
NePalr Netherlandse lifew Zealande Nigerl Nigerial Nornayr Qtanr
Pakistan, Panamar Papua New Grinear Perur Philippinesr PoJ.and,
Portugalr Qatarr Ronaniae Rwandae Saudi Arabiar Senegale Sierra
I€one, Singapore, Somaliar Slninl Sri Lankar $rdanl Surinamer
Swazilandr Swedenr Syrian Arab Republicr Thailand, sogo, ?rinidad
and Iobago, l\:nisia, Turkey, tlganda, Iftrainian Soviet Socialist
Republicr Unlon of Soviet Sociat ist Republlcsr United Arab
Eniratesr tlrited Kingdorn of Great Britain and Northern IreLand,
United Republic of Caneroon, United lrepubllc of Tanzaniar UpPer
Volta2 Uruguayl Venezuel.a, Viet t'iliarn, Ienenl tfirgosJ.aviar Zairer
Zarnlciar Zirnbatxre.

United States of America.

28. After the adoption of the draft resoLutiohl i8 oral.J.y revisedr gtaternents were
nade by the representatives of Zirdcabwer Guinear Gabonr the United States and
Bulgaria (also on behalf of the Byelorussian Sorriet Socialist bptblicr
Czedroslovaklar the German Dermcratic Republicr Hungaryl Polandr the ukrainlan
Sorriet Socialist Republic and the Union of Sorriet Soclalist &Eublics).

F. Draft decision

29. At the 4?th neetingl on 8 Decembere on the pro;nsal of the Chalrmanr the
Ooruaittee Oeciaea to reconmend l*rat the GeneraL Asser&J.y shouJ.d take note of the
report of the Secretary-General of the Internatlonal Teleconmunication Union
lV37/232) (see. para. 31).

III. RE@IIO{ENDATIO!{S OF THE SE@ND @IO{ITIEE

30. The Second Oolunittee recoilnends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutionsr



A/37/67e/pd.d.r
English
Page 10

DRAFT RESOT,UTDN I

bpulation activities in ttre reqional aomnlssions

The General Assemblyr

1. Takes note of decision 8O/44 of 27 ilune 1980 of the @verning Council of
the ttrrited t{ations DerzeJ.ognent Prograrmre on agency support costsl !/ artd of
decision 82/20 of 18 ilune 1982, !/ section I, paragratr*r 3, ln whictr the Council
endorsed the guidelines for the approrral of new and continuing intercountry
projects that' inter alia, called for the diecontinuatlon by the tlnited Nations
Fund for Fopulation Activities of infrastructural support to its project-executing
agencies, including the regionaL connissions,

2. Requests the Secretary-Generalr in consultation with tbe executive
secretaries of the regional comuissions, to consider the lnclusion in the draft
progranune budget for the biennium f984-1985 of lrolnoals on mdalities for the
continuation of activities in the field of populai:lon at the regional level.

DRAFT RESOII}TIDN II

Protection against products harrnful to health and the environnent

The General Assenbly,

Aware of the damage to heall*r and the environnent that the continued
production and export of products ttrat have been banned anVor pernanently
withdrawn on grounds of hunan health and eafety fron donestlc narkets is causing in
the irnporting countriesr

Aware that sorne productsl alttrough they present a certain usefulness in
specific cases artd/ot under certain conditionsr have been severeJ.y restricted in
their consumption an{/or sale owing to their toxic effects on healttr and the
envirormentt

Aware of the harn to health being caused ln intrnrting countries by the exSnrt
of trharmaceutical products ultinateLy intended also for c-onsumption anVor sale in
the horne market of the e4)orting country, but whictr bave not yet been approved
there r

Considerim that many developing countries lack the necessary infornatlon and
expertise to keep up with dwelopments in this fieldr

!/ See Official Records of the
Supplement lib. 12 (E/L980/42/Rev.Ll t

y lbid. r 1982, Supplenent No. 6 (E/L982/L57trev.l) 1 6nDGX I.



a37/679/}d.d.L
English
Page 11

Considerinq tlre need for countries that have been exporting the
above-mentioned products to rnake availab!.e the necessary information and assistance
to enable ttre imlorting countries to adeguately protect thenselves,

Cognizant of the fact
manufactured and exPorted

Taking into account that the prirnary responsiblllty for consuner protection
rests with each stater

RecaUlng its resoLution 36/L66 of 16 Decenber 1981 and the report on
'Transnational corporations in tire flrarnaceutical industry of the developing
countries", g/ and acting in pursuance of Econornic and Soclal Council resolution
L98V62 of 23 iIuJ.Y 1981r

Bearing in mind in this context the work of the I'lood and Agriculture
organization of 6Z-rr,it"d Natiqrs, the World ltealth organizationr the InternationaL
f.abour Organisationr the United l{ations Ervironnent PrograruneT the General
Agreement on tariffs and Trader the Centre on Transnational Corporations and other
relevant intergoverrunental organizationsr

1. Agrees ttrat products that hdve been banned frorn domestlc consumption
and/or sale becjuse Urey have been judged to endanger health and the environrnent
shouLd be sold abroad Uy cqnpaniesr-coiporations or individuals only when a request
for suctt products is received fron an intrnrting country or when the consumption of
such products is officially permitted in the inporting country,

2. Agrees that aLl countries ttrat have severely restricted or have not
approved the domestic consumption anVor sale of specific productse in particular
pharmaceuticals and pesticides, should make avaitaLte ful1 information on these
products with'a view to safeguardlng ttre healttr and environnent of ttre importing
country, including clear faUlftng in a language acceptable to the intrnrting countryt

3. Requests the SecretaryGeneral to continue to ensure,tl1e prorrision of the
necessary ineofii[ion and assistance by the ttrrited lNatlons system in order to
strengthen ttre national calncities of beveloping countries to protect themselves
fron the consumption anVoi sale of bannedr withdrawnT severeJ'y restrtcted andl in
the case of pharnaceuticaLs, non-aPprorred productst

4. Requests the Secretary-Generalr -based upon the lork al'ready 
being done

witlrin the ruoaTd Agriculture organization of the ltrrited t€tionsr ttre WorLd
Ilealth Organization, the InternationaL labour Organieationr the United Nations
Environment Prograrune, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trader tJre tlnited
Nations centre on Transnational Corporations and otler relevant intergovernnental
organizations, to ttre rnaxirmrm extenl gnssible wit*rin existing resources' to PrePare
and regularly upilate a consolidated list of products whose consumption anVor saLe
have been bannedr withdraw1r 3€v€t€1y restrlcted or, ln t'he case of pharnaceuticalse

that alttpst aI1 of these products are at present
from a liruited nurnlcer of countriesr

9/ E/C.LO/85.



A/37/679/Add.L
English
Page 12

not apSxoved by Governnents, and to make this list available as early as possi.bleandl in any caser Dot later tian Decenber t9g3,
5' Aqrees that the consolidated llst referred to in lnragraph 4 should beeasy to read and understand and should contain both genericTcnemrcal and brandnanes in an a\*rabeti.cal ordere as well as the nanes of all manufacturers and ashort reference to the grounds and decisions taken by Governnents ttrat have led tothe bannirrlr wittrdrawal or severe restriction of suctr products,
6' oecidegr on the basis of the above-agreed criterial to keep under review..:Ene rormaE of the consolidated List wittr a view to its lnssible iqx-vernentl
7-' Requests Gorrernments and relevant organs, organizations and bodies of, theunited Nations systen to provide all the inforlnatlon and assistance necessary forthe pronpt and effective fulfilrnent of tie task entrusted to ttre secretary-Genera1.

DRAFT RESOI.UTDN III

The General Assenb1yl

_ 
Recallinq its resolutions 32/Lg7 of 20 Decernber 1977 and 33/2o2 of29 January 1979 on the restructuring of ttre economic and social sectors of ttreunited Nations systen' in particular the designation therein of the regiona!.cormissions as' l!*L+l+, the nain general iconomic and social developmentcentres witbin the united lflations systen for their respective regions, havingresponsibility for the protrction of subregionar ana relionar co{per.ii"ir- 

--

. Bearing in mind resoLutioyr 311 (xrrr) of I March Lg?7 of the conference ofMinisters of the Economic oormission for Africal J/ by which ttre conferenceestabrished the Multinationar Progranning and operationar centres to fostersectoraL and subregionaL integration,
Reoggni?im the prominent role given to subregional and regional economicintegratlon in the r,agos Plan of Action for the rnplementation of the lbnroviastrategy for the Economic Developnent of Africa g./ as a neans towards aetrievingestablishment of an African economic conununitv bI the year zooo,

l/ See OfficiaL Records the Ec c and 1 Counc
session' supprerrent No. i @

the

9/ A/S-LV14r annex I.
I, part three.



A/37/67g/Fd.d.L
English
Page 13

Recocnizinq also that the !tultinational Progranming and Operational Centres
constitute at tnffar part of the Econonlc Comnission for Africar through whidt
ttre Comnission effectiveJ.y carries out astrncts of its mandater as set forth in its
terms of refererlee, 2/ attd tt"t they serve as the prircipl mechanisn of the
Corunisslon for foste?ing economic and tec*rnicaL co-operation at the subregional
level in Africar

Recalling also its resolutions 35/64 of 5 Decenber 1980 and 36,/180 of
12 Ecerdcer 198IJn special measures for ttre social and economic deveLopnent of
Africa in the 1980sr

Recalling further its resolution 36/L78 of 1? Decenber 1981r in whictt it
invited the secrEiary.-Genera1 to subnit a report on the financing of !tuItinational
programning and qrerltional Centres on an estabLished basis and Econonic and Soclal
Council resolution Lg82/62 of 30 iluly 1982 on the same subjectl

Taking into account the views, expressed by the Conference of Ministers of the
Economic Corunission for Africa in its iesolution 450 (XVII) of 30 April L982 LOi/ on
the need to correct the present situation regardlng the inadequacy of the hurnan and
financial resources available to ttre Centres for regular budget and operational
actlvitiesT is a result of whictr tlreir very existence ls threatenedr

Bearing in mind tJle action already taken by tlre Erecutlve Secretary of the
pconffiorAfricatoin1rovetheresourcesituationofthe
ltuItlnational Progranuning and Operational Centres'

Having considered the re5nrt of the secretary-General on the financing of the
Multinationat pffiffiing and operational centres of t}te Economic comnission for
Irfrica on an established basisr IV prepared pursuant to its resolutlon 36/L7 8r and
having exanined, in particular, trraragralhs 47 to 49 of that reportr

I. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on
the financing omrarnming and oPerationaL centres of the
Econonic Comnission for Africa on an established basisl

2. tileLcomes ttre decision of ttre Governing Council of ttre tfirited llations
f,i,evelopment trogranrne at its twenty.-ninth sessionr in whictr the Council :equested
ttre Administrator to continue to piovide financial sup5nrt to ttre five !&rltinational
piogriruning and operational Centris durirg the whole of the ttrlrd programning
clgcl.e' 1982-1986t W

2/ E/of .I4l.IVRev.8.
y./ See Of ficial necords of the Ebonomic and Social Councllr 1982r

Supplement lib. 11 (E/L98U21), chaP. V.

Ly E/L982/70 and Corr.l.

y/ see offi Records of Economic
Supplenent No. 6 ( L982/L6/Rev.Ll t annex Ir decision 8 4Ar sect. IV.



A/37/67g/ldld.L
English
Page 14

3. Renews its call utrron other orftana, organizationE and bodies of the unitedt9tions systemr as well as intergwernnental and non-go\rernmenaL organizationsl togive their fullest financial and other suptrnrt to ttre activities 
"t'lte-lfultinational Programning and ogrerational centres of ttre Ebonomic @nunission forAfrical

1. C.alls uPon the Secretary-(bneral to further explore ways and means ofensuring substantial increases in contributions frora extr.U,ragetary sources,
including bllateral donors;

5. Ilakes note of the flnancial support beirg given to the MultinationaL
Progranuoing and OperationaL Centres by States nerdrers of the Ebonomic and SociaL
Corunisslon for Nrica through voluntary contributions to the United Nations Trust
E'und for African Denrelopment and tirough facilities of tlre host Government r 6hdurges themr where poEEibre, to lncreaEe suctr contrlbutionst

9. _ rytdorses the recorunendattons contained in trnragraphs 42 to 49 of ttrereport of the secretary-Gneral, whlctr call for ttre provision of the financlal
resourcea required from the regular budget, among otlrer sources, for funding the!firltinational Prograruling and operationll ientres on an established basis in orderto brlng abotrt ttreir lrunediate and effective inplementation.

DRAFT RESC.UTIDN IV

The General Assenbly,

Begallim its resolutlons 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-W) of I May Lg,tL.
containing the Eclaration and.the Progranune of Action on the Establishment of a
New rnternational Econornic orderr 3281 (xxrx) of L2 Decernber l9?A, contalnirg theCharter of Ebononic Rights and Drties of Statesr and 3362 (S-VII) ot
16 septernber U)?5 on developnent and international econonlc co-operationr

Becallinq also its resolution 35/56 of 5 [pcerser 1980, the annex to whictrcontains ttre rnternatlonal Developrnent strategy for ttre Third unlted litiations
Dwelopment Ecader

_ Recalling also lts resolutlons 35/64 of 5 Decenlcer 1980 and 36,/lg0 of,
17 Decedrer 1981 concerning the adoption of a wide range of sSncial measures forthe social and econonic develotrxnent of Africa in the tigos,

. .&cgllinq fgrther lts resolutlons 3S/eS B of 5 Ecer&er 1980 and 36/LgZ,section rr, of 17 December U)81 on the IndustriaL Develotrxnent Decade for Africar36/n7 of 17 bcenber 1981 on the Transport and coununications Decade in Africa and36/L86 of 17 Deeenber I98I on ttre situation of food and agriculture i.n Africar



v37/67g/!d.d.L
English
Page 15

Deep1v concerned at the continuing low level of econoruic actlvities in Africa
and the devastating effects of the current world economic crisls on the
particularly vulnerable econonies of the countries ln t*re region ttrat has the
largest nunber of the least developed countriesl

h:Ilv aware ttrat ttre Iagos PIan of Action for ttre Implenentation of ttre
Monrovia Strategy for ttre Economic Development of Af,rica -I3,/ provides a franeworkof priority actions for actrieving the rapid over-all econonic and eoclal detrelotrrnent
of Africar as reiterated in the Declaratlon of Tri5n11 adopted by the Conference of
Ministers of t}re Economic Comnission for Africa on 30 Aprll L982, !9/

Reognrizing the primary responsibility of the Af,rican countries for their
derrelopnent and the inportance of the rnobilizatlon of their nationaL resources for
the ir socio-economic development,

Convinced of the need for increased and sustained external resources in order
to achieve the aims and objectives of the Iagos Plan of Action for the
Implenentation of the lbnrovia strategy for ttre Econonlc Develotrment of Af,ricar

Recallinq also t.he interim report of t}re Secretary-General subrnitted to the
@neral Assembly at its thirty-sixttr session concerning special measures for ttre
social and economic developnent of Africa in the 1980Er whlctr indicated ttre
contributions planned by organsr organizations and bodies of the United Nations for
the implementation of the Iagos Plan of Action for ttre Irnplernentation of the
lbnrovia Strategy for the Economic Develotrrment of af,rica, 15/

tloting tlte report of tlre SecretaryGeneraL on possible contributicrs by
norFgovernnental organizations to the inplernentation of the l"agos Plan of Action
for the Implementation of the !,bnrovla Strategy for the Economic Development of
efrica, !Q./

I. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General
indicating the actions protrnsed by nongovernmental organizatlons for pronnting ttre
realization of the objectives of the Iagos Plan of Action for ttre Inplernentation of
tlre l,lonrorria Strategy for the Ebonomic DerreLopment of, Afrlcat

2. E<Iresses regret, honeverr that no coxq)rehensive report on the
progress nade in the funplementation of General Assenrbly resolution 36,/180 of
17 December l98I has been made available for the present session as requested in
the aforenentioned resolutionl

E/ See Vs-LVL4, annex r.
y./ See glEficial Records of the Ebonornic and Social Councilr 19821

Supplement No. Il (E/L982/21) r ctrap. IV.

ly F{36/5L3.

x./ E/Le82/80.

/...



A/37/67 9/Pd/d.L
EngJ. ish
Page 16

3. Renews its call upon the organE, organizations and bodies of the tlnited
t{ations system to examine neasures to increase the reaources for the execution of
the Progtramnes for the Industrial Developnent Decade for Africa and to apply the
special measures in a conprehensive and co-ordinated mannert

4. Urges donor countries to provide substantial and sustained leveLs of
resources for prormting the accelerated derrelopment of African countries and the
effective implenentation of the Lagos Plan of Action, and to contribute generously
to the lhited llations Trust Fund for African DerreLopnentt

5' Invites a1l international financial institutioosr particularly the
International Bank for Recqretructlon and Derrelopoent, the International Derrelopment
Agency and the International Rrnd for Agricultural Developmentr to continue to
consider actively increasing substantiatly t}reir derrelopment assistance to Africa
during the Decadet

6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to allocate the necessary
resources to the Economic Oorunission for Africar taking into account its role as
the main economic and social development centre within the United Nations system
for the African regionl in accordance with General Assenbly resolutions 32/L97 of
20 December 1977 and 33/202 of 29 January L979t

7. Further recuests the Secretary-General to submit to ttre General Assembly
at its thirty-eighth sessionr through the Econonic and Social Council at its second
regular session of 1983, a full report on the progress nade in the irnplementation
of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOU'TION V

Transport and Oomnunications Decade in Africa

The General Asserdclyr

Recalling its resolutigns 32/L6O of t9 December 7977, 33/L97 of 29 January 1929
and 34,/15 of 9 lforredcer 1979 on the Transport and Oonununications Decade in Africa
andr in trrarticular, its resolutions 35/LO8 of 5 December 1980 and 36/L77 of
17 Decedcer 1981, by which it approved the organization of consultative tec*rnlcal
meetings for the various African subregionsl

Recallinq also Econornic and Social Council resolutions L979/6L of
3 August L979t L98O/46 of 23 iluly 1980 and L98L/67 of 24 JuIy 1981 on the Transtrnrt
and Comnunications Decade in Africa and Council resolution 1982r/54 of 29 ilu1y L982,
in whictr the Council reguested the organization of a fifth consultative tecfinical
meeting for ttre countries of North Africa, East Africa and ttre lslands of the
Indian Ocean,



A/37/67 9/}d,d.L
English
Page 17

Recalling resolution 341 (XIv) adopted on 27 Marc*r 1979 by the Conference of
Ministers of, the Econonic Cornnission for Mricar !/ tn whictr the Conference urged
nedcer States to give high priority to the developnent of transtrrcrt and
cornmunications,

lbtinq resolution CM7tres.889 (X&(VII) on the Transport and Conmunications
Decade in Africa2 adopted by the Council of Mlnisters of ttre Organization of
Af,rican Unity at its thirty.-seventh ordinary sessionr held at ltairobi from
15 to 26 June 1981, Ig,/

Referrim to resolution 422 (XVI) adopted on I0 April 198I by the Conference
of Minlsters of the Econonic Comnission for Africa, W in which t}re Confer€DC€1
inter aliar requested the E<ecutive Secretarey of the Corunission to continue to
nonitor the progress in t*re inplementation of the programtre for ttre first tr*rase of
tbe tbcade2 to update ttre progranuuee to organize four consultative tectrnical
neetings and to undertake the preparation of the plan of action for the second
phase (1984-D88) of the Decader

Referring aLso to resolution 435 (XVII) adopted on 30 April 1982 by the
Conference of !{inisters of t}re Economic Comnission for Africar 29/ tn wtrich the
Conference requested the Drecutive Secretary to monitor the follorup to the first
four consultative technical meetings and reconrnended tiat a fifth meeting should be
organized for the countries of North Africar East Africa and the islands of the
Indian Oceanr

Considerim that sustained efforts should be made to mobilize additional
resources in order to ensure the inrplementation of ttre prograrune for the Decader

Conscious of the role whictr ttre Economic Cormnission for Africa plays as ttre
lead agency in t}te funSiementation of ttre Decade'

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-@neral on the Transport and
Comnunications Decade in Africa, fu/

2. lbtes with satisfaction that a neasure of progress has been made
concerning ttte implementation of tJre first tr*rase (1980-1983) of t}re Decader
irrcluding the encouraging results of the four consultative t,ectrnical meetings,

n/ See Official Reords of the Econornic and Social Council, 1979,
Suoplement No. 15 lE/L979/50'l r part tyro, sect. D.

ly *e N36/5341 annex I.

P/ See Official Records of the Econornic and Social Council, L981,
Supplement lilo. 14 |E/L98V54), chap. IV.

20/ , 1982, Supplement lb. II (t/L982/2]-) r chap. V.

z!/ A/37/2e5.



A/37/67 9/!d.d.L
EngI ish
Page 18

held at ton6 frorn 8 to 11 June U)8Ir Ouagadougou from 20 to 23 ilanuary 1982,
Yaoundd fron 15 to L7 l{arch U)82 and Abidjan from 3 to 5 l{ay L982t

3. lbtes with appreciation the contribution made by certain countries and
financial institutions towards the in5flementatlon of the progranune for the Decadel

4. Appeals to donor countriesr financing organs and various financial
institutions to increase Sreir financial eupport to the progralune for the Decade in
view of the fact that the total volurne of the resources tttus far rnobilized is well
below the amount required to finance ttre whole of the prograrme for the first phasel

5. Requests the E<ecutive Secretary of the &onomic Conmission for Africa to
organize, during t}re second half of I9g3r a fifth consultative technical meeting on
roads, naritine transport and ports for the countries of North Africar East Africa
and the islands of the Indian Oceant

6. Appeals once aqain to donor countries and financing institutions to
particitrnte fully and trnsitively in the flfth consultative tedrnical neetingl

7. Requests the E<ecutive Secretary of the Economic Conmission for Africa to
naintain good co-ordination between the financing sources and ttre African countries
in order to monitor the follorup to the four consultative tedtnical neetings by
closely assisting the countries in their contacts with donors and in formulating
and presenting their requests for flnancingt

8. Iolee the neasures taken by the Erecutive Secretary of the Economic
Commission for Africa with regard to ttre prelnration of the plan of action for the
second tr*rase (1984-L988) of the Decade and requests hin to submit a report on its
pretrnration, through the Economic and Social Council at its second regular session
of 1983, to ttre General Assenrbly at its ttrirty-eighth sessionl

9. hrrther notes the establishrnent of the Inter-Agency Co-ordinating
Conunittee, comprising ttre Organization of African hity, tlre African Development
Bankr the African Postal and Telecorununications Union, the Economic Connission
for Africa, ttre International- Telecorununication tlrniohr the Pan-African
Telecommunications Unione the ttnion of National Radio and Television Organizations
of Africa and ttre Uni.ted ttlations Educational, Scientific and Cu1tural Organizationr
with a view to harmonizing and coordinatlng studies for the prompt inplernentation
of the project on a regional sateLlite conmunication system for Africat

10. Reiterates its request to ttre &<ecutive Secretary of the Economic
Conunission for Africa to cqrtinue to intensify his efforts with a view to assisting
the Inter-Aglency Co-ordinating Connittee in the study on the regional satellite
corununication system for Africar and to give assistance Eo African States in the
full inplementation of the prograrune for the first phase of the Decadet



A/37/67e/Add.L
English
Page 19

1I. Requests tJre Secretary-@neral to provide the Econonic Comnission for
Af,ricar as the lead agency for the inplementation of the Decadel with the financiaL
and other resources using, inter alia, extrabudgetary funds and existing resources
to the maxinnrm extent possibler to enable it to hold ttre fifth consultative
technical lreeting, scheduled to be heLd in 1983, and to crrnplete tJre preparation of
the plan of action for the second ptrase of the Decadet

L2. Requests the Erecutive Secretary of the Ebonomlc Comnission for Africa to
continue to submit progress reports on the intrflementation of, the progranne for t]re
Transport and Oomnunications Ecade in Africat

13. Requests the Secretary-Genera1 to subrnit to ttre @neral A.ssembly at its
thirty-eighth session a report on the progress actrieved in the implenentation of
tlre present resolution.

*t*

31. The Seond Connittee also recorunends to the General Assembly the adoption of
the foLlowing draft decision:

Repott of the Secretary-C€neral of the International
Comnunication Union

The General Assedcly decides to take note of the note of the Secretary-General
transmitting the report of the SecretarlnGeneral of tlre International
Telecorununicatlon Unionr 4/ prepred in accordance wittr Assembly resolution 36/40
of 19 lloverdrer L981.

za A/37/232.


