








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly

@ Distr.
GENERATJ

v37/76r
15 Decernber 1982

ORIGINAL: ENGI,ISF

Th irty-seventh session
Agenda iten 1I3

I'NITED NATIONS PENSION SYSTEII{

I€port of the Fifth Cototrittee

Rapporleur: Mr. lbharned Adel EL SAEIY (EgyPt)

I. INTRODTEC ION

l. At its 4th plenary r0eeting, on 24 september 1982' the General Assenbly decided
to include in the agenda of its thlrty-seventh sesslon the item entitled:

rlhited Nations pens ion syEtem:

" (a) neport of the Unltd t{atlons Joint staff Pen6lon Boardt

"(b) Report of the secretary-ceneral n

and to allocate it to the Ftfth corulittee.

2. The Comnittee cons ideretl the item at its 45th, 48th, 51str 58th. 63ral and 67th
meetings, fro[ 30 !{ovenber to t3 December 1982. Cdments nacte by alelegations and
the representatives of the Secretary-Ceneral in the course of the discussion on
this itern are reflected ln the relevant eumnary records lvc.5/37 /sR.45 ' 

48, 51,
58, 63 and 67).

3. The corulittee had before it the followlng documents:

(a) Report of the ttn ited NationE alolnt Staff Pena ion Board for L982 t y
inclutling the report of the Board of Arditors on the accounts of the urited

anal Corr.1-3) .

82-37144 0444q (E)



A/37/7 6L
Eng 1i.sh
Page 2

Nations Joint Staff pension f\rnd for the year ended 3I December 19g1, and
containing a draft resolution proposed for adoptlon bt/ bhe ceneral Assembly?

(b) Report of the fnternatlo,naL Civil servLce Cormniss lon I !/
(c) Feport of the Secretary-ceneral on lnvestments of the United l,htiona

iloint Staff pension Fr d (rJC.S/37/L6l I
(d) Report of the Advisory Comnittee on Mminlstrative and Btdgetary

Questions lN37/674) |

(e) lbte by the Secretary-ceneral on the financial imp!.icattons of extendlngparticipation in the Uniced lilations Joint staff pension fu!!C to officiale other
than staff mernber s (N3.S/37/9O and Add.l).
4. the reporta of the Uni.ted litat ions Joint Staff pens ion Board and of the
Ilternational civil service comlrission ]rere lntroduced by the respective chairmen
at the 45th and 2Stl: meetings of the comtrittee, on 26 November and g tircvember
lA/c.s/31 /sR.45 and 29).

rf. @NsrDERATroN oF pRoposAr,s

5. In the course of its dellberations, the fifth cqmlttee considered one draft
resolution and tno draft decisions, as set forth below.

A. Draft resolution recomoen4€d by the ttnited NaEious .toint

6. At the 53rd neeting, on lO Decenber, Mr. Maycock, Vice-Chairman of the
Comnittee, following infornal consultations, introduced amendnents (A/C.5/37/L.4O)
to the draft resolution contained in annex XI to the report of the Uniteal tibtions.toint Staff Pension Board as follons:

(a) Replace op€rative paragraph 2 in section I with the following:
nRequests the International_ Civil Service Comlission, in co-operatlon

with the lrnited Nations iloint staff pension Board, to undertake the stuaty of a
uniform age of separation and of retirement in all nember organizatlons,
bearing in mind all the relevant resolutlons .bf the General Assenbly, and to
submlt proposals based thereon to the thlrty-eighth session of the lrn lted
Nations ceneral nssernblv. '

4 Ibid., suu)lenent Nr. 30 (1y'37/t}), chap. III.



N37/76L
English
Page 3

(b) nAdd the folloning Bections v and vI:

nvr

nTakes note of the vlews expressed bY the Board in paragraphs 24 an'l 25
ln sectlon III.A.2 (c) of its rePortt

,rv

'rTaking note of section F of the rePort of the lJnitedl l'latlons Jolnt
staff Pension Board concerning the absencl of effective measures for dealing
Wlrlt the flnancial obllgations of a pensloner to his or her spouse or former
spouse whicb, in sone cises, mlght glve rise to aerious hardshiP,

trRequests the Board to pursue the search for such measures alonq the
lines iffitetl- in Paragraph al oe tts report or by any other methods an'l to
report thereon at the thlrty-elghth eession of the General Assembly t

nAlso requests the bard to examine the effects of the dissolution of a
rnurrlagE6-Eiiif6is ' entltlementa ' together 

uith the possibllity of
granting such benefits to spouses whose marrlage rras iontracted after the
service of a particlpant had ceasedr and to rePort thereon to the General
Assenbly not later than at lta thlrty-ninth sessioni

rtr\rrther requests the Board in fornulatlng progosals uith regard to the

"booe, 
6-EEiI-ltt ^ind 

that these stroultl have no financial ixipllcatlons for
the Fund.

"Request:. member organizationa of the Ftrnd to furnish to the Boar'l
wi thoutE-lay lnformation regarding exclusions of nembers of thelr staff from
participation in the [\:nd'

iRequests the Board, in the Light of euch information, to subnit
proposaGG-S? thirty-eighth session of ttre ceneral Assexnbly for rerpving
the excluslon provision fron artlcle 2L of the Regulatlons of the Eund'"

7. At the 6?th meeting r on 13 December r the vlce-Chairman lntroduced a revlsed
amendment (Vc.5/37 /L.AOlRev. t) which would aaLl the folJ.owing at the en'l of
operative paragraph 3 in sectlon I:

nwith the except ion of the proposed aupPlementary article B whlch should be
further studiett by the Boaril ln the llght of the conmenta of the Mvisory
comrittee ln paragraph 2? of its tepE'r:- le/37 /6?4 ) ' 

t.'lth a report thereon to
be subtritted to the General Assenbly at its thirty-eighbh sessiont"

partlcipating in the Fund



A,/3't /76L
&rglish
Page 4

l' ..AE the same meetihg, the comtrittee voted on the atraft resolution recomnendedby the Board and on the amendnents thereto, as follolrsr
(a) ltre anendment to operative paragraph 3 in section f @/C.5/37 /L.4olRev. L,para.z) lra€ rejected by a vote of 31 Lo ff, wftn 24 abstentlon€,
(b) rhe connlttee ailopted, without a vote, the additlon of sectlons v anal vrin the anendrnen* lly'c.s/37/r,.40/rev.L, para. fj and the revised operaeive

ParagraPh 2 (pl9.5/37 /L.4 O,/Rev.l, para. I) as further orally anen{ed b!, therepresentativea of Kenya and chana as followsr

"Request€ the International civil S€rvice Cotnnission, ln co-operation
with the Irn ited l{ations Joint staff pensltrr Board, to undertake the stual]r ofthe age of Eeparation and of retirenent in all m€rnber organizations, bearlngin nind aU the relevant resolutions of the ceneral Aesenbly, together tdith
the viewe expressed in the Flfth Corunittee and to submlt proposals based
thereon to the thirty-elghth session of the unitd l{ationl clneral Assenbly. r

(c) l1'e akaft reaolution contained in annex xr of the report of the Board(N37/9r, as amended, as a whole, wae adopted by 85 totes to 1, with 15 abstentlons
(see para. 12).

?. At the 67th neeting, on 13 lEcenber, the Conu.i.ttee also decided to recomtrendtransltlonal measures nith respect to offictal€ currently serving as nenbers of theiloint Inspection tnit (see para. 131 draft decision I).

C. Draet. decision VC.t/37/L.4L

10. .lt the 63rd meeting, on 10 IEcenber, Mr. litaycock, vice-chairn0an of theConunittee, followlng informal congultations, inuoaucea a draft decision
(Vc.5/37 /L.41) .

ll: .11-l!".9?th neeting, on t3 December, the comlttee adopred draft dectsionryw.r/Jt/tJ.+L nlEhout a vote (see para. 13, dlraft decision If).

III. RECO!,IMENDATIONS OF TEE FIFTE COUUIT?EE

L2' The Fifth comnittee recdrtrnenda to the ceneral Assenbly the adoption of thefollowing draft reeolution:

!l Transicional oeasures



v37/76L
English
Page 5

Report of the lrnited l,lationa itoint Staff Penslon Boaral

The ceneral Asaenbly t

Having considered the report of the tnlted l,htions Joint Staff Pens lon
Boartl to the General Aasenbly and to the nenber organizationE of the ttnited
lilations Jolnt staff Penaion nrnd for L982, y chapter III of the report of the
International Civil Service Cotmigslon !/ anit the related report of the
Mvisory Cordnittee on Admlnistrative and Budgetary Questions, y

Notingr in particularr the unanfunous proposals rnaale by the Boaral in
tesponse to the request of the General As6enbly to undertake a conprehensive
analysis of aII posslble measures to lmprove the actuarial balance of the
Fundl bearing in nind the views expresEed in the Fifth comnittee,

Noting further that a co-operative effort by nerober organizatiqrst
participants and beneflclaries - sharing equltably the burdens such neasures
may lrnpose on then - is requlred if the actuarial inbalance ls to be reduced
s igniflcantly ,

I

Irleasureg to l&prove the actuarial balance of the Ftrnd

1. Approves the measures designed to achieve that enal Hhich are contained in
section III.A of the report of the tnited tilations iloint Staff Penaion Board to
the ceneral Assenbly t 3/
2. l€questa the Internatlqral Civll Service Conuli ss ion, in co-operation with
the united tihtlons iloint staff Penelon Board, to undertake the stualy of the
age of separation and of retirement in all menber organizatlons, bearing in
rnintl all the relevant reaolutioos of the General Assenbly together sith the
vievrs expres8ed in the Fl fth Comlttee, and to sutmit proPosala based thereon
to lhe ceneral Assenbly at its thirty-eighth seasiont

3. Anends, nith effect frd0 I January 1983, the Regulations of the Irnited
lilations Joint staff Penaion Fund, nithout retroactive effect, as set forth ir|
annex XII of the report of the Boaral, and the pension adjuBtment gystem in
accordance with annexes IX anal X thereoft

y olllsillnecelqE ! ceneral
t

a
v

s., sup'plenent No. 30 (v37,/30) .
A/37 /67 4.

th S€ssion



N 37 /76r
Enqlish
Page 6

II

Admission to nenbership of the European and lrlediterranean Plant
Protectlon Orqanization

Decides to admit the European and Meillterranean pLant protection
Organization to membership ln the ltrited Natlons Joint Staff pens lon [\rnd r ln
accordance witi article 3 of the I€gulations of the t\rnd, rrith effect from
L January 1983 t

III

Energency nrnd

Authorizes the lrnited l,tations Joint Staff pension Board to supplement the
votuntifiEiTiibutions to the Energency F-und, for a further period of one
year, by an amount not exceeding 9100,000t

w

Mnin istrat lve expenses

Approves expenses, chargeable directly to the Ih itetl l,htions Joint Staff
Penslon tlrnd, total1ing $5,955,300 (net) for t9B3 and reductions of g205,400
(net) for 1982 for the adninistration of the trtndt

v

Financial obligatlons of pensioners to their spouses or former €pou€es
1. Takes note of section F of the report of the United l,htions itoint Staff
Pension Board concerning the absence of effective measures for dealing wlth
the financial obligations of a pensioner to his or her spouse or former spouse
which, in some cases, night give rise to serious hardship;

2. Requests the Board to pursue the search for such measures along the lines
indicateil in paragraph 84 of its report or bl/ any other me thods and to report
thereon to the ceneral Assembly at its thirty-eighth session,

3. l\Lso r€quests the Board to examLne the effects of the dissolutio,n of a
marriage on survivors I entitlenents, together with the possibility of granting
such benefits to spouses whose marrlage was contracted after the service of a
participant had ceased, and to report thereon to the ceneral Assemblv not
Iater than at its Chirty-ninth sessionl

4. I\rrther requests the Board, in formulating proposals with regard to the
above ' to bear in ninat that these shoutd have no financial implications forthe tundt



EJ 37 /7 6L
English
Page 7

VI

Elinination of the possibility of excluding or preventing staff
menbers from partlcipation in the Flrnd

1. Takes note of the vietts expressed by the Joint Irnlted Nations staff
Pens ion bard in paragraphs 24 and 25 in sectlon III.A.2 (c) of its rePortt

2. Requegts member organizations of the Joint United lilat ions staff Penslon
Fund to furnlsh to the Boardr wlthout delay, informatlon regarding etclusions
of menber s of their staff frcrn participation ln the lundi

3. Requescs the Board' in Ehe light of such lnformation, to submit proposals
to the Gen€ral Assernbly at its the thirty-€ighth seas iori for remov ing the
exclusion provision from article 21 of the Regulations of the E\nd.

DRAF? DEC ISION II

fnvestments of the United t{atlons Joint staff Pension Fund

The General Assenbly, recalling its resolution 36/LL9 of I0 frecenber 198I,
takes note of the report of the secretary-General on the investments of the United
Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund. 6/

13. ltre Fifth Connittsee also recormlends to the General Assembly the adoPt ion of
the foltow ing draft decisions:

DRAFT DECISION I

Transitional measures for servlng nenbers of the Jqint Inspection Unit

?he General Assembly decides that the following Provisions shall appLy with
regard to persons currently serving as fnsPectors ln lhe Joint Inspection tnit:

(a) serving Insp€ctors sha11 have the option of membershlp in the united
Nations Joint staff Pengion Fund or rernaininq in the Provident F-und for member s of
the Unit,

A/c.s/37 /16 .



N37/76L
English
Page I

(b) Serving Inspectors who decide to join the Urrited libtions Jolnt staff
Pension Fund shall have the option of Jointng either wlth effect fromI .tanuary 1983 or fron the tlate their service with the lhit begant lf an inspector
opts to join the United Nat iona iloint Staff pension Arnd frorn I January 1993, the
anounta credlted to him in the provialent ltund for hi€ service pr ior to
I January 1983, prus his pro rata 6hare of the reaidual interest earnings, sharl be
paid to him.


