












































UNITED
NATIONS

@ 
Generar Assembrv

Distr.
GENSRAIJ

^/37/6705 December L982

ORfGINAL: ET.|GLISH

Thirty-seventh session
Agenda item 133

REVIEW AND IMPI,E!,IENTATION OF THE CCITiCI,UDING D€UMENT OF TTIE
TWEtEIH SPE€IAL SESSION OF THE GENERAL A.SSEMBITY

Report of the First Corunittee

Rapporteur: Mr. tuvsangiin ERDENECITULUUN (Mongolia)

I. INTRODUCTION

I. The iten entitled:
rrReview and implementation of the Concluding Ibcument of the Trrelfth

Special Session of the General A'ssembly:

"(a) Retrnrt of the Committee on Disarmamentt
, (b) Irnplementation of the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second

Disarmament Decade and consideration of initiatives and proposals of Member
Statesi

"(c) United Nations prograrune of fellowships on disarmamenta retrnrt of
the Secretary-General7

!'(d) World Disarmament Campaign: report of the Secretary-General'

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session in accordance
with paragraph 64 of the Concluding Dcument (A/S'L2/321 of 9 JuIy 1982.

2. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 24 September 1982, the General Assembly' on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Conunittee.

3. At it,s 2nd meetin€J, on 29 September, the First Cornmittee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items aLlocated to it relating to disarmamentt

82-35317 0452E (E)



A/37/670
English
Page 2

namely, items 39 to 57, 133 and 136. The general debate on these items and on
items 138 and 139, which were allocated to the First Conrnittee by the General
Assembly at its 24th plenary meeting on 8 @tober L982, took place at the 3rd to
28th meetings, fron 18 October to 5 tbvernber lsee p{C.L/37/pV.3-28).

4. In connection with item 133, the First Comrnittee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conunittee on Disarmanentg !
(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the l{orld Disarmament Carnpaign

(M37/saBl i

(c) Ietter dated 23 July 1982 frorn the Charg6 draffaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Argentina to the United Nations addressed to the
President of the General Assembly lM37/3531t

(d) Ietter dated 13 August 1982 from the Chargd drAffaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the united Kingdom of Great Britain and tilcrthern
Ireland to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/37 /389) t

lfote by the Secretary-General (A/37/a93)i

llcte by the Secretary-General lA/37/494).,

Note by the secretary-Generar on the worrd Disarrnament carnpaign
(M37/56e1t

(h) I€tter dated lI october 1982 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics of the United lilations addressed to
the Secretary-@neral (MC.L/37/al t

(e)

(f)

(s)

(i) Note verbale dated 2I October 1982 from the permanent
the Netherlands to the United libtions addressed to the
(A/c.V37/61r

Representative of
Secretary-GeneraI

(j) lfote by the Secretariat on the world Disarmarnent Campaign (A/C.L/37/9!t
(k) Ietter dated 19 october 1982 fron the Permanent Representat,ive of Italy

to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Generalr transmitting
the texts of the resolutions adopted by the 59th Inter-parlianentary
conference, held in Rorne from 12 Eo 23 september 1982 (pd37/s7gl.

y Official Records of the General Ass
Supplenent l.Io. 27 ( 37 /27 Corr.I).

Thirty-seventh Sess ion,



N37/67o
English
Page 3

rI. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution VC.l/37lL.1 2/ and Rev.l

5. orr 19 October, India submitted a draft resolution entitled "Freeze on nuclear
weaponsrf (P/C.L/37/L.L\, which was subseguently also sponsored by the German
Democratic Republic, Liberia and l4ali. On 18 November, the sponsors submitted a

o1utTffi.-(^/c.L/37/r.1,/Rev.I),addinganoperative
paragraph 2, which read as follows:

"2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth
session the iten entitled 'Freeze on nuclear weaponsr."

6. The representative of India introduced the revised draft resolution at the
37th meeting, on 19 Novenber,

7. At its 40th meeting, on 23 November, the Cornmittee adopted draft resolution
Nc.L/37/L.1,/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 105 to 16, r,rith 8 abstentions (see
para. 44, draft resolution A). ltre voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Baharnas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Boliviar BraziI' Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republicr Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congor Costa Rica, Cubat
qyprus' Czechoslovakia, Dernocratic Yemen, Djiboutir Dominican
nepublic, Ecuador, Egyptr Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German

4gginst:

Derpcratic Republic, Ghana, Greecer Guinea, Guyana, Ilungaryr
India, fndonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraqr lreland,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait' Iao Peoplers
Democratic nepublic, I€banon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawil Malaysiar Mali, Malta, l,buritaniar Mexicor
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
qnan' Pakistan, Panana' Paraguay' Peru, Philippines, PoLand,
Qatar, Rotnania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leoner Singapore, Sri lanka, Sudanr Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, sogo, Trinidad and
Sobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Bnirates, United
Republic of Cameroonr United Republic of Tanzaniar Uruguay'
Venezuela, Viet Namr Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Australia, Belgiumr Canadar France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, ltbw Zealand, lbrwayl
Portugal, Spain, Turkey' United Kingdon of Great Britain and
Northern lreland, United States of America.

U The draft, resolution lras transmitted to the General Assembly at its
thirty-seventh session, in accordance with paragraph 47 of the Concluding Document
of the Tvelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, by a note of the
Secretary-General lA/37/494, .



v37/670
English
Page 4

Abstaining: China, Denmark, Guatemalar lcelandz Japan, papua tillew Guinea,
Saint Lucia, Sonalia.

B. Draft resolution A,/C.1/37,/t.2 2/ and Rev.l
8. Ql 19 October, India and Mexico submitted a draft resolution entitlediPrevention of nuclelffir" leffil/r..z1, which was subsequently also sponsored
by Fbuador and Liberia. the draft resolution, which was introduced by the
rePresentative of India at the 30th meeting, on 10 lfovernber, read as follows:

"The @neral A.ssembly,

"Grat"ly con"ern"d by the continuing threat to the survival of mankind
trnsed by the existence of nuclear lreapons and the arms race,

trileaffirming that removal of the danger of a world war, in particular
nuclear war, is the rnost acute and urgent task of the present day,

"Bearing in mind the special responsibility of nuclear-weapon States in
this regard,

"Reiterating that it is the shared responsibility of all Member states to
initiate action to save succeeding generations from nuclear war,

nRecal$g the provisions of paragraphs 47 to 50 and paragraphs 56 to 58
of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General A.ssenbly
regarding procedures designed to secure the avoidance of nuclear war,

"Declaring the unacceptability of nuclear r,rar, which would cause the
dest'ruction of not only the peoples of the warring States but also the peoples
of all other States,

"Seeki.ry. to ensure the survival of mankind through avoidance of nuclear
lvar,

"9!IS!!9. the vital imlnrtance of maximum self-restraint in the conduct
of states, in particular nucrear-weapon states, and of the scrupulous
observance by atl States of well-estabLished hurnanitarian laws and principles
as well as Article 2, paragraphs 3 and 4, of the Charter of the United Nations,

'rQonscious that public opinion worldwide has been tlemanding urgent and
effective measures for removal of the danger of nuclear war,

trI . Takes note of the views submitted by lulernber States in response to
General a.sffiEffiolution 36/BL B of 9 oece-nter l981i

n2. Urges those States that have not yet done so to send their replies
to the Secretary-General as soon as possible;



A/37/670
English
Page 5

n3. Requests the Secretary-General to aptrnint a representative group of
public persons of great erninence, consisting of statesmen, scientists,
ptryrsicians, jurists, religious leaders, phiLosophers and other suitably
qualified persons, for the purpose of advising on special measures and
procedures - practical, political and legal - designed for the collective
control, management and resolution of critical or confrontational situations
which could escalate to nuclear r,rar, in addition to those already provided for
in the Charter of the United Nationst

tr4. AIso rrylg the Secretary-General to submit for the consideration
of the cenEia-r-Iffiry at its thirty-eighth session, a report incorporating
the considered viewsr suggestions and recommendations of the eminent persons
rnentioned in paragraph 3 abovel

'r5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of
session anF-entitled rPrevention of nuclear war'.o

9. On 19 tilovember, the sponsors submitted a revised text of
(A/C.L/37/L.2/Rev.L), in which the following changes had been

its thirty-eighth

the draft resolution
introduced:

(a) Qnrative paragraph 3 was replaced by the following paragraph:
tr3. Invites Member States to transmit their views on the aptrnintment by

the SecretEi:Ga;eral, of a representative group of public persons of great
eminence, consisting of statesmen, scientists, physicians, jurists, religious
leaders, philosophers and other suitably qualified persons, for the purtrnse of
advising on special measures and procedures - practical, political and legal -
designed for the collective control, management and resolution of critical or
confrontational situations which could escalate to nuclear !tar, in addition to
those already provided for in the Charter of the United Nations".

(b) operative paragraph 4 was deletedi

(c) Operative paragraph 5 was replaced by a new operative paragraph 4r which
read as follows:

n4. Decideq to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth
session an-IGTntitled "PrevenEion of nuclear war", with a view to the
aptrnintment of the groupl taking into account the views expressed by Member
States. "

10. At the 42nd meeting, on 24 November, the representative of India indicated
that the sponsors had decided not, to press draft resolution NC.L/37/l'.2/Rev.1 to
vote at the thirty-seventh session.

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/37/t,.3 2/ and Rev.l and 2

1I. qr 19 Octoberr Mexico and Sneden subnit,ted a draft resolution entitled
rNuclear arms freeze" (A/C.L/37/L.3) r which was subsequently also strrcnsored $r



^/37 
/670

English
Page 6

Colombia and Ecuador. on 20 october, the sponsors submitted a revised text of the
draft resolution (A/C.L/L.3/Rev.1) r under which the word "thirty-seventhn in
oSrerative paragraphs 2 and 3 was replaced by the word 'rthirty-eighth'r and the wordsrresolution S-L2/- .. . " in operative paragraph 3 were replaced by the words
"resolution 37/- ...".

L2. on I8 November, the sponsors submitted a new revised draft resolution
lVC.V37/L.3/Rev"2), in which the word "accepted" in subparagraph (b) of operative
paragraph I was replaced by the words "agreed upon"r €lnd the following subparagraph
was added to operative paragraph I:

"(c) It would be of an original five-year duration, subject to
proLongation in case other nuclear-weapon States join in such a freeze, as the
General Assembly expect,s them to do.',

13. The representative of Mexico introduced draft resolution A/C.L/37/t.3/Rev.2 at
the 38th meeting, on 19 November.

L4. At its 40th meeting, on 23 November, the Cor,unittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.3/kv.2 by a recorded vote of 103 to 17, with 6 abstentions (see
para. 44, draft resolution B). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burmal Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central
African Repubtic, Chad, Chile, Colornbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
C\zprus' Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican
nepublic, Ecuadorr E9ypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German
Dernocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Iao Peoplets
Democratic Republic, I€banon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya,
Madagascar, l{alawi, Ma1aysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, }longolia,
I,tozanbiguer NeIraI , Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, pakistan,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, poland, eatar, Romania, Ivanda, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Princip,e,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri lanka, Sudanr
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago' Tunisia, IJganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia.

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
fsrael, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, libr,r Zealand,
llorr'ray' Portugal, Spain, Turkeyl United Kingdorn of Great BriEain
and librthern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Denmark, Guatemala, rceland, papua t'Iew Guinea, phirippines,
Somalia.



A/37/670
English
Page 7

D. Draft resolution A,/c.l/37/L.4 2/ and Rev.I

15. Or 19 @tober, g|! submitted a draft resolution entitled rConvention on the
prohibition of the use of nuclear weaponsn |A/C.L/37/L.4), which was subsequently
also strnnsored by Algeria, Argentina, the Bahamas, Bangladeshr Bhutanr the Congo,
CYprus, Eduador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guyana, Indonesiar Jamaicar Madagascarr
MaIi, Nigeria, Romania, Yugoslavia and Zanbia. The draft resolution read as
follows:

"@,
"Alarmed by the threat to the survival of nankind and to the

life-sustaining systems posed by nuclear weapons and by their use, inherent in
concepts of deterrence'

nConvinced that nuclear disarmament is essential for the prevention of
nuc1eEFdforthestrengtheningofinternationaIpeaceandsecurity,

'.Recalliqq its declarationr contained in the Fina1 Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General A.ssembly, that all States should actively
participate in efforts to bring about conditions in international relations
among States in which a code of peaceful conduct of nations in international
affairs could be agreed utrnn and which would preclude the use or threat of use
of nuclear vreapons '

.@g'thedecIarationthattheuseofnuc1earIdeaponswouIdbea
viola6n of the Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity I
contained in its resolutions 1553 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33/7L B of
14 December 1978, 34/83 G of 11 Decernber L979, 35/L52 D of 12 December 1980
and 36/92 I of 9 December 1981,

trDecides to adopt an international convention as annexed to this
resotuElon, 3/ prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons under
any circumstances, pending nuclear disarmament."

16. On 12 llovember, the sponsors subnitted a revised draft resolution
(ey'C.L/37/L.4/Rev.1), which was introduced by the representative of India at the
33rd neeting on 15 tilcvember. In the revised text, a new third preambular paragraph
was addedt the operative paragraph of the original text was revised and an
operative paragraph 2 was added.

17. At its 40th neeting, on 23 November, the Conunittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.4rlRev.1 by a recorded vote of 103 to 17' with 9 abstentions (see
para. 44r draft resolution c). The voting was as follows:

v See para. 44, drafE resolution C, annex.



^/37/670English
Page 8

In favour:

18. On 19 October, India submitted a
for the prevention of nuclear war and
which read as follows:

Afghanistan, &lgeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, BraziI, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet socialist nepublic, Central African
nepublicr Chad, Chile, China, congo, Cuba, C,Yprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yetnen, Djiboutir Doninican Republict
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, German Dernocratic
Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Irag, Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwaitl Iao Peoplers Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysial
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongo1ia, Morocco,
Mozanbiquel Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Omanr Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatart
Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra I€one,
Singapore, Somaliar Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swedenr Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tr:nisia,
tJganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nan, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germanyr Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Ita1y, Luxembourg, tibtherlands, New
Zealand, lilcrr.ray, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and ltlcrthern Ire1and, United States of America.

Againsj:

Abstaining: Austria, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Malawi,
Paraguay, Zaire.

E. Draft resolution Ay'C.L/37/L.5 U
draft resolution entitled 'rUrgent measures
for nuclear disarmamentrt (P/C.V37/L.5) '

rrThe General Assembly,

"Reaffirning the recommendations and decisions of its first special
session devoted to disarmament,

"lfoting with deep conc that, despite efforts to attain the objectives
agreed uPon at the first special session, the international situation has
continued to deteriorate and there has been a severe intensification of the
arms race, particularly in its nuclear aspect,

"Sin""d that the arms race is incompatible with the search for econonic
and social development and the achievement of the new international economic
order,



N37/670
English
Page 9

',Alarmed at the growing danger of the outbreak of nuclear war, which nould
have iGffiting consequences for alL mankind and which therefore necessitates
the adoption of urgent measures to prevent such a nuclear wart

,.I@ofthere1evantuni1atera1dec1arationsmadeby
nuclear-weapon States in this regardt

"Conscious of the growing popular movements throughout the world against
tnetffiroduction,stockpil.ing,dep1oymentanduseofnuc1earweaPons'

"399ggi3i!g the right of each State to security and the need to maintain
the undirninished security of all States at each stage in the process of
disarmarnent,

.,@thatreaIand1astingpeacecanon1ybeensuredt,hroughstrict
observance of the purtrnses and principles of the Charter of the United tilations
and through the eeieclive implenentation of Lhe security system provided
there in,

',Elp!.g.!g!4g the need to establish a world order free from the use or
threaffiofforceagainstthesoverei9ntyandterritoria1inte9rityof
States, nilitary intervention, occupation, annexation, interference in the
internal affairs of States and denial of the inalienable rights to
selfdetermination and independence of peoples and nations under colonial and
alien domination in flagrant violation of the Charter of the United Nations,

"!g!gr*i.ed to continue negotiations on a comprehensive progranune of
aisarnament for adoption at the earliest possible time by the General Assembly
as a step towards the eventual conclusion of a treaty on general and conplete
disarmament under effective international control'

'R""ffigi.U. the conunitment of States to pursue efforts for ttre
actrieifrEin'frf-general and complete disarmament andr to that end, to initiate
new and intensify ongoing negotiations in the bilateral, regional and
nultilateral context, in accordance with the fundamental goalsz priorities and
procedures laid down in the Final Document of the first special session
devoted to disarnanent,

'rl. CaIIs ulpn States to undertake the following urgent measures for the
prevention of nuclear ltar and for nuclear disarmament:

',(a) A convention on the cornplete prohibit,ion of the use or threat of use
of nuclear weaponst

"(b) Cessation of the testing of nuclear lreapons pending the conclusion
of a treaty banning the testing of nuclear weaponsi

,,(c) A complete freeze on the develotrrment, production and deplqgment of
nuclear lfeapons and their neans of delivery, along with a cut-off in the
production of fissionable materials for weaSnns purposest



P{37 /670
English
Page 10

n2. Decides to keep the progress in the implementation of these measures
under revi&l-

19. At Ehe 37th neeting, on 19 libvember,
draft resolution NC.L/37 /L.5.

the representative of fndia withdrew

F. Draft resolution VC.1/37,/L.35

20. On 17 lilcvenber, Austria, the Bahamas, Belgiun, Boliviar Canada, Chiler the
Congo' Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Eederal Republic of, Ghanae
Greece' Ireland, Italv, Mauritania, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan,
Peru, the Philippines, Romania, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern lreland, the United States of America, uruguay and zaire
submitted a draft resolution entitled rConfidence-building measuresn
(A/c.L/37/L.35)rwhichwassubsequent1yaIsosponsoredbr@,
Costa Rica, Eigvpt and fndonesia. Ihe draft resolution t{as introduced by the
representative of the Federal Republic of Gernany at the 35 meetingr on 17 t'*cvember.

2L. At its 39th neeting, on 22 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.35 without a vote (see para. 44, draft resolution D).

c. Draft resolution A,/C.l/37lL.39 and Rev.l

22. On 17 lilcvember, Argentina, Colombia, Qrprus, Ebuador, Egypt, Greece, Kenya,
Pakistan and Sri Lanka subnitted a draft resolut.ion entitled rDisarmanent and
international security" (Py'C.L/37/L.39) r which was subsequently also sponsored by
Algeriar the Bahamas, Bangladesh, the Congo, Costa Rica, India, Malta, the Sudan
and Yugoslavia. :Ihe draft resolution $ras introduced by the representative of
Clprus at the 38th meeting, on 19 November.

23. qr 23 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
lA/C.L/37/L.39/Rev.Ll, in which the following changes had been introduced:

(a) fn the second preanbular paragraph, the words "the lowest possible ebb
understandingtr were replaced by the words trthe lowest point of understandingnl

(b) In the third preambular paragraph, the word 'manifest" was deleted from
the phrase "the manifest incapacity of the United Nationsn; and the words "devoid
of the means" were replaced by the words "r{ithout the means";

(c) The following words r,eere added to the end of the fourth preambular
paragraph: 'and the danger of the outbreak of nuclear war increased";

of

(d) A new preambular paragraptr was added after the ninth
24. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted
P{C.L/37/L.39/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 103 to none, with 25
para. 44, draft resolution E). llhe voting r,ras as follows:

preambular paragraph.

draft resolution
abstentions (see



In favour:

Against:

Abstaining:

P{37 /670
English
Page 11

Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, BraziI, Burma, Burundi,
CentraL African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombiar Congo,
Costa Rica, Clzprus, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Icelandr India,
Indonesiar Iran (Islamic Republic of), Irag, Ireland, Israel,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Iebanon,
Liberia, Liblzan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar' Malawi, Ma1aysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Iibpal ,
Nicaraguar Niger, Nigeria, lilorr,ray, qnan, Pakistan, Panama' Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Rtanda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegalr Sierra Leone'
Singaporer Somaliar Spain, Sri lanka, Sudan, Suriname, $reden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and sobago,
Tunisia, Llganda, United Arab Enirales, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela, Yement
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

I\bne.

Afghanistan, Belgium, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
nepublic, Canada, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic
Repub1ic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Hungary, ItaLy, Iao
People rs Democratic Republic, Luxembourg, l4ongolia, Mozambiquet
Netherlands, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist nepublicr Union of Soviet Socialist Republicsr United
Kingdom of Great Britain and literthern Ireland, United States of
America, Viet Nan.

t{. Draft resolution A/C.1/37lL.58 and Rev.l

25. Gl 18 l.lovember, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bulgaria, Chile,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic ofl
Greece, Guatemala, Indonesia, Italy, the Netherlands, tilorway, P ,
Poland, Portugal, Fomania, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution on regional
disarmament (A/C.L/37/L.58), which was subsequently also sponsored by Colombia,
Costa Rica and Malta. The draft resolution read as follows:

,r@,

oReiterating its concern at the arrns race and, in particular, the
nuclear-arms race, and at the steadily mounting expenditure on armaments,

"Sg"alligg that aII States, particularly nuclear-lreapon States and other
major nilitary Powersr bear the responsibility for halting and reversing the
arms race,



A/37/670
Brglish
Page 12

"Reaffirming the sovereign right of each State to determine the
conaitffiriateforitssecurityandtotakea1Inecessaryactionin
that connection, while bearing in mind the purposes and principles of the
United lilations and the specific circumstances of each regionr

"Bearing fully in nind the decisions and reconunendations of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General A.ssembly, particularly
paragraph ll4,

"Streegiry. the intrnrtance of regional measures already adopted and of
regional efforts undertaken in regard to both nuclear and conventional
disarmament,

"Mindful of the studies which have already been made and are of
importEiffir regional disarmament,

" ![g its resolutions 35/L56 D of 12 December 1980 and 36/97 H of
9 Decenber 1981 concerning the study on aII the aspects of regional
disarmament and the views of lvlember States on that study,

"Recalling also ttrat one of the objectives of regional disarmament is to
promote the ultimate ain of general and complete disarmament under effective
international control,

"Confitming. that regional disarmament measures, adopted on the initiative
and witlt the participation of atl States concerned, are inportant and
Sntentially effective in that they can contribute to the achievement of
general and complete disarmanent under strict and effective international
control,

11. Dcpresses the hope that, when the situation in the region so
permits, Governments will consuLt together with a view to agreeing on
effective measures for regional disarmament adopted on the initiative and with
the particitrntion of aLl States concernedi

n2. Encour€ Governments to consider the establishment or lnssible
strengthenffiffi regional level of institutionar arrangements, wherever
appropriate' that may help to promote the implementation of such measurest

13. Calls upon Governments and existing regional institutions which are
competent in the matter and rnay have adopted measures to that end to
conununicate them to the Secretary-General7

tr4. Requests the Secretariat of the United tihtions in particular the
Centre for Disarmament, and the United lihtions Institute for Disarmament
Research to provide assistance to States and regional institutions which
request such assistance within the framework of regional disarmament
initiativesl

rr5. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the General Assembly
at its thirty-eighth session a progress report on this questionT



N37/670
English
Page 13

o6. Deqlqeg to include in the agenda of its thirty-eighth session an
itern entitlA tR"gional disarmament: report of the Secretary-Generalr.r!

26. On 19 November, the sponsors subrnitted a revised text of the draft resolution
lA/C,V37h.58/Rev.1) , which was introduced by the representative of Belgium at the
38th meetingr on 19 November. llhe revised draft resolution contained changes in
all preambular and most operative paragraphs.

27. At its 39th neeting, on 22 llovember, the Conrmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.58/Rev.I without a vote (see para. 44, draft resotution F).

I. Draft resolution VC.V37,/L.9
28. On 4 tilovember, $!5!g, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Chile, Costa Rical
Ecuador, France, Gerffiederal d,
Jarnaicar Kenva, Liberia, MaIi, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, i\brwav,
Panamar the Philippines, Portugal, Senegal, Sierra Ieone, Spain, the Sudan, Sweden
lbqo' Tunisia and the United Republic of Cameroon submitted a draft resolution
entitled rRetrnrt of the committee on Disarmament" (p{c.V37/L.91, which was
subsequently also strronsored b1z Ghana, Sri Ianka and Viet Nam. The draft
resolution, which was introduced by the representative of lilcrway at the
29th neeting, on 9 Novernber, read as follows:

rThe General A.ssembly,

"Itecalling its resolutions 33/9L c of
12 December 1980 and 36/97 J of 9 December

"Having considered the relevant parts
the Cormnittee on Disarmament, U

16 December 1978, 35/L56 T of
1981,

of chapter II F of the retrnrt of

trReaffirming paragraph 28 of the Final rbcument of the Tenth Special
ses s ioi-ffiffinlr at - asseffi ly,

nReaffirrning also the inSnrtance of the Committee on Disarmanent as the
singte-frffiaIdisarmamentnegotiatingforum,inconformitywith
paragraph 120 of the Final lbcument of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly,

"Noting that it was not possible to complete the first review of the
membership of the Committee on Disarmament during the twelfth special session
of the General A.ssembly in conformity with paragraph 120 of the Final lbcunent
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assenbly and with resolution
36/97 J,

!/ Official Recor.ds of the General Assemb1y, Ttrirty-sevenltr :Eses:!on;
Supplement lb. 27 (PJ37/27 and Corr.l).



^/37/670English
Page 14

"Noting3lg that the consultations in the Committee on Disarmament on
trre UaSfSllGr-agraphs 55 and 62 of the Concluding bcument of the T'welfth
Special Session of the General Assembly have not been completed'

nRequests the Comnittee on Disarmament to report to the General A-ssernbly
at its thirty-eighth session on the review of the membership of the Committee,
taking into account paragraph I20 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General A.ssembly and paragraphs 55 and 62 of the Concluding
Document of the Tvelfth Special Session of the General Assembly."

29. llhe text of draft resolution A/C.L/37/L.g was subsequently incorporated in
draft resolution A/C.L/37/L.67 and Corr.l, subnitted under agenda itern 55 (c) (see
Py'37/667 | para. 36) .

J. Draf t resolution A,/C.1137lL.10 and Rev.l

30. on 4 ttbvember, the Bahamas, Cuba, Egypt,, Ethiopia, Ghana, Greece, India,
Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenva, Nigeria, the Philippines, Senegal, Sierra Leoner Swedenr
the United Republic of Cameroon, Venezuela, Yugoslavia and zarnbia subrnitted a draft
resolution entitled "United Nations progranme of fellowships on disarnament'
(Pt/C.L/37/L.10), which was subsequently also sSronsored by A1geria, Bangladesh,
Colonbia, the Congo, Ecuador, Liberia, MaIi, Pakistan, Panama, Sri Iankar Tunisiar
Turkey, Viet Nan and Zaire. The draft resolution r,ras introduced by the
representative of Nigeria at the 29th meeting, on 9 tlovember.

31. Ur 24 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.L/37/L.L0/Rev.L), in which the following changes lrere introduced:

(a) The following words \^rere added to the end of the second preambular
paragraph: "and bearing in mind the savings that can be made within existing
budgetary appropr iat ions " I

(b) The following words lrere added co the end of operative paragraph 2:
'rbearing in nind the savings ttrat can be made within existing budgetary
appropr iations r'.

32. In this connection, the Secretary-General submitted a statement on the
administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution (P/C.L/37/L.691.

33. At its 44th meeting, on 26 Novernber, the Committee adopted draft resolution
p{C.L/37/t.10rlRev.1 by a recorded vote of 124 to none (see para.44, draft
resolution c). The voting lras as follows.. 5/

2/ The delegations of Ghana and Malta subsequently indicated that they had
intended to vote in favour.



In favourr

^/37 
/670

English
Page 15

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan' Bolivia,
BraziI, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Qzprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yement
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republicr Ecuador, E9ypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, German Democratic Republic;
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Hungaryr Iceland, India, Indonesial Iran (fslarnic nepublic of),
Iraq, Ire1and, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, JaSran, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Iao Peoplers Delhocratic Repub1ic, Iebanon, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, LuxembourgT Madagascar, Malawi, I.{a1aysia,
Malir Mauritania, t{exico, l,tongolia, Ilbrocco, },lozambique, l{epal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, lbrrday,
Onan, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguayl Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatarr Romaniar Rlvanda, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra l€one, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, lbgo, Trinidad and Tobago, nrnisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republicr Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Bnirates, United Kingdon of
Great Britain and librthern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, YemenT Yugoslavia, Zaite, Zanbia.

None.Against:

K. Draf t resolution A,/C.l/37/L.34
34. On 17 lbvemberr Bulgaria, Mongolia and bmania submitted a draft resolution
entitled rWorld Disarmament Campaignr' (A/C.L/37/L.34), which was subseguently also
sponsored by Viet Nan. Tlre drft resolution was introduced by the representative of
Bulgaria at the 38th meeting, on 19 November.

35. At the 42nd meeting, on 24 November, the representative of Bulgaria orally
revised operative paragraph I by substituting the rvord "Invites" for the wordsnCalIsupontrr€lhdotrrerativeparagraph2bysubstituting6E-E?as"@n
for the words rAlso calls uponr!. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/c.L/37/L.34, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 80 to none, wiEh
38 abstenEions (see para.44, draft resolution H). The voting was as follows: q

9/
vote in

The delegation of Jordan subsequently indicated that it had intended to
favour.



P{37/670
English
Page 16

Against:

@9.!

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
BuLgaria, Burundil Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Repub1ic,
Central African Republicr Chad, Chile' Congo, Cuba, ryprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dj ibouti, Dominican Republic t
Ecuadorr E9ypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, cerman Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Hungaryr Indiar Indonesia, Iran (Islanic
Republic of), fraq, Jamaica, Japanr Kenya, Kuwait' Lao Peoplers
Democratic Republicr Liberia, I,ladagascarr l4alawi, Malaysia, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique' Nicarasrua'
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panana, Peru, Philippines,
Po1and, Qatar, bmania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and
Principe, Senegal, Sierra l€one, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Lpanda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Enirates, ttnited Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Viet Narn, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

lilone.

Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Belgium, Brazil, Canada,
Columbia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Finland, France, Gabon, Gernany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, freland, Israel,
Italy, Iebanonr Luxernbourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Ntrcrway,
Papua lilew Guinea, Paraguay, Portugal, Sonalia, Spain, Sri lanka'
Sweden, bgo, Turkey, United Kingdon of Great Britain and
lbrthern Ireland, Ilnited States of Anericar Uruguay, Venezuela.

L. Draft resoluEion A/C.1,/37,/L.50

36. Cr 18 tbvember, India, Mexico, bmania, Sri lanka, Sweden and Yugoslqviq
submitted a draft resolution entiELed "World Disarmament Campaign" ($JC.L/37/L.5O),
which was subsequently also strrcnsored by Bangladesh and Colombia. The draft
resolution r,ras introduced by the representative of l4exico at the 39th meeting, on
22 t'bvember.

37. At its 45th meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
MC.L/37/L.50 by a recorded vote of L29 to none (see para.44, draft
resolution I). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australiar Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Betgium, Benin, Bhutanr Boliviat
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad' Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, ryprus, Czechoslovakia'
ttemocratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Hungaryr lceland, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islanic Republic of), Irag, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast,



Against:

A/37/670
English
Page 17

Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Iao Peoplers Democratic
Republic, Iebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Igxembourgt
Uadagabcar, i"Ial.awir Malaysia, Maldivesr Ma1i, Maltal Mauritania,
Mexico, l[ongolial Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal , I,btherlandsr libw
zealand, wicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Ilorvtay, Onan, Pakistan,
panama, papua lEw Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland'
portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao llrme and Principer Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra l€one' Singatrnre, Somalia, Spain, Sri
Lanka, sudan, suriname, sweden, syrian Arab Republic, lthailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tr:nisia, Turkeyr tlanda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
united Arab Enirates, united Kingdorn of Great Britain and
llorthern lreland, United Republic of Cameroon, United lfepublic of
Tanzania, United States of Anerica, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet liliam,
Yemenr Yugoslavia, Zalter Zambia.

Iilcne.

t4. Draf t resolution 4/3t]131 /L. ffi-

38. On 18 ldovernber, Indonesia and the 9nited States of Angriga subniEted a draft
resolution entitled "6f- oisarmarnent campaign: peace and disarmament, movementsr
(pr/C.L/37/L.65), which was subsequently also sponsored by australia' the Bahamas'
Costa Rica, Germany, Federal Republic of, JaPaP, I(9nya, Ma1ir.l|"ofwayr-Si.ngapoTe and

uced by the representative of the United
States of America at the 38th meeting, on 19 November.

39. At the 42nd neetingl on 24 lilovember, the representative of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics orally protrnsed to amend operative paragraph 1 of t'he draft
@afterthewords''thefIowofabroadrangeof.,,theraord
"pravdiqfo in Russian, which, as he statedr could be translated as 'rtruthfuln or
'authentic,,. The representative of the United Stabes of America, while accepting
in principle, the pro;nsed amendnent, stated his preference for the use of the word,truthful',. That was not objected to by the representative of the USSR.

40. At the 43rd meeting, also on 24 November, the representative of Nigeria orally
suggested the use of the word "accurate'r instead of trturthful" or "authenticn.

41. At the same meeting, the represenEative of Mexico orally protrnsed to amend the
fifth preambular paragraph of the draft resolut,ion by repLacing the last part of
the paragraph, beginning with the words "a broad range of infornationnr by the
words ra broad range of information in conformity with the provision of
paragraph 105 of the Final Document of the Tenth SPecial Session of the General
Assembly t'.

42. At the same meeting, following a ruling by the Chairnan of the Comnittee that
the amendment proposed 6y Nigeria be put to the vote, that amendment was adopted by
a recorded vote of 42 Eo 2, with Il abstentions" The voting was as follows:



A/37/570
Brglish
Page 18

In favour:

Against:

3!:!aining.:

Australia, Belgium, Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad,
Costa Rica, Denmark, ojibouti, Egypt, France, Gabon, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, ftaly,
ilatrnn, Jordan, Kuwait, Liberia, tuxembourgr Malawir Malaysia,
Maltar l€therlands, lilew Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, librway, papua
lilew Guinear. Philippines, Senegal, Sierra lJ€one, Spain, Trinidad
and ltcbago, United Arab Bnirates, rJnited Kingdom of Great Britain
and lbrthern lreland, United Republic of Cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, yugoslavia, Zaire.
Kenya, Singapore.

Argentina, Benin, Brazil, Congo, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Sri lanka,
Sweden, 11lgo, Ilganda, Zanbia.

43. At the same meeting, the Conunittee adopted draft resolution Fdc.L/37/L.G5, as
orally arnended, by a recorded vote of I19 to none, with 2 abstentions (see
trxlra. 44, draft resolution J). lltre voting ,,{as as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, canada, central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, Colornbia, Congo, Costa Rica,
czechoslovakia, Democratic yernen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, E9ypt, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, @rman
Dernocratic Republic, Germany, Federar Repubric of, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, fndia, Indonesia,
Iran (fslamic Republic of), Iraq, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coastr
Jamaica, Japanl Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, rao peoprers Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, tiberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawil Maraysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mongolia, Irtorocco, t'lozanbique, Nepa1, liletherrands, New zearandr-
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, lbrtray, qnan, pakistan, panama, papua
libw Guinea, Paraguay, peru, philippines, poland, portugal, ealar,
Ronania, Rranda, sao Tome and principe, saudi Arabia, senegar,
Sierra Ieonel Singatrnre, Sona1ia, Spiin, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
suriname, sneden, syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and ltobago, Tunisia, Turkey, IJganda, ukrainian soviet sociarist
Republicr union of soviet socialist Repubrics, united Arab
Enirates, united Kingdom of Great Britain and I'brthern rrerand,
united Repubric of cameroon, united nepublic of Tanzania, United
States of Anerica, Uruguay, Venezuela, yemen, yugoslavia, ZaLre,
Zambia.

llone.Against,r

Abstaininq: Brazil, Ireland.



A/37/67O
English
Page 19

III. RECCMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COTIIITTEE

44. the first Conunittee reconunends to the General A.ssembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

Review and inplementation of the Concluding bcument of the Tnvelfth
Special Session of the General A.ssernblv

A

Freeze on nuclear weapons

The General A.ssemb1yt

Convinced that in this nuclear age lasting world peace can be based only on
the attainment of the goaL of general and complete disarmament under effective
international control,

Further convinced that the highest priority objectives in the field of
aisarffinuc1eardisarmamentandtheitininationofaI1weaponsof
mass destruction,

Recognizing the urgent need to halt the arms race, particularly in nuclear
lteapons,

Recognizing further the urgent need for a negotiated reduction of nuclear-
wealnn stockpiles leading to their complete elimination,

1. Calls utrpn all nuclear-weapon States to agree to a freeze on nuclear
weapons, wnT6fffi', inter alia, provide for a simultaneous total stoppage of any
further production of nuclear weapons and a compJ.ete cut-off in the production of
fissionable material for weapons purt)osesi

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
an item enffi-"Freeze on nuclear weatrnns".

B

Nuclear arms freeze

Ihe General A.ssembly,

Recalling thatr in the Final rbcument of the Senth Special Session of the
General Assembly, U in L978, it expressed deep concern over the threat to the very
survival of mankind posed by the existence of nuclear weapons and the continuing
arms race,

U Resolution S-L0/2.



^/37/670English
Page 20

Recalling also that, on the salne occagion, it trninted out that existing
arsenals of nucLear weapons were nore ttran sufflcient to destrql all life on earth
and stressed that mankind was therefore confronted with a choice: halt the arrns
race and proceed to disarrnament, or face annihilation,

libting that the conditions prevailing today are a source of even more serious
concern than those existing in 1978 because of several factors such as the
deterioration of the international situationl the increase in the accurac:f, strreed
and destructive power of nuclear weapons, the promoEion of illusory doctrines ofrlinitedtr or "winnabletr nuclear nar and the rnany false alarms which have occurred
owing to the malfunctioning of computersl

Believing that it is a natter of the utnost urgenc:f to stop any further
increase in the altesome arsenals of the two najor nuclear-weapon States, which
already have ample retaliatory power and a frightening overkill capacity,

Believing also that it is equally urgent to act,ivate negotiations for the
substantial reduction and qualitative llrnitation of existing nuclear arms,

Considering that a nuclear arms freeze, while not an end in itself, nould
constitute the most effective first step for the achievenent of the above-rnentioned
two objectives, since it nould provide a favourable envirorunent for the conduct of
the reduction negotiations whiler at the same time, preventing the continued
increase and gualitative inprovement of existing nuclear weaponry during the period
when the negotiations would take placel

Firmly convinced that at present the conditions are most propitious for such a
freeze, since the union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of
America are nold eguivalent in nuclear military power and it seems evident that
there exists between them an overall rough parityl

1. Urges the lJnion of Soviet Socialist Republics and the ltrnited States of
America, as the two major nuclear-weapon States, to proclaim, either through
simultaneous unilateral declarations or through a joint declaration, an furunediate
nuclear arms freeze which ttould be a first step towards the comprehensive progriilune
of disannament and whose structure and scoSre would be the following:

(a) It r+ou1d embracee

(i) A comprehensive test ban of nuclear weapons and of their delivery
vehiclest

(ii) The complete cessation of the manufacture of nuclear weapons and of their
delivery vehiclesl

(iii) A ban on all further deployrnent of nuclear weapons and of their delivery
vehiclesl

(iv) ltte conplete cessation of the production of fissionabLe material for
weapons purposest



P"/37/670
English
Page 21

(b) It r.ould be subject to all relevant measures and procedures of
verification which have already been agreed by the trnrties in the case of the
SALT I and SALT II treaties, as well as those agreed upon in principle by them
during the pretrnratory trilateral negotiations on the comprehensive test ban held
at Genevai

(c) It would be of an original fivelear duration, subject to prolongation in
case other nuclear-weapon States join in such a freeze, as the General Assenbly
e:<pects them to do7

2. Requests the above-mentioned two major nuclear-weapon States to submit a
report to the General A.ssembly, prior to the opening of its thirty-eighth session,
on the implementation of the present resolutiont

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
an item entitled "Implementation of resoluELon 37/_ on a nuclear arms freezer.

c

Convention on the prohibition of the use of nuclear weaPons

The General Assembly,

Alarmed by the threat to the survival of nankind and to the life-sustaining
system posed by nuclear weapons and by their use, inherent in concepts of
deterrence,

Convinced that nuclear disarmament is essential for the prevention of nuclear
waraiffiestrengtheningofinternationa1peaceandsecurity,

Etrrther conyi@ that a prohibition of the use or threat of use of nuclear
weatrn@towarditheconp1eteeliminationofnuc1earweapons1eading
to general and compLete disarmament under strict and effective international
control,

Recalling its declaration, contained in the Final bcurnent, of the lbnth
Special Session of the General A,ssembly, that all States should actively
particilnte in efforts to bring about conditions in internatlonal relations :rmong
States in which a code of peaceful conduct of nations in international affairs
could be agreed and which would preclude the use or threat of use of nucLear
weatrnns, ff

Reaffirming the declaration that Ehe use of nuclear weapons would be a
violation of the Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity,
contained in its resolut,ions 1553 (xVI) of 24 November 196I, 33/7L B of

V lbid., para. 58.



^/37/670Srglish
Page 22

14 December 1978 , 34/83 G of ll December L979 |
36/92 I of 9 Decernber 1981,

l. Retluests the Comnittee on Disarmament
negotiations with a view to achieving agreement
prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear
taking as a basis the text of the annexed draft
Use of lifuclear WeaSnnsl

35/L52 D of 12 December 1980 and

to undertaker on a priority basis,
on an international convention
r,{eapons under any circumstances,
Convention the Prohibition of the

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item eiffil rConvention on the Prohibition oe tne Use of Nuclear WeaSnnsn"

AIINEX

Draft Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of liluclear Weapons

The States Parties to this Conventiont

Alarmed by the threat to the very survival of nankind posed by the
existence of nuclear rireatrDnst

Convinced that any use of nuclear weapons constitutes a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime agaist hunanity'

Convinced that this Convention would be a step tovtards the cornplete
elinination of nuclear vreapons leading to general and complete disarmament
under strict and effective international control,

Determined to continue negotiations for the achievement of this goal,

Itave agreed as follows:

ArLicle I

The States Parties to this Convention solemnly undertake not to use or
Ehreaten to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances.

Article 2

lftris Convention shall be of unlimited duration.

Article 3

1. 1ltris Convention
State which does not sign
accordance with paragraph

shall be open to aII States for
the Convention before its entry
3 of this article may accede to

signature. Any
into force in
it at any time.



P/37/670
English
Page 23

2. ittris Convention shall be subject to ratification by signatory
States. Instruments of ratification or accession shall be detrnsited with the
Secretary-General of ttre United Nations.

3. This Convention shall enter into force on the deSnsit of instruments
of ratification by 25 Governments, including the @vernments of the five
nuclear-weapon States, in accordance with paragraph 2 of this article.

4. fbr States whose instruments of ratification or accession are
detrnsited after the entry into force of this Convention, it shall enter into
force on the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification or
accession.

5. The deSnsitary shall pronptly inform aLl signatory and acceding
States of the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each instrument
of, ratification or accession and the date of the entry into force of this
Convention, as well as of the receipt of other notices.

5. This Convention shaLl be registered by the deSnsitary in accordance
with Article 102 of the Charter of the United liftations.

Article 4

This Convention, of which the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, RrsEian
and Spanish texts are equally authentic, shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United tilations, who shall send duly certifled coples
thereof to the Governments of the signatory and acceding States.

IN WIII{ESS VIIEREOF, the undersigned, being duLy authorized thereto by
ttreir respective Governments, have signed this Convention, opened for
signature at _ on the daY of
oni thousanaffi

D

Conf idence-building neasures

@,
Recalling its resoluEion 36/97 F of 9 December L98I' in which it took note of

tfre cd[retrenFive study on confidence-building measures !1/ prepared by the
Secretary-General with the assistance of the Group of @vernmental s(perts on
Confidence-building Measures apSninted by hirn on an equitable geographical basis,

2/ A/36/474 and Corr.l. The study was subsequently issued with the title
Compre-hensive Studv on Confidence-building Measures (United l,Qations publication,
Sales No. E.82.IX.3).



A/37/670
Erglish
Page 24

and the further
unsatisfactory

its concern about the deterioration of
escalation of the arms race, which both

international trnlitica1 climate' tension

the international situation
reflects and aggravates the
and mistrust,

Desirous of strengthening international peace and security andl at the
timerG-g and improving conditions conducive to further measures of
disarmament,

lbting again the findings of the comprehensive study on confidence-building
measures andlin particular the important role that confidence-building measures can
ptay with regard to regional and world-wide stability as well as to progress in
disarmament,

Mindful of the fact that, while confidence-building measures cannot serve as a
measures, they play a very slgnificanL role insubstitute for concrete disarmament

ach ieving disarmarnent t

@nvinced of the usefulness of confidence-building measures freely arrived at
by the States concerned and agreed upon, taking into account the particular
conditions and requirements of the regions concerned,

Convinced of the need to reduce mistrust and fear among States through the
reatifi€l6ffi conf idence-building measures, such as those reconunended by consensus
in the conprehensive study on confidence-building r€ilsu!€s1 including pertinent and
timely information on military activities and other matters pertaining to mutual
securityr and measures concerning the peacetime nilitary conduct of Statesr as well
ag through progress on concrete measures of disarmament,

RecaLLing that confidence reflects a set of interrelated factors of a nilitary
as well as of a non-military character and that a plurality of approaches is needed
to overcome fearr apprehension and mistrust between States and to replace them by
confidence,

I. Urges all States to encourage and assist all efforts designed to explore
further the ways in which confidence-building measures can strengthen international
peace and securitYl

2. Invites aII States to consider the Snssible introduction of
confidence-building measures in their particular regions and, where trnssible, to
negotiate on them in keeping with the conditions and reguirements Prevailing in the
respective regionsl

3. Requests the Disarmament @mnission to consider the elaboration of
guidelines for appropriate types of confidence-building neasures and for the
inplenentation of such measures on a global or regional levell

4. Rrrther requests the Disarmament Comrnission to subnit a progress report
on its deLiberations on this iEem to the @neral Assernbly at its thirty-eighth
sessionl



Fy'37/670
English
Page 25

5. Further recomnends that aII States consider ttre inclusion of a reference
to, or an agreement onr confidence-building measuresr is appropriater in any joint
statenents or declarations of a political naturet

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of the thirty-eighth session
an item entitled "Consideration of guidelines for confidence-building measures".

E

Disarnament and international security

ltre General Assenb1y,

Recalling its resolutions 34/83 A of 11 December L979, 35/L56 J of
12 December 1980 and 36/97 K of 9 December 198I,

Viewihg with concern the aggravation of the deteriorating world situation
which has reached ttre lorvest point of understanding and cooperation for peace and
security, thus making the survival of mankind extrernely precarious'

Alarred at ttre present critical world situation and the incapacity of the
United Nations to take decisive action, thus bringing into sharp focus the reality
that ttre Security Council finds itself without the means to give effect to its
decisionse €v€ll when they lrere unaninously adoptedr

Gravelv concerned over the continuing stagnation in the disarrnament
negotiating effortsr while the arms race has been rapidly escalating wittt
threatening consequences and the danger of the outbreak of nuclear war has
increased,

Conscious of the need for a new and more positive approach to the whole
problen of disarnrament based on rendering operable the collective security systen
provided for in the Charter of the United Nations in conjunction witi efforts
towards disarmament agreementsr

Convinced that to this end the first step is to restore to the Security
Council its meaningfulness by making effective its decisions for the naintenance of
international security and peaceT os reeuired by the Charterr

Recognizing that this process would create the necessary conditions for the
cessation of the artns race and would facilitate productive negotiations on a
conprehensive progranme of disarnament,

Recognizing further that suctr an approactr in its inplenentation would engender
a climate of confidence in the United Nationsr thereby initiating a stable ddtente
that would harmonize the actions of nations - more significantly among the major
Ibwers - for co-operation towards peace and survivalr

Aware that the principles of disarnament enbodied in the Charter are an
integral part of the system of collective international security and flow from itr



v37/670
English
Page 25

Reca1ling paragraph 13 of the finat Document of the Tenth Special Session of
tfre Cffie-sembly , W in which it is recognized ttrat genuine and lasting peace
can only be created through the effective implementation of the security system
provided for in the Charter and the speedy and substantial reduction of arms and
armed forces by international agreement and mutual exarnple,

Recalling further paragraph 62 of the Concluding
Special Session of the General A.ssernbly , U stressed
the central role of the United l,htions in the field of
irnplementation of the security system provided for in
with the Final Documentr

bcument of the Trvelfth
the need for strengthening
disarmament and the

the Charter in accordance

lbting with appreciation the retrnrt of the Secretary-General on the work of
the O-ganizatLon, LU in which he, inter alia, ernphasized that "our rnost urgent
goal is to reconstruct the Charter concept of collective action for peace and
security so as to render the United l€tions rrKrre capable of carrying out its
prinary functionn and appealed to all Governments to make a serious effort for oa
more stable system of collective international security",

Reaffirming its resolution 36/97 K of 9 December 1981 in which it called for
carrying out the provisions of General Assembly reolution 3511156 J of
12 December 1980, adopted by consensus,

1. Calls upon all States to take prompt action for the implementation of
General Assenbly resolution 36/97 K and to co-operate towards making nore effective
the system of security as provided for in the Charter of the United Nations, thus
effectively facititating substantial disarmamentT

2. liequests the Security Council - and more significantly its permanent
members - to proceed with a sense of urgency to the necessary measures for the
effective implementation of the decisions of the Council in accordance with the
Charter for the maintenance of international peace and security.

F

Regional disarmament

its concern over the arms race, particularly in its nuclear
continuing inc.rease in arms expenditure,

g/ Itesolution S-L0/2.

w A/s-t2/32.

Reiteratin
aspects, and the

AJ Official Records of the General Assemb
Supplement lb. I (437/L').

seventh Sesslcq,



v37/670
EngLish
Page 27

necalling ttrat all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States and other
nilitarily significant States, have the responsibility for halting and reversing
the arrns rEC€ I

Reaffirming the
conditions necessary
respecg, taking into
weII as the specific

Confirming the imSnrtance and the potential_
disarmament measures taken at the initiative and
States concerned, in t,hat they can contribute to
complete disarmament under strict and effective

right of each State to make a sovereign assessment of the
for its security and to take all appropriate measures in this
account the objectives and principles of the United l,lations as
conditions of each region,

Taking account of the decisions and recornmendations of the Final bcument of
the Tenth Special Session of the General Assenbly, W, inter aliar in its
paragraph 114,

Stressing the imlnrtance of the regional measures that have already been
adopted' as well as of efforts of a regional nature undertaken in the field of
nuclear and conventional disarmament,

Aware of the studies that have already been carried out and are of relevance. 

--
to reglonal clisarmanent,

Recalling its resolutions 35/L56 D of 12 December 1980 and 36/97 H of
9 Decernber 1981 concerning the Study o{r A11 the Aspects of RegionaL Disarmament !l/
and the views of Member States on that study,

Recalling also that one of the aims of regional disarmament is to assist in
promoting the ultimate goal of general and complete disarmament under effective
international control,

effectiveness of regional
with the participation of all the
the realization of general and

international control'

t. Expresses the hope that Governments, where circumstances of the region
permit, wiII consult with each other on appropriate regional disarmament measures,
which could be taken at the initiative and with the participation of all the States
concerned.'

2. Encourages Goverrunents to consider the possible establishment or
strengthen6FffiE regional level, where 

"ppropriate, 
of institutional

arrangements capable of promot,ing the implementation of such measuresi

3. Calls gg covernrnents and the existing competent regional institutions

-

Ithrch may have taken measures to that end to inform bhe Secretary-Generall

!3/ United Nations publication, Sales I0o.8.81.IX.2.



A/37/670
English
Page 28

4. Requests the Secretariat, in particular the Department for Disarmament
Affairs, f[ffiThe united libtions Institute for Disarmanent Research to lend
assistance to States and regional institutions which may request it in the context
of regional disarnanent measures taken at the initiative and with the particiSntion
of all the States concernedt

5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a progress report to the @neral
A.ssembly at its thirty-eighth sessionT

6. Decides to include in the agenda of its thirty-eighth session an item
entitled "ffi-nar disarmamentl repoit of the secretary-General".

G

United Nations programme of fellowships on disarmament

The General A.ssemb1y,

Recalling its decision, contained in the Final Document of the Senth Special
Session of ttre General assernblyr to establish a progranme of fellowships on
disarmament, W as well, as its subsequent resolutions 33,/71 E of 14 December 1978'
34/83 D of 11 Decenber L979, 35/L52 A of 12 December 1980 and 36/92 A of
9 December 198I, in which it, inter alia, decided to continue the progranne,

Recalting also its decisions, contained in the Concluding Document of the
Trvelfth Special Session, of the General Assernbly, W in which it, inter alia'
decided to continue the programme to increase the nurnber of fellowships from twenty
to trrenty-five as from 1983, and to reguest the Secretary-General to subnit the
financial implications of awarding twenty-five fellowships, taking into account the
necessary staffing requirements to meet the level of activities and structure of
the programme and bearing in mind the savings that could be made within existing
budgetary appropr iations,

Bearing in mind that the level of activities, including
as outlined by the Secretary-GeneraL, W has increased since
fellowship programne in 1979,

the prograrune
the inception

elements
of the

for the1. Requests the Secretary-General to make the necessary arrangements
irnplementation of the programme for 1983, in accordance with the guidelines

L4/ See A/37/667, para. 40, draft resolution K, sect. V.

!5/ nesolution S-LO/2, para. I08.

g/ Ns-L2/32, annex IV.

y/ A/S-L2/8 and Corr.I.



N37/670
English
Page 29

established for it, and to submit a progress report thereon to the General A.ssembly
at its thirty-eighth sessionl

2. Also rglg the Secretary-General to provide adeguate staff ing at the
appropriatGf to tneet the requir-nents of the increased activities and the
e:<panded structure of the programne, bearing in nind the savings that can be made
within existing budgetary appropriationsi

3. Cormnends the Secretary-General for the diligence with which the progralrune
has continEla-E6 ue carried out.

H

World Disarmament Campaign

ltre General Assernbly ,

Aware of the public concern at the dangers of the arms race, particularly the
nuclear armg racer €rtrd its negative social and economic conseguences,

tfoting that the l{orld Disarmament Campaign is intended to prornote public
interest in and support for the goals set out in the Fina1 bcument of the Tenth'
Special Session of the General Assembly, 19/ the first special session devoted to
disarnamentr and in particular for the reaching of agreements on measures of arms
1imitationanddisannamentwithaviewtoachievingthegoa1ofgenera1and
cdnpIetedisarmamentundereffectiveinternationaI.contro1,

Reaffirming that the universality of the World Disarmament Carnpaign should be
guaranteed by the co-operation and participation of aLl States and by the widest :
possible dissemination of information and uninpeded access for all sectors of the
public to a broad range of inforrnation and opinions on guestions of arms limitation
and disarmament and the dangers relating to all aspects of the arms race and war,
in particular nuclear vrar,

Convinced that the united lrhtions system, Member states, with respect for
their sovereign rightsr and other bodies, in particular non-governmental
organizations, all have their role to play in achieving the objectives of the World
Disarmament Cantrnign,

Taking into account the retrnrt of the Secretary-General on world-wide action
for collecting signatures in suptrnrt of measures to prevent nuclear war, to curb
the arms race and for disarmament, 19/

L8/ Resolution S-LO/2.

y/ A/s-Lz/Ls and add.1.



al37/670
English
Page 30

RecalLing its resolution 36/92 J of 9 December I98I and the discussions
thereon at the twelfth special session, the second special session devoted to
disarmament,

Welcoming voluntary contributions made by some lilember States to carry out the
objectives of the World Disarmament Campaign,

l'Iotinq with satisfaction the report of the United Nations Educational'
Scientific and CuLtural organization on its contribution to the World Disarmament
Camtrnign, fQl

I. Invites Menber States, in the inplementation of the activities within the
framework of the World Disarmament Campaign, to take into account various views and
opinions e:<pressed at the twelfth special session, including the proSnsal on
Iaunching roorld-wide action for collecting signatures in suptrnrt of measures to
prevent nuclear !rar, to curb the arms race and for disarmament;

2. Also invites Member States to co-operate with the United Nations to
ensure a uE'jEGi-ffir information with regard to the various aspects of
disarmament and to avoid dissemination of false and tendentious informationt

3. Takes note of the progranune of activities for 1983 in the framework of
the world olsarln-alnen't Canpaign iuggested in the report of the Secretary-General and
reguests the Secretary-General to inforn the General A.ssenbly at its thirty-eighth
session of the progress in the irnplementation of the prese--E resolution.

I

World Disarmament Campaign

The General Assembly,

Recalling that, in the Final tbcument of the Tenth Strncial Session of the
General Assembly, 2L/ Xhe first special session devoted to disarmament, it declared
that it was essential that not only Governments but also the peoples of the world
recognize and understand the dangers in the present situation and stressed the
importance of mobilizing world public opinion on behalf of disarrnament,

Recalling aLso its resolutions 35/L52 f of 12 December 1980 and 36/92 C of
9 December 1981, as well as the reSnrts of the Secretary-@neral of
17 September 1981 !!1t and 1I June L982, 2V

?!/ P{37/s69, annex.

4/ Resolution S-LO/2, para. 15.

4/ a/36/458.

E/ A/s-L2/27.



v37/670
English
Page 3I

lloting with satisfaction ttrat the l{orld Disarmament Carnpaign contemplated in
theartswassoIemnIyIaunchedon7June1982atthe
opening rneeting of the twelfth special session of the General Assembly, the second
special session devoted to disarmament;

Bearing in mind that at the twelfth special session the General A.ssembly
defined in general terms the objectives, contents, modalitles and financial
inplications of the t'Iorld Disarmament Campaign and requested the Secretary-General
to submit to the Assembly at its thirty-seventh session the specifics of the
progranme outlined in its previous report,

Having examined the new report submitted by the Secretary-@neral in
conformity with that request, !.1Q,/

1. Approves the general framework of the !{orId Disarmament Campaign
specified by the Secretary-General in his report of 3 tibvember 1982 rel.ating to the
programme of act.ivities for the t{or1d Disarmament Campaign under the auspices of
the united liliations, 24/ incLuding the provisions of its paragraph 21 relating to
the subnission of an annual re;nrt to the General A.ssenbly on the inplementation of
the Canpaign <luring the preceding year, and the transmission to the Assenbly of the
relevant views of the Mvisory Board on Disarmament Studiesl

2. Approves also the programme of activities for the ldorld Disarmament
Campaign for 1983 proposed in the report of the Secretary-Generall

3. Reiterates its invitation to all Member States that have not yet done so
to supplement available United Nations resources with voluntary contributionsl

4. Decides that at the thirty-eighth session of the General Assenbly there
should ne aE@ing Conference of contributions of Member states for the tdorld
Disarmarnent Canpaign ;

5. Declares again that voluntary contributions made by nonjovernmental
organizati6iElfoundations and trusts and other private sources r+ould also be
welcomet

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item eiffi?- "trrlorld Disarmament Campaignn.

J

World Disarmament Campaign: peace and disarmament movements

The General Assembly,

Recognizing that well-inforrned discussion and debate on all points of view
relating to disarmament issues may exercise a positive influence on the attainment

4/ A/37/s48.



P{37 /670
Erglish
Page 32

of meaningful arms limitation measures, progress in disarmament and the ultimaEe
goal of general and complete disarmament under effective international conErol,

Convinced that the best way to build trust and confidence and to advance the
conaitions wtrich contribute to the cause of disarmarnent is through the co-operation
and participation of all States and by the widest possible dissemination of
information and unirnpeded access for all sectors of the public to a broad range of
information and opinion on quesLions of arrns limitation and disarmamentt

Desirous
informed and

of promoting the ability of aII citizens to participate in an
free discussion of such matters,

AS

Recalling that the World Disarmament Canpaign was launched at the twelfth
special session, the second special session devoted to disarmannent,

lbt with satisfaction that at its twelfth special session the General
@fortheI{or1dDisarmamentCarnpaigntobecarriedout

in all regions of ttre worfa in a balanced, factual and objective manner, for the
universality of the Carnpaign to be guaranteed by the co-operation and participation
of all States and by the widest possible dissemination of information, for
unimpeded access by aII sectors of the public to a broad range of information and
opinions, and for the Campaign to provide an opportunity for discussion and debate
in all countries on aII points of view relating to disarmament issues, objectives
and conditions,

1. Ca1ls upon Menber States to facititate the flow of a broad range of
accurate i;E6fiffi on disarmament matters' both governmental and
non-governmental, to and among their citizens, with a view to the furtherance of
the objectives of the World Disarmament Campaign and in order to advance the final
objective of general and complete disarmament under effective international control;

2. Calls upon aII Member States to encourage their citizens freely and
pub1ic1yto@theirownviewsondisarmamentquestionsandtoorganizeand
meet publicly for that pur6nsei

3. Requests the Secretary-@neral to reSnrt annually to the General Assembly
on implementation of the provisions of the present resolution.


