












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAI,

A/37 /652
6 Decenber L982

ORTGINAL: ENGLISH

1.

Th irty-seven th session
Agenda item 40

REDIrcTION OF MILITARY BUMETS

Report of the First eommittee

Rapporteur: !!r. Luvsangiin ERDENECHULUUN (Mongolia)

I. INTRODIrcTION
The iten entitled 'rReduction of military budgets:

" (a) Report. of the Disarmament Connission;

" (b) Report of the Secretary-General"
was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session in accordancewith Generar Assembly resolution 36/92 of 9 December 19gl.
2' At its 4th plenary meeting , on 24 september Lg82, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in itl agendaand to allocate it to the First Comnittee.
3. At its 2nd meeting, on 29 September, the First committee decided to hold a
condcined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmarnent,
namely, items 39 to 57' 133 and 135. the general debate on these itens and onitems 138 and 139, which were allocated Lo the First Committee by the General
Assenbly at its 24th plenary meeting, on 8 october Ig82, took place at the 3rd to
28th meetings, fron 18 October to 5 November (see A,/C.I/37/pV.3_28).
4. rn connection with item 40, the First Comnittee had before it the followinq
documents:

82-351s 3 0617d (E)



A/37 /6s2
English
Page 2

Report of the Disarmament Conunission; /

Letter dated 22 June 1982 from the Char96 drAffaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the
SecretarfGeneral, transmitting the Final Conrmuniqu6 of the Ministerial
Meeting oe tne Co-ordinating Bureau of the l{on-Aligned Countries' held at
Havana fron 31 May to 5 June L982 lA/37/333-S/I52781t

Report of the Secretary-General on the reduction of military budgets
(A/37/4Lg and Add.l and Corr.l);

Letter dated tl October 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba to
the united Nations addressed to the secretarlbGeneral' transnitting the
Final Conrmuniqu6 of the Meeting of Uinisters for Foreign Affairs and
Heads of Delegation of the Non-Aligned countries, held in New York from
4 to 9 October 1982 (A/31/54O-9/L54541'.

Letter dated 19 October L982 from the Pernanent Representative of Italy
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Generalr transnittitlg
the resolutions adopted by the 69th Inter-Parliamentary Conference' held
in Rone from 12 to 23 September 1982 (V37/578r.

II. @NSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draf t resorution A,/c.r/37/L'20

by uali. The draft resolution vras introduced at the 34th meeting, on 16 November,
by the representative of Romania.

6. At its 39th neeting, on 22 November, the Comittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.20 without a vote (see para. L2' draft resolution A).

B. DrafE resoLution e/C.L/37 /L-22/\ev.2

7. olr 12 November, Austria, Bangladesh' Be1gigln, eanadat 9ol9rnbi?-C?g!g$'
ecuaaor, r.inlana, .r.ra lrtgw-zealalqr ligeIiSr.worway'draft resolution

bsequently afso sponsored by GeTmany,. Feler?l 
-

Republic of, Ireland and ttaltp. The draft resolution was inlroduced at the 34th
ffier, by the representative of Sweden.

V official Records of the General Assembl

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(e)

5. cr 12 November, Austria, Bangladesh, colompiaf-cogt? Rice, Ecuado:'..Indonssia,
rr.r.na, r.rie"ria, p"r i lh" suda,n!,!I!dll' and urugtli!--
subnittedadraftresoIution(A/C.v37/L.2o),wn@aIsosponsored

Supplenent No. 27 t^/37 /27 and Cor r. I) .
Thirt eventh Session'



A/37 /652
English
Page 3

8. On 15 tibvenber, the sponsors subnitted a revised text of the draft resolution
lly'C.l/37/L.22/Rev.1), in which the tenth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Co.=i9"rir€.& that this study of the guestions of comparing and
veriry@ndituresshou1dbefo1lowedbyapractica1exerciseby
which these questioris may be further explored with a view to facllitating
future negotiations on the reduction of nilitary expendituresrtr

was revised to read:

"Con"i@thatthestudyofthisquestionshou1dbefol1owedbya
practiffirdertoexploreitfurtherwithaviewtofaci]-itating
future negotiations on the reduction of military expendituresrtr.

9. On 24 tibvember, a further revised draft resolution vras subnitted
IVC.L/3?/L.22rttev.2l , in which a new operative paragraph I0 was added, which read
as follows:

r10. Requests the Secretary-General to nake the necessary arrangements
for the report on the Reduction of Military Budgets (A/S-L2/71 to be issued as
a United ttations publication and widely distributed;n.

The remaining operative paragraph was subseguently renumbered.

10. fn connection with the draft resoluLion, the Secretary-ceneral submitEed a
statement on the adninistrative and financial implications (A/C.L/37/L.7Ol.

11. At lts 45th meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
VC.V37/L.22/Rev.2 by a recorded vote of 98 to 13, with 8 abstentions (see
para. 12, draft resolution B). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Burundi, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, ryprus, Denmark, ojibouti'
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, E9ypt, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
Germany, Fbderal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala' Guinear Guyanat
fceland, Indonesiar Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, freland,
Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenyat
Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, lilaldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Nornay, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rrvanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Sonalia, Spain, Sri Lankal Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern freland,
Unlted nepublic of Carneroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United
States of Atnerica, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire.



A/37 /6s2
English
Page 4

Against:

Abstaining s

afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic,
cuba, czechoslovakia, German Denocratic Republic, Hungary' Lao
Peoplers Denocratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian soviet
Socialist Republicr gnion of Soviet Socialist Republics' Viet Nam'

Angola, Argentinar Brazil-, China, Ghana, fndia, Mozambique,
Zambia.

III. RECOM!4ENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

L2. The First Conrnittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
followirq draft resolutions:

Reduction of nilitary budgets

A

The General AssemblY,

Expressing its deep concern about the ever spiralling arns race and growing
miritiffi-itures,whichconstituteaheavyburdenfortheeconomiesofa1l
nations and have extrenely harmful effects on world peace and security,

Recalling that at its twelfth special session, the second special session
devoted to disarmanen!, all Member States unanimously and categorically reaffirned
the validity of the Final Documene of the Tenth special session, the first special
session devoted to disarmament as well as "their solemn conunitnenttr to iE, U

Reaffirming the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session'
accordfig-to wh-ich th; gradual reduction of military budgets on a mutually agreed
basis, for example, in absolute figures or in terms of percentage points,
particularly by nuclear-rreapon States and other militarily significant States,
would contribute !o curbing the arms race and would increa9e the possibilities for
the reallocation of resources nolr being used for rnilitary purposes to economic and
social development, particularly for the benefit of the developing countriest !

Recalling also the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmatnent
o.""affit-icn-provides that, during this period, renewed efforts shouLd be made
to reach agreenent on the reduction of military expenditures and the reallocation
of resources thus saved !o economic and social development' especially for the
benefit of develoPing countries,

A/S-L2/32, para. 62.

Resolution S'LO/2, Para. 89.

ResoLution 35/46, annex.

4
l/
!/



A/37/6s2
' English

Page 5

Recalling further its resolution 34/83 F of 11 Decenber L979 ' in which 
it

considered that lnfffmpetus should be given to endeavours to achieve agreements
to freeze, reduce or otherwise restrain, in a balanced manner, military
expendiEures, including adeguate measures of verification satisfactory to all
parties concerned,

Having considered
accompJ-ished during its
budgets", 5/

the report of the Disarmament Commission on the work
session in 1982 on the item "Reduction of military

convinced that, the identification and elaboration of a set of principles that
should govern rurtner actions of states in freezing and reducing military 

budgets

could contribute to harmonizing'the views of States and create confidence among
them conducive to achieving international agreenents on the reduction of 

military
budgets,

Considering that the identification and elaboration of the principles that
should govern further actions of States in freezing and reducing military 

budgets

and the other current activities within the framework of the united Nations related
to the question of the reduction of military budgets should be regarded 

as having

the fundamental objective of reaching interirational agreements on the reduction of
rnilitarY exPenditures,

Aware of the various proposals subnitted by Member states and of the
act.ivities carried out so far within the framework of the united Naeions 

in the
field of the reduction of rnilitary budgets,

l.Declaresonceagainitsconvictionthatitispossibletoachieve
international agreenents on reduction of nil-itary budgets without prejudice to the
right of all states to undiminished security, self-defence and sovereigntyl

2. Reaffirms that human and naterial resources released through the
reduetion of military expenditures could be reallocated for economic and social
development, particurarry for the benefit of the developing countriest

3. Reiterates the urgent need to reinforce the endeavours of al]- states 
and

internationat actions in the reduction of nilitary budgets, with a.Y}:t to reaching
international agreements to freeze, reduce or otherwise restrain military
expenditures;

4. Urges all States, in particular the rnost heavily armed statest pending
the concl_usion of agreements on the reduction of nilitary expenditures, 

to exercise
self-restraint in their nil-itary expenditures with a view to reallocating the funds
thus saved to economic and sociar dlvelopment, particurarly for the benefit 

of
developing countriesl

5/ Official Records of the General Aslembl
=:

Supplement No. 3 (A/S-L2/3'
Tlrelfth ial Session'



A/ 37 /652
English
Page 8

5. Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of a group of
qualified experts and with the voluntary co-operation of States, to undertake the
task of constructing price indices and purchasing-power parities for the military
expenditures of participating States; this task should encompass a study of the
problem as a whole, which would include the following:

(a) To assess the feasibility of such an exerciseT
(b) Ito design the project and nethodology to be enployedT
(c) To determine the types of data regqired, such as production descriptions,

prices and statistical weights;
(d) lto construct military price indiees and purehasing-power parities;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to ascertain the willingness of States to
participate and to enlist their voluntary co-operation;

7. Invites Member StqrEs to participate in the above-mentioned exerciseT
8. Requests the Sect'etary-General to submit progress reports to the General

Assembly at its thirty-eighth and thirty-ninth sessions, and a final report to the
Assembly at its fortieth session;

9. Reguests tfe Secretary-eieneral to provide the group of experts with the
necessary assistancd and secretariat servicesl

10. neguesqi the Secretary-General to nake the necessary
report on the reduction of military budgets 7/ to be issued as
publication and widely distributed;

11. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of it.s
the item eiffif trReduction of nililary budgets'.

arrangements for the
a United Nations

thirty-eighth session


