












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Di str.
GENERAI,

A/37/7o7
I Decerber 1982

oRIGINAL! ENGLISx

Itrirty=eventh session
Ag enda i ten 67

QUEST IDI{S REIATING TO INFORIATDN

&porb of the special Folitical comtrittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Faluk IO@GLU (nlrkeyl

I. IN1RODTtrI TPN

1. Itre iten entitledr

'Questions relatirg to infornation..
(a) Repor t of tie bNrittee on Infornationt
(b) Report of the secre tary-ceneral,
(c) Repor t of the Director-Gen era I of the thited t€tionE &lucatisral,

scientific and Cultural Organization'

was included in tle proviaional agenda of the thirty-seventh session of t}e General
A€ senbly in accord ance wit}r Aasenbly resolutions 36/L4g A and B of 16 Decen ser tlr81.
2. At its 4th plenary meetirg t on 24 Septenber 1982, the ceneral Assembly, on the
reoonnendation of the General comnittee, decided to include the iten ln its agenda
and to allocate it to the special blitical 6rrni ttee.
3. rhe special Politicar comnittee examlned the i tern at its 6th to 14th, 38th anat
43rd eeetingsr held between 22 etober and 2 Deced)er. An account of the
dlscu€slon of the CotEtittee is contained in the refevant s unmary records
(A/sEc./37 /sR.6-14. 38 and 43).

82-35829 0645j (E)



4.

A/37/707
Engl ish
Page 2

The Cormittee had before it the folloting documentation:

(a) Report of t.tre oomnittee on Infonrntiont ]/
(b) Report of the se cr e tary-Ge neral on questions relating to information

(A,/37/446),

(c) l'Io te by the secetary-eneral transnitLing the report of the Director-
General of the ulited l&tions &lucational' scientific and cultural organizatlon
( UNESCO ) on the inplerDentation of the International Progralute for the DeveloPment
of Corununication and the Establishment of a l'lew world Inforrnatlon and
Connunications Order, pretrEred in accordance uith General Assembly resolution
36,/149 A of 16 Decenber L98L lA/37,/453 and corr.l).

5. At its 5th meetlng, on 22 oc tober, the cornmittee heard introductory statenents
by ttle Urder-secretarf General for Public Information, the Cha irnan of the
Comnittee on Information and the Assistant Director- General for Comnunication of
tNES@.

6. At its 8th meeting, on 26 october, the comnittee decided to establish an oPetF
ended Working Group on questions relating to infornation, under the dra irmanship of
l,lr. Ernesto Ro&iguez Medina (Colonlcia) 

' 
vice-chairnan of the Comnittee.

II. CDNSIDENAT DN OF DRAF T RESOI.IIT IONS A/s.rc/37 /L.Ls ANd A/s.rc/37 /L.J.5

7. At the 3 8th meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Sggulg as
Cha irman of the Working croup intloduced two draft resolutions ( A,/SPC./3 7,/L.15 and
A/SPC/ 37 /L.:r6) based on the deliberations in the Com[ittee's operFended Working
Group on questions relating !o infornation. The represehtat ive of Ecuador,
Chairman of the Comnittee on Information, and the representative of Bangladesh, on
behalf of the Group of ?7, nade statenents in connection with tlte alraft
resolutions. The representative of the Un ited States of Anerica nade a statenent
in connection with draft resolution A/sN/37 /L.Ls.

8. At its 43rd meeting, on 2 Decernber, the corsnitbee had before it docunent
A/sPc/31 /L.35 containing t}le statement by the se cretarl'-@n eral on the
a&trinistrative and r-inancial impl ications of draft resolution A/SPC/37fi'.I5.

9. At the sane neetirg, ttre rePresentative of the ttrited states of Anerica
proposed an anendnent (A/spc/31/L.L8) to draft resolution A/sPc/ 37 /L. L5, Idhereby'.

(a) After operative paragraph 28' the follorying ner', grragraph trtouLd be
inserte d!

y off
Supplenent l'lo. 2l

Thirt



N37/707
English
Page 3

r29. Autiorizes the Secretarf General to implenent tbe activities approred
under thls resolution only to the extent that they can be financed nitlout
exceeding the level of reaources appro\red in the It82-1983 PrograDne Eldget
(General As senbly resolution 36/2aO) rr
(b) Itle renaining paragraphs would be renurdrered accordingly.

I0. Also at ure saIIE neeting, the corunittee rejected the anen&Dent by a reoorded
vote of 72 to 2, lrith 3l abstentions. The votlng rras as foltonst 2/

Aga inEt: Afghanistan, elgeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Eenin, Bhutan, Boliviar Botswana, Brazilr Burundi, Cape
Verde, central Af,rican Republlc, Chile, China, Colonbiar @ngor
cuba, DerDqatic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, France,
Ghana, Greece, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, .fanaica, .Tordan, tenya, Kunait, Ipbanon, Liberia,
Libya, !,la alagascar; l'lalawi1 Malaysia, Mexico, ltorocco, uozarnblque,
t€trElr ooan, Peru, Phllippines, bmania, R{anda, Senegal, slerra
I€one, singapore, sonalia, Sri lanka, Surinane, Syrian Alab
Republic, lhailand, 1b9o, Trinidad and lbbago, Itrnisia, Ihited
Republic of Caneroon, Un ited lrepublic of Tanzania, Irpper Volta,
Uruguay, Venezuela, viet Nam, yenen, yiJgoslavia, zambia.

In favour! I6rael, Un ited States of Arnerica.
Abstaininq: Australia, Belgium, &rlgaria, Burma, ByeLorussian So\rlet

Soclalist Republic, Canada, Cz ectros lovak ia, Dennark, Finland,
Gabon, German DerDcratic kpublic, cernany, Federal &public of,
Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, ilapan, Iuxenbourg, Mongoliar
lGtherlands, lder{ Zealand, Norway, ploland, portugal, Saudi Arabia,
spain, Sweden, lltrkey, Ukrainian soviet socialist Republic, Union
of Soviet Socialist &pubtj.cs, Lhited Kingdom of creat Britain
and Norurern I reland.

l'1. The cot@ittee then adopted draft resolut ron A,/spc/31 /L.15 by a recorded vote
of 105 to l, with 1 abstention (see para. 15, alraft resolution B). The voting rras
a s follors: f,/

U The delegatlons of qr[Eua, pakistan, eatar, t ganala and the United Arab
E[irates subsequently indicated trat, had they been present, tlley Hould have voted
againEt the amendnent.

1/ The delegations of Cylf,us, the Doninican rGpublic, pakistan, earar,
Irganda and tre lhited Arab Ehirates subsequ€ntly lndicated that, had they been
Present, they eould have voted in favour of the draft reaolution.



^/37/707En91lah
Page {

In favourt

lga lnst:

SEgbIls'
L2. Statenentg in explanation of vote nere nade by the representativeg of the
Ihited States of Arerica, Algeria, the congo anal lErael.

13. The co@ittee then adopted draft reaolutLon M9PC/31/L.15 witlrout a vote (6ee
para. 15, draft reaolution A).

14. statenents in e:qrlanation of vote were roade by the rePresentatlves of the
Wrlted Statea of At€rica' greden and JaPan.

Nghanistan, AJ.geriar Argentina' Australla, Arstriar Bahrain'
Bangladegh, Barbados, Belgiuttr, Benlnr Erutanr Boltvia, btsuana'
gra-zil, Bul,garia, Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet sociallst
ReFblic, Canada, CaPe verder Central African hpublict chile'
china, colonbla, @ngo, Cuba, czedloElovakia, DeDcratic
tqnFr€hear DerFcatic YeDen, EnrDal k, Ebuadorr Egypt, EurioPia,
Fijl, Finlandr Francer Gabon, GerDan Dem(ratic RePublic'
Gernany, &deral ePublic of, Gtranal Greece, Qlyana, Hungarlt,
Iceland, Indla, Indone€la, Iran (Islanic ltePubllc of), Iraq,
Ireland r Ita1y, Janaica. Japanr Jordan, IGnyal Kuwait; l€banont
Liberi.ar Libya. t[xersourg, ttadagagcar, Malawl, l'lalaysia, Mexlcor
!,bngol,ia, !,lorocco, tlou anb lgue, lsEEl, l€therlandsr New zealand,
tbrway, otranr Peru, phillPPinesr Poland, Portugalr Ronaniar
sranda r Saudi Arabiar senegal, sierra laotre, singaPore, $rnaliar
spain' sri Lanka, surlnane, sweden, syrian Arab Republic;
Itrailand, bgo, Trinidaal and Io,bago, Tlni8la, Turkey, Ukrainian
soviet socialist Repubtlc, Un ion of soviet sociallst RePublics,
Ihited Kingdom of Great Britaln and Northern Ireland, Lnite'l
R€public of caneroonr Irn ited RePublic of Tanzania, Upper vo1ta,
uruguay, venezuelar viet !bn, Yemen, largoslavia, zaire, zanbia'

U!: iteal statea of Alerica.

I6rael.



A/37/707
Etrgush
Pag€ 5

II I. REO,TUENDAT (}NS OF THE SPECIAI. POI,ITICAI, @UI'IITIEE

15. The Special Political Codnittee recotulends to the General Assenbly the
adoption of the follqrlng draft reaolutions:

Questions relatirg to infornation

A

the ceneral Assenbly.

Recallim its reeolutions 3VIEI and 34/La2 of l8 Decenber J979. 35/20L of
15 Ecenber 1980 and 36,/149 A of 15 hcenber I9E1,

eecaUlnq relevant provislona of the tte:.lco City Declaration on Cultural
Follcles, !r/ adopted by the World @nference on Cultural Follcies, held at l€xicoClty fron 26 itu ly to 5 August lll82,

&ecal,lim the relevant provisions of the Final Dec.Larition of the si xttl
Conference of Heads of State or Golrernmen t of tbrFAligned @untrles, held at llavana
fron 3 to 9 Septenber 7979, y Hhi<fi stressed that co-operatlon in the fleld of
infornation ls an integral part of the struggle for the creation of a ner eorld
information order, of the Lleclaration of the Conference of Ministers for FoEe ig[r
Affa lrs of tbrFAligned Countries, held at lGn Delhl frotn 9 to 13 February L98L, 9/
and of the Fi fth and si rtb Heetings of the Intergover nnental Council of Uinlsterg
of fnfornatlon of tbrFAIi glred Countries, held at Georgetoyn in l€y ]ll8l, and
Valleta, in,June 19 82, respectivelyl

Recallinq the relevant reaolutions adopted by the A6sernbly of EeadE of Stat€
and Government of the Organizatlon of African ltrity at its elghteenth ordinary
session, held at Na lEobi from 24 to 22 ,tune lgAL, U

Ecallinq artlcle 19 of tlre thiveEsal DecLaration of ltunan P.ights' 9/ r'hl cb
Provldes that everyone has the right to f,reedom of oplnion and exltesslon and that
th18 right inclualeg freedom to holal opinions fllthout interference and to sqek,
receive and iIEErt infornation and ideas th rough any nedia and regardLees of
frotrtierE and artlcle 29, rtri ch stiFr.Lates that tiese rights and freedons nay ln no
case be exerc lsed contrary to the purposes and prlrcip:tes of the Un iEeal Nations,

&e A/37/453, annexl paras. 4F42.

*e A,/36/542' annex, aect. I, paras. 2EF299.

*e {36/LLG and Corr.lr annex.

*e \/36/534 , annex I I.

Resolution 217 A (III).

!/
2/
!/
u
9/



A/37/707
BngI ish
Page 6

RecaUim the relevant provisions of the Final Act of the conference on
securlty and co-operation in Europe, sigmed at Helainki on I Argust 1975,

Recalling also the relevant provisions of the Declaration on the Preparation
of socleties for Life in Peacer 9,/

Considdrinq tiat the Frblication of the final rePort of Ule International
Coffuission for the study of Conmunicatlon ProbLens !1,/ is a valuable contributlon
to the study of infornation and corununicatlon lxoblens and that j.ts recolunendatlons
aLso conatitute valuable encouragenent for the continuing exanlnation' analy€is and
study of inforrnation and corununication lEoblens,

Considering that international co'operation tn the field of co nunication
development should take place on t}te basis of equality, justice, mutual advantage
and the prirpiples of international law,

Conscious thaE the developnent of corununication infrastructures, including
national and regional capacity for indigenous nessage production and diEseminationr
is one of the important factors for genuine participation by a large najori ty of
developing countries in i.nternational exdtanges,

Secogn 1z inq the central role of the Unlted Nations Eclucational, Scientific
and Qrl€ura1 Organization in the field of comnunication and infonEtion wlthin lts
mandate, as well as the progress acconpl ished by the organization in that fieLd,

1.. Takes note wlth satisfactlon of the report of the Director-Gen eral of the
Un ited Na tions Educational, scientific and cultural organization on the
funplementation of the Internatlonal Prograncne for the De\telopnent of Coldlunication
and the Establi€bment of a New world Infornation and coffnunicacion OtdeE, L2/

2. IJnderlines the importance of efforts for the inplementation of t}le
pr inc iples-Iiu-GJa-Ed in the Declaration on FJndarnental PrinciPles concerning the
Contribution of the uass I'bdi a to strengthening Peace and International

Recalling resolutions 4/L9 and 4/?J
Itrited Nations lEucational, scientiflc and
twentff irst session, held at Belgrade in

adopted by the General conference of the
Grltural organization at its

LgSo, !/

9/ Re solution 33/73.

Pjl N35/362/Nd.L' annexes r and rr.

ly Publlshed in 1980 by the Un ited Nations Educational, Scientificqrltural Organization under the title r!6ny voices' ore worLd".

rL/ A/37/453, and corr.l, annex.

and



T;(!i'
Page 7

Ihderstanding, to ttre Prorrction of !tuman Rights and to Countering Raclalismr
Apartheid and InciEenenE to Wart 13/

3. lgllry a11 lle nlcer states and all organizations of the Un iteal Nations
sygtem, international, governnental and nonjovernmental organizations and
Profes€ional organizations in the fietd of corElunication, to exert eveEy effor! to
nake better known through all means at their disposal the lssues underlylng tbe
demand for the developnent of coEnunication capacities in developlng countrles as a
SteP towards t}Ie establighr0ent of a nelr world lnfornatlon and comnunication order t

4. @nsiders that the International Programte for the Developnent of
Corununlcation represents a slgnificant step towards the eatablishnent of a new
world inforrnation and comnunication order and welcollEs the decisions adopted by the
Int ergovernmental Counci I of the Prograflme at its second session, helal at Acapulco,
l{exico, fron 18 to 25 January 1982t

5. Notes nit}l satisfaction the co-operation existing betreen the Irn iteat
l,blidrs, tbe Lhited !€tiona Eucatiqral, scientific and CtrlturaL organization and
aIl other organlzations of the lrn ited Natl.ons systen, particularly the
rntetrnational lblecotdnunication lhion, ln the inplenentatidn of ure programet

5. E{Iresses its apFeciation to all l,lenber States that h atre rnade or pI edged
a contribution towards tie lmplernentation of the progrannet

7. Calls upon Me nber SEates - developed and developing countries alike - and
organizations and bodles of the tlrlted lihtions systern, as well as other
intergover ruuental organi.zations and concerned public and private enterprises - to
resPond to ttte aPpeals of the Director-ceneral of the United llations Educa t ional,
scientific and cultural Organization and make contributions to the Programne, s ince
tlre avallabillty of additionar resources is essentlal for its inplenentationt

8. Considers that the proposed clobal SatelliEe project for the
Dlssenination and Erchange of rnfonEtion pranned by thited tibtions Hucational,
Scientific ar|d Cultural Organlzation, in co-operation with INIEISAT and
rNtERsRtrt{rK and supported by the progranme, is a po€itive atep tcirards reduclng
the existing inbalance in global infornation flord,

9. CaLl€ upon lbmber states to respond positively to resolution 4,/22
concerning the reduction of t elecom[unication tarlffs for nens exdrange, adopted by
ttre General Conference of tbe tltited Nations Eucational, scientific and cultural
Organization at its tnentff irst sessiont

I0. fnvite€ t}|e Dlrectorceneral of tlle thited tibtlons EducationaL,
scientific and cultural organization to continue his efforts in the flerat of
comunlcation and inforrnation and to submit to the General Asselbly at lts

13,/ United Na tions EducationaL, Scientiflc and
of the ceneral Conference, l$rentieth Se€sion, vol. I,

Cultural Organizatlon, Re oords
baoluEions, pp. l0 0-104.



A./37/707
Engl ish
Page I

thirtfe ighth session a conFehensive rePort on the inplenentatlon of the
Programe, on the activitiea related to the establishment of a nen world
infonnatlon and corununl.catlon order and, in co-oPeration wittr the Internatlonal
Ibleconrnunication Urlon, on tlle inFact of t.!re current te dlnological developments
and practiceg and their appl ication in the comnunlcation and infornatlon sector,
especlally in the derreloping countries, bearing ln roind, !$EL l!!g, the
foittrcomlng relevant meetirgs of the trr iteat Nations Educatlonal, Sclentiflc anal
Cu1tural organization on the subject.

B

.@.lgEs@.,
Recallim ita resolutions 3 535 (xxlg of 17 Deceder 1975, 3Vl:|9 of

te ecffiFID76, 33ALs A to c of 18 hcedcer L978, 34/LgL and 34/Laz or
L8 Decferser ]97g, 35/2OL of 16 Decenber 1980 anal 36449 B of 16 Decenber l9 8l on
questions relating to inforna tion,

RecallirE article 19 of the lrnlversal Declaratlon of Eunan Rights, 1a!,/ ehfdl
prorriaes ttrat 

"v"ryone 
has the right to freedon of opinlon and expreEslon and that

thls rlght includes freedom to hold oplnions without interference and to seek,
receive and inpart inforrnation and ideas tbrough any |lEdia and regardle€s of
frontiera. and article 29, trbic! stipulates that these rights and freedons nay in
no case be exercised contrary to the Purposes anal PrinciPles of the tirited l{atlqra,

Recalling also articles 19 and 20 of the International Covenant on Clvil and
Poli.tical Rtghts, l!1

RecaLlinq the relevant provisions of the Flnal Declaratlon of the si xth
Conference oi tteads of State or Covernment of Non-Atlgmed Countriesr held at Itravana
from 3 to 9 september Lg7g. ;16/ whictr stresseal that co'.operation in the fteld of
lnforr0atlon is an integrat part ot Ure €truggle for t}re creation of a ner world
information order, of the Declaration of Conference of Ministers for Soreign
Affa irs of NorrAligmed Countries, held at f''|ew Delhi from 9 to 13 February 1981r and
of the ai fth and sixth I'le etings of the Intergover nental council of Ministers of
InfortEtion of NoTFALj. gned @untries, helat at Georgetotn in May 1981 anct Valleta in
ilune 1982r respectivel-y'

Recaltinq its resolutions 3201 (s-vl) and 3202 ( s-vl) of I May 197'1,
contafnfng tfre Oeclaration and the Prograrfltre of Action on the Establishnent of a
Ner rnternational Econonic order' 3281 (xxl)o of l'2 De cenber !97{' contalning the
Grarter of Dconomlc Rlghts anal Drties of statesr and 3352 (s-vII) of
16 Septenber 1975 on deveLopnent and international econonic co-operation'

!/ Resolutlon 217 A (III).

L5/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI) r irD€x.

16,/ See A/34/542, annex' 6ect. I, paras. 25|u-'299.



v37/707
Engl ish
Page 9

&callinq tie Declaration on h$damental Princlplea concernlng u)e
Contribution of the Mass l'te dia to strengthenirE Peac€ and International
Ubderatandirg, to the Prorption of ltunan ld.ghts and to @unter lng Raclallarer
4)artheid and Incitement to ltar, E/ adoptea on 28 Noveder 1978 by the General
Conference of the lhitedl tihtions &lucatlonal, Scientlfic and Cultural organization'
aa well as the relevant regolutions on infornatlon and nass coturunicatlons adlopted
by the General Conference at its nineteenth, tnentle th and trrenty-f lre t anat
trrent!|-s econd € ess lonE,

Re caUinq the relevant provisions of the Finaf Act of the Conference on
Security and Co€peration i.n Burope I eJ.gned at Helsink i on 1 Argust l9?5,

Recalllnq aIEo the relevant provislons of the Declaratlon on the Preparatlon
of Societie€ for Life ln Eeace, !!/

Recalllrg the relevant recoonendatione and provls ions ot the Declaraeions
adopted by tlte $orLd Oongress on boks, held in london fron 7 to U June 1984, and
by the Vtor ld Conference on Cultural Policles, held at Uexico Ctby froo 26 ituly to
6 Argust 1982 '

Conscioua of the need for a1I to colLaborate in the establiEhnent of a neu
norld informatlon and c'onmunication order baaed, lnter alia, on the free
circulation and nlder and better balanced dissenination of lnforrnationl
guaranteeing the diverslty of tlre gourcea of inforrDation and free acces s to
lnfornation, and, in particular, the urgent need to change the delrenttent etatus of
the dgreloping countries in Ore field of information and coE-nunica t lon s, and
intended also to strengtlren peace and internatlonal understanding,

&eaff irninq that ttt e es tabl ishrlen t of a new world inforrmtion and
conuaunication order is r inked to lhe new international eoononic orde! and la an
integral part of the lnternational de\reloprnent lEocesa,

Endrasizlnq the inportant role that public infornation plays in protbting
understanding of and support for ttre establishnent of ure new internatlonal
econonic order and international co-operatlon for developnent,

hdraslzlng the roLe ttlat public information plays in iroflbting aupport for
unlverEal disarmarrent and in increasing awareness of the relationship betyeen
diaarmanent and derreJ.opmeh t arrcng as broad a publlc a6 possible,

Reaffirninq the prinary role r*hich the ceneral Asserably ls to play ln
eraboratirg, co-ordinating and harnonizlng lhited Nations policies and acttvitles
in the field of lnfornation and recogniring the central and ilqnrtant role of the

n-/ un ited N,ations Educationall scientific and cultural organlzatlonr Reoorda
of Ure General Conference, ltdentie th Session, vol. f, &aoLutio{rs, pp. 100-lO{.

!9/ Resolutlon 33,/73.



A,/ 17/70?
English
Page 10

unitedl.htionsEducational,scientificandculturalorganizatloninthefieldof
infonnation and c€ranunicat ions,

&nrtrasiztrg the cotlPlenentari ty of the activities in the field of infornatlon
.na "oG;;i;;Eion 

and ttt; need to s Ereng then co€peration and co-ordinatlon bettteen
[i; ;;;;;;-;isanizarions ina uoai"= of rhe un tted Nations sysrem that dea.L wittr
dlfferent asPects of lnformation and comnunica tlon,

Enrhasiz irE lbs fuU s upPort for the International Prografime for the
De,relfienf;??rmnunication l, flttich constitutes an inPortant steP in the
a!i.i"i^.rt of the infrastructures of conurunications ln the develoPing countrles,

E<pressinqitssatisfactlonwiththeworkoftheconu0itteeonlnformalionas
rertecGE in its report t3Fe cett"rul As sernbry at its thirtrseventh sesslon, !1../

E(pressinq ics appreciatlon to the ilolnt lhited l€tions Infornatlon oomlittee
tor iFfeorts towards inproving co-ord ination of the Public infornation
actlvitiea of the various organlzations of the krited Nations system'

TakincnotewithaatisfactlonoftherePortofthesecretary-Generalon
questLons relating to rntornEitlon' zu./

Alsotakilrgnotewiulsatisfagtio{roftherePortoftheDirector-Genera].of
Ur" @ic and Culturat Organization, 4,/

I. Alrdoves the report of the comnietee on Information and aII its
recorunendations and urges t}leir fuII implementationt

2. Reaffirms the nandate given to the comnittee on Information by the
ceneral Assernbly in ita resolution 34/L82, nanely:

(g.) to continue to exanine un ited Nalions publlc information pollcles and
actlviEies, in ttre Light of the et olution of international relations' particularly
aurrrrg the'past tno decades, and of the inperatives of the eslablislment of the nelt
internatlonal economi c order and of a new world inforruation and cotmunication order t

(!.) Iro evaluate and follo!, uP the efforts rnade and the Progress ach ievecl by
ttre ltrited !€tions systern in the field of information and colununicatlonst

(c) To protDte the establlshment of a nevJ, more just and more effective world
inforlaliion and colrnunication order, intended to s treng then Peace and lnternational

p// ot fL
supplenent No. 2I ( 7/2L and cor r.1)

29/ N37/446.

L/ A/ 37 / 453 and corr.I.



M37/707
English
page II

understanding and based on the free circulation and rvider and better balanced
dissenination of infornation, and to rnake re commendatj.ons thereon lo the ceneral
As€erblyt

3. Requests the connictee on Information, keeping in nind its mandate, the
essential tasks of nhich are to continue !o examine the poJ.icies and actlvities of
the lrepartrDent of Publ-ic Infornation, to continue to promte the establistment of a
n€rdr rnor€ just and effective *or1d infornation and comnunication order and to
continue to seq[ the co-operation and active participation of all organizations of
t}le thited lbtlons system, trErticularly tlre United Nations Educational, Scientlflc
and Cultural Organization and the lnternational $e lecorunun ication Un ion, while
avoiding any overlapping of aceivities on this subjectt

4. Af firns lts strong s upport for the Un iCed Nations Educational, Scientific
and qrltural Organization and for its efforts to promote the establishnent of a new
world inforrnation and coflununication ordert

5. Reiterates aqain its appeal to lGnlc er States, to the inforrntion and
comnunication mediar both public and private, as welr as to norFgovernnrenlal
orgartizatiqrs, to disseminate more widely objective and b€tter balanced inforroation
about the activities of the ur ited Na tlons and, inter alia, about the efforta of
the developing countries tohrards tlre ir economic r sociaL and cultural progresa and
about the efforts of the internationat conmunity to ac*lieve international aociaLjustice and econorni c developnent, international peace and security and the
progressive elinination of international inequiLies and tensionsl suelr
diss€ninatlon being ained at adrieving a more comprehens ive and rearistic inage of
the activities and potential of the un ited Nations system in alL its purposes and
endeavour et

6. Calls upon alt organs, organizations and bodies of the Un iteal Nations
system to develop r in a concerted nann er, integrated and coherent public
infornation progranunes to pronote understanding of and s upport for lhe actlvlties
of tbe system in all its fields, in particular in the econornic, social-, aleveloprnent
and cultural fieldsl

7. &quesls that the .toint United Nations Infornation Comnj.ttee, as the
essentiar instrunent for interagency co-ordination and corcperation in the field of
public inforrnation, be strengthened and made more effective and that its
secretariat elaborate new ne thods of work and longer-term indicative prannlng andjolnt action, especially in the promotion of a new world infornation and
comlunication orderf

8. Requests the Comrlittee on Infornation and the Joint United Nationa
rnfornation conmi ttee to take action in accordance with paragraphs 15 and 16 of the
re@mnendations of the comnittee on rnformation 22/ for lts constderation at i!6
substant ive session in 1983r

&/ otfi, of the
Supplement No. 21 ( 7/2L and Cor r.1) sect" IV, para. 91.



A/3't /707
EngI ish
Page 12

9. Reaffirms the inportance of the rapidly increasing role of United Na lions
public infornntion irrograrfi0es in fostering Public understanding and suPport of-Un ited Nations activities and requests the Secre tary-C€ neral to contlnue to review
the current activities of ttte Departnent of Public Infornation r.ti th a view to
ensuring a better and rnore efficlent use of its available resources,

I0. Requests the Secretarf@neral to ensure trha t future rePorts of the
f,bpartment of puUftc Infornalion of the Secretariat to the Comnittee on InformatLon
and to the General Assemlcly should contain lnformation a3 set out in lEragraPh 42
of the recomnendations of the Corunitteet !!/

11. Reiterates the reconrnendatlon contained ln its resolution 35,/201 that
additional resources for the DePartnen! of Public Inforrnation should be
colunensurale vri th the increase in t}te activities of the thitett l'htlons which the
Departnrent is called upon to cover for the purpose of public informationr and that
the Secretarf General should Provide such resources to the EPartment to this end
$here n eeded?

12. Requests the se cre tary-General to ensure that the activities of the
Departnent of public InforraLion, as the focal point of the PubLlc infornation
tasks of the tnited Na tions, should be strengthened, keeping in view the principles
of ttle charter of the Lhited Nations and along the lines establlshed in the
pertinent resolutions of the General As senbly and the recomnendations of the
Conunittee on Infornation, to ensure a tnore coherent coverage of, and a b€tter
knowleatge about, the un ited Na tions and its workl especla]'ly in its priority areas;
such as those stated in seclion III, paragraFh l, of Assembly resolution 35/20I,
inctuding international peace and security, disarma[€nt, Peace-keeplrg and
peacemaking operations, decolonization, the lxornotion of human rights, the struggLe
against apartheid and racial discrinination, economlc, social and development
issues, the lntegracion of r.tonen in the stru991e for peace and developnent, tlre
estabishment of the new international e conornic order and of a ner.r world information
and communication order, the work of tie ttrrited lilations Council for llamibla and
progranuDes on wonen and youttl,

13. Requests the se cre tary-C€ ner a1, in view of the vital role that
lnformation plays in the de\relopment process' to ensure that the DePartment of
Public Informatlon co-operates more closely witb the tln ited Natlons develoPment
agencies and progranunes, in particular the ltrrited lbtions DeveloPrnent Prograrune t
both at Headquarters and in the field, in order to pool their resources' avold
cluplication and foster effectively the process of developmentt

14. Requests th€ se cre lary-Ge ner a1 to ensure that the tlbr Id Disarnanent
campaign gives full consideration to the role of mass ||Edia as the lnost effective
way to prolrpte in world public oPinion a clinate of understanding, confidence and
co-operation conducive to peace and disarnament and the enhancement of hunan rights
and development and further requests the se cre tary-Ge ner al to ensure that, within
the wbrld Disarmament canFEign, the Department of Public Information fulfils tlte
role assigmed to it. by the General Assenbly by utllizing it6 exPertise and
resources in public infornation to ensure its naxinurn effectivenesst



A/37 /7 o7

ifi:Ti

15. Requests the Se cretarf General to ensure that, within exist.ing resotltc€sr
conpetent orglns of the secrelariat prepare a docunented factual s unmary account of
tbe coverage by widely representatlve uorld rcdiar revlewlng developments affecting
the Palestinian people from.June to Decen Jer 1982i

16. Requests the secretarf General to ensure ttra! tie DePartment of Public
Information organizes as s oon as possibler in close co-operation with the United
llatlons Educational, scientific and c'ultural organization, a round table on a new
world infornation and comnunication order, with the wide partlciPalion of major
news media editors and rdi th represehtatlon frorn all regionst

17. Requests the secre tary-@neral to continue and inlensify hls efforts to
redress the existing h$alance in ttle staff of the Departnent of Public
fnfornation, andl until equltable geographical distribution is actrleved, to take
urgent steps to increase ttle representation of the group of developing countries'
particularly aU senior and policlnnaking levels, by a policy of recruiting among
tlleir nationals, taking into account al6o the interests of other under-represented
group€ of countriesr ln accordance with Article lOI, paragr aph 3, of the Charter of
the thited libtlons and ceneral Assenbly resolutlons 33/L43 of 20 December 1978r
3 5,/20I and 36/L49 Bl

18. Requests the Se cre tary-Gener al to Cake the necessary measures to
inplement the existing plan regarding progranrnj.ng in the Portuguese language and to
submlt to the next sessLon of the ConnitEee on Inforxnation specific proposals,
including estinates of co€ts and benefits, for a separate plan to enable the
Afrlcan Unit to undertake progr anuning at a meaningful level in French and major
languages of tlr e region other than those already in uset

19. l,b tes that a seFarate Caribbean tnit ha6 been estabflshed and has begun
functloning and requests the se cretarf ceneral to report on measures needed for its
possible expansion so that it nay offer effective progranming in French and in the
other languages of the subregionl

20. Requests the Se (re tary-ce ner aI to subnit to the Conurittee on Information
at lts ne:<t sess{on a new, extensive and detalled report on the acquisition of a
Unlled !,la tions corununications satellite, irhic*r should study the different
alternatives and analyse and evaluate t}e current administration costs in reLation
to telephone, telex, radio, video, docunEnt processing, the holding of conferencesr
travel by interpreters, and so on. andl while projecting seven1ear operational
goals, conpare then nith the cost of its own satellite, taking into account all
Pot€ntial uaes of such a satellite by tlle Urited lgtions system and also presenting
feasible financirB and s elf-ma intenance alternatives, and in this regard requests
that ttle Cotrunittee on Information should, as its next session, also take into
account the basic report on cornmunications to be produced by the Joint Insp€ctlon
Irn i tt

2L. Requests the Se cre tary-ce ner al further to strengthen co-operation by the
Department of Public InfornEtion with the pool of NorrNigned lGns Agencies, as
well as rrith the regional n ews agencies of developirE countries, and furthermore
requests that the lraceice of coverage by the agencies of the Poot, in co-operation



A/37/707
Engl ish
Page 14

with the Etepartnent of Public Information, of inportant conferences and events
within the ttrited lbtions system should be continued and strengthenedt

22. Requests the se cre taty-Ge ner al to Publish the UN chronicle in au the
official languages of the Brited },Iation s and, within existing financial r€liourc€gr
to take the rneasures necessary to ensure that the UN Chronicle be further intrAoved
to present a wide and more comprehens ive coverage of llrited I'btions activltles and
that it be published in an attractive and aptrroPr iate format to ensure ita wide,
timely and effective c irculationt

23. Requests the SeGetary-@neraI to strengthen the capacity and enhance the
role of ttre tlnlted l.lations information centres throughr in particular, the
inptementation of the provisions of paragraptr 2e of the recoruEndations of the
conuni ttee on Inforftationt ?l/

24. Requests the se cre tary-Ge ner aI to initiate Practical efforts toward a
balance in the use of al-I the official languages of the Ihited l'lations in the radio
broadcasling progranme coverirg Un ited tta tions conferences held alray fron Un ited
llations Hea dquarter si

25. Requests the se (re tary-Gener al to Proceedr wi'tttout Prejudice to any
future plan concerning the regionalization of the Radio and visual Services
Division, to malntain and enhance the functions of the Middle East and Arabic Unit
in the Radio service as the producer of televtsion and radio Progralflies for the
Arabic-speaking countries and to consider enlarg ing it through the redeplol'ment of
existing resource st

26. Reaf firns the irnportance of !gyc'jlg@g-@ as the on].y interagency
pubtication oi tt. unit.O tbtions systen yrh j. ch concentrates on develop0enC issuea,
requests the Se cre tary-Ge ner al to continue to support its publication fron the
regular budget while intensifying his efforts to secure a sound and independent
financial basis for its conCinued publication and cal.Is uPon all the specialized
agencies and other organizations of t}Ie irnited tlations system to contribute to t}!is
systerF-wide publication,

27. Requests the se cre tary-c€ neral to rePort furcher to the conmitEee on
Infornation at its next session on t.l.Ie viability of a world-wide United l.Iations
short-wave network, iLs regional segrnents and its Pettinent frequenciesr as lrell as
on t}le alternative solution of continuing to rent broadcas t tine on existlng
national short-lrave transnittor s,

28. ]r.ggS5!g the se Ge l:ary-General to continue the co-oPeration between the
DePartnent of Pub1ic Inforrnation and the lhion of l'bLional Radio and Televlsion
Organizations of Mrica, as vrell as wittr radio stations nhich are membera of that
union, in order to broadcast united ]ibtions radio prograrunes on tttos e radio
stations, and further requests the se cre tary-Ge ner al to co-operate wlth tbe
national radio broadcasling organizations in Africa for t}Ie establishrnent of a
pilot project for wider broadcasting of United Nations radi'o progr arnnesl



N37/707
Englisb
Page 15

29. Requegts the secretarf General to report to tlte Oonmittee on Infornation
at itg Eubstantive seEsion in 1983, on the inplenentation of all the
recoflnendations contained in the conudttee's reportl !!/

30. Requesta the se cre tary-Ge neral to rePort to the General Aasenbly at 118
ttr lrty-i gIE';E;ion on t}e inplenentation of the trresent resolution and r in
particular, on the implernentation of all the Eecormrcndations contained in the
report of the comittee on Informationl f!/

3I. Requests the comittee on Information to rePort to the General As senbly
at it.s th irty-ei ghth sessiont

32. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirtfeighth session
t}le iten enEitled rqrestiona relating to inforrnation'.


