








































REPORT

OF THE

UNITED NATIONS COUNCIL

FOR NAMIBIA

GENERAL ASSEMBLY

OFFICIAL RECORDS: THIRTY-SEVENTH SESSION

SUPPLEMENT No. 24 (A/37/24)

UNITED NATIONS



FlIn
fll
pr.
HI
,m
efj
f'"

31
decis
ment
the q
Corn
withi
tive
dom
(Ell
eou

32
decis
hum
Coun
actio

Gene
od'"
sit!
ant
sit!

33.
decis'
establ
exam
nomi
those
subm
decisi
beloy,

34.
decisi
Right
para.
see p'

The r
rio,
fa,.,

35.
ofTh
the F
the
pines,
Unite
Zaire,
peopl
under
(E/19
Island



REPORT

OF THE

lJNITED NATIONS COUNCIL

FOR NAMIBIA

GENERAL ASSEMBLY

OFFICIAL RECORDS: THIRTY-SEVENTH SESSION

SUPPLEMENT No. 24 (A/37/24)

UNITED NATIONS

New York, 1983

! '
I



~~--~;;~~it-'7:ii4~,",~O;~. -~'\~-~i"'" :c::'':';~~5:~dt_tiii~~-\o''':"~'::::-=':--_S'_-~-'-:-;-:-;3!iU--:~! ,,-O;;::-"i~~3--=-':i!~::!±Y3~=::-i!~_~,'" .ii~_~£.:i-@,~~~~-L~TS:;;:~~'ff#iii-:J..c:~""':T::-)i<;;--- ----=-~ -~--------,- ---- ._----~

~I

NOTE

Symbols of United Nations documents are composed of capital letters combined
with figures. Mention of such a symbol indicates a reference to a United Nations document.

The present volume contains the fmal text of the report of the United Nations Council
for Namibia, which was originally issued in mimeograph fcrm as documents
A/37/24 (part I) of 1 December 1982 and A/37/24 (part 11 ) of 11 December 1982.



CONTENTS

Chapter

ABBREVIATIONS

~graph.§.

.............................................................. viii
LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ix

I. GENERAL ••••••••••••••••• 11 •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

IV. CO-OPERATION WITH OTHER UNITED NATIONS BODIES •••••••••••••

PART ONE: WORK OF THE COUNCIL AS A POLICY-MAKING ORGAN OF

11. CONSIDERATION OF THE QUESTION OF NAMIBIA BY THE
GENERAL ASSEMBLy ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

7

8

7

8

18

17

11

1 - 24

25 - 219

25 - 29

30 - 83

30 - 54

55 83

84 - 87

88 - 100

..........................................

THE UNITED NATIONS •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

B. Thirty-sixth session ••••••••••.•••••••••••••••••••••••

A. Eighth emergency special session ••••••••••••••••••••••

SECURITY COUNCIL!II.

A. Special Committee on the Situation with regard to
the Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries
and Peoples .•.. e••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 89 - 93 18

B. Special Committee against Apartheid ••••••••••••••••••• 94 - 100 18

v. CO-OPERATION WITH THE ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITy....... 101 - 111 20

A. Thirty-eighth ordinary session of the Council of
Ministers of OAU (22 to 28 February 1982,
Addis Ababa) ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• o •• ~....... 102 - III 20

A. Organization of the extraordinary plenary meetings •••• 141 - 147 25

B. Extraordinary plenary meetings........................ 148 - 151 26

B. Thirty-ninth ordinary session of the GAU
Co-ordinating Committee for the Liberation of
Africa (7 to 11 June 1982, Arusha, United
Republic ot Tanzania) ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 112 - 117 21

25

35

22

27

2C3 - 215

152 - 202

141 - 219

118 - 140

...

••••• 0 •••••••••• 0 ••••••••••• & •••• 11 •••••

messages ••• 0 •••• r~ ••••••••••••••••••••••

General debate

Statements and

EXTRAORDINARY PLENARY MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL AT ARUSHA

D.

C.

VI. CO-OPERATION WITH THE MOVEMENT OF NON-ALIGNED COUNTRIES

VII.

-iii-



J

CONTENTS (continued)

Chapter
Paragraphs Page

E. Adoption of the Arusha Declaration and Programme of
Action on Namibia •••••••.•••••••.•••••••••••••••••••• 216 - 218 36

F. Preparations for the International COnference in
Support of the Struggle of the Namibian People
for Independence ••••.•••••••••.•••••••••••••••••••••• 219 37

PARr '!WO: WORK OF THE COUNCIL AS THE LEGAL. AmINIS'fERING
AUTHORITY FOR NAMIBIA ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 220 - 750 38

I. GmERAL •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• e ••••••••••••••••• 220 - 224 38

11. CONSULTATIONS WITH MEMBER STATES ON THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF UNITED NATIONS RESOLUTIONS ON NAMIBIA ••••••••••••••••• 225 - 266 39
A. General • •• g •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• lit ••••••••••••• 225 - 226 39

B. Mission of consultation to Cyprus, Sri Lanka and
Bangladesh (28 Ms.rch to 13 April 1982) ••••••••••••••• 227 - 266 39

111. ACTIVITIES OF THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE REPRESENTATION
OF NAMIBIA AND THE PROMOTION OF NAMIBIAN INTERESTS IN
THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND OTHER INTERNATIONAL
O:RGANIZATIONS AND CONFERENCES •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 267 - 301 46
A. General ••••• Cl Cl ••••••••• Cl ••••• Q

. 267 - 273 46

B. Special Committee against Apartheid and other
United Nations bodies •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 274 - 280 47

IV. ACTION CONCERNING FOREIGN ECONOMIC INTERESTS IN NAMIBIA ••

B. Mission to contact corporations ••••••• a ••••••••••••••

F. Movement of Non-Aligned COuntries ••••••••••••••••••••

281 - 284 47

285 - 291 48

292 - 293 49

294 - 296 49

297 - 301 49

302 - 344 51

302 - 338 51

339 - 344 56

• •••••••••••••••••••• e •• o •••••••••••••••••••••
GeneralA.

D. Specialized agencies and other organizations and
institutions of the United Nations system ••••••••••••

C. Meetings of the penate of the United Nations Institute
for Namibia and other activities under the United
Nations Fund for Namibia •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

E. Organization of African Unity ••••••••••••••••.•' •••••••

G. Meetings and conferences sponsored by non-governmental
organizations •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• e •••••••••••

-iv-



CONTENTS (continued)

38

B. Seminar on the Military Situation in and relating to
37 Namibia •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

97

99

102

101

101

642

Paragraphs Page

345 - 537 58

345 - 366 58

367 - 537 62

538 - 560 86

539 - 540 86

541 - 549 86

550 - 557 88

558 - 560 89

561 -572 90

573 - 604 92

576 - 586 92

587 - 590 93

591 - 597 94

598 - 601 95

602 - 604 95

605 - 642 96

605 - 610 96

64i

611 - 620

621 - 631

632 - 635

636 - 640

services ••••••••••••••••• 0 •••••••••

. ., .

OF LEGAL MATTERS CONCERNING NAMIBIA •••••••

OF SOCIAL MATTERS CONCERNING NAMIBIA ••••••

repression and human rights violations ••••

• •••••••••••••••••••••• G •• II •••••••••••••••••

exploitation •••••• o ••• :~o ••••• oo •• & ••••••••

•• fI ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••General

Other activities

Radio and visual

E. Education ••••••••••.•••.•••.•••••. a •••••••••••••••••

-v-

A. General .., 0 •••••• , •••••••••••••••••• 8 ••••

D. Health . 0 •••••••• '! .. Cl ••••••••••• 0 •••••••••••••••• 0 ••••

B. Efforts of the Council to counter attempts aimed at
modifying Security Council resolution 435 (1978)

B. Celebration of Namibia Day and the Week of Solidarity
with the People of Namibia and their Liberation
Movement, SWAPO •••••••••••.•••••••••••••.•••••••••••

C. Press and publications ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

ACTIVITIES OF THE COUNCIL IN THE FIELD OF DISSEMINATION
OF INFORMATION AND PUBLICITY CONCERNING NAMIBIA •••••••••

C. Armed struggle waged by SWAPO •••••••••••••••••••••••

D. Contacts between Member States and South Africa •••••

D.

E.

F. Dissemination of information by the Office of the
United Nations COmmissioner for Namibia •••••••••••••

V. ACTION CONCERNING THE MILITARY SITUATION IN NAMIBIA •••••

VI. CONSIDERATION OF POLITICAL MATTERS CONCERNING NAMIBIA

Chapter

36

A. Continued illegal occupation of the Territory by
38 Sou th Afr ica •••••••••••••••••••..••••••••••••••••••••

39

39

39
VII. CONSIDERATION

VIII. CONSIDERATION

46 A. Political

46 B. Refugees

C. Economic
47

47
IX.

48

49

49

49

51

51

56

s Page



CONTENTS (continued)

Paragraphs Page

643 - 712 103

643 - 657 103

653 - 679 107

680 - 691 116

692 - 703 120

704 - 712 125

713 - 741 126

713 - 717 126

718 - 729 126

730 -' 741 128

742 - 750 131

751 - 785 133

751 - 765 133

751 133

752 133

753 133

754 - 758 133

759 - 760 134

761 134

762 - 763 136

764 765 135

. .

•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• eo. 0 •••••••••••General

A. Establishment of the Fund, general developments and
sources of financing ••••• 0 ••••••••••••••••••••••••••

A.

E. Fund-Raising Mission to Western Europe and Canada •••

UNITED NATIONS FUND FOR NAMIBIA

D. Educational, social and relief assistance •••••••••••

-vi-

A. Establishment of the Council ••••••••••••••••••••••••

OF THE NAMIBIAN PEOPLE ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

B. Nationhood Programme for Namibia ••••••••••••••••••••

D. Standing Committees •••••••••••••••••••••• e.o ••••••••

C. United Nations Institute for Namibia ••••••••••••••••

B. Presidency of the Council •••••••••••••••••••••••••••

E. Committee on the United Nations Fund for Namibia ••••

B. Assistance to Namibians •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

F. Other committees and working groups ••••••••••• ~4 ••••

c. Steering Committee •••••••••••••••••••••••• e •••••••••

H. Secretariat services ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

G. Office of the United Nations Commissioner
for Namibia •••• G ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

X.

I. Oa3ANIZATION OF THE WORK OF THE COUNCIL •••••••••••••••••

XI. ACTIVITIES OF THE UNITED NATIONS COMMISSIONER
FOR NAM.IBIA •••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~ ••••••••••••• o ••

XII. PARTICIPATION OF THE SOUTH WEST AFRICA PEOPLE'S
Oa3ANIZATION AS THE SOLE AND AUTHENTIC REPRESENTATIVE

PART THREE: Oa3ANIZATION AND DECISIONS OF THE COUNCIL •••••••••

Chapter

)2

~5

15

13

12

C. Offices of the Commissioner at Lusaka, Gaborone and
12 Luanda ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

10

19

18

16

16

:6

12

8



CONTENTS (continued)

65 133

aphs Page

712 103

i57 103

i79 la.,

i91 116

'03 120

'12 125

41 126

'17 126

29 126

41 128

I. RECOMMENDATIONS •••• P.................................... 786 160

201

205

198

Paragraphs Page

766 - 785 136

767 136

768 146

769 146

770 147

771 - 785 157

. " ..Formal statementsC.

Action on Namibia ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 8 •••••••••••
I. Reservations on the Arusha Dec1a,~tion and Programme of

Be Resolutions •••••••••• ~ •••• ~ •••••••••••••••••••••••••

on Namibia •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• ~.~ •••

ANNEXES

E. Decisions ••••••••••••• o ••••••••••••••••••••••• ~ •••••

D. Communiques •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••

A. Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action

11. Allocation of resources to the Council for 1982 within the programme
budget fOL 1982-1983 ••••••••••••••••• O ••••••••••••••••••••••••• 'l ••••

11. DECLA&~TIONS, RESOLUTIONS, FORMAL STATEMENTS, COMMUNIQUES
AN'D DECISIONS •••••••••••• e ••••••••••••••••••• ~ ••••••••••

11. DESCRIP~ION OF ACTIVITIES WHICH WILL REQUIRE THE
PREPARATION OF A STATEMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL
IMPLICATIONS •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 787 - 845 179

Ill. List of official documents of the Council (22 August 1981 to
31 August 1982) ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• D ••••• ~ •••

PART FOUR: RECOMMENDATIONS AND ACTIVITIES INVOLVING FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS

Chapter

133

131

133

as

50

133 IV. Amended Charter of the United Nations Institute for Namibia ••••••••0. 211

133 Appendix. List of major research topics ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 217

)8 133

iO 134

134

i3 13A

is 135

-vi i-



ANC

EEC

ECA

FAO

lAEA

lCAO

lLO

IMO

ITU

NAro

OAU

OECD

PAC

PLAN

PLO

SWAPO

UNCTAD

UNDP

UNESCO

UNHCR

UNICEF

UN100

UNTAG

WFP

WHO

WHO

ABBREVIATIONS

African National Congress of South Africa

European Economic Community

Economic Commission for Africa

Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations

International Atomic Energy Agency

International Civil Avi~tion Organization

International Labour Organisation

International Maritime Organization

International Telecommunication Union

North Atlantic Treaty Organization

Organization of African Unity

Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development

Pan Africanist Congress of Azania

People's Liberation Army of Namibia

Palestine Liberation Organization

South West Africa People's Organization

United Nations Conference on Trade and Development

United Nations Development Programme

United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization

Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees

United Nations Children's Fund

United Nations Industrial Development Organization

United Nations Transition Assistance Group

World Food Programme

World Health Organization

World Meteorological Organization

-viii-

Sir,

I

Nation
2248 (

I
for Na
Nation
a view
South
to poi
United
Progra
Situat

adopte
admini
spare
this
west
their
a uni

canno
Terri
of ag
its p
threa
its cc
Africa
belie'!
end tc
Unite·
compl
resol
furth

His E
Mr. J
Secre
New Y



LETTER OF TRANSMITTAL

23 November 1982

Sir,

I have the honour to transmit herewith the seventeenth report of the United
Nations Council for Namibia, pursuant to section V of General Assembly resolution
2248 (S-V). This report covers the period from 1 September 1981 to 31 August 1982.

In the discharge of its responsibilities as the legal Administering Authority
for Namibia until independence and as a major policy-making organ of the United
Nations, the Council during the period under review intensified its activities with
a view to mobilizing concerted international action to seek an early end to
South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia. In this connection, it is significant
to point OlJt that the Council held its extraordinary plenary meetings at Arusha,
United RepUblic of Tanzania, from 10 to 14 May 1982 and adopted a Declaration and
Programme of Action on Namibia. The Council also held a Seminar on the Military
Situation in and relating to Namibia at Vienna from 8 to 11 June 1982.

The Council recalls that 16 years have elapsed since the General Assembly
adopted resolution 2145 (XXI) terminating South Africa's mandate for the
administration of Namibia and that the Council, since its creation in 1967, has
spared no effort to fulfil the mandate entrusted to it by the General Assembly. In
this respect, the Council has firmly supported the people of Namibia and the South
West Africa People's Organization, their sole and authentic representative, in
their struggle to achieve self-determination, freedom and national independence in
a united Namibia.

The Council is convinc~d that the illegal presence of South Africa in Namibia
cannot be tolerai.ed and that South Africa's continued illegal occupation of the
Territory, its war of repression against the Namibian people, its persistent acts
of aggression launched from bases in Namibia against independent African States,
its policy of apartheid and its development of nuclear weapons constitute a serious
threat to international peace and security. In this respect the Council expresses
its concern at the continued collaboration by certain Western States with South
Africa, which facilitates the continuation of that occupation. The Council firmly
believes that the United Nations should continue to exert every effort to bring an
end to South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia, as called for in numerous
United Nations resolutions. It further believes that South Africa must be made to
comply with the united Nations plan for Namibia embodied in Security Council
resolutions 385 (1976) and 435 (1978) without prevarication, dilution or any
further delay.

His Excellency
Mr. Javier Perez de Cuellar
Secretary-General of the United Nations
New York

-ix-

\.
!'

t"
!



•

2.
entru
inter
South
Natio
bruta
rejec
atte

3.
the

1. I
27 Qc
admin
of th
self
by re
Natio
indep
that
Unite
occup

Accept, Sir, the assurances of my highest consideration.

(Signed) Paul J. F. LUSAKA
President of the

United Nations Council for Namibia

In accordance with the terms of resolution 2248 (S-V), I have the honour to
request that the report be distributed as a document of the General Assembly at its
thirty-seventh session.

The Council once again reiterates its view that it is incumbent upon the
Security Council to impose comprehensive mandatory sanctions against South Africa
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations in order to compel it to
withdraw from Namibia, thus enabling the long-suffering people of that Territory to
enjuy the self-determination, freedom and independence to which they are justly
entitled.

4.
the N
uncon
take ,
to atl

I'
!

-x-

5.
quest,
Terri
on th
a art
Afric
numer
and c
Namib
of 21
385 (
a fr
plan
will
to c
suffe



• ---:,,\-
INTRODUCTION

1. It is now 16 years since the "General Assembly adopted resolution 2145 (XXI) of
27 OCtober 1966, by which it terminated South Africa's mandate for the
adminlstration of Namibia and placed the Territory under the direct responsibility
of the United Nations in order to enable its people to exercise their right to
self-determination and to achieve genuine n&tional independence. Soon thereafter,
by resolution 2248 (S-V) of 19 May 1967, the Assembly established the United
Nations Council for Nam~bia to administer the Territory pending its achievement of
independence and to defend the rights and interests ot the Namibian people. Since
that time, however, the racist regime in Pretoria, acting in defiance of numerous
United Nations decisions and resolutions, has refused to relinquish its illegal
occupation of Namibia.

2. Since its creation, the Council has spared no effort to fulfil the mandate
entrusted to it by the General Assembly. The Council has persistently mobilized
international support for measures aimed at securing the withdrawal of the illegal
South African administration from Namibia in accordance with "the relevant United
Nations resolutions. The Council has also taken measures to counter repression and
brutality by South Africa against the Namibian people and has denounced and
rejected all the manoeuvres through which the intransigent south African regime has
attempted to perpetuate its illegal occupation of the Territory.

3. In discharging the responsibiliaes entrusted to it by the General Assembly,
the Council has formulated its programme of work in close consultation with SWAPO,
which has been recognized by the General Assembly as the sole and authentic
representative of the Namibian people and whose outstanding military, political and
diplomatic achievements in the liberation struggle, as well as whose statesmanship,
have been widely acknowledged and comrnended by the international community.

4. South Africa's obstinate refusal to recognize the legitimate demands of both
the Namibian people themselves and the United Nations for its immediate and
unconditional withdrawal from the Territory has compelled the Namibian patriots to
take up arms against Pretoria's continued state terrorism and aggression in order
to attain freedom and genuine independence.

5. Some 36 years have elapsed since the General Assembly first took up the
question of Namibia in order to thwart South Africa's sinister plan to annex the
Territory. During the past 20 years, notwithstanding intensive diplomatic activity
on the Namibian problem, the racist regime has persisted in extending its obnoxious
apartheid and bantustan policies to Namibia. Since the termination of south
Africa's mandate, the Security Council and the General Assembly have adopted
numerous resolutions and decisions intended to put an end to South Africa:s illegal
and colonial domination of Namibia. The illegality of South Africa's presence in
Namibia was confirmed by the International Court of Justice in its advisory opinion
of 21 June 1971. 1/ Subsequently, the Security Council adopted resolutions
385 (1976) of 30 January 1976 and 435 (1978) of 29 September 1978, which delineated
a framework for Namibian independence which came to be known as the Qnited Nations
plan for Namibia. In complete disregard of the clearly and repeatedly expressed
will of the international community, the racist regime in South Africa has refused
to co-operate in the implementation of the plan and has thus prolonged the
SUffering and subjugation of the Namibian people.

-1-

'i
i

li
'>!

';



I

I
t
I
I

6. Over five years ago, five Western members of the Security Council (canada,
France, the Federal Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and the United States of America) launched a diplomatic initiative
aimed at finding a peaceful solution to the Namibian problem. There is
overwhelming evidence that South Africa, encouraged by the demonstrated lack of
political will on the part of the five Western Powers to support the overwhelming
demand of the international community for the imposition of sanctions against the
racist regime, purposely obstructed the negotiations in order to adopt a series of
unilateral and illegal measures in Namibia aimed at imposing a neo-colonial and
altogether objectionable internal settlement contrary to the letter and spirit of
Security Council resolutions 385 (1976), 435 (1978) and 439 (1978). SWAPO, the
front-line States and Nigeriar for their part, have'consistently offered
co-operation and made major concessions so as to advance the process leading to the
implementation of the United Nations plan. *

7. South Africa's manifest intransigence and prevarication 90ntinue to date. At
the same time, the all-round collaboration and partnership between the United
States, its major allies and South Africa is continuing and expanding. Some
members of the Western contact group of five have from time to time sought to
undermine the authority of the Uniterl Nations over Namibia. This negative attitudfa
was clearly demonstrated in April 1981 by the decision of the three Western
permanent members of the Security Oouncil to block, through the exercise of their
veto power, the imposition of comprehensive mandatory sanctions against South
Africa under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. 6f ThUG the
Security Council, which is charged with the supreme responsibility of maintaining
international peace and security and which adopted the settlement plan for Namibia,
has repeatedly been rendered impotent by the misuse of the veto by South Afcica's
major Western partners.**

8. By refusing to vote in favour of sanctions, some Western Powers demonstrated
their open support for South Africa's policies towards Namibia and gave it
political encouragement to continue its illegal occupation ~f the Territory, to
pursue its war against the Namibian people and against African States and to
persist, .ith their co-operation, in the plunder and pillage of Namibia's resources.

9. The attempts to link the question of Namibia with irrelevant and extraneous
questions such as that of co-operation between ~'g01a and certain other countries,
which fall under the exclusive competence of the fovereign Government of Angc!a,
are designed, in the Council's view, solely to justify the illegal occupation of
Namibia by racist South Africa, thus delaying the independence of the Territory.

10. It is in this context that the activities undertaken by the Council in the
past year have to be perceived. During the period under review, the Council
reiterated its full support for the liberation struggle of the Namibian people
under the leadership of SWAPO, their sole and authentic representative, and further
reiterated its conviction that, in the absence of a peaceful settlement, the
intensified armed struggle by the Namibian people under the leadership of SWAPO

* Australia expressed reservations conce~ning paragraph 6.

** Australia, Belgium and Turkey expressed reservations concerning
paragraph 7.

-2-

CO
fr

11
in
of
de
38
te
ef
re
i
qu

12
fo
su
Na
ag
St
So
th
in
or

13
wi
Na
th
Co
Ba

14
po
se
ex
an
wa
a



•

cl
tive

I1g
le

of

)f

the

At

r

9
ia"
s

d

::es.

s,

ler

continued to be a decisive factor in the efforts to achieve self-determination,
freedom and national independence in a united Namibia.

11. The Council noted with deep concern and indignation that Namibia's
independence continued to be obstructed by the intransigence and persistent refusal
of the racist regime of South Africa to comply with the relevant resolutions and
decisions of the United Nations, in particular Security Council resolutions
385 (1976),435 (1978) and 439 (1978), which called upon the Pretoria regime to
terminate its illegal occupation of Namibia. The Council strongly denounced the
efforts of South Africa and its supporters to undermine the Council's unique
responsibility with kegard to Namibia and demanded the immediate and unconditional
implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) without any prevarication,
qualification, modification or delay.

12. In the discharge of its responsibilities as the legal Administering Authority
for Namibia until independence, the Council continued to mobilize international
support for the withdrawal of the illegal South African administration from
Namibia, forcefully exposed the dangers inherent in the policies of South Africa
against the Namibian people and strongly urged the international community of
States to reject all fraudulent constitutional or political schemes through which
South Africa might attempt to perpetuate or prolong its presence in Namibia. In
the fulfilment of its mandate, the Council received extensive support from the
international community, including intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations.

13. As in previous years, the activities of the Council included consultations
with Governments of Member States in order to ensure the implementation of United
Nations resolutions on Namibia and to review all possible measures and initiatives
that may be taken in that regard. In the course of the period under review, the
Council held high-level consultations with the Governments of Cyprus, Sri Lanka and
Bangladesh.

14. The Council keeps under continuous review developments in Namibia in their
political, military, legal and social aspects. In July 1982, the Council held a
seminar at Vienna on the military situation in and relating to Namibia, in order to
examine in particular the nature and scale of South Africa's military installations
and operations in the Territory with a view to recommending to the General Assembly
ways and means of taking action against that regime's massive military build-up and
acts of aggression in and around Namibia.

15. As part of its effort to implement Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the
Natural Resources of Namibia, ~ which it enacted on 27 September 1974, the Council
dispatched a mission in June and July 1982 to contact administering and managing
authorities of foreign corporations operating in Namibia regarding the illegality
of their operations in the Territory. The Council also sought to ensure that all
Governments that had not yet done so would take legislative, administrative or
other measures in respect of their nationals and the bodies corporate under their
jurisdiction that own and operate enterprises in Namibia to put an end to such
enterprises and to prevent new investment or prospecting in the Territory.

16. In view of the continuing critical situation in Namibia, the repeated acts of
aggression by South Afri~a against Angola and the failure of the Security Council
in April 1981 to impose mandatory sanctions against South Africa because of the
vetoes cast by the three Western permanent members of the Security Council" an
emergency special session of the General Assembly was convened in September 1981.

-3-

I
'j,
,'/
"

I
I
'I
I

:1'h
~;

I
j-'



·,;

In resolution ES-S/2 of 14 September 1981, the General Assembly, inter alia,
strongly urged the Security Council to respond positively to the overwhelming
demand of the international community by immediately imposing comprehensive
mandatory sanctions against South Africa, called upon all States to cease
forthwith, individually and collectively, all dealings with South Africa in order
totally to isolate it politically, economically, militarily and culturally, and
requested the United Nations Council for Namibia to monitor the boycott of
South Africa and to bring instances of contacts between Member States and
South Africa to the attention of the Assembly as necessary.

17. The situation in Namibia was further discussed in the course of the
thirty-sixth session of the General Assembly, at which the Assembly adopted six
resolutions on the question (resolutions 36/121 A to F of 10 December 1981). Among
other things, the Assembly approved an expanded programme of work for the United
Nations Council for Namibia and or-ce again urged the Security Council to impose
comprehensive mandatory sanctions against South Africa under Chapter VII of the
Charter.

18. In accordance with resolution 36/121 C, the Council held a series of
extraordinary plenary meetings at Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania, from 10 to
14 May 1982, in order to assess the critical situation in and around N&nibia in the
light of the persistent refusal of South Africa to implement Security Council
resolution 435 (1978) and to promote intensified concrete action by the
international community in support of the struggle of the Namibian people under the
leadership of SWAPO. At the conclusion of its extraordinary meetings, the Council
adopted the Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action on Namibia (see para. 767
below), in which it reviewed recent developments relating to Namibia and drew up a
list of priorities for action. With regard to the ongoing diplomatic negotiations,
the Council condemned the attempts to impose at that time a totally unjustifiable
electoral system on the people of Namibia and to deprive them of their hard-won
victories in their liberation struggle. The Council supported the proposal by
SWAPO to convene, under the auspices of the United Nations, a Geneva-type
conference at which all outstanding issues would be discussed and resolved together
in a comprehensive manner on the basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions.

19. In the domain of representation, the Council continued to represent Namibia in
ILO, FAO, UNESCO, WHO, UNCTAD, UNIDO and the Third United Nations Conference on the
Law of the Sea. By virtue of Economic and Social Council decision 1982/110 of
16 April 1982, Namibia, represented by the Council, became the forty-first member
of the Executive Committee of the Programme of the United Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees. On the basis of a recommendation by the Board of Governors, Namibia
is also expected to be admitted to full membership in-the International Atomic
Energy Agency at its forthcoming General Conference in september 1982. As in the
past, the Council participated in the mi~isterial meetings of OAU and the Moveme~t
of Non-Aligned Countries. The Council also represented Namibia at a large number
of international conferences.

20. The Council continued to extend material assistance to Namibians by means of
the United Nations Fund for Namibia, which provides financing, inter alia, for the
United Nations Institute for Namibia at Lusaka and the Nationhood programme for
Namibia.

21. In order to increase the awareness of world public 0p1n1on of the struggle of
the Namibian people and thus to increase pressure on certain Governments to take a

-4-

•



_.,~

---,.-

del'
d

It

!\mong
ed
e
e

to
1 the

: the
lcil
i7
lp a
~ons,

>le

~ther

Ins.

a in
I the

,er
oner
bia

he
er.t
er

of
the

of
e a

•
firmer position in support of Namibia's independence, the Council continued.to
disseminate information on Namibia through the Department of Public Information of
the Secretariat, by means of publipations, films, radio programmes and the
provision of speakers.

22. The Council has declared that South Africa's continuing illegal occupation of
Namibia constitutes an act of aggression against the Namibian people as well as
against the United Nations, which has a unique responsibility for the Territory
until it attains genuine independence. South Africa's illegal presence in Namibia,
together with its attacks against neighbouring countries, constitute a manifest
breach of international peace and security. During the period under review, the
following acts by racist South Africa have confirmed this assessment:

(a) SOuth Africa has continued to pursue a policy of ruthless oppression and
brutal repression, manifested by the arrests, detention, torture and murder of
Namibians, particularly of leaders and members of SWAPO,

(b) South Africa has strengthened its military presence in the Territory and
has continued to use Namibia as a spring-board for its acts of aggression against
neighbouring African States, particula~ly Angola,

(c) SOuth Africa has increased its attempts aimed at destabilizing African
States, namely, Botswana, Mozambique, the Seychelles, Zambia, Zimbabwe and, in
particular, Angola,

(d) South Africa has continued to undermine the territorial integrity of
Namibia through its pUrPOrted annexation of Walvis Bay and the islands off the
shore of Namibia in acts that have been rejected and declared illegal, null and
void by the General Assembly,

(e) South Africa has persisted in the plunder of Namibia's natural resources
in collusion with other foreign economic interests in violation of the resolutions
of the Security Council and the General Assembly and of Decree No. 1 for the
Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia,

(f) South Africa has persisted in its manoeuvres aimed at gaining
international recognition for puppet and tribal groups which it has installed in
Namibia and which are subservient to Pretoria's interests, in an attempt to
perpetuate its domination and exploitation of the people and resources of Namibia,

(g) SOuth Africa has not only created a situation of total confrontation
between itself and the Namibian people, supported by the world community at large
represented at the United Nations, but has also committed a manifest breach of
international peace and security.

23. The Council further notes that, in persistent defiance of the United Nations
and the international community, SOuth Africa has continued to:

(a) Deny the Namibian people their inalienable rights to self-determination,
freedom and national independence in a United Namibia,

(b) Commit aggression against Namibia by its obdurate refusal to withdraw
from the Territory which it illegally occupies,

-5-



«

(c) Violate the territorial integrity of Namibia through its attempted
annexation of Walvis Bay and the off-shore islands,

(d) Attempt to annihilate SWAPO, the sole and authentic representative of the
Namibian people, by pursuing policies of repression, torture and murder of Namibian
patriots, and by its attacks against Namibian refugee camps in the neighbouring
States,

(e) Jeopardize the sovereignty, peace and security of the front-line States,
particularly Angola, through constant and open acts of aggression as well as
attempts at destablization carried out with the participation of mercenaries and
puppet groups at the service of Pretoria in an effort to undermine the
dete~ination of the African people to free their continent from colonialism and
racia.,

.~
~i
i
I

cl

1.,,

"'1&

I::",1
(f) Violate international law as enshrined in the Charter and other legal

instruments of the united Nations,

,I

J
(g) Defy the United Nations and the international community by its usurpation

of the United Nations' authority over Namibia and its persistent refusal to put an
end to its illegal occupation of Namibia.

24. The Council, as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia until
independence, will continue to do its utmost to fulfil the mandate given to it by
the General Assembly to defend the rights and interests of the Namibian people and
to promote initiatives in support of the early and genuine liberation of Namibia.

-6-



ad

lTe of the
Namibian
~ring

States,
!lS

as and

em and

Legal

;urpation
J put an

J it by
Jple and
unibia.

PART ONE

WORK OF THE COUNCIL AS A POLICY-MAKING ORGAN OF THE UNITED NATIONS

I. GENERAL

25. The Council, the legal Administering Authority for Namibia until its
independence, is the major policy-making organ of the United Nations charged with
defending the rights and interests of the Territory and its people.

26. During the period under review, the Council participated in the formulation of
United Nations policy on Namibia, first by presenting to the General Assembly at
its thirty-sixth session its annual report ~ containing, inter alia, its
assessment of the situation in Namibia, as well as recommendations for action by
the Assembly. Thus, as in previous years, the Council's report was the main
document befc~e the Assembly when it debated the question of Namibia and the
Council's recommendations provided the basis for the resolutions adopted by the
Assembly on that q~estion. The Council also submitted to the Assembly at its
eighth emergency special session a memorandum (A/ES-8/3, annex) on the question of
Namibia. In addition, the Council participates in all Security Council debates on
the question of Namibia and in the preparation of Security Council resolutions as
appi:'opr iatee

27. The Council actively participated in the discussions on Namibia and related
matters held by other United Nations bodies such as the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and the Special Committee against
Apartheid.

28. The Council continued to co-operate fl y with OAU and the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries and to participate ir .le elaboration of the declarations and
resolutions of those organizations on the q~ ~tion of Namibia.

29. The Council also held a series of extraordinary meetings away from Headquarters
which assumed special importance and urgency in view of the increasingly critical
situation in Namibia.

-7-



C:::'oi=-:-:-':_"

"
f
1<1

n-:~
t:'!,.
L:!
,1

[
'. ~

~s

I

i
li

:r
il
11

I!
,I
: 1
; 11
,11
II:

'11
'1:

1.

11. CONSIDERATION OF THE QUESTION OF NAMIBIA BY THE GE&~RAL ASSEMBLY

A. Eighth emergency special session

30. The eighth ~mergency special session of the General Assembly was convened from
3 to 14 September 1981 following the failure of the Security Council on
30 April 1981 to impose comprehensive mandatory sanctions against South Africa
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations. That failure was due to
the vetoes cast by the three Western permanent members of the Security Council. ~

31. The United Nations Council for Namibia, in the discharge of its
responsibilities as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia and as the major
policy-making organ of the United Nations charged with defending the rights and
interests of the Territory and its people, submitted for urgent consideration by
the Assembly a memorandum (A/ES-8/3, annex) containing its assessment of the grave
situation in Namibia resulting from the continuing illegal occupation of the
Territory by South Africa in~ersistent violation of the principles enshrined in
the Charter of the United Nations and in blatant defian~e of its resolutions and
decisions on the question of Namibia.

32. In that memorandum, the Council pointed out that since its creation, it had
spared no effort to fulfil the mandate entrusted to it by the General Assembly.
The Council had endeavoured to mobilize international support in order to press for
the withdrawal of the illegal South African administration from Namibia in
accordance with United Nations resolutions on Namibia. The Council had taken
measures to counter the policies of South Africa against the Namibian people and
had denounced and rejected all the manoeuvres through which the illegal regime had
attempted to perpetuate its occupation of Namibia.

33. With regard to the triple veto cast in the Secur~ty Council on 30 April 1981,
the Council stated that, by refusing to vote in favour of sanctions, the Western
Powers had demonstrated their open support for South Africa's policies towards
Namibia and had given it political encouragement to continue its illegal occupation
of the Territory, to pursue its war against the Namibian people and against African
States and to persist, with their co-operation, in the plunder and pillage of
Namibia's resources.

34. The Council concluded the memorandum by stating that it was the duty of the
international community at the eighth emergency special session to adopt as a
matter of urgency effective and comprehensive measures under the Charter so as to
ensure the complete isolation of South Africa and to co~pel it to withdraw from
Namibia in accordance with the relevant United Nations resolutions.

35. At the 3rd plenary meeting of the session, on 4 September 1981, ~ the
President of the Council stated that the failure of the Security Council in
April 1981 to take punitive measures against South Africa had come as a great
disappointment to the international community. He further noted that on
31 August 1981 the Council had been prevented by the veto of the United States from
condemning South Africa's "dastardly act of aggression against Angola", ~ thus
failing once again to take 'action commensurate with its responsibility for the
maintenance of international peace and security. The President emphasized that the
five Western countries that had initiated the process resulting in the adoption of
Security Council resolution 435 (1978) of 29 September 1978 "have the obligation
and must bear the responsibility of seeing to it that South Africa complies with

-8-



:SEMBLY

convened from
In
,h Africa
was due to
, Council. y

as the major
ights and
eration by
of the grave
of the
shrined in
utions and

on, it had
Assembly.
to press for

a in
d taken
people and
1 regime had

April 1981,
he western

towards
al occupation
ainst African
lage of

uty of the
pt as a
er so as to
draw from

( the
il in
a great
on
j states from
, y thus
for the

ized that the
adoption of

:>bligation
?lies with

•
the decision of the united Nations to implement that resolution without anydilution, modification or, indeed, qualification".

36. The President further stated that the United Nations Council for Namibia wasincreasingly disturbed by what appeared to be the deliberate intention of certainWestern countries to tie the solution of the question ot Namibia to some unrelatedissues not germane to the letter and spirit of the United Nations plan for theindependence of the Territory. He added that declarations of neutrality by certaincountries amounted to open support for South Africa in its persistent intransigence.
37. The President declared that the policy of the United States, which was totreat the question of Namibia in terms of an ideological confrontation, could onlygive solace and succour to SOuth Africa. By placing its own economic and strategicinterests far above the expressed will of the international community, the UnitedStates had encouraged SOuth Africa to pursue a perilous course which threatenedinternational peace and security.

38. At the same plenary meeting, 21 Mr. Peter Mueshihange, Secretary for ForeignRelations of SWAPO, told the Assembly that there existed some deliberatedistortions concerning SWAPO and the patriotic struggle of the Namibian people toliberate their country. In that connection, he noted that the struggle of theNamibian patriots which SWAPO was spearheading was a struggle resulting from thecolonial conquest of Namibia. The occupation army and the police had been the
permanen~, instruments of colonial policy; they were responsible for the killings,torture, arbitrary mass arrests, imprisonment, generalized terror and intimidationof the Namibian people.

39. He further stated that, in collusion with the imperialist interests to whichit was allied, the South African occupation regime had created a system of extremeeconomic exploitation in Namibia which was buttressed by a repressive colonialadministration machinery and a racist legal system. Disregarding the interests andwell-being of the African majority, the huge transnational corporations 'exploitedto the fullest the safe haven of super-profit-making, an activity which wasfacilitated by the continued illegal occupation of Namibia and militaryintimidation.

40. With regard to the question of recognition of SWAPO as the sole and authenticrepresentative of the Namibian people, Mr. Mueshihange stated that SWAPO was theonly indigenvus liberation movement with the necessary organizationalsophistication, military capability, human resources, political programme andinternational standing to resi.st effectively the colonial domination and illegalconduct of South Africa in Namibia. SWAPO had been created by the people ofNamibia themselves to spearhead the struggle for freedom and independence: "WhatOAU and the United Nations did was merely to recognize the existing reality and tomake the one and only correct decision to strengthen the efforts of the Namibiansby choosing to support their liberation movement, which was and is the only onecapable of delivering the goods".

41. The representative of SWAPO reiterated that the question of Namibia was aquestion of colonialism and illegality. SWAPO was the national liberationmovement, founded upon the aspirations and interests of the oppressed 'and colonizedNamibians who desired freedom and liberation. It therefore strongly protested andrejected any attempt to depict its struggle as something ~ther than a patrioticstruggle to reconquer Namibia for the benefit of all its people.

-9-



42. Mr. Mueshihange concluded by reiterating that SWAPO was ready to sign acease-fire agreement with racist South Africa and had no interest whatsoever inreopening negotiations regarding Security Council resolution 435 (1978).

43. In the course of the debate, many delegations expressed the view thatinternational pressure must be intensified so that South Africa would not onlyaccede to the speedy independence of Namibia but also put a stop to the detentionand torture of members of SWAPO and to the political persecution and oppression ofthe Namibian people. They also expressed special gratitude to the Governments ofthe front-line States for theiI noble role in, and costly contribution to, thestruggle for the freedom and independence of Namibia.

44. A large number of delegations called upon the Assembly to take effective,urgent and affirmative action to eliminate once and for all the remaining obstaclesto Namibia's freedom and independence. Many pointed out that the Western contactgroup should feel particularly bound to fulfil its responsibilities to the Namibianpeople as the originator of the United Nations plan. In their view, any attempt toperpetuate the privileges and domination of the white minority by promising specialguarantees was totally unacceptable.

45. Several delegations felt that the credibility of the United Nations had beeneroded because it had been unable to secure freedom and justice for Namibia and hadshown no willingness to act on the basis of the Charter. They called for thepassage of a resolution on Namibia that would also serve to restore faith in theUnited Nations itself.

46. Certain delegations stated that the policies and actions of the new UnitedStates Administration, particularly its close collaboration with the Pretoriaregime, ran counter to the aspirations of the Namibian people and the decisions ofthe United Nations. several among them took issue with the argument that theapplication of sanctions would not bring any positive results. Sanctions couldindeed be effective if the Western countries, which were economic partners andallies of South Africa, applied them rigorously.

47. The majority of delegations opposed any attempt or manoeuvre to impose an"internal settlement" or to seek a solution of the Namibian question outside theframework of the United Nations~ and in their view, any modification of SecurityCouncil resolution 435 (1978) could only encourage the illegal occupation regimefurther to delay implementatIon of the resolution and aid and abet South Africa inreckless and irresponsible actions detrimental to international peace and security.

the res
well a
militar
partic
of the
corpor
Resourc

51.
sole a
strugg
Assemb
urgenc
front-
territ

53.
Wester
Securi
the un
qualif'
Counci
posed
intern
agail'lls
also c
dealin
econom'

54. Tb
boycott
and SOll

56. T
by the
South
resolu
devote

48. with regard to the vetoes of the Western permanent members of the SecurityCouncil, many delegations felt that those votes had been cast not to facilitate theindependence of Namibia but to strengthen ~he hand of the illegal occupying Power,thus further increasing the agony of the Namibian peop~e. Such votes could onlygive comfort to the forces that had flouted every resolution of the United Nationson Namibia.

49. At the 12th plenary meeting of the session, on 14 September 1981, the GeneralAssembly adopted resolution ES-8/2 on the question of Namibia by a recorded vote of117 to none, with 25 abstentions.

50. By that resolution~ the Assembly strongly condemned South Africa for itscontinued illegal occupation of Namibia and its persistent refusal to comply with

-10-

55. T
?lst,



.----

the resolutions and decisions of the Generai Assembly and the Security COuncil, as
well as for its increased oppression of the Namibian people, for the massive
militarization of Namibia and for its armed attacks against neighbouring States,
particularly Angola. The Assembly further condemned the exploitation and plunder
of the natural resources of Namibia by South Africa and Western transnational
corporations, in violation of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural
Resources of Namibia.

51. By the same resolution, the Assembly reaffirmed its support for SWAPO, the
sole and authentic representative of the Namibian people, and for its armed
struggle to achieve self-determination, freedom and national independence. The
Assembly also called upon the international community to extend, as a matter of
urgency, all support and assistance, including military assistance, to the
front-line States in order to enable them to defend their sovereignty and
territorial integrity against the renewed acts of aggression by South Africa.

52. The Assembly called upon Member States, specialized agencies and other
international organizations to render increased and sustained support and material,
financial, military and other assistance to SWAPO to enable it to intensify its
struggle for the liberation of Namibia.

53. The Assembly firmly rejected the latest manoeuvres by certain members of the
Western contact group a~w· at undermining the international consensus embodied in
Security Council resolution 435 (1978) and demanded the immediate commencement of
the unconditional implementation of that resolution without any prevarication,
qualification or modification. Furthermore, it strongly urged the Security
COuncil, in the light of the serious threat to international peace and security
posed by South Africa, to respond positively to the overwhelming demand of tne
inter'national community by immediately imposing comprehensive mandatory sanctions
against South Africa as provided for in Chapter VII of the Charter. The Assembly
also called upon all States to cease forthwith, individually and collectively, all
deali.ngs with South Africa in order totally to isolate it politically,
economically, militarily and culturally.

54. The Assembly requested the United Nations Council for Namibia to monitor the
boycott of South Africa and to bring instances of contacts between Member States
and South Africa to the attention of the Assembly as necessary.

B. Thirty-sixth session

ss. The General Assembly considered the question of Namibia at its 64th to 68th,
71st, 93rd and 94th plenary meetings, held between 19 Novew~er and 11 December 1981.

56. The debate on the question of Namibia and the subsequent resolutions adopted
by the Assembly reflected once again the international community's concern over
South Africa's persistent and blatant refusal to implement Security Council
resolution 435 (1978) and its intention to promote and install a puppet regime
devoted to the perpetuation of its colonial and illegal occupation of Namibia.

57. At the 64th plenary meeting, on 19 November 1981, 11 the President of the
Council submitted the Council's annual report!! for the consideration of the
Assembly. The President recalled, among other things, that since the termination
of South Africa's mandate the General Assembly and the Security Council had adopted

-11-

n
D

a
p

t
s
g
T
A

t

Af
ex
in
wh
ju

61
by
im
pr
th
i
pr
Af

62

63.
po
fr



•
numerous resolutions demanding that the Pretoria regime withdraw from Namibia.
Despite the will of the international community in favour of imposing sanctions
against South Africa in view of the threat posed by that regime to international
peace and security, the Security Council had failed to act in conformity' with its
mandate and to impose sanctions against Pretoria. 61 By their triple veto, the
three western permanent members of the Security Council, without actually saying
so, had demonstrated their support for South Africa's policies towards Namibia and
given it political encouragement to continue its illegal occupation of the
Territory and to pursue its war against the Namibian people and the independent
African States. The three negative votes in the Security Council had given comfort
to a regime that had flouted time and again every resolution of the Organization on
the question of Namibia.

58. The President further recalled that on 31 August 1981 the Security Council had
been unable, on account of the veto by the United States, to exercise its
responsibilities with respect to the maintenance of international peace and
security. ~ Those who had failed to vote in favour of a resolution which simply
identified South Africa as the agg~essor and as a danger to international peace and
security had sent a clear message of protection and encouragement to the racist
regime in Pretoria.

59. The President also observed that the members of the Western contact group had
the leverage to force Pretoria to stop its aggressive acts against independent
African States, and that they had the obligation and responsibility to see to it
that South Africa complied with the decisions of the United Nations and implemented
Security Council resolution 435 (1978) without any further delay.

60. At the same meeting, 11 Mr. Mueshihange, the Secretary for Foreign Relations
of SWAPO, told the Assembly that his organization had noted with great concern the
latest moves aimed at manipulating the United Nations into abandoning the cause of
Namibia's independence and withdrawing recognition from SWAPO. SWAPO knew that
"those who profess to care about the lot of the Africans in Namibia and South
Africa are the very ones that shamelessly reap huge profits through the
exploitation of cheap African labour. Those are people whose record of involvement
in southern Africa shows not only collusion with the racist Boers but also a policy
which puts mineral rights and ~rofits above human rights, freedom and social
justice".

61. Mr. Mueshihange further stated that the independence plan for Namibia endorsed
by the Security Council in resolution 435 (1978) was "the only plan which must be
implemented, in its final and definitive form and without any further delay,
prevarication, amendment, modification, qualification or dilution". He reiterated
that SWAPO stood by its undertaking to co-operate with the Secretary-General in the
implementation process, and called for the exertion of concerted world-wide
pressure through total economic sanctions as the only means of bringing South
Africa to its senses.

62. By way of conclusion, he launched an urgent appeal for all-round practical
support and assistance to the front-line States, which were being victimized by
South Africa's racist regime, and in particular to Angola, whose people, Government
and party had put their lives, facilities and resources at the disposal of SWAPO.

63. Virtually all the delegations participating in the debate reiterated the
position that the inalienable right of the people of Namibia to self-determination,
freedom and national independence in a united Namibia should be securedJ that

-12-

65.
Namibi
SWAPO,
and un
any fu
opinio
threat
positi
mandat
Charte

66. A
of the
agains
action
only a
securi

68.
six

69. B}!
resolut
occupat

70. B~
United
repres
from b
and it
peace
matter
the fr
territ

71.
uncond'
in par
435 (1
indepe



•
Namibia was the direct responsibility of the United NationsJ and that Security
Council resolution 435 (1978), in which the Council endorsed the united Nations
plan for the independence of Namibia, was the only basis for a negotiated
settlement.

64. Most delegations expressed support for the United Nations Council for Namibia
in the discharge of the responsibilities entrusted to it and condemned the South
African regime for its continued illegal occupation of Namibia and for its
persistent refusal to comply with the resolutions of the United Nations.

65. Many delegations reiterated their support for the armed struggle of the
Namibian people for freedom and national independence under the leadership of
SWAPO, its sole and legitimate representative. They also demanded the immediate
and unconditional implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) without
any further delay, prevarication, qualification or modification. It was the
opinion of most delegations that the Security COuncil, in the light of the serious
threat to international peace and security posed by 30uth Africa, should respond
positively to the demand of the international community to impose comprehensive
mandatory sanctions against South Africa as provided for in Chapter VII of the
Charter.

66. All delegations expressed deep concern over South Africa's brutal oppression
of the Namibian people and its acts of aggression launched from bases in Namibia
against neighbouring African States. In the view of most delegations, those
actions, taken in defiance of numerous United Nations resolutions, constituted not
only a serious threat to, but also in effect a breach of, international peace and
security.

67. Most delegations indicated that much of the responsibility for South Africa's
continued illegal occupation of Namibia lay with certain Western Powers which were
providing political, economic and military support to the racist regime.

68. At its 93rd plenary meeting, on 10 December 1981, the General Assembly adopted
six resolutions on the question of Namibia (resolutions 36/121 A to F).

69. By a recorded vote of 120 to none, with 27 abstentions, the Assenmly adopted
resolution 36/121 A entitled "Situation in Namibia resulting from the illegal
occupation of the Territory by South Africa".

70. By that resolution, the Assembly declared that South Africa's defiance of the
United Nations, its illegal occupation of the Territory of Namibia, its war of
repression against the Namibian people, its persistent acts of aggression launched
from bases in Namibia against independent African States, its policy of apartheid
and its development of nuclear weapons constituted a serious threat to international
peace and security, and called upon the international community to extend, as a
matter of urgency, full support and assistance, including military assistance, to
the front-line States in order to enable them to defend their sovereignty and
territorial integrity a~ainst the repeated acts of aggression by South Africa.

71. The Assembly also demanded that South Africa urgently comply fully and
unconditionally with the resolutions of the Security Council relating to Namibia,
in particular resolutions 3J5 (1976) and 435 (1978), and reaffirmed that resolution
435 (1978), in which the Council endorsed the United Nations plan for the
independence of Namibia, was the only basis for a peaceful settlement. It firmly

-13-

I

d
"i,

I
:~J
','I

-



.'
rejected the manoeuvres by certain members of the Western contact group aimed at
undermining the international consensus embodied in ~esolution 435 (1978) and at
depriving the oppressed Namibian people of their hard-won victories in the struggle
for national liberation, and demanded the immediate commencement of the
unconditional implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) without
prevarication, qualification or modification and not later than December 1981.

72. Furthermore, the Assembly strongly urged the Security Council to act
decisively against any dilatory manoeuvres and fraudulent schemes of the illegal
occupation regime aimed at frustrating the legitimate struggle of the Namibian
people, under the leadership of SWAPO, for self-determination and national
liberation, as well as at negating the achievement~ of their just struggle. In the
light of the serious threat to international peace and security posed by South
Africa, the Assembly urged the Security Council to respond positively to the
overwhelming demand of the international community by immediately imposing against
that country comprehensive mandatory sanctions, as provided for in Chapter VII of
the Charter.

73. By the same resolution, the'Assembly condemned South Africa for its increased
oppression of the Namibian people, for the massive militarization of Namibia and
for its armed attacks against neighbouring States, particularly Angola. It
demanded that South Africa immediately release all Namibian political prisoners,
including all those imprisoned or detained under the so-called internal security
laws, martial law or any other arbitrary measures, whether such Nambians had been
chargp.d or tried or were being held without charge in Namibia or South Africa, and
further demanded that South Africa account for all "disappeared" Namibians and
release any who were still alive and declared that South Africa would be liable for
damages to compensate the victims, their faulilies and the future lawful Government
of an independent Namibia for the losses sustained. It declared that the illegal
occupation of Namibia by South Africa continued to constitute an act of aggression
against the Namibian people and against the united Nations, which had direct
responsibility for the Territory until independence.

74. In addition, the Assembly strongly condemned the collusion by the Governments
of certain Western countries and other States, particularly those of the United
States of America, the Federal RepUblic of Germany and Israel, with the racist
regime of South Africa in the nuclear field and called upon France and all other
States to refrain from supplying the racist minority regime of South Africa,
directly or indirectly, with installations that might enable it to produce uranium,
plutonium and other nuclear materials, reactors or military equipment.

75. The General Assembly also strongly condemned the activities of all foreign
economic interests operating in Namibia under the illegal South African
administration which were illegally exploiting the resources of the Territory and
demanded that transnational corporations and others engaged in such exploitation
comply with all relevant resolutions ·of the United Nat~ons by immediately
abstaining from any new investment or activities in Naluibia, by withdrawing from
the Territory and by putting an end to their co-operation with the illegal South
African administration. The Assembly declared that, by their depletive exploitation
of natural resources and the continued accumulation and repatriation of huge
profits, the activities of foreign economic, financial and other interests
currently operating in Namibia constituted a major obstacle to its political
independence.

-14-

76.
adop
Nami

77.
admi
Sout
with
dipl
agai
legi
comp
Re so
cor
Secu
29 J

78.
Ger
enri
Alme
maki
sign
uran

79.
prov
sale
par
as w
arra
furt
all .
trair

80.
non-<;
vote

81.
memb
also
the
for
The
Unit
peri

82.
Admi
admi
Nati
that



le

le

r

•
76. By a recorded vote of 118 to none, with 29 abstentions, the General Assembly
adopted resolution 36/121 B entitled "Action by Member States in support of
Namibia".

77. By that resolution the Assembly requested all States to take legislative,
administrative and other measures, as appropriate, in order effectively to isolate
South Africa politically, economically, militarily and culturally, in accordance
with Assembly resolution ES-8/2, and called upon all States to sever all
diplomatic, consular and trade relations with South Africa. The Assembly once
again requested all Member States to take all appropriate measures, including
legislation and enforcement action, to ensure the full application of, and
compliance with, the provisions of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural
Resources of Namibia. It called upon all States to prohibit State-controlled
corporations from investing or obtaining concessions in Namibia, as called for in
Security Council resolutions 276 (1970) of 30 January 1970, 283 (1970) of
29 July 1970 and 301 (1971) of 20 October 1971.

78. The Assembly also requested the Governments of the Federal Republic of
Germany, the Netherlands and the united Kingdom, which operate the Urenco uranium-
enrichment plant, to have Namibian uranium specifically excluded from the Treaty of
Almelo, which regulates the activities of Urenco, and requested all States, by
making use of article 35 B of the Convention on International Civil Aviation,
signed at Chicago on 7 December 1944, ~ to prohibit the carriage of Namibian
uranium or other products emanating from Namibia above their territory.

79. Furthermore, the Assembly requested all States to cease forthwith any
provision to South Africa of arms and related materiel of all types, including the
sale or transfer of weapons and ammunition, military vehicles and equipment,
paramilitary police equipment and spare parts for the aforementioned, and to cease
as well the provision of all types of equipment and supplies and grants of licensing
arrangements for the manufacture or maintenance of the aforementioned, which would
further strengthen South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia. It called upon
all States to take effective legislative measures to prevent the recruitment,
training and transit of mercenaries for service in Namibia.

80. Resolution 36/121 D, entitled "Action by intergovernmental and
non-governmental organizations with respect to Namibia", was adopted by a recorded
vote of 127 to none, with 20 abstentions.

81. By that resolution, the General Assembly requested IAEA to grant full
membership to Namibia, represented by the United Nations Council for Namibia. It
also requested the Economic and SOcial Council to consider granting membership in
the Executive Committee of the Programme of the united Nations High Commissioner
for Refugees to Namibia, represented by the United Nations Council for Namibia.
The Assembly requested all specialized agencies and other organizations in the
United Nations system to grant a waiver of the assessment of Namibia during the
period in which it was represented by the United Nations Council for Namibia.

82. In addition, the Assembly requested the Secretary-General and the
Administrator of the united Nations Development Programme to take the necessary
administrative action to end all contracts between, on the one hand, the United
Nations, UNDP and the specialized agencies and, on the other hand, corporations
that directly or indirectly supported South Africa's illegal occupation of

-15-



I ,

Namibia. It also requested the United Nations Council for Namibia to undertake aprogramme of co-operation with non-governmental organizations and support groupsactively engaged in supporting the struggle of the Namibian people under theleadership of SWAPO, their sole and authentic representative, in order to intensifyinternational action in support of the liberation struggle of the Namibian people.

83. The General Assembly also adopted resolution 36/121 C, entitled "Programme ofwork of the united Nations Council for Namibia", by a recorded vote of 137 to none,with 10 abstentions, resolution 36/121 E, entitled "Dissemination of information onNamibia", by a recorded vote of 125 to none, with 23 abstentions and resolution36/121 F, entitled "United Nations Fund for Namibia", by a recorded vote of 142 tonone, with 5 abstentions.

-16-



84. In its capacity as a policy-making organ of the United Nations, the United
Nations Council for Namibia participates in the decision-making process of the
Security Council in two ways. First, the United Nations Council for Namibia, as a
subsidiary organ of the General Assembly, submits to the Assembly recommendations
which form the basis for the resolutions on Namibia adopted by the Assembly. Those
resolutions frequently call upon the Security Council to take action in order to
ensure the early independence of Namibia. Secondly, the united Nations Council for
Namibia participates directly in the work of the Security Council, in accordance
with the relevant rules of procedure, by means of a delegation, headed by the
President, which speaks in the debates on the question of Namibia and takes part in
the elaboration of the relevant Security Council resolutions.

e a
ps

lsify
?le.

~ of
lone,
)n on
1

! to

~. "----_._---'. --.- -~-, -'_. -- ._- -

IIl. SECURITY COUNCIL

~~ ~-~-~c -c::=cc --_-c:-~=-:_C_.-_~:c-~=___=cc~:c--~~=_:~_=____=__::: _c:-==--:=,
ri'
:{ ~

1i; ~

~~,
I~ ;

t-, \~II

le.:)

t)

85. In its report to the thirty-sixth session of the Assembly, !I the United
Nations Council for Namibia recommended that the Assembly call upon the Security
Council to act decisively against any dilatory manoeuvres and fraudulent schemes of
the illegal occupation regime aimed at frustrating the legitimate struggle of the
Namibian people, under the leadership of SWAPO, for self-determination and national
liberation, as well as at negating the achievements of their just struggle.

86. Furthermore, the Council requested the Assembly strongly to urge the Security
Council, in the light of the serious threat to international peace and security
posed by SOuth Africa, to respond positively to the overwhelming demand of the
international community by immediately taking appropriate actions against South
Africa under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.

87. The Security Council remained seized of the question during the period under
review.

-17-

-I
.i
:1
i



,~

,:1

1
"j
"1

I
I
I
I
I

i
I

, I
I

j
\

i
11
.1
1

IV. CO-OPERATION WITH OTHER UNITED NATIONS BODIES

88. During the period under review, the Council continued to co-operate withSpecial Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of theDeclaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and peoplesthe Special Committee against Apartheid in pursuit of the collective struggleagainst the remaining vestiges of colonialism, racism and apartheid.

~ Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples

the

and

~1
.1

-I

j
'i

I
I
I
lJ
1',
I j

89. The Council continued to work in close co-operation with the Special Committeeon matters pertaining to the question of Namibia.

90. Mr. Frank Abdulah, the Chairman of the Special Committee, attended andaddressed the extraordinary plenary meetings of the Council held at Arusha, unitedRepublic of Tanzania, from 10 to 14 May 1982 (see A/AC.13l/SR.376 andparas. 181-185 below), as well as the solemn meeting held by the Council to observethe Week of Solidarity with the People of Namibia and their Liberation Movement,SWAPO, held from 26 to 30 October 1981 (see A/AC.13l/PV.364).

91. Mr. Stefan Kalina, Vice-Chairman of the Special Committee, attended andaddressed the Seminar on the Military Situation in and relating to Namibia, held atVienna, from 8 to 11 June 1982 (see A/AC.13l/S~~S/PV.l).

92. Mr. Abdul G. Koroma, Vice-Chairman of the Special Committee, attended andaddressed the solemn meeting held by the Council on 26 August 1982 to observeNamibia Day (see A/AC.13l/SR.384).

93. The President of the Council and representatives of SWAPO participated in theSpecial Committee's consideration of the question of Namibia at meetings heldbetween 16 and 20 August 1982 and made statements before the Committee on 16 and20 August (see A/AC.l09/PV.1220 and PV.1225). At its l225th meeting, on20 August 1982, the Special Committee adopted a consensus on Namibia. 21

B. Special Committee against Apartheid

94. The Chairman of the Special Committee against Apartheid participated in thesolemn meetings held by the Council in observance of the Week of Solidarity withthe People of Namibia and their Liberation Movement, SWAPO (see A/AC. l3l/PV. 364)and Namibia Day (see A/AC.13l/SR.384).

95. The President of the Council participated in the solemn meetings of theSpecial Committee to observe the Day of Solidarity with South African PoliticalPrisoners (12 OCtober 1981), the International Day for the Elimination of RacialDiscrimination (19 March 1982) and the International Day of Solidarity with theStruggling People of South Africa (16 June 1982).

96. The President of the Council addressed the solemn meetings of the SpecialCommittee on each occasion (see A/AC.115/PV.484, PV.492 and PV.502, respectively).In his statements, the President strongly urged the Special Committee to continue

-18-



:h the

~s and
.e

nunittee

United

observe
ent,

leld at

ld

.n the
I
and

the
ith
64)

II
ial
le

L

!ly) •
.nue

in its efforts to mobilize the support of the United Nations and of the
international c~unity as a whole for the struggle of the people of southern
Africa to eliminate colonialism and,apartheid.

97. A Council delegation participated in the Conference entitled "Southern Africa -
Time to Choose", organized by the Special Committee in co-operation with the
Anti-Apartheid Movement of the United Kingdom. The Conference, which took place in
London from 11 to 14 March 1982, issued a declaration (A/AC.llS/L.S68), which
emphasized, inter alia: the responsibility of the United Kingdom in relation to
the grave situation in southern Africa resulting from escalating repression and
aggression launched by the apartheid regime of SOuth Africa, the ominous
implications of South Africa1s nuclear plans, and the advance of the struggle of
the oppressed people, including armed struggle for liberation.

98. The Council was also represented at the International Conference on Women and
Apartheid, held at Brussels, from 17 to 19 May 1982, under the auspices of the
Special Committee and the International Committee of Solidarity with the Struggle
of Women in SOuth Africa and Namibia. In its Declaration, !Q/ the Conference,
inter alia, declared that apartheid, especially as it affected women and children,
was an international crime and an intolerable affront to the oonscience of mankind.

99. The Conference expressed support for Security Council resolution 435 (1978)
and called on the members of the Western contact group to bring pressure to bear on
the South African Government to implement it as quickly as possible.

100. The Conference also emphasized the urgent need for the widest possible
publicity of the plight of women in South Africa and Namibia and their resistance
against apartheid, as well as for greatly increased international assistance to
alleviate their hardships and enable them to participate further in the struggle
for liberation•

-19-



'J
I

;1
I
:1
it

Vo CO-OPERATION WITH THE ORGANIZATION OF AFRICAN UNITY

101. During the period under review, the Council continued to enjoy close
co-operation with OAU and to attend its meetings with the status of observer.

A. Thirty-eighth ordinary session of the Council of Ministers
of OAU (22 to 28 February 1982, Addis Ababa)

102. The President of the united Nations Council for Namibia, Mr. Paul J. F. Lusaka
(Zambia), led the Council delegation, which also included Mr. Lazare Nizigama
(Burundi), to this session.

103. At the ordinary session held in February each year, the Council of Ministers
of OAU usually concentrates on budgetary and financial matters. However, owing to
the importance which the organization attached to recent developments regarding
Namibia and the attempts by the-illegal South African regime to stall the
negotiation process, it was considered appropriate to add an item on Namibia to the
agenda.

104. The Council of Ministers had before it a report presented by
Mr. Salim ~ Salim, Minister for Fbreign Affairs of the United Republic of
Tanzania, in his capacity as chairman of the ministers of the front-line States, on
the consultations that had been held with the Western contact group regarding the
implementation of the United Nations plan for the independence of Namibia.

105. In his report, Mr. Salim stated that the negotiations comprised three phases:
(a) consideration of constitutional and electoral principles, (b) discussions on
the deployment of the United Nations Transition Assistance Group and other
outstanding issues, (c) implementation of the plan itself. He informed the
Ministers that negotiations had bogged down in the first phase owing to lack of
agreement by all parties concerned on the question of the electoral system.

106. He stated that among the three electoral systems proposed, namely,
proportional representation, the constituency system and a combination of the two,
the front-line States and SWAPO preferred proportional representation because it
was much easier to understand and less costly to implement, it was the system most
frequently used and, above all, its use would ensure that the electoral process
would proceed in accordance with the time-frame set by the United Nations.

107. On the other hand, the combined electoral system suggested by the Western
contact group five would most likely lead to confusion since it was a complicated
and unfamiliar syste~

108. The President of the United Nations Council for Namibia made a statement in
which he denounced the delaying tactics of the illegal South African regime in
Namibia, as well as its schemes to install its own puppets in power in order to
forestall the genuine independence of the Territory.

109. The President added that for its part, the Council would continue to pursue
all the objectives embodied in the mandate it had received from the General
Assembly until Namibia became genuinely independent.

-20-



ver.

F. Lusaka
gama

Ministers
owing to

arding

bia to the

f
States, on
ding the

e phases:
ions on
I:

tle
ack of
n.

the two,
ause it
stem most
~ocess

:itern
?licated

nent in
ne in
ier to

pursue
11

-~-------------

110. The delegation of the Council, together with representatives of the front-line
states and the SWAPO delegation, led by the Secretary for Foreign Relations of
SWAPO, prepared a draft resolution.on Namibia which was unanimously adopted by the
Council of Ministers (A/37/161, annex, resolution CM/Res. 910 (XXVIII».

Ill. In its resolution, the Council of Ministers reaffirmed that Security Council
resolution 435 (1978) was the only basis for a negotiated settlement of the
Namibian problem) rejected all schemes by certain members of the Western contact
group to force the international community to abandon that resolution) and
expressed firm support for the position adopted by the front-line States and SWAPO
at their meeting at Lusaka on 23 January 1982, with respect to the establishment of
a simple and fair electoral system which, would enable the Namibian people to
realize their genuine aspirati~"s.

B. Thirty-ninth ordinary session of the OAU Co-ordinating Committee
for the'Liberation of Africa (7 to 11 Junp, 1982, ,Arusha,
United Republic of Tanzania)

112. The Ambassador of Algeria to the United Republic of Tanzania represented the
Council at this sessio~

113. The Co-ordinating Committee adopted a resolution by which it reaffirmed its
full and unswerving support for the armed struggle being waged by SWAPO and its
military wing, the people's Liberation Army of Namibia, in the face of the
continued occupation of and military build-up in and around Namibia by the illegal
racist regime of Pretoria.

114. The Committee endorsed the position taken in support of SWAPO by the front-line
States at the summit meetings held at Lusaka on 23 January, at Maputo on 6 and
7 March and at Dar es Salaam on 4 May 1982.

115. It expressed its grave concern at the attitude and actions of the United states
Administration, wh~ch provided support and comfort for South Africa's illegal
occupation of Namibia at che expense of the Namibian people and their national
liberation movement, SW~20.

116. The Committee declared its firm support for the proposal by SWAPO that a
conference be held under the auspices of the United Nations, at which all
outstanding issues would be discussed and resolved in a comprehensive manner in
order to overcome the current stalemate and pave the way for the speedy
implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978).

117. It strongly urged the Security Council, in the light of the serious threat to
international peace and security posed by the racist regime of South Africa, to
respond positively to the overwhelming appeal by the world community for the
imposition of mandatory sanctions against the apartheid regime as provided for in
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations.

-21-



VI. CO-OPERATION WITH THE MOVEMENT OF NON-ALIGNED COUNTRIES

118. During the period under review and in keeping with its policy of close
co-operation with the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, the Council sent
delegations to three meetings of the Movement: the Extraordinary Ministerial
Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Kuwait
from 5 to 8 April 1982, the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau held at
Havana from 31 May to 5 June 1982J and the Extraordinary Ministerial Meeting ~f the
Co-ordinating Bureau on the question of Palestine, held at Nicosia from 15 to
17 July 1982.

119. At the extraordinary meeting held at Kuwait, the Council was represented by
its President, Mr. Paul J. F. I,usaka (Zambia) and by Mr. Patriot Lentsejalo B. Yane
(Botswana). In its capacity as a member of the Movement, SWAPO took part in the
meeting and served as one of the Vice-Chairmen of the plenary.

120. The purpose of the meeting was to assess the Palestinian question ~nd to take
practical measures to strengthen comprehensive assistance to the struggle of the
Palestinian people to attain and freely exercise their inalienable rights under the
leadership of the Palestine Liberation Organization, their sole and legitimate
representative.

121. In a statement made during the plenary session, the President of the Council
articulated the general similarities between the questions of Palestine and Namibia.
He said that the problem of palestine, like that of Namibia, had caused a great
deal of anguish to the international community. In both instances, peoples had
been denied their right to self-determination, national independence and sovereignty
by a single country which h~d defied the will of the international community as
expressed in numerous resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council.

122. The President also s.tated that no everlasting peace could be attained in the
Middle East or southern Africa unless and until the aspirations of the Palestinian
anj Namibian peoples were fulfilled. He conclud~d by stating that the united
Nations Council for Namibia remained resolute in its support for the strnggle of
the Palestinian people and would continue to work for the restoration of the rights
of both the Palestinian and Namibian peoples.

123. Many statements made during both the inaugural and plenary sessions referred
to the question of Namibia, the intransigence of the South African regime and the
need for consolidating the solidarity between the struggling peoples of Palestine
and N&'IIibia.

124. On 8 April 1982, the Co-ordinating Bureau adopted a final communique in which
it stated, inter alia, that the decision to convene the meeting demonstrated the
abiding commitment of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to the liberation of
peoples, an essential element in its struggle to bring about an international order
free from all relations based on dominatio~ and exploitation.

125. The Council delegation to the ministerial meeting at Havana was composed of
Mr. Lusaka (Zambiaj, Mr. T. P. Sreenivasen (India) and Mr. Theo-Ben Gurirab (SWAPO).
The meeting had been convened in order to examine the international political
situation, to review the implementation of the decisions of the sixth Conference of

-22-

Heads of
9 Septem
Governme

126. In
that the
politica
its Extr
from 16
Programm
the vali
385 (197
the only
independ

127. The
adoption
numerous
Territor
people t
cadres,
attempts
Pretoria

128. Ext
against
large-se

130. Reg
said tha
Nations
Security
African
group ha
which co
people e
effort t
the cone
of South
for the
by the c
which th
very

131. In
extraord'
15 May 1
Programm

132. Mr.
as a me



Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from 3 to
9 September 1979, and to prepare for t~e seventh Conference of Heads of state or
Government, to be held at Baghdad in September 1982.

126. In a statement delivered at the meeting, the President of the Council recalled
that the non-aligned countries had, individually and collectively, extended
political, diplomatic and material support to the freedom fighters in Namibia. At
its Extraordinary Ministerial Meeting on the question of Namibia, held at Algiers
from 16 to 18 April 1981, the Co-ordinating Bureau had adopted a Declaration and a
Programme of Action !l/ on that very important question, in which it had reaffirmed
the validity of the united Nations plan as set forth in Security Council resolutions
385 (1976), 435 (1978) and 439 (1978) and emphasized that those resolutions provided
the only universally recognized framework for a peaceful transition to the
independence of Namibia.

127. The President then went on to examine developments in Namibia since the
adoption of the Declaration. Internally, the illegal regime had promulgated
numerous laws aimed at dividing the Namibian population and fragmenting the
Territory. It had continuously intensified its acts of brutality against the
people through increased arrests of Namibian patriots, illegal trials of SWAPO
cadres, detentions, torture and massacres of Namibians. At the same time, repeated
attempts had been made to secure legitimacy for fraudulent entities installed by
Pretoria to perpetuate its illegal occupation of the Territory.

128. Externally. South Africa had continued its acts of aggression and subversion
against the neighbouring independent African States, especially Angola, causing
large-scale destruction of life and property.

129. The President observed that such acts were not those of a regime seeking a
negotiated peaceful settlement or preparing to withdraw from the Territory.

130. Regarding the activities of the western contact group of five, the President
said that instead of putting pressure on South Africa to implement the United
Nations plan, the group had prevaricated on the plan, distorting the meaning of
Security Council resolution 435 (1978) and thereby encouraging the racist South
African regime in its persistent intransigence. Specifically, the western contact
group had engaged in an exercise aimed at drawing up certain electoral arrangements
which could compromise the principle of free determination of the will of the
people embodied in the plan. Having co-operated with the contact group in the
effort to find an acceptable formula, SWAPO and the front-line States had come to
the conclusion that the complicated election procedures suggested by the supporters
of South Africa were not likely to be in the interest of genuine self-determination
for the people of Namibia. The phase-by-phase approach to the negotiations pursued
by the contact group would only result in the subversion of the settlement plan
which the contact group itself had created. It was rather astonishing that the
very originators of the plan were now seeking to disown it.

131. In closing, the President informed the Co-ordinating Bureau of the
extraordinary plenary meetings held by the Council at Arusha from 10 to
15 May 1982, which had resulted in the adoption of the Arusha Declaration and
Programme of Action on Namibia (see paras. 148-218 below).

132. Mr. Gurirab made a statement in the plenary on behalf of SWAPO in its capacity
as a member of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries. The SWAPO representative

-23-

o
i

1
t

m
t

1
m
F



I !
, I

reported on the progress of the liberation struggle in Namibia and appealed forcontinued support from all the non-aligned countries.

133. During the general debate, all the speakers expressed indignation at thecontinued obstruction of the independence of Namibia by South Africa and some ofits supporters. They also commended the people of Namibia for intensifying theirliberation struggle under the leadership of SWAPO, their sole and legitimaterepresentative, and pledged the support of their Governments for the strugglingpeople of Namibia and for SWAPO.

134. The ministers adopted a Final Communique of the meeting held at Havana, ~ inwhich they noted with deep concern that South Africa's refusal to comply with therelevant resolutions of the United Nations continued to obstruct Namibia's accessionto independence. They denounced all efforts by the racist South African regime andits Western allies to undermine the legal responsibility of the United Nations forNamibia until its independence.

135. The ministers expressed their firm belief that the most effective way tocounter the attempts to undermine the central role of the Security Council in theimplementation of resolution 435 (1978) would be for the Council to meet urgentlyon the question of Namibia and fix a time-frame for such implementation. Theministers requested the non-aligned members of the Security Council to initiateeffective action to that end.

136. The ministers reaffirmed that any effective solution of the Namibian problemcould only be based on strict compliance with Security Council resolution435 (1978). They welcomed and endorsed the proposal made by the front-line Statesand SWAPO for a Geneva-type conference under United Nations auspices, where alloutstanding issues would be discussed and resolved together in a comprehensivemanner so as to proceed with the implementation of resolution 435 (1978) withoutdelay.

137. The ministers hailed the decision of the Third United Nations Conference onthe Law of the Sea to the effect that Namibia, represented by the Council, would beentitled to sign and ratify the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.

138. The ministers also called for the immediate release of all Namibian politicalprisoners and for the imposition of comprehensive mandatory sanctions, including anoil embargo, against South Africa in order to compel the racist regime to end itsillegal occupation of, and withdraw from, the Territory.

139. Finally, the ministers reaffirmed their complete and firm support for SWAPO asthe sole legitimate representative of the people of Namibia and called upon themember States of the Non-Aligned Movemen~ to increase their material, financial,military and other assistance to SWAPO so that it could intensify the struggle forthe liberation of Namibia.

140. Mr. Natarajan Krishnan (India) represented the Council at the extraordinaryministerial meeting held at Nicosia. On 17 July 1982, the ministers adopted aFinal Communique in which they condemned Israel for its aggression against Lebanonand the Palestinian people and their representative, the PLO. The ministers alsocondemned the increasing collaboration between Israel and the racist regime inSouth Africa, particularly in the military and nuclear fields, and called on allmember States of the movement and other States to sever all relations with Israel.

-24-

.--

141. By
the Cou
recomrne
Africa

142. Th
increas
illegal
people
States,

143. At
offer 0
extraor

144. At
Preside
meeting

145. By
agenda

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

146. In
extende

(a

(c



143. At its 373rd meeting, on 12 April 1982, the Council decided to accept the
offer of the Government of the United Republic of Tanzania to host the
extraordinary plenary meetings of the Council at Arusha.

144. At its 374th meeting, on 26 April 1982, the Council approved the report of its
President (A/AC.131/L.252) on the organization of the extraordinary plenary
meetings, to be held from 10 to 14 May 1982.

141. By its resolution 36/121 C of 10 December 1981, the General Assembly requested
the Council to hold a series of plenary meetings in Africa during 1982 and to
recommend appropriate action to the Assembly in the light of the refusal by South
Africa to implement Security Council resolution 435 (1978).

r
fl
.>J

11

!i
'[
.'I

:i
;i
,1

I
I

i
I
!
I

J
j [1
I ',I
I i
i

I I
t i
i I
I1
I i

11
'j

I, ,

1

,I

~ ---- --
- ------.__ .--- ----.-

Organization of the extraordinary plenary meetings

EXTRAORDINARY PLENARY MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL AT ARUSHA

A.

VII.

142. The plenary meetings assumed special importance and urgency in view of the
increasingly critical situation in and around Namibia arising from South Africa's
illegal occupation of the Territory, its repressive actions against the Namibian
people and its repeated and systematic acts of aggression against neighbouring
States, all of which constitute a threat to international peace and security.

145. By approving the report of the President, the Council approved the following
agenda for the meeting~'

1. Adoption of the agenda.

2. Assessment of the current situation in and concerning Namibia.

3. Consideration of the report of the Mission of Consultation to Asia.

4. Consideration of the report of the Fund-raising Mission to Western Europe
(A/AC.131/L.256).

5. Consideration of measures to press for implementation of United Nations
resolutions on Namibia.

6. Consideration of the agenda for the International Conference in Support
of the Struggle of the Namibian People for Independence.

7. Adoption of a draft declaratio~

8. Closure of the extraordinary plenary meetings.

146. Invitations to attend and address the extraordinary plenary meetings were
extended to the following:

(a) President of the United Republic of TanzaniaJ

(b) President of the General Assembly,

(c) President of the Security Council,

-25-



(h) President of SWAPO,

152.
des
Afri
def
the
bec
Yet
Sou
suc
ass
act
yea
reg
Uni
Nam
of

150.
The
serv
Rap

151.
Mr.
Vice

B. Extraordinary plenary meetings

Representative of UNHCR,

Representatives of ANC and PAC,

Representative of UNDP,

other individuals and representatives of non-governmental organizations.

Representatives of those specialized agencies of which the Council is a
ILO, FAO and UNESCO,

(d)

(c)

(e)

(f)

(b)

member:

(d) Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situa,tion with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples,

(i) Secretary-General of OAU.

(a) Chairman of the Senate of the United Nations Institute for Namibia and
Executive Secretary of ECA,

(g) Chairman of the Group of Non-Aligned Countries in the united Nations,

(f) Chairman of OAU,

(e) Chairman of the Special Committee against Apartheid,

147. The following were also invited to attend the extraordinary plenary meetings:

I

I j
I I
i i,

1

I
;/

I'!
'II ,

! 1

i
i
!

I i
t I
I I
I1
, I

I !
: !

I
. }

148. At its 375th meeting, on 10 May 1982, the Council held the solemn opening of
its extraordinary plenary meetings at Arusha. One minute of silence was observed
in memory of all Namibian patriots who had fallen in the struggle for self-
determination, freedom and independence in a united Namibia.

149. The meetings were inaugurated by Mr. Salim A. Salim, Minister for Foreign
Affairs of the United Republic of Tanzania. Statements were made by Mr. Mi Guojun,
representative of the President of the Security Council, Mr. Sam Nujoma, President
of SWAPO, Mr. Frank Abdulah, Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoplesp Mr. 'James V. Gbeho, representative of the
Special Committee against Apartheid, and Mr. Oscar Oramas Oliva, Deputy Minister
for External Relations of Cuba, in his capacity as representative of the Chairman
of the Group of Non-Aligned Countries in the united Nations. Messages from the
Secretary-General and the President of the General Assembly were read on their
behalf by Mr. Abdulrahim A. Farah, Under-Secretary-General for Special Political
Questions, and Mr. Nsilo A. Z. Swai, Chief of the Secretariat Services Division of
the Department of Political Affairs, Trusteeship and Decolonization, respectively.
The inaugural meeting concluded with a statement by Mr. Paul J. F. Lusaka,
President of the Council.

-26-

153.
for
agg
con
inv
in
tho
tro,
sys
Sou
and
suc
Se



,.'.

:.

In,
It

mce

150. At the 376th meeting, on 11 May 1982, a committee
of the whole was established.

The committee designated Mr. Asterius M. Hyera (United
Republic of Tanzania) to

serve as its Chairman and Mr. Miljan Komatina (Yugosla
via) as its

Rapporteur-General.

151. The committee of the whole established a drafting
committee with

Mr. O. O. Fafowora (Nigeria) as Chairman and Mr. T. P.
Sreenivasan {India) as

Vice-Chairman.

C. Statements and messages

1. Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of t
he

United Republic of Tanzania

152. The Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United Re
public of Tanzania said that,

despite an international consensus on the imperative n
eed to put an' end to South

Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia, the regime in
Pretoria had been able to

defy the will of the international community. That de
fiance had been encouraged by

the inability of the Security Council to adopt appropr
iate and prompt measures

because of the unwillingness of some of its permanent
members to act decisively.

Yet some of the very countries which had opposed the a
doption of sanctions against

South Africa had not hesitated to adopt them against o
ther States and, indeed, in

such cases, to call for their universal application.
Since the racist regime was

assured of that active protection against censure, it
had engaged in a series of

acts which were characteristic of its nature and inten
tions. In the almost four

years since the adoption of Security Council resolutio
n 435 (1978), the Pretoria

regime had used one pretext or another to frustrate th
e implementation of the

United Nations plan. It continued to maintain a massi
ve military presence in

Namibia through which it enforced its illegal occupati
on contrary to the decisions

of various united Nations bodies.

153. South Africa also continued to use the Territory
of Namibia as a spring-board

for launching a systematlc and comprehensive programme
of destabilization, invasion,

aggression and occupation against neighbouring African
States. The Council must

condemn in the strongest terms the continued acts of s
abotage, economic blackmail,

invasion, military aggression and occupation being per
petrated by the racist regime

in Pretoria against Angola and demand the immediate an
d unconditional cessation of

those aggressive acts and the total and unconditional
withdrawal of the racist

troops from the territory of Angola. The Council must
also demand gn end to the

systematic acts of aggression and campaigns of destabi
lization perpetrated by the

South African regime against Mozambique, zambia and Zi
mbabwe, its threats against

and harassment of Botswana, Swaziland and Lesotho and
its involvement in activities

such as in the recent attempt by mercenaries to overthr
ow the Government of

Seychelles.

154. The Minister stated that the negotiations seemed
to have become bogged down on

the issue of the electoral system: the Western contac
t group of five insisted on a

system combining proportional representation and single
-member constituencies,

which was acceptable to SOuth Africa. As was generall
y known, most countries had

adopted either proportional representation or a system
of single-member

constituencies, while the combination system was comp
licated and was followed in

very few places.

-27-



Iir:
I I
I

i I
I

I
t,
'- ,

i
I

I

:1
:1
:1

155. On 4 May 1982, representatives of the front-line States, Nigeria, Kenya and
SWAPO met in Dar es Salaam with a view, inter alia, of studying possible ways to
move forward in the negotiations. They declared their support for the proposal
conveyed to the western contact group by SWAPO, that all outstanding issues should
be discussed together in a comprehensive manner in order to resolve them as a
package, under the auspices of the United Nations.

156. Meanwhile, in Namibia itself, the forces of opposition to the illegal regime
were gathering momentum and intensifying the struggle. The Council had a duty not
only to reaffirn. its support for SWAPO but also to provide it with the means to
pursue both the diplomatic and the armed struggle. The Council, which was the
legal authority in Namibia, must therefore not only remain vigilant but also
carefully prepare itself to deal with the new situation. A reaffirmation of
support for SWAPO and the people of Namibia must be expressed in tangible form.
One way of doing so was for the Council to work for the impleme~tation of the
various United Nations resolutions and declarations on Namibia f in particular, the
Panama Declaration and Programme of Action on Namibia adopted by the Council in
June 1981 13/ and the resolutions adopted at the eighth emergency special session
and the thirty-sixth regular session of the General Assembly. That was the least
the Council could do.

157. The Minister said that in the days ahead the Council would be deliberating on
the important issue of Namibia. The situation in Namibia cried out for positive
action to bring to a close that dark chapter of colonialism and occupation. He was
confident that the extraordinary plenary meetings would live up to the expectations
of the oppressed Namibians and the supporters of their just cause the world over
(A/AC. l31/SR. 375).

2. Statement by the representative of the President of the
Security Council

158. The representative of the President of the Security Council referred to the
many initiatives and efforts undertaken by the Security Council and to the
decisions it had adopted with the aim of bringing about the withdrawal of South
Africa's illegal administration from Namibia and enabling the Naimibian people to
exercise freely their inalienable right to self-determination and independence.
Resolution 385 (1976) had been preceded by numerous warnings, appeals and den~nds
addressed to South Africa by the Security Council to comply with United Nations
resolutions on Namibia and with the advisory opinion of 21 June 1971 which the
Security Council had requested from the International Court of Justice. 11

159. After the adoption of resolution 385 (1976), efforts had been intensified to
arrive at an internationally acceptable solution on the basis defined by the
Security Council. By resolution 435 (1978), the Security Council had approved a
viable, detailed plan for the implementation of the settlement proposal aimed at
the withdrawal of South Africa's illegal administration and the transfer of power
to the people of Namibia, with United Nations assistance.

160. It was a matter of great regret and concern to the Security Council that South
Africa, while seeming to give assurances of its commitment to the settlement plan,
had subsequently shown its disregard for United Nations resolutions and world
opinion and, by its persistent obstruction, had called into question the entire

-28-

111

So
i
c
b
un
t

1
5

m
b

5

o
i

1

P
N
(

1
o
f
T

1
e
tl

1
t
a
5

t
c

9

1
t
T
u



.nd
to

,1
IOUId

ime
not

o

I.

the
,n
ion
!ast

,g on
ve
was

tions
'er

he

h
to

nds
s

to

a
at
wer

South
lan,

e

International effort to achieve an early settlement in Namibia. Within Namibia,
South Africa continued to act in defiance of the expressed will of the
international community, and the pattern of illegal administration and repression
continued. The Security Council, together with other United Nations organs and
bodies, had condemned all South African manoeuvres in Namibia and remained
unalterably opposed to a so-called internal settlement and to other dilatory
tactics and acts in contravention of its resolutions.

161. The Security Council remained convinced that efforts to achieve a negotiated
settlement leading to the early, internationally accepted independence of Namibia
must be pursued with renewed vigour and that resolution 435 (1978) must remain the
basis for the achievement of that goal. The Council was very conscious of the
special responsibility of the United Nations to ensure that the legitimate interests
of the people of Namibia were protected and their right to self-determination and
independence safeguarded.

162. The representative reaffirmed the solidarity of the Security Council with the
people of Namibia and its deep commitment to bring freedom and independence to
Namibia in accordance with the objectives laid down by the United Nations
(A/AC.13l/SR.375).

3. Message from the Secretary-General of the United Nations

163. In his message, the Secretary-General underscored the special responsibility
of the United Nations' with respect to Namibia and said that the world body stood
fully committed in support of the inalienable right of the inhabitants of the
Territory to self-determination and independence in a united Namibia.

164. The Secretary-General was deeply concerned at the unsettling and dangerous
effects of the current impasse in the resolution of the problem. Those included a
tragic loss of life and much suffering.

165. It was most important to continue to press for the implementation of Security
Council resolution 435 (1978), which had established a practical framework and
remained the basis for a peaceful settlement in conformity with the legitimate
rights and aspirations of the Namibian people.

166. The Secretary-General indicated that the immediate objective must be to break
the impasse which was holding up negotiations. He expressed hope that the renewed
attempts made in recent months to move the negotiations forward would prove
successful and that it would then be possible to proceed with the implementation of
the United Nations plan. The Secretary-General assured the Council of his full
co-operation and readiness to render whatever assistance was needed to achieve that
goal (A/AC.l31/SR.375).

4. Statement by the President of the South West Africa People's
Organization

167. The President of SWAPO said that the Council's meetings were taking place at
the most crucial stage in the history of Namibia's national liberation struggle.
The country and people of Namibia, for which the United Nations had assumed a
unique responsibility, were being subjected to the ever-increasing military

-29-



i"
\' ..1

r1le--"'''i"j;'F''''''';=~-=-='",",,''''~==''=-"---'"-''-='''"==_-:C===:::-"==--===~L=--"-~ --"-"-"-""" :==""_-"=---,----::=c~C-"'-c"--=:l='=~==-"--"----"-=--'==:::C=--=-::='C"-

i
build-up of the racist south African occupation forces and massive police andmilitary repression, as evidenced by the incarceration and torture of Namibianpatriots and a generalized state of terror under which a series of new Draconianlaws, such as martial law, covering more than half the country, had been enacted.
168. In addition, the Pretoria regime continued to carry out constant acts ofaggression and military attacks against independent African states in the region,particularly Angola. It was even threatening to deepen and broaden its terroristattacks against innocent Angolan civilians.

169. South Africa's constant acts of aggression against the Governments and peoplesof southern Africa had been carried out with the active encouragement and connivanceof the 'major NATO Powers and trade partners of racist South Africa. That was thechallenge facing the oppressed, struggling Namibians and, indeed, it was thechallenge facing the Council and the international community.

170. The President of SWAPO reiterated his organization's rceadiness to proceed withthe immediate implementation of-Security Council resolution 435 (1978), startingwith the signing of a cease-fire agreement between SWAPO and South Africaa

171. Concerning the proposal on the electoral system, he noted that the westerncontact group of five were still insisting on electoral double standards of "oneman, two votes" or "one man, one vote, counted twice". After carefully weighingthe implications of the proposed electoral system, SWAPO was convinced that theprocedure was a double-edged sword intended to cut its electoral strength from twodifferent angles. Pretoria and the five thought that, on the one hand, proportionalrepresentation would present some advantage in the counting of white votes while,on the other hand, some of the black tribal puppets might have a better chance ofwinning seats under the single-member constituency system in constituencies wherethey could appeal to narrow local interests on the basis of tribal sentiments.

172. Contrary to what the five were claiming, the tendency of the currentnegotiations was not to "strengthen" resolution 435 (1978) but to dilute it.Therefore, SWAPO called upon the Council to reject the unreasonable demands aimedat depriving SWAPO and the oppressed Namibian people of the deserved victory.Insistence on electoral double standards was, in the view of SWAPO, one such demand.
173. SWAPO preferred proportional representation, since a single-memberconstituency system would require fresh censuses, demarcation of constituencies andregistration of voters under the supervision of the United Nations.

174. SWAPO had put to the five a proposal for direct talks on the lines of aGeneva-type conference. Failing that, SWAPO would insist on bringing all thephases of the negotiations together and resolving all the outstandi~g issues as apackage.

175. The President of SWAPO emphasized that the delay in the implementation ofresolution 435 (1978) was due to the intransigence of South Africa and theduplicity of the so-called contact group, whose members were determined toperpetuate the colonial domination of Namibia and the plunder of its ,resources.Quite obviously, the current situation in Namibia demanded new initiatives in theCouncil in the spirit of the mandate entrusted to it as the legal AdministeringAuthori ty for Namibia.

-30-



lnd
dan
:onian
lacted.

of
egion,
rorist

peoples
:>nnivance
as the

~ed with
rUng

:ern
"one

,hing
the
om two
ortional
'hile,
ce of
where
s.

aimed

demand.

Les and

as a

s.
the

og

--~- .._--,~ -- - - --.._.---
-- --"----~~"_._--

176. SWAPO wished to express its appreciation to the overwhelming majority of the
members of the Gouncil for having dutifully carried out the mandate entrusted to
them. Through its initiatives, the Council had created conditions which were
enabling Namibians to acquire education and training which they had been
deliberstel~ denied. The Council had also made persistent efforts in representing
Namibian interests throughout the world and had, time and again, reaffirmed its
unequivocal support for the armed, political and diplomatic struggles waged by
SWAPO in the face of Pretoria's continuing intransigence.

177. SWAPO urged the Council to broaden its contacts with non-governmental
organizations, liberation support and solidarity groups, trade unions and other
mass organizations not only in the West but also in the socialist countries and
other Member States.

178. The embattled people of Namibia were closely following the deliberations of
the Council in the expectation that the new strategies and tactics to be mapped out
in Arusha and the final declaration and programme of action would be commensurate
with the current critical situation in and relating to Namibia (A/AC. 131/SR. 375).

5. Message from the President of the General Assembly

179. In his message, the President of the General Assembly said that the continuing
colonial status of Namibia remained the single most shameful remnant of colonialism.
At its thirty-sixth session, the Assembly had reaffirmed the overwhelming support
of the Member States for the immediate, full and unconditional independence of
Namibia. There could be no question of the legality of that position. Even more
important, there could be no question of the fundamental justice and right of the
demand of the United Nations for Namibian independence.

180. He stated that since its creation by the General Assembly, the Council had
embodied the united Nations responsibility for Namibia. In performing that unique
role, the Council had made essential contributions to the quest for a free and
independent Namibia. It had given to the people of Namibia the recognition and
status in the international community which the illegal colonial status imposed on
them by the Government of South Africa had sought to deny. In the continuing
absence of indep~!ndence, and the concurrent inability of the Namibian people to
form the governn~nt of their choice, the Council was playing an irreplaceable role
on behalf of the p~ople of Namibia.

6. Statement by the Chairman of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples

181. The Chairman of the Special Committee said that the colonial situation in
Namibia constituted a major stUmbling block to world peace and to lasting peace in
southern Africa. It was therefore imperative that the international community at
that crucial stage of the liberation struggle do its utmost to deprive the minority
regime in Pretoria of any means that enabled it to continue its acts of defiance
with impunity. The contemplated sale of strategic equipment by tbe Government of
the United States to South Africa - an action which clearly contravened the
relevant decisions of the Security Council - should, therefore, be viewed with deep

-31-



I.

regret and serious concern. Any support for the racist regime resulted only in
further suffering and hardship for the struggling Namibian people.

182. Years of negotiations at the international level had failed to modify South
Africa's defiant attitude towards the United Nations. South Africa's position
throughout the negotiations had been one of inflexibility and confrontation, broken
promises and false assurances. It had increased its militarization of the
Territory and used it as a spring-board for armed aggression against neighbouring
States. At the same time, it had continued its exploitation and plunder of the
human and material resources of Namibia, in collusion with foreign eeconomic
interests and in open defiance of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural
Resources of Namibia. The international community must insist that those States
whose transnational corporations continued to operate in Namibia should take
definitive measures to put an end to such exploitation.

183. It had been the Special Committee's consistent position that only the full and
effective application of measures under Chapter VII of the Charte~ of the united
Nations could rapidly restore peace, justice and freedom to the Namibian people.
On the one hand, the Security Council must adopt a comprehensive prograr.~e of
economic sanctions and, on the other, the international community must extend all
possible assistance to the people of Namibia under the leadership of SWAPO.

184. The leaders of SWAPO had shown a commendable spirit of accommodation, patience
and statesmanship throughout the protracted negotiations on the implementation of
Security Council resolution 435 (1978). Similarly, the leaders of the front-line
States had consistently played a crucial role in support of the cause of the people
of Namibia.

?

185. During its current meetings, the Council would undoubtedly chart a decisive
course of further action on Namibia, thus demonstrating the resolve of the United
Nations to fulfil its obligations to the people of Namibia and its responsibility
to maintain international peace and security. The Council could be assured of the
full support of the entire membership of the Special Committee (A/AC.13l/SR.376).

7. Statement by the representative of the Special Committee
against Apartheid

186. The representative of the Special Committee against Apart~~iri stated that the
negotiations for Namibian independence had lately taken a turn for the worse and,
unless the Council took a unified stand, the gains of the past few years might well
be lost to the racist South African regime. The stalem~te had been caused by South
Africa's refusal to relinquish its illegal hold on the Territory and by its frequent
use of Namibia as a staging area for its acts of aggression against neighbouring
States. Such a situation, if allowed to persist, could only intensify the armed
resistance of the Namibian people, under the leadership of their sole and authentic
representative, SWAPO, and lead to untold loss of life.

187. The international community quite clearly had the authority to enforce
Namibia's right to self-determination since South Africa had been d:.vested of legal
power over the Territory. The Security Council maintained that the South African
presence in Namibia was illegal. Yet some Security Council members - those with
undoubted political leverage over South Africa - had failed to exercise the
political will to secure Namibia's independence and had instead urged negotiations

-32-



" ---_...• _.__ .. ~
~ ~

in

lUth
>n
broken

Iring
:he

lral
Ites

III and
.ted
lIe.

I all

.tience
,n of
line
people

sive
ited
lity
f the
76) ~

t the
and,
t well
South

requent
ing
med
hentic

legal
lcan
ith

tions

with the illegal regime while covertly frustrating that very process.
Paradoxically, those were the same members of the Security Council who had proposed
the United Nations plan for Namibia contained in Security Council resolution
435 (1978). It was obvious that-the proposed plan had been intended to forestall
more efft1ctive action by the international community in which they would have had
to participate.

188. The Special Committee against Apartheid did not oonsider the latest proposals
of the Western contact group to be in the best interests of SWAPO or the people of
Namibia, but saw them a~ at best a ruse to weaken the influence ef SWAPO in the
Territory and indirectly ensure South Africa's continued domination. The contact
group would do better to use its influence with South Africa to persuade it to
accept earlier, more even-handed proposals foe a solution in Namibia. A return to
the plan outlined in resolution 435 (1978)~ as called for by SWAPO, was the best
course of action and a new round of Geneva-type talks would be the most equitable
framework for comprehensive negotiations on outstanding issues.

189. Those who had had dealings with the South African regime knew that
prevarication and deceit were its favourite ploys in dEialing with the international
community on the questions of apartheid and Namibia. It vas difficult to see how
a regime which had made Namibia a land of forced labour, arLitrary arrests, torture
and executions, would voluntarily grant self-determination to the Namibian people.
The regime would only succumb to pressure•

190. The time had come for all who cherished the values of freedom and independence
to rally around the Namibian people, under the leadership of SWAPO, and to unmask
South Africa and its collaborators~ The task was a demanding one, but the Namibian
people would emerge victorious because they were engag~d in a just struggle. The
international community must renew its moral and material support to SWAPO and the
Namibian people in their struggle against South African tyranny and exploitation.

8. Statement by the representative c' the Chairffi~E of the Gxoup
of Non-Aligned Countries

191. The representative of the Chairman of the Group of Non-J~ligned Countries said
that the struggle to liberate Namibia had reached a critic~l stage. Pretoria
intended to install a nao-colonialist puppet regime in Namibia and~exclude from
power SWAPO, the sole and authentic representative of the Namibian people. That
policy and the attitude of the imperialist Powers left little hope of reaching a
negotiated solution.

192. The non-aligned countries had stressed the need to implement the United
Nations settlement plan and had denounced manoeuvres by certain Western Powers,
in particular the United States, to delay implementation of that plan. They
condemned any attempt to impose a neo-colonialist solution on Namibia to the
exclusion of SWAPO.

193. The non-aligned countries had repeatedly urged the Security Council to impose
sanctions against South Africa as a matter of urgency in accordance with Chapter VII
of the Charter of the United Nations. In the meantime, the only alternative was
for the Namibian people to intensify their armed struggle under the leadership of
SWAPO, in which they should receive the moral and material support of the
international community.

-33-



194. Total and unconclitional support for SWAPO in its armed struggle was the most
effective reply to the delaying tactics adopted by Namibia's enemies. The
international community had noted the continued readiness of SWAPO to reach a
negotial~d settlement. and supported its proposal for a conference under United
Nations al.,spices to resclve all outstanding issues.

195. The non-aligned countries and the United Nations in various resolutions h~d
called for th~ withdrawal of South African troops from Namibia and the return of
all Namibian territory, including Walvis Bay. All the Council's energies should be
devoted to achieving those ends.

196. The Namibian people were victims of the scorn and insolence which South Africa
had displayed towards the United Nations, with the full support of the United States
and other NATO Powers. South Africa maintained its racist troops in Namibia
without the slightest right and in defiance of international puolic opinion. It
had avoided its obligation to grant independence to the Namibian people and had
imposed a system of bantustans on ~hat country. But the Namibian people would
ultimately triumph.

9. Statement by the President of th~ United r~~tions OOuncil
for Nar.1ibia

197. The President of the Unite~ Nations Coun~il for Namibia pointed out that the
~'lrpose of the current extraordinary plenary meetings was to draw attention to the
critical situation in and around Namibia and to demonstrate the international
community's support for SWAPO, the sole and authentic representative of the
N~mihian people. The meet' 19S would also help to rally international support for
thE t 'ont-line States, which had extended unqualified support to the Namibian
people in their heroic struggle.

198. The racist regime was continuing its illegal occupation of the Territory and
was stepping up its militaiization of Namibia which had, as a result, become a war
zone p with South African troops patrolling the entire country and harassing
innocent people, all in violation of United Nations resolutions and decisions.

199. The United Nations Council for Namibia strongly condemned South Africa's
obnoxious policy of apartheid, its illegal occupation of Namibia and its unprovoked
aggression against the front-line States, particularly Angola, as well as its
refusal to adhere to the principle of self-determination and independence. The
Council f.urther condemned those Governments which misused their veto power to
prevent the Namibian people from fUlfilling their political aspirations to freedom
and independence.

201. In
in the
communi
wished
solutio
modific
accorda
securit
ensure
Namibia.

202. The
diplomat
successf
its comp
internat
communit
people 0
establis
involved
SWAPO co
issues i

203. The

204. OOu
the situ
South Af
Africa,
USe of N
States h-
southern

205. Man
and oppo

206. Cou
for Nami
the Nami
authenti

200. The OOuncil regretted the fact tbat, because of South Africa's intransigence
and the lack of sufficient pressure from ' the Western contact group, the United
Nations plan, based on Security OOuncil resolution 435 (1976), had still not been
implemented. Because the proposals of the contact group had gradually drifted away
from Security Council resolution 435 (1978),' SWAPO had requested that all
ou~standing issues should be resolved in a package at a Geneva-type conference held
under the auspices of the United 'Nations, although it did not exlucde other means
of achieving that objective. The Council wished to commend SWAPO for its
statesmanship in the negotiations as well as its courage on the battlefield in
defending the inalienable rights of the Namibian people.

-34-

207. Spe
territori
the Unit
of Namibi
is illeg

208. Coun
trading p
Namibia's
of intern



I

i~
"

r
,.

t: 21

~t
di
of

• i

['
21
C
re..

[
st

21
Na

i'
p
roa
U

~.

=-=---_;:,=-=:EE~,

'I'

D. General debate

203. The Council held its general debate from 11 to 13 May 1982.

202. The Council called on the international community to incre3se its political,
diplomatic, moral, economic and material assistance to SWAPO in order to enable it
successfully to conclude the liberation struggle. Moreover, the Council reaffirmed
its complete support for SWAPO, whose just struggle also enjoyed the support of the
international community. The Council would continue to mobilize the international
community with a view to increasing its support for the cause of the struggling
people of Namibia, ending South Africa's illegal occupation ~f the Territory and
establishing a genuin~ government in a free and independent Nam1bi~. All those
involved in the negotiating process should respond favourably to the suggestion by
SWAPO concerning a Geneva-type conference with a view to resolving the remaining
issues in accordance with Security Council resolution 435 (1978).

201. In view of the grave situation created by South Africa and the current impasse
in the negotiations, the Council strongly emphasized the need for the international
community to prevent any deterioration of the situation. The Council therefore
wished to reiterate that resolution 435 (1978) provided the only basis for a speedy
solution to the Namibian problem ...;;lld should be implemented urgently, without
modification. Fail,ing progress in that connection, the Security Council, acting in
accordance with its responsibility for the maintenance of international peace and
security, should take appropriate measures under Chapter VII of the Charter to
ensure the immediate withdrawal of South Africa's illegal administration from
Namibia.

204. Council members expressed their utmost concern at the further deterioration of
the situation in Namibia resulting from the illegal occupation of the Territory by
South Africa. Members felt that the increasing militarization of Namibia by South
Africa, its intensification of repressive acts against the Namibian people and its
use of Namibian territory to launch acts of military aggression against neighbouring
States had created a situation that threatened peace and security not only in
southern Africa but also in the world at large.

205. Many speakers emphasized that the question of Namibia was one of decolonization
and opposed any attempt to frame it within the context of East-West rivalry.

206. Council members reaffirmed the special responsibility of the United Nations
for Namibia and its solidarity with, and support for, the liberation struggle of
the Narnibian people under the leadership of SWAPO, recognized as the sole and
authentic representative of the Namibian people.

207. Speakers emphasized that Namibia should accede to independence with its
territorial integrity intact. In that regard, speakers reaffirmed the decision of
the United Nations that Walvis Bay and the off-shore islands are an integral part
of Namibia and that any action by South Africa to separate them from the Territory
is illegal, null and void.

208. Council members expressed grave concern over the role of South Africa's major
trading partners which, together with South Africa, were engaged in the plunder of
Namibia's wealth and the exploitatio.l of the Namibian people in blatant violation
of international law. Reports that South Africa was still receiving military

-35-

21
li
s

21
re
Un
fa

21
Ar
re

Re

21
Au
Ar
co
de
by



technology and equipment, particularly from the West, in violation of Security
Council resolution 418 (1977) of ~ November 1977 were particularly disturbing. 218. T

annex

I'
J
I
I

I
;

i
"

, ~
I

,I
i,,

209. Many speakers were of the view that the Western Powers had repeatedly
demonstrated their unwillingness to exert pressure on South Africa commensurate
with their influence on that regime so as to compel Pretoria to co-operate in the
implementation of the United Nations plan for Namibia.

210. A few speakers, on the other hand, believed that the Western contact group had
displayed considerable effort in genuinely seeking ways to obtain the implementation
of Security Council resolution 435 (1978).

211. Council members stressed that the United Nations plan, as embodied in Security
Council resolutions 385 (1976) and 435 (1978), was the only internationally
recognized framework for a negotiated settlement of the question of Namibia and
strongly opposed any attempt to dilute or deviate from the plan.

212. In view of South Africa's intransigence, its failure to comply with United
Nations resolutions and its attempts to impose an intern,al solution on the Namibian
people, the majority of Council members supported the imposition of comprehensive
mandatory sanctions against South Africa under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations.

213. Council members commended SWAPO for the statesmanship and constructive
attitude it had demonstrated during the negotiations and expressed the view that,
in order to overcome the current impasse, a Geneva-type conference should be held
under United Nations auspices in order to discuss and resolve all outstanding
issues together in a comprehensive manner, as proposed by SWAPO.

214. Speakers underscored the need to provide increased assistance to SWAPO for its
liberQcion struggle and to the front-line States for the defence of their
sovereignty and territorial integrity against South African aggression.

215. At the conclusion of the proceedings, the Council adopted by acclamation a
resolution (A/AC.131/88) expressing its thanks to the Government and people of the
United Republic of Tanzania for having provided the Council with the necessary
facilities for its extraordinary plenary meetings.

E. Adoption of the Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action
on Namibia

216. At its 3~lst meeting, on 13 May 1982, the Council adopted by acclamation the
Arusha D~claration and Programme of Action on Namibia, the text of which is
reproduced in paragraph 767 below.

Reservations, clarifica~tons and observations

217. In the course of the extraordinary plenary meetings, the representatives of
Australia, Belgium, Finland and Turkey, while joining in the consensus on the
Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action on Namibia, expressed reservations
concerning certain references in the Declaration. Clarifications were made by the
delegations of Senegal and the United Republic of Cameroon. Observations were made
by the representatives of Chile and Colombia.

-36-

,
'..

219. I
the fo
Strugg
Paris d

1.

2.

3 ..



218. The text of the reservations of Australia, Belgium and Finland is contained in
annex I to the present report.

F. Preparations for the International Conference in Support
of the Struggle of the Namibian People for Independence

219. In the course of the meetings at Arusha, the Council considered and approved
the following provisional agenda for the International Conference in Support of the
Struggle of the Namibian People for Independence, to be held at UNESCO House in
Paris during 1983:

1. Adoption of the agenda.

2. Question of Namibia:

(a) Consideration of the situation in and relating to Namibia,

(b) Solidarity with and assistance to the people of Namibia in their
struggle for self-determination and national independence in a
united Namibia under the leadership of SWAPO, their sole and
authentic representative,

(c) Solidarity with and assistance to the front-line States with a view
to enabling them to sustain their support to the cause of Namibia,

(d) Measures for securing the early implementa·t!on of the United Nations
plan for Namibia as provided for in Security Council resolutions
385 (1976) ar.d 435 (1978), as well as of other united Nations
resolutions and decisions, with a view to enabling the speedy
exercise by the people of Namibia of their inalienable right to
freedom and independence,

(e) Re~ornmendations to be placed before the General Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session.

l:

3. Other matters.

-37-

t
ilc:,","
.:".
";

-,
'>.1



PART TWO

WORK OF THE COUNCIL AS THE LEGAL ADMINISTERING AUTHORITY FOR NAMIBIA

I. GENERAL

220. In its capacity as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia until
independence, the Council has the power to promulgate such laws and decrees as are
necessary for the administration of the Territory. In addition to enacting Decree
No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia on 27 September 1974,
the Council has taken a series of other initiatives aimed at safeguarding the
Territory's natural resources for the benefit of the Namibian people. In this
connection, the Council dispatched a mission in June and JUly 1982 to contact
administering and managing authorities of foreign corporations operating in Namibia
t~ point out to them the illegality of their operations in the Territory.

221. The Council also has the responsibility of representing Namibia in
international organizations and conferences. It continued during the period under
review to participate as a full member in such organizations and conferences as
lLO, FAO, UNESCO, UNCTAD, UNlDO and the Third united Nations Conference on the Law
of the Sea. In April 1982, the Council was admitted as a full member of the
Executive Committee of the Programme of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees. The Council also represented Namibia at meetings of OAU and the Movement
of Non-Aligned Countries and at other international conferences.

222. The Council holds periodic consultations with Governments regarding the
situation in the Territory and ways and means of furthering the implementation of
United Nations resolutions on Namibia. During the period under review, the Council
dispatched a mission of consultation which visited Cyprus, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh
between 28 March and 13 April 1982.

225.
Lati
in 1
Asia
West
East
1981

226.
Admi
cons
deve
incr
inte
Secu
supp
authe
conne
membe
const
quest

223. The Council maintains under constant review the political, military, economic
and social conditions affecting the struggle of the Namibian people for self-
determination, freedom and national independence in a united Namibia. In this
connection, the Council organized a seminar on the military situation in and
relating to Namibia which was held at Vienna from 8 to 11 June 1982.

224. The functions of the Council also include dissemination of information on the
question of Namibia and the mobilization of international public opinion in support
of the Namibian people in their struggle for national independence. The Council
also provides financial and educational assistance to Namibians through the United
Nations Fund for Namibia, which is the vehicle for finafj~ing the United Nations
Institute for Namibia and the Nationhood Programme for Namibia.

-38-

227.
BotSWi
Repub'
Sri L'

228.
Repub
and M
was r
Mr. H
by Li
Mr. H

229.
with
compo

230.



11. CONSULTATIONS WITH M~ffiER STATES ON THE IMPLEMENTATION
OF UNITED NATIONS RESOLUTIONS ON NAMIBIA

A. General

225. In the past the Council has sent missions of consultation to Europe 14/ andLatin America 15/ in 19741 to Asia 16/ in 19751 to Latin America 17/ and Africa 18/in 19761 to Canada 19/ in 19771 to Africa 20/ and Yugoslavia 21/ in 1978, to --Asia, 22/ Western Europe 23/ and Eastern Europe 24/ in 19791 to Latin America,Western Europe, the Caribbean, the South Pacific, North America and the MiddleEast 25/ in 1980, and to Latin America, Western Europe, Eastern Europe and Asia in1981. ~/

226. In keeping with its established policy, the Council r as the legalAdministering Authority for Namibia until independence, decided to send missions ofconsultation to Member States during the period under review to exchange view~ ondevelopments regarding the situation in Namibia and to discuss ways and means ofincreasing pressure on and further isolating South Africa, of maximizinginternational support for the early independence of Namibia in accordance withSecurity Council resolutions 385 (1976) and 435 (1978), and of strengtheningsupport for the just struggle ef the Namibian people led by SWAPO, their sole andauthentic representative, for national liberation and independence. In thisconnection, the Council was also mindful of the attempts being made by certainmembers of the Western contact group to alter resolution 435 (1978), whichconstitutes the universally accepted basis for the peaceful settlement of thequestion of Namibia.

B. Mission of consultation to Cyprus, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh
(28 March to 13 April 1982)*

227. The Mission was composed of the representatives of Guyana (Chairman),Botswana, Cyprus, India, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the UnitedRepublic of Cameroon and SWAPO. The Mission visited Cyprus from 28 to 31 March,Sri Lanka from 1 to 6 April and Bangladesh from 9 to 13 April 1982.

228. In Cyprus the Mission was received by Mr. Spiryos Kyprianou, President of theRepublic of Cyprus; Mr. George Ladas, President of the House of Representatives,and Mr. N. A. Rolandis, the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In Sri Lanka itwas received by Mr. A. C. Shahul Hameed, Minister for Foreign Affairs, andMr. H. T. Jayasinghe, Foreign Secretary. In Bangladesh the Mission was receivedby Lieutenant General H. M. Ershad, Chief Martial Law Administrator, andMr. Humayun R. Chowdhury, Foreign Secretary.

229. In all three countries the Mission held consultations at the highest levelwith officials from the respective ministries of foreign affairs. (For thecomposition of the Government delegations, see para. 770 below.)

230. In its discussions with the Government officials, the Missicn emphasized the

Turkey reserved its position with respect to the visit to Cyprus.

-39-

i

ti,
If,
~' ; .



23
de
ha
in
pr
no
ha'
in'
un

24
in
in
of
Co
re
in
th
th

24
se
th
wh'
in
re
at

232. The Mission expressed concern over the serious threat to international peace
and security caused by South Africa's consistent defiance of the United Nations,
its illegal occupation of the Territory and escalation of military operations
there, its war of repression against the Namibian people resulting in the
displacement of many Namibians seeking refuge in neighbouring States, its
recruitment and training of Namibians for tribal armies and the use of other agents
to carry out its policy of military attacks against independent African States, its
policy of colohial expansion and apartheid and its development of nuclear weapons.

-40-

233. The Mission requested compliance with the position of the United Nations
regarding the protection of the natural resources of Namibia as set forth in
Security Council resolutions 283 (1970) and 301 (1971) and in Decree No. 1 for the
Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia. It reaffirmed that the natural
resources of Namibia were the inviolable heritage of the Namibian people and that
the exploitation of those resources by foreign economic interests under the
protection of the repressive colonial administration was in violation of the
Charter, the Decree and the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the
Security Council. The Mission further noted that such exploitation was illegal and
contributed to the maintenance of the illegal occupation regime. The Mission
appealed to the Member States to discourage private investors and companies in
their countries from participating in business ventures in Namibia and also to use
their influence to persuade Western and other countrles to cease such activities.

234. The Mission sought to alert the Governments of the countries visited to the
continued attempts by Gertain members of the Western contact group to frustrate the
independence of Namibia. It also emphasized the need to render increased moral and
material support to the Namibian people under SWAPO so as to enable them to
intensify their struggle. The Mission stressed the importance of increased
vigilance to prevent further South African manoeuvres and activities by certain
members of the Western contact group directed at distorting the terms of securit:v-
Council resolution 435 (1978). Those manoeuvres included an attempt to impose
·constitutional arrangements" on the Namibian people prior to the holding of free
and fair elections under United Nations supervision and control, in contravention
of resolution 435 (1978). The Mission recalled that the efforts by South Africa
and its allies to give to the question of Namibia a dimension quite different from
that of colonial domination, in violation of the principles and purposes of the
Charter and the decisions and resolutions of the United Nations, had been condemned
by the United Nations and in many other international forums.

inalienable right of the people of Namibia to self-determination, freedom ~nd
national independence in a united Namibia, including Walvis Bay and the Penguin and
other off-shore islands, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and
as recognized in General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) and 2145 (XXI)~ as well as
in subsequent resolutions of the Assembly relating to Namibia.

231. It stressed that Namibia was the direct responsibility of the United Nations
until it attained genuine independence and I.nderlined the mandate given to the
Council.as the legal Administering Authority for the Territory. The Mission
recalled that more than a decade had elapsed since the International Court of
Justice had rendered its advisory opinion of 21 June 1971 in response to the
request addressed to it by the Security Council in its resolution 284 (1970) of
29 July 1970. In that regard, it underlined the concern of the international
community that Namibia's independence had been delayed for so long.

[I
i':

",
.1
~ I

U
~i

I
i
i



-.7-;;:t':i;''TS,·~?:,-..~~-:-~==.o.---='==---=::=:=:~_=·LCL'~.-"~.=--,,,.=c:=,-"~",,,-=-c:==.,,..,,,,,,,~..,,_ ... #,.... ','---" '."""""~-"'~~i3B·~'·'·'····"·_··,",,.·,lO;;-3'i·...'·.·r
~·I.

and
nd
as

ns

ce

ents
its

ns.

the

at

e
and

use
s.

e
the
and

ee
on
a
rom

mned

235. The Mission recalled that numerous Security Council and General Assembly
resolutions on ~amibia, including Council resolution 385 (1976), still remained
unimplemented.

236. The Mission drew the attention of the Governments to Security Council
resolution 435 (1978), which contained administrative arrangements for the holding
of free and fair electioliS under United Nations supervision and control so as to
ensure the early independence of Namibia. It noted that in that resolution the
Security Council had welcomed the readiness of SWAPO to co-operate in the
implementation of those arrangements and had called on South Africa to do likewise.

237. Furthermore, by resolution 439 (1978), the Security Council had declared null
and void all unilateral measures taken by the illegal South African administration
in Namibia in relation to the electoral process in contravention of
resolutions 385 (1976) and 435 (1978).

238. The Mission expressed the view that the events of the past few months in
respect of negotiations for the implementation of Security Council
resolution 435 (1978) had once more demonstrated that certain Western countries
were going out of their way to accommodate South Africa's wishes. It further noted
that the United Nations Council for Namibia objected to the proposed one-man,
two-vote formula, as did SWAPO, the front-line States, OAU and the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries. The Mission reiterated the Co~ncil's call for the full
implementation of the United Nations settlement plan without any modification,
qualification, dilution, prevarication or delay.

239. The Mission emphasized that the illegal regime of South Africa had employed
delaying tactics in order to prolong the negotiations over the settlement plan and
had utilized the time so gained to ~stablish unauthorized governmental institutions
in the Territory with a view to giving a semblance of legitimacy to its illegal
presence there. Furthermore, it was attempting to "Namibianize" the conflict,
notably through the forced conscription of black Namibians, in order to create
hatred and division among the Namibian people. Those manoeuvres were obviously
intended to camouflage the South African military presence in Namibia and to
undermine United Nations efforts to achieve genuine independence for the Territory.

240. The Mission strongly condemned racist South Africa's attempts to promote and
install a puppet regime as a step towards an actual declaration of fake
independence in Namibia. It also strongly denounced the reluctance of the members
of the Western contact group, in particular the permanent members of the Security
Council, to exert pressure upon South Africa commensurate with the special
relationship which they enjoy with that country in order to compel it to co-operate
in the implementation of the United Nations plan for Namibia. In that connection,
the Mission recalled the veto cast in the Security Council on 30 April 1981 by the
three Western permanent members against a draft resolution providing for the
imposition of comprehensive mandatory sanctions against racist South Africa in
accordance with Chapter VII of the Charter. 11

241. The Mission recalled that SWAPO had already made many concessions in the
search for an acceptable formula for Namibia's independence and commended SWAPO,
the sole and authentic representative of the Namibian people, for the statesmanship
which it had demonstrated throughout the long and painful efforts to find an
internationally acceptable and peaceful solution to the question of Namibia. It
reaffirmed its complete solidarity with and full support for SWAPO, whose just
struggle enjoyed the support and admiration of the international community.

-41-



, i
I'

242. The Mission reaffirmed the Council's unflinching solidarity with and support
for SWAPO and the Namibian people in their just struggle for national liberation,
freedom and independence. In that respect, the Mission called for incceased
material, political and moral support to be rendered to SWAPO so that it could
intensify the struggle for the total liberation of Namibia.

243. The Mission underlined the Council's consternation at the fact that, while
diplomatic efforts were being made, South Africa continued to use Namibia as a
spring-board for aggression against independent African States, particularly
Angola, thus creating serious instability and endangering peace in southern Africa.

244. The Mission stated that the Council condemned the double standards of certain
Western countries which, while purporting to believe that a peaceful settlement of
the question of Namibia was possible, had done very little to persuade South Africa
to comply with the decisions of the United Nations and the consensus of the
international community. It deplored the attitude of those Western countries which
encouraged South Africa to persist in trying to give legitimacy to and to promote
its puppet entities in Namibia. "The Mission expressed its conviction that South
Africa would not have been able to continue its intransigence without the
political, economic and military support it received from certain Western
countries. The motive for that support was, among other things, the continued
plunder of Namibia's natural resources by Western transnational corporations.

245. The Mission reiterated the Council's strong condemnation of certain Western
Powers which, by their continued military, economic and political collaboration
with the Pretoria regime, encouraged it to continue its illegal occupation of
Namibia, its brutal repression of the Namibian people and its acts of aggression
and destabilization against the front-line States, particularly Angola.

246. South ~frica had amply demonstrated its total disregard for the United Nations
and the principles enshrined in the Charter, the Mission declared. Its continuing
violation of United Nati9ns resolutions warranted the urgent imposition by the
Security Council of comprehensive mandatory sanctions as provided for in
Chapter VII of the Charter in order to ensure South Africa's immediate compliance
with the resolutions and decisions relating to Namibia.

247. The Mission emphasized that it was necessary further to expand and intensify
the concerted action of the United Nations Council for Namibia and the
international community in support of the struggle of the Namibian people by all
means at their disposal, including armed struggle, for self-determination and
geniune independence. The consultations with the Governments could significantly
contribute to identifying new strategi.es for action•. In particular, it envisaged
close co-operation between the Council and the Governments with respect to the .
dissemination of information on Namibia and other activities of the Council. In
that connection, the Mission brough~ to the attention of the Governments the
decision of the Council to hold a series of extraordinary plenary meetings at
Arusha from 10 to 14 May 1982. It considered that those meetings would provide an
opportunity to formulate a programme of action aimed at intensifying and broadening
the scope of concerted action to end South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia.

248. The Mission r~callea that the General Assembly, by its resolution 36/121 D,
had requesled all specialized agencies and other organizations and conferences of
the United Nations system to grant full membership to Namibia, represented by the
Council, so that it might participate, in its capacity as the legal Administering

-42-



port
ion,

d

le
a

fdca.

rtain
nt of
Africa

which
mote
uth

d

ern
on

ion

ations
nuing
e

ance

sify

all

ntly
aged
e'
In

de an
dening
ibia.

D,
s of
the

ring

Authority for Namibia, in the work of those agencies, organizations andconferences. The 1 :~sion requested the Member States to increase their support forthe Council so that it might intensify its efforts in that regard and broaden thescope of the activities it carried out in close co-operation with SWAPO, infulfilment of the commitments of the United Nations to the Namibian peopleresulting from General Assembly resolution 2145 (XXI).

249. The Mission also sought support for United Nations programmes of assistance toNamibians and drew attention to the need for increased contributions to the UnitedNations Fund for Namibia, the Nationhood Programme for Namibia and the UnitedNations Institute for Namibia.

250. The Govermnents of Cyprus, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh assured the Mission oftheir support for the inalienable right of the Namibian people to
s~lf-determination, freedom and national independence, in accordance with GeneralAssembly resolutions 1514 (XV) and 2248 (S-V). They reiterated that Namibia'saccession to independence must be with its territorial integrity intact, includingWalvis Bay and the off-shore islands, and reaffirmed their staunch support for theliberation of Namibia and for the work of the Council as the legal AdministeringAuthority for the Territory until independence.

251. The three Governments vigorously condemned the continued illegal presence ofthe South African r~gime in Namibia, its policies of apartheid and practices ofdivision, including the establishment of so-called homelands, and the continuousviolence and acts of intimidation and brutal repression by which the occupationforces of the illegal administration attempted to perpetuate the odiousexploitation of the people of Namibia.

252. They likewise vehemently condemned South Africa's increasing militarization ofthe Territory, including the formation of the so-called South West Africa TerritoryForce, the use of mercenaries inside and outside the Territory and the forcedconscription of Namibian nationals for South Africa's expanded war of aggressionagainst the people of Namibia and the neighbouring African States. They expressedthe view that that militarization, combined with the fact that the Pretoria regimehad been acting in a completely unrestrained manner against Namibia and theneighbouring states, assumed even more ominous proportions in view of SouthAfrica's development of a nuclear-weapon capability. They expressed concern at thethreat to ·international peace and security created by the systematic and continuedviolation of the political independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity ofthose African States, especially Angola, which continued to be the object of SouthAfrica's brutal aggression.

253. The Governments of Cyprus, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh strongly condemnedSouth Africa's systematic efforts to eliminate SWAPO, its leaders, cadres andsupporters, both inside and outside the Territory. They strongly condemnedSouth Africa's manoeuvres aimed at undermining the role of SWAPO as the sole andauthentic representative of the people of Namibia and called upon all States, inaccordance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the SecurityCouncil, to reaffir~ their support for SWAPO and to refrain from co-operating withor according recognition to any regime or authority which the illegal South Africanadministration might seek to impose on the Namibian people.

254. The three Governments firmly rejected any attempt to characterize the Namibianissue as a regional conflict with a view to depriving it of its universal

-43-



-44-

257. They expressly condemned the current manoeuvres aimed at rev1s1ng the terms
and thwarting the implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) and
imposing a neo-colonial situation on Namibia with the purpose of maintaining the
status quo. They reiterated the need for a peaceful solution of the problem of
Namibia on the basis of resolutions 385 (1976), 431 (1978), 435 (1978) and
439 (1978). They also reaffirmed their principled position of total suppo=t for
the legitimate struggle of the Namibian people for self-determination, freedom and
genuine independence in a united Namibia under the leadership of SWAPO, their sole
and authentic representative.

259. The Governments strongly condemned the activities of all foreign corporations
operating in Namibia under the illegal administration of South Africa. They
reaffirmed that those activities constituted a major obstacle to the genuine
independence of Namibia and that the people of the Territory, through the
GOvernment of a genuinely independent Namibia, wuuld be entitled to seek
reparations for the exploitation and depletion of their natural resources.

258. The three GOvernments expressed their support for the imposition by the
Security Council of comprehensive mandatory sanctions against South Africa under
Chapter VII of the Charter, as called for by the General Assembly, the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries and OAU, as one of the most effective ways to obtain
South Africa's compliance with the relevant Security Council resolutions.

260. They reiterated their position that the strong political, economic, diplomatic
and military support which South Africa received from certain Western permanent
members of the Security Council encouraged it to refuse to comply with United
Nations resolutions and decisions on Namibia and had prevented the Security Council
from imposing mandatory sanctions against South Africa. That encouragement
confirmed existing doubts about -the real intentions of the five Western Powers with
regard to the strict implementation of the United Nations plan for Namibia, of
which they themselves were the authors.

256. The Governments expressed concern over the lack of progress in the
negotiations for the impJamentation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) and
cautioned that the international community should be vigilant and not be lulled
into feeling that the very momentum of the talks constituted progress. They
reiterated their position that resolution 435 (1978) constituted the only
universally accepted basis for a settlement of the Namibian question and demanded
that it be implemented without an~ qualification, prevarication or delay. They
also expressed the hope that the members of the Western contact group, whose ideas
formed the basis of the settlement plan y would press for its speedy implernentaCion
without modification.

dimensions and underplaying the degree of brazen defiance by South Africa of the
decisions of the United Nations.

255. Furthermore, they reaffirmed that the question of Namibia was one of
occupation and of decolonization. They deplored the attempts by South Africa and
its allies to characterize the liberation struggle in Namibia as part of an
East-West ideological conflict and to label SWAPO as a te~rorist organization, thus
misrepresenting and denigrating the ideals and purposes of the legitimate struggle
of the Namibian people against the illegal and barbarous occupation of their
country.



261. The Governments of Cypru~, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh also reiterated the
importance of compliance with Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural
Resources of Namibia and with the request of the General Assembly i~
resolution ES-8/2 that all States take legislative, administrative and other
measures in orner totally to isolate South Africa politically, economically,
militarily and culturally.

262. The Governments of Cyprus, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh commended the positive and
constructive attitude of SWAPO, which had consistently expressed its readiness to
co-operate fully with the United Nations in the implementation of Security Council
resolution 435 (1978), and reiterated their solidarity with the fir~ principled
stand of the front-line States, which continued to-render moral ~nd material
support to SWAPO even at great sacrifice to themselves.

263. Despite growing disappointment over the progress made by the concerned Powers
in promoting the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolution and in
bringing about a peacefUl resolution of the problem, the three Governments
expressed the hope that those Powers would see the logic and urgency of bringing
sufficient pressure to bear on South Africa to oblige it to comply with the united
Nations decisions on Namibia without further delay.

264. The Governments recognized that the struggle for the liberation of Namibia had
reached a crucial stage at which all forces of imperialism had found renewed energy
and were concentrating on new tactics tor the maintenance of ti.lc status guo, while
giving the impression of a desire to see a genuine change. They recognized that at
the current juncture it was essential for peace and freedom-loving forces to unite
their energies solidly behind SWAPO and to continue to expose and condemn all
stratagems designed to frustrate the legitimate independence struggle of the
Namibian people. In that context, the three Governments reaffirmed their
unswerving commitment and dedication to the work of the United Nations Council for
Namibia and to the freedow struggle of the people of Namibia.

265. The Governments of Cyprus, Sri Lanka and Rangladesh considered that programmes
of assistance to the Namibian people should be strengthened and that the United
Nations should consolidate all activities of support for the Namibian people. They
assured the Mission that they would extend their fullest support to any initiative
taken by the United Nations to bring about the speedy liberation of Namibia and
would also exert every effort to achieve that end through all appropriate
international orga!"ization~ and forums, including the Commonwealth.

266. At the conclusion of the respective conSUltations, the Mission issued a joint
communique with the Government of Cyprus, a joint press statement with the
Government of Sri Lanka and a joint communique with the Government of Bangladesh,
the texts of which are reproduced in paragraph 770 below.

-45-

iii

I:·'··.·'·.··"~-:~·l
~
I

•



·- -

I'
I

J

i

Ill. ACTIVITIES OF THE COUNCIL RELATING TO THE REPRESENTATION OF
NAMIBIA AND THE PROMOTION OF NAMIBIAN INTERESTS IN THE
SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND OTHER INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
AND CONFERENCES

A. General

267. The Council continued during the period under review to discharge the
responsibilities conferred upon it by the General Assembly with regard to the
representation and promotion of the interests and aspirations of the Namibian
people in the specialized agencies and other international organizations and
conferences" It will be recalled in this connection that, by its resolution
36/121 C, the Assembly decided that Namibia, represented by the Council, should
participate as a full member in all conferences and meetings organized by the
United Nations to which all States or, in the case of regi.onal conferences and
meetings, all African States are invited.

268. Important among the agencies and conferences of which the Council is a full
member are 110, FAO, UNESCO, UNCTAD, UNIDO and Third United Nations Conference on
the Law of the Sea. The Council continues to be an associate member of WHO. In
April 1982, Namibia, represented by the CouI~il, was granted membership in the
Executive COmmittee of the Programme of the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees (Economic and Social Council decision 1982/110).

269. At the eleventh session of the Third united Nations Conference on the Law of
the Sea, Namibia, represented by the Council, was granted the right to become a
party to the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea adopted on
30 April 1982 and to join the Preparatory Commission for the International Sea-Bed
Aothority and for the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea.

270. The President of the Council, responding to paragraph 4 of General Assembly
resolution 36/121 D, addressed a formal letter to the Director-General of IAEA
requesting that the General Conference of that Agency grant full Inembership to the
Council.

271. At its meeting held from 7 to 11 June 1982, the Board of Governors of lAEA
considered the application for membership of Namibia in terms of article IV.B of
the Statute, and paragraph 4 of General Assembly resolution 36/121 D. The Board
recommended that the General Conference should approve the application and that the
contribution of Namibia to the Agency's budget, in accordance with paragraph 2 of
the above-mentioned resolution, should be waived so long as Namibia continued to be
represented by the Council. The General Conference is scheduled to meet from
20 to 24 September 1982 and the Council ~xpects to send a delegation to that
meeting.

272. The Council notes with deep regret that the International Monetary Fund and
the World Bank continue to maintain links with South Africa and, especially in the
case of IMF, to assist the illegal racist regime financially in violation of
General Assembly resolution 36/52 of 24 November 1981 on the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by
the specialized agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nations, and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations. At the same
time, the two above-mentioned agencies continue to refuse to give material

-46-

•

i

2
a
N

2
N
1
P

2
C

27
Sp
El
In

27
Co
6

28
Re
Pa

28
Pe
on
Ra



Ll
on

[n

)r

of

-Bed

Ly

the

I
)f
:d
: the
of
:0 be

Id
the

',ame

•
assistance to SWAPO, the sole and authentic representative of the Namibian people.These policies of IMF and the World Bank are contributing to the maintenance of theillegal colonial domination of Namibia by South Africa.

273. During the period under review, the Council was represented at the meetingsand conferences indicated below. The Council will continue to seek membership forNamibia in all specialized agencies and other United Nations bodies.

B. Special Committee against Apartheid
and other United Nations bodies

274. Mr. Paul J. F. Lusaka (Zambia), President of the United Nations Council forNamibia, represented the Council at the meeting held by the Special Committee on12 October 1981 to observe the Day of Solidarity with South African PoliticalPrisoners.

275. Mes'srs. John o. Aje (Nigeria) and Theo-Ben Gurirab (SWAPO) represented theCouncil at the Conference entitled "Southern Africa - Time to Choose", held inLondon from 11 to 14 March 1982 under the auspices of the Special Committee and theAnti-Apartheid Movement of the United Kingdom.
276. Mr. Natarajan Krishnan (India) represented the Council at the First NorthAmerican Seminar of the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of thePalestinian People, held in New York from 15 to 19 March 1982.

277. Ms. Elaine J~cob (Guyana) represented the Council at the InternationalConference of Women and Apartheid, held at Brussels from 17 to 19 May 1982, underthe auspices of the Special Committee and the International Committee of Solidaritywith the 8truggl~ of Women in South Africa and Namibia, and submitted a report tothe Council on the ConteI:'~nce (A/AC.131/L.259).

278. Mr. Lusaka (Zambia) represented the Council at the solemn meetings held by theSpecial Committee on 19 March 1982 to observe the International Day for theElimination of Racial Discrimination, and on 16 June 1982 to observe theInternational Day of Solidarity with the Struggling P~cple of South Africao

279. Messrs. Tuluy Tan~ (Turkey) and Mkhondo D. Lungu (Zambia) represented theCouncil at the World Assembly on Aging, held at Vienn~ from 26 July to6 August 1982.

280. Mr. Alexandros N. Vikis (Cyprus) represented the Council at the AfricanRegional Seminar of the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of thePalestinian People, held at Dakar from 9 to 13 August 1982.

C. Meetings of the Senate of the Onited Nations Institute for Namibia
and other activities under the United Nations Fund for Namibia

281. Messrs. Paul J. F. Lusaka (Zambia), President of the Council,Pedro Sorensen-Mosquera (Venezuela), Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur of the Committeeon the United Nations Fund for Namibia, Essam S. Ramadan (Egypt) and
Kari V. Salonen (Finland) represented the Council at the 14th meeting of the Senate

-47-



and the third graduation ceremony uf the institllte, held at LlISdka cr • .1:' dnd
16 January 1982 ·,espectively. (For the report of the CouncIl dele'jatlon, sel::
A/AC.131/L. 257.)

282. Ms. Jacob (Guyana), Mrs. Famatta Rose Osode (Liberia) and Mr. Lungu (Zambia)
represented the Council at the sectoral planning workshop on mining, industries,
trade and economic planning, held at Harare from 29 May to 2 April 1982. The same
group of delegates represented the Council at the Seminar entitled "Towards
economic development strategy options for independent Namibia", held at Lusaka from
7 to 9 April 1982.

283. Mr. Aje (Nigeria) represented the Council at the 3rd meeting of the Governing
Board of the United Nations Vo::ational Training Centre, held at Luanda from
16 to 18 April 1982.

284. Messrs. Lusaka (Zambia), Sorensen-Mosquera (Venezuela), Ramadan (Egypt) and
Salonen (Finland) ,~epresented the Council at the 15th meeting of the Senate of the
Institute, held in New York on 24 and 25 August 1982.

D. Specialized agencies and other organizations
and institutions of the united Nations system

1. International Labour Organisation

285. Mr. Carlo Toussaint (Haiti) and ME~ssrs. B. Amathila, D. Munyaro, J. Nakatana
and A. Shihepo (SWAPO) represented the Council at the sixty-eighth session of the
International Labour Conference, held at Geneva from 2 to 23 June 1982.

2. United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization

286. Mr. Essam S. Ramadan (Egypt) represented the Council at the Conference of
Ministers of Education and Those Responsible for Economic Planning in African
States, held at Harare from 28 June to 3 July 1982, and also at the preparatory
meeting of experts for the Conference held from 21 to 25 June.

287. Mr. Boer Mauna (Indonesia) represented the Council at the World Conference on
Cultural Policies, held at Mexico City from 26 July to 5 August 1982.

3. World Health Organization

288. Mr. Gaspard Towo Atangana (United Republic of Cameroon) and Dr. A. Indongo
(Secretary of Health of SWAPO) represented the Council at thl:: Thirty-fifth World
Health Assembly, held at Geneva from 3 to 4 May 1982.

4. United Nations Conference on Trade and Development

289. Mr. Toussaint (Haiti) and Messrs. Affiathila, Munyaro, Nakatana and Shihepo
(SWAPO) represented the Council at the tenth session of the Committee on Shipping,
held at Geneva from 14 to 25 June 1982.

-48-

•



:ambia)
:ries,
rhe same

;aka from

)verning
n

t) and
e of the

•
5. United Nations Development Programme

290. Mr. Toussaint (Haiti) and Messrs. Amathila, Munyaro, Nakatana and Shihepo(SWAPO) represented the Council at the twenty-ninth session of the GoverningCouncil, held at Geneva from 1 to 21 June 1982.

6. Executive Committee of the Programme of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees

291. Mr. Salonen (Finland) represented the Council at an informal meeting of theExecutive Committee held at Geneva on 23. June 1982.

E. Organization of African Unity

292. Messrs. Paul J. F. Lusaka (Zambia) and Lazare Nizisama (Burundi) representedthe Council at the thirty-eighth ordinary session of the Council of Ministers ofOAU, held at Addis Ababa from 22 to 28 February 1982. (For the report of theCouncil delegation, see A/AC.131/L.255.)

akatana
of the

)n

:e of
.can
:atory

~rence on

ldongo
h world

ihepo
Shipping,

293. The Ambassador of Algeria to the United Republic of Tanzania represented theCouncil at the thirty-ninth ordinary session of the OAU Co-ordinating Committee forthe Liberation of Africa, held at Arusha from 7 to 11 June 1982.

F. Movement of Non-Aligned Countries

294. Messrs. Paul J. F. Lusaka (Zambia) and Patriot Lentsejalo B. Yane (Botswana)represented the Council at the Extraordinary Ministerial Meeting of theCo-ordinating Bureau, held at Kuwait from 5 to 18 April 1982.

295. Messrs. Lusaka (Zambia), T. P. Sreenivasan (India) and Gurirab (SWAPO)represented the Council at the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau,held at Havana from 31 May to 5 June 1982.

296. Messrs. Krishnan and Sreenivasan (India) represented the Council at theExtraordinary Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau, held at Nicosia frow.15 to 17 July 1982.

G. Meetings and conferences sponsored by non-governmental
organizations

297. Mr. Lusaka (Zambia) represented the Council at the twelfth African-AmericanConference, held at Williamsburg, Virginia, United States, from 8 to11 October 1981.

298. Mr. Lusaka (Zambia) represented the Council at the Conference in SOlidaritywith the Liberation Struggles of the Peoples of Southern Africa, held in New Yorkfrom 9 to 11 October 1981.

299. Mr. Tan~ (Turkey) represented the Council at the Second InternationalConference of Solidarity with the Peoples of Southern Africa against Racism and

-49-



...

Apartheid in SOuth Africa and for the Independence of Namibia, held at Rome from
26 to 28 February 1982.

300. Mr. Lusaka (Zambia) represented the Council at a meeting of the International
P~eparatory Committee for the International Oonference in Solidarity with the
Front-line States, held at Lisbon on 17 and 18 April 1982.

301. Messrs. Aje (Nigeria) and H. P. Asheeke (SWAPO) represented the Council at the
Canadian Conference in Solidarity with the Liberation Struggle of the People of
SOuthern Africa, held at Ottawa from 7 to 9 May 1982.

-50-

•

•



Rome from

ternational
~ ~e

~ncil at the
eople of

•
IV. ACTION CONCERNING FOREIGN ECONOMIC INTERESTS IN NAMIBIA

~ General

302. In its capacity as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia until
independence, and in accordance with the provisions of General Assembly resolution
36/121 C, the Council continued during the period under review to inform the
international community of the situation in Namibia with regard to the exploitation
of the Territory's people and resources by South African and other foreign economic
interest~

303. Among other things, the Council prepared and published a report on the
economic situation in Namibia (A/AC.131/L.250 and Corr.l), in which it exposed and
denounced the illegal exploitation of the Territory's natural resources.

304. By resolution 36/121 A, the General Assembly strongly condemned the activities
of all foreign economic interests operating in Namibia under the illegal South
African administration and illegally exploiting the resources of the Territory.
The Assembly demanded that transnational corporations and others engaged in such
exploitation comply with all relevant resolutions of the United Nations by
immediately abstaining from any new investments or activities in Namibia. By the
same resolution, the Assembly declared that, 3by their depletive exploitation of
natural resources and continued accumulation and repatriation of huge profits, the
activities of foreign economic, financial and other interests operating at present
in Namibia constitute a major obstacle to its political independence". The
Assembly also reiterated that the exploitation of the resources of Namibia by
foreign economic interests under the protection of the repressive racist
administration, in violation of the Charter of the United Nations, of the relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council and of Decree No. 1
for the Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia, was illegal and contributed
to the continuation of South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia.

305. By resolution ES-8/2 of 14 September 1981, the General Assembly strongly
condemned the exploitation and plunder of the natural resources of Namibia by South
Africa and Western transnational corporations and called upon all States, in view
of the serious threat to international peace and security posed by South Africa, to
impose comprehensive sanctions against that country and to cease forthwith,
individually and collectively, all dealings with South Africa in order totally to
isolate it politically, economically, militarily and culturally. The Assembly also
strongly urged the Security Council to respond positively to the overwhelming
demand of the international community by immediately imposing comprehensive
mandatory sanctions against South Africa as provided for in Chapter VII of the
Charter.

306. The continuing exploitation of Namibia's natural resources was one of the
topics considered by the United Nations Council for Namibia during its
extraordinary plenary meetings held at Arusha from 10 to 14 May 1982. In the
Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action (see para. 767 below), the Council
reaffirmed that the natural resources of Namibia were the inviolable heritage of
the Namibian people and underlined the importance of the effective implementation
of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia. T~e
Council further noted that the rapid depletion of the natural resourc~~ >L the
Territory as a result of the systematic plunder by South Africa's Western trading
partners in collusion with the illegal South African administration was a grave

-51-



on

ion
mic

nd

ies

le
lt

:ed

lth

to

so

~
~
,:'

~:
r
f
':

threat to the integrity and prosperity of an independent Namibia. It may be added
that the continuous illegal exploitation of Namibian uranium, apart from having
serious adverse effects on the economy of Namibia and its people, has added a
dangerous dimension to the situation in the entire region.

307. In its Programme of Action, the Oouncil decided to promote every effort for
the speedy implementation ot Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural
Resources of Namibia. Accordingly, steps would be taken by the Oouncil to initiate
legal action in appropriate courts against those who violated the provisions of the
Decree. The COuncil also called on all States to prohibit State-controlled
corporations and companies of their nationality not under direct governmental
control from investing or obtaining concessions in Namibia and to announce that
they we-IlId not protect such investments against claims from either the Council or
the future lawful Government of an independent Namibia.

300. Transnational and other corporations continue to exploit the Territory's
natural resources, despite repeated United Nations resolutions and the advisory
opinion of the International Court of Justice of 21 June 1971 and in flagrant
violation of the Decree.

309. The foreign economic interests involved in the exploitation of Namibia's
resources include many of the world's largest natural resource corporations and
financial institutions~ The General Assembly has in various resolutions (32/35 of
26 November 1977, 33/40 of 13 December 1978, 34/41 of 21 November 1979, 35/28 of
11 Novembe~ 1980 and 36/51 of 24 November 1981) identified Canada, France, the
United Kingdom and the united States as the major trading partners of South Africa,
it is thus not surprising that transnational corporations from these and other
Western countries are heavily involved in prospecting and mining in Namibia. They
conduct these activities purely in the interest of their shareholders and to the
obvious detriment of the Namibian people. In exchange for the opportunity to earn
great profits for themselves, these foreign interests support South Africa's
illegal occupation of the Territory both politically and financially.

310. The importance of Namibia's resources to South Africa and other foreign
interests is considerable. Transnational corporations of the Western nations have
invested heavily in and extracted huge profits from Namibia. A large proportion of
such firms are based in five Western countries: Canada, France, the Federal
Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom and the United States. The latest
available information indicates that ther~ are as many as 88 transnational
corporations operating in Namibia, of which 35 are based in South Africa, 25 in the
United Kingdom, 15 in the United States, 8 in the Federal Republic of Germany, 3 in
France and 2 in Canada. All of these corporations, including those registered in
South Africa, conduct their operations. by means of licences issued by the Pretoria
regime or its illegal administrat~on in Namibia.

311. The plunder of Namibia's resources is of such a magnitude that the Territory
ranks among the world's leading produce~s of gem diamonds, it also has the world's
largest open-cast uranium mine and produces a vast variety of metals and minerals.
Those base metals which hav~ been mined extensively in the past include coppe~,
lead, tin, zinc, cadmium, vanadium, silver and lithium. However, the extensive
exploitation of these resources does not in any way benefit the Namibian people.
What is more, the increased rate of exploitation of the Territory's deposits in
recent years has raised fears that the country's known reserves are being rapidly
depleted.

-52-



may be added
om having
added a

effort for
ltural
.1 to initiate
risions of the
:olled
:nmental
lUnce that
! council or

:itory's
~ advisory
Elagrant

imibia's
itions and
ms (32/35 of
~, 35/28 of
:lnce, the
south Africa»

:md other
:lmibia. They
and to the

mity to earn
Erica's

foreign
nations have
proportion of

Federal
atest
ional
ica, 25 in the

Germany, 3 in
egistered in
the pretoria

he Ter r i tory
s the world's
and minerals.
de coppe?:',
extensive

,ian people.
eposits in
,eing rapidly

•
312. The exploitation of these resources by South African and other economicinterests, under the protection of the illegal colonial and racist administrationand in violation of resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council,is illegal and contributes to the maintenance of the repressive occupation regime.

313. The exploitation of Namibia's natural wealth is concentrated in three mainsectors, namely mining, fishing and agriculture (particularly the raising of cattleand karakul sheep). Minerals, particularly diamonds and base metals, havetraditionally been the backbone of the Namibian economy and a major factor in themaintenance of South Africa's stranglehold over the Territory.

314. Approximately 80 per cent of the total mining assets are held by just threecompanies: Consolidated Diamond Mines of South West Africa, Ltd. (CDM), awholly-owned subsidiary of De Beers Consolidated Mil,es, Ltd.) the TsumebCorporation, controlled by American Metal Climax, Inc. (AMAX) and the NewmontMining Corporation of the united States; and Rossing Uranium, Ltd., in which thelargest 8take, nearly 47 per cent, is held by the Rio Tinto Zinc Corporation, Ltd(RTZ). Other international mining companies controlling significant portions ofthe mineral sector include Falconbridge Nickel Mines, Ltd. of Canada, as well asmajor South African companies such as the Angle-American Corporation of SouthAfrica, Ltd. and the General Mining and Finance Corporation of South Africa, Ltd.(GMFC) •

315. These transnational corporations operate in defiance of Decree NO. 1 for theProtection of the Natural Resources of Namibia, which among other things forbidsmineral exploitation in Namibia without the consent and permission of the Council.

316. In 1980 q profits from diamond mininn accounted for 55 to 70 per cent ofNamibia's annual export earnings and pro ..•ded 35 to 40 per cent of the annual taxescollected by the illegal South African administration in the Territory.

317. The production of diamonds in Namibia is monopolized by CDM, whose parentcompany, De Beer~, is in turn 30 per cent owned by the Angle-American Corporation.De Beers claims that approximately 20 per cent of its profits come from Namibia;according to other sources, the contribution of CDM to De Beers' total profits maybe more of the order of 40 per cent. Namibian diamonds are marketed by the CentralSelling Organization, which is based in London and is essential17 controlled byDe Beers.

318. In December ~980, the Tsumeb Corporation and the Otjihase Mining Company,Ltd., a subsidiary of the Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Company, Ltd. (JCI),announced that the Otjihase copper mine in Namibia was to be reopened shortly as ajoint venture of the two companies. Production was scheduled to start at a limitedrate before the end of 1980, eventually building up to the full capacity of 65,000metric tons of ore per month.

319. Reports indicate that since January 1979, some 30 m1n1ng companies have beenlisted in Windhoeck. Many are disguis\ed subsidiaries of larger mining firms, loathtc reveal their involvement. One of the new firms, Trans-Namibia Mines, hasreopened a former manganese ore body north of Okahandja and plans to exportmanganese concentrates. Another, Rhyno Prospecting and Mining, has located a golddeposit in the Kawanjab district.

-53-



320. It is reported that nearly all of Namibia's zinc, tin, lead, vanadium andtungsten production is sent to South Africa for processing and eventual end use.Over the last 10 years, Namibia's zinc mines have reduced South Africa's dependenceon external sources of supply by more than 65 per centJ almost all of Namibia'szinc is purchased and used by the Iron and Steel Corporation of South Africa(ISCOR). Similarly, the country's lead and tin production provides vital inputsfor various South African industries.

321. The significant uranium deposits in Namibia have been the target of massiveexploitation by foreign economic interests in collaboration with South Africa. Thelarg~st open-cast uranium mine in the world, operated by HOssing Uranium, hasattracted the biggest share of foreign investment i~ the Territory. It is believedthat uranium will soon replace diamonds as the Territory's most valuable resource.

322. A large share of the uranium required by the nuclear development plans ofSouth Africa, the united Kingdom, France, Japan* and other nations is provided bythe Rossing mine. Rassing currently supplies about 50 per cent of the UnitedKingdom's uranium and produces 10 per cent of the total amount at present consumedby the Western industrialized nations. Although neither South Africa nor RTZpUblish such statistics, experts estimate that ROssing's total reserves are in therange of 220,000 metric tons. According to available information, the Rassingmine's present production is about 5,200 metric tons a year and gross revenue fromsales is estimated at $US 280 million.

323. Under existing tax regulations, mining companies operating in Namibia are ableto write off all capitalized pre-production expenditure against their taxationliability. As a result, HOssing Uranium will not become fully liable for taxesuntil 1983, although RTZ revealed in its 1980 report that an initial provisiontowards future tax payments had been made.

324. It has been estimated that as much as 65 per cent of Namibia's gross domesticproduct goes to large companies, which keep 50 per cent as profits for themselves

* The Government of Japan informed the Council on 31 August 1981 that theKansai Electric Power Company, a private enterprise which had concluced a contractfor the purchase of Namibian uranium, had "decided not to import Namibian uraniumunder the present circumstances" and had "postponed receipt of the uranium to bedelivered under the terms and conditions of the said contract" following thepublication of Decree No. 1 in an official bulletin of the Japanese Government.Furthermore, the Japanese Government had prohibited direct investment by Japanesenationals or corporate bodies under its jurisdiction in South Africa and in theTerritory illegally occupied by South Africa. Consequently, no Japanese nationalwas taking part in the management of any' enterprise in Namibia, and no Japanesenational or enterprise had a mining concession in Namibia.
Subsequently, at the Seminar on the Military Situation in and relating toNamibia, held by the Council at Vienna from 8 to 11 June 1982, a representative ofthe Japan Anti-Apartheid Committee stated that, although the Japanese Governmenthad made a parliamentary statement that action would be taken with regard to theimportation of uranium of Namibian origin in accordance with United Nationsresolutions, nothing practical had been done so far.

•
and
busi
furt
92 p
weal

325.
the
Expl
make
for

326.

are

328.
Rl7
marke
first
gener

329.
Afdc
meal
20 pe
only

330.
been
The el
State:

331.
colla
South
Namib
most

332.
explo
corpo
cheap
emplo
livin
corpo
rates

-54-



:e

•
and pay 15 per cent in taxes to the illegal South African administration. White
businessmen and employees, who make up only 8 per cent of the population, take a
further 25 per cent. The black workers, peasants and traders of Namibia -
92 per cent of the population, producing, through their labour, nearly all its
wealth - keep a little more than 10 per cent of the gross domestic product.

325. Prospecting for oil and natural gas is expanding in Namibia. A gas find off
the Namibian coast in 1979 was described by the government-owned South African oil
Exploration Corporation (SOEKOR) as the most significant yet, and might be used to
make methanol for use as motor fuel. The company is also stepping up the search
for oil along the Namibian coast.

d
326. Agriculture is one of the corner-stones of the Namibian economy.
mining, agriculture is the most important element of the private sector
together with fishing, accounts for 12.2 per cent of the gross domestic
The most important agricultural activities are beef cattle raising, the
of karakul pelts and dairy farming.

After
and,
product.
production

327. The Namibian karakul industry is the largest in the world, producing,
according to various estimates, between 3.0 million and 5.6 million pelts annually
and supplying almost half the international market. The major markets for pelts
are the Federal Republic of Germany, Italy and Japan.

328. Recently the demand for karakul pelts has declined. Prices have slipped from
R 17 to below R 11 a pelt in the past two years, although there are signs the
market is stabilizing. Exports of karakul pelts plunged from 2.8 million in the
first seven months of 1980 to 1. 6 million in the period January-July 1981. It is
generally predicted that karakul production will continue to decline for some time.

329. The Namibian fishing industry, which is almost entirely controlled by south
African busines~ interests, produces three primary products: canned fish, fish
meal and fish 011. Fishery exports, through much of the 1970s, accounted for about
20 per cent of the country's foreign exchange earnings. For the past 20 years,
only 10 per cent of the canned catch has been consumed locally.

330. Traditionally, the major importer of canned fish products from Namibia has
been the united Kingdom, purchasing more than 30 per cent of the annual output.
The entire output of fish meal is exported to South Africa, Europe and the united
States.

331. In recent years, the fishing industry has been in a state of commercial
collapse. There is a growing belief, both locally and internationally, that the
South African Government has grossly mismanaged one of the mainstays of the
Namibian economy and has allowed the fleet operators to loot one of the country's
most valuable resources.

332. South Africa's exploitation of Namibia's wealth is dependent upon the
exploitation of African labour. It is common knowledge that transnational
corporations are attracted to Namibia because they can utilize Namibian labour at
cheaper rates than those prevailing elsewhere in the world. Workers in Namibia are
employed under a grossly discriminatory system of wages, working conditions and
living standards. Despite claims to the contrary by certain transnational
corporations operating in the Territory, there are vast differences between the
rates paid to black and white employees and the wage gap is widening.

-55-

. i



·-. ~-- ---
333. The banking sector is one of the areas of the economy where profits have
continued to grow. According to the managing director of Standard Bank SWA
(STANSWA), banks in Namibia are more profitable than in south Africa itself. In
addition to STANSWA, other main banks operating in Namibia are Volkskas
SWA/Namibia, Barclays Bank, Nedbank and Trustbank, and their operations remain
consolidated with those of the South African groups.

334. These banks make direct contributions to the Government of South Africa
through the payment of taxes and investment in governrnent-p~escribedassets such as
defence bonds and other instruments of the central Government and the State-owned
corporations.

335. Virtually all transfers of capital to South Africa and Namibia have military
implications and help the regime to continue its illegal occupation of Namibia.
They sUbsidize South Africa's military capability and strengthen the machinery for
oppression not only in Namibia but in South Africa as well.

336. It has been reported that foreign banks enjoy a particularly close
r~lationship with the South African Defence Department. This is illustrated by the
appointment of several members of Barclays Bank and Standard Bank to the Defence
Advisory Board. The purpose of the Board is to advise the armed forces on the
"best business methods and other matters", including the manufacture of arms.

337. The continuing association of foreign banks with South Africa has not only
bolstered the policies of the apartheid regime but has also impeded Namibia's
transition to independence. The vast network of foreign bank branches extends into
Namibia and the financing of the South African military enables the racist regime
to carry out its repressive war in Namibia.

338. In accordance with the mandate conferred upon it by the General Assembly, the
United Nations Council for Namibia will contin~e to expose those Governments,
corporations and other interests which are collaborating with the illegal South
African administration in Namibia in the exploitation of the human and natural
resources of the Territory and to seek an end to this exploitation.

B. Mission to contact corporations

339. In accordance with General Assembly resolution 36/121 C, a delegation of the
Council visited London and Frankfurt from 30 June to 9 July 1982 in order to
contact corporations operating in Namibia regarding the illegal basis of their
operations. The delegation was headed by Mr. Legwaila Joseph Legwaila of Botswana
and included representatives of China, Venezuela and SWAPo. In Mr. Legwaila's
absence, Mr. Chin Yung-Tsien of China spoke on behalf of the delegation.

340. In London, the delegation had discussions with officials of Standard Chartered
Bank, Ltd., Consolidated Gold Fields·, Ltd., British Leyland, Barclays Bank, Ltd.,
British Petroleum, RTZ, British Nuclear Fuels, Ltd. and the Royal Dutch/Shell
Group. In Frankfurt, the delegation met with officials of Dresdner Bank AG.

341. During the meetings, the delegation reviewed the history of the question of
Namibia, stressing the termination of South Africa's mandate by the General
Assembly in 1966, the establishment of the United Nations Council for Namibia as
the legal Administering Authority for the Territory until independenceJ the

-56-

•
adv
reI
del
Nat
Afr
Nam
Dec
cou
del
Sou
be
by

343.
the
oppr
ass
the

344.
prov
firl:
cons
the
ille
COns
cont
and
fore



as

r

he

:0

d

•
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice of 21 June 1971J and the
relevant resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly. The
delegation drew particular attention to Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the
Natural Resources of Namibia. The delegation emphasized that, inasmuch as SOuth
Africa's occupation of the Territory was illegal, foreign corporations operating in
Namibia without the express consent of the Council were acting in violation of the
Decree and in disregard of the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security
Council and of the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice. The
delegation recalled that under the terms of the Decree, all concessions granted by
SOuth Africa to foreign companies were illegal, null and void, that exports could
be confiscated, and that the companies themselves could be held liable for damages
by the future Government of an independent Namibia.

342. The delegation made clear that by continuing to operate in Namibia, the
corporations supported SOuth Africa's illegal occupation of the Territory and the
maintenance of an oppressive racist regime to the detriment of the Namibian
people. The delegation urged the companies to withdraw from Namibia until
independence.

343. In addition, the representatives of SWAPO emphasized the untold suffering of
the Namibian people at the hands of SOuth Africa and the support afforded to that
oppressive regime by foreign economic interests. They denied and condemned the
assertions by certain corporations that their involvement in Namibia was helping
the Namibian people.

344. The delegation concluded that the mission was useful in so far as it had
provided th~ first opportunity for the Council to inform companies formally and at
first hand of the illegality of their presence in Namibia and to set out the
consequences ef their continued illegal involvement. However, it was obvious to
the delegation that the corporations were, a priori, determined to persist in their
illegal i ..volvement in Namibia. In view of its experience, the delegation
considered that it was particularly important for the Cou~il (a) to continue
contacting corporations to make the position of the United Nations clear to them,
and (b) to persist in its efforts to bring to an end the illegal activities of
foreign economic interests in Namibia.

-57-

I
i

i



JIIlf:::::~-::~?:.:;":':~"::=L:":.£:'_~~~=====-"·=:"'::-=:=,----~·"

I

I
I

•

If;..•••.... '"',t'

r
6
··.,;.0

i

,:·.··"
I

; I .
, I
"' ~

I
~i
. ,
'I

l'
:;i

'I
I

~ I
f,'
f

ii
f,"
f :
f I
i

J
it

v. ACTION CONCERNING THE MILITARY SITUATION IN NAMIBIA

A. General

345. In pursuance of its policy of perpetuating racist domination in South Africa
and maintaining its illegal occupation of Namibia, and in an effort to frustrate
the legitimate aspirations of the Namibian people for self-determination and
national independence, the illegal racist regime of Pretoria has installed an
enormous military force j,n the Territory, taken repressive measures against the
Namibian people and uHecl Namibian territory for cOl}stant acts of aggression,
subversion, destabil~~at~on and terrorism against neighbouring independent African
States, particularly Angola, thereby aggravating the current situation in southern
Africa•

346. With the help of some Western countries and Israel, it has built up a massive
military machine, strengthened its repressive apparatus and sought to acquire a
nuclear-weapon capability in an attempt not only to suppress the legitimate
struggle for national liberation of the oppressed people of Namibia led by SWAPO,
but also to destabilize the entire region.

347. South Africa continued, during the period under review, to increase its
military presence in Namibia by sharply augmenting the ranks of its occupation
forces inside the Territory, by recruiting large numbers of mercenaries and by
forcibly conscripting Namibians. Furthermore, it expanded and fortified its
military bases in Namibia, especially along the border with Angola.

348. South Africa's acts of aggression against independent African States increased
considerably in both scale and frequency during the period under review. Among the
forces deployed are units consisting largely of mercenaries. As a result of SOuth
Africa's extensive recruitment of mercenaries in recent years, an estimated 2,000
to 3,000 foreign mercenaries, mainly from the United States, the Federal Republic
of Germany, the United Kingdom, France, Australia,* Chile** and Israel, are
reported to be fighting alongside the South African forces in the campaign to crush
the liberation struggle.***

* The Australian repre~entative has stated that his Government put into
force the Crimes (Foreign Incursions and Recruitment) Act, according to which it is
prohibited for any person or organization to attempt to recruit within Australia
any mercenaries for service outside Australia or for anybody to accept such
recruitment.

** The Permanent Representative of Chile to the United Nations, in a letter
dated 27 April 1982 addressed to the President of the Council, stated that his
Government condemned the use of mercenaries and, having carried out the relevant
investigations, had found no evidence whatsoever to substantiate the assertion that
there were Chilean mercenaries in Namibia. The Government therefore wished to
receive further information, because such a situation would fall under legal
sanctions in accordance with Chilean legislation.

*** At the l220th meeting of the Special Committee on the Situation with
regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to

-58-

3

(c

Cc



rica
ate

le

:ican
:hern

lsive
a

~O,

eased
9 the
outh
000
lic

crush

D

it is
ia

~ter

lt
that

to

•
349. The British Broadcasting Corpo~ation (BBC) reported in June 1981 that, in a
move to strengthen military relations between South Africa and Chile, the South
African Minister of Defence had awarded decorations to two officers of the Chilean
defence force. They received the awards for their part in promoting the ties
between the two countrie~

350. SWAPO estimates that South Africa currently maintains in Namibia a heavily
armed force of over 100,000 troops plus a large number of armed white settlers,
supported by air power, special mercenary commando units such as the "Buffalo
Battalion" and other special forces such as the "Koevet" elimination squads.

351. In a further effort to strengthen its illegal occupation of Namibia, South
Africa has announced a revision of its military service requirements that will make
all white males up to 60 years of age liable for military training and service in
citizen force units. At present, South Africa requires all white men to do two
years of full-time active duty in the defence forces followed by regular call-ups
to active duty over the next eight years. Proposed legislation would require an
individual to serve 720 days within the eight-year call-up period as opposed to
240 days under the existing system.

352. Closely related to the strategy of total militarization is the policy of
"Namibianization" of the war, which has led to the creation of the so-called South
West Africa Territory Force (SWATF) and the South West Africa Police.

353. This policy, which involves the conscription of Namibians against their will
and on penalty of imprisonment, as well as their increasing deplo~ent in the
·operational areas", is obviously part of a larger design to create the conditions
for a civil war in Namibia, consistent with the classic colonial policy of
divide-and-rule.

354. Even while efforts to arrive at a settlement of the Namibian question
continued during the period under review, South Africa intensified its efforts to
destabilize the neighbouring African States, particularly Angola.

(continued)

Colonial Countries and Peoples, held on 16 August 1982, Mr. Kaupuka Nauyala, a
member of the Central COmmittee of SWAPO, stated:

"As we are sitting here, not only are there well over 110,000 well-arMed
SOuth African and puppet troops in Namibia with the mission of suppressing the
aspirations of our people by attempting to destroy our sole, legitimate and
authentic representative, SWAPO, in order for them to remain in Namibia, but
over three mechanized divisions of the racist regime's army of aggression,
supported by air and ground battalions which include mercenaries from some
Western countries, especially Britain, the united States of America, the
Federal Republic of Germany and Australia, as well as from Israel, Chile and
others, armed with heavy tanks, armoured vehicles, 155-mm artillery pieces,
rockets, Puma and Alo~ette helicopters and squadrons of sophisticated
jet-fighter bombers and using Namibia as a launching pad for their aggression
and are over 200 kilometres deep inside the sovereign territory of the
People's Republic of Angola."

-59-

····~·'1·.--- ...- ':
I' .
'",

:1

l
it

•....••.~;:
I: I

t
"··•. "·,'··,I,...~ I
~~",.,
j'

~.J
>0!

.,
. i

~ I
I

"1,
c_1



•

~:'

t
f<:)
'..•.•···:1
,,-:/
;, I

~: 1'I'.>
it:
'r'l
~"
~ti
IS.; i

I,:..
i

l

i
'I

I

355. During the South African incursion into Angola in mid-March 1982, the racist
forces claimed to have killed more than 200 SWAPO freedom fighters. SWAPO has
categQrically denied that claim, characterizing it as an obvious attempt to cover
up whQ~ in fact was a brutal attack on a refugee transit centre killing hundreds of
young Namibians who had fled their country to escape military conscription. During
that attack many Angolan civilians were also killed.

356. In a press statement dated 17 March 1982, the President of the Council
strongly condemned South Africa's massive military operation and attack against
Namibian refugees in Angola and its use of the Territory of Namibia as a launching
pad for that pUrPOse. The attack was rot only a total violation of the Charter of
the united Nations and a vicious transgression of international norms, but also
constituted a flagrant violation of Security Council resolutions 385 (1976) and
435 (1978).

357. At its extraordinary plenary meetings held at Arusha, united Republic of
Tanzania, from 10 to 14 May 1982, the Council took note of the above developments
and, in the Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action on Namibia (see para. 767
below), strongly condemned the'colonialist and racist regime of South Africa for
its use of Namibian territory for launching armed attacks against neighbouring
States, particularly its repeated acts of armed aggression against Angola. The
Council further condemned South Africa's unprovoked acts of aggression and forcible
occupation of parts of southern Angola as a breach of international peace and
security and demanded the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of its forces from
Angola. Toe Council also expressed its unflinching support for and solidarity with
the Government and the people of Angola and saluted them for the untold sacrifice
and the heavy burden they were shouldering in support of the liberation struggle of
Namibia.

358. The attainment of military self-sufficiency in terms of arms and armaments is
an essential part of South Africa's "total strategy". Specific items now produced
in South Africa include the French Mirage aircraft, a local verson of the Italian
Miacchi jet training aircraft, French-designed Panhard armoured cars,
Israeli-designed missile boats, a derivative of the French Crotale surface-to-air
missile, air-to-air missiles, artillery pieces, infantry weapons and a wide range
of ammunition. None the less, South Africa still relies to a considerable extent
on foreign sources for military goods and technology. The acquisition of military
material from abroad is believed to account for the largest part of the regime's
defence spending.

359. According to reports, while there has been an official United states
Government policy of embargoing arms to South Africa since 1963, the relevant
government agencies have thus far failed to adopt procedures ensuring effective
implementation of the embargo. In fact, there is no system for enforcement of the
arms embargo by the United States Government.

360. South Africa is able openly to buy civilian equiment with military
applications. with regard to United States equipment, a ban was imposed on such
sales in 1978. However, on 26 February 1982, the Government relaxed restrictions
on trade with South Africa to permit United States companies to sell "non-military·
equipment to the South African military and police forces. Furthermore, although
sales to the Armaments Development and Production Corporation (ARMSCOR) would
continue to be prohibited, sales to its subsidiaries would not. According to
reports issued in March 1982, a number of sales of computers have already been

-60-



I .. C:.~
1,;'

363. Taking note of the seriousness of the over-all situation in southern Africa,
the General Assembly declared in resolution 36/121 A that South Africa's defiance
of the United Nations, its illegal occupation of the Territory of Namibia, its war
of repression against the Namibian people, its persistent acts of aggression
launched from bases in Namibia against independent African States, its policy of

authorized, including several that "skirt the ban on military-related sales".
These are said to include the sale of a Sperry Univac 1182 to the Atlas Aircraft
Corporation, a subsidiary of ARMSCOR, an IBM 4341 and a Data General MV/8000 to
companies in the Barlow Rand group; a conglomerate whose past purchases were said
to have been strictly scrutinized because a Barlow Rand senior executive also
manages ARMSCOR, and another Data General MV'/8000 to the National Institute for
Telecommunications Research, a branch of the government-controlled Council for
scientific and Industri.al Research (CSIR), which is responsible for developing
defence communications and radar. The military applications of such equipment are
obvious. The United States Government has also granted South African requests for
coast guard training and for more military attaches. It has additionally eased the
ban, adopted as a corollary to the arms embargo, o~ visas for high-ranking military
and police officers.

361. Yet another dangerous dimension has been added to the serious situation in
southern Africa by South Africa's acquisition of nuclear-weapon capability.
undoubtedly, South Africa's efforts to develop its nuclear technology and
installations and to acquire nuclear-weapon capability constitute a threat to, and
a breach of, international peace and security. This grave danger has been caused
by the collaboration extended to the apartheid regime at various levels by the
United States, the united Kingdom, France and the Federal Republic of Germany, as
well as by Belgium, Israel, Japan, the Netherlands and Switzerland, through
assistance in uranium extraction and processing, the supply of nuclear equipment,
transfers of technology, the provision of training and exchanges of scientists.
Such collaboration, together with external financial support for the South African
nuclear programme, have encouraged the Pretoria regime in its defiance of the
international community and have obstructed efforts to eliminate apartheid and
bring an end to South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia. *

-61-

Belgium expressed reservations concerning paragraph 361.*

362. In view of the serious implications of this collaboration, the General
Assembly, by its resolution 36/121 A, strongly condemned the collusion by the
Governments of certain Western countries and other States, particularly those of
the United States, the Federal Republic of Germany and Israel, with the racist
regime of South Africa in the nuclear field. The Assembly called upon France and
all other States to refrain from supplying the racist minority regime of South
Africa, directly or indirectly, with installations that might enable it to produce
uranium, plutonium and other nuclear materials, reactors or military equipment. By
its resolution 36/121 B, the Assembly called upon all States to cease forthwith any
provision to South Africa of arms and related materiel of all types, including the
sale or transfer of weapons and ammunition, military vehicles and equipment,
paramilitary police equipment and spare parts for the aforementioned, and to cease
as well the provision of all types of equipment and supplies and grants of
licensing arrangements for the manufacture or maintenance of the aforementioned,
which would further strengthen South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia.

such
tions
litary·
hough
d
o
en

L

linst
lUnching
lrter of
also
and

racist
has

) cover
ldreds of

DUring

ents is
reduced
talian

to-air
range
~xtent

Llitary
Lme's

of
Ipments
I. 767
~a for
ing
The

forcible
nd
ces from
ity with
rifice
uggle of

It
:ive
of the



.'!r,.,.,rmlil!i¥_i!I!i" 1*e~~~~~~'i!!::_~~J.'El::!::::.:S::":l~",,,""ji.'b~"':'tti±:::-,,-~~~2_='~S;::'TIOC:~E::T>S~=.:=;:2 "~:=-:-~~=-:--::E7j:=~-=::::I-:~~1.-:S: __I·2h::=.":::-'~2:, ~~,.~_:~-=-==-'-~=~'~-~
"~I,

i
I .

apartheid and its development of nuclear weapons constituted a serious threat to
international peace and security.

364. It will be recalled that in earlier resolutions on military and' nuclear
collaboration with South Africa, the General Assembly had also called on all States
to cease forthwith all collaboration with South Africa in the nuclear field and to
put an end to all transfers of nuclear equipment and material, technology and
personnel. That prohibition was to apply equally to corporations, institutions,
agencies and individuals under the States' jurisdiction.

365. It will also be recalled that at its eighth emergency special session, by its
resolution ES/8-2, the General Assembly urged all States, in view of the threat to
international peace and security posed by South Africa, to impose comprehensive
mandatory sanctions against that country in accordance with the provisions of the
Charter.

366. In the discharge of its responsibilities as the legal Administering Authority
for Namibia until independence, the United Nations Council for Namibia reviewed the
military situation in the Territory and adopted a comprehensive report
(A/AC.131/L.251/Rev.l and Corr.l) examining in detail South Africa's military
operations and installations in occupied Namibia. The Council also organized a
Seminar on the military situation in and relating to Namibia, as described in the
following section.

B. Seminar on the Military Situation in and relating to Namibia

367. The United Nations Council for Namibia keeps under continuous review the
progress of the liberation struggle in Namibia in its political, military and
social aspects. In particular, the Council examines the nature and scale of South
African military installations and operations in the Territory, in order to
recommend to the General Assembly ways and means of taking action against South
Africa's continued military occupation and repression of Namibia.

368. South Africa's increasing militarization of Namibia, its merciless repression
of the Namibian people and acts of aggression against States neighbouring the
Territory, its attempts to destabilize other African States and its development of
a nuclear-weapon capability, as well as the support it receives from certain
western countries in the military field, all pose a serious threat to international
peace and security and thus constitute a matter of grave concern for the United
Nations.

369. In view of the above considerations, the Council decided at its 37lst meeting,
held on I February 1982, to conduct a seminar in 1982 on the military situation in
and relating to Namibia, as authorized' by General Assembly resolution 36/121 C, for
the purpose of obtaining information on the military policies of South Africa in
Namibia, on military and strategic collaboration with South Africa and the
involvement of mercenaries in South Africa's war.

370. Accordingly, the Seminar on the Military Situation in and relating to Namibia
was held at the Vienna International Centre from 8 to 11 June 1982.

-62-



J

threat to 371. The meetings were conducted by a delegation of the Council appointed by the
President of the Council and composed of the following members:

lclear
)n all States
:ield and to
)gy and
:itutions,

Mr. Mkhondo D. Lungu (Zambia); Chairman

Mr. Delfin L. Sanchez-Juarez (Mexico), Rapporteur

Mr. Chin Yung-tsien (China)

Mr. Essam Sadek Ramadan (Egypt)

-63-

3. Involvement of mercenaries.

1. Opening ceremony.

South Africa's military policies in Namibia.2.

Mr. J. C. Okeke (Nigeria)

Mr. G. H. Bristol (Nigeria)

Mr. Aziz Ahmad Khan (Pakistan)

Mr. Amadou Ba (Senegal)

Mr. Mesut Orsa (Turkey)

4. Military collaboration with South Africa.

Mr. Ndali Kamati, Political Commissar, head of the delegation

Mr. Nahas Angula, Secretary for Education and Culture

Mr. Timothy Hadino Hishongwa, Representative for the Nordic Countries, Austria
and the Federal Republic of Germany

Mr. pius Hinyangerwa Asheeke, Deputy Permanent Observer to the United Nations

372. A SWAPO delegation composed of the following members also participated in the
work of the Seminar:

375. The Seminar had before it the report by Standing Committee II on the military
situation in and relating to Namibia (A/AC.131/L.251/Rev.l and Corr.l), as well as
a number of studies prepared by the expert participants. At the 1st meeting, on
8 June 1982, the Seminar adopted the following agenda:

373. The secretariat of the Seminar was composed of Mr. Francesc Vendrell
(Principal Secretary), Ms. Maria Maldona~ Mr. Marcos Namashulua and
Mr. Andrei Petrenko (Political Affairs 0 ·cers), and Ms. Anne-Marie Bernadel and
Mrs. Elizabeth Clescere (Secretaries) of le United Nations Secretariat.
Ms. Lucia Hamutenya (Political Affairs Ofl cer) represented the Office of the
United Nations Commissioner for Namibia at the Seminar.

374. The Seminar was conducted in seven meetings at which 23 expert participants
(see A/AC.13l/L.268, annex) discussed various aspects of the military situation in
and relating to Namibia. Their presentations are summarized in sections 1 to 4
below and reproduced in full in documents A/AC.l3l/SMS/PV.1-6.

Ig Author i ty
reviewed the

to Namibia

repression
ng the
elopment of
rtain
nternational
e United

lion, by its
le threat to
:ehensive
lons of the

1st meeting,
ituation in
6/121 C, for
Africa in
the

llitary
Janized a
.bed in the

.ew the
Iry and
lIe of South
~r to
1st South



5. Implications of the situation in Namibia for international peace and
security.

6. Conclusions and recommendations of the expert participants.

he

cia

ns

d

in

ry
as

376. The Seminar was opened by the Chairman, Mr. Mkhondo Lungll. In his opening
remarks the Chairman stated, among other things, that in order to perpetuate its
exploitation of the people of Namibia, the illegal occupation regime had resorted
to subjecting the Namibian people to constant harassment, detention and inhuman
police practices, as well as to massive displacements of populations, in an effort
to favour military objectives. The occupation regime also continued to use the
Territory of Namibia in order to carry out armed attacks asainst neighbouring
States. Those overt attacks constituted odious attempts to destabilize independent
African States and to undermine support for the cause of Namibia's independence.
It was his hope that the information provided by the experts in the Seminar would
assist the Council in its efforts to mobilize international public opinion in
support of the struggle of the Namibian people for self-determination and
independence.

377. The Seminar also heard statements at the 1st meeting by Mr. Stefan Kalina,
Vice-Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, and by Mr. Floreal Chomon Mediavilla, Ambassador of Cuba to
Austria, speaking on behalf of the Chairman of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries.

378. At the 6th meeting, on 10 June 1982, the Seminar heard a statement by
Mr. Kamati, Political Commissar of SWAPO and a member of the Executive Committee of
the Central Committee of SWAPO. In his statement, Mr. Kamati stressed that the
South African occupation army in Namibia, together with the tribal armies, were
responsible for sowing death and destruction in the Territory. He stated that
South Africa's continued occupation of Namibia would not have been possible had it
not been for the over-a~l assistance and support of its Western allies, especially
some members of NATO. He suggested that the Seminar make concrete recommendations
and draw up a programme of action with a view to strengthening the existing
mandatory arms embargo and ensuring its strict observance by all States.

379. The films "Remember Cassinga" and "South African Bombshell", as well as slides
on Namibia, were shown in the course of the Seminar. A photographic exhibit on
Namibia was on display at the conference site throughout the Seminar.

1. South Africa's military policies in Namibia

380. The participants at the Seminar expressed serious concern about South Africa's
military build-up in Namibia, its ~ar of repression in the Territory and it~
persistent acts of aggression launched from bases in Namibia against African
countries, as well as its development of a nuclear-weapon capability.

381. The Seminar was informed that South African forces of occupation were
stationed at approximately 85 to 90 bases in Namibia. In the past six years the
number of South African armed forces personnel in Namibia had grown more than
fivefold. The South African force had been estimated in 1980 at 100,000,
comprising 20,000 members of SWATF and 80,000 members of the South African Defence

-64-



•

382. The South African forces occupying Namibia and committing acts of aggression
against neighbouring African States were equipped with armaments from a number of
friendly NATO countries, Israel and others, together with weapons manufactured in
South Africa by ARMSCOR.

Force (SADF). According to The Military Balance (1981-1982), 27/ South Africa's
full-time defence force was estimated at 92,000, with a total mobilization
capability of 400,000 troops. South Africa's policy of militarization was clearly
in evidence when one considered that its total defence expenditure for 1980 had
been approximately $US 2 billion, an increase of 17 per cent over the previous year.

384. One expert mentioned that NATO strategists had been discussing, since 1974,
the necessity of creating a "South Atlantic Treaty Organization" ~hat would unite
South Africa with a number of Latin American countries such as Chile, Brazil,
Uruguay, Paraguay and Argentina. The purpose would be to neutralize any possible
repercussions of the decolonization process in southern Africa on the defence
of the South Atlantic and Indian OCeans. In that connection, it was reported
that South Africa intended to expand its naval forces to undertake greater
responsibilities in the South Atlantic.

base had grown from
Available information
been established by the

383. Between 1974 and 1981, the corporation's asse~s
R 200 million to R 1.2 billion, a sixfold increase.
indicated that a new small-arms ammunition plant had
Pretoria Metal Pressings Company in September 1981.

peace and

is opening
petuate its
had resorted
!ld inhuman
in an effort

to use the
hbouring
~e independent
iependence.
:minar would
inion in
and

In Kalina,
) the
~olonial

)r of Cuba to
.gned

It by
! Committee of
I that the
lies, were
ted that
:sible had it
, especially
ommendations
sting
s.

ell as slides
xhibit on

)uth Africa's
!ld itf:
Erican

~ere

years the
~e than
)0,
lean Defence

385. NATO strategists had tried to promote the South Atlantic project by claiming
that confrontations with the liberation forces in South Africa and in Namibia would
bring increased military pressure to bear on the Pretoria regime. It would
therefore become necessary to provide massive military support to the South
Africans, which could be accomplished either by incorporating South Africa into the
Western military system or by contributing to the establishment of the South
Atlantic organization, which would serve as a complement to NATO.

386. Alongside the build-up and improvement of its armed forces, South Africa was
making efforts to increase its nuclear potential. According to one expert, the
Department of Energy and Mineral Affairs had allocated a 55 per cent increase in
funds to the Atomic Energy Research Fund - a total of R 106.2 million for fiscal
year 1983 - to be spent mainly on uranium enrichment research.

387. The experts pointed out that a variety of military, para-military and police
units were deployed in Namibia in defence of South Africa's illegal occupation.
Although the entire Territory was highly militarized, the greatest concentration of
troops was in the northern areas of Kaokoland, Ovanboland, Kavango and Busa~anland,
which were designated as operational areas by SADF and where most military
activities took place.

388$ The so-called operational zone was divided into three sectors: sector 10,
with headquarters at Oshakatil sector 20, with headquarters at Rundu, and
sector 70~ with headquarters at Katima Mulilo. Each sector was divided into
battalion areas and those battalion areas were further subdivided into company
areas.

389. Most of the permanent military bases were either battalion headquarters or
company headquarters. The company headquarters were the most important in counter-

-65-



insurgency work. The counter-insurgency forces of SADF worked very closely with
police forces, whose main task was to extract information from the local population.
Police bases with an average of about 40 men were dotted all over the operational
area.

390. The standard counter-insurgency forces of SADF were complemented by elite
unconventional warfare units - also known as "special forces" - almost entirely
composed of professional soldiers with a very high mercenary content in many cases.
Among those "special forces" were the 32 Buffalo Battalion, the Reconnaissance
Commandos, the South West Africa Specialist Unit, the 44 Parachute Regiment and the
Koevoet Unit. It was widely believed that the latter was responsibile for the
assassination of prominent SWAPO supporters.

391. One participant stated that the establishment of SWATF and the South West
Africa Police anrl the conscription of black Namibians were obvious attempts to
"Namibianize" the war and to create an "independent" army that could be used both
as a political lever in the independence negotiations and as an instrument to rule
Namibia by proxy shOuld Pretor!a be forced to withdraw its forces. In addition,
the widespread use of militarized police forces was clearly a strategy to maintain
a South African military presence should cease-fire arrangements calling
specifically for the withdrawal of SADF be implemented.

392. Another observed that South Africa's attacks against Namibia and the front-
line States enjoyed the connivance of some Western Powers, particularly the United
States, through supplies of material and political support. It was noted in that
connection that some of those countries had used their veto power to protect South
Africa in the Security Council. The Reagan Administration accommodated every South
African whim, while totally disregarding legitimate African concerns.

393. One expert was of the opinion that the militarization of South Africa was
intended to put pressure on Namibia and the front-line States to accept the Western
contact group's proposals. South Africa had used its superior fast-striking and
destructive capability to strike at refugee camps in regions bordering Namibia in
the name of attacking SWAPO bases. Those raids were meant to intimidate the front-
line States so that they would not extend any help to SWAPO. Thus, not only did
the arming of South Africa hamper the struggle for Namibian independence, it also
threatened the sovereignty of the front-line and other African States. What was
required, then, to ensure peace in southern Africa and the liberation of Namibia
was not only a genuine 3rms embargo against South Africa, but also the
strengthening of the defence capabilities of the front-line States.

2. Involvement of mercenaries

394. In the course of the discussion on the use of mercenaries in southern Africa,
it was agreed that Namibia had become the focus for the recruitment and enlistment
of mercenaries who were employed by South Africa to strengthen its position in the
Territory and to commit acts of aggression against neighbouring African States.

395. Among a number of definitions cited at the Seminar, the following one by
H. C. Burmester, an international legal scholar, conveyed most succinctly what is
usually understood by the term "mercenary":

•
"

396.
Afric
back

398.
Color
activ
under
easy
milit
leavi
that

399.
whom
comma
the "
opera
Rober
missi
black

400.
recru
opera
Gover
from

401.
peopl
Afric
one 0

402.
arres

403.
Nalilib
corpo
the T
struc
SADF.

-66-



)n.

:h

,-

J

"Mercenaries are volunteers who for monetary reward enter into an agreement to
fight for the armed forces belonging to a foreign State or an entity
purporting to exercise authority over a country or a people or a part
thereof." 28/ .

396. Although exact figures on the number of mercenaries serving in the South
African forces were not available, the South African Government had admitted as far
back as 1974 that there were 2,000 foreign nationals in the South African army. It
was not clear whether that number included only mercenaries recruited from outside
South Africa or whether it also covered non-naturalized foreign nationals
permanently residing in South Africa.

397. participants indicated that in certain western countries, particularly the
United States, there werp several organizations which published information about
mercenary opportunities and actually directed potential recruits to recruiters in
Africa.

398. Reference was made in particular to a periodical published in Boulder,
Colorado, called Soldier of Fortune, which contained articles about mercenary
activities by United States citizens and even about military exploits in Africa
undertaken by members of the periodical's own staff. While the magazine was not
easy to find at newsstands in Colorado it was readily available at United States
military posts in the United States and abroad. United States military personnel
leaving the service wer~ _ 7ime ta~gets for mercenary recruiters, who assured them
that they would not be prosecuted for signing up with foreign armies.

399. South Africa also recruited mercenaries from neighbouring countries, some of
whom were induced to serve in dissident groups which operated under the over-all
command of SADF. Others were assigned to the 32 Buffalo Battalion, the largest of
the "special units", which was composed largely of mercenaries and was used for
operations against SWAPO forces in Angola. In July 1980, Prime Minister
Robert Mugabe of Zimbabwe had informed the press that the South African diplomatic
mission in Salisbury had been operating a recruiting network for both white and
black soldiers to fight with the South African army in Namibia and Angola.

400. In May 1981, the Vice President of Botswana had made a direct reference to the
recruitment of dissidents by the South African armed forces, particularly for
operations against SWAPO. The Vice President had announced that the Botswana
Government was in possession of reliable information indicating that several people
from an area in north-western Botswana had enlisted in SADF.

401. In 1980, a well-known Canadian anthropologist had reported that a number of
people belonging to the San community in Botswana had been inducted into the South
African army, where a special San batallion had bp-Pon formed. Tha~ bata1lion was
one of the precursors of SWATF.

402. Later that year, a number of South African army agents had reportedly been
arrested by the Botswana authorities while on recruiting missions inside Botswana.

403. A participant informed the Seminar that some of the civil vigilante units in
Nmnibia, which were mainly used tb protect the installations of transnationa1
corporations and the lands owned by white farmers, had recruited members outside
the Territory. While those units were not part of the formal South African army
structure, some had received army guns and had been brought under the command of
SADF.

-67-



404. Though there were no records of the nationalities of mercenaries, defectors
from the 32 Battalion, for instance, had been identified in press reports as coming
from Australia, Portugal, New Zealand, the United Kingdom and the United States.
In addition, a large number of Rhodesian whites had joined SADF at the time of
Zimbabwean independence.

405. There were also mercenaries from Western countries in the Reconnaissance
Commando Units, whose members were highly trained, did not wear SADF uniforms and
carried out highly unconventional operations.

406. The 44 Parachute Regiment, a small unit which was used for follow-up
operations once contact had been made with SWAPO forces, was composed almost
exclusively of mercenaries. It was believed that the standard counter-insurgency
parachute units might eventually be brought under the umbrella of that regiment.

407. There had been numerous press reports regarding the increased particiption of
Israeli "volunteers" in the South African army's war against SWAPO and its acts of
aggression against Angola. In June 1980, for example, the London Sunday Telegraph
had reported that volunteers from Israel were serving with the South African forces
fighting against SWAPO in the northern region of Namibia.

408. One participant stated that he had information according to which
5,000 Zimbabwean mercenaries had been brought together in a South African special
unit for possible action in Zimbabwe. He submitted that the failure of the Western
countries to take strong measures against mercenary involvement in southern Africa
should be considered a form of military collaboration with South Africa.

409. Other participants agreed that governmental action to prevent mercenary
recruitment had been lacking in countries whose nationals were engaged in mercenary
activities in southern Africa.

410. In terms of precedents for international action, it was recalled that by its
resolution 161 (1961) of 21 February 1961, the Security Council had urged that
measures be taken for the immediate withdrawal from the Congo of all foreign
military personnel and mercenaries.

411. By its resolution 169 (1961) of 24 November 1961, the Council had expressed
the same idea but in much stronger terms, urging the Secretary-General to take
vigorous action, including the u~e of force if necessary, for the immediate
apprehension and detention or deportation of all mercenaries in the Congo.

412. The Declaration on Principles of International ,Law concerning Friendly
Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the
United Nations, contained in General Assembly resolution 2625 (XXV) of
24 OCtober 1970, stated that every State had the duty to refrain from organizing or
encouraging the organization of irregular forces or armed bands, including
mercenaries, for incursion into the territory of another State. Some participants
suggested that the Declaration needed to be strengthened or supplemented in order
to impose on States the obligation to prevent their own nationals from joining a
mercenary force.

413. In the United States, despite evidence of violations of the United States
Neutrality Act, no groups engaged in publishing information on mercenary recruitment
had ever been ordered to cease doing so or been subjected to prosecution. In that

-68-

•
conne
Citiz
activ
those
of F
the

415.

appr
the
of e
pros
sout

417.
to e
pros

418.
merc
info

419.
war
He f
regi
cons

420.
expe
inst
Hmi



lng

)f
)f
lh
:es

or

s

ent
t

•
connection, a group of citizens in Colorado had formed a "Committee of Concerned
Citizens on Mercenary Activities" in May 1979 with the purpose of exposing such
activities and ultimately compelling the United States Government to prosecute
those who took part. One of the Committee's major targets was the magazine Soldier
of Fortune. Thus far, however, the COmmittee had been unable to persuade either
the United States Department of Justice or the United States Congress to
investigate whether that magazine and its associates were aiding or abetting
illegal activities.

414. Regarding the United Kingdom Government's approach to mercenaries, a
participant pointed out that as a consequence of the involvement of British
mercenaries in Angola in 1978, the Labour Government had appointed a Commission
headed by Lord Diplock to look into the matter. In its report, the Diplock
Commission had actually recommended that the only existing law governing mercenary
recruitment, the Foreign Enlistment Act, which had been enacted in the nineteenth
century, should be repealed, thus eliminating all legislation governing that type
of activity.

415. Another participant said that an examination of the legislation of the Nordic
countries revealed that it was an offence to recruit mercenaries but not to be
recruited. In other words, if an individual signed up for recruitment he was not
committing an illegal act, but a person establishing an office to recruit
mercenaries was breaking the law.

416. There were various prov1s10ns of U•. ited States law which made it a Federal
offence for an individual to join a mercenary force and fight in another
Government's army. In the United States, as well as in other countries, the
doctrine of prosecutorial discretion barred private individuals from initiating
criminal prosecution. However, political pressure could be applied on the
appropriate authorities to prosecute individuals who were engaging in viOlations of
the criminal law. The United Nations Council for Namibia could thus consider ways
of exerting political pressur& on the Department of Justice in the United States to
prosecute individuals who were enlisting in various foreign armies fighting in
southern Africa.

417. Some participants suggested that the Council should contact States with a view
to encouraging the strengthening and enforcement of national legislation
proscribing mercenary activities.

418. Other recommendations for deterring such activities included denying
mercenaries prisoner-of-war status. It was also felt that an ongoing campaign of
information to raise the awareness of the public was needed.

419. One participant proposed that all mercenaries in southern Africa be declared
war criminals subject to prosecution by those countries which they had victimized.
He further proposed that technicians hired from abroad to assist the South African
regime in its war against the liberation movement of Namibia should also be
considered mercenaries.

420. As far as the adoption of an anti-mercenary convention was concerned, one
expert suggested that in view of the problems that had arisen in drafting an
instrument of general scope it might be advisable to consider a special convention
limited to southern Africa.

-69-

-.C-C-1l.-~ --- .
-,

('



•

43
Un'
sh
vi

43
co

42
it
to
Ca

Sec
Sou
mil
dir
org

427. The same participant felt that the provision by United States companies of
high technology to South Africa was in violation of the arms embargo imposed by

424. On the subject of United states collaboration with South Africa, a participant
stated that, over the years, the United States had provided South Africa with
strategic and sensitive technoiogy with military applications, such as electronics,
computers and advanced communications equipment. He emphasized that such
high-technology equipment was likely to be used to enforce apartheid and to
strengthen South Africa's control of Namibia as well as for the production of
armaments.

3. Military collaboration with South Africa

423. Several participants pointed out that the growing number of known arms embargo
violations was evidence of the consistent support of certain Western and other
countries for South Africa's aggressive policies.

422. Participants underscored the fact that certain Western and other countries
collaborated with South Africa in the military field and violated the mandatory
arms embargo against South Africa imposed by Security Council resolution 418 (1977).

425. A South African survey showed that, by the beginning of 1980, United States
corporations were selling 75 per cent of all computers bought in South Africa and
handling 77 per cent of all computer rentals in South Africa. Although it was
difficult to obtain precise figures on the overall volume of United States high
technology trade with South Africa, it was known, for example, that during 1980 the
United States had exported to South Africa over $US 3 million worth of radio
equipment capable of operating on south Africa's military frequency band. During
the same year, $US 66 million worth of computers and computer components had been
shipped from the United States to South Africa. In addition, United States
companies had sold South Africa nearly $US 3 million worth of equipment for the
production of semiconductors. Those figures did not include sales by subsidiaries
of United States corporations outside the United States. According to a South
African source, 70 per cent of the computers sold in South Africa by United States
corporations came from outside the United States.

421. Another participant proposed that a special United Nations register of the
names of persons involved in mercenary activities, together with their
national~ties, be circulated to all Member States with a request for appropriate
Government action.

426. According to the same participant, SADF relied heavily on International
Business Machines (IBM) as a supplier of computers and related equipment. The
South African military reportedly had six separate major computer centres. The
Directorate for Information Systems and Analysis (DISA) had used equipment supplied
by IBM to set up the military's first computerized command and control system.
Computer networks were also used as a requisition system. Project Konvoor, for
example, which played a key role in South Africa's war against Namibia, was a
large, country-wide military logistics system used to requisition communications
equipment, weapons, armour, helicopters and other supplies for use by the South
African military in Namibia. Equipment supplied by United States corporations was
also used in South Africa's computerized railway system for the transport of
90 per cent of all the weapons and military equipment delivered to Grootfontein.

i
i I

-70-



lte

!S

:y
:1977) •

Ibargo

:ipant

mics,

es
and

h
o the

ing
,een

e
ries

ates

e
plied

r

ns
h
was

n.

f
(

•
security Council resolution 418 (1977) because such equipment was being used by
South Africa for military purposes. In many cases, the transfer of equipment with
military applications occurred "in the open and quite legally" in the form of
direct sales, in other cases such equipment was procured through front
organizations.

428. While United States regulations prevented sales of any equipment to ARMSCOR
itself, they omitted mention of sales to ARMSCOR subsidiaries, allowing the latter
to continue unabated. In 1974, ARMSCOR had been reported to be using a National
Cash Register computer. Hewlett-Packard and Sperry were also reported to have
supplied equipment to subsidiaries of ARMSCOR. Both IBM and the Control Data
Corporation had equipped and continued to equip CSIR with advanced computers.
Together with ARMSCOR, CSIR was the backbone of the local military industry and was
South Africa's largest research agenCY1 its contribution to the local military
machine had included the development of poison gases, advanced missile research,
investigation of fingerprint storage methods, telecommunications research and the
development of counter-insurgency vehicles. CSIR also provided consulting and
testing services to ARMSCOR and to the military.

429. united States computers were also used by private South African military
manufacturers. For instance, Leyland-South Africa, a firm that produced Land
Rovers for the security police, rented seven computers from IBM.

430. Barlows and its subsidiary Marconi, which produced electronics for military
use in South Africa, used hardware provided by National Cash Register, Burroughs,
Hewlett-Packard and Data General.

431. In addition, reports were cited regarding professional and scientific
collaboration between a United States Army laboratory and a SUbsidiary of CSIR.

432. Several participants mentioned the case of the Space Research Corporation, a
United States-based corporation which had provided South Africa with artillery
shells, guns and military technical assistance, as the largest documented case of
violation of the arms embargo.

433. One participant felt that one of the major weaknesses of the united Nations
arms embargo against South Africa was the failure to cover training, transfers of
technical information and know-how, scientific and professional contacts and the
servicing of local installations. The Security Council resolution mentioned "arms
and related materiel" but did not adequately define the term "related matchiel It,
which could apply to a vast spectrum of technology having military as well as
civilian applications but was not made explicitly to do so.

434. The same participant suggested that the United States Commodity Control List
could be used to tighten the United States embargo. That list, which enumerated
items with military and intelligence applications, currently served as a basis for
deciding the exportability of certain equipment to the Union of Soviet socialist
Republics and some Eastern European nations. Many of the items which United States
firms were restricted from exporting to certain countries in Eastern Europe could
be and indeed were sold to South Africa.

435. The participant also recommended that the Security Council expand the arms
embargo against South Africa to include such "dual-use" technology as computers,
electronics and advanced communications gear, as well as the provision of training
and technical information, servicing and supply of spare parts.

-71-

.::;
"I



< ,

I i

n
I '

436. Other participants felt, however, that Security Council resolution 418 (1977)
was comprehensive enough to cover all the equipment described as high technology,
what was lacking was the political will of those countries which were South
Africa's trading partners to apply the embargo strictly.

437. Still other participants submitted that it was necessary that the arms embargo
explicitly cover all possibilities. If a list of commodities was necessary to
guide Governments which claimed that control was difficult without such a list, it
should be produced.

438. One participant suggested that not enough attention had been paid to the
possibility of using united States courts to provide greater enforcement of the
United Nations arms embargo and to bring about stricter compliance with
Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia. In this
regard, the participant reported that some lawyers had sought to get the courts of
the united States to oversee the granting of licences to South Africa.

439. Speaking on the military. collaboration of the Federal Republic of Germany with
SOuth Africa, one participant indicated that that country used an export list, the
Ausfuhrliste. The Federal Republic of Germany did not allow the export to South
Africa of products listed in section A of the list (arms, ammunition and armaments
material) or in section B (nuclear material), but it did allow the export of
"other ••• goods of strategic significancen enumerated in section C of the export
list, subject to export authorizatio~ The latter category included machines for
the production of aircraft, special machines for the manufacture of jet propulsion
engines, plants for the production of military explosives and solid propellants,
new ships with decks or platforms especially constructed or reinforced for the
reception of arms, aircraft and helicopters, aircraft engines and aeronautic
equipment.

440. The Federal Republic of Germany also allowed exports of long-distance location
or remote control installations, lasers and laser systems and so forth.

441. According to the same participant, material falling under sections A and B had
in fact been delivered to SOuth Africa. Since November 1977, companies in the
Federal Republic of Germany had shipped to SOuth Africa uranium isotope analysis
and controlling systems, specially designed compressors and an electro-beam
perforating machine for the uranium enrichment plant at Valindaba. In the
beginning of 1982, enriched uranium for the Koeberg reactor had been delivered with
the permission of the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany.

442. Since the imposition of the arms embargo against South Africa in 1977,
deliveries from the Federal Republic of Germany to SOuth Africa had included
3,000 military vehicles from Magirus.Deutz, 2,000 military vehicles of the
Unimog type from Daimler-Benz, three wide-body Airbus A-300 aircraft usable for
military purposes, 150,000 type G-3 semi-automatic guns produced in Portugal under
licence of the Federal Republic of Germany for use in Southern Rhodesia and
Namibia, special magnetic motors for missile boats, and "MO mine sweepers. Also,
the firm Abeking and Rasmussen of Bremen had granted Sandock-Austral a licence to
build missile boats in Durban.

443. Furthermore, cargo ships of the Federal Republic of Germany had transported
ammunition, helicopters, tanks and mine sweepers to South Africa.

-72-



~ (1977)
rlology,
h

s embargo
'{ to
list, it

the
f the

his
ourts of

many with
ist, the
South

rmaments
of
export

nes for
opulsion
lants,
the

,ic

~ location

and B had
I the
lalysis
Im

'ered with

,,
led

.e for
lal under
Id

Also,
:ence to

.ported

I

444. Firms from the Federal Republic of Germany had helped build strategic
factories in South Africa itself, in order to make the regime less vulnerable to an
embargo: Linde, Lurgi, Deutsche Babcock, Siemens and others were currently
involved in the construction of the coal liquefaction plants Sasol 11 and
sasol Ill. It was foreseen that those plants would produce not only fuel but also
substances required for the production of explosives. Moreover, the Siemens
company had begun the production of micro-electronic equipment in South Africa in
an effort to by-pass the arms embargo.

445. The Volkswagen company had been producing jeeps in South Africa for a number
of years. Daimler-Benz had supplied a licence for the production of engines for
jeeps and other military vehicles and had also und~rtaken to build factories for
that pu rpose.

446. Among other companies involved in the production of parts for military
vehicles, the same participant cited the Sahnradfabrik Friedrichshafen and the
Knorr company. In 1978, the companies Rheinmetall, Otto Junker, SUddeutsche
Baubeschlage and Wasag had constructed in South Africa an ammunition-filling plant
for the manufacture of 155-millimetre grenades for the NATO FH-70 artillery system,
shells for that plant had been delivered by the Space Research Corporation.

447. The participant underscored the fact that the Government of the Federal
Republic of Germany, which had authorized all the activities described above, had
attempted to justify them by arguing that they were not covered by the terms of
Security Council resolution 418 (1977).

448. On the SUbject of military collaboration between France and South Africa, it
was pointed out that the new French Government had continued to provide armaments
as well as assistance in the development of South Africa's military and nuclear
capability despite early declarations to the effect that it would review its
relations with South Africa, particularly as regards w~apon sales.

449. One participant stated that South Africa owned Mirage jet fighters, Alouette
helicoptere, Puma helicopters, large numbers of Panhard machine-guns and missiles
of French manufacture.

450. Although France had reportedly cancelled deliveries of submarines and
corvettes to SOuth Africa after the adoption of the arms embargo in 1977, France
was still listed in the yearbook of the Stockholm International Peace Research
Institute (SIPRI) 29/ and The Military Balance as the source of
AS-12 air-to-surface missiles that had been delivered through 1980, as well as
being the recipient of orders for Milan anti-tank rockets and Mirage 50-R
reconnaissance fighter planes. The Military Balance also indicated that South
Africa had recently acquired 13 additional Alouette III helicopters. In addition,
the magazine Flight International had reported that South Africa might be the first
customer for the French maritime patrol aircraft, the Transall C-160S.

451. A participant stated that there had not been any basic change since the
current French Government had come to power. France and South Africa still
exchanged military attaches, for example. The French oil company Total, refined
and distributed oil in Namibia and supplied fuel to the army and police in South
Africa. In circumvention of the arms embargo, spare parts delivered by France to
Israel for its Mirages were used by Israeli technicians in South Africa to maintain
French-built aircraft.

-73-



-74-

459. The participant emphasized that the strategic links between oil and the SOuth
African military should be clearly identified in resolutions regarding a boycott of
SOuth Africa.

455. While the new French Government had adopted a policy of increased political
and economic collaboration with the front-line States, trade relations between
France and SOuth Africa had not been reduced.

I

454. Despite promises that Namibian uranium would not be imported by France, th~
traffic in Namibian uranium was still being carried out, but even more
clandestinely. In January 1982, the Minister for Development and Co-operation had
stated that France did not import uranium direct from Namibia but imported uranium
from South Africa as a result of an agreement between the two Governments.

453. The new French Government had assured its foreign clients that it would honour
all commercial contracts with all countries exce?t Chile and the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. The Government had delivered the first parts of one
reactor to SOuth Africa in July 1981. It had stated that the delivery would not
contribute to SOuth Africa's military capacity because the nuclear power station
was under the IAEA safeguard system and therefore South Africa would not be allowed
to use any plutonium for military purposes.

452. with regard to nuclear co-operation, it was well known that the previous
French Government had signed in 1976 a FF l2,OOO-billion contract for the building
of the Koeberg nuclear power station in SOuth Africa. The construction of the
power station was being undertaken by a consortium of French companies including
Framatome, Alsthorn Atlantique and others. Under the contract, Framatome was to
build the power station, consisting of two reactors, and would supply certain
replacement fuels.

456. A participant discussed the significance of oil as fuel for South Africa's
machinery of war and repressio~ He indicated that, in view of SOuth Africa's
dependency on oil to sustain its military apparatus, the United Nations, OAU, the
Movement of Non~A1igned Countries and the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OAPEC) had taken specific measures aimed at staunching the flow of oil
to SOuth Africa. Oil provided about 25 per cent of SOuth Africa's primary energy
needsJ coal was the country's most important source of energy, accounting for three
quarters of its total energy requirements. Hydro-electricity provided only
0.2 per cent of its energy needs, while nuclear power would only begin to produce
small amounts of energy when the Koeberg plant came on stream in 1982.

458. Oil was being transferred to South Africa by methods other than direct trade,
mainly through independent European and United States-based tanker companies and
oil traders. It was reported that a few independent companies such as Philbro,
Marc Rich, Transworld and Irandinaft ~ad been routing and rerouting crude oil to
SOuth African ports with the secret collaboration of major oil companies such as
Shell.

457. Five foreign companies supplied most of the oil to S~uth Africa: Shell,
Mobil, Caltex, British Petroleum and Total. Shell was a Dutch-British company,
Mobil was a United States company, caltex was jointly owned by Texaco and Standard
Oil of California, British Petroleum was completely British and Total was a French
company. All five operated through subsidiaries in South Africa, which together
dominated the oil industry in that country.

==--';-":;-"''''1
'(':i

ifl
~.f

!~\
I ,



'='=-"=;:::c=c~

:':

revious
the building
n of the
including

me was to
certain

would honour

of one
would not

er station
ot be allowed

rance, tp.~

peration had
rted uranium
nts.

political
between

Africa's
!\frica's
6, OAU, the
wn Export ing
Elow of oil
nary energy
lng for three
only
to produce

Shell,
company,

md Standard
/las a French
1 together

lrect trade,
~anies and
philbro,

Ide oil to
~s such as

ld the South
a boycott of

I

460. He proposed ways by whi~h an effective oil embargo might be imposed on SouthAfrica. First, the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) shouldjoin the embargo imposed by the Arab oil-producing countries and should adoptpenalties against oil tankers that might circumvent the embargo. OPEC shouldinsist that purchasers provide a certificate of unloading as part of the salescontract.

461. Secondly, the United Nations should call on the Western coul.tries,particularly the United States and the United Kingdom, where most of the major oilcompanies were based, to refrain from undermining any oil sanctions against SouthAfrica. Also, an appeal should be made to the home countries of tanker andshipping companies, as well as to flag-of-convenience countries, to participate inthe observance and monitoring of oil sanctions against South Africa.

462. Furthermore, an international body should be established to monitor oilsanctions against South Africa and penalties should be imposed against those whoviolated the sanctions.

463. Some participants argued that although South Africa had increased its capacityto produce arms it was not anywhere near self-sufficiency with regard to a widevariety of strategic weapons. Thus, it was particularly important to press for theeffective implementation of the arms embargo against South Africa.

464. A participant noted that the yearbook of SIPRI had listed Israel as supplyingReshef-class missile patrol boats, Gabriel anti-ship missiles and corvettes toSouth Africa. ~ The latter were ships capable of carrying missiles andundertaking sustained operations at sea. Furthermore, the 1981-1982 edition of ~Military Balance 27/ listed South Africa as having received two Dabur missile boatsfrom Israel.

465. The same expert pointed out that SIPRI listed Italy as having received anorder in 1979 for Aspide and Albatross missiles, although the Italian Governmenthad denied authorizing any transfer or supply of such missiles to South Africa.Italy was also reported to have supplied M-l09 self-propelled l55-millimetrehowitzers, which had been ordered in 1977 and made in Italy under United Stateslicence.

466. Among the new weapons reported to be in the possession of South Africa was theSidewinder air-to-air missile of United States origin. According to a report inThe Washington Post, South Africa had been manufacturing those missiles itself butthe guidance system used computers made in the United States. Other reportsindicated that 15 Lockheed Hercules heavy transport planes originally sold by theUnited States to South Africa's civilian airline formed part of the South Africanair force reserves, and that a United States company, Globe Aero, Ltd., hadsupplied South Africa with light aircraft that could be used for military pu~poses.

467. Other reports claimed that Portugal had been an important connection in atleast 30 consignments of weapons transferred from various European countries toSouth Africa. According to one account, a ship had been loaded in Portugal withBaretta machine pistols of Italian origin and with Alouette helicopters originallyused by the Portuguese air force.

468. It was therefore clear that South Africa continued to depend on direct importsof major arms, particularly sophisticated weapons, fighter planes and computer and

-75-



470. The items included vibration test equipment for warheads and ballistic
re-entry vehicles, as well as computers and multi-channel analysers that could be
used to analyse data at a nuclear test site.

474. The South African Government was spending R 600 million or more per year for
the South African forces it kept in Namibia and another R 134 million for SWATF and
the South West Africa Police.

472. The present United States Administration had also allowed the export of
"anti-terrorism" devices and of "civilian" equipment to the South African police
and military agencies. That decision was considered evidence of the general
erosion and weakening of United States observance of the arms embargo.

473. One participant pointed out that the transnational corporations which
dominated Namibia's economy provided the illegal regime with substantial resources
with which to pursue the militarization of the Territory. Those companies were
contributing some R 233 million in taxes and duties alone, excluding non-resident
shareholders' tax, customs duties, licensing payments and sales, excise and income
taxes.

469. Turning to the nuclear field, there were reports that the United States
Department of Commerce had recently approved five export licences for purchases of
equipment for South Africa's nuclear programme.

475. Those forces were supplemented by large civilian vigilante units which
included commando groups made up of white farmers and commanded by South African
officers1 security guard forces used by tran~national companies and large
parastatal corporations such as the electricity, railway and harbour com?anieS1 and
extreme right-wing terrorist groups. '

471. Reports also indicated that the Commerce Department was considering an
application to re-export to South Africa uranium originally imported from that
country and enriched in the United States, as well as to sell South Africa
helium-3, which could theoretically be used to make tritium, a form of hydrogen
used in thermonuclear weapons.

476. At the hearings on Namibian uranium held in 1980, 30/ SWAPO had presented a
secret document on the establishment of a 69-man security force to protect the
Rossing uranium mine against attack. ~hat force included a unit known as the
Swakopmund Commando Industrial Protection Unit, which was thought to be part of the
national key points system introduced in South Africa under the National Key Points
Act of July 1980. That Act empowered the South African Ministry of Defence to
designate any major installation as a national key point and therefore to make the
enterprise finance its own security force or commando unit. In South Africa,
633 enterprises had been designated as national key points. It was likely that the
Rossing mine had also been brought under the system. The participant indicated

r-=., - "~BQ"=;Z","~="","= C"--===-~=~~=--~=~'.=' '- ::- -, 'C,,=-=-:=- -=- ~::_- -- = '. ---~-=,~--~- -,~11~~ other high-technology equipmento While South Africa had obtained licences for the
i~.~ manufacture of some weapons, the licensing contracts often involved supply by the
J11 foreign licensor of major components and spare parts that South Africa did not
;~ produce. Even in the case of armoured cars, in which South Africa had proclaimed
;'~ self-sufficiency for a number of years, it had only recently begun to manufacture
l:iJ the Atlantis diesel engines that powered the cars and still had to import other key
~', .i

!:1 components.
, j
I]
l;i i
i:,·j
Vi
W.l
i:'1
I,~ -r
;!' :1
j;; 1

··1 .
I. /

,I

:'

1':-'·

J,i'
I.:.·.. '.:
~l

~.'[

,'j
i, ~,

the

ng

:he

in

.t

ity

lil
:h

~s

s.

-76-



~ences for the
>Upply by the
~a did not
id proclaimed
) manufacture
nport other key

States
purchases of

Llistic
:hat could be

ring an
from that
~frica

)f hydrogen

cport of
dean police
general

which
~ial resources
)anies were
non-resident

Lse and income

per year for
1 for SWATF and

; which
)U th Af r ican
Large
companies, and

presented a
rotect the
in as the
be part of the

mal Key Points
)efence to
~e to make the
1 Africa,
Likely that the
: indicated

•

I

that several large strategic mines in Namibia, such as those run by the Tsumeb
Corporation, probably had similar squads.

477. with regard to white settler farmers, the State had been financing the
fortification of farm-houses with double security fencing, dogs, security lights
and radio alarm systems.

478. The participant quoted from a Windhoek newspaper that the G-3, the standard
automatic assault rifle of NATO, could be found everywhere in Namibia ~ecause the
entire white population and increasing numbers of the black population were armed
by the South African forces.

479. The participant noted the importance of transport and communi~ation equipment,
much of which came from ~astern countries, to the South African military. A large
quantity of oil going into Namibia came through Walvis Bay in tankers owned by
British Petroleum and Shell and protected by SADF military convoys. Ford and
Land Rover lorries were used by the puppet group Uniao Nacional para a
Independencia Total de Angola (UNITA), and SADF used Isuzu trucks and the United
States-made Kingair 200 turbo-prop aircraft.

480. Several participants noted that South Africa not only continued to receive
support from its traditional Western partners but had successfully expanded its
ties with other countries. One participant in particular examined the attempts by
South Africa to create links across the South Atlantic with countries in the
Southern Cone of the Americas. Rumours of a secret South Atlantic treaty, in
circulation for at least 15 years, had been given new credence in April 1982 when a
leading South African newspaper, the Sunday Times, had reported the existence of
such a treaty dating back to 1969 and said to involve South Africa, Argentina,
Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay.

481. The existence of some form of South Atlantic agreement had been confirmed by
Government sources on both sides of the Atlantic. At the ena of April 1982, the
South African Minister for Foreign Affairs had told Parliament that there was "an
understanding on a military level" between South Africa and Argentina regarding
"reciprocal courses and periodic joint naval exercises". At about the same time, a
high-ranking Argentinf. naval officer had told a reporter of The Washington Post of
the existence of a "grand strategic design" by the United States in the event of
trouble in the Middle East and the closure of the Suez Canal. Under that scheme,
South Africa and Argentina would take responsibility for protecting oil tankers in
their respective sections of the South Atlantic.

482. According to the same participant, the special relationship between South
Africa and Argentina was also evidenced by reports that members of the Argentine
armed forces had received specialized military training in South Africa. Sailors
had undergone commando courses at the naval college at Muizenberg and soldiers had
been given instruction at the army air base near Pretoria. The trainlng given to
Argentine servicemen by SADF was reported to include intelligence work. Argentina
continued to co-operate with the Silvermine military intelli9~nce and
communications centre in the Cape. That centre, which monitored Soviet and other
shipping, had reportedly been linked to the NATO system.

483. The same participant also cited reports of South Africans training ;.n
Argentina.

-77-



.. - -
484. In addition to Argentina, with which South Africa had developed particularly
friendly relations, other countries in the Southern Cone collaborated with South
Africa in military as well as economic affairs. In mid-1981, for example, the
South African Minister of Defence had awarded military decorations to two visiting
officers of the Chilean Defence Force. The expert gave other instances of State
visits, trade relations and military exchanges between South Africa and Uruguay,
Paraguay, Argentina and Chile. She added that it was important to recognize tr.e
role played in forging those links by large South African companies, such as the
Anglo-American Corporation, which could use their economic power to gain political
access for the Pretoria regime.

485. It was thus clear that there were various formal and informal linkages between
South Africa and countries in the Southern Cone. Several participants indicated
that the ultimate goal of South African military and political strategists was to
forge some kind of formal alliance in the South Atlantic which, under ideal
circumstances, would also include the United States. They had developed four
themes in sllpport of that notion: first, a growing Soviet challenge throughout the
region, second, Socth Africa's staunch anti-communism and reliability as an ally of
western countries, third, South Africa's control of key strategic minerals, and
fourth, South Africa's geographic position along the major oil routes of the
Western world. While South Africa's first choice was a South Atlantic alliance
modelled after NATO, the short-term prospects of forming such an organization were
not very bright. The Pretoria Government had therefore taken steps towards
establishing a network of bilateral links as an alternative strategy.

486. The approach of the United States towards a South Atlantic treaty organization
had varied depending on the extent to which "security", "containment" and a
perceived Soviet threat had become predominant considerations in United States
foreign policy. The adver.t of the current United States Adminstration seemed to
have revived serious discu~sion of some form of regional alliance because the
United States had begun to identify South Africa as a friendly Power and wa~ using
Argentina as a spearhead to promote United States interests in Latin America.

487. Reference was also made by some participants to the growing links between
South Africa, on the one hand, and the Republic of Korea and the local authorities
in Taiwan, on the other, as exemplified by the recent exchange of visits between
the South African Prime Minister and the "Prime Minister" of Taiwan.

488. Several participants indicated that there was evidence of Israeli involvement
in South Africa's war against SWAPO and its act~ of aggression against neighbouring
African States. As far back as June 1976, Ms. Marcia Friedman, an opposition
member of the Knesset, had alleged that hundreds of Israeli soldiers were attached
to South African army units as instructors and participants in training
manoeuvres. Although the Israeli Government had officially denied that report,
similar accounts had appeared periodically over the years in the international
press. Given the strict censorship regarding military matters in both Israel and
South Africa, however, it was difficult to corroborate such reports.

489. It was also stated that Israel continued to supply South Africa with military
equipment. One participant pointed out that Israel, the seventh largest armam~nts
producer in the Western bloc, had admitted that South Africa was its largest arms
purchaser. He also stated that Israel had, to a large extent, become an
intermediary for certain Governments in their dealings with South Africa.

-78-

J

490
pro
by
pro
the
par
the
exp

491.
Ins
als
con
Air'

492.
occ
bord
unde
to d
mass
into

493.
was
Afd
nume
thei

494.
labol
its r
in se
thre'
contJ

495.
emba
grou
UNIT
and
Moza

496.
Ango
Aid
Afric

497.
Afde



J

490. One participant expressed concern that South Africa's nuclear developmentprogramme was being enhanced through its membership in IAEA. He pointed out thatby being a member of IAEA, South .\fdca was able to participate in variousprojects, symposia and working groups on uranium and thus to gain information onthe development of techniques in that field. For example, South Africa
participated ·in the OECD-IAEA joint steering group on uranium resources as well asthe OECD-IAEA joint group of experts on research and development in uraniumexploration techniques.

491. South Africa also participated at a high level in meetings of the UraniumInstitute, a private London-based organization composed mainly of companies, butalso of Governments engaged in extracting uranium. The activities conducted in thecontext of the Uranium Institute and the OECD-IAEA groups were vital to SouthAfrica in the area of uranium extraction technology.

4. Implications of the military occupation of Namibia
for international peace and security

492. In his opening statement, the Chairman of the Seminar stressed that theoccupation regime continued to car~y out armed attacks against independent Statesbordering Namibia. He added that those overt attacks as well as covert operationsundertaken by groups in the pay of the Pretoria regime constituted odious attemptsto destabilize the regimes of independent African States and contributed to themassive Jestruction of human lives and property. All those a,ctions constituted anintolerable threat to international peac~ and security.

493. Several experts stated that the military occupation of Namibia by South Africawas an act of aggression against the United Nations itself. Furthermore, SouthAfrica had persistently and defiantly used Namibia as a base from which to launchnumerous raids and military attacks on neighbouring countries, thereby violatingtheir territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence.

494. Some experts held that Namibia was not only a source of raw materials, cheaplabour and substantial profits for South Africa, but also an indispensable part ofits military apparatus, which was organized for action against liberation movementsin southern Africa. South Africa's continuing presence in Namibia constituted athreat to southern African States backing those liberation movements and thuscontributed to the consolidation of South African hegemony in the region.

495. Others indicated that South Africa had calculatedly and premeditatedlyembarked on a policy of destabilization of the entire region, as exemplified by itsground and air incursions into Angola, cross-border raids into Zambia, support forUNITA rebels in Angola, training of Mozambican dissident groups and attacks on roadand rail links and the oil pipeline connecting Zimbabwe with the port of Beira inMozambique.

496. One of South Africa's main objectives in its destabilization attempts againstAngola was to carve out a buffer State in southern Angola which would help SouthAfrica perpetuate its domination of Namibia and the system of apartheid in SouthAfrica.

497. Participants expressed grave concern and alarm over the development of SouthAfrica's nuclear capability. They underscored the fact that the development of the

-79-



I

apartheid regime's capacity to produce nuclear weapons was an ominous threat to the
peace and security not only of Africa but of the whole world. Given South Africa's
refusal to become a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
and to accept international inspection of all its nuclear installations, no
distinction could be made between South Africa's development of nuclear power for
peaceful purposes and for the production of nuclear weapons. The participants
stressed that an urgent appeal should be made to those States that collaborated
with South Africa in the nuclear field, to desist from doing so.

498. One expert stated that the impasse in settling the question of Namibia arose
not from a dispute over electoral systems but from the very factors that entrenched
apartheid rule and favoured South Africa~s expansionist tendencies. The
participant argued that South Africa sought to resolve the basic contradiction of
its rapidly expanding productive capacity and its narrow internal market by
exporting capital and manufactured goods and by importing foreign labour and raw
materials. When those economic tactics failed, it employed military means.
However, the participant was of the view that, in the long run, the war in Namibia
was unwinnable for a beleaguered fouth Africa which was increasingly burdened with
the spiralling costs of its military operations in Namibia, whose economy was
affected by the fall in the price of gold and by the downward trend in the world
market for diamonds and whose own apartheid regime was threatened by the victories
of the liberation movements in Angola, Mozambique and Zimbabwe.

499. Another participant stated that SADF pursued the following objectives: first,
to keep adjoining States militarily on the defensive through periodic acts of
aggression, second, to ~reate, wherever possible, regimes pliant to or mindful of
South African political and military power on their borders, third, to use
dissident groups in the adjoining States to foment trouble against the central
authority, fourth, to undertake selective assassination of individuals considered a
threat to the South African political system, fifth, to set up black-manned,
white-led units in the army and security forces so as to use black people against
each other; and finally, to destroy the transport system and destabilize the
economic structures of front-line States assisting the liberation forces in
southern Africa.

500. The participant's assessment was that, despite South Africa's tactical
strength, strategically it was in a no-win position because SWAPO had created a
situation in which the South African forces were not able decisively to change the
tide in their favour. The number of South African troops and paramilitary units in
Namibia was an indication of the intensity ef the effort that South Africa had been
forced to mount in response to the military challenge posed by SWAPO. However, the
massive militarization of Namibia had not resulted in .a military victory for South
Africa, as evidenced by the continuing liberation struggle waged by SWAPO.

501. Several experts recommended that South Africa must be made to pay heavy
reparations for the loss of lives, damage to property, and other premeditated and
wanton destruction inflicted upon the Namibian and Angolan peoples.

5. Conclusions and recommendations

502. At the 7th meeting of the Seminar, on 11 June 1982, the participating experts
adopted the following conclusions and recommendations for submission to the Council.

-80-

,--
Con

503
the
con
lib
SW
by
the

504
onl
the

505.
ant
end
cre
int
fre
Nam
wit

506.
for
amo
Afr
ach'

507.
cap
and
con
move
secu

508.
SCut
mili
forc
West
as 1
cons
the

509.
defi
defi
spec
Afd
of a
appr



~ :_,:_~-=-=- _.,':~
rJ'l,."

I

Conclusions

503. In defiance of the many united Nations resolutions concerning the removal of
the illegal regime's occupying forces from Namibia, racist South Africa has been
consistently militarizing the Territory with the aim of crushing the struggle for
liberation and genuine independence of the Namibian people under the leadership of
SWAPO, their sole and authentic representative. The defiance of the United Nations
by the occupation regime is carried out with the active support and collusion of
the laajor Western Powers and their allies.

504. South Africa's militarization of Namibia and its acts of aggression are not
only destroying the social and economic infrastructure, the life and property of
the Namibian people, but also destabilizing and weakening the front-line States.

505. South Africa is attempting to alter the nature of and to internationalize the
anti-colonial war launched by SWAPO against the illegal administration. To this
end, Pretoria is constantly launching armed attacks on the front-line States and is
creating and supporting puppet and dissident groups and thus interfering in the
internal affairs of these States. Contrary to Pretoria's allegations that SWAPO
freedom fighters are operating from bases in Angola, the fact is that SWAPO is the
Namibian national liberation movement and its gallant combatants are operating
within Namibia with the support of the Namibian masses.

506. South Africa is attempting to "Namibianize" the conflict, notably through the
forced conscription of black Namibians, in order to create hatred and division
among the Namibian people. These manoeuvres are intended to camouflage the South
African military presence in Namibia and to undermine United Nations efforts to
achieve genuine independence for the Territory.

507. The new information revealed at ~~e Seminar, notably on the increasing nuclear
capacity which South Africa is acquiring in collaboration with the western Powers
and Israel, amply confirms the ever-increasing menace which South Africa's
continuing occupation of Namibia presents to the United Nations, the anti-colonial
movement in Africa and elsewhere in the world and to international peace and
security.

508. The Seminar expressed concern at the increasing level of mercenary activity in
South Africa and Namibia. Mercenary activity is found throughout the South African
military forces, not only in the special forces but also in the conventional
forces. The Seminar concluded that mercenaries are flowing into South Africa from
Western and other countries, with the United States and the United Kingdom acting
as leading centres of recruitment. Allowing such uncontrolled mercenary activity
constitutes in effect a form of Western intervention that is likely to increase as
the conflict in the region intensifies.

509. The international community has encountered a great deal of difficulty in
defining a mercenary. However, the Seminar concluded that the problem of
definition could be circumvented by the adoption of an international convention
specifically to outlaw mercenary recruitment and enlistment for serv~ce in South
Africa and Namibia. Finally, the Seminar concluded that it is the responsibility
of all countries whose nationals are being recruited to enact and enforce
appropriate legislation to outlaw all forms of participation in mercenary activity.

-81-

r
\..~.

I
\ 1



..... _--------~---_.--­_._---. ---_.

510. The participants noted that the supply of military-related materials to SOuth
Africa and the wide-ranging military collaboration with the apartheid regime is
still continuing in clear violation of the United Nations arms embargo. Western
countries have assisted SOuth Africa's efforts to develop its own armaments
industry in order to make the regime self-sufficient in arms production. Despite
this, the racist regime remains heavily dependent on a great variety of foreign
supplies of vital weapons, components and technology, including computers,
electronics and communications equipment.

511. The participants agreed that the existing arms embargo against South Africa
needed urgently to be reinforced and strengthened, particularly with respect to a
ban on all nuclear collaboration with South Africa. However, the key problem has
been the lack of effective implementation of the existing embargo by a number of
countries, especially certain NATO Powers such as the United States, the Federal
Republic of Germany, the United Kingdom and France. On an international level,
participants made an urgent appeal for the supervisory committee established by
Security Council resolution 421 (1977) of 9 December 1977 to be fully reactivatedo
In order to make implementation of the embargo more effective, the United Nations
should take the lead by compiling a comprehensive and detailed list of strategic
technology and equipment with military applications.

512. The participants drew attention to the collaboration in South Africa's nuclear
programme, for instance, through such bodies as the IAEA-OECD joint working group
on uranium extraction. That kind of collaboration should be stopped at once. The
participants noted the dangerous expansion of the assistance given by several
Western and other countries to South Africa's nuclear development, the latest
example of which involves companies in France, the Federal Republic of Germany and
Switzerland supplying quantities of nuclear reactor fuel to South Africa to enable
it to run the Koeberg reactor plant. Participants noted the dangerous implications
of the current direction of United States policy towards South Africa, which
includes relaxation of United States regulations implementing the arms embargo and
the expansion of supplies of nuclear-related materials and strategic equipment to
South Africa. These were, until recently, prohibited.

513. Attention was drawn also to the increasingly open military collaboration
between Israel and South Africa, symbolized recently by the visit of the Israeli
Defence Minister to the war zones in occupied Namibia. In addition, the
participants noted with alarm the growing military collaboration between
South Africa and certain Latin American countries which is developing into a
de facto military alliance.

514. Particular em~hasis was placed by the participants on oil as a vital military
commodity. The violation of the oil embargo imposed by OAPEC and other
oil-producing countries against South Africa is being carried out by major oil
companies operating in South Africa i~ collusion with certain trading and
transporting companies whose Governments are ignoring these violations.
Participants recommended that OPEC and other oil-producing countries should demand
that the system of requiring a "certificate. of unloading" be implemented more
effectively, with specific penalties for violators of the 0;,1 embargo.

515. Finally, participants drew attention to particular transnational companies
operating illegally in Namibia itself. These companies are engaged in the
militarization of Namibia's economy, and assist South Africa's occupation through
their vast revenue contributions, military-related contracts and by arming South

-82-

A

ne

51
Co

51
e

sec
int

519
non
gro
tra
ord
con
Afr

520
all
reg
tra



~~~~---~--- - -r~~-~--'------~--=C::c:.--------

h

ar

lS

African-controlled "civilian" forces. Participants stressed that more specificmeasures should be taken by the united Nations Council for Namibia to make suchcompanies liable for reparation payments to a future lawful government of Namibia.
Recommendations

516. The United Nations Council for Namibia should continue to promoteinternational support for SWAPO as the sole and authentic representative of theNamibian people in their struggle to end South Africa's illegal occupation. TheCouncil should continue to resist and condemn attempts by certain WesternGovernments to diminish the role of SWAPO and even to exclude SWAPO from thenegotiations over Namibian independence.

517. The Council should request the immediate reactivation of the Security CouncilCommittee established by resolution 421 (1977) to monitor the arms embargo.

518. The Council should actively promote more effective implementation of the armsembargo ~gainst South Africa by insisting that it cover:

(a) All commodities on the Commodity Control List,

(b) All forms of strategic or advanced technology such as electronics,computers, communications equipment and their components,

(c) Transfers of strategic information and know-how, including training,technical information and servicing,

(d) Exchanges with South Africa of military personnel as well as experts innuclear and weapons technology and employees of arms factories,

(e) Equipment and components sold from all facilities, including those thatare outside the territory of the country in which the headquarters of the exportingcompany is located,

(f) All exports destined for all South African Government bodies, includingARMSCOR and its subsidiaries, CSIR and its subsidiaries, all police, military andsecurity agencies, all private security firms and all agencies that act asintermediaries for the above,

(g) Penalties for violations of the provisions of the arms embargo.

519. The Council should continue to enlist the good will and support of allnon-governmental organizations, including churches, trade unions and communitygroups, and request that they bring pressure to bear on their Governments andtransnationals to stop all military and nuclear collaboration with South Africa in
orde~ to end its illegal occupation of Namibia. The Council should maintain closecontact with groups seeking to mount campaigns to end collaboration with SouthAfrica.

520. The Council should continue its comprehensive monitoring of the activities ofall States maintaining military and nuclear links with South Africa, and shouldregularly inform the world public of the activities of all States andtransnationals that violate the mandatory arl~ embargo.

-83-



521. The Council should investigate the extent to which South Africa's membership
in IAEA, and especially its participation in various uranium groups convened under
IAEA auspices, contributes to its ability to plunder Namibia's uranium resources
and develop its nuclear capability.

522. The Council should pursue a ban on all nuclear collaboration with South Africa.

523. Considering that the development of South Africa's nuclear potential
represents a danger to the entire region of the Atlantic and Indian OCean basins
and the Antarctic., the Council should press for international recognition of and
adherence to the establishment of a nuclear-free zone in all Africa as provided for
in the Declaration on the Denuclearization of Africa adopted by the Assembly of
Heads of States and Government of DAU at its first ordinary session, held at Cairo
from 17 to 21 July 1964.

524. The Council should examine the role of mercenaries in Namibia and in South
Africa's conventional forces, its special battalions, destabilization units and
citizen forces and contact all States to ascertain what their legislation is with
regard to the recruitment and enlistment of mercenaries in their countries. It
should establish how these laws are implemented and what the loop-holes are and
make concrete suggestions to these States so as effectively to outlaw the
recruitment and the enlistment of their nationals.

525. The Council should actively promote the establishment of an international
convention to. outlaw the recruitment and enlistment of mercenaries specifically for
deployment in South Africa and Namibia, as soon as possible. To assist the
implementation of such a convention, the United Nations should establish a register
of known mercenaries to be made available to all States.

J-_.....

526. The Council should appeal to the States Members of the United Nations to
report all mercenaries who have already been involved in southern Africa. They
should be tried as war criminals by their national Governments, or those
Governments within whose jurisdiction they may be living, and ,on conviction,
sentenced accordingly.

527. The Council should increase its efforts to secure the release of all PLAN
combatants who have been imprisoned by the South African authorities, insisting on
their prisoner-of-war status under the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949 ~ and
Additional Protocol I thereto (A/35/144, annex I).

528. Furthermore, the Council should make representations for the immediate release
of the Cassinga detainees and all other Namibian refugees and citizens of the
front-line States abducted by the occupation troops of South Africa operating
illegally from Namibia.

529. The Council should draw international attention to South African efforts to
establish tribal military and para-military forces in Namibia in addition to the
presence of SADF and should examine the implications of those efforts for the
independence negotiations. Furthermore, the Council should expose as direct
illegal intervention South African attempts to use armed puppet groups within the
front-line States in efforts to destabilize these States.

530. The Council should investigate the policies of all States concerning the
granting of asylum to persons from Namibia and South Africa who are bona fide war

-84-

I

5
o
f

P
f
b
D
S

5
a
t
a
a



,ip
ider
s

'rica.

IS

d
I for

,iro

I

th

, for

.ster

on
and

,ease

,0

e

,he

ar

I

resisters having refused to serve in the South African military establishment. TheCouncil should appeal to all Member States to grant asylum to such war resistersand should publicize offers of refuge.

531. Bearing in mind that oil is regarded by South Africa as a vital militarycommodity, the Council should assist in the study of all forms of violation of theoil embargo imposed by the General Assembly, OAPEC and other oil-producingcountries, including an examination of the role of open-registry ships in thetransfer of oil to South Africa. The Council should publicize widely theactivities of all companies assisting in providing oil to South Africa and occupiedNamibia.

532. The Council should encourage OPEC to endorse the resolution on an oil embargoadopted by OAPEC on 6 May 1981 and should seek to make the implementation of oilsanctions more effective by enlisting the co-operation of all countries in whichtankers carrying oil to South Africa are registered.

533. The Council should promote the development of a code of penalties that mightbe used by any country against any company that breaks the oil sanctions againstSouth Africa at any stage from production through shipping and refining.

534. Taking into account the provisions of General Assembly resolution 32/9 D of4 November 1977 concerning the payment of war reparations by South Africa to theNamibian people, and in view of the evidence that transnational companies operatingin Namibia are assisting South Africa's militarization of the occupied Territory,it is recommended that the Council enact a decree on war reparations payable bythose companies to a future lawful Government of Namibia, should that Governmentwish to exercise that right.

535. The proposed decree should include specific clauses enabling a future lawfulGovernment of Namibia to claim reparations from all those violating the arms andthe oil embargo, in so far as such violations have led to arms-related and oilproducts illegally entering occupied Namibia.

536. The Council should continue to encourage all countries to expand the provisionof material aid and humanitarian assistance to the people of Namibia and thefront-line States, to alleviate the destructive effect of South Africa's militarypolicies and operations and to assist SWAPO in its efforts to lay the foundationsfor a free, independent, non-racial and democratic Namibia. Assistance should alsobe directed toward helping the front-line States and members of the Southern AfricaDevelopment Co-ordination Conference (SADCC) reduce their economic dependence onSouth Africa.

537. The Council, in co-operation with UNESCO, should actively seek ways to sponso~a wide-ranging programme of pUblic education on the issues at stake in Namibia,through the pUblication and distribution of books, films, exhibitions and otheraudio-visual material, drawing among other sources on the information madeavailable at this Seminar.

-85-

• i



r'I--- _""",""",-~I'~"-'-_,. ~F'~-~-~'=T7=;',~CC'~~~ ==:::::" . -~. . -~C=.~-==':C--=::=.:--C-=---=--==--:=:- - __
)1
'I

j
I VI. CONSIDERATION OF POLITICAL MATTERS CONCERNING NAMIBIA*
!
1
I

I 538. In the exercise of its responsibilities as the legal Administering Authority
1 for Namibia until independence, the Council has been guided since its establishment

by the principles enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations, General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV) and other resolutions adopted by the Assembly on the question
of Namibia. In conformity with the mandate entrusted to it under Assembly
resolution 2248 (S-V), the Council has exerted all efforts to obtain the withdrawal
of the illegal South African administration from the Territory and to support the
legitimate struggle of the Namibian people for self-determination, freedom and
national independence under the leadership of SWAPO, their sole and authentic
representative. In the fulfilment of its mandate, the Council has received
extensive support from the international community, including governmental and
non-governmental organizations.

A. Continued illegal occupation of the Territory by SOuth Africa

539. During the period under consideration, Namibia remained the focus of global
attention as the international community continued to review the political
situation in and around the Territory. In a number of forums the international
community articulated the global consensus concerning the heightened threat to
international peace and security resulting from South Africa's continued illegal
occupation of the Territory in defiance of numerous United Nations resolutions, its
brutal repression of the Namibian people and its constant acts of aggression
against the African States in the region.

I

-86-

B. Efforts of the Council to counter attempts aimed at modifying
Security Council resolution 435 (1978)

540. At the same time, SOuth Africa sought further to entrench its illegal
occupation of Namibia. It continued to strengthen the illegal puppet institutions
which it has created in Namibia and attempted to give them a semblance of
legitimacy in violation Qf numerous United Nations resolutions, in particular
security Council resolution 439 (1978), by which the Council declared those
institutions null and void. New repressive measures were imposed on the Namibian
people. The racist troops and the so-called home guards continued to repress,
torture and murder Namibian patriots, hundreds of whom are known to have been
detained or imprisoned for political reasons.

541. As the legal Administering Authority for Namibia the Council has, since its
inception in 1967, worked untiringly for. the establishment of a free and genuninely
independent Namibia. In that respect, it has taken measures to mobilize
international public opinion in suppOrt of the efforts to end South Africa's

* It has been necessary in parts of the present report to use South African
designations such as "Administrator-General", "homelands" and "bantustans", as well
as to refer to legislation, governmental structures and officials of the illegal
minority regime in Namibia. The use of such terms and references without quotation
marks does not in any way imply recognition by the United Nations of the illegal
regime or the entities thus described.



'lority
lishment
ssembly
uestion

thdrawal
rt the
and
ic

and

lobal

onal
to

legal
ons, its
,n

tutions

.ar

Imibian
!ss,
ien

:e its
muninely

's

} African
, as well
llegal
luotation
llegal

illegal occupation of Namibia through the immediate and unconditional
implementation of the United Nations plan embodied in Security Council
resolutions 385 (1976) and 435 (1978) without modification, dilution or
prevarication.

542. It will be recalled that the pre-implementation talks held at Geneva in
January 1981 collapsed owing to the intransigence of South Africa, an attitude
attributed to the expectation of United States support which the imminent
assumption of office by the new United States Administration had aroused in the
racist regime. Shortly after coming into office, that Administration made a number
of friendly gestures to SOuth Africa and, under the pretext of "strengthening"
resolution 435 (1978), made proposals which actually sought to introduce new
elements into the United Nations plan.

543. Those proposals, which would modify the terms and scope of resolution
435 (1978), drew strong opposition from the Council, SWAPO, the front-line States
and the overwhelming majority of the international community.

544. In view of the continued lack of progress towards a peaceful settlement and
the strong sentiments aroused in the international community, as well as the triple
veto in the Security Council of resolutions calling for comprehensive mandatory
sanctions against SOuth Africa, ~ the General Assembly, following initiatives by
the Council, adopted resolutions ES-8/2 and 36/~21 A to F at its eighth emergency
special session and thirty-sixth session, respectively. The Assembly reaffirmed
that Security Council resolution 435 (1978) was the only basis for a peaceful
settlement and demanded the immediate commencement of its unconditional
implementation. The Assembly explicitly rejected the manoeuvres by certain members
of the Western contact group aimed at undermining resolution 435 (1978). It
strongly urged the Security Council to impose comprehensive mandatory sanctions
against South Africa as provided for under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United
Nations. It further called upon all States to adopt a series of detailed
legislative, administrative and other measures in order to isolate South Africa
politically, economically, militarily and culturally so as to force it to comply
with resolution 435 (1978) and other United Nations resolutions on Namibia (for
further details see paras. 30-83 above).

545. Throughout the period under review, the Western contact group, SWAPO, South
Africa and the front-line States were engaged in negotiations on the implementation
of resolution 4J5 (1978). While those negotiations were taking place, the South
African Government e!.~loyed various tactics aimed at delaying agreement on a
workable solution of the Namibian question.

546. South Africa and the United States have persistently attempted to link the
Namibian question with extraneous and irrelevant issues. By so doing, they have
sought to impart to the question of Namibia a character quite distinct from that of
the decolonization problem which it essentially is and thus to justify South
Africa's refusal to withdraw its occupation forces from the Territory as called for
in the united Nations settlement plan. South Africa has furthermore continued to
commit repeated acts of aggression against Angola.

547. Conversely, SWAPO has continually declared its readiness to implement the
United Nations plan for Namibia without delay. In his statement at the opening of
the Council's extraordinary plenary meetings at Arusha, Mr. Sam Nujoma, the

-87-



===~='~"-~

(:'

President of SWAPO, declared that the delay in the implementation of resolution
435 (1978) had been due to South Africa's intransigence and the duplicity of the
Western contact group of five, which stemmed from their determination to. perpetuate
the colonial domination of Namibia and the continued plunder of its resources.
Contrary to what the Western five claimed to be doing, the current stage of the
negotiations had nothing to do with "strengthening" resolution 435 (1978) but
everything to do with diluting it (A/AC.131/SR.375).

C. Armed struggle waged by SWAPO

-88-

549. The Council's position was conveyed to the Ministerial Meeting of the
Co-ordinating Bureau of the Non-Aligned Countries held at Havana from 31 May to
5 June 1982, and was incorporated in the Final Communique adopted by the Bureau at
the conclusion of the meeting (see paras. 118 and 125-139 above).

551. By its resolution 31/146 of 20 December 1976, the ~eneral Assembly recognized
the legitimacy of the armed struggle waged by the people of Namibia. In numerous
subsequent resolutions, the Assembly has ~ontinued to call for material support,
including military support, to be rendered to SWAPO for the intensification of that
struggle. This call has been endorsed by important intergovernmental organizations
such as OAU and the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.

548. For its part, the Council has maintained, most recently in the Arusha
Declaration and Programme of Action on Namibia (see para. 767 below), that the
united Nations plan embodied in Security Council resolutions 385 (1976) and
435 (1978) is the sole and universally accepted basis for a negotiat~d settlement
and has called for its immediate implementation without modification, dilution or
prevarication. The Council has also denounced the united States policy of
collaborating with the racist regime of South Africa and of engaging in hostile
acts and propaganda against SWAPO, as well as its attempts to characterize the
liberation struggle in Namibia as part of an Easl-West confrontation. In
particular, the Council has declar~d that the attempts to link the question of
Namibia with irrelevant and extraneous issues are designed solely to justify the
illegal occupation of Namibia by racist South Africa, thus delaying the
independence of the Territory. The Council has also opposed the attempts by the
contact group to impose on the people of Namibia a totally unjustifiable electoral
system which would lead to the establishment of a neo-'colonial regime in Namibia.
It has also reaffirmed its complete solidarity with and full support for SWAPO, the
sole and authentic representative of the Namibian people, and has commended it for
the constructive attitude, the high qualities of statesmanship and the diplomatic
skill demonstrated during the negotiations.

550. In the face of the continued illegal occupation and militarization of their
homeland and the increased repression visited upon them by tre /acist Pretoria
regime, the people of Namibia "mder the leadership of 3'lAPO t i:h~ir sole and
authentic representative, have intensified their armed liberation struggle.

552. During the period under review, the combatants of PLAN, the military wing of
SWAPO, intensified the armed struggle and scored numerous successes against the
racist South African forces in Namibia, resulting in heavy casualties and
destruction of military installations and equipment on the side of the occupation
forces.

of

Lon

bet

ple

'{ I
'{ I

r __ t

ars

ted

s

:or
•



·=::="~~C"C.c::_-=~c:::c"., :.~

~ \-

.ution
of the
lerpetuate
ces.
If the
but

the
d
tlement
.tion or

>stile
the

n of
fy the

by the
lectoral
amibia.
WAPO, the
d it for
lomatic

ay to
ureau at

their
oria
d

cognized
umerous
pport,
rl of that
nizations

dng of
t the

upation

553. While the world was being told that South Africa was ready to sign a
cease-fire agreement and thereby put an end to the long, drawn-out military
conflict in Namibia and come to a~settlement, the illegal occupation forces
launched a new military offensive. That offensive was further proof, if proof were
indeed needed, of Pretoria's unwillingness to end its illegal and oppressive
occupation of Namibia.

554. SWAPO responded to these new acts of belligerence with a series of successful
operations against the occupation forces (see A/AC.131/L.251/Rev.l, paras. 81-90).
One of the most recent of these was conducted in August 1982, when PLAN cadres
brought down a total of seven South African helico~ters and six Mirage jet-fighters.

555. The attempts by South Africa to crush PLAN and to conceal the successes uf
SWAPO in the military field have clearly failed.

556. The military achievements of PLAN have proved that Pretoria's sophisticated
military machinery, which has been built up through the collusion of certain
Western powers and Israel with racist South Africa, is not invulnerable when
confronted by the steadfast determination of the Namibian people to achieve freedom
and independence in a united Namibia.

557. In this respect, the Council expresses its continup.d solidarity with and
support for the Namibian people in their legitimate armed struggle.

D. Contacts between Member States an~~South Africa

558. By paragraph 29 of its resolution 36/121 B, the General A~sembly requested the
Co~ncil to submit to the Assembly a comprehensive r~port on all contacts between
Member states and SOuth Africa, containing a systematic analysis of the information
received from Membp.r States and other source;s on t.he conti,nuing political,
economic, financial and other relations of States and their economic and other
interests with South Africa and of measures taken by Member States to terminate all
dealings with the racist regime of South Africa~

559. In accordance with that request, the Council compiled, during the period under
review, information regarding contacts between Member Stat~s and SOuth Africa.

560. The Council is currently considering a compreh3nsive report prepared by the
secretariat on the basis of the information gathered. It is expected that the
report on contacts between Member States and South Africa will be a document of the
International Conference in Support of the Struggle of the Namibian People for
Independence, to be held in 1983, and will subsequently be submitted to the General
Assembly at its thirty-eighth sessio~

-89-

, I



VII. CONSIDERATION OF LEGAL MATTERS CONCERNING NAMIBIA

561. By its resolution 2248 (S-V), the General Assembly delegated to the United
Nations Council for Namibia the direct responsibility which the united Nations had
assumed fnr Narnii"ia following th~; termination of South Africa I s mandate for the
administration of the Territory.

562. Specifically, the Assembly entrusted to the Council the ~esponsibility (a) of
administering Namibia until independence, and (b) of promulgating such laws,
decrees and administrative regulations as are necessary for the administration of
the Territory until it achieves independenceo

563. In pursuance of that mandate and in accordance with subsequent General
Assembly resolutions defining the Council's responsibilitiesr the Council continued
during the period under review to undertake various activities in the legal sphere
with a view to safeguarding the interests of the Namibian people.

564. By resolution 3067 (XXVIII) of 16 November 1973, the General Assembly decided
to convene the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and requested
the Secretary-General to invite the Council to particirate in the Conference.
Subsequently, the ASbembly decided, in its resolution 34/92 C of 12 December 1979,
to grant full membership in the Conferenc~ to Namibia, represented by the Council
as the legal Administering Au~hority for the Territory.

565. The Council participated actively in the eleventh session of the Third United
Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea, held in New York from 8 March to
30 ~pril 1982, and was g' jnted the right to sign and ratify, on behalf of Namibia,
ti~,: united l~ations C-:"'ilvention on the Law of the Sea, adopted at that sesffSion.

566. In the performance of its legal responsibilities towards Namibia, the Council
undertook in i~s Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action on Namibia (see
para. 767 below) to determine the extent of the territorial sea and of the
contiguous zone of Namibia, proclaim Namibia's exclusive economic zone and delimit
its continental shelf. In that context, the Council declared null and void South
Africa's illegal attempts to extend the territorial sea of Namibia and to proclaim
an exclusive economic zone for the Territory, over which it has no jurisdiction.

•
570. B
send m
Namibi
contin
should
in Nam

571. I
which
their
of the

572. B
agenci
JDemer
the le
Aa des
period
organi

567. By its resolution 36/121 C, the General Assembly decided that the Council
should take measu~es to ensure compliance with the provisions ot Decree No. 1 for
the ~rotection of the Natural Resources of Namibia, including consideration of the
institution of legal proceedings in the domestic courts 'of States and other
appropriate bodies.

568. Accordingly, the Council formulat~d guidelines for the preparation of studies
by lawyers on the possibility of instituting legal proceedings in the domestic
courts of various countries where corporations engaged in economic activities
c~ncerning Namibia's resources are based (see A/AC.13l/L.254). These guidelines
are in keeping with the recommendations of the Seminar on Legal Issues concerning
c~e Question of Namibia, conducted by the Council at The Hague from 22 to
24 June 1981 (A/AC.13l/L. 218, paras. 41-54).

569. The prelimdnary list of countries to be covered by the studies includes the
United States, Japan, France, the Federal Re9ublic of Germany, the Netherlands, the
United Kingdom and other members of EEC.

-90-



I
-~----~-~~ _._.,~~----- - -_ .._._-----~

570. By the same resolution, the General Assembly decided that the Council should
send missions of consultation to Governments whose corporations have investments in
Namibia, in order to review with them all posslble action to discourage the
continuation of such investments. "The Assembly also decided that the Council
should contact administering anc managing bodies of foreign corporations operating
in Namibi~ regarding the illegal ~asis of their operations in the Territory.

571. In compliance with the latter provision, the Council dispatched a mission
which co~tacted cOLporations in Western Europe in June and July 1982 to discuss
their operations in Namibia, with a view to discouraging the illegal exploitation
of the Territory's human and natural resources (see paras. 339 to 344 above).

572. By its resolution 36/J2l D, the General Assembly requested all ~pecialized
agencies and other institutions of the United Nations syst~m to grant full
membership to N~mibia, represented by the COuncil, so that it might participate as
the legal Administering Authority for Namibia in the work of those organizations.
Aa described in paragraphs 285 to 291 above, the Council continued, during the
period unde~ review, to represent Namibia in a number of international
organi~ations and conferences.

-91-

\.



576~ Throughout the period under review, South Africa continued to reinforce the
subL~,vient institutions it has installed in the Territory in violation of the
relevant united Nations resolutions.

585.
in Na
AG.9
for N

586.
homes
held
11 in
Namib

583.
exten
witho
admin
of th
from
from
be us

~87.

has c.
Angol.
numbe
in An

584.
detai
any m
peri

582.
natio
indep
mass
their

588.
of He
minis
medic
activ
the t

589.
Namib'
educa
cloth!
faci!'
agenc
for e
with

A. Political repression and human rights violations

-92-

574. By its resolution 36/121 e, the General Assembly reaffirmed that mandate and
requested the Council to review the progress of the liberation struggle in Namibia
in its social aspect, among others, and to prepare periodic reports related
thereto. The Assembly also decided that the Council should conduct hearings and
seminars in order to obtain information on the exploitation of the people and
resources of Namibia by South African and other foreign interests and to expose
such activities.

573. In the exercise of its mandate as the legal Administering Authority for
Namibia until independence, the Council continues to maintain under constant review
the social conditions in the Territory affecting the struggle of the Namibian
people for self-determination, freedom and national independence in a united
Namibia.

VIII. CONSIDERATION OF SOCIAL MATTERS CONCERNING NAMIBIA

575. During the period under review, the abject living conditions of the large
majority of N&mibians continued to deteriorate as a consequence of the increasingly
repressive policies of the illegal occupation regime of South Africa. South
Africa's racist and exploitative practices caused widespread malnutrition and a
high incidence of disease in the Namibian population. Furthermore, there was
serious unemployment resulting from the inhuman labour system and the lack of
educational opportunities for Namibians.

577. The racist South African administration, in turn) continued to enact illegal
"legislative" measures in the Territory in an attempt to keep the Namibian paople
under its stranglehold.

579. D~ring the period under review, the South African authorities continued to
apply the proclamation rigorously in order to perpetuate their apartheid policies
and further entrench South Africa's illegal occupation of the Territory.

578. On 24 April 1980, it enacted Proclamation AG.8, the Representative Authorities
Proclamation, which was intended to serv~ as the "interim constitution" of the
Territory. This proclamation purported to divide Namibian society into 12 mutually
exclusive groups on the basis of racial origin.

580. Political repress\on and violation of the human rights of the Naroibian people
manifested themselves in a variety of forms, including blatantly discriminatory
measures affecting all spheres of life in the Territory.

581. Contrary to claims ~y the illegal South African administration to the effect
that there is no longer racial discrimination in Namibia, discriminatory practices
against the black population not only endure but indeed have increased in number
and intensity. The repressive and discriminatory laws which govern education,
housing, employment and all other aspects of the daily life of Namibians hav~ been
directly imported from South Africa itself.

,"
~."

1
'/. j
I
I

·1

I i
./
I i

i
I



582. These repressive laws also serve as the basis for the effort to crush the
national liberation struggle waged by SWAPO for self-determination and
independence. Under these laws, the South African authorities r•.we carried out
mass arrests and held many SWAPO members and supporters without trial because of
their opposition to South Africa's illegal occupation of the Territory.

583. In its 1981 report, Amnesty International confirmed that there continued to be
extensive violations of human rights in Namibia. Many Namibians are detained
without trial and tortured while others are SUbjected to restrictions under
administrative orders such as "release warrants". Among other things, the victi~s
of these measures may be placed under total or partial house arrest, prohibited
from receiving visitors at home, restricted to a particular district or prohibited
from working in public service. The so-called Terrorism Act of 1967 continues to
be used against Nanibian political a~t~vists.

584. Under Proclamation AG.26 of 1978, many political activists are arbitr~rily
detained and held incommunicado for indefinite periods. The detainees are denied
any means of challenging their detention orders and can also be held for extensive
periods of interrogation.

585. Large numbers of political prisoners are known to be held at various prisons
in Namibia. These include some 120 detainees held incommunicado under Proclamation
AG.9 since their abduction by South African military forces in May 1978 from a camp
for Namibians at Cassinga in southern Angola.

586. An increasing number of people have reportedly been disappearing from their
homes as a result of police or army action. Men or women are often arrested and
held incommunicado indefinitely in "open-air" prisons or "iron stalls, with 10 to
11 individuals in a room m~asuring 3.5 metres by 3 metres in size". 32/ Many
Namibians abducted in this way have never been seen alive again.

B. Refugees

~a7. South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia and its repression of Namibians
has c~used a steady flow of Namibian refugees into the neighbouring States of
An90l~ Zambia and Botswana at an estimated rate of 500 new arrivals per week. The
number of Namibians in exile is currently estimated by UNHCR at 75,000, with 70,000
in Angola, 4,300 in Zambia and a substantial number in BJcswana.

588. SWAPO has taken steps to alleviate the plight of the refugees. The Department
of Health and Social Welfare of SWAPO, working in close collaboration w~th the
ministries of the host countries and the Council, has succeeded in obtaining some
medical assistance. The Department of Education and Culture has been particularly
active in developing and implementing a number of programmes for the education of
the thousands of displaced and disabled Namibians in refugee camps.

589. During the review period, UNHCR also continued to render assistance to
Namibian refugees. Its activities included supplementary feeding programmes,
educational as£istance at all levels, social counselling, supply of medicines and
clothing, agricultural assistance and the development of health and educational
facilities for refugees, such as the Nyango centre run by SWAPO in Zambia. Other
agencies and organizations also contributed to the refugee assistance programmeD
for example, the World Food Programme provided food under a bilateral agreement
with the host Government, Botswana.

-93-

-:--..
f·



I

590. The implementation of the UNHCR programme of assistance to Namibian refugees
in Angola was made extremely difficult by the repeated armed attacks by South
Africa against Angola which resulted in loss of life and destructioll of property,
making any planning by the agency virtually impossible and greatly straining
existing resources.

C. Economic exploitation

591. Of the total area of Namibia (824,269 square kilometres), South Africa has
appropriated more than 60 per cent, constituting the most economically viable part
of the Territory, exclusively for occupation and utilization by the white
minority. This area includes the best farming land, all urban areas and mineral
deposits, as well as game parks.

592. On the other hand, South Africa has demarcated on a tribal basis
10 non-contiguous "homelands" in the most unproductive parts of the Territory,
amounting to less than 40 per cen~ of the total area, for occupation by the African
majority.

593. South Africa's occupation of Namibia has thus resulted in a colonial economy
in which the colonialist white sector thrives on the ruthless exploitation of the
dispossessed black majority.

594. In addition, South African and Western transnational corporations and
financial interests, which illegally operate in defiance of Decree No. 1 for the
Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia, continue to absorb more than half
of Namibia's gross domestic product each year and are party to South Africa's
illegal exploitation of Namibian resources. Moreover, these corporations continue
to practice racial discrimination by, inter alia, maintaining wage and salary
differentials based on colour. White workers constitute about 75 per cent of the
elite class of managerial, administrative and technical professionals, while black
workers are forced to accept low-paying menial jobs.

595. The migrant labour system in Namibia has created deep resentment and
opposition among the workers who are forced to live under it. The system involves
spending long periods away from the worker's home. Accommodation at the place of
work is provided under squalid conditions in male hostels, which are frequently
raided by the illegal South African police. Black employees of Rossing Uranium,
for example, are restricted to Arandis, where they are forced to live under
miserable conditions.

596. Whenever attempts to form workers' unions are made, the illegal South African
administration suppresses these efforts t~rough banning and detention of the union
leaders.

597. The ruthless economic exploitation of the Namibian people has led to an
increased migration of the rural population to the towns in search of employment,
which has greatly contributed to the serious unemployment problem throughout the
Territory.

-94-

I

60
sy
de



-95-

HealthD.

E. Education

603. White school-children enjoy a modern and comprehensive educational system,
while educational facilities for black children are non-existent in some areas and,
at best, mediocre in others. There are differences in school facilities, classroom
practices, teacher training programmes, teachers' salaries, teacher-pupil ratios
and. in the amount of money spent per pupil per year.

602. The racist policy of the illegal regime is also reflected in the educational
system, which is blatantly discriminatory against the majority black population and
designed only to further the interests of the white minority.

601. The Council authorized the Commissioner to take appropriate steps to ensure
the delivery of medicines and medical supplies to those Namibians in need of
assistance.

604. The restrictions on the educational opportunities of black children are such
that in 1981, out of a potential black secondary '>~hool population of 67,436, only
16 per cent attended secondary school.

600. In the spring of 1982, an epidemic of hepatitis broke out in northern
Namibia. Thousands of Namibians were affected, many of whom died. The President
of SWAPO appealed to the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia for medical
assistance, observing that the South African authorities in the Territory were not
making any effort to bring the disease under control. The SWAPO medical staff was
treating those affected Namibians who had been brought to the SWAPO medical centres
in Angola.

599. In its consideration of the social conditions in Namibia, the Council took
into account the testimony given at the hearings on Namibian uranium, held at
United Nations Headquarters in New York between 7 and 11 June 1980, where it was
pointed out that Namibians working in the uranium mines at Rossing, as weH as the
general population in the surrounding areas, were subjected to serious health
hazards as a result of the absence of safeguards against radio-active contamination.

598. During the period under review, the Council noted with deep concern the
continuing lack of he?lth care for the black majority in Namibia. The African
population suffers from serious health problems as a result of poverty,
malnutrition, squalid housing and poor working conditions, all of which stem from
the unscrupulous exploitation to which they are subjected by South Africa. Among
other things, there is widespread tuberculosis and a high infant mortality rate
among the black population.

I

I

n



A. General

IX. ACTIVITIES OF THE COUNCIL IN THE FIELD OF DISSEMINATION OF
INFORMATION AND PUBLICITY CONCERNING NAMIBIA

605. In its resolution 36/121 E on dissemination of information on Namibia, the
General Assembly stressed the urgent need to mobilize international public opinion
on a continuous basis with a view to assisting effectively the people of Namibia in
the achievement of self-determination, freedom and independence in a vnited Namibia
and, in particular, to intensify the world-wide and continuous dissemination of
information on the struggle for liberation being waged by the people of Namibia
under the leadership of SWAPO, their sole and authentic representative.

606. By the same resolution, the Assembly reiterated the importance of publicity as
an instrument for furthering the mandate given by the General Assembly to the
Council and requested the Secretary-General to ensure that the Department of Public
Information of the Secretariat, in all its activities of disseminaticn of
information on the question of Namibia, would follow the policy guidelines laid
down by the Council as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia.

607. The Asserbly decided to launch an international campaign in support of the
cause of Namibia and to expose and denounce the collusion of certain western
countries with the South African racists and, to that end, requested the Co~r~il to
formulate a programme of activities on dissemination of information, including the
following: .

(a) Preparation and dissemination of publications on the political, economic,
military and social consequences of the illegal occupation of Namibia by South
Africa, as well as on legal matters and on the question of the territorial
integrity of Namibia,

(b) Production and dissemination of radio prgrammes in English, French,
German and Spanish, designed to draw the attention of worla public opinion to the
current situation in Namibia!

(c) Production of material for publicity through radio and television
broadcasts,

(d) Placement of advertisements in newspapers and magazines;

(e) Production of films, film-strips and slide sets on Namibia!

(f) Production and dissemination of-posters;

(g) Full utilization of the resources related to press releases, press
conferences and press briefings in order to maintain a constant flow of information
to the pUblic on all aspects of the question of Namibia,

(h) Production and dissemination of a comprehensive economic map of Namibial

(i) Preparation and wide dissemination of booklets containing the texts of
official declarations of the Council, joint communiques and press releases issued
by missions of consultation of the Council, and resolutions of the General Assembly

-96-



-------'-_ ' .___ C' - - : __ :..cc::=" ~ cc:.::.'.:..=-=--=.=:-..:,-:::.""

If

and the Security Council on the question of Namibia, together with relevant
portions of Assembly resolutions on the question of foreign economic interests
operating in Namibia and on military activities in Namibia,

(j) Publicity for and distribution of an indexed reference book on
transnational corporations involved in Namibia,

lion
la in
nibia

:y as

Iblic

.1 to
the

,mic,

he

tien
,f,)

ial

C

!d
nbly

(k) Preparation and dissemination of a booklet based on a study on the
implementation of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of
Namibial

(1) Acquisition of already published books and pamphlets for further
dissemination.

608. During the period under review, the Council continued to disseminate
information to Governments, leading opinion makers, media leaders, political and
academic institutions and other concerned non-governmental organizations, cultural
organizations and support groups concerning the objectives and functions of the
Council and the struggle of the Namibian people under the leadership of SWAPO. It
also held consultations with and sought the co-operation of those personalities and
institutions by inviting them on special occasions to participate in the
deliberations of the Council.

609. The Council worked closely, through its Standing Committee Ill, with the
Department of Public Information in its endeavor to intensify informational
activities related to the question of Namibia and to give. that Department guidance
on specific projects for dissemination of information to the general public.

610. Standing Committee III approved its programme of work for 1982
(A/AC.13l/L.223) at its 88th and 89th meetings, on 28 and 29 January 1982.

B. Celebration of Namib:i.a Day and the Week of Solidarity
with the People of Namibia and their Liberation
Movement, SWAPO

611. By its resolution 31/150 of 20 December 1976, the General Assembly decided to
observe the week of 27 OCtober as a week of solidarity with the people of Namibia
and their liberation movement, SWAPO, as proposed by Mr. Leopold Sedar Senghor,
then President of Senegal, at the Dakar International Conference on Namibia and
Human Rights e held at Dakar from 5 to 8 January 1976. 33/ That decision was
endorsed by the International Conference in Support of the Peoples of Zimbabwe and
Namibia, held at Maputo from 16 to 21 May 1977. 34/ In 1981, the Council observed
the Week of Solidarity from 26 to 30 OCtober 1981. The observance in 1981 was of
special significance, since it coincided with the fifteenth anniversary of the
adoption of Gen~ral Assembly resolution 2145 (XXI), by which the Assembly
terminated the~andate of South Africa to administer Namibia and placed the
Territory under the direct responsibility of the United Nations.

612. The programme for the observance of the Week of Solidarity, as approved by the
Council, included two special meetings of the Council, the 364th and 365th
meetings, held on 26 OCtober 1981, at which statements were made by the President
of the General Assembly, the Secretary-General of the United Nations, the President
of the Security Council, the Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation

-97-



I
-98-

616. At the United Nations, the Week of Solidarity was also marked by a
photographic exhibition, as well as the screening of the films "Remember Cassinga~,
"Free Namibia" and "Namibia: A Trust Betrayed", and the video productions "South
Africa's Bombshell", "Follow the Yellowcake Road" and "Mercenaries for Southern
Africa".

615. On behalf Qf the Council, the President thanked the Governments and
organizations that had sent messages, as well as the speakers, representatives and
others who had participated in the solemn meetings, for their expressions of
support for the Council and of solidarity with the people of Namibia and their
national liberation movement, SWAPO, the sole and authentic representative of the
Namibian people.

617. At its 384th and 385th meetings, on 26 August 1982, the Council held its
annual commemoration of Namibia Day, in accordance with General Assembly resolution
311 (XXVIII) of 12 December 1973. This is an important occasion as it marks the
day in 1966 on which the combatants of PLAN, the military wing of SWAPO, launched
the armed liberation struggle against the occupying forces of South Africa. The
legitimacy of the armed struggle waged by SWAPO has been explicitly recogflized b¥
the General Assembly since 1976 (see para. 551 above). The Assembly has on
numerous occasions, most recently in resolution 36/121 A, called on Member States,
specialized agencies and other international organizations to render sustained and
increased support as well as material, fina~cial, military and other assistance to
SWAPO to enable it to intensify the struggle for liberation of Namibia.

618. During the meetings, st~tements were made by the President of the Security
Council, th~ representative of the Secretary-General, the Vice-Chairman of the
Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial COuntries and Peoples, the

614. Messages were also received from the Vice-Premier and Minister for Foreign
Affairs of China, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Indonesia and the Minister
for Foreign Affairs of Japan. The Directors-General of ILO, FAO and UNESCO also
sent messages. Other messages were received from the Polish Committee for
Solidarity with the Peoples of Asia and Africa and the President of the Hungarian
Solidarity Committee.

with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, the Chairman of the Special
Commmittee against Apartheid, the Chairman of the Committee on the Exercise of the
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, the Chairman of the Non-Aligned Group
at the United Nations, the President of the United Nations Council for Namibia, the
representative of the Chairman of OAU, the Chairman of the Group of African States,
the Chairman of the Group of Asian States, the Chairman of the Group of Eastern
European States, the Chairman of the Group of Western European and Other States,
the Chairman of the Group of Latin American States, the representative of the
Chairman of the Organization of the Islamic Conference, the Permanent Observer of
the League of Arab States, the Permanent Observer of the PLO, and the Secretary for
Foreign Relations of SWAPO.

613. Messages from the heads of State or Government of Bangladesh, Guinea, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Pakistan, Panama, Senegal, Suriname, Viet Nam, and
Yugoslavia were received and read out by their respective representatives during
the meeting.

, i



:>f the
:I Group
La, the
:;tates,
!rn
::es,

tr of
try for

lli,

~ing

~gn

Iter
llsp

lrian

lS and

,r
, the

,inga lll ,
outh
rn

lution
the
ched
The
c1 by

ates,
c1 and
ce to

, the

I

Chairman of the Special Committee againct Apartheid, the Acting Chairman of the
Committee on the F~ercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People and
Chairman of the NOli-Aligned Group; the Chairman of the Senate of the United Nations
Institute for Namibia, the President of the United Nations Council for Namibia, the
representative of the Chairman of OAU, the Chairman of the Group of Asian States,
the Chairman of the Group of Eastern European States, the Chairman of the Group of
Latin American States, the Chairman of the Group of Western European and other
States, the Permanent Observer of the League of Arab States, the Chairman of the
Organization of the Islamic Conference, the Permanent Observer of the PLO, the
representative of ANC, the Chairman of the Southern Africa Sub-Committee of the NGO
Committee on Human Rights, and the Permanent Observer of SWAPOe

619. Messages from the General Secretary of the People1s Democratic party of
Afghanistan and President of the Revolutionary Council, the President of the
Council of Ministers of the Government of Bangladesh, the Secretary-General of the
Yemeni Socialist Party and Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme People1s
Council and Premier of Democratic Yemen, the Prime Minister of Turkey, the
President of Senegal, the President of Pakistan, the Prime Minister of Yemen, the
President of Sierra Leone, the President of Guyana, the President of Egypt, the
President of Guinea and the Head of State of Liberia and Chairman of the People1s
Redemption Council of Liberia were read by the representatives of their countries.

620. The President of the United Nations Council ror Namibia expressed the thanks
of the Council for: messages received from the Vice-President for Foreign Affairs
of Democratic Kampuchea, the State Counsellor and Minister for Foreign Affairs of
China, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Bangladesh, the Minister for Foreign
Affairs of Japan, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Indonesia, the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of Algeria, the Minister for External Relations of Ecuador and the
Minister for External Relations and Worship of Argentina and the Minister for
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Korealmessages from the European Economic
Community and the five Nordic countries, a joint statement received from the
Solidarity Committee, the Peace Council and the Committee for the Decade for action
to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination of the German Democratic Republic and
statements from ILO and FAO. The President announced that those messages would be
reproduced in a document of the Council.

C. Press and publications

621. The Council, with the assistance of the Department of Public Information, gave
wide publicity to its work through releases (in English and French) distributed to
the press, delegations and non-governmental organizations at Headquarters, and to
the United Nations information centres throughout the world. The Department issued
releases on all pUblic meetings of the Council at Headquarters as well as on the
eighth emergency special session of the General Assembly, held in September 1981,
the extraordinary plenary meetings of the Council held at Arusha from 10 to
14 May 1982 and the Seminar on the Military Situation in and relating to Namibia,
held at Vienna from 8 tc 11 June 1982.

622. Press releases were issued on the Council1s mission of consultation to Asia
(27 March to 13 April 1982). In addition, texts of statements concerning Namibia
by the President of the Council, the Secretary-General and the President of the
General Assembly were distributed to non-governmental organizations, the media and
educational institutions.

-99-



-100-

625. Material on the question of Namibia was provided to the pool of non-aligned
news agencies on a regular basis and information on the Council's activities was
transmitted to the network of United Nations information centres for dissemination
to the local media.

631. In accordance with General Assembly resolution 35/227 H of 6 March 1981, the
Council requested the Cartographic Unit of the Department of Conference Services to
undertake the research necessary to prepare a comprehensive economic map of
Namibia. Standing Committee III has maintained liaison with the Unit regarding

629. Two booklets produced under the supervision of Standing Committee Ill,
entitled "Military Situation in and relating to Namibia" and "Namibian Uranium",
were also disseminated at the Seminar.

627. In accordance with the Council's guidelines, the Department of Public
Information continued to disseminate information on the work of the Council and
other United Nations organs concerned with the question of Namibia through its
periodical pUblications the United Nations Monthly Chronicle and Objective:
Justice, and als~ in such general reference works as the Yearbook of the United
Nations, Everyoneis United Nations, Basic Facts about the united Nations and United
Nations Today (Suggestions for Speakers).

628. In particular, the December 1981 and May 1982 issues of Objective: Justice
included material related to Namibia. The April 1982 issue, which was devoted to
the International Year of Mobilization for Sanctions against South Africa, carried
an article on the continuing ·economic exploitation and militarization of Namibia•
Excerpts from this article, dealing with the military situation in Namibia, were
reprinted under separate cover in connection with the Seminar on the Military
Situation in and relating to Namibia.

630. During the period under review, the Department of: Public Information
published, at the request of the Council, a booklet entitled United Nations Council
for Namibia: Meetings at Panama, which contains excerpts from statements made
during those meetings, as well as the texts of the Panama Declaration and Programme
of Action on Namibia and of Decree No. I-for the Protection of the Natural
Resources of Namibia. A booklet on the hearings on Namibian uranium and an
up-dated/ version of the pamphlet Namibia: A Unigue United Nations Responsibility
are being produced.

626. The United Nations information centres assisted in the dissemination of press
releases on major United Nations reports, statements and events relating to
Namibia. These press releases were distributed to non-governmental organizations,

. the media and educational institutions. Centre directors also initiated direct
i contacts with the media so as to encourage the media to disseminate information on

the question of Namibia. Several centres reported that articles had been written
in the local press and special broadcasts made on the situation in Namibia.

623. The solemn meeting of the Council commemorating the week of Solidarity with
the People of Namibia and their Liberation Movement, SWAPO (26 to 30 OCtob~r 1981)

i was also given coverage •
.J
1
i 624. The activities of the Council were pUblicized through the daily United Nations
I press briefings for the press corps and delegation press officers, and through
1 press conferences given by representatives of the Council.
j
I
!

I I
t 1
I j

i

,
"d

I

Id

lve
:0

I

led

le

I.

:s

.on

100



-
that request. The map is expected to be completed in time for the International
Conference in Support of the Struggle of the Namibian People for Independence in
1983.

D. Radio and visual services

632. During the period under review, the Council continued to arrange for radio
coverage of dev~lopments relating to Namibia and the work of the General Assembly,
the Security Council, the United Nations Council for Namibia and other United
Nations bodies concerned with Namibia. Coverage wa~ provided in the following
languages: Atrikaans, Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Greek, Hebrp.w, Japanese,
Pilipino, Portuguese, Russian, Somali, Sotho, Spanish, Swahili, Tswana, Turkish,
Xhosa and Zulu. Radio and photo coverage was also provided for the extraordinary
plenary meetings of the Council held at Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania, in
May 1982 as well as the Seminar on the Military Situation in and relating to
Namibia.

633. The question of Namibia was featured in part or in full in the radio
programmes Perspective, UN Calling Asia, UN Africa, l'Afrique a l'ONU, l'ONU et
l'Afrique, Zona Internacional, Actualidades, A Vitrina do Mundo, Programa da ONO
£ara Portugal, Afakon Almaiah, Puntos Cardinales, Perspectiva Internacional and a
large number of the anti-apartheid programmes. A series of six radio programmes in
Spanish entitled Namibia - the Legal Issues was produced and distributed to
stations in Latin America. The English version of this series is under
production. Also, production has begun on a new special series of six quarter-hour
radio programmes in English entitled Namibia Update.

634. The Department of Public Information continued to provide television and photo
coverage of the activities and programmes relating to the work of the Council. The
coverage of the eighth emergency special session of the General Assembly was
disseminated through the news agencies. The visual material was telecast by
Eurovision and 36 other stations. In this regard, the Council feels it necessary
that it be provided with full details, inclUding scripts and/or outlines, of major
undertakings by the Department in the field of dissemination of information on
Namibia, particularly radio programmes and films, before their production.

635. A 60-second television spot on Namibia was released in English, French,
Spanish and Arabic and distribvced through the United Nations information centres
and United Nations agencies in commemoration of Namibia Day.

E. Other activities

636. The President of the Council, accompanied by the United Nations Commissioner
for Namibia, attended the Mass Media Leaders Round-table, held by the Department of
Public Information at Budapest from 8 to 10 February 1982. The meeting, which was
attended by 29 representatives of the news media from socialist countries, devoted
one of its sessions to the problems of South Africa and Namibia. Similar
round-table meetings were held in Paris, London, Bangkok, Arusha, Quito and many
cities of the United States.

637. The 1981 United Nations fellowship programme organized by the Department of
Public Information for educators in Africa, Europe and the Middle East was held at

-101-

.~

" ,



..~. ,- .-.- .'
Addis Ababa from 16 October to 6 Nov€:,nber 1981. The programme included special
lectures, films and displays on decolonization questions, including Namibia.
Workshop sessions also dealt with methods of teaching the sUbject. The 1982 United
Nations Day student leaflet, which was devoted to decolonization, included an
informative section on Namibia.

638. A delegation of the Council gave a briefing and discussed the question of
Namibia at length with approximately 20 students fr.om the University of Wisconsin.

639. The 1982 graduate student intern programme gave significant attention to
United Nations activities concerning Namibia. The question of Namibia was
discussed in the course of a lecture programme that focused on the political role
of the United Nations, the activities of the Security Council and the role of the
United Nations Council for Namibia. Approximately 100 persons from 55 countries
took part in the programme.

640. A short explanation of United Nations activities on Namibia has been included
in the one-hour lecture tour givert by united Nations guides at Headquarters.
Several briefings on developments in Namibia were arranged for non-governmental and
other organizations, and a variety of relevant materials on Namibia was distributed
to the public.

F. Dissemination of information by the Office of the United Nations
Commissioner for Namibia

641. The Commissioner's Office continued to serve as an additional source of
information on the activities of the Council. It prepared the SUbstantive parts of
the ~amibia Bulletin, a quarterly publication in English, Spanish, French and
German. The ~ommissioner's Office also published Namibia in the News, a weekly
newsletter distributed to all Member States and non-governmental organizations.
The Office also gave briefings to non-governmental organizations, support
organizations and student groups on the activities of the Council.

642. By its resolution of 7 February 1980 (A/AC.131/74), the Council requested the
Commissioner, in consult~t~0n with Standing Committee III of the Council, to
prepare and publish an information booklet on the Nationhood Programme for Namibia
as an activity of the Council. Accordingly, an information brochure was published
in September 1981. The Office of the Commissioner also assisted the Council in the
following activities:

(a) Preparation and dissemination of publications on the political, economic,
military and social consequences of the illegal occupation of Namibia by South
Africa, as well as on legal matters and o~ the question of the territorial
integrity of Namibia1

(b) Dissemination of films, film-strips and slide sets on Namibia!

(c) Dissemination of posters1

(d) Acquisition of already published books and pamphlets for further
dissemination<

-102-

64
20
fo
So
re
so
In
co

ma
re



d

d
d

f

e

.'

I

X. UNITED NATIONS FUND FOR NAMIBIA

A. Establishment of the Fund, general developments and
sources of financing

1. Establishment of the Fund

643. By its resolutions 2679 (XXV) of 9 December 1970 and 2872 (XXVI) of
20 December 1971, the General Assembly decided to establish a United Nations Fund
for Namibia. Its decision was based on the consideration that, having terminated
South Africa's mandate to administer the Territory and having itself assumed direct
responsibility for Namibia until independence, the United Nations had incurred a
solemn obligation to assist the people of the Territory in their struggle for
Independence and that, to that end, the United Nations should provide them with
comprA.hensive assistance.

644. Since the Fund became operative in 1972, the programmes of assistance have
been continuously expanded by the General Assembly on the recommendations of the
United Nations Council for Namibia and the Security Council. In 1975, the Fund
became the vehicle for financing the United Nations Institute for Namibia and a
special account was approved by the Assembly und~r resolution 33/182 C of
21 December 1978 for financing the Nationhood Programme for Namibia, established
pursuant to Assembly resolution 31/153 of 20 December 1976. The Fund is thus now
composed of three separate accounts: (a) the General Account for educational,
social and relief activities, (b) the Trust Fund for the Institute, and (c) the
Trust Fund for the Nationhood Programme.

645. While, until 1973, the Council acted only in an advisory capacity to the
Secretary-General as regards the administration and supervision of the Fund,
the General Assembly, by resolution 3112 (XXVIII) of 12 December 1973, appointed
the Council itself trustee of the Fund. The guidelines for the orientation,
management and administration of the Fund were approved by the Assembly in its
resolution 31/151 of 20 December 1976.

2. Sources of financing

646. It is the task of the Council, the Secretary-General and the United Nations
Commissioner for Namibia to mobilize the resources for the financing of the Fund.

647. Voluntary contributions are to be the major source of financing of the Fund.
The Assembly has appealed to Governments and their respective national
organizations and institutions for voluntary contributions to the Fund, and for
special contributions earmarked for the Institute and the Nationhood Programme. By
its resolution 33/182 C, the Assembly requested the Secretary-General and the
Council to appeal to Governments, the specialized agencies and other organizations
and bodies within the united Nations system, governmental and non-governmental
organizations and private individuals for additional financial contributions to the
Fund.

648. Since the Fund was established in 1970, the General Assembly has each year
authorized as an interim measure an allocation from the regular budget to help
implement the Fund's programme. Thus, by resolution 36/121 F of 10 December 1981,

-103-

•

- j
i

•



the Assembly decided as a temporary measure to allocate SUS 1 million to the Fund
in 1982 from the regular budget.

649. UNDP finances assistance projects for Namibia and has for that purpose
established an indicative planning figure for Namibia. In 1980, the Governing
Council of UNDP set a figure of SUS 7,750,000 for Namibia for the 1982-1986
indicative planning cycle, of which SUS 6,200,000, or 80 per cent, was earmarked
for programming. With an uncommitted balance of SUS 3,637,000 from the 1977-1981
cycle, the total resources available for Namibia now amount to SUS 9,837,000.

650. A delegation of the Oouncil carried out fUnd-raising activities during
February and March 1982 to ensure the financing of the activities of the Institute,
the Nationhood Programme and other programmes financed from the Fund (see
paraso 704-712 below). During th~ period under review3 responses to appeals for
funds were encouraging.

651. Through its three accounts, the Fund received the following income in 1981 and
the first six months of 1982 (figures are in United States dollars):

J

General Account

Trust Fund for the United Nations
Institute for Namibia

Trust f\md for the Nationhood Programme

Total

.ill! !ill
January-June

2 196 766 1 429 023

2 847 602 1 848 341

1 886 182 730 755

6 930 550 4 008 119

652. The pledges and contributions to the Fund for 1981 and the first six months
of 1982 are shown in tables 1 and 2 below.

-104-



'und

-.,'. -

Table 1

United Nations Fund for Namibia' pledges and contributions for 1981

(United States dollars)

ed
981

tute,

or

1 and

Its

Tr.ust Fund for the
General Account Trust Fund for the Institute Nationhood programme

Pledges Collections Pledges Collections Pledges Collections

Argentina 3 607 3 607
Australia 32 575 32 575
Austria 16 700 16 700
Bahamas 1 000 1 0l;1J
Barbados 500 500
Brazil 10 000 10 000 20 000 20 000 10 000
Canada 145 833 145 833
Chile 1 000 1 000
China 20 000 20 000
Denmark 200 000 200 000 126 264 126 264
Finland 48 031 48 031 168 108 168 108 459 794 114 443
France 126 126 126 126
Germany, Federal

Republic of 83 096 43 984
Greece 4 500 4 500 5 500 5 500
Guyana 15 843 15 843
Iceland 4 400 4 400
India 1 000 1 000 2 000 2 000 1 000 1 000
Indonesia 4 000
Iran 4 000 4 000
Ireland 15 134 15 134 15 134 15 134
Italy 20 000 30 000
Japan 10 000 10 000 190 000 190 000
Mexico 5 000 5 000
Netherlands 89 549 42 674 79 600 37 933
New Zealand 4 280 4 280
Nigeria 20 000 20 000 5 000 5 000 5 000 5 000
Norway 176 227 176 227 168 223 168 223
Pakistan 3 000 3 000
Panama 1 000 1 000
Philippines 2 000 1 000 500
Suriname 1 000 1 000 1 000 1 000 1 000 1 000
Sweden 575 032 575 032 599 572 599 572 575 032 575 032
Trinidad and

Tobago
,

493 1 493...
Tunisia 19 461 4 865
Turkey 1 000 1 000 1 000
United States

of America 500 000 500 000
Venezuela 2 000 2 000 1 000 1 000
Yugoslavia 10 000 10 000

Total 925 105 853 769 2 345 561 2 270 417 1 346 313 990 962

-105-



-106-

y Includes collection from previous year' & pledge.

~c_c_~c:::_ :i:~'=:;::-'.::_~~_"':-=-_-=:-.2:.:~=_~::"'=---=_=-:-:--

=--~=7<-~:~

Table 2

I United Nations Fund for Na.ibia, pledges and contributions for January to June 1982

(United States dollara)

Trust Fund for the
Ganeral Account Trust Fund for the Institute Nationhood programme

Pledges CoUections Pledges Collections Pledges Collections

Argentina 1 393 1 393
Australia 35 284 35 284
Austria 16 700 16 700
Brazil 5 O~Q 5 000 10 000 10 000 10 000 20 000
Canada 165 289
China 20 000 20 000
Cyprus 225 225 225
Democratic Yemen 500
DenJlllrk 210 970 105 486
Finland 55 054 55 '054 176 173 176 173 414 527 759 878 !I
France 158 333 124 167
Germany, Federal

Republic of 71 366 71 366
Greece 4 500 4 500 5 500 5 500
Iceland 4 400 4 400
India 2 000 'J. 000
Indonesia 4 000 .. 000
Ireland 8 307
Italy 9 486
Japan 10 000 210 000
Mexico 5 000
Netherlands 87 209 77 519
Norway 200 000 166 667
Pakistan 3 000
Panama 1 000 1 000
Philippines 2 000 500
Republic of Korea 50 000
Suriname 1 000 1 000 1 000
Sweden 504 348
Trinidad and

Tobago 1 493
Turkey 1 500
Venezuela 2 000 1 000

Total 427 89~ 147 331 1 819 543 263 039 699 905 779 878



c:.
, ,

3. Main areas of assistancG
e 1982

ld for the
I Programme

:o11ections

20 000

653. Within its overall terms of re~erence, the Fund's activities were streamlined
in 1978 and 1979 and are now concentrated in three main programmes, (a) the
Nationhood Programme, (b) the United Nations Institute for Namibia, and
(c) educational, social and relief assistance.

654. The Nationhood Programme was launched by the General Assembly to mobilize the
specialized agencies and other organizations and bodies within the United Nation.
system to provide assistance in support of the nationhood of Namibia in the forM of
a consolidated and comprehensive assistance programme.

655. The Institute was established by the Council with the endorsement of the
General Assembly, as a specific institution to undertake research, training,
planning and related activities WIth special reference to the struggle for fre.dc:.
and the establishment of an independent State of Namibia.

B. Nationhood Programme for Namibia

1. Launching of the Programme

657. Expenditures from the Fund on behalf of the three programmes in 1981 and
during the first six months of 1982 were as follows (figures are in United Stat••
dollars),

.ill! !!!i
January-Jun,

3 154 780 330 319

3 411 667 1 530 520

1 178 570 488 817

7 745 017 2 349 656

Nationhood Programme

United Nations Institute for Namibia

Educational, social and relief assistance

658. By its resolution 31/153, the General A~sembly decided to launch, in support
of the nationhood of Namibia, a comprehensive assistance programme within the
United Nations system covering the present period of struggle for independence and
the initial years of independence. By the same resolution, the Assembly called
upon the Council to elaborate, in conSUltation with SWAPO, the guidelines and
policies for such a programme and to direct and co-ordinate its implemer' ~tion.

Total

656. While the two above-mentioned progranmles have been set up with particular
reference to the future attainment of independence. the establishment of State
machinery and the assumption of administrative re~nsibilities~ Namibians, the
third programme, the educational, social and relief assistance, gives particular
emphasis to the immediate, present-day needs and welfare of Namibians in the
struggle for independence. In accordance with the Council's decision, assistance
in this area is administered, to the extent possible, through individual project••

759 878 !I

179 878

-107-



:he
II
t of

le

:e
:1.

11

t

; ,
659. The projects of the Nationhood Programme fall into three broad categories:
(a) pre-independence projectsl (b) transitional projects, and (c) post-independence
projects. The projects currently under way cover various economic and social
fields addressing key problems of Namibian development under the following sectoral
framework:

(a) Productive sectors, inclUding mining, industries, fisheries and
agriculture,

(b) Physical infrastructure and services, including trade, transport and
communications, energy and water and land resources,

(c) Sociai infrastructure ~nd administration, including labour, education,
information, health, nutrition and social services, housing~ building and land use
planning, economic planning, public administration, and the j.udicial system.

660. In designing the projects, careful consideration is given to the special
conditions under which the Nationhood Programme is being implemented during the
present period of struggle for independence. Assistance to a country which is
still under colonial domination and for which the United Nations has assumed direct
responsibility requires an approach somewhat different from that of conventional
technical assistance to independent countries. Implementation of the projects is
made difficult by the general unavailability of reliable socio-economic data on
Namibia. It is further complicated b¥ the lack of access to the Territory owing to
the illegal South African occupation. The training aspects of the projects require
special attention because of the scarcity of educational opportunities for
Namibians under South African rule.

2. Implementation of the Programme

661. The Nationhood Programme consists of two major components: (a) manpower
training programmes for Namibians, and (b) surveys and analyses of the Namibian
economy and social sectors, inclUding identification of development tasks and
policy options. Under the first component, fellowships and group training
opportunities in various economic and social fields have been made available to
several hundred Namibians. Training has also been provided for Namibian
participants in courses and seminars held in Zambia and other African countries.
Th~ number of international experts and consultants employed by the various
executing agencies in the pre-independence phase of the Programme is expected to
exceed 70, for a total of more than 450 man-months. To assist in the
implementation of the Programme, SWAPO, in June 1981, 'es~ablished a Committee on
the Nationhood Programme to streamline procedures in general and to review the
current projects.

Training programmes

662. During 1981 and the first half of 1982, Namibians took training courses at
various institutions in a number of countries. Several new training activities
commenced during this period, one group of students embcrked on the third phase uf

-108-
I

I



ories:
dependence
cial
9 sectoral

t and

cation,
land use

em.

cial
ng the
ch is
lIIed direct
ntional
jects is
ata on
"! owing to
ts require
r

:>wer
lIIibian
and

~

ble to

Iltries.
118

::ted to

ttee on
." the

:lea at
!Tities
3 phase of

•

I

I

training in the administration of public enterprises, another gro~p studied
railways operations and a third group undertook pre-engineering studies in
prepar~tion for a mining engineering course. Training continu~d in the fields of
food economics, food science and nutrition as well as in radio programme production
and equipment maintenance.

663. Since the inception of the Programme, students have completed training in the
fields of industrial development, food distribution, labour legislation, land use,
human settlements development and development planning. A programme in writing and
journalism, as well as study tours to various African countries, have been
completed by Namibian women. Altogether some 200 Narnibians have been trained or
are being trained under the Programme. The United Nations Institute for Namibia
continues to be a major source of candidates for training.

664. Other students are being selected and prepared for future training in key
areas such as mining, fisheries, agriCUlture, transport, maritime transportation
and ports administration, electricity, meteorology, teacher training and public
administration.

665. The United Nations Vocational Training Centre is being established in Angola
in order to provide vocational instruction to Namibians who have complet~J o~ly
primary education and who have limited access to opportunities for further
training. Preparatory training in the English language, mathematics and ba'i;1~
sciences began in December 1981. At present, the Centre has an enrolment c£
93 students. Some 100 students are expected to be enrolled each year when the
Centre becomes fully operational. The construction work is in an advanced stage
and is expected to be completed before the end of 1982. The second meeting of the
Governing Board of the Centre was held at Luanda in September 1981. The third
meeting took place in June 1982 with thE participation of the Council. On both
occasions, a visit to the site was arranged.

Sectoral surveys and ~nalyses

666. There has been significant progress in the implementation of the sectorlll
survey projects. Since the beginning of the Programme, draft survey reports have
been prepared in the following fields: mineral resources and mining activitiesl
transnational corporationsl transport, healthl labour legislationl and land use and
human settlement development. During the period under review, draft reports were
submitted on the protection of food supplies and nutrition, land suitability
(technical report only) I maritime transportation and training, and civil aviation.
Reports on agrarian reform and resettlement, public administration, criminal
justice, agricultural e'~ucation, telecommunications and energy are currently under
preparation. All but five of the survey projects have either been completed or
will be completed by the end of 1982.

Sectoral planning workshops

667. By its resolution of 7 February 1980 (A/AC.131/74), the Council, inter alia,
requested the Commissioner to organize a series of sectoral planning workshops for
the further development of the Nation;~ood Programme.

-109-



.'.
668. The objectives of th~ workshops were: (a) to review the ongoing
pre-independence projects in each respective field' and (b) to analyse the need for
further United Nations asslstance for the pre-independence, transitional and
post-independence phases and prepare plans for such activities.

669~ The four sectoral planning workshops envisaged by the Council have now been
completed. Participants included representatives of the Council, the Office of the
Commissioner, UNDP, the relevant executing agencies, the United Nations Institute
for Namibia, SWAPO and OAU, as well as experts from various African countries.

670. The fourth and most recent workshop, on mining, industries, traae and economic
planning, was held at Harare in March-April 1982. The Council received a report on
the deliberations and recommendations of all four workshops.

3. Administration and management

..

675.

676.

671. The Committee on the United ~ations Fund for Namibia, within its overall terms
of reference, formulates and reviews policies related to the Nationhood Programme,
reviews the reports of the Commissioner and makes appropriate recommendations to
the Council on all matters relating to the Programme. The Office of the
Commissioner serves as the co-ordinating authority for the Nationhood Programme
under the direction of the Committee on the Fund.

672. At its 369th meeting, on 16 December 1981, the Council decided to streamline
the administration of the Programme by authorizing the Committee to approve new
projects under the Nationhood Programme and the General Account of the Fund and to
approve project revisions, unless the Committee decided to refer the decisions to
the Council (see A/AC.13l/L.243).

673. The United Nations Institute for Namibia is the implementing agency, on behalf
of the Council, for a number of projects, thus giving it a role similar to that of
a government implementing agency in standard UNDP procedures. In addition, the
Institute is involved in the implementation of some 20 other projects in the
present group of pre-independence projects.

l!lforma t ion

674. By its resolution of 7 February 1980 (A/AC.13l/74), the Council requested the
Commissioner, in consultation with Standing Committee III of the Council, to
prepare and publish an information booklet on the Nationhood Programme for Namibia
as an activity of the Council. Accordingly, an information brochure waa pUblished
in September 1981.

-110-

P

E

677. 0
covere
agenci

UI1

678. Th
in tabl

679. Th
of Nati
SUS 1,7
of 1982
for the
first s



•
4. Financing

675. The total cost of the projects currently under way is as follows:

676. The total cost of projects already completed is as follows:

678. The cost of each project and the corresponding sources of financing are shownin table 3 below.

677. Of the total cost of the projects in both categories, more than two thirds iscovered by the Fund, about a fifth by UNDP and the remainder by the executingagencies, as indicated below:

Project costs

Executing agencies support costs

project costs

Executing agencies support costs

United Natio~s Fund for Namibia
UNDP

Executing agencies

Percentage

95.9

4.1

100.0

~rcentage

93.3

6.7

100.0

Percentage

69.2

21.9

8.9

100.0

United States dollars

9 335 080

403 960

9 739 040

United States dollars

1 523 430

109 040

1 632 470

United States dollars

7 864 300

2 495 760

lOll 450

11 371 510

679. The total expenditure and remittance to executing agencies to cover the costof Nationhood Programme projects were, respectively, SUS 3,154,780 andSUS 1,732,777 in 1981 and SUS 330,319 and SUS 168,993 in the first six monthsof 1982. As indicated in tables 4 and 5 below, the total income of the Trust Fundfor the Nationhood Programme was SUS 1,886,182 in 1981 and SUS 730,755 in thefirst six months of 1982.

-111-





.. =c:---_-=-c...cc:-=cc.:-"-_=:::::=~~~ ..

T
i

'.:,

Table 3 (continued)

Executing agencies and project title
Project
budget

COsts

Agency
overhead
costs !I

Total
coata

Agency's
own

funds

Sources

UNDP

Fund
for

NllIlibia

coapleted projects
1WI/78/009 Mineral survey (DTCD) 4 000
1WI/79/025 Training in develoPMent planning (DTCD) 152 100
tlAM/79/034 Public enterprises aanageaent course

(Phase I) (DTCD) 177 400NAM/8l/002 Public enterprises management course
(Phase Il) (D'l'CD) 176 880

NAM/79/033 Food diatribution training (FAO) 90 000SWP/78/004 Participation of women (UNESCO) 159 900
1WI/78/0l0 COuntry health progr..-e (WHO) 45 600
tlAM/79/023 Land use and human settlements (HABITAT) 143 750
NAM/8l/00l Huaan settlement development (HABITAT) SI 128 000
NAM/79/03l Clerical and transport support

(Office of the Commissioner) 443 30r
NAM/79/032 Survey of rehabilitation needs (ILO) 2 SOL

Subtotal 1 523 430

GRAND TOTAL 10 858 510

21 300

24 850

24 760

20 130
18 000

109 040

513 000

4 000
173 400

202 250

201 640
90 000

159 900
45 600

163 880
146 000

443 300
2 500

1 632 470

11 371 510

4 ono

90 000

45 600

2 500

142 100

1 011 450

173 400

202 250

201 640

159 900

163 880
146 000

443 300

159 900 1 330 300

2 495 760 7 864 300

!I In accordance with UNDP procedures, these figures do not show the noraal overhead cost in UNDP-funded projects. Overheadcosts ahown for projects funded by the Fund for Namibia are specified in the project budget and exclude partially or fully waivedoverhead costs.

SI The United N,tions Institute for Namibia is the implellenting agency.
si The executing agencies have granted a waiver of overhead costs &Daunting tOl ILO, $224,000, FAO, $110,380,V~CO, $94,735, lMO, $24,010.

Multilateral or bilateral funding.

-113-



.---
Table 4

United Nations Fund for Namibia~ Trust Fund for the Nationhood Programme

(united States dollars)

I. Income and expenditure for 1981

INCOME I NCO

11. Statement of "assets and liabilities as at 31 December 1981

Pledged contributions
Public donations
SubventiOns
Interest income
Miscellaneous income

TOTAL INCOME

EXPENDITURE

salaries and common staff conts
Travel
Contractual services
Operating expenses
Acquiai tions
P.llowship~, grants, other
Transfer to the United Nations Fund for Namibia
Programme support costs

TOTAL EXPENDITURE

EXCESS OF INCOME OVER EXPENDITURE

ASSETS

cash
Pledged contributions unpaid
Accounts receivable
Operating funds provided to executing agenci~s
Due frOll United Nations General Fund

TOTAL ASSETS

LIABILITIES

Accounts payable
Unliquidated obligations
Aaserve for allocations

TOTAL LIABILITIES

FtJHl) BALANCE

Balance available 1 January 1981
Add: Transfers from reserves

Excess of income over expenditure

Balance available 31 December 1981

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

-114-

1 346 313
373

25 000
462 444

52 052

1 886 182

1 150 884
56 598

549 020
65 504
56 450

854 536
300 000
l2l.1!!

3 154 780--
(1 268 598)

839 948
360 351
187 602

4 642 124
93 3a7

6 123 412

42 455
280 877

L!lLill.
4 145 960

1 513 273
1 732 777

(1 268 598)

1 977 4152

6 123 412

Pled
Inter
Misc

EXPE

Salar
Trave
Opera
Acqui
Fell

EXCES

ASSET

Cash
Pledg4
Accoul
Operat
Due fl

LIABI

Unliq
Unliq
Reser

FUND

Balan
Add:

Less:

Balanc

a
accoun



.--
Table 5

United Nations Fund for Namibia: Trust ~nd for the Nationhood Programme

(United States dollars)

I. Income and eXpenditure for the six-month period ended 30 June 1982

INCOME

Pledged contributions
Interest income
Miscellaneous income

TOTAL INCOME

EXPENDITURE

699 905
548

30 302

730 755

Salaries and common staff costs
Travel
Operating expenses
Acquisitions
Fellowships, grants, other

TOTAL EXPENDITURE

EXCESS OF INCCME OVER EXPENDITURE

54 313
19 005
90 894
50 107

116 000

330 319 !I

400 436

11. Statement of assets and liabilities as at 30 June 1982

-115-

1 221 298
174 892
283 256

4 709 590
8 033

192 356
4 197

3 991 62!

4 188 174

6 397 069

1 977 452
400 436

2 377 888

(168 993)

2 208 895

6 397 069

TOTAL LIABILITIES

LIABILITIES

Unliquidated obligations - current period
Unliquidated obligations - prior period
Reserve for allocations

ASSETS

Cash
Pledged contributions unpaid
Accounts receivable
Operating funds provided to executing agencies
Due from united Nations General Fund

TOTAL ASSETS

Less: Transfers to reserve for allocations

Balance available 30 June 1982

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND F~ND BALANCE

FUND BALANCE

Balance available 1 January 1982
Add: Excess of income over expenditure

Subtotal

!I Excludes UNDP e~penditure pending receipt of UNDP project-level
accounting reports.



"~

I,

~':"'7~C~;-::-.¥.·-..~c~L ~.~=~-=:::t:~--:-~:=~~=-:_..:==-::.-=_-.:=-_~.-=-- -_~-----=-==.:~.~-=~-=~=: _'-=:_--2::~~-::;:~=::"::'':''''~~__ .. __~_.__-==_-:===:.-:--:::::--,--,--:_~, ~_,.-==~_:._~_...:_.__. __ ~~_.~. '_" ~ _, _

!

C. ynited Nations Institute for Namibia

680. The Institute came into operation in 1976. Admission to the Institute is open
to all persons of Namibian origin who fulfil the requirements established by the
Senate of the Institute. Through its activities, the Institute helps to train
skilled manpower for an independent Namibia. .

681. The Institute is administered by a Senate. The Senate, which at present
consists of 16 members, submits annual reports to the Council. The budget
estimates of the Institute, approved by the Senate, are endorsed annually by the
Council SUbject to the availability of financial resources.

682. In accordance with article 8 of its charter, ~ the Institute is financed by
the Council through the Fund, with the account of the Institute being maintained
separately. At its extraordinary plenary meetings held at Arusha from 10 to
14 May 1982, the Council app~oved the provision of further assistance to the
Institute from the UNDP indicatiye planning figure for Namibia.

683. The Commissioner has continued his fund-raising efforts for the Institute on
behalf of the Council and the Secretary-General to ensure adequate financial
resources for the implementation of the programme of work of the Institute. During
the period under review, the response of Member States and other donors in making
voluntary contributions to finance the Institute has been encouraging.

684. In 1982, the Institute had a student body of 415. The curriculum of the
Institute has been expanded to include teacher training courses, secretarial
instruction and special preparatory courses in the English language, statistics and
mathematics, in view of the urgent need to train Namibians in those areas.

685. On 16 January 1982, 74 students, the third group, graduated from the Institute.
with diplomas in management and development studies, thus bringing the total number
of Institute graduates to 220. The Institute1s diploma is underwritten by the
University of Zambia. A group of 20 students also graduated from the secretarial
course and a new group of 58 students has been admitted to the course.

6
d
1
4

6
p

a
r

6
$
(

N
s
g

686. The Institute continues to undertake applied research in various fields. The
research programme is intended to make available basic documentation for policy
formulation by the future Government of an independent Namibia. A number of
studies have been completed and pUblished in the fields of manpower requirements
and development implications, constitutional optiQns, agrarian reform, a language
policy for Namibia and, most recently, a new legal system for an independent
Namibia. Studies in the fields of health, education and mining, among others, are
under way.

687. During the period under review, the Institute made substantial progress in the
preparation of a comprehensive reference book on Namibia covering aspects of the
question of Namibia as considered by the United Nations since its inception, in
accordance with the outline prepared by the Council. It was expected that the
draft of the comprehensive reference book would be completed by September 1982.

688. At its 12th meeting, held at Lusaka on 23 and 24 January 1981, the Senate
approved the appointment of a te8.Ji\ to evaluate the training and research activities
of the Institute. The Institute will submit a report on the evaluation to the
Council for its consideration during 1982.

-116-



open
le

I by
Id

on

lring
lng

5 and

ltute.
unber

la1

The
r

:8
1ge

are

1 the
le
1

lUes

689. The Namibian Extension Unit, established by the Institute to administer a
distance education programme for Namibians whose access to formal education is
limited, came into operation in November 1981. It currently serves some
40,000 Namibian adults and youths in Zambia and Angola.

690. The unit is an autonomous body within the Institute and has its own Board of
project Management, of which the Chairman of the Institute is Director. The
Commissioner or his representative is also a member of the Board. The Institute
administers the unit's funds in accordance with United Nations financial
regulations. The Unit submits an annual report to the Senate of the Institute.

691. The total expenditure of the Institute was $US 3,411,667 in 1981 and
SUS 1,530,520 in the first six months of 1982. At the same time, the total income
(from various sources) of the Trust Fund for the Institute within the United
Nations Fund for Namibia was SUS 2,847,602 in 1981 and SUS 1,848,341 in the first
six months of 1982. Detailed information on the Trust Fund for the Institute is
given in tables 6 and 7 below.

-117-

-- ~.: -.= '::'~



168 915
95 367

264 282

2 051 387
90 723

395 650
253 083

2 790 843

2 345 561
152 046
268 137
81 858

2 847 602

3 090 626
(564 065)

2 526 561

2 790 843

-118-

11. Statement of assets and liabilities as at 31 December 1981

TOTAL ASSETS

TOTAL INCCJo1E

Accounts payable
Unliquidated obligations

TOTAL LIABILITIES

Table 6

United Nations Fund for Namibia: Trust Fund for the
united Nations Institute for Namibia

(United States dollars)

INCOME

I. Income and expenditure for 1981

EXPENDITURE

Pledged contributions
Public donations
Interest incane
Miscellaneous income

LIABILITIES

ASSETS

cash
Pledged contributions unpaid
Accounts receivable
Due from United Nations General Fund

FUND BALAlCE

Balance available 1 January 1981
Add: Excess of income over expenditure

Balance available 31 December 1981

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

~~~....,jf"~~:::i~-""!':':""-'-"--'-'::~::-::::::_~_:._'_;:-'._~_~~~C~_'--'.C.~_'C~~::'":"....::._::::.:~~:::-~_ ..:,--::.::-..:-~.....::~===:::..-~--==:l.:::::~====_:..:...::.... __,_-.:-.=-=..:~:-~=-:.=- _ .._.

'I
:

, '

i
I I
!
l
I ,

i Salaries and canmon staff costs 1 851 217
oil

Travel 149 864
I Contractual services 38 471

Operating expenses 387 649
Acquisitions 25 347
Fellowships, grants, other 959 119

TOTAL EXPENDITURE 3 411 667

EXCESS OF INCOME OVER EXPENDITURE (564 065)



Table 7

I. Income and expenditure for the six-month period ended 30 June 1982

United Nations Fund for Namibia: Trust Fund for the
united Nations Institute for Namibia

(United States dollars)

317 821

1 819 543
25 000

2 692
1 106

1 848 341

985 519
29 719

3 620
147 826
363 838

1 530 520

TCYl'AL INCOME

INCOME

Pledged contributions
Subventions
Interest income
Miscellaneous income

EXPENDITURE

Salaries and common staff costs
Travel
Contractual services
Operating expenses
Fellowships, grants, other

TOTAL EXPENDITURE

EXCESS OF INCOME OVER EXPENDITURE

561
046
137
858

~

217
864
471
649
347

..ill
667

~)
11. Statement of assets and liabilities as at 30 June 1982

ASSETS

387
723
650

..Qll

~

915

.1!l

...ill.

626
~)

561

843-

Cash
Pledged contributions unpaid
Accounts receivable

TCYl'AL ASSETS

LIABILITIES

Unliquidated obligations - current period
Unliquidated obligations - prior period
Due to United Nations General Fund

TOTAL LIABILITIES

FUND BALANCE

Balance available 1 January 1982
Add: Excess of income over expenditure

Balance available 30 June 1982

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE

972 647
1 436 257

510 115

2 919 019

15 618
19 540
39 479

74 637

2 526 561
317 821

2 844 382

2 919 019

-119-



D. Educational, social and relief assistance

L Scholarship programme

693. During the period under review, 12 students completed their studies, 3 were
withdrawn and 114 continued their education under scholarships provided under the
General Account. The various fields of study in 10 countries were as follows:

Number of studentsCoursesCountry

692. Educational, social and relief assistance is administered by the Commissioner's
Office. The main activity in this category is the Namibian scholarship programme,
which provides educational assistance to Namibians. The General Account of the
Fund is also used to: finance vocational and technical trainingJ provide
assistance in the fields of health and medical care, nutrition and social welfareJ
aoquire books and periodicals for Namibian refugee camps and SWAPO officesJ and
facilitate the attendance of Namibian representatives at international seminars,
meetings and conferences.

I)

I

Algeria Primary education 2

canada Geography 1

Egypt Administration 1

Ireland Nursing and aircraft maintenance 3

Norway

Sweden

United Kingdom

United States

Zambia

Zimbabwe

Engineering

Political science

Liberal arts, education, political science,
social science, chemistry, secretarial
science, primary and secondary education,
distance education

Liberal arts, education, law, biology,
political science, economics, public
and business administration, social
science, medicine, nursing, chemistry,
agriculture, electronics, sec:etarial
science, health services administration
ana secondary. education

Primary, secondary and vocational education

Medicine

-120-

1

2

22

77

4

1



nissioner I S
rogramme,
)f the

welfare,
:i' and
ninars,

3 were
ilder the
lows..

students

2

1

1

3

1

2

2

7

4

1

2. Training projects

694. As requested by the Committee on the Fund, new activities have been
constituted as projects. During the period under review, four training projects
were financed by the General Account: 21 Namibians received in-service and
refresher training in broadcasting, 230 took a law enforcement training course;
83 received vocational training in such specialized fields as teacher training,
electricity supply, water supply, agriculture, weaving, photography, mechanics and
sewing, and 7 were enrolled in an EngJ.ish language improvement course given after
office hours.

3. Social and relief assistance

695. The Fund also provides medical care, social services and relief aid to
Namibians. During the period under review, assistance was provided to
74 individual Namibians in need of emergency medical treatment and other forms of
humanitarian assistance.

696. By paragraph 2 of its resolution 35/227 C of 6 March 1981, the General
Assembly requested the Council to review the destructive effects of South African
policies on Namibian children and to formulate, in co-operation with UNICEF and
UNESCO, an appropriate programme of action to assist Namibian children outside
Namibia.

697. The review undertaken by the Commissioner in consultation with SWAPO revealed
that some 26,000 young Namibians are living in exile in Angola, Zambia and
Botswana. Of those, approximately 6,000 are less than 6 years old and 20,000 are
between 6 and 17 years of age.

698. This influx of displaced young people, who are particularly vulnerable to
malnutrition and different types of diseases, has imposed enormous financial
burdens on SWAPO. Although some doctors and nurses from Scandinavian countries are
now serving in SWAPO centres as volunteers, many of the basic needs of the young
Namibian exiles remain unfulfilled. The Council has received a detailed list of
articles urgently required for the care of the children. The list includes relief
items such as clothing, blankets, soap, petroleum jelly, building materials and
transport equipment. The educational items vary from text books, pencils and paper
to blackboards, classroom furniture and sports equipment. School buses and
electric generators are also requested. On the basis of the list, the Office of
the Commissioner is working out a detailed programme of action in co-operation with
UNICEF and UNESCO.

4. Books and periodicals

699. Subscriptions to various publications on Namibia and southern Africa, as well
as books and library materials, were made available to Namibian refugee camps and
to StlAPO offices.

-121-

, ,

j, •



__!:'~--=C=::'-.i::Z~...=-c.:--::::-:::-...:.o-::-=-:-:=--~:..--:.::--= -:::':"'-=-__~-=----=--:=-::::::._=,~---=,:",~=:::::::",::::~==-=--=------=---=====:.-==---=-_-=-'~:",--=--=-=:,~~ --=--_-:'-.~-=:::-:--=----===::::--=-==="'-:::7~· .----,.- -~--
I

5. Representation

700. At its 363rd meeting, on 30 September 1981, the Council approved a
contribution of SUS 10,000 from the Fund to defray the costs of the Conference in
SOlidarity with the Liberation Struggles of the Peoples of Southern Africa, held in
New York from 9 to 11 OCtober 1981. 'Ibe Conference was convened by SWAPO and
non-governmental organizations active in the Namibian liberation struggle.

701. At the same meeting, the Council approved a grant of SUS 25,000 to defray the
cost of the International Conference of Youth and Students in Solidarity with the
People, Youth and Students of Southern Africa, held at Luanda from 13 to
15 November 1981. The Conference was convened at "the request of SWAPO and the
Pan-African Youth Movement.

702. In addition, funds were provided to facilitate the attendance of Namibians at
eight international seminars and conferences.

6. Financing

703. Expenditures on educational, social and relief assistance amounted to
SUS 1,178,570 in 1981 and to SUS 488,817 during the first six months of 1982. The
total income of the General Account of the Fund was $US 2,196,766 in 1981 and
SUS 1,429,023 during the first six months of 1982. Detailed information on the
General Account is presented in tables 8 and 9 below.

-122-

INCOME

Pledge
Public
Subven
Intere
Miscel

EXPEND

Salad
Operat
Acquis
Fellow

EXCESS

ASSETS

Cash
Pledgee
Account
Operat:i

TC

LIABILI

Accoun
Unliqu:i
Reserv
Due to
DefeIl

FUND

Ba lane
Add:



=- __c=-- -_:--=-=--=-~~~C:c-l\I
'o,\;
~

I,

925 105
270

1 000 000
236 466

34 925

2 196 766

1 315 659
84 586

579 711
583 658

2 563 614

1 018 196

2 400
91 435
19 190

1 065 545

1 178 570

212 912
152 872

1 018 196

1 383,980

2 563 6M

326 264
102 051

77 294
38 741
35 284

1 179 634

I. Income and eXpenditure for 1981

TOTAL INCOME

TOTAL LIABILITIES

-123-

11. Statement of assets and liabilitios as at 31 December 1981

EXCESS OF INCOME OVER EXPENDITURE

Table 8

United Nations Fund for Namibial General Account

(United states dollars)

INCOME

Pledged contributions
Public donations
Subventions
Interest income
Miscellaneous income

EXPENDITURE

Salaries and common staff costs
Operating expenses
Acquisitions
Fellowships, grants, other

TOTAL EXPENDITURE

ASSETS

Cash
Pledged contributions unpaid
Accounts receivable
Operating funds provided to executing agencies

TOTAL ASSETS

LIABILITIES

Accounts payable
Unliquidated obligations
Reserve for allocations
Due to United Nations General Fund
Deferred income

FUND BALANCE

Balance available 1 January 1981
Add: Transfers from reserves

Excess of income over expenditure

Balance available 31 December 1981

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE



11. Statement of assets and liabilities as at 30 June 1982

I. Income and expenditure for the six-month period ended 30 June 1982

Table 9

united Nations Fund for Namibia: General Account

(United States dollars)
704.
Mr.
Came
the
Nord

705.
Fede
9 Fe

706.
Miss
proj
the
whic

707.
leve
the
poin

708.
prep
sup
cont
Gove
projl

709.
cont,
rece
dete
part
view
furt
eva1

710.
Miss
info
inte
cont
the
with
Inst
rece

711.
of p
co-f
Gove

712.
h-

repo

j

44 304
10 073
94 563
57 039

282 838

488 817

940 206

1 462 342
673 302

98 696
152 541
979 540

3 366 421

326 264
418 638
220 039

77 294

1 042 235

427 898
1 125

1 000 000

1 429 023

1 383 980
940 206

2 324 186

3 366 421

TOTAL EXPENDITURE

TOTAL INCOME

TOTAL ASSETS

INCOME

EXPENDITURE

Pledged contributions
Public donations
Subventions

TOTAL LIABILITIES

Salaries and common staff costs
Tra'iTel
Operating expenses
Acquisitions
Fellowships, grants, other

-124-

Accounts payable
Unliquidated obligations - current period
Unliquidated obligations - prior period
Reserve for allocations

LIABILITIES

EXCESS OF INCOME OVER EXPENDITURE

ASSETS

Cash
Pledged contributions unpaia
Accounts receivable
Operating funds provided to executing agencies
Due from united Nations General Fund

FUND BALAN::::E

Balance available 1 January 1982
Add: Excess of incorr~ over expenditure

Balance available 30 June 1982

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND FUND BALANCE



~ ,-- '-, - =::.:c==o:-=---' ~~~

f
~

E. Fund-Raising Mission to western Europe and Canada

704. The Fund-Raising Mission to Western Europe and Canada was led by
Mr. A. Coskun Kirca (Turkey) and included Messrs. Tommo Monthe (United Republic of
Cameroon) and Pedro SOrensen-Mosquera (Venezuela), Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur of
the Committee on the Fund. Mr. SOrensen-Mosquera represented the Mission in the
Nordic countries and Canada.

705. The Mission visited Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, the
Federal Republic of Germany, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and EEC between
9 February and 12 March 1982.

706. In its discussions with representatives of the various Governments, the
Mission explained the origin and purposes of the Fund and described the various
projects being financed by the three accounts of which it is composed, as well as
the financial status of the accounts. It also reviewed the priority projects for
which new contributions were being sought.

707. In all the countries visited, the Mission was received at a high political
level. This provided a valuable opportunity to remind the Governments concerned of
the pressing needs of the Namibian people and to clarify some important technical
points.

708. The Governments visited were unanimous in their recognition of the need to
prepare the Namibian people for independence. They expressed their continuing
support for the Council's assistance programmes, emphasizing the need for
continuity and improved co-ordination of assistance activities. Several
Governments stressed that the activities of the Fund should be constituted as
projects in order to attract contributions.

709. The Government delegations expressed their appreciation for the regular
contacts and consultations on the activities of the Fund and for the opportunity to
receive up-dated information on the plans for future assistance, which would help
determine their level of contribution. They emphasized that such visits were
particularly useful because they offered an opportunity for a thorough exchange of
views and information on many aspects of the Namibian situation. The Governments
further stressed the importance to the donor countries of thorough project
evaluation.

710. Among the recommendations contained in its report (A/AC.13l/L.256) 8 the
Mission suggested that the Council might wish to consider providing more
information on the co-ordination of assistance rendered to the Narnibian people by
international organizations. Although the Mission had informed the donors that all
contributions should be channelled through one of the three accounts of the Fund,
the Mission suggested that it might be desirable, in the light of its discussions
with the donors, to increase slightly the financial autonomy of the United Nations
Institute for Namibia so that it could accept direct contributions as well as
receive block grants from the Trust Fund for the Institute.

711. The Missi.on also recommended that the Council should consider the possibility
of promoting increased assistance to the Namibian people by encouraging the
co-financing of projects by non-governmental organizations on the one hand and
Governments and intergovernmental organizations on the other.

712. At its 379th meeting, held at Arusha on i2 May 1982, the Council approved the
report of the FU'ld-Raising Mission and the recommendations contained therein.

-125-

If
,I
I ,
\ ~

\:

I



I·

XI. ACTIVITIES OF THE UNITED NATIONS COMMISSIONER I~UI< NA~HHl i,

A. General

713. By its resolution 2248 (S-V), the General Assembly decided that the Coulil:i 1
should entrust such executive and administrative tasks as it deemed necessary to
the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia. The Assembly further decided that, in
the performance of his tasks, the Commissioner should be responsible to the Council.

714. The programme of work of the Oouncil, defined by General Assembly resolution
36/121 C, forms the basis and framework for the activities carried out by the
Office of the Commissioner under the authority of the Council. (The Council's
programme of work has been further elaborated in the proposed medium-term plan for
the period 1984-1989; see A/37/6, chap. IV, sect. 11.)

715. During the period under review, the Office of the Commissioner issued
1,011 new and renewed travel and identity documents to Namibians in Africa, 35 in
North America, 23 in Latin America and the Caribbean, 9 in Western Europe and 2 in
Asia.

716. The Office also continued to collect and analyse information relating to
Namibia and closely followed internal political and legal developments in South
Africa concerning Namibia.

717. It continued to work for the effective implementation of Decree No. 1 for the
Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia and undertook appropriate activities
to that end, which included, among other things, the preparation of the North
American portion of a reference book on transnational corporations operating in
Namibia; consultations with gov~rnment experts on the framework of a continuing
investigation into the shipment and sale of Namibian products by foreign economic
interests; consideration of measures which might be recommended to further the
implementation of Decree No. 1; and a review of the recommendations of the Panel
for hearings on Namibian uranium (A/AC.13l/82/Add.6 and Corr.l) and the
documentation submitted to the Panel with a view to further action.

B. Assistance to Namibians

718. The Office of the Commissioner administers the assistance programmes under the
United Nations Fund for Namibia. The Fund has three.major components: (a) the
educational, social and relief activities under the General Account of the Fund;
(b) the Nationhood Programme for Namibia; and (c) the United Nations Institute for
Namibia.

1. Educational, social and relief assistance

719. During the period under review, the Office of the Commissioner continued to
co-ordinate and manage, in accordance with the approved guidelines for the
administration of the United Nations Fund for Namibia, programmes of educational,
social and relief assistance for Namibians. The Office of the Commissioner
prepares project proposals for consideration by the Committee on the Fund and
reports semi-annually to the Oommittee on the activities financed from the General

-126-

ii
r
L
r
I,

1

I

Acc
par

72
th

721

72

As
\'1 i

gu
the
of
est
to
to

72~

cor
Pr
age
au
De
Da

sy
fo

72
(A

pI
of
Go
th
wo
in
Ap



in
:il.

,r

n

e
es

he

r

1
, '
I.

r'
L
r
I

I,
I

Account of the Fund. A d~tailed report on these activities is included in
paragraphs 692-703 ahove.

720. Arrangements have been made for the Office of the Commissioner to administer
the scholarship programme under the Fund.

2. Nationhood Programme for Namibia

721. The Office of the COllunissioner is the co-ordinating authority for the
implementation of the Nationhood Programme.

722. Pursuant to paragraph 19 of General Assembly resolution 36/121 F, in which the
Assembly requested th~ Secretary--General to provide the Office of the Commissioner
\~ith the necessary resources for the performance of its expanded responsibilities,
the Commissioner's Office in New York and the Regional Office at Lusaka were
strengthened during the period under review.

723. As co-ordinating authority, the Commissioner's Office has established and
consolidated a framework of close and continuous working relations with SiAPO, the
united Nations Institute for Namibia, OAU, UNDP, the specialized agencies and other
organizations and institutions of the United Nations system.

724. In accordance with decisions of the Council, the Commissioner has maintained
conSUltations with ill~DP concerning the administration of the Nationhood Programme
through an arrangemE'llt reached in 1979 between UNDP and the Office of the
Commissioner on the a&ninistration of the projects. According to the agreed
guidelines, the transmission of funds from the United Nations Fund for Namibia to
the executing agencies continues to take place through UNDP under the arrangement
of a "UNDP Trust Fund for the Nationhood Programme of the Fund for Namibia",
established on 20 April 1979 by the Controller of the United Nations and delegated
to the Administrator of UNDP. UNDP subsequently makes allocations and remittances
to the executing agencies to meet the project expenditures.

725. During the period under review, members of the Commissioner's Office conducted
consultations regarding the implementation and evaluation of the Nationhood
Programme with SWAPO, the united Nations Institute for Namibia and specialized
agencies of the United Nations system. Further consultations were held with
authorities of the institutions where Namibians are undergoing training. In
December 1981, the Conunissioner participated in an inter-agency meeting in
Dar es Salaam convened by UNDP to discuss UNDP assistance to national liberation
movements. During the meeting, the Commissioner stressed the role of the Council
and his office in co-ordinating the assistance provided by the United Nations
system to Namibia, including activities financed by the indicative planning figure
for Namibia.

726. Pursuant to the resolution adopted by the Council on 7 February 1980
(A/AC.13l/74), which requested the Commissioner to organize a series of sectoral
planning workshops for the further development of the Nationhood Programme, members
of the COITHnissioner's Office held consultations with the representatives of the
Governments of Angola, Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Mozambique, Nigeria, the Sudan,
the United Republic of Tanzania, Zambia and Zimbabwe regarding the proposed
workshops. As a consequence of those consultations, planning workshops were held
in Mozalmique and th8 United Republic )f Tanzania in August 1980, in Ethiopia in
April 1981 and Zimbabwe in ;'larch-Apri 1"32 (see also paras. 667-670 above).

-127-



-_..._~~-------- - ~--------_.._----'---._.- ..... -

727. The activities of the Nationhood Programme have continued to expand. Manyconsultants have been recruited under the various sectoral survey projects toundertake the necessary studies and several students have been selected for thetraining fellowships provided under the Programme. Candidates are being consideredfor the consultancies under the five remaining survey projects and suitablestudents are being selected for the remaining training projects. In addition, therecommendations emanating from the sectoral planning workshops, once considered bythe Council, will provide the basis for the further planning and elaboration of acomprehensive programme of assistance for Namibia within the framework of theNationhood Programme.

3. United Nations Institute for Namibia

728. The Office of the Commissioner is not directly involved in the administrationof the InstituteJ however, it provides assistance to the Institute through itsfund-raising activities and by serving in an advisory capacity as requested. TheCommissioner is a member of the S~nate of the Institute.

4. Fund-raising activities

729. During the period under review, the Office of the Commissioner carried outfund-raising activities to ensure the financing of the activities under the Fund.

C. Offices of the Commissioner at Lusaka, Gaborone and Luanda

1. Lusaka

730. During the period under review, the Office of the Commissioner at Lusakacontinued to contribute to the provision of assistance to Namibians. Following thelaunching of the Nationhood Programme in 1976, the Regional Office at Lusakadiversified its operations, placing greater emphasis on programmes of assistance.In addition to servicing current programmes, such as those involving scholarships,training and emergency provisions, the Regional Office has been actively involvedin new initiatives in the field to meet the long-term needs and aspirations of theNamibian people.

731. The Regional Office at Lusaka continued to collaborate with UNDP, UNHCR andthe specialized agencies of the United Nations in working out an integratedapproach to programmes of assistance for Namibians. In- the same connection, theRegional Office continued to maintain effective liaison with the Institute,particularly in respect of providing remedial training to Namibians in English andmathematics as a means of strengthening their educational background.

732. The role of the Regional Office with regard to the Nationhood Prograr~efollows from the planning workshop held at Lusaka in May 1978. _"le Regional Officehas been actively involved in the work of appraising and preparing projects forimplementation in consultation with SWAPO and the executing agencies concerned.During the period under review, several projects under the Nationhood Programmereached the stage of implementation. The Regional Office played a major role inthe co-ordination of activities associated with those projects. Among otherthings, it co-ordinated the placement of approximately 400 Namibians in training

-128-

7
a
C

c

7
c
P
w
w
h

7
i
w

7
a.
o
y-

7

r
s

7

T
t
i
U

P
t

a
s

7
a
t
o
o



ered

the
by
a

.on

:he

I,

d

programmes in various countries. The Office continues to provide facilities and
services to approximately 30 consultants engaged in various endeavours under the
Nationhood Programme.

733. The Regional Office continued to maintain close liaison with SWAPO on all
matters of mutual concern within the context of relevant policies and decisions of
the Council.

734. The Regional Office also participated in a number of project review meetings
and in the four sectoral planning workshops organized by the Office of the
Commissioner. Among other things, the Office was actively involved in establishing
contacts with African Governments and making conference arrangements.

735. The administrative support project'established at the Regional Office
continued to ensure that sufficient and qualified services were available to the
project personnel so as to enable the Office to cope with the increased volume of
work generated by the Nationhood Programme. As a result, the Nationhood Programme
was one of the main preoccupations of the Regional Office in 1981 and the first
half of 1982.

736. During the period under review, the Regional Office issued 654 new travel and
identity documents and 357 renewals. In that regard, it maintained close liaison
with the appropriate authorities of the Government of Zambia.

2. Gaborone

737. During the period under review, the Office of the Commissioner at Gaborone
also continued to contribute to the provision of assistance to Namibians. The
Office has served a particularly useful function in monitoring and keeping the New
York Office apprised of developments in southern Africa.

738. The Ga~rone Office also continued to work in co-ordination with the
Government of Botswana, SWAPO, UNDP and UNHCR in providing assistance to Namibian
refugees. The Office Representative undertook periodic visits to refugee
settlements in order to assess the needs of Namibians there.

739. The Gaborone Office maintained contact with educational institutions in
Botswana in connection with the implementation of Nationhood Programme prc)jects.
The Office facilitated the work of consultants who were conducting studies under
the Nationhood Programme and assisted in placing Namibians in educational
institutions. In February 1982, the third group of 10 Namibian students from the
united Nations Institute for Namibia arrived on a secondment programme to undergo
practical training in Botswana. COncerning travel documents issued to Namibians by
the COuncil, the Office initiated and concluded negotiations with the Government of
Botswana for the signing of a United Nations Council for Namibia travel documents
agreement. The agreement between the COuncil and the Government of Botswana was
signed on 20 August 1981.

740. In addition, the Gaborone Office participated in the African seminar on Law
and Human Rights in Development, held at Gaborone from 24 to 29 May 1982, the
thirty-ninth ordinary session of the OAU Co-ordinating COmmittee for the Liberation
of Africa, held at Arusha from 7 to 11 June 1982~ and the twelfth ordinary session
of the Co-ordinating Committee of the OAU Bureau for the Placement and Education of

-129-



3. Luanda

African Refugees, held at Arusha from 14 to 18 June 1982. It also undertookmissions to contact various African Governments and other activities in connectionwith the sectoral planning workshops organized by the Office of the COmmissioner.

741. By its resolution 36/121 C, the General Assembly requested theSecretary-General to establish an office of the Commissioner at Luanda in 1982.The Office of the United Nations COmmissioner for Namibia at Luanda was opened on26 August 198~ to coincide with the observance of Namibia Day.

I .
I 1.

-130- ..

~
I



Ik
nection
ioner.

~82.

led on

XII. PARTICIPATION OF THE SOUTH WEST AFRICA PEOPLE'S ORGANIZATION AS
THE SOLE AND AUTHENTIC REPRESENTATIVE OF THE NAMIBIAN PEOPLE

742. SWAPO, the sole and authentic representative of the Namibian people, has for
many years spearheaded the patriotic and heroic struggle of the Namibian people for
self-determination and genuine national independence. Through its courageous and
persistent struggle against racist South Africa's colonial oppression and illegal
occupation, under which the Namibian people have languished for many decades, SWAPO
has earned the recognition and respect of the international community. It has also
received a standing invitation to participate as an observer in the work of the
United Nations.

743. The representatives of SWAPO co~tinued during the period under review to
participate actively in the work of the Council, its Steering Committee and other
subsidiary bodies of the Council at United Nations Headquarters.

744. The Council continued to consult with SWAPO in the formulation and
implementation of its programme of work, as well as on other matters of interest to
the Namibian people, in accordance with General Assembly resolution 36/121 C.

745. SWAPO representatives also co-operated and consulted with the Office of the
United Nations Commissioner for Namibia at Headquarters and the Regional Offices in
Africa, through which various assistance programmes for Namibians are being
implemented.

746. The President of SWAPO, Mr. Sam Nujoma, led a large delegation to the
extraordinary plenary meetings of the Council held at Arusha, United Republic of
Tanzania in May 1982 and addressed the opening session. In his statement,
Mr. Nujoma apprised the Council of the critical situation inside Namibia, which he
said was characterized by a general reign of terror as a result of the continued
illegal occupation and massive militarization of the Territory by South Africa, and
said that the people of Namibia were following the meetings of the Council in
Arusha with keen interest in the expectation that the decl~ration and programme of
action which would be adopted by the Council in Arusha would be commensurate with
that critical situation (see paras. 167-178 above).

747. In addition, the SWAPO delegation to the Arusha meetings took an active part
in the preparation of the draft declaration and programme of action of the
Council. The SWAPO delegation also participated, in conjunction with the Working
Group of the Council, in the drafting of the provisional agenda of the
International Conference in Support of the Struggle of the Namibian People for
Independence, to be held in Paris in 1983.

748. SWAPO representatives also participated in the organization of the Seminar on
the Military Situation in and relating to Namibia, conducted by the Council at
Vienna from 11 to 14 June 1982 (see paras. 367-537 above).

7490 The representatives of SWAPO continued to participate in the Council's
missions of consultation with Governments of States Members 6f the united Nations
and in delegations of the Council to meetings of the specialized agencies of the
United Nations and other international organizations and conferences.

-131-



,
I

~

~I
.!

-1"._Fjj!j&"'~"""'....iiif!;g -~_",~~~·~~~~1'9"'tri'#i4fLi'}>-~~-~~:};?.£"":=:" 7;ZE}~,:,:-::=;:~-:--~--==,:::-::==-..,~::~~7':'::'::~~"-·'l,~ .'" ":.:~..:.i?::'-::---~:_~:' ----~-,-- ~- ~";:"

~I

750. During the period under review, the Council responded positively to therequest made by the Permanent Observer Mission of SWAPO to the United Nations bymaking financial contributions to two non-governmental organizations~ in order toenable those organiz~clons to advance the cause of the freedom of the Namibianpeople under the terms of paragraph 10 of General Assembly resolution 36/121 D.The first contribution of the Council was made to a Canadian support group for thepurpose of assisting it in the organization of the canadian Conference in
SOl~darity with the Liberation Struggle of the People of Southern Africa, held atOttawa from 7 to 9 May 1982. The second contribution was made to the InternationalDefence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa for the mounting of an art ~~hibition onthe plight of political prisoners in Namibia and South Africa.

T

-132-



o the
:ttiona by
l order to
:unibian
)/121 D.
)Up for the
In
i, held at
lternationa1
lbition on

PART THREE

ORGANIZATION AND DECISIONS OF THE COUNCIL

I. ORGANIZATION OF THE WORK OF THE COUNCIL

A. Establishment of the Council

751. The Council, as established under General Assembly 2248 (S-V), consisted of
11 members, and was subsequently enlarged pursuant to Assembly resolutions
3031 (XXVII) of 18 December 1972, 3295 (XXIX) of 13 December 1974 and 33/182 A of
21 December 1978. The ('-0:;ilcil now consists of the following 31 members: Algeria,
Angola, Australia, Bangladesh, Belgium,.Botswana, Bulgaria, Burundi, Chile, China,
Colombia, Cyprus, Egypt, Finland, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Liberia, Mexico,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Poland, Romania, Senegal, Turkey~ Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Republic of cameroon, Venezuela, Yugoslavia and Za~bia.

B. Presidency of the Council

752. At its 370th meeting, on 7 January 1982, the Council re-elected
Mr. Paul J. F. Lusaka of Zambia as its President for 1982. At the same meeting,
the Council elected Messrs. Mohammed Bedjaoui (Algeria), Noel G. Sinclair (Guyana),
Natarajan Krishnan (India), A. Coskun Kirca (Turkey) and Miljan Komatina
(Yugoslavia) as Vice-Presidents of the Council for 1982.

C. Steering Committee

753. The Steering Committee of the Council consists of the President of the
Council, the five Vice-Presidents, the Chairmen of the three Standing Committees
and the Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur of the Committee on the United Nations Fund
for Namibia.

D. Standing Committees

754. At its lOOth meeting, on 12 January 1982, Standing Committee I re-elected
Mr. Tommo Monthe (United Republic of cameroon) as its Chairman. Mr. Tuluy Tanc
(Turkey) was elected Vice-Chairman at the l02nd meeting, on 25 January 1982.

755. At its 74th meeting, on 12 January 1982, Standing Committee 11 elected
Mr. Khalid Mahmood (Pakistan) as its Chairma~ Mrs. Famatta Rose Osode (Liberia)
was re-elected Vice-Chairman at the 75th meeting, on 21 January 1982.

756. At its 87th meeting, on 12 January 1982, Standing Committe~ III re-elected
Mr. Georgy Denichin (Bulgaria) as its Chairman. Mr. Jorge Eduardo Chen Charpentier
(Mexico) was re-elected Vice-Chairman at the 88th meeting, on 27 January 1982.

757. The composition of the Standing Committees at 1 January 1982 was as follows:

-133-



-------~,-----_.l_=--~-____==_-- --

Standing Committee I:

Standing Committee 11:

Standing Committee Ill:

Algeria, Belgium, China, Colombia, Finland, Haiti,
Indonesia, Nigeria, Poland, Senegal, Turkey, Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, united Republic of
Cameroon, Venezuela, Zambia.

Angola, Australia, Bangladesh, Botswana, Bulgaria,
Chile, Colombia, Cyprus, Finland, Guyana, Liberia,
Mexico, Pakistan, Romania, Zambia.

Algeria, Angola, Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Colombia, Cyprus, Egypt, India, Mexico,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Romania, Venezuela, Yugoslavia,
Zambia.

as united
1 April 1

764. The
the three
and other
Council,
prepares
committee

758. At its 297th meeting, on 17 April 1979, the Council approved the terms of
reference of Standing Committees I, 11 and Ill. ~

E. Committee on the United Nations Fund for Namibia

759. In accordance with the terms of reference of this Committee, approved by the
Council at its 297th meeting, on 17 April 1979, 21/ the President of the Council
acts as Chairman of the Committee on the Fund. At its 46th meeting, on
11 January 1982, the Committee on the Fund re-elected Mr. Pedro Sorensen-Mosquera
(Venezuela) as its Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur for 1982.

760. The composition of the Committee on the Fund is as follows:

Australia, Finland, Indi~, Nigeria, Romania, Senegal, Turkey, Venezuela,
Yugoslavia, Zambia.

F. Other committees and working groups

761. During the period under review, the Council established a number of committees
and working groups. Working groups of the Steering Committee prepared
recommendations for the Council on (a) the thirty-sixth session of the General
Assembly, and (b) the extraordinary plenary meetings of the Council held at Arusha
from 10 to 14 May 1982. A drafting committee and a committee of the whole prepared
the Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action on Namibia, a drafting committee
prepared the annual report of the Council to the General Assembly.

G. Office of the united Nations Commissioner for Namibia

762. By its resolution 2248 (S-V), the General Assembly decided that the Council
should entrust such executive and administrative tasks as it deemed necessary to a
United Nations Commissioner for Namibia, appointed by the Assembly on the
nomination of the Secretary-General. The ASsembly further decided that, in the
performance of his tasks, the Commissioner should be responsible to the Council.
The Commissioner is appointed with an annual mandate.

763. At its 109th plenary meeting, on 29 March 1982, the General Assembly, on the
proposal of the Secretary-General (A/36/870), appointed Mr. Brajesh Chandra Mishra

-134- h
I-

I

765. The
Departmen
August 19
one G-5 a
the P-3 1



T" ~ -.__.__ ._.-_.._ ••__•.--.-.~__ ~_.__

~~ - - ~:2:..~'1

'i

,

!-~
le:

I

j

as united Nations Commissioner for Namibia for a nine-month term beginning on
1 April 1982 (see Assembly decision 36,'325).

H. Secretariat services

764. The secretariat of the Council services the Council, its Steering Committee,
the three Standing Committees, the COmmittee on the United Nations Fund for Namibia
and other committees and working groups, as well as seminars and missions of the
Council, as required. It also undertakes research on developments in Namibia and
prepares working papers and other documentation as requested by the Council and its
committees.

765. The secretariat comprised the following established posts within the
Department of Political Affairs, Trusteeship and Decolonization as of mid-
August 1982: one 0-1 (Secretary of the Council), two P-5s, two P-3s, one P-2,
one G-5 and five G-4sJ as well as two temporary posts at the P-4 level and two at
the P-3 level.

-135-



~ ~ha Declaration and Programme of Action on Namibia*

767. The Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action on Namibia, adopted by the
Council at the conclusion of its extraordinary plenary meetings held at Arusha,
United Republic of Tanzania, from 10 to 14 May 1982 (see paras. 141-219 above),
reads as follows:

at
Na
of
Co
to
De
to
ha
de
ad
so
ve
Af
in
th

DECLARATIONS, RESOLUTIONS, FORMAL STATEMENTS,
COMMUNIQUES AND DECISIONS

II.

r-~~-""',,",~···~"""""""-···~~;C""-~"C::O=~~C=''==.~'~~'-''''='''''-''''~~<j!".•.....

J
.1
'j
1
'I
'I
'j

1 766. The present chapter contains the texts of the declarations, resolutions,
'11 formal statements and communiques issued by the Council, its President and its
I missions of consultation during the period under review, as well as a summary of
i the decisions taken by the Council during the same period.
I

,I
, I

1

I •. DECLARATION ON NAMIBIA

4. Inaugurating the extraordinary plenary meetings of the Council, His
Excellency Mr. Salim A. Salim, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United
Republic of Tanzania and Honorary President of the meetings, stated, inter
alia:

Nat
res
rem
ini

co
ele
the
to
lat
Afr
acc
for
dep
neg

stu
We

sp
de

-136-

Previously issued as document A/37/230-S/l5089, annex.

2. The meetings of the Council in the United Republic of Tanzania have
served to draw attention to the current critical nature of the situation in
and around Namibia and further to intensify concrete action by the
international community in support of the struggle of the Namibian people
under the leadership of the South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO),
their sole and authentic representative.

1. The United Nations Council for Namibia, as the legal Administering
Authority for Namibia until independence, held a series of extraordinary
plenary meetings at Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania, from 10 to 14 May
1982 in accordance with General Assembly resolution 36/121 C of 10 December
1981, which requested the Council to hold a series of plenary meetings in
Africa during 1982 in order to recommend to the General Assembly appropriate
action to be taken (~ainst South Africa in the light of its obstinate refusal
to terminate its illegal occupation of Namibia.

*

3. The Council's meetings at Arusha further served to underscore the
solidarity of the international community with the front-line States. In this
connection, the meetings of the Council in the united Republic of Tanzania
were of special significance because they took place in one of the front-line
States which have extended unqualified support to SWAPO on the political,
diplomatic and military fronts. In this context, the Council pays tribute to
the Tanzanian people and to their President and Chairman of the front-line
States, His Excellency Mr. Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, a great statesman of
independent Africa and a staunch ch~mpion of the cause of Namibia.

I I
I )
~1
! •



"This extraordinary session of the Council of Namibia is being held
at a very crucial moment in the history of the liberation struggle for
Namibia. It comes at a time when there has been a further deterioration
of the over-all situation in southern Africa ••• This session of the
Council also comes at a time when there has been more said than done
towards the implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) •••
Despite an international consensus on the imperative need to put an end
to South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia, the regime in Pretoria
has been able to defy the will of the international community. This
defiance has been encouraged by the inability of the Security Council to
adopt appropriate and prompt measures because of the unwillingness of
some of its permanent members to act decisively ••• Yet some of these
very countries which have opposed the aaoption of sanctions against South
Africa have not hesitated to adopt sanctions against other States and,
indeed, to call for the universal application of such sanctions against
these States ••••

"South Africa also continues to use the territory of Namibia as a
spring-board for launching a systematic and comprehensive programme of
destabilization, invasion, aggression and occupation against its
neighbouring African States. As we speak here, two provinces of southern
Angola continue to be occupied by South Africa in complete violation of
and disregard to international law and norms that govern relations
between States ••• From this rostrum we must also demand an end to
systematic acts of aggression and campaigns of destabilization
perpetrated by the South African regime against Mozambique and zambia,
its attempts to destabilize the Government of Mozambique through the
phenomenon of training and equipping armed groupsl its policies and
actions aimed at SUbverting the newly independent State of Zimbabwe, its
threats and harassment against Botswana, Swaziland and Lesotho, and, lest
we forget, South Africa's involvement in the recent attempt by
mercenaries to subvert the Government of the Seychelles ••••

"I am confident that this Council, like the rest of the United
Nations, are committed to the implementation of Security Council
resolution 435 (1978). Yet unnecessary as it may be, it is important to
remind ourselves that in the first place, resolution 435 (1978) was the
initiative of the [Western] contact group of five ••••

"In October last year, in an attempt to accommodate SOuth Africa's
stubbornness and refusal to carry out the [United Nations] plan, the
Western contact group intrOduced a phased approach to the negotiations

But, as you are all aware, seven months have elapsed since last
October, and, up to now, negotiations on phase one have not yet been
completed. The negoti~tions seem to have been bogged down on the
electoral system ••• SWAPO, which has always shown great flexibility in
the negotiations, opted for proportional representation while being ready
to accept the system of single-member constituency. But the Western five
later zeroed in on the COmbination system which was acceptable to South
Africa ••• Unfortunately, despite the flexibility shown by SWAPO by
accepting two of the original three possible electoral methods put
forward by the Western five, there have been attempts in some quarters to
depict SWAPO and the front-line States as the obstacle to
negotiations ••••

-137-

t I



I
I
I

1\
I.!
'1I
jll
~i
I I

I 1
I I
I {

.1
I

.)
I

"SWAPO has now put forward a proposal to overcome, or at leastcircumvent, the present impasse in the protracted negotiations. Itinvolves the setting aside of the phase-to-phase approach to thenegotiations and, instead, calls for a comprehensive treatment of all theoutstanding issues. Here let me quote the communique of the front~lineStates' meeting:

'The Ministers accordingly supported SWAPO's proposal that aviable alternative way out of the present stalemate was to set asidethe present phase-to-phase approach in the negotiations. TheMinisters supported SWAPO's proposal conveyed to the Western five
that all outstanding issues should be discussed together in a
comprehensive manner in order to resolve them as a package. Suchnegotiation should ideally take place in a Geneva-type conferenceunder the auspices of the United Nations. But other means ofachieving that objective were not excluded'."

5. In his statement before the Council, Mr. Sam Nujoma, President of SWAPO,stated, inter ali~:

"Tanzania, as it is well known has been spearheading the liberationstruggle in southern Africa since the early 1960s and is still continuingto lead the struggle being the country of the Chairman of the front-lineStates •••

"The role that Tanzania has played in the struggles of the peoplesof southern Africa has been significant and exemplary. It was in thiscountry that the freedom fighters gathered to map out strategies andtactics to liberate their countries from the yoke of colonialism, racistdomination and imperialist exploitation. As a matter of fact, it was inTanzania that the initial formation of the People's Liberation Armf ofNamibia - SWAPO's military wing - was conceived and consequent militaryactions against racist South Africa launched. It is in that spirit tha~we have come back to the same source for inspiration, once again, to mapout new strategies for the final but crucial phase of our struggle.

"The embattled people of Namibia are closely following the
deliberations of the Council in the expectation that the new strategiesand tactics that will be mapped out here and the final declaration andprogramme of action will be commensurate with the current criticalsituation in and relating to Namibia.

"For our part, we, the struggling people of Namibia, under the
leadership of SWAPO, pursuant to ~e Maputo communique, have decided tolaunch a concerted offensive ,by opening up new fronts throughout andbeyond what the enemy refers to as the 'disaster triangle'. While theprimary front of the struggle between the forces of colonial and illegaloccupation and imperialism, on the. one hand, and the forces of nationalliberation, led by SWAPO, inside Namibia, on the other, remains thecentral focus of the si.tuation in Namibia today, we have also beenengaged on the other fronts, like the diplomatic front. In this regard,
I would like to clarify SWAPO's position.

-138-

6.
Un

7.
im
erne
res



- --------~- ---""----,.._...,..._._~_.--_.-._._.- -~-~~----_.,,_._._~.-._,.~--__ ._.......::..:.........>---- ._. . .. --'.-o....-'------~._:.....:.._ _'_. _--,-_ ~._

"Concerning the Western proposal for an electoral system, the five
have totally failed to convince us that there is any justification for
'one man two votes' or 'one man one vote, one vote two counts'. On the
contrary, we are convinced that the procedure is a double-edged sword,
intended to cut SWAPO's electoral strength from two different angles.
For instance, Pretoria and the Western five think that, on the one hand,
there is same advantage in proportional representation when it comes to
the counting of white votes. On the other hand, Pretoria and the Western
five hope that some of the black tribal puppets might have a better
chance of winning seats in a narrowly contested election with small
constituencies where they could appeal to narrow local interests and on
the basis of narrow tribal sentiments. We are, therefore, sure that the
motives behind the choice of such electoral procedure are sinister.

"Moreover, we believe that SWAPO has already demonstrated its
goodwill and readiness to make concessions. Since the beginning of the
negotiations on so-called 'phase one', we have made three key
concessions~ that is, we have agreed to the guarantee for the protection
of white minority rights, the guarantee for the protection of white
property rights and that the constitution of an independent Namibia
should be adopted only by a two-thirds majority in the Constituent
Assembly ••• We have presented to the Western five a proposal for direct
talks on the line of a Geneva-type conference, in order to bring the
phases together and resolve all the issues as a package."

6. In a message delivered on the occasion, the Secretary-General of the
United Nations said, inter alia:

"This special session of the United Nations Council for Namibia
takes place at a time of considerable concern over the continued lack of
progress in the search for a settlement of this very urgent problem •••
I am deeply concerned at the unsettling and dangerous effects of the
present impasse in the resolution of the problem •••

"It is most important that we continue to press for the
implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) whi~h has
established a practical framework and remains the basis for a peaceful
settlement in conformity with the legitimate rights and aspirations of
the Namibian people.

"Considerable time and effort has been devoted by the front-line
States, the western contact group and others in preparing the groundwork
for effecting a solution of the problem acceptable to the parties
concerned. Some success has been achieved in these collective
endeavours~ important commitments and agreements have been worked out
and all concerned have a better understanding of the remaining issues to
be resolved. The immediate objective must be to break the impasse which
is holding·up negotiations. I trust that the renewed attempts made in
recent months to move the negotiations forward will prove successful."

7. The COuncil draws the attention of the international community to the
important debate and decisions taken by the General Assembly at its eighth
emergency special session, held from 3 to 14 September 1981. In its
resolution ES-8/2 adopted at that session, the Assembly noted with regret and

-139-



1

16
,

re
Te
pa
of
in
of
th
ar
co
de
a
Na

1
o
r
i
d
n

j
c
i
s
a
d

i
i.-
!'.

i
i
i

-140-

9. The Council takes note with appreciation of the resolutions on Namibia(see A/37/161, annex) adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Organizationof African unity at its thirty-eighth ordinary session, held at Addis Ababafrom 22 to 28 February 1982.

concern that the Security Council had failed to exercise its primaryresponsibility for the maintenance of international peace and security when aseries of resolutions calling for comprehensive mandatory sanctions againstSOuth Africa under Chapter VII of the Charter of the united Nations had beenvetoed by the three Western permanent members of the Council on30 April 1981. By the same resolution, the Assembly strongly urged the
Security Council, in the light of the serious threat to international peaceand security posed by South Africa, to respond positively to the overwhelmingdemand of the international community by immediately imposing against thatcountry comprehensive mandatory sanctions as provided for in Chapter VII ofthe Charter. The Assembly also called upon all States, in view of the threatto international peace and security posed by South Africa, to impose againstthat country comprehensive mandatory sanctions in accordance with theprovisions of the Charter.

8. The Council has given the greatest attention to the final communiques ofthe summit meeting of the front-line States held at Maputo on 6 and7 March 1982 and the meeting~ of the Foreign Ministers of the front-lineStates held at Lusaka on 23 January 1982 and at Dar es Salaam on 4 May 1982,as well as to the SWAPO memorandum to the western five of 30 April 1982.

10. The Council welcomes the appointment by the General Assembly at itsthirty-sixth session of the new united Nations Commissioner for Namibia,Mr. B. C. Mishra, and expresses its conviction that the appointment willenhance further the effectiveness of the Council in discharging its mandate.
"

11. The Council reiterates the responsibility for Namibia assumed by theunited Nations pursuant to General Assembly resolutions 2145 (XXI) of27 OCtober 1966 and 2248 (S-V) of 19 May 1967. The Council, in promotinginitiatives reinforcing United Nations policy in support of the liberation ofNamibia and as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia untilindependence, has been guided since its establishment by the principles of theCharter of the United Nations, the Declaration on the Granting of Independenceto Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, and other resolutions adopted by the Assemblyon the question of Namibia. Through international political mobilization, theCouncil has endeavoured to obtain the withdrawal of the illegal South Africanadministration from the Territory and to support the legitimate struggle ofthe Namibian people for self-determin~tion, freedom and national independenceunder the leadership of SWAPO, their sole and authentic representative. TheCouncil has taken measures to counter the policies of SOuth Africa against theNamibian people and has denounced and rejected all South African manoeuvresthrough which the illegal regime has attempted to perpetuate its occupation ofNamibia. In the fulfilment of its mandate, the Cbuncil has received extensivesupport from the international community including intergovernmental andnon-governmental organizations.

I



regime for its
the resolutions and
and demands that South

12. The Council strongly condemns the racist Pretoria
continued illegal occupation of N~mibia in defiance of
decisions of the General Assembly and Security Council
Africa comply with them without any further delay.

13. The Council reaffirms its complete solidarity with and full support for
SWAPO, the sole and authentic representative of the Namibian people, whose
just struggle enjoys the support and admiration of the international
community. It commends SWAPO for its courage and heroism on the battlefield
in defence of the inalienable rights of the Namibian people to
self-determination, freedom and independence and for the constructive
attitude, the highest qualities of statesmanship and the diplomatic skill
demonstrated during the negotiations.

at
t

,ng

1 a

14. The Council reiterates its full support for the armed liberation struggle
of the Namibian people under the leadership of SWAPO, their sole and authentic
representative. The Council further reiterates its conviction that the
intensified armed liberation struggle by the Namibian people continues to be a
decisive factor in the efforts to achieve self-determination, freedom and
national independence in a united Namibia.

E

le

:e

15. The Council denounces and rejects the attempts by South Africa and its
allies to distort the nature of the question of Namibia and give it a
dimension contrary to that of an act of colonial domination in violation of
the princiJ::.les and objectives of the Charter of the United Nations and the
decisions and resolutions of the united Nations. The Council reiterates that
the question of Namibia is one of decolonization and must be resolved in
accordance with the provisions of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples contained in' General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV). The Council also denounces the policy of the United
States of America of collaborating with the racist regime of south Africa and
of engaging in hostile acts and propaganda against SWAPO, the sole and
authentic representative of the oppressed people of Namibia, as well as its
attempts to characterize the liberation struggle in Namibia as part of an
East-West confrontation. The attempts to link the question of Namibia with
irrelevant issues, such as that of co-operation between Angola and certain
other countries, which fall under the exclusive competence of the sovereign
Government of Angola, are designed solely to justify the illegal occupation of
Namibia by racist South Africa, thus delaying the independence of that
Territory.

e

f
e

,
L
!

16. The Council strongly and vehemently condemns the colonialist and racist
regime of South Africa for its militarization of Namibia and the use of that
Territory for launching armed attacks against neighbouring States,
particularly its repeated armed aggression against Angola. Th~ militarization
of Namibia has led to the forced conscription of Namibians and to a greatly
intensified flow of refugees, disorganizing to a tragic extent the family life
of the Namibian people. South Africa is currently maintaining a force of more
than 75,000 troops in addition to 110,000 minority white settlers who are
armed and supported by heavy armaments, air power and special mercenary
commando units. A variety of military, paramilitary and police units are
deployed in Namibia in defence of South Africa's illegal occupation and the
apartheid system. In line with its attempts to undermine the unity of the
Namibian people, the illegal South African regime has created local tribal

-141-



armies and puppet groups. Mercenaries are being extensively used by South
Africa in its armed repression of Namibian patriots. By collaborating with
the occupation forces in South Africa's over-all Inilitary strategy, foreign
economic interests play a direct role in helping South Africa to continue its
illegal occupation of the Territory.

17. The Council expresses its unflinching support for and solidarity with the
Government and the people of Angola and salutes them for the untold sacrifice
and the heavy burden they are shouldering in support of the liberation
struggle of Namibia. In this context, it condemns racist South Africa's
unprovoked acts of aggression, invasion and occupation of parts of southern
i\ngola which constitute a breach of international peace and security and
demands the immediate and unconditional withdrawal of South Africa's forces
from Angola.

18. The Council declares that the increasing political, economic and military
support being extended to South Africa by its major western trading partners
has enabled the racist regime tQ defy the will of the international
community. Such support has been demonstrated by the misuse of the veto in
the Security Council by the three Western permanent members and by the
apparent reluctance of the western contact group to apply sufficient pressure
on South Africa to compel it to comply with the decisions of the united
Nations. The COuncil calls upon the Governments concerned to stop colluding
with the racist regime and to act in accordance with the principles of the
Charter of the united Nations.

19. The Council declares once more that the United Nations plan contained in
Security Council resolutions 385 (1976) and 435 (1978) is the only and
universally accepted basis for a negotiated settlement, and calls for its
immediate implementation without modification, dilutiop or prevarication. By
its resolution 385 (1976), the Security Council, inter alia, condemned the
continued illegal occupation of Namibia by South Africa and declared that it
was imperative that free elections under the supervision and control of the
United Nations be held for the whole of Namibia as one political entity to
enable Namibians to determine their own future. The Security Council further
demanded that South Africa urgently make a solemn declaration accepting the
foregoing provisions, undertaking to comply with the resolutions and decisions
of the United Nations and with the advisory opinion of the International Court
of Justice 11 in regard to Namibia, and recognizing the territorial integrity
and unity of Namibia as a nation. In this regard, the COunci.l condemns South
Africa and its Western allies for attempting to undermine the international
consensus embodied in those resolutions with the objective of gaining
international recognition for illegitimate groups in Namibia and to
consolidate South Africa's colonial and neo-colonial interests at the expense
of the legitimate aspirations of the Namibian people for self-determination,
freedom and genuine independence in'a united Namibia.

20. The COuncil condemns the attempts in, the ongoing negotiations to impose
on the people of Namibia a totally unjustifiable electoral system which would
lead to the establishment of a neo-colonialist regime in Namibia, thus
depriving its people of their hard-won victories in the struggle for
liberation.

-142-



---.----- ..-.- - - --- .- ····-·-:·:-,:=-_==.====-c.:=::=.cc.:.=·:-=-_:::.cc===~,==.::-:.:zs'1

'~\I

li

ts

the

lry

n

y

r

os
rt
'{

:l

21. The Council shares the deep dissatisfaction of SWAPO with the currentstate of negotiations for the implementation of the united Nations planresulting from racist South Africa's continued intransigence. It supports thelatest proposal made by SWAPO in order to overcome the present stalemate for aGeneva-type conference under United Nations auspices at which all outstandingissues would be discussed and resolved together in a comprehensive manner.

22. The Council urges the Western five to accept this constructive proposalof SWAPO for the early implementation of the united Nations plan and to exertfirm and genuine pressure on South Africa in this regard.

23, The Council solemnly declares that Namibia's accession to independencemust be with its territorial integrity intact, including Walvis Bay and theoffshore islands. The Council unequivocally reaffirms the relevant decisionsof the General Assembly to the effect that Walvis Bay and the offshore islandsare an integral part of Namibia and that any action by South Africa toseparate them from the Territory is illegal, null and void.

24. The Council reaffirms that the natural resources of Namibia are theinviolable heritage of the Namibian people and in this regard it underlinesthe importance of the effective implementation of Decree No. 1 for theProtection of the Natural Resources of Namibia, 21 which was approved byGeneral Assembly resolution 3295 (XXIX) of '13 December 1974. The rapiddepletion of the natural resources of the Territory as a result of thesystematic plunder by South Africa's Western trading partners in collusionwith the illegal South African administration is a grave threat to theintegrity and prosperity of an independent Namibia. In particular, the
continuous illegal exploitation of Namibian uranium is detrimental to Namibiaand its people.

25. The inhumanity, suffering and subjugation perpetrated by the racistregime of South Africa in Namibia represent a blatant violation of thedignity, value and sacred character of the human being and must end
forthwith. While this violation continues, the escalation of conflict inNamibia is inevitable. The situation has confronted the United Nations withone of the most s~vere crises in its history, and represents the gravest andmost enduring chC'ilenge to the authority as well as the purposes andprinciples of the vrganization, while at the same time endangering the peaceand security not only o~ the southern Africa region but of the world at large.

11. PROGRAMME OF ACTION ON NAMIBIA

26. The United Nations Council for Namibia, having assessed the currentsituation in Namibia reSUlting from South Africa's continued illegaloccupation of the Territory, its intransigence encouraged by its Westernsupporters, the enhancement of its military strength including the acquisitionby it of nuclear-weapons capability, its armed aggression against neighbouringAfrican States and its attempts to destabilize them - in particular Angola -and expressing its profound concern over the grave situation in and relatingto Namibia, adopts the following programme of action to intensifyinternational support in all fields for the oppressed people of Namibia with aview to enabling them to exercise their inalienable right to
self-determination, freedom and national independence in a united Namibia.

-143-



\

-144-

27. The Council declares its determination to intensify its efforts for theearly decolonization of Namibia by mobilizing international public opinion, byexposing the political, military and economic activities of the Pretoriaregime and its allies, by taking suitable measures to preserve the territorialintegrity of Namibia and to protect its natural resources, by safeguarding theinterests of Namibia in international fora, by dispatching missions ofconsultation to Governments and by organizing international assistance toNamibians with a view to equipping them for the responsibility of nationhood.

•
29. The Council urges the int~rnational community to extend all support andassistance, including military assistance, to SWAPO for its liberationstruggle and to the front-line States for the defence of their sovereignty andterritorial integrity against South African aggression.

30. The Council calls upon all Member States of the united Nations to workresolutely towards the early achievement of a negotiated settlement of theNamibian problem based on the provisions of Security Council resolutions 385(1976) and 435 (1978). In this connection, the Council urges all MemberStates not to recognize any puppet groups or illegal entities in the
Territory, or any internal settlement of the question of Namibia, andreiterates that free and fair elections under the supervision and control ofthe United Nations are an essential prerequisite to the full implementation ofthe United Nations plan for Namibia. In this context, the Council supportsand calls upon all Member States to support the proposal of SWAPO to convene,under the auspices of the United Nations, a Geneva-type conference at whichall outstanding issues would be discussed and resolved together in acomprehensive manner on the basis of all relevant United Nations resolutionson Namibia.

28. The Council considers that the situation in and around Namibiaconstitutes a manifest breach of international peace and security dS definedin the Charter of the United Nations, and reiterates its recommendation to theSecurity Council that comprehensive mandatory sanctions, as provided for byChapter VII of the Charter, be adopted in order to compel South Africa tocomply with the relevant decisions and resolutions of the General Assembly andthe Security Council•

31. The Council decides to p~omcte every effort for the sp~~dJ implementationof Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia. Stepswill be taken by the Council to initiate legal action in appropriate courtsagainst those who violate the provisions of the Dec~ee.

32. All the Western European countries which are parties to the Treaty ofAlrnelo must be held responsible for processing Namibian uranium since they donot take measures to identify the ~ource of uranium which is further processedat the Urenco uranium-enrichment plant. The Council will continue its policyof denouncing all multinational corporations such as the Rio Tinto ZincCorporation, Ltd. (RTZ) which, in total disregard to the position of theUnited Nations and the advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice,continue to exploit for profit the basic resources of a future independentNamibia. In this regard, the Council calls on all states to prohibitState-controlled corporations from investing or obtaining concessions inNamibia and to prohibit companies of their nationality not under direct

'.
i

'j
1.1,

:i



, the
,on, by

torial
ng the

o
hood.

ined
to the
by

:>

ly and

and

:y and

)rk
le

385

, of
on of
ts
ene,
ch

ons

ation
Steps
ts

E
{ do
~ssed

Licy

:ice,

governmental control from investing or obtaining concessions in Namibia, and
to announce that they will not protect such investments against claims by the
Council or the future lawful Government of an independent Namibia.

33. The Council will determine the extent of the territorial sea an6 of the
contiguous zone of Namibia, proclaim Namibia's exclusive economic zone and
delimit its continental shelf, especially in view of the fact that the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea has been adopted and that the Council
is entitled to sign and ratify it on behalf of Namibia. In this context, the
Council denounces South Africa's attempts to extend in its own name the
territorial sea of Namibia and to proclaim an.exclusive economic zone for
Namibia, and declares such acts to be null and void.

34. The Council decides to strengthen its over-all assistance to the Namibian
people and to its liberation movement, SWAPO, and in this framework will
actively protect the needs of Namibian refugees through' its participation in
the Executive Committee of the Office of the United N~tions High Commissioner
for Refugees. The needs of refugees are particularly crucial because, in
addition to their suffering resulting from the disorganiz~tion of the Namibian
family, there is the added misfortune of an imposed exile from their
homeland. The international community has the duty anc responsibility to do
all in its power to lessen such a tragic burden impc\sed by conditions beyond
the control of their victims.

35. The Council renews its call upon all Governments, pending the imposition
of comprehensive mandatory sanctions under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations, to impose voluntary comprehensive sanctions aguinst South
Africa, including an arms embargo, an oil embargo, economic sanctions and
other suitable measures, as provided for in General Assembly resolutions
ES-8/2 of 14 September 1981, 36/121 B of 10 December 1981 and the Panama
Declaration ai1d Programme of Action on Namibia adopted by the Council on
5 June 1981. 13/

36. The Council decides to intensify its effc'rts to promot.e the early
independence of Namibia by broadening contacts with natio~al parliaments,
intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations, liberation support and
solidarity groups, trade unions and other mass organi?ations in all States.

37. The Council calls upon all States to adopt legislative and other
effective measures to prevent the recruitment, training and transit of
mercenaries for service in Namibia.

38. The Council demands the immediate and unconditional release of all
Namibian political prisoners held at Robben Island and other racist jails and
detention centres in apartheid South Africa and occupied Namibia. The Council
further demands that the three SWAPO freedom fighters who have been charged
under the repressive "Terrorism Act" by the illegal Pretoria regime, together
with all the other captured Namibian freedo~ fighters, be accorded
prisoner-of-war status under the Geneva Convention of 12 August 1949 ~ and
Additional Protocol I thereto (A/32/144, annex I) pending their release.

39. The Council decides to support the communique issued on 4 May 1982
following the meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the front-line States, Kenya
and Nigeria and the President of SWAPO, and calls upon all States to do
likewise.

-145-



B. Resolutions

768. The Council adopted the following resolution at its 381st meeting, held at
Aru~ha on 13 May 1982:

EXPRESSION OF '!'HANKS TO THE GOVERNl'1ENT AND PEOPLE OF
THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA*

The united Nations Council for Namibia,

Having met at Arusha from 10 to 14 May 1982 for tb-c' purpose of assessing
the current situation in and concerning Namibia and considering measures to
press for the implementation of United Nations resolutions on Namibia,

Having heard an inspiring statement made by His Excellency
Mr. Salim & Salim, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United Republic of
Tanzania, at the inaugurai meeting on 10 May,

Expresses its erofound gratitude to the Government and the people of the
United Republic of Tanzania for providing the Council with the necessary
facilities for its extraordinary plenary meetings u for the outstanding
contribution lhey have made to the success of the meetings eno in particular
for the very generous and kind hospitality and the warm and cordial reception
accorded to the partic~pants and observers throughout their stay in Arusha.

C. Formal statements

5.
sett
the
que~

sinc
of N

6.
viol
inte
Coun
peac

7.
this
atta

8.
seeki
Namib

770. The p
issued by
Bangladesh

. c'.9. On 17 March 15<82, the President of the Council issued the followin'3 statement
concerning the South African attack on a Namibian refugee settlement in Angol~:

1. The United N~tions Council for Namibia has learned with dismay and
indignation that the racist illegal occupation regime of South Africa has once
more staged a massive attack on a Namibian refugee settlement in Angola.

1.
of
31

4. T
Govern
action
possib

3. M
audien
Mr. Ge
Mr. N.
Missio

2.
(Guya
(Unio
eamer
Organi

P*

-146-

Previously issued under the symbol A/AC.13l/88.

2. In this raid, South African racist troops are reported to have
slaughtered over 200 Namibian refugees in Angola and to have caused massive
deutruction to pxoperty.

4. This battalion is composed of troops of the regular army of the South
African racists, of black and white mercenaries who served in the former
Portuguese army before Angolan independence, of mercenary groups from the
former Southern Rhodesia and is assisted by units of the so-called South West
Africa Territory Force.

3. The racist regime of South Africa, using illegally occupied Namibia as a
launching pad, has, in addition, violated the territorial integrity and
sovereignty of Angola and it is reported that the Thirty-second Battalion,
which is a division of a secret counter-insurgency unit, is still conducting
military operations inside Angolan territory.

.)



5. This attack on a South west Africa People's Organization refugeesettlement, taking place as it does during the process of negotiations towardsthe achievement of an internationally acceptable peaceful solution of the
que~tion of Namibia, is yet al'Qther demonstration that South Africa is notsincere in its statements that it desires a peaceful solution to the questionof Namibia.

6. T~is massive attack on a Namibian refugee settlement in Angola is a totalviolation of the Charter of the United Nations and a vicious transgression ofinternational norms. It also con~titutes a flagrant violation of SecurityCouncil resolutions 385 (1976) and 435 (1978) which were designed to achieve apeaceful settlement of the question of Namibia.

7. The United Nations Council for Namibia strongly condemns South Africa forthis act of barbarity and its reckless destruction of lives and property. Theattack once more exposes the racist regime's true character as a w~~-monger.
8. The Council once more reaffirms the commitment of th~ United Nations toseeking a peaceful and internationally acceptable solution of the question ofNamibia within the framework of Security Council resolution 435 (1978).

D. Communiques

770. The present section contains the texts of the communiques and statementsissued by the Mission of Consultation of the Council to Cyprus, Sri Lanka andBangladesh.

1. Joint communique issued by the Government of Cyprus and
the Mission at Nicosia on 30 March 1982*

1. At the invitation of the Government of Cyprus, a mission of consultationof the united Nations Council for Namibia visited Cyprus from 28 to31 March 1982.

4. The purpose of the Mission's vi&it was to hold consultations with theGovernment of Cyprus and to examine ways and means of intensifying the jointaction of the Government and Council in the united Nations and, whe'everpossible, in other international fora with a view to achieving the speedy

3. Mr. Spiryos Kyprianou, President of the Republic of Cyprus, received inaudience the members of the United Nations Council for Namibia.Mr. George Ladas, President of the House of Representatives, and
Mr. N. & Rolandis, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, also received theMission.

-147-

Previous~y iSGued under the symbol A/AC.131/L.246.*

2. The Mission was composed of the following members~ Mr. Noel G. Sinclair(Guyana), Chairmani Mr. Michael Sherifis (Cyprus)i Mr. Valentin N. Berezovsky(Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) i Mr. Tommo Monthe (United Republic ofCameroon)i and Mr. Hingyangerwa P. Asheeke (South west Africa People'sOrganization (~lAPO».



implementation of the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security
Council which have consistently affirmed the inalienable and impre~criptible
right of the people of Namibia to self-determination, freedom and national
independence in a united Namibia.

5. The Mission held intensive consultations with a delegation of the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs comprising Mr. Elias Ypserides, Director of
Political AffairsJ Mr. K. Malliotis, Head of Section for International
OrganizationsJ Mr. Andreas Skarparis, Head of Section for Bilateral Relations,
Mr. Leonidas Markides, Section for International OrganizationsJ and
Mr. Marios Ieronimides, Section for Bilateral Affairs.

6. The Mission expresses its appreciation for the policies of the Government
of Cyprus in support of the efforts of the Namibian people to achieve
self-determination, freedom and national independence in a united Namibia.
The Government of Cyprus reaffirms its well-known support for the Council as
the legal Administering Aut~ority for Namibia until independence.

7. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission stress that the question of
Namibia must remain one of the top priorities on the agenda of the
international community and must always be in the forefront of the
international conscience.

8. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission vigorously condemn the continued
illegal presence of the South African regime in NamibiaJ the policies of
apartheid and practices of division, including the establishment of so-called
homelandsJ and the continuous violence and acts of intimidation and brutal
repression by which the occupation forces of the illegal administration
attempt to perpetuate the odious exploitation of the people of Namibia.

9. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission declare that South Africa's
policies of repression in Namibia, its militarization of the Territory, its
use of the Territory as a spring-board for repeat~d acts of aggression against
neighbouring African States, its depletion of Namibia's natural resources in
violation of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of
Namibia, enacted by the Council on 27 September 1974, 2/ its possession and
exploitation of massive reserves of Namibian uranium and its efforts to
develop nuclear weapons with the assistance and collaboration of certain
countries constitute a threat to international peace and security within the
meaning of Chapter VII of the €harter of the United Nations.

10. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission reiterate their position that
the strong political, economic, diplomatic and military support which South
Africa receives from certain Western' permanent members of the Security Council
encourages South Africa to refuse to comply with United Nations resolutions
and decisions on N?~ibia and has prevented the Security Council from imposing
mandatory sanctions against South Africa. This encouragement confirms
existing doubts about the real intentions of the five Western Powers with
regard tc the strict implementation of the united Nations plan for Namibia of
which they themselves were- the authors.

11. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission reiterate their strong
condemnation of the continued armed invasions mounted by racist South African
troops against neighbouring countries, particularly Angola. The Government of
Cyprus and the Mission reaffirm their 201idarity with the front-line states.

-148-

12.
the na
univer
the de
South
repres
charac
confro

13. T
questi
occupa

14. T
the pr
of 30
29 Sep
princi
Namibi
united
repres

15. T
Africa
Namibi
the de
be wit
Namibia
Council
basis f
impose
interna

16. Th
impodt
against
called
the Org
South A

17. Th
accessi
includi
and Gen
of 27
the Sec

18. Th
complia
Namibia.
take le
isolate
accorda



-149-

15. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission denounce attempts by SouthAfrica and certain Western Powers to elevate the so-called internal parties inNamibia to equal status with SWAPO. They stress the importance of respectingthe demand of the General Assembly and the Security Council that recognitionbe withheld from any fLaudulent entities which South Africa may establish inNamibia. They reject any moves to revise, modify or Imdermine SecurityCouncil resolution 435 (1978), which provides the only universally acceptablebasis for a settlement. They also denounce any manoeuvres by South Africa toimpose a neo-colonial regime upon the Namibian people through a so-calledinternal settlement.

14. The Government of Cyprus re~terates the need for a peaceful solution ofthe problem of Namibia on the basis of Security Council resolutions 385 (1976)of 30 January 1976, 431 (1978) of 27 July 1978, 435 (1~78) of29 September 1978, and 439 (1978) of 13 November 1978. It also reaffirms itsprincipled position of total support for the legitimate struggle of theNamibian people for self-determination, freedom and genuine independence in aunited Namibia under the leadership of SWAPO, the sole and authenticrepresentative of the Namibian people.

13. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission reaffirm strongly that thequestion of Namibia is specifically a problem of decolonization and of illegaloccupation.

17. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission reiterate that Namibia'saccession to independence must be with its territorial integrity intact,inclUding Walvis Bay and the offshore islands, in accordance with the Charterand General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and 2145 (XXI)of 27 October 1966, as well as in subsequent resolutions of the Assembly andthe Security Council relating to Namibia.

16. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission express their support for theimpcEition by the Security Council of mandatory comprehensive sanctionsagainst South Africa under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations ascalled ~vr by the General Assembly, the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries andthe Organization of African Unity, as one of the most efff>wtive ways to obtainSouth Africa's com~liance with the relevant Security Council resolutions.

18. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission reiterate the importance ofcompliance with Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources ofNamibia. The two sides reaffirm the importance of requesting all States totake legislative, administrative and other measures in order effectively toisolate south Africa politically, economically, militarily and culturally inaccordance with General Assembly resolution ES-8/2 of 14 September 1981.

12. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission oppose any attempt to distortthe nature of the question of Namibia or to deprive the Namibian issue of itsuniversal dimensions and underplay the degree of defiance by Soute Africa ofthe decisions of the United Nations as a whole. They denounce attempts bySouth Africa and its allies to label SWAPO, the sole and authentic
representative of the Namibian people, as a terrorist organization and tocharacterize the liberation struggle in Namibia as pa.rt of an East-Westconfrontation.



5.
Min'
Sec
Dire
Nati
Div!
Divi

7.
conc
the
of t
Nami
depl
regi
part
drew
situ
inte
reso
inal

6.
for
Admi

8.
mili
Sout
the
expa

3.
Min

4.
Lan
des
Aut
Ter
are
int
lea
sel
con
pre
neg
Cou

2•
(Gu
(In
Mr.
Mr.

--~--_ .._-~---~-~ ..+---~_ .....:~" -. ~-...;.-~._.- "-~---'--'-

-150-

Previously issued under the symbol A/AC.13l/L.247.*

2. Joint press statement issued by the Government of Sri Lanka
!Dd the Mission at Colombo on 6 April 1982*

23. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission consider that programmes ofassistance to the Namibian people should be strengthened and that the UnitedNations should consolidate all activities directed toward support of theNamibian people.

25. The Mission, on behalf of the Council, expresses its appreciation to theGovernment of Cyprus for its contributions to the united Nations Fund forNamibia and welcomes its decision to offer scholarships to Namibian students.

24. The Mission, on behalf of the Council, expresses its appreciation to theGovernment of Cyprus for the support which it has extended and continues toextend to SWAPO, the sole and authentic representative of the Namibian people.

26. The Mission, on behalf of the Council, expresses its gratitude for thefirm and consistent support given by the Government of Cyprus to the effortsof the Council in support of genuine independence for the Namibian people andexpresses its sincere thanks to the Government·of Cyprus for the warm welcomeand the generous hospitality ext~nded to the Mission during its stay.

22. The Government of Cyprus and th~ Mission consider that it is essential toseek the full implementation of all Security Council resolutions on thequestion of Namibia, which are binding on all States Members of the UnitedNations.

19. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission strongly condemn the activitiesof all foreign corporations operating in Namibia under the illegal
administration of South Africa. These activities constitute a·major obstacleto the genuine independence of Namibia. The Government of Cyprus and theMission reiterate that the people of Namibia, through the Government of aganuinely independent Namibia, will be entitled to seek reparations for theexploitation and depletion of their natural resources.

1. At the invitation of the Government of Sri Lanka, a mission ofconsultation of the United Nations Council for Namibia visited Sri Lanka from1 to 6 April 1982.

21. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission consider that in thesecircumstances it is necessary for the international community to undertake anactive and concerted political campaign in support of the struggle of theNamibian people.

20. The Government of Cyprus and the Mission are of the view that thestruggle of the people of Namibia for self-determination and independenceunder the leadership of their liberation movement, SWAPO, has reached a newand critical stage. In the light of recent developments, the Government ofCyprus and the Mission reaffirm their complete solidarity with and fullsupport for SWAPO.

.~
!

.:
I \
f"1

I I
i
I
i

,I
I

1



I

lJ
1-'
!

_:::c-------c:,:::c--=::::- ::=-:::-c-=:::-;::"=--c-'==~

,0.;;

"~':,

- _'~'~" ~"'O ' "'_' _

•. .0_ .... '_ •• __ -'.'-'.__ ._...-'- ...~." ._

--_ .._--~ _.,-_ .. -~~--_._----_. '--- - ,,__,,_~_·__·_o_. _

-151-

5. The Mission held intensive consultations with a delegation from the
Ministry of Foreign Affairs comprising Mr. H. T. Jayasinghe, Foreign
Secretary, Mr. B. P. Tilakaratne, Director-GeneralJ Mr. W. P. S. R. Jayaweera,
Director, Africa Division, Mr. Ananda Gunasekera, Deputy Director, United
Nations Division, Mr. W. P. R. B. Wickremasinghe, Deputy Director, Non--Aligned
Division, and Mr. R. H. Jayasinghe, Assistant Director, United Nations
Division.

4. The purpose of the Mission's visit was to inform the Government of Sri
Lanka about the present situation and developments regarding Namibia, to
describe various activities undertaken by the Council, the legal Administering
Authority for Namibia, in its efforts to ensure the liberation of the
Territory, and more particularly, to exchange views with the Government on
areas for possible urgent action directed towards the mobilization of maximum
international support for the struggle of the Namibian people under the
leadership of SWAPO, their sole and authentic representative, for
self-determination and genuine independence. The consultations were
considered all the more important in view of the need to exert the necessary
pressure on South Africa to bring about the desired progress in the
negotiations with the Pretoria regime for the implementation of Security
Council resolution 435 (1978) of 29 September 1978.

3. During its stay the Mission was received by Mr. A. C. Shahul Hameed,
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Sri Lanka.

2. The Mission was composed of the following members: Mr. Noel G. Sinclair
(Guyana), Chairman, Mr. Michael Sherifis (Cyprus), Mr. T. P. Sreenivasan
(India), Mr. Valentin N. Berezovsky (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) J

Mr. Tommo Monthe (United Republic of Cameroon)J and
Mr. Hingyangerwa P. Asheeke (South West Africa People's Organization (SWAPO».

7. Reviewing the current situation in Namibia, both sides expressed profound
concern at and condemned the continuing illegal occupation of the Territory by
the racist regime of South Africa, its increasing contempt for the decisions
of the United Nations and its policy of aggression and brutality against the
Namibian people, especially those who manifest any support for SWAPO. They
deplored the continuing collaboration of certain countries with the Pretoria
regime in various fields and stressed the need for a greater commitment on the
part of all countries to the speedy liberation of ~~mibia. Both sides also
drew the attention of the world community to the grave crisis that the
situation in Namibia represented. They reiterated the need for concerted
international action to ensure the speedy implementation of Security Council
resolution 435 (1978) and the enjoyment of the people of Namibia of their
inalienable right to self-determination and independence.

6. The Mission commended the staunch support of the Government of Sri Lanka
for the liberation of Namibia and for the work of the Council as the legal
Administering Authority for the Territory until independence.

8. They likewise vehemently condemned South Africa's increasing
militarization of the Territory, including the formation of the so-called
South West Africa Territorial Force, the use of mercenaries inside and outside
the Territory and the forced conscription of Namibian nationals for its
expanded war of aggression against the people of Namibia and the neighbouring

to

111

"

tle

an

Leo

d

e

ies

cle



e

1

1
t

s
P
f
t
a
i

t

c
t

-152-

African States. They expressed the view that that militarization, combinedwith the fact that the Pretoria regime had been acting in a completelyunrestrained manner against Namibia and the neighbouring states, assumed evengreater proportions in view of South Africa's development of a nuclear weaponscapability. They furthermore drew attention with profound concern to thethreat to international peace and security created by South Africa'ssystematic and continued violation of the political independence, sovereigntyand territorial integrity of neighbouring African States, especially Angola,which continued to be the object of South Africa's brutal aggression.

9. Both sides strongly condemned South Africa's policy of systematicallytrying to eliminate SWAPO, its leaders, cadres and supporters, both inside andoutside the Territory. They likewise strongly condemned South Africa'smanoeuvres aimed at undermining the role of SWAPO as the sole and authenticrepresentative of the people of Namibia and called upon all States, inaccordance with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and theSecurity Council, to reaffirm their support for SWAPO and to refrain fromco-operating with or according recognition to any regime or authority whichthe illegal South African administration might seek to impose on the Namibianpeople.

11. The Government and the Mission condemned in unequivocal terms the illegalplundering of Namibia's natural resources by South Africa and other foreigninterests operating in Namibia under the illegal South African administrationin violation of the relevant United Nations resolutions, the advisory opinionof the International Court of Justice of 21 June 1971 !I and Decree No. 1 forthe Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia, enacted by the Council on27 September 1974. ~ They reiterated the well-known position that suchexploitation contributed to the perpetuation of the illegal occupation regimein Namibia and that South Africa and other foreign economic interests would beliable to pay reparations to an independent Namibia for the illegalexploitation of its resources.

10. The Go~ernment and the Mission further denounced and condemned SouthAfrica's violation of the territorial integrity of Namibia through theattempted imposition of its bantustanization policies in the Territory and itsannexation of Walvis Bay and the offshore islands in an act of colonialexpansion which has been declared by the General Assembly to be illegal, nulland void.

13. The two sides reiterated the position that the question of Namibia wasone of occupation and of decolonization and deplored any attempt by South

12. The Government and the Mission expressed concern about the lack ofprogress in the negotiations for the implementations of Security Councilresolution 435 (1978) and cautioned that the international community should bevigilant and not be lulled into feeling that the very momentum of the talksconstituted progress. They reite~ated their position that resolution435 (1978) constituted the only universally accepted basis for a settlewent ofthe Namibian question and expressed their hcpe that the members of the westerncontact group, whose ideas formed the basis of the settlement plan containedin resolution 435 (1978), would press for its speedy implementation withoutIOOdification.



y

Ild

s

1

..·1

Africa and its allies to distort the struggle of the people of Namibia or
characterize it as part of an East-West ideological conflict, or to label
SWAPO as a terrorist organization.

14. They expressly condemned the current manoeuvres aimed at revising,
modifying or thwarting the implementation of Security Council
resolution 435 (1978) and imposing a neo-colonial situation in Namibia with
the purpose of maintaining the status quo. They reiterated the need for a
peaceful solution of the problem of Namibia on the basis of Security Council
resolutions 385 (1976) of 30 January 1976, 431 (1978) of 27 July 1978,
435 (l978) and 439 (1978) of 13 November 1978. They also reaffirmed their
principled position of total support for the legitimate struggle of the
Namibian people for self-determination, freedom and genuine independence in a
united Namibia under the leadership of SWAPO, their sole and authentic
representative.

15. The Government and the Mission expressed their support for the imposition
by the Security Council of comprehensive mandatory sanctions against South
Africa under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations as called for by
the General Assembly, the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and the
Organization of African Unity, as one of the most effective ways to obtain
South Africa's compliance with the relevant Security Council reSOlutions.

16. The Government and the Mission recognized that the struggle for the
liberation of Namibia was in a crucial phase during which all forces of
imperialism had found renewed energy and were concentrating on new tactics for
the maintenance of the status quo, while giving the impression of a desire to
see a genuine change. The Government and the Mission recognized that at the
current juncture it was essential for peace and freedom-loving forces to unite
their energies solidly behind SWAPO and to continue to expose and condemn all
strategems designed to frustrate the legitimate struggle of the people of
Namibia for their independence. In that context, the Mission welcomed the
reaffirmation by the Government of Sri Lanka of its unswerving commitment and
dedication to the work of the united Nations Council for Namibia and to the
freedom struggle of the people of Namibia.

17. The Government and the Mission reiterated their solidarity with the firm
principled stand of the front-line States, which continued to render moral and
material support to SWAPO even at great sacrifice to themselves.

18. The Government and the Mission considered that programmes of assistance
to the Namibian people should be strengthened and that the united Nations
should consolidate all activities directed towards support of the Namibian
people. The Government assured the Mission that Sri Lanka would extend its
fullest support to any initiative taken by the United Nations to bring about
the speedy liberation of Namibia and that it would also exert its efforts to
achieve that end through all appropriate international organizations and fora,
including the Commonwealth.

19. The Mission, on behalf of the Council, expressed its appreciation to the
Government of Sri Lanka for the support which it had extended and continued to
extend to SWAPO, the sole and authentic representative of the Namibian people•

-153-



3. Joint communique issued by the Government of Bangladesh and
the Mission at Dacca on 13 April 1982*

3. During its stay in Bangladesh the Mission was received by LieutenantGeneral H. M. Ershad, Chief Martial Law Administrator and Commander-in-Chiefof the armed forces of Bangladesh.

2. The Mission was composed of the following members: Mr. Noel G. Sinclair(Guyana), Chairman, Mr. Patriot L. B. Yane (Botswana), Mr. T. P. Sreenivasan(India) J Mr. Valentin N. Berezovsky (Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) J andMr. Hingyangerwa P. Asheeke (South west Africa People's Organization (SWAPO».

21. The Mission, on behalf of the Council, expressed gratitude for the firmand consistent support given by the Government of Sri Lanka to the efforts ofthe Council in support of genuine independence for the Namibian people, andexpressed its sincere thanks to the Government of Sri Lanka for the warmwelcome and generous hospitality extended to the Mission during its stay.

1. At the invitation of the Government of Bangladesh, a mission ofconsultation of the United Nations Council for Namibia visited Bangladesh from9 to 13 April 1982.

20. The Mission expressed its appreciation to the Government of Sri Lanka forits material manif.estation of support to the struggling people of Namibia.

, !

' ....•. 1'~;:

4. The Mission held substantive discussions at the Ministry of ForeignAffairs with a Bangladeshi delegation consisting of
Mr. Humayun Rasheed Chowdhury, Foreign Secretary, Mr. M. R. Osmany,Direct:)r-General for the united Nations and Mr. Ruhul Amin, Director for theUni ted Nations.

5. The purpose of the visit was to explore ways and means by which theGovernment of Bangladesh and the Mission could mobilize maximum internationalsupport for the struggle of the Namibian people and for implementation ofSecurity Council resolution 435 (1978) of 29 September 1978. The two partiesalso discussed the prospects for further strengthening the co-operation of theGOvernment of Bangladesh with the United Nations Council for Namibia,particularly in the context of the delay in implementation of Security Councilresolution 435 '(1978) and of the forthcoming extraordinary plenary meetings ofthe Council to be held at Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania, from 10 to14 May 1982. '

6. The Government of Bangladesh reiterates solidarity with and unequivocalsupport for the just struggle ~f the people of Namibia. The Government ofBangladesh expresses appreciation for the steps taken by the united NationsCouncil for Namibia as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia in its

* previously issued under the symbol A/AC.13l/L.248.

-154-



anka for
bia.

e firm
:>rts of
, and
rm
:lY·

!sh from

nclair
vasan
s) J and
WAPO») •

nt
Chief

n

t' the

:ional
)f
trties
of the

:ouncil
ngs of
o

ocal
of
ons
its

-_.----- .~----- -~-~-_._--- --- ---
"" ----_._--~----_.-..~---.'..._-

efforts for thE ~lfilment of its mandate in accordance with the relevant
General Assembly resolutions.

7. The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission strongly condemn South
Africa's continued illegal occupation of Namibia, its policies of apartheid
and inhuman repression in Namibia, its massive militarization of the Territory
and its blatant use of the Territory as a spring-board for naked acts of
aggression against nei9hbouring African States, its illegal exploitation of
the natural resources of Namibia, its use of mercenaries, the creation of
tribal armies, the forced conscription of Namibians for military service, the
establishment of so-called homelands and its efforts to develop nuclear
weapons with the assistance and collaboration of certain countries.

8. The Government of Bangladesh and tne Mission maintain that the strong
political, economic, diplomatic and military support which South Africa has
been receiving from some permanent members of the Security Council in
violation of the resolutions of the General Assembly in this regard encourage
South Africa to defy the decisions and resolutions of the United Nations on
Namibia. They regret that the insidious stand taken by some permanent members
prevented the Security Council from imposing mandatory sanctions against South
Africa. These facts tend to confirm the doubts about the real objectives and
intentions of these Powers, who took upon themselves the task of implementing
the united Nations plan for Namibia through diplomatic means.

9. Despite growing disappointment over the progress m~de by the concerned
Powers towards the implementation of the relevant Security Council resolutions
and in bringing about a peaceful resolution of the problem, the Government of
Bangladesh expresses the hope that they will see the logic and urgency of
bringing sufficient pressure to bear on South Africa so as to oblige it to
comply with the United Nations decisions on Namibia without further delay.

10. The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission reaffirm their principled
position of total support for the legitimate struggle of the Namibian people
for self-determination, freedom and genuine independence in a united Namibia
under the leadership of &WAPO, the sole and authentic representative of the
Namibian people. They reaffirm thp. right of the ~amibian people to employ all
means at their disposal to secure their freedom and national independence.

11. The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission reiterate their position
that Security Council resolution 435 (1978) constitutes the only universally
accepted basis for a settlement of the Namibian question and demand that the
resolution be implemented without modification, qualification, prevarication
or delay. They expressly condemn the current manoeuvres aimed at revising the
terms of and thwarting the implementation of resolution 435 (1978) and
imposing a neo-colonial situation in Namibia with the purpose of maintaining
the status quo. The two sides call for concerted international action to
ensure the speedy implementation of the united Nations plan.

128 The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission commend the positive and
constructive attitude of SWAPO, which has consistently expressed its readiness
to co-operate fully with the United Nations in the implementation of Security
Council resolution 435 (1978).

-155-



13. The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission strongly condemn South
Africa's manoeuvres aimed at undermining the role of. SWAPO as the sole and
authentic representative of the Namibian people and declare that all States
Members of the United Nations should, in accordance with the relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council, refrain from
according any recognition to or co-operating with any regime or authority
which the illegal South African Administration may impose upon the Namibian
people.

14. They denounce the attempts by South Africa and its allies to present the
liberation struggle in Namibia as yet another aspect of an East~est
confrontation in Africa and as so-called international terrorism, thus
misrepresenting and derogating the ideals and purposes of the legitimate
struggle of the Namibian people against the illegal and barbarous occupation
of their country.

15. The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission firmly reject any attempt to
characterize the Namibian issue as a regional conflict with a view to
depriving it of its universal dimensions and underplaying the degree of brazen
defiance by South Africa of the decisions of the United Nations as a whole.

16. The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission strongly condemn the arrest,
detention and torture of SWAPO patriots by the South African regime and demand
that South Africa immediately release all Namibian political prisoners,
including all those imprisoned or detained under the so-called internal
security laws, and declare that South Africa shall be liable for damages to
compensate the victims, their families and the future lawful Government of an
independent Namibia for the losses sustained.

17. The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission strongly condemn the
repeated acts of a9gress~on committed by the racist Pretoria regime against
the front-line States. They reaffirm their solidarity with the front-line
States and condemn all acts by South Africa and its allies aimed at
destabilizing them or at forcing them to withdraw their support for the
struggle of the Namibian people. They commend the front-line States for their
principled and steadfast support to the cause of the Namibian people and call
upon the international community to intensify its efforts to extend, as a
matter of urgency, all support and assistance, including military assistance,
to the front-line States in order to enable them to strengthen their
capability for defence against South African aggression.

18. The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission reiterate that Namibia's
accession to independence must be with its territorial integrity intact,
including Walvis Bay and the offshore islands, and that any action by South
Africa to fragment the Territory wouid be unacceptable, illegal, null and void.

19. The Government of Bangladesh and the ~ission condemn in unequivocal terms
the illegal plundering of Namibia's natural resour.ces by South Africa and
other foreign interests operating in Namibia under the illegal South African
administration in violation of the relevant United Nations resolutions, the
advisory opinion of the International Court of Justice of 21 June 1971 !I and

-156-



Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia, enacted
by the United Nations Council for Namibia on 29 September 1974. 2/ They
reiterate the well-known position that such exploitation contributes to the
perpetuation of the illegal occupation regime in Namibia and that South Africa
and other foreign economic interests are liable to pay reparations to an
independent Namibia for the illegal exploitation of its human and natural
resources.

20. The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission express their conviction
that the imPOsition by the Security Council of mandatory sanctions against
South Africa under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations, as called
for by the General Assembly, the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries and the
Organization of African Unity, is one of the most effective ways to secure
South Africa's compliance with the relevant Security Council resolutions and
urge the Security Council, in the light of the serious threat to international
peace and security posed by South Africa, to take uLgeni action to this end.

21. The Government of Bangladesh and the Mission recognize that the struggle
for the liberation of Namibia is now in a crucial phase during which forces of
imperialism and reaction have found renewed energy and are concentrating on
new tactics aimed at maintaining the status quo. The Government of Bangladesh
and the Mission recognize that at this juncture it is essential for peace and
freedom-loving forces to unite their energies solidly behind SWAPO and to
continue to expose and condemn all manoeuvres designed to frustrate the
legitimate and just struggle of the people of Namibia for their independence.

22. The Mission expresses, on behalf of the united Nations Council for
Namibia, its appreciation t,) the Government of Bangladesh for the consistent
and principled support which it has extended to SWAPO and the Council in their
efforts to secure genuine independence for the Namibian people. It also
accepts with appreciation the generous offer of the Government of Bangladesh
to make training and education facilities in Bangladesh available to Namibians.

23. The Mission conveys to the Government of Bangladesh its gratitude for the
warm welcome and the generou~ hospitality extended to the Mission during its
stay.

..

E. Decisions

1. Election of officers

771. At its 370th meeting, on 7 January 1982, the Council, having heard the
nominations by the representatives of Egypt, India and Turkey, re-elected
Mr. Paul J. F. Lusaka as President of the Council for 1982. At the same meeting,
the Council, having heard the nominations by the representatives of Bangladesh,
Botswana and Cyprus, re-elected Messrs. Mohammed Bedjaoui (Algeria),
Noel G. Sinclair (Guyana), Natarajan Krishnan (India), A. Ooskun Kirca (Turkey) and
Miljan Komatina (Yugos12via) as Vice-Presidents of the Council for 1982.

-157-



, 1

2. Programmes of work of subsidiary bodies

772. At its 371st meeting, on 7 January 1982, the Council approved the reports of
Standing Committees I, 11 and III and of the Committee on the United Nations Fund
for Namibia on the programmes of work of those Committees for 1982 (A/AC.13l/L.227,
and Corr.l, L.229, L.233 and L.236 and Corr.l, respectively).

3. Reports of Standing Committee 11

773. At its 383rd meeting, on 14 JulY' 1982, the Council approved the reports of
Standing Committee lIon the activities of foreign economic interests operating in
Namibia (A/AC.13l/~250 and Corr.l) and on the military situation in and relating
to Namibia (A/AC.13l/L.2S1/Rev.l and Oorr.l).

4. Reports of the Committee on the united Nations
Fund for Namibia

774. At its 369th meeting, on 16 December 1981, the Council approved the reports of
the Committee on the Fund concerning:

(a) Projects NAM/79/020/B/13, NAM/78/008/D/ll, NAM/79/021/B/ll, NAM/82/001/A
and NAM/82/002 of the Nationhood Programme for Namibia (A/AC.13l/L.244)J

(b) The annual report of the Senate of the United Nations Institute for
Namibia (A/AC.131/L.234)J

(c) The report on the audit of the Institute (A/AC.131/L.235)J

(d) The revised budget of the Institute for 1981 (A/AC.131/L.24l)J

(e) The budget of the Institute for 1982 (A/AC.13l/L.242)J

(f) The Nationhood Programme and educational, social and relief activities
under the General AC'''0unt of the Fund (A/AC.13l/L. 243).

5. Seminars and conferences organized by the Council

775. At the same meeting, the Council took note with appreciation of the report of
its delegation to the Seminar on Legal Issues concerning the Question of Namibia,
held at the Hague from 22 to 24 June 1981 (A/AC. l31/L. 218).

776. At its 373rd meeting, on 12 Ap~il 1982, the Council approved the report of
Standing Committee 11 containing the guidelines for the Seminar on the Military
Situation in and relating to Namibia, to be held at Vienna from 8 to 11 June 1982
(A/AC.13l/~239 and Corr.l), as well as the rules of procedure for the Seminar
(A/AC.131/L.240).

777. At its 380th meeting, held at Arusha on 13 May 1982, the Council approved the
report of the President on preparations for the International Conference in Support
of the Jtruggle of the Namibian people for Independence, to be held in Paris in
May 1983 (A/AC.13l/L.253).

-158-

77
se
th

77
pr
Ar

78
of
(A

We



6. Extraordinary plenary meetings

:; of
Pund
[,.227,

)f
19 in
:ing

'ts of

Ol/A

es

~ of
ia,

182

the
'port
I

778. At its 373rd meeting, the Council approved the report of the President on the
selection of a host country for the "extraordinary plenary meetings to be held by
the Council in 1982 (A/AC.13l/L.245).

779. At its 374th meeting, on 26 April 1982, the Council approved the report of the
President on the organization of the extraordinary plenary meetings, to be held at
Arusha from 10 to 14 May 1982 (A/AC.13l/L.252).

7. Reports of missions and delegations

780. At its 369th meeting, the Council took note with appreciation of the reports
of its missions of consultation to Latin America (A/AC.13l/L.203), Eastern Europe
(A/AC.131/L.2l4), the Netherlands (A/AC.13l/L.225), Asia (A/AC.13l/L.23l) and

Western E:urope (A/AC.13l/L. 237) •

781. At the same meeting, the Council took note with appreciation of the report of
its delegation to the trade unions seminar, held in London on 29 and 30 June 1981
(A/AC. l3l/L. 219) •

782. At the same meeting, the Council took note with appreciation of the reports of
its delegations to the 12th and 13th meetings of the Senate of the United Nations
Institute for Namibia (A/AC.13l/L. 228 and L.232, respectively).

783. At its 372nd meeting, on 12 March 1982, the Council approved the report of the
President on the missions of consultation of the Council (A/AC.13l/L.238).

784. At its 379th meeting, held at Arusha on 12 May 1982, the Council approved the
report of its Mission of Consultation to Cyprus, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh.

785. At the same meeting, the Council took note with appreciation of the report of
its Fund-Raising Mission to Western Europe and Canada (A/AC.13l/L.256).

-159-

( ,



~ ~C-7'•.. -- :1':
~'~ '

,l

PART FOUR

RECOMMENDATIONS AND ACTIVITIES INVOLVING FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS

I. RECOMMBNDATIONS

786. The United Nations Council for Namibia recommends to the General Assembly theadoption of the following draft resolutions on the question of Namibia:

A

Situation in Namibia resulting from the illegal occupation
of the Territory by South Africa

The General Assembly,

Having examined the report of the United Nations Council for Namibia ~ andthe relevant chapters of the report of the Special Committee on the Situation withregard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence toColonial Countries and Peoples, ~

Recalli~g its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 containing theDeclaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Recalling, in particular, its resolutions 2145 (XXI) of 27 OCtober 1966 and2248 (S-V) of 19 May 1967 and subsequent resolutions of the General Assembly andthe Security Council r1elating to Namibia, as well as the advisory opinion of theInternational Court of Justice of 21 June 1971, !I delivered in response to therequest addressed to it by the Security Council in its resolution 284 (1970) of29 July 1970,

Recalling also its resolutions 3111 (XXVIII) of 12 December 1973 and 31/146and 31/152 of 20 December 1976, by which it, inter alia, recognized the South WestAfrica People's Organization as the sole and authentic representative of theNamibian people and granted observer status to it,

Further recalling its resolutions ES-8/2 of 14 September 1981 and 36/121 B of10 December 1981, by which it called upon States to cease forthwith, individuallyand collectively, all dealings with South Africa in o~der totally to isolate it inthe political, economic, military and cultural fields,

Recalling the Paris Declaration on Sanctions against South Africa and theSpecial Declaration on Namibia, !Q/ adopted by the International Conference onSanctions against South Africa, held in Paris from 20 to 27 May 1981,

Taking into consideration the Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action onNamibia, 41/ adopted by the United Nations Council for Namibia at its extraordinaryplenary meetings held at Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania from 10 to 14 May 1982,

Strongly reiterating that the continuing illegal and colonial occupation ofNamibia by South Africa, in defiance of repeated General Assembly and SecurityCouncil resolutions, constitutes an act of aggression against the Namibi~n people

-160-



rnb1y the

~ and
lon with
ience to

.es,

16 and
y and
If the

the
) of

1/146
th West
e

n B of
iua11y
~ it in

:he
on

In on
,rdinary
.ay 1982,

n of
ty
eop1e

and a challenge to the authority of the united Nations, which has direc~
responsibility for Namibia until its independence,

Stressing the grave responsibility of the international community to take all
possible measures in support of the Namibian people in their liberation struggle
under the leadership of theiz sole and authentic representative, the SOuth Nest
Africa People's Organization,

Reaffirming its full support for the armed struggl~ of the Namibian people
under the leadership of the South West Africa People's Organization to achieve
self-determination, freedom and national independence in a united Namibia,

Indignant at SOuth Africa's refusal to comply with ~epeated resolution. of the
Securi ty Council, in particUlar resolutions 385 (1976) of 30 January 1916,
435 (1978) of 29 September 1978 and 439 (1978) of 13 November 1978 and at its
manoeuvres aimed at perpetuating its brutal domination and exploitation of the
Namibian people, ~s repeatedly manifested in the course of the consultations for
the implementation of the United Nations plan for the indepenacnceof Namibia,

Commending the front-line States &nd the South West Africa People's
Organization for the statesmanlike and constKuctive attitude which they have
displayed throughout the consultations to implement Security Council
resolution 435 (1978),

~trongly co~demning South Africa's continued illegal occupation of Namibia,
its brutal repression of the Namibian people and its ruthless exploitation of the
people and resources of Namibia, as well as its attempts to destroy th~ national
unity and territorial integrity of Namibia,

Strongly condemnin~ the racist regime of South Africa for its efforts to
develop a nuclear capability for military and aggressive purposes,

Deeply concerned at the increasing militarization of Namibia, the forceful
conscription of Namibians, the creation of tribal armies and the use of mercenaries
for internal repression and external aggression,

Noting with grave concern that, as a result of the Security Council's failure
on 31 August 1981, 42/ on account of the veto of the United States of ~~rica, to
exercise its responsibilities, unprovoked massive armea aggression agalnst Angola
continues,

Expressing its strong condemnation of South Africa's continuing acts.of
aggression against independent Afncan stat.es, particularly Angola, which have
caused extensive loss of human life and destruction of economic infrastructure.,

Reaffirming that the resources of Namibia are the inviolable he!itage of the
Namibian people and that the exploitation of those resources by foreign economic
interests under the protection of the illegal colonial administration, in violation
of the Charter of the United Nations, of the relevant resolutions of the General
Assembly and the Security Council and of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the
Natural R~sources of Namibia, 3/ enacted by the United Na~ions Council for Namibia
on 27 September 1974, and in drsregard of the advisory opinion of the International
Court of Justice of 21 June 1971, is illegal and contributes to the maintenance of
the illegal occupation regime,

-161-

.=~

1';



c::~

I~:

Deeply deploring the continued collaboration with SOuth Africa of certainwestern countries, in particular the united States of America, as well as that ofIsrael, in disregard of the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and theSecurity Council,

Deeply concerned at the continued assistance rendered to the racist pretoriaregime by certain international organizations and institutions, in particular theInternational Monetary Fund, in disregard of the relevant resolutions of theGeneral Assembly,

Indignant at the continuing arbitrary imprisonment and detention of politicalleaders and followers of the SOuth West Africa People's Organization, the killir.~of Namibian patriots and other acts of brutality, includifii the wanton beating,torture and murder of innocent Namibians, and the arbitrary inhuman measurea ofcollective punishment and measures designed to intimidate the Namibian people andto destroy their will to fulfiL their legitimate aspirations for self-determination,freedom and national independence in a united Namibia,

Noting with grave concern that the Security Council has been prevented onseveral occasions from taking effective action against South Africa in the diechargeof its responsibilities under Chapter VII of the Charter on account of the vetoescast by one or more of the Western permament members of the Security Council,

-162·-

1. Approves the report of the United Nations Council for Namibia,

~endin9 the efforts of the United Nations Council for Namibia in thedischarge of the responsibilities entrusted to it under the relevant resolutions ofthe General Assembly ~s the legal Administering Authority for Namibia untilindependence,

2. Reaffi~s the inalienable right of the people of Namibia to
8elf~determination, freedom and national independence in a united Namibia, inaccordance with the Charter·of the United Nations and as recognized in GeneralAssembly resolutions 1514 (XV) and 2145 (XXI) and in subsequent resolutions of theAssembly relating to Namibia, as well as the legitimacy of their struggle by allmeans at their disposal, inclUding armed struggle, against the illegal occupationof their territory by SOuth Africa,

3. Reiterates that, in accordance with General Assembly resolution2145 (XXI), Namibia is the direct responsibility of the United Nations untilgenuine self-determination and national independence are achieved in the Territor,yand,for this purpose, reaffirms the mandate given to the united Nations Council ~orNamibia as the l~al Administering AUt.lodty for Namibia until independence underresolution 2248 (S-V) and subsequent resolutions of the General Assembly,
4. Reaffirms that the South West Africa People's Organization, the nationalliberation movement of Namibia, is the sole and authentic representative of theNamibian people) .

: . 5. Solemnly reaffirms that the genuine independence of Namibia can beachieved only with the direct and full participation of the South West AfricQPeople'·B Organization in all efforts' to implement resolutions of the United Nationsrelating to Namibia and further reaffi~s that the only parties to the conflict in



=ertain
.8 that of
~ and the

~ Pretoria
lcular the
~ the

. political

.e ki1lir.ag
eating,
urea of
eople and
tenalnation,

~ed on
:1e d hcha1'98
1e vetoes
wil,

the
~lutions of·
:11

, in
neral
ns of the
by all

cupation

~ll

rerritory
~uneil for
:e under

national
If the

be
iCQ

d Nations
flict in

Namibia are, on the one hand, South Africa, as the illegal occupying Power, and, on
the other, the Namibian people under the leadership of the South West Africa
People's Organization, their sole and authentic repre~entative,

6. Strongly condemns the South African regime for its continued illegal
occupation of Namibia in defiance of the resolutions of the United Nations relating
to Namibia,

7. Declares that South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia constitut~s an
act of aggression against the Namibian people in terms of the Definition of
Aggression contained in General Assembly resolution 3341 (XXIX) of 14 December 1974
and supports the armed strug9le of the Namibian people, under the leadership of the
South West Africa People's Organization, to achieve self-determination, freedom and
national independence in a uni~ed Namibia,

8. Reiter~ that, in accordance with the resolutiohS of the United
Nations, in particular Security Council resolution 432 (1978) of 27 July 1978 and
General Assembly resolutions S-9/2 of 3 May 1978 and 35/227 A of 6 March 1981,
Walvis Bay and the offshore islands of Namibia are an integral part of Namibia and
that all attempts by South Africa to annex them are therefore illegal, null and
void,

9. Reaffirms that Security Council resolution 435 (1978), together with
Council resolution 385 (1976), is the only basis for a peaceful settlement of the
Namibian question and calls for its immediate and unconditional implementation
without modification or qualificationJ

10. Firmly rejects the manoeuvres by one member of the western contact group
aimed at undermining the internationai conaensus embodied in Security Council
resolution 435 (1978) and at depriving the oppressed N&mibian people of their
hard-won victories in the struggle for national liberation,

11. Expresses its appreciation to the front-line States and the South west
Africa People's Organization for their constructive and statesmanlike attitude
throughout the consultations to implement Security Council resolution 435 (1978),

12. Strongly condemns SOuth Africa for obstructing the implementation of
Security Council resolutions 385 (197~), 435 (1978) and 439 (l978J and for its
manoeuvres, in contravention of those resolutions, designed to consolidate its
colonial and neo-colonial interests at the expense of the legitimate aspirations of
the Namibian people for genuine self-determination, freedom and national
independence in a united NamibiaJ

13. Denounces all fraudulent constitutional and political schemes through
which the illegal regime of racist South Africa may attempt to perpetuate its
colonial domination in Namibia and, in particular, calls upon the international
community, especially all Member States, to continue to refrain from according any
recognition or extending any co-operation to any regime which the illegal South
African administration may impose upon the Namibian people in disregard of tbe
present resolution, of Security Council resolutions 385 (1976), 435 (1978) and
439 (1978) and of other relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and ~he
CouncilJ

-163-

--=~'-::~~

,.



on

lng

an

174
:he
Ind

Id

Ip

of

y

14e StronglY urges the security eouncil to act decisively agaiost any
dilatory aanoeuvres and fraudulent schemes of the illegal occupation regime aimed
at frustrating the legitimate struggle of the Namibian people, under the leadership
of the South west Africa People's Organization, for self-determination and national
liberation, as well as at negating the achievements of their just struggle,

15. Declares that all so-called laws and proclamations issued by the illegal
occupation r~ime in Namibia are illegal, null and void,

16. Calls upon Member States and the specialized agencies and other
international organizations associated with the United Nations to render sustained
and increased support as well as material, financial, military and other assistance
to the South West Africa People's Organization so as to enable it to intensify its
struggle for the liberation of Namibia,

17. Deeply deplores the increased assistance rendered by certain Western
countries to South Africa in the political, economic, military and cultural fields
and expresses its conviction that this assistance should be exposed before the
world pUblic at large and demands that such assistance be immediately terminated,

18. Strongly condemns South Africa for its military build-up in Namibia, its
introduction of compulsory military service for Namibians, its recruitment and
training of Namibians for tribal armies and the use of mercenaries to suppress the
ss.ibian people and to carry out its military attacks against independent African
Statesq its threats and acts of subversion and aggression against those countries
and the forcible displacement of Namibians from their homes,

19. §$rong1Y condemns South Africa for its persistent acts of subversion and
aggression against Angola, including the occupation of a part of its territory, and
calls upon South Africa to cease all acts of aggression £gainst and withdraw all
its troops from that country,

20. Calls upon the international community to extend, as a matter of urgency,
full support and assistance, inclUding military assistance, to the front-line
States in order to enable them to defend their sovereignty and territorial
integrity against the repeated acts of aggression by South Africa,

21. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to develop, in consultation
with the United Nations Development Programme, a comprehensive programme of
assistance to States which are neighbours of South Africa and Namibia, on the
under~tanding that such assistance should not only envisage the overcoming of
short-term difficulties but be designed to enable those States to move towards
complete self-reliance, and requests the secretary-General to report to the General
Aaseably at its thirty-eighth session on the development of this programme,

22. Reiterates its call upon all States to take 1egi~lative and other
appropriate measures to prevent the recruitment 8 training and transit of
aercenaries for service in Namibia,

23. Strongly condemns the illegal South African administration for its
88ssive repression of the people of Namibia and their national liberation movement,
the South West Africa People's Organization, with the intention of establishing an
atmosphere of intimidation and terror for the purpose of imposing upon the Namibian

-164-



1St any
regime aimed
the leadership
In and na t ional
'u9gl e,
Iy the illegal

Ither
der sustained
her assistance
intensify its

n western
Itural fields
efore the
terminated,

Namibia, its
t:ment and
suppress the
~ent Afr ican
se countr ies

Ibversion and
;erritory, and
lthdrawall

!r of urgency,
lnt-line
llial

Insultation
me of
on the

ming of
towards

o the General
anane,

other
of

or its
ion movement,
ablishing an
the Namibian

people a political arrangement aimed at undermining the territocial integrity and
unity of Namibia as well as perpetuating the systematic plunde~ of the natural
resources of the Territory~

24. Del~ands that South Africa immediately release all Namibian political
prisoners, including all those imprisoned or detained under the so-called internal
security laws, martial law or any other arbitrary measures, whether such Namibians
have been charged or tried or are being held without charge in Namibia or South
Africa,

25. Demands that South Africa account for all "disappeared" Namibiens and
release any who are still alive and declares that South Africa shall be liable for
damages to compensate the victims, their families and the future lawful Government
of an independent Namibia for the losses sustaine~~

26. Strongly condemns the collusion by the Governments of certain Western and
other countries, partiCUlarly those of the United States of America and Israel,
with the racist regime of South Africa in the nuclear field and calls upon Franc0
and all other States to refrain from supplying the racist minority regime of SOGtM
Africa, directly or indirectly, with installations that might enable it to produce
uranium, plutonium or othe~ nuclear materials, reactors or military equipment,

27. Strongly condemns the activities of all foreign economic interer,;' '''C
o~erating in Namibia under the illegal South African administration which ~£e
illegally exploiting the resources of the Territory and demands that transnational
corporations engaged in such exploitation comply with all relevant resolutions of
the United Nations by immediately refraining from any new investment or activities
in N&mibia, by withdrawing from th~ Territory and by putting an end to their
co-operation with the illegal South At ican administration,

28. Requests once again all Member States to take all appropriate measures,
inclUding legislation and enforc.:ment action, to ensure the full application of,
and compliance with, the provis10ns of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the
Natural Resources of Namibia,

29. Declares that, by their depletive exploitation of natural resources and
continued accumulation and repatriation of huge profits, the activities of foreign
economic, financial and other interests operating at present in Namibia constitute
~ major obstacle to its political independence,

30. Requests the Governments of the Federal Republic of Germany, the
Netherlands and the l~ited Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, which
operate the Urenco uraniu~enrichmentplant, to have Namibian uranium specifically
excluded from the Treaty of Almelo, which r~gulates the activities of UrencoJ

31. Deeply deplores the continued collaboration of the International Monetary
Fund with South Africa, as exemplified by the recent grant of a credit of one
billion special drawing rights in disregard of General Assembly resolution 37/2 of
21 OCtober 1982, and calls on the }und to put an end to such collaboration~

32. Reiterates its request to all States to take legislative, administrative
and other measures, as appropriate, in order effectively to isolate South Africa
politicallyv economically, militarily and culturally, in accordance with G~neral
Assembly resolutions ES-S/2 and 36/121 B~

-165-



.-

33. ReqUests the Q'aited Nations Council for Naaibia to continue to follow the
i~lementationof the provisions of paragraph 32 above on the ba.is of inforaationreceived from States &s well as other acurces,

34. Requests the united Nations Council for Namibia, in i.plementation ofparagraph 15 of General Aaaeably resolution ES-8/2 and of the proviaions ofASa..bly resolution 36/121 B, to continue to monitor the boycott of South Africaand to su~it to the Aaaembly at its thirty-eighth se.sion a coapreh.nsive reporton all contact. between all States and South Africa, containing an analyais of theinfor..tion rec.iv.d from Meaber states and other source. on the continuingpolitical, economic, financial and other relations of State. and their eCOnoMic andother intereat groups with South Africa and of measurea taken by States to
te~inate all dealings with the raciat regim. of South AfricaJ

35. Requests all State. to co-operate fully with the United Nation. Councilfor Namibia in the fulfit-ent of it. ta.ks concerning the impl.mentation of GeneralAs.ellbly resolution. ES-8/2 and '36/121 B and to report to the secretary-General bythe thirt~eighth session of the Assembly on the measure. taken by the. int.pl...ntation of those resolution••

36. Declares that South Africa's defiance of the United Nations, its illegaloccupation of the ~rritory of Naaibia, its war of repression againat the Naaibianpeople, its persistent acts of aggression launched froD bases in Namibia againstindependent African States, its policies of apartheid and its dev.lc~nt ofnuclear weapons constitute a serious threat to international peace and ••curitYJ
37. Strongly urges the security Council, in the light of the .erious threatto international peace and security posed by South Africa, to respond po.itively tothe overwhe~ing demand of the international community by immediately i~aingagainat that country conprehensive mandatory .anction., as provided for inChapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations,

38. Request. the Secre~ary-General to report to the General A••••bly at itathirty-eighth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

B

lEpleaentation of Security Council reeolution 435 (1978)

!he casneral Aasei1lb!I.,

R.affirming the imperative need to proceed without any further delay with thei.plementation of Security Council resol~tion 435 (1978) of 29 September 1978,which, together with Cou~il resolution 385 (1976) of 30 January 1976, ia the onlybasis for a peaceful settlement of the question of Namibia,

Taking note of the consultations which have been held with a view to achi.vingthe implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) and also noting thatthoile conaultation. have so far falled to bring about ita implementation,

Condemning the attempts to link the independence of Namibia with totallyextraneous issues, in particular the withdrawal of Cuban troops from Angola,an issue which falls within the exclusive domestic jurisdiction of a sovereignMellber State,

-166-

1
p.ndi

2
counci
only b
i..-di

3
and So
of Nam
froll A
would
interf

4
i.plem
of NaIl

People
work 0
to the

R
which
Counci
to car
intern
indepe



•
1. Reaffirms the direct responsibility of the united Nations for Namibia

pending its achievement of genuine self-determination and national independencel

2. Reiterates that Security Council resolution 435 (1978), in which the
Council endorsed the United Nations plan for the independence of Namibia, is the
only basis for a peaceful settlement of the question of Namibia and d~mands its
i.-ediate and unconditional implementation without qualification or modification,

3. Firmly rejects the persistent attempts by the United States of ~rica
and South Africa to establish any linkage or parallelism between the independence
of Namibia and any extraneous issues, in particular the withdrawal of Cuban ~orces
from Angola, and emphasizes unequivocally that the persistence of such atte~pts
would only retard the decolonization process in Namibia as well as constitute
interference in the internal affairs of Angola,

4. Requests the security Council to exercise its authority for the
implementation of its resolution 435 (1978) so as to bring ~bout the independence
of Naaibia without further delay.

C

Programme of work of che United Nations Council for Namibia

The General Assembly,

Having examined the report of the United Nations Council for Namibia, 38/

Reaffirming that Namibia is the direct responsibility of the United Nations
and that the Namibian peoplp must be enabled to attain self-determination and
independence in a united Namibia,

Recalling its resolution 2248 (S-V) of 19 May 1967, by which it established
the United Nations Council for Namibia as the legal Administering Authority for
Namibia until independence,

Taki~ into consideration the Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action on
Namibia, ~I adopted by the United Nations Council for Namibia at its extraordinary
plenary meetings held at Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania, from 10 to
14 May 1982,

Convinced of the need for continued consultations with the South West Africa
People's Organization in the formulation and implementation of the programme of
work of the united Nations Council for Namibia as well as in any matter of interest
to the Namibian people,

Recalling paragraph 18 of its resolution 36/121 C of 10 December 1981, by
which it requested the Secretary-General, after conSUlting the united Nations
Council for Namibia regarding its assessment of the situation pertaining to Namibia,
to carry out preparatory work with a view to organizing, at an appropriate time, an
internaticnal conference in support of the struggle of the Namibian people for
independence,

-167-

.'



.-
Deeply conscious of the urgent and continuing need to press for thetermination of South Africa's illegal occupation of Namibia and to put an end toits repression of the Namibian people and its exploitation of the natural resourcesof the Territory,

Bearing in mind the constructive results achieved by the InternationalConference in Support of the Peoples of zimbabwe and Namibia, held at Maputo froa16 to 21 May 1977, 43/

1. Approves the report of the United Nations Council for Namibia, includingthe recommendations contained therein, and decides to make adequate financialprovision for their implementation,

2. Expresses its strong support for the efforts of the United NationsCouncil for Namibia in the discharge of the responsibilities entrusted to it bothas the legal Adr 1 ,tisterill9 Authority for Namibia and as a policy-making organ ofthe United NationsJ

3. Requests all Member States to co-operate fully with the United NationeCouncil for Namibia in the discharge of the mandate entrusted to it under theprovisions of General Assembly resolution 2248 (S-V) and subsequent resolutions ofthe AssemblYJ

4. DecIdes that the United Nations Council for Namibia, in the discharge ofits re~nsibilitiesas the legal Administering Authority for Namibia untilindependence, shall:

(!.> COntinue to mobilize international support in order to press for thespeedy withdrawal of the illegal South African administration from Namibia inaccordance with the resolutions of the United Nations relating to Namibia,
(!!> Counter the policies of South Africa against the Namibian people andagainst the United Natione, as well as against the United Nations Council forNamibia as the legal Administering Authority for NamibiaJ
(£) Denounce and seek the rejection by all States of all fraudulentconstitutional or political schemes through which SOuth Africa may att~mpt toperpetuate its presence in Namibia,

(~> Ensure non-recognition of any administration or entity installed atWlndhoek not issuing from free elections in Namibia conducted under the supervisionand control of the United Nations, in accordance with the relevant resolutions ofthe Security CouncilJ

(~) Undertake a concerted effort to counter the attempts to establish anylinkage or parallelism between the decolonization of Namibia and extraneous issues,
5. Decides that the United Nations Council for Namibia shall:
(a> Consult Governments in order to further the implementation of UnitedNations re~olutions on the question of Namibia ana to mobilize support for thecause of NamibiaJ

-168-

non-g
and i

NaIlib
organ
confe

AIIsem
Iepre
the r
counc
inter

orgen
to Na
Counc
work

organ
vaive
the U

confe
Invlt
part le

Matio
Agenc
SOcia
repre
of th



)

rces

,119

h

,

(b) Represent Namibia in United Nations conferences and intergovernmental and
nOR-go;ernmental organizations, bodies and conferences to ensure that the rights
and interests of Namibia shall be adequately protected,

6. Decides that Namibia, represented by the united Nations Council for
Naaibia, shall participate as a full member in all conferences and meetings
organized by the united Nations to which all States or, in the case of regional
conferences and meetings, all African States are invited,

7. Requests all committees and other subsidiary bodies of the General
Assembly and of the Economic and Social Council to continue to invite a
reprGsentative of the United Nations Council for Namibia to particIpate whenever
the rights and interests of Narnibians are discussed,and to consult closely with the
COuncil before submitting any draft resolution which may involve the rights and
interests of Namibians,

8. Reiterates its request to all specialized agencies and other
orgenizations and conferences of the United Nations system to grant full membership
to Namibia, represented by the united Nations Council for Namibia, so that the
Council may participate as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia in the
work of those agencies, organizations and conferences,

9. Reiterates its request to all specialized agencies and other
organizations of the united Nations system that have not yet done so to grant a
vaivet of the assessment of Namibia during the period in·which it is represented by
the united Nations Council for Namibia,

10. ~ain reguests all intergovernmental organizations, bodies and
conferences to ensu~~ that the rights and interests of Namibia are protected and to'
invite Namibia, represented by the United Nations Council for Namibia, to
participate as a full member whenever such rights and interests are involved',

11. Welcome@ the recent admission of Namibia, represented by the United
Nations Council for Namibia, as a full member of the International Atomic Energy
Agency and of the International Telecommunication Union, as well as Economic and
Social Council decision 1982/110 of 16 April 1982 to grant membership to Namibia,
represented by the United Nations Council for Namibia, in the Executive Committee
of the Programme of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees,

12. Takes note of the accession by the United Nations Council for Namibia, in
its capacity as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia, to the International
Convention on the Elimination of All FOrms of Racial Discrimination 44/ and the
International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of
Apartheid 45/ and requests the Council to accede to the Geneva Conventions of
12 August ~49 46/ and the Additional Protocols the~eto 47/ and to such other
international conventions as it may deem appropriateJ ---

130 Takes note of the signing by the United Nations Council for, Namibia, on
behalf of Namibia, of the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and tha
Final Act of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of the SeaJ

14. Decides that the united Nations Council for Namibia shall

-16"9-

,, ,
,

! :

I I
I

i i
I ,

t :



i ,

(a) Review the progress of the liberation struggle in Namibia tn itapolitical, ~ilitary and social aspects and prepare periodic reporta related thereto,
(B) Consider the compliance of Member States with the relevant United Nation.resolutions relating to Namibia, taking into account the advisory opinion of theInternational Court of Justice of 21 June 1971, 1/

(c) Consider the activities of foreign economic interests operating inNamibia with a view to recommending appropriate policies to the General Asaembly inorder to counter the support which those foreign economic interests give to theillegal South African admin~stration in NamibiaJ

(dl Continue to examine the exploitation of and trade in Namibian uraniu. byforeign economic interests and report on its findings to the General Assembly atita thirty-eighth session,

(~) Notify the Governments of states whose corporations, whether public orprivate, operate in Namibia of the illegality of such operations,

(!) send missions of consultation to Governments whose corporations haveinvestments in Namibia in order to review with them all possible action todiacourage the continuation of such investmentsJ

(~) Contact adminiatering and managing bodies of foreign corporationsoperating in Namibia regarding the illegal basis on which they are operating in theTerritorYJ

(h) Contact specialized agencies and international institutions associatedwith the United Nations, in particular the International Monetary Fund, with a viewto protecting Namibia's interests,

(i) Draw the attention of the specialized agencies to Decree No. 1 for theProtection of the Natural Re~ources of Namibia, J! enacted by the United NationsCOuncil for Namibia on 27 September 1974;
(.1) Take all measures to ensure ~ol1lpliancoe '/ith the provisions ofDecree No.. 1 for the Protection of the Natuu.l Rf!SOUrCes of Namibia, inclu::!!.119conaideration of the institution of legal proceedings in the domestic courts ofStates and other appropriate bodiesJ

(~) Conduct hearings, seminars and workshops in order to obtain relevantinformation on the exploitation of the people and resources of Namibia by SouthAfrican and other foreign interests and .to expose such activities,

(!) Organize regional symposia on the situation in Namibia with a view tointensifying active support for the Namibian causeJ

(E) Prepare and publish reports on the political, economic, military, legaland aocial situation in and relatihg to Namibia,

(n) Secure the territorial integrity of Namibia as a unitary State, inclUdingwalvis-Bay and the offshore islands of Namibia,

-17u-

guid
of a

prog
Nami
New
thr

scut
Nami

with
impl
the

repo
aeet
acco
repo

appr
lega
final

unit
faci:
eff

Neti4
atre
a.ai
Decr
prep
die.



hereto,

Iltiona
the

,. by

at

or

'1 the

td
view

11

ling

15. Requests the Secretary-Gen~ral to complete, in accordance with the
guidelines established by the united Nations Council for Namibia, the preparation
of an indexed reference book on transnational corporations operating in Namibia;

16. Decides to make adequate financial provision in the section of the
programme budget of the United Nations relating to the United Nations Council for
Namibia to finance the office of the South West Africa People's Organization in
New York in order to ensure appropriate representation of the people of Namibia
through the South West Africa People's Organization at the United Nations,

17. Decides to continue to defray the expenses of representatives of the
SOuth west Africa People's Organization, whenever the united Nations Council for
Namibia so decides,

18. Requests the United Nations Council for Namibia to continue to consult
with the South west Africa People's Organization in the formulation and
implementation of its programme of work, as well as in any matter of interest to
the Namibian people,

19. Requests the Secretary-General, in order to facilitate financial
reporting to the United Nations Council for Namibia, to ensure that, within the
section of the programme budget of the United Nations relating to the Council, the
accounts shall reflect closely the activities of the Council as described in the
report of the Couneil to the General Assembly at its thirty-seventh session,

20. FUrther requests the Secretary-General to ensure the establishment of an
appropriate accounting system which will enable the Council, in its capacity as the
legal ~mtnistering Authority for Namibia, to receive speedy and comprehensive
financial data on projects for which the Council is directly responsible,

21. Requests the secretary-General, in consultation with the President of the
United Nations Council for Namibia,to review the requirements of personnel and
facilities of all units which service the Council so that the Council may fully and
effectively discharge all tasks and functions arising out of its mandate,

22. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Office of the United
Nations Commissioner for Namibia with the necessary resources in order for it to
strengthen, under the guidance of the United Nations Council for Namibia, the
assistance programmes and services for Namibians, the implementation of
Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of Namibia, the
preparation of economic and legal studies and the existing activities of
dissemination of information undertaken by that Office,

23. Requests the United Nations Council for Namibia, in the discharge of its
te~nsibilities~s the legal Administering Authority for Namibia, to hold plenary
meetings away from Headquarters whenever it deems it necessary, and requests the
Secretary-General to defray the cost of these meetings and to provide the necessa~
staff and services for them,

24. Decides that an International Conference in Support of the Struggle
of the Namibian People for Independence shall be held at the 'headquarters of
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in Paris
during 1983,

-171-

~.

,
'" :
, 1

,
, '

, .
',I

I

f
l.;.



25. Reguests the secretary-General to ot9anize the above-mentioned Q)nferencein co-operation with the United Nations Council for Namibia and in consultationwith the Organization of African Unity and, to this end to appoint, in consultationwith the United Nations Council for Namibia, a Secretary-General of the Conferenceand provide other necessary staff and services for the Conference.

D

Dissemination of information and mobilization of international
public opinion in support of Namibia

T.he General Assembly,

Baving examined the report of the United Nations Council for Namibia, 38/
Recalling its resolutions.36/l2l A to F of 10 December 1981 and all otherrelevant resolutions and decisions of the United Nations on the question of Namibia,
Taking into consideration the Arusha Declaration and Programme of Action on

Namibia, 411 adopted by the United Nations Council f'or Namibia at its extraordinaryplenary meetings held at Arusha, united Republic of Tanzania, from 10 to -14 May 1982,

Stressing the urgent need to intensify efforts to mobilize internationalpublic opinion on a continuous basis with a view to assisting effectively thepeople of Namibia, under the leadership of the South West Africa People'sOrganization, in their legitimate struggle for self-determination, freedom andindependence in a united Namibia,

Recognizing the important role that non-governmental organizations are playingin the dissemination of information on Namibia and in the mobilization ofinternational public opinion in support of the Namibian cause,

Reiterating the importance of pUblicity as an instrument for furthering themandate given by the General Assembly to the United Nations Council for Namibia andmindful of the pressing ne~d for the Department of Public Information of theSecretariat to intensify its efforts to acquaint world pUblic opinion with allaspects of the question of Namibia,in accordance with policy guidelines formulatedby the Council,

1. Requests the United Nations Council for Namibia, in pursuance of itsinternational campaign in support of Namibia, to continue to consider ways and.eans of increasing the dissemination of information relating to Namibia,

2. Requests the secretary-General to ensure that the Department of Public
Info~ationof the Secretariat, in all its activities of dissemination ofinformetion on the question of Namibia, fQllows the policy guidelines laid down bythe United Nations Council for Namibia as the legal Administering Authority forNuibiaJ

3. Requests the Secretary-General to direct the Department of PublicInfor.ation,in addition to its responsibilities relating to southern Africa, toassiat, a8 a matter of priority, the United Nations Council for Namibia in the

-172-



mference
ltion
lultation
lferenee

§j

1er
Namibia,

In on
)rdinary

I
e

~laying

the
)i. and

II
Ilatee!

,8

d

lie

to

implementation of its programme of dissemination of information in order that the
United Nations may intensify its efforts to generate publicity and disseminate
information with a view to mobilizing public support for the independence of
Namibia, particularly in the western countries,

4. Requeats the Secretary-General to give the widest possible publicity to
the forthcoming International Conference in Support of the Struggle of the Namibian
People for Independence, convened pursuant to paragraph 24 of resolu.tion C abov~,
through all the means at his disposal, including special publications, press
rel,;~ases and radio and television broadcasts,

5. Decides to intensify its international campaign in support of Namibia and
to expose and denounce the collusion of certain western countries with the South
African racists and, to this end, requests the United Nations Council for Namibia
to include in its programme of dissemination of info~ation for 1983 the following
activities:

(~) Preparation and dissemination of publications on the political. economic,
military and social consequences of the illegal occupation of Namibia by SOuth
Africa, as well as on legal matters and on the question of the territorial
integrity of Namibia,

(~) Production and dissemination of radio programmes in English, French,
German and Spanish designed to draw the attention of world public opinion to the
current situation in Namibia,

(£) Production of material for publicity through radio and televi8ion
broadcasts,

(~) Placement of advertisements in newspapers and magazines,

(~) Production of films, film-strips and slide sets on Namibia,

(!) Production and dissemination of posters,

(.9,) Full utilization of the resources related to press releases, pres8
conferences and press briefings in order to maintain a constant fl'ow of information
to the pUblic on all aspects of the question of Namibia,

(h) Production and dissemination of a comprehensive economic map of Namibia,

(!) Preparation and wide dissemination of booklets p containingl

(i) Official declarations of the Council;

(ii) Joint communiq~s and press releases issued by missions of
consultation of the Council,

(ili) Resolutions of the General Assembly and the security Council on the
question of Namibia, together with relevant portions of Assembly
resolutions on the question of foreign economIc interests operating
in Namibia and on military activities in Namibia,

-173-

",
~~ .. :



(1) Acquisition of books, pamphlets and otheI materials relating to Namibia
for further dissemination;

(.1) Publicity for and distribution of an indexed reference bOok on
transnational corporations involved in Namibia,

(!.) Preparation and dissemination of a booklet based on a study on the
implementation of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of
NaIlibia, 3/ enacted by the Council on 27 September 1974J

7. Requests the Secretary-General to allocate, in consultation with the
United Nations Council for Namibia, sales numbers to publications on Namibia
selected by the CouncilJ

6. Requests the united Nations Council for Namibia, on the occasion of the
International Conference in Support of the Struggle of the Namibian People fo~
Independence to organize, in co-operation with the Department of Public
Information, an international seminar of media leaders with a view to alerting the
aass media to the need to increase publicity an the question of Namibia,
particularly in its po!itica~, economic and military aspectsJ

;1

8. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the United Nations Council for
Namibia with the work programme of the Department of Public Information for the
year 1983 covering the activities of dissemination of information on Namibia,
followed by periodic reports on the programmes undertaken, including details of
expenses incurred,

9. Requests the Secretary-General in the section of the programme budget for
the biennium 1984-1985 relating to the Department of Public Information, to group
under a single heading all the activities of the Department related to
dissemination of information on Namibia;

'j

1 1

I

10. Requests Member States to broadcast programmes on their national radio
and television networks and to pUblish material in their official news media,
informing their populations about the situation in Namibia and the obligation of
Governments and peoples to assist in the struggle of Namibians for independence;

11. Calls upon the United Nations Council for Namibia to enlist the support
of non-governmental organizations in its efforts to mobilize international public
opinion in suppOrt of the liberation struggle of the Namibian people and of their
liberation movement, the South West Africa People!8 Organization,

12. Requests the United Nations Council for Namibia to organize,at the
conclusion of the International Conference in Support of the Struggle of the
Hamibian People for Independence, a workshop for non-governmental organizations
concerned with the question of Namibia at which those organizations will consider
their contribution to the implementation of the decisions of the ConferenceJ

13. Requests those non-governmental organizations and support groups that are
actively engaged in supporting the struggle of the Namibian people'under the
leadership of the South West Africa People's Organization, their sole and authentic
representative, to intensify, in co-operation with the United Nations Council for
Namibia, international action in support of the liberation struggle of the Namibian

-174-



--~

I

on
people, including assistance to the Council in the monitoring of the boycott of
south Africa called for in General ~ssembly resolution ES-S/2 of 14 September 1981,

on the
trees of

, to Namibia

Ision of the
'ople fo~
c
alerting the
a,

'''c-' 14. Decides to allocate a sum of $US 200,000 to be used by the l}lited Nations
Council for Namibia for its programme of co-operation with non-governmental
organizations, including support to conferences in solidarity with Namibia
arranged by those organizations, dissemination of conclusions of such conferences
and support to such other activities as will promote the cause of the liberation
struggle of the Namibian people, subject to decisions of the Council in each
individual case on the recommendation of the south West Africa People's
organization.

E

·Jnited Nations Fund for Namibia

The General Assembly,

-175-

Recalling its resolution. 31/153 ef 20 ~cember 1976, by which it decided to
launch the Nationhood Programme for Namib:-

1. Takes note of the relevant sections of the report of th~ United Nations
Council for NamibiaJ

A of 12 December 1979, by which it
nstitute for Namibia,

Further recalling its resolution 34/
approved the Charter of the United Nations

HaVing examined the sections of the report of the United Nations Council for
.4

Namibia relating to the United Nations Fund for Namibia, 48/

Recalling its resolution 2679 (XXV) of 9 December 1970, by which it decided to
establish the United Nations Fund for Namibia,

2. Expresses its appreciation to all States, specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system, governmental and non-governmental
or9aniz~tions and individuals that have made voluntary contributions to the United
Nations Fund for Namibia, the United Nations Institute for Namibia and the
Nationhood Programme for Namibia, and calls upon them to increase their assistance
to Namibians through those channelsJ

Recalling also its reso~ution 3112 (XXVIII) of 12 December 1973, by which it
appointed the United Nations Council for Namibia trustee of the United Nations Fund
for Namibia,

4. Urges the organizations of the United Nations Bystem to waive
programme-support costs in respect of projects in favour of Namibians financed frOM
the united Nations Fund for Namibia and other sources,

3. Decides to allocate as a temporary measure to the United Nations Fund for
Namibia a sum of SUS 1 million from the regular budget of the l}lited Nations for
1983;

Council for
n for the
amibia,
etai1s of

with the
amibia

)nal radio
media,

19ation of
~pendenceJ

It the
if the
lizations
1 consider
enceJ

me bUdget for
n, to group

:he support
lnal public
Id of their

ups that are
r the
nd authentic
ouncH for
the Namibian



ne

•

r ,
I

i·
:
I

I
I
I
I
i I
I

I

s. Requests the Secretary-General and the President of the united Nations
Council for Namibia to intensify appeals to Governments, intergovernmental and
nOD-governmental organizations and individuals for generous voluntary contributions
to the General Account of the United Nations Fund for Namibia and to the Trust
Funds for the Nationhood Programme for Namibia and the united Nations Institute
for Namibia and, in this connection, emphasizes the need for contributions in order
to increase the number of scholarships awarded to Namibians under the United
Nations Fund for Namibia;

6. Invites Governments to appeal once more to their national organizations
and institutions for voluntary contributions to the United Nations Fund for Namibia;

7. Decides that the united Nations Fund for Namibia, includ~·the Trust
Fu~ds for the Nationhood Programme for Namibia and the Ulited Nations Institute for
Namibia, shall be the primary source of assistance to Namibians;

8. Decides that Namibians shall continue to be eligible for assistance
through the united Nations Edu~ationa1 and Training Programme for Southern Africa and
the United Nations Trust Fund for SOuth AfricaJ

9. Requests the specialized agencies a.nd other organizatiorls and bodies in
the United Nations system, when planning and initiating their new measures of
assistance to Namibians, to do so within the context of the Nationhood Programme
for Namibia and the Unit~d Nations Institute for Namibia;

10. Requests the specialized agencies and oth~r organizations and bodies
within the United Nations system, in the light of the urgent need to strengthen the
programme of assistance to the Namibian people, to make every effort to expedite
the execution of Netionhood Programme projects and other projects in favour of
Namibians and to execute these projects on the basis of procedures which will
reflect the role of the United Nations Council for Namibia as the legal
Administering Authority for Namibia;

11. Expresses its appreciatio~ for the efforts of the united Nations High
Commissioner for Refugees to assist Namibian refugees and requests him to expand
these efforts in view of the surstantial increase in the number of Namibian
refugees;

12. Decides that the United Nations Council for Namibia shall:

(A) Continue to formulate policies of assistance to Narnibians and co-ordinate
assistance for Namibia provided by the specialized agencies and other organizations
and bodies in the United Nations system;

(2) Continue to act as trustee cif the United Nations Fund for Namibia ang, in
this capacity, administer and manage the Fund;

(£) Continue to provide broad guidelires and formulate the principles and
policies for the United Nations Institute for NamibiaJ

(d) Continue to co-ordinate, plan and direct the Nationhood Programme for
Namibia in consultation with the South West Africa People's Organization, with the
aim of consolidating all measures of assistance by the specialized agencies and

-176-



Nations
sI and
ltr ibutions
Trust
.titute
IS in order
lted

lizations
'or Namibia,

~ Trust
ititute for

ance
'n Africa and

odies in
s of
ogranune

Ddies
rlgthen the
ICpedite
Jr of
till

s High
expand

1n

>-ordinate
anizations

.8 ang, in

sand

e for
with the
sand

other org~nizations and bodies of -the United Nations system into a comprehensive
assistance programme,

(!.) Continue to consult with the SO\lth west Africa People's Organization in
the formulation and implementation of assistance programmes for Namibians,

(f) Report to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session on activities
in respect of the United Mations Fund for Namibia, the United Nations Institute for
~amibia and the Nationhood Programme for Namibia,

13. Approves the amendments to the Charter of the United Nations Institute
for Namibia adopted by the United Nations Council for Namibia at its 391st meeting,
on 10 November 1982, 49/

14. Oommends the United Nations Institute for Namibia for the effectiveness
of its training programmes for Namibians and its research activities on Namibia,
which contribute substantially to the struggle for freedom of the Namibian people
and to the establishment of an independent State of Namibia,

15. Requests the United Nations Council for Namibia to complete the
preparation of and publish at an early date, through the United Nations Institute
for Namibia, a comprehensive reference book on Namibia covering aspects of the
question of Namibia as considered by the United Nations since its inception, in
accordance with the outline prepared by the Council,

16. Oommends the progress made in the implementation of the pre-independence
components of the Nationhood Programme for Namibia and requests the united Nations
Council for Namibia to elaborate and consider in due course policies and
contingency plans regarding the transitional and post-independence phases of the
Programme,

17. Requests the United Nations Institute for Namibia to prepare, in
co-operation with the South west Africa People's Organization, the Office of the
United Nations Commissioner for Namibia and the United Nations Development
Programme, a comprehensive document on all aspects of er.onomic planning in an
independent Namibia, and requests the Secretary-General to provide substantive
support through the Office of the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia for the
preparation of that document,

18. Requests the United Nations Council for Namibia to carry out, in
consultation with the Office of the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia, a
demographic study of the Namibian population and a study of its educational needs,

19. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations and bodies of the
United Nations system to co-operate closely with the united Nations Institute for
Namibia in strengthening its programme of activities,

20. Expresses its appreciation to those speciali~ed agencies and other
organizations and bodies of the United Nations system that h~ve contributed to the
Nationhood Programme for Namibia and calls upon them to continue their
participation in the Programme by:

(~) Implementing projects approved by the United Nations Council for Namibia,

-177-



(~) preparing new project proposals at the request of the CouncilJ

(£) Allocating funds from their own financial resources for theimplementation of the projects approved by the CouncilJ

21. Expresses its appreciation to the united Nations Development Programmefor its contribution to the financing and administration of the NationhoodProgramme for Namibia and calls upon it to continue to allocate, at the request ofthe united Nations Council for Namibia, funds from the indicative planning figurefor Namibia for the implementation of the projects within the Nationhood Programmeand to increase the indicative planning figure for.NamibiaJ

22. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to provide the Office of theUnited Nations Commissioner for Namibia'with the necessary resources for theperformance of the responsibilities entrusted to it by the u~ited Nations Councilfor Namibia as the co-ordinating authority in the implementation of the NationhoodProgramme for Namibia.

-178-

788.
of the
above
adminis
of this
informa

789. Th
for the
recomme
envisag
Member
the ret
tempora

790. The
informa
replies
Nations

791. In
para. 78
missions
Latin
include
of inves

792. By
high-lev
protecti

793. A s
regardin



.~.. ...... - .... __..-_. ::::'C,=,.:-.:CC::::::=:::"-=_==:"::.::::"=-=.=:'l;'"~~

\'~

l

II. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIVITIES WHICH WILL REQUIRE THE PREPARATION
OF A STATEMENT OF AD~NISTRATIVE AND FINANCIAL IMPLICATIONS

787. In the light of the foregoing recommendations and subject to furtherdirectives that might be given by the General Assembly at its thirty-seventhsession, the United Nations Council for Namibia will continue to carry out itsmandate as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia until independence, asestablished by the Assembly in its resolution 2248 (S-V).

788. The Council notes that, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedureof the General Assembly, certain of its recommendations contained in section Iabove will require preparation by the Secretary-General of a statement ofadministrative and financial implications. In order to assist with the preparationof this statement, the Council has decided, as in the past, to provide furtherinformation regarding certain of its recommendations.

A. Activities of the Council regarding compliance by States
with General Assembly resolution ES-8/2 and other
relevant resolutions relating to Namibia

789. The monitoring of th~ )ycott and the preparation of a comprehensive reportfor the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session metioned in paragraph 34 ofrecommendation A (see para. 786 above), as well as the activities of the Councilenvisaged in paragraph 14 (b) of recommendation C regarding the compliance ofMember States with United Nations resolutions relating to Namibia, would raquirethe retention in the Council secretariat in 1983 of two temporary P-3 posts and onetemporary G-4 post created by the Assembly at its thirty-sixth session.

790. The preparation of the necessary reports would include the compilation ofinformation, preparation of questionnaires to be sent to all States, analysis ofreplies and follow-up on activities undertaken by States in compliance with UnitedNations resolutions on Namibia.

B. Missions of consultation with Governments and representation
of Namibia at international conferences and other forums

791. In fulfilment of paragraphs 5 (a) and 14 (f) of recommendation C (seepara. 786 above), it is expected that during 1983 the Council will unde~take threemissions to conduct political consultations with Governments in western Europe,Latin America, and either Asia or Africa. The mission to western Europe wouldinclude discussions with Governments of possible action to discourage continuationof investments by their corporations in Namibia.

792. By paragraph 14 (h) of recommendation C, the Council would undertake ahigh-level mission to the International Monetary Fund, with a view to ensuring theprotection of Namibia's interests.

793. A similar mission would also be sent to the International Atomic Energy Agencyregarding the membership of South Africa in some of the Agency's subsidiary bodies.

-179-

I '

I,
iI;-.~

Cl

'I
'I



~~,,;:==---=_~~~_ ;c_=_~:==

I
I
I

I

794. It is anticipated that each mission in 1983 will consist of four Council
members and a representative of the South West Africa People's Organization. The
missions will be serviced by a principal secretary, an administrative officer, a
secretary and, where appropriate, an information officer from the nearest
information centre. The duration of each mission will be from one to three weeks.

795. In implementation of paragraphs 5 (b), 6 and 7 of recommendation C, it is
expected that the Council will represent Namibia at meetings of the Organization of
African Unity, where it has permanent observer status, and at meetings of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, where it has guest status. The Council will
also participate in meetings of the specialized agencies and international
organizations associated with the United Nations, United Nations conferences and
other international conferences and meetings according to the priorities of its
programme of work. These missions will include up to three Council members, a
representative of ~APO and not more than two staff members. It is anticipated
that there will be 25 such missions with a duration of approximately five days each.

796. In particular, included in the above activities would be attendance by Council
delegations at meetings of the Second World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial
Discrimination, the United Nations Conference on Succession of States in respect of
State Property, Archives and Debts and the Commission on Human Rights, as well as
meetings of the International Labour Organisation, the Food and Agriculture
Organization of the United Nations, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the International
Telecommunication Union, the United Nations Industrial Development Organization~
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development and the Executive Committee
of the Programme of the united Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, of which
Namibia, represented by the Council, is a full member.

797. In accordance with paragraph~ 8 and 10 of recommendation C, full membership
for Namibia in various organizations would be sought. If Namibia, represented by
the Council, acquires full membership in new organizations, this could entail
payment of the appropriate membership fee or contribution.

800. T
transn
reco
the Of
year.

801. I
the Co
danest'
engage
engage
to prep
of rec

802. By
would s
corpora

803. Th
would b
the Conu
secretal
officer
mission

F.

798. Furthermore, paragraph 12 of recommendation C notes the accession of the
Council to two conventions and requests the Council to accede to other
international conventions. By acceding to conventions, the Council assumes certain
obligations which in some cases include the preparation of periodic reports.

C. Studies on the political, economic, military, legal and
social situation in and related to Namibia

799. Paragraph 14 (a), (c) and (d) of recommendation C (see para. 786 above)
indicates that the Council will require at least five draft reports to be prepared
by the secretariat of the Council on the political, economic, military, legal and
social situation in and related to Namibia. The economic report would include the
question of uranium. These activities will require the retention in 1983 in the
Council secretariat of the existent two P-4 posts and one G-4 post as temporary

.assistance.

-180- I

804. In
rnd soc'
interes
during
above).

805. In
expendit
Eastern
rne(-»;ing
the cost
hearing
travel 0
represen
Namibia,
Professi



---'- --_._----------.__ ._..~ ..._,-- ._-,----
_ •. ---._...-<._--.. _..----._---

D. Implementation of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the
Natural Resources of Namibia and activities in respect of
foreign economic interests in Namibia

E. Mission to contact corporations

801. In accordance with paragraph 14 (j) of recomme~dation C (see para. 786 above),the Council will, inter alia, consider the institution of legal proceedings in thedomestic courts of 10 Western and other countries where corporations or individualsengaged in economic activities in Namibia are based. Funds will be required toengage two lawyers with international experience as consultants for six months eachto prepare a comprehensive ~lan of action within the framework of paragraph 14 (j)of recommendation C.

800. The completion of the preparation of the indexed reference book ontransnational corporations operating in Namibia called for by paragraph 15 ofrecommendation C would require the engagement of one consultant to be attached tothe Office of the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia for approximately oneyear.

f

h.

1

f

802. By paragraph 14 (g) of recommendation C (see para. 786 above), the Councilwould send a mission to contact administering and managing bodies of foreigncorporations operating in Namibia regarding the illegal basis of their operations.
803. The mission would contact corporations based in Western Europe. The missionwould be composed of three Council members and one representative each of SWAPO andthe Commissioner's Office and would be serviced by a principal secretary and asecretary where appropriate. The mission would be accompanied by an informationofficer from the nearest United Nations information centre. The duration of themission would be two weeks.

F. Hearings, seminars and workshops on major issues concerning Namibia

804. In order to obtain relevant information on the political, military, economicrnd social situation in Namibia, including the activities of foreign economicinterests in the Territory, the Council will hold hearings/seminars/workshopsduring 1983 as envisaged in paragraph 14 (k) of recommendation C (see para. 786above).

805. In this connection, the Council will require budgetary allocations to coverexpenditures related to five days of hearings/seminars/workshops in Western orEastern Europe for the production of transcript of proceedings, the provision of
rne~;:ing services and the production of pre-, in- and post-session documentation andthe cost of inviting app~oximately 20 experts to Western or Eastern Europe for onehearing/seminar/workshop in 1983. In addition, provision will be required for thetravel of a delegation of the Council consisting of up to five members and arepresentative of SolAPO and of the office of the united Nations Commissioner forNamibia, as well as of the appropriate Secretariat staff (not more than threeProfessionals and two General Service from the secretariat of the Council, as ",ell

-H3l-



-- ~'-"-"-'--~-- - -~-----­
~---. -----------

as an administrative/finance officer). The dissemination of information and
pUblicity costs of these activities will be met by the Department of Public
Information.

G. Regional symposia in support of the struggle of the Namibian people

806. Beginning in 1983, the Council will hold a series of regional symposia with
the participation of individual experts, non-governmental organizations, national
support groups and, where appropriate, parliamentarians and trade unionists, in
order to mobilize concerted action in the various regions in support of the
Namibian people in accordance wih paragraph 14 (1) of recommendation C (se&
para. 786 above). It is expected that the Council will hold two regional symposia
a year. However, given the number of activities scheduled for 1983, in particular
the international conference in Paris (see para. 813 below), only one regional
symposium will be held in 1983, in either Latin America or Western Europe.

807. In this connection, the Council will require budgetary allocations to cover
expenditures related to the envisaged symposium of up to five days' duration, for
the provision of meeting services and the production of pre-, in- and post-session
documentation and the cost of inviting up to 30 experts from each country in the
region chosen to the country hosting the symposium for an estimated stay of five
days each. In addition, provision will be required for the travel of a delegation
of the Council consisting of not more than three members and a representative of
the office of the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia and of ~APO, as well as
of the appropriate secretariat staff (not more than three Professionals and two
General Service from the secretariat of the Council, as well as an administrative/
finance officer).

808. It is expected that there will be two regional symposia in 1984. The
dissemination of information and pUblicity costs of these activities will be met by
the Department of Public Information.

H. Financial reporting to the Council

809. By paragraph 19 of recommendation C (see para. 786 above), the General
Assembly would request the Secretary-General to ensure that an appropriate
accounting system is established which will enable the Council in its capacity as
the legal Administering Authority for Namibia to receive speedy and comprehensive
financial data on projects for which the Council is 'directly responsible.

I. Support for the South West Africa People's Organization

810. In accordance with the provisions of recommendation C (see para. 786 above),
the General Assembly wpuld decide to continue to defray the expenses of the SWAPO
office in New York in order to ensure the proper representation of the people of
Namibia through SWAPO at the,United Nations. The requirements of SWAPO for 1983
will remain at the same level as in 1982, taking into account the inflation
correction factor established for the regular budget of the United Nations, for the
following items~ (a) salaries, ~b) rentJ (c) telexJ (d) telephoneJ (e) news agency
serviceJ (f) utilities (electricity, water etc.)J (g) rental of copying equipmentJ

-182- l

(h) s
perio
Natio
Perma
membe
to th
repre

81l.
outsi
1iber
20 pe
week.

812.
Gener
away
Secre
Extra
confer
In ad
and t
Unite
it wo
arrang
verbat
1angua
and a1
Arrang
made f
interp
transp

813. B
Assernb
of the
United
and wo
with t
servic

814. I
should
Vice-P



:h
lal
1

)sia
llar

Eor
;ion
le

le

:ion
)f
L as
)

Lve/

~t by

as
Lve

~) ,
\PO
)f
13

(h) stationery, (i) postage, (j) printing, (k) films, books, newspapers and
periodicals (information purposes) i (1) supply and delivery of official United
Nations documents to the SWAPO office; and (m) official travel (expenses of the
permanent Observer and his Deputy, as well as travel and subsistence of other ~APO
members, to New York for the purpose of representing Namibia at the United Nations,
to the extent not otherwise covered by the budget for 1982 and 1983 with regard to
representation of SWAPO in missions of the Council).

811. The Council will continue to invite, whenever necessary, ~APO officials based
outside Headquarters to attend meetings dealing with matters of interest to the
liberation struggle of the Namibian people. It is expected that approximately
20 persons will be invited to New York, each for an approximate duration of one
week.

J. Extraordinary plenary meetings of the Council

812. In accordance with paragraph 23 of recommendation C (see para. 786 above), the
General Assembly would request the Council to hold extraordinary plenary meetings
away from Headquarters whenever it deems necessary and would request the
Secretary-General to provide the staff and services for the meetings.
Extraordinary plenary meetings would be held in 1983 only if the international
conference were not to take place. The meetings would last for five working days.
In addition to provision for travel expenses of the President, the Vice-Presidents
and the members of the Council and its secretariat staff, in accordance with the
United Nations guideli~es covering the holding of meetings away from Headquarters,
it would be required that the Department of Conference Services make appropriate
arrangements for pre-, in- and post-session documentation, meeting services and
verbatim or summary records of the plenary meetings. Interpretation into six
languages would be required for 10 plenary meetings held during the five-day period
and also for a committee which would meet simultaneously with the plenary.
Arrangement for amplification and recording only, without interpretation, would be
made for two other committee meetings. Arrangements would also be made for
interpretation equipment, local staff, office equipment and supplies and local
transportation.

K. International Conference in Support of the Struggle
of the Namibian People for Independence

813. By paragraphs 24 and 25 of r.ecommendation C (see para. 786 above), the General
Assembly would decide that an International Conference in Support of the Struggle
of the Namibian People for Independence should be held at the headquarters of the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, in Paris in 1983
and would request the Secretary-General to organize the Conference in consultation
with the Council and OAU and would authorize him to provide the necessary staff and
services for the Conference.

814. It is expected that the Conference will last five working days. Provision
should be made for travel expenses of the members of the Council, its President and
Vice-President and the secretariat of the Conference.

-ltl3-

I.

~
~ ..

.<

p.:f
«



I 1
, I
I :

815. The Department of Conference Services should make appropriate arrangements for
pre-, in- and post-session documentation and meeting services. Interpretation into
six languages will be required for 10 plenary meetings held during the five-day
period and also for two working groups which may meet simultaneously 'with the
plenary. The Department of Public Information will provide a publicity programme
related to the Conference.

816. Since reconstruction work on the UNESCO conference hall facilities was in
progress at the time of the first survey mission, it was not possible to determine
the number of offices that UNESCO might have available for the Conference. In view
of the above, a second survey mission, consisting of no more than three members of
the United Nations Secretariat, will be required at the beginning of 1983.

817. The secretariat of the Council will serve as the secretariat for the
Conference and will be largely responsible for the organization of the Conference.
Furthermore, in the light of the extraordinarily short time available to prepare
for the Conference, appropriations will be needed for the following temporary
staff: one consultant to assist the secretariat of the Council in maintaining
liaison with Governments and representatives of sUbsidiary bodies of the United
Nations, attending to the large volume of correspondence expected in connection
with their contributions to the Conference, conducting consultations with the
staffs of permanent missions in New York on matters not requiring the direct
participation of the Secretary-General of the Conference, and making arrangements
with various departments at Headquarters~ and one consultant to assist the Council
secretariat in maintaining liaison with specialized agencies and intergovernmental
organizations and institutions within the United Nations system as well as with
interna~ional and national non-governmental organizations. Appropriations will
also be required for one General Service post for work connected with the
organization of the Conference.

818. Other staff to assist the secretariat of the Council in serv1c1ng the
Conference will be provided on the basis of redeployment within the Department of
Political Affairs, Trusteeship and Decolonization. It is envisaged that the
follow-up action regarding decisions of the Conference on assistance to front-line
States will require the engagement by the Office of the United Nations Commissioner
for Namibia of a consultant possessing substantial knowledge in the field of
economic assistance programmes.

L. Dissemination of information and mobilization of international
public opinion in suppprt of Namibia

819. By paragraph 3 of recommendation D (see para. 786 above), the General Assembly
would request the Secretary-General to direct the Department of Public Information
to assist the Council in the implementation of its programme of dissemination of
information. It is expected that the Department of Public Information will, from
its general budget, provide press, radio and television coverage and produce
general publications, as appropriate, for regular, commemor.ative and extraordinary
meetings of the Council. The Department will also provide press coverage for the
missions of consultation of the Council.

-184-



mts for
ion into
-day
le
~ramme

in
termine
In view

)ers of

~rence.

~pare

~y

Lng
Lted
:ion
le

~ments

~ouncil

unental
dth
dll

mt of

It-line
~ssioner

~ssembly

:mation
m of

from

:dinary
lr the

J~-~' -

1. Special publications, films and radio programmes

820. In implementation of paragraph 5 of recommendation D, it is expected that in
1983 the following activities relating to the dissemination of information on the
question of Namibia will be undertaken under the guidance of the Council with the
involvement, where necessary, of the Office of the Commissioner:

(a) Preparation and dissemination of booklets, brochures and pamphlets
dealing with: (i) political matters, (ii) economic matters; (Hi) military
questions; (iv) social matters; (v) legal questions; and (vi) the question of the
territorial integrity of Namibia;

(b) Production and dissemination of four series of radio programmes in
English, French, German and Spanish, with each series consisting of six IS-minute
programmes;

(c) Production of material for publicity through radio and television
broadcasts;

(d) Placement of advertisements in major newspapers for special activities of
the Council;

(e) Production of a full-length feature film on the question of Namibia,
film-strip and slide sets;

(f) Production and dissemination of five posters and dissemination of
existing posters;

(g) Production and dissemination of a comprehensive economic map of Namibia
on the scale of 1:1,000,000; and dissemination of existing United Nations maps of
Namibia;

(h) Production and distribution of four issues of the Namibia Bulletin, and
weekly production of "Namibia in the News", with a wider distribution. This would
entail a sUbscription to the Africa service of an established press agency,
mimeograph, collating and document storage equipment and increased allocations for
postage and shipping;

(i) Production and dissemination of three booklets containing (i) the
declarations and formal statements of the Council; (ii) joint communiques,
communiques and press statements issued by missions of consultation of the Council;
and (iii) resolutions of the Security Council and General Assembly on the question
of Namibia, together with the relevant portions of resolutions dealing with the
activities of foreign economic interests and military activities in Namibia.
Provision should also be made for the reprinting of existing united Nations
booklets;

(j) Publicity and distribution of an indexed reference book on transnational
corporations;

(k) Preparation and dissemination of a booklet based on a study on the
implementation of Decree No. 1 for the Protection of the Natural Resources of
Namibia;

-185-

)

~~
I,'

I'

}I

'1
-_I

-1
"



Cop!es reguired

English 15 000
Arabic 500
French 500
German 500
Spanish 500

English 15 000
Arabic 500
French 500
Getman 500
Spanish 500

English 15 000
Mrikaans 500
Arabic 500
French 500
German 500
Japanese 500
Spanleh 500

Engliah 15 000
Afrikaans 500
Arabic 500
French 500
German 500
Japanese 500
Spanish 500

English 5 OOG
Arabic 250
Preneh 250
Ger..n 250
spanish 250

English 2 000
Arabic 100
Prench 100
Ger_n 100
Spanish 100

English 2 000
Arabic 100
Pr.neh 100
Geraan 100
Japaneae 100
Spanish 100

-1(16-

Indexed reference book of transnational
corporations operating in Namibia (in
course of preparation) ~

Red folder s !I

Publications

Materiale required

Objective: Justice, vol. XIV, Ho. 1
(~ril 1982)\ Special iSSU8 on
International Yea~ of Mobili.ation
for Sanctions against SOuth Af~iea
(IPI/707)

Military situation in Namibia
(15-25 pp.)

Paaphlet on purported legislation
p~o.ulgated in Namibia

SOCial situation in Namibia
(15-25 pp.)

COlllpendiua of United Nations ~ellOlutions
on Nuibia

(1) Acqu18ition, reproduet.ion and distribution of United Nations and
non-united Nations materials, which would entail the obtaining of appropriate
docUllentation racks and pigeon-hole.. 'lbe list of .at.rials would include the
following I

I i
11

IJ
II
I !

. I



Ite
the

·lnternational Cloftf.l'.nc. on "netiOft&::.
.,ainat eouth Ml'lca, .arill,
20-27 llay 1911·

"POl't of th. senate of the Gait...tiona
Inatitut. fol' ".ibia

..... Pl1gbt of Black WOIHn in M!l'th.id
South AlI'1e.· (aP!I".)

•...ibi., the r..cta·
(Intel'natiOftal Def.nc. and Aid Pand
fol' Iouth.l'ft Africa)

•...ibi.· 11 Stol.n "alth·
(50 pp.)

('lbe Aldea Fund, HI" Yol'k)

·'!be Ra.sing File- (Alun Roberts)

-Battlefront Namibia- (John Ya otto)

Handbook to assiat oil and tanker workers
to detect illegal shipments of oil to
~ibia and SOuth Africa (International
Oil working Group)

-187-

Clop1.a r!!IU1r~ (:

Bngliah 2 000 U
Arabic 100 f'kll'l'.nch 100
Gel'aAft 100 ~

.:;

Japan••• 100
~SpaftiSh 100 ,.

Bngliah 500
x,
,

Bftglillh 2 000 f
Arabic 100
Pl'.ncb 100
GerM" lOG
Spanish 100

IInglish 5 000
Ald.ka.na 300
Arabic 300
Prench 300
Gel'lUft 300
Japan.a. 300
Spaftiah 300

Bngltaa. 5 000
kabic 250
I'l'.meh 250
Gel'lIan 250
Japan••• 250
Spaniah 250

English 2 000
Arabic 100
French 100
German 100
Spanish 100

English 1 000
Arabic 50
French 50
German 50
Spanish 50

English 2 000
Arabic 100
French 100
G",rman 100
SplJnish 100



Copies requiredMaterials reqUired

-Let Us Die Fighting-

Bcono.ic .ap of Na.ibia b/
SCale 111,000,000 -

IIbsters (pre-fo1ded)

English
Arabic
French
German
Spanish

English
Afrikaans
Arabic
French
German
Spanish

500
50
50
50
50

25 000
I 000

500
I 000

500
I 000

-stop the plunder of Namibia uraniumw

-fOr a free and independent Namibia-

8~ poster

Pirst poster to be devised by
Standing CO_itt.. III

second poster to be deviMd by .
Standing CO_ittee III

-188-

English 5 000
Arabic 250
French 250
German 250
Spanish 250

English 5 000
Arabic 250
French 250
German 250
Spanish 250

English 10 000
Arabic 500
Prench 500
Ger_n 500
Spanish •••

English 10 000
Arabic 500
French 500
GerMn 500
Spanish 500

English 10 000
Arabic 500
Prench 500
GerMn 500
Spanish 500



Mat.rial. required

1'1111. «16 !IJI)

I~r•• W••ibi. 11

"truet 8etraye4 "

"lbllov the Y.llowcate Road"

Hev f i1. to b. p:epared und.r the guidance
of Standing Co_Ut•• III

Bnglieta 20
Ar.bic 45
lY.nch 12
Gerun 45
Japan•••: 6
Spani.h 12

ringli.111 20
Arabic 6
Pr.nclll 12
Ger..rJ\ ,
JapaI'Jo•• 6
Spani.h 12

Bngli.h 20
Arabic ,
lYench 12
Genaan 6
Japanelle (;
Spant... 12

Bngli.1Jl 40
Arabic 12
Ptoneh 24
Gerun 12
Japan••• 12
Spanish 24

-189-

!I !'b. red folder. vill contain the following .at.d.~.•,

-A cri.e again.t a.anity: o,a••tion. and an.wer. on ap!rt~ae1d 1n
south Africa- (1:1'1/1705);

Q)n.tltution of SWAPO ;
Decr•• No. 1 for the ProtecUon of the Natural R.sourc•• of Nallibia;
Di..r....nt Study sed•• No. 2. ·SOuth Africa'. Plan and Capability in

the Nucl.ar Pi.ld- ;

Video c••••tt••

SOuth Afric.'. Bombshell EngU.h
Arabic
French
Geraan
Jllpan•••
Spani.h

20
6

12
6
6

12



List of transnational corporations operating in Namibia (as prepared for
the International Conference in SUpport of the Struggle of the ~ibian
People for Independence by the OfUce of the Co_issioner); .

Map 16- x 16-;
-NBmibia. A Trust B~trayed- ;
-Ruibia, A thique ~ited Nations Responsibility- ;
Ha tionhood progr••e booklet;
Booklet on Walvis Bay by the Intern.tiona~Defence and Aid Fund for

Southern Africa;
Pa..lt\let on the plunder of Namibian uranium;
Paaplllet on labour i~ Nulibia ;
Pamlt\let on scholarships and other activities under the General Account

of the thited Nations Fund for Namibia;
Political proga.. of SNAP<>;
Posteu -For a Pree and Independent Naaibia-;
Poster: "Stop the p.Lunder of Namibian uranium";
roster of sa_ )lJjOlla;
-!he United Nations Co~ncil for Namibia. What it is, what it does-

(lr'I/603) ;
-'Jb be Born a Nation-.

~ To be submitted to the Publications Board for sale as a United Nations
publication.

821. It
paragra
the Un!
and othe

822. By
request
Council,
of Namib
the Coun
includin
organiza
research
liberati
each ind

823. By
Council
Namibia
workshop
interpre
document
official

824. In ,
General 1
sum of $1

825. The
for v,olu
assume a
Trust Fu

826. The
fund-rai
fund-rai
Vice-Cha
member,
secreta
countrie

-190-

827. Und
continue
manage t
Committe
major de
The Seer
respect



821. It is also foreseen that after completion of the demograhic study mentioned in
paragraph 12 of recommendation E, aPrropriate data on Namibia would be included in
the United Nations Statistical Yearbovk, the United Nations Demographic Quarterly
and other United Nations statistical publications.

2. CO-operation with non-governmental organizations

822. By paragraphs 11 and 14 of recommendation D, the General Assembly would
request non-governmental organizations to intensify, in co-operation with the
Council, international action in support of the liberation struggle of the people
of Namibia, it would also decide to allocate th sum of $US 200,000 to be used by
the COuncil in its programme of co-operation with non-governmental organizations,
including support to conferences in solidarity with Namibia arranged by those
organizations, dissemination of the conclusions of such conferences and support to
research on Namibia and such other activities as well promote the cause of the
liberation struygle of the Namibian people, subject to approval by the Council in
each individual case, in consultation with SWAPO.

823. By paragraph 12 of recommendation D, the General Assembly would request the
Council to organize a workshop for non'-governmental organizations concerned with
Namibia immediately following the international conference at UNESCO House. The
workshop would last two days and would require conference services and
interpretation in two languages, translation of pre-session and in-session
documentation in two languages and translation of post-session documentation in all
official languages.

M. United Nations Fund for Namibia

824. In accordance with paragraph 3 of recommendation E (see para. 786 above), the
General Assembly would decide to allocate to the Fund as a temporary measure the
sum of $US 1,000,000 from the regular budget of the United Nations for 1983.

825. The implementation of paragraph 5 of recommendation E, dealing with an appeal
for voluntary contributions, implies that the Secretary-General would continue to
assume administrative responsibilities in respect of the Fund as a whole and the
Trust Funds for the Institute and the Nationhood Programme.

826. The implementation of paragraph 5 would also require, in addition to the
fund-raising activities of the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia, four
fund-raising missions conducted by the Council. Such missions would consist of the
Vice-Chairman and Rapporteur of the Committee on the Fund, one other Council
member, the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia, a principal secretary and a
secretary. These missions would visit the Nordic countries, other West European
countries, North America and the Far East.

827. Under the terms of paragraph 12 (b) of recommendation E, the Council would
continue to act as trustee of the Fund and, in this capacity, to administer and
manage the Fund. The Council would exercise tnis reponsibility through its
Committee on the united Nations Fund for Namibia, subject, in the case of certain
major decisions, to the approval of its recommendations by the Council as a whole.
The Secretary-General retains the fiduciary responsibility which he exercises in
respect of all trust funds.

-191-

8
D

r

8

t
i
m
o
e
t

8



\
I 'I

I'

:.:-]

- -_._~-----_._._.~---,.-;--__ '--__ ...c:. ..__ .,__~_~ .__

828. In accordance with paragraph 17 of recommendation E, the General Assembly
would request the secretary-General to provide substantive support for the
preparation of a comprehensive document on all aspects of economic planning in an
independent Namibia. This would entail the engagement of two consultants by the
Office of the United Nations Oommissioner for Namibia.

829. In paragraph 18 of recommendation E, the Secretary-General is requested to
carry out demographic and educational studies of the Namibian population. This
would entail the engagement by the Office of the United Nations Commissioner for
Namibia of two consultants, one to carry out a demographic study which would
provide a basis for economic planning, establish generally acceptable statistics
for the population of Namibia and assist in the formulation of a number of projects
under th2 Nationhood Programme, and the other to carry out an evaluation of the
individual scholarships supported by the United Nations Fund for Namibia, in order
to establish ways and means of increasing the effectiveness of these scholarships
and of increasing the proportion of students studying in Africa.

N. United Nations Institute for Namibia

830. The implementation of paragraph 15 of recommendation E (see para. 786 above)
would require the Oouncil to prepare and publish, through the Institute, a
comprehensive reference book on Namibia. It is understood that at least half the
cost of the compilation of the reference book, which would take place in 1983,
would be borne by the Institute from its own funds. It is also expected that the
Council will in 1983 requ~3t the Department of Public Information to publish the
reference book and distribute it widely.

831. The Council will invite the Chairman of the Senate of the Institute or the
Director of the Institute to attend those meetings of the Council at which the
report of the Institute is considered.

832. The President of the Council or his representative, the Vice-Chairman and
Rapporteur of the Committee on the Fund and two members of the Council represent
the Council in the Senate of the Institute, which meets at Lusaka. During 1983, it
is anticipated that delegations of the Oouncil, accompanied by appropriate staff
members of the Secretariat, will participate in three meetings of the Senate in
order to continue to provide the policy guidance necessary to ensure the
effectiveness of the Council in the exercise of its responsibilities with respect
to the Institute.

O. Requirements of the secretariat of the Council

833. In implementation of recommendati~n C (see para. 786 above), the COuncil will
meet in continuous session throughout 1983.

834. The intensification of the efforts of the Council in support of
self-determination, freedom and national independence for the Namibian people has
greatly expanded the activities of the Council with respect to consultations with
Governments, participation in international organizations and conferences,
organization of extraordinary meetings and seminars, monitoring of the boycott of
sOuth Africa, activities related to the implementation of Decree No. 1, preparation

-192-

of docu
and with
liberati
discharg
General
which we
military
other ac

835. In
the Inte
Independ
regional
of media
recammen

836. Fur
theElim
responsi
of reco

837. Sim
and meet
greater
meet.i,ngs.
United N
imposes
matters (
also wort
as the or

838. Alse
the UnitE
undertak
Executiv

839. It i
Conferen
and in
require

840e In
secretar"
increase
of brief
for 1983,
of tempor
provided
Standing
dispatchi
agencies
regular s
Headquart



of documentation and contacts with leading personalities in the information media
and with non-governmental organizations actively supporting the cause of the
liberation struggle of the Namibian people. In order to enable the Council to
discharge the programme of work envisaged for 1983, the Council recommends that the
General Assembly should decide to maintain during that year the temporary posts
which were filled in 1982, namely, two P-4 posts for research on political,
military, economic, legal and social matters and two P-3 posts for research and
other activities relating to the boycott against south Africa.

835. In addition to the activities described above, the Council will also organize
the International Conference in Support of the Strqggle of the Namibian People for
Independence, an international seminar on a major issue concerning NamibiaJ a
regional symposium for non-governmental organizations, and an international seminar
of media leaders (paras. 25 and 14 (k) and (1) of recommendation C and para. 6 of
recommendation D).

836. Furthermore, the Council, by having acceded to the International Convention on
the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, has assumed the
responsibility of submitting biennial reports on this matter to Namibia (para. 12
of recommendation C).

837. Similarly, the Council's participation in an increasing number of conferences
and meetings of international organizations of which it is a member has placed
greater demands on the Council in terms of extensive preparations for each of these
meet\ngs. The Council's membership in IAEA, which is the only organization in the
United Nations system of which both the Council and South Africa are members,
imposes upon it the obligation to formulate and develop policies relating to
matters on the agenda of the Agency's annual and other periodic meetings. It is
also worth noting that there is a need for in-depth preparation for missions such
as the ones to IMF and IAEA (para. 14 (h) of recommendation C).

838. Also, the Council's membership in the Executive Committee of the programme of
the united Nations High Commissioner for Refugees requires that the Council
undertake extensive preparation for the effective participation in meetings of the
Executive Committee (para. 11 of recommendation C).

839. It is expected that the Council's participation in the United Nations
Conference on Succession of States in respect of State property, Archives and Debts
and in the Commission on Human Rights and its SUbsidiary committees will also
require substantial preparation (paras. 6 and 7 of recommendation C).

840e In view of all the above, the Council recommends that in order to enable the
Secretariat to provide the services required for the Council to carry out its
increased representational activities, which necessitate, inter alia, preparation
of briefs for Council delegations, the General Assembly should decide to create,
for 1983, two P-3 posts on a temporary assistance basis. Also within the framework
of temporary assistance, the Council recommends that one G-3 and one G-4 post be
provided to the secretariat of the Council. The G-4 post would be attached to
Standing Committee I, primarily for administrative work connected with the
dispatching of missions of the Council and representation in the specialized
agencies and other international organizations. The G-3 post would be to provide
regular secretarial assistance connected primarily with conferences away from
Headquarters, such as the international conference in Paris, as well as assisting

-193-



annex

annex

Suppll

annex

the SI
Septe

the S

Recor<
June

Suppl

annex

in Na
276 (

Suppl

-ly4-

843. It is considered that compliance with this request would entail the creation
of one P-4 post and five G-4 posts in the Office of the Commissioner. The P-4 post
is intended to be occupied by a First Officer who will supervise information
gathering assistance to individual Namibians and the travel documents programme.
Of the General service posts, one is to provide secretarial services to the
existing Senior Political Affairs Officer, one is to assist the two existing
information officers, who will engage in increased information activities, one is
to assist the person occupying the requested P-4 post, one is for increased
assistance to individual Namibians, and one is to assist with financial aspects of
the United Nations Fund for Namibia.

P. Requirements of the Office of the Commissioner

842. By paragraph 22 of recomendation C (see para. 786 above), the General Assembly
would request the Secretary-General to provide the necessary resources for the
Office of the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia to strengthen a number of its
activities.

with the organization of hearings and seminars and the programme of co-operation
with non-governmental organizations.

841. With regard to the international conference referred to above, the Council
recommends General Assembly approval of the creation of two temporary assistance
posts at the P-3 level from 1 January to 30 June 1983. This time-frame would take
into account the period necessary for the extensive preparations for the
Conference, to be followed by the preparation of reports and other documents
emanating from the Conference.

844. It is also understood that the request in paragraph 22 would imply the
provision of appropriate electronic and other equipment to the Office of the United
Nations Commissioner for Namibia to enable that Office to keep accurate records of
the approximately 5,000 travel documents which are now in circulation under the
programme for travel documents of the United Nations Council for Namibia and to
expedite the production by the Office of project documents and revisions together
with related statistical data.

845. By paragraph 22 of recommendation E, the Secretary-General is requested to
provide the Office of the United Nations Commissioner for Namibia with the
necessary resources for the performance of its responsipilities as the
co-ordinating authority in the implementation of the Nationhood Programme for
Namibia. It is envisaged that this would entail, inter alia, in 1983 and
subsequent years, arrangements by which official documents of the United Nations
would be suppli.ed to the Office of the.United Nations Commissioner for Namibia in
Luanda, which was created by the General Assembly at its thirty-sixth session, and
also to the Office of the Commissioner in Lusaka, to the United Nations Institute
for Namibia in Lusaka and to the Office of the Commissioner in Gaberone.

"

i
i
I

t !



s

t

--_.~.-- --"~- _.~ ._-- ,---,_•.. _-",_.~._--

Notes

!I Legal Consequences for States of the Continued Presence of South Africa
in Namibia (South West Africa) notwithstanding Security Council Resolution
276 (1970), Advisory Opinion, I.C.J. Reports 1971, p. 16.

~ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-sixth Session,
Supplement No. 24 {A/36/24), paras. 154-159.

2/ Ibid., Thirty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 24 (A/35/24), vol. I,
annex 11.

~ Ibid., Thirty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 24 (A/36/24).

~ Ibid., Eighth Emergency Special Session, Plenary Meetings, 3rd meeting.

&I Ibid., Thirty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 24 (A/36/24), paras. 163-168.

2/ Ibid., Thirty-sixth Session, Plenary Meetings, 64th meeting.

~ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 15, No. 102, p. 295.

~ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 23 (A/37/23/Rev.l), chap. VIII, para. 13.

10/ A/37/26l-S/l5l50, annex. For the printed text, see Official Records of
the Security Council, Thirty-seventh Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1982.

11/ A/36/222-S/l4458 and Cbrr.l., annex. For the printed text see Official
Records of the Security Council, Thirty-sixth Year, Supplement for April, May and
June 1981.

~ A/37/333-S/l5278, annex. For the printed text, see Official Records of
the Security Council, Thirty-seventh Year, SUpplement for July, August and
September 1981.

!11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-sixth Session,
SUpplement No. 24 (A/36/24), para. 222.

!!I Ibid., Twenty-ninth Session, Supplement No. 24 (A/9624), vol. 11,
annex VI.

15/ Ibid., Supplement No. 24A (A/9624/Add.l), paras. 38-60.

16/ Ibid., Thirtieth Session, Supplement No. 24 (A/l0024), vol. 11, annex V.

!1/ Ibid., Thirty-first Session, Supplement No. 24 (A/3l/24), yol. 11,
annex XII.

~ Ibid., vol. Ill, annex XIV.

~ Ibid., Thirty-second Session, Supplement No. 24 (A/32/24), vol. 11,
annex 11.

-195-

----.c.c.c"l
"I..

I
~,·.··,·_···-·.····.·_.:·:,i,..-\'Ij.,

'!

'I-,
c,l.

:/1

I
~"'·-···,:,.·'·.';:'i
;:j

i.:.,i,:

ii
~11
I



21/ Ibid., paras. 262-312.

----<-1--I
! _.'i

-~
J
I

i

20/ Ibid. t Ninth Special Session, Supplement No. 1 (A/S-9/4), paras. 42-261.

~-

. !
1

1

I
I •

i,

~ !£!2., Thirty-fourth Session, Supplement No. 24 (A/34/24), vol. - Ill,
annexes 11 and Ill.

23/ Ibid., annex IV.

24/ Ibid., annex V.

~ For the ~~ports of the missions, see A/35/339-S/14067 (Latin America) ,
A/35/300-S/14014 (Western Europe), A/35/338-S/14066 (Caribbean), A/35/301-S/14015
(South Pacific), A/35/337-S/14065 (North America) and A/35/364-S/14083
(Middle East). For the printed texts of the reports, see Official Records of the
Security Council, Thirty-fifth Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1980, and
~., Supplement for July, August and September 1980.

~ For the reports of the missions, see A/AC.13l/L.203 (Colombia, Peru and
Argentina), L.237 (Spain, Ireland and Finland), L.225 (Netherlands), L.214
(German Democratic Republic, Hungary and Romania) and L.231 (India and Viet Narn).

27/ The Military Balance (1981-1982) (London, International Institute for
strategic Studies, 1981).

28/ The American Journal of International Law, January 1978.

~ World Armaments and Disarmament: SIPRI Yearbook 1981 (Stockholm,
stockholm International Peace Research Institute, 1981).

30/ For the report of the Council on the hearings on Namibian uranium, see
Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fifth Session, Supplement No. 24
(A/35/24), vol. IrI.

31/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 972, p. 135.

32/ Focus, No. 32 (February 1981), p. 3.

~ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-first Session,
Supplement No. 24 (A/31/24), vol. 11, annex 11, para. 25.

l!I A/32/109/Rev.l-S/12344/Rev.l, annex V, para. 38 (f)~ For the printed
text, see Official Records of the Security Council, Thirty-second Year, Supplement
for July, August and September 1977.

~ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
SUpplement No. 24 (A/34/24), vol. IV, annex XXXII.

~ ~., vol. 11, paras. 33, 35 and 37-38.

Ir/ Ibid., paras. 44-45.

~ ~., Thirty-seventh Session, Supplement NO. 24 (A/37/24)~

-196-



1.

t

39/ Ibid., Supplement No. 23 (A/37/23/Rev.l), chaps. I-VI and VIII.

iQ/ A/36/3l9-S/l4531, annexe~ I and 11. For the printed text, see Official
Records of the Security Council, 'Ihirty-sixth Year, Supplement for April, May and
June 1981.

41/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
SUpplement No. 24 (A/37/24), para. 767.

!lI See Official Records of the Security Council, Thirty-sixth Year,
2300th meeting.

43/ See A/32/109/Rev.I-S/12344/Rev.1, annex V. For the printed text, see
Official Records of the Security Council, Thirty-second Year, Supplement for July,
August and September 1977, document S/12344/Rev.l.

44/ General Assembly resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

45/ General Assembly resolution 3068 (XXVIII), annex.

~ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

47/ A/32/144, annexes I and 11 0

~ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
SUpplement No. 24 (A/37/24), part two, chap. X and chap. XI, sect. B.

!21 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
SUpplement No. 24 (A/37/24), annex IV.

-197-

:1

Ij
.j

.• 1
1
I
!

;1

~I



ANNEX I

Reservations on the Arusha Declaration and
Programme of Action on Namibia

-193-

A. Australia

5. The selective naming of countries is seen by Australia as unwarranted and
unhelpful.

[Original: English]

B. Belgium

[Original: French]

1. Australia joined the consensus on the Arusha Declaration because its general
thrust accords with Australian policYJ namely, the achievement of independence for
Namibia. There are, however, a number of formulations in the Declaration on which
Australia has very serious reservations.

4. Australia recognizes the South West Africa People's Organization as an
important protagonist in Namibia but believes it is for the people of Namibia, in
free and fair elections, to decide who should represent them.

2. Australia fully supports the efforts of the Western contact group and believes
it to be acting in good faith. We disassociate ourselves from any suggestion to
the contrary. Further we believe that progress is being made in the contact
group's negotiations and that this progress should be acknowledged by the united
Nations Council for Namibia.

7. The Government of Belgium did not oppose the consensus on the Declaration and
Programme of Action on Namibia, adopted by the united Nations Council for Namibia
at Arusha, on 13 May 1982.

3. For reasons which are well known, Australia cannot associate itself with
support for armed struggle.

6. Speaking generally, Australia regrets the extravagance of language employed in
the Declaration and believes it would command greater international attention and
respect if it were more soberly worded.

8. However, several references contained in those documents elicit reservations
on the part of Belgiu~

10. We remain convinced that the peaceful course is the only viable course and we
cannot accept any references to armed struggle.

9. While we recognize the prominent role played by SWAPO, we feel that its status
cannot be determined until after free and fair elections.

"1

I, :1,

I·····.;J
1
'1
!.Aiq

I~.·."".·.··:·:
:j

I

.j

i



19lish]

1eral
::e for
which

!lieves
1 to

lted

i, in

ld

)yed in
land

lnch]

_nand
libia

:ions

status

nd we

11. We refute the allegation that certain western Powers are trying to distort the
essentially colonial nature of the Namibian problem.

12. We do not accept the unwarranted attacks against what the Programme of Action
describes as a collaborationist policy of the United States of America with South
Africa, or the references to alleged political, economi~ and military support from
Western nations.

13. Belgium considers that the United Nations Council for Namibia also has no
grounds for pronouncing on so-called misuse by permanent members of the Security
Council of the right of veto.

14. Moreover Belgium sees no sign of "apparent reluctance" on the part of the
contact group to apply pressure on South Africa and refrains from passing judgement
on the electoral systems that have been proposed.

15. While Belgium believes that inco~ration of Walvis Bay and the islands within
Namibian territory may be advisable, it considers that the question should be the
subject of negotiation between the future Namibian authorities and South Africa.

16. The Belgian Government considers that the question of imposing sanctions falls
exclusively within the purview of the Security Council.

17. Belgium is opposed, in principle, to selective references to countries or
groups of countries in official United Nations documents.

18. Lastly, Belgium is not convinced that a Geneva-type conference would be the
best approach for the solution of the Namibian question.

C. Finland

[Original: English]

19. The Government of Finland endeavours to work constructively with other members
of the United Nations Council for Namibia for the independence of Namibia. Finland
is convinced th~t the illegal South African occupation of Namibia must be brought
to an end throu~~ increased international pressure on South Africa. The Namibian
people must be al.lowed, without further delay, to exercise their inalienable right
to self-determination and national independence by means of free and fair elections
under the supervision and control of the United Nations on the basis of Security
Council resolution 435 (1978) of 29 September 1978. Finland ~rges the Western
contact group to use its influence on SOuth Africa and to continue negotiations
towards this end in co-operation with all concerned.

20. Thus Finland understands the political motivation of the Arusha Declaration
and Programme of Action on Namibia and shares the concern over the situation in
Namibia, reflected in that final document. Finland therefore joins the consensus.

21. The decision of Finland to join the consensus is not to be interpreted as
constituting a departure from certain basic principles to which it continues to
adhere. Specifically, Finland reiterates the following:

-199-



e

1

~l

'1

.!
:i
'I
:i
J
1

j

(a) Finland cannot accept endorsement by the united Naticns of armed struggle
nor requests for military assistance. The United Nations was established in order
to promote peaceful solutions to international disputes,

(b) Finland dissociates itself from any arbitrary singling out of countries
as responsible for the policies of SOuth Africa,

(c) Finland continues to maintain the view that, in accordance with the
Charter of the United Nations, the adoption of sanctions is within the exclusive
purview of the Security Council, which is the only organ with competence to take
decisions binding on Member States,

(d) No political organization enjoying popular support should be excluded
from a political solution in Namibia through free and fair elections. SWAPO, which
has played a constructive and crucial role in the search for a negotiated
settlement, is such an organization and must be part of any solution. Finland has
given and continues to give humanitarian assistance to SWAPO.

-200-



struggle
in order

untries

the
lusive
o take

luded
PO, which

land has

ANNEX 11

Allocation of resources to the Council for 1982
within the programme budget for 1982-1983

1. In its report to the General Assembly at its thirty-sixth session, the Council
made a number of recommendations and gave a description of the activities which
would require the preparation of a statement of administrative and financial
implications. si

2. The Council's recommendations were incorporated into draft resolutions which
were placed before the General A~sembly under the following headings:

(a) Situation in Namibia resulting from the illegal occupation of the
Territory by SOuth Africa (A/36/L.23/Rev.l and Add~l),

(b) Action by Member States in support of Namibia (A/36/L. 24 and Add. 1) ,

(c) Programme of work of the United Nations Council fo~ Namibia (A/36/L.25
and Add. I) ,

(d) Action by intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations with
respect to Namibia (A/36/L.26 and Add. 1) ,

(e) Dissemination of information on Namibia (A/36/L.27 and Add. 1) ,

(f) United Nations Fund for Namibia (A/36/L.28 and Add.l).

The draft re~olutions were adopted by the General Assembly at its 93rd plenary
meeting, on 10 December 1981, as resolutions 36/121 A., B, C, D, E and F~
respectively.

3. Prior to consideration of the draft resolutior.s by the plenary, the
secretary-General submitted to the Fifth Committe~ a statement of the~~
administrative and financial implications (A/C. 5./36/59). The Eltatement analysed
the financial implications of all the draft resolutions tak€; ~ogether as follows
(figures are in United States dollars):

-201-



-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
,
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
~
-
.
_
-

S
e
c
ti

o
n

o
f

th
e

p
ro

g
ra

m
m

e
b

u
d

g
e
t

P
ro

p
o

se
d

a
c
ti

v
it

y

M
o

n
it

o
ri

n
g

o
f

th
e

b
o

y
c
o

tt
o

f
S

O
ut

h
A

fr
ic

a

M
is

si
o

n
s

o
f

c
o

n
s
u

lt
a
ti

o
n

an
d

re
p

re
se

n
-

ta
ti

o
n

o
f

N
am

ib
ia

a
t

c
o

n
fe

re
n

c
e
s

S
tu

d
ie

s
o

n
th

e
p

o
li

ti
c
a
l,

ec
o

n
o

m
ic

,
m

il
it

a
ry

,
le

g
a
l

an
d

s
o

c
ia

l
s
it

u
a
ti

o
n

In
p

le
R

lE
m

ta
ti

o
n

o
f

D
ec

re
e

N
o.

1

SW
A

PO
o

ff
ic

e
in

N
ew

Y
or

k

E
x

tz
B

o
rd

in
a
ry

p
le

n
a
ry

.
m

e
e
ti

n
g

s
i ~

In
te

rn
a
ti

o
n

a
l
c
o
n
f
e
r
e
n
c
~

~ ,
H

e
a
ri

n
g

s,
se

m
in

a
rs

an
d

w
o

rk
sh

o
p

s

C
o

-O
P

e
ra

ti
o

n
w

it
h

n
o

n
-g

o
v

e
rn

m
e
n

ta
l

o
rg

a
n

iz
a
ti

o
n

s

D
is

se
m

in
a
ti

o
n

o
f

in
fo

rm
a
ti

o
n

'

U
n

it
e
d

N
a
ti

o
n

s
F

u
n

d
fo

r
N

am
ib

ia

U
n

it
e
d

N
a
ti

o
n

s
In

s
ti

tu
te

fo
z

N
a
m
i
~
i
a

O
ff

ic
e

o
f

th
e

C
o

m
m

is
si

o
n

er

E
st

im
a
te

d
c
o

s
t

1
3

4
7i

llO

4
2

0
6

0
0

5
0

7
0

0

58
0

0
0

2
8

9
0

0
0

9
6

6
4

0
0

1
4

9
0

0

7
8

1
0

0
0

2
0

0
0

0
0

5
7

6
8

0
0

1
0

1
9

4
0

0

5
6

8
0

0

3
7

3
1

0
0

3
B

.2

1
0

9
6

0
0

3
C

.l

11
20

6C
O

1
0

1
9

4
0

0

5
6

8
0

0

3
C

.2

3
7

3
1

0
0

2
7

1
2

4
0

0

3
4

0
0

5
7

6
8

0
0

2
8

D

2
5

1
0

0

2
9

4
0
~

6
0

0

5
1

5
2

0
0

~ ~l ~! ~ ~1 ~: ti \',\ ~~\ rJ " ~! t~ ~ !] i~ ~ B I ~ f, I

-
=

'

4
9

4
1

4
0

0
1

0
9

6
0

0
2

8
0

7
5

0
0

4
8

1
8

0
0

5
9

2
6

0
0

2
5

1
0

0
9

2
4

8
0

0

.iJ it! ;'·~i ~i ~ ! i ~ ~ I



29 9
0

0
0

9
1

5
8

0
0

28
D

2
5

1
0

0

27

3
9

6
9

0
0

1
9

5
70

0

3
C

.2

2
7

3
0

0

45
4

5
0

0

3
C

.l

9
9

5
5

0
0

1
8

1
2

00
0

3
B

.2

1
0

9
6

0
0

9
1

5
8

0
0

2
8

0
7

1
0

0

E
st

im
a
te

d
c
o

s
t

1
21

8
50

0

-
S
e
~
t
i
o
n

·o
f

th
e

p
ro

g
ra

m
m

e
b

u
d

g
e
t

-
-
-
-
-
-
-

P
ro

p
o

se
d

a
c
ti

v
it

y

2
8

D
'

O
ff

ic
e

o
f

G
e
n

e
ra

l
S

e
rv

ic
e
s

3
C

.2
-

O
ff

ic
e

o
f

th
e

U
n

it
e
d

N
a
ti

o
n

s
C

o
m

m
is

si
o

n
eL

fo
r

N
am

ib
ia

2
7

-
D

e
p

a
rt

m
e
n

t
o

f
P

u
b

li
c

In
fo

rm
a
ti

o
n

3
C

.l
-

U
n

it
e
d

N
a
ti

o
n

s
C

o
u

n
c
il

fo
r

N
am

ib
ia

2
9

-
D

e
p

a
rt

m
e
n

t
o

f
C

o
n

fe
re

n
c
e

s
e
rv

ic
e
s

3
B

.2
-

D
e
p

a
rt

m
e
n

t
o

f
P

o
li

ti
c
a
l

A
ff

a
ir

s
,

T
ru

s
te

e
s
h

ip
an

d
D

e
c
o

lo
n

iz
a
ti

o
n

-..
,--

'
!I

In
c
lu

d
e
s

SU
S

3
1

9
,3

0
0

a
s

a
d

d
it

io
n

a
l

re
q

u
ir

e
m

e
n

ts
in

c
o

n
n

e
c
ti

o
n

w
it

h
p

ro
v

is
io

n
o

f
c
o

n
fe

re
n

c
e

s
e
rv

ic
e
s

fo
r

m
e
e
ti

n
g

s
aw

ay
fr

o
m

H
e
a
d

q
u

a
rt

e
rs

.

!?
/

In
c
lu

d
e
s

SU
S

77
2

0
0

a
s

a
d

d
it

io
n

a
l

re
q

u
ir

e
m

e
n

ts
in

c
o

n
n

e
c
ti

o
n

w
it

h
p

ro
v

is
io

n
o

f
c
o

n
fe

re
n

c
e

s
e
rv

ic
e
s

fo
r

m
e
e
ti

n
g

s
aw

ay
fr

o
m

H
e
a
d

q
u

a
rt

e
rs

.

K
ey

to
b

u
d

g
e
t
s
e
c
t
i
o
n
~
·

B
a
la

n
c
e

re
q

u
e
st

e
d

fo
r

a
p

p
ro

p
ri

a
ti

o
n

T
o

b
e

in
c
lu

d
e
d

in
th

e
c
o

n
so

li
d

a
te

d
st

a
te

m
e
n

t
o

n
c
o

n
fe

re
n

c
e

s
e
rv

ic
e
s

1
9

8
2

p
o

rt
io

n
o

f
re

so
u

rc
e
s

re
q

u
e
st

e
d

in
p
~
,
...

,p
o

se
d

1
9

8
2

-1
9

8
3

b
u

d
g

e
t

I I\
) o lA
)

I

11 ; '< I~. lEl I~ ::1
~

I j ~I E"11 '> t~ ~i ~[ ~1 ~.·1·r~ ,. f! '•.j 1'.-; [11 i- ~.l ::'1 :;'j it; ~' i€:i ~i I ~ ~ r] h i~l (i i,1 ~i (I ~i i'j r~i ~ ii~1
~g
'!
'J
ll
!l
\~
~-
'M
;:
:;
il
!R
\t
:;
;'
Y1
I_
fl
·"
'·
J,
_!
.J
!'
J!
!~
!"
~.
.t
'I
!!
Im
l,
i~
"'
\'
~

_
_

i!
U\

'~
""

#.
:;

;i
4A

.¥
Ji

i.
@J

!&
m:

ij
\§

jl
\i

Mt
;"

.;
;g

¥j
;i..;
.M
W4
¥J
it
M4
3:
:;
g"
~i

..J
l
b
;
g
;
4
~
~
~

"
'
l
i
i
i
O
'
~
i
,
~
,
;
;
;
d
'
N
.
,
"
"
'
;
,
;
;
;
;
c
,
;
'
'
'
'
L
"
"
k
'
~
c
"
,
;
;
"
"
i
~
:
C
,
,
,
"
;
;
;
'
,
:
'
:
:
:
:
;
;
;
,
=
;
;
:
:
;
,
~
-
=
:
;
;
c
"
"
"
~
~
:
;
,
;
,
:
:
,
,
.
:
:
.
_
~
_

..
..

.
"



4~ In his statement, the Secretary-General indicated that if the draft
resolutions were adopted by the General Assembly, an additional appropriation of
SUS 2,807,100 would be required. In addition, an amount of $US 66,000 would be
required for staff assessment, offset by an equivalent amount in income•.

5. Subsequently, the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions
recommended a reduction of SUS 126,000 in the appropriation under section 3C.l for
the extraordinary plenary meetings of the Council. BI

6. At its 68th meeting, held on 9 December 1981, the Fifth Committee decided by a
recorded vote of 87 to 5, with 8 abstentions, to inform the General Assembly that
if it adopted the draft resolutions on the question of Namibia, the following
appropriations would be required: SUS 109,600 under section 3B.2J $US 1,686,000
under section 3C.l, SUS 454,500 under section 3C.2, SUS 396,900 under section 27,
SUS 25,100 under section 28, $US 9,000 under section 29.

7. As mentioned in paragraph 2 above, the General Assembly adopted the draft
resolutions at its 93rd meeting on 10 December 1981.

Notes-
!I see Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-sixth Session,

Supplement No. 24 (A/36/24), part four.

!:?/ !E!!!., Supplement No. 7A (A/36/7/Add.1-2l), document A/36/7/Add.16,
para. 16.

-204-

Docum

Docume

A/AC.l

Docum

A/AC.l
L.l9

A/AC.l

A/AC.l
L.20

A/AC.l

A/AC.l
L.20

A/AC.l

A/AC.l
L.20

A/AC.l

A/AC.l



ANNEX HI

Documents issued in the general series

Document No.

A/AC.131/88

List of official documents of the Council

(22 August 1981 to 31 August 1982) !I

Title

Expression of thanks to the Government and
people of the United Republic of Tanzania:
resolution adopted by the Council at its
381st meeting held at Arusha on 13 May 1982

Date

24 May 1982

,-
~
:1.,
I
i
I.,
I
1

I
. I,
i
j

Documents issued in the limited series

-205-

A/AC.131/L. 211 Communique issued by the Government of
Hungary and the Mission of Consultation of
the Council at Budapest on 23 July 1981

A/AC.131/L. 210 Joint communique issued by the Government of
the German Democratic Republic and the
Mission of Consultation of the Council at
Berlin on 17 July 1981

-I

8 september 1981

24 August-
3 September 1981

29 september 1981

22 September 1981

18 September 1981

29 .September 1981

8-17 September 1981

18-21 September 1981

22-24 September 1981

Statement issued by the Mission of
Consultation of the Council at The Hague on
25 June 1981

Draft annual report of th~ Council to the
General Assembly Bf

Report of the Mission of Consultation of
the Council to Peru, Argentina and
Colombia, 3 to 16 May 1981

Draft annual report of the Council to the
General Assembly Bf

Draft annual report of the Council to the
General Assembly Bf

Draft annual report of the Council to the
General Assembly Bf

Report of the representative of the Council
to the United Nations Symposium on
transnational corporations in South Africa
and Namibia, held in London on 6 and
7 November 1980

A/AC.131/L.184-
L.193

A/AC.131/L. 203

A/AC.131/L.194

A/AC. 131/L. 204-
L.206

A/AC.131/Lo19S-
L.202

A/AC.131/L. 208-
L.209

A/AC.131/L. 207



Document No.

A/AC. 131/L. 212

Title

Communique issued by the Government of
Romania and the Mission of Consultation of
the Council at Bucharest on 25 July 1981

A/AC. 131/L. 213

A/AC.131/L.. 214

A/AC.131/L.215-
L.217

A/AC.131/L.218

A/AC.131/L. 219

A/AC.131/L. 220

A/AC.131/L. 221-
L.222

A/AC~131/L. 223

A/AC.131/L. 224

A/AC.131/L. 225

A/AC.131/L. 226

A/AC. 131/L. 227
and Corr.l

Draft annual report of the Council to the
General Assembly g(

Report of the Mission of Consultation of the
Council to the German Democratic Republic,
Hungary and Romania, 15 to 16 July 1981

Draft annual report of the Council to the
General Assembly B(

Report of the delegation of the Council to
the Seminar on Legal Issues concerning the
Question of Namibia, held at The Hague from
22 to 24 June 1981

Report of the delegation of the Council to
the trade unions seminar, held in London on
29 and 30 June 1981

Programme of work of Standing committee III
for 1981: report of the Chairman

Draft annual report of the Council to the
General Assembly B(

South Africa's military operations and
installations in Namibia: report of
Standing Committee 11

Activities of foreign economic interests
operating in Namibia: report of Standing
Committee 11

Report of the Mission of Consultation of the
Council to the Netherlands, 25 June 1981

Report of the delegation of the Council to
the thirty-sixth ordinary session of the
Council of Ministers of the Organization of
African Unity, held at Addis Ababa from
23 February to 1 March 1981

Programme of work of Standing Committee I
for 1982

-206-

30 September 1981

30 September 1981

30 September-
5 October 1981

9 OCtober 1981

13 OCtober 1981

22 October 1981

5-9 November 1981

10 November 1981

3 December 1981

14 December 1981

16 December 1981

26 January 1982
4 February 1982

AI

AI

AI



Document No.

A/AC.131/L.228

Title

Report of the delegation of the Council to the
12th meeting of the Senate of the United
Nations Institute for Namibia, held at Lusaka
on 23 and 24 January 1981

27 January 1982

n

A/AC.131/L.229 Programme of work of Standing Commi t tee I I 2 February 1982

A!AC.131/L.230 Programme of work of the Council for 1982 18 February 1982

A/AC.131/L.231 Report of the Mission of Consultation of the 24 February 1982
Council to India and Viet Nam, 2 to
12 August 1981

A/AC.131/L.232 Report of the delegation of the Council to the
13th meeting of the Senate of the United
Nations Institute for Namibia, held at Lusaka
on 6 and 7 August 1981

A/AC.131/t. 233

A/AC.131/t. 234

A/AC.13l/L.235

A/AC.131/t. 236
and Corr.l

A/AC.13l/L.237

A/AC.131/t. 238

A/AC.131/t. 239
and Corr.1

A/AC.131/L.240

Programme of work of Standing Committee 111
for 1982

United Nations Institute for Namibia: annual
report of the Senate - report of the Committee
on the United Nations Fund for Namibia

Report on the audit of the United Nations
Institute for Namibia: report of the
Committee on the United Nations Fund for
Namibia

Programme of work of the Committee on the
United Nations Fund for Namibia for 1982

Report of the Mission of Consultation of the
Council to Spain, Ireland and Finland, 6 to
18 May 1981

Missions of consultation of the Council:
report of the President

Guidelines for the seminar on the Military
Situation in and relating to N,';",;;::ibia:
report of Standing Committee 11

Seminar on the Military Situation in and
relating to Namibia, to be held at Vienna
from 8 to 11 June 1982: rules of procedure

-207-

2 March 1982

4 March 1982

17 March 1982
23 March 1982

26 March 1982

26 March 1982

30 March 1982
13 April 1982

30 March 1982

;,

I~···C..'•.••.:•.'.•.'.·.I·
:J
,".j

::::

IT..·.
IJ

il./
11

I
'!
~i



2 April 1982

Date

2 April 1982

7 April 1982

2 April 1982

14 Apri 1 1982

29 April 1982

19 April 1982

20 April 1982
27 April 1982

19 April 1982

23 April 1982
20 July 1982

19 April 1982

-203-

Provisional agenda of the extraordinary
plenary meetings of the Council to be held
at Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania,
from 10 to 14 May 1982

South Africa's military operations and
installations in Namibia: report of
Standing Committee 11

Activities of foreign economic interests
operating in Namibia: report of Standing
Committee II

Document No. Title

A/AC.131/L.247 Joint press statement issued by the Government
of Sri Lanka and the Mission of Consultation
of the Council at Colombo on 6 April 1982

A/AC.l31/~ 246 Joint canmunique issued by the Government of
Cyprus and the Mission of Consultation of
the Council at Nicosia on 30 March 1982

A/AC.131/~ :'45 Extraordinary plenary meetings of the
Council: report of the President

A/AC.131/~244 Nationhood Programme for Namibia:
consideration'of project proposals - report
of the Committee on the united Nations Fund
for Namibia

A/AC. 131/L. 242 Budget of the United Nations Institute for
Namibia for 1982: report of the Committee
on the United Nations Fund for Namibia

A!AC.131/~241 Revised budget of the United Nations Institute
for Namibia for 1981: report of the Committee
on the United Nations Fund for Namibia

A/AC.131/~243 Nationhood Programme for Namibia and
educational, social and relief activities
under the General Account of the United
Nations Fund for Namibia: report of the
Committee on the United Nations Fund for
Namibia

A/AC.l31/L.249
and Rev. 1

A/AC.l31/L. 248 Joint connnunique issued by the Government of
Bangladesh and the Mission of Consultation
of the Council at Dacca on 13 April 1982

A/AC.131/L. 250
and Corr.l

A/AC.131/L. 251

, .



982

982

982

982

982

982

~82

182

182
182

182
12

Document Ne.

A/AC.131/L.251/
Rev.l and
Corr.l

A/AC.131/L. 252

A/AC.131/L. 253

A/AC.131/L. 254

A/AC.131/L. 255

A/AC.131/L. 256

A/AC. 131/L. 257

A/AC. 131/L. 258

A/AC.131/L. 259

Title

The military situation in and relating to
Namibia~ report of Standing Committee 11

Organization of the extraordinary plenary
meetings of the Council to be held at
Arusha, United Republic of Tanzania, from
10 to 14 May 1982

Preparations for the International
Conference in Support of the Struggle
of the Namibian People for Independence~
report of the President

Implementation of Decree No. 1 for the
Protection of the Natural Resources of
Namibia: guidelines for the preparation
of a study on the possibility of instituting
legal proceedings in the domestic courts of
States: report of Standing Committee 11

Report of the delegation of the Council to
the thirty-eighth ordinary session of the
Council of Ministers of the Organization
of African U~ity, held at Addis Ababa from
22 to 28 February 1982

United Nations Fund for Namibia~ report of
che Fund-Raising Mission of the Council to
Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, the
Federal Republic of Germany, Finland,
France, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden and
the European Economic Community,
9 February to 12 March 1982

Report of the delegation of the Council to
the 14th meeting of the Senate of the United
Nations Institute for Namibia, held at
Lusaka on 18 August 1982

Nationhood Programme for Namibia:
consideration of reports of the United
Nations Commissioner for Namibia

Report of the delegation of the Council to
the International Conference on Women and
Apartheid, held at Brussels from 17 to 19
May 1982

-209-

1 June 1982
30 July 1982

28 April 1982

18 June 1982

2 August 1982

11 August 1982

16 August 1982

18 August 1982

25 August 1982

26 August 1982 ,
.3



-210-

27 January 1982

27 January 1982

Notes

A/AC.131/SLI/~1 Narnibian Uranium (J. P. Verheul)

A/AC.13l/SLI/L.2 Walvis Bay: Self-Determination and
International Law (Kader Asmal)

Special documents for the Seminar on Legal Issues concerning the Question of
Namibia (English and French only)

!I The official documents of the Council issued prior to those shown in the
present annex are listed in Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fifth
Sessionw Supplement No. 24 (A/35/24), vol. I, annex Ill, and !2!2., Thirty-six~
Session, Supplement No. 24 (A/36/24), annex Ill.

~ The report of the Council to the General Assembly at its thirty-sixth
session has been issued in final form as Official Records of the General Assembly,
Thirty-sixth Session, Supplement No. 24 (A/36/24).

I
I '
I
I
I

I
I



r 1982

r 1982

in the
'-fifth
~

xth
embly,

ANNEX IV

Amendo ~arter of the united Nations Institute for Namibia

1. At its 3l4th meeting, held on 5 December 1979, the Council approved the
Charter of the United Nations Institute for Namibia. The Charter was subsequently
pUblished in the report of the Council to the General Assembly at its thirty-fourth
session. !I

2. At its 39lst meeting, held on 10 November 1982, the Council decided to amend
article 6 of the Charter, which now reads as follows:

Charter of the united Nations Institute for Namibia

Article 1

Name

The name of the Institute shall be the United Nations Institute for Namibia,
hereafter. referred to as "the Institute".

Article 2

Purpose of the Institute

The purpose of the Institute shall be:

(a) To enable Namibians, under the aegis of the United Nations Council for
Namibia, to develop and acquire the necessary skills required for manning the
pUblic service of an independent Namibia,

(b) To undertake research into the various political and socio-economic
aspects of Namibia which shall contribute to the struggle for the emancipation of
Namibia, as well as assist in the formulation of policies and programmes of an
independent Namibia,

(c) TO serve as an information and documentation centre on Namibia,

(d) To offer such substantive support in its areas of competence as may be
essential to the struggle for. freedom of the Namibians and the establishment of an
independent State of Namibia.

Article 3

Location and operation of the Institute

with the kind consent of the Government of the Republic of Zambia, the
Institute shall be located in and operated from Lusaka until South Africa's illegal
occupation of Namibia is terminated. The Institute will be so organized that it
can be moved to Namibia immediately after the termination of the illegal occupation
of the Territory and handed over to the Government of an independent State of
Namibia.

-211-



~212-

Article 4

(e) To serve as an information and documentation centre on Namibia.

(a) Consider and endorse ~he annual budget estimates of the Institute,

Functions of the Institute

(iii) Such remedial courses as may be required.

ReSponsibilities of the United Nations Council for Namibia

(ii) Short-term courses in supportive skills,

Article 5

(i) A three-year diploma course in development studies and management,

The work of the Institute shall fall into five categories:

(a) To provide Namibians with the necessary education and manpower
development so as to strengthen all their efforts, including those at the political
level, in the struggle for freedom and to equip them for the future planning of,
and participation in, the organization and administration of various government
departments and public services in an independent Namibia, the Institute shall
therefore provide trai'dng in the following areas:

The Institute shall further organize workshops and seminars with a view to training
Namibians in and exposing them to specific skills. The Institute shall also
supervise the further training and/or placement of its graduates,

(d) To provide substantive support, within the areas of competence of the
Institute, to the struggle for the liberation of N~~ibiaJ

(b) To prepare and, where appropriate, publish memoranda, studies, draft
legislation, reports on various aspects of the research work undertaken and such
other material which may be useful to the liberation movement and the Government
an independent Namibia,

The United Nations Council for Namibia, under whose aegis the Institute has
been established, shall perform the following functions in relation to the
Institute:

(c) To undertake and carry out research into all aspects of the historical,
political, cultural, social, educational, economic, agricultural, legal, and
judicial matters affecting Namibia as listed in the appendix to the present Charter
(see below), provided that the Senate may, as appropriate, call upon the Institute
to undertake research into additional subjects not mentioned in the appendix,

(b) Receive and consider the annual report and the audited accounts of the
Institute,

T
I

,\1
~

:~

9
>\

j
1

. J

1, i
! 1
I. :I

!
i

I I
I 1
I 1

~i
1

·1



l·,i

(c) Mobilize adequate resources for the financing of the Institute, through
the Committee on the United Nations Fund for Namibia, acting on behalf of the
United Nations Council for Namibia ~nd with the assistance of the United Nations
Commissioner for Namibia.

Article 6

Organization of the Institute

The Senate

1. The Institute shall be administered by a Senate consisting of sixteen members
as follows:

(a) The President of the United Nations Council for Namibia,

(b) Two representatives of the United Nations Council fer Namibia nominated
by the President of the Council,

(c) The Rapporteur of the Committee on the United Nations Fund for Namibia,

(d) One member appointed by the Chancellor of the University of Zambia,

(e) One member appointed by the Government of zambia,

(f) The Vice-Chancellor of the University of Zambia or a representative
nominated by him,

(g) Two members appointed from withi~ the united Nations system by the
Secretary-General in consultation with the President of the United
Nations Council for Namibia and the Executive Secretary of the Economic
Commission for Africa,

(h) One member appointed by the United Nations Development Programme,

(i) One member appointed by the Secretary-General of the Organization of
African Unity,

(j) Three members of the South West Africa People's Organization appointed by
its President,

(k) The United Nations Commissioner for Namibia or a deputy nominated by him,

(1) One member appointed by the Executive Secretary of the Economic
Commission for Africa.

~he Director of the Institute shall be the Secretary to the Senate.

Functions of the Senate

2. The Chairman of the Senate shall be elected by its members and shall have a
casting vote. The quorum of the Senate shall be eight members.

-213-

~-~-~1!- . ~.... ~
.,

I:e'

..



"~-- ---_.~~_.-

__ ---'-_:.:,..,L~••

I '
I
I

3. The responsibilities of the Senate shall be as follows:

(a) To formulate the principles and policies which will govern the activities
of th~ Institute,

Cb) To or~anize the Institute into such divisions as may be required to
enable it to carry out its functions,

(c) To re~iew and approve the programme of work of the Institute, including
the curriculum,

(d) To approve the annual budget estimates o~ the Institute and to forward
them to the United Nations Council for Namibia for its comments and
endorsement,

(e) To make the necessary arrangements for the auditi.ng of the accounts of
the Institute,

(f) To submit an annual report on the Institute to the United Nations Council
for Namibia and to the secretary-General of the United Nations,

(g) To appoint the Director, the Deputy Director and the assistant directors
of the various divisions, as well as the Chief Administrative Officer,

(h) To ratify the appointments of the professional staff made by the Director,

(i) To award diplomaR and certificates of the Institute.

Functions of the Director

4. The Senate of the Institute shall appoint the Director of the Institute.

S. The Director shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Institute and shall
be responsible to the Senate of the Institute for the following:-

(a) Proper administration of the Institute in accordance with the general
principles al;~ policies determined by the Senate,

(b) Submission for consideration and approval by the Senate of the work
programme and corresponding budge~s of the Institute,

(c) Execution of the approved work programme of the Institute and the
management of its finances,

(d) Submission to the Senate of biannual budget revisions and adjustments,

(e) Submission for consideration and approval by the Senate of the annual
reports on the activities and progress of the Institute, including a
budgetary and financial report on· the preceding year,

(f) Appointment of the professional staff on the recommendation of the
Committee of Management,

(g) Appointment of locally recruited staff,

-214-

1
f
I
v
I
U

2,

P

3



:ies

eil

rs

tOIl

L

(h) Discipline, conduct and welfare of students and staffJ

(i) Supervision of training, research and planning.

6. The Director shall, for the purpose of privileges and immunities, be
assimilated into the category of officials mentioned in section 17 of the
Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations. El'

7. The Director shall be assisted by the Deputy Director and Assistant Directors,
who shall also be the substantive heads of divisions.

8. There shall be a Committee of Management composed of the Director as Chairman,
the Deputy Director, the Assistant Directors and such other members of staff and
students ~at the Director may decide upon when matters within their fields of
competence are being discussed. It shall be the task of the Committee to assist
the Director in carrying out his responsibilities and duties.

Article 7

Admission to the Institute

Only persons of Namibian origin whose admission requirements shall be
determined by the Senate of the Institute shall be admitted as students to the
Institute.

Article 8

Financing of the Institute

1. The funds for the Institute shall be provided by the United Nations Council
for Namibia through the United Nations Fund for Namibia, but the accounts of the
Institute shall be maintained separately so that, while the Fund shall be the
vehicle for financing the Institute, separate, identifiable accounts for the
Institute shall be embodied in the accounts of the Fund. The Institute shall apply
United Nations administrative and financial rules and regulations and such other
additional rules as the Senate may from time to time promulgate.

2. The General Assembly shall take appropriate action in such a manner as to
promote the financing of the Institute.

3. The source of funds for the Institute shall be:

(a) The united Nations and specialized agenciesJ

(b) Governmentsl

(c) FoundationsJ

(d) Non-governmental org anizationsJ

(e) Individuals.

-215-



---~

Article 9

Staff regulations

11I·,

•

The staff of the Institute shall be appointed under regulations drawn up by
the Senate.

Article 10

General remarks

The present Charter supersedes the "Plan for the establishment of the
Institute for Namibia" contained in the addendum of the report of the Council to
the General Assembly at its twenty-ninth session. si

Notes

!I Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 24 (A/34/24), vol. IV, anne~ XXXII.

El General Assembly resolution 22 A (I) of 13 February 1946.

£I Official Records of the General Assembly, Twenty-ninth Session,
Supplement No. 24 A (A/9624/Add.l). ,-

-216-



5. Introduction of apartheid and racial discrimination.

4. Foreign exploitation, confiscation of lands and resources and cleation of
white-owned ranches and property.

by

to

2.

3.

APPENDIX

List of' major research toeics

A. Histor], politics and culture

History and culture of the people of Namibia.

Foreign invasions and illegal occupations.

Effect of extermination l~licies on the population of Namibia.

--':~~-:,c===3"~1

ii
~··,I

krl,
1
",'1

~:h
1\,,:

!
"

::1
;j
;1
,:1

·i

6. Effects of "bantustanization" and the Native reserve policies of South Africa.

7. Effects of the contract labour law system.

8. Resultant economic and social inequalities.

9. Cultural history and development of the Namibian people.

10. Namibians in exile.

11. Historical research and teaching of history.

B. Economics

1. Finance.

2. Manpower resources and wage structure.

3. Present and future sources of energy.

4. Mineral exploitation (including diamonds) and its future development.

5. Fishing and existing ind~stries based on fishing and future development.

6. Present industries based on agriculture and future development (excluding
agriculture itself).

7. Present and future import and export requirements.

8. Present and future requirements in communications, including roads, railways,
shipping, air transport and postal services.

-217-



2. Review of so-called treaties purportedly entered into on behalf of Namibia
previous colonial administrators and the illegal South Africa regime.

-218-

D. social and educational

c. Agriculture and land resources

Present livestock ~nd future possibilities.

& Constitutional, legal and judicial affairs

Present and future tillage possibilities.

Replacement of the so-called Bantu education system by a proper system of
primary, secondary, technical and university education.

Present and future requirements and sources for artificial fertilizers.

Possible development of land reclamation.

Dairy ~roduction and future development.

Water resources.

Linguistic problems.

Conversion of white-owned ranches, Native reserves and bantustans.

Present and future development of afforestation.

Present and future ethnic and race rela&ions.

Present health problems and medical services and future requirements.

Present social services and future requirements.

CUltural affairs, inclUding literature, visual and muaical arts and folklore.

COnstitutional and legal questions set forth in General Assembly resolution
2248 (S-V) of 19 May 1967.

83-18690 0615-7m (E)

3.

5.

1.

7.

8.

4.

2.

6.

3.

5.

1.

4.

6.

3. Review of subsisting treaty obligations, treaties that will require
renegotiation, treaties that will be completely abrogated and reqcired new
treaties.

1.

4. Survey of existing laws and treaties ·which are repugnant to the Charter of
United Nations, conventions and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.



FlIn
fll
pr.
HI
,m
efj
f'"

31
decis
ment
the q
Corn
withi
tive
dom
(Ell
eou

32
decis
hum
Coun
actio

Gene
od'"
sit!
ant
sit!

33.
decis'
establ
exam
nomi
those
subm
decisi
beloy,

34.
decisi
Right
para.
see p'

The r
rio,
fa,.,

35.
ofTh
the F
the
pines,
Unite
Zaire,
peopl
under
(E/19
Island



16890-July 1983-3,50002100

·..I.oo:.Jl (""')11 ..:..IJ~ .j& J~l 44
4- J-la.: "JI <-.UI ./ 4-< ~I . ,.lWI ·\...1 c-- ..r ~J.rll JPJ ~LUI..r •.-.....!I ,..,1 ~I)>,--.J-< J~I J.-_

. ......,.,. ,I' JI !l)y r' ..r c:-JI ....j, • .-.....!I ,..VI )I...sl;i

HOW TO OBTAIN UNITED NATIONS PUBLICATIONS

Unite I Nations publications may be obtained from bookstores and distributors
throughout the world. Consult your bookstore or write to: United Nations. Sales
Section. New York or Geneva.

KAK nO:IYQHTh H3,'lAHHH oprAHH 3AUHH OGbE:l.HHEHHhIX HAUHR

COMMENT SE PROCURER LES PUBLICATIONS DES NATIONS UNiES

tDfiiJ~n~j}OOIfHIi~

~g.~I!l!!i~ffU!l'I-t.ll!!k'J ~I6Ml!~\ll~j~Hi~., i.lJioJ ~16~loJiil(<jrnWH"Jiil(H J';j.!Iff.J~M~iI'lt!J!!lo

Les publications des Nations Unies sont en vente dans les librairies E't les agences
depositaires du mondc E'ntier. Informez-v0us aupres de votre libraire ou adressE'z-vOUS
Ii : Nations Unies. Section des ventes, New York ou Geneve.

H:3AaHHR ODraHH3altHH 06'beAHHeHHblx HaltHH MomHo KynHTb B KHHmHblX Mara-
3HHax H areHTCTsax BD Bcex paAOHax MHpa. HasOJlHTe cnpaBKH 06 H3AaHHHX B
BaweM KHHmHOM Mara3HHe HnH nHWHTe no aApccy: OpraHH3altHR 06'beAHHCHHbIX
HaltHH, CeKltHR no npoAame InABHHH, HbK>-PfOPK HnH )f{eHE'BB.

COMO CONSEGUlR PUBLICACIONES DE LAS NACIONES UNIDAS

Las pub!icaciones de las Naciones Unidas estan en venta en librerias y casas distri-
buidoras en todas partes del mundo. Consulte a su librero 0 dirijase a: r-:dciones
Unidas. Seccion de Ventas, Nueva York 0 Ginebra.

Litho in United Nations, New Yark




