








































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAssembly Distr.
GENERAL

N37/52L 
*l 

(,u 
'a 

t

18 libvenber 198 2

ORTGTNAL: E},IGLISH

Itllrty-seventi sesslon
egenda ltem 18

U'{PI,ETI,IBNTATION OF l'tTE DECI.ARATION ON XIIE G&ANTING OF INDUPSNDE}.ICE
TO COIONIAL COI'NTRIES AND PEOPI,ES

Chaptera of the report of the Special C@nittee on the Sieuaeion lrith

Rrport of the Fourth Connittee

Rapporteurr Mr. Victor c. GARCIA (phitippines)

I. INTRODT'CTION
l. At its 4th plen€ry neetlng, on 24 Septenber 1982, the ceneral Assernbly, on the
recd[nendation of tbe Caneral Cdmlttee, decided to lnclude ln the agenda of its
Urlrty-seventh 6e6sion the ltem entitled:

i Itnplenentation of the Declaration on the GrantlJrg of Indeperdence to colonial
Countrlea and D€ople€ s

'(a) Report of the Special Comnlttee on the Sltuation nlth regard to the
Inplenentation of the Declaration on the cranEing of Independence to
Colonial @untrie6 and peoptcat

'(bt lieport of, the Secretary-C€neral. i

At the sarTle meetlng, the lsaenbly decided to refar to th€ Fourth conmitt€e those
chapters of the report of the speciar ccnunittee relating to speclficlterrltories.
2. The chapters of the Spectal Conmittee,s report concerning the Terrltories
vhich were not covered by other agenda itens related to the follo{rlng specific
Serrltories:

82-3234s 41s0f (E)



A,/37 /62r
English
Page 2

Ter ritory

!{estern Sahara
Gibra].tar
Brunei

cocos (Keeling) Islands
Tokelau

Piccairn
st. Helena
Aner ican sanoa
Guam

Trust Terrltory of the Pacific Islands
E€rmuda

British virgln Islands
Ca!4iran Islands

1hrks and Caicos Islands
United States Virgin Islands
St. Kitts-Nevis
Angui11a

l.tontserrat

Relevant chapter of the report of the
special cormittee V
I./37 /23 (Part V) , chaP. Ix
N37 /23 (Part v) ' chap. xr
rJ37/23 (Part v), chap. XII
1y'37/23 (Part v) and Md.I, chaP. XIII
A/37/23 (Part v) and Md.l, chaP. xrv

37/23 (Part V) and Md.l, chaP' xv
A/37 /23 (Part v) and Add,l, chap. xvl
N37/23 (Part v) and Md.l, chaP. xvrl
N37/23 (Part V) and Add.I, chaP. xvIII
V37/23 (Part v) and Md.2, chaP. xlx
N37 /23 {Part v} and Md.I' chaP' xx
Py'37/23 (Part v) and Md,I, chap. xxl
N37/23 (Part V) and Add.l' chap. xxlr
rJ37 /23 (Part v) and Add.l, chap. xxIII
A/37/23 (Part v) and Md.I, chaP. xxlv
ly'37 /23 (Part v) , chap. XXVI
A,/37 /23 (Part V), chap. XxvII
Fy'37/23 (Part V) and Md.3, chap. xxvrrl

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 11 october, the Pourth conunittee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda itens 18, 96,97,99 and IZ, 100 and 101' on the
understanding that individual proposals on natters covered by those items would be
conaidered separately. The Cc|nnittee held the general debate on those items a!
its 9th to ltth, I3th to l5th and ITth to 23rd neetings ' 

beteeen 26 October
and 15 ldovenber.

4. The Fourttt ComnitCee considered item I8 at its 9th Co L5th and l7th to 24th
meet{ngs, betvreen 26 @tober and 15 Novenbe r (see A/C.4/37 /5R.9-15 and U-24).

5. At the gth neeting, on 26 october, the Rapporteur of the Sp€cial coxmittee on
the Situation with regard to the Inplementatlon of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a staCement in which he gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special cqnmittee during 1982 and drew
the Fourth Comnittee I s attention to the chapters of the report of the Special
Conmittee referred to in paragraph 2 above, containing, inter atia, the rel-ated

y To be incorporated in
Sevenur Session, Supplement No. 23



N37/62L
English
Page 3

draft decisions and draft resolutions suhritted by the @mnittee for the
consideration of the Fourth Conunit.tee, as well as the relevant documentation of the
Comnlttee (A/AC.IO9/682-68 6, 687 and Add.1-3, 688, 689, 691-698, 7OO, 7O8, 7L1, 713
and 7.14). The Fourth CoruniLtee also had before it a letter dated 22 June l-982 frorn
the Chargd drAffaires, a. i. of the Permanent Mission of cuba to the United Nations
addressed to the secretary-General lN37/333-S/L5275') .

6. Flrrthermore, the 11 urth Comtnittee had before it the rePort of the
secreEary-cener aL (1y'37/570/Rev.2), submitted in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 36146 and decisi.on 36,/406 both of 24 Novenber 1981, on lhe question
of Western Sahara.

7. At the 18th meeting, on 10 llovember, the Rapporteur of the Special Coflunittee
drew attention Co the report of the ltnited Natlons visiting nisslon to I'lontserrat
in 1982 (A/AS.LO9/722, and to chapter $ffIII of the report of that corlTrittee
relating to the quistion of !,tontserrat (N37 /23 (Part v) and Add.3), contalning,
@ia, the related draft resolution sutmilted b,t' the CoEnittee for the
consideration of the lbur t-h cdfinittee.

8. At its 3rd rneeting r on 15 @tober, the Fourth Comnittee granted a request for
hearing to Mr. Ibrahin H,ak irn and others, Frente Popular Para la Llberaci6n de
Saguia-el-Hamra y R{o de Oro (Frente PoLISARIO) (NC.4/37/2't. At its 20th meeting,
on ll November, the Fburth Cdmnlttee heard a statement blr Mr. Alt ltabib of the
Frente POLISARIO.

II, CO}ISIDERATTON OF PROPOSAIS

9. Ihe Four th cdftnittee adopted nine draf! resolutions, six Jrafb consensusea and
three draft decisions follovring its consideration of pro;rosaIs relating to the
following 18 Territories:

cibraltar st. HeLena
western sahara American samoa
Cocos (Keeling) Islands Guam
Tokelau Bermuda
Pitcairn British virgin Islands
calnran Islands Brunei
Turks and Ca icos fslands st. Kltts-Nevis
Unlted States Virgin Islands AnguiUa
Itontserra! Trust Territory of the Pacific IsIandB

An account of the cqrmittee's conslderation of the Proposals ia given in
paragraphs lI to 26 below.

10. At the 14th and 22nd neetings, on I and 12 ldovember, the chairman drew
attention to statements subnitted by the secretary-General (A/c.4/37/L.9 and L.1I)



rJ37,/62r
Engl ish
Page 4

in accordance wlth rule 153 of the rules of procedure of the ceneral AgserT tlyt
concerning the adnlniEtratlve and flnancial implicatlons relating. EEs-Lb, to
the proposals on we€tern sahara, the Cocos (xeellng) Islands, $okelaur st. Ilelena,
Anerlcan sanoa, Guan, Bennuda, the Brltish virgln Islands, the Calman lalanda, the
Turks and ca lcos Islands and the enerican virgln lalands. At the 23rd meeting, on
15 l.lovenber, the Ctra irman nade a statenent concernlng the adtninlstratlve and
financial lnplicationB relating to the draft resolutlon on lfcntaerrat.

A. Glbraltar

1I. or 27 october, a draft consensua concerning cibraltar (Nc.4/37/L.1'l vas
c lrcu].ated.

]2. At its loth neeting, on 29 october, the Fourth Coltltittee adopted draft
consensus Nc.4/37/L.4 rithout objectlon (see para. 28, draft consenaus II!.

B. Wbstern Sahara

13. At the l2th meeting, on 2 libvenber ' the 
chairnan drew attentlon to the

follovring t$o propoaala s

(a) Draft decision A/c.4/37/L.5. which was finaUy spon€ored by the fouowing
Menber states! Chad, @tloroE, Dquatorlal (i..linea, 9g@, sg4E!g, Guinea, Ivorv
Coast, Liberia, I.brocco, Nlger, Senegal, ttrrlted nepubllc of Cameroon, l4)per Volta
and Zaire. Itle draft decislon read as follows s

nThe c€neral Assenbly, recalling itE decision 36/406 of 24 November 1981
and taking into account the resolution adopted b!' the AgsembLy of Heads of
State and Government of the Organlzatlo,n of African Ltr ity at its eighteenth
ordinary session, held at Nalrobi fron 24 to 27 ilune L9SL, U by tthich it
established an Inplementation conmlttee to monitor Ute eatabliahment of a
cease-fire and the organlzation of a referendun in l{eatern sahara, and also
laking into account the decisions to that end taken by that cofinitteer requests
the secretary-cenelal to glve asaistance, in consultallon and co-operation with
the organizatlon of Mrican lrnity, to the Dnplenentatlon cqlmlttee in the
discharge of its r0andate arlsing frm the above{entloned resolution and
decisions and to report thereon to the ceneral Assembly and the Security
Council, as appropriate. r

(b) Draft resolutla A,/c.a,/37/L.6, nhlch was flnally eponsored by the
folloHing l,tenber Statesr A€gblgg.r Alqeria, !9!!8, Benin,
Burundi, Cape Verde, , orba,
Guyana, Iran, Iao
Madagascar, I'lali, Itauritaniar gler !@q!rc,, .t!ig53g,, @, @e, Sao l\file
and Principe, seyctrellee, uqandar vanuatu, viet llar, Yuqoslavla and zlrnbabne.

?/ see N36t/534, annex rI, resolution AHGlRes.lo 3 (xvrrr).



v37/62L
English
Page 5

Ihe draft resolulion read as follots!

nThe ceneral AssenbLy,

rHaving cohaldered in depth the question of westerb Sahara,
nRecalling the lnal-ienable right of aU peoples to self-determination and

inaepenaence in accordance with the principles set forth in the charter of the
Itnited Nations and in ceneral Assenbly resolution 1514 (xv) of
14 f,iecember 1960, contalning the Declaratlon on the Granting of IndePendence to
ColoniaL countries and Peoples,

"Recalling its reaolutions 35/L9 of ll Novenber 1980 and 36/46 of
24 November 1981 on the question of western sahara,

'tlgyiu._cons.ldered the relevant chapter of the report of the sPeclal
Cc unittee on the Situation vrith Eegard to the Implenentalion of the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colohial countries and Peoples, 1/

"Having heard the statenents nade on the question of western Sahara, ln
particdlar-EEe staternent of the representative of the Frente Popular para 1a
Liberaci6n de saguia el-llamra y de RIo de oto' !r/

trRecal-J-inq its resolution 36/80 of 9 Decernber 1981 on co-operation beteeen
the tjnited !'Iations and the Organization of African lrnity,

"Sggg|!g all the decislons of the organization of African lrnity on the
question of Western Sahara,

'Recallin.g_a1so the decision of the Assernbly of Head€ of Stale and
C'overnnent of the Organlzation of African thity at its eighteenth ordlnary
segsionr held at Nairobi fron 24 to 27 .rune 19811 to organlze throughout the
Terrltory of Western Sahara a general and free referendum on aelf-
determination, !!/

"Taking note of all the decisions adopted by the Inplernentation comnltte€
on vlestern sahara of the organization of African Unity concerning the
establistnrent of appropr iate nachinery to enable the people of !{estern sahara
to express thenselves freely and democraticalLy on their future,

y N37/23 (Part v), chap. IX.

!/ Nc,4/37 /sR.2o.
y See I/36/534, annex II, r€solutlon AHG/Res.lo3 (XVIII).



A/37/62L
English
Page 6

'1. Reaffi-rms the inalienable right of the people of r{estern sahara to
self-determina! ion and independence in accordance wlth the charter of the
Lhited tlations, the charter of the Organlzation of Arican thity and the
objectives of ceneral AssenbLy resolution f5I4 (XV), and rrith the relevant
resolutlons of the ceneral Assernbly and the Organization of African lrnrty,

n2. welcones tre efforts nade by the organization of Mrican uhity rrith a
view to pr6'"ti"9--u just and aefintti-ve sorution to the guestron of !{estern
Sahar a i

r'3. welcones also the responsible decision of the Denocratic Saharaoui
erab nepubt-IETfii'Tegard to the convening of the nineteenth ordinary sessionof the Assenbry of fieads of state and covernrnent of the organizati.on of African
Ufi ity i

"4, xemains convlnced that only negotiation betr,reen l.brocco and therrente lopiGfriiE-if6?raci6n are sag;iu 
"r-n.,nr. 

y de R{o de oro coutd
create the objective conditions for the return of peace in north-,es t Africa
and would guarantee the falr conduct of a general, free and orderry referenduuron self-determinalion ln Western Saharat

"5. AppeaLs to the two parties to the dispute, ldorocco and the Frente
Popular para la Liberaci6n de saguia el-Hamra y de R{o de Oro, to start
negotiations wlth a view to achleving a cease-fire in accordance with cenerat
essembry resorution 36/46 and the decisions of the organization of MricanUnityt

''6. Reaffrrms the determination of the Irniteal lilatrons to co-operate turrywith the o$iErlon of African tnity in the fair anar tunpartiar organizationof the referendumi

. 'l . RequestF, to that end, the gecretary-ceheral to take the necessarystepa to ensure that the United lihtiona particlpates effechively in the
organization and conduct of Che referendun and to report to the ceneral
Assenbly and the security councir on this subject and on the nea€rures requiringa decision by the Council,

_ "8. Urges the Secretary-ceneral to co-operate closely with thesecretary-c€nerar of the organization of African untty with a viev, to the
inp)'ementation of the pertrnent decisions of the organization of African utr ity
and of the preseht resolution;

^ "9. Requests the Special CormitCee on the Situation with regard to thernplernentacion of t},e Decraration on the cranting of rndependence to coroniarcountries and peoples to continue to consider the situation in nestern sahara
a-s_a nEtter of priority and to repor t thereon to the ceneral Assenbly at itsthirty-e ighth session. n



N37/62L
English
Page 7

14. At the lTth neeting, on 9 l,lovember, the representative of senegar introduceddraft decision NC.4/37/L.5 on behalf of the sponsors (see para. t3 (a) above).
15. At the rgth meeting, on t0 l,lovernber. the chairnan drerr' attention to a revised
version of the draft resolution (A/C.4/37 /L.6/Rev .ll .
16.. At the l9th meeting on 1r lrovember, the chairnan drew attentlon to anen&nents
(r,/C.4/37 /L.Lz ) to draft decision c.4/37/L.5 rehich were finauy proposed by
SgF!i:!t":- Alserla, hqg+", Beni!, Bururdi ' cape verde, ttre conqo. iuba, q,prue,ryIatic_vernel, cui"."-sissei", r r a;;-Tfr;r^a6-F;;;F; penocl;m' r6fui i;;-gg$g+elj. Mali, l'rgyr itan ia, r,ra1r ittus, r.1""
Pr incipe, vanuatu,- viEEGi-anA'@ Ey-ifr-crr :

(a) rn the sixth rine, the words nin western sahara" wourd be repraced by the
vrords tron self-determination for the people of western Sahara.",

(b) rn the seventh rine, after the word "corunitteer the forlowing phrase vrourdbe added! "and having heard the statenents made on this subject, in paiticurar thoseof the Frente Popurar para la Liberaci6n de saguia er-Hamra y de Rlo de oro and of
l{or @co n .

17. At the same meeting, the representative of l,bxico. on behalf of the sponsors(see para. 13 (b) above), introduced draft resolution VC.a/37 /L.6/Rev.t.subsequently, Ethiopia, Janaica and zanbra arso became sponsors of the revised draftresolution.

18' At the 20th meeting, on the sane day' the representative of zinbabne introduced
the amendnents (A,/C.4/37 /L.I2) to draft decislon MC.4/3T/L.5 (see para. 16 above).
19. At the same meeting, the chairman drerr' attention to a revised version of thedraft decision (vc.4/37/L.s/Rev.1), submitted by the sponsors of draft decisionr/c'4/37/L'5 (see para. 13 (a) above). the revisecr draft decision read as forrorrss

rrltre General Assenbry, recalring its decision i6/4o6 ot 24 Noverdrer r98r
and taking into account the resolution adopted by the Assenbly of Heada of
state and c€vernrnent of the organization of African unity at its eighteenth
ordinary session, held at llairobi from 24 to 2? June Lggf, 6/ Uy wtr i.ctr it
decided, inter alia, to establish an rnprenentatron comnittee on western
sahara, as werl as the decisions adopted by tre rmptementacion conmittee at itsfirst and second oidinary sessions, hela ai nairobl frort 24 to 26 August l98r
and fron I to 9 February 19g2, requests the Secretary_C,enera1 to give
assistance, in consultation and co--operation r.rr th the organization of nfrican
uhity' to the rmprenentation conraittee in the discharge of its mandate rerating
to the question of !,Iestern sahara arising fron the above-mentioned resolution
and decisions and to report thereon to the General Assernbly and the Security
Council, as appropriate. n

9-/ rbid .



v37/62L
English
Page 8

20. At the 2lst neeting, on 12 llovember, the representat.ive of Zinbabwe lntroduced
amendnents (MC,4/37/L.L3) to draft decision A/C.4/37 /L.5/Rev.1, subrnithed by
Sfghanislan, Algeria, Anqola, Benin, Burundi, Cape Verde, the Congo, cuba, q,prua,
gfc_Yentgn r otinga-Bisseau, Iran, the Iao people I s Denrocratic RepubliCf
I3j]g!!j:gl_' !,lali, !.{a+r itania, Mauritius, }bzambique, Nicaragua, R{anda, Sao lbme and
Pr rncrpe, vanuatu, viet Na!! and Zinbabwe trw thich:

(a) In the first line, after the words 'Novenber 1991", the follsring phrase
$ould be added: nand having heard the statenents tnade on this subject, in part.icular
tho6e of the Frente popurar para la Liberaci6n ate saguia er-Hanra y de R{o de oro
and of !,!orocco" t

(b) In the fifth line, the words "on western Sahara.' would be replaced by the
follsring ito organiae and conduct a general and free referendum on self-
determination of the people of Western Sahara'r.
21. At the 22nd neetlng, on the same day, the representative of Senegal informed
the conrnittee that the sponsors of draft declsion rJc.4/3i/L.s/&ev.l had decided to
vithdraw the proposal in view of the agreernent reached among the delegatlons
concerned on the text of a draft consensus (V!.4,/37/L.L4) to be suhflitted by xenya
ln its capacity as the delegation Eepresenting the chairman of the organization of
African thity (OAU) for t}|e current year.

22. At the sane rneeting, tie representative of IglE introduced draft consensus
vc.4/37/L.L4

23- ltre burth co''rflittee then took the forrot'ring action on draft resotutlon
VC.4/37 /I'.6/Rev.1 and on draft consensus VC.4/37/L.LA.

(a) Draft resolution NC.4/37/L.6/Rev.l was adopted by a recorded vote of ?4
to 12, with 55 abstentiohs (see para. 2i, Araft resolution f]i.r.7/ The voting was
as follons: 8/

a staternents in expranation of vote were nade by t-}'e representatives of
Argentina, Austria, Chile, DeruErk, Fiji, Finland, Maldives, i,lorocco, Norrray,
Sonalia, the Sudan and Sweden.

y Subsequently, the representative of Solonpn Islands stated that his
delegation had intended to vote against the draft resorutioni the representative of
zinbabwe stated that, had his delegation been present at the tine of the voting, it
would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.



In favour a

Aqainst:

Abstaining:

(b) Draft
draft congensua

A/37/62r
English
Page 9

Mghanistan, Albania, Ngeria, Ango1a, Argentina' Arstralia,
Bahanas, Barbados, Beninr Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgarla, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet socialist RePublic, caPe
Verde' Colcrnbia. Congo, Costa Ricar Cuba, q'P!us, Czechoslovakia,
Dernocratic Yemen ' Ibuador, Ethiopla, 

Fiji, Finland, Gernan
Denocr atlc Republic, Ghana, Greece, Grenada, Grinea-Bissau'
Q.ryana, Haiti' Eungary, Indiar lran, ,fanaica, Iao People I s
DetFcratic Republic, r€sotho, Ltb'l'an Arab Jamahiriya' l'tadagascar '
Malawi, !,tali, uauricania, Maurltius, Mexlco, l4ongolia, l'bzambiqu€,
Nicaragua, Panana, Peru, Poland, Rranda, sao Tome and PrinciPe,
Seyctrelles, Slerra I-€one ' s:olomon fslands' 

Sri Innka, Surinamet
Swiz iJ-anct, s,veden, syrian Arab Reprb1ic, Trinidad and trobago,
ugandar Ukrainian soviet socialist Republic, Union of soviet
soclalist Republics, thited RePubIic of Tanzaniat vanuatu,
venezuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, zanbia.

chad, chite, El Salvador r Fquator ial Guinea, Gabon, @mbia, Guinea'
!4orocco, Senegal, Ihited States of Anerica, UPper Volta, Zaire'

Auatria, Babrain' Bangladesh, Belgium, Burma' Canada, Central
Af rican Republic' Comoros, Denocratic tGnPuchea' Dennark, Dj ibouti'
Doninican nepublic, Egypt' France' c€rnany, D'ederal Relublic of,
Guaternala, Iceland r Indonesia' Ireland, Iarael' Italy' "aPan,Jordan, Kenya, I€banon, Liberia, Ilxenbourg, Malaysia, Maldives,
libpal, Netherlands, New zealand' Niger, Nigeria' l'brway, otran,
Papua l{ew Guinea, Paraguay, PhiliPpines, Portugal, gatar, s'a lnt
r lta, sanroa, saudi Ar;bil, sdralia, sPain, sudan, Thailand,
t\rnisla' ltlrkey, Lhited Arab Erirates, ttrited Kingdom of Great
Britaln and Northern lreland' tnited Republic of Cameroon t
Uruguay, Yenen.

consensus vc.4/37/L.L4 was adoPted without objection (see Para 28,

C. cocos (Keelinq) Islands, Tokelau, Pigcairn, st. HeI
, Ca!4nan Iqlanas' Tulks and

EIIEG-lslands, ulited states virgin Islands and l4onserrat

24. At its 23rd neeting, on 15 Novenber, the Fourch comlriltee adopled, ]titiout
objectlon, proposals on 12 Territories as follorrs:

(a) the atraft consensus concerning the cocos (Keeling) Islands ccrtained in
p.t"gi"p,tt lO of chaPter XIII of the report of the special comrittee 1iy'37/23
(Part v),/Md.1) (6ee para. 28, draft consensus rrr)?

(b) ttle draft consensus 'concernihg Tokelau conlained in paragraph I0 of
chapter XIV of the report of the Sp€ciat CoNrittee (M37/23 (Part V)/ldd.l)
(see para. 28' draft consens us IV)?



A/37/62r
Brglish
Page l0

(c) The draft consensus cohcernlng Pitcairn conlained in paragraph l0 of
chapter XV of the report of the Special Colluoittee (A/37/23 (part V)/Add.l)
(see IEra. 28, draft consensus v) i

(d) '.fhe draft consenaus concerning St. He1ena contained in paragraph 10 of
chapter XVI of tie report of the Sp€cial Corurittee (M37/23 (Part V),/edd.l)
(see para, 28, dlaft consensus VI)i

(e) The draft resolut.ion concerning ,tnerican Sanroa contained in paragr aph 10
of chapher XVII of the report of the Speclal Committee (A/37/23 (Part V),/Add.l)
(see para. 27, dr afic resolution Ili

(f) The draft resolution concerning qram contained in paragraph l0 of
chapter XVIII of the report of the Sp€cial Corunittee lA/37 /23 (Part V),/add,I)
(see para. 27, draft resofutiqr IIli

(S) [he draft resolution concerning Bermuda contained in paragraph 10 of
chapter xX of the report of the special comnj.ttee (V37/23 (Part V)/Md.l)
(see para. 27, AtatL resolution III)t

. (h) Ihe draft resolution concerning the British Virgin Islands contalned ln
Paragraph l0 of chapter XxI of the repor t of the Special Cornmlttee (V37/23
(Parb V)/Add.I) (see para. 27, draft resolution IV)i

(f) the ilraft resolution concerning the Ca1'rnan Islands contained in
paragr aFh I0 of chapter XXII of the report of the Special Comnittee (A/37/23
(Part v),/Add.1) (6ee para. 27, draft reaolution v)i

(j) The draft resolution concerning the ltrrks and caicos Islands conla ined in
paragratr*r 10 of chapter XXIII of the report of the Sp€cial Coftmlttee (N?7/23
(Part v),/Add.1) (see para. 27, dr afL resolution Vr)i

(k) tbe draft resolutlon concerning the lhited States Virgln Islands contained
ln pa.ragr aph I0 of chapter XXIV of the report of the Special comniLtee (N37/23
(Part v)/Add.I) (see para. 27, ArafE resol.ution VIIIi

(1) The draft resolution concerning ltntserrat contalned ln paragr aph 18 of
chapter XXVIII of the report of the SFeciaI Committee (V37/23 (Part V)/add.3) (see
Fara. 27, draft resolution VIII).

D. Brunei, St. Kitts-Nevis and Anguilla

?5. At j.ts 23rd neeting, on 15 Novenber, the lburth Cqmittee took decisions
concerning the question of Brunei (see para. 29, draft decision I), the question of
St. Kitts-t{evis (see para. 29, dr afl-- decision rI) and the question of Anguilla
(see para. 29,. drafL decislon IIf). In taking these decisions, the Comittee noted
that, subject to any dlrectives lrh ich t}Ie ceneral Assembty rnlght giv€ in that
connection, the Special corunittee had decided to glve consideration to the questlons
at its next session.



A/37 /62L
English
Page l1

B. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

26. At the 24th neeting, on 16 llovenber, the chairman stated that, on t}|e baals of
hls consultatlon with the chairman of the sPeclal coru[ittee as wel-l as with a nunber
of delegations concer ned, he would suggest that the comnittee declde not to take any
actlon at the current session on the draft resolution subnltted by the SP€cial
cormlttee (N!7/23 (Part v)/Adar.2, chap. xlx, IEra. 13). ltre tuurth conmittee
itecideal, eithout objection, to adopt t}|e chairrnanrs suggdtion'

III. RE@Ii,II'IENDATIONS OF THE FOURTH COIJIMITTEE

27. I$e Fourth Cdnnlttee recotunenda to the General lssenbly the adopt ion of the
following draft resolutions!

DRAI4T RESOUJTION I

Question of Aner ican samoa

the GeneraL AssenblY t

Havinq con€ldered the question of Amerlcan sarrca,

Ilaving examined the relevant chaPters of the report of the sPecial
Co*unfffi-; the Sltuatiqr with t.gurd to ttre Inplementatldl of the Declaration
on t}re Granting of IndePendence to Colonial couner ie6 and
Peoplesr 9,/

R€calling its resolutlon 1514 (xv) of 14 Decerber l-960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Indepenttence to Colonial countr les and PeoPles '
and aII other resolutions ind decisions of the thited tibtions reLating to
American Satnoa '

Takinq into account the statenent of the administerlng I'olver relating to
develolnents ln lurer lcdn sanoa ' f!/

Conscious of the need to IX dlrote Progress towarda the full inpl-€mentation
of the Declaratlon in resPect of Arnerlcan sarma t

V VJ7/23 (Part rr) ' chap. 
rrr, and 1y'37/23 (Part v) and edd'I' chaP' xvrr'

!9/ Nc.4/37 /sR.zo -



v37/62L
Eng I lsh
Page 12

tib ting vrth appreciacion the continued active participation of the
aahtnislering porrer in the work of the speciaL conmittee in regard to Arnericansanoa, ther eby enabling it to conduct a nore informed and rneaninqful
examinatlon of the situation in the Territory, with a view to aciererating theproce€s of decol.nization for the purpose of the furr imprenentation of theDeclaration,

ConPiderine that it remains the obligation of the adninistering porrer tocarry out a thorough programre of polirical education so as to ensuie that thepeople of Anerican sanoa are nade furly anare of their inari.enabre right toselfdeternination and independence in accordance with ceneral essemliyresolution 1514 (XV) ,

- - 
Noting lrith interest that the office of Econonic Develotment and plannlngof the covernnent of anerican sarnoa is now inprementrng a fivelear econonic

develotrment plan, focusing on econsnic divers ification, land use, housing,
banking and tourism, for the benefit of the people of the Territory,

Aware of the sp€cial circunstances of the geograptr ical location and
ecqromLc condltions of Anerican Samoa and stressing the necessity ofdiversifying the Territoryrs economy as a nEtter of pr iority in order to
reduce its dependence on fluctuating econornic activi.ties,

- 
Mindfgl that lhited l€tions visiting rnissions povide an €ffective neansof ascertaining the situation rn the srnail Territories and expressing itssatisfaction at the wiuingness of the a&ninistering por.rer tJ receiv; visitingnissions ln the Terrltories under its adninistratlqr,

- librconinq the fact that Arnerican sanoa eas the host for the l9g2 southPacific Conference of the Sou th pacific Comtlission,

,. f: Approves the chapter of the report of the Special corunittee on thesituation with regard to the rmprenentation of the Declaration qr che crantingof IndelEndence to Colonial Countries and peoples relating to Aner ican
Sarnoat ry

2. Reaffirns the inalienable right of the people of Anerican Sanoa toseudeterrn-fiElfii-and independence in"conformity rrith the Decr.aration on theGranting of Independence to Colonial- Countries and peop1e6, contained inceneral Assembly resolution l5I4 (XV),
3. Iteiterates the view that such factora as territorial size,

geographi"cal location, size of population and limited natural resources shouldin no way de]-ay the speedy irnplementation of the Declaration, contained in
General AssembLy resolution f5I4 (XV), rrhich futly applies to Anerican samoa?

\/ V37/23 (part. v) and Adcl.t, chap. xVIr.



37 /62L
Iirglish
Page 13

{. Calls uPon the @vernment of the lrnited states of Arnerica' as tbe
adnln is terTi!-6iGil to take arl necessary step6, taking into account th€
freely expressed wishes of the People of American sanoa ' to exPedite 

the
pto""i" oi decolonizatlon of the Territory in accor dance with the relevant
irovislurs of the charter of the Uhlted Nations and the Declaratton?

5. neaffirms that it is the responsibility of the adninistering Power
to ensure Elt ttt. p."pfe of Anerican samoa are kept fully infortned of their
inalienable right to self-determination and independence, in accordance with
General Assembty resolution I5l4 (XV),

6. Rec.orulends that, ln accordance with ttre wishes of the peoPle of
American SffiiiElCnief iluatice and Associate Justices should be aPPointed
tr1' the Gover nor and aptrr oved by the l€gislature, a procedure nole facilitated
by the groring nunber of American sanbans who are qualified lanyers t and that
the reconnrendalion of the second temporary Political status comnlssion for a
drange ln the Judlcial system should be acted uponi

?. Iieaffirms the responslbillty of the adrrinistering Poiter, under the
charter , fFlfiE-conomic and social developnent of the Ter ritoryt

8. Calls upon the adnlniater ing Povrer ' in co-operation 
with the

terrltorlal Government and wlthin the framework of the five-year economic
develotrment plan, to continue to help to strengthen and diversify the economy
of t}|e Ierritory in order to achieve self-sufficiency;

9. Urqes the adninistering Power to continue to facilitate close
relations dE-co-p".tt ion betsien the people of the Territory and the
neighbour ing island connun lties and the regional institutions in order to
enhance further their econdnic rrelfaret

10. grges the adlinisterlng Power '- in co-oper 
aEion with the freely

elected re!-esentatlves of Anerican Sanoa, to safeguard the inalienable right
of the peopfe of the Territory to the enjoymen! of their natural resources by
laking effectlve measures to ensure their right to ortn and disPose of tho€e
resouice" and !o establtsh and naintain control of their future develolmentt

lI. Cons ialers that t-he possibllity of sending a further visiting mlsaion
to Anerlcan Sarpa at an approlE iate tine should be kept under revieYr?

12. Requests the Special- conmittee to continue the examination of this
qu€stlon a f-s next session, including the lnsslble dispatch of a further
.rt"ttttrg mlGsion to anerlcan samoa at an appropriate tine and in consultation
stth the adnlnistering Pover, and to report thereon to the General Assernbly at
lts th irty-elghth sees ion.



A/37 /62L
xngllsh
Page 14

DRAPT RESOI,UTION II

Question of Guan
Itle ceneral Assenbly,

Ilavinq consldered the question of Oran,

_ .Having eximlned the relevant chapters of the report of the SpecialCqnmittee on the Situation rrith regard to the ltnplementation of the
Declaratlon on the Granting of Inalependence to Colonlal Countr lea and
Peoples, l3l

Recgllinq lts resolutlon t5l4 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
f,bclaration on the crairting of rndependence to coloniaL countrles and peoples,
and alr other resolutions and decisions of the htited r{ations relatlng to eratn,

Having heard the statement of the actniniaterlng Plc'ttet, !],1/
No tlng with appreclation the continued active participation of the

adnlnlsterlng Power in the work of the Special ConElittee in regard to cuan,
thereby enabling it to conduct a [pre informed and meaningful exaninatiqt of
the situatlon in the tbrritory rith a vielr to acceLerating the procees of
decolonizatlon for the Ftrpose of the fuil ijuplernentation of the Declaratlqr,

-, _ tbtlnq that a referendum qr political status vas heltt in the lerritory on30 January 19 82,

.-. Recallinq all relevant resolutlons of the Urited Natlqrs relatlng tomllltary bases and lnstallatlons ln colon lal and Non-se1f-Go\rerning
$err itor ies,

.B€aring in mind that an obstacle to the economic develotment of theTerrltory has been the uncertainty concerning land held by the fealeral
author ities,

Bearing in mind the special circunstances of the geograptr ical locatlon
and econorric condltlons of cuan and the necesslty of diversifying the econqry
of the Aerritory as a natter of priority and notlng the great potehtiaL for
divers lficatlori offered by cununerclal fishing, agricurtuie and the aleveroprcnt
of the transportation lndustry,

W l/ltlZ3 (Part II) anal Add.l, chaps. IrI and IV, and, A,,/37/23 (part v) anar
Add .1 , drap. XVI I I .

u e/c.t/tl/sR.2t.



Mlndful that lrnited t€tions visiting mlssions provide
of as;;;Gl;lng the s ituation in the smfill Territorles and

py'37 /621
Brglish
Page 15

an effective means
expressing its
to receive vis itingsatisfactlon at the willingness of the adlinistering P4ter

missions in the 'Ibr ritor ies under its adrinislration,

L. Approt ea the ctlapter of the report of the special coturittee on the
Sltuatlon fiEfi--regard to the Inpternentation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Inilependence t; cotonial countrles and PeoPles relating to Guanrt !l/

2. Reaffirns the inalienable right of the peoPle of cram to
Eelf<eterminltion and lndependence in conformity wlth the Declaration on th€
Grantlr€ of IndelEndence to colonlal countries and Peoples, contained in
ceneral Assembly resolution 1514 (xv) i

3. Reaffirms lts convlctlon that such factora as territorial size'
geograF*rlcll tocation, slze of population anal linited natural- resources should
in no way atelay the lfiplenentation of the Declalation conta ined in c'eneral
A6senbly resolution f514 (xv), which fully applies to Guan?

4. Recalls that the unlted States
Power, has the responslbility under the
ensure that the peopte of the Territory
lnal lenable rlght to selfdetermination
(bneral AsselnlDly resolutlon 1514 (xv) i

of Aterica, as the adrninlstering
Charter of the unlted libtions to
are kept fully inforned of their
and independence, in accordance with

to exercise freely and nithout any i.nterference their inalienable right to
s elf{eterrnlnation and indep€ndence in accordance v,it} General Assenbly
resolutlon 1514 (XV) t

5. neaffirns lts strong conviction that the a&ninister ing Pol'er nust
ensure ttraE-iFitary bases and installations do not hinder the PoPulation of
the lErrltory fron exercis ing lts right to €eI f<e terntnation and indelEndence
ln conformity wi ttr the purp6es and Principle6 of the charter and urgeo the
adflinlster lng Po$er to take all necessarY measures to cornply futly with the
relarant resolutions of the thitetl l,htions relating to military bases and
installations in colonlal and l'lon-self-Gover ning rerritoriesi

7, IGafflrns t}Ie responsibility of the adninister ing Po ert under the
charter, tor tft. ecottcloic and social develolment of Guam and cal-ts upon the
adnlnlsterlng Power to take all necessary stePs to strengthen and diversify
the econcrny of the Terrltory?

8. Cal.Ls ulpn the athlinisterlng Poner. ln co-operation with the local
authorltles, to acce:-erate the transfer of land to the PeoPle of the Territoryt

5. Reiterates that lt ls the responsibiltty of the a&nlnisterlng Power
to cr€ate iGGiEftions in the Ter r itory as irilr enable the people of qran

!!J/ A/37/23 (Part v) and Md.l' chap. xvrrr.



v37/62r
Engllsh
Page 16

'ith the territoriar @vernment, to remove the constraints whlch tilnit grortrrin t.tte econsaic develotrment of the lerritory, partlcul_arly with regard io
c.dflItercial flshing, agriculture and the transportatiql inatustryi

10. utges the aahinistering power 1 in co-operatlon with the terrltortal
Go\ternnent, to contihue to take effective meagures to safeguard and guarantee
the rights of the peopl e of cuan to their naturar resources anat to estabrish
and matntain control of their future developuent and requests the
adninistering Porrer to take a}l necessary s!ep6 to lxotect the proper ty rlghtsof the people of the Territory,

- 11. tfqFs the adninistering poner to strengthen its efforts to developand pronote,t-he language and cuLture of the Chamorro peopJ.e, who c"onpr lse more
rnan nalt of the lrc,pulation of the Territoryi

. _ L2. conslders tiat the po€siblrity of sending a further visiting nissionto Guan at an approprlate tine should be kept under revler.,
13. R€ques ts t-he speciar comllittee to continue the conslderatlon of ttrisquestlon at its next session, including the lDssibLe dispatch of a furthervisitlng misslon to cuam at an appropriate trme and in consurtation with theadtinisterlng Power, and to report therecr to tlle ceneral Assenbly at its

th irty-lghth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Questlon of Bermuda
Itle General Assernblv.

Ilaving considered the guestion of Bernuda,

_ .Iiving eximined the relevant ehalters of the report of the SpecialCosmlttee on th€ Situation with regard to the Inplernentation of the
Declaration on the cranting of Independence to Colonial Countr i€s and
Peoples, ly

- 
Rec+Uinq its resolution l5l4 ( XV) of 14 December 1960, c.ontaining the

Declaration on the crantlng of lhdependence to Colonial countries and ieopJ.ea,
and arr otier resolutlons and decisions of the ttrrlted l,b cions relatlng to
Bernuda,

U e/y/ZZ (part II) and Add.l, chalF. III and rV, and A/37/23 (parr vl andAdd.l, chap. xx.



A/37/62L
Engl ish
Page l7

Taking into account the statemen! of the representative of the
ad0inlstering Power relating to the lterritory, in vrhich he stated that his
co\rernment would ful1y respect tlre wishes of the People of Bermuda in
determining the future constitutlonal status of the [rerritory, 16/

of the need to ensure th€ full and speedy !flplemen tat ion of the
respect of the llerr itory,

tilcting nlth appreciatist the continued actlve participation of the
aalmlnisterlng Por'rer in the worh of the Special Conmittee in regard to Bermuda,
thereby enabling it to conduct a nore informed and rneaningful examination of
the s iCuation in the Territory, with a vievt to accelerating the Process of
decolqrization for the purpose of the full irnplementation of the ttsclaration'

Recalling all relevant resolutions of the thited tihtions relating to
military bases and installations in colonial and tilcn-self-Govern ing
lbr r i tor ies ,

Iq!!!g that the econony of the Ter ritory continues to dePend heavily on
tourisn and internatldral cunpany business,

@ of the special circumstances of the geographical location and
economlc condltlons of the Territory and bearing in rnind the necessity of
diversifying and strengthening further its economy as a natter of priority in
order to pronote econonic stability'

Mindfut that lrhited tbtions visiting ml.ssions provide an effective neans
of ascertaining the situation in the snall Territories, acquiring adequate
first-hand infornation on the situatlon prevailing in those Territories and
ascertaining the views of the peoples concerning thelr future poLitical stalus,

l. Appro\tes the chapter of the retbrt of the special conmittee on the
situation nith regard to the Inplenentation of the Declaratitrr on the Granting
of Independence to colon iaL countr ies and PeoPI es relating to Bernuala, 3Z./

2. Reafflrrts the inalienable right of the people of
s elfdeternination and independence in conforrnity vti' th the
Granting of Independence to colonial councries and Peoples t
ceneral Assenbly resoLution 1514 (xvli

Bermuda to
bclaration on
conta ined in

the

3. Reiterates the view that such factors as territorial size,
geogr aph lcal localGn, slze of population and limited natural resources should
ln no way delay the speedy exercise by the PeoPIe of the Territory of their
inalienable right as set out in the Declaration conta ined in General Assembly
resolution L514 (xv), which fully applies !o Bermudai

L6-/

!]t
vc.4/37/sR.L7.

V37/23 (Part v) and Md.J.1 chap. xx.

conscious
Declaration in



A/37/62r
English
Page I8

4. Urges the a&linisLering power, taking into ac@unt the freely
expr€ssed will and desire of the people of B€rnuda, to continue to take aI1
necessary steps to ensure the full and speedy implernentation of General
Assembly resolution I5I4 (Xv) I

5, Reieerates that it is the obligation of the adninistering power to
create such conditions ih the Territory as wilL enabre the people of Bermuda
to exercise freely and without interference their i.nalienable right to
self-deternination and independence in accordance rrith cenerar Assembly
resol-ution 1514 (XV) , and, in that connect ion, reaffirns lhe importance of
fostering an awareness arnong the people of Bermuda of the possibilities opento then in the exercise of that righti

6. Reaffirms that, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the
charter ot-EEffillur i tea rhtions and the Decraration concained in cenelal
Assenbly resolutioh I5l4 (Xv), it is ultimateLy for the people of Bermuda
thenselves to decide on lheir future political statusi

7. Reaffir4F the lnportance of the need to foster national unity and anational iEEit-ITf?na, in that regard, welcomes the stelF taken by the localautiorities tofiards the establishnent of a hunan rights comrniss ion;
L Reaffirms it€ st_rong conviction that the administer ing pov.er nust

ensure t}lat rnilitary bases and installations do not hlnder the population of
the Territory fron exercising tts right to serf-determination and indepenaence
in confornity with the purposes and principles of the charter and urges the
a&ninister ing Povrer !o take aII necessary *"""ur", to conply fuuy with the
relevanl resolutions of the united r,hcions relating to nilitary bases andinstallations in colonial and Non-Sel f-cover ning Territories,

territorial covernment, to coneinue to lake all effective measures to
guarantee the rights of the people of Bermuda to otm and dispose of theirnatural resources and to establish and rnaintain control of their future
developneh t t

10. Strongly urges the adninis ter ing power, in consultation vrith the
Gorrernnent of B€rmuda, to nake every effort to diversify the econorny of
Bermuda, including increased efforts to prorrcte agricullure and fisf,eriesl

11. Welcomes the role being played in the Territory by the thited
F:i"it oeGiifren-t programne and the rbod and Agricurture organizarion of theIhited tbtions, specifically in programnes of agiiculture and fisheries, and
yg:s t}le specialized agencies and alL ottrer organizations of the lhitealNations system to continue to pay specrar atten[ion to the deveroprent needsof Bernuda t

L2. Feiterates its call for ure adnirlister lng power, in co_oper at. ionwith the f6ElT-itE6ri.ties, ro continue to expedite the process of
"bermudianizaLion,' in the serritory and, in thac connection, urges thatparticular attention be paid to greater rocalization of the pubiic service;



N37/62L
E|gltsh
Page 19

- 
13. Calls upon the covernment of the lrniteal Kingdom of creat Britain and

tttrther n Ireland to receive a vlsitlng rnission in the 1rerritory at anappropriate tinei

14' Requests the special comnltcee to continue the examination of thisquestion at its next session, including the pcsibre dlspatch of a visitingmission to Bermuda at an approF iate time and in @nsultation with the
admintstering Poner, and to report tbereon to the ceneral A€setnbly at itsthirty-eighth session.

DRAFT RESOIJXTION IV

eueation of lhe British Virgln Islands
The ceneral Assenbly,

Having considered the question of the B[itish Virgin Islanda,

_ .l.Iavlnq examlned the relevant chapters of the report of the speclalsormrctee on the Situation wlth regard to the nlplementation of the
Declaration on the cranting of lndependence to cirqriar countries and
People€, g,/

Rec?lllng its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 Decenber 1950, containing theEbclaration on the cranting of rndependence to coroniar countries and ieopres,
and all other resorutlons and decisions of the thited lhtions rerating to theBritish Virgin Islands,

Taking into account. the statement of the relresentative of the
adninisterlng Pc,erer relating to the Terrltory, in which he stated that hls
GoYer 

Tnent would fully respect the vrishes of the people of the British VlrginIslands in detennining the future political statuG of the Territory, !g/
Conscious of the need to ensute the fulL and speedy implenentation of the

Declaratlon in respect of the Territory,

_ lbting with appreciatlqr the continued active particitEtion of theaahinisterlng Power in t-he work of the special conmittee ln regard to theBritish Virgln Islanals, thereby enabllng it to conduct a more informed and
neaningful e:€nination of the sltuatlon in the Territory, with a vlew to
accelerating the pr ocess of decolonizatlon for the lrurpose of the full
inplementat lon of the lbclaration,

kaffirNinq the responsibillty of the aatmlnistering porrer for the
econqttic and soclal developnent of the Territory,

l8/ N37/23 (part II), chap. Irr. and A./37/ 23 (part V) and Add.t, chap. ,(XI.

W Mc.n/zz /sn.tt .



v37/62L
Engllsh
Page 20

Anare of the speclal circumstances of the geographical l-ocation. and
."ott*ff="oiaf Ji"*-"f the nerritory and bear lng in mind the nec€ssity of
dlverslfylng and strengtiening further its econony as a natter of priority
order to prqrpte econcrnl.c stabillty,

Igulll tnat the Bllted I'tationa Developnent Progralune has rnade 
budgetary

pro.rlffi-ns fo. the 1.rrltory anountlng to $ts 240'0oO for the per iod 1982-1986'

Mlndful that l!|lteal Nations visiting missions Provide an effective neans
express ing lts
to receive visiting

ot a#ilEli-tng the situatlon in the stnall Territories and
satlsfactlon at the willlngrieas of the administering Power
missions ln the lerrltorles under its administrationt

Taklng note of the fact that posltive econlnic develolmenes have occurred
aur inEGF wrder review, inctudinq the achievenenb of a sustained
gt*rth ln the tourist. reat estate and construcbion industries'

l. Apprortes the dlaPter of the rePort of the sPecia.L conmittee on the
Situatlon fiEi-Ellra to tire nnplementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of IndePendence to Colqlial countrles and PeoPleG relating to the Britiah
virgln lElands r 39l

2. neafflrrns the lnallenable right of the peoPle of the British virgin
Islands to-lElf{eterotination and indePendence in conformicy ltitl the
Eleclaratldr on the Granting of Ind€pendence to colqlial countr ies and PeoPles '
cqrtained In ceneral Assembly resolution 1514 (xv) t

3. I€iteEates the v i€rJ that such factors as territorial size'
geographtcallocation,slzeofpopulationandlimitednaturalresourcesshould
in tto *ay delaY the speecty finplenentation of the Declaration contained in
ceneral Assenbl-y resotution Ia14 (xv), whlch fuuy aPPl ies to the British
virgin Islanda t

4. Reiterates that is the responsibility of the adninister ing Paiver
the Territory as wllt enable the people of the

British vlrgln Islanda to exerclse freely and without interference their
inalienable right to seLfdetermination in accordance wlth General Assembly
resolutlon f51a (xv), as nell as all other relevant resolutions of the
l€ser$lyt

5. Reaffirms that it is ultirnately for the people of the British Virgin
Islands tnffit" determine their future potigical status in accordance
witlt ttre relevant provisions of the charter of the txriced Nations and the
tEclaration and reafflrms the importance of foGtering an awareness among the
peopl e of the ltrr itory of the lDs6ibilities open to thern in the exercise of
thetr rlght to self{eterninationt

in

to create suctl condltlons
it
1n

2o,/ V37/23 (Part v) and ldd.l, chap. xxr.



A,/37 / 62L
Itnglish
Page 21

6. cal1s upon the adninister ing Power, in consul-tatist lrith the freely
elecbed authorities of the territorial Goverrunent' to take aII- necessary s ceps
to ensure the fuII and speedy attainment of the objectives of decoLonization
set out in the charter and the Declaration and a.II other relevant resolutions
of the tnited l,latlons t

7. lbtes the continuing coflmitm€nt of the territorial Gover nment to the
goal of econornic divers i ficat lon, particularly in the areas of agriculture,
fisheries and small industr ies and calls upon the adrrinistering Power, in
consultation with the local authorities, to intensify its efforts in this
regard in order to offset the recen! decline in agr icultural productiont

8. Urges tlte adninistering Porrer, in co{peratidr with the territorial
Governnent, to safeguard the inalienable right of the peopl e of the $erritory
to the enjo!4nent of their natural resources by taking effeceive measures to
ensure thelr right to ovrn and dispose of those resources and to establish and
maintain control of tleir future developlenti

9. Irrges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the wlited
libtlons systen r as lrell as regional institutions such as the Car ibbean
Develolrnent Bank, to take tneasures to accelerate Progress in the soclal and
ecqronic life of the British virgin Islandst

10. @nsldera that the possibility of sending a further visiting mission
to the British virgln Islands at an appropriate time should be kept under
revient

11. Requests the speclal comnittee to
guestion at lts next session, including the
nission to the Brltish virgin Ialands at an

continue the exanination of thls
possible dispatch of a vislting
appropr iate tine and ln

consultatton with the ad[inistering Porrer, and to report thereon to
e€neral As senrbly at its thirty-€ighth session.

the

, chap. III' FJ3'1/23 (Part III) and Md.l, chaP. v, and
chap, xxl I.

DRAFT RESOLUT ION V

Ques!ion of the CaYnan Islands

The General Assetnbly,

Having csrsidered the questitrr of the caynan Islands,

Ilavlng exanined the relevant chaPcers of the rePort of the sPecial
corunittsee on the situatlon wlttt regard to the Inplernentation of the
fEclaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial countries and
Peoples, 2Il

2!)/ A/37 /23 (Part rI)
Fy'37/23 (Part v) and Add.I,



^/37 
/62L

Engl ish
Page 22

Recalling its resolution 1514 (Xv) of 14 December 1960, cqrtaining the
Declaration on the Granting of fndependence to Colonial Countries and peoples,
and arr other resolutions and declsions of the thited Nations r€rating to the
Ca]'man IsLands.

Noting the statenent. of the representative of the adrnin is Cer ing polrer
relating to the Territory, in lrh ich he stated tiat his covernment woutd fully
respect the wishes of the peop.Le of the Calrlan Islands in determining the
future constitutional status o:E the Territory, :U

conscious of the heed to ensure the full and speedy inplementation of the
Declaration in respect of the 'Ierritory,

Notinq that, in the per iod under review, the econony of the llerr itory has
cqrtinued to suslain 6ound rates of grorrth, especially in the tourist,
international finance and real estate industries,

I{indful that thited l,lations visiting miss ions prorride
of ascertaining tle s ituation :in the sIIEll Territories and
saCisfaction at tie will-ingnes!; of the adninister ing po$er
niss ions in the Territories un<ler its administration,

Aryare of the special circrunstahces of the geographical location and
econornic conditions of the rterritory and bearing in mind the necessity of
diversifying and strengtlening further the econcnry as a nratter of priority ln
order to pr orngte ec.ononic stab:ility,

l. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Connnlttee dr the
sicuation with regard to the rnrplementation of the Declaration on the crantinq
of Independence to Colonial ColJntries and peoples relating to the Cayman
Is lanats ? 3y

2. Reaffirms the inalienable rlght of the peopl e of the Calaran Islands
to selfdeterninat ion and independense in confqrnity with the Decraration on
t}te Granting of rndep€ndence t. coloniar countries and peopres, contained in
General- Assenbly resolution l5l-4 (xV) t

3. ki.terates the view that such factors as territorial size,
geographical location, size of populaeion and linited natural resources should
in no way delay the speedy impl. enren tation of the process of s elf-determination
of the calman rslands in accordance with the Declaration cqrtained in ceneral
Assembly resolution l5I4 (xv), which fully applies to the Cayman Islandsi

an effective means
express ing its
to receive visitinq

22/

23/

A./c.4/37/sP.,L1

M37/23 (Part V) and Add.l, chap. xxrr.



N37 /62L
English
Page 23

4. Notes ltith appreciation the active participation of the
a&ninistering oower in ttre work of the Specj.al conunittee in regard to che
Ca)man Islands, thereby enabling it to conduct a more informed and meaningful
examination of the situation in ttr e Ilerritory, with a viep to accelerating the
process of decolonization for the purpose of the fult implernentatiot of the
freclarationi

5. fie iterates that it is the respons ib ility of the a&ninistering Por"er
to create such conditions in the Territory as will enable the people of t}le
calman Islands to exercise freely and without interference their inalienable
right to self{eternination in accordance with General Assembly resolution
1514 (xv), as well as a1l ocher relevant resolutions of the General Assembly?

6. Reaffirns that it is ultinately for the people of the caltrnan Islands
tiernselves to deterlnine their future political status in accordance with t-he
relevant provisions of the Charter of the United lhlions and the Declaration
and reaffirms the inportance of foster ing an awareness among the people of the
ti'errltory of the possibilities open to thern in the exercise of th€ir right to
s elf-determination i

7 . tieaffirms the responsibility of the adninistering Power for the
econsnic and social developrnent of the Territory and urges it, in co{peration
with the territorial Goverrur€nt, to render @ntinuing suplDrt to the
developnent to the fullest extent possible, of prograrunes of economic
dlversification Yrhich trill benefit the lEople of the 'IbrriCory?

8. .gffg the adninister ing PovJer, in co-operation with the territorial
cover rment, to safequard the inalienable right of the Peopl e of the lbrrj.lory
to the enjoyment of their natural resoulces by tak ing effective neasures to
ensure their rlght to ovm and dispose of those lesourses and to establish and
maintaln control of their future development?

9. lrrges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the tir ited
tbtions systern, as well as regional institutions such as the caribbean
Develolment Bank, to lake rneasures to accel-erate progress in the social and
econonic llfe of t}le Cayman Islands;

f0. gg}st the continuing assistance Frovided to the lbrritory by the
Ihited l,tations Develognent Prograrflme, anounting to $US 448,000 for the perlod
1982-19 86 i

II. considers that the possibility of sending a further visiting nrission
to the Calman Islands at an appropriate tine should be kept under revlewl

12. Requests the Special corunittee to continue the exanination of this
question at lts nlxt session, including the poss ible dispatch of a visiting
mission lo the calanan Islands at' an appr opr iate tine and in consultation with
tie a&ninistering Power 1 and to report thereon to the General Assenbly at its
th i! ty-eighth session.



v37/62r
Brglish
Page 24

DRAFT RESOIUTION VI

Queation of the Turks and Caicos Islands

EI9 ceneral Assembly,

llaving considered the questlon of the nrrks and caico€ Islands,
Having er(amined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special

Connitlee on Che Sltuation with regard Co the trnplernentation of the
Declaration on the crantlng of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, 24,/

Recalling its resolution 1514 (xV) of 14 Decenrber 1960, containing the
Declaration on the cranting of Independence to Colonial Countrie€ and peoples,
and all other re6orutions and decisions of the lhlteat Nations rerating to the
|futks and Caicos Islands,

lbking into acEount the statement of the representatlve of the
aatnlnistering Poryer relating to the Territory, in which he stated that his
GoverrutEnt would fully respect the wishes of the people of the ntrks and
Calcros Islands in deternlning the future constitutional status of the
Territory, and bearing ln mind the imfErtance of fostering an arrareness ariDng
the people of t-he ?erritory of the possibilities open to them, 3!/

of the need to ensure the full and speedy impl ernentation of lhe
respect of the Ter r itory,

lbting lrith appreciation the conlinued active partlcipation of the
adninistering Porrer in the rror k of the Special Cq flittee ln regard to the
lurks and cai6s Islandsl thereby enabling it to conduct a more informed and
neaningful examlnation of the situation in the Terrltory, elth a vietf, to
accelerating the pr ocess of decolonization for the prrpose of the full
lrnplernentation of the Itsclaratiql,

A*tar e of the special clrcunEtances of the geograFhical loca lion anat
econqnic cqrditions of tlle Territory and bearing in mind the neceeslty of
diversifylng and streigthening further its econony as a natter of priority ln
order to pronpte economic stabil-tty and to develop a wider ecqronic base for
the lErr itory,

RecaLlinq all relevant resolutions of the utlted Nations relating to
nllltary bases and installations in coldrial and tbn-Self-covern ing
lterrltories,

Ltt A/37/23 (Part rr) and add.t, chap6. rlr and rv and U37/23 (part rrr) and8d.1, chap. V and N37/23 (part V) and tdd.l, ctrap. XXIII.

H e/c.e/zt/sR.L?.

Conscious
Declaration in



N37/62L
Blgllsh
Page 25

Taking note of the a:rangenents nade for university training abroad and
for vocational tralnlng in the Territory,

Mindful that lhited Nations visiting rriss ions prortide
of ascertalning the situation in ttre snall ilbrritories and
satlsfaction at the willingness of the adrninistering Povrer
nlsaions ln t}le Territorlea under its adlinistration,

an effective means
express ing lts
to receive vislting

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Cdntnittee on the
Situation with regard to the Irnplementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to colonial countries and Peoples relating to the Turks and
Ca icos Islands t 26l

2. IEaffirms the inalienable right of the p€ople of the ltrrks and
calcos Is land.s to self-determination and independence ln conformity wlth the
Declaration on the cranting of Independence to Colonial Countr ied and Peoples 'contained in ceneral Assenbly resolution l5l4 (xv)i

3. Reiterates the vie*' that such factors as territorial size,
geographical location, population and llmited natural reaources should in no.
way delay the speedy exercise by the peopl e of the Territory of their
inalienable right as set out in the Declaratidr conta ined in Gener al Aasernbly
resolution I5I4 ( XV) , lrh lctr fully appLies to the lrerritoryf

4. Reiterates tiat it is the obligation of the a&ninistering Po$er to
create sudr conditions in the lbrritory as will enable the people of the T\rrks
and Caicos Islands to exercise freeLy and without interferenee thelr
inalienable rigtrt to s elfdeternlnation and independence in accordance witlt
ceneral Assenbly resolution l5l4 (xv), as well as all otier relevant
reaolutions of the As senbly?

5. hafflllns that it is the responsibility of the aalrinister ing Fower
under the Charter of the Urited lilations to develop lts dependent Terrltoriea
econolui.cally and socially and urges the adlinlst€r ing Power, in consultatlon
wlth t}te terrltorial covernnent, to take t-he necessary rneasures tp pronote the
e@nqnic and soclal develotrment of the $rrks and Caicos Islands and, in
particular, to intensify and expand its prograJrune of assistance in order to
acrcelerate the develotrment of the economic and social infrastructure of the
Territoryt

6. Enrbasizes that greater attention should be pald to diveraificalion
of the econcrqr, parti.cularly in the prolption of agrlcuLture and fisheries,
for the benefit of the peopl e of the Terrieoryi

7. Recalls that it is tbe respo'nsibifity of the adninistering Porrer ' inaccordance rrith the freely exlfessed wishes of the people, to safeguard,
guarantee and ensure the inalienable right of the peopte of the tlerritory

4/ A/37/23 (Part v) and Md.l, chap. xxrrr.



At/ 37/ 62L
ErgI ish
Page 26

to the enjoyment of their natural resources by tak ing effective measures to
guarantee their right to own and dispose of those resources and to establish
and maintaln control of their future develolmenti

8. Urqes the specialized agencies and other organizations of tbe lrrited
Nations slEtem, as well as regional instiCutions such as the caribbean
Developlent Bank, to continue to pay sp€cial attention to the developnent
needs of the nrrks and Caicos fslands?

9. Reaffirms its strong convictlon tha! the adninisCering pc'lrer nust
ensure that military bases and lnstallations do not hinder the population of
t}le Territory fron exerclsing its right to self-deterrnination and independence
in conformity with the purposes and pr inciples of Che Charter and urges the
adninisterlng Poreer to take aU necessary neasures to ccrnply fully wltn the
relevant resolutions of the Ih ited Nations relating to military bases and
installations in colonlal and l:ton-Sel-f -@verning Territoriesi

10. kquests the aatninister ing polrer, in cohsuttatlon with the
territorial Governnent, to contLnue !o provide the assistance necessary for
the training of qualifled local per sonnel in the skills essential to the
developnen t of varloue sectors of the society of the Territory?

11. Considers that the possibility of sending a further visiting missior
to the Turks and Caicos Islands at an appropriate tirne should be kept under
reviewt

12. nequests the Special Conanittee to continue the exanination of this
question at its next session, including the possible dispatch of a further
visitlng nission to the Ttrrks and caicos fsLands at an appropr iate time and in
consultation with the administering pofler, and to report thereon to t}le
ceneral Ass enbly at its thlrty-eighth session.

DRAF? RESOLUT ION VII

Question of the Uhited States Virqin Islands

Ihe ceneral Assembly,

Having considered the question of the Lhited States Virgin Islanda,
Havinq exanlned the relevan! chapters of the report of the Special

Conmittee on the Situation with regard Co the Implernentation of the
Declaration on the cranting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples,37

U e/ll/Zl (Part II) and Add.t, chaps. rrr and IV, and N/37/23 (part v) and
Add .1, drap. XXIV,



N 37 /62L
Ergl ish
Page 27

hcalling its reaolutidt 15I/f (xV) of 14 lEcenber 1960, containing th€
Ibclaration on the crantlng of Indep€ndence to Colonial countr le6 and PeoPIe6,
and aU other resolutions and decis ions of the unlted Nations relating to the
I}| ited States Virgln Islands,

tbting rr l.t}t apEeclation the contlnued active particilEtion of the
adnlnlstering Power in tbe work of the special conrnittee in regard to the
thited States Vlrgin Islands, thereby enabling it to conduc! a nore informed
and neanlngful examlnatlon of the situation in the Territory and expressing
Its satisfactiqr at the willingness of the aatninistering Po\ter to receive
visitlng mlsslons in the Terrltories under its adninistration '

llavlng heard the statement of the adninister lng Parrer t &/
Tak inq note of the fact that the proposed constitutlon subrnitted to a

referendum on 3 Novenber I98l after an extenslve debate was not accepted by
tbe people of the Territory'

Bear ing ln nlnd that t}|e territorial Goverrurent has taken pos itive steF
by adoptlng leglslation designed to solve the problem of aliens in the
Terrltory,

Iglilg that the terr{torlal covernment has pursued its efforts to
diverslfy the econmry and noting also the progreas achieved in the fields of
constr uction and nanufactur ing, including develoFnents ln oi]- refining and the
production of alutnlna and rr.un '

lbtinq nith satlsfactlon the efforts to revitalize health care Progr amnes
and to dlscourage JuveniLe delinquency, the measures to funprove crine
preventlon and the actlon taken to expand and upgrade school facilities'

1. Approves the chaPter of the rePort of the sFcial comlittee dr the
Sltuatlon wlth regard to the trnplementatlon of lhe Declaration on tbe Granting
of Independence to coloniaL countries and Peoples relating to the Uhlted
states vlrgin Is landst gy

2. Reaffirns the inalienable rlght of the PeoPle of the trliteal stateg
Vlrgln Islands to self-deterninallon and independence in conformlty t lth the
EbcLaratlon on the Granting of Independenc€ to colonial countr les and Peolt-es,
conta ined ln cetreral Assembly resolution 1514 (xv)t

3. r€lterates the vlew that such factors as territorial 6lze,
geogra$rical locatton, slze of populat ion and ltnlted natural reaourcea ahou.Ld
ln no way delay the speedy lnplenentation of the f,bclaratlon contained in
ceneral Assenbly re8olution 1514 (xv), whidr fully apPlles to the lrnited
States Vlrgln Islands,

2:!/ Nc.4/37/sF..2o,
221 DJ37/23 (Part v) and Add.I' chap. xxlv.



v37/62L
B1g118h
Page 28

4. Calls upon the aitninistering Porer, taking into account the fr€ely
expressed wishes of the people of the United Stales virgln Islands, to take
all, necesaary stelE to expedlte the trx ocess of decolonization ln accordance
yrith the relevant provisions of the charter of Che United lilations and the
Itsclaration, as weII as all other relevanC resolutions of the General Assent lyt

5. Reaff irrns tlrat it is t-he obligation of the adninistering Power ' incon€ultatiqr with tlte terrltorial c€verrulent. to inform the local people of
t}te po€slbllities open to them, so as to enable them to exercise freely and
without interference their inalienable riqht to self-deternination and
Lndependence in accordance with ceneral Assernbly resolution 1514 (Xv) and, in
thls respect, calls upon the administer ing Porer to facilitate the trork of the
recently established Status CoNniss ion and to ensure tiat the people are fully
lnformed of the discussions concerning ttre future political status of the
Territory,

6. urges the adninlsterlng Poryer to expedite the passage of leglsl.atlon
currently before the Congress of the lhited states of Anerica concerning the
problen of allens in the Territory?

Charter
baffirns the responsibllity of the adninistering Povrer under the

for the econonic and social developnent of the Territoryt

8. IJrges the aatninistering Povrer, in co-oper ation with the territorial
Government, to strengthen the econony of Lhe Terribory by taking addicional
rneasurea of dlverslfication in all fields and developing an adequate
infrastructuret

9. Urges the aatninister ing Power, in co€p€ration with the Gover ntrEnt
of the Utrlted States Vlrgin Islands, to safeguard the inalienable right of the
people of the lErritory to the enjolment of their natural reBources by taking
effectlve measures nhictr guarantee the right of the people to own and dlspo€e
of those resources and to establish and naintain control of their future
develolmentt

I0. trqes the a&ninistering Power, in oo-operation with the territorlal
@\terhment, !o continue to improve social conditions and to pay partlcular
attentlon to overcoming problens of unemplo!'ment, public housing, health care'
education and crimet

II. Consider€ that the possibitity of sending of a further vlsiting
nission to the Ihited States Virgin Islands at an appropriate time should be
k ept under review;

12. Reques ts the special conmittee to continue the exarnination of this
question at its next session, including the possible dispatch of a further
vlsiting nission to the Ihited Stales virgin Islands at an aplrol)r late tirne
and in c-onaultatlon witlr the a&rlnlstering Porrer, and to repor t thereon to the
General As sembly at its thirty-eighth session.



PJ37/62L
Engl ish
Page 29

DRAFT RESOI,TJT ION VIII

Question of l4ontserrat

The ceneral Assembly,

Having considered the question of }lontserrat '
Havlng examined the rele\rant chapters of the relDrt of the E)ecial

Ccf,ufllttee on the Sltuation with regard to the nnplementation of the Declaratlon
on the GranCing of Independence to colonial countr ies and Peoples r :!/

Having also examined the report of the lrnited l,lations visiting nission
dispatched to the lterritory in August L982. 3V at the invitation of the
@vernmeht of the United Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern rreland, as the
atlninistering Por,rer,

Recallinq its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 Decenkrer 1960, containing the
Declaratlon on the cranting of Independence to colonial countries and Peoples,

Recalling also its resolution 36/62 of 25 Novenber 1981 on the question
of five Terrltorles, lncluding llohtserrat,

Having heard the statenenC of the representalive of the adninistering
Pa"er, 32/

Mindful of the reaponsibility of the Lhited lhtions to help the peoPle of
!,bntserrae to realize their aspirations in accordance with the objectlves set
forth in the Declaration,

Recalling thaC the adninlstering Poiver has bhe responsibility to ensule
that the people of l,bntserrat are kept fully informed of their inalienable
rlght to s elf-determination and independence, in accordance with the
fEclaration,

Arare of the speclal trxoblems facing the llerritory by virtue of its
laolatlon, 6mal1 size, limiced resources and lack of infrastructure,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of lhe Special comnittee on the
Situation with regard to the Irnplementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to lbntserratt 33,/

39/ V37/23 (Part II), chap. II1, and N37/23 (Part v) and Add.3,
drap. )fiVIII.

2!/ V^c.Loe/722.

lU Nc.4/37/sR.L7.
2j/ N37/23 (Part v) and .Bdd.3, chap. XXVIII.



A/37/62t
Elglish
Page 30

2. Approve6 also the report of the Llrited Natlons vlslting mission to
l,lc,ntserrat L\ 1982, !tt/

3. Reaffirrns the inalienable right of the lEople of lbntserrat to
self-deterrnination and independence in confornity witlr the f,Eclaration on the
Granting of IndelEndence to Colonial Countriea and peopLes t

4. Reiterates the vier tiat sucb factors as size, geographical
location,
delay the
accordance

aize of population and llmited natural resources should in no eray
sp€edy implenentation of the process of self-deternination in
with the Declaration, whlch fuJ-ly appf le6 to the Territoryt

5. @runends, for appropriate actlon, the conclus ions and
re@mnendacions of the visitlng nlssion 3 5,/ to the ervernnent of the rhited
Kingdon of creat Britain and ldor thern Ireland, as the administerlng porrer, and
to the C€ver nment of lbntserratl

6. E(presses its appreciation to the nenbers of the vislting rniesion
for the constructive work acconplished and to the attninistering potrer, the
territorial covernnent, the I€gislative council and the people of the
Territory for the cl-o€e co-operation and assistance extended to the nlssion;

7. Calls upon the adnlnistering pohrer Co take the necessary measures to
promote the political, ecqronic and sociaL development of !,bntserrat?

8. Calls upon the adnlnister ing potrer, in co{p€ratlon with the
Governnent of I'bntserrat, to launctr programnes of political educatlon 60 that
the people of the $erritory rnay be fully informed of the options available to
them in the exercise of their right to self{eternlnation and independencel

9. urqes the a&ninistering pqre! to continue to intens ify and expand
its progranne of aid in order to accelerate the detrelopnent of the econqll.c
and 6ocia1 lnfrastructure of the Territoryt

I0. Reques ts the adrrlnlsterlng pci.rer, in the tight of the conclus ions
and reconmendationa of the visitlng nission, to continue to enlist the
assiGtance of t}!e speclalized agencies atld other organizations of the Writed
Natlons system, as well as other regional and international bodles, in the
s trengthening, deveLopnent and diverstficatlon of the econdny of the Territoryt

ll. &quests the Special CorunitCee to continue the examinahion of thi6
question at its next session, including the posslble diGpatch of a further
visitlng rnission to lbntserrat at an aplropr iate tfune and in consurtation wLth
the a&ninlstering Po+Jer, and to report thereon to the ceneral Assembly at ita
th irty-e ighth sess ion,

2!/
E/

A/AC.t09/722.

!!!4. r paras. 266-2eL.



N37 /62r
English
Page 31

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

Question of Weatern Sahar a

The ceneral Assembly,

Having considered in depth the question of western Sahara,

necalling t}|e inalienable right of a1I peoples to self-deterninaeion and
independence in accordance with the pr inciples set forth in the Charter of the
Ihited l'lations and in ceneral Assen cly resolution 1514 (xv) of
14 Decernber 1960, containing the tEclaration on the Granting of Indep€ndence

. to Colonial Countrles and Peop1es,

Recallinq its resolutions 35/L9 of Ll lbvenber 1980 and 36/46 of
24 Novenber I98l on the question of Western Sahara,

Ilaving consldered the relevant chapter of the reFort of the Special
Corunittee on the Sltuation with regard to the DrpLementatloh of tie
Declaration on the cranting of Indep€ndence to colonial Countr ies and
Peopl-es, 36/

Ilaving heard the sCaternents made on tie question of Western Sahara, in
partlcular the statenent of the representative of Che Frente Popular para
la Liberaci6n de Saguia el-Itanra y de Rlo de oro, 37/

Recallinq its resolution 36/80 of 9 Decenber 1981 on co-operation betr.reen
the thited l,lations and the Gganlzation of Mrican Lhity,

Recal-Ilng all the decisions of the Organization of African tixity on the
question of Western Sahala,

Recalllng also the decis ion of the Assenbly of Heads of State and
Go\rernrnent of the organization of African unity at ils eighteenth ordinary
ses8lon, held at llairobi from 24 to 27 June 1981, to organize throughout the
Terrltory of We€tern Sahara a general and free referendum on
selfdeterminationl 38/

Taking note of a1l the decisions adopted by the Implenentation comni ttee
on Western Sahara of tJIe Organization of African lnnity concerning the
establishnent of approF iate nachinery to enable the people of westef,n Sahara
to express thenselves freely and denocratically on their future,

fi/ A/37/23 (Part v), chap. Ix.

&/ A/c.4/37 /SR.2o.
!9/ See V36/534, annex II, resolution ,\HGAes.103 (XUII).



v37/62L
Elgl i6h
Page 32

l. &affirrns the inalienable right of the people of western sahara to
selfdeternination and independence in accordance rrith the Charter of the
Lhited lutions, the charter of the Organization of Mrlcan lhity and the
objectives of ceneral Assenbly resolutisr 1514 (Xv), and with the relevant
resolutl.ons of the ceneral AssembLy and the Organization of Afr ican Unity,

2. Welcomes the efforts nade by the Organlzation of African Ihity with
a view to protnoting a just and deflnltive solutiori to the question of Weatern
Sahar at

3. I€nains convinceC that only negotlation between l,brocco and the
Frente Eopular pa.r a la Liberaci6n de Sagula eL-Hanra y de Rfo de Oro could
create the objective condltiona for the return of peace in north-ues t Afr ica
and vould guarantee t}le fair conduct of a general, free and orderly referendum
on self-determinaeion in Htsstern saharat

4. Appeals to the trro parties to the dis$rte, l4orocco and the Frente
Popular para Ia Liberacldn de Saguia el--Hamra y de RIo de Oro, to start
negotiations witb a vlew to achieving a cease-fire in accordance lrith ceneral
Assenbly resolution 36/46 and the decisions of the Organization of Af,rican
thltyr

5. Feaffirns the deterninatlon of the lhited l,la tions to cD-operate
fuu-y with the Organtzatlon of Mrican tnity ln the fair and impartial
organization of the referendunl

6. Ibquests, to that end, the Secretary-cener aI to take the neceasary
stetrE to ensure that the lrnited uations participates effectlvely in the
organization and conduct of the referendum and to report to the ceneral
Assembl.y and the Security Council on tlie subject and on the rneasureg
requlr ing a decis lon by the Councilt

7. Urges t}le Secretary-ceneral to co{perate clogeLy with the
Secr etary-ceneral of the Organizatlon of N:r ican hity vrith a v ler,r to the
implementatlon of the pertinent decislons of the organization of African Unity
and of the present resolutlqrt

8. I€quests the Special committee on the sltuation sith regard to the
nnplenentation of the Declaration on the crantlng of Independence to Colonial
Countr ies and Peoples to continue to cons lder the situation in Western Siahara
as a matter of priority and to report thereon to the ceneral Assembly at its
tn1r ty--e ighth session.

28. The Eburth Corulittee also re@m'nends to the @neral Assenbly the adopt ion of
the following draft cdtsensu8es..



v37/62L
Eirglish
Page 33

DRAI'T @NSE}.ISUS I

Question of Western Sahara

flhe General Assembly, recalling its decision 36/4OG of 24 November 1981
and taking into account th€ resolution adopted by tJ|e As sernbly of Heads of
Seate and Government of the organization of ltfrican Irnity at its eighteenth
ordinary session, held at l.tairobi fro'fa 24 to 27 ,fune I98L, 22./ by whlch it
decid€d, lnter alia, to establish an Inpl-ementatlon conunittee on western
Sahara, a6 weII as the decis ions adopted by the Inplenentation Conunittee,
request6 the secretary-ceneral to give ass istance, in consulbation and
co-operation with the ftganization of Afr lcan thity, to the DrplenEntation
C.omfirittee in tJte disclharge of its rnandate relating to the questton of Western
Sahara arislng fron the above-mentloned resolutidr and decisions and to report
thereon to t}l€ @neral Assembly and tbe Security council, as appropr iate.

DRAFT CONSENS US II

Questiori of cibrallar

I'he General lssenlbLy, noting ttlat the covernnents of Spqin and the t trlted
Ni ngdom of Great Britian and I'lcr thern lreland signed a DeclaraLion on
10 April 1980 at Llsbon, j!lq/ intending r in accordance with the relevant
resoLutions of the Uhieed l'lations, to resolve the lrotllern of cibraltar,
agreeing to tlrat end to start negotiations ained at overcoming all the
differences between them on Gibraltar, agreeing also to the re-€stabl ishnent
of direct com[un lca t ions in the regionl the @vernment of Spain having declded
to auspend the application of the measureE at presenC in force r and both
Governments agreeing to base future co{peratioh on reciprocity and full
equality of rlghtst noting that both cover mpnts agreed on 8 ,tanuary 1982 in
Lndon to fix the date of 20 April 1982 for the fuU lnplenentation of the
tisbon fbclarationl including the lnitiation of negotiations and the
s imultaneous re-es tabl ishment of direct contrnunications in the regiont and
notlng that, when it was subaequently agreed to pos tpon€ these arrangenents.
both Governments expressed their deternination to keep alive the procesa
inltiated by the Lisbon Declaration of April L980, in the spirit of the
letters exchanged in Iondon on 8 ,tanuary 1982, and their intention to set a
nelt date fot its irnpletnentationt urges both cover runents to tnak e possible the
initiation of the negotialions as envisaged in the consensus adopted by the
Assernlcly on 14 Decernber 1973, !!i/ wibh the object of reaching a lasting
aoLution to the problem of cibraltar in the light of Che relevant resolutions
of the Assetnbly and in the spirit of the Charter of the lhiCed ]'lations.

19/ See V36/534, annex If, resolutioh AHGlRes.Io3 (XVIII).

ly *e A/AC.109/603 and corr.l-, para. 13.

jly Official Records of the C€nera1 Assemblv, l.renty-ighth Sbssion,
Supplement No. 30 (V9030), p. Ul, item 23.



A/37/62L
English
Page 34

DRAFT COIiTSENSUS II I

Question of the Cocos (Keeling) Islands

Ihe c€neral A.ssenbly, having examined the relevant chapters of the report
of the Special Comnittee on the Situation with rbgard to the Inplernentation of
the Declaration on the cranting of Independence to Coloniat Countrles and
Peoples, 42/ and having heard the statement of the relresenlative of Australia
with regard to the Cocos (Kee1ing) Islands, atr/ notes with appreciation thecontinuing co--oper ation of the cover runent of Arstralia, as the adrninistering
Poorer, with regard to the inpleneneation of the lbclaration on the cranting of
Independence to Colonial Countr ies and peoples, conlained in ceneral Ass enbly
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, in respect of tbe Territory. The
Assembly reaffirms that it is the responsibility of the adrinister ing porder to
creaee conditions under which the people of the CocG ((eeting) Islands will
be able to deternine freely their c'wn future in conformity with resolution
1514 (Xv) as well as otler relevant resolutions of the Assernlcly. In this
resPect, the Assenbly notes the posifive and continuing cororit$ent of the
administering Po$rer to the political, social and economic advancern€nt of the
people of the Territory so tiat th ey nay be able, as quickly as possible, to
exercise fuIIy their inalienable rights. The Assembly welcomes the continuing
willingness of the adninistering por.rer to receive visiCing nissions in the
Cocos (Keeling) fslands and, in this regard, reafflrfts that the need to send a
fufther mlssion to the Territory at an appropr iate time should be kept under
review. Ttre Assenbly r€quests the Special Cqmrittee to continue to examlne
this question at its next session, including Che possible dispatch of a
visiting mission to the cocos (Keeltng) Islands at an appropriate time and in
consultation with the adninistering porrer, and !o report tiereon to the
Assenbly at its thirty-€ighth session.

DRAFT CONSENSUS IV

Ques t.ion of tbke]-au

:Ihe C€nera1 Assenbly, having exarnined the relevant chapters of the report
of the Special Corunittee on the Situation with regard to the Inplenentation of
the Declaration on the cranting of Independence to colonial Countlies and
Peop.Les, 44/ and having heard the statement of the retrresentative of Nert
Zealand with regard to Tokelau, 39l notes with appreciation the vrillingnessof the adlinistering Fower to naintain its close co--operation witrl the

91 A/37/23 (part II), chap, rrl, and A/3j/23 (parr V) and Md.1, chap, XIII.

!a/ A/c.4/37 /sR. re.
!!/ A/37/23 (Part rI), chap. Irr. and A/37/23 (parL v) and Md.l, chap. xrv.

!t/ A/c.4,/37 /sR.22.



A/37,/62L
Engl ish
Page 35

Ihited !€tions in the r:xerclse of its responsibility tolrards Tokelau. The
Ass€tnbly reaffirms the inallenable right of the people of TbkeLau to
self-detemination in c$formity rrith the Ibclaration on the cranting of
IndePendence to Colonial Countr ies and peoples, conta ined in Assenrbly
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 Decernber 1960, and reaffirns further that j.t is the
responsibility of the attninisterlng Folrer to keep the people of Tokelau fully
infortned of this right. .In t-his regard, the Assembly notes that t}Ie people of
the Territory have expr es6ed the view that, at the present tine, they do noC
wiah to review tJre nature of the existing relationship between Tokelau and
t€w Zealand. the lssembly welones the assurances of the adrninister ing Fif,h'er
that it wlll cortinue to be guided solely by the wishes of the people of
Iokelau as to the future status of the Territory. t'he Ass embly notes that the
aatninistering Po$er has assured the people of Tokelau of its cqttinuing
assistance in the event that they should desire to change their status. The
Assernbly calls uFon the administerlng Power to continue its progranme of
politlcal education within the context of its efforts Lo ensure tie
Preservatlon of the identity and cultural heritage of the people of TokeLau.
The Assenbly recognizes t-hat the econqnic developrent of lbkelau is an
inportant eleroent in the process of gelf-determinatlon. The Aasembly notes
the continuing efforts of the aitninistering Power to Ix onpte the economic
derrelopnent of the Territory and the neasures it has taken to safeguard and
guarantee the rights of the peoples of Tokelau lo all their natural resources
and the benefits derlved thereflcm. The Assenbly is of the opinidr thaC ttre
adninister ing Power should coneinue to e4)and its progr amne of budgetary
support and developnen! aitl to the Territory. The Assen cly notes nith
appreciation ttre continuing efforts of the administering power to make
improvements in t-he flelds of public health, public works and educat.ion. The
Assenbly reiterates its expression of appreciation to the specialized agencies
and otier organlzations of the lhited NaCions system, as well as to the
reglonal organizations, for their assistance to ltf,keLau, and calls ut)on those
bodlea to cdrtinue providing assistance to the Territory. Mindful of tle
effectlve means provided by lDited l,htions visiting missicns to assess the
situation in Ule Territories, the Assembly is of the opinion that the
possibillty of sending a further visiting rnission to the Territory at an
appropriate time should be kept under review, taking into account, in
particular, the wishes of the people of ftrkelau, Xtre Assembly requests the
Speclal Cqurlttee to contlnue to examine this question at its next sesslon'
lncluding the poss lble dispatctr of a further vlsiting mission to lokelau, at
an appropriate time and in consultatlon with the adninister ing Porrer, and to
report tb er eon to tie Assembly at its thirty-eighth session.



A/37/62L
English
Page 36

DRAFT @IISENSTJS V

Questlon of Pitcairn

Ihe ceneral- Assenbly, having exanined the relevant chapter of the report
of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Inplenentation of
the Declaralion on t}|e cranting of Independence to coLonial countriea and
Peoples, :l,jq./ tafes note of the statement of the representative of the lhited
Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern IreLand affirtning the pollcy of hls
Government to encourage as rnuch local initiative and enterlr ise as possible,
so that the people of Pitcairn can nake the mos t of their oen way of life.
The Assernbly, further noting the wiLtingneEs of the a&ninislering f,olrer to
discuss any drange of constitutional status with the people of t}le Terrltory
whenever the latter so deslre, and that the present size of the population
continues to raise the question of the capacity of the islanders to maintaln
the esaentlal services of education, medical lrel.fare and the launching of long
boats, on which tielr trade with passing shilE depends, ca].l6 once again upon
the aahinistering power to continue to take the necessary measures to safeguard
the interests of the people of Pitcairn. The Assernbly requests the Special
Conll|ittee to continue to exarnine this question at its next sess ion, and to
report thereon to tie Assendtly at its thirty-€ighth session.

DRAFT CONSENSUS VI

Question of St. Helena

lte Creneral Assembly, having examined the relevant chapterg of t}Ie report
of the Special Comnlttee on the Situation with regard to the Implernentation of
the Declaration on the crant.ing of Indep€ndence to colqrial Countries and
Peoples !i/ and havlng heard the stntenent of the representative of the Olit€d
Kingdon of Great Britain and l.lorthern lreland, 1$1 as the adlinistering Porer,reaffirns the ihalienabl-e right of the people of St. Helena Co self-
determination and independence in confornity with the Declaratlon dr the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countr ies and Peoples, contained in
A€sembly resolution 1514 (Xv) of 14 Decenller 1950. The Assembly note6 the
comnibnent of the coverrunent of the Lhited Kingdon to r€spect the wishes of
the people of t}Ie Territory and, in this regard, urges the adninistering
Power, in consultation with the freely elected representatives of the people
of St. Helena, to cqrtinue to take all necessary s teps to ensure the apeedy
implenentation of the Declaration in respect of this lterritory. The Assernbly
expresses t}|e hope that the administerlng Porper wltl coritinue to implement
infrastructure and conmun ity projects ained at improv ing the general lrelfare
of the comnunity and to encourage local initiative and enterprlse, partlcularly

!5./ A/37/23 (Part v) and Add.l, chap, xv.

!L/ 4/37/23 (Part II), c:hap. III, a\d A/37/23 (Part V) and Add.l, drap. XvI.

&/ A/c.4/37/sR.L7 .



A/37 /62L
Eigllsh
Page 37

1n the area of the l-ocal handicrafts industry. The Aasernbly notes that'
alesPlte the ec.ononic improvement in these aectora, the comrcrcial s ector 3ti11
rema ins affected by r'rorld infLatlon. lthe Assembly reafflrms that continued
develolment assistance fron the a&ninister ing Porrer, together r,rith any
aas istance that the international comnunity night be able to provide,
conatltutes an impor tant neans of developing the econqnic potential of the
Ierrltory and of enhancing the capacl ty of it6 people to realize fuu.y the
9oaLs set forth in the relevant prorris ions of the Charter of the thited tlations
for tle lrnprovement of economic condltlons in the Ierritory. rbting t}Ie
trD8itlve attltude of the a&rlnlsterlng Poner trlti respect to the questlon of
receiving lrhlted libtions vlsitlng mlsaionE in the Territoriea under its
adnlnlstration, the Assenbly considers that the [D6sibility of disttatchlng
auci a nlEsldr to St. I{elena at an approriate tfune should be kept und€r review.
fte As sembly requeats the Special Cqmittee to continue to e)(amlne thls
que€tion at lta next session, includi.ng the poss lble dlspatch of a visiting
nlsaion to St..Helena, at an approF late time ahd in cons ulta tion wlth the
adnlnistering Porrer, and to relrcrt thereon to the A5sembly at its
Ul lrt]'-e ighth session.

?9. Rrrthernore, the &urth cornmittee reconmends to the General lssetobly the
adoption of the foLloiring draft decisiona:

DRAFT DECIS ION I

Question of Brune i

30. Ihe cieneral Assetnbly decides to defer utrtil ita thirty-eighth session
cona ider ation of the question of Brunel ahd reque€ls ttre Speclal Comnittee on the
situatiqr wlth regard to the I,rnplementatldr of the neclaratiqr on the Granting of
Independence to colqr lal countr ies and Peoples to continue to keep the sltuation in
Ure ttbrritory under revle$ and to report thereqr to the Assenbly.

DRAET DECISION II

Question of st. Nitts-Nevis

31. lre General Assenbly decides to defer untll lts thirty-eightb session
cona ider ation of the question of St. (itt6-lGvia.

D&AFT DEC IS ION I I I

Question of Angullla

32. ttle Generat Assernbly decldes to defer until its thtrty+ighth seesion
cdElderation of the question of Anguilla.


