












































UNITED
NATIONS

A
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

I
-r"

A/37/6l7
15 November

ORIGINAL.

r-iri I
~.' '-0: ' •. ' ,

1982

ENGLISH

Thirty-seventh session
Agenda item 110

SCALE OF ASSESSMENTS FOR THE APPORTIONMENT OF
THE EXPENSES OF THE UNITED NATIONS

Report of the Fifth Committee (Part I)

Rapporteur. Mr. M. Adel EL SAFTY (Egypt)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 September i982, the General Assembly decided
to include in its agenda the item entitled "Scale of assessments for the
apportionment of the expenses of the United Nations. report of the Committee on
Contributions" and to allocate it to the Fifth Committee.

2. For the consideration of this item, the Fifth Committee had before it the
report of the Committee on Contributions. 11

3. The Committee considered this item at its 4th, 5th, 7th to 16th and 32nd to
34th meetings, on 1, 4, 6 to 20 October and 11 to 15 November 1982, respectively.
Comments and observations made in the course of the Committee's consideration of
the item are reflected in the relevant summary records (A/C.5/37/SR.4, 5, 7-16 and
32-34).

II. OONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

4. At the 32nd meeting, on 11 November, the representative of Morocco introduced
a draft decision (A/C.5/37/L.23), sponsored by Bahrain, canada, COsta Rica, Cuba,

1! Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 11 (A/37/ll).

82-31602 04220 (E) I ...



A/37/617
English
Page 2

Czechoslovakia, Ecuador, Elilypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, HUngary, India, Jordan, Kenya,
Mauritania, Morocco, Panama, Peru, the Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Sri Lanka, the 'Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago and Zaire, subsequently
joined by Oman. The draft decision read as follows:

"The General Assembly requests the Committee on Contributions to
re-examine the proposed scale of assessments contained in its report A/37/11
and, bearing in mind the discussions on this agenda item at its present
session, to submit its recommendations by 3 December 1982, so as to enable the
General Assembly at its thirty-seventh regular session to decide on the matter
before it adjourns in December 1982."

5. At the same meeting, the representative of Brazil introduced the following
draft resolution (A!C.5/37/L.20/Rev.l), sponsored by Brazil, Chile, the Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Mexico, Nigeria, Uruguay, Venezuela and Yugoslavia, on the
understanding that it was not to be discussed or voted upon at the present stage of
the debate.

"The General Assembly,

"Having examined the report of the Committee on Contributions!! and the
recommended scale of assessments for the financial years 1983, 1984 and 1985,
contained in that report,

"NOting that the recommended scale does not avoid excessive variations
between two successive scales, as previously requested by the General
Assembly's resolutions,

"Observing that only one third of the assessments were based on national
income statistics supplied by Member States, the rest of the assessments
haVing been based on statistics extrapolated by the united Nations Statistical
Office,

"Considering that the data and statistical information supplied by Member
States are not yet comparable for the following reasons: differences in
methodology of national income accounting applied in various Member States,
fixed over-valued exchange rates and national income statistics based on
constant prices, regardless of real inflation,

"Ascertaining that the recommended scale presents anomalous assessments,
incompatible with principles of justice and equity,

"Decides that:

(a) The present scale will remain in force until the Committee on
Contributions completes, as soon as possible, its work, in accordance with
resolution 36/231 A, and submits the results of its work for consideration and
decision by the General AssemblYl

(b) The Committee on Contributions should be enabled, if it deems
necessary, to extend its sessions, so as to complete the work referred to in
subparagraph (a) above, as soon as possible;

/ ...



A/37/617
English
Page 3

(c) The Secretary-General is authorized to contract for the services, on
a temporary basis, of institutions of statistical, econometrics and economic
analyses of international standing to assist the Committee on Contributions to
carry out the tasks mentioned in subparagraphs (a) and (b) above,

(d) Any claims related to the revision of the exchange rate and national
income statistics shall have no retroactive effects;

(e) For the purpose of assuring national income figures comparability,
the United Nations Statistical Office will, in the future, accept only data
and statistics which are standardized as to methodology and basis,
particularly with regard to exchange rates reflecting real inflation and
national income drawn from current prices,

(f) The assessments of Antigua and Barbuda, Belize and Vanuatu will
be 0.01, according to the recommendation of the Committee on Contributions."

6. Also at the same meeting, the representative of Australia introduced the
following draft resolution (A/C.5/37/L.21), on the understanding that it was not to
be discussed or voted upon at the present stage of the debate:

"The General Assembly,

"Having considered the report of the Committee on Contributions 11 and
the recommended scale of assessments for the triennium 1983-1985,

"Bearing in mind the divergence of views expressed by Member States
during the debate in the Fifth Committee,

"Realizinq that the scale of assessments according to which Member States
contribute is not a means of correcting defects in the international economy,

"1. Reaffirms the importance of the task performed by the Committee on
Contributions in setting a scale of assessments for Members' contributions;

"2. Decides to accept the recommended scale of assessments contained in
the report of the Committee on Contributions for three years;

"3. Calls upon the Committee on Contributions to complete the study
requested in paragraph 3 of resolution 36/231 A;

"4. Requests the Secretary-General to provide the Committee on
Contributions with the necessary resources to carry out that study, using its
own experts and, if required, engaging the services of an eminent consultant
or consultants."

7. At the 33rd meeting, on 12 November, the representative of Spain proposed, as
an amendment to draft decision A/C.5/37/L.23, that the words appearing after "to
submit" be replaced by the words "a new recommendation not later than 30 May 1983,
the present scale remaining in force until 31 December 1983".

/ ...

,



A/37/617
English
Page 4

8. Following a procedural debate, the Committee decided, by a recorded vote
of 91 to 24, with 6 abstentions, to consider the proposal made by the
representative of Spain a separate proposal and not an amendment to draft
decision A/C.5/37/L.23. The voting was as follows;

In favour: Belgium, Brazil, Chile, Denmark, Dominican Republic, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy,Japan, Luxembourg, Mexico, Netherlands, Portugal,
Singapore, Spain, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia.

Against; Afghanistan, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, BOtswana, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, China, Colombia,
Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Grenada, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania,
Mauritius, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Turkey, uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Cameroon, Viet Nam, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia.

Abstaining; Algeria, BUlgaria, Central African Republic, Congo, Cyprus, Upper
Volta.

9. The Committee then adopted draft decision A/C.5/37/L.23 by 90 votes to 18,
with 17 abstentions (see para. 10).

10. The delegations of Algeria, Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, China, Colombia,
Denmark (on behalf of the States members of the European Community), the Dominican
RepUblic, Indonesia, Japan, Kuwait, Mexico, New Zealand, Somalia, the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics and Venezuela spoke in explanation of vote.

I ...

,



A/37/617
English
Page 5

III. RECCMMENDATION OF THE FIFTH CGlMITTEE

11. The Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft decision~

The General Assembly requests the Committee on Contributions to
re-examine the proposed scale of assessments for the apportionment of the
expenses of the united Nations contained in its report 2/ and, bearing in mind
the discussions on this agenda item at the current sessIon, to submit its
recommendations by 3 December 1982, so as to enable the Assembly at its
thirty-seventh session to decide on the matter before it adjourns in.
December 1982.

~ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. l! (Al31!!!).

• •


