












































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

^/37/6676 December L982

ORIGINAL: EbIGI,ISH

Th irty-seventh session
Agenda item 55

GENERAL AIIID COII{PLETE DISARMA}4ENT

RePort of the tr'irst Committee

Rapporteurs Mr. Luvsangiin ERDENECHULUUN (uongolia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitted "General and complete disarmaments

,,(a) Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and use of
radiological weatrnns: re5rcrt of the Corunittee on Disarmamentt

" (b) Prevention of an arms race in outer space and prohibition of
anti-satellite systems: report of the Conmittee on Disarmamentt

"(c) Institutional arrangements relating to the process of disarmament?

"(d) llon-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of States where
there are no iuch weatrnns at present: relDrt of the comrnittee on
Disarmamenti

,,(e) prohibition of the production of fissionable material for weatrnns
purposes'. re5rcrt of the Conmittee on Disarmament?

r(f) Strategic arms limitation talks"

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirEy-seventh session in accordance
with Generatr Assembry resorution 36,/97 of 9 December t98r'

2. At its 4t5 plenary meetingr on 24 September 1982r the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General conrnitteer decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the rirst Committee.

82-3sI99 0445v (E)

UNITED
NATIONS A

General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/37/667
6 December 1982

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

7

Thirty-seventh session
Agenda item 55

GENERAL AMD COMPLETE DISARMAMENT

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Luvsangiin ERDENECHULUUN (Mongolia)

1. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "General and complete disarmament:

"(a) Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and use of
radiological weapons: report of the Committee on Disarmament)

"(b) Prevention of an arms race in outer space and prohibition of
anti-satellite systems: report of the COlmnittee on Disarmament,

"(c) Institutional arrangements relating to the process of disarmament,

"(d) Non-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of States where
there are no such weapons at present: report of the Committee on
Disarmamen t,

"(e) Prohibition of the production of fissionable material for weapons
purposes: report of the Committee on Disarmament~

"(f) Strategic arms limitation talks"

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session in accordance
with General Assembly resolution 36/97 of 9 December 1981.

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 september 1982, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

82-35199 0445v (E) / ...



^/37 
/667

English
Page 2

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 29 September, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the itens allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely' items 39 to 57, 133 and I35. llhe general debate on these itens and on
itens 138 and 139, which were allocated to the First @mmittee by the General
Assenbly at its 24th plenary meeting, on 8 October L982, took place at the 3rd to
28th neetings, from 18 october to 5 lbvenber (see Vc.1/37/pv.3-29').
4. In connection with item 55, the First Committee had before it the following
documentsr

(a) Report of the Conunittee on Disarmamentl l,/
(b) Letter dated 14 ,June 1982 from the representatives of Afghanistan and the

German Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Genera1
lA/37/2e71 t

(c) Letter dated 28 .Iune 1982 from the Pernanent Representatives of the
Gernan Delpcratic Republic and Grenada to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/37 /3591 t

(d) Letter dated 22 June 1982 from the Charg6 drAffaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transnitting the Final Connunigud of the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating
Bureau of the llon-Aligned Countries, held at ttavana from 3l May to 5 June I9g2
lA/37/333-s/L5278) t

(e) Letter dated 9 August 1982 from the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the
Perrnanent Mission of the German Derpcratic Republic to the United Nations addressedto the Secretary-General (p{37/390,, I

(f) Ietter dated 11 october L982 from the Pbrmanent Representative of Cuba to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the Final
Conmunigud of the Meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegation of the lbn-Aligned oountries, held in New york from 4 to 9 october I9g2
(A/ 37 / 540-s,/r5 45rl ) I

(g) !$ote by the Secretary-General on the Mvisory Board on Disarnament
Studies (A/37/5501 t

(h) Ietter dated 19 october L982 from the Permanent Representative of Italyto the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
resolutions adopted by the 59th rnter-Par1iamentary Conference, held in Rone.fron
12 to 23 September 1982 (py'37/S7glt

(i) Ietter dated 30 September 1982 fron the Permanent Representative of
Viet Nam to the ttnited Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (t/C.L/37/31 t

_ y officiSl.Feggrds of the General Assemblv, Ihirtv-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/37/27 and Corr.I).

A/37/667
English
Page 2

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 29 September, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 39 to 57, 133 and 136. The general debate on these items and on
items 138 and 139, which were allocated to the First COmmittee by the General
Assembly at its 24th plenary meeting, on 8 OCtober 1982, took place at the 3rd to
28th meetings, from 18 October to 5 November (see A/C.l/37/PV.3-28).

4. In connection with item 55, the First COmmittee had before it the following
documents I

(a) Report of the Committee on DisarmamentJ 11

(b) Letter dated 14 June 1982 from the representatives of Afghanistan and the
German Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/37/297)J

(c) Letter dated 28 June 1982 from the Permanent Representatives of the
German Democratic Republic and Grenada to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/37/359)J

(d) Letter dated 22 June 1982 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of CUba to the United Nations addressed to the SecretarY-General,
transmitting the Final Communique of the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating
Bureau of the Non-Aligned COuntries, held at Havana from 31 May to 5 June 1982
(A/37/333-S/15278)J

(e) Letter dated 9 August 1982 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the German Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed
to the Secretary-General (A/37/380)J

(f) Letter dated 11 OCtober 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the Final
Communique of the Meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegation of the Non-Aligned COuntries, held in New York from 4 to 9 October 1982
(A/37/540-S/15454)J

(9) Note by the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Studies (A/37/550)J

(h) Letter dated 19 October 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Italy
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
resolutions adopted by the 69th Inter-Parliamentary COnference, held in Rome .from
12 to 23 September 1982 (A/37/578)J

(i) Letter dated 30 September 1982 from the Permanent Representative of
Viet Nam to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.1/37/3)J

11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/37/27 and Corr.l) •

I ...



(j) Letter dated II october L982
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to
Secretary-GeneraI @/c -L/37 / 4l t

A/37 /667
English
Page 3

from the Permanent Representative of the
the United Nations addressed to the

(k) tibte verbale dated 21 october L982 from the Permanent Representative of
the Netherlands to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/c.L/37/61 .

rI. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draf t resol-ution A,/C-1,/37lL.18

5. Otl
Soc

tic Repub1ic, Hungary, the Lao et blic I ia,
ffi , the ukrainian F9y!9!--qggiel-1s! lic, the Union of Soviet# tted a draft resolution entitLed
"N#ffi;I"s of nuclear rdeapons on the territories of states where there are no
no such neapons at present" (A/C.L/37/L.18), which was introduced at the 33rd
meeting, on 15 November, by the representative of Hungary'

6. At its 42nd neeting, on 24 November, the @mmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.18 by a recorded vote of 55 to 19 with 44 abstentions (see para.4O,
draft resolution A). The voting rrtas a folJ-ows: /

In favour: Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Benin, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republicr Central African Republic,
chad, congo, cuba, czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dominican
Repub1ic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji' Finland, German
Dernocratic Republic, Ghana, Guyana, Hungary, India, fndonesia'
Iraq, Jordan, Kenyar Kuwaitr Lao Peoplers Dernocratic Republicr
uadagascar, Mal-aysia, Malir llexico, t"tongolia, !'!ozambique,
uicaiagua, Niger, Nigeria, Panama, Po1and, Qatar, Romanial
Rr^randar sao some and Principe, syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and
Tobago, tlanda, ukrainian soviet socialist Republic, union of
Soviet Socialist Republicsr United Arab Bnirates, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yenen.

Australiar Belgiumr Canada, Dennark, France, Germany, Ebderal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
zealand, Norway, Portugalr Spain, bgo, Trrrkey, united Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, united states of America.

Against:

U The representative of ltogo subseguently indicated that his delegation 
had

intended to abstain.

11 November, Afghanistan, Angola, Bulgaria, the PyelorusFiaq Soviet
t Republic, Czechoslvakia, Qqmocratic Yemen

A/37/667
English
Page 3

(j) Letter dated 11 OCtober 1982 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/C.l/37/4)J

(k) Note verbale dated 21 OCtober 1982 from the Permanent Representative of
the Netherlands to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/C.l/37/6) •

11. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.18

5. On 11 November, Afghanistan, Angola, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Czechoslvakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, the German
Decmocratic Republic, Hunga£y, the Lao People's Republic, Madagascar, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Poland, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and viet Nam submitted a draft resolution entitled
"Non-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of States where there are no
no such weapons at present" (A/C.l/37/L.18), which was introduced at the 33rd
meeting, on 15 November, by the repre6entative of Hungary.

6. At its 42nd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.18 by a recorded vote of 55 to 19 with 44 abstentions (see para.40,
draft resolution A). The voting was a follows: £/

In favour:

Against:

Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Benin, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic,
Chad, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Panama, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Sao TOme and Principe, Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and
TObago, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen.

Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, TOgo, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

2/ The representative of TOgo subsequently indicated that his delegation had
intended to abstain.

/ ...



A/37 /667
Engl ish
Page 4

Abstaining: Algeria, Austria, Bahamas, Bangradesh, Brazil, Burma, chile,
Colonbia, q/prus, Djibouti, Gabon, Greece, Guatemala, Ireland,
Israel' Jamaicar Iebanon, Liberia, !,talawi, Mauritania, l,lorocco,
Nepal, Onan, pakistan, papua New Guinea, parguay, peru,
Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra I€one, Singapore,
Somalia, Sri lanka, Sudan, S\reden, Thailand, Tunisia, United
Republic of Cameroon, thited Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia.

B. Draft resolution VC.l/37,/L.23
ol 15 Novemberr Algenlinar Arlstralia, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh,
um, Boriviar canada, costa Rica, clrprus, oiiuouti, gctraaor, nqvpt, Fi;l

Irangi, $eece, T ia, .famaica, liUe@Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Nige eru, portusa
ia, &randa, Sierra Leone, Sri a, S\reden the United cof

Cameroon and Uruguay subnitted a draft resoluti
Institute for Disarmament Research" (A/C.L/37/L.231, which was subseguently also
sponsored_by Gfgnar.!{arlta, lgaEar, the Sudan and Turkey. The draft resolution was
introduced at the 34th meeting, on 16 November, [the- representative of lrbrway.
The draft resolution read as follows:

" iltre Gengral=4s;sembly,

"Atvare of the need of the international community to be provided with
more afGified and cornplete data on problems relating to international
security, the armaments race and disarmament so as to facilitate progress,
through negotiations, towards greater security for alr states,

"9onvinced that negotiations on disarmament and continuing efforts to
secure greater security at a lower level of armament,s would benefit fron
objective and factual studies and analysis,

"Reaff-irming the importance of ensuring that disarmanent studies should
be conducted in accordance with the criteria of scientific independence,

"Conscious that sustained research and study activity by the United
t'lationFfllFfield of disarm.r"ni-"out; ;t;;;ie informed parriciparion byall States in disarmament efforts,

- "stressing the need to undertake more in-depth, forward-looking androng-tern research on disarnament within the united Nationsr

"Recalling its resolutions 33/7L K, 34/93 M and 3S/LS2 H,
I'1. Expresses gratitude to the Board of Trustees of the United Nations

rnstitute for Training and Research for its contribution to the establishrnent
and development of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Researcht

A/37/667
English
Page 4

Abstaining: Algeria, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Brazil, Burma, Chile,
Colombia, Cyprus, Djibouti, Gabon, Greece, Guatemala, Ireland,
Israel, Jamaica, Lebanon, Liberia, Malawi, Mauritania, Morocco,
Nepal, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Parguay, Peru,
Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Thailand, Tunisia, United
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

B. Draft resolution AjC.l/37/L.23

7. On 15 November, Argentina, Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland,
France, Greece, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Jamaica, Liberia, Madgascar, Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Nigeria, Norway, oman, Pakistan, Peru, Portugal,
~mania, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Tunisia, the United Republic of
Cameroon and Uruguay submitted a draft resolution entitled "United Nations
Institute for Disarmament Research" (A/C.l/37/L.23), which was subsequently also
sponsored by Ghana, Malta, Qatar, the Sudan and Turkey. The draft resolution was
introduced at the 34th meeting, on 16 November, by the representative of Norway.
The draft resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Aware of the need of the international community to be provided with
more diversified and complete data on problems relating to international
security, the armaments race and disarmament so as to facilitate progress,
through negotiations, towards greater security for all States,

"Convinced that negotiations on disarmament and continuing efforts to
secure greater security at a lower level of armaments would benefit from
objective and factual studies and analysis,

"Reaffirming the importance of ensuring that disarmament studies should
be conducted in accordance with the criteria of scientific independence,

"Conscious that sustained research and study activity by the United
Nations in the field of disarmament would promote informed participation by
all States in disarmament efforts,

"Stressing the need to undertake more in-depth, forward-looking and
long-term research on disarmament within the united Nations,

"Recalling its resolutions 33/71 K, 34/83 M and 35/152 H,

"I. Expresses gratitude to the Board of Trustees of the United Nations
Institute for Training and Research for its contribution to the establishment
and development of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research)

I ...



A/37 /667
English
Page 5

,2. libtes with satisfaction the activities carried out by the rnstitute
since its establishmenti

"3. Decides that:

(a) iltre ttrrited r.Iations Institute for Disarmament Research shall function
as an autonoupus institution worklng in close relationship with the United
Nations Centre for Disarmament. It will be organized in a manner to ensure
pirticipation on an eguitable political and geographical basis. lftre Institute
shall continue to undertake independent research on disarmament and related
security issues. It will duly take into account the reconunendations of the
General AssenblYl

(b) The Secretary-C,eneralrs Mvisory Board on Disarmament Studies shall
function as the Board of Trustees of the Institutel

(c) Itre headquarters of the Institute shall be in Genevat

(d) Activities of the Institute shaLl be funded by contributions from
States, public and private organizationst

'4. Invites Covernnents to consider making contributions to the
Institutet

.5. Resuests the Secretary-Genera1 to give the Institute administrative
and other supportt

o6. Resuests the Board of Trustees to draft the statute of the Institute
on the basis of 6e Institute's present rnandate, to be submitted to the
@neral Assembly at its thirty-eighth sessionl

n7. Invites the Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarnament
Research to report to the General Assernbly at its thirty-eighth session on the
implementation of this resolution and the activities carried out by the
Inst itute. "

f . iltre draft resolution
Corr.l (see subection o).

was later included in draft resolution acJ/37/L.67 and

C. Draft resolution VC.1,/37IL.30

9. q'r 1O l,lovember, lGxicor Nigeria and Sneden submitted a draft resolution
entitled ,.Report of the Independent Cornmission on Disarrnament and Security Issuesr'
(A/C.I/37/L.3O! r which was subsequently also sponsored by Ecuadorr-Inlglg and.
MaIi. iltre draft resolution was introduced at the 35th rneetingT on 17 Novenber by
the representative of Sweden.

tO. At its 42nd meeting2 on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.30 without a vote (see Para. 40, draft resolution B).

A/37/667
English
Page 5

"2. Notes with satisfaction the activities carried out by the Institute
since its establishment;

"3. Decides that:

(a) The united Nations Institute for Disarmament Research shall function
as an autonomous institution working in close relationship with the united
Nations Centre for Disarmament. It will be organized in a manner to ensure
participation on an equitable political and geographical basis. The Institute
shall continue to undertake independent research on disarmament and related
security issues. It will duly take into account the recommendations of the
General Assembly;

(b) The Secretary-General's Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies shall
function as the Board of Trustees of the Institute,

(c) The headquarters of the Institute shall be in Geneva,

(d) Activities of the Institute shall be funded by contributions from
States, public and private organizations,

"4. Invites Governments to consider making contributions to the
Institute,

"5. Requests the Secretary-General to give the Institute administrative
and other support,

"6. Requests the Board of Trustees to draft the statute of the Institute
on the basis of the Institute's present mandate, to be submitted to the
General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session,

"7. Invites the Director of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament
Research to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session on the
implementation of this resolution and the activities carried out by the
Institute. "

8. The draft resolution was later included in draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.67 and
Corr.l (see sUbection 0).

C. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.30

9. On 16 November, Mexico, Nigeria and Sweden submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Report of the Independent Commission on Disarmament and Security Issues"
(A/C.l/37/L.30), which was subsequently also sponsored by Ecuador, Indonesia and

Mali. The draft rerolution was introduced at the 35th meeting, on 17 November by
the representative of Sweden.

10. At its 42nd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.30 without a vote (see para. 40, draft resolution B).

/ ...



py'37 /657
English
Page 6

D. Draf t Resolution A,/C.l/37lL.33
11. m 16 Novemberr Ggrme:ryr lrederal Republic of, Ilungary, Japan and Sweden
submitted a draft resolution entitled "nrohiUitiryent, production,
stockpiling and use of radiorogical wea[nns" (N7.L/37/L.33), which was
subsequently also sponsored b1z Bangladesh, Colombia and Costa Rica. The draft
resolution r,ras introduced at the 35th neeting, on 17 Novembei, uy tne
representative of the Federal Repubtic of Germany.
L2. At its 39th meeting, on 22 li&cvember, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/c.L/37/t.33 without a vote (see paragraph 40, draft resolution c).

E. Draft decision VC.1,/37lL. 36

13. on 17 l{ovember, }brlray submitted a draft decision entitled 'rMvisory Board on
Disarmament Studies" (A/C.L/37/L.36), which was subsequently also sponsored by
Ecuador. ltre draft decision read as follows:

The First Comnittee recommends that the General Assembly should reguest
the Secretary-General to review the Mvisory Board on Disarmament studies in
line wittr his note A/37/55Or and to entrust it wittr the functions listed
therein, taking into account the further relevant decisions of the General
Assembly in this regard.

The draft decision was later included in draft resolution A/C.L/37/L.67 and
Corr.l (see subsection 0) .

F. Draf t resolution VC.l,/37lL.41
14. Ol 17 Novernber, Australiar Canadar Denmqrk, France, C,ermany, Fbderal hFnrblic
Uruguay submitted a draft resolution entittla-"prev-en in outer
sPace and prohibition of anti-satellite systems" (A/C.L/37/L.4I), which was
subseguently also strnnsored b[ Costa Ricar Spain, Sweden and the united Kingdom of
Great Britain and titrrthern Ireland. T
36th meeting, on 18 llovenber, by the representative of rtaly.
15. At its 44th rneeting, on 26 tilovernber, the Committee adopted draft resolution
P{C-L/37/L.41 by a recorded vote of 92 to none, with 29 abstentions (see para.4O,
draft resolution D). The voting !{as as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Australia, Austria, Baharnas, Bahrain, Bangladeshl
Belgium, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo, Clprus, Derpcratic yemen, Denmark,
Ojibouti, Dominican &public, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guaternala,
Guinear Guyana, Iceland, fndia, Iran (Islamic &Sublic of ), Iraq,
freland, Israel, ftaly, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Iebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriyar Itxembourg, Malawi,

A/37/667
English
Page 6

D. Draft Resolution A/C.l/37/L.33

11. on 16 November, Germany, Federal Republic of, Hungary, Japan and SWeden
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prohibition of the development, production,
stockpiling and use of radiological weapons" (A/C.l/37/L.33), which was
subsequently also sponsored by Bangladesh, Colombia and Costa Rica. The draft
resolution was introduced at the 35th meeting, on 17 November, by the
representative of the Federal Republic of Germany.

12. At its 39th meeting, on 22 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.33 without a vote (see paragraph 40, draft resolution C).

E. Draft decision A/C.l/37/L.36

13. on 17 November, Norway submitted a draft decision entitled "Advisory Board on
Disarmament Studies" (A/C.l/37/L.36), which was SUbsequently also sponsored by
Ecuador. The draft decision read as follows:

The First Committee recommends that the General Assembly should request
the Secretary-General to review the Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies in
line with his note A/37/550, and to entrust it with the functions listed
therein, taking into account the further relevant decisions of the General
Assembly in this regard.

The draft decision was later included in draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.67 and
Corr.l (see subsection 0).

F. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.4l

14. on 17 November, Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal Republic
of, Greece, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the Niger, Norway and
Uruguay submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prevention of an arms race in outer
space and prohibition of anti-satellite systems" (A/C.l/37/L.4l), which was
subsequently also sponsored by Costa Rica, Spain, Sweden and the united Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland. The draft resolution was introduced at the
36th meeting, on 18 November, by the representative of Italy.

15. At its 44th meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.4l by a recorded vote of 92 to none, with 29 abstentions (see para. 40,
draft resolution D). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belgium, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, Congo, cyprus, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France,
Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Iceland, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Malawi,

I ...



^/37/667English
Page 7

Ma1aysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, l4trocco, l[ePal, Nettrerlands,
Dhw Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, librway' qnan, Pakistan, Paraguayt
philippines, Portugal, Qatar, bmania, Rlvandar senegalr Sierra
f,eone, Singagnrer Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Suriname, Swedenr
Thailand, To9o, Trinidad ancl Tobago, Tunisia, Turkeyl Uganda,
united Arab Enirates, united Kingdorn of Great Britain and
lilcrthern lreland, United Republic of Cameroon, United States of
America, Uruguayr Venezuela; Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zairet Zanbia'

libne.

Afghanistan, Angolar Argentina, Benin, Bulgaria, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist &public, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia'
Ebuador, Egypt, German Democratic republic, Ilungary, Indonesiar
Lao Peoplers Dernocratic kpublic, Madagascar, I@xico, Ibngolia'
Mozambique, Panana, Peru, Po1and, Sao lbme and Princitrn, Saudi
Arabiar Sri Ianka, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republicr Union of
Soviet Socialist Regrblicsr ltrrited republic of Sanzania' Viet tibm.

G. Draft Resolqtion A/C.t/37,/L.48

16
Ja

Olr 17 ltovember, Australia, Austriar lhg-lehanas Canada
the llether lana

ffi resolution entitled "Prohibition of

Against:

Abstaining:

material for weapons purposes" (N1.L/37/L.481, which
sSnnsored $r Bangladeshr Indonesia and llornania' The

was subseguentLy also
draft resolution was

introduced at the 37th neeting, on 19 November, by the representative of Canada.

]:7. At its 43rd neetingl on 24 llovember, the Committee adopted draft resolution
py'C.L/37/L.48 by a recorded vote of 104 to noner with 21 abstentions (see para. 4Ot
draft resolution E). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Atrstralia, Aqstria, Bahamas, Bahrain'
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Burman, Burundil
canada, central African Republic, chad, chile, colonbial congo,
Costa Rica, C,!prus, Democratic Yemen, Denmarkr Djibouti'
Dorninican r€Flblic, Etruador, Eqypt, Fiji, Einland, Gabonr
Germany, Federal RepubliC of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guineat
Guyana, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Rep{rblic of)r Iraqr
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaicar Ja5nnl Jordant
Kenya, Kuwait, Iebanonr Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya'
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawil Malaysia, Maldives, Malit Maltat
Mauritania, Ivtorocco, libpal, lihtherlands, tibw zealandr Nigerr
Nigeriar Norway, Onan, Pakistan, Papua lilew Guinea' Paraguayt
peru, pirifippines, Portugal; Qatar, Romania, Rranda, Sao Some and
Principer Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore'
Sonalii, Sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Spain, Srveden, Syrian Arab
nepublic, Thailand, Togo, trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ilganda, {Inited Arab Enirates, Ilrited kpublic of Cameroon, tfrrited
nepublic of Tanzania, Uruguayt Venezuela, Yemenr Yugoslavia'
Zaire, Zambia.

A/37/667
English
Page 7

Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, r~rocco, Nepal, Netherlands,
New zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, oman, Pakistan, Paraguay,
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, SOmalia, Spain, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden,
Thailand, Tbgo, Trinidad and Tbbago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, united Republic of Cameroon, united States of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Angola, Argentina, Benin, Bulgaria, B¥elorussian
Soviet SOcialist Republic, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Ecuador, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Indonesia,
Lao People's DemOcratic Republic, Madagascar, Mexico, ~ngolia,
Mozambique, Panama, Peru, Poland, sao ~me and Principe, saudi
Arabia, Sri Lanka, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet SOcialist Republics, United Republic of Tanzania, viet Nam.

G. Draft Resolution A/C.l!37!L.48

16. On 17 November, Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Canada, Greece, Ireland,
Japan, the Netherlands, New zealand, Norway, the Philippines, Singapore and SWeden
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prohibition of the production of fissionable
material for weapons purposes" (A/C.l/37/L.48), which was subsequently also
sponsored by Bangladesh, Indonesia and Romania. The draft resolution was
introduced at the 37th meeting, on 19 November, by the representative of canada.

17. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.48 by a recorded vote of 104 to none, with 21 abstentions (see para. 40,
draft resolution E). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Burman, Burundi,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, cyprus, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, Gabon,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Hwanda, sao Tbme and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, SUdan, Suriname, Spain, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Tbgo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United RepUblic of cameroon, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia.

I ...



A/37 /667
English
Page 8

Aqainst: tlone.

Abstaining: Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic
Republic, Hungary, India, Iao Peoplers Democratic Republic,
Mexico, lbngoliar Mozarnbigue, Panama, Poland, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Viet Nan.

H. Draft resolution VC.I/37,/L.52

18. el 18 Novemberr EgvPtr Finlandr Frarrce, Greece, Mexico, Nigeria, Sri Ianka and
$reden submitted a draft resolution entitled trReview and supplement of the
conprehensive study on the guestion of nuclear-weapon-free zones in all its
aspects' (A/C.L/37/L.52) which was subsequently sponsored also by Colombia,
Ebuador, Ghana, ldoroccor Seneqal, Sierra Ieone and Uruguay. Ttre draft resolution
was introduced at the 37th meetirg, on 19 November, by the representative of
Finland.

19t At the 45th meeting, on 26 tilcvenber, Finland introduced an oral revision
providing for the addition at the end of operative paragraph 2, after the words
'thirty-nineth session", of the following phrase:

trbearing in nind the savings that nay be nade within existing budgetary
appropriations. "

20. In connexion wittr the draft resoLution, the Secretary-General submitted a
statement on the adninistrative and financial implications (A/C.L/371L.721.

2L. At its 45th rneeting, on 26 lbvember, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C-L/37/L.52, as orarry revised, by a recorded vote of 125 to r, with
2 abstentions fsee para. 40, draft resolution F). Itre voting was as follows:

In favour: Mghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil,
h:lgaria, Burmal Burundi, Byelorussian soviet socialist Repubric,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colonbia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, CYprus, Czechoslovakia, Dernocratic
Yemen, Denmark, Djiboutil Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Gernan Democratic
Republic, Ccrmany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iragr lre1and, Israel, ftaly, Ivory Coast, ilamaica, Japan,
.Iordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Iao peoplers Dernocratic Republic, Iebanon,
Liberia, Libyan Arab .famahiriya, Luxembourg, l€dagascar, Malawi,
!4alaysi, Maldives, MaIi, Malta2 Mauritania, Mexico, ldongolia,
!4)rocco, l,tozambique, l€pal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norlray, Oman, pakistan, panama, papua New Guinea,

A/37/667
English
Page 8

..

Against:

Abstaining:

NOne.

Argentina, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, France, German Democratic
Republic, Hungary, India, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Panama, Poland, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Viet Nam.

H. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.52

18. On 18 November, EQypt, Finland, France, Greece, Mexico, Nigeria, Sri Lanka and
Sweden submitted a draft resolution entitled "Review and supplement of the
comprehensive study on the question of nuclear-weapon-free zones in all its
aspects" (A/C.l/37/L.52) which was subsequently sponsored also by Colombia,
Ecuador, Ghana, Morocco, Senegal, Sierra Leone and Uruguay. The draft resolution
was introduced at the 37th meeting, on 19 November, by the representative of
Finland.

19. At the 45th meeting, on 26 November, Finland introduced an oral revision
providing for the addition at the end of operative paragraph 2, after the words
"thirty-nineth session", of the following phrase:

"bearing in mind the savings that may be made within existing budgetary
appropriations."

20. In connexion with the draft resolution, the Secretary-General submitted a
statement on the administrative and financial implications (A/C.l/37/L.72).

21. At its 45th meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.52, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 125 to 1, with
2 abstentions (see para. 40, draft resolution F). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Denmark, Dj ibouti, ~minican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysi, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,

I ...



v37/667
English
Page 9

Paraguay, Peru' Philippines' Poland' Portugal' Qatar' bmaniar
Rwanda, Sao Tlome ana 

-piitcipe, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal , Sierra

Ieonez Singapore, Somalia' spain' Sri Ianka' Sudan' Suriname'
Sweden,syriarThailand,Togo,Trinidadandlbbago,Ttrnisia,
Turkey,Uganda,UkrainianSovietSocialistRepublic,Unionof
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United Kingdottt
ofGreatBritainandnorthernlreland,UnitedRepublicof
cameroonrunitedRepublicofTanzaniaruruguayrvenezuela'Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslaviar ZaLte, Zanbia'

&gi$s India.

Abstaining: Guyana, united States of America'

I. Draft resolution A/c'1137 zL'53

22. Gr 17 tibvember, Austria, the Bahanast Bangl Co ia, Fra
i*raii,-Ni"eiia, 

-par ittea.3.9tuft resolution
. ,rr !!---- ^--^t^.:l ilia; ive G6-*ation on rni1itary capabilities" I

(A/C.L/37/L.53), which was subsequently sponsored also by Belgium, F€gagor and
Ghana. lltre draft resolution was introduced at the 38th meeting, on 19 November' 

by

Eilepresentative of Austria.

23. At its 43rd meetingl on 24 ti|cvember, the First Comnittee adoPted draft
resolution A/C.L/37/L.53 by a recorded vote of 103 to none' with 18 abstentions
|seepara.40,draftresolutionG).lltrevotingwasasfollows:

Ig favourl Algeria, Angolal Argentina, Austrialia, Austria' 
Baharnasr

sahrain, Bangladestr, sefgiumr Benin, Bhutanr Bolivia' Burmat
Burundi, canada, central African Republic, chad, ctrile, colombia,
Congol Costa Rica, Clrprus, Denmark, Djibouti' Dominican RePublicr
Ecuador, EgyPt, Fijir-fintand, Francel Gabon, Germanyr Federal
Repubtic of, Ghanar Greecer Guatenala, Guinea' Icelandr
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Irag, Ireland' Israel'
Italy, Ivory Coast, ilamaicar Japan, Jordan, Kenya' Kuwait'
Iebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascarr Ma1awi' Malaysiar
Maldives, Mali, Malta, llauritania, Mexico, l{orocco' Nepal'
Nettrerlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norwayr Onanr Pakistan'
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Perul Philippines' Portugalt
Qatar, Romlnia, Itrandar Saudi Arabiar Senegalr Singalprer
Somalia, Spain, Sri Iankar Sudanr Suriname, $reden' ilhailandl
$ogo, trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda2 United Arab
Emirates, tlnited Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern Irelandr
United Republic of cameroonr united Republic of Tanzania, united
states of emerica, Uruguayr venezuela, Yemen' Yugoslaviar Zaire'

ti&cne.Against:

A/37/667
English
Page 9

Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Sao Tbme and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syria, Thailand, Tbgo, Trinidad and Tbbago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: India.

Abstaining: Guyana, United States of America.

I. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.53

22. On 17 November, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Colombia, France, Indonesia,
Ireland, Nigeria, Pakistan, Romania and Sweden submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Measures to provide objective information on military capabilities",
(A/C.l/37/L.53), which was subsequently sponsored also by Belgium, Ecuador and
~. The draft resolution was introduced at the 38th meeting, on 19 November, by
the representative of Austria.

23. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/37/L.53 by a recorded vote of 103 to none, with 18 abstentions
,see para. 40, draft resolution G). The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Against:

Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria1ia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Burma,
Burundi, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lebanon, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand,
TOgo, Trinidad and Tbbago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United
States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire.

None.

/ ...



A/37 /667
English
Page l0

Abstaining: Afghanistan, BuJ-garia, Byelorussian Soviet SociaList Republic,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Guyana,
Hungary, India, Iao Peoplers Democratic Republic, lbngolia,
I'tozambique, Poland, Sierra Leone, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
RepubLic, Union of Societ Socialist Republics, Viet Nam, Zanbia.

J. Draft resolution A,/C.1/37lL.56

24. qr 18 lilrcvemberr Australia' Belgiun, Denrnark, Finland, the German Democratic
Republic, India, Japan and lilcrway submitted a draft resolution entitled rReview
Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Enplacement of
Nuclear Weapons and Other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Ocean
Floor and in the Subsoil Ttrereofr (A/C.L/37/L.561, which was subsequently strnnsored
also by Colqnbia, Ecuador and bmania. iltre draft resolution nas introduced at the
37th meetingl on 19 l{ovenber, by the representative of Denmark.

25. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 uovenberr the First Cqnrnittee adopted draft
resol-ution A/C.L/37/L.56 without a vote (see para. 40, draft resoLution tt) .

K. Draft resolution VC.1,/37lL.57
26. Cr t8 Novemberr Bangladesh, Belgium, Bulgaria, canada, czechoslovakia,

rk the Gerrnan atic Republic, Ital
Norw Sao nd Princi Spain, the ttrrited Ki of Great Britain

and the ttrr subnitted a draft resolutionentltled "Rev Gonference of Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any
other Hostile use of Environmental t40dification rrechnigues" lpy'c.L/37/L.57). The
draft resolution was introduced at the 37th neeting, on 19 l$overnber, by the
representative of Finland.

27. At its 45th neeting, on 24 litcvenber, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.L/37/L.57 by a recorded vote of 117 to none, with 7 abstentions (see
Para. 40, draft resolution I). lltre voting tras as followsr

rn favourr Afghanistan, Angola, Australia, Austria, Bahanas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burna, Burundi, Blzelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canadar
central African Republic, chad, chile, congo, costa Rica, cuba,
Clprusr Czechosolvakia, Dernocratic Yemen, Denrnark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Dgypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German
Denpcratic Republicr Gernanyr Flederal Republic of, Ghanar Greece,
Qratenala, Guinea, eryana, Hungary, fceland, fndia2 Indonesia,
Iran (Islanic Republic of), Irag, freland, Israe12 ftaly, fvory
Coast, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Iao peoplers Democratic
Republic, Iebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriyar Luxembourg,
Madagascarr Malawir Malaysia, MaIdives, Mal.i, Malta, Mauritania,
Itlcngolia, Morocco' Mozambique, Nepal , Netherlands, New Zealande
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, !br!ray, Onan, pakistan, papua New

A/37/667
English
Page 10

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Guyana,
Hungary, India, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Poland, Sierra Leone, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, union of Societ Socialist Republics, viet Nam, zambia.

J. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.56

24. On 18 November, Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, the German Democratic
RepUblic, India, Japan and Norway submitted a draft resolution entitled "Review
Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of
Nuclear Weapons and other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Ocean
Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof" (A/C.l/37/L.56), which was subsequently sponsored
also by Colombia, Ecuador and Romania. The draft resolution was introduced at the
37th meeting, on 19 November, by the representative of Denmark.

25. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/37/L.56 without a vote (see para. 40, draft resolution H).

K. Draft resolution A(C.l/37/L.57

26. On 18 November, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Czechoslovakia,
Denmark, EgyPt, Finland, the German Democratic Republic, Italy, Japan, Malawi,
Norway, Sao TOme and Principe, Spain, the united Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland and the united States of America submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Review Conference of the Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any
other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques" (A/C.l/37/L.57) •.The
draft resolution was introduced at the 37th meeting, on 19 November, by the
representative of Finland.

27. At its 45th meeting, on 24 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/37/L.57 by a recorded vote of 117 to none, with 7 abstentions (see
para. 40, draft resolution I). The voting was as follows:

In favour. Afghanistan, Angola, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, COngo, COsta Rica, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechosolvakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory
Coast, Japan, Jordan, r<enya, Kuwait, Lao people's Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New

/ ...



Against:

^/37/567English
Page 11

Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania'
Ftwanda, sao Tome and Principe, senegal , sierra I€oner singatrnret
Somalia, Spain, sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, thaiLandl ltogo' rrinidad and [trbago, Trrnisia, Trrrkey,
uganda, ukrainian soviet socialist Republic, union of soviet
socialist Republics, united Arab Bnirates, united Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern lreland, United Republic of Camefoool
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yement
Yugoslaviar Zaire, Zambia.

l.lone.

Abstaining: Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Panamar Peru.

L. Draft resolution a,/c'1l37lL'60

Bahamas, Colombia, CVprus, Egvpt, France, Indongsia'28. On 18 l$ovember, the Bah4nqq!-lqlonbie
Ireland, Lebanon, Mexico, NiGtia, Onan, Pakistanr Perur -sierra-I€one, Singapore,

subnitted a draft resolution entiEledSri Ianka, the Sudan, Svteden apd Vruguav submltted a oralE resoluEr
he Process of disarmament"

(A/C.L/37/L.60), which was subsequently sponsored also by FJcuador, Ghana, Liq'eriqr
Ronanle and the United Republic of Cameroon. The draft resolution was introduced
at ttre :Atfr mlet epresentative of Sweden. lttre draft
resolution reads as follows:

,,@,

"Recalling its resolution 3L/gO of 14 December L976, by which it decided
to feep ttre strengthening of the role of the United Nations in the field of
disarmament under continued review'

..Ig@resoIution34/87Eof11December1979inwhichitl
inter alia,

(a) Reaffirmed that the United Nations has a central role and primary
responsibility in Lhe field of disarmament'

(b) Iloted that the growing disarmament agenda and the cornplexity of the
issues involved, as well as the more active participation of a large number of
Member States, create increasing demands in the United Nations management of
disarmament affairs for purPoses such as the promotion, substantive
pretrraration, implementation and control of the process of disarmament,

ottoting that the second special session devoted to disarmament placed
increaElfr-duties on the Centre for Disarmament in reguesting it' to provide
the centril guidance in co-ordinating the World Disarmament Canpaign
activities within the United libtions system,

A/37/667
English
Page 11

Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and TObago, Tunisia, Turkey,
uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist RepUblics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon,
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, Jamaica, Mexico, Panama, Peru.

L. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.60

28. On 18 November, the Bahamas, Colombia, Cyprus, Egypt, France, Indonesia,
Ireland, Lebanon, Mexico, Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Peru, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, the Sudan, SWeden and Uruguay submitted a draft resolution entitled
"Institutional arrangements relating to the process of disarmament"
(A!C.l/37/L.60), which was subsequently sponsored also by Ecuador, Ghana, Liberia,
Romania and the United Republic of Cameroon. The draft resolution was introduced
at the 38th meeting on 19 November, by the representative of SWeden. The draft
resolution reads as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 31/90 of 14 December 1976, by which it decided
to keep the strengthening of the role of the United Nations in the field of
disarmament under continued review,

"Recalling also resolution 34/87 E of 11 December 1979 in which it,
inter alia,

(a) Reaffirmed that the United Nations has a central role and primary
responsibility in the field of disarmament,

(b) Noted that the growing disarmament agenda and the cOInplexity of the
issues involved, as well as the more active participation of a large number of
Member States, create increasing demands in the United Nations management of
disarmament affairs for purposes such as the promotion, substantive
preparation, implementation and control of the process of disarmament,

"Noting that the second special session devoted to disarmament placed
increasing duties on the Centre for Disarmament in requesting it to provide
the central guidance in co-ordinating the World Disarmament Campaign
activities within the United Nations system,

/ ...



^/37/667Erglish
Page 12

"Ioting also protrnsals subnitted to the second special session with a
view to taking certain action to strengthen the United }rlations disarmament
machinery,

nRecognizing the growing intrnrtance attached to disarmament questions
since the first special session devoted to disarmament, as evidenced by the
increasing work-load placed on the Centre for Disarmament and on the Cornrnittee
on Disarmament,

"B"ari.g itt-gi$ the suggestion that the single multilateral disarmarnent
negotiating forum shourd have the designation of a conference,

"Reaffirming the validity of the provisions contained in trnragraph I20 ofthe riiifEffi,Jnr,
"1. Reguests the Secretary-General to transform the Centre for

Disarmamentr aPpropriately strengthened with the existing overall resources of
the Ilnited Nations, into a Departnent for Disarmament Mfairs, headed by an
Ilnder-Secretary-General and so organized as to reflect fully the princip].e of
equitable geographicat distr ibutionl

n2. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session on the practical implementation of this resolutionl

'r3. Sgqornmends to the comrnittee on Disarmament that it consider
designating itself as a conference without prejudice to paragaph I20 of the
Final Docunent.

29. lltre draft resolution r,ras later included in draft resolution A/C.L/37/L.67 an<l
Corr. I (see subsection O)"

M. nraft resoLuFLon A/C.L/37/L.62
30. On 18 libvemberr Argentinar Austria, Bangladesh, Colombia, France, India,
Indg{resiar_fr9land, u a
draft resolution entitled rMilitary researctr ina aevefopmento 147C.t737/L.62, which
was subseguently also sponsored by Ecuador, Ghana and t'lalta

31- In connection with the draft resolutionr the Secretary-General subnitted a
statement on the administrative and financial inplications (F/C.L/37/L.74).
32. At the 48th rneeting, on 29 libvember, the representative of Sweden orally
revised the draft resolution by adding the following sentence to operative
paragraph I, after the word trexperts"t

"bearing in mind the savings that may be made from the existing budgetary
appropriations. "

A/37/667
English
Page 12

"Noting also proposals submitted to the second special session with a
view to taking certain action to strengthen the United Nations disarmament
machinery,

"Recognizing the growing importance attached to disarmament questions
since the first special session devoted to disarmament, as evidenced by the
increasing work-load placed on the Centre for Disarmament and on the Committee
on Disarmament,

"Bearing in mind the suggestion that the single multilateral disarmament
negotiating forum should have the designation of a conference,

"Reaffirming the validity of the provisions contained in paragraph 120 of
~~e Final Document,

"1. Requests the Secretary-General to transform the Centre for
Disarmament, appropriately strengthened with the existing overall resources of
the Uhited Nations, into a Department for Disarmament Affairs, headed by an
Uhder-secretary-General and so organized as to reflect fully the principle of
equitable geographical distributionJ

"2. Requests the secretary-General to report to the Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session on the practical implementation of this resolutionJ

"3. Recommends to the Committee on Disarmament that it consider
designating itself as a conference without prejudice to paragaph 120 of the
Final Document.

29. The draft resolution was later included in draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.67 and
Corr. 1 (see subsection 0).

M. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.62

30. On 18 November, Argentina, Austria, Bangladesh, Colombia, France, India,
Indonesia, Ireland, Mexico, Pakistan, Romania, Sweden and YUgoslavia submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Military research and development" (A/C.l/37/L.62) which
was subsequently also sponsored by Ecuador, Ghana and 14alta.

31. In connection with the draft resolution, the Secretary-General submitted a
statement on the administrative and financial implications (A/C.l/37/L.74).

32. At the 48th meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Sweden orally
revised the draft resolution by adding the following sentence to operative
paragraph 1, after the word "experts":

"bearing in mind the savings that may be made from the existing budgetary
appropriations."

I ...



A/37 /667
English
Page 13

33. At ttre same meeting, the First Cormnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.62. as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 103 to none, with
8 abstentions (see para. 40, draft resolution J)" The voting was follows'.

In favour: Algeria, Angolal Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamasr Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria' Burma'
Burundir Blrelorussian Soviet Socialist kSublic, Canada, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, qyPrusr Czechoslovakiat

Against:

Democratic Yemen, Denma.rk, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji'
Finland, France, German Democratic kpublic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Qrinea, Guyana, Hungary, fceland, India, Indonesia'
Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica'
Jordan, Kenyar Kuwait, Iao Peoplers Denocratic Fpqrblic, Liberia'
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, I"lalawil lblaysia, Mali,
l{alta' Mauritania, Mexico, l"tongolial Moroccor l4ozambique' }€5n1 ,
Nevt Zealand, Nicaraguar Nigeria, tilcrhtay, Ornan; Pakistanr Peru'
Philippines, Poland, tbrtugal, Qatar, SDmania, Rvanda, Senegal,
Singapore, Somalia, Strrain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden,
Slzrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Ibgo, Trinidad and 1bbago,
Tunisia, uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Repub1ic, Union of
Soviet Socialist hpublicsr utrited Arab Enirates' IJnited &public
of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguayr Venezuela,
Viet llam, lfirgoslavia, Zairer Zambia.

None.

Abgqeining3 Gernany, lbderal hpublic of, Italy' Jatrnn, Iuxembourgl
Netherlands, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and tibrthern
Ireland, united States of Anerica.

N. Draft resolution A/C.1,/lfll.63

34. On t8 ltovember, Egypt submitted a draft, resolution lA/C.L/371L.63) which
subseguently also sponsored by Colornbia, Ecuador and Sierra leone. The draft
resolution read as follows:

"@,
"Reca!l:!3g_ the purposes and principles of the Charter of the Llrited

Nations,

"Gravely concerned over the alarming deterioration and the growing
tension characterizing the international situation,

"Enplgs:lzittg that genuine and tasting peace can only be created through
ttre effective inplementation of the security system provided for in the
Charter of the llrited libtions and the speedlz and substantial reduction of arms
and armed forces leading ultimately to general and complete disarmament under
effective international control,

A/37/667
English
Page 13

33. At the same meeting, the First Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.62, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 103 to none, with
8 abstentions (see para. 40, draft resolution J). The voting was follows~

In favour~ Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, ~'elorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, canada, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, German Democratic RepUblic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic .Republic, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, oman, Pakistan, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal,
Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 'lbgo, Trinidad and 'lbbago,
Tunisia, uganda, Ukrainian soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet SOcialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Cameroon, United RepUblic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, YUgoslavia, Zaire, zambia.

Against~ None.

Abstaining~ Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

N. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.63

34. on 18 November, Egypt submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/37/L.63) which was
subsequently also sponsored by Colombia, Ecuador and Sierra Leone. The draft
resolution read as follows~

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling the purposes and pr inciples of the Charter of the United
Nations,

"Gravely concerned over the alarming deterioration and the growing
tension characterizing the international situation,

"Emphasizing that genuine and lasting peace can only be created through
the effective implementation of the security system provided for in the
Charter of the United Nations and the speedy and substantial reduction of arms
and armed forces leading ultimately to general and complete disarmament under
effective international control,

I ...



A/37 /667
English
Page 14

'S<pressinq its deep corrcern over the escalating pace of the arms race
both in its qualitative and quantitative aspectsT in particular the nuclear
arms racer whictr hinders the collective drive in the field of disarmament and
has adverse effects on the international situation and world p€dcez

"Convinced that nhile disarnament is the responsibility of all States,
the two najor nuclear-*reapon States have the prinary responsibility for
nuclear disarmament and, together with other militarily significant States,
for halting and reversing the arms rdc€r

'Erpressinq deep reqret over the failure of the second special session
devoted to disarnament, held in June 1982, to produce trnsitive results, in
particular the adoption of a conprehensive programne for disarmament
containing urgent and concrete measures for the realization of general and
conplete disarmament under effective international control,

"Eeaffirming the urgent need for the implementation, according to the
priorities set forth therein, of the reconmendations and decisions contained
in the unanimously adopted Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assenbly, the first special session devoted to disarmament, held in
1978' the validity of which has also been unanimously reaffirnred by the second
special session,

o1. Reiterates the central role and primary responsibility of the United
tilations in the sphere of disarnament in accordance with its Charter as well as
trnragraph 27 of the Final bcument of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assemblyr held in 1978i

'2. Reaffirms the disarmament priorities unanirnously agreed utrnn as
contained in the Final Document referred to abovel

o3. E<presses profound concern over the escalating pace of the arms race
both in its qualitative and guantitative aspects and, in particular, the
nuclear arms race and its adverse effects on the international situationl

n4. Calls uPon all najor nuclear Powers to undertake concrete and
effective measures to halt and reverse the arms racel in particular the
nuclear arms race, in order to help create the atlnosphere conducive to the
realization of general and conplete disarmament under effective international
control. "

35. At the 45th meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Egypt made a
statment to the effect that the sponsors did not wish to put the draft resolution
to a vote.

A/37/667
English
Page 14

"EXpressing its deep concern over the escalating pace of the arms race
both in its qualitative and quantitative aspects, in particular the nuclear
arms race, which hinders the collective drive in the field of disarmament and
has adverse effects on the international situation and world peace,

"Convinced that while disarmament is the responsibility of all States,
the two major nuclear~eapon States have the primary responsibility for
nuclear disarmament and, together with other militarily significant States,
for halting and reversing the arms race,

"EXpressing deep regret over the failure of the second special session
devoted to disarmament, held in June 1982, to produce positive results, in
particular the adoption of a comprehensive programme for disarmament
containing urgent and concrete measures for the realization of general and
complete disarmament under effective international control,

"Reaffirming the urgent need for the implementation, according to the
priorities set forth therein, of the recommendations and decisions contained
in the unanimously adopted Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, the first special session devoted to disarmament, held in
1978, the validity of which has also been unanimously reaffirmed by the second
special session,

"1. Reiterates the central role and primary responsibility of the United
Nations in the sphere of disarmament in accordance with its Charter as well as
paragraph 27 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly, held in 1978;

"2. Reaffirms the disarmament priorities unanimously agreed upon as
contained in the Final Document referred to above)

"3. EXpresses profound concern over the escalating pace of the arms race
both in its qualitative and quantitative aspects and, in particular, the
nuclear arms race and its adverse effects on the international situation,

"4. Calls upon all major nuclear Powers to undertake concrete and
effective measures to halt and reverse the arms race, in particular the
nuclear arms race, in order to help create the atmosphere conducive to the
realization of general and complete disarmament under effective international
control."

35. At the 45th meeting, on 26 November, the representative of Egypt made a
statment to the effect that the sponsors did not wish to put the draft resolution
to a vote.

I ...



A/37/667
English
Page 15

o. Draft resolution VC.1/37lL.57 and Corr'1

r, tlaLi, lla1 tania, Mexico

(py'C.L/3?/L.67 and Corr.L) r whictr was subsequently sponsored also by &@'.

37. The draf t resolution was introduced by ttre rePresentative of ttbrway at the
40ttr meeting, on 23 lbvember, who stated that it replaced draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.9r under agenda item 133 la) lsee A/37/6701, and draft resolutions
VC.t/37/r.23 and a/C.L/37/L.60 and draft decision A/C.L/37/L.36' under agenda
item 55 lsee subsections B, L and E).

3g. In connection with the draft resolutionl the Secretary-General suburitted a
etatement on the administrative and financial irnplications (A/C.L/37/L.68'|.

39. At its 44th meeting, on 26 Novemberr the First Cqnnrittee adopted draft
resolution A/C.V37/L.67 and Corr.l without a vote (see para. 40, draft
resolution K).

III. RECOM!4ENDATIONS OF THE FIRST @MMITTEE

40. ltre First Conunittee recommends to the General A.ssenb1y the adoption of the
follcnring draft resolutions:

General and cqnPlete disarnament

A

lbn-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of States
where there are no such weapons at present

The General Assenblv,

Conscious that a nuclear war would have devastating consequences for the whole
of mankind,

Recalling its resolution 33/gL F of 16 December L978' which contains an appeaL
to atl rurclear*reapon States to refrain from stationing nuclear weapons on the
territories of States where there are no such weapons at present, and to all
non-nuclearareapon States that do not have nuclear yteaPons on their territories to
refrain fron any step6 that would directly or indirectly resul-t in the stationing
of such vreapons on their territoriesr

lbvember r

e, Singapore, spainr the Sudan! Slredel' .
uouay submitted_a draft resolution

lating to the process of disarmament"

A/37/667
English
Page 15

O. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.67 and Corr.l

36. On 22 November, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bolivia,
Canada, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Ecuador, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Kenya, Lebanon,
Liberia, Madagascar, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Panama, Portugal, Romania, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, the Sudan, Sweden,
Tunisia, the United Republic of Cameroon and Uruguay submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Institutional arrangements relating to the process of disarmament"
(A/C.l/37/L.67 and Corr.l), which was subsequently sponsored also by Rwanda.

37. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Norway at the
40th meeting, on 23 November, who stated that it replaced draft resolution
A/C.1/37/L.9, under agenda item 133 fa) (see A/37/670), and draft resolutions
A/C.l/37/L.23 and A/C.l/37/L.60 and draft decision A/C.l/37/L.36, under agenda
item 55 fsee SUbsections B, L and E).

38. In connection with the draft resolution, the Secretary-General submitted a
statement on the administrative and financial implications (A/C.l/37/L.68).

39. At its 44th meeting, on 26 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/37/L.67 and Corr.1 without a vote fsee para. 40, draft
resolution K).

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

40. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

General and complete disarmament

A

Non-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of States
where there are no such weapons at present

The General Assembly,

Conscious that a nuclear war would have devastating consequences for the whole
of mankind,

Recalling its resolution 33/91 F of 16 December 1978, which contains an appeal
to all nuc1ear-weapon States to refrain from stationing nuclear weapons on the
territories of States where there are no such weapons at present, and to all
non-nuc1ear-weapon States that do not have nuclear weapons on their territories to
refrain from any steps that would directly or indirectly result in the stationing
of such weapons on their territories,

I ...



A/3V/667
English
Page 16

- Recallinq further its resolutions 35/L56 C of 12 Decenber 1980 and 36/97 E of9 December 1981, in which it requested the Corunittee on Disarmament to proceed
witttout delay to talks with a view to elaborating an international agreement on the
non-stationing of nuclear vreapons on the territories of States where there are no
such weapons at present,

Notinq with reoret that the appeals by the Ccneral Assembly remain unheeded,
Considering that the non-stationing of nuclear neapons on the territories of

States where there are no such weapons at present would constitute a step torards
the J-arger objective of ttre subseguent complete withdrawal of nuclear weapons from
the territories of other States, thus contributing to the prevention of the spreadof nuclear weaPons and leading eventually to ttre total elimination of nuclear
weapons,

. ..BeFrinq-in m-ind the clearly expressed intention of many States to prevent thestationing of nuclear weapons on their territoriesr

_ Deeplv alarmed by plans and practicaL steps leading to a build-up of
nuclear-treapon arsenals on the territories of other states,

to talks with a view to elaborating an international agreement on thenon-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of States where
such weapons at presentl

without delay

there are no

2. Calls uPon all nuclear-h'eapon states not to station nuclear weapons ontbe territories of states where there are no such weatrnns at present and to refrainfrom further action involving the stationing of nuclelr weapoirs on the territoriesof other Statesl

3. Calls upon all nuclear-weapon States to freeze qualitatively nuclear
wealbns on the territories of other Statesr

. 4. Requests the Secretary-C'eneral to transmit to the Comnittee on
Disarnament all documents relating to the discussion of this guestion by the
@neral Assenbly at its thirty-seventh sessionl

' Reqgests the Comnittee on Disarmament to subrnit a retrnrt on the guestionto the General Assenbly at its thirty-eighth sessionl
6' oegi9eq to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth sessionthe item entitled nNon-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of states

where there are no such weatrnns at present: report of the conmittee on
Disarnannent'.

A/37/667
English
Page 16

Recalling further its resolutions 35/156 C of 12 December 1980 and 36/97 E of
9 December 1981, in which it requested the Committee on Disarmament to proceed
without delay to talks with a view to elaborating an international agreement on the
non-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of States where there are no
such weapons at present,

Noting with regret that the appeals by the General Assembly remain unheeded,

Considering that the non-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of
States where there are no such weapons at present would constitute a step towards
the larger objective of the subsequent complete withdrawal of nuclear weapons from
the territories of other States, thus contributing to the prevention of the spread
of nuclear weapons and leading eventually to the total elimination of nuclear
weapons,

Bearing in mind the clearly expressed intention of many States to prevent the
stationing of nuclear weapons on their territories,

Deeply alarmed by plans and practical steps leading to a build-up of
nuclear-weapon arsenals on the territories of other States,

1. Requests once again the Committee on Disarmament to proceed without delay
to talks with a view to elaborating an international agreement on the
non-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of States where there are no
such weapons at present)

2. Calls upon all nuclear-weapon States not to station nuclear weapons on
the territories of States where there are no such weapons at present and to refrain
from further action involving the stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories
of other States)

3. Calls upOn all nuclear-weapon States to freeze qualitatively nuclear
weapons on the territories of other States)

4. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Committee on
Disarmament all documents relating to the discussion of this question by the
General Assembly at its thirty-seventh sessionJ

5. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to submit a report on the question
to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth sessionJ

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item entitled "Non-stationing of nuclear weapons on the territories of States
where there are no such weapons at present: report of the Committee on
Disarmament".

/ ...



A/37/667
English
Page 17

B

Report of ttre Independent Commission
SecuritY Issues

on Disarrnament and

fhe General Assemblv,

Concerned over the alarning state of the arms race and the risks it causes to
the survival- of hurnankind,

Recoqnizing the central role of the ttrrited Nations in reducing tension, in
safeg[ar-dfiG:56 prornoting confidence between States and in furthering contnon
security and the cause of disarmanent,

Havinq noted the report of the Indelnndent Cqnmission on Disarmament and
Securily fssues entitled "Comnpn securityir submitted to the General AssembLy at
its twelfth special session, the second speclal session devoted to disarmament'

Convinced that the Commission has made an important contribution to the
aiscuEEEiT-nE deliberation on disarrnament and security issues and that its
recommendations and proposalsr embodied in its Programne of action, should be
further considered within the United Nations system,

Noting that ttre recommendations in the rePort were addressed to Governments
and to the tnited ldations and its organs,

Convinced of the importance of ensuring an effective foLlow-up to the rePort
in the United tilations system and in other relevant contexts'

I. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the relnrt of the Independent
Conmission on Disarmament and Security Issues to the Disarmament Cqnrnissionl

2. Further requests the Disarrnament Comnission to consider those
recqnrnendations ana proposals in the re5rort that relate to disarmament and arms
limitation and to suggest, in a report to ttre General Assembly, how best to ensure
an effective follcr-up thereto within the United Nations system or otherwisel

3. Decides to include in the agenda of its thirty-eighth session an itern
entitled "fnaepenaent Corunission on Disarmament and Security Issues: relnrt of the
Disarmament Comnission'.

A/37/667
English
Page 17

B

Report of the Independent Commission on Disarmament and
security Issues

The General Assembly,

Concerned over the alarming state of the arms race and the risks it causes to
the survival of humankind,

Recognizing the central role of the United Nations in reducing tension, in
safeguarding and promoting confidence between States and in furthering common
security and the cause of disarmament,

Having noted the report of the Independent Commission on Disarmament and
Security Issues entitled "Common security", submitted to the General Assembly at
its twelfth special session, the second special session devoted to disarmament,

Convinced that the Commission has made an important contribution to the
discussion and deliberation on disarmament and security issues and that its
recommendations and proposals, embodied in its programme of action, should be
further considered within the United Nations system,

Noting that the recommendations in the report were addressed to Governments
and to the United Nations and its organs,

Convinced of the importance of ensuring an effective follow-up to the report
in the United Nations system and in other relevant contexts,

1. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the report of the Independent
Commission on Disarmament and Security Issues to the Disarmament Commission,

2. Further requests the Disarmament Commission to consider those
recommendations and proposals in the report that relate to disarmament and arms
limitation and to suggest, in a report to the General Assembly, how best to ensure
an effective follow-up thereto within the United Nations system or otherwise,

3. Decides to include in the agenda of its thirty-eighth session an item
entitled "Independent Commission on Disarmament and Security Issuesl report of the
Disarmament Commission".

I ...



^/37/667EngIish
Page 18

c

Prohibition of the developmentr production, stockpil.ing and use of
radiological weap,ons

The Ceneral Assenblv,

Recalling the resolution of the Cqnmission for Conventional Arnaments of
12 Argust 1948, which defined wealbns of mass destruction to include atomic
explosive weaponsr radioactive material weapons, lettral ctremical and biological
weapons and any wealbns develotrnd in ttre future which have characteristics
conparable in destructive effect to those of the atqnic bomb or the other weapons
mentioned above,

Recalling its resolution 2602 C fXXIV) of 16 Decenber 1969,

_RecalliTtg paragraph 76 of the Final Docunent of the Tenth speciat session ofthe c'eneral Assembly U in whictr it is stated that a convention should be concludedprohibiting the deveJ-opment, production, stockpiling and use of radioLogical
weapons,

. neaffirmiTq its resolution 36/97 B of 9 Decenber lggl on the conclusion ofsuch a convention,

- conving.ed that suctr a convention would serve to spare nankind the lntentialdangers of ttre use of radiological weapons and thereby contribute to strengthening
Peace and averting the threat of war,

Noting that negotiations on the conclusion of an international conventionprohibiting the developnent, production, stockpiling and use of radiological
vreapons have been conducted in the ccnnmittee on Disarmament,

-3gE!!g nogg of those Parts of the reports of the oonmittee on Disarnament tothe General Assernbly at its twelfth speciil session and its thirty-seventh sessionthat deal with ttrose negotiations, inctuaing the report of the Ad Hoc tforking Groupon Radiological Weapons, 4rl

Recgqnizing that noth'ithstanding the progress actrieved in ttrose negotiationa,divergent views continue to exist in conneiion with various aspects,

Resolution S-LO/2.v
4/ al As lfth s sst.on(A/s-L2/21 ,

(A/37/27t ,
paras.

paras.
67-7 s

76-83.
and ibid., Thirtv-seventh Session, Supplement Ib. 2?

A/37/667
English
Page 18

C

Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and use of
radiological weapons

The General Assembly,

Recalling the resolution of the Commission for Conventional Armaments of
12 August 1948, which defined weapons of mass destruction to include atomic
explosive weapons, radioactive material weapons, lethal chemical and biological
weapons and any weapons developed in the future which have characteristics
comparable in destructive effect to those of the atomic bomb or the other weapons
mentioned above,

Recalling its resolution 2602 C (XXIV) of 16 December 1969,

Recalling paragraph 76 of the Final Document of the Tenth special Session of
the General Assembly 1/ in which it is stated that a convention should be concluded
prohibiting the development, production, stockpiling and use of radiological
weapons,

Reaffirming its resolution 36/97 B of 9 December 1981 on the conclusion of
such a convention,

Convinced that such a convention would serve to spare mankind the potential
dangers of the use of radiological weapons and thereby contribute to strengthening
peace and averting the threat of war,

Noting that negotiations on the conclusion of an international convention
prohibiting the development, production, stockpiling and use of radiological
weapons have been conducted in the Committee on Disarmament,

Taking note of those parts of the reports of the Committee on Disarmament to
the General Assembly at its twelfth special session and its thirty-seventh session
that deal with those negotiations, including the report of the Ad Hoc Working Group
on Radiological Weapons, i/

Recognizing that notwithstanding the progress achieved in those negotiations,
divergent views continue to exist in connexion with various aspects,

11 Resolution S-10/2.

4/ Official Records of the General Assembly, TWelfth Special Session
(A/s-I2/2), paras. 67-75 and ibid., Thirty-seventh Session, Supplement No. 27
(A/37/27), paras. 76-83.

I ...



A/37/667
English
Page 19

Takinqintocgnsiderationthatthepeacefulapplicationsofnuclearenergy
involve the establishment of a large number of nuclear instaLlations 

with a high

concentration of radioactive rnaterials, and bearing in nind that 
the destruction of

such nuclear facilities by nilitary attacks could have disastrous 
consequencest

tfotinq with satisfactiolq the wide recognition of the need to reach 
agreenent

on th ion of radiological weatrnns'

1. Resuests the Connittee on Disarnanent to continue negotiations with 
a

view to a' e"rty?"".i""i"" of the elaboration of a treaty 
prohibiting the

development, produ"lion, stockpiJ-ing and use of radiological weapons' 
in order that

it nay be subnitted to the General Lsernbly at its thirty-eighth sessiont

2. rurther requeFts the cqnmittee on Disarmament to continue its 
search for

a solution to tfr6-E-i- of prohibition of military attacks on nuclear
facilities, including the scope of such prohibition, taking into account 

all
proposals submitted to it to this endr

3. Takes note of the recqnrnendation of the ad Hoc working Group on
Radiological weaponsr in the retrnrt adopted by the conmittee on Disarrnamentr to
establish at the* Uegirrtting of iis 1983 session, an a9 hgc working 

group' to
continue negotiation= on the Prohibition of radiological weaPonsl 5'l

4.RegueststheSecretary-CreneraltotransmittotheComnitteeon
Disarnament arl a-"";;";; i.r"ti"g to the discussion by ttre General Assenbly at its
thirty-seventh session of the prohibition of the developmentl production'
stockpiLing and use of radioLogical weatrnnsl

5. Decides to incrude in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item entitleE- nprohibition of the developrnentr Productionr stockpiling and use
of radiological weaPonsr!.

D

Prevention of an arms race in outer space and
prohibition of anti-sateLlite systems

InsPired bY
entry into outer

thegreatprospectsopeningupbeforemankindasaresultofman|s
space,

5/ Officia
Suppl-enent l{o. 27

s
(V37/2717 Pird. 83.

A/37/667
English
Page 19

Taking into consideration that the peaceful applications of nuclear energy
involve the establishment of a large number of nuclear installations with a high
concentration of radioactive materials, and bearing in mind that the destruction of
such nuclear facilities by military attacks could have disastrous consequences,

Noting with satisfaction the wide recognition of the need to reach agreement
on the comprehensive prohibition of radiological weapons,

1. Requests the committee on Disarmament to continue negotiations with a
view to an early conclusion of the elaboration of a treaty prohibiting the
development, production, stockpiling and use of radiological weapons, in order that
it may be submitted to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session,

2. FUrther requests the Committee on Disarmament to continue its search for
a solution to the question of prohibition of military attacks on nuclear
facilities, including the scope of such prohibition, taking into account all
proposals submitted to it to this end,

3. Takes note of the recommendation of the Ad Hoc Working Group on
Radiological Weapons, in the report adopted by the Committee on Disarmament, to
establish at the beginning of its 1983 session, an ad hoc working group, to
continue negotiations on the prohibition of radiological weapons, 1/

4. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the committee on
Disarmament all documents relating to the discussion by the General Assembly at its
thirty-seventh session of the prohibition of the development, production,
stockpiling and use of radiological weapons)

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item entitled "Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and use
of radiological weapons·.

D

Prevention of an arms race in outer space and
prohibition of anti-satellite systems

The General Assembly,

Inspired by the great prospects opening up before mankind as a result of man's
entry into outer space,

~ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/37/27), para. 83.

I ...



A/ 37 / 667
English
Page 20

Berieving that any activity in outer space shourd be for peaceful purposes andcarried on for the benefit of all peoples, irrespective of the degree of theireconomic and scientific develotrxnent,

Becauing that the states parties to the Treaty on principres Governing theActivities of states in the E<proration and use of outer space, incruding the l,{oonand other celestial Bodiesr 6/ have undertaken, in article rrr, to carry onactivities in the exploration and use of outer spacer including the npon and othercelestial bodies, in accordance with international law and the charter of theunited Nationsr in the interest of maintaining international peace and security andpromoting internationar co-operation and undeistanding,
Reaffirming, in particular, article rV of the above-mentioned rreaty, whichstipulates that states parties to the Treaty undertake not to place in orbit aroundthe earth any objects carrying nuclear 

""a5rons 
or any other kinds of weapons ofrnass destructir:n, install suclt weapons on celestial uoaies or station such teaponsin outer space in any other manner,

Reaffirming also paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth specialsession of the General Assembly, 7/ which states that, in order to prevent an armsrace. in outer space, further measures should be taken and appropriate internationarnegotiations held in accordance with tne spirii of the rreaii, '

Awars of the need to prevent an arms race in outer space and, in particular,of the ttrreat posed by anti-satellite systems and their destabilizing effects forinternational peace and security,
Recarling its resolutions 36197 and 36/99 of 9 December 19gr,
lbling the grave concern expressed by the second united Nations conference onthe E<ploration and Peaceful uses of outei space over the possibre extension of anarns race into outer space, and the recommendations made to the competent organs ofthe United Nations, in particular the General Assembly, and also to the Conunitteeon Disarrnament,

- t'Ioting also that, in the course of its session in 19g2, the comnittee onDisarmament considered this subject both at its fornal and infornrar meetings, aswell as through informal consultations,
lbting lfurthgl the part of the report of the conunittee on Disarmament relatingto the item entitled "prevention of an arms race in outer s[)ace,,, g/

v
7/

Resolution 2222 (XXI), annex.

Resolution 5-10,/2"

Supplenent_Nc:_27 (A/37/27), paras. 97-106.
-seventh Sessi9./ of f icial Regclg-g_ef lbe General Assembl

A/37/667
English
Page 20

Believing that any activity in outer space should be for peaceful purposes and
carried on for the benefit of all peoples, irrespective of the degree of their
economic and scientific development,

Recalling that the States parties to the Treaty on Principles Governing the
Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including the Moon
and Other Celestial Bodies, §/ have undertaken, in article Ill, to carry on
activities in the exploration and use of outer space, including the moon and other
celestial bodies, in accordance with international law and the Charter of the
United Nations, in the interest of maintaining international peace and security and
promoting international co-operation and understanding,

Reaffirming, in particular, article IV of the above-mentioned Treaty, which
stipulates that States parties to the Treaty undertake not to place in orbit around
the earth any objects carrying nuclear weapons or any other kinds of weapons of
mass destruction, install such weapons on celestial bodies or station such weapons
in outer space in any other manner,

Reaffirming also paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, 7/ which states that, in order to prevent an arms
race in outer space, further measures should be taken and appropriate international
negotiations held in accordance with the spirit of the Treaty,

Aware of the need to prevent an arms race in outer space and, in particular,
of the threat posed by anti-satellite systems and their destabilizing effects for
international peace and security,

Recalling its resolutions 36/97 and 36/99 of 9 December 1981,

Noting the grave concern expressed by the Second United Nations Conference on
the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space over the possible extension of an
arms race into outer space, and the recommendations made to the competent organs of
the United Nations, in particular the General Assembly, and also to the Committee
on Disarmament,

Noting also that, in the course of its session in 1982, the Committee on
Disarmament considered this SUbject both at its formal and informal meetings, as
well as through informal conSUltations,

Noting further the part of the report of the Committee on Disarmament relating
to the item entitled "Prevention of an arms race in outer space", J!/

&I Resolution 2222 (XXI), annex.

1/ Resolution S-10/2.

J!/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/37/27), paras. 97-106.

/ ...



^/37/667Erg!.ish
Page 21

1. Reaffirms that further effective measures to 
prevent an arns race in

outer space snouii-be adopted by the international cqrununityl

2. lbtes with appreciation the contribution given by !{ember 
States to the

discussion of the item in tfre Cofrmittee on 
pisarmament and in the GeneraL Assenblyt

3. Reguests the cornrnittee on Disarnament to continue substantive

negotiating effective and verifiable agreenents aimed at
outer space, taking into account all existing and future
this objective?

{b)Asamatterofpriority,thequestionofnegotiatinganeffectiveand
verifiable agreement to prohibit anti-sitellite systems as an imtrnrtant 

step

towards tne fulfiimettt oi tt'" objectives set out in sub-paragraph 
(a) abovet

4.gtpresseslhehotrry'thattheCqurritteeonDisarmanentwilltakethe
appropriate step]Jffifi-Fftre trnssible establishrnent of a working 

group' in order

to promote the objectives set forth in paragraphs I and 3 abovet

5. Resuests the committee on Disarrnament to retrnrt on the consideration
given to this subject to the General Assenbly at its thirty-eighth sessionl

6.Decidestoincludeintheprovisionalagendaofitsthirty-elghthsession
the item entitleE' 'Prevention of an arms race in outer space and prohibition 

of
anti-sateLlite sYstems' .

consideration ofr

(a) lltre guestion of
preventing an arms race in
protrnsals desigrned to meet

E

Prohibitionoftheproductionoffissionablernaterial
for weaPons PurPoses

lltre General AssenblY,

RecaLlinq its resolutions 33/gL Il of 16 December L978' 34/87 D of
tl December 1979 , 35/L56 H of 12 December 1980 and 36/97 G of 9 December 

L98f in
which it reguestea tire Cffilnittee on Disarmament, at an appropriate 

stage of the
irplenrentation of the Programme of Action set forth in section III 

of the Final
bcument of the Tenth strncial session of the General Assembly' .2/ 

ana of its work
on the item entitled "Nrclear weatrnns in all aspects"' to consider urgently 

the

question of adequately verified clssation and prohibition of fissionable 
material

for nuclear weapons arrA other nuclear expl-osive devices and to keep ttre essembly
informed of the Progress of that consideration'

2/ Resolution S-l0r/2"
/...

A/37/667
English
Page 21

1. Reaffirms that further effective measures to prevent an arms race in
outer space should be adopted by the international community)

2. Notes with appreciation the contribution given by Member States to the
discussion of the item in the Committee on Disarmament and in the General Assembly)

3. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to continue substantive
consideration of'

(a) The question of negotiating effective and verifiable agreements aimed at
preventing an arms race in outer space, taking into account all existing and future
proposals designed to meet this objectives

(b) As a matter of priority, the question of negotiating an effective and
verifiable agreement to prohibit anti-satellite systems as an important step
towards the fulfilment of the objectives set out in sub-paragraph (a) above)

4. Expresses the hope that the Committee on Disarmament will take the
appropriate steps, such as the possible establishment of a working group, in order
to promote the objectives set forth in paragraphs 1 and 3 aboveJ

5. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to report on the consideration
given to this subject to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth sessionJ

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item entitled ·Prevention of an arms race in outer space and prohibition of
anti-satellite systems·.

E

Prohibition of the production of fissionable material
for weapons purposes

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 33/91 H of 16 December 1978, 34/87 D of
11 December 1979, 35/156 H of 12 December 1980 and 36/97 G of 9 December 1981, in
which it requested the Committee on Disarmament, at an appropriate stage of the
implementation of the Programme of Action set forth in section III of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 9/ and of its work
on the item entitled "Nuclear weapons in all aspects", to consider urgently the
question of adequately verified cessation and prohibition of fissionable material
for nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive devices and to keep the Assembly
informed of the progress of that consideration,

21 Resolution S-10/2.

I ...



A/37 /567
Engl ish
Page 22

Noting that the agenda of the Comnittee on Disarmament for 1982 included the
item entitled "Nuclear weatrrons in a1l aspectstr and that the Committeets progranme
of work for both trnrts of its session held in 1982 contained the iten entitledt'Cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarnamentte

Recalling the proposals and statements made in the Committee on Disarmament on
those items,

Considering that the cessation of production of fissionable material for
tdeapons purposes and the progressive conversion and transfer of stocks to peaceful
uses would be a significant step towards halting and reversing the nuclear arns
fdC€ r

Considerinq that the prohibition of the production of fissionable material for
nuclear weapons and other explosive devices also would be an inSnrtant measure in
facilitating the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weaPons and e:<plosive
devices t

Requesle the Conmittee on Disarmarnent, at an apPropriate stage of its work on
the item entitled "Nuclear weapons in all aspectstrr to pursue its consideration of
the question of adequately verified cessation and prohibition of the production of
fissionable rnaterial for nuclear ireapons and other nuclear explosive devices and to
keep the General Assenbly inforrned of the progress of that consideration.

F

Review and supplement of the comprehensive study on the guestion
of nuclear-neapon free zones in all its aspects

The Genera,L _:4esembft/ r

Conscious of the need to make every effort towards actrieving a cessation of
the nuclear arms f,€lc€2 nuclear disarnament and general and complete disarnanent
under strict and effective international control,

Recognizinq, in pursuance of these ends, the urgent need to prevent the
proliferation of nuclear r.reapons in the world,

Affirming that the establishment of nuclear-neapon-free zones is a
contribution to disarmament,

Recalling its resolution 3472 (xxx) of 1l December 1975 on the comprehensive
study of the guestion of nuclear-weapon-free zones in all its aspectsl

A/37/667
English
Page 22

Noting that the agenda of the Committee on Disarmament for 1982 included the
item entitled "Nuclear weapons in all aspects" and that the Committee's programme
of work for both parts of its session held in 1982 contained the item entitled
"Cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament",

Recalling the proposals and statements made in the Committee on Disarmament on
those items,

Considering that the cessation of production of fissionable material for
weapons purposes and the progressive conversion and transfer of stocks to peaceful
uses would be a significant step towards halting and reversing the nuclear arms
race,

Considering that the prohibition of the production of fissionable material for
nuclear weapons and other explosive devices also would be an important measure in
facilitating the prevention of the proliferation of nuclear weapons and explosive
devices,

Requests the Committee on Disarmament, at an appropriate stage of its work on
the item entitled "Nuclear weapons in all aspects", to pursue its consideration of
the question of adequately verified cessation and prohibition of the production of
fissionable material for nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive devices and to
keep the General Assembly informed of the progress of that consideration.

F

Review and supplement of the comprehensive study on the question
of nuclear-weapon free zones in all its aspects

The General Assembly,

Conscious of the need to make every effort towards achieving a cessation of
the nuclear arms race, nuclear disarmament and general and complete disarmament
under strict and effective international control,

Recognizing, in pursuance of these ends, the urgent need to prevent the
proliferation of nuclear weapons in the world,

Affirming that the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones is a
contribution to disarmament,

Recalling its resolution 3472 (XXX) of 11 December 1975 on the comprehensive
study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free zones in all its aspects,

/ ...



v37/667
Engllsh
Page 23

Recallinq the views, observations and suggestions rnade 
on it by @vernments'

and by the International Atqnic &rergy agency and other 
international organlzatione

concernedr dnd the rep,ort of t6e Secietary-@neral containlng 
them' f1p'/

Considerinothatquestionsrelatedtotheestablishrnentofnuclear-weapon-free
zones in various lnrts of ttre worLd have been addressed in a 

number of recent
studies undertaken by the United l{ations in the fieLd of disarnarnentr

Considerinq furthgr
tlucleir tileatrnns in Iatin
for ttre other regions of

The General Assemblyr

DeePIv concerned about
particular ttre nuclear arms

the continuing escalation of the arms racer in
!6c€r its extrenely harmful effects on world Peace

that ttre experience of the Treaty for ttre Prohibition of
Anerica (Treaty ot ff.t"tolco) S/ would be of great value
the world,

Recoqnizinq that ttrese developments should be recorded in a new 
cdtPlenentary

study of ttris subject,

l.DecidesttratastudyshouldbeundertakentorevierandsuPPlenentthe
aomprehensive study of the guestion of nuclear-oeapon-free zones 

in all its aspects
in ttre light of iniormation and experience accumulated since 1975t

2. Requests the secretary-Generalr with the assistance of an 
ad hoc arouP of

qualif ied gorr"rr,ilE rtal experts, to carry out the study and to subnit it to 
the

@neral Assenrbly at its thirty-ninth selsion, bearing in mind 
the savings that may

be nade wittrin existing budgetary appropriationsl

3. call-s upon interested Governments and international 0rganizations
concerned to extend such assistance as tnay be reguired fron tinre 

to time for the
carrying out of the studyt

4. Deci4es to include in the provisional, agenda of its thirty-nintlr 
seselon

an item entitled "Study of ttre question of nuclear-neapon-free zones in all 
lts

aspectsi.
G

Measures to provide objective infornation
on military caPabilities

u./

&/
Py'L0o27/Pdd.L.

Ilnited t€tions, Treaty Series,

and

vol. 634, No. 9068r P. 326'

/...

A/37/667
English
Page 23

Recalling the views, observations and suggestions made on it by Governments,
and by the International Atomic Energy Agency and other international organizations
concerned, and the report of the Secretary-General containing them, !Q/

Considering that questions related to the establishment of nuclear-weapon-free
zones in various parts of the world have been addressed in a number of recent
studies undertaken by the United Nations in the field of disarmament,

Considering further that the experience of the Treaty for the Prohibition of
Nuclear Weapons in ratin America (Treaty of Tlatelolco) W would be of great value
for the other regions of the world,

Recognizing that these developments should be recorded in a new complementary
study of this SUbject,

1. Decides that a study should be undertaken to review and supplement the
comprehensive study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free zones in all its aspects
in the light of information and experience accumulated since 1975,

2. Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of an ad hoc group of
qualified governmental experts, to carry out the study and to submit it to the
General Assembly at its thirty-ninth session, bearing in mind the savings that may
be made within existing bUdgetary appropriations,

3. calls upon interested Governments and international organizations
concerned to extend such assistance as may be required from time to time for the
carrying out of the study,

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-ninth session
an item entitled "Study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free zones in all its
aspects".

G

Measures to provide objective information
on military capabilities

The General Assembly,

Deeply concerned abOut the continuing escalation of the arms race, in
particular the nuclear arms race, its extremely harmful effects on world peace and

10/ A/10027/Add.l.

11/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 634, No. 9068, p. 326.

I· ..



Py'37 /667
English
Page 24

security and the deplorable r,taste of human and rnaterial resources for rnilitary
purposes,

Recalling the Final lbcument of the Tenth Specia3. Session of the General
Assembly' !!i/ which states, inter alia, that, in order to facititate the process of
disarmament, it is necessary to take measures and to pursue policies to strengthen
international peace and security and to build confidence among States, in
accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Bearing in mind that the Final Document also states that disarmament,
relaxation of international tensions, respect for the right of selfdetermination
and national independence, the Sreaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with
t'he charter of the United l,liations and the strengthening of international trreace and
security are directJ.y related to each other, and that progress in any of these
spheres has a beneficial effect. on all of then and that, in turn, failure in one
sphere has negative effects on others,

Recalling also paragraph I05 of the Final bcument, which encourages l{ember
States to ensure a better flow of inforrnation with regard to the various aspects of
disarmamentr to avoid dissemination of false and tendentious information concerning
armamentsr dnd to concentrate on the danger of escalation of the arns race and on
the need for general and complete disarmament under effective international control,

lbting that misperceptions of the military capabilities and the intentions of
potential adversaries, which could be caused, inter alia, by the lack of objective
information, could induce states to undertake lTmaments progranmes leading to the
acceleration of the arms race' in particular the nuclear arms race, and to
heightened international tensions,

Altare that objective information on bhe nilitary capabilities, in particular
among nuclear-weapon States and other militarily significant States, could
contribute to the building of confidence among States and to the conclusion of
concrete disarmament agreements and, thereby, help to halt and reverse the arms
f €lC€ r

1. Calls upon all States, in lnrticular nuclear-rdeapon States and other
nilitarily significant States' to consider additional measures to facilitate
objective infornation on' as well as objective assessments of, military
capabilitiesl

2. Invitel alL States to comnunicate to the Secretary-General their views
and pro5rcslffi?erning such measures,

3. Feguests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assenilcly at its
thirty-eighth session a rePort containing, first, the replies of Member states
called for under trnragraph 2 abovel €lnd2 secondly, on the basis of these repl-ies, a

g/ Resolution S-L0/2.

A/37/667
English
Page 24

security and the deplorable waste of human and material resources for Inilitary
purposes,

Recalling the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly, ~ which states, inter alia, that, in order to facilitate the process of
disarmament, it is necessary to take measures and to pursue policies to strengthen
international peace and security and to build confidence among States, in
accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations,

Bearing in mind that the Final Document also states that disarmament,
relaxation of international tensions, respect for the right of self-determination
and national independence, the peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with
the Charter of the United Nations and the strengthening of international peace and
security are directly related to each other, and that progress in any of these
spheres has a beneficial effect on all of them and that, in turn, failure in one
sphere has negative effects on others,

Recalling also paragraph 105 of the Final Document, which encourages Member
States to ensure a better flow of information with regard to the various aspects of
disarmament, to avoid dissemination of false and tendentious information concerning
armaments, and to concentrate on the danger of escalation of the arms race and on
the need for general and complete disarmament under effective international control,

Noting that misperceptions of the military capabilities and the intentions of
potential adversaries, which could be caused, inter alia, by the lack of objective
information, could induce States to undertake armaments programmes leading to the
acceleration of the arms race, in particular the nuclear arms race, and to
heightened international tensions,

Aware that objective information on the military capabilities, in particular
among nuclear-weapon States and other militarily significant States, could
contribute to the building of confidence among States and to the conclusion of
concrete disarmament agreements and, thereby, help to halt and reverse the arms
race,

1. Calls upon all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States and other
militarily significant States, to consider additional measures to facilitate
objective information on, as well as objective assessments of, military
capabilities)

2. Invites all States to communicate to the secretary-General their views
and proposals concerning such measures)

3. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session a report containing, first, the replies of Member States
called for under paragraph 2 above, and, secondly, on the basis of these replies, a

12/ Resolution S-10/2.

I ...



preliminary analysis of ttre trnssible role of
measures to facilitate objective infornation
military caPabilities.

A/37/667
BtgLish
Page 25

the United Nations in the context of
orrr aDd objective assessnents of,

H

Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Prohibition
of the Enplacement of Nucl.ear Weatrnns and Other Vfeapons of !'!,ass
Destruction on ttre Sea-Bed and the ocean Floor and in the

Subsoil Thereof

Ttre General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 2660 (xxv) of 7 Decernber 1970r in which it cotmended
tfre freaty on the Prohibition of the hrplacenrent of Nuclear Weatrnns and Other
Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the ocean Floor and in the Subsoil
Ttrereof , !3/

ltotino the provisions of article VII of that Treaty concerning the holding of
review conferencest

Bearinq in nind that, in its Final Declaration, !!/ the First Revienr
coneeEiGaffie parties to the Treaty on the prohibition of the Enplacement of
Nuclear l€apons and Other t{eagnns of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Gean
FLoor and in the Subsoil lltrereof , held at Geneva frorn 20 ilune to I ilu1y 1977 '
decided that a further review conference should be held at Geneva in 1982 unless a
r*j"iitv 

"i 
st"t."-piiti." inaicatea to the Depositaries that they wished such a

conference to be lnsttrnnedr in whictr case it should be convened not later than 1984'

Recalling its resolution 32/87 A of 12 Decenrber Lg77 ' in which 
it nade an

assesfiEnFof the outcome of the first Review Conferencer

of the Final Document of the Tenth
first sPecial session devoted to

I. Iilctes that, folloring appropriate consultationsr a Prep,aratory Conunittee
for the second review Conference of the parties to the Treaty on the Prohibition of
the Enplacement of t{uc}ear lrlea;rons and Other Weatrnns of Mass Destruction on the

E/ Resolution 2660 (XXv), snlr€x.

y/ see Vc.1/32/4-
15/ Resolution *LO/2.

Bearing in mind all the relevant narSgr.aqhs
Specia:. Session of the General Assembly' p,/ the
disarrnament r

A/37/667
English
Page 25

preliminary analysis of the possible role of the United Nations in the context of
measures to facilitate objective information on, and objective assessments of,
military capabilities.

H

Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Prohibition
of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and other Weapons of Mass
Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the OCean Floor and in the

Subsoil Thereof

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 2660 (XXV) of 7 December 1970, in which it commended
the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and Other
Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil
Thereof, 13/

Noting the provisions of articlp. VII of that Treaty concerning the holding of
review conferences,

Bearing in mind that, in its Final Declaration, 14/ the First Review
Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of
Nuclear Weapons and other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and the Ocean
Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof, held at Geneva from 20 June to 1 July 1977,
decided that a further review conference should be held at Geneva in 1982 unless a
majority of States parties indicated to the Depositaries that they wished such a
conference to be postponed, in which case it should be convened not later than 1984,

Recalling its resolution 32/87 A of 12 December 1977, in which it made an
assessment of the outcome of the first Review Conference,

Bearing in mind all the relevant paragraphs of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, 15/ the first special session devoted to
disarmament,

1. Notes that, following appropriate consultations, a Preparatory Committee
for the second review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Prohibition of
the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the

13/ Resolution 2660 (XXV), annex.

!.y See A/C.l/32/4.

15/ Resolution S-10/2.

/ ...



A/37/667
Engl ish
Page 26

Sea-Bed and the @ean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof is to be established prior
to holding a further review conference in 1983r

2. Requests the Secretary-General to render the necessary assistance and to
provide such services, including surunary records, as may be required for the Review
Conference and its preparationt

3. Recalls its expressed hope for the widest gnssible adherence to the
Treaty.

r

Review Conference of ttre Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition
of ltlilitary or Any Other Hostile Use of Ervironmental trtodification

lechniques

Ihe General Assernbly,

Recallinq its resolution 3L/72 of 10 December L9760 in which it referred the
Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any other llostile Use of Environrnental
!{odification ltectrniques L6./ to a1l States for their consideration, sigrnature and
ratification and expressed ttre hope for the widest possible adherence to the
Conventionr

lfoting that lnragraPh I of article VIfI of the Convention provides thatr
tFive years after ttre entry into force of this Conventionr a conference

of the States Parties to the Convention shall be convened by the Degnsitary at
Genevar Switzerland. The conference shall review the operation of the
Convention with a view to ensuring that its purposes and provisions are being
realized, and shall in particular examine ttre effectiveness of the provisions
of lnragraph I of article I in eliminating the dangers of mititary or any
other hostile use of environmental npdification techniquesi,

Bearino in mind that the Convention wiII have been ln force for five years on
5 October 1983,

1. llctes that ttre Secretary-General, as Depositary of the Conventionr
intends to convene ttre Review Conference of the Parties to the convention on the
Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of Erviornmental ucdificatlon
ltechniques called for in paragratrtr I of article VIII of the Conventionr at the
earliest practicable tine after 5 October 1983 and thatr to that end, he wiII hold
consultations with ttre parties to the Convention with regard to guestions relating
to the conference and its preparation, including the establishment of a pretrnratory
Conmittee for ttre conference;

U./ Resolution 3L/72, annex.

A/37/667
English
Page 26

Sea-Bed and the OCean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof is to be established prior
to holding a further review conference in 1983,

2. Requests the secretary-General to render the necessary assistance and to
provide such services, including summary records, as may be required for the Review
Conference and its preparation,

3.
Treaty.

Recalls its expressed hope for the widest possible adherence to the

I

Review Conference of the Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition
of Military or Any other Hostile Use of Environmental Modification

Techniques

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 31/72 of 10 December 1976, in which it referred the
Convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental
Modification Techniques 16/ to all States for their consideration, signature and
ratification and expressed the hope for the widest possible adherence to the
Convention,

Noting that paragraph 1 of article VIII of the COnvention provides that,

"Five years after the entry into force of this Convention, a conference
of the States Parties to the Convention shall be convened by the Depositary at
Geneva, Switzerland. The conference shall review the operation of the
Convention with a view to ensuring that its purposes and provisions are being
realized, and shall in particular examine the effectiveness of the provisions
of paragraph 1 of article I in eliminating the dangers of military or any
other hostile use of environmental modification techniques",

Bearing in mind that the Convention will have been in force for five years on
5 OCtober 1983,

1. Notes that the secretary-General, as Depositary of the Convention,
intends to convene the Review COnference of the Parties to the convention on the
Prohibition of Military or Any other Hostile Use of Enviornmental Modification
Techniques called for in paragraph 1 of article VIII of the Convention, at the
earliest practicable time after 5 October 1983 and that, to that end, he will hold
consultations with the parties to the Convention with regard to questions relating
to the conference and its preparation, including the establishment of a Preparatory
Committee for the conference,

16/ Resolution 31/72, annex.

/ ...



A/37/667
Hrglish
Page 27

2. Requests the Secretary-General
provide such services, including sunmary
Conference and its PreParationl

3. Also notes that arrangements for meeting the costs of the Review
Conference a"a-iFF eparation are to be rnade by the Conference '

J

l4ilitary research and development

ttre General Assemblyr

Mindful of the imtrnrtant task of the united Nations to evaluate the state of
the arms !6c€r in particular the nuclear arms race, and to deliberate all relevant
issues of disarmament,

Recalling the provisions of paragraph 39 of the Final Document of the senth
Special Session of the General assembly, L7-/ *-e first special session devoted to
disarmament, according to which qualitative and quantitative disarmanent measures
are both important for halting the arms race and efforts to that end must include
negotiations on the tirnitation and cessation of the qualitative improvement of
arnamentsr especially weapons of nass destruction and the development of nettt means
of warfare so that ultinately scientific and technological actrievements may be used
sole1y for peaceful PurPoses'

Recallinq further, that according to paragraph 103 of the Final Document, the
ttrrited Nations CdG-for Disarmament should intensify its activities in the
presentation of infornation concerning the armaments race and disarmament'

Noting ttre impact of military research and development on the arms race' in
partiffir in relation to najor weapons systems such as nuclear weapons and other
weapons of mass destruction,

concerned that, at present, a large proportion of all scientists and
technicians in the world are involved in rnilitary pro$rarunesr

race, particularly as regards nuclear weap'ons and
there is an increasing emphasis on the

Recognizing that research and development in certain fields may contribute to
disarrnament and have conflict-preventing effects,

to render the necessary assistance and to
records, as may be reguired for the Review

Notinq also that in the arms
other weapons of mass destruction,
qualitative asPects,

L7/ Resolution S-L0/2.

A/37/667
English
Page 27

2. Requests the Secretary-General to render the necessary assistance and to
provide such services, including summary records, as may be required for the Review
Conference and its preparation)

3. Also notes that arrangements for meeting the costs of the Review
Conference and its preparation are to be made by the Conference.

J

Military research and development

The General Assembly,

Mindful of the important task of the United Nations to evaluate the state of
the arms race, in particular the nuclear arms race, and to deliberate all relevant
issues of disarmament,

Recalling the provisions of paragraph 39 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, 17/ the first special session devoted to
disarmament, according to which qualitative and quantitative disarmament measures
are both important for halting the arms race and efforts to that end must include
negotiations on the limitation and cessation of the qualitative improvement of
armaments, especially weapons of mass destruction and the development of new means
of warfare so that ultimately scientific and technological achievements may be used
solely for peaceful purposes,

Recalling further, that according to paragraph 103 of the Final Document, the
United Nations Centre for Disarmament should intensify its activities in the
presentation of information concerning the armaments race and disarmament,

Noting the impact of military research and development on the arms race, in
particular in relation to major weapons systems such as nuclear weapons and other
weapons of mass destruction,

Concerned that, at present, a large proportion of all scientists and
technicians in the world are involved in military programmes,

Noting also that in the arms race, particularly as regards nuclear weapons and
other weapons of mass destruction, there is an increasing emphasis on the
qualitative aspects,

Recognizing that research and development in certain fields may contribute to
disarmament and have conflict-preventing effects,

17/ Resolution S-10/2.

/ ...



A/37/667
English
Page 28

Awere of the fundamentat irngnrtance of research and development for peaceful
purposes, and of ttre inalienable right of all States to develop, also in
co-operation wittr other States, their research and development for such purPoses,

bnvinced of ttre need to focus attention on the nilitary use of research and
development and to pretrnre the ground for further substantial consideration of this
natter,

Recalling the suggestions on military research and development submitted to the
General Assenbly at its twelfth special session, the second special session devoted
to disarmarnentg

Convinced also that increased information on military research and development
could contribute to promoting confidence between States and enhance the trnssibility
of reactring agreelnents on arms limitation and disarmament,

Convinced further that a study on the military application of research and
develotrnent would make a valuable contribution to increasing available knowledge of
nilitary research and developnent in all States, particularly the research and
develognent by the najor military Potrers, and to the dissernination of factual
information on these issues, as well as the analysis thereof,

I. Requests the Secretary-Creneral, wittr the assistance of qualified
governmental experts, bearing in mind ttre savings that might be nade from the
existing budgetary appropriations, to carry out a comprehensive study on the scope,
role and direction of the military use of research and development, the mechanisns
involved, its role in the over-all arms race2 in particular the nuclear arms rBC€e
and its inlnct on arms limitation and disarnament, particularly in relation to
najor weapons systems, such as nuclear rdeapons and other weapons of mass
destruction, with a view to preventing a qualitative arms race and to ensuring that
scientific and tedtnological actrievements may ultirnately be used solely for
peaceful purposest

2. fnvites all States to submit to the Secretary-General not later than
15 April 1983 their views on the subject of the study, and to co-operate with the
Secetary-General so that the objectives of the study may be actrievedl

3. Requests the Secretary-C'eneral to retrnrt on this subject to the General
Assembly at its thirty-ninth session.

K

Institutional arrangenents relating to the process of disarnament

The General Assemblv

Recalling its resolution 3L/90 of 14 December L976, by which it decided to
keep the strengttrening of the role of the United tilations in the fiel.d of
disarmament under continued review,

A/37/667
English
Page 28

Aware of the fundamental importance of research and development for peaceful
purposes, and of the inalienable right of all states to develop, also in
co-operation with other States, their research and development for such purposes,

Convinced of the need to focus attention on the military use of research and
development and to prepare the ground for further substantial consideration of this
matter,

Recalling the suggestions on military research and development submitted to the
General Assembly at its twelfth special session, the second special session devoted
to disarmament,

Convinced also that increased information on military research and development
could contribute to promoting confidence between States and enhance the possibility
of reaching agreements on arms limitation and disarmament,

Convinced further that a study on the military application of research and
development would make a valuable contribution to increasing available knowledge of
military research and development in all States, particularly the research and
development by the major military Powers, and to the dissemination of factual
information on these issues, as well as the analysis thereof,

1. Requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of qualified
governmental experts, bearing in mind the savings that might be made from the
existing budgetary appropriations, to carry out a comprehensive study on the scope,
role and direction of the military use of research and development, the mechanisms
involved, its role in the over-all arms race, in particular the nuclear arms race,
and its impact on arms limitation and disarmament, particularly in relation to
major weapons systems, such as nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass
destruction, with a view to preventing a qualitative arms race and to ensuring that
scientific and technological achievements may ultimately be used solely for
peaceful purposesJ

2. Invites all States to submit to the Secretary-General not later than
15 April 1983 their views on the subject of the study, and to co-operate with the
Secretary-General so that the objectives of the study may be achieved)

3. Requests the Secretary-General to report on this subject to the General
Assembly at its thirty-ninth session.

K

Institutional arrangements relating to the process of disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 31/90 of 14 December 1976, by which it decided to
keep the strengthening of the role of the United Na tions in the field of
disarmament under continued review,

/ ...



Reca4ing also its resolution 34/87 E of 11
inter aliar

A/37 /667
English
Page 29

December L979, in which itr

(a) Reaf f irmed
restrnnsibilitY in the

(b) l{oted that the growing disarmament agenda and the complexity of the
issues involved, as well- as the more active participation of a large number of
l,lember Statesr created increasing demands on United tihtions management of
disarmament affairs for purposes such as the promotion, substantive PreParationt
implernentation and control of the process of disarmament,

Reaffirming the importance of the Conmittee on Disarmament as the single
multilateral disa6"*.rrl negotiating forurnl in conformity with paragraph 120 of the
Final Document of ttre Tenth special Session of the General Assenbly, L9,/ tne first
special session devoted to disarmament,

Recognizing the growing imtrnrtance attached to disarnament questions since the
tenth special session, as evidenced by the increasing work-load placed on the
Centre for Disarmament of the Secretariat and on the Committee on Disarmament,

Bearing in mind ttre close relationship between natters concerning
international security and disarmament and the interest in close co'operation
between ttre units in the secretariat dealing with themr

lbting the proposals submitted to the General Assembly at its twelfth special
sessi66ffie sec6nd- special session devoted to disarnarnent with a view to taking
certain action to strengthen the tlnited tilations disarmament rnachinery,

tibting also that the twelfth special session placed increasing duties on the
Centre for Disarmament in requesting it to provide the central guidance in
co-ordinating the World Disarnament Cantrnign activities within the United Nations
system,

Having considere.d the relevant
Committee on Disarmamentr 19,/

r

parts of section II F of the report of the

Reaff-irning ParagraPh 28 of
the General Assembly'

the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of

ry"/ Resolution S-L0/2"

Lg/ Of f icial Recor,gs of =tle Ge?. 
ral Assembtl'r-Thif lL:geveggh- $eEgion'

supplGent llo.27 (A/37/27 and Corr.l)'

that the United ldations had a central role and primary
field of disarmamentr

A/37/667
English
Page 29

Recalling also its resolution 34/87 E of 11 December 1979, in which it,
inter alias

(a) Reaffirmed that the United Nations had a central role and primary
responsibility in the field of disarmament,

(b) Noted that the growing disarmament agenda and the complexity of the
issues involved, as well as the more active participation of a large number of
Member States, created increasing demands on United Nations management of
disarmament affairs for purposes such as the promotion, substantive preparation,
implementation and control of the process of disarmament,

Reaffirming the importance of the Committee on Disarmament as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, in conformity with paragraph 120 of the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 18/ the first
special session devoted to disarmament,

Recognizing the growing importance attached to disarmament questions since the
tenth special session, as evidenced by the increasing work-load placed on the
Centre for Disarmament of the Secretariat and on the Committee on Disarmament,

Bearing in mind the close relationship between matters concerning
international security and disarmament and the interest in close co-operation
between the units in the Secretariat dealing with them,

Noting the proposals submitted to the General Assembly at its twelfth special
session, the second special session devoted to disarmament with a view to taking
certain action to strengthen the United Nations disarmament machinery,

Noting also that the twelfth special session placed increasing duties on the
Centre for Disarmament in requesting it to provide the central guidance in
co-ordinating the World Disarmament Campaign activities within the United Nations
system,

1

Having considered the relevant parts of section 11 F of the report of the
Committee on Disarmament, 19/

Reaffirming paragraph 28 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special session of
the General Assembly,

18/ Resolution S-10/2.

19/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/37/27 and Corr.l).

/ ...



A/37/667
Engl ish
Page 32

:

4. Invites Governments to consider making contributions to the ttrrited
llations fnstitute for Disarmanent Researchl

- Feguestg the Secretary-C'eneral to give adninistrative and other suptrDrtto the thlted ldations rnstitute for Disarrnament Researchl
Requests the Board of Trustees to draft the statute of the ttrited l{ationsrnstitute for Disarmament Research on the basis of the rnstituters present nandatelto be subrnitted to the Ccneral Assembly at its ttrirty-ighth sessionl

7 ' Invltes the Director of the ttrrited Nations rnstitute for Disarnament
Research t6@rt to the General Assernbly at its thirty-eighth session on theinrplenentation of the present resolution ina the activilies-carried out by thefnstituter

v

1' Reguests the Secretary-@neral to transform the Centre for Disarmament
appropriately strengthened wittr the existing over-all resources of the gnitedlilationsr into a Department for Disarrnament artairsr headed by an
under-secretary-General and whictr will be so organized as tJreflect fully theprinciple of eguitable geographical distributionr

2' Resuests.the Secretary-Cteneral to relbrt to the General Assernbly at itsthirty-ighth session on the practical impl"r"rrt.tion of the present resolution.

A/37/667
English
Page 32

4. Invites Governments to consider making contributions to the United
Nations Institute for Disarmament Research,

5. Requests the Secretary-General to give administrative and other support
to the United Nations Institute for Disarmament ResearchJ

6. Requests the Board of Trustees to draft the statute of the United Nations
Institute for Disarmament Research on the basis of the Institute's present mandate,
to be submitted to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session,

7. Invites the Director of the united Nations Institute for Disarmament
Research to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session on the
implementation of the present resolution and the activities carried out by the
InstituteJ

v

1. Requests the Secretary-General to transform the Centre for Disarmament
appropriately strengthened with the existing over-all resources of the United
Nations, into a Department for Disarmament Affairs, headed by an
Under-Secretary-General and which will be so organized as to reflect fully the
principle of equitable geographical distribution,

2. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session on the practical implementation of the present resolution.


