












































UNITED
NATIONS

(@p General Aseembly Dlstr .
GENERAL

v37/58L
I Novenber 1982

ORIGINAJ,: ENGIISH

Thirty-s€v€nth seesion
Agenda ltem 80

ELIMINATION OF ALL FOn!.|^S OF RACIAL DISCRIMINATION

r€port of the Third Connittee

Rapporteur! Mr. Rarl BoTHARD (Federal Republlc of Gernany)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 4t.h plenary meeCing, on 24 septefiber 1982' the General Assembly declded
to lnclude in its agenda the item entitled:

nEllrnlnatlon of a1l forms of racial digcrimlnations

'{a) Report of the conmittee on the Elimination of Racial Dlscrinination,

'(b) Statu€ of the International convention on the Elinination of AI1 Forrus of
Rrclal Di gcr irninat ion : report of the secretary-General,
i (c) status of the International Conventlon on the suppression and Punishtnent
of the crine of .@EE!lr report of the secretary-General "

and to allocate lt to the Third comnittee.

2. The Comnlttee considered this item jointty with items 75, 76 and 79 at its
3rd to l3th, 18th, 24th and 25ti neetlngs, on 30 septernber and 4, 6' I' l1 to 15'
2L arfl 27 october 1982. An account of the tllscussion of the cqnrnittee is contained
ln the relevant auulary records lA/c.3/37 /sa,.3-13, 18, 24 and 25).

3. The Comnittee had before it the follonitrg docunentation:

(a) Report of the committee on the Ellnination of Racial Discrlninagion' y
sutmitted ln accordance wlth article 9 of the International convention on the

82-30231 042sn (E)



a 37 /58L
Eng Iish
Page 2

Elimination of AII [brns of Racial Discrinination (ceneral. Assembly resolutlon
2105 A (xx) );

(b) status of the International convention on the glinination of AIl Forns of
Racial Discriminationt report of the Secretary-General (A/37/I481, submithed ln
accordance with General Assembly resolutionE 2105 A (XX) and 36,/U,

(c) status of the International Convention on the suppresaion and Punish0ent
of the Crine of Apartheid! report of the Secretary-ceneral lA/37/L49 and Corr.l).
submitted in accordance with ceneral Assenbly reEolutions 3380 (XXx) and 35,/131

(d) I€tter dated 22 ilune 1982 frortr the Charg6 d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the secretary-Generalt
transmitting the Final Comnuniqud and other docunents of the Ministerial l..teet lng of
the Co-ordinatirg Bureau of the Non-Aligned Countries held at Havana from 3I I'hy t'o
5 June 1982 (ty'37/3331 t

(e) I€tter dated 16 August 1982 frcm the Permanent Representative of Israel
to the Unlted Nations addreased to the secretary-ceneral (N37/3921i

(f) I€tter dated 27 Auguat 1982 from the Permanent Representative of
Mozanbique to the United Nations addre€sed to the secretary-ceneral lN37/4lalt

(9) I€tter dated 12 October frorn the Permanent lGpresentative of Israel to
the United Nations addressed to the S€cretary-General (N37/5421 .

4. At the 3rd meeting, on 30 Septenber, the Director of the Centre for Htrlan
Rights maale an lntroductory €tatement.

II. @NSIDERATION OF PROPOSAIS

A. Draft resolutions VC.3/37/L.13 and Rev.l

5. At the ISth meeting, on 2I @tober, the representative of Italy introduced a
draft resolutTort (A/C,3/3UL.I3) entitted "neport of the Commlttee on the
Elinination of Racial Di scr imination',, sponsored by Australia, Flnland, ItaIV,
I'bxico, the Netherlands and also by France, later joined bV t]re linitE_xi"q!tc[,_g€,
Great Britain and l,lorthern lreland. In introduclng the draft resolution, the
representative of ftaly revised the tltle to read as follows: "Repof,t of the
comlittee on the Elirnination of Racial Discrimination: general recommendatlon VI'r.

6. At the 24ti neeting, on 2? Gtober, the representative of Italy lntroduced a
revised text of the draft resolution (NC.3/37 /r,.L3lRev.I) entitled "Report of the
comtittee on the Elinination of Raclal Discrimination: general recomlendabion vltr,
sponsored by Australia, Finland, France, Italv, Mexico, the Netherlands, the
United Ki.ngdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland as well as Fiji. The revision
called for the replacement of operative paragraph 3 which read:



rJ37 /58r
English
Page 3

'r3. Further requests the secretary-Generaf in preparing his report, to
consult the chairman of the cEItD and also the presidling officers of the Hunan
Rights connittee and the sessional workirry GrouP of Goverru0ental bq)erts on
the Implementat ion of the Internatlonal covenant on Econdtric, Social and
cultural Rights in order to take into account the sinilar and related problqns
which have ariaen nlth reports due under the relevanC provlsions of the Hrrnan
Rights Covenantst " t

by the following text:

"3. nrrther rwlg the secretary-General r in preParing his, report, to
conslder thffi-descrlbed in general reccflunendation vr of the colrmittee
in the overall fr ameuork of reporting obligations that Member states have
uhder the varLous hrunan rights lnstrunents ln order to be able to take into
account similar and related problens which rnay have arisen in conPllance with
such obligationst ",

7. At the sdtne meeting, the cormnittee adopted draft resolut Lon NC,l/37/L.13,/Itev.1
without a vote (see para. 18, draft resolution I).

B, Draft resolut Lon NC'1l1f /L'7

8. At the lSth meeting on 21 october, the repreaentative of Belgiun introduced a
draft resolut Lon (NC.3/37,/L.?) entttled nstatus of the Internatlonal Convention on
the Elinination of AII Forna of RaciaL Di scr inination ", sponsored by Algeria,
Arqentina, Australia, the Bahanaa, Bangladeshr Barbados, Belqiun, Bulqaria, Cuba,
qrpius, EgwC, @rrnany, Federat Republic of, jj@, Hunqarv, Intliir.Moro-eco, Nelt
zeafana, ry1gria' 3at<istan, pordiqif, EEb, the svrian Arab Republic' the EP9L
volta, venezuela and Iggglavjg, later jolned by 9AP@, @b and @LIg.

9. At the 24th meeting, on 27 october, the representative of uruguay introduced
amendments to the draft resoLution (A/C.3/37 fi'.L1 ), sponsored by Costa Rica'
@!g, France, rcelandr Italy, the Netherlandsr Norwav, sneden and -glllgISI, which
read as follows:

r (a) Add the following new prearnbular pa,ragraph:

"l{elcomim the increase in the nunber of declarations made under
areicle L4 of the Convention' "
(b) Add the following nevt operative paragraph 5:

"5. calls upon states Parties to the conventlon to consider the
possi.UititiTf-iEEfig the Declaration provitled for in article 14 of the
conventioni n

Re nurnber former paragraph 5 as paragraph 6."



A/ 37 / 58L
EngIish
Page 4

10. At the same nreeting, the Csmittee took the following action on draft
resolutlon A/C.3/37/L.7 and the drendments thereto:

{a) The anendnentg A/C.3/37/L.L7 were adopted by 75 trotes to 1, nith
47 abstentionst

(b) Ttre draft resolution A/C.3/37/L.7, as anended, was adopted nithout a vote
(aee iEra. 18, draft tesolution II).

C. Draft resolution A/c.3/37 /L.L4

lI. At the ISth neeting, on 21 October, the representative of Yugoalavia
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/37/L.L4) entitled "Report of the Conmitte€ on
the El irninatlon of Racial Discriminatlon", sponsored by Ango1a, Bangladesh, Cuba,
India, Jordan, I'ladagascar, Nigeria, pakiatan, sierra I€one, yuqoslavia, !@!lr and
Zlmbahde, later joined by Cape verde and C!"prus.

L2. A statenent by the Secretary-General on the admlnistratlve and financial
ituplications of the draft resolution was circulated bo the Cqnmittee in
doctment NC.3/37 /L.l}.
13. At the 24th meeting, on 27 October 1982, the Cormnittee voted as follows on
draft reaolut Lon IJC.3/37 /L.L4z

(a) Operative paragraph 7 lras adopted by a recorded vote of 98 to 16, with 20
abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria. Angola, Argentina, Austrla,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, BotsHana, BraziLt Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, china, cqfloros, Congo, Cuba' cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yenen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egl/t)t,
E1 Salvador, Ethlopia, cambia, German Democratlc Republic, Ghana,
Greece, Guinea, cuina-Bissau, cuyana, Hungary, India, fndonesia,
fran, Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers ttenocratic
Republic, l€banon, L€sotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, MaIi, Mauritania, uexico,
lrongoliar l,lorocco, Mozambique, Nepa1, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigerial
Onan, Pakistan, Panana, Peru, Phlllppines. Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saudia Arabia, SenegaL, Sierra Leone, Stngapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, surinane, Syrian Arab Republic,
'fhailand, 1!o9o, Tunisia, lturkey, Itganala, Ukrainian Soviet
socialist Republic, Union of soviet socialist Republics, United
Arab Enirates, United nepublic of cameroon, Unit.ed Republic of
Tanzania, I4rper volta, venezuela, viet Nam' Yenen, Yugoslavia,
zambia, zimbabwe.



A/37 /58L
English
Page 5

4g3,inst: Australla, Belgium, canada, Denmarkt Finland' Gerr0any' 
Federal

Republic of, H;iti, Iceland, Ireland, Israel' r'uxenbourg ' New
zealand, Nor\tay r sweden, Unlted Kingdsn of Great Britaln and
Northern lreland, United states of Anerica'

Abstalninq: Bahanas, Barbados, Bolivia, Burma, chile, colombia, costa Rica,
fiji, rrance, Italy, Ivory coast, Jamaica, 'JaPan' t'hlatti '
Netherlands, Papua Nevt Guinea, Portugalt Trinldad and Tobago'
Uruguay, za ire.

(b) operative paragraph 12 was adopted by a recor'led vote of II1 to none '
irith 23 abstentions. The voting rdas as follows:

Afghanistanr Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Bahar0as '
aahrain, Banglaalesh, Barbadosf Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia' Bots{ana'
Brazit' Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byeloru€Eian soviet Sociallst
Republic, CaPe verde, central African RePublic, Chinat Coldnbia'
Comoros, @ngo, Cuba' CyPrus' Czechoslovakia, Denocr atic
Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djiboutir Ecuador, EgyPt,
El ialvailor, EthioPia, Fiji' Gabon, Ganbla, @rnan Denocratic
Republicr Ghana, Guinear Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras'
ttungary, Indiar Indonesia' Iran, fraq, Ivory.Coastt Janaica'
.foraan, Kenya, Kuvtait, r,ao PeoPIe I s Dernocratic ftePublic' I€banon'
Lesotho, r.ileria, Libyan Arab Jarnahlriya, Madagascar, Malaysiat
Maldives, !,tali, l,taur ltania, Mexico, Mongolia, I'lorocco,
l4ozanbique, Nepal, New zealand, Nicaragua, Nlger, Nigeriat onan'
Pakistanr Panama, Peru, PhiliPpines, Polandr Oatar, Ronanta'
Rrtanda, saudi Arabia, senegal, slerra L€one' singaporer - somalia'
sri Lanka, sudan, suiinanei swazitand, syrian Arab RePublic '
Thailand, Togo, Trinldad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey' Ug anda'
ukrainian soviet socialist Republic, unlon of soviet soclalist
Republics' Irnited Arab Enirates, Irnited Republic of cameroon'
united nepuutic of Tanzanla, UPper volta, uruguay. venezuela'
viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia' zimbabwe '

None.

Austriar Belgium, canada, Derulark, Finland, France, Germany'
Federal Republic of, Greece, Haiti, Icelandr Irelandr Israel'
Italy' Japan' Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlands, Norv'ay ' Portugalt
spai-n, sw-eaen, United xingdon of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uni.ted States of Anerlca.

In favour:

slE!.:
Abstaininq:

(c) The tlraft resolution as a whole was adopted bV a Eecorded vote of I23 to
2, wlhh 13 abstentions (see para. 18, tlraft resolution rII) ' The votlng nas aa
foLlow6:



A/ 37 / sgl
English
Page 6

In favour:

Againat:

Abstaininq 3

Afghanistan, Albanla, Algerla, Angola, Argentina, Austria,
Bahanas, Bahrain, Banglaalesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutanr Bolivia'
Botsrana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
soclalist Republic, cape verde, central Africa Republlcl Chile'
China, Colombia, Comoroa, e.:ongo, coata Rica, Cuba, qlprus,
Czechoslovakiar Denocratic Kanpuchea, Democrat ic Yenen, Djibouti,
Ecuador ' Eg!.pt, EI salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, France. Gabon,Ganbia, Genmn D€snocratic Republicr Ghana, Greece' Guineat
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras' Itungary' India,
Indoneslar lran, Iraq, Italy, Ivory Coastr Janaica, Japan,
;Iordan, Kenya, Kunait, I,ao Peopler s DerFcratic Republic, I€banon,
I€sotho, Liberia, fiblran Arab JamahirLya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldlves, ltaLi, Mauritanla, Mexico, Uongolia' Mor&co,
Itozanbique, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger' Nigeriar onan,
Paklatan, Paoanar Papua New cuinea. Peru' PhllipFinesr Poland 'Portugal, Qatar, Romania, RHanda, Sauau Arabla' senegal, Slerra
Leone' singalpre, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinane,
swaziland' syrian Arab Repubtic, Thailand' Togo' Trinidatl and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Irganda, Ukrainlan Soviet Sociallst
Republic, unlon of sovlet socialist Republics, united Arab
&rirates, Unlbed Republic of Ca$eroon, ttnited Republlc of
Tanzanl.al lt4)er volta, Uruguay, venezuela, viet Nan, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, zinbabwe.

Israel, United Stales of Anerica.

Australia, Belglun, Canada, Denmark, Finland, G€rmany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Ne$ Zealand, Norway,
svreden, united Kingdorn of creat Britain and t'Iorthern Ireland.

Viet

4i4,
Rnanda

D. Draft resolut iLon A/C.3/37/L.L2

l-4. At the LSth meeting, on 2L october, the repreaentative of the German
Derpcrat ic Republic introduced a draft resolutlon (Fy'c.3/37 /I'.L2) entttled "status
of the Internatlonal Convenlion on the Suppression and Punishnent of the Crime of
Apartheid', sponsored btr Angola, Cuba, czechoslovakia, Democratic Yenen, @ados,
the cerman Denocr at ic Repubtlc, chana, the @,
l,bngoliar t}le Svrian Arab Republic, t-he @,
Nam, Yugoslavia, @ub and also by Afghanistan, .e}ggb, Bulqaria, .gllljg!l.,
Ilunqary, f raq, t'ladagascar, Mozarnbique, and @@r subsequently joined ht
Cap€ verde, the gglg, Ethiopia, culnea-Blssau, the E!!g. 3rab Jarnah ir iya.,
and Uqanda.

15. At the 24th meetlng; on 27 october, the representative of llgglll orauy
proposed the following anendments to the draft resolution:

(a) Add the follolring new paragraph after exlating paragraph 4 of the
preamble:



A/37/58r
English
Page 7

ncravelv concerned over the extensive torture antl ill-treatnent of
politiEfi;G;G;;a the tr aale unionists detained by the racist r6gine of
south Africa leadirE to the deaths in atetention of Neil Aggett'
TBhiflwa Muofhe' and Ernest l4oabl DiPale",

(b) Adal the following new oPerative paragraPh after exlstlng operative
paragraph 1l:

nl2. Invit.es the speclal cdnmittee against Apartheltl and the centre
agalnst ap:rrtheitt to publlcize the above-rnentioned llst antl related
particulars as widely as possible.'

Following suggestions by the representatlves of gi4EEgg and @' the
representative of Nlgeria revlsed his first amendment to read as follona !

'gElslta-concernd over the widespread torture and ill-treatment of
pofitiaf prisolrers ana tr ade unionists detained by the racist r69ime of south
Africa leading to the tleaths in detentlon of nany prlsonersl inclutling
Neil Aggett, Tshifhta ltuofhe and Ernest l'[oabi DiPale."

16. At the saroe meetlng, the representative of the Genoan DefiPcratlc RePublic, on
behatf of the sponsors, accepted the anendments proPosed by the representative of
Nigeria and revised the draft resolution accordingly.

l,?. At the sane meeting, the Comrilttee aaloPted draft resolut for. e'/c.3/37 4" 12, as
ora1ly revi€ed. by a recortled vote of I12 to 1, with 22 abstentions' (see Para. 18,
draft resolution fv). The votlng nas as foll-ons:

@ur: AfghanlEtan' Algeria, Angolar Argentinar Bahamaa, Bahrain'
Barglaalesbr aarbadoe, Benln, Bhuban' Bolivia, Botswana' Brazil'
Bulgariar Burma, Burundir Byelorusaian sovlet socialist Itepublic '
cape verde, Central African tEPublic' Chile, China, colornbia,
Cqnoros, Congo' Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia'
D€rnocratic Yenen, Djlboutl' Ibuador, Egypt, El Salvador 'EthioPia' Fiji, Gabon, Ganbia' German Denocrat ic Republic' Ghana'
Gulnea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana' Eaiti' Honduras, Ilunqary, India'
Indonesia, Iran, Iraqr Ivory coast, Jamaica' 'tordan, Kenya'
Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democr atlc tlePubllc, I€banon, I€sotho 'Liberla' Libyan Arab Janahirlya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives'
l.tali. l,iaur ltania, Mexico, l.longolia, I.'lorocco, !4ozanbique' NePal t
Nlcaragua, Niger, Nigerla, onan, Pakistan. Panana, PaPua Nett
Guinea. Peru, Philippines' Poland, Qatarr Romania, R'anda, saudi
Arabia, senegal, sierra l-€one, Singapore, Somalia, sri Lanka'
sudan, suriname, swaziland, syrian Arab RePublic, Thailand' $ogo '
Trinlataal and Ttobago, Tunisia, Turkey, tganda, Ukrainian soviet
socialist Republic, Irnion of soviet soclalist rGPublics. l'nlted
Arab nntratei' Irnitetl Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzaniar UPper volta, uruguayr venezuela. viet NaIIt, Yemen'
Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia, zimbabwe-

Asainst! united states of Atnerica.



A/37 /sgL
English
Page I

@!qil5.: Auslralia, Austria, B€191urn, canada, Derunark, Flnland, France,
Germany' Federal ttepublic of, Greecer lceland, Irelanal' Italyt
ilapan, Luxerobourg, Ma1awi, Ne ther landa, Nen zealand, tlorway,
Portugal, spaln, sneden, United Klngdqn of Great Brltaln and
Nortltern I reland.

I II. RECOi.N,IENDATIONS OF THE TIIIRD COIMITTEE

18. The Third Conmlttee recqunends to the General Asaembl,y the adoption of the
followlng draft resolutlons:

DRAFT RESOLUT ION I

Repore of the Conaittee on the Ellnlnation of Racial
Dlscrlninatlon: qeneral recommendalion vI

The ceneral Assenbly,

Taklnq note of the deci€ion 1 (X)N) entitled "general recomnendatlon VI"
adoptetl by the Corurittee on the ELlnination of Raclal Discrirnlnation on
15 March 1982,

Acknowledq inq the burden which reportlng obligations under international
instrurcnta places upon states parties, especially those wlth linited technlcal and
a&tlini6trative resources,

Convinced none the less that the value of international conventions relieE
uPon the ful1 and conscientlous inplenentat ion of the obllgatlons undertaken upon
ratification or accession,

.Notinq with concern that many perlodic reports due under artlcle 9 of the
International Conventlon on t.lre Ellmination of AII Forrns of Racial Dlscrimlnatlon
are outstanding and that in some cases inilia1 reports are several years overdue,

1. Appeals to al]. states partleg to the Internatlonal conventlon on the
Elinination of ALl Rlrns of Racial DtscEininatlon Eo fulfll their obligations under
article 9 of the Convention and to submlt tbeir reports wlthln the approprlate tlme,

2. Requests the secretary-ceneral to invite lhe views and observatlons of
states partiea to the convention on the causes of the sltuatlon alaacrlbed ln
g€neral recofimendation Vf of the Cqnmittee on the Elirnination of Racla1
Discrininatlon and to aubmit an analysis of the repllea rece ived in a report to the
General Assembly at its thlrty-eighth sesslon, together with such 6u99€ations as he
night wish to make with a vleH to improving the situatloni

3. A160 requests the secretary-General, in prepar ing hls report, to consider
the sltuation deecribed in general recomnendation Vf of the Conmittee ln the



PJ37 /sg]-
EngIish
Page 9

over-all frarnework of reporting obligations that Metober States have under the
various hurian righEs instr,:rnenls in ortler to be abte to take into accounE slnilar
and related probiems uhictr may have arisen in csnpliance with such obligatlonst

4. Further requests the secretary-Gener al to Euttnlts h1s report together with
the r€cords of ttre ceneriT Assenbly rs clnslderatlon thereof to the ninth meeting of
the States parties to the Convention, to be held in 1984'

DRAFT RESOI.UTION II

El@era!-Eemb1v.,
Recalllnq lts resoLutlons 3057 (xxwll) of 2 Novenber 1973' 3135 ($ffIII) 'of

U oecernlet lgZ3, 3225 (xxlx) of 6 Novernber 1974, 3381 (XKx) of I0 November 1975'
3V7g of I-3 December Lg76, 3i/LL of 7 November L977, 33/LoL of 16 D€cenber 1978'
34/26 of 15 Novenber Lg7g, 35;ng of 25 Novenber 1980 and 35/LL of 28 october l98I'

welcqningtheincreaseinthenumberofdeclaratlonsrnadeunderarticle].4of
the Convent ion,

1. Takes note of the report of the secretary-General on the status of the
InternatloiEl-Givention on the Elimination of all Forms of Raclal
Di€cr inlnatlonr a/

2. b(presses its aatisfachion r{ith the increase in the number of states
wtrictr have-JEEIiIE-EE conveneion or accealed theretot

3. Reaffirms once again j.ts conviction that ratificatlon of or accession to
tlte convenEi;i;;-;6-m;Al-rras i s and implementation of its provisions are
neceEsary for the reallzation of the objectives of the Decaite for Action to cqnbat
Racism and t{acial Discrlninatlont

4. Requesta States which have not yet become partlea to hhe convention to
ratify lt or accede theretoi

5. calla upon states partles to the conventlon to consider the Possibility
of nakirE ttte o"cf"t"tion provided for ln article 14 of the conventiont

6. Resuests the secretary-General to continue to subrol! to the General
Assenbly annual reportt 

"otaatn-irng 
the status of the Convention' in accordance with

Assembly resolution 2106 A (xx) of 21 December 1965'

?/
^/37 

/ r48 .



^/37/ 
58L

Eng 1i sh
Page 10

DRAFT RESOIJUTION III

Report of the Corunlt.tee on the Elinination

The ceneral Assenblv,

Recallino its resolution 36/L2 of 28 october 1981 on the report of the
Corurittee on the Elimination of Raclal Discrimination and ..../,..... oE
...... 1982 on the status of the International Convention on the Elimlnation of All
Forms of Racial Discrimination, as $elL as lts other relevant re€olutlons on the
implementation of the programne for the Decade for Action to cdrrlcat Racisn and
Racial Discrlnlnation,

Having considered the report of the Cqrunittee on the Etimination of Rac ial
Discrinination on ita twenty-fifth and tlrenty-slxth sessions, y subnitted under
articLe 9, paragraph 2, of the rnternational convention on the Elimination of All
Forns of RaciaL Discriminat ion,

HnpJrasizing the inportance for the success of the struggle agalnst all
practices of racial discrimination, lncluding veatiges and ftanlfestatlons of racist
ialeologles wherever they exlat, that all Member states be guialed in their internal
and foreign pollcy by the basic provlsions of the convention,

Mindful of the obligation of all States parties to coroply fully with the
provisions of the Convent ion.

welcominq the continued co-operation of the csmittee on the Elimination of
Racial Discriminatlon with the cornpetent specialized agencies especially with the
United Natiohs Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organlzation and the
International Labour Organisation, and other United Nations bodies,

Notinq the decisions adopted and r@oflrnendations nade blf the Cdurittee at lts
twenty-fif th and twenty-sixth seseions,

I. Takea note r,{ith apprec lation of the reEort of the Ccmmlttee on the
Elinination of Racial Discrinination on 1t6 twenty-fifth and twenty-sixtb sesslonsi

2. Comtrends the Comtrittee
forms of discrimination based on
wherever it exists,

for lts contributlon to the elinlnation of all
race, colour, descent, national or ethnic origin,

. 3. gglS]I-€ondenns the policy of .eEE]qE,i!. in south Africa and Nanibia asrne rilosE abhorrent form of raclal discrimination and urges all Mernber states to

of Racial, Discrimlnation

1/ official Records of General



M37/ssj-
English
Page 11

adop! effective political, econonic and other neaaures in order to secure
elimination of that poucy and to achieve full firplenentat lon of the relevant
resoLutions of the General Assemb1y, the Security Council and other United Natsidrs
bodiest

4. calls upon the t,'rlted Natlons bodl.es concerned to ensure that the
Cornnittee is suppfied with all relevant lnformatlon on all the ferritories to which
Ceneral Assembty resolution 1514 (xv) applies and urges the adminlstering Poner 8 to
co-operate erith these bodies b'y providlng aII necessary information in order to
enable the comnittee to discharge fully lts re€pon8ibilitles under article 15 of
the Conveneiont

5. Comnends the cosnittee for its continuous endeavouas tovtards the
elinination of the policy of apartheld, racisn and racial tliscrinlnatlon in
southern Afrlca and the lmplemEntltion of the thited l.latlona resolutions relating
to the liberation and lndependence of Namlbiat

6. Takes note rith satisfaction of the efforts of the ccmtnittee aimed at
securirq the proaper ity of national or ethnic rninoritles and indigenous populatlons
through the implenentation of the principles and Provisions of the convention,

7. E<presses drave concern over the rsraeli Pollcy of defiance of the basic
principles ana oUiectlves of the convent ion, as reflected in the report of the
Cordnittee, and calls for the respect and preEervation of the national and cultural
ialentity of the Palestinian peopLe t

8. t{elcones the efforts of the cc|nmittee aimed at the elimination of all
forms of discrlrnlnation of migrant ltorkers and their fanilies' the prdnotion of
thelr rights on a non-d lscr i$inatory basis and the achievernent of their full
equality and the possibility to preserve their cultural characteristicsi

9. corunends the states parties to the convention for neasures taken to
ensure within their jurisdlction the availability of approPriabe recourse
procedures for the victlms of raclal discrininationi

10. calls upon all Mernber states to adopt effective leglslatiee,
soc io-econ6t-fE-Eid-6ther necessary measures 1n order to ensure the ellmination or
prevention of discrimination based on racer colour' descent' national or ethnic
origint

11. Further calls upon the states parties to the convention to protect fully,
by adoption of relevant legislative and other neasures, the rights of nationaL or
ethnlc minoritl.es' as well as rlghts of indlgenous PoPulationsi

L2. ReLterates its invitation to the states Parties to the conven! ion to
furnish the CoruItlttee, in accordance with its general guldelinesr with lnformation
on the lmplementation of the provlaions of the conventlon' including informatlon on
the denograph ic conposition of their popuLation and on eheir relations with tie
raclst r€qine of South Africai



A/37 /58L
English
Page 12

13.Takegnotet{it@'oftheconnittee|scontributiontothel6rk
of the lre@e second world conference to cornbat Raclsn
and Racial Discrlnination and to the regional senlnars helil in filplementation of
the Progranne of Action for the Decadet

14. welcones the decision of the coNnittee to contribute to the conference by
preparing a study on the irnplernentation of articles 4 and 7 of the Convention and
reiterates its request to the Conmittee to explore the possibllity of preparing
also for the Conference a study on the implementation of subparagraph (e) of
article 5i

15. Takes note of decision 1 (X)ffI) of 19 August 1982, in which the Co{Nilitlee
requested the Secretary-General, in consultation with the covernnent of the
Philippines, to explore the possibilihy of arranglng for the terenty-eighth session
of the Conuniltee to be held at !4anila inrnediately prlor to the hol.llng of the
Conference.

DRAEI RESOLUTION IV

The ceneral Assemb1y,

Recallinq its resolution 3068 (XXVIII) of 30 November 19?3, by which it
adopted and opened for signature and ratificatlon the International convention on
the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, and its subsequent
resolutions,

Convinced that the Declaration and the Progranme of Action adopted by the
- woll-d Conference to Combat Racism and nacial oiscrimination, as well as the
progranme of activities to be undertaken during the second half of the Decade for
Action to Conbat Racisn and Racial Discrinination, adopted by the ceneral Assembly
in its resolutio 34/24 of 15 Novembe r L979, and their full inplementation rrill
contribute to the final eradication of apartheid and all other forns of racisn and
racial discrimination,

Reaffirning its convictlon Chat .g@id constitutes a toLal negation of the
purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nat ions and is a gross
violation of human rights and a crime against hunanity, seriously threatening
international peace and security,

Strongly condenning South Africars continued policy of gg!!eld. repression
and "bantustanization" and its continued iUegal occupation of Nanibia, thereby
perpetuating on Namibian terrltory its odiouE policy of @!q, racial
discrimination and fragmentation,



A/ 37 / 58r
English
Page 13

Gravelv concerned over the \didespread torture and ill-treatment of political
prisoners ana the traae unionist detained by the racist rdgine of south Africa,
leadlng to the deaths in detention of many prisoners, including NeiI Aggett'
Tshlfiwa Muofhe and EEnest l4oabi Dipale,

qegu concerned about South Africar€ repeated acts of aggression against
eovereign Mrican States, nhlch constitute a manifest breach of international peace
and security,

condenning the continued collaboration of certain States and transnational
corporationJ with the raclst 169 i:ne of South Africa in the poliLica.L, economic,
nilitary and other fielats as an encouragement to the intenslfication of its odious
Pollq' of aPartheid,

Underlining that the strengthening of the exiating nandatory arms enbargo and
the apptication of conprehensive mandatory economic sahctions under chapter vII o€
the Charter are vltal in order to cdnpe I the raciet rdgine of south Africa to
abandon its pollcy of apartleid,

Recalling its resolutions 36/L72 A to P of 17 December 1981 and' in
parttcular, resolution 36/L72 B in which it proclalmed the year 1982 aE the
International Year of I'tobillzation for sanctionE agalnst south Africa,

stressing the need to disserninate on a wider basis more information on the
crine comrieted by the racist r691ne of South Africa, taking into consideration che
recomrnendation contained in the documents adopted by the International Seminar on
Publicity and the Role of I'tass Media in the hternational l4obilization against
Apartheid, held at Berlin, cernan Denocratic Republic' fron 3I August to
2 septenber L98L, L/

Firmly convinced that t-he Legitiriate struggle of the oppressed PeoPles in
southern Africa against 3g!E!l, racism and colonialign and for the effective
i plementatlon of their inat ienaUfe right to self-determination and independence
demands nore than ever all necessary suppor t by the international comnunity and' in
part icular, further action by the security Council,

Cormend inq the work of the Preparatory sub-colutittee for the second l'lorld
Conferencb against llaclsm and Raclal Discr imination and lts recorNnendationa
contained in lts report to the Economic and Social Councll, /

Underlining that ratification of and accession !o the convention on a
universal basis and the lmplementation of ita provisions wlthout any delay are
necessary for ics effectiveness and would be a useful contribution towards achieving
the goals of the Decade for Actlon to conbat Racisn and Racial Dlscrinlnation'

!/ A/36/496-s/L4686, annex.

1/ E/Le82/26.



A/ 37 / 5AL
English
Page 14

I. Takes nole of the report of the Secretary-General on the status of the
lnternational convention on the Suppression anal Punishtnent of the crime of
Apartheid,

2. comlen4€ those states parties to the convention that have submitted their
reports under article vII of the conventlon, in paEticular those which Presented
their second reports, and appeals to ehose states parties that have not yet done so
to subnit their reports aa soon as poasiblet

3. Appeals once again to tho€e States that have not yet done so to ratify or
to accede to the Convention without further delayl

4. Appreciates the constructive role played by the GrouP of Three of the
Corunission on Hunan Rights in analysing the periodlc reports of states and in
pubtishing the experience gained in the international struggle against ghe crime of
apartheidi

5. r€quests states partles to the Convention to take fully into account the
guidelines prepared by the workirq croup on the Inplenentabion of the International
convention on the suppression and Punishrnent of the Crime of Apartheid establishedl
in accordance wihh article fx of the conventiont

6. Calls upon all states parties to the convention to inplement fully
article Iv of the Convention b,y adopt ing Legislative' judicial anal administrative
measures to Prosecute, bring to trial and punish, in accordance with theirjurisdiction, persons responsible for, or accused of' the acts enumerated in
article II of the Convention,

7. Again calls upon all States parlies to the Convention and the competent
United Nations organs to consider the conclusions and recdtrmendations of the
Working Group contalneal in itg reports and to submit their v iews and conments to
the Secretary-Generalt

8. I{equests the conmission on Human Rights to continue to undertake the
functions set out in article x of the convention and invltes the conmission to
intensify' in co-operatioh with the spec ial comnittee against.@glg!lf its
efforts to compi Ie periodicatly the progresslve list of individuals, organizations,
lnstitutions and representatives of states deemed responsible for crirnes enumerated
in article II of the Convention, as well as of those against whom or whlch legal
proceedings have been undertakeni

9. Requests the Contnission on Hunan Rights to take into account General
Assembly resolutions 33/23 of 29 Novernber 1978 and 35/32 of 14 Novenber .L980 as
well as relevant docunents of the corunission and its subsidiary organs reaffirming,
inter alia, that states glving assistance to the racist r6gime of south Africa
becone accornpl ices in the inhunan practices of racial discrinination and g!p!l;

I0. calLs upon a1l states parties to the Conventlon and cdnpetent gnlted
Nations organs to continue to provide the Comlission on Hunan Rigbts, through the
secretary-General, nith information relevant to the periodic cornpilation of the



A/3't /sgr
English
Page 15

above{0entioned list as well as Hit}r infornation concernirg the obstacles r'thich
prevent the ef fective suppression and punishment of the cr ime of -eE,Iggigt

11. rGquests the secretary-General to distribute the above-mentioned list
anorg all 

-states 

parties to the Convention and all l,tenber States and to brlng such
fact€ to the attentlon of the public bV aII means of nass corulunicationi

L2. fnvites the special comnittee against Apartheid and che cenEre against
Apartheid of the secretariat to publlcize the above*ent loned list and related
partlculara as widely as possiblet

13. Appeals to atl States, Irn ited Nations organs, speclalized agencies and
lnternatioGl and national nonaovernmental organization6 to step up their
activitiea in enhancing public awareness through denouncing the crines conmitt ed by
hhe racist r6gime of South Africa,

14. Requests the secretary-General to intenslfy his efforts through
appropriate channels to tlisseninate lnformation on the convention and it6
t;ple;entation with a v j.ew further to prdnoting ratlflcation of or accession to the
Conventiont

15. catl8 upon all states to particilEte actively in the second world
conference co conbaf Racism antt Racial Discrimination and to contribute to
achieving effective results at this Conference,

15. Requests the Secretary-General to include in his nex! annual rePort under
General essernbS' resolution 3380 (xxx) of lo November 1975 a special section
concernirg the lnplementation of the Convention.


