












































UNITED
NATIONS

@
General Assembly Dlstr .

GENERAL

N37 /7L6
I0 December

ORIGII{AI,:

L9S2

E}TGI,ISH

Th irty-seventh aess ion
Agenda iten 85

HIJTi!AI{ RIGETS AT{D SCIENIITIC AND TECSNOIOGICAT DEVELOPMENIS

Report of the Third Connittee

.B4PgEg.g!: Mr. Karl BORCEARD (Federal Republic of Gernany)

I. INTRODUCTION

I. At lts 4th Plenary meeting, on 24 september 1982' the General As:embly decidetl
to include ln its ag€nda the tiem entltled 'Ituman rights and sclehtific-end
technological develoFtents'. report of the secretary-General' andl to allocate it to
the xttird Comnlttee.

2. T'he corutlttee considered this iten jotntly wlth ttans 84, 86, 8? and 8g at its
47th, 5oth to 53rd, 55th, 56th, 54th anal 67tjr meetinqs' on I8, 23' 24' 25 ldovember
and 3 and 7 Decernber I98i. An account of th€ dliscussion of the ccnt0lttee is
contained ln the relevant sunEnary records lNc.3/37/5R.4?' 50-53' 55, 56. 54 and
67',,.

3. The Cord1tttee had before lt the report of the Secretary-General lA'/37 /330 and
Add.l) on hrman righti anat sclentific and technological developnents '

1. At the 47th meeting, on 18 tilcvernber, the speclal Asaistant to the Director of
the Centre for guman Rights rnade an introductory stacement.

II. @NSIDERATION OF PROPOSAI,S

A. Draft resoLution A/C.3/37lL.55

5. At the 64th meeting, on 6 December, the representatlve of the Lnlted Klngdom
of GEeat Brltain atrd Northern Ireland lntroduced a draft resolutlon
(A/c.3/37 /L.56) , submitted under the item entitled nHunan rigtlta and scientlfic and

S2-36172 04500 (E)



A/ 37 /'1L6
English
Page 2

technological develotrnnentsi, sponsored by Chad, Costa Rica, eyprus, &i!, thecflnbia' chana, tbxico, Morocco, the Netherlanats,-I{ig.Li", p.". 
",, -S."gggt,Singapore, Sr.reden,

Utpper Volta as weII
the thited Kingtlon of creat Brltain and tbrthern Ireland and the
as Bolivia anil lggg3fr subsequently joined b1. gla.

6. As its 57th meeting, on 7 December, the Corunittee adopted the draft resolution
nithout a vote (see para. 16, draft resolution I).

B. oraft resolutlon VC.3/37lL. Zl
7, At the 54th neeting, on 6 December, the representative of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics introttuced a draf t resolutlon (VC.3/37/L.7\ , ;EG1ed-nffianrights ard sclentific and technological developnentao, sponsored by AngoLa, 4i!,
Egigarla, the Bverorusaiaq soviet socialist Repubrlc, s]E, pernocratfETemen,
erhrgBlg, Gbana., cuinea-Bissau, &gb, the @,
Enq?r+a, {pz?nbique, Nigeria, po}and, noNnanla, @, theuKrarnran sovret socialist Repub,lig and the un ion of sovlet sociarist ttepubrics as
r"Ii a.@, stbrequentry joined blr viet Nan.
8. At the 67th meeting, on 7 December, the representative of the Union of Soviet
sociarlst tGpublics, on behau of the sponsor s 1 folloning suggestions made by sone
rePresentatives, orally revised the seventh preanbular piragiiph bry adding the
words nas well as bl, vlolations of the principles of the Charter of the Unlted
Nations regarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of State€ and
selfdetermination of peoples" at the end of the paragraph.

9, At the same meeting, the representative of Onan orally proposeal the insertion
of the words nand prevent violat.ions of tbe principles of the charter of the united
Nationa regarding the sovereignty anal territorial integricy of states and serf-
deterninatlon of peopresi after the words rinternationar control" in operatlve
paragraph 2.

10 At the same meetlng, the represantative of lhe Unlon of Sovtet Socialtst
Republics on behalf of the sponsors, accepted the amendnent proposeal bV the
representative of Ollan and revised lhe draft. resolution accoralingly.
11. At the same meeting, the representative of the United states of Ar0er ica orally
Proposed that the words trllberty and security of personsn be aalded after the wordatright of llfer in the sixth, eleventh and twelfth preambular paragraphs and
operative paragraphs I, 2 and 6.

L2- At the same meetlng, the representative of the ttnion of soviet sociarlst
Republicsr following consultat.ions on the proposal nade by the representab{ve of
the lhited States of Anerica, further orally revised the te:.t of the draft
reaolutlon as follo\ds:

(a) In the second prearnbular paragraph, tbe words naccording to which
everyone haa the rlght to life, liberty and security of personn were added after
the words nunlversal Declaration of Human Rights',t



N37 /7L6
En91i8h
Page 3

(b) In operative E aragraph 6, the words nliberty antl security of Person' 
and

to live in peace' were added at the end of the paragraPh'

13. A160 at the sane meetingr the Comnittee adoPte'l draft resolution
A/e.3/37/L.7L' as orally revised, by I02 votes to none, ltlth 28 abstentions 

(see

para. 16, draft resolutlon II A).

15. At its 67th meeting, on 6 Decenber ' the Corntnlttee 
adoPt€d the 

'lraft 
resolution

blr 109 voteE to none, with 23 abstention8 (see Para' 16' draft resolution rr 
B)'

III. RTCOI.I,IENDATIONS OF TEE THIRD COMMITTEE

16. The Thlrd comrittee recoflmends to the General Assembly the adoption 
of the

followlng drafE resolutions t

1.4. At t'he 64th meeting, on 6 D€cember, the representative of the B!'elorussian
Soviet soclalist Republic introduced a draft resolution (l^/C.f/37 /I'.7 3) r. entltled
"Hunan rights and scientlfic and technologlcal alevelopnentsn ' seonsgrlf lv 

*n9+?'
Arsentina' Bansladesh' gen:!+, S+g.tg, t;e. Brye+orussian +viet' Foci?1i99 Repubric '
d".E, '@,.the.E#
,..--npc.!G neG6il", '
Madagascar, !.rrngoria, *r*""., 

"i"+=e_ 
, pe"a*@r @

;d zrnbabre, subsequetttli- jottt"a uf Mghanistan and gg!!'

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Thg General Assemblv,

Recallinq lts resolutlon 33/53 of 14 December 19?8' in vthich it requested 
the

Cornmission on Euman Rights to urge the Sub-Coffnission on Prevention of
Discrinination and Protection of Minorlties to undertake as a matter of Priority 

a

study of the question ot the Protectsion of those detained on the grounds of mental
ill-health with a view to fornulating guidelines,

Recalllng also its reEolutlons 35,/t3o B of Il Decenber 1980 and 36/56 B of
25 t'tovember I98I, in which lt Yrelcomed and noted r''ith satisfaction the work belng
underlaken bY lhe suF conmlssionr and requested the comnisslon on Hurnan Rights 

to
continue its consideration of thia question in the light of the action being 

taken

bv the sub"conunlss ion, with a view io submitting a rePort to the General 
Assembly

it its trrirty-eighth session, through the Econonic and Social council'

Recalling a]-so comnission on llunan Rlghts resolution I982'l5 of
fg *ffi-f s6ii-ir-"iii"t the Comnission requested the sub-conmlss lon, at lts

Draf t. resolutlon A/ Q"]1 li !4



A,/37 /716
English
Page 4

thirty-fifth aeasion, to con€ lder the queEtion as a rnatter of high prlority, rrith a
view to submltting ita vietrs and recom.aendations, includlng a dr;ft- body of
guidellnes, prlnciples and guarantees, to the Colmi5siqr at its thtrty-;tnth
sesslon,

gg!!19 that the comtrisaion on Eunan nights wlII not be in a posltlon to submit
a report to the ceneral Asgembly at lts thlrty-eiqhth session lhrough the Econonlc
and social. Council, as regueated in Assenbly resolutlon 36/56 B, because it was
inlrosE ible for the sutsconullsslon at its thtrty-fifth aeaslon to conclude its
consideration of the draft body of guidelinesl princlples and guarantees,

Reaff irninq itE convictlon that detentlon of persons ln rnental instltutions on
account of thelr poltticar views or on other non-medical grounds is a violation of
their hunan rights,

Noting with satisfactlon the progresa rnade by the Sub-@nunlss Lon on Preventlon
of Discrimination and protectlon of Minorltles in ita conslderation of the draft
body of guidellnes, principles and guarantees Eubnitted to it,

Urqes the Conmias ion on Hurnan Rights anal, through it, the sub-comtiss lon on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Mlnoritiea to continue and e4)edite
their consideratlon of this queetlon with a view to the conmisa ion subnitting its
views and recofinendations to the cenerar Assembly at its thirty-nlnth session,
through the Econonic and Social Council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Eu!0an rlghts and Ecientlfic and technologlcal developnentg

A

T:he General Assembly,

Reafflrnlng the tletermination of the peoples of the lrnlted Nation€ to 6ave
succeeding generatlons fron the scourge of rrar, to reafflrm faith ln the digntty
and worth of the human person, to maintain international peace and securlty, to
develop friendly relations anong peoples and internatlonal cNperation in
prolpting and encouraging universal respect for human rights anit for fundarnental
freedom6,

Recalllng the provlsions of the lrniversal DecLaration of Hunan Rights
according to rrhlch everyone has a rlght to Iife, Iiberty and aecurlty of person, /the rnteEnational covenant on Economic, social anit curturar Rrqt.t s ?/ and thernternational @venant on civll and political Rights, Z/ attLcre 6 & which statesthat nevery hunan being has the inherent right to lifen,

Resolution 217 A (III).

Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

v
u



u37/7].6
English
Page 5

- Recarrinq alEo lts resorutions 328r (xxrxl of 12 December 197/t containing thecharter of Eonornic Rights and lt|tles of state€ and 32ol (s-vr) anal 3202 (s-vr) of
I l4ay 197{, containlng the Declaratlon and the progralune of Action on the
Establishment of a New International Economic Galer,

taking note of the Declaratlon on the Strengthening of Internatlonal
Security, 3rr tnE oecfaration on the Use of Sclentlflc and lechnological progreaa inthe rnterests of peace and for the Benefit of r'ranklnar, !/ the Declaration on thePreparation of societies for Life in peace, / the mctiration on the prevention of
Nuclear Catastrophe, !r/ and tts resolution 36/92 I of 9 Decenber 1gglron the
non-use of nuclear rreapons and prevention of nuciear war,

l,loting with appreciatlon CorE[isaion on Hunan Rights regolution 1992,/7 of
19 February 1982,

rGafflrnins the inherent right of all peoples and all individuals to life,

_ Deeply concerned that internatlonal peace and securlty continues to bethreatened by the arms racer particularly tbe nuclear arnEr race, aE trerr as blt
vioration€ of the principles of the charter of ttle unlted Natldrs regarding the
soverelgnty anal territorial integrlty of states and self-deternoination of peopres,

Aware that all horrora of p6at wars and a1l other calanitlee tlrat have
befallen people would pare ln corq)ar lson wlth nbat lg lnherent in the use of
nuclear weapons capable of alestroylng clvlllzation or earth,

-. lbting the presstng need for urgent neasurea towards general and cornpletedisarmanent, partlcularly nuclear disamament,

Bearj'ng in nlnd that, ln accordance with the rnternatio[ar covenant on civll
and Political Rlghts, any propagantla for l'at shall b€ prohibtted by law,

Recallinq the hiEtoric responsibllity of the @vernnents of all @untrles of
the world to remov€ the threat of !'ar frcm the lives of people, to preserve
civilizatlon and ensure that everyone enJoys hls lnherenl right to life,

Convinced that for no people in the uorld today is there a nrore fuq>ortant
question than that of the preservatlon of peace and of ensuri,ng the caralnat right
of every hunan being, nanely, the rlght to llfe,

Resolution 2734 (XXVI.

Resolutlon 3384 (XXX).

Resolution 33,/73.

Resolution 36/L0O.

v
!/
v
v



N37/7L6
Eng Iish
Page 6

l. Expresses r'ts firn gonyigtign that all Peoples 3F *1 ilivlluars 
nave

an inherenc right to liEe, and that the safeguarding of thls forenosE 
right is an

essential condition for the enjolrnent of the entire range of economic t social 
and

cultural, as well as civil ancl political rightst

2, Stresses the urgent need for all posslble efforts by the international

"-*orrity 
6-i6gthen pi..., ttntou" the threat of r.rar' particularly nuclear vtar '

halt the arns race ana alnieve general and comPlete disarnament under effective
internatlonal control .rra pr".r.it violations oi the principles of the charter 

of

the tnit€d l,htions regaraiig the sovereignty an'l territorial integrity of 
states

and self-determination .i-iiZ"pi"", ttrus ioniributing to assuring the right 
to lifet

3. Stresses further the forernost imPortance of the lnplenentation of
practical ffi-d k.rmarnent for releising aubstantial aalditionar resources,
whichshou]'.tbeutilize.lforsoclalandeconornicdeveloPnent'partlcularlyforthe
benefit of the developing countrieat

4. CaUs upon all states to take effectlve measures with a vie$' to
prohibitingty lar't any ProPaganda for wart

q- Acain calls upon all States, apProPriate organs of the United lihtlons '
slxciatizeE-TlEnciei, intergovernrnental and non-
concerned to take the necessary neasurea to ensure that the results of scientlfic
and technological progress tre- used exclusively in the interests of internatlonal
;;;.;;-;;. de uun"ril of mankind and for pronoting and encouraging 

respect for

human rights and fundamental freedoms without 'tistinction 
as to racet gex' language

or religiont

6. Resuests the corunission on lluman Rlghts in its future activities 
to

stress the need !o ensure the cardinal right of everyone !o lifet liberty 
and

security of Person, and to live in peace I

7. Decides to consider this natter further at its thirty-eighth session
under the IGt6titl.a nHuman rights an't scientific and technologlcal
developnents ".

The General Assemb1y,

lrlotinq that scientific and technological progress is one of the lrnPortant
ractoiE-In-in tne developnent of hunan society,

Noting once again the great importance of the Declaratlon on the Use of
Sclentlflc and Technological Progress in the Interest of Peace and for the Benefit
oi-u.nfina, adopted by the Generit Assembly in lts resolutlon 3384 (xxx) of
I0 November 1975'



N37/7L6
English
Page 7

Constdering that implementation of the said tteclaration will contribute to the
s trengrthEning of international peace and the securlhy of peoples and to their
economic and social developrcnt as well as to international co-operation in the
fieltl of hurnan r lghts,

Seriously concerned that the results of scientlfic and technological progress
could be used for the arns race to the detrlment of internatlonal peace and
security and social progress, human rights and fundamental freedons, and the
alignity of the hunan pelson,

necogniz ing thaE the establishrnent of the new international econornic order
calls in particular for an inportant contributlon to be nade $r sclence and
technology to economic and social progress,

Bearing ln mlnd that the exchange and transfer of scientific anal technological
knowledge is one of the important nays to accelerate the social and econonic
develoF0ent of the developlng countrie€,

Noting with satisfaction the reports of the secretary-ceneral on human rights
and scientific and technologlcal ateveLolrn enbs, A

1. stresses the inportance of the irnplementation bry a1I states of the
provisions and principles contained in the Declaratlon on the Use of scientific anal
Technological Progress in the Int€rests of Peace and for the Benefit of Mankind in
order to prorDte humn rights and fundamental freedonst

2. Calls upon aII states to nake every effort to use the achievements of
science and lechnology in order to pronote peaceful social, econonic and cultural
development and progress,

3, Requests the specialized agencies and other organizatlons of the ltnited
Nation€ Bysten to take into account in their prograrnnes and actlvitlea the
provis ions of the Declarationt

4. Invites those Menber states, specialized agencies and other orqanizations
of the ltn ited llations system that have not yet done so to submit their information
in accordance with ceneral Assembly resolution 35,/130 A of tL Decenber 1980t

5. Requeats the comnisaion on lluman Rights to give speclal attention, in its
consideration of the item entitled rHuman rights anal acientific and technological
developnents", to the question of the implenentation of the Declarationt

6. Decides to include in the provislonal agenda of lts thirty-eighth €ession
che item entltled trHuman rights and scientific and technological developnentsn.

a A/37 /300 and add. L.


