












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/37/6ss
2 December 1982

ORIGTMLI ETGLTSH

llhirty-seventh session
Agenda item 43

rMPr.E0lEI\EATroN oF GENERAL AssElrttsLy REsoLurroN 36/g5

Report of the First Con@ittee
Rapporteur: ur. Luvsangiin ERDENECHULUI'N (t4ongolia)

I. INTRODTtrTION
l' !*re item entitled irmplementation of ceneral assembly resolution 3;r/g1treport of the comnittee on Disarrnamenttr, was included in Lne provislonal agenda ofthe thirty-seventh session in accordance with General a.ssernbly resorution 36/gs of9 December 1981.
2' At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 septernber Lg82, the General Assembly, on therecqunendation of the General conunittee, decided to include the item in its agendaand to allocate it to the First Colrmittee.
3' At its 2nd meeting, on 29 Septenber 1982, the First Colrmittee decided to hoLda conbined general debate on the itens al-located to it relating to disarmament,
nameJ-y, items 39 to 5?' I33 and 136. The general debate on these items and onitems 138 and L39, which were allocated to the First conunittee by the General
Assembry at its 24ttr plenary meeting, on 8 october Lgg2, took place at the 3rd to28th meetings from 18 October to 5 tbvember lsee A,/C.L/37/W.3_2gr.
4. fn connection with itern 43, the First Conunittee had before it the folloringdocuments:

(a) Report of the Conunittee on Disarmementi v

82-34633 0799z, tE)

thirt th Sessiony official Records_ of the General Assemb
Supplement t{o. 27 (A/37/37t.



v37/6s5
English
Page 2

(b) Ietter dated 22 June 1982 frorn the ChargrS drAffaires a.i. of the
permanent Mission of Cuba to the United lihtions addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the Final Comnuniqu6 and other documents of the Ministerial l{eeting of
ttre Co-ordinating Bureau of the lbn-eligned Countries' held at Havana fron 31 l'tay
to 5 June l-982 1Py'37 /3331 ',

(c) Letter dated I1 October L982 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba to
the United Nitions addressed to Ehe Secretary-@neral, transmitting the Final
Corununiqu6 and ottrer documents of the Meeting of Ministers for llcreign Affairs and
Heads of llelegation of the llon-Al-igned Countries, held in l.trew York from 4 to
9 October 1982 (Py'37/5401:'

(d) Letter dated 25 October 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Fiji to
t5e gnited llations addressed to the Secretary-@neraI, transmitting the Fina1
Conununiqu{ of the Corunonwealth Heads of @vernment Regional l4eeting, held at Suva
fron L4 to 18 october 1982 1Py'37/5861.

II. CONSIDERAIION OF DR,AFT RESOLUTION A/C .L/37 /L.4o,/REV.1

5. 01 17 I'lcvember, Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Canada, Denmsrkr.Ecuador'
Einland, rreland, +pll;@, the Tetherland:, I,iler.t Seal:and, the-Niger, -g9gg'
lEp-ua Gwffia, FETfippGffimoa, s lrhS@ and

affi;otuticr;'pr'cJ/n/L.40 entitred "urgent need for a
.*pr.fr.nsive nuclear-test-ban treaty". The draft resolution vtas introduced by
Australia at the 38th neeting, on 19 November and read as followsa

'rurllent need for comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty

tr@,

'Convinced of the urgent need for the negotiation of a comprehensive
nucleai-test-bEn treaty catrnble of attracting the widest trnssible
international supStort and adherence,

,,Bggjg!g3g!g its conviction that an end to nuclear-weapon testing by all
StatesEU environments would be a najor step towards ending the
qual.itative improvement, development and proliferation of nuclear neapons, a
means of reLieving the deep apprehension concerning the harmful consequences
of radioactive contamination for the health of present and future generations
and a measure of the utnost inportance in bringing the nuclear arns race to an
end,

nRecalling that the parties to the Treaty Banning Nrclear Weapon Tests in
ttre Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water undertook not to carry out any
nuclear-weap,on-test explosionl o! any other nuclear explosion' in the
environments covered by that Treaty, and in that Treaty and in the Treaty on
the lbn-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons expressed their determination to
continue negotiations to achieve the discontinuance of all test explosions of
nucl-ear vteapons for aII time,



A/37/655
English
Page 3

nRecalling its previous resolutions on this subject,

"|gg!3ilg the indispensable role of the comrittee on Disarmanent in
ttre negotiation of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treatyl

"co*i$! that the Corrnittee on Disarmament should comnence negotiations
on such a treaty at the earliest trnssible date,

"Recog@!. the intrnrtance to such a treaty of the work assigned by the
Conunittee on Disarmament to the 44 noc croup of Scientific D<perts to ConsiderInternational Co-otrnrative Measures to Detect and Identify Seismic Events on a
gLobal network of stations for the exchange of seisrol.ogi-al data,

"!!Igi!g the intrnrtance of further efforts by the union of Soviet
Socialist RepubJ.ics, the United Kingdorn and the united States of Arnerica to
faciLitate the conclusion of such a treaty,

"1. Reiterates its grave concern that, despite the express nishes of the
overwhelming majority of Member states, nuclear-weapon testing continues
unabatedT

n2. Reaffirns its conviglion that a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban
treaty is @t urgency and highest priorityT

n3. D<presses the conviction that such a treaty would constitute a vital
eLement for the success of efforts to haLt and reverse the nuclear-arns race
and the quaritative improvement of nuclear weapons, and to prevent the
extrnnsion of existing nuclear arsenals and the spread of nuclear weatrrons to
additional countries;

trA. ilbtes that the Conrnittee on Disarmament has established an ad hoc
working 9r6il!-To discuss and define, through substant,ive examin"tiottr-F"u"s
relating to verification and compliancer with a view to making further
progress toward a nuclear test ban;

trs. Further notes that the said ad hoc working group has initiated
consideration of the issues under its mandatei

'6. Requests the Conunittee on Disarmament to continue the consideration
of these issues and to take the necessary steps to iniEiate substantive
negotiations in order that the draft of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban
treaty may be submitted to the GeneraL assembly at the earliest trnssible dateT

- 
n7. Urges all nembers of the Conrnittee on Disarmarnent, in trnrticular the

nuclear-weapon States, to co-operate with the Conunittee in fulfilling these
tasks;

rr8. Also requests the Conunittee on Disarmament to determine, in the
context of its negotiations on such a treaty, the institutional and
administrative arrangements necessary for establishing, testing and operating
an international seismic monitoring network and an effective verification
systemi



A/37/6ss
English
Page 4

n9. Calls upon the Comnittee on Disarmament to report on Progress to the
C;eneral Assenbly at its thirty-eighth session;

n10. g!|g to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth
session an item entltled rUrgent need for a conprehensive nuclear-test-ban
treaty I . n

5. on 26 lilovernber, 4g.9ES, Austria, the Eg@', $!lgb, @, @t
ryjlg, Ell!., Il&4, rreland, JaPan' @JgE., the !9@' !9g zealand' the
Niger, !95!iX,, Papua libw Guinea, the Philiqpines, @, Sierra Icong, SggEgIg,
Sofqnon fClanas, Spain, gg!g, ItraiLand and .ryg, strnnsored a revised draft
iesolution (Ne.Vt7/L.40Fev.11, ihldi contained a new sixth preanbular trnragraph'
a nen operative trnragraph 4 and revised language in operative Snragralfis 2 and 5.

7. At its 45th meeting, on 25 lfovember, the Comnittee adopted draft resoLution
A/C.V37/L.40,/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 92 to 1, wittr 34 abstentions (see
trnra. 8).

The voting nas as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Australia, Austria, Baharnas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Burmar Burundi, Canadar Central African
nepublic, Chad, Colonbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Clrprue, Denpcratic
Yenen, Dennark, njibouti, Ibninican Repub1ic, Ecuador, E9Y?t,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gerrnany, Ebderal Republic of,
Ghana, Greecer Guatenala, Guinea, Guyana, Iceland, Indonesiat
Iran (Islamic Republic of), fragr Ireland, Italy, ilamaiea, Japan,
ilordan, Kenya, I$rwait, Icbanon, Liberia' Libyan Arab Janahiriya,
Luxernbourg, Malawi, l,lalaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
lbroccor lfepal, lGtherlandsr libtt Zealandr Nigerl lbrway, Onan,
Pakistan, Papua tilew Guinea, Paraguay' Philipptnes, Portugal,
Qatar, Rornaniar Rnanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra l€one,
Singapore, Sornalial Spainl sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Srreden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, &go, Tunisiar Trrrkey, thited
Arab Enirates, United Republic of Cameroonr Uruguay, Yemen'
Yugoslavia, Zaire, zambia.

Agalngts thited States of America.

Abstainlngl afghanistan, Ango1a, Argentinar Bolivia, BrazLL, Bulgaria'- Byelorussian Soviet SocialiEt Republlc, Chile, Chinar Cuba,
Czectroslorrakia, France, Gerrnan Denocratlc Republic, Hungaryt
fndia, Israel, Iao Peoplers Derpcratic Republic, Madagascar,
lhxl.co, I'bngolla, l{ozarnbiquel Nicaragua, Nigeria, Panarna, Peru,
Poland, Sao Tone and Principe, tlganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, ttrrion of Soviet Socialist Republicsr tlhited Kingddl of
Great Britain and Northern lre1and, tlrited Republic of Tanzania,
Venezuela, Vl.et lilam.



A/37/6s5
Engltsh
Page 5

III. RECOMIIEIIDATIoN oF lTtE FrRstr CoMTITIT:IEE
8' trhe trirst conmittee reconmends to the General Assenbly the adoptlon of thefollowlng draft resolutlon:

The @neral Assenblv

- 
convinced of the urgent need for the negotiation of a coryrehensivenuclear-test-ban treaty cagnble of attractrni trre widest possilreinternational suptrnrt and adherence,

. Re?tfif$ing lts convictlon t*rat an end to nuclear-weapon testlng $r atlstates in all environments would be a naJor step tolrards eiaing ttrequalitatlve improvement, develotrment and proliferation of nucllar weapqra, at.eans of relieving the.deep apprehension concerning the ;";;;i'conaequenceaof tadio-active contamination-ior the healttr of preeent arrd future generationsand a meaaure of tlre utrrcst inlnrtance in brlnging ttre nuclear arms race to anend,

-Seca+ing 
that the partles to the Treaty Banning Nrclear 1,1batrnn lests inthe ltnpstr*rere, ln otrter strnce and under tat;r !/ undertook not to carry outany nuclear-weapon-test exploslonl or any other-nuclear explosl.on, in theenvironnents covered by that Treaty, and ln that Treaty and ln the Treaty onthe Non-proliferation of Nuclear lrleapons !/ expressed their determlnation tocontinue negotiatlons to achieve the diecdntinu"n."-"t .ii-a]Ji-"ropro"ions ofnuclear weapona for all tl.ne,

Recalling lts previous resolutlons on this subject,
Becggrnizlng the indispensable role of ttre connlttee on Dlsarnament in thenegotiation of a cmprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty,

_-__ 
Taking into ac.count that lnrt of the retrnrt of the comnittee onDisarmament concerning cnonsl.deration of the item entitled ilfuclear test ban,during its l9g2 sesslon, 'sv's

c-onvinced that the comnittee on Disartnanent Bhould colrmence negotlationson such a treaty at the earliest possible date,

.FPcognizlPg the lrntrnrtance to such a treaty of the work assigned by thecqunittee on Disarnanent to the 34lpg cro'F of'scientiflc Dcpert3 to consider

u
v

United l€tions, Treatv series, vol.
Resolution 2372 (XXII), ann€rx.

480, lib. 6964, p. 43.



M37/6s5
English
Page 6

Inter national Co-otrnr ative
global network of stations

Measures to Detect and Identify seismic Errents on a
for the exchange of seismological data,

treaty to achieve the prohibition of
for all time is a matter of the

Stressing the intrnrtance of further efforts by the lJnion of Soviel
sociaffit nepuulicsr the tnited Kingdom of creat Britain and tlorthern rreland
and the urrited states of America to facilitate the conclusion of such a treaty,

1. Reiterates its grave concern that, despite the express wishes of the
overwhelmi , nuclear-neaPon testing continues
unabatedt

2. Reaffirms its conviction that a
all nuclear-test explosions by aII States
greatest urgency and highest priority;

3. ErDresses the conviqtion trrai 1y*r a treaty would constltute 
a vital

e1ementfortheffitoha1tandreversethenuc1ear-armsrace
and ttre qualitative improvement of nuclear weapons, and to prevent the
exSnnsion of existing nuclear arsenals and the spread of nuclear rteapons to
additional countriesT

4. libtes that the Comtrittee on Disarmanentl in the exercise of its
as the multilateral disarnament negotiating forumtresponsibilities
April 1982 an ltlit Hoc t{orking GrouP under item I of its

',Nrrclear test UaiEna, considering ttrat discussion of
established on 2I
agenda, entitLed
specific issues
negotiation of a

(a) To discuss and define, through substantive examinationt issues
relating to verification and compliance with a view to naking further progress
tolards a nuclear test bani

(b) To take into as'count all existing protrnsals and future initiatives
and report to ttre Corunittee on the Progress of its work before the conclusion
of the 1982 session;

5. ^Llso notes that the Comnittee on Disarmament agreed that it t'Puld
thereafterElel-a-ecision on subsequent courses of action wittr a view to
fulfilling its responsibilities ln ttris regardi

6. Further notes that ttre Ad Hoc rgo_rking Group has initiated
consideratTonE the issues under its mandate?

7. Bggsts ttre comnittee on Disarnarnent to continue the 
consideration

of these issues ?-nd to take the necessary steps to initiate substantive
negotiations in order tlrat the draft of a conprehensive nuclear-test-ban
treaty may be subnitted to the GeneraL assenrlcly at the earliest lnssible datel

g. urges all members of the comnittee on Disarmament, in particular the
nuclear-weaPon States, to co-operate with the Conunittee in fulfiLling these
tasksi

ln the first instance night facilitate progress toldard
nuclear test ban, requested the Ad Hoc l{orking Group to:



I'/37/655 '
English
Page 7

9' Also requgqts the corunittee on Disarmament to determine, in thecontext or.'ffiegotiaEions on such a treaty, the institutionar andadninistrative arrangements necessary for ertaulishing, testing and operating
il"i*;t"ational 

seismic monitoring network 
"na-"n effective verification

10 ' caus upon the conrnittee on Disarmanent Eo retrnrt on progress to theGenerat AsG;EIt;'E-i ts 
- 
rh i;l;lJish th sess ion 3

1r' Decides to include in the provisionar agenda of its thirty-eighth
;:::l;l."nG=ntitred "uig";t' ,r..i r";-;-;-"'pi!rrensive nucreii-tesr-ban


