












































UNITED
NATIONS

A

GeneralAssembly
Dislr.
GENERAL

A/37 /72L
13 Decernber 198 2

ORIGINAI,: ENGLISH

Th irty-seventh segsion
Agenda i tern lI8

RtsPORT OF THE SPECIAI COMMITTEE ON ENHA}ICING ?HE EFFECTIVENESS OF
THE PRINCIPLE OF NON-USE OF FORCE IN INTERNATIONAT RELATIONS

t€port of the Sixth ConunilCee

@jg!teg.: Miss salwa Gabr ieI BERBERT (sudan)

I. INTRODTJCT ]ON

1. Ihe iten entitled "Report of the speci.al coitrnittee on Enhancj'ng the
Effectiveness of the Principle of Non-Use of !'orce in International Relationsn was
included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session of lhe General
Assernbly pursuant to paragraph 9 of Assembly resolution 36/3I of 13 l'lovenber 1981'

2. oll the reconmendation of the General cornmitcee' the General Assembly, at its
4th plenary neeting, on 24 september 1982. decided to include the item in t}|e
agenda of its thirty-seventh session and to allocate j.t to the sj.xth com'nittee'

3. In connexj.on with thls item, tbe sixth cor,mi tcee had before it the folloolng
docunents:

(a) Report of the Special Comniltee on lfnhancing the Effectiveness of the
Principle of lbn-Use of Force in InEernational Relaeionst y

(b) Report of Che Secretary-ceneral containing observations received from
Covernnents (A/37/37 5l .

4. The Comnittee also had before it the following comnunications:

y Official Records of the Gener
ement lA/ 37 / 4rl .

82-36505 4203f (E)

th sslon,



^/37 
/72L

EngL ish
Page 2

Note verbale date I0 June 1982 frorn the pernanent Representative of fraq
lo the United NaCions addressed to the Secretarv-ceneral
(N 37 /279-s/r5r96) .,

(b) r€tter dated 28 october r9B2 from the pernanent Representacive of the
Islarnic Republic of Iran to the United Nations addressed to the
secr etary-cener aL ( A,/ 37 / Sg4-S/ L5 17 L') .,

(c) I€tter dated 12 t{ovenber 1982 fron the pernanent Representative of
Afghanistan to the United I'lations addressed to the Secr atarv-c€neral
(A,/37 /635-s/rs497l .

5. The @ruritlee considered the item at its 3lst to 40th meetings and at its
57th meeting, fron 29 october 1982 to 9 Novenber l9B2 and on 29 l.lovember 1982. The
summary records of those neecings (see A,/C.6/3j/sR.3l-40 and 57) contain the vie$rs
of representatives who spoke during the consideration of the itetn.

(a)

]I. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOI,UTION A/C,6/37/L.N
6. At the 57th rneeting ' on 29 Novenber, the represencative of l,{ongor ia introduceda draft resolution (NC.6/37/L.LL) on behatf of 4€gtEnistan, lg]gb, Benin,Burggr.rg, the Bvelorussian soviet socialist nepub-IfElEElT qxglg, c-zechoilovak ia,
Denbcratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, tfre Ciliran oelrpcratic nep"Ufi",
-Grelaga, lglgery, India, rraq, the Lao people,s Denocratic Republic, the Libyan
lrab .Ianahiriya, t_4adagascar, l"tongolia, t4orocco, libzanbique, Nicaragua, Egfg!!],nomaniq, uganda, che ut<rainian soviet socialist nepubtic, th;@g__s""m
Eoc_ielist Bppubligg, Vgnezuela ahd Viet Nan, later joined by Syr ian Arab Republic.
On 30 I'lovenber 1982, the representative of Mali advised tfre Cnairman lna tfre
secretariat of the Sixth Committee that l4ati should have been adcled to the originat
spohsors of the draft resolution.
7. The comnittee had before it a sLatenent subnitted by the secr e tary-ceheral
(A,/c.6 /37 /L.r4 ) on the administrarive and f inanci.al irnplications of draft
resolution N c.6 /37 /L.tI.
8. At its 57th neeting, on 29 November, Lhe ComnitCee adopted draft
resolution NC.6/37/L.LL by a recorded vote of 87 to 15, with 9 abstentions
{see para. L0). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahanas, Bahrain, Barbados,
Benin, Brazil, Butgaria, hrrma, &lrundi, Byelorussian Soviet
socialist Republic, Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia,
Congo. Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democr atic yemen, Dominr.can
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, cabon, cerr|an
Denocratic Republic, chana, creece, cuinea, cuyana, Haiti,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq,
Ivory Coast., Jamaica, Kenya, Xur^rait, tao peoplers Deft)cratic

tic Republ ic,
ublic, the Libyan
caragua, Po1and,
Union of Soviet



P/37 /72r
Engl ish
Page 3

Republic ' Libyan Arab Janahiriya' 
Madagascar, t'talarr'i, Malaysia'

t'tali, Mexico, lbngolia, l4orocco, l&rzanbique' tGPaI, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, onan ' Pakistan, 

Panana, Papua New Guinea' Peru'
Philippines' Poland' Ronania, RvJanda, Senegal' sierra Leone'
Singaporer Somalia, sudan' surinane' syrian Arab Republic '
Thailanal, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, ttganda, Ukrainian
soviet socialist Republic, Union of soviet soclalist Republics '
United Arab Enirates, Uniteal I€PubIi'c of Cameroon, Uruguay,
Venezuela' Viet Nan, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, zambia'

Against: Belgium' canada' Derunark, France, Iceland, Israel, Italy' 'laPan'
Luxenbourg, Netherlands, Norvtay ' Portugal, 

sPain, United Kingdon
of Great Britain and llorthern rreland, united states of Anerica'

SLaining.: Australia, Austria, china, Democratic Kampuchea, Gernany' Federal
RePublic of, Ireland, New zealand, Sveden, Turkey.

g. statenents in explanation of vote reere rnade by the representatives of Norvtay,
the Nether lands and Australia.

III. RECOMMI]NDATION OF IIIE SIXIU COMI'{ITTEE

10. The sixth cornnittee reconmends to the General Assenbly the adopt lon of the
follor,ring draft resolution:

R€Fort of the sPecial Comnittee on Enhancing the Effectivenqss
of the Principle of Non-Use of Force in International Relations

The ceneral Assenblv,

Recallirlg its resolution 3L/9 ot I November 1976, in which it invited Member
states to liarnine further the draft wo!1d Treaty on the Non-Use of Force in
International ttelatj.ons, 2/ as welL as other proposaLs nade during the
consideration of this iten.

Recalling also ics lesoLution 32/L5O of 19 Decenber L917, by hich it
established the Special Conunittee on Enhancing the Effectiveness of the Principle
of Non-Use of Eorce in International Relations,

Recalling. in particular ' 
its resolutio^s 33/96 of 16 December 1979, 34/13 of

9 llovember 19?9, 35/50 of 4 Decernber l98O and 36/3I ot 13 November 198L, in which
it decided that the special conmittee should continue its work,

A Official Records of lhe General Assernbty, Thirty-fourth session,
supplement No. 41 (N34/4L and corr.I), annex.



N37 /72r
Eng 1i sh
Page 4

Taking note of the statement nade by the chairman of the special conrnittee at
its 1982 session, 3/

Havlng considered the report of the Special Connittee, 3rl
Takinq i?to account that the special comnltgee has not conpleted the mandate

entrusted to it,

Reaffirning the need for universar and effective apprication of the principre
of the non-use of force ln internacional relations and for assistance by the United
Nations in this endeavour,

Expressirg the hope that the Special CoNnittee wi1l, on the basis of the
proposals before it, comptebe the mandate entrusted to it as soon as possible,

1. Takes note of the report of the Special Committee on Enhancing the
Effectiveness of the Princlple of Non-use of Force in rnternational Relations i

2- Decides that the speciar corunittee shalr continue its work rrith the goal
of drafting, at the earliest possible date, a rrorld treaty on the non-use of force
in international relations as lrerl as the peacefur settlenen! of disputes or such
other reconmendations as the Comnittee deens appropriate?

. 3. Requests the Special ComniEtee, in order to ensure further progress tnits rltork, to begin at its forthconing session, as the next step, che ata6oration of
the formuras of the r.rorking paper containing the nain elements of the principle of
non-use of force in international rel-ations, taking dul.y into account the proposals
subnitted to it and, in particurar, the efforts undertaken at its session in r9g2;

4. rnvites the coverrunents that have not yet done so co comlunicate their
cornnents or suggestions or to bring thern up to date, in accordance with General
Assenbly resolueion 3V9t

5. Requests the Speclal Conmittee to be nindful of the inportance of
reaching generar agreenent whenever it has significance for the ouccone of its work;

6- Requests the secretary-cener a1 to provide the speciar comnittee witb the
necessary facilities and services i

7. rovites the speciar corfinittee to submit a report on its work to the
ceneral Assembly at its thirty-eighth sessioni

8. DeclSes to incrude in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the iten entitled "Report of the special committee on Enhancing the rffectiveness
of the Prirpiple of Non-Use of Force in International ReLations,'.

v
!/

Ibid,, Thirty-seventh Session, Supplement N,o. 41 (A,/37/4L), F,aEa. 372.


