












































UMTED
NATIONS

@ 
Generar Assembrv

Distr.
GENERAT

v37/666
9 Decenber L982

ORIGTNAL3 EIGLISH

Th irty-seventh session
Agenda item 54

CEEI4ICAL AND BACTERIOLOGICAL (BIOLOGICAL} WEAPONS

Report of the First Connittee

Rapporteur: l4r. Luvsangiin ERDENECHULUUN (Mongolia)

I. INTRODI]CTION

1. Ttre item entitled

"Chenica1 and bacteriological (biological) ldeaponss

(a) Report of the Committee on Disarmament;

(b) Retrnrt of the Secretary-General!'

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 36/96 A and C of 9 ttecember 1981.

2. At its 4th plenary meetingr on 24 September 1982, the ceneral Assemblyl on the
recommendation of the General Cornnittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 29 September, the First Comrnittee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to di3armamentr
namelyr items 39 to 57, 133r and 135. The general debate on these ltens and on
items 138 and 139, which were allocated to the First Comnittee bry the General
Assembly at its 24th plenary meet,ing, on 8 OcEober L982, took place at the 3rd to
28th meetings, from 18 October to 5 tilovember (see VC.1./37/YV.3-28).

4. In connection with itern 54, the First Comnittee had before it the followingj
documents'.

82-36$24 fl43uq iii]



p{37/566
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the

(b) Report of the
(biological) weaSnnsl

(c) Ietter dated
Denpcratic Kampuchea to
(U37/72) t

Conmittee on Disarmanent; /
Secretary-General on chemical and bacteriological

19 January 1982 from the Permanent Representative of
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General

(d) t'bte verbale dated 24 February L982 frorn the Permanent Representative of
the United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-@neral (A/ 37 /LOZI t

(e) I€tter dated 19 March 1982 from the Perrnanent Representative of
Derrocratic Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/37/Ls2-s/L49L5) i

(f ) tilcte verbale dated 22 ltar:ch 1982 from the permanent Representative of the
United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(M37/L57) r

(g) Ietter dated 7 April 1982 from the Permanent Ftepresentative of the unionof Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addreised to the
Secretary-GeneraI (p/ 37 /L7 3l t

(h) Letter dated 14 April 1982 from the Charg6 drAffaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Viet Nan to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/37 /L801 t

(i) Letter clated 19 April 1982 from the Permanent, Representative of the
Denrccratic Kampuchea to the united Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(Py'37/202-s/L4e86l i

(j) Ietter dated 27 April 1982 from the Perrnanent Representative of the rao
Peoprers Denpcratic Republic to the united Nations addressed to the
Secretary-GeneraI (a/ 37 /2l0) t

(k) Ietter dated 28 April 1982 from the Perrnanent Representative of the rao
Peoplers Derpcratic Republic to the united Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General @/ 37 /2L21 t

(1) Ietter dated 30 April 1982 fron the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (N 37 /2L9 ) t

y official Records of the General Assembl
Supplement No. 27 ( 37/27 a Corr.I).

Thirt -seventh Session,



v37/666
English
Page. 3

(m) Letter dated 20 !,lay 1982 from the Permanent l€Presentative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics Lo the United libtions addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/37 /2331',-

(n) li&rte verbale dated 20 l.tay 1982 frorn the Permanent Representative of the
United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/37/234 and Corr.l) r

(o) Ietter dated 23 June 1982 from the Perrnanent Representative of Canada to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (aft1/308li

(p) Ietter dated 22 June 1982 from the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
lA/37 /333-s/L52781 t

(q) Ietter dated 5 August 1982 from the Chargd a'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Viet Nam to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-@neral (A 37 /3761 t

(r) Letter dated 6 August 1982 from the Charg6 drAffaires a.i. of the
Pernanent Mission of Viet Nam to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-@neral lA/37 /377 | i

(s) tloLe verbale dated 29 November 1982 from the Permanent Representative of
the United states of America to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (NC.L/ 37 /L0l .

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution VC.1/37IL.15 and Rev.1

5. On l0 November, Afghanistan, Bulgaria, the
Republic, czechoslovakfE, the Gernan oemoCratic
Denocratic Republic, ${ongolia, 39$!, the Ukrainian Soviet Sociali?t RePub}icr 6nd
viet llaln -iuo-nit,tea a draft resolution entitled "Chemical and bacteriologicalViet Nan subnitted a draft resolution entitled "Chemical and
(biological) weapons" (p/C.L/37/L.15). The draft resolution ltas introduced at tbe
31st meeting, on 11 blovemberr bv the representative of the German Democratic
Republic and read as follows:

"@t

"Ilecalling paragraph 75 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Asseurbly stating tlrat the complete and effective
prohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of all chemical
r,reapons and their destruction represents one of the nost urgent measures of
disarmament,

,,Sg!gigg- to the unanirnous and categorical reaffirmat,ion by all Member
States aE ttre npelfth Special Session of the validity of the Final Document of
the Tenth SPeciaI Session,

/...

rkiaz the Ge,
${ongolia, Pr

,an, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Cernan oemocteti" R"puEII", H,rngurtt, the Iao Peoplers



A/37/666
English
Page 4

"Convinced of the need for the earliest conclusion of a convention on theprohiuTffin-5-the development, production and stockpiling of all chemical
weapons and on their destruction, which would significantly contribute to
general and complete disarmament under effective international control,

"Recalling its resolution 36/96 B of 9 December l9gl,

, 'rExPressing profound concern at the production of binary chenical weatrnns
and considerations on their deployrnent at military bases abroad, which would
increase the probability of chemical warfare,

"T"kirg i.to "or"id. the decision by the Committee on Disarmamenton the new mandate for the Ad Hoc working Group on Chemical Weapons as well asthe work of this group aurii!-TE? 1982 sission of the comnittee on Disarmament,
rr8egretting that the bilateral negotiations between the Union of Sovie!

Socialist Republics and the united States of America have been suspended since
1980 and have not been resurned,

"Deeming it desirable for States to refrain from taking any action that
could delay or further complicate negotiations,

rAlvare that the qualitative improvement and developrnent of chemical
lteapons and especially of binary chemical weapons complicate ongoing
negotiations on the prohibition of chemical weapons and increase the danger
that the chenical arms race may overtake the negotiating process,

"Coqqidering that the creation of chemical-wealnn-free zones would
raciriEffiEpeedy conclusion of a convention on the comprete prohibition
of chemical weapons,

nI. Reaffirrns the necessity of the speediest elaboration and conclusion
of a conv.iEf,6i-on the prohibition of the development,, production and
stockpiling of all chernicar weapons and their destruction;

_"2-. Appeals to all states to facilitate in every possible way theconclusion of such a convention;

, 
x3. Urges the Cormnittee on Disarmament to intensify the negotiations in

the Ad Hoc Working Group on Chernical Weapons on the basis of its new mandateto achieve accord on a chemical weapons convention at the earliest possible
date;

"4. Calle-upon the Union of SovieL Socialist Republics and the United
States of America to resume at the earliest possible date their bilateral
negotiations on the prohibition of chemical weapons and to submit their joint
proposal to the Committee on Disarmamenti

tr5. Reaffirms its call to alt States Lo refrain from any action which
cou1dimpe@Iationsontheprohibitionofchemica1wea1insand



v37/666
English
Page 5

specifically to refrain from the production and deployment of binary and other
new types of chemical weapons as weII as from stationing chemical weapons on
the territory of other States?

o6. Appeals to aII States to consider the establishment of zones free
from chemical wealnnsT

"7. Invites all Member States to inform the Secretary-General, no later
than 15 April 1983, of their views regarding the question of
chemical-weapon-free zones i

tr8. Reguests the Secretary-General to subrnit a report containing the
views refeGFE6-in paragraph 7 above to the General Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session. "

6. On t9 l,lovember, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(NC.L/37/L.15/Rev.1), which was introduced at the 39th meeting, on 22 Novenberr bV
the representative of the cerman Democratic Republic. The revised draft resolution
contained the folLowing changes:

(a) The fifth preambular paragraph was replaced by the following:

nExpressing profound concern at the production and deployment of binary
chemical weapons, t'I

(b) The ninth preambular paragraph was replaced by the following:

"Aware that the qualitative improvement and development of chemical
weapons complicate ongoing negotiations on the prohibition of chemical
weatrlons r 

t'i

(c) The tenth preambular paragraph was replaced by the following:

"Taking note of proposals on the creation of chemical-weapon-free zones
aimed at facilitating the complete prohibition of chernical weaSronsr"l

(d) Operative paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 were deleted.

7. At its 42nd meeting, on 24 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution P,/C.L/37/L.15lRev.1 W a recorded vote of 79 to I, with 43 abstentions
(see para. 21, draft resolution A). The voting vras as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin,
Bolivia, Bulgaria, Burundi, Blrelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Central African Republic, Chad, Congo, Cuba, Cllprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic' Ecuador,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, cerman Democratic Republic, Ghanal Guinea,
Guyana, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of)' Iraqt
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, I,ao Peoplers Democratic Repub1icl
Liberiar Libyan Arab Jainahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia' Mali,



P{37/666
English
Page 6

Mexico, Irlongolia, !{ozarnbique, Nepal , Nicaragua, Niger, Onan,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
R$randa, Saint hrcia, Sao Tome and principe, Sierra l€one,
Singatrrcre, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, tlganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Sociatist Republics, United Arab
Enirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaite, Zarnbia.

Against: United States of America.
Abstainings Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma, Canada,

Chile, China, @lombia, Denmark, Djibouti, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, India,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Iebanon, Luxembourg, Malawi,
Mauritania, lbrocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway,
Paraguay, Philippines, portugal, Saudi Arabia, Sornalia, Spain,
Sri lanka, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
librthern Ireland, Uruguay.

B. Draft resolution VC.t/37lL.44
8. On 17 tbvemberl Argentina, @!g, fndonesia, {gg,gr119319., poland, Srveden andthe Ukrainiart Soyfgt_€99!e1!s! Republ.is. subnitted a draft resolution entitfea
"ctre l) weaSnns" (A/c.L/37/L.44), which was
subsequently also sSnnsored b!' Australia, Belgium, Colonbia, Ecuador, ggIggry.,
EedeFaI Eepublic,of r rreland, lonEotfa, ttr@ t@
Great Britian and Northern Irelandthern lreland. The draft resolution \,{as introduced at the
38th neeting on 19 Novenber ry the representative of poland.

9. On 22 Novenber, Algeria, $s,
Pakistan, Sri lanka, Venezuela and
(lt/C.I/37/t.66) to draft resolution
4lst meeting, on 23 llovember, by the
arnendment, operative paragraph 3 of

Egvpt, Ethiopia, India, Mexico, Nigeria,
Yugoslavia submitted an amendment
A/C.L/37/L.44, which was introduced at the
representative of Yugoslavia. Under the

the draft resolution, which read as follows:
n3. urc. the Committee on Disarnament, as a matter of high priority, to

intensify ETaUoration of such a convenLion, taking into account all existing
protrnsals and future initiatives with a view to enabling the Committee to
achieve agreement at the earliest date;,'

would be replaced by the following:
tr3. Urges the Cornrnittee on Disarmament to intensify, as a matter of high

priorityl during its session in 1983, elaboration of such a convention, taking
into account all existing proposals and future initiatives, and in trnrticularto re-establish its Ad rloc l{orking Group on chemicar weapons with an
appropriate mandate GffiIng the Comrnittee to achieve agreement at the
earliest date? tr.



^/37/666English
Page 7

10. At the 44th meeting, on 26 lifovember, the representative of Poland orally
revised operative paragraph 3 of draft resoluLion VC.1/37/L.44 to read as follows:

n3. urges the Committee on Disarmament, as a matter of high priorityr to
intensify, during its session in 1983, elaboration of such a convention,
taking into account all existing proposals and future initiatives, with a view
Eo enabling the Corunittee to achieve agreement at the earliest date' and to
re-establish its 4dllSc working croup on Chemical Weapons for this purpose;'.

Il. At the same meet,ing, the representative of Yugoslavia announced that the
amendment contained in document VC.L/37/L.66 had been withdrawn in view of the
oral revision introduced by the sponsors of the draft resolution.

12. Also at the sane meeting, the First Cornmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.44, as orally revised, without a vote (see para.2L, draft resolution B).

c. Draft resolution A,/C.1/37/L.61

13. on 18 l,tovember, Austria, colombia, rreland, lsigg, Pakistan, sweden, uruguay
and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution ent,itled "Chemical and bacteriological
(biological) weaSnnsr! (P{C.L/37/L.61) which was subsequently also sponsored by
Ecuador and Germany, Federal Republic of. The draft resolution \ras introduced at
the 38th meeting, on 19 November, by the representative of Sweden.

14. At its 45th meeting, on 26 }ilovernber, the First Conmittee adopted draft
resolution MC.L/37/L.6L by a recorded vote of 106 to L4r with 2 abstentions (see
para. 210 draft resolution C). The voting r{as as follows:

In_!avou!: Algeria, Angolal Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma, Burundi,
Canada, Central African Republicl Chad, Chile, Colombia, @ngo,
Costa Rica, CYprus, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germanyr Federal
Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), fraq' Ireland' Israel, Italy, Ivory Coastr
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, tebanon, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, MaIi,
Malta, Mauritania, l4exicor lbrocco, Nepal' Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, librway, qnan, Pakistant
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguayr Peru, Philippines, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tone and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Slnin, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Slveden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, lbgo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisial Turkeyr Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdon of creat Britian and lbrthern Ireland, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.



Py'37/656
English
Page I

Against: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cuba, Czechoslovakiar German Democratic Repub1ic, Hungaryr Iao
Peoplers Democratic Republic, Mongolia, l.lozarnbique, Poland,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, Viet Nam.

Abstainingl Guinear India.

D. Draft resolution VC.l/37,/L.54
15. on 18 libvemberr Belgiun, Ecuador, Ig3g, the ldetherrands, sweden and g;511gg.
submitted a draft resolution entitled nChemical and bacteriological (biological)
weapons'r (P;/C.L/37/L.54). :Ihe draft resolution was introduced at the 38th meeting,
on 19 lfovedcer, by the representative of France.

16. At the 45th meeting, on 26 Novenber, the representative of France orally
revised the title of the draft resolution to read: "Provisional procedures to
uphold the authority of the 1925 Geneva protocoltr.

L7. In connection with the draft resolution, the Secretary-General submitted a
statement on the adninistrative and financial implications (PdC.L/37/t.75).

18. At the 47tfi rneetingr on 29 llovember, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution P{C.L/37/L.54, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 70 to 18, with
31 abstentions (see para. 2L, draft resoluEion D). The voting was as f.oLl:owsz fi/

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belgium, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Democratic
Kampuchea, Elenmarkr Djibouti, oorninican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Fijir France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala,
fceland, fndonesiar Ireland, fsrael, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Kenya, Lebanon, Luxenbourgr Malawi; Malaysia, Maldives, Ma1ta,
Mauritania, ltlcrocco, Nepal , Netherlands, Niger, Nigeria, $brtray,
Onan, Pakistan, Papua l.lew Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines,
Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Solomon Is1ands, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, lthailand, Togo, Turkey, United Kingdon of Great Britain
and Northern lreland, United Republic of Carneroon, United States
of America, Uruguay, ZaLre, Zambia.

Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republicl
Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, German
Derpcratic Republic, Hungary, India, Iao Peoplers Democratic
Republic, l"bngolia, Poland, Syrian Arab Republic, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republicsr
Viet Nan.

Against:

U The delegation of New Zealand subsequently indicated that it had intended
to vote in favour of the draft resolut.ion.

/...



Abstaining:

Py'37/666
English
Page 9

Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bhutan, Brazilr Burmat
Burundi, Clprus, Finland, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, fraq' Kuwait,
Madagascar, Mali, Mexico, l,tozarnbique, New Zealand, Nicaragual
Peru, Qatar, Sierra l-€one, Sri Iankar Uganda, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Yemenr
Yugoslavia.

E. Draft resolution VC.1/37lL.79
19. On 6 December, Australia, @1|g, Germany, Federal Republic of, the
Netherlandsr New Zealand and Norway subrnitted a draft resolution entitled rrChemical
and bacteriologicaL (biological) weapons" (F/C.L/37/L.79), which was subsequently
also sSnnsored bl' Spain and Turkey. The draft resolution was introduced at the
57th meeting, on 8 December, by the representative of New Zealand. At the same
meeting, the representative of New Zealand oral-ly revised operative paragraph 2,
which read:

ln2. Calls anew for strict observance by a1l States of the principles and
objectives of the Geneva Protocol of 1925 and condemns all actions contrary to
those objectives."

to read as follows:

''2. Calls anew for strict observance
objectige"-5iffi"eva Protocol of 1925
contrary to these objectives. n

all States of the principles and
condemns all actions that are

by
and

20. At its 58th neeting, on 8 December, the First Cqnnittee voted on draft
resolution Py'c.L/37/t.79 as followss

(a) The second preambular paragraph was adopted by 55 votes to 21, with
33 abstentionsT

(b) The draft resolution as a whole and as orally revised was adopted by a
iolL-call vote of 63 to 20, r{ith 3l abstentions (see para. 2L, draft resolution
E). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Be1gium, Bollvia, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombiar Democratic
Kampuchea, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt, Francer Germany, Federal
Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Hondurasr Iceland,
freland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Iebanon, Liberia,
Luxembourg, Malawi, t"talaysia, Mauritania, !4auritius, Netherlands'
New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, lilf,rr,ray, qnan, Pakistan, Papua libw
Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Portugal, Rlrandar Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, SingaSnre, Sornaliar Spain, Sudan, $leden, Thailandt
lbgo' Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisial Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and lbrthern Ireland, United States of America,
Uruguay, Zaire, Zanbia.



p{37 /666
English
Page I0

Against: Afghanistan, Angola, Bu1garia, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen,
Ethiopia, German trernocratic Republic, Hungaryr Lao peoplers
Democratic Republic, Mongolia, I.lozambique, poland, Romania,
syrian Arab Republic, ukrainian soviet sociarist Repubric, union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, Viet Nam.
Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma, Burundi,
Qrprus, Finland, Ghana, Guinea, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Jamaica,
Kuwait, Ma1i, Mexico, Nepal, Nicaragua, panama, peru, eatar, Sri
r,anka, uganda, united Arab Etrnirates, united Republic of cameroon,
United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, yemen, yugoslavia.

Abstaining:

III. RECCI,IMENDATIONS OF TTTE FIRSf CO.IMITTEE
2J-. The First Cormnittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons

A

Chemical and bacteriological (biological) r.veapons

The General Assembly,

Recalling paragraph 75 of the Final f,recument of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly, y in which it is stated that the complete and effective
prohibition of the developmentr production and stockpiling of all chernical weapons
and their destruction represent,s one of the most urgent measures of disarmamenl,

. .. ref"tllttg to the unanimous and calegorical reaf,f irmation by all Member States,at the twelfth special session of the General Assembly, of the validity of the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session, 4/

Convinced of the need for the earliest conclusion of a convention on the
prohibition of the development' production and stockpiling of all chemical weapons
and on their destruction, which would significantly contribut,e to general and
complete disarmament under effective international control,

Recalling its resolution 36/96 B of 9 December 1981,

Resolution S-L0/2.

See A/S-12132, para. 62.

1/

!/



^/37/666English
Page II

D<pressing profound concern at the production and deployment of binary
chemicaL weapons,

Taking into consideration the
new mandate for the 4C Hoc Wbrking
the Group during thelFe2-session

Regretting that the bilateral
Socialist Republics and the ltnited
and have not been resumed,

decision by the Committee on Disarmament on the
Group on Chenical Weapons as weLl as the work of

of the Committee,

negotiations between the Union of Soviet
States of America have been suspended since 1980

Deeming it desirable for states to refrain from taking any action that could
delay or further conplicate negotiations,

Aware that the qualitative improvement and development of chemical wealnns
complicate ongoing negotiations on the prohibition of chemical- weapons,

Taking note of the pro;nsa1s on the creation
aimed at facilitating the complete prohibition of

I. Reaffirns the necessity of the earliest
conventionE6ielrohibition or $re development,
chenical weapons and on their destructionl

of chemical-weaSnn-free zones
chemical r,reapons,

elaboration and conclusion of a
production and stockpiling of aII

2. Appeals to aII States to facilitate in every possible way the conclusion
of such a convention;

3. Urges the Conunittee on Disarmament to intensify the negotiations in the
Ad Hoc ldorking Group on Chenical Weapons on the basis of its nelv mandate to achieve
accord on a chemical weatrnns convention at the earliest gnssible datel

4. Ca1ls upon the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States
ofAnericaffiE1attheearIiesttrnssibIedate,theirbi1atera1negotiations
on the prohibition of chemical weapons and to submit their joint protrnsal to the
Conunittee on Disarmamentl

5. Reaffirqs its call to aII States to refrain from any acLion that could
impede negoETi6Ti on the prohibition of chemical leeapons and specificalty to
refrain from the production and deployment of binary and other new types of
chenical weaPons, as well as from stationing chenical lreapons on the territory of
other States.

B

Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons)

rhe General 4sqelnbly r

Rgcalling its previous resolutions relating to the complete and effective
prohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of all chemical weapons
and to their desLruction, 

/.,"



M37/666
English
Page 12

- nea$gning the necessity of strict observance by all states of the principlesand objectives of the Protocol for the prohibition of the Use in War of
Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases, and of Bacteriotogical Methods of Warfare,
signed at Geneva on 17 June 1925, 5t/ and of the adherence by alf States to the
Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, production and Stockpiling ofBacteriological (Biological) and Toxin weapons and on Their Destruction, 6/

Ilaving considered the retrnrt of
embodies, inter alia, the report of

the Cornnittee on Disarmament, U which
Group on Chemical Weapons, g/its Ad Hoc Working

. - -Yti"g- 
relevant proposals and initiatives, including those put forward ag thetwelfth special session of the General Assemb1y, the second spec-iaI session devoted

to disarnament,

Coqs-idering it necessary that all efforts be exerted for the resunption and
successful conclusion of the bilateral and multilateral negotiations on theprohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of all chenical weaSrons
and on their destruction,

1. Notes witb satisfact,ion the work of
its session in
bhe progress in

1982 regarding the prohibition
the work of its Ad Hoc Working

the Committee on Disarmament during
of chenical weapons, in particular
Group on that guestion;

. .?.. Expresses its regret that, an agreement on the complete and effectiveprohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of all chemical weapons
and on their destruction has not yet been elaborated?

3: 
- Ulg.l the Committee on Disarmament, as a matter of high priority, tointensify' during its session in 1983, elaboration of such a connention, lakinginto account, all existing proposals and future initiatives with a view to enabiing

the Committee to achieve agreement at the earliest date, and to re-establish its
A9 Ho-c- working Group on chemicar wealnns for this purpose;

t. Reqqeqls the Conmittee on Disarmament to report on the results of itsnegotiations to the Generar Assernbly at its thirty-eighth session.

2/ League of litaLions, Treaty S.erj.es, vol. XCIV 11929), ti&). 2138, p. 65"
y Resolution 2826 (XXVI), annex.

7/ Official Records of the General Assernbly, Supplement \g:__?Z @/37/27 andcorr.f)n 

-

9/ I!id., para. 75,



Al37/666
English
Page 13

c

Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapons

The General A,ssernbly,

Mindful of the continued importance of the Convention on the Prohibition of
the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and
Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruction, signed in lpndon, Moscorr and Washington on
10 April L972, V

Deeply convinced that the effective implementation and functioning of the
Convention through the application of an adequate complaint and verification
procedure will enhance international peace and security as well as the prospect of
realizing the goal of general and complete disarmament under effective
international control,

Conscious of the need to maintain inviolate the Protocol for the Prohibit,ion
of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases, and of Bacteriological
Methods of Warfare, signed at Geneva on 17 June 1925, 5/ and to ensure its
universal applications,

Recalling its resolution 2662 (XXV) of 7 December 1970 on the question of
chemical and bacteriological (biolo9i.cal) weapons, in which it stated, jg!g_S}!g'
that verification should be based on a combination of appropriate national and
international measures which would complement and supplement each otherr thereby
providing an acceptable system that would ensure the effective implementation of
the prohibitions,

Recalling also resolution 35/144 A of 12 December 1980, by which it welcomed
the final declaration of the Review Conference of the Parties to the Convention on
the Prohibition of the tlevelopment, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological
(Biological) and fioxin Weapons and on Their Destruction,

lbting that,' in their fini:l- <lesirlaration, the States parties considered that
various international procedures, ineluding the right of any State party
subseguently to request that a consuitative meeting open to all States parties be
convened at expert, level, would make it possible to ensure effectively and
adequately Lhe inrplementation of the provisions of the Convention,

@that'intheirfinaldecIaration,thestatesparties'
having noted the concerns and differing views expressed on the adequaqg of
article V of the Convention, believed that this question should be further
considered at an appropriate time,

I. Reuffigu_ot*_ag.lq its resolution 2652 (X)$l) on the question of
chemical a@iologicat) weatrnns;



A/37/666
English
Page 14

2. Recommends that the States parties should hold a special conference as
soonaspoffi-estab1ishaf1exib1e,objectiveandnondiscriminating
procedure to deal with issues concerning compliance with the Convention on the
prohibition of the Development, Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological
(Biological) and Toxin WeaSnns and on Their Destructionl

3" Requests the Secretary-General to render the necessary assistance and to
provide such services, including suunary research, as may be required for the
special conference of States parties to the Convention.

D

Provisional procedures to uphold the authority of the 1925
Geneva Protocol

The General A.sseg!$1r

Recalling the provisions of the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in l{ar
of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods in
Warfare, which was signed at Geneva on 17 June 1925 !/ and entered into force on
8 February L928,

l{oting that States parties to the Convention on the prohibition of the
Development, Production and Stockpiting of Bacteriological (Biological) and noxin
Weapons and on llheir Destruction have reaffirmed their adherence to the principles
and objectives of that Protocol and called utrrcn all States to conply with thenr

Itcting also that the Protocol does not provide for the establishment of
procedures for investigating reports concerni.ng activities prohibited by the
Protocol,

tilcting further that the Conunittee on Disarmarnent is currently engaged in the
negotiation of a convention on the prohibition of chemical weaponsr which should
contain provisions to ensure its effect,ive verific;ltion,

Believing it conducive to the continued auLhority of the Protocol that,
pending eventual formal arrangements, procedures be established to make possible
the prompt and impartial investigation of information concerning possible
violations of the provisions of the Protocol,

I. Calls upon aII States that have not yet done so to accede to the 1925
Protocol for the prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other
Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods of Warfare;

2. Calls upon all States to comply with the provisions of the Protocol;

3. Calls upon the Cornmittee on Disarmarnent to expedite its negotiations on a
convention on the prohibition of chernical lreapons with a view to its submission to
the General Assembtry with the shortest possible delay;



A/37 /666
English
P,,i5

4. BggggEls the Secretary-General to investigate, with the assistance t,fqualified experts, information that may be brought to his attention by any Melnber
State concerning activities that may constitute a violation of the Protocol or of
the relevant rules,of customary international law in order to ascertain thereby the
facts of the matter, and promptly to report the results of any such investigation
to aII Member States and to the General Assembly;

5. Requests the Secretary-General, with the co-operation of Menber Statesr
to compile' as a matter of priority, and rnaintain lists of qualified experts whose
services could be made available at short notice to undertake such investigations,
and of laboratories with the capability to undertake testing for the presence of
agents the use of which is prohibited;

5.
above:

Requests the Secretary-General, in meeting the objectives of paragraph 3

. (a) To appoint, as necessary, groups of experts selected from the
above-mentioned list to undertake urgent investigation of Snssible violations?

(b) To make.the necessary arrangements for the experts to collect and examine
evidence, including on-site, with the co-operation of the countries concerned, to
the extent relevant, to the investigation, and for such testing as may be requiredl

(c) $o seek, in any such investigation concerned, appropriate assistance and
relevant informat,ion from all Governments and international organizations as well
as other appropriate sources;

7. Further requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of qualified
consultanG$;;Es, to devise procedures for the timely and efficient iveJtigation
of information concerning activit,ies that may constitute a violation of the Geneva
protocol or the relevant rules of customary international law and to assemble and
organize systematically documentation relating to the identification of signs and
symptoms associated with the use of, such agents as a means of facilitating such
investigations and medical treatment that may be required;

8. Requests C'rJvernments, national and international organizations, as well
as scientific and research institutions, to co-operate fully with the
$ceretary-General in this workT

9. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General A,ssembly
at its thirty-eighth session on the implementation of the present resolution.



A/37 /656
English
Page L5

E

Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weaPons

The General A.ssemb1y,

Having examined the retrnrt of the Group of E<perts to Investigate Reports on
the e[egE- Use of chemical weapons, ! whiclr was appointed [l the
Secretary-General pursuant to General Assenbly resolutions 35,/144 C of
12 December 1980 and 36/96 C of 9 December I98I'

liloting the final conclusion of the Group of D(perts that' while it could not
state ttrat the allegations had been proven, nevertheless, it could not disregard
the circumstantial evidence suggestive of the possible use of some sort of toxic
chemical substance in some instances,

Recalling that the use of chemical and biological weapons has been declared
inconpatible with the accepted nortns of civilization,

1. Takes gg1!g of the report of the Secretary-Genera1 and expresses its
appreciatioi'ffiGnroup of $(perts to Investigate Retrnrts on the Alteged Use of
Chemical Weapons for the work it has accomplished as well as to the Member States
that co-operated with the Group in fulfilling its mandatel

2. Calls anew for strict observance by all States of the principles and
objectives of tfre Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in t{ar of Asphyxiating,
poisonous, or Other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods of Warfare / and
condemns all actions that are contrary to these objectives.

2/ pJ37 /259 .


