












































JNITED
TATIONS

General Assembly
Di st! .
GENERAL

v37 /625
18 llcvenber 1982

ORIGINAL: ENGLISII

jr"" t

Thirty-seventh session
Ag enda items 99 and 12

IMPLEME NIATION OF THE DECLAR,ATION ON TI{E GIIAiNING OF I NDEPE NDEIiI:E TO
COIONIAL @UNIRT ES AND PEOPLES BY THE SPECIALIZED AGETCI ES AND TIIE

INTM,NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS AS S(X IATED WI TII THE UNITED NATIONS

REPRT OF THE E@NOMIC AND S€IAL @UNCI L

Report of the Fourth Conmittee

SlPEe!!sg!: Mr. Victor G. GAITC IA (Philippines)

1. At its 4tb plenary meeting' on 24 septemb et L982, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Conmittee, decided to include in the agenda of iLs
thirty-seventh session the following items:

"99. ImpLementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
coLonial countries and Peoples by the specialized agencies and the
internationat institutions associated with the United Nations:

(a) Report of the special Cordmittee on the situation with regard to the
InPlementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
colonial countries and Peoplesi

(b) Report of the Secre lary-Gener a]-.

"12. Report of the Econotnic and social Council."

At the same meeting, the General Assenbly decided to allocate to the FourEh
Comnittee agenda item 99, together rrith chapter VI of the rePort of the Eonomic
and Soci.al council, which relates to the itern lA!/37/3 (Part II) ). L/

y To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assernbly,
Thirty-seventh Session, grpplement No. 3 (N37/3').

A2-32346 0607g (s)



A/37 /625
Eng I ish
Page 2

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 11 October. the Fourth Connittee decided to hoJ.d ageneral debate covering agenda itens 18, 96,97.99 and 12, 100 and I0l, on theunderstanding that individuar proposals on matters covered by those iterns wourd be
considered separatery. The conunittee held the generar debate on these itens at itsgth to llth. L3th to t5th and lTth to 23rd meetings, betrl,een 26 october and15 November.

3. The Fourth colr|Irittee considered itens 99 and 12 at its 9th to 1lth,r3th to r5th and t?th to 24th neetings between 26 @tober and 16 November (seeA/c.4/37/sR.g-ll-, 13-15 and t7-24) .
4. At the 9th neeting, the Rapporteur of the speciaL corunittee on the situationwieh tegard to the Inplementation of the DecLaration on Che cranting of
rndependence to col.niar countries and peoples nade a staEement in lrhich he gave anaccount of the rerevant acti.vities of the special committee during l9g2 and drewattention to chapter Vf of the report of that Conmittee relating io itern 99(A/37/23 (Part rrr) and Add.2) 2/ containing, inter alia, the r;lated atraftresorution subnitted by that co-rrun i t tee for ahe=6;;fa;iation of the Fourt.h
conmittee lA/37 /23 (part IIr)/Md,2).
5' During its consideration of the i'en, the Fourth comrnittee had before it thereport-of the secreta ry-ceneral subnitted in pursuance of paragraph 23 of cenerar
Assembly resolution 36/52 of 24 November Ig BL (A/37 /L7 7 and Add.I:3), as well asthe related note by the Secretariat IA/AC. LOg /L. L42Ll .
6' At its 3rd meeling, on 15 October, tbe Fourth Conmittee granted a request fo!hearing to Mr. f,tDnald L. Ranard, center for Int€rnational ;*j.L:icy (A/C,4r37/S). Atits 4th meeting, on 19 October, the pourth Conmiltee heard a statenent byMr. Jim Morrell of that organization.
7. 

_At its 24th neeting, on 16 Novenber, the Fourth CoNnittee adopted the draftresolution contained in paragraph r.6 0f chapt.er vr of the report of the specialconnittee by a recorded vote of Il0 to 4, ,ltn Zt abstentioni (see para. 8) , !/The voting was as follows: 4/

U To be incorporated in official Records of the ceneral Assenbly.thi.ty-set'.nth Sesrion, Suppleme

y Statenents in explanation of vote were nadeStates.. Belgiun, Chile, Colonbia, Dominican Republic,
cernany, Federal RepubLic of, creece, Ireland, Kenya,
Lanka. Sudan, Turkey, fnited Kingdon of creat Britain
Uruguay.

!/ Subsequently. the repr€sentatives of
delegations had intended to vote in favour of

by the fol lov.ring Menber
Fiji, Finland, France,

Malawi, Netherl,ands, Sri
and Northern freLand and

Niger j.a and Niger stated that their
the draft resolution.



In favour:

.@,tl

Abstaining:

pJ37 /625
English
Page 3

A,fghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia'
Botswana, Brazil, Brlgaria, Burna, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, cape verde, central African Republic, chile, China,
Colonbia, Corqo, Cuba, cyprus, Czechoslovakiar Democratic Yenen,
Dj ibouti' Dominica, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt' El-
Sa]vador, Ethiopia, Fiji, c'abon, Gambia' Gernan Denocratlc
RePubLic, Ghana' creece, crenada, cuinea-Bissau, cuyana, Haiti,
I'bnduras, Hungaryr India, Indonesia, Iran, Irag, Janaica, itordant
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Liberia, libyan Arab Jamahiriyar l4adagascar, lGlawi, ltalaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, I.texico, Mongo1ia, Morocco,
l,tJzanbique, Nicaragua, ouan, Pakistan, Papua New Gtlnea, Peru.
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Ronanla' Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao
Ilome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solonon
Islands, somalia, sri Lanka, sudan, surinane, svtaziland, Syr ian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago' Tarnisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
slocialist Republics, united Arab Enirates, Itnited RegrbLic of
Cameroon' United Republi.c of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
vanuatur venezuela, viet !'hm r YenEn, Yugoslavia, zaire' zanbia'
zinbabne.

Belgium, Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britai.n and Northern
Ireland, United States of A[erica.

Austlalia, Austria' Canada, costa Rica, Derunark' Finland, France,
Germany, lbderal R€public of, cuatenala, Iceland, Ireland, Ivory
Coast, .Iapan' Netherlands, Nev, zealandr Norrray, Paraguay,
Portugal, Spain, Slrede n, To9o.

RECO M!{E IIDATION OF TIIE FOURTH COMI4I TTEE

8. The Fourth cormittee recornmenCs to the ceneral Assenbly the adoPtion of the
f o1lorrlng draft resolution:

Ttre cen€ral Assemblv,

Having exarnined the it.en entitled "Inplenentation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independerrce to @Ionial Countries and Peoples by the specialized
agercies and the international institutions associated with the United Nations",



A/ 37 / 62s
EgIish
Page 4

Recalling the Declaralion on the Granting of Independence to Colonial countries
and Feoples, contalned in ita resolution I5I4 (xv) of 14 f,lecenber 1960' and the Plan
of Action for the Fu1l rnplementation of the Declaration, contained in the annex to
its r€solution 35/118 of Il Decernber 1980, as weII as aII other relevant resolutions
adoPletl by the ceneral Assenbly on this subject, in particular resolution 36/52 of
2 4 l.lovenber 19 81,

aI60 Its resolution Es-8/2 of 14 sePternber 1981 on the question of

Having exanined the reports subnitled on the item by the secretary-Ge neral, 5/
the Econonic and Social buncil 5/ and the special Conmittee on the situation with
regard to the Irnplenentabion of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
colonial countries and Peoples, f//

Taking into account the relevant provisions of the Arusha Declaralion and
Programne of
13 May 19 82
of Tanzania,

Action on l.larnibia adopted by the United l€tions @uncil for ldanibia on
at its extr aord inary plenary neetings, held at Arusha, lniled Republic
8/

Bearlng in nind the relevant provisions of the final cornmunigu6 and other
documents of the Ministerial Meeting of the co-ordinating Bureau of the tion-Afigned
Countries, held at Havana fron 3l May to 5 June 1982, 9/

Aware that the struggle of the people of tilamibia is in its rnost crucial stage
and has sharply lncensified as a consequence of the stepped-up aggression of lhe
illegal colonialist rdglne of Pretoria against the People of the Territory and the
increased general support rendered to that rdgime by the United States of America
and other Western States, coupled with efforts to deprive the liamibian people of
cheir hard-rron vlctoriea in the Iiberation scruggle, and that it is therefore
incumbent upon the entire international comrnunity decisively to incensify concerted
action in support of lhe people of Namibia and their sole and authentic
representative, the South West Africa Peoplers organization, for the attainnent of
their goal,

DeePly conscious of the critical need of the Namibian people and their national
liberation novement, the south west Africa People's organization, and of the peoples

}|i37/I77 and Add.L-3,

A/37/3 (Part II) , chap' vr.

A/17/23 (Part III) and Add.2, chap. VI.

A/37 /23O-s/$08 9, annex.

A/37 /333-S/L5 278, annex.

:r

v
v
v
a/

Recallirq
Namibia,



v37 /625
Eng].ish
Page 5

of otber colonial Terrltories for concrete assistance frorn the sPecialized agencies
ard ogrer organizations of tbe United Nations system in their struggle for
Liberation fion colonial rule and in their efforts to actrieve and consolidate their
national independence,

Reaffirming the responsibility of the sPecialized agencies and other
organizations of the ltrlted Nations system to take all tbe necessary ft€aSUr€9r
nj-thin their resPective sPheres of conpetence, to enEure the full and speedy
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to @lonial
Countrles and Peoples and other reLevant resoLutions of the United Natlons,
particularly those relating to the provision of noral and naterial aaslstance, on
I priority basis, to the peoples of the colonial Territories and their natlonal
liberation movements,

De ePly corEerned that, although there has been Progress in the extension of
assistance to refugees from I'lanibia, the actions taken hitherto by tbe
organizations concerned in providing assistance to the peoPle of the Territory
through their national liberation movenent, the sou th west Africa PeoPle I s
Organization, still ren0ain inadequate to neet the urgent needs of the Nanibian
people,

Erpressing its confident hope that closer contacts and consultations betrreen
*..sp@or9anizationsoftheunitedNat1onssygtemand
Che Organization of African Unity and the national liberatlon movement concerned
will help to overcdne procedural and other difficulties which have inpeded or
delayed the inplenentatlon of sone assislance Progralmnest

Recallinq its reaolution 36/I2L D of 10 Decenber I98I' in which it requested
all specialized agencles and other organizations and conferences of the united
Nations systen to grant full menbership to the ttnited l€tiona Councll for Narnibia
as the legal Administering Authorlty for Namibia'

Erpressing its appreciation to the Cjeneral Secretariat of the Organizatlon of
africatt tl"ity ior the continued cNperation and assistance extended by it to the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United Nations syatem in
ctnnection with tne lrnplementation of the relevant resotutions of the united
Nations,

S(tr[essing its appreciation also to the C'over nments of the front-line States
for the steadfast support extended to the people of Namlbia anal their national
Iiberation movement, the South West Africa People's Organizationr in their just and
legitimate struggle for tbe attalnment of freedom and independence desPite
increased arned attacks by the forces of the racist South Mrican 169 imer and aware
of the particular needs of those @vernments for assl€tance in that connectlon,

Noting with satisfaction the intenglfied efforts of the united Nations
oevetotrrment frogranrne in the extension of assistance to the national liberation
movennents and comnending its initiative ln establlshing channels for closer
periodlc contacts and consultations betrreen the specialized agencles and other
organizations of the United Nations systen and the Organization of African Unity
and the national liberation novements in the forxoulation of asaistance ProgralnEs,



v37 /625
Erglish
Page 5

Noting also the suppoit given by tlle epeclalized agencies and other
organlzations of the lhited t{ations systen to the implementation of the t{at lonhood
Progranne for l.lanlbia, ln ac'cordance with General A56etl|bly resolution 32/9 of
4 Novenber 1977,

Gravely concerned at the continued collaboration between the International
lbnetary ttrnd and the cot ernment of South Mrica in disregard of relevant ceneral
Assenbly resolutions,

Noting wlth satisfaction the higtr-level rneetlngs held at ceneva frqn 6 to
8 APril lgSL between representatives of the ceneral Secretariat of the Organization
of Mrican thity and the secretariata of the thited Nations and other organizations
of the lrnited ttations systen in accordance with ceneral Aasernbly resolution 36180
of 9 December l98l on the question of co<peration between the ttn ited lilations and
the organizatlon of African thlq.,

l4indful of the necessity of keeplng under contlnuous review the actlvities of
the speciallzed agencies and other organlzatj.ons of the Uhited liliations sl,6tem ln
tlte implementation of the various tnlted Nations decisions relatlng to
decolon ization,

I. Approves the chapter of the report of t}le Sp€cia1 CqElittee on the
situation with regard to the lftple!0entation of the Declaration on the crantlng of
fndePendence to Colonial Countries and peoples relating to the queEtiont g/

2. Reaffirms that the specialized agencies and other organizations and
instltutions of the trrlted l.latlons Eyst€rn should continue to be 9u iafed by the
reLevant resolutions of the lrn ited Nations in their efforta to contribute, wlthin
their spheres of cqnpetence, to the full and speedy implementation of the
DecLaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and peopleg,
contained in ceneral Assernbly reaolutldr I5I4 (XV) t

3. R€Eft irn6 also t-hat the recogniticr by the General Assetnbly, the Security
council ani'-.ffiit"a-- t{atlons organs of the legitirnacy of the struggre of
coLqtial peoples to exerclse their right to self-determination and independence
entalls, as a corollary, the extenslon by the specialized agencles and other
organizatidrs of the lthited t'lations system of all the necessary rmral and naterlal
assistance to those peoplee and their national liberation rno\remehts,

4. Eapresses ita appreciation to those specialized agencies and other
organizations of t-he thlted tilatione syst€m which have continued to co-operate ln
varying degrees with the lhlted l,tations and the Organlzation of African Urr ity tn
the impletnentatlon of the Ebclaration and other relevant resolutiona of the th ited
liliations r and urges aII the special,ized agencies and other organlzations of the
tiited Nations systsn to accelerate the full and sp€edy lnplementation of the
relevant provlsions of tho6e resolutlonst

5. E(presses its concern that the aasl.stance extended thus far by certain
sPecialized agencies and other organizations of the lth ited lGtions 6ystetn to the
colonial peoples, partlcularly the people of Namibia and their natiqral llberatldr



A,/37 /625
English
Page 7

tnovement r the South West Africa Feople rs Organlzatlon' ls far frorn adequate ln
relation to the actual needs of the peoples concerned'

6. .@!E., notwithstarding the statement of the representative of the worLd
Eank of 17 l,Iay 1982, 10/ that the Bank has terminated businesa relations witb the
South African rdgime, that the l{orld Bank and the InternationaL lbnetary Fund
contlnue to maintain links with the racist rdg ime of Pretoria as exenPlified by the
continued mernb€rship of Sou th Africa in both agenciesl

7. De eply deplores the persistent collaboration betneen the International
lbnetary Fund and south Africa, in disregard of repeated resolutions to the
contrary by the General Assenbly, and calls upon the International Monetary Fund to
put an end to such collaboratlont

8. gIS the executive heads of the world Bank and the International
lilcnetary Fund to draw the particular attention of their governing bodies to the
present resolution with a view to fornulating speciflc prograflmes beneficial to the
peoples of the colonial Territorles, particularly }lanibial

9. Requesta the specialized agencies and other organizatlons of the United
NationB systen to render or continue to render, as a matter of urgency' au Possible
moral and naterial assistance to the colonial peoples struggling for liberation
fron colonial rulei

10. Requests once again the specialized agencies and other organizations of
the Unlted l,lations system to continue to provide all moral and material assistance
to the newly i ndependent and emerging States,

LI. Reiterates its recorunendation that the specialized agercies and other
organizations of the United Nations system should lnitiate or broaden contacts and
co-operation with the colonial peoples and their national liberatlon novements 'dlrectly orr Hhere appropriate, through the organization of African Uni.tyr and
review and introdrrce greater flexibility in thelr Pr@edures with respect to the
formulatlon and preparatlon of assistance Programes and Projects 9o as to be able
to extend the necessary assistance rdithout delay to help the colonial peoples and
thelr national liberatlon movements in their struggle to exercise their tnalienable
right to self-deternlnation and independence in a@ordance with General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV) t

12. ltlotes rrilh satisfaction that the south west africa neoplets organization
continuea to be the beneficiary of a number of prograrnmes establlshed uithin the
framewor k of the United Nations Instleute for Namibia at Lusaka and that the United
Nations @uncil for lilanibla, in co-operation with the Sou th west Africa PeoPlers
Organlzatlon, continues to represent the people of Namlbia ac meetings of the
specialized agencies and other organizations and lnstitutions of the United Nations

l9l see VAC.IO9/L.L446/Add.L, paras. 24-31.



A/ 3'1/625
EngI ish
Page I

syslem, and urges those agencies and organizations to increase their assistance to
the South West Africa Peoplers Organization, as erell as to the Lhited Nations
Institute for Namibia and the Nationhood progranme for Nanibia,

13. Urges the specialized agencies and organizations of the Linited l.lations
system wbich have not already done so to include in the agenda of ttre regular
meetings of their governing bodies a separate item on the progress ttrey have made
in the inplementation of the DecLaration and the other relevant resolutions of the
tlnited Nations;

14. Requeses the specialized agencies and other organlzations of the United
lilations system, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the Genetal Assembly
and the security counci.I, to take all necessary measures to withhold any financiaL,
econonic, technical or other assistance from the Governnent of South Africa, to
discontinue aU support to that covernment until it restores to the peopte of
llamibia their inalienable right to seLf{eternination and independence and to
refrain from taking any action which night inply recognition of, or suppor! for,
the legitimacy of the dornination of Territory by that rdgime;

15. Notes with satisfaction the arrangements rnade by several specialized
agenciesaii'-or9anizationsofthet]nitedNationssystemwhichenabIe-
rePresentatives of the national Iiberation movetnents recognized by the Organization
of African Lrnity to participate fulty as observers in the proceedings reLating to
natters concerning their respective counlEies and calls upon those agencies and
organizations which have not yet done so to follow this example and to nake the
necessary arrangenents without delayi

16. trrges the specialized agencies and
Nations systen nhich have so far not granted
Council for Namibia to do so without delayi

17. Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations and institutions
of the t'nited Nations system to extend, a6 a matter of priorlty, substantial
naterial assistance to the C€vernr$enls of the front-Iine States in order to enable
them nore effectively to support the struggle of the people of Nanibia for freedom
and independence and to resist the violation of their terriEorial integrity by the
arned forces of the racist rdgine of South Africa, directly or, as in Angola,
through puppet traitor groups in the service of Pretoriai

18. frrges the specialized agencies and other organizations and j.nslitutions
of the Llnited }{ations system to assist in accelerating progress in all seclors of
lhe national 1ife, particularly in the deveLopnent of the econornles of the small
Territorj.esi

19. Reconmends tha! all covernnents should lntensify their efforts in the
specialized agencies and other organizations of the United l{ations systen of which
they are nembers to ensure the full and effective implementation of the Declaration
and other relevant resolutions of the Lhited l,lations and, in that connection,
should accord priority to tbe question of providlng assistance on an energency
basis to the peoples of the colonial Territorj.es and thelr national liberacion
nOVenentSi

other organizations of the tJnited
full- membership to the United Nations



A/37 /62s
English
Pag e 9

of the Agreenent between the
!L/ for the urgent inclusion tn
Ei itern dealing wlth the

relatlonship between the Fund and South Africa and further reiterates its proposal
that, in pursuance of article II of the Agreement, the relevant organs of the
United Nations should participate in any neeting of the Board of Governors called
by the Fund for the purpose of discussing the itemi

2L. Recorunends the sending ln 1983 of a high-leveL mission to the
InternationaL l,tcneta ry Fund vrhich, subject to the agreenent of the Cnited t{ations
bodies involved' would be co{oposed of the chairrnan of the special conunittee' the
president of the Unlteal ltations @uncil for ]€nibia and the Chairnan of the Special
ComniCtee against Apartheid i

22. Draws the attention of the specialized agencies and other organizations
of the UniIE-GEf6i?Es€em to lhe Plan of Action for the FulI rmplemencation of
the Declaration on the cranting of Independence to Colonial countries and Peoples'
contained in the annex to c€neral Assenbly resoluhion 35/LI8, and in particular to
those provisiona calling on the agencles and organizations to render all possible
rnoral and material assistance to the peoples of the colonial 'Ibrritories and their
national I iberation movements,.

23. Urges the executive heada of the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the Lhited tlations system, having regard to the provisions of
paragraphs It and 22 above, to formulate, with the active co-operalion of the
Organization of African Unily where appropriate, and to submit, as a matter of
priority, to their governing and legislative organs concrete proposals for the full
inplernenlation of the relevant United Natlons decisions, i'n particular specific
programmes of assistance !o the peoples of the colonial Territories and their
national Iiberation novement s;

24. Requests the Secr elary-cener aI to continue Lo assist the specialized
agencies and other organizations of the lnited lilations systen in working out
appropriate neasures for itnplementing the relevaht resolutions of the United
Nations and to prepare for subnission to the relevan! bodies, with the assistance
of those agencies and organizations, a report on the action taken since the
circulation of his previous report in inplenentation of che relevant resolutions'
including the present resolutionr.

20. Reite!4tes its proposal, under article IIl
finited Nations and the International Monetary Fundf
the agenda of the Board of @vernors of the nlnd of

25. Requests
consultation uith

the Economic and Social council to continue to consider, in
the Special Coflunitlee on the Situation vrith regard to the

!!/ see Agreements betrreen the United Nations anq the.sPgqial+zed.Ageneies
andtheIntern@(UnitedNationspubIica!ibn,sa1es
ffi



A/37 /625
Eng I ish
Page 10

Implementation of Che DecLaration on the cranting of Independence to Colonial
countries and l€oples, appropriate neasures for the co-ordination of the policies
and activities of the specialized agencies and other organizations of the tlnited
Nations systen in implementing the relevant resolutions of the G€nera1 Assemblyt

26. RequesCs the Special Comnittee to continue to examine this question and
to report chereon to the ceneral Assenbly at its thlrty-eighth session.


