








































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAssemblY Distr.
GENERAL

A/37 /766
16 Decenber 198 2

ORIGINAI.: ENGLISH

th irty-seventh session
Agenda item 106

ADIIINISTNATIVE AND BUEETARY CTORDINATION OF TTIE I'NITED NATIONS
WI1TI TIIE SPECIALIZED AGEI{CIES AND I'IIE INTERNATIONAL ATOIIIC

ENERGY AGE}€Y

Repor t. of the Fifth Comnittee

Itapporteur 3 Mr. M' Adel EL S'AFTI (DgyPt)

I . INTRODTTT]ON

]. At ils 4th p1enary rneetlng, on 24 s€ptember 1982, the General Assembly decided
to include in its agenda the iten entitled:

iednihistrative and budgetary ce'ordinaEion of the ljnited Nations nith
the specialized agencies and the International Atonic Energy Agency:

(a) nePort of the Mvisory connittee on Adninistrative and Budgetary
Queslionsi

(b) Irnpacc of infl-ation and nonetary instabllity on lhe regular budget
of the lhited Nationsi

(c) Feasibility of establlshing a single adluinistrative trlbunal:
rePort of the Secretary-Genelal i n

and to allocate it to the Fifth Comtrittee.

2. fhe Flfth Cotouittee had before it the fouoHing docunents:

(a) RePor t of the Advi6ory comnittee on Administrattve and Budg€tary
Que€tlons l /37/547 and Corr.].)i

82-37299 0672j (E)



A/37 /766
Engl ish
Page 2

(b) Report of the secr etary-General ln the ir'pact of infralion and nonetaryinstabitity on the regular budget of the United Nations lA/C.5/37 /3g1.,
(c) Report of the secretary-ceneral on the feasibility of establj.shing asingre adminisrracive tribunat fi/c.s/n jzll , 

-

3. itre Corunittee considered this iten aC ihs 27th, 36th, 39th, 42nd, 46th, 47th,50th, 52nd, 55rh, 57th .ng-?grh ,neetings, on S,-te , V,23, 29 l.trovenber and fromr to 3 and on 6 Decernber 19g2. comrnenls and observations made in the course of theconnittee's consideration of the item are refrected in the relevanc sunrnary recorals(see Vc.5/37/sR.2z, 36, 39, 42, 46, 47. so, si,55, s7 and 58).

rI. CONSIDERATTON OF PROPOSiALS
4' At the 46th rneeting, 

-on.29 November, the representative of Barbados introduceda draft resorurion (Nc-5/37/L.27 ) enciered "Fea;ibirirv "r ""t"[ii"ning a singtea&ninistrative tr ibunal,' .
5' At the same neetinq, the relnesentative of Barbados, on behalf of Australia?li FIb?d""1 inrroduc6d a orafi ,.""iuiioi liti.rlstt".rq enrirre.t"Administrati.ve and budgetary co--ordlnation oi it. united Nations with th€specialized agencies and the fnternational ^ncori" un".gy Agency,,.
!.,, -1i-it" 

47th neeting' on 29 Novenber 
' the committee adopted draft resorutionsA/c.5/37./L.27 and Mc.s/37/L.28 rrithour objection (see para. 15, drafrresolutions f and II) .

]. At the 50th neeting, on- I December, the representative of cuba, on behalf of
*-:T+,,c?stq Riqa, 

-Sgp+: 

-tr,. 
po.ini"un n"oruii", Echiopia, Mexico, Niqeria andPanana, introduced a draf r resot,rEGi-lffitJ-fi.:IJ-EiifEr"a , rm,,-pa"I-6}- inf rario.and monetary instabilitv on the budget of the U;ited Nations,,, which read asfol lolr s:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolution 36/230 of lB Decenber 1981,
"Deeply concerned at the increased cost of the goods and servicesassociated with the operat.ion of the United Nations and the United Nationssysten as a whole as a result of the persistence of inflation and nnnetar!instability in those deveroped countries in which the united Nations rnakes rtsexpenditures,

- - "cgnvinced that nany Member states are not responsibre for the losseswhich the budget of the united Nations experiences as a result of the monetaryphenornena referred ro in the p..""Jing ;;;;;;il;'

.-.,_:l!l.""irq that, in order to cover the substantiat losses caused byrntratron and rnonetary instability, there is a neeat for an additionalprocedure that would help neet th! above_nentlonea ouaget costs in the mosE.appropr rate way.



A/37 /766
English
Page 3

,,Havingconsideredthestudyofthesecretary-Generalonthej'npactof
infration ana mor,erarfl."iru ii iiv on the budget of the united 

Natrons'

,,convincedoftheneed!oanalysenorethoroughlyallasPectsofthe
increased cost of the goods and services associated vrith 

the operation of the
United Nalions,

inflation ana rronetarl i""i"uiiity on the budget of the uniled 
Nationsi

Requests lhe Secr etary-General to PrePare a ftcre -Penetrating'
extensive and detail;; "tuay 

on the inPact of inflacion and monetary
instability on tne reguiar iuagec of che-united Nations' taking 

duly into

considerarion tne coiient of de preambular. Paragraphs "l ::"":Y:::: :6/ttO
and the present ..""i"iiJ", 

-t*etirer witrr thl oplnions of the Menber states
concerned' ahd to subnit i! to the General e=t"iolty at 

igs thirty-ninth
sess ionT

'3'A]-sorequestgthesecretary-Generaltoincludeinthest'udyreferred
to in paragrapn, =p"Ttit-nt"p"iur" "rr 

additional criteria' procedures and
guidelines tnat wirr aiiow ?or- sufficient flexibility in the budge! Process 

!o

be able ro determine rrith ereater precision-the::"::f iiltill:l-lllt 
*tt"

on l,tember states' "" 
!;;' Jucl cosi nay be distributed nore appropriately'"

8. At the 57 neetrng. on 6 December ' the representative 
of Cuba indicated that

cuinea Bissau and ryg93!93! hact joined as sponsors 
of the draft resolution' He

also oral-ry revlsed *" aii?t"iu"liuti"n uv 
-rewording the fourth prearnbular

paragraPh to read as follot{s:
,,stressing that, in oral:l- -to coY;er .lh:-substantial 

losses caused by

inflation and rnonetary instabil'ity' lhere is a need for 
a continuing review of

Drocedures tha! could heIP neet the above-menLioned budget 
cosls in lhe nos!

lpproPriace waY. "

and deleting operative paragraph 3'

9. At the same neeting, the representative of qanada' also 
on behalf of France

and ttre l,letherlands, tn..oautta I proposal tNc'i7i\'y) ' 
which read as follolrs:

"Delele operative lEragraphs t\do and three 
and rePlace with the following:

nRequests the secretary-General to itlentify and !o sugges! 
possible-

"orutiffiry. to 
opJ.iai"i"i-"t budgetary probJ-ens. caused or worsened by inflation

and to report to the ceneiar assernufv it its ctrirty-ninth session"'

10. At the same neeEing, the representarive of .Jlgry' tl": :i^::::lt "t-rinqd; o;-ci;at gtit"i" a"a Noltltgrn rttra"a' introduced a proposar
tVc.s/z't /t'.ls) , which read as follows:

the United

'Deletefirst'second,thirdandfourthpreambularparagraphsandreplace
with the following:



N37 /766
EYtgl ish
Page 4

"lbting that rnflation ls a worrdnide phenonenon with whrch alr
coverruEnts and lnternatlonal organizationa must deal,

'Convfnced that the United Nations should p1an, forecast and manage i!6expenditures to better deal with inflation.n
I1. At the aane nectting, the cofinit.tee voted on the proposals contained indocunents A./C.5/37/L.34 and VC.5/37/L.35 as follows:

(a) By 5r votes to 30, nitr 2l abstentions, the comnittee decided that tie
Proposal contaLned in A/C.5/37/L.34 was not to be consiriered as an amendment todraf t resolutlon NC.S /3.t /L. 3Li

(b) By 54 votes to 29, with 2l abstentions, the Connittee decided that theproposals contained Ln A,/c.5/37/L.35 were not to be considered amendrnents to draftresolution rJC.5/37 /L.3f .
12. ALso a! the sane neeting, the representative of Egypc proposed that separarevotes b€ held on the second and third preanbular p.r.giipt," and on operativeparagraph 2 of the draft resolution. ttre nocion for division having been objectedto, it eras subnitted to a vote in accordance with rule 129 of the rules ofprocedure of the ceneral Aasembly.
13. The Conrnittee rejected lhe notion for division b[r a recorded vote of 48 to 42,with 17 abstentions. Ihe voting was as follorrs:

In favour: Australia, Austria, Belgiun, Botswana, Brazil, Burna, Canada,
Derunark, Egypt, Finland, France, cernany, Federal Republic of,
chana, India, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, .lapan, xenya,
I€sotho, Malarvl, l,tali, l,brocco, Nepal, Netherlands, Nev, zealand,
Norrray, Onan, pakistan, philippines, portugal, eatar, Singapore,
Sornalia, Spain, Srdeden, Turkey, United Ringdon of creat Brleain
and Northern freland, tnieed States of nneiica, Uruguay, zaire.

Againat: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Benin, Bhutan,
Bulgaria, hrrundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo,
Costa.Rlca, Cuba, C\.pr us, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic yenen,
Doninican Reprblic, Ethiopia, cernan Denocratic Republic,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iran (Islanic nepurrtic of), rraq,
!"td-ul,. Kuwait, Lao People's Denocratic nepublicl Li.byan ArabJanahiriya, Madagascar, Mexico, Mongolia, l,tozambique, Nrcaragua,
Nigerr Nigeria, panama, peru, poland, Ibnania, R$randa, Togo,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet. Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Soclalist Republics, Ihited Arab Hnirates, venezuela, viet Nan,Yugoslavia.

Abstaining: Baharnas, Barbados, cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chile,china, Ecuador, Jamaica, Malaysia, senegal, sierra teone, sudan,
Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania.



il37 /766
Englieh
Page 5

14. the @nnittee then adoPted draft resolutlon NC.5/37/L'3I, as orally revlsed'
U,y-ea voces to 22, with 2I abstentions (see Para. 15, draft resolution III)'
Statenent6 in exptanation of vote after the vote were rnade by the rePresentaCives
oi s.t u^a", Brazil, canada, Denmark (on behau of the states nenbera of the
European conu0unlty), Egypt, Ghana, the Libyan Arab Janahirlya' Nevt zealand '
Pahl;tan, singapoie, sierra Leone, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuni6ia' the Lnlon of
Sovlet Soclalist RePublics and the tniged States of Anerica'

III. RECOUIIENDATIONS OF TSE SIFIE COIT4MITTEE

15. The llifttt Connittee recorntmnds to the G€neral Assernbly the adoption of the
following draft reaolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

The General As semblv,

Concerned at the need for effectlve administrative and budgetary co-ordination
within the franeuor k of the ulited Nations systenl

Itecalllng lts decision of 15 Decenber 19?5 to conslder in depth the item
entitled .Adrnlnistracive and budgetary co-ordination of the united Nations with the
specialized agencies and the tnternational Atomic Energy Agency' normall-y ln
off-budget Years, I/

IGcallinq also ics resolutions 33/:.42 A of 20 Decenber 1978' 35'll-14 of
r0 Dec;ffi;i-L58o and 36/229 of 18 December I98I,

Iiecallirg further lts resolutlon 37/L3 oE 15 November 1982'

1. Notes with appreciation the rePort of the Mvisory ""T:t:":-:i
Mninistrative ana nragetary guestions on the administrative and budgetary
co-ordinatlon of the gniteJ l€tions with the specialized aqencies and the
Ineernational Atonlc Energy Agency? 3rl

2. Refers to the organlzations concerned the above-mentioned rePorb as weLl
as the coll|ItEnts anal observations nade in the course of its consideration in the
Fi fth Cottmi ttee t

v
!lo. 34 (

!/

official tiecords of the
34), p. 46, iten 98.

N37 /547 and cor r.l.



M37 /766
Eng l ish
Page 6

3. Requests the secr e tary-cenerar to refer to the executive heads of the
organizations of the united Nations system, through lhe Adrninistrati.ve corunittee on
co-ordinaLion' matters arising out of the report of the Advisory comnittee and of
the rerated debate in the Fifth comlittee that. call for their att€ntion and
necessary ac tion i

4. Transnits the report of the Advisory Corunittee to the Board of Audltors,
the PaneL of External Auditors, the Corunittee for prograr0ne and Co-ordination, the
rnternational civil service comnission and the Joi.nt rnspection unit for their
infornalion i

5- Requests the secreta(y-cener al !o consurt with the executive heads of
united Nations organizations on experience gain€d in identifying progranrnes that
are obsolete, ineffective or of marg inal usefulness that might resuli in the
releage of resources for financing new prograrnmes and,other types of actlvitiesi

6. fnvites legislative organs of the specialized agencies, of the
rnlernational Atonic Energy Agency and of other organizations in the united Nations
systen to cont.inue their efforts tovrards the achievement of rnore effective and
economical use of the resources of the organizationsi

'1 . Draws the attention of States Members of the United Nations or members of
speci"ri"ed-IfriTE!-IIe- rnternati.onal Atomic Energy Agency to the serious probrens
being encountered as a result of delays in palrments of contributions,

8. Invites the legislative organs
fnternational ALonic Energy Agency and of
systen t'o encourage Member States to nake
organizations;

of the specialized agencies and of the
other organizations in the United Nations
timely payr0ents !o the budgets of those

9. Requests the Secretary-ceneral and the executive heads of those
organizations to transnit to Member Staees relevant extracts of the presenr
resolution when notifying then in connection with their contr ibutioni.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II
Feasibility of establishing a single administralive !ribunal

The ceneral As semblv,

l: Takes note of the report of the secretary-cener aI on the feasibility ofestab.Iishing a single adninistrative tribunal; y
2. R€quests the Secr e tary-General:

Nc.s/37 /23.



FJ3't /766
EngI ish
Page 7

(a) To continue consultations necessary for a progressive harmonization and
further development of the statutes, rules and practices of the Mninistrative
Tribunal of thl rnternacional Iabour organisation and of lhe United Nations
Adrninistrative Tribunal, with a view to strengthening the corurpn sysletn and to
reducing, to the extent possible, the associated adninistrative costs?

(b) Ib report thereon to the General Assenbly aC a future sessron, upon
completion of the consultations, with interim reports on che progress of the
consultations being subnitted to intervening sessions of the Assenbly'

DFAFT RESOLUTlON III

Inpact of inflation and monetary iostability
on the budget of the United Nations

Ttle General Assenbly,

Recalling its resolution 36/230 of I8 December 1981,

Deeplv concerned at the increased cost of the goods and services associated
,itn lfrE-;perationE the united Nations and the united Nations system as a whole
as a result of the persistence of inflation and nonetary instability in Etlose
teveloped countries in which the Uni!€d Nations nakes iLs exp€nditures'

Convinced that nany Member StaEes are
budgeE of the uniEed Nations exper Lences as
referred Co in the preceding paragraph,

inflation and noneCary

no! responsible for the losses tha! the
a result of the monelary Phenomena

Stressing that' in order to cover the subslantial losses caused by inflation
and rnonetary instability. there is a need for a continuing revieia' of procedures
that could help neet t}le above-nentioned budget costs in the most appropr late way,

the study of the secr etary-General- on the inpact of
instatrility on the regular budget of the United Nacionst 4/

considered

convinced of the need to analyse nore thoroughly all aspects of the increased

"osts-of 
t-11e gmds and services associated with the operation of the United Nations,

1. Takes note of the report of the secretary-General on the inpact of
inflation Eia monetary instabitity on the regular budget of the United Nationsi

2. Requests the Secretary-General !o Prepare a nore penetrating' extenslve
ana aetailea stuay on the irnpact of inflation and nonetary instability on the
regular budget of the Uniteal NaLions, taking duly into consideration the content of
$re preanuuiar paragraphs of resolution 36/230 and' the present resolution' togelher
with the opinions of the Member states concerned, and to subnit it !o the General
Assenbly at its thirty-ninth session.

L/ Nc.s /37 /3e .




