








































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

N37 /7 4L
14 December 1982

ORIGINAI,: E[lG],ISH

Thirty-seventh session
Agenda ilem 73

TFAINING AND RXSEARCH

Report of lhe second Comlnitlee

Flapporteur: Mr. Stoyan BAKAIOV (Bulgaria)

I. ]NTRODUCT ION

1. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 sepcenber 1982, the General Assembly, on the
reco(unendation of the General committee ' decided to include in its agenda the item
ent itled:

"Training and research:

||(a) uniteal l,htions rnstitute for Training and ttesearch: report of the
Executive Director ?

"(b) Ijnited Nations University: report of the council of the united Nations
University. "

and to allocate it to the second committee.

2. The Second connittee considered the iten at its 6th, 7th, llth to l3th, 26th,
41st, 42ntl and 47th rneetings, on 5, 14, 15 and 19 october, l and 19 l'lovember ' andI Decenber. An account of the corNnittee's discussion of the item is contained in'
the relevant suflunary records (A/c.2/37/sR.6, 7t LL-L3 | 26, 4l-, 42 and 47).

3. The corunittee had before it the following documents:

82-3679L 0463n (E)



M37 /7 4L
Engl ish
Page 2

(a) Report of the Econonic and social council (chap, IfI, sect. J) (V37/3
(Part II))i V

(b) Report of the Ekecutive Director of the lhited l,lations Institute for
Training and Research (N37/L !, U

(c) Report of the council of the United t'tations University lA/37/31,i 11

(d) Note by the Secretary-General transrnitting the report of the Joint
Inspection Unit on the United Nations university lp/37/]-lL),

(e) Corunents of the Secretary-ceneral on Che report of the .loint Inspection
Unit on the United Narions University (A/37/LtL/Md,.I't.

4. At the 6th meeting, on 5 October, the Executive Director of the United Nations
Institute for Training and Research nade an j.neroductory statement (see
A/C.2/37/5R.6). At the 7th neeting, on 5 October, the Rector of the United Nations
University made an introductory statement (see A,/C.2/37/sR.1).

II, CONS IDERAT ION OF PROPOSALS

A. United Nations Institute for Training and Research

l. Dtaft t esoLoLion A/C.2/37/L.L4

5. At the 26th meeting, on I l{ovember, the representative of Sierra Leone,
introduced a draft resolution (pJC.2/37/L.L4), entitled "Expression of appreciation
to ghe F<ecutive Director of the United Nations Institute for Training and
Research", on behalf of Austria. Eng_lgg"s-h, China, Egypt, chana, cuinea, the Ivory
Coase, Janaica, Japan, Liberia. lladagascar, Malaysia, Nigeria, pakistan, Senegal,
Siefra Leone, Sinqapore, Sonalia, the Sudan, S=l1and, Trinidad and Tobago,Tunisia, uganda and the United Repubic of Tanzania. Subsequently, the Cambia, t4a1i
and the United Arab Enirates joined j.n sponsoring the draft f,esolution.

6. The representative of the Un ion of Soviet SocialisL Republics made a statement.

7. At its 41st meeting, on 19 Novenber, the Coffnittee adopted draf! resolution
A/C.2/37/L.LA (see para. 18, drafr resolution I),

-L/ To be issued as Official Records of the ceneral Assembly, ftsession, supplement No. 3 Tv-frnl .

U Official Records of the ceneral Assembty, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplenent

1/ Ibid., Supplement No. 31 (A/37/3I,),



FJ37 /74L
EngI ish
Page 3

8. At the 42nd neeting, a statenent after the \rote rras naale b!, the representative
of Si.erra I€onE.

2. Draft resolution VC.2/37lL.15 antl Rev.l

9. At the 26th rneotlng, on I Novenber, the representative of Fakistan introduced
a draft resolutldr (A/C.2/37 /L.LS ) , entltled "United Nations rnEtitute for Tralnlng
and Research', on behalf of Bangladesh, Canada, Chlna, Costa Rica, ryu, Egllg,
India, Janaica, !I!g:!3., Norlray, Onan, Paklstan, Panama, Peru, the P_ELL!P!E1,
Senegal, Sierra I€one, Singapore, Sri Lanka, the .8!g.-lIgL_@ql!g., Trinidad andgg@,, Tunisia andl g@ggl which reads as follows3

"The General Assexobly,

trItecatling its resolution 36/75 of. 4 Decer0ber 1981 on the ttnlted tlationa
InBtitute for Training and Iiesearch,

iAcknowledglng the value and usefulness of the research dr the
effectlveness of the Un ited Nations and of the studies on the future
concerning developnent strategies, undertaken try the ttlrited libtions InEtitute
for Training and Research,

"SgcosnfS&S. the role of the thited tilations Institule for Training and
Researctt in assisting, through trainlng and other services within its nandate,
nerober s of permanent nissions to the ttnited l.lationE and other national
officials concarned with the w,ork of the United Natlona,

'@ of the c"ontinuing precarious financial aituatlon of tlte United
lilations Institute for Training and Research and drawing attention to the
reconnendationE of the ,toint Inspection Unit on the financing of the
InEtltute, j!//

Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Eaecutlve Director
of the untffiining anat Res eareh !11 and of his
introductory staten€nt on 5 October L9821 !1/

!!g!qql!es the continuing enphasls that the United Natlons Institute
tor rrainlffi-nd nesearch is pI-a-tng- at present on econqnic and soeial
training and researctr antl the inclusion of specific projects on the probloms

v A,/35/L9L. annex, paras. 62, 109-110.

9/ *e 1y'c.2/37 / sR.5 , paras. 13-L9 .



A/37 /7 4L
English
Page 4

that exist in the areas identified by the ceneral Assernbly at its sixth and
seventh special sessions, in the relevant decisions adopted b!. the Assembly at
Its tr.renty-ninth and subsequent sessions and in the International lEveloprent
Strategl' for the Third Un ited Nations Lrevelopnent Decade, taking into
consideration the statenents on the prograrrnne of work of the Institute made at
the thirty-seventh sessioni

Institute for Training and Research to do so, and calls upon all donor
countries, especially those that are not contributing at a level coflrnenaurate
l.,ith the ir capacity, to increase their voluntary contributions in order to
meet the needs of the Inst.itutet

"4. Requests Member States to announce Eheir annual voluntary
contributions, early, if posslble, at the annual thited ltations Pledging
Conference for Developnent Activitiesi

"5. Requests the Secrelary-c€neral to examine, rdith aLt its
implications, the feasibility of providing a core budget for the United
Nations Institute for Training and Research fron the regular budget of the
united Nations to cover salaries and related costs of the core staff and
operating expenses, with the Institute continuing to rely on voluntary
contributj.ons and special purpose grants for the execution of progranrnes, and
to subnit a report thereon to the ceneral Assembly at its thirty-eighth
session. "

I0. At the 47th meeting, on 8 Decenber, the representative of Paklstan introduced
a revised draft resolutLor- lNC.2/ 37 /L.15/Rev. 1) on behalf of Bangladesh, Canada,
S!!j!' Costa Rica, Ebuador, Egypt, fndia, ilanaica, @.ie, ]g!!gl., Onan, Pakistan,
Panama' 4r the Philippines, Senegal, Sierra f.eone, Singapore,
Syrian Ar ab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, g!g!g and ggg.
Liberia, Sweden and the United Arab Elnirates joined as sponaora
draft resolution.

11. statenents were made before the voCe by the representatives of steden,
Belgiun, Pakistan, Liberia and the United Arab Enirates.

]-2. At the same meetlng, the CoruniCtee aalopted the draft resolution
NC.2/37/L.$/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 121 to 8, with 1 abstention (see
para. I8, draft resolution II). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Ango1a, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Ibtswana, Brazil, Burma, Burundi, Canada, Cape Verde, Central
African Republic, Chad, ctrile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo,
costa Rica' Cuba, Denocratic Yenen, Dennark, Djibouti, Doninican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, cabon,
Gambia, cermany, Federal [tepublic of, Ghana, Greece, cuatemala,
Guinea, cuyana, Itronduras, Iceland, India, fndonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), fraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast,

srjl_I,anka, the
Subseguently,
of the revised



Against:

A,/ 37 /7 4L
English
Page 5

Jamaicar Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, l,esotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Idrxembourg, !,tadagascar, l4alalti, Malaysia,
l,taldives, l,tali, Malta. Maur itania, I'lexico, l,lorocco, Mozambique,
NeiEl, lGtherlands, Ne$ zealand, Niger, Nigeria, tbrway, otran,
Pakistan. Panana, Papua New cuinea, Peru, Philippines, Portugal,
Qatarr bnania, R{anda, saudi Arabia, senegal, sierra I€one,
singapore, sonalia, Spain, Srl Lanka, sudan, Suriname. Swaziland r
Sweden, syrian Arab fiepublic, Thalland, lbgo, Trinidaal antl
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, uganda, United Arab Eniratesr united
Kingdom of Great Britain and lbrthern Ireland, United Republic of
Caneroon, Irnited Republic of Tanzania, I4)per Volta, Uruguay,
venezuela, Yenen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia, zinbabwe.

Bulgariar Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, czechoslovakia'
Gernan Denocratic Republic, Hungary, Ukrainian soviet socialist
Republic, Irnlon of soviet socialist riepublics, United states of
Anerica.

@Ui!g: Po1and.

13. After the adoptlon of the draft resolution, statenents were nade by the
representaEivea of Brazil, the Union of Soviet Socialigt Republics, Japarr t
Argenlina, the Ihited states of Anerica and czechoslovakia.

B. Unlted Natlons Univers itv

Dt af E t eso]-uELons Py' c. 2 / 37 / L. L3 and A/ c. 2/ 37 /L. 28

I4. At the 26th meeting, on 1 libvember, the representative of Austr ia introduced
draft resolutL$ (Ac.2/37/L.]-3) | entitled "united Nations University", on behalf
of 9!!1, Bangladesh, china, Eqvpt, Ecuador, @, chana, Iceland, Eltb,
Indonesla, ilapan, ilordan, Paklstan, th" P_LLLiPElr,gg, sierra l€one, !&!!gE anal
Thailand which reatl as follows:

trThe ceneral Assembly,

'Recalling its resolutlons 295I (xxvll) of Il December 1972'
308I ()Q(VIII) of 6 Decenber 1973, 3313 (xxlx) of 14 Decenber 1974, 3439 (xxx)
of 9 Decenber L975. 3L/Ll7 and 3vll8 of 16 December L976, 32/54 of
8 Decenber L977, 33/L08 of 18 Decenber 1978, 34/LL2 of 14 December L979, 35/54
of 5 December 1980 and 36t145 of 19 November 198I,



Al 37 /7 4L
English
Page 6

"Eavlg_con8 idered the reporc of the Councll of the tnlted Natlons
Irniverslty on the trork of the lrn lver sLi-y Y anal the report on the unlted
Nations tnlverElq/ prepared by the Joint Inspection lhit, 9/

'Notinq witi appreciatlon that a slte has been iledicated for the
tjniverglty | € pernanent lteadquartera, thanks to the generou€ offer of the Iokyo
lGtropolltan covernrnent, and that active steps are betng taken b'y the
covernment of Japan towards the construction of a buildlng which rtlll house
the permanent Headquarters of the Unlversity as provided in the Aqreement of
14 !,tay 1976 betrreen the Un1ted Nationg and Japan regardlng the HeadquarterE of
the Unitsed Nations ttn iver6 iW,

"!gg4s. decls ion 5.2 . 3 adoptetl bry the E(ecutive bard of the lrnitetl
lilatlons Educational, Sclentific and Cultural Organlzatlon at its
on€ hundred anal fifteenth session,

'Takes note wfth sat of the report PrePared by the ,toint
Inspectlon Unit' which supports the ner' directlqls of the University anal itB
broader intellectual concerns as reflected in its r0ediun-term perspective
(1982-1987) under tlre following five thenes:

'(a) Peace, securl.ty, confllct resolution and global tr ans forroat ion t
r(b) Global econotny i
i(c) Hunger, poverty, resources and the envLronment t

'(d) Human and social developrent and co€xistence of peoPleE, cultureE
and aoclal systerns,

"(e) science anat technology and their sociat and ethical inPltcationst
n2. lbtes wiEh satisfaction that, Hith the adoption of the ned ium-tern

perspectlve, a renewed enphasis has been placed on the nultldlsciplinary anal
lntegrative approach to the search for solutlona to urgent global problems, ln
accordance yith the Charter of the Unlversityt

'r3. Alao notes with aatisfaction that, in keeping with ltg phllosophy of
conttnulty@ maintained its rrcnentum in the origlnal
programreE and enlarged on lhe foundations built in the early yearst

v u37/LLL.



A/ 37 /7 4r
Engllsh
Page 7

welcooes the fact that regearch, poEt{ratluate. training and the
d igsemlnatf6i-iTl'norgedge wlU be covered under the medium-tern persP€ctive
as a single University progralnre Hith subProgranmes rqePond 1n9 to the five
themee I

"5. ry!]9!g!ElE3gj!!9g the ttniverElty'5 increaslng co-oPerative
activttiesffiTE-6lE$-GEl6s, 1rs organs and agencies, particularly
Unlted Nations research and trainlng Ingtitutlona, and urgea the tniversity to
contlnue to strengthen ite collaborition wlth lnternational acadenic and
ecientif ic organizationE,

Encourageg the lhiversiqr to e"Plore and e*pand innovatlvet fruitful
and var iedJi?fft=utlonal relaeidtehipe ln accordance \tlth lta Charter, to
assist in the effoctlve inplenentation of the nEdium-term Perspective and
achieve $ialer outreactl and increased tlecentrallzation, ensuring the continuing
growth of vigoroua acadenic and sclentlflc connunltles everywhere and
particularly in the developing countriest

r7. welcones ttre lncreased attentlon belng given by the ttniversity. to
the activiffi-IEftted to the aliE6enlnatl,on of knohtledge ref€rred to I'n its
Charter and, as a coneeguence, the pronotion of a |Ipre inforne'l awareness of
globalproblemsanongallsectorgan.llevelgofthergorltlcom[unltythrough
tha or" of the ne{r information and cdtr[unicatlons technology no{t available,

r8. Ecosnizea thatr over the nedlun term, the ltniverElty neetls to buil-d
up its &ldowrnent Fund and other contr lbutlong in order to increase its @re
inccnel

urgentlvaEpealatoaltr4enberstatestotakecognizanceofthe
inportant de;;I;gnents at tbe ltniverEity and to contrlbute generously to lts
Endornent Etlnd and, aalditlonall'y or alEernatively, to nake oPerating
contrlbutlona to the tniverEity to enible lt to fulfil effectively its global
nandate. '

15. At its 4lEt meeting, on 19 lEvernber, the comittee ha'l before it a draft
iesorutidr lA/c.2/37 /r..'6 , submltted t!' Mr' Qazt shaukat Fareed' vice-chalrnan of
the comlittee, on the baaia of lnfornal consultations held on draft resolution
A/c.2/37/L.L3.

16. At the sane meeting, the Cordnlttee a(bpteal draft resolutLon VC.2/37/L.28 (see
para. 181 alraft reaolutlon III).

l?. In the llght of the adoptlon of draft resolution A/C.2/37/L.28, draft
reEolutiqr. VC.2/37/L.L3 t as slthtlrawn bl, the aPonsor 8 '

III. RBCOWENDATIONS OF TTIE SE@IO COMMITTEE

18. Ttte second cotttttrittee recdolends to the GeneraL Assenbly the adoPtion of the
followlng draft resolutlon6:



A/ 37 /7 4L
English
Page I

DRAFT RESOIJUTION I
D(presslon of appreciation to the Executive Director of the

gnited Natlons fnstltute for Trainlnq and Researaa
The General Assenbly,

l'loting that the E<ecutive Director of the ltrited Nations rnstitute foE
Training and Research will shortly be relinquishing his duties,

- Recoqnizinq the contributlon made by the ltnited l,tations Institute for Trainingand Research under his guidance, through training and research, towards the
achievement of the rnajor objectives of the rrnlted l€tions, in particular the
naintenance of peace and security and the promotion of economic and soclal
development ,

.. 1: . ExpresEee ils sincere appreciaEion and thanks to Dr. Davidson Nicol forEne errecrrve and dedlcated manner Ln nhich tte has performed his functions a6
Executive Dlrector of the ltn ited llationa Institute for Trainlng and Research,

2. Extends its qood wishes to hin for auccess in his future unalertakings.

DRAFT RESOLUTION 1I

United Nations Institute for Trainlng and Research
The GeneraL Assenblv.

Recalling its resolution 36/75 of 4 Decernber l9g1 on the united lihtionsInstitute for Tralning and Reaearch,

Acknowledqing the value and usefulness of the research on the effectiveness ofthe activities of the nntted Natlons and of the studles on the future concerning
developnent strategies, undertaken b,!' the United tbtions Institute for Training anal
Research,

. necogniztng the role of the Unitetl lhtions Instltute for Training and Researchin assisting, through tralning and olher servlces within its mandate, members of
pernanent missions to the united I'lati.ons and olher nationar officials concerned
with the work of the United Nations,

Aware of the continuing precarlous financiar aituation of the uniteat Nation'rnstitute for Training and Researclt and atrawing attention to the reconnendationa ofthe Joint Inspection Unit on the financlng of ahe Institute, 2r/
1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Executlve Director of

!! A/35/LBL, annex, paras. 62, 109 and 110.



A/ 77 /7 4r
English
Page 9

the united Nations Institute for Training and Research lrQr/ and of his inbroductory
statement on 5 @tober 19821 !t/

2.welcomesthecontinuingemphasisthatthelhicedNationglnEticutefor
trainlng aiEElEJrcrr is pl-aclng at present on economic and social tralning and
,"sear"h and the lnclusion of specific projects on the problems that exist ln the
areaa ldentified by the General Assenbly at its aixth and €eventh speclal sessl'ons,
in the relevant tlecisions aalopted by the Assenbly at its twenty-ninth and
subsequ€nt sessions, antl in the InternationaL Developnent strategy for tbe I'hir'l
Irnlted Natlons tEvefopnent Decade, !/ taftng into consideration the statements on
the programme of work of th€ Institute nade at the current session,

3. Welcornes further the efforts of the Irnlted t:lat ions Institute for Training
and nesearEiE-sffill6ii the co-ordination of its activities and lts co-oPeration
with relevant organs and organizations wlthin the united ltations system' ln
irartlcular the unlted Nation6 Lhivers ity, and the continuation of those efforts?

4' wercones also the steps being taken bt/ the ttnited Nations rnstitute for
Training afrGffi"fr, in accordance vrith ceneral Assembly resolutions 35/53 B of
5 Decenb€r 1980 and 36/75 of 4 Decenber 1981 and calIs uPon the Institute to
continue to organize lts Prograniae of rrork and activities and to adjust its
aahinistrative Costs so as to en€ure that estimated e4)endlture does no! e:<ceed
€sEinated revenuet

5. Urgea a1l States that have not yet contributed to the ltnited liLations
Institute Foi fraining and Research to do so, and calls uPon all donor countries'
especlally those that are not contr ibuting at a level com"nenaurate with their
capacity, to increase the ir voluntary contrlbutions in Qrder to meet the needs of
the Institute t

6. Itequests Menber States !o announce their annual voluntary contributions'
early, if p#TbG at the annual {rnited Nations Pledging Conference for Developlent
&tivitiest

7. tlequests the secretary-General to examine au possibilities for funding
the ttnited wations Institute tor Trainlng and Research ln order to place ils
financing on a rnore predictable, assured and continuous basis' and to submit a
retrFrt thereon to the General Assenbly at its thirty-eighth session, keeping in
mi-nd article VIII of the statute of the Institute E1 and the views expressed
during the current session of the Assembly.

!/ see r./C.2/37 /sR.6, Paras. 13-19.

f?/ Iresolution 35,/55.

!11 ly'6575, annex III' containing the statute as amended i'n March 1967t
subsequently anended in ,rune 1973.



v37 /7 4L
Brglish
Page 10

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Itrited Natlon€ t hiversity

The General Assenblv.

Recauinq its resolutions 2951 (XXWI) of 1I Decenber 1972. 3081 (XX\rUIl of
6 Decenlcer 1973' 3313 (xxrx) of 1'l Decenbsr t9?4, 3439 (xKx) of 9 December 1975,
3VtU antl 3f II8 of 16 Decernber 1976, tZ/54 of 8 Decenber I97? , 33/LOE of
18 December r97e, 34/Lr2 of 14 Decenbe t L979, 3s/s4 of 5 Decenber 1980 and 36/4s of
19 uovenber l9gl,

Having considered the report of thq council of the uhited lEtlona lrniver€ity
on the nork of the thiverstty l!/ and the report on the Urrlverslty prepared by th€Joint fnspect ion Unit, 15/

- _ Notinq with appreciatlon th6t a site has been dedicated for the p€rnanentneadquarters of the Itnited Natlons University, thanks to the generoua offer of the
Tokyo Metropolitan @verMent, and that active step6 are being taken by the
Government of Japan tonard8 the constructlon of a buikltng that riu house the
pernanent headquarters of the t niveralty aa provided in the tgreement of
14 l'!ay 1976 betneen the tnlted lilationa anil Japan regarding the headquarters of the
t n iver si Ey,

_ Ytittq decision 5.2.3 adopted by the E: ecutive Board of tlre Inlited lihtionaEducational' scientlfic and cultural organlzation at ita on€ huntlred and flfteenth
sess ion,

1. Takes note wiql_satisfac.llgg of the report prepared by the Jointrnspectionffi the secreiary-cenirar thlreon, !q,/ which,
inter alia, support the new directions of the tnited Natlons thiverstty anal itsbroader intellectuar concerns as reflected in it8 m€diun-tern perapect-rve
(1982-1987) under the following five themeE r

(a) Peace, security, confllct resolution and global tranaformatlon,
(b) clobal econonyt
(c) Ilunger, poverty, resources anit the environnent,

::t

L6/

N37/LTT.

A/3"t/LLI/Ad,d.r.



A/37 /7 4L
English
Page 11

(al) Hurnan and social development and coexistence of peoPles, cultures and
social systems i

(e) science and technology and their sociat and ethical inplications t

2. Ilotes with satisfaction that, with the adoptj.on of the medium-term
perspectiver r;newed emphasis has been Placed on the multidisc iplinary and
integrative aPproach to the search for solubions to urgent global problems, in
accordance with the charter of lhe United Nati.ons UniversiEyi

3. A]-so notes with satisfaction that ' 
in keeping with its Philosophy of

continuity@ionsI'niversityhasmaintaineditsnonentun
in the original prograrnmes and enlarged on the foundations built in the early years;

4. Welcomes the facc that research, Post-graduate training and the
dissemination of llnowledge will be covered under lhe nedium-tserm perspective as a
single programfle of the United l,Iations university with subprogrannes resPonding to
the five themesi

the increasing co-operative activities of the
unicea watI6IE-GIiEI3ifr wittr the united Nations, its organs and agencies'
particularly United Nations research and trai.ning instituLions, and ulges the
University to continue to strengthen its co-operation, and Che co-ordination of its
activilies, with those institutions and the appropriate organizational units of the
united Nalions secretariat, as well as its collaboration with international
academic and scientific organizacions i

6. Encourages the United Nations University to explore and exl}and
innovati.rel-TillETlf and varied institutional relationships in accordance with its
charter. to assist in the effective inplementation of the nediun-term perspective
and achieve \rider outreach and increased decentr al ization, ensuring the continuing
grorrth of vigorous academic and scientific comrunities everywhere and Particularly
in tbe developing countr les i

't. Welcomes the increased attention being given by the Lnited Nations
UniversityG-Tf,Tactivities related to the dissemination of kno\,tledge ' including
its onn research findings, referred to in iLs charter and, as a consequence, the
pronDtion of a nore informed antareness of global problems among alt sectors and
Ievels of the world comnunity through the use of the nert information and
corununi.cat ions technology now availablei

I' Recognizes that, over the nedium tern' the United Nations University
needs to b,titd up i,t. Endor,rment Fund and other contributions in order to increase
its core incone ?

9. Earnestly appeals to aII Menber StaEes to take cognizance of the
important aevel"-pma.nE-at the ih ited Nations universily and to contribute urgently
and generously to its sndolntnent nrnd and' additionally or alternatively, to make
operating contributions to the university to enable it to fulfil effeccively its
olobal mandate.

5. liotes wich satisfact.ion


