












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAT

An7/6e0/Add.2
17 December 1982

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

thirty-seventh session
Agenda iten 71 (c)

DEVEIOPTTGNT AND INTtsRNATIONAL ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION

Trade and develoPment

RePort of the Second Comnittee (Part III)

Rapporteurs Mr. Stoyan BAKALOV (Bulgaria)

I. INTRODTrcTION

I. ltre Second Connittee held a general discussion on item 71 (see Arl37/680,
para. ^' , Action to be taken on subiten (c) was considered at the 33rd' 37th' 4Oth
ind 43.-i to 48th neetings, on 12, L6, L8, 23 and 29 November and on l, 2, 8 and
13 Decenber 1982. An account of the Committee's discussion is contained in the
relevant sunmary records (A/C.2/37/sR.33t 37, 40 and 43-48).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PRO9OSAtS

A. Dtaft tesolutlons A/C.2/37/L.22 and A/C.2/37/L.85

2. At the 40th meeting, on 18 November, the representative of Zaire introduced a
draft resolutlon (A,/C.2/37/L.22) entitled 'ParEicular problems facing Zaire with
regard to transport, transit and access to foreign markets'r olt behalf of the
Co4go, Gqlnea, tiberia, Rwanda, Zaire and Zarnbia, subsequently joined by Belgiunr
E6?Tenffi-rr@, France, Nigeria, s.ao Tong and Pgirlgipe,
Sier iFa-n-ezuUflc of Cameroon. The draft resolution read
as follows:

"The General Assembly,

nRecalling its resolution 32/L6O of 19 December L977, in which it
recalled Council resolution 2097 (LXIII) of 29 JuIy I977 and proclained the
period 1978-1988 the Transport and Communications Decade in Africa,

82-37477 0542h (E)



^/37/680/ldd.2English
Page 2

"Recallllg ge its resolutions 34Ag3 of 9 December 1979 , 35/59 of5 December 1980 and 36/L39 of 15 December 1981 on particular problens facingzaire with regard to transport, transit and access to foreign markets,
nRecallllg resolution 1I0 (V) of 3 June Lg7g, adopted by the UnitednationF6TlEnce on Trade and Development at its fifth session, held atl4anila from 7 !4ay to 3 June Lg7g' V
"Recalllng also decision 249 (Lxrrr) of 25 JuIy l9Z7 and resolutionrgeve€-;?7@I98r of the Economic and social oouncit and resotution293 (xIIIl of 26 February L977, adopted by the Economic Comrnission for Africaat its thirteenth session and at trrl eourth meeting of the oonference ofMinisters, !/
"tt"ing consilerea the report of the Executive secretary of the Economiccorunission for Africa on the inplementation of the special measures relatingto particular problems facir€ zaire with regard to tiansport, transit andaccess to foreign markets, 3,/

"Igglg of rhe fact that, untit a
particular problems facing Zaire with
to foreign markets, its external trade
seriously affected,

."t: Tgkes note of the report of the Executive secretary of the Econonicconnisslon for Africa on particular problems facing zaire wilh regard totransportr transit and access to foreign markets and activities carried out todate concerning the search for sorutions to the transport and transit problemsfacing Zaire, particularly measures taken by the connission regarding thetine-table for the activities to be undertalen;

- 
n'' 

*pProves the organization in l-983 of a roun&table meeting withdonor countries and financing agencies for zairers transport and transitprojectst

. :'' APpeals to donor countries and financing agencies to participatepositively in the round-table neeting;

v See Proceedi s of the United Nation Conference on Tr and Deve

durable solution is found to the
regard to transport, transit and access
and economy will continue to be

flEth session, vol.
No. E.79.f f .D.14) ,

1:
part

U See Official Records of

Report and Annexes (united watio.EluuticaElf,
one, sect. A.

Sales

the Economic and Social Council, Sixsession, Supplffi
y E/Le82/78.

and Add.l1, vol. I, part IfI.
third



An7/6eo/Add.2
English
Page 3

'4. Requests the Secretar]-ceneraL to provide to the Ebonomic Comrnission
. for Africa the resources requirea to organize a roun&table technical

consultative neeting with aonor countries and accelerate the implementation 
of

the relevanE resolutions of the Economic and Social Council and the General
AssembtY;

,5. Requests the ExecuEive Secretary of the Economic Conmission for
Africa to subnit a report on particular problens facing Zaire with regard to
transport, transit and acces"-to fot"ign markets through the Economic and
sociar council to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth sessioni

6. Also requests the secretary-e€neral to submit to the General
Assenbly at its thirty-eighth session a report on the progress achieved in
implementing this resolution.

3. At its 44th meeting, on 29 November, the Comnittee had before it a draft
resolution (A/C.2/37/L.851 subnitted by lttr. Qazi Shaukat Fareed' Vic*Chairman of
the Comnittee, on the basis of infornral consultations held on draft resolution

^/c.2/37 
/L.22.

4. A statement by the Secretary-General on the administrative and financial
irrplications of aratt resoLutioi x/c.2/37/L.221 which also applied to draft
resolutior- A/c.2/37/L.85, was circulated in document A/c.2/37 /L,32'

5. At the sane meeting, the Conrmittee adopted
without a vote (see para. 35, draft resolution

draf t resolution A/C.2/37/L'85
r) .

6. rn light of the adoption of draft resolution A/c.2/37/L.e5, the sponsors
withdrew draft resolution A,/c' 2/37 /L'22'

B. Draft resolution A/C'2l37lL'41

7. At the 37th rneeting, on 16 November, the representative of Nepal introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.2/37/L.41) entitled 'rspecific action related to the
laiticufar needs and problems of lan&locked developing countries" ' on behalf 

of
Afghanistan, @, Polivia, notqn "rrP, Pgruldir -*"q' 

the Leo geoplers Demgcfa9ic

' Zambi? 
and Zi$habwe'

subsequentLy joiie@*, t uah=I-Nigeria'
paragrlay, uganaa ana ln@1g. EIftrE?E resolution read as follows:



al37/680/Add.2
English
Page 4

"lltre General A.ssenbly,

trReiterating the specific actions related to the Snrticular needs of the
land-locked developing countries stated in resolutions 63 (III) of
19 l'tav L972, !/ 98 (rv) of 31 May L976 21 and I23 (v) of 3 ,June L97g y of rheunited Nations conference on Trade and ftveropnert,

rnecat!!3g the provisions of its resolutions 3L/L57 of 2L December Lg76,szrlrsr;m Decernoei Lg77 , 33/Lso of 20 December LgTg, 34/L9B of
19 December 1979, 35/58 of 5 Decenber 1980 and 36/L75 of 17 December lggl andother resolutions of the united Nations relating to the particular needs andproblems of 1and-Iocked developing countries,

rr9earing in nind various other resolutions adopted by the General
Assenbly' its related organs and the specialized ag-nciesl emptrasizing special
and urgent measures in favour of land-locked developing countries,

"Recalling the relevant provisions of the rnternational Development
strategy for the ltrird united Nations Developnent Decade, f/

- "Recognizing that the lack of territorial access to the sea, a€tltravatedby rernoteness and isolation from world narkets, and the prohibitive iransit,transPort and transhipment costs impose serious c.onstraints on the
socio-economic deveropment of land-rocked developing countries,

- _ 
rlbFilg with concern that ttre measures taken so far in favour ofrand-rocked developing countries and the assistance given fall far short oftheir needs,

'r1. Reaffirns the right of land-locked countries to free access to and
from the sea and their right to freedom of transit through the territory oftransit Stat,es by all means of transport;

_ -!/ see lT9!s9q!ngF of ttte gnited Nations conference on Trade and
FYeloP=nen!,=Th+d= ,v rionspubricarion,Sales llo. 8.73.II.D.4), annex f .A.

y lbid., Elourth Session, vol. I,
publication, Sales No. E.75.rI.D.l0 and

Report and Annexes (tfrited Nations
corrigendum), part on€r sect. A.

Ir Re[nrt and rlnnexes (United Nations
Srart one, sect. A.

y fbid., Fifth Session, vol.
publication, Sa1es No. E.29.II.D.14),

a General Assenbly resolution 35/56, annex.



8/ Report of the United Nations Conference on the teast Developed Countriesl-paris, f-f lication, Sales No. 8.82'I'8),
part one, sect. A.

A/37 /6S0/Add.2
English
Page 5

l-2. Appeals to all States, international organizations and financial
institutions to fmplenent, as a matter of urgency and priority, the specific
actions related to the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing
countries envisaged in lesolution 53 (III)'' 98 (IV) and 123 (V) of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in the International D'evelopment
Strategy for the Third United Nations Developnent Decade, in the Substantial
New prograrme of Action for the I980s for the least developed countries 9/ and
in other relevant resolutions of the United Nationsl

'3. Urges all donor countries, as well as others in a position to do sot
and the international organizations concernedr to Provide lan&Iocked
developing countries with the appropriate financial and technical assistance
in thg forn of grants or concessional loans for the construction and
improvement of their transport and transit infrastructures and facilities;

.4. Urges also the international comnunity and muLtilateral and
bilateral financial institutions to intensify efforts in raising the net flow
of resources to tan&locked developing countries to help offset the adverse
effects of their disadvantageous geogiaphical situation on their econonic
developnent efforts, in keeping with the overall development needs of each
land-locked develoPing countrY;

'5. Invites the transit countries to co-operate effectively with the
land-locked deve-loping countries in harmonizing transport planning and
pronoting other joint ventures in the field of transport at the regional,
subregional and bilateraL levels;

r'6. Further invites the international conmunity to give financial
suPPorttoffisitand1and-1ockeddeve1opin9countriesinthe
construction of alternative routes to the seai

n7. Conunends the United Nations Development Programte, the United
Nations coiffi on Trade and Development and other united Nations agencies
for their work and the assistance they have provided to the land-locked
developing countries and invites then to continue to take appropriate and
effective measures to respond to the specific needs of those countriest

n8. Reconmends continued and intensified activities relating to the
conducting-6fne-cessary studies and the implenentation of special actlons and
action pr6gr.r*.s for the lan&locked developing countries, including those in
the area of economic co-operation among developing countries, as well as those
that have been envisaged in the programme of work of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and llevelopment, the regional cormissions and other
progratmes and activities at the regional and subregional levelsl



A/37/680/Add.2
English
Page 5

'9. nsggnng4q€ to the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development
at its sixT6ffii, in the light of the rack of progress made in the
inplernentation of the resolutions adopted so far, to take further specific
actions related to the particular needs and problems of land-locked developing
countriest

"10- R"qu""tt the Secretary-ceneral to submit to the General Assenbly at
its thirty-.irhth session a report on the progress nade in the inplenentation
of the present resolution.i

8. At its 47th neeting, on 8 December, the Committee adopted a draft decision
recotmending transmittal- of the text of draf t resolution A/C.2/37/L.41 for
consideration by the General AssenbLy at its thirty*eighth session (see para. 36,
draft decision I).

C. prafE resoLutions A/C.2/37/L.93 and A/C.2/37/L.LLL
9. At its 45th neeting, on I Decenber, the representative of Bangladesh, on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations which are menbers of the Groupof 77, introduced a draft resolution (Alc.z/37/L.g3l entitled "Action progr.r*e in
favour of island developing countries'r, which read as forlows;

"Itr" Ger.r"l A"".*bly,
nRecalllqg its resolutions 3201 (s-vl) and 32O2 ls-Vr) of I May Lg74,

contaiiTiffiG-Declaration and the Progranme of Action on the Establishment of
a New fnternational Economic Order, 3281- (XXIX) of L2 December !g74,
containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, and
3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on developnent and international economic
co-operation,

"Recalling also its resolution 35/56 of 5 Decenber 1980, containing the
rntern@entStrategyforthe1trirdUnitedNationsDeveIopment
Decade,

"Rt".l1&-Igr!ttt! its resolutions 3L/L56 of 2L December Lgl6, 32/LB5 of
rsDecm5of19DecenberI979and35/6Lof5DecemberI980,and
other relevant resolutions of the United Nations relating to the special needs
and problems of island developing countries,

Reiterating the programme of specific action in favour of island
developing countries envisaged in resolutions 98 (Iv) of 31 lr,tay 1976 9/ and

_ -2/ See Proc.eeding? of the united Nations Conference on Trade andDe_vgloplgnt, Foyrth Session, vol_. I, Report a
pub1ication,Sa1esNo.E'76.II.D.1oa@rtone'sectA.



lll (v) of 3 June L979 L0/ of
DeveloPment,

A/37/680/Add.2
English
Page 7

the United l{ations Conference on Trade and

,,Mindful that further specific action is needed to assist island
a".r"loffiorrrtri"" - in paiticular those which suffer handicaps due
especiltLy to snallness, renotenessr discontinuity and scattering of
territory, constraints in transport and communicationsr 9r€at distances fron
market centres, Iimited internal markets, lack of marketing expertise, low
resource endowmentr lack of natural resourcesr heavy dependence on a few
commodities for their foreign exchange earnings, shortage of adninistrative
expertise and heavy debt burdens - in offsetting the major handicaps which
retard their development process'

,,welconing the analysis of the problem facing snaller island countries at
the meeting on the special problems of those countries, held at Alofi, Niuel
from 9 to 12 February L982, W

,,@gthatindustriaIdeveIopmentisvita1totheeconomic
development of snall island States'

,1. Takes note of the report of the secretary-General 0n progress made
in the impternentiffin of specific action in favour of island developing
countriest W

,,2. Takgs note of the analysis contained in section three of the reporL
of the Secretarliffieral on the difficulties encountered by island developing
countries;

,3. Expressegits appreciation to alt states and organizations that have
facilitated the implementation offi"olutions in favour of island developing
countr i esi

,,4. Calts upon aII States, international 0rganizations and financial
institutions to intensify efforts to implement specific actions in favour of
island developing countries as envisaged in resolutions 98 (IV) and I11 (V) of
the United t€tions Conference on Trade ana Development' as well as in other
relevant resolutionsi

'5. Requests the competent agencies of the united Nations system to take
adequate r.a"ur.Tto enhance their ability to respond positively to the
specific needs of island developing countiies during the Third united Nations
Developnent Decade, in particular the United tiations Conference on Trade and

g/ Ibid., Fifth Session, vol. I, R9port and +nngxes (United Nations
punf icationJafes tlo. E-79.II.D.f4) , part one' sect' A'

ry See A/37/196 and Corr.I, annex'

9/ A/37 /L96 and Cor r.1.



^/37/680/ldd.2English
Page 8

Development, the United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations
Industrial Developnent Organization and the United Nations Capital Developnent
Fundr

"6. Re9uesl9-glEg the united Nations Conference on Trade and Development
atitssixE[ffiT5agreeutrronfurtherspecificactionsandprogra!mes
related to the particular needs and problems of island developing countriesl

"7 - \gguesg-[ the Secretarf General to report to the General Assembly at
its thirtl-ninth session on the measures taken by the international community
to respond to the specific needs of islancl developing countries, as called forin reLevant resolutions of the United Nations, and to recomnend further
appropriate actions to permit the General Assembly to undertake a
comprehensive review of the problems and needs of the island developing
countries at that session."

10. At its 47th meeting, on 8 December, the Committee had before it a draftresolution lA/c.2/37/L.l'lL) subnitted by Mr. eazi shaukat Fareed, vicechairrnan ofthe Conunitteer on the basis of informal consultations on draft resolution
A/c.2/37/L.93.

ll. At the same meeting, the comnittee adopted draft resolution A/c.2/37/L.LIL
without a vote (see para. 35, draft resolution ff).
L2. rn the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/c.2/37/L.].LL, the sponsors
withdrew draf t resolution A/C.2/37/L.93.
t3' After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the united
States of Anerica made a statement.

D. Draft resolution A/C.2,/32/L.4
14. By its decision 36/429 of 16 Decenber 1981, the General Assembly decided totransmit the draft resolution entitled "Protectionism and structural adjustment',together with the synoptic table containing the comments thereon (A/c.z7y/t.q ,' toits thirty-seventh session for consideration.
15. At its 48th neeting, on 13 Decenber, after a staternent by the representative
of Bangladesh speaking on behalf of the members of the Group of lt, the Conunittee
decided to recommend to the General Assembly to take no action on the draft
resolution at the current session and to return to the consideration of thisguestion at its thirty-eighth session in the light of the outcome of the sixth
United Nations Conference on Trade and Developnent (see para. 3G, draft decisionII).



A/37 /680/Add.2
English
Page 9

E. DtatL tesoLutlon A/C.2/37/L'24

16.Atthe33rdmeeting,on12November,therepresentativeof@,on
behalf of the States Members of the United Nations which are members of the
Group of 77, introduced a draft resolution (A,/c.2/37/L.24| entitled rDeveloPment
arpects of the reverse transfer of technology" and orally revised it by replacing
the words trtheir action' in operative paragraph 4 by the word 'measures'.

l?. At the 48th neeting, on 13 December, the representative of Bangladesh, on
behalf of the States Menbers of the United Nations which are members of the
Group of 77, further orally revised the draft resolution by:

(a) Inserting the words "included in the report of the Trade and DeveloPment
Board at its twenty-fifth sessionr at the end of the last preambular paragraphl

(b) Inserting the words trthe World Health Organization and the United Nations
Institute for Training and Research" after the words "United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization" in operative paragraPh 4l

(c) Replacing the words "through the Oonunittee on Transfer of Technolog_y at
its fifth sessionn by the words trat its twenty-seventh sessionn at the end of
operative paragraPh 5 (b).

18. At the same meeting, the Connittee adopted draft resolution e'/C.2/37/L.24, as
orally revised, by a recorded vote of 106 to 2tr with I abstention (see para. 35,
draft resolution III). ilhe voting was as follows: 13/

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin,
ghutan, Bolivia, Botswanar Brazilr Bulgaria, Burmat Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet socialist Republic, cape verde, chad, chiLe,
China, Colombia, Conoros, Congo, Cubar Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Denocratic Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Eg119t,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic nepublic, Ghana'
Guatenala, Guyana, Fbnduras, llungary, India, Indonesiat Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Irag, Ivory coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenyal
Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Liberia' Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali' Maltat
lrlauritania, Mexico, !,longo1ia, Morocco, Mozambiguer Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Panamar Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Phitippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwandar Sao
Tone and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leonet
Singaporer Sri fanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
uganda, ukrainian soviet sociaList Republic, union of soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates' United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguayr Venezuel-a, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zarnbia, Zimbabwe.

E/ At the same meeting,
it been present at the tine of
draft resolution.

the delegation of the UPper volta stated thatr had
the voting, it would have voted in favour of the



^/37/680/Add.2EngLish
Page 10

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal' Spain,
Slreden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and tibrthern lreland,
United States of America.

Abstainingc Greece.

19. Statenents in explanation of vote after the vote were nade by the
representatives of Greece, Bulgaria (also on behalf of the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary,
Mongolia, Foland, the tftrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and the tlnion of Soviet
Socialist Republics), China and the Upper Volta.

F. D:af t resolution A/C.2/37/L.73 and Rev.l

2o.Atthe43rdneeting,on23November,therepresentativeof.@,on
behalf of the States Members of the ttrrited litiations which are members of the
Group of 77, introduced a draft resolution lA/C.z/37/L.731 entitled "Sixth session
of the United lilations Oonference on ltade and Developmentn. lltre draft resolution
read as follows:

ntre General Assembly,

"Rgcalling its resolutions 1995 (XIx) of 30 December 1964 on the
Establishment of the United Nations Oonference on Trade and Development as an
organ of the General Assembly, as amended, L4/ 320L (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of
1 May L974, containing the Declaration and the Progranune of Action on the
Establishment of a New International Economie Order, 328I (XXIX) of
L2 Decenber 1974, containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of
States, 3362 I$VII) of 16 Septenber 1975 on development and international
econonic co-operation and 35/56 of 5 December 1980, the annex to which
contains the International Development Strategy for the Third United Nations
Development Decade,

"k".11in931"o its resolutions 34/L96 of 19 December 1979 on the report
of the United litations Oonference on Trade and Developnent on its fifth session
and 3611142 of L6 December 198I on the sixth session of the United Nations
@nference on Trade and Devetopment,

"Ig9ig Trade and Development Board decision 237 (XXIII) of
8 October l98l' W bV which the Board endorsed the decision taken by the
Latin American countries to hold the seventh session of the Conference in one

U/ See resolutions 2904 (XxvTIl , 3L/2 A and B and' 34/3.

!!/ official Records of the General Assemb , Thirt
SuppLement No. 15 (A/36As and Corr.l), part three, annex

ixth Session,



A/37/680/Add.2
English
Page LI

of those countries on the understanding that the final decision on the venue
in Latin America would be taken at the right tine and in the right place, and
noting with interest the desire of Crrba to act as host to the seventh session
of the Conference,

"lbting further Trade and Development Board resoLution 253 (XXIV) of
rauayF-n-aaecision255(xxIv)of30June1982,Uinwhichthe
Board recommended that the sixth session of the Conference should be held at
Belgrade, from 5 to 30 June 1983, to be preceded by a meeting of senior
officiaLs at Belgrade on 2 and 3 June L983'

'Bearing in mind its resolution 3L/L40 of 17 December 1976 on the 
pattern

of conferencest

nTaking note of the report of the Trade and Development Board on its
twenty-fourth selsion and on the first and second parts of its twenty-fifth
session, 18rl

"n<pressing ile-sPgegiation for the-efforts undertaken by the Government
ofGabontoactffithsessionoftheUnitedNationsConference
on Trade and Development, and recognizing the reasons for which it was not in
a position to do so,

"1. Welcomes the offer of the Government of Yugoslavia to act as host to
the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at
Belgradei

n2. Decides to convene the sixth session of the united Nations
Conference on Trade and Development at Belgrade fron 6 to 30 June l-983' to be
preceded by a tweday neeting of senior officials on 2 and 3 June 1983 at
Belgrade;

r'3. Welcomes the adoption by the Trade and Development Board at its
twenty-fourth seEion of the provisional agenda for the sixth session of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Developmenti W

lg lbid., Thirtrseventh Session, Supplement No. 15 (A/3745|, 
part tv'o'

annex I.

y/ rbid. ' Part three, 
annex.

g/ Ibid" r vol. I and vol. II, parts one and two'

p/ Ibid.r voI. I' Part three, annex'



A/37/680/Add.2
English
Page 12

'r4. Endorses the decision of the Trade and Developnent Board that the
sixth session of the United litiations Oonference on Trade and Development should
be so organized as to ensure the attendance of Ministers and other high-level
policy-makers and to permit al-l delegations to contribute effectively to its
decisiorrnak ing processt

tr5. Endorsqrs Trade and Development Board decision 258 (xXV) of
tzseptenuffiazontheorganizationofthesixthsessionoftheUnited
Nations Conference on Trade and Developnenti 20/

n6. Requests, the Secretarfceneral of the United Nations Oonference on
Trade ana 6ffilient to make all the necessary arrangements for the
Oonference, to submit to the Conference all relevant documentation as far in
advance of the six weeks rule as possible and to arrange for the necessary
staff facilities and services that it will require, including the provision of
sutnmary records for plenary meetings of the Conferencel

o7. at the aggravation of the serious crisis
facingtt'erticular,itsgravenegativeimpactonthe
development process of the developing countriesl

n8. Emtr*rasizes the particular importance of the sixth session of the
United Nat-ions Oonference on Trade and Developnent as a major opportunity to
undertake an integrated review of world development particuLarly with regard
to trade and development of developing countries, at a time when the
deveLoping countries continue to face economic problems of unprecedented
gravityl

'9. Urges aIl countries, particularly developed countries, to work
towards ensuring constructive, meaningful and action-oriented results at the
sixth session of the Conference, of all intrnrtant issues concerning trade,
development and related probl-ems in their interactions and interrelationshlp,
and thus to contribute effectively to the overcoming of the grave difficulties
facing the world economy, to the economic deveLopment of deveLoping countries
and to the establishment of the new international economic order.i

2L. At the 48th meeting, on 13 December, Mr. Qazi Shaukat Fareed, ViceCtrairman of
the Comnittee, orally introduced a draft resolution, subsequently issued as
A/C.2/37/L.126, which was submitted by him as a result of informal consultations
held on draft resolution A/C.2/37/L.73.

22. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resol-ution, as orally
introduced. by the ViceChairnan, without a vote (see para. 35, draft resolutlon fvl.

23. fn the light of the adoption of the draft resolution, the sponsors withdrew
draf t resolution A/C.2/37/L.73,

4/ Ibid., vol. II, part one, annex I.



24. After the adoption of the draft
representatives of the United States
States Menbers of the lhited litations

A/37/680/Pd.d.2
English
Page 13

resolution' statements ltere made by the
of America, Bangladesh (on behalf of the
that are members of the Group of 771 and China.

G. Draft resoLutions A/C.2/37/L.LOO and A/C.2/37/L.L22

25. At the 46th meeting, on 2 December, the representative of Bangladesh, on
behalf of the States lt{embers of the United Nations which are menbers of the
croup of 7'1, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.z/37/L.LOOl entitLed nUnited
Nations Oonference on Conditions for Registration of Ships", which read as follows:

"lfrre General Assenb1y,

"Rscalling its resolutions 3201 (FvI) and 3202 (S-VI) of I May L974,
containing the Declaration and the Prograrune of Action on the Establishment of
a New International Economic order, 328L (xxlx) of L2 December L974,
containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States and
3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on development and internatlonal economic
co-operation,

"R"".lling its resolution 35/56 of 5 Decenber 1980, containing the
fnternational Developnent Strategy for the lltrird united Nations Development
Decade, which calls, inter alia, for the increase in the participation by
developing countries in world transport of international trade and, to this
end, for appropriate structural changes to be carried out where necessary and
for the international community to continue to take the necessary steps to
enable developing countries to compete more effectively and to expand their
national and nultinational merchant fleets so as to increase their share
substantiaLly with a view to reaching as close as possible to 20 per cent of
the dead-r.reight tonnage of the world merchant fl-eet by 1990,

trRecognizing the need for the promotion of orderly expansion of world
shipping as a whole,

nTaking note of the report of the Intergovernmental Preparatory Group on
Conditions for Registration of Ships at its first session' 21-/

"Taking note that the Trade and Development Board, at the first part of
its twenty-6161h session, endorsed the resolution of the Intergovernmental
Preparatory Group on Conditions for Registration of Ships at its first session
and recommended that the General Assembly should convene in 1983 a
plenipotentiary conference on the conditions for registration of ships, 22/

u !D/B/e04.

SuppLement Ncr 11 (^/37 /Lsl , vol. II, part one, annex I.
22/ official Records of the General Assenbly, Thirtlz-seventh Session,



A/37/680/Add.2
English
Page 14

"1. Decides to convene, taking into account the recolunendations of the
Trade and Development Board at its twenty-fifth session and the conclusions of
necessary preparatory work, a United Nations Conference on the Conditions for
Registration of Ships in early 1984;

"2. Reguests the Trade and DeveLopment Board to establish a PreParatory
Oomnittee for the united Nations Oonference on the Conditions for Registration
of Ships, open to the participation of all Statesl

n3. Decides that the Preparatory Oolrunittee, on the basis of the work of
the Intergovernmental Preparatory Group, should prepare and recomnend a draft
convention on the conditions for reglstration of ships, taking fully into
account the views of alI the interested parties'

n4. Requests the Trade and Development Board, taking into account the
work of the Preparatory Cornrnittee, to decide on appropriate dates for the
convening of the Conference;

'5. Reguests the Secretary-@neral of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development to make all the necessary arrangements for holding the
Conference, including the meetings of the Preparatory Comnittee, and to
arrange for the necessary staff facilities and services that will be reguired,
including the provision of all relevant documentationg

'6. Decides that the languages of the Conference shall be those used in
the General Assembly and its Main Comnittees."

26. At the 48th neeting, on 13 Decernber, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution (A/C.2/37/L.L22l subnitted by Mr. Qazi Shaukat Fareed, Vic*Chairman of
the Comnittee, as a result of infornal- consultations held on draft resolution
A/c.2 /37 /L. 10 0.

27. A statement by the Secretary-General on the adninistrative and financial
irnplications of draf t resolution A/C.2/37/L.100, which also applied to draft
re solution A/ C.2 /37 /L.L2 2, w as c irculated in document A,/C. 2 / 37 /L.LO 5.

28. At the same meeting, the Conunittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/37/L.L22
without a vote (see para. 35, draft resolution V).

29. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/37/L.L22, the sponsors
withdrew draft resolution A/C.z /37 /L.LO O.

30. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, a statement was made by the
representative of the United States of Anerica. After the adoption of the draft
resolution, statements were made by the representatives of Bulgaria (also on behalf
of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, the German
Dernocratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Foland, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republ-ic and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics), ilipan, Denmark (on behalf of
the States members of the European Corrnunity) and Sweden (also on behalf of,
Denmark, Finl-and, Iceland and Norway).

/...



A/37 /680/Add.2
English
Page 15

H. Draft resolution A/C.2/37lL.115

31. At the 48th rneeting, on 13 December, the Conrnittee had before it a draft
resolution lA/C.2/37/L.LLsl, submitted by the Chairman, entitled nUnited Nations
Conference on an International Code of Conduct on the Transfer of Technology'.

32. At the same meeting, the Conunittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/37/L.LLi
without a vote (see para. 35, draft resolution VI).

I. Draf t resolution AfC.2/37,/L.125

33. At its 48th neeting, on 13 Decenber, the Committee had before it a draft
resolution @/e.2/37/L.125) submitted by Mr. Qazi Shaukat Fareed, Vice-Cttairman of
the Corunittee, entitLed 'signature and ratification of the Agreement Establishing
the Common Fund for Oonunodities".

34. At the same meeting, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution A,1C.2/37/L.l.25
wlthout a vote (see para. 35, draft resolution VIf)

rII. RECOMIENDATTONS OF THE SECOND COMMIII:IEE

35. Ihe Second Connittee reconmends to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
following draft resolutionsl

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Particular problems fa ,

@'
Recalling its resolution 32/L60 of 19 December L977, in which it recalled

Council resotution 2097 (LXIII) of 29 July 1977 and proclaimed the period 1978-1988
the Transport and Communications Decade in Africa'

Recalling also its resolutions 34/L93 of L9 December L979, 35/59 of
5 December 1980 and 3 6A39 of 16 December 1981 on particular problems facing Zaire
with regard to translnrt, transit and access to foreign markets,

Recalling resolution 110 (V) of 3 June 1979 adopted by the United Nations
Conference on'Trade and Development at its fifth sessionr heLd at Manila frotn
7 May to 3 June L979, 23/

23/SeeProceedinge9E!h9UnitedNationConferenceonTra@,
Fifth Session, vof.1l Report and Annexes (United Nations publication,
Sales No. E.79.fI.D.14) , part one, sect. A.

/...



^/37/680/Add.2English
Page 16

Recalling also Economic and Social CounciL decision 249 (LXIII) of
ZS ,fufy fSZZ ana resolution L98V68 of 24 JuIy 1981, resolution 293 (XIII) of
26 February L977 adopted by the Conference of Ministers of the Econonic Comnission
for Africa at the thirteenth session of the Comission and the 4th meeting of the
Conference of Ministerst 2t!/

Taking note of Economic and Social Council resolution L982/6L of 30 July 1982'

Aware of the fact that, until a durable solution is found to the particular
problens facing Zaire with regard to transtrrort, transit and access to foreign
markets, its external trade and economy wilL continue to be seriously affected,

1. Takes note of the report of the Executive Secretary of the Economic
Conmission for Africa on particular problems facing Zaire with regard to transport,
transit and access to foreign markets fi/ and of activities carried out to date
concerning the search for solutions to the transport and transit problems facing
.Zaire, particularly measures taken by the Comnission regarding the timetable for
the activities to be undertaken;

2. Approves the organization in 1983 of a roun&table rneeting with donor
countries and financing agencies for Zairers transport and transit projectsi

3. Appeals to donor countries and financing agencies to participate in a
positive manner in the round-table neeting;

4. Requests the Secretary-Ccneral to provide, within existing resourcesr to
the Economic Corunission for Africa the resources reguired to organize a round-table
technical consultative neeting with donor countries and to accelerate the
implementation of the relevant resolutions of the Economic and Social Council and
the General Assemblyl

5. Reguests the Secretary-Ccneral, in consultation with the Executive
Secretary oe ttre nconomic Oonunission for Africa, to submit, through the Economic
and Social Council, a report on the particular problems facing Zaire with regard to
transtrrcrt, transit and access to foreign markets and on the inrplenentation of the
present resolution to the General Assembry at its thirty-eighth session'

24/ See Official Records of the EconomiqEnd Socral Council, Sixtf
Session, Suppt rt fff.

uJ E/Le82/78.



\
py'37/680/}d'd.2
EngLish
eage I7

DR,M'T RESOLUTION II

The @neral Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 320I (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1l'lay L974,
containing the Declaration and the Progranune of Action on the Establishment 

of a
titevr International Economic Order, 328L (XXIX) of L2 Decenber L974' containing the
Charter of Fjconomic Rights and Duties of States, and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 Septernber 1975 on divelopment and international economic co-operation'

Recalling also its resolution 35/56 of 5 Decenber 1980, the annex to which
contains the fntilnationaL Developnent Strategy for the Third united l'htions
Development Decade,

Recalling further its resolutions 3VL56 of 2L December L976' 32/L85 oE
19 Decemb er tgZt-gS/ZOS of 19 December 1979 and 35/61 of 5 December 1980 and other
relevant resolutions of the united Nations relating to the special needs and
probl-ems of island developing countriesl

Freiterating the programme.of specific action in favour of island developing
counrries envisJged i-n resotutions ba (ry) of 3l May L976 29/- and 1rr 

(v) of
i Jrrrr" LgTg 2V of tn" Ilnited Nations Conference on Trade and Development'

welcoming Trade and Developnent Board decision 247 (XXW) of 19 March L9820 ?9/
in which the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development was requested to subnit a rePort on the problens of island developing
countries for consideration by the Conference at its sixth session,

Mindful of ttre fact that additional efforts are needed to inplement the
specific measures required to assist island developing countries - in particular
those which suffer handicaps owing especially to smallness, remoteness, frgquent
natural- disasters, discontinuity and scattering of territory, constraints in
transport and conununications, gi.ut distances from market centres, limited internal
markets, Iack of narketing expertise, Ion resource endowment, Lack of natural
resources, heavy dependence on a few corunodities for their forelgn exchange
earnings, snort-age or uatinistrative expertise and heavy debt burdens - in
offsetting the r,6jot handicaps wtrich retard their development Process'

4/ See Proceed s of the United Nations Confer on Trade
Fourth Session, vol.
tib. E.76.II.D.l0 and

@ (unitedllations publication, Sales
corrigendum), Part oner sect A.

27/ Ibid.' Fifth Sess!2qr vol' I, RePort and Annexes (United Nations
publi-atiofrFieffio1ffi.D.14), pait one, sect' A'

n/
supprfient@vol. r, Part one, annex r' /...



7
u37 /68O/Add.2
Srglish
Page 18

Welcoming the analysis of the problems facing smaller island countries
undertaken at the meeting on the special- problems of those countries, held at
Alofi2 Niue, from 9 to 12 February L992, n/

Recoqnizinq that apPropriate industrial development can be vital to the
economic development of small island countries,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the progress rnade in
the implementation of specific action in favour of island developing countriesi y

2. Takes note of the analysis contained in section three of the retrnrt of
the Secretary-General on the difficulties encountered by island deveJ.oping
countries;

3. Ecpresses its appreciation to all States and organizations that have
facilitated the implementation of resolutions in favour of island developing
countriesi

4. Calls upon aII States, international organizations and financial
institutions to intensify efforts to implement specific actions in favour of island
developing countries as envisaged in resolutions 98 (Iv) and lll (v) of the United
tihtions Conference on Trade and Development as well as in other relevant
resolutions;

5. Requests the competent organizations of the United tilations system to take
adeguate measures to enhance their ability to respond positiveLy to the trnrticular
needs of island developing countries during the Third United Nations Develotrxnent
Decade' in Particular the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, the
United Nations Development Prograrmne, the united Nat,ions Industrial Developnent
Organization and the United tilations Capital Developrnent Fundi

6. Reguests the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at its
sixth session, to review the progress made in this area and to consider the
measures needed to facilitate the implementation of the resolutions adopted so far
in favour of island developing countriesT

7. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assenbly at its
thirty-ninth session on the measures taken by the international conununity to
respond to the specific needs of island developing countries, as called for in the
relevant United l'trations resolutions, and to recorunend furttrer appropriate actions
to permit the General Assernbly to undertake a comprehensive review of the problens
and needs of the island developing countries at that session.

?2J See A/37/L96 and Corr.1, annex.

29/ V37/L96 and Corr.1.



\A/37/6eO/Add.2
English
Page 19

DRAFT RESOLWION III

ts of the reverse transfer of tec

The @neral Assembly,

Reca1lim its resolutions 320I (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of I l4ay L9740
containing the Declaration and the Progranune of Action on the Establishment of a
tilew International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of L2 December L974' containing the
charter of F;conomic Rights and Duties of states, and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 Septembex L975 on development and international econornic co-operation'

I€cal-Iing also its resol-ution 35/56 of 5 Decernber 1980 ' the 
annex to whlch

contaffiationaIDeveIopmentStrate9yfortheTtrirdUnitedNations
Developnent Decade,

Reaffirning its resolutions 32/Lg2 of 19 December L977 ' 33/L5L of
20 December 1978, 34/2OO of 19 December LgTg' 35/62 of 5 Decenber 1980 and
36/L4L of l-6 Oecemuer 1981, concerning the reverse transfer. of technology,

Reafflrminq atso resolution 102 (V) of 30 May L979 3L// adopted by the Unlted
tilations ConferenfiT Trade and Development at its fifth session, the Vienna
prograrune of Action on science and TechnoLogy for DeveloPrEnt 3u and the
resolutions and decisions of the Trade and Devel-opment Board on the reverse
transfer of technology, in trnrticular decision L93 (xlx) of 20 october L979 !!/ and
resolutions 2I9 (XXI) of 2? septernber 1980 !!1/ and 227 (XXII) of 20 llarch 1981, 3ll

lloting the Economic Declaration adopted by the sixth conference of Heads of
State or @vernment of llon-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from 3 to
9 September 1979, y

}y Proceedi s of the united on and
Fifth Session, voI.
tilc. E.79.rr.D.14),

(United Nations publicatlon, SalesL Report and Annexes
trnrt one, sect. A.

of the united Nations Conference on Science and
20-':3I- Ausust 1979 (IJnited Nations

r'ro. e.Zg.I.21 and corrigenda), chap. VII .

32/

33/ See OfficiaL Records of thg, G
Supplement l[o'. 15 (A/34/L5 and Corr.I),

neral
voI. II, part one, annex I.

r Sales

Thirt th Session,

2!/
annex I.

rbid., Thirty-fifth Session, Supplenent No. 15 (A/35/L51, vol' II,

lltrirty-sixth session, supplement No. L5 (A/36/L5 and Corr.I),
I.

2y rbid.,
part one, annex

29/ *e P{34/542' annex' sect. Iv.



l
l' 

^/37/68o/Md.2English
Page 20

l{oting also the proposals contained in the Arusha Programne for Collactive
self-Reliance and Framework for Negotiations, U adopted by the Erourth M:inisteriall4eetirg of the Group of '17,

Convinced that the availability in the developing countries of their properly
traind-Elfted and professional personnel and of opportunities for their
enploYment in their respective field of conpetence is an essential factor in the
econonic and social development of devel-oping countries,

Expressing its concern regarding the adverse effects of the reverse transfer
of technology on the capacity and trntential of scientific and technological
development in the developing countries and, thus, on their economic and social
devel-opment,

Reiterating the urgent need to reduce, as part of the efforts of the
international cornrnunity towards the establishnent of the new international economic
order, the reverse transfer of technology and to obviate its adverse effects on the
developing countries,

Convinced
alleviation of

that the united Nations system should play an active role in the
the adverse effects of the reverse transfer of technotogy,

Taking note of the report on the meeting of the Intergovernrnental Group of
Experts on the Feasibility of Measuring Human Resource Flons, convened by ttre
Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development at
Geneva from 30 August to 6 Septenber L982, 3!/ which was included in the retrnrt of
the Trade and Development Board at its twenty-fifth session,

1. Recoryqends that the Member States concerned and the competent
internationEffifzations shourd, as a matter of urgency, give due consideration
to the formulation of policies with a view to mitigating the adverse conseguences
of the reverse transfer of technology;

2. &corrnends to the developed countries that they should assist and suptrnrt
the effortGEe-aeveloping countries tolrards the full utilization of their own
trained personnel in promoting their economic and social developmentT

3. Dcpresses its regret that the fntergovernmental Group of Experts on the
.Fbasibility of Measuring Human Resource Fl,o+rs did not reach agreed conclusions and
reconmendations to nitigate the adverse effects of the reverse transfer of
technologyT

3J/ Proceedlngs of the uniEed Nations cgnference on Trade and Development,
Fifth Session, vol. I, Report and Annexes (United Nations puffi
lb. E.79.II.D.l4), annex VI .

g/ m/B/c.6/ee.



A/37 /68O/Add.2
English
Page 2L

4. Requests the Secretary-General to establish an inter-agency grbup
conrprising represe"tatives of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, the International r.abour organisation, the united Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural organization, the World Health organization and the tnited
Nations Institute for Training and Research, the Statistical Office of the
Secretariat and other appropriate organs and bodies of the United Nations system to
co-ordinate measures on the question of the reverse transfer of technology and, in
particular, to examine and enhance the effectiveness of the United Nations system
i1 r""lottding to the complex needs of the countries concerned, as well as any
additional measures to that effect?

5. Fquests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade
and DeveloplnenE$ convene ttre requisite meetings of governmental experts with the
follorring terms of reference:

(a) To formulate reconunendations on trnlicies and concrete measures, 1ft! a
view to rnitigating the adverse consequences for the developing countries of the
reverse transfer of tecnnology, including the protrnsal for the establishment of an
international labour comPensatory facility;

(b) To present its retrnrt to the Trade and Development Board at its
twenty-seventh session for its thorough consideration;

6. Urges all Governrnents and appropriate organizations to particitrnte
actively in the meetings mentioned in trnragraph 5 aboveT

7. requests the Secretary-General to present a report on the implementation
of the present Gol-utionr including recormendations on concrete measures for the
development of broad international co-operation for Ehe solution of the problens
arisinl in $ris field, to the General Assenbly at its t}irty-eighth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Sixth session of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and DeveloPment

lltre @neral Assenbly,

RecaUing its resolutions 1995 (XIX) of 30 December 1964 on the Establishment
oe tne Unitea Nations Conference on Trade and Development as an organ of the
General Assembly, as amended,3gi/ 32OL (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1!{ay L974.
containing the peclaration and the programe of Action on the Establishment of a
tilew International Economic Order, 328L (XXIX) of L2 Decernber 1974, containing the
Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of states, 3352 (s-vII) of 16 Septenber 1975
on devel-opment and internationaL economic co-operation and 35/56 of
5 December t-9g0, the annex to which contains the rnternational Development Strategy
for the Third United Nations Developnent Decade,

19/ See resolutions 2904 (xlffIl) ' 
3L/2 A and B and 34/3.



N37 /68o/Add.2
English
Page 22

Recalling al-so its resolutions 34/L96 of 19 December 1979 on the retrnrt of the
Ittrited Nations Conference on Trade and Development on its fifth session and 36/L42
of 16 December 1981 on the sixth session of the Conference,

lilctinq Trade and Development Board decision 237 (xxIII) of 8 October 198I, !!-,/
by which the Board endorsed the decision taken by the Latin American countries to
hoLd the seventh session of the Conference in one of those countries on the
understanding that the final decision on the venue in Latin America would be taken
at the right tine and in the right place, and noting with interest the desire of
Cuba to act as host to the seventh session of the Conference,

lbtir,rq further Trade and Development Board resoLution 253 (XXIV) of
18 lday L982 !L/ and decision 255 (xXW) of 30 June 1982 , ly in which the Board
reconmended that the sixth session of the Conference should be held at Bel-grade
from 6 to 30 June 1983, to be preceded by a meeting of senior officials at Belgrade
on 2 and 3 June 1983'

Bearing in mind its resolution 3L/L4O of L7 Decernber l-976 on the pattern of
conferences,

Taking note of the retrnrt of the Trade and Development Board on its
twenty-fourth session and on the first and second parts of its twenty-fifth
session, 1!!/

Expressing its appreciation of the efforts undertaken by the Government of
Gabon to act as host to the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development and recognizing the reasons for which it was not in a trnsition to
do so,

1. Welcomes with aPpreciation the offer of the Goverrunent of Yugoslavia to
act as host to the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
ttevelopment at BelgradeT

2. Decides to convene the sixth session of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Devel-opment at Belgrade from 6 to 30 June 1983, to be preceded by a
two-day meeting of senior officiaLs at Belgrade on 2 and 3 June 1983i

!3/ OfficiaL Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-sixth Session,
Supplenent No. L5 (A/36/L5 and Corr.l), tnrt three, annex I.

tJ/ Ibid., Thirty-seventh Session 15 lA/37/L5), part two,
annex I.

ly lbid., part three, annex.

ly OfficiaL Records of the General Assembly, lfhirtv-seventh Session,
gupplem,ent lfo. 15 (N37/I5'), vol. Ti A/37/L5 (vol-. rr, Parts r and rr).

/...



N37 /680/Add.2
English
Page 23

3. Takes note of the adoption by the Trade and Development Board at its
tvrenty-fouffiffin of the provisional agenda for the sixth session of the united
Nations Conference on Trade and DevelopmenEi U

4. Endorses Trade and Developrnent Board decision 253 (XXW) that the sixth
session of ttre Un:ted Nations Conference on Trade and Development should be so
organized as to ensure the attendance of ministers and other high-level
trnlicy-makers and to perrnit all delegations to contribute effectively to its
decision-mak ing processi

5. Endorses Trade and Development Board decision 258 (ilff) of
tZ SeptemUer tSeZ aS7 on the organization of the sixth session of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Developmenti

6. Resuests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Developnrent to make all necessary arrangements for the Conference, to submit to
the Conference all relevant documentation as far in advance of the six weeksr rule
as trnssible and to arrange for the necessary staff facilities and services that it
will require, including the provision of sununary records for plenary rneetings of
the Conference in accordance with General Assenbly resolution 37/L4 C oE
16 lilovernber 1982;

7. Dcpresses deepest concern at the serious crisis facing the world economy
and, in pa-icutar, its grave negative inpact on the developnent process of t}re
developing countries;

8. Elnptrasizes the particular irq>ortance of the sixth session of the United
Nations Conflrence on Trade and Development as a major oplnrtunity to review, in a
conprehensive and interrelated manner, world development and its impact on the
trade and developrnent of developing countries, at a time when the developing
Countries in particular continue to face grave economic problems;
. 9. Urges all countries, bearing in mind the particular contribution

developed countries can make, to work tovrards ensuring a trnsit'ive, constructive,
meaningful and action-oriented outcome, at the sixth session of the Conference, on
the imSlortant issues concerning trade, deveJ.opment and related problems, taking
fully into account their interrelationship, and thus contribute effectively to the
overcoming of the grave difficulties facing the world economy, to the economic
development of developing countries and to the attainment of a new international
economic order.

part three, annex.

part oner annex I.

y/
!:/

Ibid., vol. I,

Ibid., vo1. IIr



A/37/680/Pd'd.2
English
Page 24

DRAFT RESOT"UTION V

ttrnited lihtions Conference on Oonditions for &gistration of SttiPs

Ttre General Assemblyr

Recallirg its resolutions 3201 (S-vI) and 3203 (S-vI) of I l4ay L974,
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Act,ion on the Establishrnent of a
New International Economic Orderr 3281 (XnX) of L2 Decenber L974, containirg the
Charter of Economic Rights and Drties of Statesr and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 Septenber 1975 on development and international economic co-operation,

Recallinq its resolution 35/56 of 5 December 1980, the annex to which contains
the International Development Strategy for the Third United Nations Development
Decader which called, inter alia, for the increase in the participation by
developing countries in world transport of international trade andr to this end,
for appropriate structural changes to be carried out where necessary and for the
international community to continue to take the necessary steps to enable
developing countries to compete more effectively and to expand their national and
nultinational merchant fleets so as to increase their share substantially wittr a
view to reaching as close as possible to 20 per cent of the dead-neight tonnage of
the world merchant fleet by L990, 46/

Recognizlq the need to promote the orderly expansion of world shipping as a
whole,

Taking note of the report of the Intergovernmental Preparatory Group on
Oonditions for Registration of Ships at its f irst session' 1lf./

Notinq further that the Trade and Development Boardr at the first part of its
twenty-fifth session, endorsed the resolution adopted by the Intergovernmental
PreEaratory Group on Conditions for Registration of Ships at its first session and
reconunended that the General A.ssembly should convene a plenilntentiary conference
on the conditions of registration of ships, 48/

L. Decldes to convener taking into account the recommendations of the Trade
and DeveLopment Board at the first part of its twenty-fifth session and the
conclusions of necessary preparatory rdorkz a plenitrntentiary conference earLy
in 1984, for a period of three weeks, in order to consider the adopt,ion of an
international agreement concerning the conditions under which vessel-s should be
accepted on national shipping registersl

Resolution 35/56t sect. I, para. 128.

m/B/e04.

!s/
lJl
g/ of f icial Records of the General Assernb Thirt

Supplement No. 15 (A/37/L5l r vol. II, part onel annex I.
seventh Sess



A/37/680/add-2
English
Page 25

2. Requests the Trade and Development Board to establish a Preparatory
Conurnittee for the united Nations Conference on the Conditions for Registration of
Shipsr open to the particiSntion of all States;

3. Requests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development:

(a) To circulate to Governments for comments, at least nine months before the
holding of ttre meeting of ttre Preparatory Oornmittee, the set of principles drafted
by the Intergovernmental Preparatory Group at its second session concernirg the
conditions under which vessels should be accepted on national shipping registersl

(b) To circulate the corunents received to all Governments at least three
months in advance of ttre neeting of the Preparatory Oonmitteel

(c) Tto place before the Preparatory Committee all cornments received from
Crovernrnentst

(d) Ito lransmit all relevant documentation to the Preparatory Conunittee and
the Conferencet

4. Decides that the Preparatory Conmittee, on the basis of the above
documentsrm prepare and recornmend a draft international agreement on the
conditions of registration of ships, takirg fully into account the views of all
interested partiest

5. Requests the Trade and Developnent Board, taking into account the work of
ttre preSnratory blrunittee, to decide on appropriate dates for the convening of the
Conferencet

5. IGquests the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development to make all the necessary arrangements for holding the Conferencet
including the meetings of the Preparatory Cormnitteer 6rd to arrange for the
necessary staff facilities and services that wiLL be required;

7. Decides that, the languages of the Conference shall be those used in the
General Assembly and its l,bin Conunittees.

DRAFT RESO,UTION VI

utnited lrlations Conference on an International Code of- Conduc!
on the Transfer of Technologv

Ttre General Assemblyr

Recallim its resolution 36/L40 of 16 December 198I on the United Nations
Conference on an International Code of Conduct on the Transfer of TechnologY,



Al37/680/?d,d.2
English
Page 26

Taking note of the work accomplished by the Interim Comnittee of the UniEed
Nations Conference on an fnt,ernational Oode of Oonduct on the Transfer of
Technology towards the solution of the issues outstanding in the draft
international code of conduct on the transfer of tectrnology,

1. Recognizes that the expeditious conclusion of the negotiations on the
code of conduct and its adoption is in the interest of aII countriesi

2. CaIIs for intensified efforts ained at the successful completion of the
negotiations during tl:e fif th session of the tfiited l€tions Conference on an
Internat,ional Code of Conduct on the Transfer of Tectrnology, with the objective of
enabling the @neral Assembly at its ttrirty-eighth session to adopt the
international code of conduct on the transfer of tectrnologyi

3. Invites the SecretarrGeneral of ttre United ttbtions Conference on Trade
and Development and the President of the United Nations Conference on an
International Code of Conduct on the Transfer of Ilechnology, in consultation with
regional groups and Governments, as appropriater and, if necessary, with the
assistance of a meeting of governmental representatives to be agreed to in
consultation wittr regional groups, to undertake all the necessary workr including
the identification of negotiating parametersr and the preSnration of appropriate
recornmendations on all the outstanding issues in the draft code for submission to
all members of ttre tlnited Nations Conference on Trade and Development at least six
weeks before the fifth session of the Conferencet

4. RequesLs the SecretarlnGeneral of the United tilations Conference on Trade
and Development to take the necessary measures for convening the fifttr session of
the Conference in ttre second half of 1983 in time to report to the General A.ssenbly
al its thirty-eighth session.

DRAFT RE;OLUTION VII

Signature and ratification of the Aqreement Establishing the
Conurpn Fund for Commodities

The General Assembly,

Recallim its resolutions 320I (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of I May L974,
containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the Establishment of a
New International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of L2 Decenber J974, containirg the
Charter of Economic Rights and D,rties of Stat€sr and 3352 (S-VII) of
16 September 1975 on development and international economic co-operation,

Recalling also its resolution 35/56 of 5 December 1!)80, the annex to which
contains the International Developnent Strategy for the Third United Nations
Development Decade,

Recalling further its resolution 36/L43 of 15 December 198I regarding the slow
Snce of progress in the signature and ratification of the Agreement Establishing
the Comnon Ftrnd for Comnoditiesr and urging States that have not yet done so to
sign and ratify the Agreement witlout delay,

/...



A/37/680/ld,d.2
English
Page 27

Takinq note of t.he report of tlre secretarlnGeneral on the signature and
ratification of the Agreenent, 49,/

Noting witlr concern that so far 89 States have sigrned the Agreement and only
39 States have ratified, accepted or approved it'

Expressing concern at the slow pace of progress in the signature and
ratification of the Agreement'

Noting wittr interest the conclusion of the International Agreement on Jute and
Jute Products, L982,

Reaffirrning the need for further progress at an early date in the negotiations
on international cornnodity agreementsr

Mindful that the importance of the early entry into force of the Agreement has
Ueen ernpfrasized by the General Assembly in its resolution 35/60 of 5 December 1980
and 3 6/L43 of 16 December I98I, as well as by a number of intergovernmental
meetings and conferences held at the highest political l-evels in 1981 and L982'

Welcoming the pledges announced for voluntary contributions to the second
account of the Oommon Fundt

Welcoming further the generous offer made by the States members of the
Org"rriz"tiol of Fetroleum &<porting Countries to pay the full capital subscriptions
of the least developed countries and a nunber of other developing countries
concerned r

Bearing in mind the objectives of the Corunon Fund for Cormnoditi€sr €!s
reaffirned by General A.ssembly resolution 361143'

l. tilctes wittr reqret that the Agreement Establishing the Comnon Fund for
Conurpdities aia not enter into force on the date envisagedr namely 3I March L982,
and that, conseguently, a new time-frame had to be set for the purposel in
accordance with article 57 of ttre Agreement, extending the date until
30 Septenber 1l)83r

2. Reaffirns its strong support for the @reement and for its early entry
into forc"il

3. Strongly urges all States that have not yet done so to sign and ratify
the Agreement witltout any further delay1

4. D<presses the hope that States that have signed but not yet ratified the
Agreement witl expedite the necessary action to ttrat effectT

32./ 
^/37/373.



P{37/680/ldld.2
English
Page 28

5. Reiterates that further concerted and constructive efforts are required
in order t6Tffiffiout ttre conclusion of negotiations on nen international
comrcdity agreementst

5. Requests the Secretary-General of the Conference on Trade and Development
to submit a report on the progress made towards the Agreementrs entry into force to
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Developnent at its sixth sessionr to be
held at Belgrade in ilune 19831

7. Decides to consider this guestion at its thirtyeighth sessionl in the
context of its consideration of ttre sixth session of ttre ttrrited l€tions Conference
on Trade and Development and ottrer related developments.

36. The Seoond Comnittee recommends to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
folloning draf t decisions:

DRAFT DECISION I

Specific action related to the particuLar needs and problems of
Iand-locked developing countries

The General Assembly, on the reconmendation of ttre Second Conmittee' decides
to transmit to its thirtfeighth session for consideration the draft resolution
entitled ospecific action related to ttre particular needs and problems of
land-locked developing countriesn. !Q./

DRAFT DECISION II

Protectionism and structural adjustment

The General A.ssembly, on the recornmendation of the Second Conunittee, decides
to take no action on the draft resolution on protectionism and structural
adjustmenL 9!/ and to return to the consideration of ttris question at its
thirty-eighth session, in the light of the outcome of the Sixth United Nations
Conference on Trade and Development.

50/ A/c.2/37/L.4L.

w A/C.2/37/L.4.


