












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
D istr.
GENERAL

A/37 / 58O
I Novernbe r 19 82

ORIGINAL; ENGLISH

Thirty-seventh sess ion
Agenda itern 79

IMPORTANCE OF THE UNIVERSAL RIA-LIZATION OF THE RIGHT OF PEOPLES TO
SELF-DETERMINATION AND OF THE SPEEDY GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE TO
COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES FOR THE EFFECTIVE GUARANTEE AND

OBSERVANCE OF HUMAN RIGHTS

Report of t.he Third ComrniiqEg

RapporEeur.' Mr. Karl BORCHARD (Federal Republic of Germany)

I. INTRODUCTION

1, At its 4th ptenary meeting. on 24 Septenber 1982, the General Assenbly decided
to include in its agenda the iten entitled "rnportance of the universal realization
of the right of peoples to se lf-dete rminat ion and of the speedy granting of
independence to coLonial countries and peoples for the effective guarantee and
observance of human rights: report of the Secretary-General" and to aLlocate iE to
the Third Com-nittee.

2. ?he Conunittee considered this itern jointly wi.th items ?5, 76 and 80 at its 3rd
to l3th, l8th, 24th and 25th neetings, on 30 SepLember and 4. 6, 8' 11 to 15, 2l
and 2? @tober 1982. An account of the discussion of the connittee is contained in
the relevant sunnary records (A/C.3/37/5R.3-I3, 18, 24 a\d 251 -

3. The Committee had before j.t the following documentation;

(a) InporEance of the universal reatizabion of the right of peoples to
self-determi nat ion and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial counlr j.es
and peoples for the effective guarantee and observance of human rights: reporE of
the Sec re tary-General- (A/37/3:-7 and Add.l), subrnitted in accordance with General
Assenbly resolution 36/9 i

(b) Irnportance of the universal reaLization of the right of Peoples to self-
determination and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and

82-30292 0650c (E)



A/3'l /580
Eng Lish
Page z

peoples for the effective guarantee and observance of human rightsr note by the
Sec reta ry-GeneraL (A/C.3/37/2) , submit.ted in accordance with General Assembly
resolution 3 6/10;

(c) Report of the Econonic and Social Council, chapter V. section A
lA/37/3 (Part I) ) , 1/

(d) Letter dated 22 June 1982 fron the Charg6 d'Affaires a. j.. of rhe
Permanenl Mission of Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the Sec reta ry-Genera I,
transnitting the Final Cornrnuniqu6 and other docunents of the Ministerial Meet.ing of
the co-ordinaling Bureau of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana frorn 31 May
to 5 June L982 lA/37/j33) t

(e) Letter dated 18 October 1982 fron the pernanent Representative of
Democratic Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Sec retary-ceneral-
(A/ 31/55L1 .

4. At the 3rd meebing, on 30 September, the Director of the Centre for Hunan
Rights nade an introductory statenent..

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSA],S

A. Draff resolution A/C.3/J7 /L.9

5. At the 18th rneeting. on 2l October, the representalive of pakistan introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.3/37/L.91 entitled ,'Universal realization of the right of
peoples to self-dete rni nat ion,', sponsored by Chile, Ecuador, Jordan, Ku',rait.
!919l!_lg, Morocco, Oman. PakisLan, Papua New cuinea, the Philippines, Saudi Arabj.a.srngapore. Somalia, Sudan, Thailand and also by Costa Rica, Laler joioed by eatar,
6. At the 24th meeting, on 27 October. the Comnittee adopted the draft resolution
wit.hout a vote (see para. 9, draft resolution f).

B. Draft resolution A/C. 3/3 7,/L. I1

1. At the ISth meeting, on 2I october. the representative of cuinea. in her
capac j.ty as chairman of the African croup for the month of October, introduced a
draft resolufLon lA/C.3/37/L.11) entitled ,'Inportance of the universal realization
of the right of peoples t.o se lf-dete rrni nat ion and of Lhe speedy granting of
independence to colonial countries and peoples for ghe effecLive guarantee and
observance of hunan rights".

8. At the 24th meeting, on 27 october, the connittee adopted che draft resolution
by 1I0 votes t.o 17, vrith 7 abstentions (see para. 9, draft resolution fI) .

!/ To be issued as off i.cial Records of the ceneral Assenbl -seventh
Session, Supplenent. No. 3 (

Thi r



N37 /sg0
English
Page 3

III. RECO!{T'IENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COI,II*TITTEA
9, The Third Corunittee reconmends to the ceneral Assenbly the adoption of the
following draft resoLutions:

DRAF1 RESOLUTION I

Universal realization of the right of peoples to self-deLe rminaEion

The General Assernbly,

Reaffirninq the importance, for Che effecCive guarantee and observance of
human rights, of the universal realization of the right of peoples to self-
deterrnination enshrined in the Charter of the United Nabions and ernbod ied in the
International Covenants on Hunan Rights, 2/ as well as in the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and t€oples contained in ceneral
Assenbly resolution l5l4 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

welcoming the progressive exercise of the right to self-determinat ion by
Peoples under colonial, foreign or alien occupation and their emergence inCo
sovereign statehood and independence,

Deeply concerned at the continuation of acts or threats of foreign nilitary
intervention and occupation, rdhich are threatening to suppress, or have already
suppressed, the right. to self-deternlnat ion of an increasing number of sovereign
peoples and nations,

Further expressing grave concern that, as a consequence of the persi.stence of
such actions, nillions of people have been and are being uprooted from their hone s
as refugees and displaced persons, and ernphasizing the urgent need for concerted
international action to alleviate their conditions,

Recalling the relevant resolutions regarding the violation of tbe right of
peoples to selftete rninat ion and other human rights as a result of nilitary
intervention and foreign aggression and occupation adopted by the Conmission
on Hunan Rights at its tbirty-sixth, 3/ thirty-seventh 4/ and thirty-eighth
sessionsr 5/

Z/ Resolution 2200 A (xxl), annex.

!/ See Officlal Records of the Econornic and gocial Council, 1980, Supplernent
No. 3 (E/L980/L3 and Corr.I), chap. xxvl, sect. A.

L/ Ibid., 1981, Supplemen! No. 5 (E/L98J./25 and Corr.l), chap. XXVIII,
sect. A.

Ibid., 1982, supplernent No; 2 (E/L982/L2 and Corr.l), chap. xxvl, sect. A.v



A/ 37 /58O
Eng Iish
Page 4

Reiterating its resolutions 35l35
28 october 1981'

B of 14 November 1980 and 36/10 ot

Taking note of lhe note by the sec retary-General of 28 sePtembet l.982t 6/

I. Reaffirms that the universal realization of the right of all peoples,
ircluding iFose rrnaer colonial, foreign and alien dornination, to self-dete rrninat ion
is a fundanental condition for the effective guarantee and observance of human
rigbts and for the preservation and pronotlon of such rights,

2. Declares ils f irrn opposition to acts of foreign military interventlonr
aggression and occupation, since these have resulted in the suPpression of the
right of peoples to self-deterrnination and other human rights in cercain parts of
the world t

3. calls upon those states responsible to cease imnediately their nilitary
intervenCion and occupation of foreign countries and territories. and to cease all
acts of repression' discrimination, exploitalion and maltreatment ' particularly 

the
brutal and inhuman methods reportedly employed for the execuLion of these acts
against the peoples concerned,

4. DePlores the plight. of the nillions of refugees and disPlaced Persons who
have been uprooLed by lhe aforementioned acts and reaffirns their right to return
to their homes voluntarily in safety and honouri

5. Requests the corunission on Hunan Rights to continue to give speeial
attention to the violation of human rights, especially the right to
setf-dete rninat ion, resulting fron foreign nilitary incervention, aggression or
occupationt

6. Reguests the Secretary-Gene ra.l- to report on this issue to the General
Assenbly at its ttrirty-eighth session, under the iten entitled "Inporlance of the
universal realization of the right of peopLes to self-deternination and of the
speedy granting of independence to col-onial countries and peoples for the effective
guarantee and observance of human rights",

v A/c.3/37 /2.



^/37 
/580

English
Page 5

DRAI'T RESOLUTION II

Inportance of the universal realization of the right of peoples to
self-deterrnination and of the speedy S!@

observance of human rights

The General AssemblY,

Recalling its resolutlons 2549 (xxv) of 30 November L97O, 2955 (XXWI) of
fZ uecemuer fs72. 3O7O (xxwll) of 30 November 1973, 3246 (xxlx) of
29 November 1974' 3382 (xxx) of IO November 1975, 33/24 of 29 Novenber 1978,
34/44 ot 23 Novenber L979, 35/35 of 14 Novembe r I98O and 36/9 of 28 October l98I'
and security council resolutions 41S (1977) of 4 November 1977 and 437 (1978) of
t0 October 197 8.

Recalling al-so its resolutions 2465 (xxIII) of 20 December 1968, 2548 (xxlv)
of 1l Decinber 1969, 2?08 (XxV) of L4 Decenber 1970, 3103 (XXVIII) of
12 December 1973 and 3314 (xxlx) of 14 Decetnber 1974 concernlng the use and
recruitment of mercenaries againgt national liberation rnovements and sovereign
States, and also Security Council resolutions 496 (I98I) of 15 Decemb€r 198L and
507 (L9A2, of 28 May 1982,

RecaLling further its relevant resolutions on the question of Palestlne, in
particular resolutions 3236 (XXIX) and 3237 (xxIX) of 22 t'tovenber L974, 36/L20 ot
10 Decenber 1981 and Es-7/6 oE 19 August 1982,

Recallinq also its reaolutions on the question of Namibia, in particular
resolution ES-8/2 of 14 September 1981,

Recalling the resolutions on Nanibia adopted bt' che councll of Ministers of
the organization of African Unity at its Ehirty-seventh ordinary sesslon' held at
Nairobi from 15 to 26 June 1981, particularly resolutions ClVRes.855 (xxxvll) and
CM,/Res.855 (XXXVII) , 7/

DeePly concerned at tbe continued terroris! acts of aggression conmicted b!'
the Pretoria r€9ime against independent African states, in particular Angola,
Botswana, Mozambique, Seychelles and Zanbia,

Deeply angered by the occupation of Part of the terricory of Angola by the
troops of the racist rdgime of South Africa,

!/ See V36/534, annex I.



A/37 / 580
Eng lish
Page 6

Taking note of the Irolitical Declaration adopted b,y the First Conference of
Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity and the League
of Arab States. hel.d at Cairo from 7 to 9 March L977, 8/

considering that the denial of the inallenabf. ,il'i t" of the Palestinian
Peopte to seLf-determinat ion, sovereignty, independence and return co Palescine and
the repeated acts of aggression by Israel against the PeoPles of the region
constitute a serious threat to international peace and security,

Deeply shocked and alarned at the deplorable consequences of the Israeli
invasion of Beirut on 3 August 1982, and recalling all the resolutions of the
security Councll, in particular resolutions 520 (1982) of 17 septenber 1982 and
521 (1982) of 19 September L982.

Reaffirming its faith in the importance of the lnplernentation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
contained in ceneral Assenbly resolution I5f4 (Xv) of 14 Decenber 1950,

Reaffirminq the lnPortance of the universal realization of the right of
Peoples to self-deternination, national sovereignty and terrltorial integricy and
of the speedy granting of independence to coLonial countriea and PeoPles as
inperatives for the fuII enjoyment of aII human rights,

Reaffirming that "bancuslani zation " is inconPat ible with genuine independence,
national unity and sovereignty and has the effect of perpetuatlng the Power of the
white minority and the racist system of gE!!.!g 19 in South Africa,

Reaffirming the obligation of all Menber states to comply with the princlples
of the charter of the United Nations and the resolutions of the United Nations
regarding the exercise of the right to self-deCerrninat ion b,!t peoples under colonial
and foreign donination,

Reaffirning also that the systen of apartheid imposed on the Soulh African
people constitutes an inadnissible violation of the rights of bhat people and a
constant threat to international security,

Reaffirming the national unity and territorial lntegrity of lhe Comoros,

Gravely concerned at the continuatlon of the illegal occupation of Nanibia by
south Africa and the continued violalions of the human righUs of the peoPles still
under colonial and forelgn donination and alien subjugaEion,

l. calls upon all States to implenent fully and faithfully the resolutlons
of the unlted Nations regarding the exercise of the right to self-determinat ion and'
independence by peoples under colonial and foreign doninationi

9/ ty'32/6L, annex r.



A/37 /580
English
Page 7

2. Reaffirns the leqitinacy of the stru991e of PeoPles for lndePendence '
ter ritorial-TiftllTly, national unity ana liberation frorn coloniaL and foreign
dominatlon and forelgn occupation by-all available rneans, irrcluclinq armed struggle'

3. Reaffirns the inalienable right of the Namibian PeoPle' the Palestinian
people and all peoples under foreign antl colonial domlnation to self-determinat ion '
national independence, territorial integrity and national uniEy and sovereignty
without outside inte rference i

4. Takes note irlth salisfaction of resolulion MG/Res.lO3 (xvIIIl adopted by
the Assembly of Heads orTiite "na 

eo.r.rnment of the organization of African unity
a! its eighteenth ordinat session, held at Nalrobi from 2/t to 27 June l98f' 9/ and
the decisions of its ImPlenentation comtrlttee to organize and conduct a-general'
freeandregularreferendunonaelf-determinationinvfesternsahara'andwelcomeg
the willingness of the united Nations to collaborate in the irnplenentatlon of the
process envisaged bY the organization of African unity,

5. Takes note of the contacts betlteen the @vernment of the cotnoros and the
Government of France In the search for a just solution to the integraiion of the
conorianislandofMayotteintothecomorosinaccordancet{lththeresoluliongof
the organization of African Unity and the united Nations on this questioni

of 'rbantustani zationt' and reiterates its support for
Mrica in their just and legitimate struggle against
Pretoria i

6. @ndemns the PoIicY
the oppressed people of south
the racist minorlty r69ime in

7. Further condemns south Afrlca for lls increased opPression of the
Narnibian people r for the;ssive nllitarization of Nanibla and for its a rmed
attacks on the front-line states with the airn of destabllizing their @vernnenlst

8. strong}y condemns the esbablishment and use of a rned terrorist groups by
south Africa with a viewE pitting them against the naEional liberation movements
anal destabilizing the Iegitirnate du..tt"ni" of southern Africa' thus inpeding
effective inplementatlon of General Assembly resol'ution 1514 (xv) '

9. Strongly reaffirms its solidarity with the indepen'lent African countries
ard liberattor, 

^o,re.ent"Eit 
are victims of the nurderous acts of aggression of

the Pretoria r6girne and of its atternPts at de stabilization t

Io. strongly condetnns once again the invasion and occupation of Part of the
territory of Angola uv t r6iFiiTiiFretoria racist r6girne and denands the
irrnediati withdiawal of those troops fron AngoLan territoEyt

lI. Reaffirns that the practice of using nercenaries agalns!- sovereign states

nercenaries themselves are criminalsr and calls upon the @vernments of all
counlries to enact legislation dectaring the recruitnent' financing and training
and national liberation rnovenLnts constitutes a crlninal act and that the

of

v see A/36/534, annex II.



A/31/580
EngJ.ish
Page 8

nercenaries in their lerritories, and the transit of nercenaries through their
territories.to be punishable offences, anat prohibiting their nationals frorn servingas rnercenaries, and to report on such legislalion to the Secretary-GeneraJ_ i

12. strongly condernns the continued violations of the hunan rights of lhe
peoples still under colonial and foreign domination and alien subjugation, Che
continuation of the illegar occupacion of Nanibia, and south Africars attempts to
dismember its territory, the perpetuation of the racist ninority r6gime in southern
Africa and rhe deniar to the parestinian people of their inal-ienable nationar
right s;

13. Also strongly condenns the policies of those western and other countries
whose political, econonic, military, nuclear, strategic, cultural and sports
relations with the racist ninority rdgime in south Africa encourage chat rdgine topersist in its suppression of the aspilations of peoples to self -deterrnination and
independencei

L4. Again demands the irunediate application of the nandatory arns embargo
against South Africa, imposed under Securi.ty Councit resolution 418 (1977), b,y all
countries' parcicularly by those countries thac rnaintain military and nuclear
co-operation with the racist pretoria rdgirue and continue to supply relatednatdriel to that rdg irne;

15. Takes note nj.th satisfaction of the paris Decl-aration, the Special
Decraration on Namibia and the reports of the technical and potltical committees
adopted by the Conference on Sanctions against South Africa, held in parisfron 20 to 27 May 1981, convened jointly by the United Nations and the Organizationof African Unityr tol

16. Denands the irnmediace implementation of ceneral Assenbly resolution
Es-8/2 of 14 Septenber l98L on Namibia,

I7. Furlher calls for a substantial increase in all forms of assigtance given
by all State s,
organi zations
their national

United Nations organs, specialized agencies and non-governnental
to Che victims of racisxn, racial discrirnination and apareheid through
liberation movements recognized by the Organlzat.ion-of African Unityt

18. Strongly condemns those coverrunents that do not
self-determination and independence of all peoples still
donination and alien subjugation, notably the p€oples of
people t

recognize the right to
under colonial and foreign
Africa and the Palestinian

I

19. strongly condenns the increasingly widespread nassacres of innocent and
defenceLess people, including wonen and children, by the racist ninority pretoria
rdgine in its desperate attexnpt to thwart the legitimate demands of the peoplei

. 20- stronqly condemns the massacre of pal-estinians and other civilians a!Beirut on 17 September L992,

fol VCONF.LOu8, sect, X and annexes X and XI.



A/37 /58O
Eng l ish
Page 9

2L. strongly condenns the expansionis! activities of Israel in lhe Middle
East and tE;continual 6;Eing of PalesLinian civilians, v'hich constitute a serlous
obslacle to the realization oi the self -dete rminat i.on and independence of the
Palestinian peoPle i

22. strongly condemns the Israeli aggression against Lebanon in 'tune 1982'
*nicn enaai@iF stauitity-, peace and security in the reqion' and reiterates its
support for the efforbs undertafen to implement the resolutions of the Security
council'inparticularthosedemandingtheimnediateandunconditionalwithdrawal
of Israeli forces from Lebanese terriiory to internationally recognized boundaries,
and respect for the sovereignty and territorial integrity of L'ebanoni

23. glgss afl. states, competent organizations of tbe united Nations system'
specialiaea agencies and other international organizations to exeend their support
It ii. p.f."tinian people through its soLe antl legitinate representative' Lhe
palestine Liberation Organization, in its struggle to regain its right to
self-determinat ion and independence in accordance with the charter of Ehe United
Natrons i

24. Demands the imlediate and unconditional release of all Persons detained
o, itpri"oiii--!-a result of their struggle for self detertninat ion and
indeplndence, full resPect for their fundamental individual rights and the
observance of arti.cle 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, !|/ unaer
which no one shaJ-I be subjecteat to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading
treatmenti

25. Recofimends that the security council should make urgent appeals for
cl-emency to the souch African authorities in order that the lives of the three
African National Congress freedom fighters sentenced to death on 5 August 1982 may
besavedinaccordancewithitsresolucion3T/|oEloctoberI982i

26. Demands the inmediate release of children detained in Nanibian and South
African Prisons i

27. Reiterates its appreciation for the material- and other forms of
assistance that peoples under coloniaL rule continue to receive from @ver lents'
united Nation" alenci." and inte rgovernnental organizations' and calls for a
substantial increase in this assistancet

2a. Urqes all states, specialized agencies and conpetenc organizations of the
United Nations syslem to alo their utnost to ensure the full imPtenentation of the
DeclarationontheGrantingoflndePendencetocolonialcounLriesandPeoplesand
to intensify their efforts to suPport Peoples under coloniat' foreign and racist
aomination in cheir just struggle for self-decermination and independence i

I1l Resolution 217 A (III).



A,/37 /s80
EngIish
Page 10

29. Requests the Secretary-General to give max imum publicity to the
Declaration on the cranting of rndependence to coronial countries and peoples and
to give the widest possible publicity to the atruggle being wagett bV oppressed
Peoples for the realization of their se lf-delernlnation and national independencei

30. Decides to consider this item again at its t.hirty-eighth session
on the basis of the reporta that covernments, United Nations agencies and
intergover nental anat non-governrnental organizations have been reguested to
subnit concerning the strengthenlng of asaistance to colonial territories and
Peopl.es.


