












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/37/580/Add.3
17 Decenber 1982

ORIGTNAT: ENGLISH

1lh irty-seventh session
Agenda iten 71 (d)

DE\IE LOPME NT AND I NTERNATIONAI, ECONOMI C CO-OPERATION

Industr ialization

Report of the Second CommitEee (Part IV)

Rapporteur: Mr. Stoyan BAKALOV (Bulgaria)

I. INTRODTrcTTON

1. The SecondCorunittee held a general discussion on icem 71 (see A/35/680,
para. 2). Action to be taken on sub-item (d) was considered at its 43rd and
48th neetings, on 23 November and 13 December 1982. An account of the Committeers
discussion is contained in the relevant sunmary records (see A/C.2/37/5R.43 and 48)

II" CONSTDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draf t resolution A/C.2/37 /L.7 6 and Rev.l

2- At the 43rd meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Bangladesh, on
behalf of the States lt{embers of the United Nations that are members of the Group
oE '7'7, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/37/L.76', entitled ,,fndustrial
development co-operation" and oral-ly revised it by replacing the words ',after
consultation with the Executive Secretary ofn in operative paragraph 2 of
section II by the word "and'. the draft resolution, as revised, read as follows:

"Itrr General As sembly,

"Recal-Iing its resolutions 3201 (S-vI) and 3202 (S-vI) of 1 May 1974,
containing the Declaration and Programme of Action on the Bstablishment of a
New International Economic Order, 3281 (xxlx) of 12 December L971, containing
the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, and 3362 |S-VII) of
16 September 1975 on development and international economic ceoperation,

82-3743I 0786b (E)



A/ 37 /680/Add.3
English
Page 2

.'@gtheLimaDec1arationandP1anofActiononIndustria1
Development and Co-operation, L/ adopted at the Second General Oonference of
the United Nations Industrial Development Organization, in which were laid
down the main measures and principles for industrial development and
ceoperation within the franework of the establishment of the new
internationa I economic order,

"Reaffirming also the New DeLhi Declaration and Plan of Action on
Industrialization of Developing Oountries and International Co-operation for
Their rndustrial Devel-opnent, 2/ adopted at the Third General Conference of
the United Nations fndustrial Development Organization, in which a strategy
was spelt out for the further industrialization of developing countries for
the l-980s and beyond, as well as a plan of action for the restructuring of
world industry,

"Conscious of the role of the United Nations Industrial Developrnent
Organization as the central co-ordinating organ within the United Nations
system for the pronotion of industrial development ccoperation and for
facilitating the restructrrring of world industrial production,

"Reeal!!3g its resolution 35/56 of 5 December 1980, the annex to which
contaiFElGEternational t'tevelopment strategy for the Grird United Nations
Development Decade, in which, inter alia, it stressed the inSrortance of
industrialization in the development of developing countries,

"Stressing the need to take neasures to alleviate the negative inpact of
the world economic crisis on the industrialization of the developing countries,

nReaffirming its resolutions 35/66 of 5 December 1980 and 3 6/L82 of
fZ oec6E 1981, on industrial developnent co-operation,

"Bearing in mind the necessity of revitalizing and increasing technicaL
assistanee delivery by the United Nations Industrial Developnent Organization,

rrli*cting decision 82/38 of 18 June 19 82 of the Governing Council of the
United Nations Development Programne, 1/

l/ See A/10112, chap. rV.

U IDlqlNr.4/22 and Corr.l, chap. vI.

1/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council-, l-982, Supplement
No. 6 (E/I982/L6t?ev.I) , annex I.



A/37 /680/Add.3
English
Page 3

I
uReport of the Industrial Development Board on its

sixteenth session
uI. Takes note of the report of the Industrial Developnent Board on its

sixteenth sessionp 4/

"2. Comrnends the Executive Director of the United Nations Industrial
Development organization for his efforts to enhance the role of the
organization in pronoting the industrialization of developirg countries as
described in his annual report to the Industrial Development Board at its
sixteenth session; !/

'f3. Reaffirms Econonic and Social Council resolutiort L9g2/66 of
30 July 1982 on industrial development co-operation, in which the need for
adeguate resources for agreed priority activities of industrialization in the
thited lilations progranme budget was stressedl

"4- Decides that adequate and additional resources should be provided in
the regular budget of the ttrrited lilations Industrial Development organization
for 1983 to finarrce up to 10 additional posts in order that senior industrial
development field advisers may be appointed in all countries that reguest
them, in particular all the least developed countriesl especially those in
Africar in accordance with decision 82/38 of the Governing Council of the
United Nations Developrnent Programmer in which the Governirg Council stressed
the urgent need for the thited lilations Industrial DeveJ.opment Organization to
bear an increased share of the cost of the senior industrial development field
adviser prograrnmet

r'5. Further decides that for the biennium 1984-1985, in case no
appropriation is fortlrcoming from the ilnited libtions Development Programme,
regular budgetary support should be continued without diminution to maintain
and increase steadily the senior industrial development field adviser
programme

'6. Approves the draft provisional agenda for the Fourth General
oonference of the Urited lihtions Industrial Development organization, !r/ andalso approves the establishnent of an operFended working gioup of the Eoard to
meet periodically with the secretariat of the Urited tibtions Industrial
Developnent organization to exctrange information and views on the preparation
of the Oonferencet

- !/ 
Official Re.cords of the General Assembly, Thirtt-seventlr Session,

Supplement No. 16 (A/37/L61.

y rD/B/280 and Corr.t and Add.l.

9./ Official Records of the General Assenb1y, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 16 (A/37/L6) I chap. XI.



N37/580/Pd'd.3
English
Page 4

"7. Pgcides that adeguate resources should be provided in the budget of
ttre lhited lhtions Industrial Development Organization for 1983 and in the
biennial budget for 1984-1985 to cover the costs of holdirg the Fourth General
Conference and of other preparatory activities, including sectoraL meetings
and the costs of convenirrg the joint sessions of the working group referred to
in trnragraph 5 abovet

o8. Requests the Industriat Development Board at its seventeenth session
to examine feasible nevr mechanisms for financing industrial development,
including earlier proposals which have reverted to the Board at thaE sessiont

II

''Industrial Development Decade for Africa

"Bearitg in ring the Lagos Plan of Action for the Implementation of the
Ibnrovia Strategy for tJ:e Economic Development of Africa adopted by the
Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African Unity
at its second extraordinary session held at Lagos on 28 and 29 April L980' Z/

"Hatir,g "onsid"red 
the note by the Secretary-General dated 16 June 1982

on ttre-irnpGmentation of the Industrial Development Decade for Aftica, 9./

"A1"o b.aring in rind that the Sixth Conference of African Ministers of
Industry adopted proposals for the formulation and implementation of a
prograrrune for the Industrial Development Decade for Aftical !1/

"Declari_ng the Industrial Development Decade for Africa to be one of the
nost inportant progranmes of the United Nations Industrial Developrnent
Organizationl

"Xgggflilg Industrial Development Board resolution 55 (XVI) of
28 l,lay L982' LO/

A/9-LVLA, annex I.

P{37/29L.

TD/B/274/Add.I.

!9-/ Of ficial Records of the General Assembly, Thirtfseventh Sessionr
Supplement No. 15 (M37/L6) r dDD€x I.

t/
9/

2/



p{37/6S0/?d.d.3
English
Page 5

"Takinq note wiEh sa of the report subnitted jointly by the
Drecutive Director of the United Nations Industrial Developnent organization
and the &<ecutive Secretary of ttre Economic Oorunission for Africa on action
taken with regard to the Industrial Development Decade for Africa, LL/

'1. Alrproves and adopts the joint programme of work subnitted by the
United Nat,ions Industrial Developnent organization and the Economic Comnission
for Africat

"2. Requests the Secretary-General to provide adequate provision in the
budget for 1983 to the tfiited libtions fndustrial Development Organization and
the Economic Conunission for Africar to cover the costs of effective
co-ordination and preparation of the prograrune for the IndustriaL Development
Decade for Africa in 19831

'r3. Requests the Executive Director of the United Nations Industrial
Development Organization to report through the Industrial Development Board at
its seventeenth session to the Economic and Social Council at its second
regular session of 1983 on the contacts made and the restrronses of the Inrited
Nations system to the proposals for inplementation of the Industrial
Developnent Decade for Africai

'4. Strongly appeals to alI countries to contribute generously to the
fndustrial Development lUnd for supporting activities reLated to the
Industrial Developnent Decade for Africa.,'

3. At the 48th meetirg, on 13 Decenber, the representative of Eglglg|glonbehalf of the states rnembers of the United Nations that are members of the Group of
771 introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.2/37/L.76/Rev.1) entitled
tr Industrial developnent co-operation".

4. A statement by the Secretary-Ceneral on the administrative and financial
irnplications of draft resolution A/C.2/37/L.76r which al.so applied to draft
reolution A/c. 2/37 /I'.7 61\ev.r1 was c irculated in document Vc. 2/37 /L.Lo 6.
5. The Oomnittee voted on draft resoLutLon A/C.2/37/L.76/Rev.I as follows:

(a) Operative paragraphs 4 and 7, on which a separate vote had been reguested
by the representative of Denmark (on behalf of the States members of the European
comnunity) r were adopted by 91 votes to 19r wittr rr abstentions,

(b) The draft resolution as a whole was adopted by a recorded vote of tOl to
9, with 12 abstentions (see para. ll, draft resolution I). The voting was as
follows:

U/ A/37/29L, annex.



A/37/680/Pd'd.3
English
Page 5

In favour: Algeriar Angola, Argentina, Australiar Austria, Bahrainr
Bangladeshr Barbados, Beninr Bhutanr BoLiviar Botswana,
Brazilr Burma, Burundir Chiler Chinar colonbia, Comorosr
Congol Qrba, Denpcratic Yemenr Denmarkr Djibouti, Dominican
Republicl Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopiar Fijir Finland, Gabonr
Ganbia, Ghanar Greece, Qryana, Iionduras, Iceland, Indiar
Indonesia, Iran (Is1arnic Republic of) 1 lraq, Ivory Coastt
Jamaica, Jordanr lGnya, Ifuwait, Iao Feoplers Derpcratic
Republic, Liberiar Libyan Arab Jamahiriya; Madagascar,
l,talaysia, I'hldives, I*lalir l,laltar Mauritania, llexico,
l"toroccor Mozarnlciquel Nepa11 Nicaragua, Niger, Nigerial
Norway, Onanl Pakistan, Panamar Papua New Guinear Peru,
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romaniar Rwanda, Saudi Arabiar
Senegal, Sierra Ieoner Singaporel S5nin, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailandr Togo,
Trinidad and lbbago, I\rnisia, Turkey, [banda, Itnited Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzaniar llpper Voltar Uruguayl Venezuela, Viet libn, Yemenr
Yugoslaviat Zairel Zarnbia, Zimbabwe.

Bulgarial Byelorussian Soviet Socialist hpublic'
Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary,
IbngoLiar Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republicsr United States of America.

Aqains t:

Abstaininor Belgiumr Canada, France, Germanyr Ebderal Republic of,
Ireland, Israelr Italyr ,Japanl Luxembourg, Netherlandsr New
Zealand, ttrrited Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.

6. Statenents in expLanation of vote after the vote were made by the
representatives of ttre thited States of Anerical BrJ.garia (also on behalf of the
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czectroslovakia, the German Denrocratic
Repubtic, Hungary, lbngoliar Foland, the tftrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics) and.faPan.

B. Ilraf t reSolution A,/C.2,/37,/118,/Rev.t

7. At the 48th neetingr on 13 December, the CorrnitEee had before it a draft
resolution (A/C.2/37/L.LL9/Rev.1) subnitted by the Chairrnan of the Conmitteer
entitled "Conversion of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization into
a specialized agency".

8. A statement by the Secretary-General on the administrative and financial
implications of draft resolution A/C.2/37/L.LL8/Rev.I was circulated in document
A/ C. 2 / 37 /L. I \9lRev. 1.

9. At the same meeting, the Cormittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/37/L.Ll8,/Rev.l wittrout a vote (see trnra. 1l' draft resolution II).



Al/37 /680 /Add. 3
English
Page 7

lO. Af,ter ttre adoption of tire draft resolution, a statement was nade by the
representative of Bulgaria (also on behalf of the Byelorussian Soviet SociaList
Republic, Czechoslovakia, the German Derpcratlc RepubJ.icl HungarYr Mor€olia'
Polandl the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist RepubLic and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics).

III. RE(IMI.IENDATIPTiLS OF TI{E SE@ND COMMITTEE

II. The Second Oonunittee recorunends to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
followirg draft resolutionss

DRAFT RESOLUTION

Industrial development corcperation

Ttte General Assenblyt

Recallim its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May L974'
contaffig- ttre Declaration and Prograrune of Action on the Establishment of a itlew
International Economic Order, 3281, (XXIX) of L2 December L974, containing the
Charter of Economic Rights and Drties of States, and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 September tll75 on development and international economic co-operatione

Reca1linq also the Lina Declaration and Plan of Action on Industrial
Developnent and Co-operatLon, L2/ adopted at the Second General Conference of the
United t{ations Industrial Developnent Organizationr in which were laid down the
main measures and principles for industrial developnent and co-operation witttin the
f,ramework of tlre estabLishment of the new intsnational economic order,

Recalling further the New Delhi Declaration and Plan of Action on
Industriallzation of Developing Oountries and International Co-operation for Their
Industrial Developmentr L3/ adopted at the Third General Conference of the United
ttbtions IndustriaL Development Organization, in which a strategy was spelt out for
the further industrialization of developirg countries for the 1980s and beyond, as
well as a plan of action for the restructuring of world industryr

Endorsim the consensus reached at the fourteenth session of the Industrial
Development Board on the follorup to tlre Third General Conference of the United
Nations Industrial Developnent organ izatLont !!/

Bearinq in nind that, within the framework of the new international economic
order. far-reaching changes in the structure of the world economy involve the

&/ see V1o1l2, chap. rv.

L3/ ID/ONF.4/22 and Corr.Lr chap. VI.

L4./ Official Records of the General Assernlclvr Thirtrf ifth Sessionr
Supplement No. 16 (A/35/L6'1, voI. II.



A/37/680/Pd'd.3
English
Page 8

restructuring of world industryr taking fuLly into account the capacities and
trntential of the developing countriesl

Conscious of the roLe of the United Nations IndustriaL Developnent
Organization as the central co-ordinating organ having primary responsibility
within the United Nations system for the pronotion of industrial development
co--operation and for facilitating the transfer of industrial technology,

Recallinq its resolution 35/56 of 5 December 1980, the annex to which contains
the International Development Strategy for the Third ttnited lrlations Developnent,
Decader in whicttr inter aliar the importance of industrializat,ion in the
development of developing countries lras stressed,

D<pressing its concern at the negative impact of the worsening world economic
situation on the industrialization of ttre developing countries and reiterating the
need for a substantially increased transfer of financial and tectrnical resources to
developing countries for their accelerated industrialization,

Recallinq its resoLutions 35/56 of 5 December 1980 and 36/L82 of
17 December 1981 on industrial development co-operation,

Bearing in mind the central role of the United Nations Industrial Developnent
Organization for increased tectrnical assistance deliveryr

Notinq decision 82/38 of 18 June 1982 of the Governing Council of the United
ldations Development Programrne, I5_,/

I

Report of the Industrial Development Board on its sixteenth session

t. Takes note of the report of the Industrial Development Board on its
sixteenth sessionl a5,/

2. Comnends the &<ecutive Director of the United Nations Industrial
Development organization for his efforts to enhance the role of the organization in
prorncting the industrialization of developing countries as described in his annual
report to the fndustrial DeveJ.opment Board at its sixteenth sessionl l]r/

3. Reaffirns Economic and Social Council resolution L982/66 of 30 JuIy 1982
on industrial development co-operation, in which the Council reaffirmed tlrat

E/ Official Records of the Econornic and Social Councilr 1982, Supplement
!b. 5 (F,/L982/L6/Rev.1)r annex f.

L6-/ ,
Supplement I'b. 16 Qr'37/]-6) .

L7_/ TD/B/28O and Corr.1 and Add.l.

/...



M37/580/Pd,d.3
English
Page 9

activities in ttre areas of industrial tectrnology' energy-reLated indust'rial
tectrnologyr industrial production, the development of huunn resourcesr sPecial
measures for tlre 1east developed countriesr and the System of Consultations should
be accorded priority, and reconunended that those activities should be given
continued priority for 1983-19851

4. Decides that adequate resources should be provided in the budget of the
tlnited lUtions fnaustriaL Development Organization for 1983 to finance up to ten
additional posts in order that slnior industrial development field adrisers may be
apgrinted, in particular in the least developed countries, esSrecialJ-y those in
Africar and in order that in future these adrisers rnight be aptrninted in all
developing countries ttrat need tJten, as mentioned in Economic and Social Council
resolution L982/66t

5. Invi!e€ the Industrial Developrnent Board to examine the guestion of
financing Ure posts of senior inclustrial development field advisers in the
developing countries at its next session and decides to consider' on the basis of
the recommendations of ttre Industrial Developnent Board, the question of
appropriate budgetary support for the biennium L984-1985 with a view to maintaining
and, if necessary, increasing t}te Senior Industrial Development Field Adviser
Prograrune at its thirtreighth sessionl

6. Approves the draft provisional agenda for the Fourth General Conference
of the Lnnited naTi-ons Industrial DeveJ.opment Organization, and also approves the
establishment of an opetFended working group of the Board to meet periodically
togettrer and with the secretariat of ttre Urited lilations Industrial Development
Organization durirg the period of preparation for the Conference to exchange
infornation and views, on an infornal basisr on the Progress, direction and
contents of the preparationsl

':-. Decides that adequate resources should be provided to cover the costs of
ttre preparatory-work and documentation to be undertaken during 1983 for ttre Flourth
Geneial Conference of the United Nations Industrial Developnent Organizationr as
decided by the Industrial Development Board in paragraphs 156 to 170 of its report,
including five expert group rneetings on major topics of the Conference and meetings
of the working group referred to in Snragraph 6 above and decides to consider the
question of providing adequate and necessary resources for the holding of the
Fourth General conference at the time of the consideration of ttre budget for the
bienniurn 1984-1985 at its thirtfeighth sessionl

B. Takes note of the decision taken by the Industrial Developrnent Board at
its sixteenth slffin, concerning the proposal of the D<ecutive Director of the
United lilations fndustrial Development organization for an international bank for
industrial developnentl as reflected in paragraphs 56 to 71 of the re5rort of the
Board r and also notes ttrat consideration of ttre proposal witl revert to ttre Board
at its seventeenttr sessiont



A/37/680/add.3
Engl ish
Page I0

II

Industrial Developnent Decade for Africa
Bearing in mind the Iagos PIan of Action for the Implenentation of the

I'lonrovia strategy for the Ebonomic Development of Africal f!.,/
Having considered the note by the Secretary-General on the implementation of

the fndustrial DeveLopment Decade for Africa, !!
Also bearirg in nind that the Sixth Conference of African Ministers of

rndustry adopted proposals for the formulation and implenentation of a progranrne
for the Industrial Developrnent Decade for Africat !/

Recallinq Industrial Development Board resolutions 54 (XV) of 30 May 1982 and
55 (xVl) of 28 l'lay 1982, in whictr the Boardr inter alia, declared the rndustrial
Development Decade for Africa to be one of tfre most inportant programmes of the
United Nations Industrial Develotrnent Organizationr

_ Fclinq the endorsement of the prosfamne for the Industrial Developrnent Decadefor Africa in resolution 442 (xvII), adopted on 30 April 1982 by the Conference of
Ministers of ttre Economic (bnmission of Africa at its eighth neetirg,

Takirg note of the rePort subnitted jointly by the E<ecutive Director of the
united lihtions rndustrial Development organization and the El<ecutive secretary of
the Economic Conunission for Africa on action taken wittr regard to the Industrial
Development Decade for Africa, U

I. Takes note of the progress report submitted jointly by the &:ecutive
Director offiFtlnited lbtions industrial Developnent organization and the
E:<ecut'ive Secretary of the Economc Corunission for Mrica regarding the Industrial
Development Decade for Africal

2. Requests the Secretary-General to allocate adequate staff and financial
resources so as to ensure the effective co-ordination and implenentation of ttreactivities of the United Nations Industrial Developnent organization and the
Economic Corunission for Africa related to the Industrial Development Decade forAfricat

&/
9/
4/
4/

A/S-LVL4, annex I.

^/36/466.
See D/B/274/Md.L.

U37/291r annex.



v37/680/Pd.d.3
English
Page 11

3. Requests the S<ecutive Director of the tfiited llations Industrial
Developrnent-Organization to report through the Industrial Development Board at its
seventeenth session to the Economic and Social Council at its second regular
session of 1983 on the contacts rnade and the resPonses of the United Nations system
to ttre proposals for implementation of ttre prograrune for ttre Industrial- Development
Decade for Africal

4, Appeals to all countries to contribute gendrously to the IndustriaL
Development Fund for supporting activities related to the Industrial Development
Decade for Africa.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Conversion of the tlnited tlatins Industrial Development
Organization into a specialized agencv

The General AssembLvr

Bearing in nind the Constitution of the United Nations fndustrial Development
organizatLon, 22t/

Noting that the Constitution has been ratified, accepted or approved by rnore
than the minimum number of States whose agreement is required for its entry into
forcer

Recatling paragraph 4 of Econonic and Social Council resolution L982/66 A of
30 ,JuIy L982, concerning arrangements for consultations leading to the
notifications foreseen in paragratr*r I of article 25 of the Constitutionr

Apnreciating ttre efforts of the Secretarln General and ttre Director-Ccneral for
International Economic Co-operation in organizing informal preliminary
consultationsr

I. Recommends that consultations among States that have ratified, accepted
or approvea the new Constitution of ttre United libtions Industrial Development
Organization and ottrer interested States to determine the date of entry into force
of that Constitution should be organized in three stages:

(a) A oneday procedural meeting in New York in January 1983 to determine the
date of substantive meetings and to give interested delegations an opportunity for
a prelininary discussion on the agenda and ottrer organizational matters relating
theretot

(b) A series of consultations at Viennar leading to a formal meeting not
exceeding one week, if possible irunediately folloning the seventeenth session of
the Industrial Development Board, during the first half of 1983, to discuss all
relevant, substant ive questionst

22/ A/ONF. eO/Lg.



^/37/680/Pdd.3English
Page 12

(c) A oneday closing meeting in New York to receive the conclusions of thesubstantive meetings and to execute individual notifications t,o thesecretary-General of agreement for the entry into force of the constitution of theunited ltlations rndustrial Development organization,
2' Requests the secretary-General to provide the necessary conferenceservices for the meetings in llew york and Vienna, and resources from voluntarycontributions, to the extent possible, and extrabudgetary resources, asappropriate, to cover the travel costs of one representative of each of the reast,developed countries particitrnting in the meetings at Vienna.


