












































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

N 37 /723
l0 December 1982

ORTGINAL: EIGLISII

Thirty-seventh session
Agenda item 65

UNITED NA:IICNS RELIEF AND WORKS AGENCY FOR
PAL5J:f:NE REFUGEES IN T}IE NEAR XAST

Repart of the Special Pol .tical connittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Faruk LoGOGLU (turkey)

I. INTRODI'CT ION

1. The item entitled:

"United Nations Relief and works Agenqf for Palestine nefugees in the Near
Eastr

"(a) Report of the Coruniss ioner-ceneral i

"(b) IGport of the working GrouP on the Financing of che United Nations Relief
and Works Ag enc1/ for Palestine llefugees in the Near Eastt

r'(c) Report of the United Nations Conciliation Corunission for Palestinei

'r(d) Reports of the Secr etary-General fi

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session of the General
Assembly in accordance lrith Assenbly resolucions 3L/L46 A to H of 16 Decenber 1981'

2. At its 4th pLenary neeting, on 24 Septen cer 1982r the General Assentbly' on the
recomnendation of the ceneral cornrnittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate iL to the special Political Conmittee.

3. The Special Political Comnittee examined the item at iLs 24i:-h, 26th to 32nd,
42nd' 44th and 45th neetings, beEween 9 Novenber and 6 Deceriber (see
\/sPc/37/5R.24. 26-32, 42, 44 and 4sr.

I2-3619 5 0341r (E)



A/37 /'123
English
Page 2

4. The comnit.tee had before it the follo\.ring documents:

{a) Report of the corufliss ioner-ceneral of the United Nations Relief and works
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the t{ear East for the period frorn I July 1981 to
30 June L9B2i U

(b) Special report of the Conuniss ioner-ceneral of Che United Nations Relief
and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East for the period from
6 'June 1982 to 3l August LgB2 (N37/479) ]

(c) Report of the Working croup on the Financing of the United l,Iations Relief
and Works Agency for the Palestine Refugees in the Near Easr- (4/37/59lrt

{d) llote by the Secre Cary-ceneral transmitting the report of the United
Nations Conciliat.ion Corunission for palestine, in accordance \dith paragraph 6 of
Generar Assembly resorution 5r2 (vr) of 26 January l-952 and paragraph 4 of Assembry
resolutiolr 36/146 E of 16 December LSBL (A,/37/497i

(e) Report of the Secr e Cary-Genera1 subnitted in pursuance of General
Assenbly resolnfion 36/L46 A of 16 December IggL (A/37/4ZS).,

(f) Report of the Secretary-cener al submitted in pursuance of paragraph 5 o!
General Assembly resolueion 36/L46 B of 16 Decenber :rggI (p/37/4L6ri

(S) ReFort of the Secretary-ceneral subnitted in pursuance of ceneral
Assembly resolution 36/L46 C of 16 December \9 8L (ty'37/488 and corr,l);

(h) Report of the Secr etary-General submitted in pursuance of paragraphs 5
and 6 of cenerat assernbly resolution 36/L46 G of 16 December t9 BL (\137/599)i

(i) ReIX)rt of the Secr etary-ceneral submitted in pursuance of paragraph g of
General Assenbly resolurion 36/L46 H of 16 Decenber LggI (N37/427).
5" At. its 24Lh neet.ing, on g November, the Connittee heard a statement by the
conmi.ss ioner-ceneral of the uniged Nations Rerief and works Agency for parestine
Refugees in the Near Easi: (LINR!.IA), \,rho introduced his report . L/ AE the samemeeting, the representative of Norway, I{apporteur of the Working croup on the
ri'inancing of UttRlvA, introduced the report of the working Group @/31/S9It.

II. CONSIDERATTON OF PROPOSAI.S

6. In the cours€ of its deliberations, the Special political Coru{iCtee considered
11 draft resolutions, as set. forth below.

V official necords of
F_rLPPlErnegt No. 13 (N 37 /13)

the cene ral AESembl Th -sevelrlh Seqs ion,



i'. At the 32nd meeting, on 18 I'bvembe!, the representatj-ve of the lGtherlands
introduced a draft resolution (NSPC/37/L.LO), entitled 

nWorking Group on the
rriinancing of the United llations Relief and l^torks Agency for Palestine Refugees in
the Near Easto' sponsored by Austrial Bangladesh, Ctttta", Dqnmark' qer$anY' Federal
ttepublic of, rnoia, rndones ial-If6Eiia, I'lariJhe Nether-lglqgf Ne$'- zealand
Nrq"rta, rh. frf-rippliEliEii.rTTli?nG-, s".a"trlloqo=ri.*ti.' subsequentlv joined
by Pakistan.

8. on 19 Novenber, the Secretary-General r in accordance with rule 153 of the
rules of procedure of the Generaf Assembly, subnitted a statenent (N\P'/37/L'L2)
on the administrative and financial implicaf,ions of the draft resolution'

9. At its 44th meeting, on 3 Decen f,er, the corNnittee adopted the draft resolution
without a vote (see para. 41, draft resolution Al .

i0. ?ollowinE the adoption of the resoluti.on, the representative of the united
states of Aflerica made a statement, expressing the position of his delegation on
that resolution.

11. At the 32nd meeting, on 18 November, the representaLive of Sweden- introduced a
draft resolut Lon (A/\P'737/L.LL\, entitled oAssistance to persons displaced as a
result of the June 1967 a;d subsequen! hostilities'r, sponsored by Austria, E9l9!!&'
canada. orprus, Denmark, Flnland, Germany ' rederal 

ReP , Gr-egc-e, 
_ 
Indonesia'

iiEffra,@, iIF""-, u, ' sri r'anka and
qlggg!/ subsequently joined by rndia and Pakistan'

L2. At its 44th neeting, on 3 Decenber, the connittee adopted the draft resolution
without a vote (see para. 41, draft resolution B).

13. Fbtlolting the adoFtion of lhe resolution' the representative of the United
states of America nade a statement explaining the position of his delegation on
chat resolution.

14. At the 42nd neeting ' on L December,draft resolutLon (A/ SPC/3uL.13/nev. 1),
Palestine refugees'r' sponsored by Egypt
(NsPc/3'1/L.L3/Rev ,2J and also sponsored
Pakistan.

^/37 
/'t23

English
Page 3

A. Draf ! resoluL ioa AlECit31i2:)9

the representati've of Egypt introduced a
entitled "Unlversity of Jerusalern for

c, Draft resolution VsPCl3 7/r,. t3,/Rev.1 and 2

and Jordan, which nas subsequently revised
uv Eiq=Gdesh ' 

qrprus' Iglll' Kuwait and

1,5. At the 44th meeting, on 3 December ' the representative 
of Jordan orally

revlsed b'y aalaling the Ytordsr nsince 5 June 1967'" after "territories" in oPerative
pa.ragraph 3 of alraft resolution A/SP1/31 /L-L3/F(ev.2. At the same meeting ' the



A/37 /?23
English
Page 4

Corunittee adopted the draf! resolution by a recorded vole of 114 to 2 (see
para. 41. draft resolut.ion C). The voting was as fDllows:

In favour! Afghanisean, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, tsenin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
BotswanaT Arazi]., Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chi1e, China, Crlonbia, Costa Rica, Cuba, ryprus, Czechoslovakia,
Deff)cratic Yemen, Denmar k, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, tr'rance, cerman Denocratic Republic, cermany,
Federal Republic of, chana, creece, cuyana, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
freland, ItaLy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya.
Kuwait, l€o Peopl-ers Democ.ratic Republic, I-€banon, Liberi.a,
Libyan Arab ,lamahiriya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Ma1aysia,
Maldives, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, t'lepal,
Netherlandsr New zealand, Nigerla, Norway, onan, pakistan,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, poland, portugal, eatar. Ronania,
Rldanda, S'audi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sbnalia, Spain, Sri
l,anka, Sudan, Sreden, Syrian Arab ltepublic, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian soviet socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United
Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern lreland, United Republic of
Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay,
venezuela, Viet Nam, yenen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Agai.nst! Israel, United States of Aroerj.ca.

16. Before the vote ' the representative of Israel nade a statement in explanationof vote. lbuoning the vote, the representatives of Austria, Denmark (on behalf of
the 10 members of the European Cofirmunity) and Canada made statenents in explanation
of vote.

D. Draf t resolution VSpC./37lL.14
17. At the 42nd rneeting, on I December, the xepresentative of Egypt introduced a
draft resolutLon (A/spc/3u L.14 ) entitled noffers lry Menber states of grants and
schoLarships for higher education, includlng vocational training, for the palestine
refugeesn, sponsored bV Egypt and ,tordan, subsequently joined by Bangladesh,
Cyprus, Kuwait, pakistan and yugoslavia.

18. At lts 44th neeting, on 3 December, the comnittee adopted the draft resolution
b'1. a recorded vote of 114 to none, \aith 1 abstention (see para. 41, drafc
resolution D). Ttre voting was as follows:



In favour t

Aqa ins t:

2L. At its 44th neeting '
by a recorded \rote of 1I4
as follows:

vx7 /723
EngIiBh
Page 5

Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria' Bahralnr
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan. Bolivla' Botsltana '
Brazill Bulgaria, Burma, iuruntll' Byelorussian soviet socialiEt
Repubt-ic, Canada, Central African Republicr Chad, Chlle, Chinal
co-Ionbia, costa Rica, cuba, cftpru6, Czechoslovakia, D€nrocratlc
Yeroen r Dennark, Dj ibouti. Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopiar fijit
Flnlantl, France, German Deflpcratic nePublicr Germany, Federal
I€pubLic of, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, I{onduras, Ilungaly t lceland,
tniia, Indonesia, Iran (Is1anic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Italy, fvory Coast' Jamaica, JaPan, Jordan, Kenya' Kurdait, [ao
People's DetFcratic nepublic, Lebanon' Liberla, Libyan Arab
,lanahiriya, Ilxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldivee.
Mauritaniar I'texico, Mongolia, I'brocco, Nepal, I'btherlands' New
Zealand, Nigeria, l.Iorway, Otlan, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Polanal, Portugal, Qatar. Ronania, Rtanda, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, sonalia' spain. sri Innkat Sudan,
Sueden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailantl, Togo' Tunisiat Turkey,
tjganda, Ukrainian Soviet sociallst RePublic, Union of sbviet
Socialist Republics, Ihited Arab Enirates, Lnited King'lom of
Great Britain and Northern lreland, Unlted RePublic of cameroon,
Irnited Republic of Tanzania' Irn lted States of Anerica, Ittr4)er
volta, uruguay, Venezuela, Viet lilan, Yemen ' Yugoslavj'a, 

zaire,
zanb ia.

Ndre.

E!g!g!!g: Israel.
19. FoUorring the vote, the representative of the tnited States of Atner ica nade a
statement ln explanatlon of vote.

E. Draft resolution VsPCl37lL.19

20. At the 42nd meetlng, on I Decenber, the rePresentative of Pakistan introduced
a draft reaolution (A/sPc/37/l'.Ig), entitl€d nPalestine refugees in the Gaza
strlptr, Etr onsored by Afghanistan, g@!g, Pakistan and @,!,ry19' Euba€quently
joined bry BangLadesh' Eqypt and hdia.

on 3 December, the connlttee adoPced the 'traft 
resolution

to 2 (see !Era. 4Lr draft resolution E)' The ttoting wag

In favour 3 ,{fghanistan, Albanial Algeriar ilrgentina' Australia' Alatria'=:- Bairain, Bangladesh, garbados, BeIglum, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia'
Botsltana' erazil, Bulgaria, Burma' Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialiat Repub1ic, canada, Central African ltepublic' Chad '
Chile, China, Colombla' costa Rica, cuba, q/prus, CzechosJ'ovak ia '
DerpcraticYeroen,DennarkrDjibouti,Ecuador,EgyPt'EthioPia'
Fiji, f'lnland, France, German Decnoratlc Republic ' Germany '



A,/37/723
Engllsh
Page 6

Agalbst:

Federal Repubuc of, Ghana, Greece, cuyana, Itronduras, Hungary,
Iceland, Inalia, Indonesia, Ilan (fslanic Republic of), Iraq,
freland, Italy, ,tarnalca, Jatrmn, Jordan, Kenya, Kurdait, Ino
People rs Denpcratic Republlc, Lebanon, Liberia, Lib)'an Arab
ilannhiriya, t[xenbourg, Madagascar, Malalri, Ma1aysia, Maldives,
Mauritanla, !,txlco, l.bngolla, llorocco, trlozarnb ique, Nepal,
tletherlands, t{ew ?,ealand, Nigeria, lilcrway, Onan, pakistan,
Paraguay, Peru, Phillppinea, Poland, Irortugal, eatar, Ronania.
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, SenegaL, Singapore, Somalla, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Sveden, Syrlan lrrab Republic, Thailandl Togo,
Tunisia, furkey, uganda, Ukrainian soviet socialist Republlc,
ttnion of Sovlet SoclaliBt Republics, Unlted Arab Enirates, Irnited
Kingdon of creat Britain and l,brthern Ireland, Unlted Republic of
Caneroon, Irnited Republic of Tanzania, UpFer volta, Uruguay,
Ven€zuela, Viet lilan, yenen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia.

I5rael, ttnlted Statea of Arerlca.
22- Before the vote, the representative of rsrael nade a statenrent in e:<pLanation
of vote. Folltring the vote, the representatlve€ of tlE ltnited States of Arerica,
Derulark (on beharf of the r0 member s of the &rropean @mrunity ) and canada made
statements in explanation of vote.

F. Draft resolutlon VSpCl37lL.20
23- At the 42nd loeeting, on I Decenber, the representative of pakistan introduced
a draft resoLution (A/gW37/L.20), entltled iResunption of the ratiolr atistribution
to the Palestinian refugeesn, sponsored b,y 

"akistan, 
subsequently joined by

Banglade€b and yugoSlavia

24- At its 44th neeting, on 3 Dacember, the coftmlttee adopted the &aft resolution
b1t a recorded vote of 94 to L3, Irith 9 abstentions (see para. 4L, draft
reaolution F). Itre voEing was as follorrs:

In fa\rour: Mghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Bahraln, Bangladesh. Barba&s,
Benln, thutan, Bolivial Botgwana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundl, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde,
Central Mrlcan Republlc, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, @sta
Rica, cuba, qrprus, Czechoslovakia, DelEcratic yenen, Dj ibouti,
Ecuador. Egype, Ethiopla, Fiji, G€rman IEmocratic taepubl i.c.
Ghana, Greece, cuyana, Ilonduras, Ilungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islanic kpublic of ), Iraq, fvory @ast, Ja.maica, itordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Iao People I s tlernocratic Republic, L€banon, Liberla,
Liblran Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, ttalanl, Malaysia, Maldives,
!{aur ltania, lbxico, l,bngolia, Morocco, Mozanbique, Nepal ;
Nigeria, Onan, Pakiatan, paraguay, peru, philippines, poland,
Qatar, Rornania, Rwanda, Saudl Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sri
Iranka, Sudan, Syrlan Arab Republicp Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Turkey r uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Unlon of
Soviet Socialist Republics, IJnited Arab Enirates, Irn ited Republic
of Caneroon, United Republic of Tanzania, t4per Vo1ta, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, ttugoslavia, Zalre. Zambia. 

t



@,E!.:

Abstaininq: Australia, Austria' Canada 1 Flnlanil, tle\t zealand ' lilcrway,trortugal, slEin' slreden.

25. rbuowing the vote, th€ representatlves of the ttnited states oE herlca,
zealaDal, Auatria, sveden, Norway, Iret anal, canada, Au€tralia' the PhiupPine6
nrrkey nade statements in elqlanation of vote.

26. At the 42nal meeting r on I Decenber, the representative of Banglatleah
introduced a draft reaolution lA,/sPc/37/L.2I) , entitled nPopulatlon and refugeeg
displaced since I967i, Eponaored by AfghaniEtan, g@b, 3gE!g4 and
fgglgEb, subsequently joined b1' Bangladeah ar}al

27. At its 44th rneeting, on 3 December, the comtrittee adopted the alraft reEolutlon
by a recorded note of 97 to 2. with 19 abetentlon€ (ae€ para. 41, draft
re8olution c). T'he voting naE as follotds r

In favour: Mghanietanl A.Lbaniar Algerla, Argentina, Bahraln, Bangladeah,
Barbados, B€nin, Bhutan, BolLviar Botsvtana ' Brazil, Bulgarta,Burma, Brrundi' Byelorus6lan Sovlet sociallst Republlc ' 

cap€
verde, Central Afr ican Republic r Chatt, Chile, Chlna r @lmblar
coata Rica, cuba. cypruar Czechoelovakia, Dermcratlc Yeuen '
DJ iboutl, Ebuador, Eg"l'pt, Ethlopia, Fiji, Gerroan DenocEatic
Republlc, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Honduras, HurqarY, India,
Indoneaia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Iltory @astt
alamaica, Japan, .tordan, Kenya, Ku\tait, I|ao PeoPle rs DetDcratic
Republic, I€banon, Liberia, Lib'yan Arab ilanahirlya, Madaga6car t
Malaysla, l,laldives, Mauritania, l,Fxicor Mongolla, lbrocco,
trlozarnbique, t{epal r Nigeridr Olan r Pakistan' Paraguay, Perut
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romanla, Rnanda, Saudi
Arabia, senegal, singapore, Somal ia, spain, sri ranka, sudan,
syrian Arab Republic r Thailand, sogo, Tunisiar furkeyr ltganda'
Ukrainian soviet Socialist Iiepublic ' tnion of Sovlet Sociali6tRepubLics, Irnited Arrb Brlrates, Unlted Republic of Caner6n.
Un ited Fpublic of Tanzania, Ilpper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela'
viet Namr Yenenr Yugoslavla, Zambla. 

:

Israel, United states of Anerica.@9.!.!
Absta in ing !

Belglut0r Denna! kr Francer Germatry, Federal Republic oft Icelatd,
Irelantl, IBraelr ltaly, atapanf I xembourg, lGther landa, tnlted
KingdoE of Great Britain ard tibrthern Ire1and, Itnited States of
Alerlca.

DJ37/723
Eng1lsh
Page 7

Fr ance,

Swedent
zalre.

llert
and

Indta.

Augtralla, AustrLa, Belglun, Canada; Dennark, Finlandt
cernany r Federal Republic of, Iceland. Irelandr ltaly,
Iflxembourg, Ma1anl, Netherlands, New zealanal, librway,
United Klngdom of Great Brltain and librthern Irelandt

Draft resolutlo'J A/sPc/31 /L.ZL



A/ 37 /7 23
English
Page I

24. Eefore the vote, the representative of Israel made a statenent in explanation
of vote. Following the vote, the representativea of the United StateE of Anericat
I'bw zealanal, Sr.reden and Canada made statementa in emlanatlon of vote.

A, Draft. resolution A/SPCI37IL.22
29. At the 42nd meeting. on 1 December, the representatlve of Bangladesh
introduced a draft resolution (A/sN/37 /L.ZZ and Corr.l), entitled "Revenues
derived fron Palestine refugees propertiesi, sponsored by Mghanistan, Indonesia,
Pakistan and Yuqoslavia, subseguently joined b' aangladesh and-@. -

30. At its 44th neeting ' on 3 December, the Comnittee adopteal the draft resolutionbV a recorded \rote of 95 to 2, with 2]. abstentions (see para. 4I, draft
resolution U). The voting was as follo$s!

fn favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrainl Bangladesh'
Barbados, Benln, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botardana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Repub1ic, Cape
verde, Ce[tra1 African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colonbia,
costa Rica' Cuba, qrprus, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, cerrnan Democratic Republic,
Ghana, creece, Guyana, Ilonduras, Hungary, lndia, Indonesia, Iran
(Islanic Republic of), Iraq, ,tanalca, .tordan, Kenya, Kurralt, Iao
People rs Detnocratic liepublic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, !,taldlves, Maur itania,
lrGxico, Mongolia, l,lorocco, I'qozambique, Nepal, Nigerla, Oran,
Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Ronania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sonalla,
Spain, Sri f.anka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, $ogo,
Tunisia, Turkey, tbanda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist l€public,
Union of sroviet Socialist ltepublics, irnited Arab Enirates, Irnited
Republic of Caneroon, United Republic of Tahzania, Upper VoLta,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet lilam, yemen, yugoslavia, Zanbia.

Israel, United States of Arnerica.Aqainst:

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgiun, Canada, Denmark, Fljt, Finland,
France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Irelantl, Italy,
Ivory Coast, Japan, Iruxenbourg, ttretherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Sweden, United Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern lreland,
ZaiEe.

31. Before the vote, the representative of Israe1 made a statement in explanation
of vote. Folloning the vote, the representatives of the united states of alerica,
Austria, Dennark (on behalf of the t0 nembers of tbe European Cornmunity ) Sweden and
Canada made statements in explanation of vote.



A/37/723
English
Page 9

r- Draft resolqtion A'lsPc/37'lL '2 3

S2.Atthe42ndmeeting,onlDecemberrtherepresentativeofPakistanintroduce'l
adraftresolutlon(vsPc/37/L.23),entitlednspecialidentificationcarilstoal].
palestlne refugeesi, sponsored by Afqhanistan, Eal}l}IlE!' and @r
subsequently Jotned by cuba, Indonas la and Yugoslavia'

33. At its 44th neeting r on 3 Decetnber, the comittee ado'!'ted the draft resolution
by a recorded tote of 83 to 15, witlr 16 abstentlons (see Para' 41' draft
resolutlon I). I'he voting was as follotts:

In favouri Afghanistan, Albanlar Algeria, Argentlna. Eahraln' Bangla'leh '
Benin, Bhutan, Botivia, Botsnana, BtaziLt Bulgaria' Burun'li'
Byelorus6ian Soviet Socialist Republic ' 

Cape Verdet Central
African Republic, Chad' Chlna, Colombia ' 

Costa Rica' cuba'
qrPrusr Czechoslovakla, Dernocratic Yement Dj ibouti' Ecuador '
Egypt, EthioPia, G€rnan Denocratii RePubllc' Greece' Guyana '
Honduraar Bu-ngary. India, Indonesiat lran (Islanic Republic of) '
Iraq, Janaica r Jordan, Kenyat Ru\dalt ' Iao PeopletE 

Denocratic
RePublic, r'iberia' r'ibryran arab Jarnahlriyat Madagascar ' 

l'ialays ia'
l{atatves, Mauritania, tlexico, Mongolia, l'torocco ' 

Mozatnbique '
NeEElr Nigeria, onanr Pakistan, Peru, Po1and ' Qatar' 

Ronania '
Rwanda, duai iratta, senegal' sonalia, sri Lanka' sutlan' sYrian
Arab RePublic, Thailand, [bgo, Tunlsla, Turkey ' uganda' 

ukrainian
Soviet 

-Socialist 
Republlcr union of Soviet Socialist RePubllca '

Unt ted Arab Erlrates, Lntted RePublic of cameroon' Itnlted
RePubLic of Tanzaniat UpPer voltat venezuela' Viet llam' lenen '
Yugoslavlar zarnbia.

Agalnst3 Australla, Belgium, Canada, Dennarkt France' G€rtnany ' rtetleral
RePubUc of, tcelantl, Israel, Italyt JaPan' I€banon' IJuxenbourg t
ttetherlands, tiloreay, Unitetl Kj.ngdorn of Great Br itain and Northern
Ireland, Unlted states of Anerica'

Abstatning: Austrla' Barbados. Chile, Fiji, Flnland, rreland' Ivory coast'
Malardi' Nerd zealantl, Paraguay, PhilippineE' Portugal' Spaln'
Sweden 1 Uruguay r Zaire.

34. Before the vote, the representatlve of I€banon made a staternent in exPlanation
of vote. Fouqting trre votel the rePresentatives of the United states of l|'[erica'
Austria,theltnltedKingdornofGreatBrltainandNorthernlrelan'l'$teden'the
Netherl;ndEr lrel'and, cinaaa, Australia, the PhilipPines' the -Federal RePublic 

of
cernany, Belgium, Jordanr Uruguay and Poland made statements ln €xplanation of vote '

35.Atthe42ndmeettngronlf,bcerlber,therepresentativeofPaklstanlntroduced
a draft regolution lNsPc/37/L.24) entitled nProtection of Paleatlnian refugees"
;p"t;;;;-tv-xqh..i+*'' BansLadesh and 4!!g@r subseguent-lv joined by 9gB'

, and Yugo6l,avia. /...

J. Draft resolutio A/sigt3ll t!4



v37/723
ergliah
Page l0

.36. At its {4th neetlng, on 3 Decenb€r r the Comnlttee heard a atatenent by the
I€gal @unsel of the Uhited titatlona, on behal.f of the Secretary-ceneral in
connexton with paragraFh l of draft resolution t/swgT/t.24, -rawlng attention to
tha Provlalona and EPlrlt of the ceneva convention relatlve to the protection of
clvirlan PersonB ln TiIn€ of war, of lz Au9u6t 1949, antt to the resorutionE of the
Generar As€eDbly, incruding reaorutlon 2717 $x\tl of 15 Decenber l9?o and 36/147 Agf 16 Decetnber l98f in whlch the Assc'lbry had herd that convention to be
applicable to the sltuatlon in the territorles occupled since 1962. f,he
'rePreaentative of the lrnited Arab hlrates nade a statenent concerning paragraph I
of draft resolutlolt Nspc/ 37 /L.24 anct the viev expressed bry the r€gar counsel.
Further statetrenta ln this conne:alolr nere nade b!' the L€gaI counsel and the
repreaentativ€ of the lrnited Arab &tiraLe6.

17. At its {{th neeting, on 3 DeceEber, the Cqulttee adopted the draft resolution
:by a recoraled \rote of 97 to 2 rrl th 1O abstentions (see pari. 41, draft
resolutlon iI). I,he votlng rdaa as follorr8,

In favourt AfghaniBtan. Albania, Algerla, Argentlna, Au6trla, Bahraln,
Bangladesh, Barbadoa, Benln, Bhutanl Bolivia, Botawana, Brazll,
Bulgaria, Burunill, Byelorussian Soviet Soclall'et Republic, Cap
verde, Central Afrlcan Republic, Chad, Chile, Chlna, ColoNrbla,

egatnsts

Cuba. cfrprus, CzectroeLovakla, Derbcratlc yerGn, Dj lbouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finl,and, France, c€rnan
Denocratlc lbpubllc, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, lionduras, Hungary,
India, Indonegla, Iran (fslanlc epubltc of), Iraq, JanaLca,
JaPan, itordan, Kerqra, Kunait, Iao Peopleia Oenocrattc ftepublic,
Iebanqr, Llberia, Libyan Arab ilanahlriya, Madagascar, MalaeL,
l6lay€ia, IilaldlveE, Maur ltania, l.texico, I'bngolia, llorocco,
l,lozanblque 

' t{Epal., }€r, Zealand, Nigeria, 
q[an, pakistan, peru,

PhlllpSrines, Poland, eatar, Rdnanla, &{anda, S:audi Arabla,
Senegal, sbnalia, Spain, Sri lanka, Sudan, sreden, syrian Arab
Republic, lfhailantl, &go. l.unlsia, Turkey, Ilganda, ukralnian
soviet Socialist &public, Irnlon of Socialist liepublicg, tJhlted
Arab &iratesr Uhlted Republic of cameroon, Itnit€d Repubtlc of
lanzania, U[4rer volta, Uruguay, venezuela, viet llam, yemen,
YugoaLavl.a, zanbia.

Iarael, Itnlted States of AErlca.

Abatalnipg! Au8tralia, Belg{un, Canada, Costa Rlca, Dannar k, Gernarry, Federal
ReF$ltc of, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, I xenbourg. lGtherlands,
l{orway, Paraguay. portugal, United Kingatom of Great Britaln and
ltorthern Ire1and, ?aire.

38. Eefore the vote, the repreeentitlve of r€banon nade a statement ln explanation
of vote. Fullorlng the voter the repr€aentativ€a of the llrrlted statea of a[er Lca,
.Xee &erland, Arrgtria, Dennark (on bohllf of the IO n€Sers of the European
Co0outrtw) r gralen, freland, canada, FlnLand, the philippines, peru anat uruguay
|nade statenentF in explanation of vote.



A/37 /723
English
Page 11

K. Draft resolueioq VSPCI37IL' 25

39. At the 4 znat neeting, on I December, the repreEentatlve of the gq!!@€
Anerica introduced a arait resolution entitled iAgeistance to Palestine refugeeE',
sponsored trl' hls delegat lon.

llo. At its 44th neeling, on 3 Decenber ' the connittee 
took a reoorded vote on the

draft resolution. The result of the \rote was 1I4 to none' vtith 2 abstentidrs' lltre
voting rras as followa 3

In favour 3 Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, iluEtralla, Austria' Bahraln'
Bangladesh' Bar;adoE, selglulr, Benln, Bhutan' Bollvia' Botsr'tana '
Brazil' Bulgaria, Burma, zurundl' ByeLorussian soviet socialiEt
RePublic ' Canada' 

cape verde, central African RePublic ' chad '
. Chile, Chlna, colqtrbia, @sta Rlca, Cuba' 

qt)rug' Csectroslovakia '
DerccraticYerIEn,Denmark,Djibouti'Ecuador,Egypt'EthloPia'
FiJi, Finland, Ftance, @rnan Detmcratic nepublic' Germany '
Federal riePublic of' Ghana, Greece, Guyana' Eoltgura:: Eungary '

- Iceland, Iidla, Indoneaia, Iran (Islarnic RePublic of)' 
Iraq'

Irelanal, Italy, Ivo4a Coaat, Jamaica' JaPan' Jordant Kenya' IJao
reople's oemociatic nePublic, I€banon' Liberia' Iflxembourg '
Mad-agaecar, Malawip Malaysiat Maltllve 5, M'uritanlat !'texico '
l,tongolia, lbrocco, !'bzambique, lGPal, t'lether landE t l{en Zealand '
Nlgeria, librway, qnan' Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru' PhiliPpines'
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, bmaniar Rtanda, Saudi Arabia' Sencgalt
slngaPore, somalla' sPain, sri Lanka, sudan' slteden' syrtan Arab
nepuutle. Itrailand, !ogo, Tunisia, Turkey, Lgan'la ' 

Ukrainian
soviet socialist RePubllc, Union of sovlet socialist RePubLicE '
united Arab Bnirates, Irnit€d Kingdom of Great Brltain and
librthern Ireland, united Republit of caneroon, unlted RePubltc of
Tanzanla, ttn ited states of Anerica, Itpper volta, uruguay'
venezuela, viet Nam, Yenen, Yugoslavia, zaire. zanbia'

I'lone.

Abataining: Israel anil Kultalt.

The representative of Kur.ralt indicated that he hatl voted ln favour but onlng to
r0echanical dlfficultie€ hls trote trad been recorded as an abgtention. T:he chairrnan
decided to proceed to take a second vote. The draft reaolutioD wa3 adopted by ul
votes to none, with I abstentlon (see para. 41' draft re6olutlon Kt; Ovrlng to a
technical errorr the vote wag not recorded anal therefore no Pr intout was avallable '

III. REOMMENDAIION OF TEE SPECIAIJ POLITICAL CO'II4ITTEE

41. llhe special Political contalttee recorEoenda to the General AsEernbly the
aaloption ot tne follovlng draft reaolutions:

Aqainst:



N37/723
&rglish
Page 12

Unlted Natlons l€lief and Works Agency fos palestine
Refugeeg in the t'bar East

A

$orking croup on the Financing of the United l,tations Relief
and workg Agency for palestine Refugees in the Near East

The c€neral Aasenb1v.

I€caU ing Lts re€olutions ZG56 (Xlff) of 7 December lg7l, ZTZ} ( XX\r) of
15 Decenber 1970, 279L ()fiVI) of 6 Decenber Lg7L, 2964 (I{XVII), of
13 December 1972, 3090 (XXVIII) of Z December 1973, 3330 (XXIX) of
17 Decenber 1974, 3419 D ($(X) of I December Lg7S. 3V]-5 C of 23 lbvetnber l9?5,
32/90 D of 13 Decembe r L977, n/IfZ D of 18 Decenber 1978, g4/52 D of
23 lilcvenber L979. 35/L3 D of 3 Novenber lggo and 36/L46 E of 16 Decerser 198r,

rqcalling also its decision 36/462 ot t6 !,tarch 1982, nhereby the As6errbty took
note of the slreclar Eeport of the librklnt croup dr the Financing of the lrnited
Natlona lief tnd i{orks Agency for paleatine tEfugees in the Near Fast U andadopted the recomlendations contained therein,

-- .. taxiltg conliggrgd rhe report of the working croup on the Ftnancing of theunlted Nations Rerief and l{orks Agency for paleatlne hefugees in the Niar EaEt, y

Taking inho account the annual report of the conuuiss ioner-cenerar of the
Irhiteat Natlon8 Rellef and tbrks Agencl, for palestlne liefugees in the libar East,
cover lng the period frdn I ,tuly 1980 to 30 June LggL, L/ is well as the speclalreport of the ComnisEloner-General, issued on 29 septe-nber LggZ, y

Gravely concerned at the critical financiar situatlon of the lrnited Nations
Reuef and l6rks Agency for paleatine Iiefugees in the l,har East, which has already
reduced the essential minlmun services belng provitled to the pale€tine refugees ancl
rrhich threatens even greater reductionB in the future,

Etplraslz ing the urgent need for extraordLnary efforts in order to nalntain, .atleast at the ir present mininum level, the activities of the Unit€d Nations Relief
and $orks Agency for palestine Refugees in the lilear Eaat,

1- cdulends the $orking croup on the Financlng of the united Nation6 Rerief
and worka Agenqf for Palestine Refugees in the llear EaEt for ita efforts to assist
ln enauring the Agency t6 financlaL securlty,

y V36/866 and Corr.t.
Y rJ37/5eL.

!/ offictal Recorde of the ceneral AsEernbly, thtrty-seventh Se6s ,
sueplenent

y rJ37/47s.

t



il37 /723
English
Page 13

2. tbtes lrith alDEoval the report of the Working GrouPi

3. Requests the I'lbrking Group to continue its efforts. in co-operation 
-with

the secretary-General and the colnmissioner-Generalt for the financing of.the unlte'l
tilations Relief anal wori(a AgencY for Palestine Refugees ln the lilear East for a
further period of one Yeaft

4. Requests the Secretary-General to provitte the necessary services and
ass istance-6-the working croup for the conduct of its work'

'""'""3:;"'i'fi'::1"":i::iil;: ;:"1'ii;!:: "''n'
Ehe General AssenblY,

Recalli.ng its resolutLon 36/L46 D of 16 Decenber I98I an'l a1l previous
resolutlons on the queation,

Takingnoteofthereportoftheconunissioner-Generalofthel,nitedNation6
Relief and l,brka Agency for Palestine Refugees in the llear East' covering the
perlod frqn I JuIy 1981 to 30 June Lg82, !/ an'l his speciaL report coverlng the
period from 5 June to 3l August L982, y

concerned about the continued hunan sufferlng resulting fron the hostillhies
in the Midalle EaBt '

1. neaffirns its resolution 36/f46 D and aLl prevlous resolutions on the
questiont

2. Endorsesr bearing in rnind the objectives of those resolutionst the
efforts of the cofftris" iorr.i-c.tt"t.1 of the United Nations Re1lef an'l works Agency
for Palestine refugees in the Near East to continue to Provlde humanitarian
assistance as far as practicable, on an emergency baBis and as a temporary fi€aguf€,
to other per gons in the area who are at present displaced and in serious need of
continued assislance as a result of the June 196? antl subsequent hostilltiesl

3. strongly artpeals to at1 Goverrunents and to organizations and intllvi'lua1s
to contrlbute generously for tjle above purposes to the United Nations Relief and
Wbrks Agency for Palestlne [tefugees in the Near East an'l to the ottter
intergoiernhental antl non-governnental organizations concerned'

c

gniverslty of Jerusalen fo! Palestine Refugees

be General AssemblY ,

Recalling its resolutlon 36,1146 G of 16 Decenber l'gSL entitled
Jerusalen for Palestine Refugees" t

"univeE8ity of



v3?/723
Engltsb
Page L4

_^__ % the report of the secretary-ceneraL g/concernlng the establiEhnent of a universlty at Jerusalen in pursuance of -paragraphs 5 and 5 of resolutlon t6/i46 A.

_- -, tla:t-ing a1Fo. exanined lrith apprectation the report of the conrniss ioner-ceneralor the IJn ited l,rations neuer anE-wollE-$,ilic1y for palestine Refugees in the l€arEast (I,NF {A) covering the period frdr I.Iuly 1981 to 30 irune Lggr, g/

. Corq[ends the conEtructive efforts nade by the secretary-ceneral, theuol'lrssroner'General of the ttnited t€tione Relief anal l{orks Agency for pareatineRefugees in the lGar Eaat, the counclr of the united Nations ;niv;rsity antr thetnitedl Natlons Educational, Sclentific antt Culiural organlzation, whic-h workedduigently towards irup].eraentatlon of the eaid resolution,

authoritles concernedt

3. 
- Enphasizes the need for Etrengthenlng the educatlon systen in theoccupled Arab territorres. since 6 June 1967. incrudrng Jerusarem, and specificalr,ythe need for tt& establishn€nt of tfre propoeJ'-orrt.reritty,

^ l. 
grdorEga the varlous Etep6 recomrended in the report of thesecretary-ceneral, lncludlng the creatlon of a voluntary fund for this purpose, tobe adnlnigtered b!' the Departnent of Technical Co-operation for Developnent of thesecretariat, to pEovide graduate antr post-doctoiar felrowships for a hrghly trainedcore faculty of the proposed unlverstiy,

-^-_..1_ tsqi.rlg 
the Secretary-C€nerat !o continue to take all necessarymeasures, lncruar lng the conduct of a functl.nat feasibirity study for estlblishlngthe lltriverslty of Jerusal€ttr in accordance with the recomrcndatlons contained in thereport of the Secretary-ceneral,

lmplenentatlon of the present reaolutlon and to rernove the hindrances which lt hasPut in the way of establlshing the ttlrlveraity of ilerusalem,

-. _-?. _ #,the secretary-ceneral to report to the ceneral Assenbty at lt6EnrrEy-elghth Eeaslon on the progress rnade in the iq)r-enentation of the presentte€o1ution.

D

offers $r l,tenber states of grants and scholarships for higher educationincluding vocatlonal trainlng, for the paiestine refuqees

- l€SaU itlg its r€solutlon 212 (III) of 19 l,bvember 1948 on assistance EoPalestine refugees.

The qeneral Aasenbly,

s/ A/37 /599 .



v;i(T:
Page 15

Reoalling a18o its reaolutlon s g5/L3 B of 3 llovanber 1980 and 36'1145 
H of

t6 Dec€nbe! 1981,

coqnizant of the fact that the Palestlne refugeeg have, for the last three
oecaadEFure ir land8 and meana of llvellhood,

Iiavlnq examined with atrpreciation the report ll of tj,e gecretary4eneral ott
otr"rffiGi"i 

-'"c"".ir*t for Par€.tine refugees and
the scope of the inplenentatlon of resolution 36/146 E,

*.,offi "E:1."!i":1i.ruffi :s.if,:il:"iiJ'":5, u:::*,"
ttre perfoa frdl I July 19s6 to- 30 June Lgaz, y deallng wlth this subiect'

I,btlnq that fever than one per thousantl of the Paleatlne refugee Etudents have
tt. cnff" to .""tiio. trlgner edication' inclu'llng vocatior'l tralning'

lFtlng alEo that ovar the Past several year6 the nunber of Bcholarshltrt€
of,fered b'y the thtteal t{ations Relief and works Ag€nc!'for Palestine .Itefuq€es 

ln the
Itear East has tlwindled to hatf of tthat lt was bdaual of the tgency 

re recurrlng
budgetary dif f iculties,

f. - glllg alt States to respon'l to the appeal contalned 
in General AaEsrbly

resolutlon 32/go E ot 13 Decenber 1977 ln a n:nner cduensurate t'lth ttte needs 
of

the Pale6tine refugees for higher educatlon and vocatlonal tralningt

2. stronqlv appeals to all states, Elpclaliaed agencles and non-governmental
organizatione to augoentTbe slreclal allocallone for grants and scholarshipe to
palestine refugeea ln adalltlofi to Ure ir contributlons to the regular bualget of tbe
rrnitGd Natlons lielief "rra 

trotx" agencY for Palestln€ RefugeeB ln the Near Ea3tt

3. g<preasEg iti aPPfeclnllen to all covernments I epeclalized agenclea an'l
ndr jover nnent"t otg an r#iffitn"t r esPonded f avourably to Gene r al Ass etlbly
regolutlon 36/Ll6 H

4. Invltes the rel'evant t nlteal Natlons agencies to c€-ntinue. to -:xpand 
the

inclueion, Itlulln the 1r ta"p."tfu" a!'heres of c&npetence ' 
of, asalstance for hlgher

education for the Palestine refugee atudentst

5. ApDeals to aII gtatesr ePeclallzed agencles and tlre united rbtlona
universitl'ffitr iuute generoriet! to trre Paliatintan unlv€rsltt€B ln the
terrltorle8 occupied b8' rtrael slnce 1357t

6. Also arxEara to arr gtateq, 6lreclallted agenclea 9d ofjTr international
.bodies to contribute todaralE the egtabltshtcnt of vicational tralnlng centreg for
Palestine refuge€8,

v v37/427.



v37/723
Brglish
Page 16

_ 7. . Requesta the United Natlona Relief anil Worka Agenclz for palestine
Refugees in the r€ar East to act as recipient and trustee foi suctr special
allocations and schorarshlps and to award thern to quartfiedl parestine refugee
candidates t

8. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the ceneral Assembly at its
thirty-eighth seselon on the implenentation of the present reaolution.

E

Pale€tlne refugeeE in the Gaza strip

The General A8senblv,

LecaUing Security Oouncll resol,utlon 237 (1967 t of 14 June L962,
Recalling alEo its resolutione 2?92 C (XKVI) of G Decextber Ir7I,

2953 C (XXVII) of t3 Decenber l9ZA, 3089 C (XXVIII) of Z December 1923,
3331 D (XXIX) of 17 Decenber L9741 3419 C ($(X) of 8 Decenber l9?5, 3Ll15 E of
23.November 1976, 32/90 C of 13 DeceDber L977, 33/]-LZ E of 18 December 19?8,
34/52 F of 23 l,bvetnber 1979, 35,/13 F of 3 libvenber 19g0, and 36/L46 A of
16 Decenber 198I,

Havlng considered the report of the Cotrmissioner{eneral of the Unlted llation€
Re1ief and lcorks A,genqy for palestlne Refugees ln the ldear EaBt, covering the
period fron I iluly 1981 ,to 30 itune r9B2 !/ and the report of the secretary4enerarof 17 Septemb et 1982, V

-- - 
RecgLligq the provi8ions of paragraph l]. of its resolution 194 (III) ofl1 Decenber 1948 and consitlerlng ttrat-me-agures to resettre paleatine refugees ln

the Gaza strip away fron the homes and property from whlch they were atisplaced
conslitute a violation of their inallenabli rlgnt ot return,

Alarmed by the reporEs received frorn the Cortrtrissioner-€eneral of the ttnited
Natlons Relief and l{orks Agenqr for palestine Refugees in the tibar East that theIsraeli occupry ing authorlties persist ln their poliqf of denolishing on punltfve
grounds shelters occupied b1' refugee fanilies,

1. Reiterates its demand that Israel desist from the rernoval and
resettrement of Pale€tine refugees ln the caza strlp and f,ron the destructlon of
their shelters,

2: Iiequests the secretary-ceneral, after consulting with the cortrnissioner_
General of the united t.I"tlonB Relief and !{orks Agency for palestine Refugees in the
Near East, to report to the ceneral Asgernbly, before the opening of its
thirty-etghth session, on Israelrs cqnpliance !,rittl paragraph I above.

v A,/ 37 / 425 .



xtr](:l'
Page 17

F

Resunption of the ratlon dlEtrlbutlon to the Palestlnian refugees

The ceneral Assembly,

Recall ing its resolutio^ 36/L46 F of 16 Decetnber l98I and all previous
resolutions oh the questlon, lncluding resoLution 302 (Iv) of I December 1949,

Having considered the report of the Comnissioner-ceneral of the Itnited Nations
nelief a-nd tlorks agencl, for Palestine Refugees in the lGar East' coverlng the
period frqn 1 July 1980 to 30 June L98L, t/ and the special rePort covering the
per lod from 6 ilune 1982 to 31 August L982, y

Deeply concerned at the interruption by the IJn lted llatlons Relief and ldorks
&encyGEfest:tne Refugees ln the Near East, o\dlng to f inancial diff lculties, of
the general ration tlistribution to Palestini.an refugees ln all fields in the
occupietl Palestlnian territories' ilordan and the Syrlan Arab Republic '

1. calls upon all Governments, as a matter of urgenclt' to Takg the nbst
generous eEEorts possible to neet the lnterrupted needs of the lrnlted Nations
Rellef and liorks Agency for Falestine liefugeeE ln the Near East, Particularly in
the Llght of the interruption bV the Agency of the general ration alistrlbution to
PaLestine refugees in all fields. and therefore urgea non<ontr ibuting Governments
to contribute regularly and contributlng Governments to consider increasing the ir
regular contr ibutions t

2. Requests the Cornnissioner-Ceneral of the lrnited lilations l{elief and works
Agency for Palestine [Gfugees in the Near East to tesune on a continulng basis and
as soon as possible the lnterrupted general ration distrlbution to the Palestinlan
refugees in all f ields.

G

Population and refugees tlisPlaced since 1967

@As@.,
Recalllng Security council resolution 237 (1967) of 14 June 1967,

Recallinq also lts reaolulions 2252 (ES-V) of 4 JuIy L967, 2452 A ()0(III) of
19 Deffi5a-Itdf,-535 B (xxrv) of I0 rEcenber L969, 2572 D (xxv) of
8 Decen cer L970' 2792 E (xX\tI) of 6 December L97L, 2963 C and D (xxVII) of
J.3 December 1972, 3089 c (xxvIII) of 7 Decetnber 1973, 3331 D (xxlx) of
l7 Decenber L974' 3419 c (xxx) of I December 1975, 3VLg D of 23 November 1976'
32/90 B of 13 ltecenber L977' 33/M E of 18 December 1978, 34/52 E of
23 libvernber L97I ' W-7/2 

of 29 July 1980 ' 35113 E of 3 I'lovember 
L980 and 361146 B

of 16 December 19 8I,



N37/723
Elglish
Page 18

Having considered the report of th€ CoDnlssioner-ceneral of the ltnlted Natlons
n€lief and l{orks Agency for Pal66tine nefugees in the libar Ea6tr coverlng the
perlod frdtr L JuIy I98I to 30,tune 1-982 y anil the report of the Secretary-General
of 20 gbptenbeE L982. V

l. Reafflrms the lnallenable rlght of all illsplaced lnhabltants to return to
thef homes or former placea of regiderrce ln the terrttorieg occupied by Israel
s lnce 1957 and declaf,es once rmre that any atteDpt to restrlct, or to attach
condition€ to, the free exercise of the rlght of return by aqf dtsplaced pergon 15
tnconElstent wlth thelr inali€nable right and inadrniesiblet

2. Conslders any antl aLl agreenents embodying any restriction on or
cqrdition for the return of the dispLaced lnhabitants as null and voidt

3. stronqly deplores the contlnued refusal of the Ieraeli authorltleG to
take steps for the return of the illsplaced inhabitants t

4. Calls once norglPgE. Israel!

,ar. '- ,"* ,-*Utate steps for the return of all displaceal inhabitants,

(!,) tro desist fron all llea6ures that obstruct the return of the tlisplaced
inhabltants, including meaeureE affecting the plrygical and denographic structure of
the occupled territoriest

5. Requests the Secretary{eneral. after consultlng with the
CorEuissioner-ceneral of the t nited tihtions Relief antl lilorks Agency for Palestlne
Re fugees in the t'lear East, to report to the cen€rat Ass.emb1y by the op€ntng of ita
thirty-eighth session on IsraelrB co!trpliance with paragraph 4 above.

H

Eevenue€ alerived froll Paleatine refugees propertles

I'he General Assenbly,

RecalLing its resolutionE 35/13 A to F of 3 lilovenber 1980, 361146 C of
16 Decenber 1981 anal all lts previous resolutlons ot the question, including
resolutlon 194 (III) of lL Decenber 1948,

Takl,ng note of the report of the Slecretary-c€neral of 28 S:eptenb er L982, !p1/
Taklng note also of the retrErt of the lrn it€d t{ations Conciliation CoEniEslon

for Paleatine, covering the period fron I @tober 1981 to 30 September L982, y

v
Lo/

v37 /426.

u37/488.



^/37/723English
Page 19

Recalling that the Univ€rsal Declaration of Hutran RtghtE fy and the
pr incfFf6i--o?Tnternational law upholil the princlple that no one shall be
arbitrarily deprived of oners Private ProPerty,

Congidering that the Palestinian Arab refugees aie entitledl to thelr proPerty
ana to-G-fi66 derived from their property, in confonnlty wlth the princlPles of
justice and equity,

gIL!!g., in particular' its resolution 39'l (V) of 14 Decenber 1950, in
whictr it dlrected the United Nations Concillation Corunission for Palestine, in
consultation with the parties concerned, to preEcrlbe tleasures for the Protection
of the rights' property and lnterests of the Palestlnian Arab refugees,

Taking note of the conPletion of the programne of itlentification and
evaluaffi-offib ProPerty, as announced b!' the untted l€tions concillatlon
cotrmission for Palestine in its twenty-second progr€ss tepott lU of 1I May 1954r
and of the fact that the tand office had a Echealule of Arab onners and flle of
docu0ents defining the locatlon, area and other particular€ of Arab property,

I. Requests the Secretary-General to take all appropriate Etepa, in
consultati6;TiEE--the lrnited Nations Concltiation Comllisslon for Palestlne, for the
protection and admini.stratlon of Arab proPerty ' assets 

and property rights in
Israel, anal to establish a fund for the receipt of inc-orne der ived therefron, on
behalf of the 1r rightful ownersi

2. Calls once agaln upon the GoverruEnts concerned, esPeclally larael, to
render aU-EilIfIGfr-EEEiEtance to the secretary-ceneral on the inplementatlon
of the present resolutiont

3. Fequests the secretary-G€neral to report to the General Assenbly at it8
thirty-eighth session on the implementation of the present resolution'

special identlfication cards bo all PaleBtlne refugees

The General Assenbly ,

Recalllng its resolutio\ 36/L46 F of 15 December 1981 and all previous
resolutions on the queation,

Itecalling, ln particular, ita resolutions 194 (III! of 1I Decernber 1948 and
foz trif-o?-e Decenber 194 9,

Recognizing the concern of the Uniteal Natlons in the problem of the Palestine
refugees,

Iy Resolution 2l7 A (III).

!y offlclal Records of the General ilssenbly, Nlneteenth sesslon, Annet(
lb. 11, document N5700.

/...



A/37/723
EngLish
Page 20

I" Reiterates its regret that paragraph 11 of @neraL Assenbly resolution
194 ( rr r) E'C-noG;-ar-6ed-inptemeirteai

2. I{equests bhe Secretary-General, in co--operation with the Commlss ioner-
General of the United Nations rte].ief and !,sor ks Agency for ?alestine Refugees in the
Near East, to issue identificatlon cards to all pafestine refugees and their
descendants, irrespectlve of nhether they are recipients or not of rations and
servj.ces fron the Agencry, as well as to aII displaced persons and to those nho have
been prevented fron returning to their home, and the ir descendants, as a result of
the 1967 hostillties,

3. kquests the Secretary-General Co report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session on the implenentation of the presenC resolution.

Protection of Palestinian refuqees

The ceneral AssembLy,

Recalling Security Council resolutions 508 (1982) of 5 June 1982, 509 (1982)
of 6 June 1982, 511 (1982) of L8 June L982, 5].2 (1982) of L9 June 1982, 513 (1982)
of 4 ilu1y 1982, 515 (1982) of 29 iluLy ]-982t 5I7 (1982) of 4 August 1982, 518 (1982)
of 12 August 1982, 519 (1982) of 17 August I9A2. 52O (1982) of 17 S€ptemlcer 1982
and 523 (f982) of 18 Cbtober 1982,

RecaLling its resolutions E-7/5 of 26 June L9A2, ES-7/6 of 24 August 1982,
ffi-7/8 of 19 August 1982 and ES-7/9 of 24 Septenber 1982,

Baving considered the report of the Coruniss ioner-ceneral of the United

Referring to the hunanitarian principles of

Nations Relief and Works Agency for palestine Refugees in the Near East. covering
the period from I July l98I to 30 June L9g2t L/ and the special report covering theperiod fron 6 June 1982 to 31 August t992, y

the Protection of Ci.vilian persons ln Time of war
obligations arising from the regulations annexed

DeepLy distressed at the sufferings of the
fsraeli invas ion of l€banon,

the Geneva Convention Relative to
of 12 August L949 !11 and to the

to the flague Convention of 1907,

Palestinians resulting fron the

L. q{g the Secr etary-ceneral, in consultation with the United Nations
Relief and l.lorks Agency for PalesLine Refugees in the Near East, and pending the
withdr a\ral of lsraeli forces from the paLestinian and other Arab territorles
occupied bY Israel since 1967r inctuding Jerusalem, to undertake effective measures
to guarantee the safety and security and l.egal and human rights of the paleatinian
refugees in the occupied territoriesi

ff/ United l{ations. Treaty Series I voL.75, },1o. 9?3. p. 287.



Y;i!';i'

2. Catls upqq rsrael. the occupy ing power ' to release 
forth{ith all 

'letained
Palestinian refugees, rncluding tire elnltoyees of the Lnited l'tations n€lief an't
works Agency for palesEine Refugees in the l'lear East,

3, Also calls upon Israel to desist forthvtith frorB Preventing those
palestinians registered E'-tit. U"itJ Nations Relief antt l,lor ks Agency for Palestine
Refugees in the Near East as refugees in I€banon fron returning to their camps in
Lebanont

4. Also calls upon Israel to allow the- resumption of heatth' medical'
educational and social sErvices rendered by the United Nabions Relief and works
AgencltforPalestineRefugeesintheNearEasttothePalestiniansintherefugee
carnps in southern Lebanoni

5. rlequests the Commiss ioner-General of the Lnited libtions Lelief and Vbrks
Agency for-Ffl-estine r€fugees in the Near East to co-oxdinate bis activlties in
r.rraeiing these services with the Goverrulent of l-€banon, the host country '

6. - uroes the coruttiss loner-General to provide housing ' 
in consultation rdi'th

tn" coiernmffr of 
'L;;;;, 

to the paresrinian refugees vrhose houses vtere denolished
or razed bEr the Israeli forces, in order to proteci them from the severity of the
weather ,

7. Requests the conuni 3 s ioner -Gener aI ' in consultation 
with the Goverrrnent of

Lebanonr to Prepare a report on the totality of the danage caus€d to the
Palestinj.an refugees and their property and to the Agency rs facilities' as hte1l as
those of other relative internaiional bodiesl as a result of the fsraeli aggressioni

8. t€quests the secr etary-General, in consuttation witlt the comrissioner-
ceneral of the united Nations Gtief and l/gorks Agency for Palestine. rGfugees in the
Near East' to report to the General Assembly before the oPening of its
thirty-eighth session on the imPlementatlon of the Presenc resolution'

X

Asgistance to Palestine refugees

The General AssembAl'

Recalling its resolution 36/L46 F of 15 December 198I and all Previous
resolutions on the question, including resolution 194 (III) of 11 December 1948,

TakingnoteofthereportofthecoNltisgioner-Generalofthel'nitedNations
Relief anal Norks Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near Ebstt covering the
period frorn 1 July 1981 to 30 June L982, t/

1. llotes with regret that repatriation or compensation-of .the. refugees as
provitled for in paragruffif of cen'eral- Assetnbly resolution l-94 (III) has not been
effected, that no suustlntial- progress has been made in the progratMle en'lorsed bV
the Assenbly in paragraph 2 of its (esolution 5I3 (VI) of 26 'ranuary 

1952 for the
reintegration of- refuge-es either b1' repatriation or resettl-emen! and that' t



A/3'1/723
Eng]-isb
Page 22

therefore, Che situation of the refugees continues to be a matter of seriousconcerni

. ?: Ikprgsses its thanks to th€ Coruni ss ioner_ceneral and to aLlsne unrted Nations Relief and Works Agency for palestine Itefugees inrecognizing that the Agency is doing arr it can within the limits of
I3i?ll9!ll and-also. expresses irs thanks ro the speciali.zed agenciesorganrzatrons for their valuable work in assi.sting the refugees,

Itre staff of
the Nea:l East,
available
and private

3' Reiterates its request that the headquarters 0f the united Nations Reliefand works Agen?76?-palestine Refugees in lhe l*ar East shourd be relocated to itsformer site wlthin its area of operations as soon as practicablet

.1' !9!E9 vrith regret that the unitett litat ions conci.liation comrnission forHaresEr.ne nas been unable to find a means of achieving progress in theimplementation of paragraph 11 of Generat a"".*Ufy resolution 194 (IfI) andrequests the comnission to exert continued efforts towards the imprementation of
:h:t qaraglaph and to report to the Assenbly as appropriate, but not later than1 Oc tober 1983 t

of the united Nations Rerief and ttotk" egun"y for patestine Refugees in the 
^learEast, as outlined in the report of the conuniss ioner_cenerat,

6' Iiotes with congg!! that, alespite the corunendable and successful effortsof tne comn]lEEEil6?ra-r-to couect addiaionat contributions, this increasedleve1 of incone to the United Nations Relief and libr,<s Agency for palestine
Refugees in the Near East is still insufficient to cover essentLal buttget
requ irernents in the present year and that, at currenlly foreseen levels of giving,deficits nill recur each yearl

7. calls uFn all covernnents as a matter of urgency to nake the mostgenerous eE6?Es--$?s ibre to neet ttre aniicipatea needs of the tnited Nations
Tli:: 3nd I'ibr ks Agenc!' for-palestine nefugees in the Near East, particularly inthe light of the budgetary deficit pr": 

""t!J 
- 
i" 

-the 
report of the commissioner-Generalr and therefore urges non-contr ibuting covernments to contribute regularryand contributing Governments to consider incieasing their regurar concributions.


