












































UNITED
NATIONS

(@ GeneralAssembly Di str .GENERAL
1y'37 /579
5 November 1982

ORIGINAL: ENGIISH

thirty-seventh session
Agenda iten 75

ADVERSE COI'ISEQUE}rcES FOR THE E}UOYMENT OF HTJMAN RIGIXIS OF POLITICAL,
I'IILITARY, ECONOMIC AND CTI'IIER FORMS OF ASSIS?ANCE GIVnl TO COIONIAL

AND RACIST REGIMES IN SOUTIUXTN AFRICA

Repor t of the third Comtittee

Rapporteurt lrlr. Karl BORCHARD (Federal Republic of Germany)

I. INTRODUCTION

I. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 septernber I982r the General Assenbly decided
to include in its agenda the iten entitled '.Adverse consequ€nces for Lhe enjoyment
of human rights of politicat, rnilitary, econornic and other forms of assistance
given to colonial and racist r&imes in southern Africa" and to allocate it to the
third comni ttee.

2. ttre Comnittee considered this iten jointly nich items 76, 79 and 80 at its
3rd to l3th, 18th, 24th and 25th meetngs, on 30 september and 4, 6, I' U to 15,
2I and 27 October 1982. An account of the discussion of the Corunittee is contained
in the relevant sudnary records (A/c.3/37 /sn.3-13 , I8' 24 and 25).

3. Ibe comnittee had before it the follohring docunentationr

(a) Mverse consequences for the enjo)ment of human rights of political,
rnilitary, economic and other forms of assistance given to colonial and racisL
rdgimes ln southern Africar note by the secretary-General (N37/aBli

(b) Report of the Economic and social @uncil, chapter v' section A
(N37/3 (Part I) ), y

y To be issued as offlcial Records of the General Assenblv, lhirty-seventh
Session, supplement tlo. 3 (A/37 /3 /Rev.l') .

82-30175 4115f (E)



A/37 /579
Brgl ish
Page 2

(c) I€tter dated 22 June 1982 fron the char96 drMfaires a.i. of the
Pernanent l,lission of cuba to the united Nations addressed to hhe s€cretary-ceneral,
transmittihg the Final Corununiqdd and other docunenta of the MinisteriaL Meeting of
the co-ordinatlng Bureau of the Non-Arigned countries held at Havana, from 31 !4ay
to 5 ilune 1982 (431/339, ,
4. At the 3rd meeting, on 30 September. the Director of the Centre for HunBn
Rights nade an introductory statement.

5. At the 8th neeting, on 12 @tober, the Special Rapporteur of the
Sub-Conmission on Prevention of Discrinination and Protection of Minorities rnade
a statement.

rr. coNsrDERATroN oF DRAFT RESOT,UTTON A/C.3/37/L.L5

6. At the l8!h meeting, on 2l October, the representative of Grinear in her
capacity as chairman of the African croup for the month of October, introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.3/37/L.15) submitted under the itetu entitled ,'Adverse
consequences for the enjoyment of hunran rights of political, military, economic and
other forrns of assistance given to colonial and racigt rdgirnes in Southern Afrlca".
7. At the 24th meeting, on 27 fttober, the Secretariat referred to the flnanclal
inplicatlons of the draft resolution.

8. At the sane meeting, the Corunittee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/37/L.15 by
113 votes to 10, with l-5 abstentions (see para. 9).

III. RECOI,IMENDATION OF THE THIRD COI'O{I TTEE

9. The third @mrlttee reconmends to the ceneral Assenbly the adoptlon of the
following draf! resolutiont

Ihe ceneral Assenbly,

Recallinq its resolutions 3392 (XXX) and 3383 (XXX) of IO libv€mber L976, 33/23
of 29 Ibvember 1978 and 35/32 of 14 l,tovenber 1980,

Recalling atso its resolutlons 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of l May 1974,
containing the Declaration and the programne of Action on the Establishment of a
New rnternational Econonic order r and 3281 (xxrx) of 12 December 1974 containing
the Charter of Econonic Rights and D,rties of States,



\/37 /57e
frr91ish
Paqe 3

Mindful of ita resolution 3l7L (xxVIII) of 17 Decenber 1973 relatj.ng to
Permanent soverelgnty over natura.l- resources of both developlng countries and
territories under colonlal and foreign domination or subjected to the apartheid
rdg ine.

Recallinq its resolutions on nilitary collaboration with south Africa, as well
as Security Council resolutions 418 (1977) of 4 I'lovember and 421- (L977 | of
9 Decenber 1977,

Taking into account, ln particular, the relevant decisions adopted by the
Conference of Eeads of State and @vernment of lhe organization of Mrican thlty at
its eighteenttr ordinary sess ion,

Taking note of the revised report prepared by the special RapPorteur on the
adverse conseguences for the enjoyment of hunan rights of political, nilitary,
eclononlc and other forms of assistance given to colonial and racist rdgimes in
aouthern Africat

Having noted yrith concern that the report of the secretary-Gener al on the
special review of the ongoing r'ror k prograrnne of the United l,Iations U concluded
that the annual utrdated report on the adverse consequences for the enjoyment of
hunan rights of political, niLitaryr economic and other forms of assistance given
to colonial and racist rdgimes in southern Mrica had been identified for
terminatlon ln the proposed progralrme budget for the biennium 1982-1983,

Reaffirming that any coLlaboration with the racist r69ime of south Mrica
constitutes a hostile act against the oppressed PeoPtes of southern Africa in cheir
struggle for freedom and independence and a contenptuous defiance of the United
llations and of the international comnunity,

Considering that such collaboration enables South Africa to acquire the means
necessary to carry out.acts of aggression and blacknail against independent African
States '

Deeplv concerned that the major western and other trading partners of south
Africa contlnue to collaborate rrith that racist rigime and that their collaboration
constitutes the nain obstacle to the liquidation of Lhat racist r6girne and the
ellmination of the inhunan and criminal system of apartheid,

Atarrned at the continued collaboration of certain western States and rsrael
wlth the racist rdgime of south Africa in the nuclear field,

Regretting that the Security council has not been in a position to take
blnding decisions to prevent any collaboration ln the nuclear field with south
Afr ica,

u A/36/658.



^/37 
/s7s

Engl ish
Page 4

Recognizing that the highest priority nust be accorded to international action
to secure the full irnplernentation of the resolutions of the United tilations for the
eradication of amrtheid and the liberation of the peoptes of southern Africa,

-. qonscious of the continui.ng need to npbilize world public opinion against thepolitical' military' econornlc and other assisEance given to the iacist rdgime or
south Mrica,

1. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the oppressed peoples of southern
Africa to selftetermination, independence and the enjoyrneni oi the natural
resources of their territor ies t

2. &iain reaffirtns the right of those same peoples to dispose of those
resources for their greater well-being and to obtain just reparation for the
exploication, depletlon, loss or depreciation of those natural resources, including
reparations for the exploitation and abuse of their hunan resources,

3. Viqorouslv condemns the collaboratlon of certain western countries,
rsraer and other staces' as well as the multinationar corporations and other
organizations which maintain or continue to increase their collaboration with the
racist rdgine of South Africa, eapecially in the political, econornic, nilitary and
nucrear fields, tius encouraging that r6gime to persist in its inhunan and criminalpolicy of brutar oppression of the peoples of southern Africa and denial of their
h unan rights t

4. Reaffirms oncejEb that states and organizations which give assiatance
to the racIEf-GIGE-6FEuth efrica become acconptices in the inhunran practices of
racial discrimination, colonialisrn and apartheld perpetrated by this rdgime, as
well as in the acts of aggression against the .Liberation novements and neighbourlng
States t

5. Requests the security cormcir urgently to consider conplete and mandatory
sanctions under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United l,lations against the raciat
rigine of South Afrlca, in particularr

(a) The prohibition of aII technologicat assistance or collaboration in the
nanufacture of arms and milieary supplies in South Mricat

(b) rhe cessation of aII collaboration with south Mrica in the nuclear fieldt
(c) rhe prohibicion of all loans to, and all investments in, south Africa and

the cessat j.on of any trade with South Afr ical
(d) An ernbargo on the supply of petroleum, petroleum products and other

serategic goods to South Mrica.

6, AppeaLs to all states, the specialized agencies and the non-governnental
organizations to extend all possible co-.operacion to the liberation movements of,
southern Africa recognized by the united ltrations and the organization of Mrican
Unityt



A/37 /579
Ergl i sh
Page 5

7. E(presses its appreciation Eo the special RaPPorteur for his revised
reportt

8. Affirms that the updating of the report on the adverse consequences for
the enjoyment of hunan rights of poutical, rnllitary, economic and other forms of
assistance given to colonial and racist rdgimes in southern Mrica is of the
greatest importance to the cause of fighting apartheid and other violations of
hunan rights in south Africa anal lGnibia and should continue to be an activity in
the ongoing work progranme for 1982-1983r

9. Calls upon the secretary-Genera1 to give aII necessary assistance to the
special Rapporteur with a view to nEking available to hirn the comPuter services
essential for the nore detalled updating of his listt

I0. CaIIs upon the @vernnents of the countries where the banks,
transnational corporations and other organizations naroed and liated in the revised
report are based to take effective action to put a stop to the ir trading 'manufacturing and investing activities in the territory of south iurica as well as
in the Territory of l,bmlbia illegally occupied by the racist Pretoria r&inet

11. Requests the secreeary-Generat bo transmit the revised report to the
Special @nnittee against Apartheid, the United l€lions Council for Namibia, other
bodies concerned within the United l.la tion€ system and regional international
organizationst

L2. Urgently requests all speciallzed agencies ' 
particularly the

International l.tmetary nrnd and the world Bank, to refrain fron granting any tyPe
of loans to the racist rigime in South Africat

13. calls upon all States, specialized agencies and regional,
intergovernmental and other organizations concerned to give wide publicity to the
rePortt

14. Invices the comaisslon on HurEn Rlghts to give high priority at its
th irty-n!.nth session to the coneideration of the above-mentioned reportt

15. Decides to consider this question at ics thirty-ninth sesslon as a matter
of high priority under an iten entitled nAdverse consequences for the enjo!rynent of
human rights of political, military, economic and other forms of assiatance glven
to the racist and colonlalist rdgine of south African and j.n the light of any
recomnendations which the sub-Oomission on Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities, the Comnission on Itunan Rights, the lbonomic and soc ial
Council and the speclal @flmittee against Apartheld nay lrish to aubxnit to the
ceneral Asserilcly.


