












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Aeeembly Distr.
GENERAL

N37 /656
6 December L982

ORIGINAI3 ENGLISH

ltrirty-seventh session
Agenda item 44

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECI,ARATION ON TIIE DENLNI,E.ARIZATION OF AFRICA

Report of the First Coltuttittee

Rapporteur3 l4r. Luvsangiin ERDENECHULUUN (uongolia)

I. INTRODTJCTION

1. T?re item entitl-ed "Implementation of the Declaration on the Denuclearization
of Africa: reSnrt of the Secretary-General" was included in the provisional agenda
of the thirty-leventh session in accordance with General Assembly resolutions
36/86 A and B of 9 December 198I.

2. At its 4th pl-enary meeting, on 24 September L982, the General Assembly, on the
reconunendation of the General Conunittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Corunittee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 29 September, the First @rmittee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the itens allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, itens 39 to 5?, 133 and 136. The general debate on these items and on
items 138 and I39, which were allocated to the First Conu,nittee by the General
Assenbly at its 24th plenary meeting, on 8 @tober L982' took place at the 3rd to
28th meetings, fron 18 october to 5 November (see A,/c'1/37/Pv'3-281 '

4. In connection with iten 44, the First Comnittee had before it the folloring
documents:

(a) Report of the secretary-General (N37/432)',

(b) I€tter dated 22 June 1982 from the Char96 drAffaires a.i. of the
permanent Mission of Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the Fina1 Conununiqu6 and other documents of the Ministerial Meeting of
the Co-ordinating Bureau of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from
3I May to 5 .rune 1982 (N37/333)i

82-3sL78 0s96i (E)

UNITED
NATIONS

•
Oeneral Assembly

A

Distr.
GENERAL

A/37/656
6 December 1982

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Thirty-seventh session
Agenda item 44

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE DENOCLEARIZATION OF AFRICA

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Luvsangiin ERDENECHULUUN (Mongolia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on the Denuclearization
of Africa: report of the Secretary-General" was included in the provisional agenda
of the thirty-seventh session in accordance with General Assembly resolutions
36/86 A and B of 9 December 1981.

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 September 1982, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 29 September, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 39 to 57, 133 and 136. The general debate on these items and on
items 138 and 139, which were allocated to the First Committee by the General
Assembly at its 24th plenary meeting, on 8 october 1982, took place at the 3rd to
28th meetings, from 18 OCtober to 5 November (see A/C.l/37/PV.3-28).

4. In connection with item 44, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the secretary-General (Al37/432)~

(b) Letter dated 22 June 1982 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the Final Communique and other documents of the Ministerial Meeting of
the Co-ordinating Bureau of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from
31 May to 5 June 1982 (A/37/333);

82-35178 0596i (E) / ...



^/37 
/6s6

English
Page 2

(c) retter dated tl october 1982 from the Permanent Representative of cuba tothe tlnited Nations addressed to the secretary-General, transmitting the Finalconununiqu6 and other documents of the lleetin! of Ministers for rroreign Affairs and
Heads of Delegation of the Non-Aligned Countries, held in New york from 4 to9 october 1982 (py'37/S4ol.

rI. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAI.S

A. Draft resolution A/C.I,/32lL.32
5. or 17 Novernber, Kenya, on behalf of the Group of Afrlcan Member states,
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Implementation of the Declaration onDenuclearization of Africa" (F{C.L/37/L.37'). iltre draft resorution ltras introducedby the representative of Kenya at the 37th meeting, on 19 llovember.

B. Draft resolution A,/C.1,/37,/L.3g
5' or 17 November, Kenva, on behalf of the Group of African Member states,
subnitted a draft resolution entitled nNuclear capability of South Africar(?t/c.L/37/L.3S), which was later also sponsored UV gt"f.. rtre draft resolution rdas
introduced by the rePresentative of Kenya at the SZttt tneeting, on 19 lrbvember.
7 ' At its 44th meeting, on 25 November, the Conunittee voted on draft resolution
VC.L/37/L.37 as foltows:

(a) operative paragraph 3 was adopted by a recorded vote of 99 to g, with 15abstentions. The voting was as follows:

fn favour: Afghanistan, Albania, A1geria, Angola, Argentinar Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, BoJ.ivia, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Chinar Colonbia,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yenen,
Djibouti, Ibtninican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Gabon, German Denocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (fslamic
Republic of ) , Iraq, ilamaica, ilordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
Peoplers Etenpcratic Republic, Iebanon, Liberia, tibyan Arab
Janahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, MaIi, Malta, Mauritania,
Mexico, l,tongolia, llorocco, l4ozarnbique, Nepal , Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, onan, pakistan, peru, philippines, poland,
Qatar, Romania, Rvranda, Sao Some and principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
suriname, syrian Arab Republicr Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
ltobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, ukrainian soviet socialist
Republic' Union of soviet sociarist Repubtics, united Arab
Bniratesr united Repubric of cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia,
ZaLre, Zambia.

A/37/656
English
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 11 OCtober 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba to
the united Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the Final
Co~unique and other documents of the Meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and
Heads of Delegation of the Non-Aligned Countries, held in New York from 4 to
9 OCtober 1982 (A/37/540).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.37

5. Ch 17 November, Kenya, on behalf of the Group of Afr ican Member states,
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on
Denuclearization of Africa" (A/C.l/37/L.37). The draft resolution was introduced
by the representative of Kenya at the 37th meeting, on 19 NOvember.

B. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.38

6. Ch 17 November, Kenya, on behalf of the Group of African Member states,
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Nuclear capability of South Africa"
(A/C.l/37/L.38), which was later also sponsored by Qatar. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Kenya at the 37th meeting, on 19 November.

7. At its 44th meeting, on 26 November, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.37 as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 3 was adopted by a recorded vote of 99 to 8, with 15
abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil,
BUlgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Gabon, German Democratic Republic t Ghana, Greece,
Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao TOme and principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
TObago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Uklainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, union of Soviet SOCialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, united Republic of Cameroon, united Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
zaire, Zambia.

/ ...



Against: Belgium, France, Germany, Ebderal Republic of, Italy'
Luxembourg, Netherlands, ttnited Kingdon of Great Britain
librthern lreland, united States of Anerica.

v37 /656
Engllsh
Page 3

and

Abstainings Australla, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finlandr Iceland,
Ireland, Israe1 , ilapan, Malawir New ZeaLand, ltbrway,
Portugall Strnin, Srreden.

(b) Draft resolution NC.L/37/L.37, as a whole, nas adopted by a recorded
vote of 110 to none, with 13 abstentions (see para. 9, draft resolution A). :Ihe
voting \ras as follows:

fn favour: Afghanistanr Albania, Algeria, Ango1a, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan'
Bolivia, BraziI, Bulgaria, Burmar Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African RepubJ.ict
Chad, Chile, China, Colombiar Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djiboutit
Dominican nepublic, Ecuador, EgYPt' Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, German Democratic nepublic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea,
Guyana, Hungary, IceLand, India, fndonesia, Iran (Islamic
nepubLic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenyar Kuwaitt
Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Liblzan
Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, !4ali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, llongoliar llorocco, lbzanbiquer t{ePal,
Nicaraguar Nigerr Nigeria, I'ibrwayr Oman, Pakistan, Peru,
Philippinesr PoLand, Qatar, Romania, Rvanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra I€one, Singatrnre,
Somalia, Strnin, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sneden, Syrian
Arab Republic, :Ihailand, Togo, frinidad and ltobago, Ttrnisia,
Turkey, tgandal Ukrainian Soviet SociaList Republic, union
of Soviet Socialist nepublicsr united Arab Elnirates, tlnited
nepublic of Cameroon, Ilnited Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
VenezueLa, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zairer Zambia.

Against: libne.

Abstaining: Belgiumr Francer Germany, Fbderal Republic of, Israel,
Italy, ilaPan, Luxembourg, MaLawi, Netherlandsr New Zealand,
PortugaL, united Kingdon of Great Britain and tibrthern
Ireland, United States of America.

A/37/656
English
Page 3

Against: Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy,
Luxembour~, Netherlands, united Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, united states of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Japan, Malawi, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, SWeden.

(b) Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.37, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 110 to none, with 13 abstentions (see para. 9, draft resolution A). The
voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet SOCialist Republic, Canada, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea,
Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, r-talaysie;t, Mali, Malta,
Mauri tania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, oman, Pakistan, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Bao TOme and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri ~nka, Sudan, Suriname, SWeden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, TOgo, Trinidad and TObago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, union
of Soviet SOCialist Republics, united Arab Emirates, united
Republic of Cameroon, united Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Portugal, united Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

I ...



v37 /6s6
Ftrglisb
Page 4

8. At the same rneeting, the comnittee adopted draft resotution A/c.L/37/L.3g by
recorded vote of 107 to 5, with I0 abstentions (see para. 9, draft resolution B).
The voting was as follorrs: I

In favour:

Against:

Abstaining: Australia, Canada, Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlands, New Zea1and,
Fortugal.

y _ The delegation of suriname subseguently indicated that it had intended tovote in favour.

Afghanistan, Albania, AJ.geria, Ango1a, Argentina, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Brazil, Bulgarial Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist nepublic, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Denocratic Yemen, Erenmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Fin1and, Gabon, cerman
Denocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary,
fceland, India, fndonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao people's
Denocratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
ilamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mexico, llongolia, Ilicrocco, lrlczambique, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Onan, pakistan, peru, philippines,
Po1and, Qatar2 Romania, Rvranda, Sao lrome and principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra I€one, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudanl Sneden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, I\rrkey, tJganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
socialist Repr$li.csr tlnited Arab-Enirates, united nepublic
of Carneroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet lihm, yemen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.
Belgiun, France, Israel, Suriname, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern lreland, United States of-America.

A/37/656
Fnglisb
Page 4

8. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.38 by a
recorded vote of 107 to 6, with 10 abstentions (see para. 9, draft resolution B).
The voting was as follows: y

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, sao Tome and Principe, saudi
Arabia, senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, SUdan, SWeden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Ara!>,.Emirat.&s, United Republic
of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Belgium, France, Israel, Suriname, united Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of/America.

Abstaining: Australia, Canada, Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Portugal.

!I The delegation of Suriname subsequently indicated that it had intended to
vote in favour.

/ ...



Py'37/6s6
English
Page 5

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OE THE FIRST COMMITTEE

?;tr#intil::.":H:i;:iJ::"'*ends to the Generar Assemblv rhe adoprion or rhe
IMPLEMENTATTON OF TTIE DrcLARATION ON THE DENTrcLEARTZATION OF AFRICA

A

Implennntation of the Declaration
TtlQ Gener:'l aeco-l.t.,

Bearing in nind the Decraration on the Denucrearization of Africa / adoptedby the Assembly of Heads of state and Goverrrr"rrt of the organization of Africanunity at its first ordinary session, herd at cairo from rz to 2L July 1964,
Recarrinc its earliest resolution 1652 ()vr) of 24 litcvember 1961 on thesuDJect as well as resolutions 32/gI of L2 oecemner Lg77, 33/63 of14 December 1978, 34/76 A of Ll December Lg7gr 35/L46 B of 12 December 19g0, and36/86 B of 9 Decernber 1981, in 

"rri.r, it calrli upon all states ro consider andrespect the continent of Africa as a nucrear-weapon-free zone, and in particularits resolution 33/63 in wrricrr-it_.rigorourry-.oialmnea 
"rry 

o.r"it or covert attenprby south Africa to introduce nucle"i n 
"upois into the continent,

. Toting wittr..g?ncgLg thi;'soutnTfricars continued pursuit of a nucrear rdeaponscapability seriouErySpardizes the reali".tio' of the objective of adenuclearized Africa ina-poses-a grave danger not only to the security of Africanstates but also to internitionat pe""e .rra""""uiity,
Taking note of the retrnrt of the security council comnittee estabrished byresorution 42L (L977) concerning the ways and means of making the mandatory armsembargo against South Africa moil effe"-tirr"-, y- rn particular its recommendationthat all forms of nuclear collaboration with 6uth Africa should cease,
Expressing its indionation that certain western countries and rsrael have, inflagrant ana a"riEntEGEilf its pertinent resolutions and in utter disregardof international concern on the subjecl, continued to corlaborate with souttr Africain the nucrear field despite 

-tr,. 
riix 

""a-i."g.i ot protiferation of nuclearweapons which the nuclear progranune of the racist r6fime ."n.""""as and poses tothe legitimate right of Af;ic;n states to rive in peace within secure borders,

a
agenda item to5, Effint

Official Records of the
PJs975.

General Assenbl Tlrentieth Session Annexes,

Official Records of the
for t and Se 80, document s/L4L79.

v
Jul Security Cou il, Thirty-fifth year lement

A/37/656
English
Page 5

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

9. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE DENUCLEARIZATION OF AFRICA

A

Implementation of the Declaration

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the Declaration on the Denuclearization of Africa ~ adopted
by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African
Unity at its first ordinary session, held at Cairo from 17 to 21 JUly 1964,

Recalling its earliest resolution 1652 (XVI) of 24 November 1961 on the
subject as well as resolutions 32/81 of 12 December 1977, 33/63 of
14 December 1978, 34/76 A of 11 December 1979, 35/146 B of 12 December 1980, and
36/86 B of 9 December 1981, in which it called upon all States to consider and
respect the continent of Africa as a nuclear-weapon-free zone, and in particular
its resolution 33/63 in which it vigorously condemned any overt or covert attempt
by South Africa to introduce nuclear weapons into the continent,

:~~... .~

Noting with concern 'that South Africa's continued pursuit of a nuclear weapons
capability seriously jeopardizes the realization of the objective of a
denuclearized Africa and poses a grave danger not only to the security of African
States but also to international peace and security,

Taking note of the report of the security Council Committee established by
resolution 421 (1977) concerning the ways and means of making the mandatory arms
embargo against South Africa more effective, ~ in particular its recommendation
that all forms of nuclear collaboration with SOuth Africa should cease,

Expressing its indignation that certain western countries and Israel have, in
flagrant and defiant violation of its pertinent resolutions and in utter disregard
of international concern on the subject, continued to collaborate with South Africa
in the nuclear field despite the risk and danger of proliferation of nuclear
weapons which the nuclear programme of the racist regime represents and poses to
the legitimate right of African states to live in peace within secure borders,

~ Official Records of the General Assembly, Twentieth Session, Annexes,
agenda item 105, document A/5975.

~ Official Records of the Security Council, Thirty-fifth Year, Supplement
for July, August and September 1980, document 8/14179.

/ ...



N37/6s6
English
Page 6

necallinq its decisionr contained ln ttre Final Document of ttre Tenth Special
session of ttre @neral Assenbly devoted to disarnament, that the security council
should take aPpropriate stePs to Prevent the frustration of the objective of the
organizatlon of airican unrty for the denuclearization of Afrilca, lil

Recalling that ln ttre Final Document it noted ttrat the accumulation of
arrnarnente and the acquisition of armaments technology by racist r6gimes as 

well as
tlrelr possible acquisition of nuclear weaPons Present a challenging and an
increasing dangerous obstacle to a world corrnunity faced with the urgent need 

to

dlsarm,

I. Once again reiterates its call upon all States to consider and respect
the contlrrerrt oi-ffilid it" surrounding areas as a nuclear-weapon-free zone?

2. Condemns aII forms of nuclear collaboration by any State' corporation'
institutlon or fiEt.riau"l with the racist r6gime of south Africa since such
co11aborationenab1esittofrustrate,@,theobjectiveofttreDec1aration
on the Denucrearization of Africa wrricnErsTilreep Africa free from nuclear
weaponst

3. Calls upon aLl states, corporations, institutions and individuals to
terminate torUrwith all military and nuclear collaboration with the racist 

r6gime

;ilatt-*;i;;, irrcIudins the lrovision to it of such related dual PurPose
n6terialg as computers, eiectroiric equipnent and related technologyi

4. Requests the security council for the purposes of disarmament, to take
enforcernent measures through strict adherence by all States to-its relevant
decisions to prevent any ricist rfuines from any acquisition of arms or arms
technologYl

5. Requests the security council in this connexion to conclude expeditiously
its consideration of the recomnrendations of the conuuittee established by 

resolution

42L lLglll concerning ttre guestion on South Africa with a view to 
blocking the

existing loopholes in tjre arms .tu"tg", rendering it nore effective and 
prohibiting

ln trnrtlcurar a1r forns of co-operation and colliboration witfi 
the racist r6gine of

Soutfr Africa in the nuclear fieldl

6. Ilernands that south Africa submit all its nuclear installations and
ractriites$r-hspeilion by the rnternatlonaL Atomic Energy Agency?

?. Decides to include in ttre provisional agenda of lts thirty-eighth session
the ltem entitled trImplementation of the Declaration on the DenucLearization 

of
Afr ica'.

!/ Resolution s-Lo/2, Para. 63 (c) .

A/37/656
English
hge 6

Recalling its decision, contained in the Final Document of the Tenth Special
session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament, that the Security Council
should take appropriate steps to prevent the frustration of the objective of the
Organization of African unity for the denuclearization of Africa, !I

Recalling that in the Final Document it noted that the accumulation of
armaments and the acquisition of armaments technology by racist regimes as well as
their possible acquisition of nuclear weapons present a challenging and an
increasing dangerous obstacle to a world community faced with the urgent need to
disarm,

1. once again reiterates its call upon all States to consider and respect
the continent of Africa and its surrounding areas as a nuclear-weapon-free zone;

2. Condemns all forms of nuclear collaboration by any State, corporation,
institution or individual with the racist regime of SOuth Africa since such
collaboration enables it to frustrate, inter alia, the objective of the Declaration
on the Denuclearization of Africa which seeks to keep Africa free from nuclear
weapons;

3. Calls upon all States, corporations, institutions and individuals to
terminate forthwith all military and nuclear collaboration with the racist regime
of South Africa, including the provision to it of such related dual purpose
materials as computers, electronic equipment and related technology;

4. Requests the Security Council for the purposes of disarmament, to take
enforcement measures through strict adherence by all States to its relevant
decisions to prevent any racist regimes from any acquisition of arms or arms
technologYJ

5. Requests the security Council in this connexion to conclude expeditiously
its consideration of the recommendations of the Committee established by resolution
421 (1977) concerning the question on SOuth Africa with a view to blocking the
existing loopholes in the arms embargo, rendering it more effective and prohibiting
in particular all forms of co-operation and collaboration with the racist regime of
SOuth Africa in the nuclear field,

6. Demands that SOuth Africa submit all its nuclear installations and
facilities for inspection by the International Atomic Energy Agency;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item entitled "Implementation of the Declaration on the Denuclearization of
Africa".

!I Resolution S-10/2, para. 63 (c).

I ...



the General Assembly,

Recallin_q. its resolutlons 34/ZA B of ll Decernber Lg7g, 3S/L46 A ofrz oeffiffigo and 36/86 a 
"e 9 December-iggr,

Bearing in mind the Decraration on the Denuclearization of Mrica !/ adoptedby the Assembly of rleads of state and Governlnent of the organrzatron of Afrlcantrnirv aE its r]'rst "r;i;.;; lJ""ion, hera ar cairo from L7 to 2r irury Lg64,
Recalrino that' in its resolution 33/63 of 14 Decenber Lg7-g. lt vigorously_-condemned anv overt or covert attempt uv's"uur'Africa to irrttoiuce nucrear weaponsinto the coniinent and demandea thai s"'"tr,-airica refrai";;;thrith from 

"oiJulting
any nucrear exprosion in the continent of atii". or elsewhere,

Recalling that in the Finat Document of the trenth speciar session of theGeneral Assembly y it noted that the accumuration of .rio.r"rri" and the acquisitronof arnaments techn-ology by trre-'r""i"t 
"ggi."iJ weu as their trnssible acgulsitionof nuclear lteapons presented a charrensiin ;";-an increasingrydangerous obstacreto a world cormrunity faced witrr trre uri"rri n".a to disarn,

Alarned that south Africars nuclear programne has enabred it to acguire anuclearqreapon capabilitv 
""d r:t. th.a-";;;iiii.v r,as u""i eiLanced by thecont'inued suppol! ana aciiv""o1l"uor"tror,-n t,iln 

""rt"in l{estern countrtes andrsraer have readily given t" it in pursuarr"" oi'their economic interests and:;"ff:'ffi;:.T:.'i*, ir n'o"s violation or-e," rerevant ,."oiul,ons and decisions
Taking note-of the retrnrt of.jhe security council conunittee established byresotution 42L (1927, concirning the gu."ti";'oi,.y" ana m"ans of makrng themandatory arrns ernbargo against south Africa rpre effective, !/ aswerl as itsreport pursuant ro securirv councir resoruiiii-izi-d;;;;:, gi "
Having examined the report of 

!lrg-sgcretary-cenerar of- 9 september r9g0 !/ aewerr as his reports or s seiternu": 
l?Br y ^ni-'zo ,"pl.ru.i. irii, e,/ submirted:l|ffili.;""f [* ffig]t resorutio,,"*ssTiao-a .,,a 36/s6 a br, tr,. nucrear

A/37/656
Englteh
Page 7

B

Nuclear capability of South Africa

y Resolution S-LO/2.

v
Jul

Official ds

a
v
z/

Srirt

I{35/402 and Corr.I.

Py'36/430.

a/37/432.
,../

document s/L4L67.
ifth Year

A/37/656
English
Page 7

B

Nuclear capability of SOuth Africa

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 34/76 B of 11 December 1979, 35/146 A of
12 December 1980 and 36/86 A of 9 December 1981,

Bearing in mind the Declaration on the Denuclearization of Africa 31 adopted
by the Assembly of Heads of state and Government of the Organization of African
unity at its first ordinary session, held at Cairo from 17 to 21 July 1964,

Recalling that, in its resolution 33/63 of 14 December 1978, it vigorously
condemned any overt or covert attempt by SOuth Africa to introduce nuclear weapons
into the continent and demanded that SOuth Africa refrain forthwith from conducting
any nuclear explosion in the continent of Africa or elsewhere,

Recalling that in the Final Document of the Tenth Special session of the
General Assembly 21 it noted that the accumulation of armaments and the acquisition
of armaments technology by the racist regime as well as their possible acquisition
of nuclear weapons presented a challenging and an increasingly dangerous obstacle
to a world community faced with the urgent need to disarm,

Alarmed that south Africa's nuclear programme has enabled it to acquire a
nuclear-weapon capability and that that capability has been enhanced by the
continued support and active collaboration which certain Western countries and
Israel have readily given to it in pursuance of their economic interests and
geostrategic designs, in gross violation of the relevant resolutions and decisions
of the united Nations,

Taking note of the report of the Security COuncil Committee established by
resolution 421 (1977) concerning the question of ways and means of making the
mandatory arms embargo against South Africa more effective, ~ as well as its
report pursuant to Security Council resolution 473 (1980), ~

Having examined the report of the Secretary-General of 9 September 1980 11 as
well as his reports of 3 September 1981 !I and 20 September 198~, !I submitted
pursuant to General Assembly resolutions 35/146 A and 36/86 A on the nuclear
capability of South Africa,

Resolution S-10/2.

Official Records of the Security Council, Thirty-fifth Year, Supplement
August and September 1980, document S/14l67.

21
y

for July,

y

y

V

A/35/402 and Oorr.l.

A/36/430.

A/37/432.

~~

/

/
/ .. ~

/
I



A/37 /6s7
Irlglish
Page 2

rr. CoNSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A,/C.l/37/L.49 and Rev.l

5. on L7 November, ryypt submitted a draft resolution entitled I'Establishnent of
a nuclear-weapopfreeZi6 in the region of the Midd1e East, (A/c.L/37/L.49), which
was introduced by its representative at the 38th rneeting, on 19 l.lovember. The
draft resol-ution read as followe:

"The @neral AssemblY,

..@9'itsreso1utions3263(xxIx),3474(XXX)'3l/7I,32/82,33/64,
zq/lt, zvtn and 36/87 on the establishment of a nuclear,-weapon-free zone in
the uicldle East,

''@therecommendationsintheFina1Documentofthe1'enth
speciaffinorTneGenera1Assernb1yfort}reestab1ishmentofsuchazone
in the Miildle East consistent with paragraphs 50-63, in particular
paragraph 63 (d) ,

"mphu"i"ing the basie provisions of the above resolutions which call
upon aFla-rtierairectly concerned to: consider taking practical and urgent
sieps req-uired for the implementation of the proposal to establish a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East, pending and during the
establishnent of such a zone to declare solennly that they will refrain, on a
reciprocal basis, from producing, acquiring or in any other lray possessing
nuclear $reapons and nuclear explosive devices and from permitting the
stationing of nuclear weapons on ttreir territory by any third party and to
agree to place all their nuelear facilities under the International Atonic
Brergy agln.y safeguards and declare their support for the establishment of
the zone and deposit such declaration with the Security Council for
consideration as approPriate,

"Sg. that already II Middle Eastern States are parties to the Treaty
on the lon-proliferation of Nuclear weaponst

"Realizing that adherence to the aforementloned Treaty by aIl States of
ttre region r.'outd be conducive to a speedy establishment of the
nuclear-weapon-f r ee zone,

,,tEaffirming the inalienable right of all States to acguire and develop
nucrea@r peaceful purposes,

,mph""iring furth"r that all peaceful nuclear facilities should be
protec€Ld against nilitary attacks, nuclear or conventional,

',x=-"ring in *ir,g the consensus reached at the thirty-fifth session of the
ceneraffibly that the establishrnent of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the
Middle East would greatly enhance international peace and security'

,,Desirous to build on that consensus so that substantial progress can be
maae tffiffistablishing a nuclear-ldeapon-free zone in the Middle East,

A/37/657
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.l/37/L.49 and Rev.l

5. On 17 NOvember, B2ypt submitted a draft resolution entitled "Establishment of
a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region of the Middle East" (A/C.l/37/L.49), which
was introduced by its representative at the 38th meeting, on 19 NOvember. The
draft resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling its resolutions 3263 (XXIX), 3474 (XXX), 31/71, 32/82, 33/64,
34/77, 35/147 and 36/87 on the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in
the Middle East,

"Recalling also the recommendations in the Final oocument of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly for the establishment of such a zone
in the Middle East consistent with paragraphs 60-63, in particular
paragraph 63 (d),

"Emphasizing the basic provlslons of the above resolutions which call
upon all parties directly concerned to: consider taking practical and urgent
steps required for the implementation of the proposal to establish a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East, pending and during the
establishment of such a zone to declare solemnly that they will refrain, on a
reciprocal basis, from producing, acquiring or in any other way possessing
nuclear weapons and nuclear explosive devices and from permitting the
stationing of nuclear weapons on their territory by any third party and to
agree to place all their nuclear facilities under the International Atomic
Energy Jlgency safeguards and declare the ir support for the establishment of
the zone and deposit such declaration with the Security Council for
consideration as appropriate,

"NOting that already 11 Middle Eastern states are parties to the Treaty
on the NOn-proliferation of NUclear Weapons,

"Realizing that adherence to the aforementioned Treaty by all states of
the region would be conducive to a speedy establishment of the
nuclear-weapon-free zone,

"Re affirming the inalienable right of all States to acquire and develop
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes,

"Emphasizing further that all peaceful nuclear facilities should be
protected against military attacks, nuclear or conventional,

"Bearing in mind the conSensus reached at the thirty-f ifth session of the
General Assembly that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the
Middle East would greatly enhance international peace and security,

"Desirous to build on that consensus so that substantial progress can be
made towards establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East,

I . ..



A /37 /6s7
EngIish
Page 3

rr 39:g&g that the adherence by all parties in the region to thej
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear weapons would facilitate the
establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in t}e Middle Easti

"2. Invites thoEe parties in the region which have not yet done so, to
adhere to Tiffiaty on ttre lpn-proriferation of tituclear weapons;

n3. Calls upon all countries of the region which have not yet done so,
pending ttrGfur-is-snnent of the zone, to agree to place all their nuclear
activities under the fnternational Atomic Brergy lbency safeguards;

n4. Invites those countries, pending ttre establishment of a
nuclear-weaffifr, ee zone in the rrliaafe nast to declare their support for
establishing such a zone in the region, consistent with the relevant paragraptr
of the Final f,bcument of the Tenth Special Session and to deposit thole
declarations w.ith the Security 6unciI;

tr5. rnvites further those eountries, pending the establishment of the
2ane,notEGffiuce,testorotherwiseacquirenucIear!ileaponsor
pernit the statiqning on'their territories or territories under their control,
of nuclear vreapons or nuclear explosive devices;

'16. Invitqs the nuelear-weapon States and alI other states to render
theirassiffiotheestab1ishmentofthezoneandattJtesametimeto
gefrain from any action which runs counter to both the letter and spirit of
the present resolution;

a7. *"nr""a" the Seeretary-General to subnit a report to the
thirty'eigrtt-fr-;;;ion of the eeneral Assembly on the implementation of tfre
present resolution;

'8. Dg8!= to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth
session trtEFem entitled trEstablishment of a nucrear-weapon-free zone in the
region of the Middle East.n

6. On 24 Ncvember, Eypt subnitted a revised draft resolution
(A/c.L/37/L.49/aev.1l-fn wtrich the fourth and fifth preambular paragraphs and
operative paragraptrs I and 2 had been deleted and a new operative paragratr*t I had
been added.

7 ' At its 45th meeting, on 26 November, the conmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.V37/L.49/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 8).

III. REOMII,IENDATIoN oF TI'E FIRST @MMITTEE
8. The FirsE Comnittee reconmends to the General Assembly ttre adoption of the
following draft resolution:

A/37/657
English
Page 3

"1. Resolves that the adherence by all parties in the region to the
Treaty on the NOn-proliferation of Nuclear Weapons would facilitate the
establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East;

"2. Invites those part ies in the region which have not yet done so, to
adhere to the Treaty on the lik>n-proliferation of NUclear weapons;

"3. Calls upon all countr ies of the region which have not yet done so,
pending the establishment of the zone, to agree to place all their nuclear
activities under the International Atomic Energy Agency safeguards;

"4. Invites those countries, pending the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East to declare their support for
establishing such a zone in the region, consistent with the relevant paragraph
of the Final DOcument of the Tenth Special Session and to deposit those
declarations with the Security COuncil;

"5. Invites further those countries, pending the establishment of the
zone, not to develop, produce, test or otherwise acquire nuclear weapons or
permit the stationing on their territories or territories under their control,
of nuclear weapons or nuclear explosive devices;

"6. Invites the nuclear-weapon States and all other States to render
their assistance to the establishment of the zone and at the same time to
refrain from any action which runs counter to both the letter and spirit of
the present resolution;

"7. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the
thirty-eighth session of the General Assembly on the implementation of the
present resolution;

"8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth
session the item entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the
region of the Middle East."

6. On 24 NOvember, Egypt submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.l/37/L.49/Rev.l) in which the fourth and fifth preambular paragraphs and
operative paragraphs 1 and 2 had been deleted and a new operative paragraph 1 had
been added.

7. At its 45th meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.49/Rev.l without a vote (see para. 8).

IU. REa>MMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

8. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

/ ...



A/37/657
English
Page 4

Establishment of a nuclear-wgapon-free zone in
the region of the ttliddLe Bast

Ihe General AssenblY,

Recalling its resolutions 3263 (XXIx) of 9 December 1974' 3474 (XXR of
ff recemUer fgZ', 3V7L of 10 December L9760 32/82 of L2 December L977, 33/64
of 14 December L978, 34/77 of 11 Decenber L979, 35/L47 of L2 December 1980 and
36/87 of 9 f,Ecenber 198I on the establishment of a nuclear{feapon-free zone in
the Middle Ehst,

Recalling aleo the recommendatlons for the establishnent of such a zone
in tfrlUffi paet consistent with paragraphs 60 to 63, in Particular
paragraph 63 (d), of the Final tbcument of the lbnth Special Session of the
General essembly, 1/

Bnphasizlng the basic provisions of the above resolutions' which call
upon aff parttes directly concerned to consider taking the practical and
urgent steps required for the irnplementation of the proposal to establish a
nuclear-weapon-free zone ln ttre Middle East and, pending and during the
establishment of such a zone, to declare solemnly that they will refrain' on a
reciprocal basis, from producing, acquiring or in any other way possessing
nuclear yreapons and nuclear explosive devices and from pernittlng the
stationing of nuclear weapons on their territory by any third party, and to
agree to place aIl their nuclear facilities under International Atonic Utergy
egency safeguards and declare tfieir support for the establishnent of the zone
and deposit such declaration with the Security Councll for consideration, as
appropriate,

reaffirm+ng the inallenable right of all. States to acquire and develop
nuclear energy for p,eaceful purtrnses,

EtnFhasizing further the need for appropriate measures on the guestion of
the prohiEfEion of military attacks on nuclear facilities,

Bearing in'nind the consensus reached by the @neral Assernbly at its
trrfrtIliTEffiEffi that the establishment of a nuclear-tdeapon-free zone in
the Middle East would greatly enhance international peace and security'

LEslrous to build on that consensus so that substantial progress can be
nade E;ffiFtstablishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle Ebst'

v Resolutlon s-L0/2.

A/37/657
English
page 4

Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in
the region of the Middle Ea st

The General ASsembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3263 (XXIX) of 9 December 1974, 3474 (XXX) of
11 December 1975, 31/71 of 10 December 1976, 32/82 of 12 December 1977, 33/64
of 14 December 1978, 34/77 of 11 December 1979, 35/147 of 12 December 1980 and
36/87 of 9 December 1981 on the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in
the Middle East,

Recalling also the recommendations for the establishment of such a zone
in the Middle East consistent with paragraphs 60 to 63, in particular
paragraph 63 (d), of the Final DOcument of the Tenth Special Session of the
General ASsembly, y

Emphasizing the basic provisions of the above resolutions, which call
upon all parties directly concerned to consider taking the practical and
urgent steps required for the implementation of the proposal to establish a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East and, pending and during the
establishment of such a zone, to declare solemnly that they will refrain, on a
reciprocal basis, from producing, acquiring or in any other way possessing
nuclear weapons and nuclear explosive devices and from permitting the
stationing of nuclear weapons on their territory by any third party, and to
agree to place all their nuclear facilities under International Atomic Energy
Agency safeguards and declare their support for the establishment of the zone
and deposit such declaration with the Security Council for consideration, as
appropriate,

Reaffirming the inalienable right of all States to acquire and develop
nuclear energy for peaceful purposes,

Emphasizing further the need for appropriate measures on the question of
the prohibition of military attacks on nuclear facilities,

Bearing in mind the consensus reached by the General Assembly at its
thirty-fifth session that the establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in
the Middle East would greatly enhance international peace and security,

Desirous to build on that consensus so that substantial progress can be
made towards establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East,

!I Resolution S-10/2.

/ ...



^/37/6s7Br9lis h
Page 5

l-. Urges aJ.1 parties dlrectly concerned to consider seriously taking
the practical and urgent steps regulred for the inplementation of the proposal
to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Midd1e East in accordance with
the relevant resolutions of the @neral Assernbl-y and, as a neans of promoting
this objective, invites the countries concerned to adhere to the Treaty on the
tpn-proliferation of Mrclear weaponsi 2/

2. Calls upon all countries of ttre region that have not done so,
pending ttrETGEEtrment of the zone, to agree to place aIl their nuclear
activities under International Atomic Urergy egency safeguardsl

3. rnvites those countries, pending the estabrishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middte East, to declare their support for
establishing such a zone in the region, consistent with the relevant paragratr*t
of the Final Fcunent of the lEnth special Session of the General assembly, -
and to deposit those declarations with the security councir;

4. Invites further those countries, pending the establishment of the
zone' not lffiIop]lEauce, test or otherwise acquire nuclear weapons or
perrnit the stationing on their territories, or territories under their
control-, of nuclear weapons or nuclear explosive deviees;

5. Invites the nuclear-weapon States and all other States to render
their assiGilce to the establishment of the zone and at the same time to
refrain fron any action that runs counter to both the letter and spirit of the
present resolution;

6. Reguests the Secretary-General to subrnit a report to the General
assembly at its thirty-€ighth session on t*re inplementation of the present
resolution;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth
session tte itern entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-tdeapon-free zone in the
region of the Middle Eastr'.

! Resolution 2373 (XXII), annex.

-

A/37/657
English
Page 5

1. urges all parties directly concerned to consider seriously taking
the practical and urgent steps required for the implementation of the proposal
to establish a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East in accordance with
the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and, as a means of promoting
this objective, invites the countries concerned to adhere to the Treaty on the
NOn-proliferation of NUclear Weapons; 'l-/

2. Calls upon all countries of the region that have not done so,
pending the establishment of the zone, to agree to place all their nuclear
activities under International Atomic Energy Jl.gency safeguards;

3. Invites those countries, pending the establishment of a
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the Middle East, to declare their support for
establishing such a zone in the region, consistent with the relevant paragraph
of the Final DOCument of the Tenth Special session of the General Assembly,
and to deposit those declarations with the Security Council;

4. Invites further those countries, pending the establishment of the
zone, not to develop, produce, test or otherwise acquire nuclear weapons or
permit the stationing on their territories, or territories under their
control, of nuclear weapons or nuclear explosive devices;

5. Invites the nuclear-weapon states and all other states to render
their assistance to the establishment of the zone and at the same time to
refrain from any action that runs counter to both the letter and spirit of the
present resolution;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report to the General
Assembly at its thirty-eighth session on the implementation of the present
resolution;

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth
session the item entitled "Establishment of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the
region of the Middle East".

~/ Resolution 2373 (XXII), annex.


