












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

^/37 
/6s9

3 December L982

ORIGINATs ENGLISH

ilhirty-seventh session
Agenda item 47

PROITIBITION OF THE DEI/EIOPMENT A}ID MANUFACTURE OF NEI{ TY?ES OF
WtsAPONS OF I'IASS DESTRTTTION AND NEW SYSTEMS OF StrcH WEAPONS

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Luvsangiin ERDENECTIULUUN (Viongolia)

I. INTRODTNTION

1. The item entitled "Prohibition of the development and lnanufacture of new types
of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons: retrnrE of the
Conunittee on Disarmament[ was included in the provisional agenda of the
thirty-seventh session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 36/89 of
9 Decemkrer 198I.

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 September L982, the General Assembly, on the
recornrnendation of the General Coriunitteer decided to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Comrnittee.

3. At its 2nd meetinlt, on 29 September, the First Conunittee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 39 to 57, I33 and 136. The general debate on these iterns and on
iterns I38 and 139, which were allocated to the First Committee by the General
Assembly at its 24th plenary meeting on 8 October L982, took place at the 3rd to
28tlr neetings, from 18 October to 5 November (see A/C.L/37/Pv.3-281.

4. In connexion with item 47, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

Re5nrt of the Conunittee on Disarmament; 1rl(a)

82-34812 0727e (E)

Thirt seventh ssion,L/ Official Records of the General Assembl
Supplement No. 27 (P{37/271.



A/37 /6se
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 22 June 1982 from the Charg6 a,affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-GeneraL,
transmitting the Final Conununiq6e and other documents of the Ministerial Meeting of
the Co-ordinating Bureau of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana from 3I !4ay
to 5 June L9820 to the thirty-seventh session of the General Assenbly
(A/37 /333-s/L527 8) .

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. oraft resolution A/C.1/3?/L.43

5. Al 17 November, Afghanistan, Aqggb, Benin, Bulgaria, Burundi, the
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Congo, 5!s, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Ethiopia, the German Denpcratic Republic, $!3g, I!g3g.ry., the Lao peoplers
Del.nocfatic Republic, Mongolia, l4ozambique, the Nigerr Egfg$, Romania, sao Tome andprirpipg, thg Syria{r Arab Republic, the ukrainian soviet socialist nepublic, the
Union of Soviet SociaList Republics, Viet Nam and yemen suUnittea a araft
resolution (A/C.L/37/L.43). lltre draft resolution lras introduced by the
representative of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic at the 36th meeting,
otr 18 November.

6. At its 41st meeting, on 23 November, the Conunittee adopted draft resolution
P/C.L/37/L.43 by a recorded vote of 99 to none, with 26 abstentions (see para. 10,
draft resolution I). The vote r^ras as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, BraziI, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
CzechosLovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, E9ypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Denpcratic
Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Irag, Jarnaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
Peoplers Democratic Repub1ic, Iebanon, Liberia, l,ibyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexicol ldongolia, I'lorocco, Ir{ozambigue, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan, Panama, papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, eatar, Romania, Rrlanda, Sao
Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone. Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Sudanr Suriname, Syrian Arab Repub1ic, Ttrailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, tlganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet SociaList Republics, United Arab Enirates, Unitecl
Republic of Cameroon, Unit,ed Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet, Nam, Yemen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

None.Against:

Abstainingr Australia, Austria, Bergium, canada, Denmark, France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, freland, Israel,



N37/659
nnglish
Page 3

Italy, JaPan' Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand' lilcrway'
Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Turkeyl tlrrited
Kingdom of Great Britain and tilorthern Ireland, United States of
Arnerica.

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/37lL.46

7. 6yl l? November, Bulgariar ttre Bvelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic' @,
Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic' Hgngaryr.ttre-tag Pgoplers -_.6ffi-tt" n"zuu "dffidraftiEsolutionentit1ed'|Renunciationoftheuseofnew
eG"Overies and scientific and technical achievements for military purposes"
1A/C.L/37/L.46), which was later also sponsored by Mal-i and Rona+ia. T!" draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic at the 36th neeting, on l8 November.

g. On 24 November, the sponsors submitted a revised text of the draft resolution
(py'c.v37/L.45,/Rev.I), under which the operative paragraph, which read:

',@a1tStatestorenouncetheuseofnewdiscoveriesand
scientitic and technological achievements for military purposes.r'

was replaced by Ehe following text:

"Calls upon all States to undertake efforts to ensure that ultinately
scientific and technoJ-ogical achievements rnay be used solely for peaceful
purposes. t'

9. At its 44th meeting, on 26 Novernber, the Committee adopted draft resolution
Fy'C.L/37/L.46,/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 89 to I0, with 18 abstentions (see
para. 10, draft resolution II). The voting l{as as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrainr
Bangladeshr Beninr Bhutanr Bolivia, BraziI, Bulgaria, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African
RepubJ.ic, Chad, Chile, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus' Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guyanar
Hungary, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of,) ' Iraq, Ireland,
Jamaica, JOrdan, Kenya, Kurrait, LaO Peoplers Democratic Republic'
Libyan Arab Janahiriyal Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, l,lcngoliar l'tczambigue, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama' Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Sao Tome and Principel Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, Sri lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, ThaiLand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
IJganda, ukrainian soviet sociatist Republicr union of soviet
socialist Republicsr United Arab Emirates, united Republic of
cameroon, united Republic of Tanzania, uruguay, venezuela, viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.



A/37 /6s9
English
Page 4

Against: BeJ-gium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Portugar, Turkey, united Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern lreland, United States of Arterica.

Abstgininql Australia, Bahamas, Canada, Colombia, Dennark, Greece, Guatenala,
rceland, rndonesia, rsrael, Japan, Liberia, Malawi, Nen zearand,
Norlday, paraguay, Saudi Arabia, Spain.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF I'HE FIRST COMMITTEE
I0. lthe First Committee reconuinends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAT'T RESOLUTION I

Prohibition of the development and na.rufacbur" of new trpes of
vreapons of mass destruction gnd nen svstems of such weapons

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3479 (xxx) of 11 Decenber 19751 3L/74 of
l0 Decenber 1975, 32/84 A of t2 December L9?7, 33/66 B of 14 December Lg7g,
34/79 of 1l December L979, 3s/L4g of 12 December t9g0 and 36/g9 of
9 December 1981 concerning the prohibition of new tlpes of weapons of mass
destruction,

Bearing in mind the provisions of paragraph 39 of the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, fu/ according to whichqualitative and quantitative disarmament measures are both important for
halting. the arms race and efforts to that end must include negotiations on thelimitation and cessation of the qualitative irnprovement of armaments,
especially vteapons of mass destruction, and the development of new means of
warfare,

Recalling the decision contained in paragraph 77 of the Fina1 Document to
the effect that' in order to help prevent a qualitative arms race and so that
scientific and tectrnological achievements might ultimately be used solely for
peaceful purposes' effective measures should be taken to prevent the emeigenc.
of new types of weapons of mass destruction based on nehr scientific princlples
and achievements, and that efforts aiming at the prohibition of such new types
and new systems of weapons of mass destruction should be appropriately pursued,

Expressing once again its firm belief, in the light of the decisions
adopted at the tenth special session, in the importance of concluding an

a Resolution S-LO/2.



?'/37 /6s9
English
page 5

agreenent or agreements to prevent the use of scientific and technological
Progress for the development of new types of weapons of mass destruction and
nevr systems of such weapong,

Itotinq that, in the course of its session in 1982, the Corrnittee on
Disarmament considered the item entitled "New types of weatrnns of mass
destruction and new systems of such weapons: radiological weaponsi,

Notinq with satisfact-ion that in the course of its session in I9g2 the
Comnittee on Disarmaxnent held informal meetings with ttre participation of
qualified governmental experts on this item,

Convinced that all ways and means shoul-d be utilized to prevent the
development and manufacture of neh' types of weapons of nass destruction and
netr systems of such weapons,

. Taking into consideration the part of the report of the Conunittee onoisar esti6n, ]_/
1. Requests the Conunittee on Disarmanent, in the tight of its existing
priorities' to intensify negotiations, with the assistance of qualified
governmental experts, wittr a view to preparing a draft comprehensive agreenent
on the prohibition of the development and manufacture of new types of weapons
of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons, and to drait possible
agreements on particular tlpes of such weaponsi

2. Once again urges all States to refrain from any action which could
adversely affect the talks aimed at working out an agreenent or agreements to
prevent the emergence of new types of weapons of rnass destruction and new
systems of such weaponst

3. CalLs upon the States permanent menbers of the Security Council as well
as upon other nilitarily significant States to make declarations, identical in
substance, concerning the refusal to create new types of weapons of mass'
destruction and new systems of such weapons, as a first step towards the
conclusion of a comprehensive agreement on this subject,, bearing in nind ttrat
such declarations would be approved thereafter by a decision of the security
Councill

4. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conunittee on
Disarmament all documents relating to the consideration of this item by the
General Assembly at its thirty-seventh sessionl
5. Requests the Comnittee on Disarmament to subnit a report on the results
achieved to the General Assembly for consideration at its thirty-eighth
session;

- -y . 
off ic-i31 Rqggrig. of the GensraL Assemblv, rhirtv-seventh session,

SuppLement No. 27 Qr'37/27r, sect. IIf, paras. Ze, ZZ ana g -99.



^/37 
/6s9

Engltsh
Page 6

6. Decides to lnclude in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the lten entitled 'Prohibition of the developnent and manufacture of new tlpes
of weapons of mass destruction and new systems of such weapons: retrnrt of the
Cmrittee on Digarnalentn.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Renunciation of the use of new discoveries and scientific
and technical achievements for nilitarv purposes

llhe (hneral AesemblY,

Bearlng in rnind the provisions of paragraph 39 of ttre Final Document of
tfre Gnth Speclal Sesston of the GeneraL Assembly' according to which
qualitative and quantitative measures are both important for halting the arms
race and efforts to ttrat end must include negotiat,ions on the limitation and
cessation of the qualitative improvement of armaments, especially weapons of
maas destruction and the development of new means of warfare so that
ultinately scientific and technological achievements rnay be used solely for
peaceful purPoses'

Reca.llinq its Oeclaration on the Use of Scientific and Technological
Progress ln ttre Interests of Peace and for the Benefit of !,lankind, /

llotim that scientific and technological progress has become one of the
most llqrortant factors in the development. of mankind,

l{oting wittr concern that new discoveries and scientific and technical
achievenenta can be used to intensify dangerously the arms race,

Recognizinq the necessity to ensure that scientific and technological
progresa ls used exclusively to serve the peaceful aspirations of humanity,

Avrare that ttre tine has come to consider ways to solve ttre problem of
renunciation of the use of new discoveries and scientific and technological
acblevements for mllitary Purposes,

CaIIF upon all States to
scientif ic and technological
PurPoaes.

undertake efforts to ensure that uLtinately
achievements rnay be used so1ely for peaceful

!/ IGsolutlon 3384 (xxx) of I0 Novenber 1975.


