












































UNITED
NATIONS

Generaf Aeeembfy
Distr.
GElTERAL

I't
V37/668tLarr lr+
5 December L982

ORTGTNAL: ENGLISH

thirty-seventh session
Agenda item 55

ISR,AEI,I NI,CI,EAR ARMAIT{ENT

Report of. the First Committee

Rapporteur: Irlr. Luvsangiin ERSENECHULUITN (Ittongolia)

I. INTRODUCTION
1' ltre item entitred "rsraeli nuclear arrnament: report of the secretary-Generar,,
was ineluded in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session in accordancewith Generar Assernbry resolution 36/9g of 9 December l9gr.
2' At it's 4th plenary meetingr on 24 september 1982, the Generar Assembly, on therecommendation of the General committee, decided to include the item in it-s agen6aand to allocate it to the First Conunittee.
3' At its 2nd rneeting, on 29 september, the First conunittee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the itens allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 39 to 57, 133 and 136. The general debate on these items and onitems 138 and I39, by the General A^ssernbly at its 24th plenary meeting, which wereallocated to the First connittee on 8 october 1982, took ptacl at the 3rd to28th neetings, from 19 October to 5 l,bvember (see A,/C.l/51/pV.S_Zq.
4' rn connexion with iten 56, the First cormnittee h€rd before it the following
docurnents:

(a) Report of the Secretary-General (py'37/4'3alt
(b) retter dated 22 June 1982 fron the charg6 draffaires a.i. of the

Permanent Mission of cuba to the united Nations addressed to the secretary-General,transmitting the Final conmuniqu6 of the Ministerial Meeting of the co-or-inating
Bureau of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Havana fron 3I May to 5 June 19g2(N37/333-s/Ls27sl t

82-3s290 0859a (E)



A/37 /668
English
Page 2

(c) Letter dated lI October 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting t'he FinaL
Comrnuniqu6 of the Meeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegation of the l$on-Aligned Countries, held in New York from 4 to 9 @tober 1982
(Py'37 /540-s/L5454) .

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.L/37/L.3L

5. On 16 ldovember, Bahrain, Denocratic Yemen, Lg, ilordan, Kuwait, G.cnanr Qatar,
the Sudan, the Unite4 Afeb_m,lrglg and yenen subnitted a draft resolution entitled
"IsrE-eli nuclear armamentt (Arzc.L/37/L.3L), which was later also strnnsored by
Sona1ia. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Iraq at the
36th meeting, on 18 November.

6. At the 43rd rneeting, on 24 Uovember, the representative of Iraq orally
introduced the following two revisions to the draft iesolution:

(a) The seventh preambular paragraph, which read:

''@ofthegraveconsequenceswhichendan9erinternationa1peace
and se-urity as a result of Israelrs development and acquisition of nucl-ear
lreapons, and Israelrs collaboration with South Africa to develop nuclear
$reapons and their delivery systemsr'

was replaced by the following text:

"Conscious of the grave consequences which endanger international peace
and security as a result of Israelts nuclear-weapon capability and Israelrs
collaboration with South Africa to develop nuclear weaPons and their delivery
systems".

(b) Operative paragraph 5, which read:
tr5. Requesbs that Security Council to institute effective enforcement

action against Israe1 so as to prevent it fron endangering international- peace
and security by its nuclear capability and by pursuing its policy of
aggression' expansion and annexation of territoriesl"

was replaced by the following text:
r'5. Requests the Security Council to consider taking effective action so

as to prevent Israel from endangering international peace and security and by
pursuing its policy of aggression, expansion and annexation of territories.'

7. At the same meeting, the Committee proceeded to vote on the draft resolution
as orally revised:

(a) Operative paragraph 2 was adopted by a recorded vote of 87 to 17' with
18 abstentions. The voting Ytas as follows:



In favour:

p{37 /668
English
Page 3

Afghanistan, AJ-bania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, central African Republic,
Chad, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egyptr Ethiopia, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Is1amic Republic of), Irag, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao Peoplets Derpcratic Republic, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, l'ladagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, MaIi, Ma1ta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Ibngolia, Morocco, l4ozambique, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan, panama, peru, phiJ-ippines,
PoLand, Qatar, Romania, Rnanda, Sao Tome and principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Syrian Arab Repubtic, Itogo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Ttrrkey, tpanda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
union of soviet socialist RepubJ-ics, united Arab Enirates, united
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zarnbia.

Belgiun, Canada, Denrnark, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italyr Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, librvray, Portugal , $reden, United Kingdon of Great
Britain and Northern IreLand, United States of America.

Against:

Abstaininqs Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Burma, Chile, Colombia, Finland,
Guatemala, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Mal.awi, Nepal, papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Spain, Thailand, Uruguay.

(b) Draft resolution A/C.L/37/L.3L as a whole, as orally revised, was adopted
by a recorded vote of 9I to 2, with 30 abstentions (see trnra. 8). The voting rdas
as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist RepubJ-ic, Central African Republic,
Chad, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprusr Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, cerman Democratic
RepubLic, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Is1amic Republic of), Irag, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao peoplers
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
lutadagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, MaIi, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
t'bngolia, l4orocco, !,tozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, poland, eatar, Romania,
Rtlanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal-, Sierra
Leone, Soma1ia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab
Republic, Ttrailand, Togo, frinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist nepublics, United Arab Etrnirates, United Republic of
Caneroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.



N37 /668
English
Page 4

Against: Israel, Ilnited States of America.

Abstaininq3 Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burma, Canada, Chilel Colonbia,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Guatenala, Iceland, Irelandz Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, JaPan,
Luxembourg, I'la1awi, Netrnl; Netherlands, New Zealand, lilorway,
Papua ttbw Guinea, Paraguay, Portugal , Sweden, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern IreLand, Uruguay.

III. RECOMMENDATION OT TTIE FIRST COMI4ITTEE

8. The Fi,f.st Conunittee reconunends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
foJ-loning draft resolution:

Israeli nuclear armanent

The General Assembly,

RecaLling its resolutions 35/L57 of L2 December 1980 and 36/98 of
9 Decenber 1981 on Israeli nuclear arrnament,

Recalling its relevant resolutions on the establishment of a nuclear-
weapon-free zone in the region of the Middl-e East,

Recalling also its resolution 33/7L A of 14 December 1978 on nilitary and
nucleag collabofation with Israel,

Recall,ing its repeated condemnation of the nuclear collaboration between
Israel and South Africa,

Recalling Security Council resoLution 487 (1981) of 19 June 1981 and takihg
note of the first special retrnrt of the Special Committee against Apartheid on
recent developments concerning relations between Israel and South Africa, l-,/

lilcting with qrave concern Israelrs persistent refusal to adhere to the Treaty
on the Non-ProLiferation of Nuclear Weapons despite repeated calls by the General
Assemb1y, the Security @uncil and the International Atonic Energy Agency, and to
place its nuclear facilities under Agency safeguards,

Conscious of the grave consequences which endanger international peace and
securTffilesult of IsraeLrs nuclear-$reapon capabitity and its collaboration
with South Africa to develop nuclear weapons and their delivery systems,

\/ Py'37 /22/Add.r-slls383/Md.1.



v37/668
EngLish
Page 5

Takinq note of the report of the Secretary-@neral on Israeli nuclear
arrnamentr 2,/

I. Reaffirrns its dernand that Israel renounce, wittrout delayl any posaession
of nuclear weapo-s and place all its nuclear activitles under internatlonal
safeguards;

2. CaIIs again upon all States and other gnrties and inetitutions to
terrninate forttrwith aII nuclear collaboration with Israelt

3. Reguests aqain the Security Councll to investigate Israelrg nuclear
activities and the collaboration of other Statea, trnrties and institutlone ln these
activitiesi

4. Calls upon all States to submit to ttre Secretary-General all lnformatlon
in their trnssetsion concerning the Israeli nuclear Programme or any publlc or
private assistance thereto;

5. Requests the Security Council to conslder taking effective action 8o aa
to prevent Istaffrom endangering international peace and securlty by pursulng lts
poLicy of aggression, expanslon and annexation of terrltorlesi

5. Condemns Israelrs officially declared intention to repeat lts arned
attack against nucLear facllitiesl

7. requests the Secretary-General to keep l8raeli nuclear activltleE under
constant review and to repcrt thereon aB aPproPrlatel

8. Also requests the Secretary-Cieneral, in co-operation with the
Organization of African Unity and the l€ague of Arab States, to follw closely the
nuclear and military collaboration between Israe1 and South Africa and the dangers
it constitutes to peace and eecurity and to efforts aimed at the establlahlrent of
nuclear-weapon-free zones ln Afrlca and the Middle East',

Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth sesslon
trIsraeli nuclear armamentn.

9.
the iten entitled

a P{37 /434.


