












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

^/37/680/}d,d.420 Decenber 1982

ORIGINALg ENGLISH

Th irty-seventh session
Agenda itern 71 (e)

DE1'EIPP![EI{T AND INTtsRNATTONAL ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION

Science and technology for development

Report of the Second Conunittee (part V)

Rapporteurr ur. Stoyan BAKALOV (Bulgaria)

I. INTROD(trTION
1. The second conunittee herd a generar discussion on item zl
Para 2) - Action to be taken on subitem (e) was considered at
20 Decernber 1982. An account of the conunitteers discussion is
relevant sunmary reconds (A/C.2/37lSR.51) .

(see A,/37/680.
its 51st meeting, on
contained in the

II. @NSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A,/C.2/37/L.L2g
2. At its 51st meeting, on 20 oecernber, the Oonrnittee had before it a draft
resolution (Vc.2/37/L.l28l surnitted by Mr. George papadatos, Vice-Chalrman of the
Comnittee, entitled "Iong-term financial and institutional arrangements for the
United Nations Financing System for Science and Technology for Develotrrment", which
he orally revised by inserting the number n2l-r to replac--the dash in-paragiaph 13
of operative paragraph I.

3. At the same neeting, the Secretary of the Conunittee made an oral statement on
the adninistrative and financial inplications of draft resolution A/c.2/37/L.L2g.
4. In the ltght of a request for a vote on draft resolution A/C.2/37/L.I28, asorally revised, the Vlce-Chairman of the Oommittee withdrew draft resolution
A/C.2/37 /L.12 8.

82-377L9 0683j (E)



A/37 / 680 /Add . 4
Eng lish
Page 2

5. At the same meeting, the representatlve of Austriar on behalf of @. -
Ebtpt, Sweden and g!g!.11, reintioduced draft resolution A/C.2/37/L.L28, as orally

and glg@ subsequentlY joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

6. Also at the same meeting, the Conunlttee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/37/L.LZ}, as reintroduced by Atrstria, by a recorded vote of 108 to noner wlth
9 abstentions (see para. 8) . The votlrg was as follovrs:

-In fayouls A1geria, Argentina, Atrstralla, 
Austria, Bahrainr Bangladesh'

galbados, Sttgiun, Beninr Bhutanr Bolivla, Botswana, Brazilr
Burma, Burundi, Canada, CaPe verde, Chadr Chile, China, Colonbia'
congo, costa Ricar cubar Dernocratic Yemen, Denmark, DjibOutit
Ecuador, E9YPt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gatnbia, Ghana' Greece'
Guinear Guyana, Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesiat Iran
(Is1arnic n-public of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy' Ivory Coast,
Jamaica, ,lapan, Jordanr Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascarr !{alawi, Malaysiat
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexicor l{oroccot Mozambique;
Nepal, Netherlands, tibw zealand, Nlger, Nigeria' Norway, qnan,
Panama, Peru, Philipptnesr Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rlvanda,
saudi Arabiar senegal, sierra I€one, singapore, spalnr sri Ianka,
sudan, sweden, syrian Arab Republic, Thailand' Togo, Trinidad and
sobago, Trrnisia, nrrkeyr ltsandar united Arab Enirates, tlnited
Kingclon of Great Britain and Northern Ire}and, United Republic of
cameroon, United nepublic of Tanzania, tlpper \loIta,,uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugos}avia, Zairer Zambiar Zimbabwe.

libne.Againstr

Abstaining: Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia'
German Democratic Republic, Germany, Fbderal Republic of'
Hungary, Ukrainian soviet socialist Republic, union of soviet
socialist Republicsr ttrrited States of America.

7. Ttre representative of Bet-gium made a statement in explanation of vote before
the vote. statements in explanation of vote after the vote were made by the
representatives of BulgariJ (atso on behalf of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Czechoslovakiar the Gernan Democratic Republic, ttungary, bland' the
ukrainian Soviet Sociallst Republic and the union of Soviet Socialist Republics) '
Bangladesh (on behalf of States Members of the United Nations ttrat are menbers of
the Group of 771, Japanr the United States of America, the Federal Republic of
Germany and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern lreland.



^/37/680/ld,d.4English
Page 3

III. RE@MTTIENDATION OF TH8 SE@ND @MMITTEE
8. The Second Conrnittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

btE-tlln f in?nci3l and lnstitrltional arrarpements for the unitea wations
tr'inancing Svsten for Science i

The General Assemb1y,

RecaLlirg the Vienna Progranune of Action on Science and TechnoJ-ogy for
DeveLopnent, a and its subsequent resolution 34/2L8 of 19 December Lg7g,

Also recalling resolution 36A83 of 17 December 1981 in which the General
Assembly' in considering the long-term arrangements for the Financing System,
requested the tntergovernmental Conmittee on Science and Technology for Developnentto submit its reconunendations, through the Economic and Social oouncil, to the
General Assembly at its thirty-seventh sessLon for consideration and decision,

Taking note of the report of the Intergovernmental Comnittee on its fourth
session !1/ and, in partieularl paragraph ? on institutional and financial
arrangements of the statement of understanding of the Ctrairrnan incorporated
therein, /

- 
I. Dgcides that, in accordance wlth General Assembly resolution 35rl183, the

long-term financial and institutiona!. arrangements for the unlted Nations Financing
Systen for Science and Technology for Development shall be as follows:

I. FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS
1. The Financing Systen for Science and Technol.ogy for Developrnent shall be
organized on a voLuntary and universal basis, open to the participation of all
countries as full members.

2. The Financing system shall be endowed with substantial resourees andshall be conposed of tvro tlpes of resources: core and non-core.

-y FPqft of tbg gltited Nations conference on science and Technoloqv for
tt,

Sales Ncr. 8.79.f .21 and corrigrendal , chap. VII.

Y P{37/37 (Part r and corr.l and 2 and Part Ir). To be issued subseguently
as ofliglll=R9Prds of the Generat A.ssenbly, rhirty-seventh session, suppl,endnt
No. 37 (Py'37/371 .

y lbtd:, part two, para. 23.



^/37/680/Ad.d.4Eng lish
Page 4

4. lltre target for core
$300 rnillion based on a

3. Contributions to the core component of the Financing Systern shall be
voluntary within the framework of a financlng plan, coverlng a period of three
years at a time.

resources for the period 1983-1985 shall be at least
progresslve build-up of resources'

5. T'lre core resources of the Financing Systen for the period 1983-1985 shaLl
be provided by developed and develoPing countries in freely convertible
currencies.

6. Developed countries and developit4t countries shall contribute to the core
resources of the Financing System. lltre pattern of contributions of both
developed and develoPlng .oonttt." will be determined in the financing plan'
which will reflect a mutual and joint understanding.

7. NorFcore resources wltl represent an imtrnrtant element of the Financing
Systen and shall consist of a variety of resources, including co-financing'
nulti-bilateral contributionsr cost-sharing, jolnt ventures, equity
participationr trust funds and the like. Ttre Intergovernmental Cownittee on
Science and Technology fo Develotrnent will evolve policy orientations for the
mobilization and use of the non<ore resouEC€s'

8. iltre Financing Systern shall aim to establish a reasonable eguivalence
between the levels of its core and non{ore resources in order tO ensure an
over-al1 global target for the Financing System of not less than $500 nilli'on
for 1983-1985.

9. The Financlng system shall dispense both grants and loans, which shall be
provided on such i.tt" as the rinan-ing Systen deems appropriate in the light
of the economic situation, the prospects of the recipient country and the
nature and the reguirements of the activity concerned' Cornbinations of Loans
and grants may also be made where aPproPriate. The protrnrtion of the
Financing Systemrs resources to be comitted ln any financial year for
financing operations shaLl be decided by the Executive Board with due regrad
to the long-term viability of the financing Systen and the need for continuity
in its opeiations. Ipans will be provided on concesslonary terms' Grants
should be extended mainly to the llast developed countries and for the support
of a number of high-risk research and development projects in developing
countries. rtre secretariat of the Financing systen shall submit projects and
prograrunes to the Dlecutlve Board for consideration and approval.

I I. INSTITUTIONAL ARR,AT\IGEII{ENTS

10. The institutional arrangements of the Financirg Systern shall consist of
the Intergovernmental Cornrnittee on Science anad Technology for Development' an
s<ecutive Board and a secretariat.



A/37/6eO/Pdd.4
English
Page 5

A. Intergovernmental comnittee on science and sechnology
for Develorment

11. The Intergovernmental Conrmittee on Science and Technology for Developnent
shal1 continue to be the directing and policy+naking body. Its principal
functions shall ber

(a) General pollcy orientation of, and direction for, the Flnancing
Systernl

(b) Decisions on pollcy prolnsalsr including on reconunendations on
Ieve1s of resources;

(c) General review and evaluation of the activities of the Financing
Systeml

(ct) Election of members to the Executive Board in accordance with
crlteria stated in paragraph 13 belowt

(e) Consideration of reports of the Executive Board.

B. E<ecutive Board

L2. The Financing System shall have its own Executive Board as an
identifiable and separate entity, to be restrnnsible for its operation and
conduct. lltre functions of the Executive Board shall include:

(a) lbbilization of resourcest

(b) Utilization of the resources of the Financirg System, particularly
approval of projects, progranms and activities of the systeml

(c) Fornulation of reconmendations on levels of resources of the
Financing SYsteml

(d) Decisions of financial planningr

(e) Approval of adninistrative and financlal arrangements involving the
Financing Systemt

(f) Monitoring of the operations of the System in relation to its
objectives.

13. The Executive board shall be an effective body and its composition shaLt
reflect an appropriate balance between developed and developlng countries as
well as between donors and recipients. It shall be composed of 2l directors,
to be elected by the Intergovernmental @mnittee for a period of three years'
one third to be drawn from developed countries and two thirds from the
developing countries reflectlng an appropriate balance between donors and
recipients.



A/37 /680/Add.4
English
Page 5

C. Secretariat arranqements

14. Ttre Financing System will have its ovrn secretariat to process and to
nonitor projects and to carry out other activities mandated by the
Intergovernmental Conunittee on Science and Technology for Development and the
General Assenb1y. The arrangements shall- be as follows:

(a) lltre over-all sup,ervision of the management of the Financing System
shal-I be entrusted to the adninistrator of the United Nations
Developrnent Prograrmne, who shall be accountable in the exercise of
ttris responsibility to the Executive Board of the Financing System.

(b) lltre Adrninistrator will report to the Executive Board on the
operations and activities of the Financing System and bring forward
projects for approval by the Executive Board.

(c) In order to ensure close and continuous interaction between the
Centre for Science and Technology for Development and the Financing
System, the Director-General for Development and International
Economic Co-operation or his representative will be invited on a
pernanent basis to neetings of the D(ecutive Board.

(d) llhe Director-General, assisted by the Executive Director of the
Centre for Science and Technology for Development, will submit an
annual report to the Executive Board on, ;!g!g5_3!!g, natters of
mutuaL concern to the Centre and the Financing System.

(e) The Director-General, in respect of both his responsibility for
over-alI co-ordination of operational activities in the United
lilations system and his oversight of the Centre, would be entrusted
by the General assenbLy and by agreement with Ehe Admlnistrative
Committee on Co-ordination, with the co-ordination with other United
Nations organizations and bodies, including the United tilations
DeveJ-opment Progranrne and the Centre for Science and Technology for
Ilevelopnent, of the work relating to the Financing Systen for
Science and Technotogy for Development. Such co-ordination
activities would be carried out through the existing mechanisms of
the Administrative Comnittee on Co-ordination particularly the Task
Force on Science and TechnoJ-ogy for DeveLopment.

(f) The Centre for Science and Technology for D,evelopment shall assist
the Director-General in fuLfil-l-ing the restrnnsibilities assigned to
hirn in the Vienna Progranme of Action, trnrticularly in providing the
necessary substantive support to Ehe Intergovernmental Corunittee on
Science and Technology for Development, incl-uding its work relating
to the Financing System.



P{37/680/Add.4
English
Page 7

(g) In view of the expectations of continued use of the services and
field network of the United Nations Development Progranme, the focus
of the Governing Council of the Progranme wiLl in future be nainJ-y
on the co-operative arrangenents between the Financing System and
the Progranune. Accordingly, the Adninistrator wiII provide an
annual rep,ort to the Governing Council containing infornation on
co-operation between the tsro organizations and on other natters of
coltrnon interest.

(h) lltre Administrator, in consultation with the Director-General, will
report annually to the Intergovernmental Conunittee on the activities
and progress of the Financing System.

(i) Ttre Centre for Science and Technology for Devel.opment will pJ.ay a
meaningful role and, in line with its mandate and roLe, will,
through appropriate arrangements and when required, co-operate with
the secretariat of the Financing System in preparing, formulating
and bringing to the attention of the Financing System suitable
projects and in appraising, evaluating and assessing projects
financed by the Financing Systen in the context of the Vienna
Progranne of Action.

(j) lltrere will be arrangements for exchange of detailed information
between ttre Financing Systen and the United Nations Development
Programne, especially where a conmon interest exists in specific
progranmes and projects. This col-laboration may extend to
co-financlng arrangements as well as to technical areas in order to
enable the two organizations to draw upon each otherrs special
skills and experience.

(k) ilhe co-operation of the secretariat of the Financing Systen will be
sought by the Centre for Science and Technology for DeveLopment in
elaborating the relevant major programe areas of the operational
Plan for the InpJ-ementation of the Vienna Progranme of Action and in
supporting the Intergovernmental Committee on Science and Technology
for Development in the pronotion of the optinun rnobilization of
financial resources to carry out the Vienna Progranrne of Action.

(1) The secretariat will be srnall, reflecting its use of the facilities
of other organizations according to agreed procedures. Its
adninistrative and suplrcrt costs wiII continue to be met from
volunatry contr ibutions.

(m) The secretariat, under the over-all supervision of the
Administratorr will have an executive head.

(n) Ttre executive head of the secretariat wiII be appointed by the
Secretary-Genera1 on the recommendationa of the Director-General for
Development and International Economic Co-operation and the
adninistrator of the United Nations Development Progranune.



P{37 /680/Add,.4
English
Page 8

(o) The executive head will be responsible for the day-to-day rnanagement
of the Systen and for such other activities as may be necessary to
ensure effective operations of the System for both core and non-core
resource activities. The secretariat of the Financing System will
provide secretariat support to the Executive Board.

(p) Arrangenents will be established wittr the United titations Development
progranne for the provision of adnrinistrative services. llhe nature
and terms of such arrangements rritl be reviewed and evaluated as the
operations of the Financing System expand.

(g) Reports to appropriate secretariat and intergovernmental bodies on
financial audit and accounting matters will continue to be provided
in accordance with United Nations and United Nations DeveloPment
Progranme procedures and requirements.

15. llhe required level of resources and functioning of the Financing System
shall be reviewed periodically, taking into account the increasing needs of
developing countries. lttre first of such reviews will be held in 1985.

2. Also decides that the foregoing agreenent on the long-term financial and
institutioilfi]lFngenents for the Financing Systen shall take effect as soon as
the provisions of the financing plan have been established together with
lnstitutional arrangements for decision-making of the Executive Board, in
accordance wittr Snragraph 3 belowi in the meantime, the existing operating
procedures of the Financing System shall continue;

. 3. llrrther decides that the folJ.oring special arrangements will be necessary
in early 1983:

(a) litre Intergovernmental Conrnittee on Science and Technology for Development
will neet in special session for a period of one week in February or March 1983 for
the purtrrcse of..

(i) Assessment of the resource situation for the Financing Systen for the
year 1983 together with the outlook for the two following years;

(ii) Establishment of the provisions of the financing plan and, in this
context, rules for the voting pattern of the Executive Board;

(iii) Confirmation (final pledges) of contributions for 1983 and, if trnssible,
indications for L984 and 1985r

(b) At its fifth session in June 1983, the Intergovernmental Comnittee on
Science and Technolo{ty for Development will, inter alia, proceed to elect members
to the Executive Board of Ehe Financing System.


