








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GEIIERAL

al37/745
14 December 198 2

ORIGINAL! ENGLISH

Thirty-seventh session
Agenda item 12

REPOFO OF THE ECONOMIC Al{D SOC IAL @UNCIL

Itepor t of the Third Comnittee

Rapporteur t Mr. Karl BoRCEARD (Federal Republic of Gerrnany)

]. INTROD(rcTION

1. At its 4th Plenary neetlng, on 24 sePternber 1982, the General Assenbly decided
to include in its agenda the iten entitled "RePort of the Econql ic and Social
Council' and to allocate to the Third Committee chaPters II' III (sects. A to c' F,
G, I and K), Iv (sect. D)' v, VI (sect. C), VII, VIII and Ix (sect. F) of the
counciJ-rs report. !'/
2. At its 43rd meeting, on 16 Novenber L982, the Comtnittee decided to consider
under agenda item 90 the chapters of the report of the Econonic and Social Council
pertaining to speclfic ca6es of providing assistance to refugees. 3./

3. The chapters of the report of the BcorFmic and Social Council pertaining to
agenda i terns 76, 87. 90 and 91 were considered separately under those items. 3/

y A/37/3 lPatts I-III). To be issued as official Rec€rds of t}|e General
Asselbly' Thlrtv-seventh session, supplement No. 3 (A/37/3).

U For the report of the Third conmittee on item 90' see M37/692'

y For the reports of the Third Comnittee on itens 75, 87. 90 and 9I, see
A/37/595, A/37/7L8. A/37/692 and. N37/676.

82-36843 0412p (E)



M37/7 45
Engl ish
Page 2

4' The comittee considered the renainlng chapters of the report of the Econornic
and- Social Council jointly with agenda item 93 at its 57th, 58th and 6lst to/5tn neetings, on 29 and 30 November and 2 to IO Decernber. An account of the
discussion of the corunittee is containear ln the relevant sumrnary records
(A/C.3/37 /5R.5 71 58 and 6r-75).

?. At lts 3rd meeting' on 30 septenber, the conmlttee decided that, pursuant toGeneral Assenbly resolution 3G,/I6O of 16 Decenber l9gl, the open_enaled Working
Group on the Draftlng of an rnternatlonal convention on the protection of the
Rights of aII Migrant Workers and their pamilies tould neet durinq the
thirt}/- seventh session.

6' At the sane meeting, the comnlttee also decided, Frrsuant to General Assenbry
resoluti.on 36/165 of 16 Decenber 1981, to establish an open-ended working group onthe elaboratlon of the draft declaration on the human rigtrts of indivlduals h'ho are
not citlzens of the country in dllch they live.
7. Ihe Comrittee had before it the follolring docunentation:

(a) Report of tbe Econonic and social Councill l/
(b) Orestion of buman rlghts relating to the case of ur. ziad Abu Eaint

report of the Secretary-ceneral (t/36/BSS)t
(c) I'basures to be taken against Nazi, Fasciat and neo-Fascist actlvities andarl other forrns of totalitarlan ideorogles and practices based on raclar

intolerance, hatred and terror: report of the secr etary-cener a I (4/3vf8g anatCorr.I and Add.l) t
(d) Iluman rights and nass eroduses, note by tie secretary-ceneral (N/ g7/31O,)

transnittlng the report of the Special napporteuE,
(e) cornbatihg the traffic in persons and the exproltation of the prostitution

of othersr report of the Secretary-ceneral (A/37/4l^21,
(f) Regionar arrangenents for the promotlon and protection of human rights!

rePort of the Secretary-ceneral (A/j7|/4221 ,
(g) Vlolatlons of hunan rights in southern Africa: note by tie

Secretarfcener a\ (pt/ 37 / 4521 t
(h) Soclal aspects of the development activities of the United Natronss

report of the Secretary-ceneral (A/37/SO})t
(i) rhe right to education, note by the secretary-ceneral (N 37/ S2Ll

transnittlng a report of the Dlr ector-cenera I of the united Natlons Eatucatlonal,
Scientiflc and Cultural Organization,

(j) Internatlonal co-op€ration in drug abuse control: report of the
Secretary-cen er aL lA/37/556) t



il37/745
EngliEh
Page 3

(k) Protection of hunan rights in Chiles note by the secretary-Genera I
(A/ 37/554) tranHnltting the report of the special RaPPorteur on the sltuation of
hunan rightg in Chilel

(r) sicuation of human rights and fundarnental freedons ln EI Sa lvador: note
by the Secretary-General (A/37 / 6L:.-', transmitting the interirn rePort of the sPecial
Repregentative of the co{rul iss lon on Hunan Rightst

(m) united Nations voluntary Fund for victims of Torturet rePort of the
Secretary-cenet aI (N 37/6L8, ,

(n) Report of the operrended working Group of the thirty-sixth session on the
elaboratlon of che draft declaration on the human rights of indlviduals who are not
cltizens of Ure country in whictr tttey live (Vc.3/36/LLl ,

(o) RePort of the open-ended t{orking Group on the Drafting of an
tnternational convention on the Protection of the Rights of AII Mlgrant tiorkers and
Iheir Families on lts intersesslonal rreetings from 10 to 21 May 1982 lA/C.3/37/Lr,

(P) I€tter atated 26 oc tober 1982 from the Pernanent ReFresentablve of
cuatemala to the United Nations addreased to the Secretary-General (A/C.3/37/5'l ,

(q) I€tter dated 11 oc tober 1'982 from the se cretary-Genera1 of the United
Nations aaldresseal to the speclal RaPporteur on hunan rights and mass exoduaes
(Nc.3/37/9't I

(r) letter dated 3 Decenber 1982 froft tie Permanent RePresentative of Turkey
to the Unltett Nations addreased to the Chairman of the Thlrd Conrni ttee
tA/c.3/37/Lo',t,

(s) I€tter dated 16 APrll 1982 from the charg6 drAffaires a'i' of the
Pernanent Miasion of viet Nan to the unitetl Natlons addressed to the
Secre tary-cen er aL (Py' 37/ 20L1 ',

(t) I€tter dated 22 June 1982 from tlle Char96 d'Affaires a'i' of the
pernanent Mission of Cuba to the Unlted Nations addressed to the Secretary-Genera I
transnlttlng tjre Final Conununiqu6 and other docurnents of the Mini6terlal !'leetlng of
the Co-ordlnating Bureau of the of the Non-Aligned countries, held at Eavana frotn
3l r{ay to 5 alune 19 82 (Iy' 37/333-3/ 15278') ,

(u) Letter dateal tI oc tober 1982 fron the Pernanent RePresentative of cuba of
the Unlted Nations addressed to the secretary-General tranemitting the Sinal
Camuniqu6 of the Ieeting of ltlnisters for Forelgn Affairs and Heads of Delegation
of the Non-Allgned countries. held in New York fron 4 to 9 october 1982
(r,/ 37/54bs/rs454t i

(v) I€tter dateal 2I oc tober 1982 fron the Permanent Representative of the
Niger to the United Natlons addressed to the Secretary-Genera I ' 

tran€mitting the
re-solutions and the final tleclaration aaloPted by the thirteenth Islamlc conference
of Forelgn Ministers, helal at Nialley from 22 to 26 August 1982 (A/37 /567-3/ L5466, I



A/37/745
EngI ish
Page 4

(w) I€tter dated 19 @ tober 1982 fron tl1e permanent Representative of ftaly!o the Uni.ted Nations addressed to the Secretary-cenera I transnitting theresolutions adopted by the 69th Inter-par lianeniary conference, held in Rone frotn12 to 23 septenber L9B2 (A/37/5?gl .
8' rn connection r+i th the relevant chapters of the report of the Econon ic andsocial council pertainlng to specific cases of providing assistance to refugees,the Conunittee had before it the follorring documentationl

(a) Report of the secretary-cenera I on the sltuation of refugees in the sudan(A/3't/L78r,

(b) Report of the Se cre tary-cener al on assistance to refugees in Somalia
(A/37 / 4I9) ,

(c) Report of the se cretary-cenera.l. on hunanitarian assistance to refugees inDjibout.i (A/ 37 / 4201 t
(d) Report of the Se cre tary-Gener al on assiatance to student refugees insouthern Afri,ca (A/37/495) and Corr.l),
(e) Report of the se cre tary-Gener ar on hunanitarian assistance to refugees inthe sudan (A/37/5L9).

:. -At the 15th neeting, on 19 oc tober, the Asststant Secretary-ceneral for social.Development and Humanitarian Affair€ nade an lntroductory statement. At the57th rneeting, on 29 November, the Director of the Centre for Hunan Rights, therepresentative of the united Nations Educationaf, scientific and culturalorganization and the Director of the Division of Narcotic Drugs made introductorystatenents. At the 62nd nreeting I on 3 December, the representative of the unitedNations Disaster Rerief co-ord inator nade a staienent pursuant to cenerar Assenbry
resolucion 361151 on assistance to displaced persons in Ethiopia.
ao: At the 57th meeting, on 29 Novernber, the Special Rapporteur on hutnan rights
and nass exoduses and the speciar Representativi of the connission on Eunan Rightson the situation of human rights in nt Salvador tnade statements.
11. At.the 63rd me€ting, on 6 Decenber, the Special Rapporteur on the situation ofnunan rrghts in chile rnade a staternent.
12' The comnittee had before rt the report of the open-ended working croup on theDrafting of an InternationaL Convention on the protection of the Rights of A1IMigrant !{orkers anal Their Families (A,/c.3/37/7 and Corr.l and 2).

]l:..-o! q,t 52ld-meeting, on 3 Decerber, the chairr€n of the open-ended workingbrouP on the elaboration of the draft declaration on the hunan rights ofindividuars who are noc citizens of the country in which they rive introduced thereport of the Working croup (ty'C.3/37/8).



A/37/745
English
Page 5

II. CONSIDERATION OF PNOPOSAI,S

A. Draft resolution Nc.3/37/L.5
14. The Comnlttee had before it the draft resolutions recotnnended by the Econon ic
and Social Council in its resolut Lon Lg82/L3 of 3 l.tay 1982r entitled nstrategy and
poticies for drug control-n. Tlle text of the draft resolution ttas clrculated in
docunent Ac.3/37 /I'.5.

15. A statenent by the 8e cre tary-G€ner al on the adninistrative and financial
itnplications of the draft resolution !ra6 circulated to the conrnittee in docurnent
ly'i.s/sl/L.6. subseguently' at the 616t neeting, on 2 Decenber, the Director of
the Division of Narcotic Drugs nade a stater0ent on the administrative and financial
itnPlicatlona of the draft resolution, as amended (see para' 16) '

16. At the 61st neeting, the rePresentative of the unlted States of Anerica
introatuced an amendnent lVc.3/37/L.63) to the draft resolution trhich caued for
the adalition of the foLloring words at the end of operative ParagraPh Ir

"... to the extent posslble in order of priority and within existing United
Nations resources"

which he orally revised to readt
Iwithin available United Nations resources and to the extent Possible in order
of prlority".

L7. At the same neeting, the comittee voted on the draft resolution and the
anendrEnt thereto as follows:

(a) Ihe anendnent lVc.g/37/f'.63), as orally revised, nas adopted eittrout a
votet

(b) The draft resolution, as amended, htas adoPted without a vote (see
para. 79, draft resolution I).

B. Draft reBolution vc.3/37,/r'.4I

18. At the 58th meetingr on 30 Novernber, the rePresentative of @ introduced
a draft resolution (A/c.g/5?/L.48), entitleal "Questlon of the international legal
protection of the human rights of lndividuals vrho are not citizens of the country
ln wtrich they live*' sponsored by Ghana, Greece ' Jordanr 

l{exicor @, Pakistan
and !g!q' subsequently joined by cvprus.

19. A statenent by the secretary-Genera I on the adninistrative and financial
lnplications of the draft resolution was circulated to the Comnittee in docunent
A/c.3/37 /L.65.

20. At the 5lst tneeting, on 2 December r the rePresentatlve of the q:ted-@-e!
Anerica proposeal an arnendment to the alraft resolutionr h'hich caUed for the
insertion of the folloning oPerative IEr agraPh after oPerative paragraph 1:

/...



A/37 /7 45
Engl ish
Page 6

organs of the United Natlons systen and international organizations concerned,
the reports of the open-ended working groups established at the
thirty-fifth, l/ thirty-sixth, !/ and thirty-seventh !/ sessions and to lnvite
th ern to update the cqlunents they sutltnitted in accordance $ith Econonic and
social Council decislon L979/36 of lO May 1979 or to subnit nerr comnents on
t}|e basis of the above-nentioned reports.n

2L. At the sanE lEeting, the representative of Morocco, speaking as Chairroan of
the Working Group, accepted the arnen&nent proposed by the United States of Anerica,
on behalf of the sponsors, rftich she npdified by adding the words trby
30 ilu ne 1983n. She revised the draft resolution accordingly and renurnbered the
renaining paragraphs.

22. At the same neecing, the representative of sweden proposed an anendment to the
new operative paragraph 3 vrhich called for the replacenent of the word "establish"
by the word nconsider,'t the insertion of the word "in,' before the words
'oPen-endedrrt and the deletion of the words rfor the purpose of concludlng the
eJ-aboration of". subsequently, fol-loning the exchange of vlews in which the
representatives of Morocco, the Netherlands, the Unlted States of Anerica, Sierra
L€one, lcxico, Ethiopia and Ireland took part, the representative of Svreden revised
the anendnent so that operative paragraph 3 would read as follons3

"2. Decides to continue, at its tiirty_elghth session, in an open_ended
working group, the elaboration of the draft declaration on the hunan rights of
individuats who are not citizens of the country ln rrhich they live with a vi.ew
to concludlng this task ".

23. At the same neeting, the conrnlttee voted on draft resorutlon A,/c.g/37/L.48, ae
orally revised, and the anendment thereto as followsr

(a) The amendnent proposed by Sweden (see para. 22) rras rejected by 4I votes
to 9, with 6l abstehtionst

(b) The draft resolutlon as a whole, as orally revised, was adopted r.rithout a
vote (see para. 79, draft resolution II).

!/ A/c.3/35/I4 and cor r.I.

!/ vc.3/36/LL.
y A/c.3/37/s.



A/37/745
English
paqe ?

c. Dtaft reso.Lution VC.3/3?/L.52 and corr.l

24. At the 58th neeting' on 30 Novernber, the rePresentative of Algeria introduced
a draft resoluclon (Vc.3/37/L.52 and corr.l) ' entitled "Measures 

to inprove lhe
situation and ensure the hunan rights and dignity of all nlgrant workers",
sponsored by AJ.qeriar Argentina, Barbados ' Finland ' 

glE, lEry, Jordan' @ie9,
l{orocco, Norwav, Pakistan, Portugal, gglb, Turkev and Yugoslavia as uell as cape
gb, subsequently joined by Banqladesh, Ecuador, Greece' &Li, tbe Philippines
and spain.

25. A statetnent by the se cr etary-ceneral on the adnlnlstrative and flnancial
implicatlons of the draft resolution was circulated to the Corunittee in docunent
A/c.3/37/L.66.

26. At the 51st meeting, on 2 Decenber, the Conurittee adoPted the draft resolution
without a vote (see para. 79, draft resolution III).

D. Draft resolution VC.3/37L.47

27. At the 64th neeting, on 6 Decenber r the representative of Sri Lanka introduced
a draft resofutlon (Ac.3/37/L.47), entltled 'Regional arrangements for the
promotion and protectlon of human rights", sponsored by Australla, Bangfadesh,
Inqia' Ireland' Kenya ' Nepal, New zealand, Nigeria, 

Paklstan, PaPa Ner.t Guinea and
sri Lanka a6 well as $!4r cvprus and I'brocco.

28. At the 72nd neeting, on 9 Decenber, the Cotulittee adoPted the draft resolution
tri thout a vot€ (see para. 79, draft resolution Iv).

E. Draft resolution VC.3/37lL.72

29' At the 64th neeting, on 6 December, the representative of Belgiun introduced a
draft resolutLon (A/c.3/37/L.72) ' entitled "RegionaI 

arrangernents for the
protection of human r1ghts", sponsored by Australia, Belgiutn, q!aS!g, F"qvpt,
f'rance, Ghana' Italv, the Nether lands ' senegal and 

g9 as htell as 4gL!,
subsequently joined by cvprus and Gulnea.

30. At the ?znd meeting, on 9 December ' the representative 
of Be1giun, on behalf

of the sponsors, orally revised the draft resolution by replacing oPerative
paragraph 2 lrhich read:

"2. Comtends the organization of African unity for Pronoting respect for
the guarantees and norrns contained in the African Charter of Human and
Peoplers Rights and encourages the Organization of African Unity to continue
efforts to obtain its earLy entry into forcer

by the following text !

"2, conmends the organization of African Unity for lts continuing
efforts to Pronote respect for the guarantees and norrns of hurnan rights and



A,/37/745
English
Page I

fundarnental freedms and notes rrith interest the African charter of Human andPeoplers Rights and ttre efforts to obtain its early entry lnto force".
3l-. At the same meeting, the Cormlttee adopted the draft resolutlon, as orally
revised, Irithout a vote (eee para. 79, draft resolution V).

F. Draf t regotutlon A/C.3/37,/L.50
32. At the 54th neeting' on 6 Decenber. the representatlve of zaire introduced a
draft resolut Lon lA/c.3/37/L.50) entitled 'situation of refugees in the sudann,
:n:""r:9.by AlqFfia, Bahrain, Banstadesh, the Centrat African Republicr Chad,thile, chint, Pjlbouti, !gpg, rnoia, rnaoneEtal-Ellil-JlGfEEl- , iuGit,lrberrar UiEl, l'laur+tania, Morocco, Nepa1l Onan, pakiatan, the phllippines,
Qatar t
za 1re
spaln

(a) Delete

(b) DeIete

(c) Delete
"refugees".

Sgneqalr Sonalia. the $Qggr I'unisia, Turkey, ttre United Arab Blnirates,
and Zanbia subseguently joined by Canby Canada, Cyprus, Kenya, Romania, Singapore,
and Thailand.

33. At the 72nd meeting, on 9 Decenber, the comittee adopted the draft resolution
nlthout a vote (see para. 29. draft resolution vI).

c. Draf t resolution Vc. 3/32L. 54^ev.l
34. At the 54th neeting, on 6 Decenberr the repreeentative of zaire introduced a
draft 

. 
reaolut lon (Ac.3/37 /L.s4/eev.Lt entitled "Assistance to refugees inSonal.ia', 

:p"1""T9 by BFhrain, Bansladesh, Barbados, Botswana, the Central African
Bepublig, Chad, China, the Conoros, of fUouti, nqwt, fnaonesia, ItuIIj[-@-
l9:ry, KuwF,it, +igtho, Liberla, Malavsia, Mauritania, @, Nepal, Gnan,$!.!g$, _the-P-frif ippines, Qatar,-=:..::' :=:_.i:::=::, =:.:::-:
+:]!!nos, qonarta, the sudan, Thailand, Tunisia, furkey, the Unlt€d Arab EnilateF,
Yemen, zalre, Zar&ia and zirbabt{e, subseguently joinE by canada and sierra leone.
35. At the sane meeting, the representative of Ethiopia introduced ehe follot ing
amendtrEnts (NC.3/37/L.8I) to the draft resolutionr

the fifth prearnbular paragral*l.

the seventh preambular paragraph.

tbe words app€aring ln operative paragraph 4 after the rrord

Delete operative paragraptr

Delete operative paragraph

(f) Renumber operative paragraph z
36. At the 72nd rEeting, on 9 December,
of the sponsors, oralfy revised the draft

as paragr aph 5.

the representative of l.{orocco, on behalf
resolution as follc'ws!

5.

(d)

(e)



A/37/ 7 45
EngIi6h
Page 9

(a) The flfth preanbular paragraPh, rhich read:
rconsidering the fact that none of the refugees in Somalia have so far

been able to return to their horeland,"

r,ras retrorded to read!

"Considering the fact that the refugee problen has not yet been
resolved , n.

(b) In the seventh Preanbular paragraPh, the rord 'lnflux' before the rcrdsnof refugees" was replaced by npresence't

(c) In operative paragralfi 4, the vtords "untll such tine as they are able to
return to their horneland in safety and dignity" at the end of the paragraph uere
deleted.

37. The amendnents in docunent NC.3/37/L.8L (see Para. 35) were conaequently
wi thdrawn.

38. At the same neetlng, the Comnittee adlopteal draft resolution
A/c.3/37 /L.54/Rev.l r as orally revised, nithout a vote (see para. 791 draft
resolution VII).

H. Draf t resolution VC.3/37L.55

39. At the 64th neetlng, on 6 Decenber, the representative of 4!E introduced a
draft resolutior. (A/ c.3/37,/r,.5 5 ) entttled "Assistance to dlsPlaced persons ln

joined by Cape Verde, the Ei!E. Arab jgEElIj.E and Sierra l€one.

40. At the sarE [Eeting, the representative of Somalia introduced the follolting
anendnents (Py'C.3/37/L.67) to the draft resolution:

(a) Delete the fifth prealbular paragrapbt

(b) Delete the words iand voluntary returnees" in oPeratlve trEragraph It

(c) Delete the words " ttre large nunber of" in oPeratlve ParagraPh 3t

(d) Delete the words nof the growing number" in operatlve paragraph 4t

(e) At the end of oPerative Paragraph 4. add the words 'of concern to hls
office".

41. At the 72nd neetingr on 9 Decetnber, the rePresentatlve of ilorocco' on behalf
of the sponsors, orally revised the draft reaolution as follorrat



A/37/745
Engl ish
Page 10

(a) In the fifth preambular paragraph and operative paragraph 4, the word
"growing" before the word inunberr was deletedt

(b) In operative paragral*r 3, the rcords "the large number of' before the
rrords "displaced persons" and the words nand voluntary returnees' at the end of the
paragraph were deleted.

42. The arnen&nents in docunent p,/c.3/37/L.67 (see para. 40) nere conseguently
vri tldrawn.

43. At. the saDe meeting, the Counittee adopteal draft resolutLon MC,3/37/L.55, as
orally revised, wi thout a vote (see para. 79, draft resorution rrr).

I. Draf t resolution VC.3rl37l.51lRev. 2

44. At the 64th neeting, on 6 Decdnber I the representaeive of ZaLte introduced a
draft resolutLon (A/c.3/37 /L.57/Rev.2t entitted nEurnanitarlan assistance to
refugees in Djiboutin; sponsored by Atgeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Botswana,
Cape verde, chad, China, the @, Derpcratic yeltEn, Pj!49!, France, the
Gambia, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Etie, Indonesia, &!I, the Ivorv Coast, Jordan,
Kenya, Kurrait, Lesotho. Liberla, t}le Libvan Arab Jamahiriya, @.!, Malawi,MaIi, Mauritanla, lbrocco, the $gr qnan, pakistan, @, E!g, saudi Arabia,
senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, the 84, Swazilandr tbe svrian ArabRepublic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisiar ttrrkev, the United Arab &nirates, tlle tnited
Bgplrblic of Cameroon, the Unlted Republlc of Tanzanla, @, 33i!9, @E!3 "traztmDabwe' subsequently joined by t}le Central African Republic and the tjpper Volta.

45. At the 72nd rEeting, on 9 Decenber, the comnittee adopted the draft resolution
rritlout a vote (see para. 29, draft resolution IX) .

J. Draft resolution VC.3/3?,/1.62
46. At the 64th meeeing, on 5 Decenber, the representative of Lesotho introduced a
draft resolutLon lA/C.3/37lL.52, entitled 'Assistance to student refugees in
soutiern Africar, sponsored by Algerla, Ango1e, Botsnana, pjjbolli, Egypt r Iesotho,
Liberia, Sonalla, Swaziland, the United Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslavia and zanbia
as eell as @Ig and lg5tpr subsequently Joined by Benin, Ethiopia, Trlnidad and
Tobago and lrganda.

47. At the 72nd neeting, on 9 Decenber, the Comnittee adopted the draft resolution
vtithout a vote (aee IEra. 79, alraft resolution X).

K. Draft resolution VC.3/37L.64
48. At the 64th meetlng, on 5 December, the representative of Ronania introduced a
draft resolut Lon (VC.3/3UL.64) entitled "The right to education"r sponsored by
Bangladesh, Barbadog, Bhutan, Bulgaria, Cape verde, the Centrat African nepublic,



A/37/745
English
Page I1

&lcgEig, the pElgr costa Rica, lIE, the Doninican ReDublic, Ecuador' Egvpt '
Ethiopia' Guinea, Guinea-Blssau, ggre, .I!g!g4, Indonesia' ,tordan' El4b' the
Llbvan Arab ilanEhiriya, uglb9€!, ltali, Maurltius' &19999, @ghigg, Ig!g!,
Ii-...tggo., Niqerla' &kistan, the Philippines, 39:l3IIl' Qatar' Ronania, @ge'
senegal, somalia' sLE$g, the $!gr sur inanre, the svrlan Arab Republic ' Togo,Trinidad and Tobaso, &I!9&, Tlrrkev, the Eg_yo-l!q, llc4b, glg!-ry.and
Yugosl-avia as well- as Gatron r Yenen and zaire, subsequently joined by
Cvprus and Onan.

Bolivia r

49, At the 72nd meeting' on 9 December, the conmittee adopted the draft resolution
nithout a vote (see Para. 79' draft resolution xI).

I.. Draft reso].ution A/C.3/32L.69

50. At the 64th neeting, on 6 Decenber r the rePresentative of the Gernan
Derpcratic Republlc introduced a draft resolution |VC.3/37/L.69) entitled
"Measures to be taken against l€zi, Fascist and neo-Fa scist actlvities and all
Other forn6 of totalitarian ideologies and practlces based on racial intolerance,
hacred and terror", sponsored by Af Angola, Bulgaria, qE,
Czechoslovakiar the , the
Denocr atic Republic, Poland,
viet Nan and z inllabne.

51. At the ?2nd rneeting, on 9 December, the representative of the elsan -BocrgElg
Republicr on behalf of the sponsors, folloelng suggestions trade by sone
representativesr ora.Lly revised the draft reaolutlon as followsr

(a) rn the third preambular paragraph, the lrords "ln pronoting and
encouraglng respect for human rights and fundarnental freeddns for all" were added
at the end of the trEragral*r,

(b) In the seventh preambular paragraphr the words 'and the Declaratlon on
the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discriminatlon Based on Religion
or Belieftr rrere added at the end of the paragratr*lt

(c) The ninth prearnbular paragraph, which read:

"Convinced that the implslentation of its resolutions on the suppression
of nazisra and fascism as well as affiliation to, and strict observance of the
provisions of, the relevant international lnstrunents would contribute tffards
counteracting their resotration or spreadr'

was deletedt

(d) In th€ last preambular paragradr, the words "and that there still exist
Fasclst practices which jeopardize international peace and security as well as the
realization of hurnan rights and fundanentaL freedons" nere deleted at the end of
the paragraph t

(e) operative paragraph ?, which read:



A/37/7 45
EngIlsh
Page 12

"7. Requests the Sesetary-General to ensure that the Department of
Pubric rnfornation of the secretarlat pays due attention to the disseninationof infornatlon exlbsrng the practices 6f-th" p.oponents of Fascist iareorogies"

ras r eworded as follolrst

"7. Requests the Se cr etary-Genera I to ensure that t.he Departnent of
Publlc rnfornation of the secretarlat pays attention to the alissenination ofinfornation exposing the practices of -ttr-e proponentg of ldeologies andpractlces described in paragraph I above,l

nthls
(f) In operative paragraph 8, the words "as a narrersubjectn were deleted.

meeting, on 6 December,
(A/c.3/37 /L.7 0) entitled
sponsored by Costa Rica,

of high priorityn after

the representative of France introduced a
rQuestion of involuntary or enforced

Subsequently, taking into account a proposal by tbe representative of Belgium, the
rePreaentative of the GerrEn DenDcratic nepubric further orally revised operative
Parlg:?ph 7 by deleting the rrord s rthe practlces of the proponents ofr before the
word ildeologiesr.

52. At the sarne neeting, the CorEnlttee adopted the draft resolution, as orally
revlsed, nithout a vote (see para. 29, draft resolution xII).

M. Draft resolution Vc.3/37L.70
s3. At the 64th
draft resolution
d isappearanceso,
Greece, I talv, and sweden,

lrance, Gernany, Federal Republic of,
subsequently Joined by Austria and theUnited Ki Gre IreIand.

?.4. At the 72nd nEeting, on 9 Decenber, the representatlve of France, on behalf ofEne sponsor s' orally revised the draft resolution b1' replacing, in the fourthpreanbular paragraph, the reords nwho have the right to know the fate of their
relativesr by .who should know the fate of their relativess.
55.. At the sarE tneetlng, the Coflutittee adopted the alraft resolution, a€ orally
revisedr nlthout a vote (see para. 29, draft resolution xIrI).

N. Draft resolutlon A,/C.3/31lL.59 and Rev.l
56. At the 64th neetlng, on 6 December, the representative of Ctprus lntroduced adraft resolut ton (MC.3/37/L.58) entitled iMissing persons ln Cyprus" sponsored by
!lo:sta-Ili.e, cvprus, Denosatic yemen, Greece, Nicaragua and panana as well ae the
ld",*i: Ecuador, crenada, Malta, the srrian araU nepuUfic, EfEiE lpone andpeycneJ.les. The draft resolution read as follorrst



A/ 37 /745
English
Page 13

"The CeneIal_Assenb1y,

nRecalling its Previous resolutlons on the question of the nlssing
persona in cyprust

'Reaffirmlng the basic need of families co be lnformed' without further
delay, about the fate of their nlsslng relatives,

"Reqrettlng the fact that the comnittee on Missing Persons in cyPrus, the
eEtaUlIE[Git of h'tlich vras announced on 22 April 1981. has failed to overcome
procedural difficultles and has aclr ieved no Progress torards the cot nencernent
of lts investlgative work,

nEnr*rasizing the need for a speedy resolution of this humanitarian
problem,

'1. Requests the comission on Hunan Rights to consider, as a matter of
Prlority, ttte qu"stion of rnisslng persons ln cyprus at its thirty-ninth
leseiot and to establish an effective nactrinery for the investigation of the
caaes of nlssing Persons in cyprust

n2. Calls upon au parties concerned to facilitate such investigation ln
a spirit of co-oPeritlon and good will in order to ensure lhe traclng of and
accounting for the missing p€rsons in Cyprus $ithout any further delayt

"3. Resuests ttle secretary-General to follow up the inpl€nentation of
thls re€olution and to report to the thirty-elghth session of the General
Assenbly.

57. At the 67th meeting, on 7 Decenber, the representative of Yugoslavia orally
introduced the follotting amendments to the draft resolutlonr calling forl

(a) The replacenent of the words rRegretting the fact" by the words
oE pre€sinq concern" ln the third prealbular pragraPht

(b) The rePlacement of operative paragratfi I by the folLowing texts

'I. Invites the worklng Group on Enforced or Involuntary DisaPPearancea
of the cormission on Hurran Rights to folton develoPments and to recornrnend ways
and neans to the parties concerned with a vlew to overc'oming the pendlng
procedural alifflcutties of the cottuiittee on !'li.sslng Pesons in Cytrus and in
co-oPeration vith it to facilitate the effective imPlernentation of its
inveitigative work on the basis of the existing relevant agreenentst"t

{c} The deletionr in oPerative paragraPh 2r of the words "in order to ensure
the tracing of and accountlng for the nissing persons in cyPrus \tithout any further
delay't

(d) The rewording of oPerative ln.ragra;:h 3 as follot s:



A/37/7 45
English
Page 14

- 
Rgquests the Se cr etary-Gener al to continue to provide his gooaloffices witb a vieu to facllitatlng the hrork of the Comnittee on uissingPersons in C\lPrus. "

58. At the same meeting, the repreaentative of cyprus, on behalf of the sponsors,
accePted the anendments proposed by the representative of yugosravia and revigedthe draf t reGolution accoralingty ta/C. Z/n7L. Se/Rev. t) .
59' At tbe sane nEeting, the committee took a atecision on the request naale by therePresentative of Turkey (ry'c.3/37/Lol that a representative on the \rrkish c)'pr iotconnhity, tnernber of the Cornmi ttee on Iifissing persons in Cyprus, be pernitteal to
address the Comnittee on the subject of the draft resolution. ?he proposal rea6
rejected by a recorded vote of 59 to 34, with 2g abstentions. The voting h,as as
fol Io$, s:

In favour r Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belglurn, Canadar
DennErk, Finland, Gerrnany, Federal nepublic of, rndonesi6, rssn
(Islanic Republic of), Japan, Kunalt, Iebanon, Libyan Arab
itanah iriya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar, l€laysia, Morocco, New
Zealand, Norway, Onan. pakistan, papua lier,, cuinea, eatar,
SonElia, Sudanl Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and
Tobago, firnisial t'urkey, United Kingdon of creat Britain and
Northern Ireland, United State of America.

Aqainstt Afghanistan, Algerla, Angola, ArgenEinaf Belize, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botsuana, Brazil-, Bu1garia, Burna, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic. Cape Verde, Chi1e, Colcmbia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dotninican Republic,
EI Salvador, Ethlopia, cerrnan Democratic Republic, creece,
Grenada, cuatenala, cuinea, cuinea-Bissau, cuyana, India,
Jarnaica, Renya. t€o peoplers Dernocratic Republic, Lesotho,
l.blawi , l,lali , lGxico, Mongolla, !{ozanbique , Nicaragua , Nigeria,
Pahama, Paraguay, poland, RHanda, Senegal, Sierra l€one, Sri
Lanka, Ukrainian soviet socialist Republtc, union of soviet
Sociallst Republics, United Republic of Caneroon, Uruguay,
vanuatu, venezuera, viet Nan, yugoslaviar zanbia.

Abstainingr Baharnas, Barbados, central African Republic, Chad, Ecuador, Ftji,
France, cabon, freland, I8rael, Italy, Ivory Coast, ,fordan,
Liberial Nellal, Netherlands, Niger, peru, philippines, portugal,
Spain, Surinane, Thailand, Togo, Uganda, United Republic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, za ire.

69: At the 72nd meeting, on 9 Decetnber, the Cotunittee aatopted draft resolution
E{c.3 /37/L.58/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 99 to 5, wtth 18 abstentions (see
para. 79 draft resolution xlvl . The votinq $as as followst

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Baharias, Barbados, Belglum, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsirana.
Brazil, BuLgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Sociallst

In favour !



A/37/74s
English
Page 15

Republicr Cape verde, central African Repub],ic, Colotnbla, congo,
Costa Rica, Cuba, qrprusr czechoslovakia, Democratic Yenen,
Dennark, Domlnican Republic, Ecuador, Eg]zpt ' Ethiopia' Fiji'Finland, France, cernan Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Greece, cuinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haitil ltungary,
Ice1and, India, Ireland, Italyr Ivory Coast, Jamaica, .tapan,
Jordan, Kenyar Lao Peoplers Delpcratic RePublic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Llberiar Luxembourg ' l{adagascar, r.h1ahti, 

l,laldives, MaIi,
l,lalta, l,tauritania, Maurltius, l,lexico, l,longolia, Mozanbique t
Netberlands, Ne$ zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria' Norrrtay, qnan, PaPua
l'le$ Gulnea, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Rwanda, sao Tone
and Principel Senegalr Sierra Leone, Spain' Sri Lanka, Suriname.
Swaziland, Sweden, syrian Arab RePublic, To9o, uganda' Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet socialist Republics.
United Republic of Cameroon' United RePublic of Tanzanla,
Uruguay, venezuela, viet Natn, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zanbla.

Aqalnstr Bangladesh, Indonesia, Malayaia' Pakistan' Turkey.

Abstainlng: Canadar chad, Gabon, Guatemala, rsrael, Nepal, Niger'
Phitl.pPines, saudi Arabia, singaPore, Sudan, thailandr Trinidad
and Tobagor nrni6ia, United Kingdon of Great Britain and I'lorthern
rreland, united states of America, upper volta, zaire.

O. Draft resolution VC.3/37lL.76
61. At tJle 64th meeting, on 6 Decenber, the representative of Denmark introduced a
draft resolutlon (NC.3/3UL.76) entitled "sunnary or arbitrary executions",
aponsored by Belqiun, Costa Rica, Derunark, Finland, Greece and the Ig!!C44gg as
well as Portugal, subsequently joined by cvprus' t'lorway and slreden.

62. At the 72nd neeting, on 9 Decenber, the comnittee adopted the draft resolution
wlthout a vote (see para. 79, draft resolution ,ry).

P. Draft resolutLo Uc.3/37/L.53

53. At the ?0th neeting r on 9 December r the representative of Mexico lntroduced a
draft resolut lon (Mc.3/37lL.53) entitled iThe situation of hunan rights and
fundamental freedoms in Chilen, sponsored by Atgeria, cuba, I'lexico and IggS!4!9'
subeequently jolned by Bolivia.

64. At the 72nd meeting, on 9 Decenber r the representative of the !4lteg-5lng geu
of Great Eritain and Northern Ireland orally introduced the following anendments to
the draft resolution:

(a) The addition of the words "with a vievt to taking the most aPPropriate
steps and report on its consideration through the Econonic and social Council to
the General Assenbly at its thirty-seventh session'r at the end of operative
paragraPh .12.

/...



A/37/745
EngI ish
Page 16

(b) The deletlon of operative paragraph 13, which readlr

"13. rnvites the comrnisslon on Hunan Rights to extend the nandate of the
SPeclal Rapporteur on Chile as long as necessary and requests the Comnission
to subnit a ne$ report on the situation on humn rights in Chile, through the
Econonic and Social Council at its XXXWII Session.n

65. At the 73rd neeting, on lO Decenber, the Comoittee voted on draft resolution
D,/C.3/37/L.53 ahd the arnendnents thereto as follords:

(a) The amendnen!€ subnitted by the United Ningdon of creat Britain and
l{or ther n Ireland were adopted by a roll-call of 46 to 42, with 42 abstentions. The
voting rras as folJ-ons:

In favour s Argentina' Australia, Bahamas, Belglutn, Brazil, Canada, ChiIel
cololtbia, D€nnErk, Doninican Republic, El salvador, Fijl,
Finlandr France, cernany, Sederal Republic of, cuatemala, Haltl,
Eonduras, Iceland, IErael, Italy, Janalca, ilapan, Lebanon,
Luxetnbourg, Ma laysla, llorocco, l'letier lands, Ner{ Zealand, !br$ay,
Pakistan, PaFra Nelr cuinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Portugal, saint lr.rcla, Singapore, Sotnalla, Spain, Tunlsla,
Turkey, Uganda, United Kingdotn of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay.

Afghanlstan, Algeria, llngola, Babrainr Benin, BoIl.via, Bulgarial
Byelorussian Sovlet Sociallst Republic, Cape verde, Congo, Cuba,
czechoslovak ia, DenEcratic yenen, Ethiopia, Gernan Denpcratic
Republic, Greece, crenada, Guinea, Eungary, Irag, Iao peoplers
Derpcratic Republic, tibyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, !,!ali,
Mauritania, Mexico, l.tongoliar t4ozanbigue, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Poland, Qatar, bnania, Sao Tome and Prlncipe, Senegal, Swedenr
Ukrainian Soviet soclallst Republic, union of Soviet socialist
RePubLics, Unlted Arab Ernirates, Viet Nan, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Aga ins t r

Abstaining: Austriar Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Botsyana, Burna, Burundi,
Central African Republlc, Chad, China, Costa Rlca, Ecuador,
Egypt, Gabon, cuyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islarnic Republic
of) ' IreLand, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Lesothor italawi. t'tauritius,Nepal, Niger, qtlan, panana, &randa, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinane, Srraziland,
fhailand, Togo, Trinidad anid Tobago, United Republic of
Caneroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Zaire.

(b) Ihe draft resolution as a whole, as arnended, was adopted by a roll-call
vote of 74 to 15, with 40 abstentions (see para. 79, draft resolution XVI). The
voting was as follorrs:



A/37/7 45
English
Paqe l7

In favourr Afghanistan, Algeriar Angolar Auscralia, Austrla, Bahrain,
Barbados, Belgium' Benin, Bhutan, Bolivlar Botsnana, Bulgarla'
Byel.orussian soviet socialist Republic' Canada, CaPe verde,
congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yernen, Denrnark, EthloPla,
I'inland ' France' German Delpcratic RePublicr 

Greece, Grenadar
Guinea, Guyanar Hungary, Icelandr India, Iran {Islanic Republic
of), Iraq' Ireland' Italy, .tanaica, Kenyar Kunait, Lao People's
Detnocratic Republic, Luxembourg ' Madagascar, 

Mauritius, ldexico,
Itlcngolia, f.fozanbique ' Netherlands, Neld zealand, 

Nicaragua,
Nigerlal l$orway, Papua Nev, Guinea, Poland, Portugalr Qatar '
Romanla, Rwanda, sao ltone and Pr incl'pe, senegalr sPain, sudan,
Sltaziland, sweden, Togo' nrnisia, uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
socialist Republic, Union of soviet soclalist Republics ' United
Arab &riratesr United Kingdom of Great Britain and t{orthern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzanl6, Viet Nam, Yugoalaviat
zanbla.

A,qainst: Argentina, Brazil, chile, El Salvador, Guatenala, Haiti'
Honduras, Indonesia, Israel, Lebanon, Morocco, Pakistan'
Paraguay, Philippines, United States of America' Uruguay.

Abstaininga Bahamas' Bangladesh, Burna' Burundi, Central African RePublic,
Chad' China, colotnb ia ' costa Rica, Dominican 

RePublic' Ecuador,
B$Pt' Fiji, Gabon, Gernany, Federal RePublic of, Ivory coast,
JaPan, I€sotho, Llbyan Arab ,tamahiriya, !'!alawi, ualaysia, l'taIi,
Iilauritania, NetEl, Niger, Onan, Panamar Peru' Saint Lucla, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia' SingaPorer Srl Lanka,
surinarE' Thailand' Trinidad and Tobago' Turkey' united RePubic
of Cameroon, Irpper Volta, zaire.

a. Draft resolutioh A/C.3/37,/L.5I
65. At the 54th neeting, on 6 Decenber r the representative of the tGtherlands
introduced a draft resolution (l./C.3/37/L.68) entitled 'Hunran rlghts situation in
Chilerr sponsored by Dennark and the lGtherlands, which read as follonsr

'The cenelal_AssembII,

iconscious of its responsibility to pronote and encourage respect for
hunnn rights and fundamental freedons for all, and deternined to renEin
vigilant with regard to violations of human rights wherever they occur t

rNotlng that Governnents have an obligation to protect and pronote hullEn
rights and to carry out respons iblli ties t}ley have undertaken under various
international instrunents'

"Recalllng its resolutions 3I/I24 of 16 December 1976' 32/Ll8 of
16 Decenber L977,33/L75 of 20 Decenber 1978, 34/179 of 17 Decenber 1979,
35/L88 of 15 December I98O and 36/L57 ot 16 Decenber 1981 on the protection of
hunan rights in Chile and 33,/173 of 20 Decenber ]'978 on disapPeared Persons.



A/ 37/74s
English
Page l-8

iRecalling also Comnission on Human Rights resolu Lion L982/25 of 10 lGrch
1982 on violations of hunan rights in Chile, in wtlich the Commission,
inter alia, decided to extend the rnandate of the Special Rapporteur on the
situation of hurEn rights in Chile for one year,

"DepLoring that the chilean authorities have congistently refused to
co-oPerate with the Sp€c la] Rapporteur appointed by the Coruri6sion on Eunsn
Rights,

"E<pressing lts concern that, according to the report of the Special
RaPPorteur, he ls not in a position to report an inprovenent in the hutnan
rights situation in Chile (A/ 37/564, ,

'Noling with increasing concern that the Chilean authorities continue to
ignore@ternaEionar cdnmunity refiecred in tne
varLous resolutions of the General Aeser$Iy and other international organs,

'Reaffirmlng ttle right of everyone to leave and to return to his country,
the right not to be subjected to arbitrary arrest or detentlon and the right
to freedon of expression and opinion,

'Also_IEa{€:14!S the right and responsibility of individualsr groups and
organs of aociety to pronote and protect the rigtrts recogmized in various
international hunan rights instrunenbs,

"1. Cornmends the Speci.al Rapporteur for his report on the situation of
hurEn rights in Cbile, prepared in accordance rrl th Comtllssj.on on Human Rlghts
resolution 1982/25 of 10 March 1982,

"2. stronglv urges the Chilean auttrorities to respect and promote human
rights in accordance with their obligations under various international
instrunents and, in particular, to take concrete steps as outlined in
Commtssion on IIunEn Rights resol-ution L982/25t

"3. Concludes on the basis of t}|e report of the Special Rapporteur, that
continued vigilance with regard to the hunan rlghts situation in Chite is
warrantedt

"4. B<presses its deep concern about the lack of infornation on the
numerous persons r.ho have disappeared for political reasons and urges once
more the Chilean auttrorities to investigate and clarify lhe fate of those
Per son s t

"5. AIso expresses its concern at the banishnent and forced exile
apPlied by the Chilean authorities to a great nunber of citizens, especially
those exercising their right and responsibility !o pronote the effective
observance and protection of hunan rightsl

"6. Calls upon the Chilean authorities to respect and guarantee the
hunan rights of persons detained or imprisohed in respect of offences nhich



A/37/745
Bngl ish
Page 19

they cornnitted, or are susPected of having cornmitted r by reason of their
politlcaL opinions or convictlons and to release such persons either as an act
of clenency or by vray of conditional release or otherwiset

'7. Urges once rnore the chilean authorities to co-operate with the
gpecial Rapporteur End to submit their conrnents on the findings on hi6 rePort
to the ccmnisslon on ButBan Rights at its tiirty-ninth sessiont

Requests the CommiEslon on Hurnan Rights at its thirty-nlhth sesslon
to study tnorouErfy the rePort of the special RaPtDrteur wlttr a view to taking
the [Est appropriate steps and report on its consideratlon through the
EconorD ic and social council to the General Assenbly at its thirty-eighth
session. "

57. At the 73rd meeting, on 10 Decenber, the rePresentative of the Nether landsr
folloning the adoption of draft resolution A/c.3/37/L.53 ' as amended 

(see

Para. 65), stated that the sponsors would not insist that draft resolution
A/C.3/37/t.65 be put to the vote. The draft. resolutlon nas therefore withdrawn.

R. Draft resolution Vc.3/37lL.75

68. At the 54th meetlng' on 6 Decenber, the rePresentative of Sweden introduced a
alraft resolutfon (NC.3/37,/L.75! entitled "situation of human rights and
fundarnental freedons in Guatemala", sponsored by Austr ia r Canada ' 8fg1]., and
E@ as reell as by Norrrav, Eubsequently joined by Denmark and the Netherland6 '

69. At the 73rd meetlng, on 10 Decenber ' 
the comnlttee adoPted the draft

resolution by a roll-call vote of 74 to 16, ttlth 45 abstentions (see Para. 79,
draft resolution X\III). The voting k'as as foLlotfs!

In favourt Afghanistan' Algeriar Angolal Australla, Auslria, Bahrain,
Barbados' B€lgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Bul-garia'
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Repubtic' Canada, Cape verde,
Congo, cuba, czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen' Dennark. EthioPia,
Finland, France' Gerrnan Delpcratic Republlc, Greec€, Grenada,
Guyana' Hungary 

' 
Ice.Land, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq,

Ireland, Italy, JanE ica ' Kenya. 
Kuwaitr Lao PeoPIe's Denpcratic

RePublic, Libyan Arab ,Janahiriyal Luxembourg, Madagascar, Ma1i,
lGuritania, Mauritius, l'lexico' Mongolia r litozanblque. Netherlands,
New zealand, Nicaraqua, Nigeria, Norway ' Papua New 

Guinea,
Poland' Portugal, Qatar' Rnanda ' sao Tone 

and PrinciPe' senegal,
Sierra Leone' SPain' Slteden, Syrian Arab Republic, To9o, Uganda'
Ukrainian soviet Socialist RePublic, union of soviet socialist
RePublics, United Arab Emirates' United Kingdon of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu' Viet
Nam' Yugosl.avia, zambia, Z imbabrre.

Againstr Argentinar Brazil' Chile, El salvador. Guatemala, Haitl'
Honduras' Indonesia, Israel, l'lorocco ' Paklstan, Paraguay,PhilipPines, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, United States of
America, Uruguay.



A,/37/745
Engl ish
Page 20

Abstaining: Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Burna, Burundi, central African
Republlc, Chad, China, Color&ia; Coata Rica, Dorninlcan R€public,
Ecuador, F.gypt. Fiji, cabon, cerrany, Federal Republic of,
Guinea, Guinea-Bieaau, Indial lvory Coast, Japan, itordan,
Lesotho, Malatri, Irlalaysia, t'IeIEl, Niger, Onan, Panarna, Peru,
Romania, Saint ti.rcia, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
surlname, swazlland, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunlsia,
Turkey, United Republic of Caneroon, Upper Volta, Zaire.

S. Draft resolution UC.3/37/L.77
70. At the 70th neetlng, on g December, the representative of Mexico introduced a
draft resolutLon (F/C.3/ 37,/L.7 7) entitled nsituatlon of hutrEn rights and
fundanental freeddls in El Salvador n, sponsored by France, Greece, l.hxlco, seeden
and Yuqoglavia.

71. At the 74th neeting, on 10 December, the representative of Canada introduced
anendmentS lUc.3/37/L,92) to the draft resol.ution. The amendnents read as followst

'1. fn tlre eighth preambular paragraph replace the word .failurer by the h'ord
t inablliq/r .

"2. Replace the ninth prearnbular paragraph by the follorrlngr
robservinq thaC since elections last llarch there has been no

cessation of violence and li.ttle noticeable inprovenent in the situatlon
of hutnan rights and fundamental freedoms in that countryr.

"3. ldd a ne{r 1a6t preanbular paragraph to read as followss
rTaking note of the recent creation of a national Conrnission on

Human Rights in EI Sa lvador and expressing the hope that it wll,I be given
aPpropriate rneans to effectively discharge its nandater.

'4. operative paragraph 3 should read as follolrs!

'!gE that the situatlon in El Salvador
rePort of the Special Representatlve demandB

as
tbe

clearly shordn in the
full restoration of

civll Peace as an essentlal prerequisite to respect for civill poltttcal
and hurnan rights and a gradual inproveirent of economlc, soclal and
cultural rightsr.

Merge operative paragraphs 4 and ? as followsr
rReaffirms the rlght of the El Salvadorian people to freely

determine their politlcal. econonic and social future without
interference from outBide and in an atlDsphere free from intimidation and
terror from all partiesr.



^/37/745Engllsh
Page 2).

lExisting operative paragraphs 4 and 7 readr

Reaffirns the ridlt of the salvadorian people to freely
determine their Political, econonic and aoc ial future ttithout
interference fron outside, and to establish a denocraticauy electcd
Governnent, in an atmsphere free from intlnl.datlon and terror alloring
full and unreatricted popular particlpation,

Reiterates lts appeal to the Government and other Polltlcal
forces ln El sa lvador to work together towards a comprehenstve negotlated
political solution in order to bring about a peaceful settlenent and
appropriate conditions for the eatablisbment of a Government througb fre€
and unhanpered elections, in an atlDaphere free frorn intirnidation and
terror . " I

operative paragraFh 5 should read as follows:

turges ttre covernnent of El Salvador anal other Political forces to
avall themselves of the offers of good offlces by.friendly countries in
order to establish a dialogue leading to a Peaceful solution to that
conflict in that country'.

In operative paragraPh 8, replace the nords rand to altotf the
establlshnent of a democratic systen' by the words rthus securing a denocratic
system'.

fn oPerative Paragraph 10' replace the itords rFurther urges tlle judlciary
in El Salvador to assune thelr obligation to' by the rordsr

'EI@, corrcern over the inabillty of the judiclary ln
El salvador to assume its obligations'.

subsequently, taking into account ProPosals made by tl|e representatlves of Dennark
and $!g43!r the repregentative of Canada orally revlsed some of the amendnenta as
followsr

(a) In the second anendnent, the words 'since elections last llarchr Yere
deleted,

(b) In tfle third anen&rent, the h'ords nand wilt tbereby contribute to the
. endlng of the serious mssive and persistent violationg of hunan rights obeerved by

the Special RePresentative of the comtisslon on Hunan Rights ln hi6 rePor t
lA/37/6].j-' para. 96) " vrere added at the end of the paragrapht

(c) Tte fourth amen&ent nas renorded to read!
nt{otes that the situation in El Salvador as clearly shorrn ln the

report of the Special Representative demands the full r€storation of
civil peace as a prerequisite for the full e:tercise of clvil and
politlcal riqhts and economlc, social and cultural rightsr";



A/37/ 745
Engl ish
Page 22

(d) fn the s ixt-b anendnent, trle words "avail tlemselves of the offers of good
offlces by friendly countries ln order ton Here deletedt

(e) The seventlr anenfuent $as wltbdrawn.

72. At the 74th rpeting, on I0 Decenlcer, the Connittee voted on the draft
resolution lPy'C.3/37/L.77) and t}le anen&nents tiereto (NC.3/37/L.g2) as orally
revised (see para 7l) as follons:

(a) The first anendment was rejected by 38 votes to 38, rrith 52 abstentions,

(b) The second anendnent, as orally revisedr was rejected by 42 votes to 291
wlth 46 abstentlonst

(c) The third anendment, as orally revised, lras rejected by 43 votes to 27,
with 39 abstentionst

(d) The fourth amendnent. aa orally revised, Has rejected by 44 vote€ to 35,
nith 37 abstentionst

(e) The fifth amendnent l,as adopted by 43 votes to 41r wlth 35 abstentlonsl
(f) The alxtb anendrnent rras rejected by 45 votes to 36r with 36 abstentlonEt
(9) The elghth amendnent rras rejected by 44 votes to 30r witlr 43 abstentlonEt
(h) Draft resolution A/C.3/37/L.77 as a r*role, as arnended, waa adoPted by a

roll-call vote of 67 to L9, i{i t}r 49 abstentions (see para. 79, draft
resolution XVII I) .

The voting was as folLortrs:

In favour: Afghanistan, A1geria, Angola, Austrla, Bahrain, Barbadoa, Benin,
Botswana, Bulgaria. Eyelorusslan soviet socialist RePublic, caPe
verde, Congo. cuba, czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yenen, Denmar k,
Ethiopia, Fln1andl Prance, cerrEn Derpcratlc Republlc' Greece,
Grenada, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Iran (Islanic [GpubLic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, xenya, Kusaitt
Lao Peoplers Denocratic Republic, Libyan Arab Janahiriyal
!.tadagascar, !,lali, l,lauritania, Mauritius, tlexico, I'bngolia t
lbzamblquep Netierlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Pazua ller
Guinea' Poland, Qatar, Rnanda, sao Torne and Prlnclpe, senegal,
Sierra Leone, Spaln, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, IJganda,
Ukrainian Soviet socialist Republic, union of Soviet socialist
Republics, Unlted Arab &nirates, United Republic of Tanzaniar
vanuatu' viet Nan, Yugoslavia, z itnbab{re.



A/37/745
Bnglish
Page 23

.}sj!E!t Argentina' Brazil' chile' co6ta Ricar El salvador' Guaterala,
Ilaitir Eondurasr fndonesiar Israel, lbrocc€, Pakiatan, Paraguay,
PhitiPPines, Saint Lucia' saint Vincent and the Grenadlnesr
solqlon Islands, united States of America, Uruguay.

Eg3!nl!g3 Australia, BaharlBs, Bangladesh, Belgiurn' Bhutan, Burnar Burundi,
Canada' central African Republlc 

' 
chad, china' Colonbla,

Djibouti' Dorninican Republic, Ecuador' EglPt ' 
FUl' Gabon,

Gerrnany ' Federal Republic of, Ivory Coast, 
Janaica, ,tapan,

Jordan, I€sotho, Liberial luxernbourg ' Malarei, l'lalaysiar 
l.lepal t

New zealand, Nlger' qran, Panama, Peru' Portugalr Romania,
saudi Arabia' Singapore r sri Lankar sudan' surinarne, ?halland'
Trinidad and Tobago, Ttrnisla, Turkey. unlted Kingdo{tl of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Cameroon, IrpPer
Volta, za ire.

!. Draft resolutLonx NC.3/37/L.74 and Rev.l

73. At the 64th meeting, on 5 Decenber r the representative of canada introduced a
dtaft resolutlon (A/C.3/37,/L. ? 4) entitled oHuman rights and mass exoduses",
sPonsored by Australiar Canada, Costa Rlca, Greece, ilordan, Pakistan and €C]!s! as
well as lggr subsequently joined by Ghana and Gernanv, Fealeral ReDublic of.

7 4. At tbe 72nd neeting, on 9 December , the representative of @! orally
revLsed the draft resolution a6 follossg

(a) In the third preanbular paragraph, tbe words "princlPal factors anong
the" before the sord "conplex" nere replaced by the words oanong the princiPal
factor s in tie" r

(b) The last preanbular paragraph, uhich readt

"gglgiggLilS the study of the sPeclal RaPPorteur on Hunan Rights and
Masslve &.oduse6 (E/cN.4,/f503), and the reeults of his subsequent
coneultationE on the study tri th interested covernrnents, the secretary-General 'united N,ations agencles anil speclalized agenc iesr intergovernnental
organizationE and non-governmental organizatlons,'

vas rerorded to readr
iconsiderlng the study of the sPeclal Rapporteur on human rights and

rnasslve exoduses (E /cN.4,/150 3) " t

(c) q)erative paragraphs 2 to 5' which readr

'2. Takea note of the viens expressed
recomnendatlons by lnterested governments'

on
the

the study and its
secr etary-Genera 1, Un ited

lnternationall{atlona agencies or dePartmentE concerned, specialized agencies,
organizations and norFgoverdtental organizations,



^/37/745Engl ish
Page 24

'3. Invites the Group of Governmental Experts on fnternational
Co-operation to Avert Ne$ Flows of Refugees to give careful consideration to
tiose aspects of the study falling wlthin its nandatet

"4. Reguests the secretary-General to ensure ' in consultatlon htlthaPproPriate agencLes and programnes that, nithln the existing nandates and
resourcea of the United !,Iations systemr further consideration is glven and
action taken, if appropr iat€ r on r€conm€ndations I to 5 of the studyt

"5. Invite€ the secretary-General to pursue his exanination of
recomnendations 6 to 9 of the study, in the light of comnents submltted by
governnents, and of the debate at the thirty-seventh sesslon of the General
Assernbly' and at the thlrty-ninth session of the Comnission on Euman Rights,
and to submlt a report thereon to the thirty-eighth session of the General
Assemblyt "

were replaced by the follonring paragraphss

a2. 8gllews the lnvitatlon, contained in Connisslon on Human Rights
resolution 7982/32, to Cjovernnents, United llations agencies or dePartments.
relevant special-ized agencies, international organizations and
non-gover nnental organizations to cormunicate their vie$s on the study and ttre
rec$run€ndations conta ined therein to the Secretary-Generall

"3. Requests the secretary-Gener al to ensure that vle$s expre6sed to
date on the study and l!6 recomrnendat ions by all lnterested Partles
(Governments, United l,latlons agencies or delErtments, relevant specialized
agenciesr international organizations, and non-governmental organizations),
together wlt}l tbose to be received in the neantine, are made available to tbe
thirty-ninth session of tlre Connission on Euman Rights and to the GrouP of
Gover rulental A<perts on International Co-operation to Avert New Flows of
Refugees to facilltate their further consideration of the 6tudy and its
recomnendations,

'r4. Invites the Comnission on Human Rights at its thlrty-ninth session
and the Group of GovernmentaL E(perts on International co-operation to Avert
New Flo{ts of Refugees at neetings to be held pursuant to General Assembly
resolution 37 /_, to g ive careful consideration to those aspects of the
study of the special Rapporteur faltlng wlthin their resPeclive mandates in
light of the views expressed by all interested parties?

rr5. Resuests the se cr etary-cener al to lxrrsue his exaninatlon of
reconmendations contained in the study, taking into account the vlews of
Governnents and otJrer interested parties as elaborated ln oPeratlve
paragraPh 3, the debales at the thirty-seventh sesslon of the General
Assenbly, the detiberations of the thirty-ninth session of the Comnlsslon on
HurEn Rights' and to submlt a report thereon to the thirty-eighth sesslon of
the General Assernbly in order to enable the General Assenbly to continue lts
consideration of this matter. "



xly'!i'
Page 25

75. At the 74th meetlng, on L0 December, the representatlve of Canada further
orally revlsed the text of the draft resolutlon (NC.3/37/L.74lRev.I) as follor9st

(a) Taking into account a proposal by the representative of @r the wordsrand of the Group of covernnental Experts on International Co-operation to Avert
Ne$ F1o$s of Refugees" were inserted after the uorals "connlssl.on on HuIIEn Rights'
in operative trn ragraph 51

(b) Taking into account a proposal by the representatlve of EgLlgEb, the
word "npvernents tr before the sords rof [blmlation' was replaced by 'exoduses and
displacenents" in tlre third and fourth preanbular paragraptrs,

(c) Tak ing into account a proposal by the representat ive of qiji4Ei' the
lrord DPSSIII" lras inserted before the word hIC@igg' in the fourth preatDbular
paragraph.

76. Dj lbouti and Sonalia joined in sponsorlng the revised draft resolution.

77. At the same rEetlng, the Cotrunlttee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/37/L.7 4/Rev.1, as orally revised, wlthout a vote (see para. 791 draft
resolution xIx) .

78. At the 74th tneeting, on l0 December. the representative of Ronania referrlng
to Econonic and social Council resolutlon L982/28 of 4 !,tay 1982 and GeneraJ-
Assenbly resolution 37/48 ot 3 Decenber 1982 nade a request for the confirmation of
dates for the flve reglonal nEetings to be held in 1983 in connection with the
International Youti Year. The Conmittee took note of that request.

III. RICOUIi{ENDAT IONS OF THE TEIRD CO!{I,4I?TEE

79. the Third connittee recorEtrends to the ceneral Assenbly tie adoPtion of the
followinq draf E resolutionsg

DRAFT RES OLUTION I

strategv and policies for drug control

The General Assernbly,

Recallinq ies resolution 36/768 of 16 Decenber 1981, by which lt aalopted t}le
Internatlonal Drug Abuae Control Strategy and the baeic five-year Progratnne of
action 7,/ dealt tglth ln Comnission on Narcotic Drugs resolution I (XXIX) of
l1 February 1981, which the Econonic and Social Council declded to transmit to the
General- Assembly by its decision 1981,/113 of 6 tlay l98lr

.!J sof
!g:--1 tvrg 24) , annex II.



A/37/745
Engl ish
Page 26

Recalling also tiat ln paragraFh 3 of resolution 36,/168 Ure Conun ission on
Narcotlc Drugs r{as requested to etablish, within available resources' a ta6k force
to revierd, rnonitor and co-ordlnate the implementation of the Internatlonal Drug
Abuse Control Strategy and the prograrule of action,

Recalling further its resolutions 32A24 of 16 Decenbet 1977. 33/L58 of
20 Decenber L9'18, 34/177 of 17 Decenber 1979 and 35/ L95 of 15 Decernber 1980r

Notino with satisfactlon the establishment on a provlslonal basis by t}le
Conunission on Narcotic Drug€ of the task force requeEtedt

Takinq note of Econonic and Soclal Councit resolution L982/L3 of 3 May 1982
and Conmission on Narcotic Drugs resolution 1 (S-VII) of I Sebruary 1982,

L. Approves the projects reoomnended by the comfliss ion on lGrcotic Drugs in
its resolutlon I (S-VII), as set out in the report of the ConnisEion on lcs seventh
sPeclal session, 9.,/ for implernentation in 1983, nithin available United l{ationg
resources and to the extent possible in order of priorityt

2. Requests the Cqmrission to revietr tie reports of lts taak force and to
report thereon, through the Econonic and social Councllr to the General Assenbly at
its th irtfeighth sessionl

3. Urges all l4enber States, norFmenber States partles to the internatlonal
drug control treaties, specialized agencies and other international organlzations
and private institutions concerned with the drug abuse probleln to Etrengthen thelr
participation in and support for activities related to the International Drug Abuse
Control Strategy and the programne of actiont

4. Also urqes lrtenber States to contrlbute or increa€e their contributions to
the Unlted Nationa Fund for Drug Abuse Control in order to ensule the succesg of
the InternationaL Drug Abuse Control Strategy and to give firn inPetu€ to the rorld
cdEnunityrs battle against international drug traffickers and agalnet drug abuset

5. Requests the secretarfceneral to transnit the text of the Present
resolutlon and related docunents to all !trember States, norFmember States partles to
the international drug control treatlea' and all relevant international,
Lntergover nmental and norFgover nmental organizations.

Y g. , 1982, supplernent No. 3 (E/L982/I3) I chap. III, sect. A. 'paras. 102 and l-04 and sects. B and C.



A/37/7 4s
EngL ish
Page 27

DRAFT RESOI,TIT ION II

?he ceneral Asaenblyt

Bearinq in nind Econonic and Social Council resolutions l79O (LIV) of
18 Uay 1973 and l87I (LVI) of 17 !,tay 1974 concerning the question of the
international legal protection of the hunan rigtrts of individuals rrho are not
citizena of the country in wtrich they live,

I9ll!!g Comnission on Hunan Rights resolutions I (XXIX) of 2l Dtarch 1973,
11 (xxx) of 6 uarch L974, !9/ 16 (xxxv) of 14 titarctr ]|979, ly and 19 (xrxvl)
29 February L980. W/ on the sane subject,

Notlnq also resolution 9 (XXXI) of 13 September 19?8 of the Srb-Comnission on
Prevention of Discrimination and protectlon of Minorltie6, fe/

Recalling that the Econonic and Social Councll, by its resolution 1980,/29 of
2 l.{ay 1980, decided to transnlt to the ceneral AssenbLy at lts thirty-fifth session
the text of the draft declaration on the hunan rights of individuals rdiro are not
citizens of the countly in nhich they live, prepared by the Special Raptrbr teur of
the Sub-Connission on Prevention of Dlscrimination and Protectlon of Minorities,
tlre Baroness Elles, and amended by the Sub,-Comnisslon, 1,1,/ togettrer with the
@ ments on the text recelved from Menber states fy in response to councll
decision 7979/35 of l0 May 1979. and recomended that the Assernbly should consider
the adoption of a declaration on the subject,

p/ Ibid. 
' 

Fifty-Eixth segsion, supplement No. 5 (E/5464'), chap. xlx, sect. A.

ly Official Records of the Economic and Social, 1979, supplement No. 6
lE/L979/36t, chap. xxlv. sect. A.

&/ Ibid., 1980, Suppteroent t'lo. 3 (E/L98O/L3 and Corr.I), c'hap. XXVI, sect. A.

Ly E/CN.4/J296, chap. xvII, sect. A.

4./ E/c51.4/L336.

!:/ E/cN.4/)354 and Add.l-5.

v
of

in wh ich thev live

9/ Qfficial Records
Supplernent tito. 6 (E/5265'),



A/37/745
Engl lsh
Page 28

Recalling also lts resolutlons 35/799 of 15 December 1980 and 36/L65 of
16 Decenber 1981, in hrbich it decided to establish an oPen-ended working grouP for
the lurpose of corcluding the elaboration of tl]e draft declaration on the hunan
rights of individuals nho are not citizens of the country in rdtli ch they liver

Having considered the relbrt of the Working GrouP. 1q,/

I. Takes nqle of the rePort of the working GrouP and of the fact that'
atttrougrh t[a ]tot king Group has done useful rrork, it has not hail sufficient tine to
conclude its task t

2, Requesta the se cretary-Gener a I to transmlt to Governments, conPetent
organs of the Unlted Nations system and internatlonal organlzations concerned, the
rePorts of the operrended working grouPs e€tablished at the thirty-fitth, !/
thlrtrslxth f-Qr/ and thl.rt)l- aeventh seasions E/ adird to invite then to bring uP to
date the cornments they subftitted in accordance with Economic and Social Council
decision 1979/36 of l0 l.tay 1979 or to submlt ner', comnents on the basis of the
above-nentioned reports, by 30 .7une L983t

3' Decides to estabrlEh. at it€ thirtreighth sessionr 8D oP€n-€hded rork lng
group for the purpose of conclurling the elaboration of the draft declaration on the
human rlghts of individuals who are not citizens of the countrY in which they livet

4. E*presse6 the hope that a draft declaration on the huran rlghts of
indlviduals rdho are not citizens of the counlry in which ti ey live will be adoPted
by the General Assetrbly at lts thirty-eighth session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Measures to improve the aituation and ensure the
hunBn rlshts and diqnity of all miglen! llerBglE

:lhecenerarAsse u,
Aqain reaffirni.ng the permanent valldity of the princlPles and standards

erbodied in ttre basic instruments regardlng t-he international protectlon of hunsn
rights, in particular in the Unlver sal Declaration of Human Right6, f9.,/ tlte
InternationaL covenants on Hunan RightE, ry tche International Convention on tbe

E/
!!!

n/
!2/
29./

?y'c.3/37/8 and Corr.l.

A/c.3/35/L4 and corr.l

A/C.3/36/LL.

Resolutlon 2l7 A (II I) .

Resolution 2200 A (XXI) r ahD€!(.



v37/745
En91lsh
Page 29

Eliminatlon of AII Forns of Racial Diacrindnation fu/ and tbe convention on the
Ellminatlon of All Forns of Discrinination against tf,omen ' 4/

Bearing in rnind ttre princlPlea and standards establlshed wlthin the fratlEwork
of the Internatlonal r,abour organtsation and the un iteal t{ations Educational,
Sclentific and culturar oig."ii.tf"n, anal the funpor tance of the ta6k carrled out in
connection wigr migrant roik.r" and their fanilies in other specialized agenciee
and in various organs of the ttnlted tihtlon€,

Reiterating that' in sPite of tlle existence of a body of prineiples antl
standards al'eady establish;d, there is need to rnake further efforts to inprove the
situation and ensure the hunan rlghts and dtgnlty of all nigrant norkers and tleir
farni.Lies '

Recallinq its resolutlon 34/L72 of l? Decenbe t L979' in which it declded to
create a norking group open to all Menber states to elaborate an lnternational
convention on the Proteciion of the rights of all nlgrant workers and ttleir
fanilles,

Recalltng aIEo its resolutlons 35,/198 of 15 Decenb€r 1980 ano 36/L6O ot
16 Decetser 1981 in $hich it renewed the mandate of the t{oEklng GrouP open to all
l,hmber States and requested lt to contlnue its ttork'

Havlng examined tbe Progress made by the working GrouP oPen to aLl Metlber
stateB during its ae@nd lntersesslonal neetlng held fron 10 to 2I l{ay 1982'

Havlnq also exaDined the rePort of the working Group open to alL ltebber stltes
durtn! the cwrent session of tJle General Assemblyr 4,/

1. Takes note of the rePort of the Working GrouP open to all uernber Statea
and e*presiEETGEtlsfaction wtti the substantial Progress that the 15rklng GrouP
haa ao far nrade in the acconplishrEnt of its tnandatet

2. Decides that, in order to enable the ilorktng GrouP to c€mPlete its taak
as soon aa Posslb1e, the Working GrouP ahall hold again an intersessiooal' 

nEeting
of two $eeksr duration in New York, iflnediateLy after the first regular sesslon of
the Econonlc and Social councilt

3. Invltes the secretary-General to tran6mlt to @vernnent€ tJre report of
the working Group so as to alliw the rEnbers of the working GrouP to continue thelr
task during tlre inter sessional meeting to be helal the ln spr ing of 1983' aE well as
to transmit the results oUtainea in tiat neeting in order that the General A'senlcly
may consider then durinq its thirty-elghth session;

?y

4/
23/

ReEoLutlon 2106 A (Xx) I atltl€x r

Resolution 341180, annex.

*e A/c.3/37/7 and Corr.l and 2.



A/37/745
Engl ish
Page 30

4. Also invites the Se cre tary-cener al to transnit tie above-mentioned
docunents to the conpetent organs of the united Nations systen and to internationar
organizations @ncerned, for their information, so as to enable them to contlnuetieir co-operation wlth the Working croup,

5. Decides that the Working croup shall meet during the thirty_eighth
session of the Generar Assembr.y r preferably at the beginning of the i"ssr.orr, to
conti.nue and, if Ibssibte, to cornplete tbe elaboration of an international
convention on the protection of tre rights of all migrant workers and tleir
families.

DRAFT RESOI,UTION IV

Reglonal arrangements for the prorFtion and
protection of hunan rights

The ceneral Assenblv,

Recalling its resolutions 34lul. of lZ December l9Z9 and 3S/Ig7 of
15 Decenrber 1980 on reglonal arrangements for the prorption and protection of hu11En
rights' as well as its resolution 36,/154 of 16 December 198I in nhich it requested
the secretary-ceneral to organize a seninar at colonbo, in ]992, to consider
appropriate arrangements for the prornotion and protection of hunan rights in the
Asian region and to report to the ceneral Assenbly at its thirty-seventh session,

Having considered the report of the seminar on nationar, rocar and regional
arrangements for the prorotion and protection of hunEn rights in the Asian
region,24/

l. s.presses its deep appreciation to the Gover nment of sri r.anka for
hosting the setninar, as lrell as for the excellent faciLities providett,

2. Takes note of the report of the serninarr as trell as of tie concluslons
and recorrunendations which it adopted by consensu5,

3. Requests the secr etary-Gener al to transnit the report of the seminar to
states n€mbers of the Econonic and social cornrnission for Asia and the pacific, to
invite their conmenta tiereon and to submtt the retrbrt of the seminar together with
the cornnents received thereon to the corutission on ltunEn Rights at its fortleth
session for its consideration, and to report through tie Econorn ic and social
Council to the ceneral Assenrbly at lts thirty-nlnth sessionl

4. Decides to consider this question further at its thirty-ninth session.

4/ A/37/422.



^/37/7 
45

Engllsh
Page 31

DRAFT RESOI,UTION V

Regional arrangenents for the protection of hunan rights

1- Notes rrith satlsfaction
protection of huDan rights at the
Nations, the 6Pec iallzed agencies

Recallinq its resoluttona 32/127 of 16 Decenbet 1977. 33/ L67 of
eO oeEffiE-rgZg, 34/L7L of 1? Decenber L97g , 35/197 of 15 December 1980 and 361154
of 16 December l98l concerning regional arrangementg for the pronotion and
protection of hunan rights,

lgEllg the regional arrangements lthich exist in tie Afrlcan, Anerican' Arab
.na furopean regions and also the efforts nhich are currently under way to initiate
Cffinoneealth actlvitles in the area of human rights,

welcondnq recent develoPments in the Aslan region to consider aPpropriate
arran!66lE ?or the Prornotion and Protection of human righta,

Iglilg that the unitear Nations and regional intergovernrnental organlzations
exctranE ln-tornation and materials on the promotion and protection of human rights,

the progre6s achieveal so far ln the prorFtion and
reglonal level, under the auaPices of the United
and the regional intergovernmental organizationgt

2. Co@lenals tbe organization of Mrican unlty for its continuing efforts to
protDte reEpe"t for the guarantees and norns of hunnn rights an'l fundanental
ireedonrs and notes with interest the African Charter of Hunan and PeoPlers Rights
and the efforts to obtain lts early entry into forcel

3. Reouests the 6:e cretary-Gener al to conpile and update his rePorts on the
status of resional arrangements for the prolption and protectlon of human rightE,
anal to incluate therein a revlew of tie exchanges of exper ience and infornatlon
betneen the unlteal Nations and regional organs and organizations for the PronDtion
and protection of hunan rlghts as vrell as rrays and tneans to further tlese exchanges
and to rePort to the General Assenbly at lts thirty-eighth session'

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Situatlon of refugees in the sudan

@,@,
Recallinq its resolutlons 351181 of 15 December 1980 and 36/L58 of

f6 De6ffi4-19 SL on tlre situation of refugees in the sudan,

Recalling further Econonic anal soclal council resolutions 198V5 of
14 !'!ay I98I ana 7982/L of 27 APril 1982'

gavlng conslatered the relbrt of tlre secr etary-Gener al on the interagency
tect rrGTTEif6ffiif"sion on education anal social develoPnenv$elfare services



A/37/745
English
Page 32

for refugees in tie sudan 22/ ana hls report on humanitarian assistance to refugees
in the Sudan' 39l

Taking note of tl'e ever-increasing nunb€r of refugees arriving in tre sudan,
Becognizinq the heavy burden placed on the Government of the Sudan in carlng

for the refugees and the need for required lnternational asaistance to continue lt€
efforts to provide assistance to th€ refugees,

b(pressinq its appreciation for t-he asgistance whlch has been rendered by
lGnber States and intergovernmental aDd non-governrnental organlzations to the sudan
ln support of refugee progralmes,

1. &ldorses t-h e report of t-he interagency technical fotlsr-up [r166ions to
the Sudan and tle reconnendations contained thereint

2. E presses its appreclation to the Se cretary-ceneral, the Uniteal l,latlons
lllgh cor0niBsioner for Refugees, donor countries and voluntary agencles for thelr
efforts to assist the refugees ln the Sudant

3. Appreclates the neasures which the Government of the sudan is taking ln
order to provide shelter, food and other services to the refugeesl

4. Reguests the Secretarfceneral to npbilize the necessary financial and
nateriaL assistance for the irnplementation of the recomnendations of the
interagency missions,

5. Appeals to l€mber States, the appropriate organs, organizations anal
ProgramEs of the United Nations and other intergovernmental and non-governrnental
organlzations, and the lnternational financial institutions to provide t-he
Governnent of Sudan lrith the necessary resources for the implementatlon of the
develotrment assistance trxojects envisaged in the report of the secr etary-General
and to 6trengthen its social and econonic infraatructure so that essentlal servlceg
and faclllties for refugees can be atrengthened and expandedl

6. Requests the United Nations nigh connlssioner for Eefugeea to co-ordlnate
rrlth tl|e appropr iate q)ecialized agencies to consolidate and ensure the
contlnuation of essentlal services to the refugees in their settlenentst

7- Etrrther requests the secetary-Generalr in co-operation wlth the united
Nation6 nigh colunissloner for Refugees, to submlt a comprehens ive report to the
General Assenbly at its thirty-eighth session on the progre€g nade in the
hplementatlon of the reconnendations of the interagency technlcal. follon-up
nlEelons as well as on the implsnentation of t-he present resolution.

E/
23/

A/37/L78.

ry'37/5L9.



A/37/745
EngllFh
Page 33

DRAFT RESOLTJT ION VII

Ihe ceneral A63edly,

Recalling its resolutions 35,/180 of 15 Decenber 1980 and 36/L53 of
f6 Dec.rober 1981 on the guestion of assigtance to refugees ln So[Eliat

Recalllng further Econoolic antl Soclal Council reaolutiona 198V31 of
5 l{ay l98l and 1982/4 of 27 April 1982'

Taking note of the relDrt of the Secretary-General 4/ ana the rePort of the
u.ttteaGt-ions ntgh comnissioner for Refugees on the condltions of the refugees ln
sonalia.4,/

Having heard the atatetnent of the United l'ilations High Cqunissioner for
nefugeesp !!/

Considering the fact that the refugee problen has not yet been resolvedl

Recoqnizing the needl to contlnue to Provlde aasistance to the refugee6 ln
Somalia,

@ of the consequences of the social and econollic burden placed on tl|e
governrnent andl people Of SoElia aa a result of the continued Presence Of refugee8
and the consequent- lnpact on the natlonal development and the lnfraattucture of tie
coun try,

I. Takes note of the reports of the secretary-General and of the unlted
Natlons ulgh c"-oissroner for ltefugees on the situatlon of refugees in solEliat

2. E(presaes its appreciatlon to the secretary-Gener al and tJre un ited
tlatlonErri@sforthe1rcontinuedeffortgtorFbi1ize
internatlonal asslstance on behalf of the refuge€s in Sonaliat

3. Takes note with satisfaction of the asaistance rendered to refugeea in
Sonalia f,y vailous lbnber State6, the United t'latlons nigh Cdmi6sioner for
Refugees, tlle t{or ld lbod ProgramrE, the unlteal liations chilalrenrs Fund and other
concerned intergover nnental and notFgovernmental organizationst

27/ 
^/37/4re.

4/ otri
Supplenent ldo.

29/ see A/c.3/37/sR.4L.



A/37/745
Engl ish
Page 34

4. Appeals to libnber States, internatlonal organizations and volunrary
agencies to render maximrm material, financial and technical assistance to the
Government of sonalia in its efforla to provide arr necessary assistance to the
refugees,

5. Requests the United Nations gigh Cormissioner for Refugees ln
consulcation with the secretarrcenerar to nnke a cornpr ehens ive revien of the
overall needs of the refugees, including those aspects relatlng to their settlenent
and rehabilitatlon,

5. Requests the United Nations High CorEaissioner for Refugees in
consultation with t}|e secretary-ceneral to subndt the report of the proposed reviert
of the refugee situation in somaria to the Economic and social council at lt6
second regular session of 19831

7. l\rther requests the United Nations Hlgh Comisstoner for Refugees in
consurtation rith the secretary-cenerar to subnit a report to the General- Assetnbly
at lts t}, irty-eighth session on the progress achieved in ttre lmplementation of the
present resolution.

DRAFT RESOI,U?ION VIII

Assistance to displaced persons in Ethiopia

The General Assembly,

Recalllng its resolutions 35,/9I of 5 Decenber lgBO and 36/]:6l of
16 Decerber 1981 and Econonic and Social Council resolutions 1990,/54 of
24 Jr]Ly 1980 and t9B2/2 of 2Z April 1982,

Taking note of the report of the se cr etary-ceneral on assistance to displaceal
persons in Ethiopia, prepared pursuant to Econonlc and social Council resolutlon
1980/8 of 28 April 1980,

Taking note also of the appeals of the Secretary-cener al in his note verbale
of Ll Novenber 1980 as well as those of the ceneral Assembly and the Econornic and
social Counc iL,

Ilaving heard the statetnents of ttte representative of the Secretary-
General !!r/ and of the Unlted Nations Aigh Conmissioner for Refugees, 3l/

Recoqnizing the number of voluntary returnees in Ethiopial

30/ see Ac.3/37/sR.52.

:V see A/c.3/37/sR.4I.



^/37/7 
4s

EngI16h
Page 35

Deeplv concernedl that the repeated aPPeal s of the Secretary-General ' the
Cenera'iGfiEfFliEEe Econo!1ic and Social Councll have yet to be adeguately
resPonded tot

1. Brdorses once aqaln the appea].s of tie secr etary-G€ner al, the-General
AsBer6ty "tt?-TE 

rcon".iiii!' Social Council concernlng ass lstance to digplaced
persons and voluntary returnees ln EthioPiat

2. Comlcnds the efforts nade by various organs and sPeciallzed agencies of
ttre United-Etions in nobilizing hunanitarian assiEtance to the displaced Persons
and voluntary returnees in EthloPiat

3. AppealE once aqain to the Gover nents of Member States and to
inte.go.reriidlll.-.ttE-Gi!&ernmental organizatlons and all voluntary agencies to
contribute generousLy to assist the Gover nent of EthloPla in its efforts to
provide relief and rehabllitation to the disPlaced personst

1. Requests the uniteal t{ations High conmissioner for Refugees to intenaify
nts erfort in mouilizing hunanitarlan asslstance for the relief, rehabilitation
and resettlenent of the number of voluntary returnees, as well as for displaced
personst

5. A.rrther requests the Se cretary-Gener al, in co-operation with the United
ltatlons SigfrG;fri._ffi;-6r l6fugees, to report to the Econotnlc and Social CounciL
at ita second sesslon of 1983 and to the General Assenbly at its thirty-eighth
session on the implementation of this resolution'

DRAFT RESOI,UTION IX

EE Gengl-rEEerbu,

Recalling its resolutions 35,/182 of 15 December 1980 and 36/L56 of
16 Decedter 1981 on hurnanitarian assistance to refugees tn Djibouti'

Recalling also Econotnic and Social Council resolution L982/3 of 27 APril 1982.

Having heard the statement of the United Nations High Comnissioner for
Refugees' g/

of tle rePort of the Secretary-Gener a I on
1n DJiboutil 11,/

!/ See Nc.3/37/sR.4I.

Etl A/37/42o.

hunanitarian assistance to refugees



A/37/74s
English
Page 36

Appreciatlng the determined efforts made by the covernment of DJ lboutl to
cop€ with the grorving needs of the refugees deapite its lirnited econonic reaources,

Atare of the conseguences of the social and economlc burden placed on the
Governrnent and people of Dj ibouti as a result of the influx of refugee€ anal the
subsequent imFact on the national development and infrastructure of the country,

Deq plv concerned about the contlnuing situation of the refugees anal displacealpersons in tl.e country, which has been aggravated by the devaatating effectg of theprolonged drougbt,

Notlng witb appreciation the concern and unrenitting efforts of the Unltedllo t in witb a

34/ Of fi.c

tlations Hlgh comnissioner for Refugee6, the uniteat Nati.ons Developnent prograrureT
the united lGtions orirdren's Fund, the vfor ldl Hearti organization, the world Food
Plograrur. 

' the Food and Agricurture organization of the unlted Nationa, theintergover nmental and norFgover nnental organizations and benevolent organizations
which have worked closely trith the covernnent of DJ ibouti in the reliel andlrehabilitation prograrnne for the refugees ln Fjiboutl,

I. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-ceneral onhurnantiari;i-lffiEnce to i!tugees 33l in Dj ibouti anal that of the united Nations
High Comnissioner for Refugeest gll

- 
2. eDpreciates the efforts nade by the ttnited libtions High conmisEioner for

Refugees to keep the siluation of the refugees ln Djibouti unttei con€tant revLew,
and invites hin to intensify his prograrure of hurnanitarian assistance to the
refugees in the countryt

3. Requests the united Nations High conmissioner for nefugee€ to continue to
organize adequate prograMEs of asslstance to the refugees tn Djiboutl anal to
nainlain close contact wlth rbnber states, lntergovernmentar and non-gover nrnental
organizations and benevorent organizatlons concerned to rpbilize the neceesary
assistance to the cover nent of Djibouti to enabre it to cope effectivery with tl,e
refugee situation aggravated by the alebilitating effects of the atroughtt

4. Appreciates the assistance proviateat thus far by lGnber States and
intergovernrnental and non-governlEntal organizatlons to the rellef and
rehabllitation prograrTmes for the refugees anal displaced persons in Dj ibouti,

5. Calls upon all Menber states, the organization€ of the United Nation6
system, the speciallzed agencies and ttr e intergovernnental and non-governmentar
organlzations to continue to support the efforts nEke by the covernrnent of Dj tbout i
i: .gp tith the ever growing needs of the refugee pop'lation and other victlns oftie droughtt

Supplenent l.tro . 12



A/37/7 45
English
Page 37

5. Reouests the Eigh comrnissioner for Refugees, in co-oPeration elth the
Secretary-Gener al, to send an interagency nission to Dj iboutt to evaluate the needs
and the nagnituale of the aid required to finance the relief and rehabilitatlon
prografiles for the refugees' and to report to the Econonic and Social Council at
its Eecond regular session tn 1983 and to the ceneral Assembly at its thlrty-eighth
sesslon on tbe progress achieved in the inplernentatlon of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOI,UT ION X

AsEistance to student refugees in southern Africa

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recalling its resolution 36/170 of 16 Decenber 198f, in which it, inter alia.
requested the Secretary-General, in co{peration with the United Nations High
Cdmiss ioner for Refugees, to contlnue to organize and implement an effective
progratnne of educational and other appropriate assistance for student refugees fron
Namibla anal South Africa who had taken asylum In Botswana, Lesotho' S$raziland and
zarbia,

Having considered the report of tbe secr etary-Gener al 35,/ containing tie
review by the United uations High Conml6sioner for Refugees of the assistance
progrannes for student refugees fron Namibia and south Africa,

llotinq tith appreciation that sonre of ttre Projects reconmended in the report
on assistance to student refugees in southern Africa have been successfully
cornpleteal,

llbting rrith concern the continued influx into Botswana, I€sotho, Swaziland
and zatrbia of student refugees from south Afrlca as well as frcrn Nami.bia r

Convinced that the discrlninatory policies and rePresslve measures being
applied ln sou th Africa and Nanibia YiIl lead to a further exodus of student
refugees fron these countriesr

conBcious of t}e burden placed on t}Ie llnlted financial, mater ial and
adnlnistrative resource8 of the host countries by the Presence of those gtudent
refugeeg,

ilpprectating the efforts of host countries to deal adequately with their
pregent stud€nt refugee poptlations and also to be Prepared to neet any nekt
etnergency by sharing the respons ibil iti es and obligations with the international
conmrnity,

t. Endorses the assessments and re@rmendations contained in tie report of
the Secretary-ceneral and conurends hlm and the United Nations High Cornrnissioner for

E/ N37/4e5.



A,/ 37/ 7 45
English
Page 38

Refugees for thelr efforts to mobil-ize resources and organize the programe of
assi€tance to student refugees ln the host countries of southern Africat

2. &<presses its appreciation to the Governments of Botsrrana ' Lesothotswaziland and zarbla for continuing to grant asyLum and nake educatlonal and other
facilities available to t-he student refugees in spite of the pressure which the
contiralng influx of those refugees exerts on facilities in thelr countriest

3. E(presse6 its appreciatlon to the Governments of Botsrrana, tesotho,
Swaziland and zanbia for the co-rperatlon which they have extended to the
Secr etary-Gener al and to the United Natlons HiO Conmissioner for Refugees on
natters eoncernlng the nelfare of the€e refugeest

4. llotes uith appreciation the financial and material support provided for
the student refugees by Merber states, the Eigh Conmissloner ' other bodies of theUnited Nations system and intergover nnental and nolFgover nmental organiiationat

5. Requests the Secretarfceneral, in co-operation lrith the High
comnissloner, to contrnue to organize and inplenent an effective progra.uure of
educational and other appropriate asalstance for student refugees fron Namlbia and
South Africa who have taken asylun in Bot6wana, Lesotho. Swaziland and Zambiat

5. gIE aU Menber states and intergovernmental and non-governnental
organizations to continue contributlng generously to the assistance prograltnes for
the student refugees, through financial support of the regulat Progrannes of the
Ulgh Cdmissioner of the projects identified in the report of the
Secretary-ceneral, and of the projects and programnes, lncluding unfunded projecta,
subnitted to the International Conference on Assistance to Refugees in Africat

7. Appeals to the Office of the United Nations High Connissloner for
Refugees' the United Nations Developnent Progranue, the Unlted tlations Educatlonal.
Scientific and Cultural Organlzation, as nell as other international and
norFgover nmental bodies, to contlnue providing humanitarian and deveLoptent
assistance to expedite the resettlement and integration of refugee faniLies fron
South Africa who have been granted asylum in BotsHana, Lesotho, Strazllanal and
zarbiat

8. Calls upon all agencies and progranones of the United t{ations systetn to
contlnue operating h'ith the Secretary-ceneral and the l|igh Conrnlssioner in the
inPl€mentation of humanltarlan programnes of assistance for the student refugees in
southern Africa'

9. Requests t}le Secretary-Gener al, in co-operation with the Hlgh
CorMlissioner, to continue to keep the natter under reviewr to apprise the Economic
and Social Councll, at its second regular sesgion of 1983, of t}le current status of
the prograralnee and to report to the General Assenbly at its thirty-elghth session
on the inplenentatioh of the present resolution.



A/37/'145
English
Page 39

DRAFT RESO NION XI

The right to education

Ihe ceneral Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 34/L7O of 17 Decembe\ L979, 35/L9L ot
15 Decenber 1980 and 36/152 of 16 December l98l on the right to education,

R€cauing the International Covenant on Econonlc, Social and cultural Rights,
adopted by its resolution 2200 A (xXI) of 16 December 1966, h'tlich recognizes the
right of everyone to education,

Bearing in mind the inportance of the convention against Discrinination in
Education, 39 adopted on 14 Decernber 1960 by the ceneral Conference of the united
Natlons Educational, ScienElfic and Cultural Organization,

Reaffirming the pararDunt inportance of the inplenentation of the right to
education for ttr e full developuent of the human personality and for the enjolment
of other fundanental hutEn rlghts and freedoms '

Recognizing that for the effective implementation of the right to education
the eradication of illiteracy has a particular priority and urgency,

Convinced that the educational process could bring a substantial contr ibution
to social progress, natlonal developtnent, mrtual understanding and co-oPeration
anong peoples and to strengthening peace and international security,

IGcauing that the estabtiahment of the new int€rnational econonlc order
requires effective support for the improvernent and expansion of educational systems
and for ttre trainlng of specialized personnel and qualified cadres for the economic
develoSxrent of devetoping c-ountr ies,

convinced of the toplcality and urgency of provisions on education contained
ln the Internatlonal Development strategy for the Third united Nations Developnent
Decade, 37/

Recalling that, since its establishnent, the ltnited l,Iations Educatlonal,
Sclentific and cultural Organization has constantly striven for effectlve
realization of the right to eduqation and equallty of educational opportunities for
allr ttithout dlstinction as to racei, colour, sex, language, religion, political or
otler opinlon' nationaL or social origin, economic status or birth and that, for
nany years past, activiti.es directed to securing the right to education and the
extension and inprovemenE of educatlonal and training systems in Member States,
nore particularly in the developing countries, have occupied a central place in
that organizatlonrs programe,

3lil United l\btions Treaty Series, voL. 429, I\lo. 6193, p. 93.

37 Resolution 35/56, annex, sect. o.



A/37/745
Engl lsh
Page tlo

Aware of the ioportant contributlon of the lrn ited lilations EducationaL,
Scientific and Cultural Organization to the irnplementation of the Internationa]
Develolnent Strategy for the Third United Nations DeveloFrent Decade nith a view to
fosterlng the full implenentation of the right to education,

Taking note wtttr satisfaction of t-he interest shon by the Executlve Board of
the ltnited l€tions Educational, scientific and Cultural Organizatlon for the
irnplementation of ceneral Aseenbly reaolutions 34/170, 35,/191 and 36/L52,

t. Take€ note of the concLusions of the report of the Director-General of
the United l{atlons Educational, Scientiflc and Cultural organization, tranEnitted
by a note of the Secretary-General of 19 @tober L9827 $/

2. CormrendE the Un lted l,Iations Educational, Scientific and CuLtural
Organization for lncluding on a perranent basls tbe issue of the inplenentation of
the rigfit to education in its medlun-tertn plant

3. Invites aqain all States to consider the adoption of approPriate
legislatlve, aahinistratlve and other nea8ure6, lncluding mater ial guaranteesl in
order to ensure the fuII lnpletnentation of the right to unlversal education
througttr inter alia, flee and comFrlsory pr lmary educatlon, univeraal and gradual]-y
free-of-cbarge secondary educatlon, equal ac@aa to atl educatlonal facilitieE and
the acceEs of the young generation to science and culturet

{. Invites all states to give all necessary attention to defining and
deternining ln a nore precise nanner the means for inplementlng the provisions
concerning the role of educatlon in the International Developnent Strategy for the
Third ttrited t{ation6 Developnent Decaale t

5. Invitea all speciallzed agencies to co-operate wl ttr the United tilations
Educational, sclentific and cultural organization to enEure education a high
Priority in the lnpleraentation of various prograrmes and proJects' ln the franewor k
of Ure International Developnent Strategy for the Third United Nation6 Developnent
De cade t

6. Appeals aqain to all states, in particular to the develop€d countries. to
support actively through fe]-lowshlps and other neans, including the general
inereasing of resourceE for education and training, the effort€ of the developing
countries in the education and training of natlonal personnel needed in industry,
agriculture and other econonic and social sectorst

7. lt presses its thanks to the Director-ceneral of the Unlted Nations
Educatlonal' Scientlfic and Cultural Organizatlon for the report on the right to
education prepared purauaht to ceneral A66erbly resolution 36/L52t

3:!/ ty'31/szJ-r ahhex.



v37/745
Engllsh
Page 41

8. Invites the United tilations Educational' scientific and Cultural
Organlzation to contlnue lts intenslve efforts for the Pronotion at the unlversal
level of the right to education and to inforn, in appropriate forma, the General
Asgetnbly on the progrees actr leved in this field.

DRAFT RESOII'T ION XII

!€asures to be taken aqainst Nazi, Fascist and neo-Ebecist activitles
Snq ell 9t!| 9f fqlqs of totalttarian id

racial intolerancer hatred and telror

:|@,
Itecalllnq that the thlted Nations energed fron the struggle against nazian,

fasclsr, aggresslon anal foreign occuPatlon, and that the peoples expreseed their
resolve ln Ure Chartet of the tnited tlations to save future generations fron the
goourge of war,

Bearing in nlnd the suffering' destructlon.and death of nillions of victins of
aggresslon' forElgn occuPatlon, nazisn and fasclem,

Reaffitming the grrposes and prineiples laid down in the Charter, which are
aircd at maintti;ing international Peace and security, develoPing friendly
relations among nations based on respect for the princlpte of equal rights and
self-deterrninatlon of peoples, and achleving international co-oPeratlon in ProrFting
and encouraging respect for hurnan rights and fundamental fr eedons for all,

Enptlasizing that all totalitarian or other ideologies and practices, in
particular fla z:i., Fascist and neo-Fascist, based on racial or ethnic exclusivenegs
or intolerance, hatred, terror, sy6tellEtic denial of hutran rights and fundanental
freedoms or r*h lch have suc*l conaequences, may jeopardlze world Peace and constltute
obstacles to friendly relations bethreen States and to the realization of hullEn
rigtlts and fundamental freedons,

IGafflrtning that the prosecution and Frnisbnent of r+ar cr imes and cr irnes
against peace and hunanity, as laid down in General Assenbly resolutions 3 (I) of
13 February 1946 and 95 (I) of 1I Decenber 1945, constitute a universal comritment
for all states,

Recalling its resolutions 233I (xxrr) of 18 December L967 ' 2438 
(xxrrrt of

19 Decenber 1968, 2545 (|()(Iv) of ll Decenber 1959, 27 L3 (xxv) of 15 Decenber 1970,
2839 (xxw) of 18 Decorber 1971, 34/24 ot 15 November 1979, 35/200 of
15 Decenber 1980 and 36/162 of 15 December l98l'

Recalli.ng also the Declaration on Social Progress and DeveloPnentr 39,/ the
United Nations Declaration on the Elinination of All Forns of Racial

t/ Resolution 2542 (xxlv).



A/37/745
Engl lsh
Page 42

Discrinination, !9rz the Declaration on the cranting of Independence to ColoniatCountries and Peoples !!/ and the Declaration on the Elinination of A11 Forns ofrnEorerance and of Discriminatlon Ba sed on Religion or FFj.'iet.. 42/

-.- -9nd!.flTi"n_the inportance of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 4glt,'e rnternationar covenants on Human Rights, W t}.e rnternational convenbion onthe lLirnination of Alr Forns of Racia] oiscriilfnation, !! the convention on thePrevention and punishrnent ot i:h e Crine of cenocide 46/ 6d other relevantinternational instrunents,

Icknotrledginq the fact. that a nutnber of States
rh i_ch are suited to prevent t}le activities of Nazl,
and organizations,

, Noting again witi deep concern that tie proponehts of Fagcist ideologies have,in a nur$er of c-ountri.es, intensifled their actlvtties and are increasinglyco-ordlnating thern on an international gcaler

Agai4 condeffis all totalitarian or oEher ideologies and practices, in
Partrcurar Nazi, Fascist and neo-Fascist, based on racial or ethnic exclus ivenessor intolerance, hatred' terror, systenatic denial of hutrBn rights and fundamentalfreedons, or ph ich have 6ucl: con=lqu"rr"er1

. 2. Urges aII states to draw attention to the threat6 to derpcraticinstitutions by the aborre-mentioned idleologies and practices and to cons ider takingneasures, in accordance witb thei.r nationar. constltutionar systens and nitb theprovlsions of the universar Declaration of Human &ights and the rnternatlonal
covenants on lrunan Rights' to prohibit or otherwise deter activrties by groups or
organizations or nhoever is practisihg those ldeologies,

. 3. CaIIs uFon the appropriate specialized agencies as well aslntergover nnentar and internationar norFgover nmental organizations to lnitiate orintensify rneasures agalnst the ideologiei and practices <lescribed in paragraph I
aborte t

Resolution 1904 (xvlII)

Resolution L514 (XV).

Resolution 36155.

Resolution 217 A (III) .

Resolution 2200 A (XxI), annex.
Resolution 2105 A (XX), annex.
Resolution 260 A (III), annex.

have set up legal regulationa
Fascist and neo-Fagcist groups

g/
3!/
32/

!3./

44/

!i/
!s/



A/37/745
English
Page 43

4. Invites !,!enber state€ to aaloPt, in accordance with their nacional
constitutional st'stens and with the provi.sions of the Universal Declaration of
Eunan Rl.ghts and ttre International covenants on EurEn Rights, as a natter of hlsh
priority, neasures declaring punishable by law any dissenination of ideas based on
racial superiorlty or hatreal and of nar proPaganda ' including 

Nazi, Fascist and
neo-Fascist ideologies,

5. Appeals to all States t hich have not yet done so to ratify or to accede
to ttre International covenants on IIurEn Rights, the convention on the Prevention
and Punishment of the crime of Genoci'de ' the International convention 

on the
Blinination of AJ.l Porms of Racial Dlscr irnination r the Convention on the
NorrAppl icabil ity of Statutory Limitationa to war Crimes and Crimes against
Butnanity, !f/ and the International convention on the suppression and Punishnent of
the crine of Apartheidl 48l

6. CaIIs once again upon all states to provide the Secretary-Gener al witlt
their commen ts on tjr iE question,

7. Requests the Secetary-ceneral to ensure that the Department of Public
Infornation of the secretariat Pays attentlon to the dissenination of inforflEtion
e:rposing the ldeologles and practices descr ibed in paragra$t I above,

8. Reiterates its request to the conmission on Human Rights to consider this
subJecE at-fG-tfrTiTfifittr session under the titler "Measures to be taken against
all totalitarian or other ideologies and practices, lncluding Nazi, Fascist and
neo-Fascist, based on racial or ethnlc excluslveness or intolerancer hatredt
terror' systerEtic ttenial of human rights and fundanental freedoms t or flhich have
such consequences'i

9. Requests the Secr etary-Gener al to subtnit a report, through tie Economic
and Social Councll' to the General Asselfb1y at its thirty-eighth session in the
light of the discussion that would take place in the Coruniss ion on Human Rights and
on the basig of comnen ts provided by States and lnternational organizations.

3!gcener4@19,,
Recalllng its resolutlon 33/L73 of

personsol and its resolution 36/L63 of
involuntary or enforced disappearances,

DRAFT RESOLUTION XIII

20 Decenber 1978r entltled nDisapPeared
15 Decenber 1981 on the question of

!7/
g/

Resolution 2391 (xxIII) , annex.

Resolution 3068 (xxvllI) , annex-



^/37/745Engl lsh
Page 44

Bearing ln lrrind codtlssion on Hutu.n Righte regolution 19g2,/24 of
19 {.:*r \98?, ly in ntrich lt was decided io extend for one year tbe tern of then'ndate of the brking croup, and Econqnlc and Soclal Councll dlecision 1982r/131,
$hich appro\red that decislon,

Convinced that the actlon taken, in conEultatlon with the Governnents
@ncerned, to prorcbe the inplementation of tbe provisions of General A6sembly
resolution 331173 and other united tila tion8 resorutions relevant to the dlight ofni66ing or disappeared pereons should be continued,

. P(PI€---.q-91n9 its e,motion at the anguiah and sorrow of Ure famllies ooncern€d,who €hould know the fate of thetr relatlves,
f-. lfelcones the declalon of t}le connission on Euran .trtt9ht6 to extend for oneyear the tern of the mandate of the working croup as laiil down in comnisslon

resolutl.on L9B2/241

2. b(presses lts aplneciatlon to the tbrking Group for the rror k done and to
those covernrnentE that have co<peraled with itt

?. callr upon the cotrmlsslon on Hunan Rlghts to continue to 6tudy tjrisquestion a6 a natter of priorlty and to take any step it nay deen necesiary to the
Frrauit of tfie taEk of the ibrking Group, when it conslders the reFort to besubtdtted by the croup at its Urirty-nlnth sesslont

. Apoeals to all covernsente to provide the norklng croup and thecomni.sion on Euran Rights with ttre furr co-operation warranted by their strictly
lrumanitarian objectives and their working mettrods based on discreliont

@ lts request to the Secretary-ceneral to continue to provide the
working croup with all neceEsary assistance.

D&AFT RESOI.IfT TON XIV

Mlsaing per 6ons ln cyprus
The ceneral Assenbly,

Recalllng lts prevlous reEolution€ oh the euestion of the Missing persone in
Cyprus,

. R9.aff{rminq the basic need of faniLies to be informed, without further delay,
abou t the fate of tieir missing relatives,

Offlcial Records of thep/
No. 2 (E/ ap. XXVI, Eect.. A.



A/37/745
Engl lsh
Page 45

&rpreselnq soncern that the Cottmittee on t'ti6Eing PerEons in Cl'?rus. tbe
eEtab lehnent of thicfi pas announced on 22 April 1981, has fa ileal to overcorne
procealural difficulties and haa achleved no progres6 towards the coflulencement of
Its investlgatlve uor k,

&phasizing the need for a sPeetly re€olution of this hunanitarian Problen,

1. Invites the lloEking Group on Enforced or Involuntary Dlsappearances of
tlre cqrunission on Huran Rights to follow develoFnenta and to reoomend raya and
Dean6 to the partles concerned with a view to overconing ttle Pending ProceduraL
dtfftcultleg of the Co|mlttee on MiBslng Persons in q/pru€ and in co'operation nith
tt to facllltate Ure effective inplenentation of lts lnvestlgatlve sork on the
basi6 of the exiatlng relevant agreenentat

2. Calls upon all parties concerned to facilltate 6uch investigation in a
spirit of co-operatlon and good willt

3. Reque3ts the secretary-Gener al to continue to Provide his good offices
stth a view to facilitating the work of the cotrmlttee on uisElng Peraons in cyprus.

DRAFT RESOI,UTION XV

sunnary or arbltrary execution6

gEg.-@}I,
Itecalllng the ProviEions of the ttniversal Declaratlon of gunan Rights. 50/

rn icn: t"-t-"s ttrat every hunan belng has th€ lnherent right to life, llberty and the
security of per 6on and tiat everyone Ehall be entltleat to a fair and grblic hearing
by a corq)etent ' inatePendent 

and lnpartial tribunal establisheal by larr

Recalling also lts resolution 34/L75 of 1? Decenbet L979t ln. which the General
lseeroty reartirrea that nagB anat flagrant violatlona of hulEn rigbte are of
speclal ooncern to the tnited l{ations and urged the Coulsaion on Hunan Rlghts to
take tlnely anal effective action in existing and future cases of na66 and flagrant
violatlons of hunan riglrts 1

Further recalllnq itE resolutlon 36/22 of 9 Novenber 1981, ln which the
ceneral essel6ly 

"ottaemted 
the practice of sunrnary and arbltrary executions,

DeePly alarmed at ure occurrence on a large scale of aurnary or arbitrary
executlong, lncluding extra-legal ex€cutionE'

10,/ Resolution 2I7 A (Iul .



A/37/7 4s
Engl ish
Page 46

Taking note of resolution Lggz/r3 of the subconmlssion on prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities of ? septeflber 1982, in rehich the
subcomnission reconnended tlat effective neasures shouldl be adopted to prevent tlle
occurrence of sunmary or arbi trary e:(ecutions,

Convinced of t.he need for appropriate action to cornbat and eventually
elimj.nate this practice, uttich represents a flagrant violation of the rpst
fundanental hunan right, the right to life,

I. Welcornes Econotnic and SociaJ. Council resolution L982/35 of ? lfay 1982, in
rrhich it was decided to appoint for one year a special Rapporteur to exanine the
questions related to sunmary or arbitrary executions and to subrnit a conpr eh ens ive
reporc to the connission at its tiirty-ninth seseion on the occurrence and extent
of the practice of such executions together with his conclusions and
recomnendations t

2. Requests all Governnenta to co-operate Hith and to assist the Special
Rapporteur of the Comnission on HurEn Rlghts in the preparation of his reporcl

3. Requests the Cormission on Hunan Rights at its thirty-ninth session, on
the basis of the report of the special Rapporteur to be prepared in confornlty with
Economic and social council resolution Lg82/35, to make recormrendations concerning
appropriate action to conbat and eventually ellrninate the practice of sumnary or
arbitrary execution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XVI

Situation of human rights and fundarnental freedons in Chile
The ceneral Assenbly,

Aware of lts responsibillty to promote and encourage respect for hunan rights
and fundamental freedons for arl and declded to renai.n vigilant rrith regard to
vlolatlons of human rights trherever tb ey occur,

Emphasizing the obligation of Governments to protect and pronote hunan rights
and !o carry out the responsibility they have undertaken on the various
international ins truments,

Recalling its resolutions 3219 (xxlx) of 6 November 1974, 344g (xxx) of
9 Decenber 1975, 3VL24 of L6 Decenber 1976,32/IIg of 16 Decernber L977,33/175 of
20 Decenber L97e, 34/179 of r? December r979t 35/188 of t5 Decernber 1980 and 35,/J.5?
of 16 Decenber 1981, a1l rerated to the situation of human rights in chire, as well
as its resolution 33,/1?3 of 20 Decenber 19?g on alisappeared persons,

Recal-Iinq also the resolutions of the Commission on HurIEn Rights deallng with
the human rights sltuation in Chi1e, in particular resolution L9A2/25 of



A/37/745
Engl ish
Page 'l7

IO March 7982. !L/ by tihich the Conmlssion decided, inter alia, to extend the
nandate of the special RaptDrteur on the situation of hunan righte in Chi1e,

Deplorlng that the Chilean authorities have consistently refused to co-oPerate
nith t}le Comnj.ssion on llunan Itlghts and its speclal RaPPorteur,

A(pressing its deepest concern for the total lack of inprorrement in the hutEn
rlg[rts situation ln Chile, as shqrn by the Speclal Rapporteur in hls rePort. 52l

Noting with increasing concern that the Chilean authorities continue to ignore
the repeated apEeals of the internatlonal comnunity made through a nunber of
resolutions of the General Assenbly, the Comnisslon on Humn Rights and various
other internatlonal organs,

Relteratlng ite deep concern at the lack of infornatlon on the nunerous
p.rron" rho have disappeared in chile for political rea€ons and at the fact that
the Chilean authorlties have not taken urgent and effective msasures to invegtlgate
and clarify the faith of those Person6,

I,bting sith qreat concern that the constltution Pronulgated by the Chllean
authorlEes on Ll l,Larch l98l representa the inati tutionalization of the state of
exception, with grave prejudice to the civll and polltical rlghts of l'le chilean
people and serious limitatione to their econonic, social anal cultural rlghts,

1. Comnends the Special RapPorteur for hi6 rePort on the hutflan rights
situation in chilel subnitted in accordance wlth conmisslon on Humn Rlgbts
resolution 1982/251

2. Reiterates its grave concern at the ,peraistance of Eerious and systematic
viotations@ described by the Special RaPPorteur, ln
tErticular for tlr e subversion of the tradltional denocratic legal order and its
institutlons, through the rEintenance and widening of energency and d.cePtional
legislation and the pronulgation of a Constltution which does not reflect a freely
expressed popular will ancl wtrose provision€ supPre6s' su sPend or restrlct the
enjo]tment and the exercise of human rigtrts and fundamental freedomat

3. Reiterates also its deep concern at the inefficacy of the recourse of
habeas corpus or e4E. in vien of the fact that the Judiclary in,chile does not
6f-ty exetci"e it functions ln this resPect, except within considerabre
restr ictionsl

4. Urgently requests once more the chllean authorities to respect and
prorDte hunEn rights in confornity wtttr tle obllgations undertaken under various

9]/ s€e
r1o. 2 (W L9e2

off I Rec€rds of

g/1 A/3'1/564.
corr.l), cttap. xxVI ' sect. 

A.



A/ 37/7 4s
Engl ish
Page 48

international instruments and, ln particular, to adopt the concrete measures
contenplated in Comnission on trumn Righta resolutlon L982/25. in palticular the
lifting of the state of energency and the state of exception and the
re-establ ishnent of derccratic lnEtitutlons, by enEuring the full enjoyment and
exercl.se of clvil and polltical rightg aE well as e@nonl.c, soclal and cultural
rights and fundanental freedoms of the Chllean people, a6 pro\rided in those
internatlonal instrumentst

5. Urqes once nore the Chilean authorities to investigate and clarify the
fate of all persons rho have dlsapp€ared ln Chile for political reaeons ' to informthelr familles of the results of such lnveatlgation anal to prnlah Urose responsible
for the disappearancet

6. l\rrther urges again the Chllean authorlties to re-establish the fuU
enjoyment of trade union rights, ln particular, the rtght to organlze trade unionB,
the right to collectlv€ bargainlng and the rlght to strlket

7. Urges as nell the Chllean authorities to reap€ct ' 
in conforrni ty tritb the

International covenant on civll and Pol.ltical Rl.glrt3, 53/ tne right of chilean
nationals to live' and freely enter and leave the chilean terrltory, without
restrictions or conditions of any kindl and to ceaae the practlce of "relegatlon'
(assignnent of forced reeider€e) and forced exile, ln particular of those ldlo
participate in trade unlon actlvitles, acadenic life or the defence of hunan rightst

8. Also urges the Chilean authoritles to put an end to arbitEary detentions
and imprisonnent in se(ret placea and the practice of torture and lnhuruan or
degrading treatment nhich have resulted on occaslon in unexplained deathst

9. Requests the Chllean authorltles to respect fully the econonlc, social
and cultural rights of the Chllean populatlon ln general and the lndlgenous
popJlation in particular;

I0. Cotrcludes, on the baalE of the report by tie Speclal Rapporteur, that it
ls necessary to maintain under consideratlon the situation of hurEn ri9ht6 ln chilet

11. calls aqain on t}re Chilean autloritiee to co-oper ate rith t}le Comalssion
on Hunan Rights and its special Rapporteur and to subtd t the comtentaries on his
report at the thlrty-ninth sesslon of tlre Corunission on Suman Rightst

L2. Requests the comnlssion on EurEn Rlghts to study in depth the rePort of
the Special Rapporteur at lts tlirty-ninul ae6slon, with a vi€or to taking tbe most
appropriate steps and rePort on it6 consldleratlon, through the Econonlc and Soclal
Council, to the General Asgembly at lts tlirty-eighth session.

LY Resolution 2200 A (xxl).



xtry,:i'
Page 49

DRAFI RESOLUT IO{ XVII

situation of human ridlte and fundatnental fr eedons in Guatenala

The General Assemblvl

Reiterating t-hat the Governnents of all tternber Statee have an obligation to
pronpte and protect humn rights and fundanental freedotls,

Recalling Cmnisslon on llurnan Rights reoolution 1982,/31 of 11 March 1982, 5U
in r*rich the Comrisgion exPresEed its profound concern at the continuing
ileterioratlon In Ure sltuation of human rights and fundanental fr eedotns in
Guatenala under Ule previous rdgine and in strich it requested its chairlEn to
appoint a Special RaPporteur,

Taking into account General Assembly decigion 36/435 ot l'6 December 198L

E(pressing its satisfactlon at the declared uillingness of the Present
Coverffirate rlth a Special Rapporteur to be appointed
under cotmission on Euren Rights re6olution 1982,/31 sith a nandate to nake a
thorough stuily ot the hunan rights situatlon in Guatenala,

Takinq note of resolutlon L982/L7 of tbe s.rb'connigslon on Prevention of
oiscrliination and protection of Minorltles of 7 Septenbet L982. in which the
sutscommission exPressed alarn at reporta of naEsive rePreEsion against and
d isplaeenent of indigenouB potulationa,

Disturbed about the large nutnber of nlsEing peraon6, r'rho ' desPite appeaLs 
from

various international organizations to the Government of Guatenala, retnain
unaccounted for,

Noting with corrern the state of 6iege in force in Guatemala since
f ,rufi-i3E?E3frTEE basic huran rights are abrogated and serious violations of
hunan rights are reported to occur,

1. E(pres6es its deep concern at the eerious violatlons of hunan rights
reporteat to take placJ in GuaterEla, particularly those rePorts of ltidespread
repressionr killlng and rnassive displacement of rural and indigenous poFllationst

2. urges the @vernrent of Gratetnala to ensure that hunnn rlghts and
fundanental freeddrs are fully respected bY au lts authorities and agencies,
including its gecurlty force€t

3. ADpeala to tbe Gover nnent of Guatemala to allow international
hunnni tar lli-organ izatl.ons to bring their assistance Eo thoae displacedi



A/37/745
Engl ish
Page 50

4. 4)Peals also to all concerned pa.rties ln Guatenala to seek an end to all
act€ of vlolencet

5. Calls upon Cover nnents to refrain from supplying arms and other nilitary
assistance as long as serioug hunEn rights violations in GuatenaLa continue to be
reportedi

6. InviteE the Gover nment of Guatemala and oeher parties concerned to
co'oPerate with the Special Rapporteur of the Comisslon on EutEn Rightst

7. R€quest6 the Cqmiss i.on on Sunan Rights to study carefuLly the report of
its SPecial Rapporteur and to conEider, ln the light of the report, further steps
for securing huran rigtrts and fundanental fr eeddns for all in cuatenala.

DNAFT RESOI;T'I ION XVIII

The General Ags€nblv,

Guided by the Principle6 enbodied in the Charter of the United Nations and the
Universal Declaration of lturEn Rigtrts. E/

Consclous of it6 re4)onsibllity in all circumstances to protnote and encourage
respect for hurEn rights and fundamental freedoms for all,

R€iterating that the Governnents of all l|ember States hav€ an obligation to
ProlDte and protect hunen rights and fundanental freedons and to carry out
resPonsibiliti es ttrey have undertaken under various international human rigbts
instrunents,

Determined to remain vigllant with regard to violations of human rights
wherever ttrey occur and to take neasures in order to restore respect for hurEn
rights and fundanental freedcms,

Recalling that, in its resolution3 35/L92 of 15 Decenber 1980 and 36/L55 of
6 Decer6€r 1981. it expressed its deep concern for the situatlon of hunan rights in
El Sa lvador, especially ln vi* of the death of thousands of peoplel t}le clinate of
violence and insecurity prevailing in that country, and the lmtrxnity of
paramilitary forces and other arned groups,

Bearing in mind Conmission on HurIEn Ri9ht6 resolutlong 32 () XVII) of
1I March I98I, 5 q,/ ln whictr the Comnission declded to appoint a Speclal

55l Resolution Zl? A (III,.

t-9/ se e
No. s (VIe8V Cor r. chap. XXVIII, sect. A.



N37/745
Engl istl
Page 51 

"

Representative on the situatlon of hurnan rlghts in El- salvador' and 1982/28 of
tflqarch L982, 57/ nherebry lt extended the rnandate of the sPecial RePreaentative
for another year and requ-estea hin to report' inter aliat to the GeneraL Assenbly
at its tllirty-seventh session,

Taking note of resolutions l0 (xxxlv) and 1982/26 of the sub-comnisslon on the
sfimination of All Forns of Discrindnatlon and the Protection of Mlnolities'

Taking note with grave corrern of the interin rePort by the special
n.preffinabatedcontinuationofac1imteofvio1ence
and insecurity in EI salvador with armed clashes, acts of terrorisn and unbridledr
large-scale and grave violations of huroan rightsr as well as the failure of the
judiciary to fulfil its duties to uPhold the rule of .Iawr

observlng that the elections in EI salvador ' as they 
were held in March 1982r

have not led to the cessation of violence or to any inprovenent in the situation of
human rights and fundamental freedons in that country,

r.8]<pressesitsdeepestconcernatthecontinuedandunbritlledviolations
of human rights and at tn:GurErng orffering of the salvadorian people, and
r€grets ttral the appeals for the ceisation of vlolence nade by the General
Assembl"y, lhe conmission on Hunan Rlghts and the internacional connunity in
general, have not been heededt

2. Draws again tlle attention of all salvadorian Parties concerned to the
fact that the rules of international Iaw' as contained ln article 3 coffibn to the
Geneva Conventions of 12 August Lg 49 58/ on the laus of war, are apPlicable to
ar||Ed conflicts not of an international character and requests aII parties tO the
conflicts to apply a minirnum standard of ProtecLion of human rights and of hunan
treatrEnt to the civllian PoPulatlont

3. Notes that the situation in EI Salvador r as clearly shoun in the report
of the spec ia l-nepresentat ive of the commission on Human Rightst !!/ has its root
causes in internal political econonic and social factors' and that condltlons in El
Salvador for the effective exercLse of civil and political rights do not exist at
the present tinet

4. Reaffirms tbe right of tbe salvadorian PeoPle to freely deternine their
potitical-,-6i6tG and social future without interference from outside and in an
atnosphere free frorn intinidation and terror from aIl parties,

2L/
A.

Ibid., 1982, supplement No. 2 (E/ Ig 82/f2 and Corr' I), chap' xxvl '

Unitett l'lations, Treatv S€ries, vol. 75, Nos' 970-973' p' 3l et seq'

^/37/ 
6Lr.

23./

22/

sect.



A/37/745
English
Page 52

U:. Regrets that the covernnent of EI Salvador has not responded tosuggestions to inltiate, through available .iuin"r", contacts to negotiate apeaceful settlenent rsith arl .Jpt"r."t"ii".-fri rar..r forcee in tr,.[-ioont yr
,,.^,-!: .Calls again upon the partieg in El salvador to 6€ek an end to aII act6 ofvrorence in order to endEe loss of lives and the eufferlng of the people ofEl Salvadory

Beiterates rt5 appeal to all states to abstain fron intervening in thelnternal situation in Br salvaalor anal to 
"u"p."a 

atr suppries of arrns 8nd any typeof military aasigtancer. Eo as-to allow the $f ittc"f forces in that counrry torestore peace and security and to alro, tt .'."Lur i"rrnent of a detrpcratlc sy6ten,

-^,---l: ,-stggpqrv urqeF the Gover nnent of El sa rvador to fulfil its obrlgatiohsEowards its citizens and to aasutr* its internatlonal responsibiri ties-in thisregard by taking the necessary step6 to ensure that hunan rrght. and fundanental
I::"9P are ruLlv t"try:::.t !v "ri it" ;;;;i.", inclu.rins its securrty rorces,and other armed organizatrons operatrns unJli-il" authority or nrth its pernisslon,
,,^"^,1... -"!! $.r =oro." 

the judlciary in El salvador to asEurne their obtigatlon touPnord t,'e rul.e of lar and to prosecute and to punish those found ,a"porr"iU:-" fo,assassinations, acts of torture and other forns'of cruelr inhunan or degradlngtreatmentt

-..,. 
to'- Reiterates it' call upon alr salvadorian partte6 concer ned to co-opera tefuuy and not to inteffere sith trte activiti.s or nununrtarian organizatlonsdedicated. to alrevrating $re surrerrit-oi-at 

"1iuirran popur.ation, wherever theaeorganizations operate in El salvadlon

-^ ,.1i' 
calre agaln upon the covernrnent of El sa rvador as welr as all 0therparties concerned to continue to extend their co_operatlon to the SpecialRepresentative of rhe comission 

", 
iri""'if-ghiI,

continue to examin€, as a-natter of high prioiity, the situation in El sa lvador: on
S;r*;t" or the report of the speciai 

-rlii."."i;tive or the co"oli".ion on suran

session' the situatron of hurnan rlghts ana fundJlnental freedoms 
'n 

El salvador, inorder to examine aner this situattii i";"-i;;; of addirionar ersrents provialedby the comnission on Hu'an Rights *a-tr,.'i"iJric and soctar council.

DRAFT NESOLUTION XIX

Eunan rights and r|ass exoduses
lhe ceneral As€enb1y,

-- .. l4indfur of its general humanitarian nandate under the charter of the unitealNatiohs and its nEndate to-pronpte and encourage respect for hunan rights andfundamental fre€ddl for all,



u37/74s
Engl ish
Page 53

Deeply disturbed by the continuing scale and nagni tude of exoduEes and
displacenents of populations in nany regions of tlte wor ld and at the hunan
suffering of niLlions of refugeee and displaced persons in all reglons of the norld,

conscioua that hutan rights violatlona are atnong the principal factor6 in the
oonplex and mrltiple root causeE of rlasa exoduaea and diaplacenents of PoPulation'

Deeplv preoccupled by the increa6ingly heaw burden being imPoEed uPon the
internat{onal com|unity as a httole, and more particularly on developing countrie6
wittt llnited resources of ttreir trn, by these sudden and mass exoduses and
displacenents of population,

Consclous of its obllgations towards the mllllons of victim€ of nasa et(oduses
and of displacement€ of lbFrlatlon, and of lts dual re8Pon€ibility, under the
charter, to provlde adequate international protectlon and aasistance to suctl
victltns and to ellminate or mitigate the root causes of this phenonenon I

Recallinq its resolution 36./135 of 14 Decenber 1981 on a nelt lnternational
hurnanitarian order r

Recalling its resolution' 35/L24 of l1 Decenber 1980 and 36/148 of
16 Decer6er 1981 on international co-oPeration to avert new flows of refugees,
35/L96 ot 15 Decenber 1980 on tras6 exoduaes' and comrlssion on Hunan Rights
resol-utions 29 (xn(vll) of 1l Ualch l98L Egil and f982l32 of 1l I'tarch 1982, fu/

Recalling lts reaolutio^ 32/L3O of 16 Decenber 1977 and comtisElon on Hunan
Right6 reaolution 4 (xxxIII) of 21 February 1977 E/ on the full reallzation of
eononic, social and cultural rights,

Coneiderlng the Btudy of Ure speclal Rapporteur on huran rlghts and massive
exodueesl !f/

]. Comends the Speclal SrPporteur for the study on huuan rights and massive
exodusest

gql see orf
No. 5 (E/19 8V 25

qV lbid. ' 1982, supplenent No. 2 
(E/ L982/L2 and corr.I), chaP. xxvl. sect. A.

!2/ See Official Re cortls of tie Econqlic and Social Council, Sixtv-second
se8sion, supplenent lb. 6 (t/57271 , ctaP. xxl, sect. B.

g/ E/cN.4/ r5o3.



A/37/745
Engl ish
Page 5,1

2. @ the lnvltatlon, contrined in comnlsslon on Hunan RlghtE resolutlon
Lg82/32 t to Governnente ' 

Unlted tlations agencles or dePartnents ' relenantSpeclaliu ed agenc ies, international organizationa and notFgovernnental
organlzationa to cotuunicate their viewe on the Study and the recornnenda tions
contained therein to the secretary-Generall

3. Requesta tbe secretarfceneral to ensure the views exPre6aed to date on
the Etudy antt itJ recomendations by all interested Parties - Governtnent6' united
Natlons agenciea or dePartnenta, relevant speclalised agencieer lnternatlonal
organlzations and notFgover tfiental organlzatione - together wlth Uloge to be
received in the oeantlc, lre Dade available to the Commlsalon on HutEn Rlghts at
it8 thirtfnlnth Eesgion and to the croup of Governmental ExPerts on International
Co-operatlon to Avert Nen Flors of Refugees to facilitate thelr further
conaideratlon of tlle €tudy and ita re@@rendatlons,

4. Invites the Cornnlselon on HuttEn Rlght8 at its thlrtSninth seatlon and
the Croup 6E-6iEr nnental E(perts on Internatlonal Co{Peration to Avert tlerr FltrE
of Refug-es at tcetinga to be held Pursuant to General Aasembly resolutlon
37/-, to glve careful oongideration to thoae asPectB of the study of the
Spectaf napporteur falllng rlth thelr resPectlve nandates in the light of the viewa
expreased by all lntereEted partleE,

5. Reouests the Secretary-General to Pursue hia examination of
recoumendations contalned in the gtudy, taking lnto account the vielta of
Governments and other interested parties, as enumerated in paragraph 3 above, the
alebates at the Genetral Assembly at lts thlrty-aeventh se€6ion, the delibelatlone of
the connission on llutrEn Rights at its thirty-ninth sessionr and of the GrouP of
Governnental D(perts On Internatlonal Co-operation to Aver t tGtt Flo0a of Refugees,
and to subnit a report thereon to the Asserbly at lts thirty-eightb aession ln
order to enable the Assembly to continue lts consideration of thls matter,

6. Decides to revleg Ure question of human rights and mass exodusea at ita
thirtfeighth seEEion.


