












































UNITED
t{ATtoNS

GrneralAraembly DlEtr.
GENER,AIJ

A/37 / 595
8 November 19 82

ORIGINAIJT ENGLISH

!hlrly-seventh session
Agenda ltem 76

IMPIJEMENTATION OF THE PROGRAiIIME FOR THE DECADE FOR ACTION TO COMBAT
RACISM AND RACIAI. DISCRIMINATION

Report, of the Third Corunittee

Rapporleurr M!. NarI BORCHARD (Federal Republic of Germany)

INTRODUCTIONI.

l. At its 4th plenary neetlng, on 24 september 1982, the ceneral Assetnbly decided
to include in its agenda the item entitled "Implementation of the Progranme for the
Decade for Action to Conbat Raclsm and Racial Discrinination: report of the
sec reta ry-c€ne raL " and Lo allocate il to the Third Cormittee.

2. The Conmittee considered this item jointly with items 75, 79 and 80 at lts
3rd to l3th, l8th, 24th, 25th and 31st meetings, on 30 september and 4' 6, 8, ll
to 15' 21, 27 occober and 2 November 1982. An account of the discussion of the
conmictee is contained in the ralevant summary records lA/C,3/37/sR,3-13, L8, 24,
25 and 3l).

3, The CoffnitCee had before it the followinq documentation:

Irnplenentation of the Prograrune for the Decade for Actlon to Combat
Racisn and Racial Discrimination.. report of lhe Secretary-General
(A/37/338 and Add.I), subnitted in accordance with General Assenbly
resolutlon 3057 (XXVIII) t

Report of the Econonic and social Council, chapter III, section B
(A/37/3 (Parr r) ) r f/

y Ib be issued as Officiat Records of -seventh
Session, Supplemenb No. 3

(a)

(b)

82-302I8 0s56i (E)

lA/37 /31
the ceneral Assembl Thirt



A/ 37 /595
Enq li sh
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 22 June 1982 from t.he Charg6 d'Affaires a.i. of the
Pernanent Mission of Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the
Sec re ta ry-cene ral transnitting the Finat Connuniqud and other documents
of the Ministerial Meet.ing of the Co-ordinating Bureau of the Non-Aligned
Countries held at Havana from 31 May to 5 .tune 1982 (A/37/333).

4. At. the 3rd meeEing, on 30 Septenber, the Sec retary-cene ral of the Second World
Conference t'o Conbat Racisrn and Racial Discrimination and the Director of the
Centre for lluman Rights made introductory statements.

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAI,S

A. Draf! resolution A/C.3,/37,/L.3

5. The Coruriltee had before it the draft resolution recornnended by the Economic
and Social Council- in its resolutLon L982/3L of 5 May 1982, entitled
" Irnplenentat ion of the Prograrnme for the Decade for Actj.on to Conbat Racism and
Racial Disc r iminah ion" . The text of the draft resolution was distributed in
docunent MC.3/37/L.3.

6. A slatenent. by the Secrela ry-Gene ral on the administrative and financial
implications of the draft resolution was circulated to the CommitCee in documenC
Nc.3 /37 /L. 8.

7. At the 24th meeting, on 27 October, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/37/L.3 by 113 votes to 19, lrith 5 abstentions (see para. 13, draft
resolution f,

B. Draft resolution &/C.3/37lL.4

8. The Committee had before it the draft resolution reconmended by the Economic
and Social Council in its resoluti,on I9A2/32 of 5 May 1982, entitled "Second World
Conference to Conbat Racism and RaciaL Discri.mination,'. The text of the draft
resolution vras distributed in documenL pJc-3/37/L.4.

9. A statenent by the Sec retary-General on the administrative and f inanc j.al
implications of the draft resolution was circulated to the Connittee in docunent
A/c.3/37 /L.n.
10. At bhe 3lst rneeting, on 2 November. the Chairman introduced the folloning
nodificat.ions to the text, as a result of consultations held on the drafl
resolut.ion recoflunended by the Economic and Social Council;

(a) T\f annex to lhe draft resolution the draft. provj.sional agenda for the
Conference reconmended by the preparat.ory Sub-CoruniEEee lE/L982/26, annex), item tO
of which to be revised as follows:



^/37 
/595

Eng lish
Page 3

"10. Review and evaluation of activities undertaken to achieve the qoals
ard objectives of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Raciat
Discrimination at the national, regional and international levels and in
inplementation of the prcgrane of Action adopteit at the first world
Conference i u

(b) To add a new operative paragraph 5, reading..

contained in the annex to the prasent resolutioni"
(c) To renumber the ensuing operative paragraphs accordingly.

tr. The comnittee hras arso informed of some corrections bo existing operative
paragraphs 5 and 6 of the draft resolution.
L2. At the same meeting, the Corunittee adopEed the atraft resolution, as orally
correcled and nodified, by I24 votes to 2 (see para. L3, draft resolueion fI).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE
13. The Third Corunigeee recontnends Co the ceneral itssembly the adoption of the
fol.lowing draft resolut ions i

DRAF" RESOLUTION I

ion of r
to Conbat Rac sm and ltac

The ceneral Aggembly,

Reaffirming its resolve to bring about the total and unconditional eradication
of racism, racial discrimination and g.!.!!gjg, flhich still represent serious
obstacres to further progress and to the strengchening of international peace and
security,

Re9al1ing Chat, in ies resolution 305? (XXVIII) of Z November 1973 and in the
Progranne for the Decade for Action to combat Racism and Racial Discrimination
annexed thereto, and in other relevant resolutions, it caUed upon alt peoples,
@vernments and institutions to continue their efforts to eradicate racisn, racial
discrimination and apartheid and lhus to promote respect for bunan rights and
fundanentar freedorns for all, eithout distinction as to race, corour, descenc or
nalional or ethnic orig in,

Taking into account the Declaration and the progranme of Action adopted by
the World Conference to Combat Racism and Racial Discrinination, 2/

Sales No. E.79.XIV.2), chap. II.



A/37 /595
English
Page 4

Recalllng that, in the prograrure of activities to be undertaken during the
second half of the Decade fo! Action to Combat Rac isn and Racial Discrimination,
contained in the annex to its resolution 34/24 of 15 Novembet 1979, ic called upon
all States, united Nations organs and inte rgoverrunental and non-governmenlal
organizations to intensify their efforts to achieve the speediest attainment of lhe
objeceives of the Decade, ained at the complete and final elinination of all forns
of racisrn and racial discrinination,

E(pressing its serious concern at the siluaLion prevailing in South Africa and
ttrrou@lt of the policies and actions of the apartheid
rdgine, particularly its efforts to perpetuate and strengthen racist domination of
the count,ry' its policy of "bantustanization", ics brutal rePression of opPonents
of aPartheid and its renesed acts of aggression against neighbouring SEates,

Reaffirning that apartheid is a crime againsc humanity'

Partlcularly concerned at the persistence of tbe illegal occuPation of Nanibia
by the racist minority rdgine of soulh Africa,

DisaPpointed that the talks beEween the uniEed Nations and the South African
rac isEEiE-IIIEgral occupation rdgine aimed at reaching a negotiated settlement of
the question of Namibia have thus far failed because of che bad faith of that
rdg ime ,

Reaffirning that any collaboration with the racist rdgirne of south Africa
constitutes a hostite act against the opPressed People of South Afrlca and a
contemptuous defiance of the United Nations and the international connuniEy,

Considering that such collaboration strengthens the racist rdgime, encourages
it to persist in its repressive and aggressive policy and seriously aggravates the
sltuation in southern Africa, thus constituting a threat to internationat Peace and
s@ur1ty,

Seriously concerned at the fact that Lhe principal western and other trading
partners of South africa are continuing to collaborate tdith the raclst rdgime and
that their collaboration constitutes the nain obstacle to the abolition of that
rdgime andt the elinination of che inhuman and crininaL system of apartheid,

Alarned by
with the rac i st

the persistent collaboration by certain western States and fsrael
r69ine of south Africa in the nuclear field'

Aware of the constanc need lo rnobilize public opinion against any political,
military, econonic
lfr lca,

and other assistance granted to the racist rdgime of South

Ardare of the need to promote solutions to the problens of discrinination
facing nigrant workers and their families'

Recalling its resolution 35/33 of 14 Novenber 1980, in which it decided to
hofa in fSAi a Second world Conference to Combat Racisn and Racia1 DiscriminaCion,



A/37 /595
English
Page 5

nhich' white reviewing and assessing the activities undertaken during the Decade,
should have as its rnain purpose the fornulation of ways and means and of specific
neasures aimed at ensuring tbe full and universal implementation of Unlted Nations
resolutions and decisions on racisn, racial discrimination and apartheid,

Stressinq the importance of attaining the objectives of the Decade,

Convinced that the Second World Conference !o Conbat Racism and Racial
Discrimination will nake a useful and constructive contribution to the attalrunen!
of those objectives,

1. Proclains that the elinination of all forns of racism and of
discrinination based on race and the attainnent of the objectives of the Prograruoe
for the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrinination and of the
progranme of activities to be undertaken during the second half of the Decade are
natters of high priority for the international corununity and, t.herefore, for the
United NaCions,

2. Strong ly .condenns the policies of .eE,rthelg, racisn and racial
discrimination pursued in southern Africa, all. occupied Arab territories and
elsewhere, including the denial of the right of peoples to self-determinat ion and
independence i

3. Reaffirns its strong support for the national liberatlon struggLe against
racisn, racial discriminaeion, apartheid, colonialisn and foreign dornination and
for self-dete rminat ion bl. all available neans. including armed strugglei

4. Reaffirms the inalienable righcs of the Namibian people to
self-deternination and independence;

5. Vigorously condenns the repeated acts of aggression connitted by South
Afrlca against the States of the region, particularly Angola, BotsHana,
Mozanbique, Seychelles and Zambiai

6. Expresses its profound solidarity with the front-line States that are
victims of the racist aggression and destabiLization attenpts of the pretoria
rdg ime t

7. Once again invites all Menber States, United Nations organs, speciallzed
agencies, inte rgoverrunental organizations, national liberat.ion novenents,
ant i-spsr!!g!l and anti-racist organizations and other solidarity groups to
strengthen and enlarge Che scope of lheir activities in support of the objectives
of the Programme'for the Decadet

8. Again requests the Security Council to consider, as a natter of urgency,
the inposition of full mandatory sanctions under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations against the racist r69ine of South Africa and the serengthening of
Che enbargo on arms, with a view to put.ling an end to all miliCary and nuclear
collaboraCion with Soulh Africa;.



A"/37 /s9 5
Eng Iish
Page 6

9. Reaffirms the decision by nhich it approved 3/ the Declaration of the
International Seninar on the Implenentation and Reinforcement of the Arns Etnba rgo
against South Africa, 4/ held in London from I to 3 April 198I under the auspices
of the Special Conmittee against AparCheidt

10. Vigorously condemns the collaboration of certain Western countrtes,
Israel and other Staees and of transnational corporaCions and other organizalions
.^thich are naintaining or continuing to increase Cheir collaboration with the racist
r6gime of South Africa, particularly in the political, economic, military and
nuclear fields, thereby encouraging that r6gine to persise in its inhunan and
crininal policy of brutal oppression of the peoples of souehern Africa and its
denial of hunan rights,.

all Governments which have not yet done so to take
otber neasures in respect of their nationals and
jurisaliction that own enlerprises in southern
such enterprises t

1I. Calls once again upon
Iegislative, adrninistraCive and
the bodies corporate under their
Africa in order eo put an end to

L2. Calls upon all States Co adopt, as a rnatter of high priority, neasures
declaring punishable by taw any disseninat.ion of ideas based on racial superiority
or hatred and outlawing organizations based on racial halred and prejudice,
including neo-Nazi and Fascist organizations and private clubs and institutions
established on the basis of racial criteria or propagating ideas of racial
discrimination and apartheid i

13. Invites l4ember States, Ehe organs and bodies of the United Nations system
and the specialiu ed agencies to continue their efforts idith a view to the
protection of the rights of all migrant vJorkers and their farniliesi

14. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Preparatory
Sub-Conmittee for the Second World Conference to Conba! Racisrn and Racial
Discrinination on its first sessiont 5/

15. Requests the Secretary-cene ral to provide the preparatory Sub-Corunittee
with aU necessary assistance i

16. Further reguests the Secretary-cene ral to appoint, after consuLtation
with the regional groups, in 1982, a Sec reta ry-ceneral of the Second World
Conference lo Combat Racism and Racial Discriminaeion, r.rho shall have the rank of
Assistant Secreta ry-ceneral and shall be responsible for the organizalion of the
Conference and co-ordination with Member States, olgans and bodies of the United
Nations' specialized agencies and inee rgovernmental and nonjovernmental
organi zations t

Resolut.ion 36/8, para. 9.

N36/I90-S/L4442, annex.

E/ L982/26.

a/J

!/
2/



19. ExPresses its satisfaction to the Conunittee on the Elinination of
oiscrinination, the spec GI-ffiIIIEe agaj.nst Apartheid, che uniced Nacions
for Namibia, the speciar codnittee on tne situEtT-or: with regard to the

17. rnvites
Sec retary-General
the Conference,

18. Inviles
contribute to the

Recallinq its resolution 30 57
proclaimed Che Decade for Action to

A/37 /59s
English
Page 7

Menber Stales to continue to co-operate with the
as part of the PrograNne for the Decade and the preparations for

the appropriate organs and bodies of the united Nations systen to
preparations for the Conference;

Rac ial
Counc iI

rmplementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
co-untries and peoples,,the conmittee on the Exercise of the rnaLienable Rights of
the Pale,stinian l€op1e and the connission on Human Rights' through its ld Hoc
t{orking 'croup of Experts on Soulhern Africa, for their contribution to the
inplern-ngation of the progranne for the Decade and invites them to include in their
activities the preparations for the Conferencei

20. Decides to consider at its thirty-eighth session, as a macler of high
priorily, IE-h" it.* entitled I rrnplernentat ion of the Progranne for the Decade to
cornbat Racisn and Racial Discrimination".

DRAFT RESOLUTION I1

The General Assenbly,

(xxvIII) of 2 November 1973, by which it
Conbat Racism and Racial Discrimination,

l,lindfuL of the Declaration and the Programme of Action adoPted b'y the world
conferencJ to combac Racisn and Racial Discrinination, 6/

Recalling paragraPh 26 of the proglarune of activities to be undertaken during
t.h. second half of the Decade for Action to conbat Raclsm and Racial-
Discrinination, contatned in the annex to General Assenbly resolution 34/24 of
15NovenberlgTg'inwhichtheAssenblytlecidedthatanimPortantfeatureofthe
second half of lhe Decade should be the holding of a second world conference to
CombaL Racism and Racial Disc r irninat ion '

Bearing in mind its resolution 35/33 of t4 November l98O' in which it decided
to norE -Ii-f!IJ, "" 

an important event of the Decade, a second llorld conference co
conbat Racisn and Racial biscrinination, which, tthile revlewing and assessing the

V Report of the world confererrce to coxnbat Raqisn an9-Faci?l
Discrimination' Geneva' 14-25 August 1978 (United Natlons PuDrrcaEran'
Sales No. 8.79.XIv,2) ' chaP. II.



A/37 /595
Engl.ish
Page 8

activities undertaken during the Decade, should have as ita main purpose the
forrnulation of ways and means of specific neasures aimed at ensuring the furl and
universar inpLementation of uniteal Nations resolutlons and deci.sions on racisn,
racial discrimination and apa rthe id,

Bearing in nind arso the provisions of its resolution 36/g of 28 @tober r98l
regarding the preparations for the Conference,

Taking note of Econonic and Social Council resolution Lgg2/32 of 5 May 1982,
which concains recommendations regarding the organization of the conference,

1. Endorses Econonic and Socia1 @uncil resolution L98Z/32t
2. Accepts the offer of the @verrment of the phiuppines to act as host to

the second world conference to conbat Racisn and Raciar Dlsc r inninacion i
3. Decides to convene the Conference at Manila from 1 to lZ August l9g3r
4. Eecides to nake an exception to its resolution 2609 (xxlv) of

I6-December L969 on the pattern of conferences and agrees that half of theadditionar cos! involved in hor.ding the conference in che phirippines sharr bedefrayed from the regular budget oi the United Nations,

in the

6. Requests the Secretary-ceneral to invile:
(a) Al'l States to participate. in the Conference;
(b) The united Nations Council for Narnibia ro

in accordance with paragraph 3 of ceneral Assenbly
4 Novenber I9?7t

7. Further reque6ts the Secretary-ceneral to inviee:
(a) Representatives of national llberation movenents recognized in its region

by the Organization of Mrican Unity to participate in the Conference in the
capacity of observers, in accordarre with c€ner;r Assenbly resorution 3280 (xxrx)of l0 Decembe r Lg74t

(b, Representatives of organizations that have received a scanaling lnvitation
from the General Assenbly to participate in che se€sions and the work oi alrinternational conferences convened under its ausplces in the capacity of observersto participate i.n the conference in that capacity in accordance witb ceneratAssembly resolutions 3237 (xxrx) of 22 roveirbe, iszq .nd 3L/Ls2 of zo December r976i

. ,. (c) The specialized agerrcies concerned, as well as interested organs andbodies of the Unj.ted Nations, t( be represenied at the Conference,

Recolrunends the draft provisional agenda for the Conference as contained
annex to the present resolutiont

participate in the Conference,
resolut.ion 32/9 E of



A/ 37 / 595
English
Page 9

(d) Interested inte rgovernmental organizacions to be represented by observers
at the Conference t

(e) The special connittee against Apartheid to be represented by observers at
the @nf erence;

(f) The special corunittee on the situation with regard !o the Inplementation
of the Declaration on che cranting of Independence to Colonial countries and
Peoples to be represenled by observers aC the Conferencei

(g) The Comnitlee on the E]-iminatlon of Racial Discrirnlnation Eo be
represented by observers at the Conference,

(h) The Comtission on Hunan Rights to be represenced by obsetvers at the
confe rence t

(i) The comrnittee on the D(ercise of the Inalienable Rights of the
Palestinian People and the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices
Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories to be
represenled by observers aC the @nferencei

(j) Other interested corunittees of the United Nations to be represenced by
observers at the Conference t

(k) Non-goverrunental organizations in consultative status with the Econonic
and Social council which trave contributed to the achlevernent of the goals and
objectives of the Decade for Action to Conbat Racisn and Racial Discrimination and
to the implenentation of the Programme of Action adopted by the first world
Conference, taking into account also their record in the field of struggle against
racism and racial d i sc r ininatj.on, to be represented by observers aE the conferencei

8. Requests the Secretary-ceneral, as part of the preparacory process, to
take adequate steps to ensure that naximurn publicity shall be given to the
@nference and, to that end, to allocate the necessary resources from the regular
budget i

9. Cal1s upon a1l States to contribule Co the success of the Decade for
Action to Combat Racisn and Racial Discrinination, ln particular by their active
participation in the Conferencei

10. llIE afl stales to co-operate lrith the secretary-General of the
conference in the preparatory work and to consider the setting up of national
committees for publicizing the aims and, eventually, the nain results of the
conference i

11. Requests the secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session on the tork of the ConfererEei

12. Decides to consider at its t.hlrty-elghth session, as a natter of high
priority, an item entitled "second l{orld Conference to Conbat Racism and Racial
Discriminat ion" .



1.

2.

A/37 / 59s
Eng Iish
Page l0

ANNEX

Draft provisional agenda for the Second l4orld Confernce to
Combat Racism and Racial Discrininatior,

Opening of the Conference.

Election of the president.

opening addresse s.

Adoption of the rules of procedure.

5. Election of other officers.

6. Credentials of representatives to the Conferencer

APpointnent of lhe Credentials Comnittee t
Report of the Credentials Committee.

7. Moption of the agenda.
8. Organization of worK.
9. Political, historical, economic, social and cultural factors Leading to

racism, racial discrinination and segregation and apartheid
10. Review and evaluation of activities undertaken to achieve the goars and

objectives of the Decade for Action to Combat Racism and Racial Discrimination
at the naeional, regional and int€rnational levels and in implementation of
the Prograrune of Action adopeed at the First world conference to conbat Racisn
and Racial Discr inination.

rr- l'l'a in obstacres to the furr eradication of racrsm, raciar discrininalion and
aparthe id.

L2' DeLerminaLion of further action-oriented national, regional and internationaL
measures to combat arl forms of racisrn, raciat discrimination and apargheid:
(a) Adoption of legislative, jualiciar, administrative and other measures aE.

Che national level to improve relations anong racial groups and toprohibit rasiar discrinination, including dissenination of ideas based on
raciar superiority or hatred, and alr- racist organizations such as Nazi
and neo-Nazi organizationsi

(b) Action in the field of education, cuLture, research and inforrnation and
the role of mass media in the struggle against racism, racial
discrimination and apartheid with the ain to conba! prejualices which read

(a)

(b)



N37/s95
English
Page Il

to racial discrinination and to promote understanding, tolerance and
friendship among naCions and racial or ethnic groupsi

Measures ained at ensuring the full and universal implementation of
united Nations decisions and resorutions on racism, racial discrimination
and apartheid i

Universal ratification of, or accession to, the International Convention
on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial. Discrimination and other
existing inteinationat instrunents adopted under the aegis of lhe United
Nations and the specialized agencies ained at combating racisn, racial
discrimination and apa rthe id i
Drawing up of nevJ international rneasures to combat racism and racial
d i sc r iminaCion i

(f) Continued support and assistance to peoples and novenents struggling
againsE racism, raciat discrimination and apartheid; and ways and meansof denying support to racist r6girnes ana of ensuring their isolatlon.

13. Adoption of the report and final documents of the Conference.

(c)

(d)

(e)


