








































UNITED
NATIONS

@ 
GeneralAssemblY

Distr.
GENERAL

A/37 /764
17 Decenber 1982

OR!GINAL: ENGLISH

thirty-seventh session
Agenda i tern 111

PERSONNEL QUESTIONS V

Report of the Fifth Comnittee

BeP-Pe:!g!!: ur. M. AdeI EL SAFTY (Egvpt)

I. INTRODIrcTION

1. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 Septenber 1982' the General Assenbly decided
to includ€ in the agenda of ita thirty-seventh session the itern entitletlr

"Personnel questions:

(a) composition of the Secretariatt report of the Secre lary-General i

(b) Respec t for the privileges and imrnunities of officials of the United
Nations and the lpecializea agencies and related organizations: report
of the SecretarlF Genera li

(c) other personnel questionsi n

and to altocate it to the Fifth conmitte€.

2. tfte comnittee considered the iten at its l3th, 23rd, 25th to 34th, 35th to
4lst, 4?th, 49th, 53rd, 56th, 58th, 53ral, 65th antl 70th meetings frorn 15 october to
14 December 1982. The views expressed by tlelegations during lhe discusslon are

y The following items lrere considered, in Part, in conjunction with
item 111:

(a) Joint Inspectlon unlt (iten l0?);

(b) Itepor t of the International Civil service contnission (item 1I2) '

8 2-37s43 0637d (E)



A/37 /764
Eng lish
Page 2

reflected in the relevant s uftmary records (see A/C.5/37/5R.13, 23, 25-34. 36-4f.
47, 49. 53, 56, 58, 63, 55 and 70).

3. The Comnittee considered under agenda item 111 the following docunentst

(a) Report of the lnternational" Civil- Servlce Comnissiont 7
(b) Second report of the Joint Inspection Unit on the career concept

(A/37/528't and related coments of the Adninistrative Conrnittee on
co-ord ination (A/37/528/Md.Ll .,

(c) Report of the ,toint fnspection lrnit on the application of the principle
of equitable geographical distribution of the staff of the United Nations
secretariat lA/37/378', and related connents of the secretarfceneral
(A/37 /378/Md.L and A/ 37 /37 8/Md. L/6rr.1) ?

(d) second progress report of the Joint Inspection Unlt on the status of
women ln the Professional category and above (A/37/4691 and related
corut€nts of the Mrninistrative @nmittee on Co-ordination
(A/37/469/Md.rl .

4. At its thirtFsixth session, the ceneral Assenbly, by it8 decislons 36/456 and
36/457 of 18 Decenber 1981, decided to discusa at its thirty-seventh session the
following docunents:

(a) Report of the International CiviI service Conulissionl ]/
(b) Report of the Joint Inspection Unit on personnel policy option s (A/36/432

and Add.l) and the related cornnents of the Secre tary-ce neral
lA/36/432/AdA.2' ,

(c) Report of the Joint Inspection unit on the appllcatlon of the prlnciple
of equitable geograptrical distribution of the staff of the united Nations
Secretariat lA/36/4071 the related comnents of the Secre tary-Ge neral-
(^/36/ro7 /Add.rl .

5. For its conslderation of item IU (a), the Conmittee had before it the
follor{ing document s:

(a) Report of the Secre tary- Ce neral on the conposition of the Secretariat
(A/37 /ra3l t

A official Records of the ceneral Assembly, ThirtFseventh Session,
Supplenent No. 30 (A/37/30), annex I.

y Offlcial Records of the ceneral Assembly, Thirty-sixth Session,
Supplement No. 30 lA/36/30 and Corr.l), chap. II, sect. H. and annex f.



A/37 /764
Engllsh
Page 3

(b) Report of the secreta rlEcenera I transmltting a list shoning -by office'
de-partrnent and organlzltional unit, the names' functlonal titles'
nationality and sitary level of all staff menber s of the Itnitetl Nations
secrebariat as of 3o June 1982 lL/c.sh1/L.21 i

(c) t'lote by the secretarf Genela1 transnltting the rePort subnittetl by the
staff unions and associations of the United Nations Secretariat
l^/c.5/37/24t.

6. For its conslderatlon of ltem fll (b), the comflittee had before it the
follooring docurcnts!

(a) Report of the secretary-@nera1 on the resPect for the-Prlvileges and
imnunltles of officials of the lrnite tl Natlons and speclalized agencles
and rel-ated organlzatlons lA/c.5/37/34 anal corr.l) t

(b) L€tter daled 11 tibvenber 1982 fron lhe Fernanent Representacive of
l,lozanbique to the un iteat Natlon6 addressed to the secre tary-GeneraL
(^/c.5/37/451 .

7. lbr lts consideration of iten 111 (c) ' 
the comnlttee had before it the

following document s a

(a) Report of the secretary-Ge neral on the Lnpletnentation of Personnel policy
reforms (A/C.5/37/ 51 ,

(b) Report of the secre tary-General on the arnendnents to tbe Staff Rules
lA/c.5/37/ 6 and oorr.l) t

(c) Nobe by the secretarf@neral on the rePatriation grant (A/c'5/37/2q ana
related rePort of the ndvtsory @flnlttee on Mnini6trative and Budgetary
Ouestions lA/37/6751 , inclucllng a alraft resolution'

(dt) tlote by the secretarf Genera I on the amendnrent of the staff lregulationg
lVC.5/37/541, containing, ln paragraph 3, the text of propo€e'l
amendment s to article wII of the Regulations'

II. @NSIDERATTON OF PROPOSAIS

8. At the 23rtl meeting, on l litcvenber, the rePresentative of Swqien proposed that
the comnlttee extend an invitatlon to a representatlve of the staff of the united
Nations secretariat to nake an oral Presentation before the Colaittee t Pursuant to
the provisions of General As senbly resolutlon 35/2!3 of 17 December 1980'

9. The Corntllttee decidedr rrithout a vote' to adoPt the proposal'



N37/764
Eng I i.sh
Page 4

A. Draft resolution Vc.5/37lL.30

IO. At the 63rd meeting, on 10 Decenbe!, ur. Ernegt Besley Maycock, vice-chairnan
of Che Committee, introduced a draft resolution lA/C.5/ 3'l /L.30 ) recornmended by him
followlng infornal consultations. The drafE resol,ution lead as follovrs!

"Ihe Cf,neraf A.ssembly,

"Sgcalligg ics resolution6 331143 of 20 Decernber 1978 and 35/2LO of
L7 December I980 on personnel questions,

'Recal!-ilg its decisions 36,2456 and 36/457 of 18 December 1981 on Che
application of the princj,pl€ of equitable geographical distribution and on the
concept of career, types of appointnent, career development and related
quest ion s,

"Having exanined the !eports of the s€cre tary-Ge neral bn the composision
of the secretarLat (A/37/I43) , and on che implenentation of personnel policy
reforms (A,/C.5/37 /51 .

'Having consideEei! the study by the International Civil service
Comtnission on the concepts of career, types of appointnent, career development
and related questions lU37/30, Annex I),

'Taking note of th€ reports of the .Ioint Inspection Unit and the related
conments of the Adninistrative Connittee on Co-ordination and of the
Secreta ry-cen er aL, t/

'Conscious
that tThe staf f
established by

of paragrat*r I of Article l0I of the Charter, which states
shall be apl)ointed by the Secre ta ry-General under regulatlong

the ceneral Assetnbly | ,

Personnel policy options (A,/36/432 and Add,1) and corurents of the
Secre Ca ry-c€n eraL (N36/432/}dd.2l i

Second report on the career concept (V37/528'f and connents of the
Mninistrative Conmittee on Co-ordinat ion (A/ 37 /528/ Add,1) i
Application of the principle of equilable geographical distribution
of the staff of the United !{ations Secretariat (A/36/407 and
A/37/378, and comments of the Secr e tary-ce ner al (A/36/40'1/,dd.L.
N37/378/Md.I and Add.VCorr.l) r and

Status of wonen in the Professj.onal category and above: second
progress reporL (437/469) and conmenls of the Mninistrative
Comnittee on Co-ordlnat io (A/3?/469/Nd.IJ.

(a)

(b)

(c)

!/

(d)



A/ 37 /764
Eng 1i sh
Pag e 5

"Bearlng in mind paragraph 3 of Article I0l of the Charcer' which states
that 'The paranount consideration in the enployment of the staff and in the
deternination of the condi.tions of selvice shall be the necessity of securing
the highest standards of efficiency, conpetence and integrity' Due regard
shalt be paid to lhe inPortance of recruiting the staff on as wide a
geograFhical basls as Possibler,

"convinced that the principle of equitable geograPhical distribution is
the neces€ity of securing the highes! standards of

efficiency, comPetence and integr ity,

"Noting that some linited progress has been made with respect to che
situatl6n of unrepresented and underrePresented Member states and towards a
balanced and equitable geograPhical distribution of staff in the secretariat'

"1, Reaffirrns the principles and procedures set forth in !esolution
35/210, i n-[llElEfuut in its section r, paraqraphs 1 to 5, and section rrr,

"2. stresses the inportance of having the largest possible number of
uenber stalEJ represented at the higher levels of the secretariat' (i'e', the
IFz level and above) ?

"3. Reiterates the princiPle of !tide geographical rePresentation
throughout the secretariac and rvelcomes the intention of the secreta rrceneral
to nonitor progress lo\dards tha! objective in departrnents and nain officesi

"4. Requests the secre tary-Genera 1 to include in his annual reports on
the composlEon oF the secreEaria! infornation on Progress nade in respecE of
imProvement of geographical atistribution i.n the secreLariat, particul'arly at
the higher levels;

iielcones the intention of the secre tary-General to develop and apply
a nediurn-tEii-llan of recruitment in order to bring the nunber of staff frorn
unrepresented and under repre sented countries within their desirable ranges by
L985 aC the latesti

AlsovJelconestheintentionofthesecretary-Generaltodeve]-opand
apply a medium-term Plan for career developnenti

occupational gtroups for the Professional and General Service categorles;

ng. Requests the secretary-Ge neraf to rePort to the General Assernbl-y at
its tnirty:iiitn session on progress nade in the inplemenLatlon of all aspects
of personnel policy r e form. "

11. At its 65th neeting' on 1l Decenber' the corunittee adopted, by consensus,
draft resolution A/C.5/37/L.30 (see para. 38, draft resolution I A)'

fully compatible with



A,/37 /754
Ang lish
Page 6

12. StatenenCs in explanat.ion of position were nade by the representatives of
Canaala, l,brocco, zambia' the ulited states of Anerica, Sierla l€one' the Unihed
Republlc of Caneroon, the Dominican Republlc, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and t{orthern lrelandr Peru and Barbrdos'

13. At the 53rd neeting' on 10 December, the rePresentative of treland' on behalf
of che Bahanas, Ee@, Eglg.lum, Denmark, the-4i!!99.LB9tgglig, E9IE9 ' Finland.
chana, freland, uexico, che@lg, @3I, Sweden, chegiled-9!3E*l

and venezuela, introduced a draf! resolution (A/C.5/37/L.39), which read as

s'@
" Ttre General Assernblv,

'conscioug of Article I of the charcer'on the equality of oPportunity for
men and wonen to participate in che work of the organization,

'!9-!!IS resolution 24 adopted by the world Conference of lhe United
l.lations Decade for Women,

"!g!!!g_also the progress nade tonards the target set out in resolulion
33,/143 (section rII) that the number of women in posts subject to geographical
di€tribution should be increaeed to 25 per cent of the total by 1982,

"Reaffirming its resolutions 33,/143 (Section III) and 351210 (Section V) ,
rrHaving considered the aecond progress report of the Joint Inspection

Unit on the status of women in the Professional Category and Above (PJ36/469'r,
IRecalling that the forthcoming MediurlFTern Recruitment Plan is intended,

inter al-ia, to inprove the representation of wonen in the Secretariat,

Requests the secre cary-Ge ner a1 to intensify his efforts to implement
fully resolutions 331143 (Section III) and 35l2I0 (Section V) , keeping in nind
that the 25 per cent target set should not be viewed as a litlit on the nunber
of rdotnen employed, and paying particular attention to those areas of the
United Nations where conpliance nith the resolution has lagged behind, as
indicated in a lower than average percentage of womeni

"2. Calls upon the secretary-C,eneral to include in his Annual report on
the Conposition of the Secretariat statiBtical analyses on the number and
percentage of vronen on all prom,otlon registers and appointnent 1ists,
identifying both ad hoc and accelerated promotione as well as normal
promotions and specifying wonen a6 a percentage of those eligible for
promotion, actually pro[bted and appointed fron outside vithin each grade,
with a view to ensuring that nonen have equal opportunity for advancement and
appointnent, particularly at the higher rankst

'3. Requests the secre tary-ce neral, in his capacity as chairnan of the
edministrative conmittee on Co-ordinacion, to invile organizations to continue
to provide updated infornation on the recruitnenE, promotion and assignnent of
women in each agency to the thirty-ninth session of the ceneral Assemblyi



v37 /761
Engllsh
Pag e ?

'r4. calls upon llenbe r states to continue to suPPort the €fforts of the
Unlted Nations anal t-he specialized agenciea to increase the ProPortion of
rromen in the Professional category and above by nominating more h'onen
candidates and by assisting in relruitnent efforts by the secre tary-General
and agency head s i

"5. urges the secr etary-General to take concrete steps to ensure
cornpl ianc e-If,i6ughou t the tlnited Nations with policy directlves concerning the
recruitnentr pronotion' career deelopment ' and training 

as nell as olher
aapects of $omenr s enPloynenti

"6. Sgquests the Secretary-General through the Mministrative - cotrmittee
on co-o rd fi;-t ion to invlte the heads of the organizations of the united
Nations system which have not already done so to sinilarly take conclete steps
to guarantee conpliancei

Requests the secre tary-General and the heads of all the
organizati6ns i n-The United l,lations systen to examine additional tneasures that
ill advance the attainnent of the policy dlrectives of t.he aPProPriate

legislative bodles concerning the appointment, pronbtion and assignrnent of
r.{omen in the United Nations iysten, in accordance with the PrinciPLe of
equitable geog!aPhical distributioni

Requests the International civil selvice Cornnission in its ongolng
work progrEffiE-I-keeP these questions under continuing review anbd to report
thereon as aPproPriate to the General Assernbly."

f4. At the 65th neeting, on 1l December, after considering ProPosals nade by
various delegations, the rePresentative of lreland, on behalf of the sponsors'
further revised the draf! resol-ution aa follows:

(a) In operatlve ParagraPh L, the ktords 'as indicated in a loHer than average
percentage of wonenr vrere deletedi

(b) In oPerative ParagraPh 2, the
betneen the word "wonen " and the words

(d) In operative ParagraPh 7' the
nbearing in mind ParagraPh 3 of Article

words "by nationality" $ere inserled
"on all promotion reglstersIt

(cl In oPerative ParagraPh 4, the rrords "calls uDon" were rePlaced by the
word rReouesEsn i

nords "In accordance with' were replaced by
lol of the Charter ando.

15.Atthesame'neeting,theconnitteeadoPtedT'ithoucobjection,draftresolution
A/c.5/27/L.39, as orally revised (see Para. 38, draft resolulion r B) '

15. statements in explanation of Posltion were nade by the rePresentatives of
Algeria, SingaPore. Cuba and the Bahanas-



A/37 /7 64
EngIish
Page I

c, Amendnents !q ![e E!afI_-E9gl]9!ie!9
I7. At the 63rd meeting, on 10 Decernber, the representative of Che United States
of Arnerica introduced an anendrnent (A/C.5/27/L.36) to the annex to the draft
resolution contained in document A/37/675, annex II, as follows:

'1. In article xII, regulation 12.3, insert! 'Ttre full text of' at the
beginning of the reguLation.

"2. In article XII, regulation 12.4, after the nords ,j.n which the report
isr, reptace the lrords rmade tor by rconsidered by,.'

I8. At the 65th neeting, on II December, following a debate on the amendrnent, the
rePresentalive of the United States of Anerica rrithdrew the amendrnent contained ln
paragradr 2 of docunen! A/C.5/37/L.36.

19. At the same neeting, the representaeive of the Union of Soviet Socialist
Repubrrcs proposed an oral anenomen! to the annex ot-ffi
d@ument A/37/675, annex IL as follorrsr

"lhe validity of those regulations which give rise to different opinions in
tbe Cieneral Assembly, but on which the General ttssernbly does not take any
decision, shall be tenporarily suspended-"

20- Following a debate on the proposar, the representative of the union of soviet
Socialist Republics withdrew his arnendmenE.
2L. At the sane rneeting, the Cornmittee adopted, without a vote, the anendment
contained in paragraph I of document A/C.5/37/L.16.
22. AIso at the same neeting, the Committee adopted, without a vote, the draft
resolution, as anended, contained in docurnent A/3.1/6.75, annex II (see para. 39,
draft resolution I C, sect. I).

23. A statenent in explanation of position was nade by the representative of the
(hion of Soviee Socialist Republics,

24. At the 70th rneeting, on L4 Decenber, the representative of the Union of soviet
Socialise Republics proposed that the consideration of the draft anendhen!s to
arti6le VIII of the Staff Regulations contained in document A/C-S/37/54,
paragraph 3, be deferred until the thlrty-eighth session of lhe G€neral Assenbly.
25. At the sane nreeting, the Conmittee rejecled, by 51 votes to 15, wilh
18 abstentions, the proposal rnade by the representalive of the Union of Soviet
socialist Republics. stat.ements in expranaEion of vote before lhe vote were made
by the represerrtative s of liew zeal-and and Bel,giun.

26. Also at the sane neeting, the Connit.lee adopted, by 76 votes to 10,
rrilh 7 abstentions, the anendments to article VIII of the Staff Regulations as
contained in paragral*l 3 of docunent. A/C.5/37/54 (see para. 38, draft resolution I
c' sect' rr) ' 

/"'



g:1{5'
eate 9

D, Draft resolution vc.5/37lL.45

27. At the 70th meeting, on 14 Decenber' the representative of Panama' on behalf
of gglonblg, @sta Rica' 9gE3! the tbninican Republic, S9or, EthioRia' rrao'
Sgrdglt, th" fi6!;; Ituu ,ru*.ttitiva, g3!"-., Peru, spain' !lMg3X, and venezuela'
IiIIEuc.a a orati reso.l-ution (A/c.5/37/L.46) r which read as follows:

"-1bs_ge-!e r aI_As se!4J,

"RecaIIing iEs resolution 33lI43 of Decenber 1978 antt 35/2LO oi
December 1980 on Personnel Questions,

'Deqiqeg to request the secre tary-General to Permit candidates
pa rt tcIfEIIi! in conpetitive exani'nations for Pasaage fron the GeneraL servlce
category !o lhe Professional category, to take the exanination in any of the
working languages of the Regional coNlissions, Hith due regard to the
proficiency requisite of the working language of the secreEariat'"

28. At the sarne neeting, the representative of 9P9i!, on b€hau of the sPonsors'
levised the draft by inserting the lrords "the P-I and P-2 levels of" betrreen the
tDrds "the ceneral Service categoiy ton and the Hords "the Professional category".

29. At the same neeting, the coNniEtee adopt€d, by consensus, draft resolution
A/c.5/37/L.46, as orally revi.sed (see para- 38, draft resolution I D) '

30. statenenls in explanation of position were made by the rePresenlatives of
trinidad and lobago? che tnited Kingdom of Great Britain and librthern lreland, the
Netherlands, Morocco, sr,reden and canada.

"Recallinq
of Lg December

E. Draft resolution A,/C.5/37lL.37

31. At Che 63rd meeting, on lo Decenberr the representative of the Netherlands, on
betlau of Australia, Barbados, Belqium, canadar Denna4, Gernanv, fede{al Requblic
gg, qq,-@] t@, !!9gi3' rorway,-sPqin' and
fr"a.g, I.a.. j"i".d by '-ly and ianaica, introduced a draft resolution
(VC.5/37/L.37), vrhich read as foIIoHs!

"Ihe ceneral Assembly,

its resolutions 35/2],2 of 1? Decenber 1980 and 361232
1981.

"Takes note Hith concern of the report subnitted to
by the Secreta ry-Genera I on behalf of the Adninistrative
Co-ordination \FJC.5/37/34), which shows' inter alia' a

the General Assenbly
Comni ltee on
narked deter ioration

in the observance of the principles retaeeE-I6li iilleges and imtnunities of
officials of the Uniteal Nations and the speclalized and related agenciesi

"Reafflrms the above{enlioned resolutions i



A/J7 /764
Eng li sh
Page 10

'welcones the neasures approved by ttle secretary-General to enhance lhe
safety and Protection of international civil servants as outlined in his
rePOrE t

"Invitgs the secr etary-ceneral, as chairnan of lhe Adtniistrative
Comm i tIEE-6i-co-o rtl ina t ion, to suggest in his annual report on this issue to
be submitted to the ceneral Assenbly at its thirty-eighth session further
steps designed to alleviate the present situation."

32. At its 70th meeting, on 14 Decenber, the Comnittee adopted, nilhout a vote,
draft resolutfon A/C.5/37/L.37 (see para. 38, draft resolution II A) .

33. Staternents in explanation of position were made by the representatives of
Mexico, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Jordan, Ethiopia and Chile.

F. Draft resolutlon A/C.5/37 /L.42

34. At the 65th meeting, on Il December, the repreaentative of Yenen, on behalf of
ggand gg, introduced a draft resolution lA/C.5/37/L.42), which read as
follows:

' -rtre--9eEEl_3E!9!U,

"Having considered the report of the Secre tary-ce ner al 'Respect for
Privileges and imnunities of officials of the tjnlted l€tions and the
specialized agencies and related organiza!ionst (NC.5/37/341 ,

"Drarring attention to the unprecedented character of the nass arrest by
the Israeli authorit.ies in the territory of Lebanon of a great nunber of the
UNRi{A officials, and as nentioned in paragraph 6 of the secretary-General ' s
report rRespect for privileges and imnunities of officials of the United
llations and the specialized agencies and retated organizations, (A/C.5/37/34't,

nl, Calls upon the Secr etary-ceneral to take rneasures without delay to
estabLi.sh the nhereabouts, to find out lhe charges nade and to arrange a
meeting with lhe UNRWA officials incarcerated by the Israeti authorities in
I€banon, in order to obtain their earliest releasei

.2. Requests the Secr etary-ceneral to promptly inforn Member States
about neasures taken under paragraph I above and about their resulls."

35. At. its 70th neeling, on 14 December, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.5/37/L.42 by 94 votes to 1, with 2 abseenlions (see para. 38, draft
resolution II B).

35. Staternents in explanation of vote af t.er the vote wele made by the
representatives of Canada, SHeden, the Netherlands and lbnduras.



G. Amendments to the slaff Rules

37. At the TOth meeting, on 14 Decenber, on the ProPosal of the Chairnan' the
cotnmittee decided, without objection, to reconmend that the General Assenbly should
take note of the report of th; secretary-c€ neral (Nc.5/37/6 and corr'l) on the
anendrnents to lhe Staff Rules (see para. 39) .

Fy' 37 /764
Eng 1is h
Page 1I

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIF1H COI'I!4I TTEE

38. ltre Fifth conmittee reconnends to the General Assenbl-y hhe adoption of the
foLlowing draf t resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUT ION I

Personne I questions

A

the General Assemblv,

Recalllng its resolucions 33/143 of 20 Decenber 1978 and 35/2LO of
17 Decernber 1980 on Personnel questions,

R€calllng ils decisions 36/456 and 36/457 of I8 December 1981 on the
appl i;If;';;;i rhe princlple of equitable geographical distriburion and on the
conceP! of career, tyPes of aPpointnent, career develoPrnent and related questions'

IiavinaexaminedtherePortsofthesecretary-Generalonthecompositionofthe
secrelarGl, !,2 and on the implemenEation of personn€l Policy reforms' 6'l

Ilaving considered the sLudy by the International Civil service comtnission on
the cEiEEPts oicaieer, types of aPPointnent, career developnent and related
questions, T

EL!!g_ng!g of
related comments of
secr e eary-General:

the following rePorts of the Joint InsPection Unit and the
the Adninistrative Conrnittee on Co-ordination and of the

v
A/37 /I43.

A/c.5/37 /5.

suDplement No.30 (V37 0) , annex I.
ion,neral7/ official



A/37 /764
English
Page 12

(a) Personnel policy options V and comments of the Secre tary-General, 9/
(b) Second report on Che career concept l9-/ ana conrnents of the

Mninistrative Connittee on Co-ordinationt lV

(c) Application of the principle of equj.labl-e geographical distribution of
the staff of the Uniled Nations secreEariat L2/ and cor nenls of the
Secretaly-Gen eE aI, W

(d) Status of women in the Professional category and above! second progress
repoxt W and comments of the Administrative Connittee on Co-ordination, I-!.,/

Conscious of paragraph I of Article 101 of the Charter of lhe Uniled Nalions,
which stales lhat "The staff shall be appointed by the Se cre ta ry-cenera 1 under
regulations established by the ceneral Assernbly",

Bearing in mind paragraph 3 of Article 101 of the Charter, hrhich states that
"Ihe paranount conslderatlon in the enploynent of the staff and in the
determination of the conditions of service shatl- be the necessity of securing the
highest standards of efficiency, cornpetence and integrj.!y. Due regard shall be
paid to the importance of recruiting the staff on as wide a geographical basis as
possible",

Convinced thac the principle of equitable geographical distribution is fully
compatible with the necessity of securing the highest standards of efficiency,
conpetence and integr i !y,

Noting that sone linited progress has been nade with respect to the situation
of unrepresented and under represented Menber states and towards a balanced and
equitable geographical distribution of staff in the Secretariat,

9/ N36/432 and Add.1.

2/ ^/36/432/Md.2.
)n/ A/ 37 /528-

!]/ A/37/s28/ldd.L.

n/ A/36/ 40'l and A/37/37a.

Y A/36/407/}dd.I. M37/378/Md.1 and Md.I,/Corr.1.

!4/ A/3'1/469.

15/ A/37 /469/Nd .L-



A/ 37 /764
Enolish
raie 13

1. Bg.Egns-the principles and procedures set forth in resolution 
35/2L0 '

in particuGr in lts section I, Paragraphs 1 to 5' and section III'

2.stressestheirnPorlanceofhavinglhelargestpossiblenunberofMenber
states r epiG?ilEd at the higher levels of the secreEariat' that is' the D-2 level
and above i

3.ReiteratestbeprincipleofwidegeograPhicalrepresenlationthroughout
the secretariat and welcornes the intention of the secre tary-General to tnonitor
progress towards that objective in departments and rnain officesl

4. Requests the Secretary-Gene ral to include in his annual reports on the
cornpos i t ioiTf ttre secrecariat informacion on progress nade in respect of
inprovenent of geographical alistribution in the secretariat, Particularly at lhe
higher levels;

5. @the intention of the secr e tary-Ge ner al to develoP and aPPly a
ned i um-te ri-!Ei-E recruitnent in order to bring the nunber of staff from
unrepresenlecl and under rePre sented countries rrithin their desirable ranges by 1985
at the latesti

C. Afso rrelcomes lhe intention of the Secre lary-General to develop and apply
a nediun-tern plan for career developmentt

7. Reconrnends lhaE career planning be based upon clearly defined
occupational groups for the Professional and General service categorresi

8. Requeses lhe Secr e tary-General to rePort to the General Assembly at its
thirty*inth session on progress nade in the imPlementation of all asPects of
personne]- policy reform.

B

lhe General AssenblY,

Conscious of Article I of the Charter of the United Nations on the equality of
oppotfiiffi-to-r nen and h'omen to participate in lhe vJor k of lhe Orqanization,

Igglg resotution 24 adopted by the world conference of the United Nations
Decade for women, ]9//

Noting al-so the progress made towards the talget set out in section III of
c.neriGlEtEr! resolulion 33/143 of 20 Decenber 1978 thar the nunber of

See of ited
14-I ( Un ited

l.lations icalion, sales No. E.80.Iv.3 and corr endum), I, sect. B.



A/3't /764
Engli sh
Page 14

r,ronen in posts subject to geograFhical di6tribution should be increased to
25 per cent of the total by 1982,

Reaffirming section rIr of its resolution 33,/143
resolution 35/2L0 of 17 December 1980,

Having considered the second progless report of
the status of wone n in the Professional category and

and section V of its

the Joint Inspection unit on
above, !1!/

ineerRecalling that the forthcoming ediunFTern Recruitment Plan is intended,
gljg, to irnprove the representatlon of wonen in the secretariat,

l. Requests the Secr e tary-Ge neraL to intensify his efforts to inPlement
fully section III of ceneral Assetnbly resolution 33,2143 and section v of Assernbly
rersolution 35/210, keeplng in mind that che 25 per cent target set should noc be
viewed as a linil on the number of wonen enp.Loyed and paying particular attention
to those areas of lhe United Nations $bere compliance nith the resolutlon has
Iagged beh ind i

2. CaIIs upon the Secre tary-Ge ner al to include in his annual rePort on the
composition of the secretariat statistical analyses on the nunber and percentage of
women by nationalj.ty on all promotion r€gisters and appointment 1ists, identifying
both ad hoc and accelerated pronotions as well as nornal promotions and specifying
women as a percentage of those eligible for prornolion, actually Pronoted and
appointed from outside, within each grade, with a view Eo ensuring that women have
equal opportunity for advancement and appointment, partlcularly at the higher ranksi

3. Requests the secre ta r}Fcener al, in his capacity as Chairman of the
Mninistrative Contnittee on co-ordination, to invite organizations to continue to
provide updated information on the recruicment, promotion and assignment of wornen
in each agency to the the General Assembly at its thirty-nj.nch sessioni

4. Resuests Member Slates to continue to support the efforts of the Ihited
Nations and the special-ized agencies to increase !h€ proportion of women in the
Professional calegory and above by noninating nore wotnen candidates and by
assisting in recruitnent efforts by the secr e cary-Gener al and agency heads;

5. qlgee che Secre ta rlF General to take concrete steps to ensure compliance
throughout the united Nations with pollcy directives concerni.ng the recruilnent,
pronotion, career developrnent and training of wonen as well as other agPects of
vromenr s emPloymentt

6. Requests the Secr etary-Gener al through the Mrninistrative Committee on
Co-ordination, bo invite the heads of the organizations of the lhited llations
systern that have not al-ready done so to sinilarly lake concreee steps to guarantee
conpliance i



y;,,(:i,
Paqe 15

7. Reouests the secreta r1|- Gener aI and the heads of all the organizations 
in

the United Nations systen to "*".in" 
additional neasures that htill advance the

"tt.irr^.nt 
of the policy directives of the apProPriace legislati":, 4i:=

concerning the appoinulent' promotion and assignineng of wirnen in the united 
Nations

"v.t"t, 
uJaring in nind p.i"i..pn 3 of Article Io1 of the charter of the united

r.ti t.ions and the principle of equitable geograPhical dl6tributiont

8. Requests the International civil service Commission in its ongoing work
progru*., to k.ep ttte"" questions under continuing review and to report thereon as
appropriate to the c€neral Assemb1y.

the General Assemblv,

I

Bearing in nind that Article tol of the Grarter of the united lilations provides
that ff,;-taff shau be aPpointed by the secre tary-G€neral under regulations
established by lhe General Assetlbfy,

Minalful of Judgernent No. 273 of the United Nalions Mministrative Tribunal and
cne aEG! opinion of 20 July 1982 of the International c'ourt of Justice
reviewing that judgenent' lf./

1. Takes note of the
J,!r/ and the related reports
Budgetary Questions l9l t

Endorses the comments and recolunendations of the Advisory conmittee as
in ils r€port i

3. Decides that, with effect fron I January 1983' article xII of the staff
negolat ionE-o?6e urited Nations and the inlroduclory paragraPhs of annex rv to
the staff Regulations shall be amended as shown in paragraphs I and 2 of the annex
to the present resoluti.on.

Ls/ A/c.5/37 /26.
p/ A/37 /67s.

note by the secre tary-Ge neral on the rePatrialion grant
of Ehe Advisory @mmittee on Mministrative and

contained



A/ 37 /761
English
Pag e 16

Itraving considered the note of
Regulatlonsr 20l

IT

the secretar]-Genera I on amendment to staff

Decides that article vIIt of the Staff Regulatlons shall be anended as shonn
in paragraph 3 of the annex to the present resolution.

ANNEX

Arcndnents to the staff ttegulations of the ttrited !,tations

l. Article xII (ceneral Provisions) shall read as folloos:
i REGULATION 12.I: These regulations may be s utrT)Iementeal or anendetl by the
General Assenbly, rrithout preJudice to the acquired rights of 6taff menbers.
tr nEGUIATION 12.2r Such staff rules and amendnents as the Secretary-@neral
may make to implement these regulations shall be provisional until the
requlrementa of regulations 12.3 and 12.4 belo$ hav€ been met.

'mGULATION 12,3: I?re full text of provisional staff rules and arnendments
shall be reported annually to the ceneral Assembly. Should the Assenbly find
that a provlslona I rule and/or amendment is inconsistent wtth the lntent and
purpose of the regulaelons, lt may direct that the rules anvor arnendment be
rrithdrawn or rnodified.

"REGULATION 12.4r The provisional rules and arnendments reported by the
SecretarFceneral, taking into account such modlflcations and/or deletions
tthlch !tray be dlrected by the ceneral Assenbly, shall enter into fu11 force and
effect on I January folloning the year in which the report is rnade to the
As sembly.

"REGULATION 12.5: Staff rules shaLl not give rise to acguired rights within
the neanlng of regulation 12.1 while they are provisional.n

2. Ihe introductory paragraph of annex Iv (Repatriation grant) shalt be amended
to read!

"In Principlel the repatriation grant shall be payable to staff mernbers
whom the Organization is obllgated to repatrlate. ltr e repatriation grant
shall not, however, be pald to a seaff menber who is surrnarlly disrnlssed.
Staff mernber s €hall be entitletl to a repatriation grant only upon relocation
outside the country of the duty statlon. Detalled conditlons and definitions

U a/c.s/tt/st.



3.

relating to eligtbtlity and requisite
ileterm ined by the Secretary-ceneral.
propor t iona I to the length of service

Article vIII shall read as followst

A/37/764
Eng Iish
Pag e 17

evidence of reLocatlon shall be
The amount of the grant shall be
with the lrnlted libtions, as follot s:"

Ihe General Assetnbly ,

Recalling lts resolutions 33A43 of 20 Decenber 1978 antl 35/2!0 of
l? Decenber 1980 on personnel questions,

Requests the Secre tary-ce neral to permlt candidates Participating ln
conp"titl.te 

"xaminatlons 
for Passage frorn the General servlce category to the P-l

and the P-2 levels of the Professional category to take the examination ln any of
the rrorking languagea of the regional commissions, with tlue regard to the
proficlency requisite of the norking Ianguage of the secretariat.

'BEGUTAT IoN 8.1: (a) tre secreta rI- Genera I shall establish and maintain
continuous contact and comrunication with the staff in order to ensure the
effectlve partlcipation of the staff in ittentifylng, exanining and resol-vlng
issues relating to staff welfare, incluiling conditions of work. general
condltlons of life and other personne I pollcles.

(b) Staff retrresentative bodies shall be estabtiahed and shall be
entitled to inltiate proposals to the secretarfcenera I for the Purpose set
forth ln paragraph 8.1 (a) above. fbey shall be organized in such a nay as to
afford equitable representation to atl staff menbers, by neans of elections
that shall take place at least bienniatly under electoral regulations drann up
by the respective staff representative body and agreed to by the
Secre bary-e neral.

t REGULATIoN 8.2: The secre tary-General shall establish joint staff/nanagenent
machinery at both local and secretar ia t-{ide levels to advise him regarding
Personnel policies and general questions of staff welfare as provlded in
regulation 8.1.n



A/37/764
Eng lish
Pag e 18

DRAFT RESOLUTION I I

A

Takes note wlth concern of the report suhittedl to the General Assembly by the
secre6lffiEl[-1-SE6iFo f the ednlnlstrative comrittee on c€'ordlnation, ?f//
r,rhich showed, jblggl!3r a narked deterioration tn the observance of the
prlnci.ples retatea to privlleges and imrunitie6 of offlciafs of the ltllted llations
andt the specia!.lzed and related agenclesl

Ilte @neral Assembly,

Recalllng lts resolutlona 35/212 oE 17
198r,

December 1980 and 36/232 of 18 Decenber

Reaf f irns the above+htioned resolutione t

welcotnes the measuree approved by the secretary-General to enhance the safety
and protectlon of lnternational civl.I aervants as outlineal in hls rePortt

rnvites the secretarlt-General, as chairman of the Mmlnistrative coflrittee on
co{rdination, to suggest in his annual report on thls issue to be subtnitted to the
General As senbly at its thlrtlbeighth seEsion further steps designed to alleviate
the preBent sltuation.

the General Assenbly t

Ilavlng considered the report of the
privileges and inmunities of offlclals of
agencies and related organlzations, f/

secre tary-General on resPect for the
the thited lilation s and the specialized

Dr a$ing attention to the unprecedenteil character of the nass arrest by the
Israell authorities in the territory of lebanon of a great nunber of the officials
of the United Nations Rellef anil works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near
Eastr and as nentioned in paragraph 6 of the secretarlbcenera I I a rePort,

1. Calls upon the secretary-General to take neasures without delay to
establish the whereabouts, to flnd out the charges rnade and to arrange a meeting
with the officials of the unlted Natlons Rellef and works lgency for Palestine

2U t/c.s/sz/zs.



Itefugee s in the libar East incarcerated by
order to obtain their earliest release?

A/37 /764
E|gIish
Pag e 19

the Israeli authorities in I€banon, in

2. Requests the se cre tary-Ge neral to inform Member States Promptly about
measures taken under paragraPh I above and about their results.

***

39. the Fifth Conunitlee also reconmends to the General Assenbly the adoPtion of
the follolrinq draft d ecis ion:

Aflendments to the staff RJIes

Ihe General Assenbly takes note of the report of the secreta rrcenera I on the
amendments to the staff Rules. 22/

2Z/ A/c.5/37l6 and Corr.1.


