








































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAI.

N37 /7s0
t5 December 198 2

ORIGINAL: E}GLISH

Thirty-seventh session
Agenda iten 117

RESOLUTIONS ADOPTED BY THE UNITED NAI]ONS CONFERErcE ON
THE REPRESEMAT ION OF STATES IN TI{EIR REI.AT IONS WITH

I NIERNAUONAL ORGAN I ZATTONS

fteDort of the sixth corunittee

ltapporgeur: Miss salna Gabriel BERBERT ( sudan)

I. INTRODT'CT ION

1. The item entitled:

"ResoLutions adopted by the unitetl Nations conference on che Representation of
States in Their lielations with lbternational Organizations!

'(a) Resolution relatlng to the observer status of national liberation
movements recognized by the organizatlon of African Unity and/or b'y the League
of Ar ab statesi

" (b) Resolution relating to the application of the Convention in future
activities of international organizations"

was included in the Provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session of the General
Assembly pursuant to paragraph 3 of Assenbly resolution 35/L67 of 15 December 1980'

Z. On the recolunendation of che ceneral Corunittee' the General Assendcly decided,
at its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 Sreptember 1982, to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the sixth Corurittee.

3. In connectj.on ,rith this item, the sixth comnittee had before it a report of
the secrecary-General on the resolution relating to the observer status of national
liberation movements recognized by the organization of African tnity and,/or bY the
l€ague of Arab States (subitem (a't | (N31 /326 and Add.l) '

82-36985 0347r (E)



M37/75o
English
Page 2

4. The Conmittee considered the ilem at its 63rd to 65th meetings, frorn 6 to
8 Decenber, and at its 68th meebing, on lo Decenber. The sunumry records of those
meetings lA/c.6 /37 /sR.6 3-6 5 and 68) contain the views of representatives lrho spoke
during the consideration of this iten.

rr. CoNSIDERATTON CF DRAFT RESOTJUTION A/C.6/37/L.30
5. At its 64th meeting, on 7 Decenbet, the representative of the United Arab
Emj.rates introduced a draft resolution (A,/C.6/ j7/L.30) sponsored by Algeria,

!, BeDin, Cuba, !,enocratic yemen, Iraq. Kuwait, the Libvan Arab .lallahiriya,
Igjll' the Niger, Nigeria, Qatar. Saudi Arabia, the Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia,
the lrl+ted Arab Emirates, yemen and yugoslavia, later joined Uy ttrJ f43[iq
RepubJ-ic of Iran.

6. At its 68th neeting, on IO Decenber, the ConuniCtee adopted draft resolution
MC.6/37/L.30 by ?6 votes to 10, with 16 abstentions (see para, g).

7. The representative of rsraeL made a statement in explanation of voce before
Che voLe. Statements in explanation of vote after the vote were made by the
representatives of France, the Netherlands, IbaLy, the lrnited states of Amerrca,
the United Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern lreland, Canada, Be1gium, t4exico
and Japan.

III. RECOMMEMATION OF TIIE SIXTH CO}N4ITTEE
8. The sixth connittee recoffnends to the ceneral Assenblv the adoption of thefollo\ring draft resolution:

Observer status of national liberation lpvements recoonized

of Arab States
The cenerat Assenbly 

7

Recalling its resolution 35/L67 of 15 December 1980,
Taking note of the report of the Sbcretary-cenera 1, y
Bearing in mind the resoluCion of the United r,Iations Conference on the

Representation of states in Their ftelations with rnternational orqanizatrons

A/37/326 and Add.1.



relating to the
Organization of

Convinced that
to above in the vJor k
internationat peace

N 37 /150
Engl ish
Page 3

observer status of naCional liberation novements recognized ry the
Afr ican un ity and,/or by the r-€ague of Arag states, 2/

Noting chat the vienna Convention on the Representation of stabes in Their
Relations with International organizations of a Universal character ]/ regulales
only the representation of states in the ir relations rrith international
organizations,

Taking into account the current practice of inviting the above-ment ioned
national liberation novenents to participate as observers in the sessions of the
General Assembly, specialized agencies and other organizations of the thited
Nations systen and in the work of the conferences held under che ausPices of such
international organizations,

the participation of the national liberation rovemenls referred
of international organizations helPs to strengthen

and co-operat ion.

Desirous of ensuring the effective participation of the above-mentioned
national liberation movements as observers in the work of international
organizations and of regulating' to that end' their status and the facilities,
privileges and inmunities necessary for the performance of their functions'

l. Invites all states that have not done so, in particular those which are
hosts to internalional organizations or eo conferences convened by' or held under
the auspices of, international organizations of a universal characterr to consider
as soon as possible the question of ratifying, or accding to, the vienna
Convention on the Representation of States in Their Itelations with International
organizations of a Universal character?

Z. Callg once more upon the states concerned to accord to the delegations of
the national liberat.ion fi6G:ents recognized by the Organization of African Unity
and/or by the League of Arab Statesr and which are accorded observer stafus by
international organizat.ions' the facilities, privileges and innunities necessary
for the performance of their functions in accordance with the provis ions of the
vienna Convention on the Representation of States in The ir Relations with
International Otganizations of a Universal Characteri

3. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assenbly at its
thir ty-n inth--sess ion on the implementation of the Present resolution.

a see official Records of the United l'lations confe-renge.on t}.le
Representa tion-of StrteJ in Their Relations with International Organizations,
vienna, 4 february-I4 March 19?5, vol. II (United Nations Publication, sales
No. E.75.v.12), p. 20I' document A,/coNF.67/15, annex.

?/ Egl. , P. 207, document VcoNF. 67115 .


