












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAI,

A,/37./724
l0 Decemlcer 1982

OnteINI : ENGLISH

I

Itl irty-€eventh session
fuenda iten 68

ISRAEL' S DECISION TO BUILD A CANAI, I.INRING TgE MEDITERMNEAN SEA
TO THE DEAD SEA

Report of the Special blitical Connittee

napporteur 3 Mr. Earuk IO@GLU ( n-lrkey)

I. INUODTNDN

1. t?le iten entitled 'Israelrs deciaion to build a crinaitiinlting ttre "
tGditerranean Sea to t-he Dead Sea" yras included in tl:e provisional agenda of the
thirtlFaeventh eeesion of the General Assembly in accordance rith resolution 36,450
of 16 December 19 81.

2. At its 4th pl enary neetirg, on 2,1 SepteDber lll82, the General Aa sembly, on the
rec@nendation of the ceneEal orrlnlttee, decided to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate lt to the SpeciaL Political Comrigtee.

3. Ttle Special blitical onmittee had before it the report of tlre
Sese tary-Ganet aL (A/ 37/32V5/L5277 and Corr.l) subniCEed pursuant to
resolution 35,/150.

4. Ttle Special Political Connittee considered the lten at its 46th
to 49Ur neetings, from 7 to 9 December 1982 (see A/sPc/31 /sR.4 G49') .

II. @ IIS ID EP"ATIO N OF DRAFT RESOT,UTION A/SPC/31/L.4L

5. At tlre 47th meeting, on 8 Decenber, a draft resolutlon (A/sPc/31 fi'.Al) sponsored
by -LEg, Jordan' Pakistan, Saudi Arabia and yernen iras introduced. Ttre draftreeolutlon reads as follq,vs;

82-36189 0651j (E)



A/37/724
EngI ish
Page 2

" Ilre General Assenblv,

"ReSgUfg its resolution 36A50 of 16 Decenber t981,

"Recallinq the rules and principles of international law relative to the
fundanental rights and duties of States,

"Bearinq i" ring the principJ.es of inteanational lan relative to belligerent
occupation of land' including the Eburth ceneva convention of 12 Algust 1949r and
reafflrns their appl icability to all Arab territorles occupied since 1967r
including ,ferusalem '

'raklS_note of che report of the secre tary-cener al, docunent A/37/32vs/L5277
of 30 June 1982 r

'co.vlr.gg thac the construclion of the canal linki.ng the Mediterranean sea
with the Dead sea by Israel will cause direct, serioue and irreparable darnages to
Jordanrs rights and legitinate vital incerests in the econornic, agricultural
delDgraphic and ecological f ields,

'Iggig-El!!-gsE! the norFcompl iance, by rsrael, wit}l its resolution 36,/L50,

"1. Condernn s rsraelrs non<ompliance r.rith its resolution 35/150t

't2. Btrphasizes that the construction of the canal linkinq the Mediterranean
to the Dead sea is a violation of the rules and princ!.ples of international lan,
especially those relating to the fundanental rights and duties of states, and to
belligerent occupation of landt

'r3. Denands that Israel abandon itEnediately its decision to construct this
canal and cease forthright aIl actions and,/or p]-an s taken torrard the implenentation
of this decision;

"4. calls upon all states, speclalized agencies, governnental and 
I

non-governnental organizations, not to aasist, d irectly or lndirectly in I
PfeParations for and execution of this project, and strongly urges the national, I
international and nultinational corporations to do likewlser 

I
I

"5. Requests the se cre tary-Ge ner aI to monitor and assess on a continuing I
basis, and t-brough any competen t expert organ he ray deem appropriate the adverse Ieffectsr on .fordan and on the Arab territories occupied since 1967r including I
Jerusalem, arising from the inplementation of the Israeli decision to construct I
this canal and to report to the thirtfeighth sessiont I

I
'6. pecides to include in ttre provisional agenda of its thirty-eigbth session I

the iten entitled nlsraelrs Decision to Build a CanaL Llnkirg the Mediterranean Sea I
Eo the Dead seai. I

T

I
I
II,.1

I



N37 /724
&rgl ls h
Page 3

6. on 7 Decedler, the se cr€tarf Gen€ra I, ln accordance with rule 153 of the ru.Les
of Procedure of the ceneral As setnbly, subnitted a statenent (A/spc/31 /L.42) on theadninistrative and financial impLications of the draft resolulion.
7. At the 49th rneetirg, on 9 Decetnber, the representative of .tordan introduced a
revised draft resolution ( A/SFC/3 7 /r'.AL/Rev.rl sponsored by rraq, Jordan, pakistan,
Saudi Arabla and @q, subaeguently joineat by l;dia and rloroEEo-. 

-8. At i.ts 49th neeting, on 9 Ecenrber, tlre oomnittee adopted draft resolutionA/SPC/37/L.4L^eV.1 by a re@rded vote of 101 co 2, hrith 2 absrenrions (see
para. 10). I:he voting was as foll,owsr !/

fn favoun Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahrarnr
Bangladesh, Belgiurn, Ehutan. Bollvia, Brazil, El1garia,
Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Central, African Republic, Chad, ChiJ.e, Chinal
Colonbia; Congo, Costa Ricar Cubar Czechoslovakia,
DelDcratic Yeroen, Denmark, Djibouti, qypt, Etiiopia,
Finland, France, cerman Denccratic Republic, Cernany,
Federal Sepublic of, ctlana, creece, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, fran (Ialamic Republic of)r Iraq. Ireland,

. Ita1y, ,tanaica, ,tapan, ilordan, IGnya, Ifui{ait, I€banon,
Liberia, Ll byan Arab Jamahlr iya, Luxenbourg, Madagaacar,
I.blaysia, l,bldlves, l,tauritania, t&xico, I,brgolia, Morocco,
!,!czanbique, Nepal, Ne tier lands, Nen zealand, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Noflray, Onan, panana, peru, phlllpplnes, poland r,-
Portugal, Qatar, Ronanla, Rrdanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Slngapore, spaln, Sri Ianka, Sudan, $ceden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo. Trinidad and $obago, Tunisiar
Turkey, ljganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, thion
of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United
Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern lreland, Uxited
Republic of Carneroon, UniEed Republlc of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet libm, Yenen, yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against, Israell United States of Anerica.

Abstaininqr I'b1ani, ?a ire.

9. Ttre representatives of the tnited states of Anerica and Israel made staterEnts
in explanation of vote before the vote and the representative of Janaica nrade a
statenlent in explanation of vote after the vote.

!/ After the vote, the delegations of Ecuador and Guyana indicated that, had
they been present, they \rould bave voted in favour of the draft resolution.



A/37/724
Engl ish
Pag e 4

III. RE@ !4ME NDATrc N OF TEE SPECIAT, POLITICAI, COMI4I TTBE

10. Ttte special Folitlcal colEnittee recorntnends to the General Assernbly the
adoption of the following draft resolution:

rsrael's deciaion to build a canal linkinq the !€diterranean sea
to the Dead sea

Ihe Gen€ral Assetnbly,

Recalrlng it€ resolution 36,/150 of 16 December l98l'

Recallinq the rules and PrinciPles of international law relative to the
fundamental riots and duti'es of states,

BearinginmindthePrinciplesoflnternationallawrelativetobelligerent
occupation of land, including the Geneva Oonvention relative to the Protection of
civilian Persons in Tine of war' of 12 Auguat )949, y and reaffirruirg their
appucability to all Arab territorles occupied since 1967, including .7erusalem,

Taking nole of the rePort of the secretary-@netal,. y

Recoanizlnq ttra t tbe proPosed canal, to be conatructed Partly through the
caza SElFll-FlIElITnian territory occupied in 195?r nould violate the Princlples
of international law and affect. the interests of the Palestinian peopJ.e,

confidint tnj,t'iiiu i?i"ai r'itrL itrg the l,tedicerranean sea with the Dead sea, if
cons tr-GEEE-[ rsrael, nill cause direct, serious and irreparable danEges to
,tordanr s rights and Legitimate vital interests in the econornicr agricultural,
denngrapbic and ecological f ields,

Noting with reqret the norFcornpl iance by Israel wlth General As senbly
resolution 36/150 .

l. Deplores Israel's norFcoltrPl iance vrith its reaolution 35450'

2. &tphasizes that the canal linking the rG'titerranean sea wlth the Dead
sea, if 

"oiEEiEIEEl 
is a violation of the rules and princlples of lnternational

Iaw, eq)€cia1ly those relating to the fundamental rights and duties of states and
to belligerent occuPation of landt

3. De mande that IsraeL not construct thls canal and cease forthwith all
actions an76r-P1ans taken to(tards the impLementation of this projectt

Uniteat Natlons, ggqjigie, vol. 75, llo. 973, p. 247'

N37/328-s/8277 and cor r . L.

u
v



a,/37/724
English
Page 5

4. calLs upon all stateEr specialized agenciea, governnental and
norFgover nnental organizationa not to aEsigt, directly or tndirectlyr in
Preparatlon.t for and executlon of thls Foj€ct and Etrongly urges ruttional,
lnternational and nultlnatlonal corporationa to do Ilker.lset

5. Requests t.he secretarf(bneral to nonltor and assess, on a cortlnuing
baEis and through a conpetenE expert organ, all aEpects - Juridical, Politlcal,
econornic, ecological and derrcgraphic - of the adverae eff,ectg on ilordan and on the
Arab territories occupied E ince 1967r lncludirg aler uaalen. arlEltlg fron thc
lnplenentation of the Israeli deci8ion to construct tlrls canal and to fornard the
findiqgs of this organ on a regular basls to the ceneral Aasenblyt

6. Requeats the Secretarf General to leport to Ure G.:neral Aaaenbly at lts
thirtfelghth seeslon on the lnplenentatlon of the preaent regolutlont

7. DecideE to include in the l[orrlslonal agenda of lts tlrirty-eighth geasion
th6 iten entltted 'Igraelrs declsion to build a canal f.inklrg the Medlterranean Sea
to the Dead sea' .


