












































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAssembly Distr .
GENIIR.AL

N3? /63L
19 !'lovember 1982

ORIGII.IA.T.: EI{GLISH

[r irty-seventh sess ion
Agenda items 82 and 83

QUESTION OF TtsB TI,DERLY AND TEE AGED

WORI,D ASSEI4BI,Y ON AGI}IG

Report of the Third Comtittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Karl BORCEARD (Federal Republic of Germany)

I. INTRODUCTION

l. At itB 4th plenary neeting, on 24 septenber, the Genetal AssenbLy decided to
incluat€ in its agenda the itsn entitled nQuestio8r of the elderly and the aged:
reports of the Secretary-GeneraLr and the ltcn entitled nworld Assembly on Aging"
and to allocate theni to the ?hlrd coruaittee.

2. the @mnittee considered these items' jotntly with itetns 77' 8I and 89 at its
14th to 23rd' 25th' 26th, 29th and 42nd meetings from 18 to 28 Oc tober and on
I and 15 l'bvenber 1982. An account of the diScUssion of the comittee ls contained
in the relevant sunmary records (A/c.3/37 /sR.I4-23, 25, 25, ?9 and 42) '

3. ltrrder agenda item 82, the connlttee had before lt the follonlng docunentation:

(a) f,iiay for the Aging: report of the secretary-Genera1 lV37/4O8'). submitted
ln accordance erith General Assembly resolution 36/20t

(bl ttn iteal Natlons actlvities in the field of aging: r€Port of the
secretary-Gen eral- (N37/435), subnitted in accordance btich General Assembly
resolution 35120 t

{c) Letter dat€d 1I october 1982 frsn the Permanent Representative of cuba to
the lhlted Nations addressed to the secretary-General, cransmitling the Flnal
Gorununlqud and other doctments of the Meeting of Mini6ters for Foreign Affairs and
Heads of Delegation of the tilon-Al-lgned councries, held in New York from
{ ro 9 october L982 lA/37/54O\ t

A2-32594 3618e (E)



a/37 /63L
English
Page 2

(d) I€tter dlated L8 october l9B2 frd'l the permanent Representative of
Defibcratic lGnpuchea to the Ihited I'btiohs addressed to the secretary-ceneral
(t,/37 /s'L) i

(e) r€tter dated 15 octob€r 1982 fr@r the permanent Representative of
Viet Nam to the thited Nationa addressed to the Secretary-GeneraL (VC.3//37/4,).
4' Lntder agenda it€m 83' the cqnnittee had before it the following atocunentationt

(a) Report of the tbrld Assenbly on aging ({,zcoNF.113/31- ) I r,z
(b) I€tter dated 15 October 1982 frqn the permanent Representatlve ofviet Nam to the Irnited l,tations addressed to the secretary-creneral (py'c.3/37/41 .

5- At the l4th and lsth neetings, on 18 and 19 octob€r, tbe Director-cenerar f,or
Development and rnternational Ec"ononic co-operation, the under-secretarrceneral
for International Econdrlc and Soclal Affairs and the Assistant Secretal?<eneralfor Social Developnent and Hunanitarian Mfairs naale introductory statenlnts under
ag€nda lt€rns 82 and 83, and at the 16th meeting, on 20 October, the SecreEary_
General' of the t{orrd Assenbry on Aging nade an introductory statement under agenda
it€m 83.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DNAFT RESOLUTION A/C,3/37/L.2L
6. At the 29th [Eeting, on ]. I\bvenber, the representative of Malta introduced adraft resolutLo (A,/C.3/37/L.2I), sutnitted under items g2 and g3, entitled
'Qtrestion of the erderly arrd the ag€d' and nvtbrlat Assetnbl-y on Agingn, respectlvely,
:l':T"tt bI *:aril:. Bo+ivia,_ chlre, colqnbia, the norninic-n nepubrlc, @,

ffi *ffi" "* ;ffi: *ffi '*ffi ; S!.. *,..,.@ru,ffi'"*u.*'i#"-ffi*Fi
Joined by Ecuador, culnea and l,tali.

7 - A stat€nent by the secretary-ceneral on the adninistrative and financiar
implicatlons of the draft resorution was circulated to the cqnnittee in oocunent
A/c.3/37/t.26.

8. At the 42nd neeting. on 15 November, the represehtabive of Marta, on beharf of
the sponaors 

' 
orarly revised operative paragraph 5 by adding the-ETlowing sentenceat the end of the paragraph! 'rn doing so, thl secretary-cenerar. shourd make everyeffort to reallocate existing globaL resourcesir.

9. At the same meeting, the representative of the
introduced an amendnent (A,/C.Z/32,/L.30 ) to the draft
the additlon of a new operative paragraph reading as follows:

Anerica
called for

of the World Ass on Aginq, Vienna, 26 Ju
(Un ited Nat ions publication, Sales 8,82.r.16),



N37/63L
rltglish
Page 3

'18. Deciale€ that the above paragraptrs will be inPlenented to the extent
that they cEi-TE financed within existing global resource. or by voluntary
contributlons which rlay becorne avallable frdr the Trust Fund 

"
10. At the 6dne meeting r the cdutrittee voted as follolts on draft resolutlon
VC.3/37/L.2L and the dnendment thereto!

(a) Anen&trent N\.3/37/L.3O rras rejected by a recorded vote of 67 to 23, with
32 abstentions. Itle votlng was as follotts 3

In favour3 Belgiuri, Brazil, Bulgarial Burmar Byelorugsian Sovlet
sociallst RePublic, canada, Chad, Czechoslovakial Gerrnan
Denocratic RePublic, Gernany, Federal RePubi-ic of, Hungary '
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, t'longol ia, libtherlanda '
New zealand, Poland' Ukrai.nian soviet S'ociallst Republic 1
thion of Soviet soclalist RePublics, Lnlted King'lqr of Great
Britain and lilorthern Irelandr lrnited States of &lerica'

lgainst3

lltra i lan<I, thited Arab ihirates, Itnited Republic of cameroon '
ttn iteal RePublic of Tanzanla, uruguay, venezuela' Yetnen'
Yugoslavia, zanbia, ziflbabvte.

Abstalninqs Afghanistan, Auetral!'a, Bahanas, Bangladesht Barbadoat
Bot€r|ana, Burundi, Denmark. Dj iboutl, Fijit Finlandr Francer
Iceland, Ivory coast, Jamaicar Kenyat Malavtir llexicor
tilcntay,ParaguayrPortugalrsromaliarsPainrswedentSyrian
Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and l\cbago ' 

Turkey' Uganda'
IrPPer volta, Viet Nam' zaire.

(b) Draft regolut ion Nc.3/37/L.21, as oral.ly revised. t'as adopted by a
rlcorded vote of 121 to 1, trith 7 abstentions (aee para. Il). Tbe votlng waE as
follorB r

Algeria, Angola, Argentlna' Austrla, Bahrain, Benint Bhutan'
caie veiae,-centrat Mrican Republic ' Chile' 

Cololnbiar
Co;go, Costa Rica, cuba, oi'Irrus, Denocratic Yemen, Dcmlnican
Republic, Ecuador, EgWt, EI Salvadorr EthioPia' Greece'
Guatetnala ' Gulnear Guinea-Bls6au, 

Guyana, Indiat In'lones ia'
rraq' ilordan, Kuwait, Liberiar libltan Arab ilamahiriya'
l,Iadigascar, ti'talays ia, t'Ial i' l4alta, l'!'aur itania, !'lozarnbique'
Nepalr Nicaragua, Niger. Nigeria, qnan, Pakistan, Panana,
Pe;u, PhiltpPines, Qatar, Rsnania, I*tanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone' Singapore, Sri Lanka, surindre,

gE!!gll: Afghanistan, Albanla, Algeria, Angola ' Argentina, 
Australlar

Auatriar Bahamas ' Bahraln, Bangladesh t 
Barbados, Belgium'

Beninr Bhutanr Botswanar BrazlL, Burma, Burundir Canada r
caPe verde' central Mrican Republic, Chad, Chile' China'
colcnbia, congo, costa Rica, Cuba, cYprus' Denocratic.
I(amPuchea. oernocratic yenen, Derurark ' 

Djibouti' Ddninican
Republic, Ecuador, E91Pt ' EI Salvador, 

EthioPia, Flji,



437/63L
Brglish
Page 4

Finland, France, cabon, Germany, Federal Republic of,
creece. qratenala, 6,r1nea, Guinea-Bissau, cuyana, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iraq, IrelaM, Israe.L, Italy, Ivory Coast,
,Janaica, ,tapan, ,tordan, l(enya, Nut ait, Lao people r s
Denocratic Republic, L€sotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
,tanah ir lya, l,bdagascar, Ualani, Malayaia, f,faldlves, l.lali,
Malta, Uaurltania, lbxico, Irtcrocco, Itozambique, Nepal,
lGtherlanda, l{err Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Noryay,
Otran, Paklstan, panana, paraguay, peru, philippines,
Portugal, eatar, Ronania, Iwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
sierra L€one, Slngapore, sonalla, spain, Srl Lanka,
Surinane, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Ihailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, I'Unisla, Turkey, tJganda, tnited Arab
Enlrates, t hited Ktngdc|n of creat Britain and l,torthern
Irelanal, Itn ited Republic of Caneroon, Ulited Republic of
Tanzania, Upper volta, Uruguay, venezueLa, viet !tam, yenen,
Yugoslavla, zaire, zatnbla, zinbabrre.

Againats lrnited StateE of Anerica.
Abstainlng : Bulgaria, Byelorusgian soviet sociallst Republlc,

Czechoglovakia, cerman Denocratic Republic, Hungary,
UkEainian Soviet Socialist Republic, tnion of Soviet
Socialist Republics.

III. RECOII.IENDATION OF THE TIIIRD COMMITIEE
tr- llhe rtrird @mnittee recomnends to the ceneral Aesernbly the arloption of thefollqding draft resoLution:

Quegtion of aging
Itre General AsEenblv _

RecaLling its resolutLon 33/SZ ot 14 Decenber 1978, in whicb it dec ided to
convene a lirorld Assembly on Agrng to carl $orrd-rride attention to the serio'sproblsns be.ettlrE a growing port ion of the population of the tdorrd and to providea forum to launch an internatlonal programe ol action alned at guaranteeing
ec.nqnic and social security to order person€, as well as opportunities for them to
contribute to nationaL develaprnent,

_ Recognluing that increasing l.ngevity is a biologlcar achiivenent anar a s19nof progress, and tiat the aged are an asset and not a llabillty to society becauseof the invaluabre contributlon they can give by virtue of their accumulated rrearthof kno{rledge and experience,

-.farln, 
in ntnd that countries gathered in the I,IorId Assembly on Aging

reafflEled their belief that the fundamental anal invaluable rights enshr ined ln the
IJniversal Declaration of Hunan Rights apply fully and undiminishedly to



v37/63L
Engl is h
Page 5

the agingl and recognlze tttat the quality of llfe Ls no leeE irq)ortant than
foneevfti, and that the aglng ahould therefore' a6 far aa Posslble, be enabled to
elrdy fn &r"ir onn fauiliia ina cmrunittea a llfe of fulfilnent, hoalth, security
and contentment ' apprectated 

aa an lntegral Part of eociety,

convinced ttrat ttie vlenna International Plan of ection on Aging adoPted by the
rcrro aseeoruq, on Aging, y mttat lead to develoPing and aPPlying, at- the
lnternatlonal, regional aid nattonal levels, 

'ollcies 
design€d to enhance the lives

of the aglng ae iidlviduals anal to nitlgate, by appropr iate neaaureg, -any 
negative

effects i"ttttttttq fro tlre ttrtrract of the aglng of PoPulations on develcPtnent '

necognizlnq that the Pla$ of, actlon should be considered an integral ccmponent
or *GE?-GEernat ional, regional alrd nationaL atrategles and prografinea
formulated ln responae to lDportant world Probl€ma and needs,

Recalllnq its rc8olutlona 15/L29 of Il December 1980, ln which lt established
a truiffiE-for preFaratory and follon-up activlties of the World A€6emb1y on
Aging, andl 36/20;f g mv"t6.r 1981, 1n tit"t tt requested thc s€cretary-General to
uge the TruEt ltund to encourage further lnterest in tbe field of aglng among
developing countries, Partlcularly the leaat develoPed anong thernr - within 

the
contexi oi the conclua lons atlat reccmrendatlone of the l{orld Ass€mbly on Aging'

Acknowledglnq the role Played by the ltrriteaf lliatlona ard the specialized
ag"t*Ifi--tt eir cfforlg in t1e f ield of aglng and the ne{ to strengthen
tttia role ln oral€r to Drke th€ iqflenentation of the recomlendatlons of the Plan of
actlGl effectlva,

Etdraslzlnq the itnportance of the Vlenna Internatlonal Plan of Action on Aging
ana r-r.t"tttg t5e aptrit of co-€peratlon that prevalled durlng the World Aaeemblv
on Aglng,

s(Itressing appreclatlon to the @nernnent of Austria for hosting the l{or1'l
As6enbly on eging '

Eaving cons idered the report of the llor!.d A86€mbly on Aglng ' 
held at vienna

frsn 26 July to 6 Argust 1982t

1. llake€ note of the report of ttte gforld Assembly on A9in91 L,/

2. Erdoraes th€ vienna International Plan of action on aging contained in
the report-and adopted by s'ons€nsus at the l{orld AsBenbly on aging,

u
(tnited Na

26
Sale5 t{o. 8.82.I.16) ' 

chaP. VI.

r 1982v
(lrn lted tlatlons sale8 No. 8.82.I.16).



v37/63L
Enqtl8h
Page 6

3. Afflrns that aging Bboull be cons idered in th6 context of €conqnic,
aocial and cultural develo[mnt, as re].I as ln ttte context of lDt€rnatlonal,
atrategles ard plans t

4. Calls upqr Goverm6nts to make contlnuous efforta to lrnpl€nent the
prlnclples and re@ndatlona contlined in the plan of lctlon as adopted by thc
INorrd Aa8€nbly on A9 ing ln accordance utul th€lr natlonar atructurea, nceda and
obJ ect lvea I

5. Requests the Secretar?-ceneral to take the necesaary Bteps to enauae that
aufficlent seaourcea withln reaaonable llait6 are nade available f,or the effectlve
impl€nentatlon of. and follorup action to, ths plan of Actlqt aa nell as to
aalntaln the trqnent|n generated by the tFrld Aasenbly dl fgingt ln doing ao1 the
secretary{€neral should nake every effort to reallocate exlsting global reEources,

6. Alao requeats the S€csetary-ccnerll to take Euctt ate[r6 aB rEy be
aPtrEolrriate for Ure neceasary atrengtttening of actlvltlea ln the fleld of aging rt
the central and reglonat levalE of the thlted Nations aa aet lorth ln the plan of
Actlont

7. Iturther requests the secaetary-ceneral to Etrenguten the lnterutiqral
network of existing inforrnatlon, reEearch and tralning centrea in the fleld of
agtrq in order to encourage anat frctutate the exchange of knowledge, skilts atd
elq)ea iehc-es, as nell as tedrnlcar co-operatlon aeng countrles t'lthlD various
regione;

8 . Urgeg the secretary-Genelal to fuipleoent the rec@tenalatlons concernlng
the int€rnatlonal co'{peratfon with reapect to aging, as rerl aE the asseas!0ent,
revis anal appralsal, of the i.nploentation of the plan of Action, uaing the centEe
for soclal Developraent and Bunanltarlan Af,faire of the secretarlat as ule focal
pointt

9. Roquesta the Secretary-G€neral to continue to u6e the Trust Fund to neet
the rapidly increae lng needg of the aglng in the developing countrieal tn
particular Ln the least developoal onest

10. AIao reque8t5 the Secretary-cieneral to uae the frust l,lrrd to encourage
groater lnterest aDng developing countrie3 in nattcrs r€lated to aging and to
aa3lat l'kmber states, at thel,r request, ln fornulating anil i[pldenting pollcl€s
anal programea f,or the elderlyt further reguests the Secretary-Gen€ral to u6e Ute
Truat trtrnd for tedtnlcel co..operatlon and r€s€arch related to ttre aging of
populatlone and for promting cw)eratlon armng develoPlng countEles ln the
eachange of relevant lnfomatlon anat technologrl' i

U. epDeaL3 to !G6er State€ to nake voluntary contributlons to the fru8t
FUndt

12. Urge3 the thlted tlatldrs Rrnd for PoFrlatlon ectivlties, in co..operati,on
wlth all organkatldrB responslble for internatlorEl lrotrxrlatlon asslatatrce, to
Etrengthen ita rssistafice, wl,thln lta mandate, in the flerd of aglng, p{tlcularly
in dleveloping countrl€st

/...



A/37/53L

ff:i"
13. n€qu€sts the Eclonotlic and Soclal CounciLl ttrrough the Cmleelon for

Soclal OevEGF$E, to revle$ the lmplenentation of the PIan of Action euery four
yeargr beginning ln 1985, and to tranaelt lts flndingo to the General A6setnblyt

1r!. Invltes the speclallaed agenclea @ncerned to co{perate with the
gecret ry-6;lEl in the lnplenentation of the.Plan of Action nithln thelr flelds
of cqlp€tencet

15. InvitPs also tho lnterg@ertmental organizatiotls and non-govertmental
orgenkationd cbncerned to cqrtlnue to gtve attention to najo8 lEsues related to
aglng and to co+rdlnate thelr sork rith the Urited Natlon6. Irarticulatly ln view
oi ttre need for well co-otdinated actlvitleg for the imPlenentatlon of the Plan of
lctlqrt

16. Fquests the Sectetary{eneral to rePort to the General lrsB€nbly et lt6
Urlrty-elgtrttr aeealosr on the progress achieved in lroplementlnq and follouing up the
Plan of lction lnd to lnclude in hia report an account of Proj€ct actlvltiea
fln nc€d bY Ure Trust hrndt

L7' Decldes to lnctu'te ln the provisional agenda of its tblrtlFeightlr 5e851on
a alngle tten entttrea ,gtestlon of aglng* to rePlace the ltens 'Queatlon of the
elder Iy anit thd aged' lnd 't{orld Assenbly on Aging'.


