








































UNITED
NATIONS

General AssemblY
Distr.
GENERAI,

A/37 /77 4
17 tecenber 1982

ORIGIT'IAL: ENGLISH

fhirty-€eventh eesaion
Ag enda iten 72

OPERATIO NAI, ACTIVITIES FOR D EVE IOPIi{E NT

Report of the Second Oonnittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Stoyan BAKALOV (Bulgaria)

I. INTROD TCT ION

1. At its 4th plenary neegirg, on 24 septenber 1982' the General As senbly ' on the
recoDnendation of the General comnittee, decided to include in the agenda of its
thirtfseventh session and to allocate to the Second Cormnittee the follorrilg item!

ioperational activities f or development:

" (a) operational activitles for developnent of the united Nations system:
report of the Secretarfceneral,

" (b) united Nations DeveLopment Prograrule! report of the secre tary-Generalt

" (c) Itnited Nahions (hPital Development tr'undt

'(d, United Nations Revolvlrq Fund for Natural Resources E:.Plorationt

"(e) utrited lilations ntnd for FoPulation Activities,

'(f) united Natlona volunteers prograffnet

" (g) Itrlteal t'lations special ttrnd for Land-locked DeveloPi ng countrieat

'(h) UniEed Nations Childrents Fundl

'(i) world Food Prograrunet

'(j) Technical co-operation activi.ties undertaken by the secretary-@neral"'

82-37510 0879a (E)



A,/37/774
Engl ish
Page 2

2. The Corulittee considered the itex! at its 4th, 6th, 7th, 3atd, 34th to 40th and
{3rd to 48th meetings, on 30 Septemb er, 5 etaber, lL, 12, 15 to 18, 23 and
29 November and 1, 2, I and !-3 December 1982. An account of the discussion of the
Connittee is contaLned in the relevant sunnary records (A/C.2/37 /5R.4, 6, 7, 32,
3iF40 and 43-48),

3. Tbe CorEnittee had before it the following docunentss

Economi c and social Council (N37/3 (Part II), drap. VI,Repor t of
eect. A) t

I€tter dated 22 ,June 1982 fron the Char96 d'Af faires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Gtba to tlle thited Nations addressed to the
Secre tary-Ge neral, transnittirg the Final CoEnuniqu5 and other docunents
of the I'tlnisterial I'betinq of tJre Co-ordinating Bureau of the tibrFAligEred
Countrles held at Havana fron 3l tlay to 5 June 1982 1V37,/333-S/L5278I,
Note by the se cretarlFGenera I on operational activities for development
of the United Nations systen (V37l445 and Add.l) I
I€tter dated 2l etober lll82 fron the Pernanent Representative of the
Niger to the Unibed Nations addressed to the Se(re tary-Gen€ral
transmitting the resolutions and tJre final declaration adopted by the
thirteentb Islamic Conference of Ministers, held at Ni amey from 22 to
25 Argust L982 (A,/37 /s67-S/J546 6) ,

(e) Report of the coverning Councll of the United Natlons Development
Programne on the organizational neeting for 1982, the q)eclal meetlng for
the consideration of country and intercountry program[es and projecEs and
the twenty-rinth sessionl !/
Report of the E<ecutive Board of the United Nations Children's Fundr 3,/

Report of the Administrator of the united Nations Development 
"ronturJ"on the role of qualified national personnel in the social and econonic

development of deveLoping countries IDP/I982/9 and ldd.l)r

Annual report of the MninistraCor of the Unieed NaCions DevelopmenE
Programme for 1982 on the thited l,laCions Volunteers (DP/L982/37) |

V To be issued as official Records of the General Assemblv, AhirttFaeventh
Session, 9rpplenent No, 3 (A/37/3').

U Officlal Records of the Ec
No. 6 (E/19 6,/tev, I )

the
v

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(f)

(s)

(h)

1/ Ibid. ' supplemenC No. 7 (E/L982/I7\ .



A'/37 /77 4
English
Page 3

(1) Annual report of the Adninistrator of tie Ihited Nations DeveloPnent
PrograrETe for l98I on the Unlted Natlona Revolvirg Fund for Natural
Reaources s(ploratlon (N/1982/40') .

4. At the 4th meeting, on 30 septenlter, the Admlnistrator of the Unlted Nations
Developroent Programe Dade an introductory statenent lsee A/C.3/37/$R.4' Paras'
2-L4t,

5. At the 6th neeting, on I october, the Under-secre tary-General for Technical
co-operation for Developrnent made an introductory statement (see A/C.2/37/SR.6,
para6. l-12).

5. At the 7th neeting ' on I october, lntroductory statenents 
were made by the

E(ecut ive Director of tlre ltrited tbtions Fund for gogrlation lctivities, unaler
gubitem (e), and by the t! eeutive Director of the United Nations Chilalren'a Funal,
under subitem (h) (€ee A/c.2/37t8R.7, para3. I&24 and 25-35r -

7. At the 3 ald meetltrg, on 1I November, introducEory statenents were made by the
Directorceneral for Developnent and Internatio,nal Econonic co-operation and by the
Deputy Adnlnistrator for the uniled Nationa DeveLopnent Programne (see
\/c.2,/371g,8,.32 

' 
paras. 1F24 and 25).

8. At the { oth neeting, on 18 Novernber' the Director-General for Developnent and
International Econonic Co-oPeration nade a concluding statement (see
A,/c.2/37 /sR.4 0, para. 43).

II. @T*iIDENATION OF PR@OSAIS

A. Operational activities for the developnent of lhe
United Nations Eysten

Dt af t t e s'oLut i'on A/ c. 2 / 37 /L. I 2 and A/ C. 2 / 37 /L. L2 3

9. At the 4 5th meetirg, on I De cember, the rePresentatlve of BangLadesh, on
behalf of the States l*€nber s of the ttrrited Natidrs tha t are neder s of the GrouP of
77, introduceal a draft resolutlon (ilc- 2/37 ft'.92) entitred 'operational actlvities
for the developnent of t.he lhited l,btion E system', Yhich read as followsr

'@g&fr.
'Recallllg its resolutlon€ 3201 (s-vl) and 3202 (s-vl) of 1 May 1974,

containing t.he bclaration and ute Programe of Action on the Establishment of
a New rnternational Econonic order, 3281 (xKX) of 12 Decenbet 1974,
containing t]re Charter of Economic Rights and bties of States, and
3362 (s-vII) of 16 Septenber 19?5 on develoPnent and Lnternational econornic
c+-operationt

'RecaUing-glso its resoLutlon 35/56 of 5 Decetnber 1980, the annex to
which contains the International Development strategy for the Third Uhited
Nat.ions DevelopnenE Decade, ,



A/37/77 |
English
Page 4

'SCggglS_ furihe! its resoluttons 3 3/20I of 29 .January 1979. 3S/AL ot
5 Ecenber 1980 on a conprehens ive poricy review of operational activitles for
developnent and 3 6,219 9 on operationll activities for developnent,

'Ibcalling also its resolutio,ns 2688 ()gV) of 11 Decenber 1970 on the
capacity of the Un ited Na tions developnoent sysgem and 3405 (xxx) of
28 Novenlcer 1975 on new dimenslons in tedlnj.cal co{peration,

".19.!14 that co-ord inatlon of national action by covernmentE makes it
po€sible for concerted policies to be pursued in the tfiited Nations and ourer
organizations of the Un ited Nations system,

_ - "btfnq with deep con the outcorne of th€ 1982 [hited t{ations 
pledgi n9

L;onterence for Development Activities, he]'d on g and 9 November I9gZ,

'Irarring_Sg*in.d the annual report for 1982 of the DirectoFceneral for
Developnent and rnternational Ec onomic co-operation on operational activitles
for developlent of the &tited lbtions system, 3rl

"ne ieefeLfE that a substantial part of world resources, naterial a€ weII
as hunEn, continues to be diverted to arnamentsr with detrinental effect on
internati.onal security and on efforts to actli eve the new international
economic order, includlng tlre operational actlvities for development of the
United Nations systen, and callirg upon Gover nnents to take effective neasur€sin the field of real disarnament that rdourd increase the possibilities of
allocation of resources ncd beirg used for miritary purpose' to e@nonr.c and
social. delreloprnent, especially the developnent of developlng countrlea,

"I. Takes note with aplxeciation of the annual report for 19 g2 of the
Director-C€neral for Developnent and International Economic Co-operation,

n2. Reafflrms the imtlortant contribution that operational activities of
the United thtions systen nake to the deveLopnent of developing countries
within the frarnenork of the International Developruent strategy for th€ Third
t nited libtions Develolhent Decade,

'3' E<Fresses deep concern at the aLarming results of tbe 19g2 Uniteal
t'btions Predging conference for Developmeht Activities and the consequent
unfavourable plospects of realizirg th; targets established by the r;tevant
intergovernrnental bodiee for the mobilization of resources, resulting in thedisruptlon of the deveropnent activities supported by the organlzations of the
system in developlng coun triest

"4. strongly reiterates the need for a aubstanlial and real increase inthe flow of resources for operational activities on an increasinglypredictable, continuous and assured basis, so as to enable the organLzations

!/ A/ 37 / 445 and Add.1, annex.



A/37/774
English
Page 5

of the System to maintaln and r rthere possiblel inctease the effectiveness of
the ir operational progranmeat

n5. strorEly urges all countries, parllcularly those developed countries
whose overall lterformanie is not cotnmensurate with the ir overall capacitlesr
to increase rapldly and substantiatly their contributions for oPeratiooa-
activities for development with a view to obtaining the funding level6
€stablished by the cory)€tent intergover runental bodies set out in table 2 of
the Director-Genera I's report, 5/ and., in this context, aff irms tbat the
effortE of the developed countries shoulil be greater' the lower their relative
perfornancet

16. Decides to conduct its regular review and apEEalsal of the
nobllization of resources for operational activitj.es 1'n the light of each of
the four objectives for the restructurlr€ of operational actlvities contained
in paragraph 28 of the annex to resolution 32/197 ot 20 Decenber 1977 and
requests the Director-General to incLude the necessary lnformation for this
purpose in his annual rePottE, as rrell as information on the regource
situation and pro+)ects of the International Developrnent Aslsociation, the
Internatlonal Rrnd for Agricultural DeveloPment and the vlbrld &od Programe,

i7. Requests the Director-@neral to examine, in the comsrehenslve
policy revlew of operatlonal actlvitiea to be submitted, toge ther l'ith his
recotmendations, to the General A€ sernblY at its thirtfeighth session' the
feasibility of establlEhing an annual groltth rate target for voluntary
contributlona to thoae fundg and progranmes for develoPnent activities covered
by the Itriteal t'btiona pledginq conferences where they do not exist, the
etrerrgthenlrg of the revlew and appraisaL procedur€s and the ways and neans of
enabling €uch conferencea to be a rnore effective leclran lsrn for the
tnobilization of resources,

"8. Invites the organs, organizations and bodles of the United Nations
syetern dealing w1!h the flqds of concesslonal resources to developing
countries to pay greater attention, in their reviews of these issues, to the
funding needs of the urited libtions funds and progr:unmegt

'9. -gllglgfrolS.es the InterEesslonal comnittee of the whoIe,
establlshed by the Governing Oouncil of ttle ttrited l{ations Developnent
Prograrune ln its decislon 82/5 of 18 atune 1982, ,/ to fornulate an agreed set
of neasures to enable Governments to lncrease the ir contributionE to the
Prografiie' taking fuU account of Gover nirE council decislon AO/3O of
26 .rune L98O 9/ and in accordance rdith the PrinclPles and objectlves of the

y Official Recolds of the Econonic and Soctal council, L982, supplenent
l1o. 6 (E/L982/L6,rRev.L), annex I.

V lbid., supFlenent No. 12 (E/L9so/42/Rev.I), c-rap. xI.



v37/774
Engl lsh
Page 6

Prograrune as reflected in the consensus set forth in the annex to ceneral
Assenbly reso.Lution 2688 (XXV) of lI Dece! ber I970r and in this re spect
re lterates its earlier appeals to place the organizations of the United
llatlorrs systen engaged in operational activitieg on a nore secure, predlctable
and stable financial bas ist

"10. Urges all concerned covernnents to release as early as po€sible
their third lnstalrnent of the sixth replenishr0ent of the International
Development A5Eociatlon, and calls upon arr cover nnents to enter into
negotlations regarding Ure seventh replenishment of the Association rrith a
vlew to ensuring a substantial increaEe in resources,

'11. We&:onqes the effectlve establishnent of the first repleniabrcnt of
the International Fund for Agricultural Deve lopment, and urges a].l concer ned
Governments to release the ir contributions as early as possibte in order to
enabl,e the Fund to maintain its lendingt prograrEtre,

'I2. l{blcones tlre progress toflard€ the attairuDent of the D83-I984
target for voluntary contributions to the ltor ld Food prograEte and urges
Goverrulents to make every effort to ensure the full attalnment of the targelt

rI3. Endorses recorunendatlons nade in the Director-ceneral' s report
designed to enhance the responsiveness of operational activlties to the needs
and requirernenta. of develo,ping countries ln accordance with their objectlves
and priorities and the ir efforta to pronote greater econornic and technical
ceoperatlon amng thenselves, and requests the executtve heads of the
organizations concerned to take appropriate action in thls regard in the
prograrE[ing and implenentati.on of operational actlvi tles,

"!1. Invites all organs, organizations and bodies of the krited lGtions
aysteft engaged in operational activities for development to adopt apttropriate
neasures leading to a greater use of the capacitiea of developtng countries ln
local or regional procurerDent of nalerial and equipnent, in training and in
services, in facll,itating the lncreased use of local contractors, and in the
recruitnent of lrainlng, tecbnical and managerlal personnel,

'15. Welcomes decision 82,/8 of I8 ,tune Il82 of the Governi ng Council of
to promrte gover nmentthe United Nations Developnent progranne, 5,/ designed

execution of projects asslsted by the progiammel

"16. Reaffirms the exclusi.ve responsibility of the cover nment of the
country concerned to define the tenns of reference for the elaboration and
execution of prograrunes and projects of operationar activities for deveropment
within t}le framewor k of its national developrnent plan or priorities and
objectives, as set out in the consensus of 19701

"17. Reque€te the Director-cenera I to include in his I9B3 conprehens Ive
policy review an examination of the extenE and inplications of the growing
practice of contributions being provided to organizations with conditlons
attached Eo lhe ir use,



A/37 /77 4
English
Page 7

'I8. ?akes note of the rneasures being pursued to reduce costs and to
il4rove efficierny described in the Director-Generalr s report, and urges the
Secretar)t-General and executive heads of organs, organizations and bodies of
the United Natlons systetn to seek to ninimize administrative and other s uPport
costs oitbout affecting the netvror k of field prograllutE: s, lncluding officesr in
developing countries and bearing in nind the need eo maintain an appropriate
Ievel of support funchions, with a view to increasing the Proportion of
resourees available to inprove the progranne delivery to developing countries,

"19. Urges all organs, organizations and bodies of the llrited I'lations
system, in the l ight of the reconuuendat ions contained in section III of the
Director*Genera I I s report, to pursue the harrnonization of admlnistrative,
f inanc ial, personnel' planning and procurernent procedures. and requests the
Administlative connlttee on crordlnation to report on specific action taken
ln its annual overview report of 1984,

"20. Decldee to pay particular attention, in the contex t of the
cod0ltehensive policy review of operatlonal activities of 1983, to the need for
lmproved coherence of action at the country level in accordance wlth section v
of the annex to resolution 32/L97t

r21. Invites the Mninlstrative connittee on co-ord ination to report to
the &ononic and social oouncil at its second regular session of 1983 and to
bhe General As sembly at its thirtfeighth session on the outcome of the review
of the arrangements for the exercise of tJle functions of resident co-ordinator
in accordance with ceneral AssenbLy resolutions 2588 (xxv) and 32/f97.

I0. At its 48th neeting, on 13 Decetrdrer ' the @mnittee had before 
it a draft

resolution (Nc.2/37 /L.I2 3) subnitted by Mr. Qazi shaukat Fareed, Vice-Chairman of
the Comtrittee, as a result of infornal consultations hel.d on draft resolution
vc.2/37/r,.92.

11. At the s ane neeting, the Connittee adopted draft resolution A/C.2/37fi'.L23
without a vote (see para. 36, draft resolution I).

L2. h the I ight of the adoptlon of draft resolutlon A/c.2/37fi'.L23, the sponsor€
$i thdrerd draft resolut iLon A,/c.2,/37 /L.92.

13. Mter the adoption of the resolution, statements were tnade by the
representatives of the Federal Reprblic of cerrnany and Erlgaria (alao on behalf of
the Byelorusslan soviet socialist Republicl czechoslovakia, the Gernan Democratic
Republic, Hungry, lbrqolla, hland, the Ukrainian soviet Sociallst ReFrblic and the
Union of Sovlet socialist Republics) .

B. thited Nations Developnent Programe

L. DEatt reaoLuttons A/C.2/37/L.75 and VC.2/37/L.L24

14. At the 43rd rneeting, on 23 Novenber, the representalive of Bangladesh, on
behalf of the states l'lember s of ttre united l,htions that are menber s of the Croup



A/37/77 4
Engl ish
Page 8

of 77, introaluced a draft resolution (A/C.2/37/L.75! entitled 'Critical financial
sltuation of the Irrited lihtion6 Developrcnt Progranne', which read as follonsr

" et"._ce"er"l..llgge"bu,

"Recalling its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-vI) of I May 1974r
containing t}le Declaration and the Progranme of Action on the Establishrnent of
a New International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 DecerDber 1974,
containing the Chart.er of Ebononic Rights and DJties of States, and
3352 (s-vII) of 15 september 1975 on developnent and internatlonal econonic
co-operation,

'Igca4ittg,_g1." its resolution 35/56 of 5 Decenber 1980, the annex to
which contains the International DeveloFrent Strategy for the Thlrd Irnited
l'Ia tlons Deve lopment Decade,

"E!reSS.!g the imp€ratlve need for a renewed connitrnent to the
s treng thening of multilateral co--operation f or developnent, particularly
through a substantial increase in the flow of r0ultilateral officlal
development finance,

'Enphgg&iE the inportance of multilateEal technical co-operation in the
process of economic and social developnent of developing countries and the
urgent need to provide the necessary level of flnancial resources on an
increasingLy predictable, continuous and assured basis to enable the t,trrlteal
Nations Development Progran[ne to continue lts unique and lmportant ro].e ln
tha t proces s,

'39€€lrmj!S the validity of the consensus, as set forth ln the annex to
General Assenbly resolution 2688 (xxv) of 11 Decernber 1970,

'Igylg__considereg the report of the covernirg courcil of the Un lted
l,htions Development Progranure for the year 1982 7 and Econonic and Soclal
Council resolution L982/53 of 29 ilu ly 1982 on the report of the covernlng
CounciL

'Iavlg_= fso_cons rdglgg the crilical financiaL siCuation of the Itn ited
NaCions Developtrent Programne in the llght of the outcome of the 1982 thited
Nations Pledging Conference for Developnent Activities and iEs negative inpact
on the coneinuance of technical assistance to developing countries through the
Progra|lune,

'.lE!iE_!L1lA_gg!SSI! lhe negaCive effects of inflatlon and fluctuations
in currency exchange rates on the resources of the ihited t€tions Development
Prograrune,

!/ Ibid,, 1982, Supplement t{o. 6 (E/Ig82/L6/Rev.L).



A,/37/77 4
EngLish
Page 9

"1. !gl!@!9 of the report of the Governing council of the tlcited
tlatlons Deve lopment Prograrune for the year 1982 and the decisions contalned
thereint

'2. Endoraes decision 82/5 of 18 .tune 1982 of the coverning council of
the thited lbtions Detrelopment Progranne, !,/ by which the Governing council
reaffitmed its decisions 80,/30 of 25 June ]rleO 2t and 8V16 of
27 ,June 1981, lq/ including, in particular, those provislons rerating to the
lndicative planning figures, the assuned overatl average annual rate of growth
of voluntary contributionE and the level of resources envlsaged for the third
progEaruning cycle for the purposes of forward plannirg 1

'3. Notes with deep concern the resul! of the 1982 lhited Nations
Pledging conference for D€veloprnent Actlvlties and the negative ltq)act it
woulil have on the proposed progranrne deLivery for the third Prograoning cycle
of the Unlted Natlons Development programne,

n4. E(presses its appreciation to aLl Governmenls, of both develoPed and
developing countries, whlctrr aE the 1982 PLedging Conference, announced
contributions or their intention to contrlbute to the lhited tlations
Developnent Prograrune for 1983 in anounts appoaching or exceeding an average
annual increase of 14 per cent in thelr contributlongt

i5. Urges all ottrer covernnents. especially those nhose voluntary
contributions r|ay not reflect their capacity to contribute, to renew the ir
efforts to provide the Unlted Nations Developnent Prograflme as early as
possible with tlte resourceB necessary to establlsh a sound financiat basis for
the lnplenentation of the Programuere planned activlties for the third
prograruring cycle 1982-1986, anal thus to faclLltate forward planning tithin an
overall average annual growth of resources of at least 14 per centt

16. E(presses lts appreciation to the Aaxninia trator of the tnited
Nations Development Progtramne for his tireless efforta to obtain the necessary
level of resources envisaged for the third programning cycle in order to
secure the financial viabiJ,ity of the Programne and to improve further the
quality 

' efflciency and effectivenes€ of the 
Programet

'7. D{presses it€ hope that the InterEessional cormittee of the Whole of
the Governing CounciL of the thited tilations Developnent Progranme nill succeed
in identifying measures' ln accordarce with the prirrciples and objectives of

9/

v
L9/

Ibid. , annex I.

Ibld., 1981, Supplement No. 11 (E/L9SV6L/Re\,.I), annex

xr.

I.



A/37/774
Engl ish
Page I0

the tnited Natlons Development progranne as refLected in the consensus, as seE
forth in the annex to General Assenbly resolution 26gS ()o(v), that would
enable fuII imPlenentation of the Prograruners planned activities for the third
Programning clrcle I I982-1986.'

15. At its 48th neeting, on 13 Decenber, the Corulittee had before it a draft
re€olution (A/C.2/3'l /L.U4 ) subnitted by Mr. Qazi Shaukat Fareed, vice-Cha irrnan of
the com0ittee, as a result of lnformal coneultatlonE held on draft resolutl.on
A/C.2/37 /L.75.

16. At the sane neeting, the comrlttee adopted draft resolut fon A/c.2/37/L.f24
ri tho{, t a vote (see para. 35, draft resolution II).

17- rn the light of the aatoption of draft resorution A/c.2/37fi,.r24, the sponsors
wi thdrer draft resolution A,/C.2/37 /L.75.
18. Mter the a dopt lon of the draft resolutl.on, a statement nas made by the
representative of Bulgaria (also on behalf of the Eye.Lorussian Sotriet socialist
Repub1lc, Czedloslovakia, the Gernan DerFcratic Repr:blicr Hungary. Irbngolia,
Poland ' the Ukrainian Soviet soclalist Bepublic and the uttion of Sovlet Soclali6tRepublics).

2. Draft resolutlons A/C. Z/37/L.gO and A/C.Z/37/L.LO4

1,9. At the 4 3rd neeting, on 23 Novernber, the representative of l,tongolia introduced
a draft resolutlon A/C.2/37/L.8O, entitled "Role of quatifled national personnel in
the social and econonic developnent of aleveloping countries'. on behalf of
Lfqhenistan, alqeri?' Anqola, Banqladesh, Benin, cuba, Detpcratic yenen, Ethiopia,
the @Tnan Derpcratic Repubtic, cu fnda, gugqg.iry, 

-tn. 
u;-*;A;r, 

"fi.949, lbnsolia, l'tczanb ique, Nicarasua, ttre svrian AriU rGpunfic ana ggg_9.
The draft resolution read as followsr

'&._cen eral_ Assenb&,

'Re fe54q to 1ts resolutions 33435 of t9 Decenber I9?B and 35/SO of
5 Decenber 1980 on the role of gualified national personnel in the socia.L and
eonomic develotrrlent of developing countries,

'Rtcal:tilg its resolutions 32Ot (s-vr) and 3202 (s*vr) of I r,hy 1974,
contalnlng the Declaration and the progr ardle of Ac tion on the Establishrnent of
a l{elt International EconoDlc Order, as netl as its resolution 32gI (XXIX) of
12 De cember 1974, contair.lng the Charter of Econonic Rights anat Duties of
Statest



N37/774
En91l€ h
Page 11

'DesirinS to prorpte full intrtenentatlon of the proslsions of the
International Developlent gtrategy for the Third lrn iteal tilationE Develo[ nent
Decade concerning tralning of qualified personnel for the developing
countriesl !/

"1. Takea note of the report of the Adnlnlstrator of the Irn lted Natlon€
Denelotrment Prograrune on ttre role of qualified natiqral perEosrnel ln the
aocial and econoraic develogrcnt of deeeloping countriest !,/

Resuests tJre Dtrector-General for Developlent and International
Ec ononic @-operation and the Mmlnistrator of the Irn ited Nations Development
Progranme to ensure and monitor further lnplerrntation of (bneral Aggetdlly
resolution 3 5/861

"3. nrrther reouests the Dlrector- Generat for Developnent anal
International Econonic co-operatlon and the ldninlgtrator of the Lhited
Nations Developnent Program0e, with a vlew to facl1itatlng the exchange of
infornatlon and experience, to prepare and distribute atrpng !&rdrer statea
Perlodic analytlcal €urveys of national reports on the experience of all
countries in tbe fieLd of hurnan resources development and international
co-oPeration in traintng quallfied personnel of developirg countriegt

hvites Government6 of l,lernber states to rnak e available to the
Secretariat, on a regular baslE, i.nfornation on and extrreri ence in establishlr4l
and deireloplng their national systema of t:aining of quallfled personnel anal
the inplenentatlon of the provlsions of the relevant resolutions of the
celreEaL AaEe$lyt

Reorrnentls to developed countries and relevant organizationa of the
Irnited l{ations system that the lr assiatance to developing countries in th€
field of educatlon and training of qualified personnel 6hou1d be directed,
&€.8!!1, to:

(a) Establishing and developlrg national systens of educallon and
trainlng of per€onnel ag an integral part of the social and economic
developnent progaamtEs of develoE irg countrieat

(b) Ensuring the rmst effectlve use of qualified national personnel in
national developnent t

(c) Inpl. enent ing the provlstona of c€neral As sernbly resolution 35/80.
eElt€ciaLLy paragraph 5 thereoft

LY
)2/

Re solution 3 5/56, annex.

DP /L952/9 and Add.I.



^/37/77 
4

Engl ish
Page 12

16. Requests the Director-ceneral for Developrcnt and International
Econonic Co-operation to elaborate, in cqrsultation with l,hnlcer states and
relevant organizatlons of the United Nations system, general guldelines on
Principles, objectlves and structures of natlonal, syatens of education and
traini.ng of per€onnel of developing countrles,

Requests once aqain tlre Dlrector-General for Development and
Internatlonal Ec onomlc Co-operatlon to subttrit a progr€ss report on the
implenentation of t}|e present resolution, toge ther wlth the above{entloned
general guidelines, to the ceneral Assembly at lts thlrtfninth seEElon
through the Economlc and Social Council. "

20. At its 4 5th neeting, on 2 Decenber, the ColErittee had before it a draft
resolution (A/C.2/37 /L.LO4) subnltted by ut. Qazi Shaukat Fareed 1 Vlce-Cha lrnan of
tbe Counitteer on the basi€ of lnformal con8ultationg on alraf! resol,ution
A/C.2/37 t/r..80 .

2I. At the sane neeting, the secretary of the corErittee inforrned the comittee of
a revision agreed uFon in lnfornnl coneultatidrsr wherdby the wordsiDlrector-General for Developnent and International Economic Co-operation' in
oPerat tve paragraph 2 nere r€placeat by the yords 'secretarfceneral'.
22. At the s ane neetlng, the Colanlttee adopted draft resol.ut lon Vc.2/37/L.104, as
revieed r rri thout a vote (see para. 35, draft reeolueion III).

23. h the I ight of the adoptlon of draft resolutlon A/C.2/37/L.D4' the sponsor€
wl thdrev alraft reaolutfo A/C.2/37 /L.80.

C. Itr ited Nations Volunteers proqr anne

-

24. At the 43rd neetlng, on 23 Novenber, the representative of YerEn lntroduced a
dtaft reaolution lA/C.2/37 /L.7 0', , eltitled 'I,tlited llatlons volunteers progratute'1
on behalf of 3!Iglfg, Austrlal BeLgium, E@, China, Costa Rica, @E!g
@, Enmark, Dj lbouti ' Eqvpt, cernanv, &gSIgL!E!gE!!sll' 

gllg&ljlg'
E!&' Sg;lI, .tordanr Kenva, Kunait, .!g@, @!E, 4aEliveE, !@!, the
lGtherlands, @, tne Phllipplnes, Sornaliar Sri lan*a, the Srdan, Egltg4g, the
syrian Arab nepublic, the f!!!!9llrEl4E']!9g, the @ the
.@.' venezuela and @, suboequently jotned by Eanqladesh and.Eg4!1.

25. At its 4 7th neettng, on 8 De cerDer, the Comllttee adopted draft resolution
Ar/C.2/37 /r..70 wltiout a vote (€ee trnra. 36, draft reaolution Ivr.

D. United Nation6 Speclal Fund for Lan&-locked Developlng Countries

Dt att r esoletion VC. 2 / 37 /L. 7 7

26. At the 43rd neeting, on 23 November, the repreEentative of Bangladesh on
behalf of tJre States lGr&er s of tlle Ihited lihtions that are members of t}|e Group of



^/37/774
;H:'i3

77' lntroduced a tlraft resolution |A/C.2/37/L.77) entitted "United libtldrs Special
Fund for Lan&Locked Developing <jountr iesn.

27. At its 47Eh neetir€, on I Decerber, the corunittee adopted draft reaolutl.on
A/C.2/37/L.77 bt/ a recorded vote of ].I2 to none with 21 abstentions (see para. 36,
tlraft re€ol.ution v). The voting $as as follonsr

In favours Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Algentina, Austrla, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Eenlnr Ehutan, Bo]- ivia, Botswana, BraziL,
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundil Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic,
Cape Verde, Central African &prblic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colomlcla, CorDros, Congo, Costa Ricar Cubar Czechoslovakia,
DerDcratlc yenen, Dj lbouti, bminican nepublic, Ecuador, Dgypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, cabon, Ganbiar cerman Delpcratic Republlc, Ghanal
q,ratenala, qrinea, qryana, Ilonduras, Hungary, fndia, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republtc of), Iraq, Israel, Ivory Coast, ilanaical
Jordan, IGnya, Kuwalt, Iao people.a Derrccratic Rezublic, I€so Uro,

. Llberia, libyan Arab .lamahlriya, Madagascar, Malani, Malaysia,
Maldives, llatl, llalta, Mauritania, Erxico, l,lcngol ia, l.lorocco,
!'b zanb lque, Nepal, Nlger, Nigeria, Otnan, pakiglan, panarna, palNa
lden Gtinea, Peru, philippines, poland, {Jatar, brnania, Rranda,
Saudl Arabia, senegal, sierra l€one, Singaporer Sonalia, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, SwaziLand, Syrian Arab l€pub1ic,
Thailandl Togo, Trlnldad and Tobago, !'Unlsla, IUrkey, uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet socialist ReFrbllc, Irnion of sotrlet socialist
Itepublics, Un ited Arab Erirates, Unlted RepubLic of Carcroqrr
Itrited Republic of Tanzania, l4)per Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet l,lan. yerEn, yugoslavla, zalre, ZaIIbia, Zitoabwe.

af,ainEt: tibne.

Abstalninqr Australla' Berglurn, canada, Dennar k, Finland, France, Germany,
Federal etxlblic of, Greece, Iceland, Irelanal, Italy, Japan,
Luxenbourg, lGtherlands, New zealand, Norrray, portugal, Spain,
Sired€n, Ihited Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern lreland,
Un lted States of Anerica.

28. Statenenta In explanation of vote after the voEe were nade by the
representativea of the lrn ion of Soviet Socialist Republlcs, Finlandl (also
of Denn€t k, Iceland, l,brway and $reden), tlle Ihited States of Anerica and
(on behalf of the States metder s of the European Econonic Connunity).

E. thited t{ation6 Children's Fund

Draft resolutlons A/C. 2,/32L.8? and A/C.2/3?/L.L|2

on behalf
Dennar k

29. At the 44th neeting r on 29 Novenber, the representatlve of the Netherlands
introduced a alraft resolution lA/C.2/37 /L.57 ) , entitled rlhited tilations Children.e
lln!', on behalf of Be lq iun, Denrnark, Finlanal, &rrce., @.tg, the .IsgglslgrSreden, the lhited (inqdom of creat Britain and Northern lr;land, Venezueta anO



^/37/77 
4

Engl ish
Page 14

.Iggl3g!3' subsequently joinetl by.E34EE!' Bhutan, china, r,ebanon. fts!*!,

.E9gjbr l\lcEwav and the thited statea of Atrerica. Ttre &aft resolutl'on read ag
follottE:

'@'
'-rE4!S_note of Econonlc and social council resolution Lg 82/5L of

28 .tuly 1982'
nHaving considered the report of the E<ecutive Board of the I'tn ited

Nations chiLdrenrs nrnd on lts aes6ion hetd at lhited Natidls Headquarters
fron 10 to 2I fiay L982. Etl

nReaffirming the prlrriples and guldelines for Prograluu€ activitles
estabtished by the s<ecut lve bard of Ure thited thtionB clrllalren ra ltund, ln
particuLar 1tE baElc gervices aplEoach wlth its etforts to reach the nost
disadvantaged aa part of a couprehenE ive field- and action-ori'ented
developnent pollcy,

'Eutely arare that the preaent global econor0lc s ituation both adrersel!'
affects the ability of derreloping countries to imPl,enent efforts to extend
basic serviceE and Dakea the need for thoae servlces all the nore critical,

'conserned that the situation regarding financing for developtrent,
lncluding in partlcular the € ituatlon of nuLtllateral agencies dePending uPon
voluntary contributlons, has been adversely affected by a nu$ber of
unfavourable factors.

"1. coEtends the policies and actlvities of the Uniteal Natlong
Children rs !Und1

"n2. Endor seE Econonlc and social council resolution L9a2/ 5L of
28 July 1982 t

"3. Reaffirms the role of the th lted I'latlons chilatrenrs Ftrnd as the lead
agency in ttre (.trrlted lutlons ayatetD responsible for co-ordlnating the
follorFup activlties of the International vear of the Child related to the
goals anal objectlves concerning children set forth ln tbe Internatlonal
Develolment Strategy for the Third lhiteat l'[a tiong Developnent Decaal'et

urgea tbe Erecut lve Director and t.he aecretarl'at of the Grited
tla tions children's Fund to continue and intenelfy thelr innovative efforts to
adaPt t}re basic services approach for ctrildren ln the light of Ule current
econonic crisls, in accordance nltlr the relevant declsiong of the E(ecutive
Board of t}le rund, fJ1

E/
No.7(



v3? /77 4
Engllsh
Page 15

"5. .@19 the E(ecutive Dlrector and the secretariat of the Fund for
the ir efforts to enlarge the incorc of the Fund so that it nay re+)ond to the
needs of developing countriest

'6. htrresses its appreclation to cover nnents that have req)onded to the
needs of tlle thlted lktions Children.s ntnd and expres€es ttre hope that tnore
Il'eder States wlU follord their exaxoplet

AppealE to al1 Goverrunents to increase their contributionsr in
ParticulaE thelr regular contributions, if posslble on a nultiyear basis, so
that. in the light of the present economic sltuation, t-he ttrtited tibtions
Children's Err nd may rneet lts re sponsibil itieE to developing countries ln
respondlng to t.he urgent needs of ctrildren. n

30. At its 47th neetlrE, on I f,re cenlcer. the Connittee had before it a draft
resolution (A/C.2/37 /L.lL2) subrtrltted by Mr. eazi Shaukat Fareed, Vlce-Cha innan of
Ehe Cotutltteer on the basle of infornal conaultatlona on altaft resolutlon
A/C.U37/r,.87.

31. At the same reetlng, the cormittee aalopted draft resolutilon NC.2/37/L.LL2
Ti ttrout a vote (Eee para. 36, draft resolutlon VI).

32. In the I ight of the adoption of draft resolutlon A/C.2/37/L.L12, the sponsors
wI thdree draft resolutton NC.2/37/L.87.
33. Af,ter the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of the Un lon of
So\rlet Socialist Republtcs nade a statenent.

F. .rbchnical crperation activicies undertaken bv the secre tarv-ceneral

Dtatt tesoLt tLo UC.2/37/L.89
34. At the 4{th meetlng, on 29 November, the representative of Belglun lntroduced
a draft resolutlon (A/C.2/37 fi,.89) , entitled 'Utrited l,btions tectrnlcal cotperation
activltleEr. on behalf of Argentina, Eelgiun, @!g, China, Dennark, @g',
Eqvpt, Finland, 99!44!f,, Federal Republic of, Jaroaica, .J3E., @, the
!aE!4lg, l{orwav, the gE, Sreden, the @
Norther n lreland, tbe tlrited States of Atrerica and .Eg!ryl!g,1 subsequently joined
by Australla and New Zealanal.

35. At it6 46th neeting, on 2 Decenber, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.2/37 /L.89 ni ttrou t a vote (see para. 36, atraft reEolutl.on VII).



A/37/77 4
Engl ish
Page 16

I II. RB@}A.IENDATIPI{S OF TIE SECOND CP!,O4ITTEE

36. Tbe second conmittee recomnends to the General Assenbly the adoptlon of the
followlng draf t resolutionst

DRAF 1 REiOI'UT DN I

oPerational activlties for development of the tnited Nations svstem

The General A.gsernblv,

Re callfurs its resolutions 3201 (S-vI) and 3202 (S-VI) of I May 1974,
containing the Declaratlon and tlte Progranrme of &tlon on the Eatabtishnent of a
New International Econonic order, 3281 (xxlx) of 12 Decenber J974, containing the
charter of Econonic Rlghts and Drtieg of Statesr and 3362 (s-vII) of
16 Septenber 1975 on developrnent and lnternational economic co{peration.

Recalling also its resolutlon 35/56 of 5 Decenber 11f80, the annex to which
contains the International Developnent strategy for the Third un lted Nations
D€velotnent bcade,

Re calling further its resolutiona 32/]":97 of 20 December L977' 33/20L of
29 January 19?9 and 35,/81 of 5 Decenber l!r80 on a cdtrPrehens lve pol icy review of
operational activlties for develo[ment and 36./199 of 17 Decenber ]9 8l on
operational activitiea for developnent,

Recalllng also its resolutions 2588 (xxv) of 1I Decenber llr 70 on the capacity
of the thited !,latlons deveLopnent systeD and 3405 (xxx) of 28 Novenber 1975 on nert
dinensions in technical co-{peratlon,

Notinq that co-ordinatlon of national action with regard to oPerational
activitiea by Governments nakes lt possible for concerted Pollcies to be Pursued ln
the United Nations and other organlzations of the lrnited Nations systen,

l,btinq with deep concern the outcone of the 1982 Lhited t{atlons Pledgi ng
Conference for Developnent Activitles, held on 8 and 9 Novel6er 1982,

Having exanined the annual report for 1982 of the Dlrectorceneral for
Develotrxnent and Internatlonal Ec onooic co-operation on operallonal activities for
deveLop|eent of the ttnited lbtion8 sy€ten, !l/

\/ A/37/445' annex.



A/37 /77 4
EngI ish
Page l7

Reiterating tlat a substantial part of world r€sourc€gr naterial as $tell as
humanr continues to be diverted to armamenta, with detrlfiental effect on
lnternational security and on efforts to actlieve the new international economic
orater' including the operational activities for deveLo[tnent of the Un ited Nations
gystern 

' and calling upon a].l conernments to take effective measures in the field ofreal disarmament that would increage the possibilities of allocation of resources
now being used for military purposes to economi c and social development ' especiallythe development of developing countries,

t. Takes note with appreclatlon of the annual report for 1982 of the
Director- Ge neral for Developroent and International Economic Co-operation, 14,/

2. Reaffirns the important contribution that operatlonal activities of the
United Nations system nake to the developrnent of developirq countries within the
framework of the International Development strategy for the fhird tnited lihtions
Dev€ lopnent Decadet

3. - E(Itesses its deep concern that over-atl voluntary contributions from
Gon€rnnente and other sources to the funds and programnes announced during the 1982
Un ited Nations Pledgir4; Conference for Develolrnent Activlties were highly
unsatisfactory 1 falling shortl in nany ca€es, of targets that have been set by the
relevant intergover nrnental bodies; wltlr serlous consequences for the organizations
concerned with respect to tlle ir capaclty to maintain the level of thelr oPerational
Prograru[es in suPport of the grordirq needs of developlng countries for multilateral
concessional assistance through the lrnited l,lations systemt

4. Strongly reiterates the need for a substantial and real increase ln the
flow of resources for operational activities on an increasingly predictable,
continuous and assured basisr so as to enable the organizations of the system to
naintain andl where possible, increase the level of the ir operational programoes
and, in that contextr strorgly urges all countriesr particularly developed
countries, wlrose over-all performance is not corunensurate with their capacities, to
increase rapidly and substantially the ir voluntary contributlons for operational
activities for de\reLognent 

' 
taking into account tie targets that have been set by

relevant intergovernnental bodies,

5. Decides to conduct its regular review and appraisal of the mobilization
of resources for operational activities in the light of each of the four objectives
for the reatructuritg of operational activities contalned in paragr aptr 28 of the
annex to resoLution 32/L97, and requests tie Director-General to include the
necesrsary information for this purpose ln his annual reports, as well as
infornation on the resource situatlon and prospects of the Internatlonal
Developnent Associatlon, the International Fund for Agricultural Development and
the World lbod Programret

6. Requests the Director-@neral to examinel in the comErehensive policy
review of operationaL activities to be submitted ' 

toge ther with his
recorEnendations. to the Ceneral As sembly at lts thirtfeighth session, taking inlo
account the relevant paragraphs of his report and alL other pertinent
consideratLons' the feasibility and usefulness of establishing targets for



A/37 /77 4
EngI ish
Page 18

voluntary contributions, including annual growur rate targeta, for thoae funde and
programnes for development actlvities covered by the lttited tihtl.ona pl€dglng
conferences rdhere s uctr target€ do not exist, ani the strengthenlrg oi the revles
and appraisal procedures, and to coment on t}|e exiBting system of pledg ing
conferences and make speciflc proposars ained at establishlng more effectlve
procedures for tbe nrobilization of resourceE,

7. fnvites the organs, organizations ancl bodies of the Un iteat Natlong aygtem
dealing with the flows of concessional reaourceE to dgreloping countries to Faygreater attention, in their revlews of theEe iasues. to the fundlng needa of the
ftrited lbtions funds and prografinest

8. urges all Gover rurcnts concerned to release as early as poaaible their
thlrd instalnent ot the eixth replenishnent of ure rnternatlonal beveloplent
Association. and to continue negotiatlons regarding the seventh replenGbrent of
the Association with a view to ensuring an approprlately sub6tantlal lncrea€e ln
resourcest

9. I{elcorFs the agreen€nt on the eatabllshment Of the flrst repteniatment of
the Internatlonal F'|,lnd for Agrlcultural Det eloplent, !:/ and urges all conernnents
concerned to deposlt their in€trunents of contributlon aE earry aE posElble and to
release their contributions accordtng to agreed adredulea in ordeE to enable the
Fund to maintain its lending progrannFt

10. wercones the progEess tonarda the attairul€nt of the r9g3-r994 talget for
voluntary contributions to the woElal Fboat Prograr@e and urgea Gotrernr0ents to nlke
every effort to ensure the full attainnent of the target,

tI. Welcones the recornnendations nade in the DlrectonGeneral I s report f!/designed to-;I;nc-e the responsiveness of operational activitleE to the needa and
requ irenents of deveroping countrles in accordance with their objective€ and
priorities anal their efforts to prorrte greater econonic and technlcat co-operation
arpng thenselves, and requegts the execut ive heads of tJle organiratlona corrcerned
to take aptrEopr i ate actlon in this regard ln th€ prograrming and irqrteentatlon of
operational activitiest

L2, Invites aLl organs, organizations and bodies of the lrn ited Natlona aysteD
engaged in operatlonal activitles for developnent to adopt approprlate neaaures
leading to a greater use of the capacitles of developiDg countries in local or
regional procurenent of material and equigrcnt, in training anal in s€rvlce6, ln

E/
lv

Ibid. , para. 2.

Ibid. I sect. II I.



^/37/774Engllsh
Paqe 19

facilitating the tncreased use of local contractors, and in the recrultnent of
trainlng' technical and managerial personnel, bearing in mlnd decision 8L/28 of
30 ilune l98I of the Governing ouncil of the ttnited Nations DeveloPnent
Progranmer !Z/

13. Decides that the guidelines on procurement to be issued pursuant to
paragraph ? of Governing oounci I decision 8V28 and section II' ParagraPh 2 of
Governing Councll declslon A2/34 of 18 ,lune 1982 L8/ should, in due courEe. govern
the procurernent actlvlties of organs and bodies under the authority of the General
As senbly ln their execution of projects financed by the unltetl Nationa DeveloPnent
Prograt|rnet

14. welc.,omes d'eclsion a2/8 of 18 June L982 of the Governtng Council of the
Irnited Nations Developnent Prograffine, ]!/ designed to protmte governrnent executionof projects assisteil by the Programne, and the real savings that could re6ult
therefromt

15. Invit€s the Adninistrator of the Unitetl Natlons Developnent Proqrame and
ttre prest-a6ETthe world Bank to exanine the posstbllltles of further
,geoperatlon bett{een the Progranme and the WoEld Bank regarding utilizatlon of
facilltles available to the two organizatlons, and requesta the Adnlnlstrator to
report thereon to the coverning Council of the United Nations Development
Programrne.

16. Reaffirns the exclusive responsibillty of the covernment of the reclpient
country regarating formulation of its national developnent plan or priorlties and
objectlves' as set out ln the consensus of 1970, lJl ana ernphasizes that the
lntegration of the operational activities of the United Nations system wlth
natlonal prograrf,nes rrould enhance the tmpact and relevance of these actlvitlest

17. RequeEts the Director- cenera I to include in hts 1983 conprehenslve Pollcy
revlew an examinatlon of the extent and lnplications of the growing practice of
contributions belng provltled to organizations nlth conditlons attached to their uset

18. Takes note of the rneasures being pursued to reduce costs and to lmprove
efficiency described ln the Director-cenera 1r s rePort, and urges the
Secretary-ef,neral and the executive heatls of organs, organizatlons and bodles of
the Itnited Natlons 6y6tem to seek to ninirnize adnlnistratlve and other suPPort
costs ttithout affecting the fieltl prograrEnes and the netnork of Unlted Nations
D,evelopment Programne offices in developing countries and bearlng ln rnind the neetl

!Z/ officlal Recorata of the Economic anat soclal council' 1981, supplenent
xg:_!! (EA9 8V61lRev. r) , annex r.

r -Ibid.., &@,Ue: J (E/L982/L6/Rev.1) , annex I.

]l/ Resolution 2688 (XXV), annex.



v37/77 4
EngltEh
Page 20

to naintaln an appropr iate level of support functions, with a vie$r to ihcreaglng
the proportion of resources avallable to lmprotre the programrF delivery to
developlng countr ies;

19. Requeats the organs and bodies of the tnited Natlons recelving resources
of an extrabudgetary nature, such as support cost payments, to include infornation
on these resources and their utilization in the reports to their governing bodies,
and invites the gorrernlng bodies of the organlzatlons of the united lihtions system
receivi'ng support co€t IEynents from covernnents and voluntary funda to examine
lnfornat ion thereon;

20. IGquests the Director-ceneral to reporC on the inplenentation of
paragraphs 18 and 19 of the present resorution and to incl-ude in hls conpr ehens ive
pol-icy overvierd a conparatlve analysis of the relationship between programle
delivery and adninistrative costs pertaining to operational activities for
developn0ent executed by organg, organizations and bodiee of the united Nations
systen?

- .2L.. lrrgea all organs, organizations and bodles of the uniteal Nations aysteln,in the rlght of tbe recolmendations contained in section rrr of the Dlrecror-
Generarta report, to take the necessary steps to ensure the harrpnization of
adrnlnistrative, financial, peraonnel, prannlng and pr@urement pr@edures, and
requests the Mminlstrative @rErlttee on co..ordinatlon to report, in lts annual
overvlew report of 1984 on speciflc actlon takenr

. 22. ReiEelateq the lmportance of co-ordlnatlon of rnrltilateral develolrnentasslEtance at the fleral revel, and requests the Director-General to pay particular
attention in the conqrrehenslve pol icy review of operational actlvities of 1983, to
the need for inproved coherence of action and effective integration at the country
revel in accordance with section v of the annex to resolution 32/Lg7 and
paragraph 11 of resolution 35/81, including a report on measures taken to date in
this regard ' together wlth his recofltrnendat ions thereon, with specific reference tothe role of resident co-ordinators in the co-ordlnation of opeiationaL activities
of the ttniteal Nations system?

23. rnvites the Adrninistrative comnittee on co{rdlnation to report to the
Economic and soc ial- counc iI at its second regurar session of l9g3 and to the
Generar As sembLy at its thirty-elghth session on the outcome of the revlet of the
arrangements for the exercise of the functlons of resident co-ordinator in
accordance wlth ceneral Assembly resolutions 268s (x)n/) of ll Decembe r t97o, 32/L97
of 20 Decenber 1977 anal 34/2L3 of 19 Decenber 1979, and also requests the Comlittee
to deveLop, within a year, the register on develolment activitles ln confornity
nith Econo[ic and social council reso].ution L9g2/7r of l0 No\remb€r L9g2.



A,/37 /774
English
Page 21

DRAFT RESOI/UTION II

Itle General A8sepbtv.

Recallinq its resolutions 32Ol (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of 1 May L9?4,
containinq the Declaration and the ProgratTme of Action on the Establishnent of a
!le!, International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, containing the
Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, and 3362 (S-VII) of
16 Septenber 1975 on_ developlent and lnternational econor0ic co-operationr

Recallinq alao its resolution 35/56 of 5 Decenlcer 1980, the annex to wtlich
contalns the International Development Strategy for the Third United Nations
Developrent Decade,

Stressing the urgent need to strengthen nultilateral co-operation for
development, tErticularly through a substantlal increase in the flon of
multilateral- of f ic ial develo[nnent a€s istance,

Enphasiz ing the inportance of nultilateral technlcal co-operation in the
PloceEs of econonic and aocial develolrnent of developing countries and the urgent
need to pro\ride the necessary level of financlal resources on an increasi.ngly
Predlctable, continuous and assured baEis to enable the United Nations Development
Program€ to continue its unique and lnportant role in that process,

Reaffirming the validity of the consensus, as aet forth in the annex to
General Assenbly resolution 2688 (XxV) of II Decenbe r L97O,

Having considered the report of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Development ProgEamne for the year 1982 !!1 and Economic and Social Councllresolution L9g2/53 of 29 JuLy 1982 on thlreport of the coverning Council,

Havlng alao congidered the critical flnancial situation of the united Natlons
tleveLopnent Programe in the light of the outcone of the 1982 lhited Natiens
Pledglng Conference for DevelopnEnt Activltles and its s'er ious inpact on the level
of technical assistance to developing countr ies through the progranune,

Anare that, together with efforts to obtain additional voluntary
contributlona, steps are belng taken to increase further the quality, efficiency
and effectlveness of the ttnited t{ationa DeveloplrEnt programrE,

!!/ official
E-9. (q/rss



A/37 /7't 4
ErgI ish
Page 22

Aware also that the Intersessional Comnittee of the l{hole has undertaken to
study, inter alia, options and recomlendations for strengthening the work of the
Governing Council of the United Nations Developnent Programne,

1. Takes note of the report of the coverning council of lhe unlted Nations
Developnent Progr atltrne for the year 1982 and the decisions contained thereini

2. Endorses Economic and soclal Council resolution 1982,/53 of 29 Ju]-y 1982,
in which the Councilr inLer alia, took note of decision 82/5 of Lg ,tune 1982 of the
coverning Counc iI of the United Nations Developnent ProgramrE, !/ by which the
Governing Council reaffirmed its decisions 8O/3O of 26 ,fune L980 ry and 81,/16 of
27 ,fune L98L. L/ includling, in particular, those provisions relating to the
indicative planning figures, the assurned over-all average annual rate of growth of
voluntary contributions and the i-evel of resources envisaged for the third
progranrning cycle for the purposes of forward planningT and welcomes the
establishnent of an Intersessional Cotmi t.tee of tie tihole to study options and
recdnmendations for the longer-tern financing of the tnited Nations Developlent
PrograrNne and for strengthening the work of the @verning Council?

3. l,btea with deep concern the result of the 1982 lrniteal Nations Pledging
Conference for Developnent Activities and the serious consequences lt would have on
the Proposed programme delivery for the thlrd programming cycle of the United
Nations Developrnent Programle?

4. E(presses i"ts_gppfS9_igglg to all covernnents, of both aleveloped and, -.-..--..:--'----:-developing countries, which, at the 1982 Pledging Conference, announced
contributions or their intention to contr lbute !o the United Natlons Developnant
Programe for 1983 in anounts approaching, equalling or exceeding an average annual
increase of 14 per cent ln their contributionsi and to those coverhnents wb ich have
consistently malntained their contributions at a high leveli

5. Urges a1I other @vernrnents, especially those whose voluntary
contributions nay not reflect their capacity to contribute. to renew thelr €fforts
to provide the thited Nations Developnent Progranme with the resources neceEsary to
establish a sound financial basis for the implenentatidr of the Programne I s planned
activlti€s for the third programming cycle, 1982-86, nhich, for the Frrpose of
forward plannlng I would assume an over-all average annuaL growth of resources of at
least 14 per centi

6. D<presses its appreciation to the Administrator of the United Nations
Development Progra ne for his tireless efforts to obtain the necessary level of

4!/

!!/
4:e/

S!.r annex r.

Ibid., 1980, Supplement t{o. 12
q!1., 1981, strpplenent No. 11

(VL9SO/42/ReV.1) ' chap. xI.

@/f98L/5L/xev.I), annex I.



^/37 
/77 4

English
Page 23

resources enviaaged for the third prograrEning cycle ln order to Secure the
financial viabitity of the progr amne and to inprove further the quality, efflciency
and effectivenesa of the Prograrune, and encourages the ldministrator to continue
tho€e efforts, taking into account, inter aria, the need to restrain aalnlnlstrative
expenditures 1n order to lExlmize progranne delivery in accordance wlth paragraph 4
of covernlng Council decision 8V16t

7. D(presses its hope that the Interseaaional corEnittee of the ihole of the
Governing @uncil of the united Nations DeveloprBnt progranne, in accordance with
its nandate as set out in decision 82/5, wlLL succeed in iarentlfying neasures, in
accordance with the principres and objectives as refrected in the corurensus, as aet
forth ln the annex to ceneral Assenbly reaolution 26g8 ($nr), that wourd enabre the
lnpr ernentat ion of the programne I s planned activitlea for the third programring
cycle, 1982-1986, and beyond.

DRAFT RESOI,M ION III

The ceneral Assembly,

Referring to its resolutions 33,/135 of 19 Decerqber l9?g and 35180 of
5 Decernber 1980 on the role of quarified national personnel in the social anal
€cononic developnent of developlng countries,

EegaUing its resolutions 32OI (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of t May 1974,
containing the Declaration and the programne of Action on the Estabrishnent of a
New rnternational Dcondnlc order, and 3281 (xxrx) of t2 Decembe r L974, contalning
the Charter of Economic Right€ and Drtles of Stares,

Desiring to pronpte fulL lmplementatlon of the provisiona of the International
Development strategy for the Thlrd united Nations DeveLopment Decade concerning
training of qualified personnel for the developing countries, Zl1

1. Takes note of the report of the Adninlstrator of the tnited Nation6
DeveLopment Progratllne on the role of quatified national peraonnel ln the sociar and
econonic developnent of developing countr ies, 3,!/

2. Requests the Sesretary-General and the Adninistrator of the ltnited
lilationa Developnent Programle to ensure and nonitor further inpLementation of
ceneral Assenbly resolution 35l80t

?!1

?jl

See resolution 35/56 ,
DP/I982/9 and Add.1.

annex.



A/37 /77 4
Eng I lsh
Page 24

3. f\rrther requesta the Secretary-General, in consultatlon ltith the
executlve hCaats bf the organlzations concerned, rrith a vien to facilltating the
exchange of lnformation and experience, to engure' rvithin avallable resources, the
preparatlon and distributlon arpng Member States of Periodic analytical surveys of
natlonal reports on the experience of aII countrles in the field of human reaources
developnent and international co-operation in trainlng gualified Personnel of
aleveloping countr ies;

4. Invltes @vernnents of Member states to rnake available to the
Secretariat, on a regular basls, information on and experience in establishing and
developing their national systens of training of qualified personnel and the
lnirlementatlon of the provisions of the relevant resolutions of the General
AssetnblYt

5. Invites ateveloped countrles and relevant organizations of the lhited
t{atlons system to direct their assistance to developing countries in the field of
education and trainlng of qua].lfled personnel to, -igggl3lig:

(a) Establishing and developing national sy€tens of educaEion and training of
peraonnel aa an integral part of the social and economic devel-oPment Progrannes of
dleve.Ioplng countr les t

(b! ProtTpting the npst effective use of qualified national personnel in
national developrenti

(c) InpLenenting the provislons of ceneral Assenbly resolution 35180'
especlaUy paragraph 5 th€reofi

6. Requests the Secretary-ceneral to consult with |ternber States and relevant
organizations of the Unitetl Nations system on possible elenents of general
guidellnes on prirrciples. objectives and structures of education and trainlng of
personnel of developing countries, taking into account the need for further
developnent of their national systems and to report on his findings to the General
Assenbly at lts tllrty-nlnth sessiont

7. Nso requests the Secretary-General to submit a progress report on the
inplementation of the present resolution, including the proposed elements of tbe
above-nentioned general guidelines, to the ceneral Assembly at its thirty-ninth
sesslonr through the Economlc and Seial Council.



437/774
English
Page 25

DRAFT RESOLUTION TV

Itt ited Natlons \tolunteer s programme

the qeneral Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 2559 (x)N) of z Decenber 1970 and €ubsequent rerated
resolution€, including resolution 36/L9A of 17 December 1981,

Eaving consldered the report of the coverning CounciL of the United NatLons
Deveroprnent Programe on its twenty-ninth session lful and its alecision az/ zr ot.18 June 1982 on the United Nations volunteers prog-ranune, 2 Zrl

1. Notes with satlsfaction the continued contribution of the ttniteit Nationstrtolunteers-f6liEifr-E-?ElEilit and cost-effective instrument of international
deveropment co-operation, as well as the progranme, s actlvltles in support of youth
and donestlc d evelopment servicesl

2. Further notes the successful. outcone of the first Figll-I€vel Sl.mposlun on
International \rolunteer Service and Developnent, held at Sanara, yenen, ln
ltarch 1982' and the ensuing recorEnendations contained in the sanara Declaratlon,
endorsed by the Governing council of the tnited Natlons Development programle for
follow-up actton, 211

3. Streq€es the lmportance of the contribution antt activities of the Unitett
Natlons rroffiGiFEo-6?arnme ln support of the rnternationat youth year,particurarry to operatlonal and pllot activitles to increase the particlpation of
youth in alevelopnen t i

4. Expresses the hope that the united Nations system and other international
organizatlohs involved ln developrnent actlvities wlll fulJ-y utlrize the potentlal
of the United Nations Volunteers programne in the executlon of operational
developtrEn t activities' as nell as in the inplenentatlon of fielct actlvlties ln the
context of the International youth yeart

5. Renews its appeal to covernments, organizations and individuals to
contribute or to Lncrease their contribut.ions to the speciar voluntary Fund for the
Itnited l,tations Volunteer€, and notes rrith appreciation that a substanllal
contribution has been made to the programrc thls year by one indlvidual.

!.!/ official Record a
r{o. 5 (E/t9 .1).

2a/ rbLd., annex .

ot Social Counctl



v37/774
BrgI l sh
Page ZG

DRAFT RESOLUIION V

tnlted NaLions Special Fund fot Land-locked Developlng CounEries

!'he ceneral Assetnbly,

Recaltim lts resolution 3I/L77 of 21 Decenbet L976r by wh ich it aPProved the
atatute of the United Nations special Fund for Iand-locked Developtng countries,

necalling also ita reaolutions 32/LL3 of 15 Decenbet L977, 33/85 of
15 Decenber L97e, 34/209 of 19 Decenbe r L979 ' 35/52 of 5 December 

1980 and 36,/195
of 17 Decenber 198I,

Taking note of resolution I?3 (v) of 3 June 1979, of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Developnent 28l and decisions 8O/2I of 26.tune 1980 2V and
8U3 of L9 June 198I !q/ of the Governing Council of the ttnlted Nations Developxlent
Prograt[F,

Becalllng the relevant lxovisions of the International Development strategy
for the Itird Unlted lLationa Developnent Decade, :I/

Recalllng further the relevant paragraphs of the subatantial New Programne of
Action for the .I-980s for the l€aat Developed Countries, adopted by the United
Nations @nference on the Least Developed Countries, 17

Convinced that access to world nrarkets at the least posslble cost is an
integral part of meaningful econornic develotrnent of land-locked developing
countrLes,

Bearlng in nind that a large nurnber of countries crassified as least aleveloPeal
are l-and-locked developing countries,

s(pressing deep concern at the consistently very lon level of contr ibutiona
that have been pledged to the zund since its establishnentt

28/ See Proceedinqs of the tnited Nations Conference on Trade and
Developnent, Fifth session, vol. I, Report and Annexes (Urited Nations publicationt
Sales No. E.79.II.D,I4) ' part one, sect. A.

29-1 se" Official Records of the Econornic and social council, 1980' sulplement
I?. tq/rsa o/az/Rev .L, , chap. xr,

lgl lbid,, I98I, supplement tlo. U (E/ L9SL,/6L/nev.I ) , annQ{ I.

f/ See resolution 35156, annex.

f3/ neport of the United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countriest
Paris' 1-I4 Septenber 1981 (united NaCions publication, Sales l'lo. E.82.I.8),
part. one, sect. A. 

/



y"11!"i
Paqe 27

Notinq that, according to the report of the secretary_General prepared in
response to ceneraL Assernbry resorution 34/207 ot 19 December 1979, co;tr ibutionsto the Atnd must increase significantly if rt is to be effeclive in meetlng thelarge requirernents for reducing the relr costs of transit for land-locked
developing countries, 1y

Noting further that the demands for assistance from the Fund are additionalto, and generally dlfferent frorn, the types of activities financed from other
sources of the United Natlons systen,

.1.. _ *ngE all l,ternber States to give due consideration to the specialcon'traints affecting the econonic and sociar- deveropment of rantt-roiked developing
countr ies i

2' Appears to all donor qountries to review their posltron rdith respect tothe tnited Nations sp€craI pund for rand-rocked oevetopinl countries, rrith a viewto extending their greater support to it?

. 1:._ $so. appeals to all Member states, in particular deveLoped countr ies, andto nurtil-ateral and bilateral financing institutions to contribute srgnificantryand generously to the Eund ln order to implement ehe measures relatln; torand-locked developing countries provided for in the rnternationar oevelopraent
Strategy for the Thlrd United Nations Developrnent Decaate ?

.- _^1: . -!:gu""T.:h:. Adninistrator of the united Nations f,ievelopment progEar0ne,rn consurtatron wlth the secretary-cenerar of the urited Nations Eonference onTrade and Developnent and the executive heads of other related toaies. io conttnueco Pursue action in favour of land-locked developing countries nithin the frameuorkof the interim arrangenents. bearing in mrnd thal each country concerned shourdreceive appropriate technical and financial assistance?
5. Requests the secretary-cenerar of the tnited Natlons to subnit to the

General Assembly at lts thirty-eighth sessioh a report on the inplernentation of thepresent resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

United Nations Children ts f.und
The General Assemblv,

Taklng note of Economic and sociar councir resorutlon rgg2/sL of 2g Jury r-982,

23!/ NS-LVS and corr.I, annex, para. 308.



N37/774
EngI ish
Page 28

Having consltlered the report of the D.ecutive Board of the United Nations
children's Fund on its sessio; held at ulited Nations Headquarters from r0 to
2L l,,€,y L982. 291

Reaffirminq the princl!fles and guidelinea for programrc activities established
Uy tfrE-Ecut ivE Board of Ure thiteat lilations 6xtilatren's Etrnd, in Particular its
basic services approach witi its efforts to reach the nost disadvantageal as part of
a ccnprehena ive field-oriented and action-oriented development policlz, and tbe
maintenance of a ]-otd ratlo of aaLninistjation to Programne cogtat

Acutelv aware that the present global econonic sltuation both adversely
at eecl;.dre-TrrG1, of ttevelopirg countries to inplenent efforts to extend basic
services and makeE tlre need for those services all the nore critical'

Concerned that the s ituation regarding financirg for devetolnnent' including in
particular ttre sltuatlon of tnultilateral agencies dePending upon voluntary
contributtons' has been adrersely affected by a nudcer of unfavourable factorst

1. Corrnends the policj.es and activities of the ttrited tlatlons Children's

2. Endor ses Econonlc and Social Council resolution L9S2/5L of 28 .tuly I982t

3. Reaffirms ttle role of the tlnlted l{ations children's !\md aa the lead
agency in ttt. U"itea Nations system responsible for co-ordinating the follon-uP
activities of t1'e Internationai year of the Chlld related to the goals and
objectives concernlng children set forth ln Ehe International DeveloPnent Strategy
for the Third irnited lhtions Development Decadet

4. urges the !!.ecutive Director and the secretarlat of the Un lted NaEions
chilclren's nrnd to continue and intensify their innova! ive efforts to adapt ure
basic services approach for children in the light of the current econornic crislg,
in accordance rdith the relevant decisions of t}le Eaecutive Board of the Fundt i!,/

5. comnends the &recutive Director and the secretariat of the thnd for thelr
inaginative efforEs to enlarge the incorne of the n:n'l so that it may respotrd to the
needs of developing countr iest

6. E lresses lts appreciation to Governments that have responded to the
needs of tfre Unitea Nati;; Children's F\rnd and expresses the hope that more lbt6er
states will follow their examplel

Fundt

3!/ offi Records of
Supplement l'lo. 7 (

t5l J!19.-
/ r7\



^/37/77rEnglish
Page 29

. 7. . .eppeals to all covernments, eqreciaLly to tho6 e whose voluntarycontributlons nay not reflect thelr capa;ity to contribute, to increaEe theircontributlons, lreferably trre contribulions to ure generar reaouraa", 
-ir 

poss ibleon a nultiyear basis, so that, in the r lght of the pre6en! econonic s ttuation, thawrited Nations chlr.dren rs Fund nay reet its .esponsib itles to ae'etofingcountries in responding to the urgent need6 ot it ifar"n.

DRAFT RESOII'T KIN VII

lhe ceneral A€se&bly,

Recauinq lts resolutlon 2029 (X)0 of 22 Novenber ]lt65, by whlctr itestabrlEhed the coverning councii of the ltrited lirations De\reroplent prograttrne to
l:9vlde generar poricy guidance and directron for the tnitear Natron. DeveropnentProgranme as a whore r as well as for the lhlted lutions regurar prograrnnee oftechnical agsistance,

Re cilling ateo its resolutlon 268g (XXg of lI Decenbet :1970, in partlcular
Paragraph 43 of the ahnex thereto regarding the accountabirity of ure executingagents to the Adninistrator of the un itedl l{"tl.ns Develolr'ent progra re for thelnplenentation of projects funded by the progratEre,

. . Fecauir.rq further its resolution gZAgT ot 20 Decenber :197.1t In rrhich $ere setout the functions of a aelErate organizational entity for, inter-aiia; themanagemnt of tectrnlcal co{peration activities carrled oot-LllEEEit a n tione,and the need for ttra t re.orution to be fully implenented in order to accdrpr isheoononles of scale,

-ti.i- i," r!.9 the goals and objectives of the rnternational Developoentstrategy for the rhlrd Lhited t{ations Delreloprnent Decade, contaihed in t}re annera toits resolution 35/56 of 5 Decenber 1980,

,^ -- ?akinq llqg account Economlc and soclal councll resolution L9a2/7I of
'r'u Novenber 1982 correrning a register of deveroptnent activities to be devetoped bythe Adrninistrative Comnlttee on Co-ordination rri thin a year,

-- 
convirred that greater transparency in actlvrties of te€bnical co-operatlonrirl' suPport the nobllization of financial resources for accererated ateverognent,
Mindful that the Departnent of Technicar cosperation for Deveropt'ent.of thes€cretarlat is the second rargest executlng agency of project€ financed by ttre

Irn ited Nationa Developmeht programne,



A/37/774
Engllsh
Pag e 30

Notirg rdith appreciation in this resPect the statement nade on 5 oc tober L982
uv ttr@l of the Department of ltechnical co{peration for
oeve loprnent , ![/

l.Endorsesdecision82AgoftsJunelgs2oftheGovernirgcouncllofthe
united Natlons Developtnent Programne, !l/ in which the Governing- co.un:il took note'
j!gggl]!e, of the annual r"poit of th-e Secre tary-General on technical co-operation
activities of the thited lhtionsl !!/

2. Requests the Secre tary-General to make his annual report on technical
co-operati;-;tivitles of the ttr-.lted thtions also available in the future, tbrough
Che Ec ononic and Social Councilr to the General Assenblyl with referelFe to the
Department of Technical Co"oPeration for DeveloPment, the report should be expanded
in order to contaln a qualiGtive and quantltative analysis of the relatlonship
between progranrme aelivery anal adninistrative costs, the level and use of progrardle
suPPort cost earningsr and exPenditures by sources of funds and by conponents' Itith
an lndication of the origin of lnFtst

3. Requests the secre tary-@neral also to include in his annual report a
succlnct eiililiion of the resuits achieved r duririg the preceding year, with regard
to conpleted pro jects.

]9/ A/c.2/37^R.6, Paras. 1-12.

f_7 official Records of the r.ononic and social council' 1982' SuDplenent
No. 6 ( E/I9 82 /L6 /Rev.ll ' annex 

I.

W DP/r982/22 and Add.l.


