












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Di str.
GENERAL

A/3v/662 + flLr*, {
6 December L982

ORTGINAL: ENGLISH

thlrty-seventh session
Agenda itern 50

REVIEW OF THE IMPLEI{ENTATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND DECISIONS
ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEI',IBLY AT ITS TENTH SPECIAL SESSTON

Report -of . the " First Committee

Rappo_rteur: Mr. Luvsangiin ERDENECHTTLUUN (Irtongolia)

I. INTRODTICTION
1. The itern entitled:

"Reviev'r of the i.mplementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted by the GeneraL Assembly at i.ts tenth speciar session:

" (a) Report of the Disarmament CommissJ.on;

" (b) Report of the @mmittee on Di.sarmamenti

" (c) Disarmament Week.. report of the Secretary-General;

" (d) NucLear weapons in alL aspects; report of the Committee on
Di sarmamenti

" (e) Status of rnultilateral disarmament agreements.. report of the
Secreta ry-General;

'(f) Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear warr.

" (9) Prohibition of the nucl-ear neutron weaponl report of the @rnmittee
on Disarmament;

" (h) Implementation of the recommendations and decisions of the tenth
speciar session: report of the comnittee on Disarmament"

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session in accordance
with General Assembly resotutlons 33/7L D of l-4 December l97g and 36/92 A to M of
9 December 1981.

82-35095 4L78f (E)

UNITED
NATIONS A

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/37/662 -+ ~ It.
6 December 1982

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

" Thirty-seventh session
I Agenda item 50
I

REVIEW OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND DECISIONS
ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AT ITS TENTH SPECIAL SESSION

Report of· the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Luvsangiin ERDENECffi'LVVN (Mongolia)

I. INTRODVCTION

1. The item entitled:

"Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session:

" (a) Report of the Disarmament Commission;

"(b) Report of the Committee on Disarmament;

"(c) Disarmament Week: report of the Secretary-General;

U(d) Nuclear weapons in all aspects: report of the Committee on
Disarmament;

U(e) Status of multilateral disarmament agreements: report of the
Secretary-General;

"(f) Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear war;

U(g) Prohibition of' the nuclear neutron weapon: report of the Committee
on Disarmament;

"(h) Implementation of the recommendations and decisions of the tenth
special session: report of the Committee on Disarmament"

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 33/71 D of 14 December 1978 and 36/92 A to M of
9 December 1981.

82-35095 4178f (E) / ...



A/37 1662
English
Page 2

2. At its 4th plenary neeting , on 24 September Ig82, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At j.ts 2nd meeting, on 29 September, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament'
namelyr items 39 to 57, 133 and 136. The general debate on these ltems and on
items I38 to 139, which were allocated t.o the First Committee by the General
Assembly at its 24th plenary meeting, on I October, took place at the 3rd to
28th meetings, from 18 October to 5 November (see A/C.L/37/Pv-3-28) -

4. In connection with item 50, the First Comnittee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Committee on Disarmament? V

(b) ReporL of the Disarmament @rnmissioni 2/

(c) Report of the Secretary-General- on the status of rnultilateral disarmament
agreement s {A/37 /560',1 i

(d) I€tter dated 22 June 1982 from the Charg€ d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Cuba to the trnited liations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the Final Communigue of the lr'linisterial
Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of the I'lon-Aligned Countries' held at
Havana from 3I May to 5 June 1982 (A/37/333-S/L5278) i

(e) Letter dated 9 August 1982 frorn the Char96 d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the German Democratic Republic to the ttnited Nations
addrdssed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the staLernent by the
Presidium of the League of the German Democratic Republic for the ttnited
l{ations on the outcome of the second speclal session of the General
Assembly devoted to disarmament (A/37/380) i

(f) Report of the Secretary-General" on Disarmament Week (A/37/A55);

(g) Letter dated t1 October L982 from the PermanenL Representative of Cuba to
the Lrnited Mtions addressed Lo the Secretary-Genbral, transmitting the
final communiqu6 and other documents of the Meeting of the Ministers for
Foreign Affaj.rs and Heads of Delegation of the l'lon-Aligned Countries,
held in New York from 4 to 9 October 1982 (A/37/540-S/L54541 i

(h) Ietter dated 19 @tober 1982 from the Permanent Representative of ltaly
to the t'nited Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, bransmitting
the resol,utions adopted by the 69th Inter-Parliamentary @nference, held
in Rome from 12 to 23 September 1982 (A/37/578\i

L/ Offlciaf Records of= en ,
Supplenent No. 27 (A/37/27).

Z/ Ibid", Supplement No. j2 (A/37/42) "
/...

A/37/662
English
Page 2

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 September 1982, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General COmmittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 29 September, the First Committee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament,
namely, items 39 to 57, 133 and 136. The general debate on these items and on
items 138 to 139, which were allocated to the First Committee by the General
Assembly at its 24th plenary meeting, on 8 OCtober, took place at the 3rd to
28th meetings, from 18 October to 5 November (see A/C.l/37/PV.3-28).

4. In connection with item 50, the First COmmittee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Committee on Disarmament; l!

(b) Report of the Disarmament COmmission; ~

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the status of multilateral disarmament
agreements (A/37/560);

(d) Letter dated 22 June 1982 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Cuba to the Vnited Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the Final Communique of the Ministerial
Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at
Havana from 31 May to 5 June 1982 (A/37/333-S/15278);

(e) Letter dated 9 August 1982 from the Charge d'Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the German Democratic Republic to the Vnited Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the statement by the
Presidium of the League of the German Democratic Republic for the Vnited
Nations on the outcome of the second special session of the General
Assembly devoted to disarmament (A/37/380);

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on Disarmament Week (A/37/455);

(g) Letter dated 11 October 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Cuba to
the t'nited Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
final communique and other documents of the Meeting of the Ministers for
Fbreign Affairs and Heads of Delegation of the Non-Aligned COuntries,
held in New York from 4 to 9 October 1982 (A/37/540-S/15454);

(h) Letter dated 19 OCtober 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Italy
to the Vnited Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting
the resolutions adopted by the 69th Inter-Parliamentary COnference, held
in Rome from 12 to 23 September 1982 (A/37/578);

l! Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/37/27).

~ Ibid., Supplement No. 42 (A/37/42).

/ ...



A/37 /662
English
Page 3

Ietter dated 25 October L982 from the Permanent Representative of Fiji to
the trnited fad.ions addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
Final oommuniquc of the commonwearth Heads of @vernnent Regionar
Meeting rrr herd at suva from t4 to 18 october lt982 (A/37/586-s/L54721i

Ietter dated II @tober L982 from the Permanent Representative of the
l'rnion of Soviet Socialist Republics to the tlnited Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (ArlC. L/37/4) i

Letter dated 29 october L982 fron the permanent Representative of
Viet Nam to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/c.L/37/8) .

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.I/37lL.I1

5. On 5 November, the German Denoeratie.Republk submitted a draft resolution
entitled "obligation of FIIFIo contribute to etrective disarmament negotiations,,
(A/C.L/37/L.LL) which was introduced at the 29th meeting, on 9 Novenber. The draft
resolution read as follows:

"Tha G"naral.A."arW,

"Having'reviewed the implementation of the recomnendations and decisions
ortne-6ffi}yadoptedatitstenthsPecia}session,thefirst
special session devoted to disarmament,

"sgggflilg its resolutions S-LO/2 of 30 June 1978 , 34/83 C of
Il December 1979, 35/46 of 3 December 1980, 35/L52 E of 12 December 1980 and
36/92 M of 9 December 198I,

"!gpfg:i_ng. that no tangible progress has been achieved in the
implementation of these resolutions,

"etressing, the importance of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the Cieneral Assembly as the comprehensive and long-term basis for
efforts towards halting and reversing the arms race, which was unanimously and
categorically reaff,irmed by all Member States at the twelfth special session,

"Recalling paragraph 28 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session, stating that raII the peoples of the world have a vital interest in
the success of disarmament negotiat.i.onsr and that rconseguently all States
have the duty to contribute to efforts in the fj.eld of disarmamentr, and
stating further that 'while disarmament is the responsibitity of all States,
the nuclear-vreapon States have the primary responsibility for nuclear
disarmament and, together with other militarily significant States, for
halting and reversing the arms racerr dnd that rit is therefore important to
secure their active participationr,

(i)

(j)

(k)

A/37/662
English
Page 3

(i) Letter dated 25 OCtober 1982 from the Permanent Representative of Fiji to
the rnited Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
Final Oommunique of the Oommonwealth Heads of Government Regional
Meeting III held at Suva from 14 to 18 October 1982 (A/37/586-S/15472) J

(j) Letter dated 11 OCtober 1982 from the Permanent Representative of the
vnion of Soyiet Socialist Republics to the rnited Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/C.l/37/4)J

(k) Letter dated 29 October 1982 from the Permanent Representative of
Viet Nam to the rnited Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/C. 1/37/8) •

n. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft re501utionA/C.l/37/L.ll

5. On 5 November, the German Democ:raticRepublic submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Obligation of States to contribute to effective disarmament negotiations"
(A/C.l/37/L.ll) which was introduced at the 29th meeting, on 9 November. The draft
resolution read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"HavinC!J·reviewed the implementation of the recommendations and decisions
of the General Assembly adopted at its tenth special session, the first
special session devoted to disarmament,

"Recalling its resolutions S-10/2 of 30 June 1978, 34/83 C of
11 December 1979, 35/46 of 3 December 1980, 35/152 E of 12 December 1980 and
36/92 M of 9 December 1981,

"Deploring that no tangible progress has been achieved in the
implementation of these resolutions,

"Stressing the importance of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly as the comprehensive and long-term basis for
efforts towards halting and reversing the arms race, which was unanimously and
categorically reaffirmed by all Member States at the twelfth special session,

"Recalling paragraph 28 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session, stating that 'all the peoples of the world have a vital interest in
the success of disarmament negotiatj.ons' and that 'consequently all States
have the duty to contribute to efforts in the field of disarmament', and
stating further that 'while disarmament is the responsibility of all States,
the nuclear-weapon States have the primary responsibility for nuclear
disarmament and, together with other militarily significant States, for
halting and reversing the arms race', and that 'it is therefore important to
secure their active participation' ,

/ ...



A/37 /562
English
Page 4

rrBearing in mind the fundamental importance of disarmament for the
accomplishment of the principal purpose of the tlnited t{ations, i.e.
maintaining international peace and security and settling international
disputes by peaceful means,

"Convineed that the active participation of Member States in effective
disarmament negotiations is inperative for discharging their responsibility to
contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security,

"9@9. the conmitment of States, which they have undertaken under
terms of international lavr in various existing international instrunents, to
conduct negotiations which would lead to early agreements on disarmament
measures' in particular on nuclear disarmament, and which serve the overall
objective of general and cornplete disarmament,

"Egilg_ilglg| the solemn commitment of all Member States to the Final
Docunent of the lbnth Special Session and their pledge to respect the
priorities in disarmament negotiations as agreed to in its Programme of Action,

"F\rIIy aware of the profound preoccupation of people everywhere over the
growing risk of nuclear war, the prevention of which is the most acute and
urgent task of the present day,

"Aware also of the necessity to proceed to serious negotiations on
disarmament in good faith, ai.med at the achievement of early results, in
particular at the prevention of nuclear war, in order to save mankind fron the
mosL acute danger facing it,

"I. S<presses its.alarm about the continued escalation of the arms
race' in particular the nuclear arms race, which is constantly increasing the
danger of nuclear rdar, white disarmament negotiations are being endlessly
protracted, blocked or discontinued;

"2. ExPresses-its.convietion that it is the foremost obligation of aII
States, in Particular the nuclear-weapon States and the other militarily
significant States, to Iive up to their commitment undertaken in international
instruments and to the recommendations and decisions of the tenth speciai
session of the General Assembly and to conduct, without any pre-conditions,
serious negotiations in good faith on arms limitation and disarmament on the
basis of eguality, reciprocity and undiminished security of each side;

"3. l]rges these States to intensify their efforts and to bring to a
successful end the negotiations currently held in the Committee on Disarmament
and other international forums, to resume suspended negotiations and to start
nelt negotiations on effective international agreements according to the
priorities established in section III of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session;

"4. Recommends that the Committee on Disarmament should concentrate its
work on tne-66GTfve and priority items on its agencla with a view to
achieving tangible results in order to make a major contribution to the

/...

A/37/662
English
Page 4

"Bearing in mind the fundamental importance of disarmament for the
accomplishment of the principal purpose of the rnited Nations, i.e.
maintaining international peace and security and settling international
disputes by peaceful means,

"Convinced that the active participation of Member States in effective
disarmament negotiations is imperative for discharging their responsibility to
contribute to the maintenance of international peace and security,

"Stressing the commitment of States, which they have undertaken under
terms of international law in various existing international instruments, to
conduct negotiations which would lead to early agreements on disarmament
measures, in particular on nuclear disarmament, and which serve the overall
objective of general and complete disarmament,

"Bearing in mind the solemn commitment of all Member States to the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session and their pledge to respect the
priorities in disarmament negotiations as agreed to in its Programme of Action,

"Fully aware of the profound preoccupation of people everywhere over the
growing risk of nuclear war, the prevention of which is the most acute and
urgent task of the present day,

"Aware also of the necessity to proceed to serious negotiations on
disarmament in good faith, aimed at the achievement of early results, in
particular at the prevention of nuclear war, in order to save mankind from the
most acute danger facing it,

"1. Expresses its' alarm about the continued escalation of the arms
race, in particular the nuclear arms race, which is constantly increasing the
danger of nuclear war, while disarmament negotiations are being endlessly
protracted, blocked or discontinued;

"2. Expresses' its' convicti.on that it is the foremost obligation of all
States, in particular the nuclear-weapon States and the other militarily
significant States, to live up to their commitment undertaken in international
instruments and to the recommendations and decisions of the tenth special
session of the General Assembly and to conduct, without any pre-conditions,
serious negotiations in good faith on arms limitation and disarmament on the
basis of equality, reciprocity and undiminished security of each side;

"3. Prges these States to intensify their efforts and to bring to a
successful end the negotiations currently held in the Committee on Disarmament
and other international forums, to resume suspended negotiations and to start
new negotiations on effective international agreements according to the
priorities established in section III of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session;

"4. Recommends that the Committee on Disarmament should concentrate its
work on the substantive and priority items on its agenda with a view to
achieving tangible results in order to make a major contribution to the

/ ...



A/37 /662
English
Page 5

implementation of the resolutions and decisions of the Lenth special session
of the General Assembly and to the accomplishment of the tasks set forth in
the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament Decadei

'5. Calls.upon States engaged in disarmament negotiations outside the
trnited NaLions framework to intensify their efforts with a view to achieving
concrete results without any delayr €lDd to implement such results imnediately
so as to create favourable conditions for further progressi

tr6. Calls upon all States to refrain from any actions which have or may
have negative effects on the outcome of disarmament negoLiations as well as to
implement without delay agreements achieved in negotiations within and outside
the ttnited Nations framework;

"7. Invites all States engaged in disarmament and/or arms limitation
and reduction negotiations outside the tinited Natlons framework to keep the
General Assembly and the Committee on Disarmament informed of the results of
such negotiations in conformity with the relevant provlsions of the Final
Document?

"8. Recornmends that at subsequent sessions of the General Assembly
special attention should be attached to the continuous review of the status of
disarmament negotiations on the bilateral, regional and multilateral levels. "

6. At the 40th meeting, on 23 trlovember, the German Democratic Republic withdrew
the draft resolution.

B. Draft-resolution'A/C;I/37lL;12"and Rev;l

7. On 5 November, Indonesia, Ivlexico and Sweden submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Revj-ew of the implenentation of the recommendations and decisions adopted
by the General Assembly at its tenth special session" (A/C.L/37/L.12) subseguently
also sponsored by @lombia, Ghana and Yugoslavia, which was introduced by the
representative of l{exico at the 28th neeting, on 5 November. The draft resolution
read as follows:

"@,
"Recalling that in iLs first special session devoted to disarmament

approved by consensus a Declaration included in the Final Document, in which'
inter alia, it proclaimed that, in order to discharge effectively the central
role and primary responsibility in the sphere of disarmament which belong to
it in accordance with the Charter of the Organization, rthe tlnited Nations
should be kept appropriately informed of aII steps in this field, whether
unilateral, bilateral, regional or multilateral, without prejudice to the
progress of negotiationsr,

'rRecalling also that in the second special session of the General
Assembly devoted to disarmament the Member States have reiterated 'their
solemn commitmentr to implement the Flnal Document of 1978, the validity of
which received their 'unanimous and categorical reaffirmation"

A/37/662
English
Page 5

implementation of the resolutions and decisions of the tenth special session
of the General Assembly and to the accomplishment of the tasks set forth in
the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament Decade;

"5. Calls- upon States engaged in disarmament negotiations outside the
Vnited Nations framework to intensify their efforts with a view to achieving
concrete results without any delay, and to implement such results immediately
so as to create favourable conditions for further progress;

"6. Calls upon all States to refrain from any actions which have or may
have negative effects on the outcome of disarmament negotiations as well as to
implement without delay agreements achieved in negotiations within and outside
the Vnited Nations framework;

"7. Invites all States engaged in disarmament and/or arms limitation
and reduction negotiations outside the United Nations framework to keep the
General Assembly and the Committee on Disarmament informed of the results of
such negotiations in conformity with the relevant provisions of the Final
Document,

"8. Recommends that at subsequent sessions of the General Assembly
special attention should be attached to the continuous review of the status of
disarmament negotiations on the bilateral, regional and multilateral levels."

6. At the 40th meeting, on 23 November, the German Democratic Republic withdrew
the draft resolution.

B. Draft-resolutionA/C.l/37/L.l2-and Rev.l

7. On 5 November, Indonesia, Mexico and Sweden submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions adopted
by the General Assembly at its tenth special session" (A/C.l/37/L.12) subsequently
also sponsored by Colombia, Ghana and YUgoslavia, which was introduced by the
representative of Mexico at the 28th meeting, on 5 November. The draft resolution
read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Recalling that in its first special session devoted to disarmament
approved by consensus a Declaration included in the Final Document, in which,
inter alia, it proclaimed that, in order to discharge effectively the central
role and primary responsibility in the sphere of disarmament which belong to
it in accordance with the Charter of the Organization, 'the vnited Nations
should be kept appropriately informed of all steps in this field, whether
unilateral, bilateral, regional or multilateral, without prejUdice to the
progress of negotiations',

"Recalling also that in the second special session of the General
Assembly devoted to disarmament the Member States have reiterated 'their
solemn commitment' to implement the Final Document of 1978, the validity of
which received their 'unanimous and categorical reaffirmation',

/ ...



A/37 /662
English
Page 5

"I. UrEes the t,nited States of America and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, in conformity with the provisions of the Final Document
of the first special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament,
to transmit to the @neral Assembly, before 22 I'tovember 1982, authentic
official information on the proposals respectively sr-lbmitted by them - as weII
as on the meaning and scope which they attribute to such proposals - in the
bilateral conversations relating to nuclear weapons of intermediate or medium
range begun in Geneva on 30 lilrvember 198I, and those which, with the acronym
START, deal with strategic nuclear tdeapons and began in the same city on
29 June 982;

"2. In the light'sf"the"eontents of the reports received fron the two
above-mentioned States, the General Assembly will examine whether to formulate
recommendations in connection with this matter and, in the affirmative, which
would be the most appropriate."

8. At the 39th meeting, on 22 November, Mexico introduced a revised draft
resolution (A/C.V37/L.L2/Rev.I), in which the following changes had been made:

(a) A new third preambular paragraph was added, which read as follows:

"lbting that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the ttnited
States of America have been carrying out in Geneva two series of bilateral
nuclear arms negotiations, begun respectively on 30 I'lovember 1981 and
29 June 1982";

(b) Three new operative paragraphs were added, which read as follows:

ul. Requests the @vernments of the trnion of Soviet Socialist Republics
and the United States of America to transmit to the Secretary-General, not
Iater than I September 1983, a joint report or two separate reports on the
stage reached in their above-mentioned negotiations, for its consideration by
the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth sessionl

n2. Reqqe€lE elEe the two negotiating parties to bear constantly in
nind that noTlorffiE national interests but also the vital interests of
all the peoples of the world are at stake in this guestion;

x3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth
sessionanffi1ateralnucIeararmsnegotiationsr..'

9. At its 40th neeting, on 23 t'lovember, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.L/37/L.L2/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 99 to I, with 28 abstentions
(see para. 33, draft resolution A). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, A1geria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma,
Burundi, Central African nepublic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
@ngo, @sta Rica, C\zprus, Democratic Yenen, Djibouti, Dominican
Republicr Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic

A/37/662
English
Page 6

"1. l1rges the l'nited States of America and the l'nion of Soviet
SOcialist Republics, in comformity with the provisions of the Final DOcument
of the first special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmament,
to transmit to the General Assembly, before 22 November 1982, authentic
official information on the proposals respectively submitted by them - as well
as on the meaning and scope which they attribute to such proposals - in the
bilateral conversations relating to nuclear weapons of intermediate or medium
range begun in Geneva on 30 November 1981, and those which, with the acronym
START, deal with strategic nuclear weapons and began in the same city on
29 June 982;

"2. In the light of the contents of the reports received from the two
above-mentioned States, the General Assembly will examine whether to formulate
recommendations in connection with this matter and, in the affirmative, which
would be the most appropriate."

8. At the 39th meeting, on 22 November, Mexico introduced a revised draft
resolution (A/C. 1/37/L.l2/Rev.I} , in which the following changes had been made:

(a) A new third preambular paragraph was added, which read as follows:

"Noting that the l1nion of Soviet Socialist Republics and the l'nited
States of America have been carrying out in Geneva two series of bilateral
nuclear arms negotiations, begun respectively on 30 November 1981 and
29 June 1982";

(b) Three new operative paragraphs were added, which read as follows:

"1. Requests the Governments of the l'nion of Soviet Socialist Republics
and the l1nited States of America to transmit to the Secretary-General, not
later than 1 September 1983, a joint report or two separate reports on the
stage reached in their above-mentioned negotiations, for its consideration by
the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session;

"2. Requests also the two negotiating parties to bear constantly in
mind that not only their national interests but also the vital interests of
all the peoples of the world are at stake in this question;

"3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth
session an item entitled 'Bilateral nuclear arms negotiations'."

9. At its 40th meeting, on 23 November, the First Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.l/37/L.12/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 99 to 1, with 28 abstentions
(see para. 33, draft resolution A). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma,
Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Oongo, Oosta Rica, Cyprus, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic

/ ...



A/37 /652
English
rage 7

Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, lvtali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mexico, Ivlorocco, Mozanbique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Gnan, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Perut
Philippines, Qatar, Romaniar Rwanda, Saint liucia, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leonel Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, lganda, trnited Arab. Ernirates, United Republic of
Cameroon, ttnited Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen'
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: tlnited States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, BeIgium, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Cuba, Czechoslovakj.a, Denmark, France' German
Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece'
Hungary, Iceland, Ita1y, Japan, Luxembourg, Mongolia,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norhray, Poland, Portugal, Spain,
ttrkey, ttkrainian soviet Socialist Republic, ltnion of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.

C. Draf t'resolution'A/e ; l/37,/L; 19

10. On ll November, AfEhanistan, Angola, the ConEo, Cuba, Czeehoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, the German Democratic Republic, Grenada, 4.1gII_,@, ,il6iE6[a,
Mozanbique', Foland, the Syrian Arab Republie, the ttkrainian Soviet Socialist
Republie, Viet Nan, and Yemen submitted a draft resolution entitled "International
co-operation for disarmament" (A/c.V37/L.19), subseguently also sponsored by
Benin, Guinea, Guyana and MaIi, which was introduced by the representative of
Czechoslovakia at the 34th meeting, on 16 }lovember.

11. At its 42nd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adbpted draft resolution
A/C.V37/L.19 by a recorded vote of 92 to 14, with 17 abstentions (see para. 33,
draft resolution B). The voting tas as folIows.. 3rl

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrai'n,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burundil Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo' Costa Rica'
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti' fiominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, 3iji, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,

1/ At the same meeting, the delegation of Cyprus indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/...

A/37/662
English
Page 7

Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Vganda, Vnited Arab Emirates, Vnited Republic of
Cameroon, Vnited Republic of Tanzania, Vruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: Vnited States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France, German
Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Hungary, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Mongolia,
Netherlands, New zealand, Norway, poland, portugal, Spain,
Turkey, Vkrainian soviet Socialist Republic, Vnion of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Vnited Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.

C. Draft-resolution"A/C.l/37/L.l9

10. On 11 November, Afghanistan, Angola, the Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, the German Democratic Republic, Grenada, Hungary,
Indonesia, Jordan, the LaoPeopleJs Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Mongolia,
Mozambique~ POland, the Syrian Arab Republic, the Vkrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Viet Nam, and Yemen submitted a draft resolution entitled "International
co-operation for disarmament" (A/C.l/37/L.19), subsequently also sponsored by
Benin, Guinea, Guyana and Mali, which was introduced by the representative of
Czechoslovakia at the 34th meeting, on 16 November.

11. At its 42nd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.19 by a recorded vote of 92 to 14, with 17 abstentions (see para. 33,
draft resolution B). The voting was as follows: ~

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrai"n,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, ?iji, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,

~ At the same meeting, the delegation of Cyprus indicated that it had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...



A/37 /662
EngIish
Page 8

Against:

Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of ), Irag,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic
Republic, Llberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya' Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Ivlozambique, Nepal, Nicaragual Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe,
Sierra I€one, Sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
ltganda, ttkrainian Soviet Socialist Republic' trnion of Soviet
Socialist Republics, ttnited Arab Emirates, tlnited Republic
of Cameroon, ttnited Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire, Zambia.

Australia, BeIgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Italy, Japan, Luxernbourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Portugal, Turkey, ttnited Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Irelandr tlnited States of Arnerica.

Abstaining: Austria, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Irelandr Israel,
Lebanon, l4orocco, Norway, Paraguay, Philippines, Saudi
Arabia, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, lruguay.

D. Draft. resolution'A,/C: lrl37,/L; 21.and'Rev. I

L2. On 12 November, Bulgaria, the 'Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungaryr the Lao Peoplers
Democratic Republic, 39f4, Ronania, the trkrainian.soviet Soeialist Republie, the
tlnion of Soviet Socialist Republics and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution
entitled 'Nuclear weapons in all aspects" (A/C.L/37/L.2L'), subsequently also
sponsored by Cuba and Mongolia, which was introduced by the representative of the
German Democratic Republic at. the 33rd neeting, on 15 November.

13. On 12 l.lovember, a revised draf t resolution (A/C.L/37/L.2L/Rev.1) was submitted
by the sponsors, in which the following changes had been made:

(a) The fourteenth preambular paragraph, which read:

I'Considering that possibilities will continue to be explored in the
Committee on Disarmament for reaching agreenent on a negotiating role for the
Comnittee, bearing in mind the high priority accorded to the guestion of the
cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament in the Final
Docunent of the first special session of the General Assembly devoted to
disarmament r "

was revised to read:

A/37/662
English
Page 8

Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe,
Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zambia.

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
zealand, Portugal, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, united States of America.

Abstaining: Austria, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Lebanon, Morocco, Norway, Paraguay, Philippines, Saudi
Arabia, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Uruguay.

D. Draft resolutionA/C.l/37/L.2l-and-Rev.l

12. On 12 November, BUlgaria, the ByelorussianSoviet Socialist Republic,
Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary, the Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Poland, Romania, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the
Union of Soviet SOcialist Republics and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Nuclear weapons in all aspects" (A/C.l/37/L.21), subsequently also
sponsored by CUba and Mongolia, which was introduced by the representative of the
German Democratic Republic at the 33rd meeting, on 15 November.

13. On 12 November, a revised draft resolution (A/C. 1/37/L. 21/Rev.l) was submitted
by the sponsors, in which the following changes had been made:

(a) The fourteenth preambular paragraph, which read:

"Considering that possibilities will continue to be explored in the
Committee on Disarmament for reaching agreement on a negotiating role for the
Committee, bearing in mind the high priority accorded to the question of the
cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament in the Final
Document of the first special session of the General Assembly devoted to
disarmament,"

was revised to read:

/ ...



A/37 /662
English
Page 9

,,99!.@thateffortswiI1continuetobemadeinordertoenabIethe
conmitFon Disarmament Lo fulf iI its negotiating role with regard to the
cessation of the nuclear arms race and nucLear disarmament, bearing in nind
the high priority accorded to this guestion in the Final Document of the Tenth
Special- Session of the General A'ssemblyr"

(b) Operative paragraph I, which read:

'I. @lls upon the Conmittee on Disarmament to proceed without delay to
initiate negotiaLions regarding the etaboration of a nuclear disarmament
programme, ir, .."ordance with paragraph 50 of the Final EDcument of the tenth
lpeciaf session of the General Assembly, and to establish for this Purpose an
a-a no" working group on the cessation of the nuclear arms race and on nuclear
disarmament r t'

was revised to read'.
trI. Calls upon the Conmittee on Disarmament to proceed without delay to

negotiations on tne cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarnament
in accordance wih paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the Ceneral A.ssembly, and especially to elaborate a nuclear
disarmanent programrne, and to establish for this purpose an Ad Hgc Vlorking
Group on the cessation of the nuclear arms race and on nuclear disarmamentl"'

14. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/3|/L.2llRev.1 by a recorded vote of 94 to 18, with 10 abstentions
(see para. 33, draft resolution c). The voting was as follows: !/

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh' Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundil Byelorussian
soviet socialist Republic, central African Republic, chad, chile,
Colornbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Denocratic Yenen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, &uador' Ebypt'
Ethiopia, Flji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
nepublic of), Iraq, Irelandr Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kul'aitt Lao
Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
,rarnlhiriya, Madagascar, Malawir Malaysia, lvlaldives, Malil Malta,
Mauritaniar Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, t'trepal, Nicaragua'
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru'
Foland, 9atar, Romaniar Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra I€one'
Singaporer Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo' Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia' tlganda, ltkrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, lrnion of Soviet Socialist Republics'
United Arab Enirates, United Republic of cameroon, tlnited
Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia'
Zambia.

The delegations of Angola and the Sudan indicated that they had intended
in favour of the draft resolution.

!/
to vote

A/37/662
English
Page 9

"COnsidering that efforts will continue to be made in order to enable the
Committee on Disarmament to fulfil its negotiating role with regard to the
cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament, bearing in mind
the high priority accorded to this question in the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly,"

(b) Operative paragraph 1, which read:

"1. Calls upon the COmmittee on Disarmament to proceed without delay to
initiate negotiations regarding the elaboration of a nuclear disarmament
programme, in accordance with paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the tenth
special session of the General Assembly, and to establish for this purpose an
ad hoc working group on the cessation of the nuclear arms race and on nuclear
disarmament,"

was revised to read:

"1. calls upon the Committee on Disarmament to proceed without delay to
negotiations on the cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament
in accordance wih paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, and especially to elaborate a nuclear
disarmament programme, and to establish for this purpose an Ad Hoc Working
Group on the cessation of the nuclear arms race and on nuclear disarmament;".

14. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.2l/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 94 to 18, with 10 abstentions
(see para. 33, draft resolution C). The voting was as follows: if

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi,Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Sao TOme and Principe, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, TOgo, Trinidad and TObago, Tunisia, Vganda, Vkrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Vnion of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Vnited Arab Emirates, Vnited Republic of cameroon, Vnited
Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zambia.

if The delegations of Angola and the Sudan indicated that they had intended
to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...



^/37/662English
Page l0

AEainst:

Abstaining:

Australiar Bergiun, canada, Denmark, France, Gerrnany, Federal
Republic of , rcerand, rtary, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherrands, lrlew
Zealand, Norriray, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, trniled Kingdom of GreatBritain and l.Iorthern rreland, trnited states of America.
Angola, Greece, Guatemala, Israel, lvlorocco, Saudi Arabia,
Somaliar Sudan, ttruguay, Zaire.

E. Draft resoluLion A/A;L/3?/L;21
15' on 15 November, Afgh.anistanl co9.l czechosloyakia, the German Demoeratie
spg!*is., rndia, . i.!un, _the Iao +ople' sEfr;Effi:ae-epubric@Mozanbique submitted a araft itGa rDisarmament
weekrr, subsequently also sponsored.by the Byelorussian soviet so9{3lisg Re€gpfjg,the cgngo, Mdi, the Ur<rainian sovi.t so"i , which wasintroduceauyTherepthe34thneeting,on16ltovember.

16' At its 39th meeting, on 22 November, the comnittee adopted draft resolutionA/c.L/37/L.24 wi-thout a vote (see para. 33, draft resorution D).

F. Draft resoluLlon A/A;L/37/L;25
L7. on 15 November, AEghglrstan,-AnEgLa, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian sovietsociarist Reoubric, tuu, gzectrosrovat<E, F@ic y.*ffirran
Penogl?tic. nepublic, egg a 

"ggry, .t"r@rEE.Eem&ratic-Republic, l'lonoolia, t"tozamuiquel-EG-no,@e, F?o tome @e syrianAr.ab. Fgptlblic, the tr tcrainian .ss"ffi"i;Eipffibffi and zimbauro.suumittCa a arart r on or tnE nucreEr-nJuffipor,,,(A/c'L/37/L.25), which was introduced by the representative of the GermanDemocratic Repubric at the 34th nreeting, on 16 ribvember.
t8' At its 39th meeting, on 22 November, the comnittee adopted draft resolutionA/g',L/37/L.25 by a recorded vote of 59 to 14, with 52 abstentions (see para. 33,draft resolution E). The voting was as follows..

rn favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angora, Bahrain, Benin, Burgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, Congo, Cuba,q/prus' czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Dominican Repubric,
Ecuador, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, rndia, rndonesia, rran (rsramic Repubric
of) r Irag, Jordan, Kenya, Lao peoplers Democratic Republic,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mali, Mexico, Mongolia,
Mozanbique, Nicaragua, panama, poland, eatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Sao Tlome and Principe, Sierra Leone, Suriname, Syrian Arab
Republicr Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, trgandar Ukrainian soviet
socialist Republic, lrnion of soviet sociarist Republics, trnited
Arab Enirates, trnited Repubric of cameroonr !nited Repubric of
Tanzania, Viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

A/37/662
English
Page 10

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Angola, Greece, Guatemala, Israel, Morocco, Saudi Arabia,
Somalia, Sudan, Uruguay, zaire.

E. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.24

15. on 15 November, Afghanistan, CUba, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic
Republic, India, Japan, the Lao People's Democratic Republic, Mongolia and
Mozambique submitted a draft resolution (A/C.l/37/L.24), entitled "Disarmament
Week", subsequently also sponsored by the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
the Congo, Mali, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and Viet-Nam, which was
introduced by the representative of Mongolia at the 34th meeting, on 16 November.

16. At its 39th meeting, on 22 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.24 without a vote (see para. 33, draft resolution D).

F. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.25

17. On 15 November, Afghanistan, Angola, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, CUba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, the German
Democratic Republic, Grenada, Hungary, Jordan, the LaoPeople's Democratic
Republic, Mongolia, Mozambique, Poland, Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, the Syrian
Arab Republic, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, VietNam and Zimbabwe
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prohibition of the nuclear neutron weapon"
(A/C.l/37/L.25) , which was introduced by the representative of the German
Democratic Republic at the 34th meeting, on 16 November.

18. At its 39th meeting, on 22 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.25 by a recorded vote of 59 to 14, with 52 abstentions (see para. 33,
draft resolution E). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Benin, Bulgaria, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Chad, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Lao people's Democratic Republic,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mali, Mexico, Mongolia,
Mozambique, Nicaragua, Panama, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Sierra Leone, suriname, Syrian Arab
Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zambia, Zimbabwe.

/ ...



A/37/662
English
Page 11

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Fbderal Republic of,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourgr New Zealandr Portugal' Turkey,
tlnited Kingdon of Great Britain and titcrthern freland, ttnited
States of Anerica.

Abstainingr Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bhutan' Brazil, Burma'
Chile, Colombia, Denmark, Djibouti, lpypt, Iiji, Greece,
Guatemala, Guyana, Iceland, Ireland, Ivory Coast' Jamaica'
Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Malawi, Ma1aysia, Maldives' Iqorocco'
Nepal, Netherlands, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines' Saint Lucia, Saudi
Arabia, Singapore, Somaliar Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden,
Ttrailand, Ttrnisia' Upper Volta, Uruguay' Venezuela, Zaire.

G. Draf t resolution A,/C;1,/37rlli25 and Rev;1

19. On 15 November, Algeria, Argentina, the Bahamas, Cuba, Eeuador' E9ypt,
Ethiopia, Ghana, fndia, Indonesia, JS (Islamic Republic of)' Nigeria, !g!!g!g'
Peru, Ronania, Sri.Lanka, the Sudan, Venezuela, Viet.Nam, Yugoslavia and Zaire
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Implementation of the recommendations and
decisions of the tenth special session" (A/C.L/37/L.26), subseguently also
sponsored by Bangladesh, g!g, the @ngo, Czechoslovakia, the Gernan Democratic
Republic, tiberia, Ir{adagascar, IvlonEoliar Qatar and Sierra Leone, which was
introduced by the representative of Yugoslavia at the 36th meeting, on 18 lilovember.

20. On 22 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.L/37/L.26/Rev.I) ' in which the following changes 

had been made:

(a) The fifth preambular paragraph, which read:

,"99!yi!€ that one of the most urgent tasks is to halt the arms race and
to undertake concrete measures of disarmament, particularly nuclear
disarmament, and that, in this respect, the nuclear-weapon States and other
mititarily significant States have special obtigations and responsibilitiesr"

was revised to read:

"Convinced that one of the most urgent tasks is to halt and reverse the
arms race and to undertake concrete measures of disarmament, particularly
nuclear disarmament, and that, in this respect, the nuclear-lteaPon States and
other militarily significant States have the primary responsibilityr"

(b) At the end of the preambular part, a neru preambular paragraph was added,
which read:

"E3!!!19. the commitment of States undertaken in various international
agreements to negotiate on disarmament measures, in part,icular on nuclear
d isarmament,It

A/37/662
English
Page 11

Against: Australia, Belgium, canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, New Zealand, portugal, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and NOrthern Ireland, United
States of America.

Abstaining: Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma,
Chile, Colombia, Denmark, Djibouti, Egypt, Fiji, Greece,
Guatemala, Guyana, Iceland, Ireland, Ivory Coast, Jamaica,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Morocco,
Nepal, Netherlands, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Saint Lucia, Saudi
Arabia, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden,
Thailand, Tunisia, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zaire.

G. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.26 and Rev.l

19. On 15 November, Algeria, Argentina, the Bahamas, Cuba, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) ,Nigeria, Pakistan,
Peru, Romania, Sri Lanka, the SUdan, Venezuela, VietNam, Yugoslavia and Zaire
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Implementation of the recommendations and
decisions of the tenth special session" (A/C.l/37/L.26), subsequently also
sponsored by Bangladesh, Benin, the Oongo, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic
Republic, Liberia, Madagascar, Mongolia, Qatar and Sierra Leone, which was
introduced by the representative of Yugoslavia at the 36th meeting, on 18 NOvember.

20. On 22 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C. 1/37/L.26/Rev. 1) , in which the following changes had been made:

(a) The fifth preambular paragraph, which read:

."COnvinced that one of the most urgent tasks is to halt the arms race and
to undertake concrete measures of disarmament, particularly nuclear
disarmament, and that, in this respect, the nuclear-weapon States and other
militarily significant States have special obligations and responsibilities,"

was revised to read:

"Convinced that one of the most urgent tasks is to halt and reverse the
arms race and to undertake concrete measures of disarmament, particularly
nuclear disarmament, and that, in this respect, the nuclear-weapon states and
other militarily significant States have the primary responsibility,"

(b) At the end of the preambular part, a new preambular paragraph was added,
which read:

"Recalling the commitment of States undertaken in various international
agreements to negotiate on disarmament measures, in particular on nuclear
disarmament,"

/ ...



A/37 /662
English
Page 12

(c) Operative paragraph 3, which read:

'3. Invites aII States, particularty nuclear-weapon States and
especially-Ei6E-"mong them which possess the most important nuclear arsenals,to undertake urgent measures with a view to implementing the recommendations
and decisions of the first special session on disarmament and to fulfilling
the priority tasks set forth in its Programme of Action as weII as in theconcluding Document of the second speciit session on disannamenti,,

was revised to read:
u3' rnvites all states, particularly nuclear-weapon states andespeciallyTfi"Famong them which possess the most important nuclear arsenals,to undertake urgent measures with a view to imprementing the recommendations

and decisions of the first speciar session on disarmament concerning nucreardisarmamentr os well as to fulfilling the priority tasks set forth in its
Programme of Action and in the ooncluding f,bcument of the second special
session on disarmament;',

(d) In operative paragraph 4, the words ,'in good faith" were inserted betweenthe words rtdisarnament negotiations" and 'at arl levers,r.
2L' At its 44th neeting, on 26 Novenber, the conmittee adopted draft resolutionA/c'V37/L'26/Rev-l by a recorded vote of ll4 to none, with r0 abstentions(see para. 33, draft resolution F) . The voting h,as as forrows..

rn favour! Afghanistan, AIgeria, Angola, Argentina, Austraria, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil,Bulgaria' Burma, Burundi, Byerorussian soviet sociarist Republlc,
canada, centrar African Republic, chad, chire, china, corombia,
Oongo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Denmark,Djiboutir Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Icelandr India, fndonesia,Iran (fslamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica,Jordan' Kenya, Kuwait, Lao peoplers Democratic Repubric, Lebanon,Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Marawi, Malaysia,Irlali' lvlalta, Mauritania, Ir4exico, Mongolia, Morocco, r{ozambique,
Nepal, New zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, llcrway, Oman,Pakistan, paraguay, peru, philippines, poland, portugal, eatar,Romania, Rvrandar sao Tome and principe, saudi Arabia, senegar,Sierra Leone, Singaporer Somaliar Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
suriname, $reden, syrian Arab Repubric, Thairand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobagor Tunisiar tlgandar Ukrainian soviet sociarist Repubric,
ttnion of soviet socialist Repubrics, trnited Arab Enirates, trnited
Republic of Cameroon, ppig"d Republic of Tanzania, pruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia, ZaLre, Zambia.

Against: Ilone.
Abstaining: Belgiulllr France, Germany, Federar Republic of, rtaryr Japan,

Luxembourg, Netherrands, Turkey, trnited Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Irelandr trnited States of America.

A/37/662
English
Page 12

(c) Operative paragraph 3, which read:

"3. Invites all States, particularly nuclear-weapon States and
especially those among them which possess the most important nuclear arsenals,
to undertake urgent measures with a view to implementing the recommendations
and decisions of the first special session on disarmament and to fulfilling
the priority tasks set forth in its programme of Action as well as in the
Concluding Document of the second special session on disarmament;"

was revised to read:

"3. Invites all States, particularly nuclear-weapon States and
especially those among them which possess the most important nuclear arsenals,
to undertake urgent measures with a view to implementing the recommendations
and decisions of the first special session on disarmament concerning nuclear
disarmament, as well as to fulfilling the priority tasks set forth in its
Programme of Action and in the OOncluding Document of the second special
session on disarmament)"

Cd) In operative paragraph 4, the words "in good faith" were inserted between
the words "disarmament negotiations" and "at all levels".

21. At its 44th meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.26/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 114 to none, with 10 abstentions
(see para. 33, draft resolution F). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet SOcialist Republic,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Oongo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, New zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, oman,
Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Sao TOme and principe, Saudi Arabia, senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, TOgo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Vganda, Vkrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Vnion of Soviet SOcialist Republics, Vnited Arab Emirates, Vnited
Republic of Cameroon, Vnited Republic of Tanzania, Vruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Turkey, Dnited Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, Vnited States of America.

I··.



A/37 /662
English
lage 13

H. DtafE resoluELon A/C;L/37/L'27

22. On 15 November, Algeria, Argentina, Braz:L!, @, Cuba, Fgypt, Ethigpia'
Ghana, rndia, rndotesja-lltan ry), -Mexico, l{igeria, 

Paklstan'
g6 n"oil.Tu,@,EA S"d.", s-.d"., Velez.uelq, YYggs1avia and Saire -.
fittea a araEGotution entitrea "neport of the committee on Disarmamentrl
(A/C.L/37/L.27), subsequently also sponsored by Bangladesh, Ben:!g, golonPigr the

-ggs., the German Democratic Republic, I'{alagascar, the trniteq Bepublie-of 
'ealngroon

;d-yurosla y tt,e repiesentative of Yugoslavia at the-
35th meeting, on 17 l'Iovember.

23. At its 42nd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.27 by a recorded vote of ll3 to none, with 17 abstentions (see para' 33'
draf t resolution G) . The voting h'as as follows.'

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, BrazLL, Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet socialist RePublic, central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, cuba, cyprus, czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen' Djibouti,
Erominican RepuUlic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia' Fiji' Finland,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of),Iraq'Ireland'Israel'Ivorycoast,Jamaica,Jordan'Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanonr Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, I{adagascar, Ir{alawi, MalaySia, Ivlaldives,
t"tali, Malta, Mauritania, !4exico, Mongolia, Morocco, !'lozambigue,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama' Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania'
Rvsanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka'
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic' Thailand' Togo'
1lrinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, trganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, trnion of soviet socialist Republics, ttnited Arab
Ernirates, trnited Republic of Cameroon, trnited Republic of
Tanzania, trruguay, venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, YUgOSlaVia, zaLre,
Zambi a.

Against:

Abstai.ning:

llone.

Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Francet Germanyt Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands' New
Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Turkey, ttnited Klngdorn of Great
Britain and Northern lreland, lrnited states of America.

I. Draft resolution A/A:L/37/L.42

24. On 17 November, BeIgium, Czeehoslovakia, SSLP!,, GermanY' Fqderal Republig'9f'
Liberia, Pakistan, ::b.ii!::d a draft resolution
entitled ',Report of the pisarmameffi-mmission" (ay'c.V37/L.42) , subsequently also
sponsored by the Bahamas, Ecuador, Morocco and Zaire, which was introduced by the
representative of-peru at the 36th meeting, on 18 November.

A/37/662
English
Page 13

H. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.27

22. On 15 November, Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, Burma, Cuba, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Ghana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Peru, Romania, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Sweden, venezuela, Yugoslavia and Zaire
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Report of the Committee on Disarmament"
(A/C.l/37/L.27), subsequently also sponsored by Bangladesh, Benin, Colombia, the
Congo, the German Democratic Republic, Madagascar, the Fnited Republic ofCameroon
and Yugoslavia, which was introduced by the representative of Yugoslavia at the-
35th meeting, on 17 November.

23. At its 42nd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.27 by a recorded vote of 113 to none, with 17 abstentions (see para. 33,
draft resolution G). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Sao Tome and principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Vganda, Vkrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Vnion of Soviet Socialist Republics, Vnited Arab
Emirates, vnited Republic of Cameroon, Vnited Republic of
Tanzania, Vruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Turkey, Vnited Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, Vnited States of America.

I. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.42

24. On 17 November, Belgium, Czechoslovakia, Egypt, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Liberia, Pakistan, ~, Foland, Sweden and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Report of the Disarmament Commission" (A/C.l/37/L.42), subsequently also
sponsored by the Bahamas, Ecuador, Morocco and zaire, which was introduced by the
representative of Peru at the 36th meeting, on 18 November.

/ ...



A/37 /662
English
Page 14

25' At its 44th meeting, on 26 November, the committ.ee adopted draft resolutionA/c'L/37/L.42 by a recorded vote of 125 to none (see para. 33, draft resolution H).
The voting vras as follows;

fn favour.- Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil,
Burgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet socialist Repubric,
canada' central African Repubricr chad, chile, china, colorbia,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France' Gabon, German Democrat,ic nepublic, Gerrnany,
Federal Repubric of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemara, Guinea, Guyina,
Hungary, Iceland, India, fndonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
frag, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Repubtic, Lebanon, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Marawi, Maraysia,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, l4exicol Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
lGpal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
lbrway, Oman, pakistan, panama, papua New Guinea, paraguay, peru,
Philippines, Foland, Fortugal, eatar, Ronania, Rr,vanda, Sao Tome
and Principe, saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Ianka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Repubric' Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda' ttkrainian soviet socialist Republic, (rnion of soviet
Socialist Republicsr gnited Arab Enirates, tlnited Kingdom of
Great Britain and llcrthern rrerand, United Republic of cameroon,trnited Republic of Tanzania, Upi1.d States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zarnbia.
lbne.Against:

J. Draft" Tesolution. A/C; t/31,/L; 45
26. On 17 Novemberr_ Algeria, Arggntinar pangladesh, Egypt, India, Mexieo,
*'riS-ta-9, Somania, venezuela ana lrugos1er!_a sut6;iEea a arafEEsolution entitled
"Prevention of nucrlaiwar" (A/c.Vn/L.45), subseguentry arso sponsored by Benin,
Pr?2i1, 9olor.nbiar.euu99t,, @sta Rice, the cerpan Democratic Republic, tndinFa,
g-tir and,sri LanFa, which was introaucea u!-IIE representative of Argentina at the36th meeting, on 18 lrlovember.
27' At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the committee adopted draft resolution
A/g',L/37/L.45 by a recorded vote of 111 to none, with 17 abstentions (see para. 33,draft resolution I). The voting h,as as followsl

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi' Byelorussian soviet sociarist nepublic, central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemenl Djibouti,
Doninican Republic, Ecuador, E9ypt, Fiji, Finland, Gabonr German

In favour:

A/37/662
English
Page 14

25. At its 44th meeting, on 26 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.42 by a recorded vote of 125 to none (see para. 33, draft resolution H).
The voting was as follows:

In favour:

!lgainst:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, CUba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, France, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, Netherlands, New zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao TOme
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and TObago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Vganda, Vkrainian SOviet Socialist Republic, Vnion of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Vnited Arab Emirates, Vnited Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Vnited Republic of Cameroon,
vnited Republic of Tanzania, Vnited States of America, Vruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

None.

J. Draft-resolution A/C.l/37/L.45

26. On 17 November, Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Egypt, India, Mexico,
Pakistan, Romania, Venezuela and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution entitled
"Prevention of nuclear war" (A/C.l/37/L.45), subsequently also sponsored by Benin,
Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Costa Rica, the German Democratic Republic, Indonesia,
Qatar and Sri Lanka, which was introduced by the representative of Argentina at the
36th meeting, on 18 November.

27. At its 43rd meeting, on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.45 by a recorded vote of 111 to none, with 17 abstentions (see para. 33,
draft resolution I). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German

/ ...



A/37/662
nnglish
Page 15

Democratic nepublic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana'
Hungaryr India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Ivory Coast, Janaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Iao
Peop1e's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta'
Ir{auritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal'
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, PakistAn' Pqnama' Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay' Peru, Philippines, Poland' Qatar' Romania,
Rvrranda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
$obago, Tunisia, tlganda, ttkrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
trnion of Soviet Socialist Republics, ttnited Arab Bnirates, United
Republic of Cameroon' United Republic of Tanzania, [rruguay,
Venezuelar Viet Nam, Yemenr Yugoslavia, zaLret Zanbia.

Against: l,bne.

Abstaining! Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Portugal' Turkey, t'iniLed Kingdom of Great
Britain and l.lorthern Ireland, ttnited States of America.

K. DrafE resol-uLlon A/C:L/37/Li47

28. On 17 November, Cuba and the German'Denoeratie Republic submitted a draft
resolution entitled "It)n-use of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear lvar"
(A/c.L/37/L.47|,subseguent1ya1sosponsoredbyRomaniaand@,whichwas
introduced by the representative of the German Democratic Republic at the
37th meeting, on 19 November.

29. At its 4lst meeting, on 23 November, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.47 by a recorded vote of 87 to 19, with I8 abstentions (see Para. 33,
draft resolution J) . The voting was as follows.'

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh'
Benin, Bhutan, BoIivia, Brazil, Bulgariar' Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, Colombia' Congo' Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Dominican Republic' Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, German Democratic RePublicr Ghana,
Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Irag, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers
Democratic Republic, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
MaIi, Mauritania, tr{exico, Mongolia' Morocco, Mozambigue, Nepal'
Nicaragua, Nigeria, qnan, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Polandr Qatar,
Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri tanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic' Thailand, To9o,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, trganda, ttkrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, ttnion of Soviet Socialist Republics' ttnited Arab
Bnirates' United Republic of Cameroon' United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zambia.

/...

A/37/662
English
Page 15

Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Ivory COast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
people's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Pqnama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Sao Tome and principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
zealand, Norway, Portugal, Turkey, united Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

K. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.47

28. On 17 November, Cuba and the German Democratic Republic submitted a draft
resolution entitled "Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear war"
(A/C.l/37/L.47), subsequently also sponsored by Romania and Viet-Nam, which was
introduced. by the representative of the German Democratic Republic at the
37th meeting, on 19 November.

29. At its 41st meeting, on 23 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.47 by a recorded vote of 87 to 19, with 18 abstentions (see para. 33,
draft resolution J). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria,' Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, DOminican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, united Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zambia.

/ ...



^/ 
37 /662

English
Page 16

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Gernany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, fsrael, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Nevr Zealand, Norway, portugal, Spain, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern freland, United States of
America.

Abstainings Austria, Bahamas, china, Finland, Greece, Guatenala, Lebanon,
l4alawi, Malaysia, papua New Guinea, paraguay, philippines,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Somalia, Uruguay, zaire.

L. Draft resolution A/C.L/37/L.55

30. on 18 November, Argentina, Austria, the Bahanas, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bolivia,
Brazil, 91naaa, the Central African Republic, Chile, Colonbia, eculdor, Egypt,
Lt?lg.'-Ghana, Greece, rndia, rndonesia, &.U, Mexico, Norvray, pakisEan, peru, the
Plrilipqine-s, poflqqal, Romania, senegal, the gra.", s'eden,nogo,lq4isia, rurk"[,
the United Republic of Carneroon;na vuqoslavig submitted a draft resofution-
entitled nllonitoring of international disarmament agreements and strengthening of
international security: proposal for the establishment of an international
satellite rnonitoring agency" (A/C.I/37/L.55), subsequently also sponsored by
Algeria, Costa Rica, Liberia and Malta, which was introduced by the representative
of France at the 39th meeting, on 22 November.
31. At the 4lst meeting, on 23 November, the representative of France submitted an
oral revision by which a new operative paragraph 4 was added, reading as follows:

n4. Requests the Secretary-g6peral to take the necessary steps to have
the report:ep-roeuced as a united Nations publication to ensure that it
receives the widest possible disseminationl".

32. At its 43rd rneeting on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.55' as orally revised by a recorded vote of 109 to 9, with 8 abstentions
(see para. 33, draft resolution K). The voting was as foll_ows:

In favour: AIgeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, BrazLL, Burma,
Burundi, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatenala, Guinea, Guyana,
Iceland, fndia, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), fraq,
Ireland, fsrael, Italy, fvory Coast, Janaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mal_i, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zea1and,
Nicaragua2 Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, panama, papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, peru, philippines, portugal, eatar,
Romania, Rvlanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lankal Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab

A/37/662
English
Page 16

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, united States of
America.

Abstaining: Austria, Bahamas, China, Finland, Greece, Guatemala, Lebanon,
Malawi, Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Somalia, Uruguay, zaire.

L. Draft resolution A/C.l/37/L.55

30. on 18 November, Argentina, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bolivia,
Brazil, canada, the Central African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador, Egypt,
France, Ghana, Greece, India, Indonesia, Italy, Mexico, Norway, pakistan, Peru, the
Philippines, Portugal, ROmania, senegal, the Sudan, Sweden, ~' Tunisia, Turkey,
the united Republic of Cameroon and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution
entitled "Monitoring of international disarmament agreements and strengthening of
international security~ proposal for the establishment of an international
satellite monitoring agency" (A/C.l/37/L.55), subsequently also sponsored by
Algeria, Costa Rica, Liberia and Malta, which was introduced by the representative
of France at the 39th meeting, on 22 November.

31. At the 41st meeting, on 23 November, the representative of France submitted an
oral revision by which a new operative paragraph 4 was added, reading as follows:

"4. Requests the Secretary-General to take the necessary steps to have
the report reproduced as a united Nations publication to ensure that it
receives the widest possible dissemination;".

32. At its 43rd meeting on 24 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/37/L.55, as orally revised by a recorded vote of 109 to 9, with 8 abstentions
(see para. 33, draft resolution K). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma,
Burundi, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab

/ ...



Against:

A/37 /662
English
Page 17

nepublic, Thailand, Irogo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, United Arab Emlrates, United Kingdon of Great Britain and
Norttrern freland, ttnited Republic of Cameroon, United nepublic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuelal Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaite, Zanbia.

Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Repubtic, Czechoslovakia,
German Dernocratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist nepublicr Union of Soviet Socialist nePublics.

Abstainings Afghanistan, Angola, Cuba, Clprus, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Mozambigue, Itnited States of America, Viet Nam.

III. NECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMUITTEE

33. 1[?re First Connittee reconmrends to the eieneral Assenbly the adoption of the
following draf t resolutions:

Review of the implernentation of the recolrunend?tions .a4d decisions

A

Review of the inplementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session

ltre General Assemb1y,

Recalting that at its twelfth special session, the first special session
devoted to disarmament, it approved by consensus a declaration; contained in the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, in which,
inter alia, it proclaimed that, in order effectively to discharge the central role
ffi p-rirnary responsibility in the sphere of disarnament which belong to the United
Nations in accordance with its Charter, "the United Nations should be kept
appropriately informed of aII steps in thls field, whether unilateral' bilateral,
regional or nrultilateral, without prejudice to the progress of negotiationstr, 5/

Reealling also that at the twelfth special session of the General Assembly,
ttresE6Fsessiondevotedtodisarmament,Memberstatesreiterated"their
solemn conunitmenti to implement the final Document' the validity of which received
their nunanimous and categorical reaffirmation", 5/

Noting that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of
emerica have been carrying out at Geneva two series of bilateral nuclear arms
negotiations, begun on 30 November 1981 and 29 June 1982 respectively,

Resolution S-LO/2, para. 27.

A/S-L2/32, Pata. 62.

2/

6/

A/37/662
English
Page 17

Republic, Thailand, TOgo, Trinidad and TObago, TUnisia, TUrkey,
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, united Ringdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, united Republic of Cameroon, united Republic of
Tanzania, uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zambia.

Against: Bulgaria, Byelorussian soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia,
German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian
SOviet SOcialist Republic, union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Angola, Cuba, Cyprus, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Mozambique, united States of America, viet Nam.

IIl. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

33. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session

A

Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session

The General Assembly,

Recalling that at its twelfth special session, the first special session
devoted to disarmament, it approved by consensus a declaration, contained in the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, in which,
inter alia, it proclaimed that, in order effectively to discharge the central role
and primary responsibility in the sphere of disarmament which belong to the United
Nations in accordance with its Charter, "the united Nations should be kept
appropriately informed of all steps in this field, whether unilateral, bilateral,
regional or multilateral, without prejudice to the progress of negotiations", ~

Recalling also that at the twelfth special session of the General Assembly,
the second special session devoted to disarmament, Member States reiterated "their
solemn commitment" to implement the Final Document, the validity of which received
their "unanimous and categorical reaffirmation", ~

Noting that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of
America have been car rying out at Geneva two series of bilateral nuclear arms
negotiations, begun on 30 November 1981 and 29 June 1982 respectively,

21 Resolution S-10/2, para. 27.

~ A/S-12/32, para. 62.

/ ...



^/37 
/662

English
Page 18

1. Requests the @vernments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and
the tnited States of America to transmit to the Secretar!'u-Genera1, not later than
I Septorrber 1983, a joint report or two separate reports on the stage reached in
their above-nentioned negotiations, for consideration by the General Assembly at
its thirtFeighth sessionl

2. Requests also the two negotiating parties to bear constantly in nind that
not only their national interests but also the vital interests of all the peoples
of the wortrd are at stake in this question;

3. Decides to include in the
an item enffiF'Biraterar nuclear

provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth sesslon
arms negotiations".

B

fnternational co-operation for disarnament

The General Assenbly,

Stressing again the urgent need for an active and sustained effort to
intensify the comprehensive implementation of the recormendations and decisions
unanimously adopted at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted
to disarnanent as contained in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assenbly, Z/ and confirmed in the concluding Docunent of the Trrelfth
Special Sesslon of the @neral Assenrbly, 9.,/ tne second special session devoted todisarnament,

Recalling the Declaration on fnternational Co-operation for Disarmanent of
11 oeeenber 1979 9/ and General Assenbly resolution 36/92 D of 9 Decernber 1981,

Deeply concerned over the danger of a nuclear tdar, the continued arms race and
the danger of unleashing a further, qualitativel-y new round of the arms race, all
of which have an extraordinarily negative impact on the international situation,

Stressing the vital irportance of eliminating the danger of a nuclear war,
halting the nuclear-arms race and attaining disarmament, particularly in the
nuclear field, for the preservation of peace and the strengthening of international
security,

Bearing ln mind
effective disarmarent
material resources to
States, in particular

the vital interest of all nations in the attainment of
lnasures, which would release considerable financial and
be used for the econqnic and social developrnent of all
developing countries,

z/

9/

v

Resolution S-LO/2.

A/s-L2/32.

Resolution 34/88.

A/37/662
English
Page 18

1. Requests the Governments of the Union of soviet Socialist Republics and
the united States of America to transmit to the Secretary-General, not later than
1 September 1983, a joint report or two separate reports on the stage reached in
their above-mentioned negotiations, for consideration by the General Assembly at
its thirty-eighth session;

2. Requests also the two negotiating parties to bear constantly in mind that
not only their national interests but also the vital interests of all the peoples
of the world are at stake in this question;

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
an item entitled "Bilateral nuclear arms negotiations".

B

International co-operation for disarmament

The General Assembly,

Stressing again the urgent need for an active and sustained effort to
intensify the comprehensive implementation of the recommendations and decisions
unanimously adopted at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted
to disarmament as contained in the Final DOcument of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly, 7/ and confirmed in the ConclUding Document of the Twelfth
Special Session of the-General Assembly, 8/ the second special session devoted to
disarmament, -

Recalling the Declaration on International Co-operation for Disarmament of
11 December 1979 ~/ and General Assembly resolution 36/92 D of 9 December 1981,

Deeply concerned over the danger of a nuclear war, the continued arms race and
the danger of unleashing a further, qualitatively new round of the arms race, all
of which have an extraordinarily negative impact on the international situation,

Stressing the vital importance of eliminating the danger of a nuclear war,
halting the nuclear-arms race and attaining disarmament, particularly in the
nuclear field, for the preservation of peace and the strengthening of international
security,

Bearing in mind the vital interest of all nations in the attainment of
effective disarmament measures, which would release considerable financial and
material resources to be used for the economic and social development of all
States, in particular developing countries,

y Resolution S-10/2.

y A/S-12/32.

!I Resolution 34/88.

/ ...



A/37/662
EngIiEh
Page 19

Considering the itportance of manifestations of popular Peace and anti-nuclear
movonents-Egainst the arms race and the escalation of the danger of nuclear war
throughout tfie worLd,

Convinced of the need to strengthen constructive international ceoperatlon
Uasea--iiEe-political goodwill of States, for successful negotiations on
disarmanent, in aceordance with the Final Docrment of the Tenth.Special Session,

Enphasizing the duty of States to co-operate for the preservation of
international peace and security, in accordance with the Chartef of the United
Nations, as confirmed in the peclaration on Principles of International Law
concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the
Charter of the gnited Nations of 24 October 1970, I0/ the obligation to co-operate
actively and constructively for the attainment of the aims of dlsarnament being an
indispensable part of that dutY,

Expresslng the conviction that concrete manifestations of political 9oodwi11,
inctulEg-Gterat r€asures, such as an obligation not to make flrst use of
nuclear weapons, improve conditions for resolving dlsarnament issues in a spirit of
co-operation anong Statest

Taking into consideration the central role and prinary resPonsibility of the
tlnitefortsandinsupportinganddeve1opingactive
ccoperation among States ailned at the solution of disarmament problems,

1. Ca[s upon all Statesr. in inplernenting the Final DocurEnt of the Tenth
Special seffii-of tfre General Assenrbly, the first special session devoted to
disarmament, to nake active use of the principles and ideas contained ln the
Declaration on fnternational Co-operation for Disarmanent by actively particiPating
in disarnament negotiations, with a view to achieving concrete results, and by
bonducting them on the basis of eguality and undiminished security and the notruse
of force in,international relations, refraining at the same time, from developing
new directions and channels of the arms racei

2. Declares that the elaboration and dissemination of any doctrines and
concepts jGEIffig the unleashlng of nuclear war endanger world peace, lead to
deterioration of the international situation and further intensiflcation of the
arms race and are detrlmental to thb generally recognlzed necesslty of
international co-operation for disarmarentt

3. Declares that the use of force in lnternational relations as well as in
attenpts toE;G;t the fuIl inrplementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonia1 Countrles and Peoples f1,/ is a phenonenon Lnconpatible
with the ideas of international co-oPeration for disarnanent;

g/ Resolution 2625 (XXV) , annex.

g/ Resolution 1514 (xv).

A/37/662
English
Page 19

Considering the importance of manifestations of popular peace and anti-nuclear
movements against the arms race and the escalation of the danger of nuclear war
throughout the world, .

Convinced of the need to strengthen constructive international co-operation
based on the political goodwill of states, for successful negotiations on
disarmament, in accordance with the Final Document of the Tenth.Special Session,

Emphasizing the duty of States to co-operate for the preservation of
international peace and security, in accordance with the Chartek of the united
Nations, as confirmed in the Declaration on principles of International Law
concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with the
Charter of the united Nations of 24 October 1970, 10/ the obligation to co-operate
actively and constructively for the attainment of the aims of disarmament being an
indispensable part of that duty,

Expressing the conviction that concrete manifestations of political goodwill,
including unilateral measures, such as an obligation not to make first use of
nuclear weapons, improve conditions for resolving disarmament issues in a spirit of
co-operation among States,

Taking into consideration the central role and primary responsibility of the
united Nations in combining efforts and in supporting and developing active
co-operation among States aimed at the solution of disarmament problems,

1. calls upon all states" in implementing the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, the first special session devoted to
disarmament, to make active use of the principles and ideas contained in the
Declaration on International Co-operation for Disarmament by actively participating
in disarmament negotiations, with a view to achieving concrete results, and by
conducting them on the basis of equality and undiminished security and the non-use
of force in-international relations, refraining at the same time, from developing
new directions and channels of the arms raceJ

2. Declares that the elaboration and dissemination of any doctrines and
concepts justifying the unleashing of nuclear war endanger world peace, lead to
deterioration of the international situation and further intensification of the
arms race and are detrimental to the generally recognized necessity of
international co-operation for disarmamentJ

3. Declares that the use of force in international relations as well as in
attempts to prevent the full implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples 11/ is a phenomenon incompatible
with the ideas of international co-operation for-disarmament,

10/ Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.

11/ Resolution 1514 (XV).

I ...



A/37/662
English
Page 20

4' APPPals to states which are members of nilitary or political groupings topronpte, on the basis of the Final Docunent, in the sptrit of internationalceoperation for disarmament, the gradual mutual linritation of military actlvitiesof these groupings, thus creating conditions for their dissolutioni
5' calls uPon all Member States to cultivate and disserninate, particularlyin connectlliTi-tn the world Disarmment carnpaign, the ideas of internationalceoperation for disarmanent, inler alia through their educational systems, massredia and cultural pollcies;

^ 9' . .calls 
uPon the thited Nations Educatlonal, scientific and culturalorganlzatLon to consider' in order further to npbilize world public opinion onbehalf of disarrnament, measures airned at strengthening the ideas of internationarco-operation for disarmament through research, education, information,

ccrnmunication and culture.

c

lWclear weapons in aII aspects
The general Assenbly,

- 
Recalling that at its twelfth special session, the second special sessiondevoted to disarmanent, it expressed its profound preoccupation over the danger ofwart in particular nuelear war, the prevetrtion of which renalns the nost acute andurgent task of the present day,

. .Reaffir$ing oneg again that nuclear weapons pose the mostnanKlnd and its survival and that it is therefore essentiaL to
dlsarmament and the ccnprete er.imination of nuclear weapons,

Reaf.firninq'?lso that all nuclear-weapon states, in particular those whichpossess the most inportant nuclear arsenals, bear a special responsibiltty for thefulfilnent of the task of achievlng the goais of nuclear disarrnament,
Stressing again that

sufficient to destroy all
results which nucleai war

. -.RecalLing that at its tenth special session, the first speciar session devotedto disarnanentr it decided that effective rneasures of nuclear disarmament and theprevention of nuclear war had the highest priority and that it was essential tohalt and reverse the nuclear-arms race in arr its aspects in order to avert thedanger of war involving nucLear r{eapons,

.neg?]liJtg fulthel that, in its resolution 3SfL52 B of t2 Decenber 19g6, itnoted with aLarrn the increased risk of a nuclear catastrotr*re associated both withthe intensiflcation of the nuclear-arms race and with the adoption of the newdoctrlne of linited or partial use of nuclear weapons giving iise to allusions ofthe adnissibility and acceptability of a nuelear confrict,

serious threat to
proceed with nuclear

existing arsenals of nuclear weapons arone are more thanlife on earth, and bearing in nind the devastating
would have on belligerents and non-belligerents ali.ke,

J

A/37/662
English
Page 20

4. Appeals to States which are members of military or political groupings to
promote, on the basis of the Final DOcument, in the spirit of international
co-operation for disarmament, the gradual mutual limitation of military activities
of these groupings, thus creating conditions for their dissolutionJ

5. Calls upon all Member States to cultivate and disseminate, particularly
in connection with the World Disarmament campaign, the ideas of international
co-operation for disarmament, inter alia through their educational systems, mass
media and cultural policiesJ

6. Calls upon the united Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization to consider, in order further to mobilize world public opinion on
behalf of disarmament, measures aimed at strengthening the ideas of international
co-operation for disarmament through research, education, information,
communication and culture.

C

NUclear weapons in all aspects

The General Assembly,

Recalling that at its twelfth special session, the second special session
devoted to disarmament, it expressed its profound preoccupation over the danger of
war, in particular nuclear war, the prevention of which remains the most acute and
urgent task of the present day,

Reaffirming once again that nuclear weapons pose the most serious threat to
mankind and its survival and that it is therefore essential to proceed with nuclear
disarmament and the complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

Reaffirming-also that all nuclear-weapon States, in particular those which
possess the most important nuclear arsenals, bear a special responsibility for the
fulfilment of the task of achieving the goals of nuclear disarmament,

Stressing again that existing arsenals of nuclear weapons alone are more than
sufficient to destroy all life on earth, and bearing in mind the devastating
results which nuclear war would have on belligerents and non-belligerents alike,

Recalling that at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted
to disarmament, it decided that effective measures of nuclear disarmament and the
prevention of nuclear war had the highest priority and that it was essential to
halt and reverse the nuclear-arms race in all its aspects in order to avert the
danger of war involving nuclear weapons,

Recalli~further that, in its resolution 35/152 B of 12 December 1980, it
noted with alarm the increased risk of a nuclear catastrophe associated both with
the intensification of the nuclear-arms race and with the adoption of the new
doctrine of limited or partial use of nuclear weapons giving rise to allusions of
the admissibility and acceptability of a nuclear conflict,

I ...



^/37 
/662

English
Page 2I

ti&cting tdith alarn that to the doctrine of a l-inited nuclear star !f,as later
added the concept of a Protracted nuclear tdar'

l.loting also with alar4 ttrat these dangerous doctrines lead to a new twist in
tt'es@,whichmayserious1yhamperthereachingofagreonent
on nuclear disarrnament,

Stressing the urgent need for the cessation of the develotrrment and deplolment
or neffilEs and systems of nuclear weapons as a step on the road to nuclear
disarmament,

Stressing again that priority in disarmament negotiations should be given to
nucl-ear weapon"rfiE referring to paragraphs 49 and 54 of the Final Docunent of the
Tenth Speeial Session of the General Assembly' 12rl

Recalling its resolutions
1l Decenber 1-979, 35/L52 B and
9 Decenber 198I'

33/7I H of 14 Decenber 1978' 34/83 J of
C of L2 December l-980 and 36/92 E of

Noting that the Committee on Disarmament, during its session held in 1982'
aiscu$a-tne question of the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear
disarmament and, in particular, the establishnent of an ad hoc working group for
negotiations on that question'

Regretting, however, that the Connittee on Disarmament was unable to reach
agreeifiGi-Ee establishment of an ad hoc working group for the purpose of
undertaking nultilateral negotiations on the guestion of the cessation of the
nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament,

Considering that efforts will continue to be made in order to enable the
Committee on Disarmament to fulfil its negotiating role with regard to the
cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarnanent' bearing in mind the
high priority accorded to this question in the Fina1 Docurent of the Tenth Special
Session,

Convinced that the Committee on Disarmanent is the most suitable forum for the
conduct of negotiations on nuclear disarnnmenttpreparation and

1. Calls upon the Conunittee on Disarmament to proceed without delay to
negotiati""= "n 

tfr. cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarnament in
accordance with paragraph 50 of the Finat Docunent of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assernbly, and especially to elaborate a nuclear disarnament prograrune'
and to establish for this purpose an ad hoc working group on the cessation of the
nuclear arms race and on nuclear disarmanent;

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
an item .trllffi"Cessation of the nuqlear-arms race and nuclear disarrnament:
retrnrt of the Committee on Disarmament'.

W Resolution S-1-0/2.

A/37/662
English
Page 21

Noting with alarm that to the doctrine of a limited nuclear war was later
added the concept of a protracted nuclear war,

Noting also with alarm that these dangerous doctrines lead to a new twist in
the spiral of the arms race, which may seriously hamper the reaching of agreement
on nuclear disarmament,

Stressing the urgent need for the cessation of the development and deployment
of new types and systems of nuclear weapons as a step on the road to nuclear
disarmament,

Stressing again that priority in disarmament negotiations should be given to
nuclear weapons, and referring to paragraphs 49 and 54 of the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 12/

Recalling its resolutions 33/71 H of 14 December 1978, 34/83 J of
11 December 1979, 35/152 Band C of 12 December 1980 and 36/92 E of
9 December 1981,

Noting that the Committee on Disarmament, during its session held in 1982,
discussed the question of the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear
disarmament and, in particular, the establishment of an ad hoc working group for
negotiations on that question,

Regretting, however, that the Committee on Disarmament was unable to reach
agreement on the establishment of an ad hoc working group for the purpose of
undertaking multilateral negotiations on the question of the cessation of the
nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament,

Considering that efforts will continue to be made in order to enable the
Committee on Disarmament to fulfil its negotiating role with regard to the
cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament, bearing in mind the
high priority accorded to this question in the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session,

Convinced that the Committee on Disarmament is the most suitable forum for the
preparation and conduct of negotiations on nuclear disarmament,

1. Calls upon the Committee on Disarmament to proceed without delay to
negotiations on the cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament in
accordance with paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly, and especially to elaborate a nuclear disarmament programme,
and to establish for this purpose an ad hoc working group on the cessation of the
nuclear arms race and on nuclear disarmament;

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
an item entitled "Cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament:
report of the Committee on Disarmament".

12/ Resolution S-10/2.

I ...



A/37 /662
English
Page 22

D

Disarrnament week

The General- Assembly,

Gravely concerned over the continuing arms race,

Fnphasizing the urgent need for and the importance of wide and continued
mobilization of wo:ld public opinion in support of halting and reversing the armsrace, especially the nuclear-arms race in all its aspgcts,

Notlng gith satisfaction the broad and active support by Governmentslnternationar and national organizations of the decision taken by the GeneralAssembly at its tenth special session regarding the procramation of the weekstarting 24 october, the day of the foundation of the united Nations, as a weekdevoted to fostering the objectives of disarmameni-, W

- Bec_qfling the reconunendations concerning the world Disarnarent campaigncontained in annex v of the concluding pocunent of the Ttrerfth special ses-ion, ra7in particular the recorunendation that, in view of the fact that Disarnament weekhas ptayed a useful role in fostering the objectives of disarmanent, the weekstarting 24 october should continue to be widely observed as Disarmanrent week,

__ -. Recognizing the intrnrtant role which the mass infornation organs of the unitedNatlons can play in prornoting nore active involvenent of governnentar and publicorganizations in Di sarmarnent Week,
1' D<pregses its aPpreciation to all states and international and nationalnon-governmental organizations for their energetic support of and activeparticipation in Disarmament Weeki
2. Takes note with satisfaction of the Secretary-General on

non-governttental
of the report

the follow-up
organizations

neasures undertaken by governnental and
in holding Disarmanent Week; 15,/

3. rnvites aLt states that so desire, in carrying out appropriate measuresat the roclillSEl on the occasion of Disarrnament week, to take into account theelements of the npdel programne for Disarnament week, 16/ prepared by the
Secretary-General-;

Et Resolution S-L}/2, para. LO2.
y/ A/s-L2/32.

E/ A/37/44s and Add.l.

y/ 
^/34/436.

A/37/662
English
Page 22

D

Disarmament week

The General Assembly,

Gravely concerned over the continuing arms race,

Emphasizing the urgent need for and the importance of wide and continued
mobilization of world public opinion in support of halting and reversing the arms
race, especially the nuclear-arms race in all its aspects,

Noting with satisfaction the broad and active support by Governments
international and national organizations of the decision taken by the General
Assembly at its tenth special session regarding the proclamation of the week
starting 24 OCtober, the day of the foundation of the united Nations, as a week
devoted to fostering the objectives of disarmament, 13/

Recalling the recommendations concerning the World Disarmament campaign
contained in annex V of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session, 14/
in part.icular the recommendation that, in view of the fact that Disarmament week-
has played a useful role in fostering the objectives of disarmament, the week
starting 24 OCtober should continue to be widely observed as Disarmament Week,

ReCognizing the important role which the mass information organs of the united
Nations can play in promoting more active involvement of governmental and public
organizations in Disarmament Week,

1. Expresses its appreciation to all States and international and national
non-governmental organizations for their energetic support of and active
participation in Disarmament Week;

2. Takes note with satisfaction of the report of the Secretary-General on
the follow-up measures undertaken by governmental and non-governmental
organizations in holding Disarmament Week; 15/

3. Invites all States that so desire, in carrying out appropriate measures
at the local level on the occasion of Disarmament Week, to take into account the
elements of the model programme for Disarmament Week, 16/ prepared by the
Secretary-General;

13/ Resolution S-10/2, para. 102.

14/ A/S-12/3 2.

15/ A/37/445 and Add.l.

16/ A/34/436.

/ ...



A/37 /662
nnglish
Page 23

4. fnvites the relevant specialized agencies and the International Atomic
Energy Agency to intensify activities, within their areas of conpetence' to
disseninate infornatlon on the conseguences of the arns race and requests them to
inform the Seeretary-General accordinglyl

5. Invites eiovernnents, in accordance with General esselbly resolution
33/7L D of 14 December L978, to inform the Secretary-General of activities
undertaken to pronote the objectives of Disarmanent week;

6. fnvites internationaL norpgovernmental organizations to take an active
part in Di;Fma-nt week and to inforn the secretarli-General of the activities
undertaken;

7. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare annually, within existing
resources, a corfrilation of the information collected by the relevant departnents
of the Secretariat, as well as at United Nations infornatlon centres pertainlng to
the holding of Disarmanent Week in the preceding yeari

8. Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with paragraph 4 of
resolution 3V7L D, to submit to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session
a report containing the information referred to in paragraphs 4 to 7 above.

E

Prohibition of the nuclear neutron weapon

Ttre General Assembly,

Recalling paragraph 50 of the Final Docunent of the Tenth Special Session of
the Ceneral assenbly , U/ in which it is stated that the achievement of nuclear
disarmamentwi11requireurgentnegotiationsofa9reonents'l@,onthe
cessation of the qualitative improvetent and developnent of nuclear-weaPon systems,

Stressing that the nuclear neutron weapon represents a further step in the
qualitative arms race in the field of nuclear YteaPonst

Reaffirming its resolution 36/92 K of 9 December 1981, entitled "Prohibition
of ttre nuclear neutron weaPonn,

Sharing the worl&wide concern expressed by Member Statesr as well as by
tton-g6Frnnental organizations, over the continued and expanded production and
introduction of the nuclear neutron weapon in military arsenals, which escalates
the nuclear-arms race and significantly lowers the threshold of nuclear war,

Anare of the inhuman effects of that yreapon, which constitutes a grave threat,
particularly to the unprotected civilian population'

lt Resolution S-LO/2.

A/37/662
English
Page 23

4. Invites the relevant specialized agencies and the International Atomic
Energy Agency to intensify activities, within their areas of competence, to
disseminate information on the consequences of the arms race and requests them to
inform the Secretary-General accordingly)

5. Invites Governments, in accordance with General Assembly resolution
33/71 D of 14 December 1978, to inform the Secretary-General of activities
undertaken to promote the objectives of Disarmament WeekJ

6. Invites international non-governmental organizations to take an active
part in Disarmament Week and to inform the Secretary-General of the activities
undertaken,

7. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare annually, within existing
resources, a compilation of the information collected by the relevant departments
of the Secretariat, as well as at united Nations information centres pertaining to
the holding of Disarmament Week in the preceding year,

8. Requests the Secretary-General, in accordance with paragraph 4 of
resolution 33/71 D, to submit to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session
a report containing the information referred to in paragraphs 4 to 7 above.

E

Prohibition of the nuclear neutron weapon

The General Assembly,

Recalling paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly, 17/ in which it is stated that the achievement of nuclear
disarmament will require urgent negotiations of agreements, inter alia, on the
cessation of the qualitative improvement and development of nuclear-weapon systems,

Stressing that the nuclear neutron weapon represents a further step in the
qualitative arms race in the field of nuclear weapons,

Reaffirming its resolution 36/92 K of 9 December 1981, entitled "Prohibition
of the nuclear neutron weapon",

Sharing the world-wide concern expressed by Member States, as well as by
non-governmental organizations, over the continued and expanded production and
introduction of the nuclear neutron weapon in military arsenals, which escalates
the nuclear-arms race and significantly lowers the threshold of nuclear war,

~ of the inhuman effects of that weapon, which constitutes a grave threat,
partiCUlarly to the unprotected civilian population,

17/ Resolution 5-10/2.

/ ...



^/37 
/662

English
Page 24

Noting the consideration of issues connected with the cessation of the nuclear
arms race and nuclear disarnanent as well as the prohibition of the nuclear neutron
Ireapon' by the Conmittee on Disarmanent during itl session held in 1982,

Regretting that the Corunittee on Disarmament tras not abl-e to reach agreement
on the commencement of negotiations on the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and
nuclear disarmanent or on the prohibition of the nuelear neutron weapon in an
appropriate organizational framework,

1. Reaffirms its request to the Conunittee on Disarmament to start without
delay negoGffiFwithin un 

"ppropriate 
organizational framework with a view toconcluding a convention on the prohibition of the develotrrnent, production,

stockpiling, deproyment and use of nuclear neutron weaponsi
2' Requests the secretary-General to transmit to the comnittee on Disarnanent

aII documents relating to the discussion of this question by the General Assemblyat its twelfth special session and at its thirty-seventh relular session;
. Requests the 6nunittee on Disarnalpnt to subnit a report on this questionto the General Assembly at its thirtlneighth sessionl

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda at its thirty-eighth session
the item eiffi trprohibition of the nucrear neutron weapon'.

F'

Inplementation of the recommendations and decisions of the
tenth special session

The General Assembly,

Ilaving reviewed the inplementation of the recomrnendations and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session, the first special
session devoted to disarnamentr as well as the Cor.cluding Document of the Trvelfth
Special Session of the General Assembly, lgrl the second special session devoted to
disarmament,

Recalling its resolutions S_LO/2
35/46 of 3 f,recember 1980, 35/L52 E of
and S-L2/32 of 9 July L992,

of 30 June 1978, 34/83 C of Ll December L979,
12 December 1980, 36/92 t4 of 9 December lggl

- -Regr.etting that at its twelfth special session it was not able to achieve,despite the expectations of the international commtnity and the efforts exerted bya large ntunber of Member States, the nain objectives of that session, namel-y, to
adopt a comprehensive Programme of disarnament and to give further iq)etus io, and
assess the implementation of, the decisions and recqnrnendations of the tenth
special session, as well as certain urgent neasures for the prevention of nuclear
war and for nuclear disarmanent,

y/ A/s-L2/32.

A/37/662
English
Page 24

Noting the consideration of issues connected with the cessation of the nuclear
arms race and nuclear disarmament as well as the prohibition of the nuclear neutron
weapon, by the Committee on Disarmament during its session held in 1982,

Regretting that the Committee on Disarmament was not able to reach agreement
on the commencement of negotiations on the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and
nuclear disarmament or on the prohibition of the nuclear neutron weapon in an
appropriate organizational framework,

1. Reaffirms its request to the Committee on Disarmament to start without
delay negotiations within an appropriate organizational framework with a view to
concluding a convention on the prohibition of the development, production,
stockpiling, deployment and use of nuclear neutron weapons~

2. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Committee on Disarmament
all documents relating to the discussion of this question by the General Assembly
at its twelfth special session and at its thirty-seventh regular session;

3. Requests the COmmittee on Disarmament to submit a report on this question
to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda at its thirty-eighth session
the item entitled "Prohibition of the nuclear neutron weapon".

F

Implementation of the recommendations and decisions of the
tenth special session

The General Assembly,

Having reviewed the implementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session, the first special
session devoted to disarmament, as well as the Cor.c1uding Document of the Twelfth
Special Session of the General Assembly, 18/ the second special session devoted to
disarmament, -

Recalling its resolutions S-10/2 of 30 June 1978, 34/83 C of 11 December 1979,
35/46 of 3 December 1980, 35/152 E of 12 December 1980, 36/92 M of 9 December 1981
and S-12/32 of 9 July 1982,

Regretting that at its twelfth special session it was not able to achieve,
despite the expectations of the international community and the efforts exerted by
a large number of Member States, the main objectives of that session, namely, to
adopt a comprehensive programme of disarmament and to give further impetus to, and
assess the implementation of, the decisions and recommendations of the tenth
special session, as well as certain urgent measures for the prevention of nuclear
war and for nuclear disarmament,

18/ A/S-12/32.

/ ...



A/37/662
Eng11sh
Page 25

ttoting with deep concern that the reconnendations and decisions of the tenth
special session have not ,been irnplemented, that, between the two special sesslons
on disarmament, the arms race, particularJ-y in its nuclear aspect, has gained in
intensity, that urgent measures to prevent nuclear war and for disarmanent have not
been adopted and that open threats, pressures and military intervention against
independent States and violation of the fundamental principles of the Charter of
the United Nations have taken p1ace, posing the nost serious threat to
international peace and security,

Convinced that one of the most urgent tasks is to halt and reverse the arms
race and to undertake coircrete neasures of disarnament, partlcularly nuclear
disarmanent, and that, in this respect, the nuelear-weapon States and other
nilitarily significant States have the primary resPonsibility,

Deeply coneerned that negotiations on disarmament issues are lagging far
behind the rapid technological development in the field of arnaments and the
relentless growth of nilitary arsenals,

Considering it inperative to give a new impetus to negotiations on
disarrnament, in particular nuclear disarmanent, at all levels and to achieve
genuine progress in the inunediate future,

Convinced that the success of disarnament negotiations, in which all peoples
of the world have a vital interest, can be achieved through the active
participation of Member States in suctr negotiations, contributing thereby to the
rnaintenance of international peace and securityt

Reaffirrning that the United Nations has a central rol-e and prinary
responsibility in the sphere of disarnarnent'

Recalling with satisfaction that at its twelfth special sesslon it unaninously
and categorically reaffirred the validity of the final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the ceneral Assembly, 19,/ as well as the solemn cmnitment of
all lhnber States to it and their p]-edge to respect the priorities in disarnatrEnt
negotiations, as agreed to in its Prograrune of Actiont

Recalling the conunitment of States undertaken in various international
agreements to negotiate on disarmament measures, in particular on nuclear
disarrnarent '

I. Exlresses its deep concern over the constant deterioration of
internationEl retations, is well as the intensification of the arms race'
particularty the nuclear-arms race, which directly threatens international peace
and security and increases the danger of outbreak of war, in particular nuclear war;

9/ Resolution S-LO/2.

A/37/662
English
Page 25

Noting with deep concern that the recommendations and decisions of the tenth
special session have not been implemented, that, between the two special sessions
on disarmament, the arms race, particularly in its nuclear aspect, has gained in
intensity, that urgent measures to prevent nuclear war and for disarmament have not
been adopted and that open threats, pressures and military intervention against
independent States and violation of the fundamental principles of the Charter of
the united Nations have taken place, posing the most serious threat to
international peace and security,

Convinced that one of the most urgent tasks is to halt and reverse the arms
race and to undertake concrete measures of disarmament, particularly nuclear
disarmament, and that, in this respect, the nuclear-weapon States and other
mi1itari1y significant States have the primary responsibility,

Deeply concerned that negotiations on disarmament issues are lagging far
behind the rapid technological development in the field of armaments and the
relentless growth of military arsenals,

Considering it imperative to give a new impetus to negotiations on
disarmament, in particular nuclear disarmament, at all levels and to achieve
genuine progress in the immediate future,

Convinced that the success of disarmament negotiations, in which all peoples
of the world have a vital interest, can be achieved through the active
participation of Member States in such negotiations, contributing thereby to the
maintenance of international peace and security,

Reaffirming that the United Nations has a central role and primary
responsibility in the sphere of disarmament,

Recalling with satisfaction that at its twelfth special session it unanimously
and categorically reaffirmed the validity of the Final DOcument of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, 19/ as well as the solemn commitment of
all Member States to it and their pledge to respect the priorities in disarmament
negotiations, as agreed to in its Programme of Action,

Recalling the commitment of States undertaken in various international
agreements to negotiate on disarmament measures, in particular on nuclear
disarmament,

1. Expresses its deep concern over the constant deterioration of
international relations, as well as the intensification of the arms race,
particularly the nuclear-arms race, which directly threatens international peace
and security and increases the danger of outbreak of war, in particular nuclear war,

19/ Resolution S-10/2.

/ ...



A/37 /662
English
Page 25

2. Calls upon aIJ- States, in particular nuclear-weapon States and other
mititarily-E;ificant states, to take imnediate steps aired at pronoting
international security and leading to the effective halting and reversing of the
arns race and to disarmanrent;

3. Inviteg aII States, particularly nuclear-weapon states and especially
those atrottffi-*nich possess the nost inportant nuclear arsenals, to lake urgent
neasures with a view to inplementing the reconunendations and decisions contained in
the Final Docurnent of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly concerning
nuclear disarrnament, as well as to fulfilling the priority tasks set forth in the
Programne of Action of the Final Docunent and in the Concluding Document of the
Tlvelfth Special Session of the General Assenbly;

4. Urges all- Member States to exerrt the greatest effort to stinulate and
accelerate disarnament negotiations in good faith at all levels, and to achieve
rapid progress in resolving various disarmarent issues;

5. Calls uport the Committee on Disarmanent to concentrate its work on the
substanti"Eliffiffitity items on its agenda, to proceed to negotiations on nuclear
disarmament without further delay and to elaborate, as soon as possible, drafts of
international agreements on those disarnanent issues which have been the object of
negotiations over a nunber of years, particularly a treaty on a nuclear-rreapon test
ban, on a conplete and effective prohibition of the development, production and
stockpiling of all chemical weapons and on their destructionl

6. CaLls gg nenbers of the Conmittee on Disarmanent, particularly the
nuclear-wefrffiGs, to shorr a greater measure of readiness and flexibility in
further negotiations on the elaboration of a draft comprehensive programme of
disarnarnent, and thus enabl-e the Comnittee to suhnit, pursuant to the decision of
the twelfth special session, a revised draft of such a programne to the General
Assembly at its thirtpeighth sessionl

7. Calls upon the Disarmnent Oonmission to intensify its work in
considerindlEffius issues of disarmarnent on its agenda and to sutrnit to the
General Assenbly at its thirty-eighth session concrete recommendations with a view
to contributing to a solution of outstanding issues;

8. Calls gg nucLear-neapon States engaged in separate
issues or ilidlEfti-isarmament to exert the utmost effort with
concrete results in those negotiations and thus contribute to
multilateral negotiations on nuclear disarnamentT

negotiations on
a view to achieving
the success of

9. InviLes all States engaged in disarnarnent and arns linitation
negotiatioiffi[side the framework of the united Nations to keep the General
assembly and the &mnittee on Disarmament informed of the results of such
negotiations, in conformity with the relevant provisions of the Final Docunent of
the Tenth Special Session of the General assembly;

10. Decides
the iten eiE[]E
special sessionn.

to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
"fmplenentation of the recomnendations and decisions of the tenth

A/37/662
English
Page 26

2. Calls upon all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States and other
militarily significant States, to take immediate steps aimed at promoting
international security and leading to the effective halting and reversing of the
arms race and to disarmamentJ

3. Invites all States, particularly nuclear-weapon States and especially
those among them which possess the most important nuclear arsenals, to take urgent
measures with a view to implementing the recommendations and decisions contained in
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly concerning
nuclear disarmament, as well as to fulfilling the priority tasks set forth in the
Programme of Action of the Final Document and in the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly;

4. Urges all Member States to exer~ the greatest effort to stimulate and
accelerate disarmament negotiations in good faith at all levels, and to achieve
rapid progress in resolving various disarmament issuesJ

5. Calls upon the Committee on Disarmament to concentrate its work on the
substantive and priority items on its agenda, to proceed to negotiations on nuclear
disarmament without further delay and to elaborate, as soon as possible, drafts of
international agreements on those disarmament issues which have been the object of
negotiations over a number of years, particularly a treaty on a nuclear-weapon test
ban, on a complete and effective prohibition of the development, production and
stockpiling of all chemical weapons and on their destruction,

6. calls upon members of the Committee on Disarmament, particularly the
nuclear-weapon States, to show a greater measure of readiness and flexibility in
further negotiations on the elaboration of a draft comprehensive programme of
disarmament, and thus enable the Committee to submit, pursuant to the decision of
the twelfth special session, a revised draft of such a programme to the General
Assembly at its thirty-eighth sessionJ

7. calls upon the Disarmament Commission to intensify its war k in
considering various issues of disarmament on its agenda and to submit to the
General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session concrete recommendations with a view
to contributing to a solution of outstanding issues;

8. Calls upon nuclear-weapon States engaged in separate negotiations on
issues of nuclear disarmament to exert the utmost effort with a view to achieving
concrete results in those negotiations and thus contribute to the success of
multilateral negotiations on nuclear disarmament;

9. Invites all States engaged in disarmament and arms limitation
negotiations outside the framework of the united Nations to keep the General
Assembly and the Committee on Disarmament informed of the results of such
negotiations, in conformity with the relevant provisions of the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly;

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item entitled "Implementation of the recommendations and decisions of the tenth
special session".

/ ...



Al37 /662
nnglish
Page 27

G

Report of the Committee on Disarnanent

llhe General Assemblyr

Reealling its resolutions 34/93 B of 11 December L979, 3s/L52 J of
12 December 1980 and 36/92 F of 9 December 1981,

Recalling aLso the rinal Docunent of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assetnbly 2O/ and the Concluding Doeument of the rvetfth Special Session of the
General Assembly, p/

Having considered the report of the Cornnittee on DisarmarnenE, 22/

Reaffirming that ttre establishment of ad hoc working groups offers the best
available lnachinery for the conduct of rnultffieral negotiations on items on the
agenda of the Conmittee on Disarnament and contributes to the strengthening of the
negotiating role of the Committee,

Noting that the Conmittee on Disarmarnent has set up an
under iten I of its agenda, entitled nNrcl_ear test bantr,

ad hoc working group

Regretting that, despite the expressed wish of the great rnajority of members
of the Oonmittee on Disarnament, ttre establishnent of an ad hoc working group to
undertake multilateral negotiations on nuclear disarmamenF"as once again prevented
during its session held in 1982,

Expressing its deep concern and disappointment that the Committee on
Disarnanent has not thus far been able to reach concrete agreements on disarmament
issues which have been under consideration for a number of years, particularly on
those to dhich the United Nations has assigned greatest priority and urgency,

9onvinced that the Conrnittee on Disarmanent, as the single nultilateral
negotl6ffiffiy on disarnar€nt, should play the centraL roLe in substantive
negotiations on priority questions of disarnament and on the inplementation of the
Prograrune of Action set forth in section IfI of the Final Docunent of the Tenth
Special Session,

Stressing that negotiations on specific disarmament issues conducted outside
the Oomnittee on Disarmment should in no way serve as a pretext for preventing the
eonduct of nultilateral negotiations on such guestions in the Colrunittee,

4/
Resolution S-I0/2.

A/s-L2/32.

4t

Supplenent No; 27 (A/37 /271
of the General Assembl Thirt seventh Session,U/ Official Records

A/37/662
English
Page 27

G

Report of the Committee on Disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 34/83 B of 11 December 1979, 35/152 J of
12 December 1980 and 36/92 F of 9 December 1981,

Recalling also the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly 20/ and the Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the
General Assembly, 21/

Having considered the report of the Committee on Disarmament, 22/

Reaffirming that the establishment of ad hoc working groups offers the best
available machinery for the conduct of multilateral negotiations on items on the
agenda of the Committee on Disarmament and contributes to the strengthening of the
negotiating role of the Committee,

Noting that the Committee on Disarmament has set up an ad hoc working group
under item 1 of its agenda, entitled "NUclear test ban",

Regretting that, despite the expressed wish of the great majority of members
of the Committee on Disarmament, the establishment of an ad hoc working group to
undertake multilateral negotiations on nuclear disarmament was once again prevented
during its session held in 1982,

Expressing its deep concern and disappointment that the Committee on
Disarmament has not thus far been able to reach concrete agreements on disarmament
issues which have been under consideration for a number of years, particularly on
those to which the United Nations has assigned greatest priority and urgency,

Convinced that the Committee on Disarmament, as the single multilateral
negotiating body on disarmament, should play the central role in substantive
negotiations on priority questions of disarmament and on the implementation of the
Programme of Action set forth in section III of the Final .Document of the Tenth
Special Session,

Stressing that negotiations on specific disarmament issues conducted outside
the Committee on Disarmament should in no way serve as a pretext for preventing the
conduct of multilateral negotiations on such questions in the Committee,

20/ Resolution S-10/2.

21/ A/S-12/3 2.

22/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/37/27).

/ ...



A/37 /662
English
Page 28

l. Urges the Committee on Disarrnament to continue or undertake, during its
session to be held in 1983, substantive negotiations on the priorlty guestions of
disarmalent on its agenda, in accordance wittr the provisions of the Final Doctmtent
of the renth Special Session of the General Assenbly and other relevant General
Assembly resolutions on those questionsl ihd; in order to reach that goal, to
provide the existing ad hoc working groups with appropriate negotiating nandates
and to establishz ds I matter of urgencyr an ad hoc working group on the cessation
of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarrnarent;

2. Requests the Conunittee on Disarmament to intensify its work, to nake the
utttpst effort to achieve concrete results in the shortest possible period of tine
and to prepare draft international agresnents on the specific priority issues of
disarnanent on its agenda, above all on a treaty on a nuclear-lreapon test ban and
on the ccnplete and effective prohibition of all chemical weapons and on their
destructiont

3. Further requests the Conunittee on Disarmament to continue
beginning of its session in 1983, in accordance with the Concluding

as from the
Document of the

Trvelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, its intensive work on the
e}aboration of a comprehensive prograrme of disarnarent and to submit the revised
draft of such a progranme to the General essenbly at its thirty-eighth session;

4. fnvites the nrenbers of the Conunittee on Disarmament involved in separate
negotiatioifri--specific priority guestions of disarmament to intensify their
efforts in order to achieve a positive conclusion of those negotiations without
further delay and to suhnit to the Committee a full report on their separate
negotiatlons and the results achieved in order to contribute rmst directly to the
negotiations in the conmittee in accordance with paragraph I aboveT

5. Further requests the @mmittee on Disarmanent to submit a report on its
work to thmry at its thirty-eighth sessionl

6. Decides to include in the provislonal agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item entltled nReport of the Committee on Disarmament".

H

Report of the Disarmanent @nmission

The General Assenb1y,

Having considered the retrnrt of the Disarmament Comnission, 23/

4/ Official Reeords of the General Assembly, Thirtlnseventh Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/37/421.

A/37/662
English
Page 28

1. Urges the Committee on Disarmament to continue or undertake, during its
session to be held in 1983, substantive negotiations on the priority questions of
disarmament on its agenda, in accordance with the provisions of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special session of the General Assembly and other relevant General
Assembly resolutions on those questions, and, in order to reach that goal, to
provide the existing ad hoc working groups with appropriate negotiating mandates
and to establish, as a matter of urgency, an ad hoc working group on the cessation
of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmamentJ

2. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to intensify its work, to make the
utmost effort to achieve concrete results in the shortest possible period of time
and to prepare draft international agreements on the specific priority issues of
disarmament on its agenda, above all on a treaty on a nuclear-weapon test ban and
on the complete and effective prohibition of all chemical weapons and on their
destructionJ

3. Further requests the Committee on Disarmament to continue as from the
beginning of its session in 1983, in accordance with the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, its intensive work on the
elaboration of a comprehensive programme of disarmament and to submit the revised
draft of such a programme to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth sessionJ

4. Invites the members of the Committee on Disarmament involved in separate
negotiations on specific priority questions of disarmament to intensify their
efforts in order to achieve a positive conclusion of those negotiations without
further delay and to submit to the Committee a full report on their separate
negotiations and the results achieved in order to contribute most directly to the
negotiations in the Committee in accordance with paragraph 1 aboveJ

5. Further requests the committee on Disarmament to submit a report on its
work to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item entitled "Report of the Committee on Disarmament".

H

Report of the Disarmament COmmission

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Disarmament Commission, 23/

23/ Official Reeords of the General Assembly, Thirty-seventh Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/37/42).

I ...



^/37 
/662

English
Page 29

Emphasizing again the importance of an effective follow-up to the relevant
recqnmendations and decisions contained in the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assenbly, 2U Ehe first special session devoted to
disarmament,

Taking'into account the relevant sections of the Concluding Docunent of the
l\{elfth Special Session of the General Assenbly, 25/

Considering the important role that the Disarmament Comnission has played and
the significant contribution that it has nade in examining and submitting
reccnunendations on various problens in the field of disarmament and in the
pronotion of the irnplementation of the relevant decisions of the tenth special
session,

Desirous of strengthening the effectiveness of the Disarmament Commission,

Recalling its resolutions 33/7L H of 14 December L978, 34/83 u of
11 Decenber 1979, 35/L52 F of 12 Decernber 1980 and 36/92 B of 9 Decenber 198I,

1. Takes note of the report of the Disarnament @nmission;

2. Notes that the Disarnament Comnission again was not able to conclude its
consideration of several items on its agenda;

3. Requests the Disarmament Connission to continue its work in accordance
with its nandate, as set forth in paragraph 118 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assenbly, 26/ and to that end, to direct its
attention at each substantive session to specific subjects from attong those which
have been and will be under its consideration, taking into account the relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly, and to nake concrete reconunendations on such
subjects to the subsequent session of the Assenblyi

4. Reguests the Disarnanent Connission to meet for a period not exceeding
four weeks during 1983 and to submit a substantive retrnrt on its work to the
General assembly at its thirty-eighth session;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Disarmanent Comnission
the report of the Comnittee on Disarrnanent, together $rith a1l the official records
of the thirtlz-seventh session of the General Assenbly relating to disarmament
rnatters, and to render all assistance ttrat the Commission nay require for
implementing the present resolution;

6. Deeides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item .iffi "Report of the Disarmament Grnrnission".

4/ Resolution S-L}/2.
2s/ A/s-r2/32.

; Resolutio n s-Lo/2.

A/37/662
English
Page 29

Emphasizing again the importance of an effective follow-up to the relevant
recommendations and decisions contained in the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, 24/ the first special session devoted to
disarmament,

Taking into account the relevant sections of the Concluding Document of the
Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, 25/

Considering the important role that the Disarmament Commission has played and
the significant contribution that it has made in examining and submitting
recommendations on various problems in the field of disarmament and in the
promotion of the implementation of the relevant decisions of the tenth special
session,

Desirous of strengthening the effectiveness of the Disarmament Commission,

Recalling its resolutions 33/71 H of 14 December 1978, 34/83 H of
11 December 1979, 35/152 F of 12 December 1980 and 36/92 B of 9 December 1981,

1. Takes note of the report of the Disarmament Commission~

2. Notes that the Disarmament Commission again was not able to conclude its
consideration of several items on its agenda~

3. Requests the Disarmament Commission to continue its work in accordance
with its mandate, as set forth in paragraph 118 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, 26/ and to that end, to direct its
attention at each substantive session to specific subjects from among those which
have been and will be under its consideration, taking into account the relevant
resolutions of the General Assembly, and to make concrete recommendations on such
subjects to the subsequent session of the Assembly~

4. Requests the Disarmament Commission to meet for a period not exceeding
four weeks during 1983 and to submit a substantive report on its work to the
General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session~

5. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Disarmament Commission
the report of the Committee on Disarmament, together with all the official records
of the thirty-seventh session of the General Assembly relating to disarmament
matters, and to render all assistance that the Commission may require for
implementing the present resolution;

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
the item entitled "Report of the Disarmament COmmission".

24/ Resolution S-10/2.

25/ A/S-l2/3 2.

26/ Resolution S-10/2.

I ...



A/37/662
English
eage 30

I

Prevention of nuclear nar

The General Assemblyt

Alarmed by the threat to the survival of mankind posed by the existence of
nuclear weapons and the continuing arms race,

Recalling that rernovat of the threat of a nuclear war is the most acute and
urgent task of the present day,

Reiterating that it is the shared responsibility of all Member states to save
succeeding generations from the scourge of another world war,

RecallinE the provisions of paragraphs 47 to 50 and 56 to 58 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assenbly, 27/ |-lte first
special session devoted to disarmament, regarding the procedure-designed to secure
the avoidance of nuclear war,

Recalling also its resolution 36/81 B of 9 Decenber 1981, entitled nPrevention
of nuclear waro, in which it urged all nuclear-weapon States to submit to the
Secretary-General by 30 April L982, for consideration at the twelfth special
session of ttre General Assenbly, their views, proposals and practical suggestions
for ensuring the prevention of nuclear war and invited all other Member States that
so desired to do likewise,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General containing such views,
proposals and practical- suggestions which was submitted at the twelfth special
session, 28,/

Taking-into account the deliberations on this item during the twelfth special
session, in particular in Vbrking Group IIf of the Ad lbc Conunittee of the Trvelfth
Special Session and in the Ad Hoc Drafting Group on the Prevention of Nuclear war,
as referred to in the conctffi-oocunent of that session, 29rl

Convinced that the prevention of nuclear nar and the rla,r"tion of the risks of
nuclear war are natters of the highest priority and of vital interest to all
peoples of the world,

1. Reguests the Comnittee on Disarmament to undertake, as a matter of the
highest priority, negotiations with a view to achieving agreenrent on appropriate
and practieal neasures for the prevention of a nuclear war, taking into account the
docunpnts referred to above, as well as other existing proposals and future
initiatives;

4-/

4/
2e/

rbid.

A/S-L2AI and Add.L and Corr.l and Adds.2-5.

^/s-L2/32.

A/37/662
English
Page 30

I

Prevention of nuclear war

The General Assembly,

Alarmed by the threat to the survival of mankind posed by the existence of
nuclear weapons and the continuing arms race,

Recalling that removal of the threat of a nuclear war is the most acute and
urgent task of the present day,

Reiterating that it is the shared responsibility of all Member States to save
succeeding generations from the scourge of another world war,

Recalling the provisions of paragraphs 47 to 50 and 56 to 58 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Asserrbly, 27/ the first
special session devoted to disarmament, regarding the procedureS-designed to secure
the avoidance of nuclear war,

Recalling also its resolution 36/81 B of 9 December 1981, entitled "Prevention
of nuclear war", in which it urged all nuclear-weapon States to submit to the
Secretary-General by 30 April 1982, for consideration at the twelfth special
session of the General Assembly, their views, proposals and practical suggestions
for ensuring the prevention of nuclear war and invited all other Member States that
so desired to do likewise,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General containing such views,
proposals and practical suggestions which was submitted at the twelfth special
session, 28/

Taking-into account the deliberations on this item during the twelfth special
session, in particular in WOrking Group III of the Ad Hoc COmmittee of the TWelfth
Special Session and in the Ad Hoc Drafting Group on the Prevention of Nuclear War,
as referred to in the COncluding Document of that session, 29/

Convinced that the prevention of nuclear war and the reduction of the risks of
nuclear war are matters of the highest priority and of vital interest to all
peoples of the world,

1. Requests the Committee on Disarmament to undertake, as a matter of the
highest priority, negotiations with a view to achieving agreement on appropriate
and practical measures for the prevention of a nuclear war, taking into account the
documents referred to above, as well as other existing proposals and future
initiatives;

27/ Ibid.

28/ A/S-12/1l and Add.l and Corr.l and Adds.2-5.

29/ A/S-12/32.

/ ...



A/37/662
English
Page 31

2. Requests the Secretarfceneral to transmit to the Oonunittee on
Disarmatnent all relevant documents to facilitate the consideration of this item by
the Oomnitteet

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
iten entitlTed "prevention of nuclear wars report of the Conmittee on oisarnanenti.

J

libn-use of nuclear sreapons and prevention of nuclear rrar

llhe GeneraL Assembly,

Alarned by the threat to the survival of mankind posed by the existence of
nuclear weapons and the continuing arms race,

RecaLling that, in accordance with the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assenbly 29-/, effective measures of nuclear disarnanent and
the prevention of nuclear rrar have the highest priority,

Bearing in mind its resolutions 36/8I B. 36/92 I and 36/100 of 9 December 1981,
ReaffirminE that the most effective guarantee against the danger of nuclear

war and the use of nuclear $reapons is nuclear disarmament and the conplete
elfinination of nuclear rileapons,

Recalling also its declaration, contained in the FinaL Document of the Tenth
Special Session, that all States should actively participate in efforts to bring
about conditions in international relations among States in which a code of
peaceful conduct of nations in international affairs could be agreed utrnn and which
would preclude the use or threat of use of nuclear vreapons,

1. Considers ttrat the solemn declarations by two nuclear-weapon States nade
or reiteraG-lffie twelfth special session of the General Assembly, the second
special session devoted to disarnanent, concerning their respective obligations not
to be the first to use nuclear weapons offer an important avenue to decr€ase the
danger of nuclear $rar i

2. E:<presses the hope that the other nuclear-weapon States will consider
naking similar declarations with respect to not being the first to use nuclear
weapons.

29./ Resolution S-LO/2.

A/37/662
English
Page 31

2. Requests the secretary-General to transmit to the COmmittee on
Disarmament all relevant documents to facilitate the consideration of this item by
the COmmittee,

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session
item entitled "Prevention of nuclear war: report of the Committee on Disarmament".

J

Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear war

The General Assembly,

Alarmed by the threat to the survival of mankind posed by the existence of
nuclear weapons and the continuing arms race,

Recalling that, in accordance with the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly 30/, effective measures of nuclear disarmament and
the prevention of nuclear war have the highest priority,

Bearing in mind its resolutions 36/81 B, 36/92 I and 36/100 of 9 December 1981,

Reaffirming that the most effective guarantee against the danger of nuclear
war and the use of nuclear weapons is nuclear disarmament and the complete
elimination of nuclear weapons,

Recalling also its declaration, contained in the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session, that all States should actively participate in efforts to bring
about conditions in international relations among States in which a code of
peaceful conduct of nations in international affairs could be agreed upon and which
would prec1u~e the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

1. Considers that the solemn declarations by two nuclear-weapon States made
or reiterated at the twelfth special session of the General Assembly, the second
special session devoted to disarmament, concerning their respective obligations not
to be the first to use nuclear weapons offer an important avenue to decrease the
danger of nuclear war,

2. Expresses the hope that the other nuclear-weapon States will consider
making similar declarations with respect to not being the first to use nuclear
weapons.

30/ Resolution S-10/2.

I ...



^/37 
/662

English
Page 32

K

Monitoring of international disarnament agreements and strengthening
of international security: proposal for the establishment of an

international satellite npnitoring agency

The General Assemblyt

Reaffirning the essential role to be played by appropriate international
ronitoring measures satisfactory to all interested parties in establishing and
implenenting disarmament agreements and in strengthening international security and
confidence,

Considering the progress made in the technology of earth observation by
artif icial satellites,

Aware of the imtrnrtant contribution that such technology can make to solving
problems posed by nonitoring, given in particular the need to provide for
international measures of a norpdiscrininatory character which do not constitute
interference in the international affairs of States,

Reealling its resolutions 33/7L J of 14 December 1978 and 34/83 E of
1l Decernber I979, in which it requested the Secretary-Genera1 to undertake, with
the assistance of qualified governmental experts, a study on the technical, Iegal
and financial irnplications of establishing an international satellite nonitoring
agency and to seek the views of Member States on this subject,

Noting with interest the very detailed report on the establ-ishnent of an
international satellite nonitoring agency sutrnitted by the Secretary-General U Eo
the General Assenbly, U

Emphasizing that technological advances increase the possibilities in this
area and that Member States, as well as the international conmunity represented by
its conpetent organs, should be in a position to benefit, in the appropriate
conditions, fron adeguate tpnitoring technigues, whether through the implementation
of disarmanent agreements or through the strengthening of security and
international conf idence,

Convinced that for these reasons consideration of the proposal for the
estabtishnent of an international satellite nrcnitoring agency should be pursued in
all of its aspects,

I. Takes note of the report and the study on the implications of
e s tabl i s h iiili-g a n i nt er nat i ona l s a te l l i t e npn i t o r i ng a g enc y i

2. Expresses its satisfaction to the Secretary-General, and the experts who
helped him, for the way in which the report was prepared;

!/ A/Ac.206/L4.

A/37/662
English
Page 32

K

Monitoring of international disarmament agreements and strengthening
of international security: proposal for the establishment of an

international satellite monitoring agency

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the essential role to be played by appropriate international
monitoring measures satisfactory to all interested parties in establishing and
implementing disarmament agreements and in strengthening international security and
confidence,

Considering the progress made in the technology of earth observation by
artificial satellites,

Aware of the important contribution that such technology can make to solving
problems posed by monitoring, given in particular the need to provide for
international measures of a non-discriminatory character which do not constitute
interference in the international affairs of states,

Recalling its resolutions 33/71 J of 14 December 1978 and 34/83 E of
11 December 1979, in which it requested the Secretary-General to undertake, with
the assistance of qualified governmental experts, a study on the technical, legal
and financial implications of establishing an international satellite monitoring
agency and to seek the views of Member States on this subject,

Noting with interest the very detailed report on the establishment of an
international satellite monitoring agency submitted by the Secretary-General 1/ to
the General Assembly, 31/

Emphasizing that technological advances increase the possibilities in this
area and that Member States, as well as the international community represented by
its competent organs, should be in a position to benefit, in the appropriate
conditions, from adequate monitoring techniques, whether through the implementation
of disarmament agreements or through the strengthening of security and
international confidence,

Convinced that for these reasons consideration of the proposal for the
establishment of an international satellite monitoring agency should be pursued in
all of its aspects,

1. Takes note of the report and the study on the implications of
establishing an interr.ational satellite monitoring agency;

2. Expresses its satisfaction to the Secretary-General, and the experts who
helped him, for the way in which the report was prepared;

31/ A/AC.206/14.

I ...



^/37 
/662

Bnglish
eage 33

3. Takes note also of the conclusions of the study regarding the
possibil itTaG;?-mlGhing an i nternat ional satell ite monitor ing agencyi

4. Requests the Secretarfceneral to take the necessary steps to have the
report reproduced as a United Nations publication in order to ensure that it
receives the widest possible dissemination;

5. Reguests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session on the practical npdalities for inpleilrenting these
conclusions with respect to the institutional aspects of the draft exanined in
part V, chapter If, of the study.

A/37/662
English
Page 33

3. Takes note also of the conclusions of the study regarding the
possibilities of establishing an international satellite monitoring agency;

4. Requests the secretary-General to take the necessary steps to have the
report reproduced as a united Nations publication in order to ensure that it
receives the widest possible dissemination;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at its
thirty-eighth session on the practical modalities for implementing these
conclusions with respect to the institutional aspects of the draft examined in
part V, chapter 11, of the study.


