












































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/37 /67r
30 Novenber 1982

ORTGTNALS ENGLISH

Thirty-seventh session
Agenda iten 136

REI,ATIONSHIP BEI!{EEEN DISARMA!4ENT AND DE1IEIOPMENT

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. tuvsangiin Erdenechuluun (llongolia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The iten entitled nRelationship between disarmament and developmentn was
included as a supplementary item in the agenda of the thirty-seventh session
(A/37/200) following the subrnission of a request from Sweden (A/37/L95) .

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 22 September 1982, the General Assembly, on the
recqnrnendation of the General Connittee, decided to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Corunittee on the understanding that the development
aspects of the question would be brought to the attention of the Second Committee
in connection with its consideration of item 7I (Development and international
economic co-operation) .

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 29 September, the First Comnittee decided to hold a
combined general debate on the items allocated to it relating to disarmament'
namely, items 39 to 57, 133 and 135. The general debate on these items and on
items 138 and 139, which were allocated to the First Committee by the General
Assembly at its 24th plenary meeting, on 8 October, took place at the 3rd to
28th neetings, fron 18 october to 5 November (see A/C.L/37/Pv.3-28).

4. In connection with item 136, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

82-34098 0s91i (E)



A/37 /67L
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Secretary-General containing the study on the relationship
between disarmament and development (A/36/356 and Cor r.L) i U

(b) Concluding Docunent of the Tr^relfth Speeial Session of the General
Assembly (A/s-L2l32J i

(c) Note verbale dated 28 June 1982 from the Permanent Missions of Denrnarkn
Finland, Iceland, Norr,ray and Sweden to the United Nations addressed to the
seeretariat (A,/s-12 /Ac "L/ 49)

rr. coNsrDERATroN OF DRAFT RESOLUTTON A/C.L/37/L.t1

5. On I0 Novernber, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Costa Rica, Denrnark, Egyp!,
Fi{rland, Francg, frq.land, Iceland, Jarnaica,
Sri Lanka, Sweden and Venezuela subnitted a draft resolution entitled rrRelationship
between disarmament and developmentn (A/C.L/37/L.J-7l, which was later also
sponsored by Coj-ombia, the 9ongo, Ecuador, Ghana, Greece, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberia,
Mellg, Mali, Nepal, Rwanda, senegal, sierra Leone, spain, the uniled Republia of
Cameroon and Zaire. The draft resolution $ras introduced by Sweden at the
ffilnEEt ing r-ofr I November .
6. At its 41st neeting, on 23 November, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/37/L.17 by 114 votes to none, with 1I abstentions (see para. 7). The voting
was as follows:

fn favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Baharnas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burna,
Burundi, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Denocratic yemen, Denrnark,

lili$ l' 
"Hl"'l I 

"::.:::":: :*";: T:!l ; 
" 
i' Ilft ,i ::':i :';n fi I :'

Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, fceland, India, fndonesia,
fran (Islamic nepublic of), fraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory
Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Liberiar Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Ma1i, It{alta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepalo Netherlands, New Zealandl Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, papua New Guinea, paraguay, peru,
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principen Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, frinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
UEanda, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdon of Great Britain and

/ Subsequently issued
United Nations ptrblication,

as The Relationship between Disarmament and Developnent
Sa1



A/37 /67L
English
Page 3

Northern trreland, United RepubJ-ic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Unit.ed States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yugoslaviao za:.re, Zambia"

Against: None.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Sociatist Republic,
Czechoslovakia, German Denocratic RepubJ"ic, Hungary, Lao Peoplers
Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist.
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Comnittee recomrnends to the General AssembLv the adoption of the
following draft resolutions

Relationship between disarmament and developnent

The General Assembly,

Recalling the conclusions of the study on the relationship between disarmanent
and development, contained in the report of the Secretary-GeneraL, 2/

Recalling also resolution 36/92 G of 9 December 1981, in which the General
Assembly, inter alia, connnended the report, its conclusions and ils recommendations
to the attention of all Member States and decided to transmit the report to the
Assembly at its twelfth special session for its substantive consideration and
appropriate action,

Noting the proposals on the follow-up decisions regarding the report of the
Secretary-General, circulated as official documents in connection with the twelfth
special session of the General Assembly, 3,/

Noting also that., in the Concluding Docunent of the Twelfth Special Session of
the General AssenbLy, y the Assembly decided to refer those items on the agenda on
which it had not reached decisions to its Lhirtv-seventh session for further
consideration, 5,/

U A/36/356 and Corr.l; subsequently issued as The Relationgllg_$lg
Disarnament and Development (United Nations putlficat l.

tr/ A/s-L2l18 and A/s-L2/Ac.L/4e.

u A/s-L2/32.

5/ Ibid.n para. 64"



^/37 
/67L

English
Page 4

Noting further that it has decided to include the question of the relationship
between disarmament and development as a separate item on its agendai

1" Request.s the Secretary-General to take appropriate adninistrative action
in accordance with the recommendations of the Group of Governmental Experts on the
Relationship between Disarmament and Developrnent, as specified in chapter VII of
the study prepared by the GroupT 2/

2. urges Member States to consider appropriate measures in accordance with
all relevant reconmendations of the Group of C"overnmental Experts;

3. Determines that the question of reatlocation and conversion of resources,
through aisaGent neasures, from nilitary to civilian purposes should be included
in the provisional agenda of the General AssembJ-y at intervals to be decided upon,
starting with its fortieth regular session in 1985;

4. Recqnnends that an investigation - with due regard to the capabilities of
existing asenG;;d institutions currently responsible for the international
transfer of resources - of the modalities of an international disarmament fund for
development should be undertaken by the United Nations rnstitute for Disarnament
Research' in consultation with other relevant international institutions;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assenbly at its
thirty-eighth session on the measures taken in implementation of the present
resolution.


