







































A-37-698-E.pdf


UNITED 
NATIONS 

General Assembly 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/37/698 
6 December 1982 

A 

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH 

Thirty-seventh session 
Agenda i tern 61 

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ISRAELI 
PRACTICES AFFECTING THE HUW.N RIGHTS OF THE POPULATION 

OF THE OCCUPIED TERRITORIES 

Report of the Special Political Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Faruk LOGOGLU (Turkey) 

I. INTRODOCTION 

1. The item entitled "Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories" 
was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-seventh session of the General 
Assembly in accordance with resolution 36/147 C of 16 December 1981. 

2. At its 4th plenary meeting, on 24 September 1982, the General Assembly, on the 
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda 
and to allocate it to the Special Political Committee. 

3. '!be Special Political Committee had before it the following documents: 

(a) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the Special 
Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the 
Population of the Occupied Territories (A/37/485); 

(b) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of resolution 
36/147 C (A/37/541); 

(c) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of resolution 
36/14 7 D (A/37 /16 2); 

82-35339 0632j (E) I . .. 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 19 

1. Expresses deep concern that Israel, the occupying Power, has failed for 
two years to apprehend and prosecute the perpetrators of the assassination attempts; 

2. Demands once more that Israel, the occupying Power, inform the Secretary-
General of the results of the investigations relevant to the assassination attempts; 

3. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
thirty-eighth session a report on the implementation of the present resolution. 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 2 

(d) Report of the Secretary-General submitted in pursuance of resolution 
36/147 E (A/37/525-S/15451); 

(e) Reports of the Secretary-General submitted during 1982 in pursuance of 
resolutions 36/15, 36/147 F and 36/147 G (A/36/706, A/36/853 and A/36/854 
respectively) • 

4. The Special Political Committee considered the item at its 35th to 44th 
meetings, held between 23 November and 3 December. 

5. At the 35th meeting, on 23 November, the representative of Sri Lanka 
introduced the report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices 
Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories. 

6. At the 39th meeting, on 30 November, at the request of the representatives of 
Jordan and Morocco, the Special Political Committee decided to grant hearings to 
Mr. Mohamed Malham, Mayor of the city of Halhul, and Mr. Fahd El Kawasmi, Mayor of 
the city of Al Khalil. Mr. Mohamed Malham made a statement. 

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS 

7. In the course of its deliberations, the Special Political Committee considered 
seven draft resolutions, as set forth below. 

A. Draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.28 

8. At the 42nd meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Pakistan introduced 
a draft resolution (A/SPC/37/L.28) sponsored by Bangladesh, Pakistan and Qatar, 
subsequently joined by Afghanistan, Cape Verde, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Madagascar 
and Malaysia. 

9. At its 44th meeting, on 3 December, the Committee voted on draft resolution 
A/SPC/37/L.28 as follows: 

(a) Operative paragraph 1 was adopted by a recorded vote of 99 to 1. The 
voting was as follows: lf 

In favour: Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, 
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, 
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, 

ll After the vote, the delegations of Afghanistan, Barbados, Guyana, Qatar, 
the Sudan and the United Republic of Cameroon stated that, had they been present, 
they would have voted in favour of paragraph 1 of draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.28. 

/ ... 



Against: 

A/37/698 
English 
Page 3 

Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, German Democratic Republic, 
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, 
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, 
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's 
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, 
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia, 
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New zealand, Nigeria, 
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, 
Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, SOmalia, Spain, 
Sri Lanka, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, 
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, united Arab Emirates, united Republic of 
Tanzania, United States of America, Upper Volta, uruguay, 
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zambia. 

Israel. 

{b) The draft resolution as a whole was adopted by a recorded vote of 103 to 
1, with 1 abstention (see para. 24, draft resolution A). The voting was as 
follows: y 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, 
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet socialist 
Republic, canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, 
China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic 
Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, 
Finland, France, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal 
Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, 
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, 
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, 
Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, 
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, 
Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, TOgo, TUnisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
United Arab Emirates, united Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, upper Volta, 
Uruguay, Venezuela, VietNam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Israel. 

Abstaining: united States of America. 

Y After the vote, the delegations of Barbados, Cyprus, Guyana, Qatar, the 
Sudan and the United Republic of cameroon stated t.hat, had they been present, they 
would have voted in favour of draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.28. 

I . .. 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 4 

B. Draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.29 

10. At the 42nd meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Pakistan introduced 
a draft resolution (A/SPC/37/L.29) sponsored by Bangladesh, Pakistan and Qatar, 
subsequently joined by Afghanistan, Cape Verde, Cuba, India, Indonesia, ~~dagascar 
and Malaysia. ----

11. At its 44th meeting, on 3 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/SPC/37/L.29 by a recorded vote of 104 to 1, with 1 abstention (see para. 24, 
draft resolution B). The voting was as follows:~ 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, 
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, 
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, 
Fiji, Finland, France, German Democractic Republic, Germany, 
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, 
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic 
Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, 
t~dagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, 
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, 
Qman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, 
Uganda, Ukraininan Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, 
Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Israel. 

Abstaining: United States of America. 

c. Draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.30 

12. At the 42nd meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Bangladesh 
introduced a draft resoltuion (A/SPC/37/L.30) sponsored by Bangladesh and Qatar, 
subsequently joined by Afghanistan, Cape Verde, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Madagascar, 
Malaysia, Pakistan and Senegal. 

~ After the vote, the delegations of Cyprus, Guyana, Qatar, the Sudan and 
the United Republic of Cameroon stated that, had they been present, they would have 
voted in favour of draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.29. 

I ... 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 5 

13. On 1 December, the Secretary-General, in accordance with rule 153 of the rules 
of procedure of the General Assembly, submitted a statement (A/SPC/37/L.38) on the 
administrative and financial implications of the draft resolution. 

14. At its 44th meeting, on 3 December, the Committee voted on draft resolution 
A/SPC/37/L.30 as follows: 

(a) Operative paragraph 6 was adopted by a recorded vote of 72 to 18, with 
14 abstentions. The voting was as follows: !( 

In favour; Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
~enin, Bhutan, Bolivia, .Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burundi, 
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Central 
African Republic, China, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, ECuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, German 
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran 
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's 
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, 
~Blaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, 
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Romania, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, TOgo, 
TUnisia, TUrkey, Uganda, Ukraininan Soviet Socialist Republic, 
union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United 
Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, 
Yemen, Yugoslavia, zambia. 

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, 
Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, 
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, United Kingdom of 
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Austria, Barbados, Costa Rica, Fiji, Greece, Jamaica, Liberia, 
Philippines, Portugal, Singapore, Spain, SWeden, Thailand, Zaire. 

(b) Operative paragraph 16 was adotped by a recorded vote of 83 to 17, with 
7 abstentions. The voting was as follows: 3( 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, 
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, 
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, 
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, 

!( After the vote, the delegations of Cyprus and the United Republic of 
cameroon stated that, had they been present, they would have voted in favour of 
paragraph 6 of draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.30. 

3( After the vote, the delegations of Cyprus and the United Republic of 
Cameroon stated that, had they been present, they would have voted in favour of 
paragraph 16 of draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.30. 

I ... 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 6 

Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guyana, 
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, 
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, 
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, 
Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nigeria, 
oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Romania, Saudi Arabia, 
Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab 
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian 
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, 
united Arab Emriates, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper Volta, 
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia. 

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal 
Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Austria, Finland, Greece, Portugal, Spain, SWeden, Zaire. 

(c) The draft resolution as a whole was adopted by a recorded vote of 85 
to 2, with 22 abstentions (see para. 24, draft resolution C). The voting was as 
follows: y 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, 
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, 
Burundi, Byelorussian, Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, 
Central African Republic, China, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, 
Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, 
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, 
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, 
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Nadagascar, Malaysia, 
Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nigeria, 
oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, 
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, TOgo, TUnisia, TUrkey, 
Uganda, Ukraininan Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, zaire, zambia. 

Against: Israel, united States of America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium, Canada, Costa Rica, 
Denmark, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, 

Y After the vote, the delegation of the United Republic of Cameroon stated 
that, had it been present, it would have voted in favour of draft resolution 
.a/SPC/37/L.30. 

I . .. 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 7 

Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland. 

D. Draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.31 and Corr.l 

15. At the 42nd meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Bangladesh 
introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/37/L.31 and Corr.l) sponsored by Bangladesh 
and ~, subsequently joined by Afghanistan, Cape Verde, Cuba, India, Indonesia, 
Madagascar, Malaysia and Pakistan. 

16. At its 44th meeting, on 3 Dec:ember, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/SPC/37/L.31 and Corr.l by a recorded vote of 109 to 1, with 1 abstention (see 
para. 24, draft resolution D). The voting was as follows: y 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, 
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, 
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, 
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, German Democratic 
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, 
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), 
Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao 
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, ~~laysia, Maldives, 
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New 
Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, 
Poland, Portugal, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, 
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, SWeden, Syrian Arab Republic, 
Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, TUrkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United 
Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, upper Volta, Uruguay, 
Venezuela, Viet. Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Israel. 

Abstaining: United States of America. 

2( After the vote, the del egation of the United Republic of Cameroon stated 
that, had it been present, it would have voted in favour of draft resolution 
A/SPC/37/L.31 and Corr.l. 

I ... 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 8 

E. Draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.32 

17. At the 42nd meeting, on 1 December, the representative of Bangladesh 
introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/37/L.32) sponsored by Bangladesh and Qatar, 
subsequently joined by Afghanistan, Cape Verde, cuba, India, Indonesia, Madagascar, 
Malaysia and Pakistan. 

18. At its 44th meeting, on 3 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/SPC/37/L.32 by a recorded vote of 109 to 1, with 2 abstentions (see para. 24, 
draft resolution E). The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, 
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, 
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, 
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, German Democratic 
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, 
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), 
Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao 
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mexico, 
Mongolia, Morocco, f~zambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nigeria, Norway, 0'.1an, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
POrtugal, Romania, saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, 
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 
Togo, Tunisia, TUrkey, Uganda, Ukraininan Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, Upper 
Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, 
zambia. 

Against: Israel. 

Abstaining: Malawi, United States of America. 

F. Draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.33 

19. At the 43rd meeting, on 2 December, the representative of India introduced a 
draft resolution (A/SPC/37/L.33) sponsored by Bangladesh, India and Qatar, 
subsequently joined by Afghanistan, Cape Verde, Cuba, Indonesia, Madagascar, 
Malaysia and Pakistan. 

20. At its 44th meeting, on 3 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/SPC/37/L.33 by a recorded vote of 88 to 2, with 22 abstentions (see para. 24, 
draft resolution F). The voting was as follows: 

I ... 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 9 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, 
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape 
Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, 
Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, 
Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), 
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic 
Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, 
r-talaysia, Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia, f.k>rocco, Mozambique, Nepal, 
Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, 
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sinapore, 
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, 
Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraininan Soviet Socialist 
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab 
Emirates, united Republic of Cameroon, united Republic of 
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, 
Zambia. 

Against: Israel, United States of America. 

Abstaining: Australia, Barbados, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Denmark, 
Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, 
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Norway, SWeden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern 
Ireland, uruguay. 

G. Draft resolution A/SPC/37/L.34 

21. At the 43rd meeting, on 2 December, the representative of Afghanistan 
introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/37/L.34) sponsored by Afghanistan, Bangladesh 
and Qatar, subsequently joined by Cape Verde, Cuba, India, Indonesia, Madagascar, 
Malaysia and Pakistan. 

22. At its 44th meeting, on 3 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/SPC/37/L.34 by a recorded vote of 112 to 1, with 1 abstention (see para. 24, 
draft resolution G) • The voting was as follows: 

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, 
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet 
Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, 
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, 
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, 
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, German Democratic 
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, 
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) 
Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao 
People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, 

; ... 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 10 

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, 
Maldives, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, 
Netherlands, New zealand, Nigeria, Norway, oman, Pakistan, 
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, 
saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, 
Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, TUnisia, 
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet SOCialist Republic, Union of 
Soviet SOCialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom 
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of 
cameroon, United Republic of Tanzania, upper Volta, Uruguay, 
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia. 

Against: Israel. 

Abstention: United States of America. 

23. Before the voting at the 44th meeting, on 3 December, the representatives of 
Israel and the United States of America spoke in connection with the draft 
resolutions. After the voting, statements in explanation of vote on all the draft 
resolutions were made by the representatives of the United States of America and 
SWeden. The representative of Ireland made a statement on draft resolution 
A/SPC/37/L.33. 

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL COMMITTEE 

24. The Special Political Committee recommends to the General Assembly the 
adoption of the following draft resolutions: 

Report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population 

of the Occupied Territories 

A 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 3092 A (XXVIII) of 7 December 1973, 3240 B (XXIX) of 
29 November 1974, 3525 B (XXX) of 15 December 1975, 31/106 B of 16 December 1976, 
32/91 A of 13 December 1977, 33/113 A of 18 December 1978, 34/90 B of 
12 December 1979, 35/122 A of 11 December 1980 and 36/147 A of 16 December 1981, 

Recalling also Security Council resolution 465 (1980) of 1 March 1980 in 
which, inter alia, the Council affirmed that the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, !( is applicable 
to the Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem, 

~ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973, p. 287. 

; ... 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 11 

Considering that the promotion of respect for the obligations arising from the 
Charter of the United Nations and other instruments and rules of international law 
is among the basic purposes and principles of the United Nations, 

Bearing in mind the provisions of the Geneva Convention, 

Noting that Israel and those Arab States whose territories have been occupied 
by Israel since June 1967 are parties to that Convention, 

Taking into account that States parties to that Convention undertake, in 
accordance with article 1 thereof, not only to respect but also to ensure respect 
for the Convention in all circumstances, 

1. Reaffirms that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of 
Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, is applicable to Palestinian 
and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem; 

2. Condemns once again the failure of Israel as the occupying Power to 
acknowledge the applicability of that Convention to the ter~itories it has occupied 
since 1967, including Jerusalem; 

3. Strongly demands that Israel acknowledge and comply with the prov1s1ons 
of that Convention in Palestinian and other Arab territories it has occupied since 
1967, including Jerusalem; 

4. Urgently calls upon all States parties to that Convention to exert all 
efforts in order to ensure respect for and compliance with its provisions in 
Palestinian and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including 
Jerusalem. 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling its resolutions 32/5 of 28 October 1977, 33/133 B of 
18 December 1978, 34/90 C of 12 December 1979, 35/122 B of 11 December 1980 and 
36/147 B of 16 December 1981, 

Recalling also Security Council resolution 465 (1980) of 1 March 1980, 

Expressing grave anxiety and concern at the present serious situation in the 
occupied Palestinian and other Arab territories, including Jerusalem, as a result 
of the continued Israeli occupation and the measures and actions taken by the 
Government of Israel, the occupying Power, designed to change the legal status, 
geographical nature and demographic composition of those territories, 

Considering that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian 
Persons in Time of war, of 12 August 1949, !( is applicable to all Arab territories 
occupied since .6 June 1967, including Jerusalem, 

/ ... 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 12 

1. J>.e.ter-mi-ne-s ·that·· all such measures and actions taken by Israel in the 
Palestinian and other Arab territories occupied since 1967, including Jerusalem, 
are in violation of the relevant provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to 
the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, and _ 
constitute a serious obstruction of efforts to achieve a just and lasting peace in 
the Middle East, and therefore have no legal validityJ 

2. Strongly deplores the persistence of Israel in carrying out such 
measures, in particular the establishment of settlements in the Palestinian and 
other occupied Arab territories, including Jerusalem~ 

3. Demands that Israel comply strictly with its international obligations in 
accordance with the principles of international law and the provisions of the 
Geneva ConventionJ 

4. Demands once more that the Government of Israel, the occupying Power, 
desist forthwith from taking any action which would result in changing the legal 
status, geographical nature or demographic composition of the Palestinian and other 
Arab territories occupied since 1967, including JerusalemJ 

5. Urgently calls upon all States parties to the Geneva Convention to 
respect and to exert all efforts in order to ensure respect for and compliance with 
its provisions in all Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including 
Jerusalem. 

c 

The General Assembly, 

Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and 
by the principles and provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 

Bearing in mind the provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, ~as well as of 
other relevant conventions and regulations, 

Recalling all its resolutions on the subject, in particular resolutions 
32/91 Band C of 13 December 1977, 33/113 C of 18 December 1978, 34/90 .A of 
12 December 1979, 35/122 C of 11 December 1980 and 36/147 C of 16 December 1981, 
and also those adopted by the Security Council, the Commission of Human Rights and 
other United Nations organs concerned and by the specialized agencies, 

Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli 
Practices Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories, 
which contains, inter alia, public statements made by the leaders of the Government 
of Israel, 

I ... 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 13 

1. Commends the Special Committee to Investigate Israeli Practices Affecting 
the Human Rights of the Population of the Occupied Territories for its efforts in 
performing the tasks assigned to it by the General Assembly and for its 
thoroughness and impartiality) 

2. Deplores the continued refusal by Israel to allow the Special Committee 
access to the occupied territories; 

3. Demands that Israel allow the Special Committee access to the occupied 
territories; 

4. Reaffirms the fact that occupation itself constitutes a grave violation 
of the human rights of the civilian population of the occupied Arab territories) 

5. Condemns the continued and persistent violation by Israel of the Geneva 
Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 
12 August 1949, and other applicable international instruments, and condemns in 
particular those violations which that Convention designates as "grave breaches" 
thereof; 

6. Declares once more that Israel's grave breaches of the Geneva Convention 
are war crimes and anaffront to humanity; 

7. Strongly condemns the following Israeli policies and practices: 

(~) Annexation of parts of the occupied territories, including Jerusalem; 

(~) Imposition of Israeli laws, jurisdiction and administration on the Syrian 
Golan Heights, which has resulted in the effective annexation of the Syrian Golan 
Heights; 

(£) Establishment of new Israeli settlements and expansion of the existing 
settlements on private and public Arab lands, and transfer of an alien population 
thereto; 

(~) Evacuation, deportation, expulsion, displacement and transfer of Arab 
inhabitants of the occupied territories and denial of their right to return) 

(,!) Confiscation and expropriation of private and public Arab property in 
occupied territories and all other transactions for the acquisition of land 
involving the Israeli authorities, institutions or nationals on the one hand and 
the inhabitants or institutions of the occupied territories on the other) 

(f) Excavations and transformations of the landscape and the historical, 
cultural and religious sites, especially in Jerusalem, 

(~) Destruction and demoliton of Arab houses; 
j 

(h) Collective punishment, mass arrests, administrative detention and 
ill-treatment of the Arab population; 

the 

I .. ~. 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 14 

<!> Ill-treatment and torture of persons under detentionJ 

<i> Pillaging of archaeological and cultural property) 

(~) Interference with religious freedoms and practices as well as family 
rights and customs) 

<!> Interference with the system of education and with the social and 
economic development of the population in the occupied Palestinian and other Arab 
territories) 

(~) Interference with the freedom of movement of individuals within the 
occupied Palestinian and other Arab territories; 

(~) Illegal exploitation of the natural wealth, resources and population of 
the occupied territories; 

8. Reaffirms that all measures taken by Israel to change the physical 
character, demographic composition, institutional structure or status of the 
occupied territories, or any part thereof, including Jerusalem, are null and void, 
and that Israel's policy of settling parts of its population and new immigrants in 
the occupied territories constitutes a flagrant violation of the Geneva Convention 
and of relevant United Nations resolutions; 

9. Demands that Israel desist forthwith from the policies and practices 
referred to in paragraphs 7 and 8 above; 

10. Urges the international organizations and specialized agencies, in 
particular the International Labour Organisation, to examine the conditions of Arab 
workers in the occupied Palestinian and other Arab territories, including Jerusalem; 

11. Reiterates its call upon all States, in particular those States parties 
to the Geneva Convention, in accordance with article 1 of that Convention, and upon 
international organizations and the specialized agencies not to recognize any 
changes carried out by Israel in the occupied territories and to avoid actions, 
including those in the field of aid, which might be used by Israel in its pursuit 
of the policies of annexation and colonization or any of the other policies and 
practices referred to in the present resolution; 

12. Requests the Special Committee, pending the early termination of Israeli 
occupation, to continue to investigate Israeli policies and practices in the Arab 
territories occupied by Israel since 1967, to consult, as appropriate, with the 
International Committee of the Red Cross in order to ensure the safeguarding of the 
welfare and human rights of the population of the occupied territories and to 
report to the Secretary-General as soon as possible and whenever the need arises 
thereafter) 

13. Requests the Special Committee to continue to investigate the treatment 
of civilians in detention in Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967; 

I ... 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 15 

14. Condemns Israel's refusal to permit persons from the occupied territories 
to appear as witnesses before the Special Committee) 

15. Requests the Secretary-General; 

(~) To provide all necessary facilities to the Special Committee, including 
those required for its visits to the occupied territories, with a view to 
investigating the Israeli policies and practices referred to in the present 
resolution; 

(£) To continue to make available additional staff as may be necessary to 
assist the Special Committee in the performance of its tasksJ 

(£) To ensure the widest circulation of the reports of the Special Committee, 
and of information regarding its activities and findings, by all means available 
through the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat and, where 
necessary, to reprint those reports of the Special Committee which are no longer 
available) 

(~) To report to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session on the 
tasks entrusted to him in the present paragraph; 

16. Requests the Security Council to ensure Israel's respect for and 
compliance with all the provisions of the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, in Palestinian 
and other Arab territories occupied since 1967, including Jerusalem, and to 
initiate measures to halt Israeli policies and practices in those territories) 

17. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-eighth session 
the item entitled "Report of the Special Comaittee to Investigate Israeli Practices 
Affecting the Human Rights of the Population of the occupied Territories•. 

D 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling Security Council resolutions 468 (1980) of 8 May 1980, 469 (1980) of 
20 May 1980, 484 (1980) of 19 December 1980 and 36/147 D of 16 December 1981, 

Deeply concerned at the expulsion by the Israeli military occupation 
authorities of the Mayors of Hebron and Halhul and of the Sharia Judge of Hebron, 

Recalling the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons 
in Time of war of 12 August 1949, ~ and in particular article 1 and the first 
paragraph of article 49, which reads as follows: 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 16 

11Article 1 

"The High Contracting Parties undertake to respect and to ensure respect 
for the present Convention in all circumstances." 

"Article 49 

"Individual or mass forcible transfers, as well as deportations of 
protected persons from occupied territory to the territory of the occupying 
Power or to that of any other country, occupied or not, are prohibited, 
regardless of their motive ••• ", 

Reaffirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention to the Palestinian and 
other Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem, 

1. Demands once more that the Government of Israel, the occupying Power, 
rescind the illegal measures taken by the Israeli military occupation authorities 
in expelling and imprisoning the Mayors of Hebron and Halhul and in expelling the 
Sharia Judge of Hebron and that it facilitate the immediate return of the expelled 
Palestinian leaders so that they can resume the functions for which they were 
elected and appointedJ 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly as soon 
as possible on the implementation of the present resolution. 

E 

The General Assembly, 

Deep1y concerned that the Arab territories occupied since 1967 have been under 
continued Israeli military occupation, 

Recalling Security Council resolution 497 (1981) of 17 December 1981 and 
General Assembly resolutions 36/226 B of 17 December 1981 and ES-9/1 of 
5 February 1982, 

Recalling its previous resolutions, in particular resolutions 3414 (XXX) of 
5 December 1975, 31/61 of 9 December 1976, 32/20 of 25 November 1977, 33/28 and 
33/29 of 7 December 1978, 34/70 of 6 December 1979 and 35/122 E of 
11 December 1980, in which it, inter alia, called upon Israel to put an end to its 
occupation of the Arab territories and to withdraw from all those territories, 

Reaffirming once more the illegality of Israel's decision of 14 December 1981 
to impose its laws, jurisdiction and administration on the occupied Syrian Golan 
Heights, which has resulted in the effective annexation of that territory, 

I ... 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 17 

Reaffirming that the acquisition of territory by force is inadmissible under 
the Charter of the United Nations and that all territories thus occupied by Israel 
must be returned, 

Recalling the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civil~an Persons 
in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, ~ 

1. Strongly condemns Israel, the occupying Power, for its refusal to comply 
with the relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and the Security Council, 
particularly Council resolution 497 (1981), in which the Council, inter alia, 
decided that the Israeli decision to impose its laws, jurisdiction and 
administration in the occupied Syrian Golan Heights was null and void and without 
international legal effect and that Israel, the occupying Power, should rescind 
forthwith its decision; 

2. Condemns the persistence of Israel in changing the physical character, 
demographic composition, institutional structure and legal status of the occupied 
Syrian Arab Golan Heights; 

3. Determines that all legislative and administrative measures and actions 
taken or to be taken by Israel, the occupying Power, that purport to alter the 
character and legal status of the Syrian Arab Golan Heights are null and void and 
constitute a flagrant violation of international law and of the Geneva Convention 
relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of war, of 12 August 1949, 
and have no legal effect; 

4. Strongly condemns Israel for its attempts and measures to impose forcibly 
Israeli citizenship and Israeli identity cards on the Syrian citizens in the 
occupied Syrian Arab Golan Heights and calls upon it to desist from its repressive 
measures against the population of the Syrian Arab Golan Heights; 

5. Calls upon Member States not to recognize any of the legislative or 
administrative measures and actions referred to above; 

6. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the implementation 
of the present resolution to the General Assembly at its thirty-eighth session. 

F 

The General Assembly, 

Bearing in mind the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian 
Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, ~ 

Deeply shocked by the most recent atrocities committed by Israel, the 
occupying Power, against educational institutions in the occupied Palestinian 
territories, 

I .. . 



A/37/698 
English 
Page 18 

1. Reaffirms the applicability of the Geneva Convention relative to the 
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of war, of 12 August 1949, to the 
Palestinian and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, including 
Jerusalem; 

2. Condemns Israeli policies and practices against Palestinian students and 
faculty in schools, universities and other educational institutions in the occupied 
Palestinian territories, especially the policy of opening fire on defenceless 
students, causing many casualtiesJ 

3. Condemns the systematic Israeli campaign of repression against and 
closing of universities in the occupied Palestinian territories, restricting and 
impeding academic activities of Palestinian universities by subjecting the 
selection of courses, textbooks and educational programmes, the admission of 
students and the appointment of faculty members to the control and superv1s1on of 
the military occupation authorities, in clear contravention of the Geneva 
ConventionJ 

4. Demands that Israel, the occupying Power, comply with the provisions of 
the Geneva COnvention, rescind all actions and measures against all educational 
institutions, ensure the freedom of these institutions and refrain forthwith from 
hindering the effective operation of the universities and other educational 
institutions; 

5. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on the implementation 
of the present resolution before the end of 1983. 

G 

The General Assembly, 

Recalling Security Council resolution 471 (1980) of 5 June 1980, in which the 
Council condemned the assassination attempts against the Mayors of Nablus, Ramallah 
and Al Bireh and called for the immediate apprehension and prosecution of the 
perpetrators of those crimes, 

Recalling also its resolution 36/147 G of 16 December 1981, 

Recalling once again the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of 
Civilian Persons in Time of war, of 12 August 1949, !( and in particular 
article 27, which states, inter alia: 

"Protected persons are entitled, in all circumstances, to respect for their 
persons ••• They shall at all times be humanely treated, and shall be 
protected especially against all acts of violence or threats thereof • . •.", 

Reaffirming the applicability of the Geneva Convention to the Arab territories 
occupied by Israel since 1967, including Jerusalem, 

/ ... 




