








































UNITED 
NATIONS 

General Assembly 
Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/38/745 

A 

18 December 1983 
ENGLISH 
ORIGINAL: SPANISH 

Thirty-eighth session 
Agenda 1 tern 117 

UNITED NATIONS COMMON SYSTEM 

Report of the Fifth Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Even FONTAINE ORTIZ (Cuba) 

I. INTRODUCTION 

1. At its 3rd pl~nary meeting, on 23 September 1983, the General Assembly decided 
to include in its agenda the item entitled "United Nations common system: report 
of the International Civil Service COmmission". At its 4th plenary meeting, on the 
same day, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Fifth Committee. 

2. The Committee had before it the ninth annual report of the International Civil 
Service Commission. 11 Chapters II and VIII, section F, dealing respectively with 
a special index for pensioners, and retirement policy and the mandatory age of 
retirement, were considered in conjunction with agenda item 118, entitled, "United 
Nations pension system: report of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board". 

3. The Fifth Committee considered this item at its 28th, 31st, 33rd, 38th, 41st, 
42nd, 49th, 50th, 6lst, 62nd, and 65th and 67th meetings, on 4, 8, 10, 15, 17, 
18 and 29 November and 12 to 15 December. Comments made in the course of the 
discussion of the item are reflected in the relevant summary records (see 
A/C.5/38/SR.28, 31, 33, 38, 41, 42, 49, 50, 61, 62, and 65-67). 

11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-eighth Session, 
Supplement No. 30 (A/38/30 and Add.l). 

83-36502 OllOP (E) ; ... 



A/38/745 
English 
Page 2 

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS 

4. At the 6lst meeting, on 12 December, the representative of Canada introduced a 
draft resolution (A/C.5/38/L.l7), sponsored by Australia, Austria, Canada, Denmark, 
Egypt, Norway, Pakistan, Sweden and Venezuela. 

5. At the 62nd meeting, on 12 December, the representative of Morocco introduced 
an amendment (A/C.S/38/L.23) to draft resolution A/C.S/38/L.l7, consisting of the 
addition of a new section reading as follows: 

"Decides to amend article 6, paragraph 2, of the statute of the 
International Civil Service Commission to read: 

"2. NO member of the Commission may participate in the 
deliberations of any organ of the organizations on any matter within the 
competence of the Commission unless the Commission has requested him or 
her to do so as its representative. Nor shall a member of the Commission 
serve as an official or consultant of any such organization during his or 
her term of office.• 

6. Also at the 62nd meeting, the representative of the United States of America 
introduced the following amendments (A/C.S/38/L.20) to draft resolution 
A/C.S/38/L.l7. 

(a) Add following new paragraph 1 to section II, and renumber other 
paragraphs accordingly: 

"1. Regrets that the Commission was unable to make corrections in 
the current post-adjustment classification at certain duty stations in 
spite of the fact that the post adjustments were found to be higher than 
those which the results of the new cost-of-living survey could justify.• 

(b) Add following new subparagraph (e) to section III, paragraph 3a 

"(e) Requests the Commission to conduct a study of the education 
grant, the purpose of which is to facilitate a child's reassimilation in 
the staff member's home country, and to report on the results of the 
study to the General Assembly at its thirty-ninth session." 

(c) ~ new section IX as follows: 

"Invites the Executive Heads of the United Nations system to make a 
greater use of their authority to extend appointments beyond the normal 
age of retirement in cases where such extensions are in the interest of 
the Organization.• 

7. At the 65th meeting, on 14 December, the representative of the United States 
of America revised his amendments by replacing the word "Regrets" in the first 
amendment with the word •concerned" and by replacing the word "is" in the second 
draft amendment with the word •was•. At the same time, he withdrew the third 
amendment. 

/ ... 



A/38/745 
English 
Page 3 

8. At the 66th meeting, on 15 December, the representative of Morocco withdrew 
his amendment (A/C.5/38/L.23) in favour of the following separate draft decision 
submitted by the representative of Egypt: 

"The General Assembly requests the Secretary-General to consult with the 
organizations members of the common system of the United Nations on the · 
proposal in document A/C.S/38/L.23 [annexed] and to report on the results of 
those consultations to the General Assembly at its thirty-ninth session." 

9. At the same meeting, the representative of the United States of America 
proposed to amend the draft decision submitted by Egypt by inserting the following 
words after the words "United Nations": 

", and the International Civil Service Commission, bringing to their 
attention, inter alia, the discussions in the Fifth Committee,". 

III. DECISIONS OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

10. At its 65th meeting, on 14 December, the Committee adopted the first amendment 
in document A/C.5/38/L.20 (see para. 6 (a)), as orally revised, by 32 votes to 21, 
with 32 abstentions. 

11. The committee then adopted the second amendment in document A/C.5/38/L.20 (see 
para. 6 (b)), as orally revised, by 63 votes to 13, with 15 abstentions. 

12. At its 66th meeting, on 15 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution 
A/C.5/38/L.l7, as amended, by 91 votes to 9, with 5 abstentions (see para. 17). 

13. Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of Bolivia, 
Cuba, Ethiopia, the German Democratic Republic and Mexico. The representatives of 
Pakistan and Venezuela explained their position in consequence of the adoption of 
the amendments in document A/C.5/38/L.20. 

14. At the 67th meeting, on 15 December, the Committee adopted, ~ 37 votes to 10, 
with 14 abstentions, the amendment proposed by the representative of the United 
States of America (see para. 9) to the draft decision submitt&d by Egypt. 

15. The Committee then adopted the draft decision submitted by Egypt! as amended, 
by 24 votes to 6, with 37 abstentions (see para. 18). 

16. The representatives of the Bahamas, Mexico and Morocco explained their 
position. 

IV. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIFTH COMMITTEE 

17. The Fifth COmmittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolution: 

; ... 



A/38/745 
English 
Page 4 

United Nations common systema report of the International 
Civil Service Commission 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered with appreciation the annual report of the International 
Civil Service Commission, 11 

Reaffirming the central role of the Commission within the common system in the 
development of a single unified international civil service through the application 
of common personnel standards and arrangements, 

Reaffirming the importance of respect for these common standards and 
arrangements by all organizations members of the common system, 

I 

1. Urges all organizations concerned to implement the decisions of the 
International Civil Service Commission and to act positively on the recommendations 
of the Commission in accordance with its statute, 

2. Urges the.executive heads of organizations concerned, after consultation 
with the Commission, to report to their respective governing bodies such decisions 
or proposals as would modify the recommendations of the Commission, 

3. Calls upon all organizations of the common system to bring to the 
attention of the Commission all matters relating to salaries, allowances, benefits 
and other conditions of employment so as to ensure their uniform application 
throughout the common system, 

4. Reaffirms the principles embodied in the statute of the Commission as 
approved in General Assembly resolution 3357 (XXIX), in particular article 6 
thereof, and requests Governments, secretariats and staff associations to 
co-operate in this regard1 

5. Approves the development of the special index for pensioners as 
recommended by the Commission in paragraph 15 (a) of its reportJ 

6. Takes note of the current status of the margin between the remuneration 
of the United States federal civil service and that of the United Nations system, 

7. Requests the Commission to complete, in close consultation with the 
United States authorities concerned, the study of the equivalency between the 

11 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-eighth Session, 
Supplement No. 30 (A/38/30/Add.l). 

/ ... 



A/38/745 
English 
Page 5 

higher grade levels of the United Nations system and the Senior Executive Service 
of the united States federal civil service and report thereon to the General 
Assembly at its thirty-ninth session' 

8. Notes the progress made to date concerning the comparison of total 
compensation based on non-expatriate benefits applicable on both sides, and 
requests the Commission to inform the General Assembly, on an annual basis, of the 
margin between the remuneration of the United Nations employees and those of the 
United States federal civil service on this total compensation basis1 

II 

1. Concerned that the International Civil Service Commission was unable to 
make corrections in the current post adjustment classification at certain duty 
stations in spite of the fact that the post adjustmen~s were found to be higher 
than those which the results of the new cost-of-living survey could justifyJ 

2. Notes the efforts b¥ the Commission to improve the post-adjustment system 
and requests the Commission in this regard to expedite, in particular, the 
application of the revised methodology for cost-of-living measurement, called for 
in General Assembly resolution 34/165 of 17 December 1979, in order to improve the 
mechanism for adjusting United Nations remuneration to reflect more accurately the 
differences in cost of living at various duty stations' 

3. Calls upon the executive heads of organizations and staff of the United 
Nations common system to co-operate fully with the Commission in the application of 
the post-adjustment system1 

4. Notes the introduction by the Commission, with effect from 1 April 1983, 
of a rental subsidy scheme for staff in the Professional and higher categories at 
Headquarters and other duty stations not previously covered by a subsidy scheme, 

5. Requests the Commission to monitor this rental subsidy scheme with a view 
to ensuring both its equity and its effectiveness' 

III 

1. Recalls its resolution 2480 B (XXIII) of 29 December 1968 on the language 
incentives in the United Nations' 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
thirty-ninth session a report on the status of the linguistic skills of United 
Nations staff, including the effects of the language incentive programme, and to 
propose, if necessary, further measures to improve the present situationJ 

3. Decides that: 

(a) The education grant for eligible staff members should be set at a level 
of 75 per cent of the cost of attendance at an educational institution in respect 
of expenses up to a maximum of $6,000 per year, with a maximum reimbursement of 
$4,500 per child per year1 

; ... 



A/38/745 
English 
Page 6 

(b) The reimbursement rate for disabled children shall be set at 100 per cent 
of a maximum of $6,000 for expenses at an educational institution' 

(c) The limit of allowable boarding costs within the overall maximum 
allowable expenditure of $6,000 shall be raised to $1,500 per year• 

(d) Provision should be made to use a currency floor for this grant, using 
exchange rates effective 1 March 1983, to ensure the maintenance of equitable 
reimbursement of education costs among duty stations, 

(e) Requests the International Civil Service Commission to conduct a study of 
the education grant, the purpose of which was to facilitate a child's 
reassimilation in the staff member's home country, and to report on the results of 
the study to the General Assembly at its thirty-ninth session. 

IV 

1. Takes note of the decision of the International Civil Service Commission 
to modify, with effect from 1 September 1983, the non-resident's allowance 
provisions to make the allowance payable for a fixed duration of five years at 
designated duty stations and to make it non-pensionable, subject to the protection 
of acquired rights as set out in paragraph 63 of the report of the Commission, 

2. Requests the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Board to review 
article 54 (a) of the regulations of the United Nations Joint Staff Pension Fund in 
the light of the Commission's decision and to make appropriate recommendations to 
the General Assembly at its thirty-ninth session, 

3. Decides that, in the meantime, the modified non-resident's allowance will 
not be pensionable• 

V 

1. Requests the International Civil Service Commission to undertake a 
comprehensive review of after-service health care coverage with particular 
attention to locally-recruited field staffl 

2. Approves the Commission's recommendation that the present 
non-contributory system of death-grant benefits be continued inasmuch as it 
provides benefits in the most cost-effective manner, 

VI 

1. Recalls section IV of its resolution 37/126 of 17 December 1982 and 
reaffirms its support for the overall approach envisaged by the Commission which 
aims at the development of policies for an integrated personnel management system, 
based on human resources planning, to assist organizations in achieving their 
programme objectives in an efficient manner, while providing improved conditions 
for career development, 

; ... 



A/38/745 
English 
Page 7 

2. Welcomes the decision taken by the Commission to establish job 
classification standards under article 13 of its statute for locally-recruited 
staff in field offices where several of the organizations employ staff in common 
areas of work1 

3. Expresses its satisfaction that job classi(ication standards have been 
developed for the General Service and related categories in New York, and requests 
the organizations concerned to co-ordinate their implementation of these standards 
in order to utilize fully the opportunities they provide for improved job design, 
recruitment, career planning and training, 

4. Welcomes the Commission's efforts to develop a common approach to skills 
inventories on an inter-organizational basis, 

5. Recommends that the organizations normally dispense with the requirement 
for a probationary appointment as a prerequisite for a career appointment following 
a period of five years' satisfactory service on fixed-term contractsJ 

6. Further requests the Commission to pursue its mandate under article 14 of 
its statute, in consultation with organizations and staff, with regard to the 
development of common training, recruitment and promotion policies for the 
organizations and to report thereon to the General Assembly as each phase of its 
studies is completedJ 

VII 

Notes the progress made to date by the International Civil Service Commission 
in its review of conditions of service in the field and requests the Commission to 
keep the General Assembly informed of further developments in its reviewJ 

VIII 

Requests the Commission to report to the General Assembly at its thirty-ninth 
session on the question of longevity and merit steps in the various grade levels. 

* 
* * 

18. The Fifth Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of 
the following draft decision: 

Statute of the International Civil Service Commission 

The General Assembly requests the Secretary-General to consult with the 
organizations members of the common system of the United Nations and the 
International Civil Service Commission, bringing to their attention, inter alia, 
the discussions in the Fifth Committee, on the proposal in document A/C.S/38/L.23, 
annexed to the present decision, and to report on the results of those 
consultations to the Assembly at its thirty-ninth session. 

; ... 



A/38/745 
English 
Page a· 

ANNEX 

(Document A/C.5/38/L.23) 

Morocco, draft decision 

The General Assembly decides to amend article 6, paragraph 2 of the statute of 
the International Civil Service Commission 11 to read: 

•2. No member of the Commission may participate in the deliberations of 
any organ of the organizations on any matter within the competence of the 
Commission unless the Commission has requested him or her to do so as its 
representative' nor shall a member of the Commission serve as an official or 
consultant of any such organization during his or her term of office.• 

11 General Assembly resolution 3357 (XXIX) of 18 December 1974, annex. 




