








































UNITED
NATIONS

3111I

General Assembly

A

Distr.
GENERAL

A/38/690
13 December 1983
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ENGLISH/FRENCH

Thirty-eighth session
Agenda item 100

ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES AND wAYS AND MEANS WITHIN THE UNITED
NATIONS SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVE ENJOYMENT OF

HUMAN RIGHTS AND FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Mrs. Moussokoro SANGARE-KABA (Guinea)

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1983, the General Assembly decided
to include in its agenda the item entitled:

"Alternative approaches and ways and means within the United Nations system
for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms:

(a) Study on international conditions and human rights: report of the
Secretary-GeneralJ

(b)

rights:
National institutions for the promotion and protection of human

report of the Secretary-General".

At its 4th plenary the General Assembly decided to
allocate the item to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered this item at its 38th to 42nd, 54th and 56th to
59th meetings, on 9, 10, 11 and 14 November and 28 November tu 1 December 1983. An
account of the Committee's discussions is contained in the relevant summary records
(A/C.3/38/SR.38 to 42, 54 and 56 to 59).

3. The Committee had before it the following documentation:

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council, chapter V, section AJ 1/

!I To be issued as Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-eighth
Session, Su~plement No. 3 (A/38/3).

83-35217 4093P (E) / ...



A/38/690
English
Page 2

(b) Study on international conditions and human rights: report of the
Secretary'-Genera1 (A/38/511) J

(c) National institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights:
report of the Secretary-General (A/38/416)J

(d) Letter dated 11 May 1983 from the Permanent Representative of Democratic
Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/38/203-S/1575fl) ,

(e) Letter dated 2 August 1983, from the Permanent Representatives of
Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Panama, Peru and Venezuela to the United Nations
addressed to the Sncretary-Genera1 transmitting the text of the Declaration issued
by the Presidents of the Bo1ivarian Republics at their meeting at Caracas on
24 July 1983 to observe the bicentenary of the birth of Simon Bolivar, the
Liberator (A/38/325-S/l5905)J

(f) Letter dated 24 October 1983 from the Permanent Representative of the
Sudan to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting the
text of the resolutions adopted by the Seventieth Inter-Parliamentary Conference,
held at Seoul on 12 October 1983 (A/38/529).

4. At its 38th meeting, on 9 November, the Under-Secretary-General for political
and General Assembly Affairs made an introductory statement.

II~ CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/38/L.26

5. At the 54th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of India introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.3/38/Lo26), entitled "National institutions for the promotion
and protection of human rights", sponsored by Australia, India, Jamaica, Morocco,
Nigeria and Sri Lanka as well as Ecuador, New Zealand and~, subsequently joined
by Costa Rica and Iraq.

6. At the 57th meeting, on 30 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/38/L.26 without a vote (see para. 12, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/38/L.25

7. At the 54th meeting, on 28 November, the representative of Cuba introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.3/38/L.25), entitled "Alternative approaches and ways and
means within the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of
human rights and fundame~tal freedoms", sponsored by Algeria, Angola, Argentina,
Bangladesh, Benin, Cape Velde, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, India, the Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Nicara9~, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Romania, the
Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, viet Nam and Yugoslavia as well as Bolivia, the
Congo, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, ~ and Sao Tome and Principe, subsequently joined
by Mozambigue.

/ •• It

'D

8
I'

9.
tt
wc
(r

rE
pI
Bt
re

ad

by
be

pr

10
am

11

22



A/38/690
English
Page 3

8e The Committee had before it an amendment to the draft resolution submitted by
Italy (A/C. 3/38/L. 46) which read as follows:

"1. Insert, between operative paragraphs 7 and 8 the following new
paragraph:

'Expresses also concern at the existing disparity between the
established principles and the actual situation of human rights in
various parts of the world, in particular with regard to the right to
life, liberty and security of person,'

"2. Renumber the following paragraphs accordingly."

9. At the 56th meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Cuba, on behalf of
the sponsors, following a proposal by the representative of Djibouti, replaced the
word "Reconfirming" by the word "Reaffirming" at the beginning of the seventeenth
(now eighteenth) preambular paragraph. At the 58th meeting, on 30 November, the
representative of Cuba, on behalf of the sponsors, following consultations on
proposals made by the delegations of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Bulgaria, China, Italy, the Netherlands, Ireland and Finland, further orally
revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) The following new paragraph was added as the ninth preambular paragraph:

IIReaffirming the importance of furthering the activities of the existing
organs of the United Nations system in the field of human rights in conformity
with the principles of the United Nations Charter,",

(b) In the tenth (now eleventh) preambular paragraph, the word "all" was
added before the words "human rights",

(c) In operative paragraph 6, the words "promote and encourage" were replaced
by the words "achieve international co-operation in promoting and encouraging"
before the words "respect for human rights",

(d) The following new paragraph, taking into account part of the amendment
proposed by Italy, was added as operative par,agraph 12:

"12. Expresses also concern at the existing disparity between the
established principles and the actual situation of all human rights and
fundamental freedoms in various parts of the world)".

The following paragraphs were renumbered accordingly.

10. At the same meeting, the representative of Italy consequently withdrew the
amendment submitted by his delegation (see para. 8 above).

11. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on draft resolution A/C.3/38/L.25, as
orally revised, as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 9 was adopted by a recorded vote of 110 to 1, with
22 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

/ ...

'S7Z:lZm



;177:!Z'P jnd

A/38/690
English
Page 4

In favour: Afghanistan, .Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Fiji, France, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
people's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic g Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Cameroon, United Republic of
Tanzania, Upper Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet f\1 Jm , Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Sweden, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

(b) The draft resolution as a whole, as orally revised, was adopted by a
recorded vote of 120 to 1, with 14 abstentions (see para. 12, draft
resolution 11). The voting was as follows: £I

£I At the 63rd meeting, on 5 December, the representative of Bangladesh
indicated that, as a result of a mechanical failure, his vote did not register and
that his delegation had voted in favour of operative paragraph 9.

/ ...

'. . .."..



12.

A/38/690
English
Page 5

In favour, Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi, Bye10russian
SOviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Dj ibouti , Dominican
RepUblic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,
France, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
RepUblic of), Iraq, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian SOviet Socialist Republic, Union
of Soviet SOcialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, united
RepUblic of Cameroon, United RepUblic of Tanzania, Upper
Volta, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: united States of America.

Abstaining; Canada, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Ivory Coast, Japan, Luxembourg,
Norway, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

The Third Committee recoIT®ends to the General Assembly the adoption of
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

National institutions for the promotion and protection
of human rights

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 32/123 of 16 December 1977, 33/46 of
14 December 1978, 34/49 of 23 November 1979 and 36/134 of 14 December 1981
concerning national institutions for the promotion and protection of human
rights,

/ ...



JV38/690
Engl:ish
Page 6

Mindful of the guidelines on the structure and functioning of national
and local institutions for the protection and promotion of human rights,
endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution :3/46,

Mindful also of the need to create conditions, at the national, regional
and international levels, for the protection and promotion of the human rights
of individuals and peoples,

Conscious of the significant role which institutions at the national
level can play in promoting and protecting human rights and fundamental
freedoms and in developing and enhancing pUblic awareness and observance of
those rights and freedoms,

Emphasizing the importance of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 11 the International Covenants on Human Rights iI and other
international human rights instruments for promoting respect for and
observance of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

1. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General
entitled "National institutions for the promotion and protection of human
rights", ~

2. Invites all Member States to take appropriate steps for the
establishment or, where they already exist, the strengthening of national
institutions for the protection and promotion of human rightsl

3. Emphasizes the importance of the integrity and independence of such
national institutions, in accordance with national legislation,

4. ~\ws attention to the constructive role that national
non-governme~ltal organizations can play in the work of national institutionsl

I

I
"

5. Reconunends that all Member States should take appropria~'
encourage the exchange of experience in the establishment of nati
institutions,

t:eps to

6. Requests th€ S€cr€tary~General to tLansmit his report to Governments
and to invite them to submit additional information, comments and
observations, with a view to developing further the various types of national
institutions for the protection and promotion of human riqhtsJ

7. Reguests the Secretary-General, in th~ light of his previous reports
and of further information received, to submit to the General Assembly at its
thirty-ninth session an updated report providing detailed information on the

11 Resolution 217 A (Ill).

iI Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex •

.21 A/38/4l6.

/ ...

\
1



al
hts

'11

:h

Its

ts
,s

..

I

I
'"

\
J

A/38/690
English
Page 7

various types of national and local institutions for the protection and
promotion of human rights, taking into account differing social and legal
systems and the contributions that national and local institutions can make
towards the implementation of international human rights instruments,

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-ninth
session a sub-item entitled "National institutions for the protection and
promotion of human rights".

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

Alternative approaches and ways and means within the United Nations
system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and

fundamental freedoms

The General Assembly,

Recalling that the peoples of the United Nations have, in the Charter of
the United Nations, declared their determination to reaffirm faith in
fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in
the equal rights of men and women and of nations large and small and to employ
international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social
advancement of all peoples,

Recalling also the purposes and pr inciples of the Charter to achh've
international co-operation in solving international problems of an economic,
social, cultural or humanitarian character, and in promoting and encouraging
respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without
distinction as to race, sex, language or religion,

Reaffirming the continued significance and validity of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights £I as well as the importance of the International
Covenants on Human Rights 1/ in promoting respect for and observance of human
rights and fundamental freedoms,

Recalling its resolution 32/130 of 16 Decemher 1977, in which it decided
that the approach to the future work within the United Nations system with
respect to human rights questions should take into account the concepts set
forth in that resolution,

Recalling further its resolutions 34/46 of 23 November 1979, 35/174 of
15 December 1980, 36/133 of 14 December 1981 and 37/199 of 18 December 1982,

Recognizing that the human being is the main subject of development and
that everyone has the right to participate in as well as to benefit from the
development process,

&I Resolution 217 A (Ill).

1/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/ ...



A/38/690
English
Page 8

Reiterating once again that the establishment of the new international
economic order is an essential element for the effective promotion and the
full enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all,

Reiterating also its profound conviction that equal attention and urgent
consideration should be given to the implementation, protection and promotion
of both civil and political and economic, social and cultural rights,

Reaffirming the importance of furthering the activities of the existing
organs of the United Nations system in the field of human rights in conformity
with the principles of the Charter,

£nderlining the need for the creation of conditions at the national and
international levels for the promotion and full protection of the human rights
of individuals and peoples,

Emphasizing that Governments have the duty to ensure respect for all
human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Recognizing that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interrelated and that the right to development is an
inalienable human right,

Reaffirming that the equality of opportunities for development is a
prerogative both of nations and of individuals within nations,

Emphasizing that international peace and security are essential elements
for the full realization of human rights, including the right to development,

Re~ognizing that, through disarmament, resources could be released to
contribute in a meaningful way to the development of all States, particularly
the developing countries,

Reiterating that co-operation among all nations on the basis of respect
for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of each State,
including the right of each people to choose freely its own socio-economic and
political system, is essential for the promotion of peace and development,

Convinced that the primary aim of such international co-operation must be
the achievement by each human being of a life of freedom and dignity and
freedom from want,

~firming that nothing in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights may
be interpreted as implying for any State, group or person the right to engage
in any activity or perform any act aimed at the destruction of any of the
rights and freedoms set forth therein,

~rming that the ultimate aim of development is the constant
improvement of the well-being of the entire population on the basis of its

I···



al
e

gent
,tion

.ing
lrmity

and
'ights

~ents

nent,

:0

larly

)ect
~ ,
lc and
t: ,

Jst be

ts may
ngage
e

ts

/ ...

A/38/690
English
Page 9

full participation in the process of development and a fair distribution of
the benefits therefro~w

1. Reiterates its request that the Commission on Human Rights continue
its current work on the overall analysis with a view to further promoting and
improving human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the question of the
Commission's programme and working methods, and on the overall analysis of the
alternative approaches and ways and means for improving the effective
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in accordance with the
provisions and concepts of General Assembly resolution 32/130 and other
relevant textsJ

2. Affirms that a primary aim of international co-operation in the
field of human rights is a life of freedom and dignity for all peoples and for
each human being, that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interrelated and that the promotion and protection of one
category of rights should never exempt or excuse States from the promotion and
protection of the othersJ

3. Affirms also its profound conviction that equal attention and urgent
consideration should be given to the implementation, protection and promotion
of both civil and political and economic, social and cultural rights,

4. Reaffirms that it is of paramount importance for the promotion of
human rights and fundamental freedoms that Member States should undertake
specific obligations through accession to, or ratification of, international
instruments in this field and, consequently, that the standard-setting work
within the United Nations systen, in the field of human rights and the
universal acceptance and the implementation of the relevant international
instruments should be encouragedJ

5. Reiterates that the international community should accord, or
continue to accord, priority to the search for solutions to mass and flagrant
violations of human rights of the peoples and individuals affected by
situations such as those mentioned in paragraph 1 (e) of resolution 32/130,
paying due attention also to other situations of violations of human rights,

6. Reaffirms its responsibility to achieve international co-operation
in promoting and encouraging respect tor human rights and fundamental freedoms
for all and that consistent patterns of violations of human rights, wherever
they exist, are of concern to the United Nations,

7. Expresses concern at the present situation with regard to the
achievement of the objectives and goals for establishing the new international
economic order, and its adverse effects on the full realization of human
rights and, in particular, the right to development,

8. Reaffirms that international peace and security are essential
elements for the full realization of the right to development,

/ ...



10. Recognizes that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interrelatedJ

A/38/690
English
Page 10

9.
rightJ

Reaffirms also that the right to development is an inalienable human

UNITED
NATIONS

11. Considers it necessary that all Member States promote international
co-operation on the basis of respect for the independence, sovereignty and
territorial integrity of each State, including the right of each people to
choose freely its own socio-economic and political system, with a view to
resolving international problems of an economic, social and humanitarian
characterJ

12. Expresses concern also at the existing disparity between the
established principles and the actual situation of all human rights and
fundamental freedoms in various parts of the world,

13. Urges all States to co-operate with the Commission on Human Rights
in the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

14. Reaffirms also that, in order to facilitate the full enjoyment of
all rights and complete personal dignity, it is necessary to promote the
rights to education, work, health and proper nourishment through the adoption
of measures at the national level, including those that provide for workers'
participation in management, as well as adoption of measures at the
international level, including the establishment of the new international
economic order,

15. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to take the necessary
measures to promote the right to development, taking into account the results
of the Working Group of Governmental Experts on the Right to Development,
which is engaged in the study of the scope and contents of the right to
development, and welcomes the decision of the Commission, in its resolution
1982/17 of 9 March 1982 ~ and reaffirmed in its resolution 1983/15 of
22 February 1983, 21 to the effect that the Working Group should continue its
work with the aim of presenting as soon as possible a draft declaration on the
right to development,

16. De,cides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-ninth
session the item entitled "Alternative approaches and ways and means within
the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedoms".

~ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1982, Supplement
No. 2 (E/1982/l2 and Corr.l), chap. XXVI, sect. A.

21 ~., 1983, Supplement No. 3 (E/l983/l3 and Corr.l), chap. XXVII,
sect. A.

Thirty-eight
Agenda item

1. At its
to include i
report of th
Assembly dec

2. The Corn
21 OCtober a
contained in

3: The Corn
accordance w

4. At the
Development

5. At the
draft resolu
Bangladesh,
Qatar, Roman
subsequently
Republic of

83-35704 OC


	biton0001B04
	biton0001B05
	biton0001B06
	biton0001B07
	biton0001B08
	biton0001B09
	biton0001B10
	biton0001B11
	biton0001B12
	biton0001C01



