






































UNITED 
NATIONS 

General Assembly Distr. 
GENERAL 

A/38/743 
19 December 1983 
ENGLISH 

A 

ORIGINAL: SPANISH 

Thirty-eighth session 
Agenda item 111 

FINANCIAL EMERGENCY OF THE UNITED NATIONS 

Report of the Fifth Committee 

Rapporteur: Mr. Even FONTA.INE ORTIZ (Cuba) 

I. INTRODUCTION 

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1983, the General Assembly 
decided, on the recommendation of the General Committee, to include in its agenda 
the item entitled: 

•Financial emergency of the United Nations: 

(a) Report of the Negotiating Committee on the Financial Emergency of 
the United Nations; 

(b) Report of the Secretary-General•. 

At its 4th plenary meeting, on the same day, the Assembly decided to allocate the 
item to the Fifth committee. 

2. The Fifth Committee had before it a report of the Secretary-General 
(A/C.S/38/9 and Corr.l and Add.l); 

3. The Committee considered this item at its 3rd to 6th, 8th and 73rd meetings, 
held on 27 and 30 September and 5, 6 and 8 October and 19 December 1983. Comments 
and observations made in the course of the Committee• s consideration of the item 
are reflected in the relevant summary records (A/C.5/38/SR.3-6, 8 and 73). 

83-36643 1149d (E) I ... 



A/38/743 
English 
Page 2 

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.5/38/L.26 

4. At the 73rd meeting, on 19 December, Mr. Henrik Amneus, Vice-Chairman of the 
Committee introduced and orally revised a draft resolution entitled "Financial 
emergency of the United Nations" (A/C.5/38/L.26), which was the result of informal 
consultations with members of the Cornmi ttee. 

5. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.5/38/L.26, as 
orally revised, by 73 votes to 8 (see para. 6) • 

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIFTH COMMIT1EE 

6. The Fifth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the 
following draft resolutions: 

Financial emergency of the United Nations 

A 

Postage stamps 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the analysis of the 
financial situation of the United Nations, 1/ 

Recalling its resolution 35/113 of 10 December 1980 and in particular 
paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 that the provisions of regulations 5.2 and 7.1 of the 
Financial Regulations of the United Nations shall not apply to the sale proceeds of 
postage stamps on the conservation and protection of nature so that a portion of 
the revenues so earned, after deducting the cost of producing the stamps, shall be 
earmarked for promoting, under United Nations auspices, the noble cause of 
conservation and protection of nature and endangered species, and the remainder of 
the net proceeds shall be placed in a special account, 

Recalling also its resolution 37/13 of 16 November 1982, 

1. Decides to allocate one half of the net revenues from the sale of the 
above-mentioned postage stamps to the United Nations Environment Programme for 
financing projects which promote conservation and protection of nature and 
endangered species; 

l/ A/C.5/38/9. 

/ ... 



A/38/743 
English 
Page 3 

2. Decides to allocate the remaining one half of the net proceeds to the 
United Nations Special Account; ~ 

3. Requests the Executive Director of the United Nations Environment 
Programme to submit a report to the Governing Council of the United Nations 
Environment Programme at an appropriate time on tile results of the projects and 
their impact on conservation and the protection of nature and endangered speciesJ 

4. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
thirty-ninth session a financial report on the project of the issue of special 
postage s tanps. 

B 

Financial emergency 

The General Assembly, 

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the analysis of the 
financial situation of the United Nations 1f and the report of the Advisory 
Committee on Administrative and Budgetary Questions on administrative and budgetary 
co-ordination of the United Nations with the specialized agencies and the 
International Atomic Energy Agency, i/ 

Taking note of the relevant statements of Member states in the Fifth Committee 
on this i tern, 

l. Requests the Negotiating Committee on the Financial Emergency of the 
United Nations to keep the financial situation of the Organization under review and 
to report, as and when appropriate, to the General Assembly, 

2. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at its 
thirty-ninth session detailed information relating to the extent, rate of increase 
and composition of the deficit of the Organization, as well as voluntary 
contributions received from Member States and other sources; 

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its thirty-ninth session 
the i tern entitled "Financial emergency of the United Nations: report of the 
Negotiating Committee on the Financial Emergency of the United Nations". 

~ Established pursuant to General Assembly resolutions 2053 (XX) and 
304 9 (XXVI I) • 

l( A/C.5/38/9 and Add.l. 

!/ A/38/515. 




