








































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAssembly
Di st! .
GENEAAI

M39/790/AAd.4
15 Decenber l-98 4
E t'lGL l sH
oRIGII'IAL: ARABIC/ENGLISH

Ttlirty-ninth sessl.on
A9 enda itsn 80 (cl)

DEVEIOPIIENT AND INTERNAI IoNAL ECONOI4IC CO-OPERATION :
I NDUSTRIATI ZAT ION

tlepor t ot the Scond CoamieLee (P4rL V)

Rapporteur'. !!r. AhIrEd Alawi AL-IIADDAD (Denpcratic Yemen)

I. INTKODTCTION

I. The second commrttee held a substantrve debate on iten 80 (see N39/790'
para. 2). Action to be tal(en on sub-iLslr (d) was considered at the 39th' 58th and
60th lrEetingsr on 13 lbvember and l0 and 14 Decenber. An account ot the
Cornmittee I s digcussion is contained in the relevant sunnrary records
(A/c.2/39/sR.3 9, 58 anq 60).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAIS

A. Dratt resolutions A/ C.2/ ?9 1 !'.32- 4l(LL:!2!

2. At the 39th meeting, on 13 Novsnber, the rePresentatr.ve ot Egypt. on behalt ot
the states l€nber s ot the thj.ted ltations which are nenbers of the Group of 77,
introduced a draft lesorution (P'/c'2/39 /L' 32) entitled "conversion ot the united
I€tions Industrial Devel.oPnEnt Organizalion into a si)ecralized agency", which read
as follows!

nl]e General. As sdnblt,

"Itecallirtg its resolutlons 37 /2I3 of 20 Decsnber 1982 and 38/193 ot
20 Decelber 198 3,

84-3 3463 0269F (E)



A/ 39/'l90/}'ld.4
.L.rtgI j.s h
Paqe 2

"Bearinq i.n nriid tnat the Constrtution of the United NaLions Industrl'al
Developr€nt organizifion !/ has been ratitred, accePted and aPProved by nore
than the mini$un nunbet of States whose agre€rnent is legurred for rLs entry
j.nto force.

r'1. kelccrnes the outcsne of the consultations on Lhe conversion ot the
{hitecl libtions rndus tri'al Developnent Organization i'nto a specialized aqency
of the united Nattons that were conducted at vienna in APril and lray L984t

-2. Endorses the contents ot the rePort ot the secretary-Gener ar on the
conversion ot the United Natrons Industrial Develolnent organization into a
specialized agency 2,/ and calls ulon aII countries to abide by the outcone of
the consultatj.ons as set out in that rePort?

Ixpresses its contidence that the nel, OrganLzatj.on will abide by the
contents of the report ot the secre tary -Gener alt

.'4.I4vitesthosel€n]erstatestbathavenotyetdonesotoratitythe
Constltution of the United Nations InoustriaJ- Develolment Organization withou!
further delay i

"5. Decides that adequate resources should be provided in the regufar
budget of the united llatrons Industrral Developflpnt Organization for the
bienniun 1984-1985 to ensure the Provision of the necessary funds' in
accoroance wrtn Paragraph ? ot c€neral Assenbly resoLution 34/96 ot
13 Decerrber IgTg' tot the tlrst General' conterence of the United Nations
Industrial DeveLoPnent Organization ano other costs assoclated with the
conversion of the Organization into a s!,ecialized agenct?

"6. nequests the se cretary-Gener a I to contrnue hi6 ettorts' in
accordance with resolution 38/193, tor ttte innediate conversion ot the uniled
}lalionslndustrialtEveloPnentorgani'zatlonintoaspecializedagency..'

3. A siatstent by the Secre tary-Gener al on the Progranme budget irnplications of
dratr resolut ior- A/C.2/39/!.32 was circulaLed in docurEnt NC'2/39/L'78'

4. At its 58th neeting, on 10 Decsnber, the Conrnittee had betore it a draft
resolution (NC.2/3g/L.L2l) submrtted by Mr- Habib Kaabachi ' 

Vice-Chairnan of the
Conuni,ttee. on the basls of rntormal consultations held on qratt resolution
N c .2/ 39 /L.32.

5. A statstent by the secr e Lart-Gener al on tbe Prograrufie budget irlPlications ot
dratt resolut Lon Nc.2/3g/L.I21 had been citculated ln oocuneng Nc'2/39/L'L23'

y A//coN F.9 0/19 .

u ^/3e/316.



A/ 39/7 90 /Md '4
Enq l ish
Page 3

6. At the sene rEetrng, the @runiEtee aoopted dratt resolut ron A/c.2/39/L'L2L
(see para. 28' dratt resolution I).

7. The representatrve ot the ukrainlan soviet socialist Re},ublic (also on behalt
ot Bulgaria, the byelorussran sovreL sbcj.alrst I€PubIrc' czechoslovakra, the Gernan
Dernocratic Republic, Ilungary, Mongolia, Poland and the Union ot Sovlet Socialrst
Repub].ica) nlade a statenent.

8, In the l-ight ot the adoptron ot dratt resolution A/C.2/39/L.I21, dratt
resolution Nc.2/39/L.32 was wi thdrawn by its sponsor s.

B. Dtatt reFolution A,/C.2,/39,/L.34

9. At the 3 gtb neeting , on 13 Novdnber, the rePresentative ot E-!l!]!, ott behalt ot
States ltnbers of the tfrited lbtions which are n€nbers ot the GrouP ot 77,
introduced a ctraf t resolutlon (NC.2/39/L.34) entitted "Inoustrial dev€loFrrent
co-operation".

10. A stat€rnent by the secEetary -Gener al on the programrne budget inplications o!
draft resoLut ron NC.2/39/L.34 Has cr'lculated in docurEnt Nc.2/39/L'93'

11. At the 58th meeting, on IO Decsrber. t{r. Habib Kaabachi, Vice-Chairnan ot tbe
Connittee, intorrred the Comrmttee on the outcohe ot intornal consultations held on
drait resolutLon A/C.2/ 39 /L.34.

IZ. At the sarne neebing, the rePlesentatj.ve ot the Union ot soviet tiocialist
Republrcs nade a staterFnt.

..f.3. The Connittee chen proceeded to vote on dratt resolutron A/C.2/39/L.34, as
tollons:

(a) By a recoroed vote ot 91 to 14, witn 17 absLentrons, operative
Ilaragraph 2 ot sectron II iras retai,ned. The voting was as tolfowss

In tavourr Atqhanistan, Algerra, Angola, Argentina, tsahanas, Babraln,
Bangladesh, Iblivia, B[azi.L, Brunei Darussalam, ts|Jrkina Faso'
Burma' Caneroon, cape Verde, Central Atrican Republic' ChiIe,
China, cololtbra, @ngo, costa Rica, cuba, cl'Frus, Denocratrc
Yenen' Dfrbouti, Doniniian Republic' Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
GaflDia' Ghana' Greece, qryana, Ibnduias' India, Indonesia, Irag'
Ivory Coast, ,Janaica, itoroan. Xenya, Kueait, Lao People's
Detrocratic tbPub].ic, I€sotho, Liberia, Lrbyan Alab Janahirrya'
fiadagascar, l4aLawi, Mataysia. l'raldives, Uali, Malta, Mauritania'
t€*ico, lDrocco, lr5zafibrgue, i'lePal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nrgeria,
qnan, Pakistan, Papua New Gulnea, Peru, Phj'IipPines, Qatar'
bnania, &randa ' saurd i Arabra. srenegal, 

singaPore, sonalia,
Sri Lankd, sudan, sbtaziland' Syrran Arab RePublic, Thailand'
1b9o' Trinidad and Tobagor lunisra' nlrkey, tbanda, tjnited Arab
Enirates, unitecl Republic of Tanzania, uruguay, venezuela,
Viet t€n' Venen, yugoslavra' Zaire, zanbia, Zrnbabwe' 

/...



lJ39/790/}dd.4
Engfi6h
Page 4

Aqainst: Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, CzechosLovakia,
cerrEn DetDcratic Fpublic, Gernany , Federal kpub]-ic ot,
Hungary, Japan, ltongolia, Netherlands, Po].and, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialiat bpublic, thion ot Soviet Socialist Republics, ttrited
Kl. ngdcm of creat tsritaln and Northern Ireland, United States ot
AIIErica.

Abstaining: AustraLia, Austria, Belglrrh, Canada, Denrnark, Finland, France,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ixxenbourg, Nee Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Srreden.

(b) Dratt resol,ution ,y'C.2/39/L.34, as a who1e, was adopted by a record€d
vote of 92 Eo 2. with 28 abstentlons (see para. 2g, draft reaolution II). Ttre
result ot the voting was as follons:

In favour: Mghanistan, Algeria, Ango1a, Argentina, Austria, tsahamas,
Bahrarn, Bar€Iadesh, Bolivta, Brazil, Ilrunei tbrusaalan.
tsurktna Faso, tsurma, Caneroon, Cape Verde, Central Atrican
Rei,ublic, Chile, Chrna, Colonbra, Congo, Costa Rrca, Cuba,
Cyprus, Detnocr ati.c Venen, DJibouti, Doninican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Etniopia, cafl|ljia, chana, creece, cuyana,
llonduras, India, Indone6ra, Irag, Ivory Coast, ,Janaica,
,Jordan, Icnya, ltunait, L€o Peoplers DenDcratic Republic,
Lesotho, Li.berra, Libyan Arab ilarhahiriya, l.tadagascar,
Malawr, l.lalaysia, Ialdives, l{alr, lralta, ltauriLania, !€r.ico,
l.torocco, Morarnbigue, Nepal, Nicaragua, N19er, Nlgeria, Oman,
Pakrstan, Papua New qrrnea, peru, FhiLipplnes, eatar,
Rtrrania' Rrranda, Saudi Arabia, senegaL, SingatrEre, Somalia,
sri Ianka, sudan, sriraziland, syrian Arab Republic, Iiailand,
To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunrsj.a, Turkey, Uganda, United
Arab Eftirates, thited repub.lic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nan, yetnen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Uanbia,
zinbabwe.

Israel. United States ot America.4q a instr

Abstaining: Arstralia, Belgium, Brlgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republlc, Canada, Czechoslovakia, D€nrnark, Finland, France,
cer|IBn Denocratic Ft)ublrc, cerrltany, Federal t€pubtic of,
IturEary, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxsnbourg,
lDrEolia, tletherlands, tiler, Zealand, llorway, hland,
Portugal, Sparn, Sreeden, Ukrainian Soviet Soclalist
&publlc, thion ot Soviet Sbciali.st l€publics, United
Krngdcn of creat Britain and Northern Ireland.

14. StaterEnts were nade by the representatlves ot the Unrted States of
Anerica, Japan, Israel, Dennark, the United Kingalqn of creat tsritian and
llorlher n lretand, the Federal FpubLic ot Gernany and the Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic (aLso on behalt of Eulgarla, the Byelorussian Soviet
socialist Republic, Cze cho€lovak:,a, tlre Gernan Delocratic Republic, ttungary,



A/39/79O/Add.4
Eng1i3h
Page 5

lDngolia, Foland and the ljnron ot soviet socialist Republics). A Statett€nt t.as
also made by the representative ol Egypt (on behalt ot States members ot the Group
ot 771 .

C. Dratt resolution A/C.2/39,/L.35

15. At the 39th neecing, on 13 Novemb€r, tbe representatrve ot Eqypt, on behall ot
States lsrnber s ot the ktited ltatlons whlch are rErnber s ot the Group ot 7?,
intloduced a dratt resolution (A/C.2/39/L.35) entitteo nlndustrial DeveloHrrent
Decade tor Atricau.

16. A statement bt the secr etart -cener aL on the progr aaTre budget inplications ot
dratt resolut Lon NC.2/39/L.35 r'ras clrculated rn oocument VC.2/39/L.94.
L7. At the 58th neeting, on l0 Dec€nber, the representative ot the Union ot Soviet
liocialist lGpublics nade a scatefl€nt.

18. The conrnittee then proceeded to vote on dratt regolution NC.2/39/L.33 as
tol]-orrs:

(a) By a recorded vote of 90 to 10, bith 2f abstentrons, operattve
paragraph 5 rras retained. The result ot the voting Haa as tollowss

n f,avourr Afghanistan. Algeria, Ango1a, Argentina, Bahaftas, tsahrain,
BarBladesh, Boliviar BraziL, ttrunei Darussalan, Bdrkina Faso,
Burma, Caneroon, Cape Verde, CentraL Atrican Republic, Chile,
chi.na, Colornbia, Congo, Costa Rrca, Cuba, qrprus, Derpclatrc
Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Eqtpt, EthioPia,
Ganbj.a, Ghana, Greece, Gryana, Iionouras, India, Indonesla, Irag,
Israel, Ivory coast, Jamarca, Jordan, Kenya, Kurrait, Lesotho,
Liberiar Libyan Arab ilamahiriya, l4adagascar, ti{alaysia, aldives,
t4aIi, ualta, ltauritanra, uexico, Morocco, Mozambi,que, NePal,
Nicaragua, Nrger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakrstan, PaFua l.lee Guinea,
Peru, Philippines, Qatar. konania, Rwanda, saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sir8apore. So[EIia, Sri lanka, Sudan, sraziland, Syrian Arab
Republrc, Thaitand, To9o, Trrnrdad and lobago, Tunisia, turkey,
Ibanda, tlnited Arab Emirates, uniteo republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, venezuela, Viet Nam, Yenen, Yugoslavla' zaire, zanbia,
Zr.rbabwe.

Aqainsti Bulgaria, Byelorussian soviet soclalist Republic, Czechosl-ovakia,
GertrEn De[pcratic l€puDlr.c ' Hungary, l.bngolia, Foland, tkrainianSoviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet socialist Republic6,
(hited States of AnErica.

Abstaininq r Australla, Auatria, Belgilnr, canada, Demrark, Finland, France,
Gernant, Federal Republic ot, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Iao
People's Denocr atic Republic, Luxdnbourg, Netherlands, Ne!,
Zealand, l'lornay, Portugat, Spain. Sreden, trnited Kingdon ol Great
Britain and Northern lreland.



N 39/790/ ?r:.o.4
Eng Irsh
Page 6

(b) By a recoroeo vote of 9I to 22, nith 8 abstentions, operative Paragralfi 6
was retained. The result ot the voting l|as aa toffowgt

In tavour: Afghanistan, Algerra, Angola, Argentina, Bahanas' Bahrain,
tsarEladesh, blivia, brazil, Brunei Ebrusaalam, BJrkina Ibso,
Burma' Ca&eroon, Cape veroe, Central African Republic, chile,
China' Colonbla, @ngo, @6ta Rica, Cuba. qrprus, Dernocratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Domlnican Republic, Ecuador, EbyPt, EthloPla'
Garbia, Ghana, Greece, qryana, Ibnduras, India, Indoneaia, Irag,
Israel, Ivory Coa6t, Jamaica, ilordan, Xenya, Kurrait, tao Peoplers
Denpcratic Fpublicr lcsotho, Llberia, libyan Arab ,fanahiriya,
fiadagascar, Malay6ia, t4aldive6, ltali, t4aIta' l4auri tania, Iilerlco,
lbrocco, lDza&ique, l{epal. Nicaragua, N19er, Nigeria, OlEnt
Pakistan, Papua Ner Gurnea, Peru, Pbilipplnes, Qatar, &onania,
&danda, Saudi Arabia. Senegal, Singapore, Sonalia, sri lanka,
sudan, swaziland, Syrian Atab Republic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidao
and lbbago, I\rntsia, nlrkey, GJanala, thited Arab Ernirates, tinited
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuelar Viet Narn, yenen,
yugoalavia, Zaire, zaobia. Zirbabwe.

Be1glrrn ' Bulgarla, Byelorus6ian sovlet soci.alist Republrc,Canada, Crechoslovakia, Sinland, GertlEn Denocratic Republ j,c,
G€rmany r Feaeral Republic ot, Hungary. Iceland, ,tal,an,
Ixxenboulg, lDngolla, tletherlanda, t|ee Z€aLand, l,lcrway, Foland,
srreden, Ukrainran soviet Soclali6t Relublic, Union of sovie!
Socrallst I€publlcs, $ited Kingdon ot Great Sritain and Norlhern
Irel.and, United statea ot Anerica.

49gEgt

AbFtaininq: Australia, Arstria, fnnark, Etance, IreLand, ltaltr Portugal,
spai. n.

(cl Dratt resolutLoi NC.2/39/L.35, as a whole, rras adopted by a recorded
vote of 93 to 1, with 28 abstentions (see. !,ara. 28, dratt reaolution III). The
result ot the voting rras as follows:

In favour: Afgtranrstan, Alger1.a, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahatnas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, blivia, frazil, Brunei Erussalan,
Burkina Faso, tsurna, Caneroon, Cape Vefde, Central Atrican
RepuDlic, Chlle, Qrlna, ColoDla, Congo, @€ta Rica, Cuba,
Cyprue, Democratic Yemen, Djiboutl, Donlnrcan Relublic,
Ecuador, EJypt, Ethiopia, CjatDbi,a r Ghana, Greece, Guyana,
Hondura€' India, Indonesia' Irag' Israel, Ivori Coa6t,
Janaica, iloroan, Nenya, f\uwait, Lao PeoPlers DelDcratic
Republic, leaotho, Liberla, IJlbyan Arab Janahi.riya,
ltadagaacar, $alawi, l.Blaysiar Maloives, Iitali, lialta,
!{auri tania, Irrexrco, holoccor hoza&bique, Nepaf , Nicaragua'
Niger, Nigeria, qDan, Pakrstan. Papua l,lew Guinea, Peru,
Ph1l.j.!!r,neE, Qatar, komania, RwandA, Saudi Arabia, Senegal'
sirqapore, Sonalia, sri linka, Strdan, Sraztland, syrran Arab
Republic, Thailand, To9o, Ir rnidao and Tobago, Tunisia'



N 3e/7e0/P,ld.4
Engl ish
Page 7

I\rrkey, tbanda, Ihlted Arab ElDirages, tlrited RePubllc of
Tanzani.a, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam' Yet0en, Yugoslavla,
za ire, Zaftia, Zrnbabse.

Aoainat: United stateg ot Anerica.

3pElgigilgr Arstraliar Belgiutrr. lrrlgaria, byelorussi.an soviet soclalist
Republic, Canadar Crechoslovakia, DeErarkr Finland' France,
GerIIEn DenDcratic Republic, Gernany, Federal nePublic ot,
Hungary, Iceland, Irelano. Italy. rtaPan, Luxslbourg,
lbngolia, l,letierlanda r lle$ zeafand r I'lornay, Foland,
Portugal, sPa1n, s$eden' Ukrainran sovlet socialist
nepublic, thion ot soviet socialiat hPublica, Uclted
Kingd@ of Great EEitain and Northern Ireland.

f9. StateEnts were roade by the repreaentatlves Ot EnnBrk, the thited Ktngdon ot
Great Brltain and Northern lreland, the United States of Ameri.ca' the Federal
Republic of Gernany, sleden, the lxraj.nian soviet socraliat bPublic (alao on
behalf of Bulgaria, th€ Byeloru€alan Soviet Socialist &ePublic, Czechoslcjvak ia, the
c,ernan Derpcratic Republi.c, llulBary, tbr€olla, Foland and the ttrrion ot lbvret
Sociatiat Republ.ics). The representative Ot EgyPt (on behalt ot Statea melDbe! s ot
the Group of ?7) algo nade a statetGnt.

D. Dratt resoluti.on A,/C.?/39lL.130

20. At the 58th meeting, on .L0 Dec€rnbe! r !rr. Babib Kaabachi, the Vice-Chalrnan of
the connittee, introduced a ctratt resolution (NC.2/39/L.)30) entitled lRevision ot
the llsts of States eligible tor mernbershl! ln the InduBtrial Develotment Board",
€ubnitted on the basis ot intornal consultationg'

2t. At the san€ meeting, the Connlttee adoPted draft resolution NC-2/39/L-L30
(6ee parE. 28, dratt regolution IV).

E. DEatt resolutlon vc.2/39lL.140

22. At the 60th meet,ing. on 14 Dec€mo€r, ltr. Habj'b Kaabachi ' Vice-Chaitnan 
ot the

comittee, lntroctuced a drat t resolutlon. (Pt/C .2/39/L.L40 l entitled rrlpr.Id
industriaI re6tructurirxj and reclePloimentu, suEtitted on the ba6i6 of, intornal
con€ultationa held on dratt resolution Iq/coNF.s /C.VL.L3. y

23. At the Ea&e meeting, the colnmitlee adopted dratt reaolutLon A,/C.2/39/L.L4O
(aee para. 28, alrait resolution V) .

y Reterred to the Gen€ral A66embly tor consideration at its thirty-nlnth
. seasion, rn acCordance with paragraptl 16 Ot the report ot the Eburth General
I conterelee ot the unlted Nattons rnduetrial Deverogrent organiuatlon (rDlcoNF'5/46) '

/...



A,/ 39/790/}lld.4
Englj.sh
Page 8

24. The rePresentative of the Ukrainian Sovlet Socialist Republic made a statement
(also on behalt ot BuJ.garia, the tsyelorussian tioviet Socialist Republic,
Czechoslovakia, the German Denocratic Republic, Hungary, !1ongolia, Poland and the
union ot Soviet Socialist &publics).

F. Dratt decigion on nor1o industrial restructurinq
and redeplov rrent

25. At It€ 60th neeting, on 14 Decglber, on the prolosa1 ot Mr. ltabib Kaabachi,
Vicecha j.rnan ot the Cownittee , the @mnlttee decioed to recornrEnd to the @neral
Assenbll tbat it re<ruest rhe Secre tart-cener aI to altach resolurion 39/_ (see
Fara. 28, dralt reso.Lution V) entitled 'h|orIo industrial restructuring anq
redeplolmentrr to the report ot the Fourth GeneraL Conterence ot the Unltecl Nations
Induatrial Developmnt Organi.zatron !i/ as an acrcrendum (see para. 29, oralt
decision I) .

G. Dralt reEolutlon on mobilizati.on o! tinancial resources
tor rnduatrial develolrnent

25. At its 60th neeting, on 14 Dec€rnber, on the prot)osal of Mr. Habib Kaabachi,
VicFchairnan ot the Connittee, the Co|IunJ ttee dectcted to recomrend to tbe C*neral
Assenbu that it transtrit the oratt resolution on xnobilization ot f inancj.al
resources tor industrial developnent contained in the letter dated
17 Septsnber 1984 trcm the Preaident ot the Foulth General Conference ot the Unlted
libtlons Industrial Developnent Organization to the Secreta ry-General (see
NC.2/39/8. annex I) r to the ceneral Ass€ftbly ior consideration at its tortteth
aession (see para. 29, draft decj.sion lI) .

27. At ita 60th neeting, on 14 Dec€mber, on the proposal of the Chairnan, the
Comnittee decided to recomuend to the General Assertlly that it take note ot the
report ot the Fourth General Conterence ot the United Natlons Industrial
Developnent Organization (see para. 29, dratt decisron III).

!/ ID./coNF. s,/4 6.



N 39/7 90/}dd.4
EngIish
Pag e 9

II I. RECOIIT,IE}IDAT IONS OF THE SECOND COTIjITTEE

28. ttle Second Comnittee recc&nends to the General Asssublt the acoltion ot the
following draf t resolutionst

DRAFT F.ESOLUTION I

The c€neral Asserpblv,

Recallinq its resolutlola 37/2L3 ot 20 Decenber 1982 and 38493 ot
20 Decenber I98 3,

Bearlrg in nind that the Constrtution ot the United Nations Industrial
Developnent Organization y has been ratitieal, accePted and approved by nore
thanthenininmnunberotstateawho6eagrecrnentlsrequiredforit€entryln
force ,

1. Takes note with interest ot tbe consensus reached at the
consultations on tne converlion ot the thited t'lations Industrlal f,EveloPtrent
organi.zation into a speci.alized agencY ot lhe united Natlons that nere held at
Vlenna in ApriL anct May f984 and at Previous consultationst

'2. Elndorsea ttte contents ot the rePort ot the secretary -General on the
conversion ot the lJnitecr Nations InduBtrial Developnent organization into a
gpecialized agency !/ and calla uFon aII countries to abrde by the outccme ot
the consultations as set out in that reporEt

3. gxpresses its cont ioence that the nefl organlzation wlll honour the
contents of the repott ot the Secreta ry-G€neral t

4- Calls upon those States that have not yet done so to ratity the
Constitution ot the lrnited Nations Inalustrial DeveloPlEnt Organization rithout
further delay?

5. Decides that adequate reaoulces shoulo be provldeo in the regular
budget of the thited libtj.ona Industrial DeveloPlEnt organization to! the
biennitm 1984-1985 to en6ure the Provi6ion of the necessary funds, ln
accordance nith Paragraph 7 of Cieneral A.EsembU' resolution 34/96 ot
13 Dec€rnber Lg7g, tor the tirst General Conterence of the United Natlor6
Industrial DeveloPtrEnt Organization, to be held ln two Parts for a total
duration ot no more than 13 days, and othe! costs associated witL the
conversj.on ot the organization into a sPecialized agencyt

q/

9/

A,i coN F.9 0,/r9.

A/39/37 6.

orqanirarion into a seecialized aqencv



N 39/'190/r}dd.4
English
Page 10

6. Decicles further that, in antlclpation ot the sleedy conversion ot
the tnj.ted ltations Industrial Developnent Organi.zation rnto a specializeo
agency, the secr etary-Gener aI shoufo aolust the calendar ot conterences ano
rEetings for 1984-1985 so that only one session ot the IndustriaL Developnent
Board wrll be held in I985t

7. Requests the secr etary-Gener aI to contrnue hig etrorts, in
accordance lrtth resolution 38/193, tor th€ innEdiate conversion ot th€ United
Nations Industrr.al lr€veLolment organrzation into a specralizeo agency.

DIIAFT RESOLUT ION II

lDoustrial oevelop[cnt cotleration

The General Asselb].v,

kecallrnq its resolutions 3201 (FVI) and 3202 (S-VI) ot I May L974,
containing the Declaratlon an(l the Programme ot ACtion on the EstablishrEnt ot
a I'lew InternaEronal. Econcrnic Oroer, 328I (XXIX) ot 12 DecemDer 1974.
conlaining the Charler ot Econonic Ri9ht6 and Urties ot Statesr 3362 (S-VII)
ot 16 teptsnber 1975 on oeveloFment and rnternacronal econcnrc co-operation
and 35/56 ot 5 Decenber 1980, the annex to rrhich contains the International
tlevelolment Strategy tor the Thj.rd United Nations Develotrntent Decaqe, i.n
which, i.nter alia, tne rrportance ot indus tr ial ization in the developlEnt ot
developing countrles j.s sLresseo, Z

Recalllnq also the Lrma Declaratj.on ancl Plan of AcCion on IndustriaL
DeveloFnent and Co-operation. y in ijhich were lard down the nain neasures ano
principles for industrial developtnent ancl co-operation flithin the tranpwork ot
the establrstment ot tne new international econqrrrc older, and the New Delhi
Declaration and Plan of Action on Indugtrial izatron of Developi.ng Oountries
and Intetnational Co-operatron tor their Indust!ial. Develognent , 21 Ln rrhich a
€brategy eas spelt out tor the further indus tri.allzation of developing
countr I es,

Reattirning ics resolution 38/L92 ot 20 Decenber 1983, as $el] as aIl-
gEher relevant resolutions 1n the tieLd ot industrial developnent
ceoperatron,

qoncerned about the contrnuing negatlve tnpact ot the Horld econcmrc
qfisrs on the econonrc deveLoptnent and indus tr ial rzatl,on of the developrng
countr 1es,

U Resolution 35/56, anaex, paras. 72-80.

U See A/IoI]2, cha!. Iv.

9/ ID/coNt.A/2z ano Corr.I, chap. VI.



Reaffirming the impor tance and
Development Field Advisers Programme
prograrnmes and services rendered by
organization,

L0/ ID/@NF.5/46 and corr'1.

!y of ficial

A/39/790/Add.4
English
Page lI

!gg!3g developed countries to take fully into account the broad
i nt., iill]ial imPlications of their Policy decisions, including their irnpact
on developing countries and industrial devel-oPrnent,

Also urqinq developed countries to pronpte conditlons conducive to the
sustaliEE-ifi Id econonic recovery so necesaary for revitalizing the
induslr i ali zation of develoPirq Lounbries by, inter aLia' substantially
increasing their flnancial and technical assistancet

stresslnq the inportance of econornic co-oPeratlon anong develoPing

"onntGEln 
integrat Par! of a global developnent ef fort and of an

interdePendent world econ;ny and urging Ehe enhancenent of such co-oPeratlon
in the field of indus trial izatlon '

Reaffirninq the role of the United Nations rndustrial Developnent
orguniration .s ihe central co-ordinatinq organ in the United }btions system
traving a prirnary resPonsibility for pronoblng the transfer of industrial
technology to developlng countries and for the Pronotion and acceleration of
their ihdustrial develoPment,

Exp'ressinqitsconcernthatcontributiongtotheUnitedNations
Industria.L Developnent riia- h".t" remalned far beloe the agreed deslrable level
of $50 miltion anal thaE the level of the Fund has gradually declined in real
terms since its establishment '

effectivenesE of the senior Industrial
in implenenting the wide range of

the united Nations Industrlal DeveloPtnent

ExPressing its concern that the availability of funds from the United
Nations Developnen! Progr-aNner nhich is the nain Eource of funding for lhe
technicat assistance actlvities of t.lre.uniteat Nalions Industrial Developmeht
organization, has been reduced substantially in the past few yearsr

Recoqnizinq that the efforts of developing countries to devel-oP their
industrialtechnologicalcaFbllitiesshouldbeguPporbedbytheinternational
comnuni ty and the importance of facilitating the transfer of technology to
developi ng countrles,

Having considered the rePort of ttle Fourth General Conference of the
United Nations fndustrial Oevllopment Organizatlon, !g/ held at Vienna-frorn
2 to 19 August 1984, and the report of the Industrlal Developrnent Board on its
eighteenth session' !!/

Supplenent No. 16



^/39/790/Add.4English
Page 12

Report of the Fourth ceneral @hference of the United Nations
IndustEial Developnent Orqanization

1. Takes note of the report of the lburth cenetal conference of the
Uni ted Na tions Industri al Development Organizationt

2. Nobes with concern that the Conference was unabl-e to yield results
comnensura le nith the alinensions of the problems confronting the developing
countries concerning their lndqEtrlalizatlon and confronting the world economy
as a whoLe'

3. Endorses the resolutions adopted by the conferer[ce LU and calls for
their immediate and effectlve implenentationt

4. !,Io ces with Eegret that the Conference could not adopt two draft
resolutions concernlng the nobillzation of finarcial reBources for industriaL
developnent and world indusErial restructuring and redeploymentl !/

5. l,lelcones the decision of the Conference to accord high priority to
industrial co-operation among developing countries in the activitles and
proqraffines of the United l,btions Industrial Developnent Organization,

6, welcomes also the decigion of the Conference to glve priority to
streng thening the technological calEbillties of developing countries, vrhich
are an inportant element in the industr iali zation processt

7. Decides that adequate resources should be provided in the budget of
the United Nations Industrial Developnent Organization to implenent fully all
its nandales, particularly those in support of the activlties established in
priority areas. and authorizes the Secretary-ceneral to take appropriate
action to this end t

8. welcones the announcenents to allocaee new and additional voluntary
contributions to the ttnited Nations Industrial Developnent Rrnd, including
contribut.ions th rough trust funds, and calls upon all countries, in particular
the developed countries, to contribute or to increase Lheir contributions to
the United Nations Industrial Developtnent Sund so as to reach, at the earliest
date possibler the agreed desirable funding level of $50 nlllion a yeary

9. ttequests the United Nations Industrial Developnent Organization to
take appropriate action to implenent the resolutlons and recorEnendations of
the Conferencet

!// See ID/@NF.5/46 and Corr.l, chap, fI, sect. B.

ltrl Ibid., para. 16 4.



A/39/790/Add.4
EngIlsh
Page 13

10. Calls uEn all organs, organizations and bodies of the Lhited
l.Ia tions systen to respond positively to the relevant resolutions and
recomnendations addressed to th€n by the oonferencet

II

I. Takes note of the rePort of the Indugtrial Development Board on its
elghteenth sesEiont

2. Decldes that in 1985 the regular budget of the United Nations will
provide for naintaining the total nunber of existing posts in the senlor
lndustrial" Devel.oprnent Field Advisers Programle, taking into account the
allocation in the budget of the lhited libtiona DeveloPnent Progralune, as well
as voluntary funding th rough the United Nations Industrial Development
Organizatlon, and requests the s€cretarf c€neral to take aPPropriate action to
this endt

3. AJtpeals !o developed countrles to Provide naxitnum voluntary
contrlbutions for the senior Industrial DeveloPnent Field Advisers Programnet

4. Reaffirtns its supPort for strengthening the systen of consuLtatlons,
in the llght of experience gained, with the objectlve of increaslng the
lndustrial capacltiea of devetoping countries.

DRAFI RESOLUTION III

Industrlal DevelopmenE Decade for Mrlca

The General i\ssenbly,

Recallins its resolutions 3201 (S-vI! and 3202 (s-vl) of 1 May 1974,
containing the Declaration and the Progranne of Action on the Eatabllshment of
a New International Econonic orderl 3281 (xxlx) of 12 December !974t
containing the charter of ibonomic Rights and D'rties of states, 3362 (s-wl)
of 15 Septenber 1975 on development and international econotnic co{Peration
antl 35,/56 of 5 Decenber 1980' the annex to whlch contains the International
D€velopnent strategy for the Third United Nations DeveloPment Decade' in
which, inter alia, the itnportance of industrialization in the developnent of
developing countrie6 is stressed, !/

I€caUinq its resolutlons 38/L92 and 38/L99 of 20 Decetrber 1983 and
fconornic and Social council resolution L983/70 of 29 July 1983 enphasizing the
Industrial DeveloFlent Decade for Africa as one of the lTpst imPortant
irdustrial developnent programnes of the United Nations,

l9l Resolution 35/56, annex, paras. 72-80.



A/39/790/Add.4
English
Page 14

considering that the provislon of adequate levels of resources by al'onor
countries nill contribute irElensely to pronptlng the accelerated industrial
development of African countries and the effective imP:lementation of the Lagos
Plan of Action for the InPlernentation of the l,bnrorrla strategy for the
lbonomic Development of Afrlca, !y

Recallinq E:conomic and sociaL @uncil resolutlon L984/7o of 27 JuLy 1984,
in which the Council noted the aPpeal to the General Assembly to increase
substantially ttte allocation to the United Nations Industrial Developnent
organizatlon from tbe regular budget of the Itnited tlatlona for assiatance to
African countries and to intergoverrunentaL organizationa ln the implementation
of the programme for the Industrial Develo[nnent Decade for Africa to an annual
ninimum level of $5 rnillion and to place that allocation on a permanent basisr

Reaffirning resolution I of 19 Argust I98{, adopted by the lburth General
ConfererFe of the United Nations Industrial Development organlzatlon, !q/
c.orcerning the Industrlal. Develolnent Decade for Africa,

Reaffirming aLso Induscrlal Developnent Board resolution 57 ()(VIII) of
19 r4ay 1984, ll/ in which the Board ' ilglb, 

reaf firrneil its request to the
United Nations Developnent Programme to allocate adequate financial resources
for the progranme of the Decade, taking lnto account the high priority
attached co ib by tie General Assembly, tbe fndustrial DeveloPrnent Board and
the African countries,

Taking note of resolution cM,/Res.g 41 (XL) adopted bt' the counc il of
Ministers of the organization of African urity at its fortleth ordinary
session, !!/ concerning the inplenentation of the prograrune for the fndustrial
Development Decade for Africa,

Mindful of Ehe need for African countrles to undertake the Priority
activities desigrnated for the preparatory Phase of the Progratnme for the
Decade,

l,tindful also of the high level of inveEtnent exPenditure required for
prolrcting the objectives of the Decade,

1. Reaffirna its resolutione 38/L92 and 38/199 anal calls for their
irunediate and ef fective lrnplementationt

!t/ A/S-LI/L4, annex I.

lV see ID,/ooNF..s/4 6 and corr.l' chap. I' sect. B.

!J/ see official RecordE of the ceneral Aesernblv, Thirtv-nlnth session,
Supplement No. 16 (A/39/L61, annex I.

Igl see A/39/2O7, annex.



A/39/790 Add.4
English
Page 15

2. Take6 note with satisfaction of the third progress report on the
Industrial Develq)ment Decade for Africar -!9/ Preparea jointly by che
E{ecutive Director of ttle lhited libtions Industrial Developnent Organization
and the Executive secretary of the Economlc cotnnission for Africat lmmediate
and effective imPlenentationt

3. t{€ Icones the efforts that ttle united Nation6 Industrial DeveloPnent
Organizatiln continually deploys ln order to asslst African countries and
infergover nrnental organizatlons in defining national and subregional
progralnmes for the Industrial DeveloPnent Decade for Africa and in order to
maintain permanent and harmonious co'ordination with the secretariat of the
organization of African tlnity, the Eonomic 6nmi6slon for Afrlca and the
otler international organizations concer nedt

4. Dtdorses resolutlon 8 0f the flrur th General @nference of the ttnited
tila tions htlustrial Developnent orqanization and requests the General
oonfererEe, in co-ordinatlon nith other bodies and organlzations of the thited
lGtions systen, as well a6 with technical anal financlal institutions in both
Africa and the donor countries, to take aPProprlate measures for the
inplenentation of that reEolution, in Particular paragraPh 9 thereofl

5. Erdorses also fndu6trial DeveloPment bard resolution 57 (XVIII) in
wtrich, inter aua, ttre soard requested the Executive Dlrector of the United
liatlons Industrlal Developnent organization to Provlde, to the extents
possiblel in co".operation with the secretary-General of the organization of
African unity and the E(ecutive secretary of the Econonic oommission for
Africa, aasistance to African countries and intergover nnental organizations
concerned in the inplenentatton of the initial integrated industrial Pronrotion
progranunes at the subregional level, lncludirq the convenitrg of follow-up
subregional neetings to revlew the progress nrade in their implementationt

6. Endorses further the appeat nade by the seventh @nference of
African llinisters of Industryr helal at Adili s Ababa from 26 to
28 l,tarch !9a4, 29/ for the allocation of at least s5 million, on a pernanent
annual basisr flon Ure regul,ar budget of the United Nations in order to enable'the united Nations Industrial Development organization to assist che African
countries and the lntergorrernmental organizations concerned in the
lmplementation of the programne for the Industrlal DeveloPment Decade for
Africat

7. Reiterates its aPpeal to all countries, Palticularly the develoPed
countri"",-iiffit-ultllateral f inarrcial institutlons to increase their
contributions to the United NatlonE Industrial Development Fund, taking into

Le/

20/

A/ 39 / 30L-E/ L98440 8, annex.

#e B/E;CA/Cttt.I0 /27 .



A/39/790/Add.4
English
Page 16

account the financial requirenents of projects directed torrrards tlle
imPlementation of the prograffre for the Industrial Develotrxnent Decade for
Africat

8. .g!q.es the internatlonal comunity, in particular the developed
countri€s and international financial institutions, to intensify and increase
thelr technical and financial assistance to African countries for the
irnplenentation of prograNnea and the execution of projects at the national,
subregional and reglonal levels, in the context of tlle Industrlat Developnent
Decade for Africat

9. Requests the Executive Dlrector of the United Nations Industrial
D€veloprnent Organization, in co{peration with the lbonomic Conmission for
Mrica, to subnit !o the ceneral A6senbly at its fortieth session, through the
Industrial Developnent Eoard and the Economic and Social Council at its secohd
regular €esslon of 1985, a report on the progress made in the implementation
of the programme for the Industrial Developrnent Decade for Africa.

DFAFT RESOLUTION IV

The C€nera1 Assenbly,

Recal.Ling Eection II, paragraph 4, of ita resolution 2152 (XxI) -of
17 November 1955 on the United tibtion8 Industrial Developnent organizatlon,

Decides to include Brunei Daruesalam ln the list of States in part A of
the annex to reaolution 2152 (XXI).

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

world lnduEtrial reettructurinq and redeplo!4rent

The cenera I Assenbly,

Recallinq the Iri rna Declaratlon and plan of Action on Industrial
Developnent and Co{perattonl !f1/ in which }rere laid down the nain measures
and principles fo! industrial developrnent and co-operation within the
framework of the establi€hment of the new international econonic order, and
the New Delhi Declaratlon and plan of Action on Ind ustrlalization of
DeveLoping Countries and International Co€peration for their Indugtrial
Development, !!/ Ln which a strategy nas spelt out for the further
industrlalization of developi ng countries,

4i/ See A/IOIL2. chap. rV.

2U ID/@NF.4/22 and Corr.l, chap. VI.



A/39/790/Add.4
English
Page L7

IGcalling that the Lima lbclaratlon and plan of Action on Industrlal
Development and co{peration elaborated a framewor k for grobal inalustrial
restructuring and redeploynent and established a target for the aleveloplng
countriesr share of norId industrtal production,

Reaffirminq that the attalnment of the targets contained in the
rnternational Deve ropxren! strategy for the Thircl united Nations Development
Decade' !]r/ aimed ac, i!]!ELLq, raising the share of the developingcountries in world industrlal production in accordance witi the Lima
Declaration and Plan of Action, calls for far-reaching changes in the
structure of world production,

Further reaffirming that policies that maintain internationally less
conpetltive industrles through subsidies and other protective rneasures Ehould
be avoided, thus facilitatirg redeplolment of such industries fron developeo
to developi ng countries,

Bearirg in nind that new technologlcal advances and the current global
econornic situation require innovative approaches to worlal industrial
restructuring,

stressinq the inportance of redeproyment of industry fron industriarized
to developing countries on the prlncip:Ie of dlmanic comparat ive advantage, in
conjunction trlt}| structuraL adjuEttnent, and reaffirmtng that restructuring and
redeprolrnent shouJ.d be carrled out in accordance wiEh the national policies
and pliorities of lGrnber states, ln particular of the developing countrles,

Mfirninq that induGtrial restructurlng as a long-tern process should
enconFass not only the establishment of manufacturing capacities ln the
developing countries but also the capaci ty to manage, expa.nd, aalapt and direct
industrial developrnent as part of their national development process,

Recallinq resolution f59 (vI) of 2 ,tuly 1983, as adopted by the united
Nations conference on Trade and Deveropnent at its sixth session t !/ in whLchit stressed the i.nportance of access to international rnarkets for products of
developing countr i es,

Bearing ln nind the inpor tance of econonic and social effects of
restructuring and redeplolrnent,

23l Resolution 35155, annex.

_ -2!/ see Proceedinqs of the unlted Nations cohference on Trade andDevelopment. si:(th session, vol. r, Repor@ublication,
SaIe6 No. 8.83.II.D.6), part one, sect. A.



A/39/790/^dd.4
English
Page 18

3t/ see Of ficial
Supplenent No. 15 (A/39

Recallinq that the system of Consultationst as an important and
."t"blGiTE-Ft ivi ty of the united Nations rndustrial Development
organization, i". !gg-g!!g. a valuable franework for identifying 

problerns

associated with the inau-" triall"ation of developing countries, for considering
ways and means at the natlonalr regional and international leve1s to
accelerate their industr ialization and for fostering closer lndustrlal
co-operation anong menber countries, in accordance with tbe Lima Declaration
and plan of Action, as well as other relevant conclusions, decisions and
resolutions agreed upon in the past bt' the United Nations'

@nvinced that industrial finarring is a key factor in this context in
each case.

stressing that lhe appraisal of the systetn of consultations initiated by
tr,e riEIEtr iar peveloPmenl soard at ita eighteentlr session 3!/ shoukl-resurt
in the irnproving of the system and in maklng it nrore result-oriented in order
to achieve its funalanental objectives as laid donn ln the tima Declaration and
PLan of Action, and in the principles, objectives and characteristics of the
systen of consultations, Z!/

Affirming that. the Systen of Consultatlons should provide avenues for the
exchai@-5?l n-fornation and views and cherefron, inter alia' t9 tht- - -
identiiication of specific areas and forns of co-oPeration' and would also
pernit negotiations anpng interested parties, at thelr request' at the sane
lime as or after the Consultations,

Recogxlizing the increasing interdependence of atl countries of the world
as a 6Ele of internationat economic co-oPerabion,

1. Invites develoPing countriea to co'trtlinat€ their efforts and
policies f;;-.a; to facilitate ltor ld induscrial restruccuring and
redeplolmentt

2. Calis upo'n aleveloping countries to Pronote their o\dn regional
multinalionaI enterpiises for the itnplementation of industrial projects of
colanon intere stt

3. lggg developed countries to pursu€ appropriate positive adjustment
policies and neasdres tshat facllitate worl'd industriaL restructuring l'ith
iri"i*uf disruptions; which policies should 6eek to avoid negative effects on
the industrial developnent of developing countriest

2g see PIl84, Part I-



A/39/790/Add.4
English
Paqe 19

4. Invites the developed countries to fulfil their coNlitments to halt
protectioniim by ful.Iy implementing and stricti.y adhering to the stand-still
provisions they have accepted ' in 

particular concerning imports fron
developing countries' and to work systematically towards reducing and
eliminat!.ng quantitative restricLions and neasures having sinilar effect and
to support efforts by developing countries to attain fuII utilization of
industrial calEcity, with lmportance being attached by interested countries to
the pronotion of foreign and domestic investnent through an adequate and
mutually beneficial framework for investmentt

5. Requests the united Nations Industrial DeveloPment organization3

(a) lto streng then its activities in the fields of technical assistance,
feasibility studies, advisory services, analysis of oPportunitles, assistance
in the forrnulation of national developnent ptogranmes and investment prornotion
in sectors in which industrial restructuring is taking place, in order !o
facilitate industrial restructuring and redeplolrnentt

(b) To improve its ability to respond adequately and promptLy to
requesEs frorn l,tetnber States for infornation relating to industrial
restructuring and related policles and for this Purpose, to naintain close
collaboration with the relevant United l.lations bodies and organizations
r.ror king in Ehis fieldr as well as vtith relevant economic research instltutes?

(c) To continue, in accordance with its mandate, to work in close
cGoperation and collaboration with the United Nations Conference oR Trade and
Development and relevant international orgahizations in industrial
restructuring and redeployrnentt

(d) To continue to prepare case sgudies on social and econonic
irnplications of industrial restructuring and redePloyment in developinq
countriesl

6. Recomnends that the systen of consultations shouldt

(a) cover industrial sectors of particular interest to developing
countriest

(b) HoJ-d more regional consultation meetings, ln particular in relation
to the IndustEial Development Decade fo! Africa, within the agreed frarnenork
for the systemt

(c) seek to idehtify specific areas and forrns of co{perationt

(d) D.plore means and practical rreasures for the pronption of industrial
ceoperation at aubregional, regional and international levelst

Irn i ted
Recownends strengtbening the Investment Pronotion services of the

Nations rndustrial Development organization b'lt continuing ' where
appropriate, to buitd a network of national pronotion centres in developed and



A/3e/790 /Aad.4
English
Page 20

29. The second cofiuni llee also
the fotlowing draft deci sions:

* **

recommends to the General Assembly the adoPtion of

D R,A['T DEC IS ION I

to request the S€cretary-General to attach
draft resolution V) to the report of the Fourth
Nations Indusfrial Development OrganLzation fu/

DRAFT DEC ISIO}I II

developing countriest that these services should actively rrpbilize outside
resources for identified investment projects' esPecially those related to the
inplenentation of the Inalustrial Development Decade for Africa' maintain close
co-ordination vli th developing countries' indust.rial developnent Progralunes and
pronoce projects faUing within the national objectives and priorities of
developi ng countries.

The c€neral Assenbly decides
resolution 39/_ (see para. 28'
ceneral conference of the ttnited
an addendum.

Wor ld industrial restructulll4

The General AssembLy decides to transnit the
of financial resources for industrial develoPnent,
17 septenber 1984 fron the President of the lburth
Nations Industrial Development Organization to the
ceneral Assenbly for consideration at its fortieth

draft resolution on nobilization
contained in the letter dated
ceneral conference of the United
Secre tary-General ' 4/ to thesesslon.

DRAFT DECISION III

4he General Assernbly decides to take note of the report of the lburth General
confererEe of the united Nations rndustrlal Development organization' 2A/

!_!-/

!!1

rD,/@NF.5/46.

see A/c.2/39/8, annex I.




