








































UIIITED
ilATIONS

Gcncral AssemblY Distr .
GENERAL

A/3s/792
13 Decenber 1984
EIIGLISE
oRrG rNAL t AR'ABrc 

'/ENGL 
r sH

Thirty-nlnth Session
Agenda ttetn 82

TRA INING AND RESEARCTi

Report of the second @mnittee

Rapporteurt Mr. Abmed Alawi AL-HADDAD (DeflPcratic Yemen)

I. INIRODTrcTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meetlng, on 2l september 1984' the General Assernbly ' on 
the

recornnendation of the General connittee, decided to include ln its agenda the iten
entitled t

"Training and re searcb t

" (a) United t'tations Instltute for Tralnirg and Research:

(i) Report of the E(ecutlve Director t

(ti) Repor t of the secre tary-@neralt

" (b) t nitedl Nations Lhlvergity: report of the @uncll of 
the rhited

Ita tlons Un iver si tY"

and to allocate lt to the second @tnmittee'

2. The second comittee considered the lten at its 38th to 416t' 45th' 47th' 55th
and 58th meetings, on 91 13, 14, 19' 20 and 30 t'lovenber and I0 December ' An
account of the Committeer 3 discussion of the iten is contained in the relevant
6umnary records lsoe Nc.2/3g/sR.38-4I ' 45, 47,55 

an'l 58)' Attentlon is also
drarrn to the general aenate te:-a by the conmitee at its 3rd to 15th neetlngs on 5r
8 to 12, 15 and 16 NoveflDer l*e A/C.2/39/ER ' 3-15) '

84-33264 02s3P (E)



A/39/7e2
EnqIiEh
Page 2

3. lfhe conndttee had before it the follorrirE documentar
(a) Report of the Economlc and Sdcial @uncil (A/39/3 (part II), chap. IiI,

sect. c); J/
(b) nepor t of the Executlve Director of the United Natlons InBtitute for

Trainlng and Re6earcht a/
(c) Report of the CourEil of the Unlted Nations Universityt g/

(d) Report of the Secretarf ceneral on the queation of long-tern financlng
ar rangements for the United Nations Institute for Training and neaearch (A/39/L481 |

(e! I€tter dated 15 Gtober 1984 from the permanent Representative of
Nicaragua to the United Nations addressed to the secretary-Cieneral, transrnitting
the report and other docutnenta of the third Oonference of !,linisters of labour of
Non-Nigned Countrles and other Developtrg countries, held at lGnagua fron lO to

, 12 l4ay L984 (A/39/58I-9/L6782 and Corr.tt t
4. The Conml ttee held a general discus€ion on thls iten at lts 38th to
4l6t neetlngsr oD 9r 13 and 14 Nov€rber (see MC.2/39/SR.3S-41) .
5. At the 38th meeting, on 9 t{ovember, the Rector of th€ United Nations
Irniveralty and the D(ecutlve Director of the thlted lilations fn6titute for Training
ard Research nade introductory statenents (see A/C.2/39/sR.3g) .

6. At the atl6t rneeting, on 14 lilovernber, the Daecutive Director of the thited
Nations InsCitute for Training and Res€arch made a concluding statement (see
A/C.2/39/sR.4Ll .

II. COMIIDER.ATION OF PROPOSAIS

A. Unlted Natlons Iirstituee fo! Trainlnq and R€search

l. Draft resolueion A/C.2,/39lL.66
7. At the 47th neetlng, on 20 libvember, the representative of pakistan
introduced, on behalf of Banqladesh, Canada and EIE!g!g!, a draft resolution
G/C.2/39/L.66) entitled rlong-tern finarring arilnglments for the United Nationa
fnstitute for Tralning and Research'. qtbsequently, gliqsg joined in
sponaorlrg the draft resolution, which read as followst

y tlo be issued as official Recorda of tbe ceneral Assenblv, Thirty-ninth
sesslon, Supplenent No. 3 (A/j9/31 .

U offlclal RecordE of the ceneral A6sembly, Thirtv-ninth sesslon,
supp:Lenent tlo. 14 lV39/L41 .

y &i9., supplenent Nir. 3l (A/39/3tl .



^/39/792Eng11sh
Page 3

rTtre ceneral Asserbly,

"Recallinq its resol-utio^s 37A42 of 17 December 1982 and 38/]-77 of
19 Decenber J.9831 in h'hich it called ulpn the Secretary-General to subnit a
report on long-tern finarE ing arrangements for the Unlte't Nations Institute
foi rraining ind Research which wouLd place its financlng on a more
predichable, assured and continuous basis'

"I{avi ng considered the rePort of the secretary-General y and 
ttle 

.

statements made by the rxecutive Director of the unlted Nations rnatitute for
Trainlng and Rese'arch before the Second @mnittee on the financial
difficultles of the Instituxe, !1

oNotirg witl corrern that the unite'l Nabions Pleding conference for
o..r"1ofrlilI-Elloi ti.., h1la on ? antt 8 Novenber 1984' r'as unabre to provide
the General Fund of the United Nations InstiEute for Traininq and Research
during 1985 with the leve1 of resources conoldered Py tlt P:11 ":-t:u:::t" "f
the rnstitute as ttre minirntultt ieguitea to naintain the rnstitute as a viable
entitY,

"Acknooledglnq with regret that the system of voluntary contributions'
tn.tit@ for the operatlon of the lhited Nations
Institute for Trainirg and Reaearch, has iailed so far to fully guarantee the
minimutn Ievel of resources needed b'y the Institute for its General nrnd'

I'lbting witb regre! that the three options on long-term financing
arrang€ments for the tnsiltute, reconmended by the Board of TrusteeS' namely'
the setting uP of a reserve fund, the adoPtlon of a replenishnent system and
the establlslment of an endowment fund, trave not been found accePtable by the
najor contr ibutor s, 9/

'1. B<presses its aplEeclation to the secre tary-General for his rePortt

"2. @f,ESg the vlew of the secretary-General about the 
continuing

irportance of the role of the United Nations Insbitute for Training and
Research t

"3. Requeghs the secre tary-General to undertake an lndependenc study 
on

the future ProgratEnes and needs of the thited l'lations Institute for Training
and Research and to submit Chat 6tudy to the General Assenbly at its fortieth
session, together rith his o$n observations and those of the Board of Trusteest

!/
2./

v

A/39/L48.

see A/C.2/39/SR.38 and 41.

A/39/]4e, Para.8.



A/39/792
Bnglieh
Pag e 4

'e. E!&g to grant the Unlted Natlons fnstitute for Traihing and
Research up to ius I.5 rnillion, on an exceptional basis, to supp:Lement the
funds raised through lroluntary contributions for the ceneral Fund, in order to
enable the Institute to carry out its mlninum training and research prograrme
in 1985 at the level of $US 3 nillionr

Decldes alao to take a decision on arrangements for the
fundlng of the United Nations InEtitute for Training and Research
fortieth session. "

future
at its

8. A staterf,ent by the Secre tary-ceneral on the progranme budget impllcations of
the draft reaolution (Nc.2/39/L.66) rraE clrculated ih document A/AC.2/39/L.L05.

9. At the 58th rneeting r on 10 December, the replesentative of Paklstan introduced
on behalf of the sponsors, a revision of the draft resolution (A/C.2/39/T..66//Rev.t).

L0. At the sarne neetirg, the Comnittee voted on revised draft resolutlon
A/c.2/39 /L.66,/Rev.l as follons l

(a) After statements by. the representatives of Belgiun, Caneroon, pakisean
and the tlrited States of Arnerica, the Comnittee retained operative paragraph 5 by a
recorded vote of 83 \rote6 to 15, with 23 abBtentlqns. The voting was as follcrs:

In favour: Algerla, Angola, Bahama s, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Eollvia, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina !aso, Burma, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde,
Central African Reftblic, China, Congo, @sta Rica, Cyprus,
Denocratic Yernen, Djibouti, tbminican nepublic, Egypt, Dthiopla,
Finland, Ganbia, Ghana, I{onduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
ftory coast' Janaica, Jordan, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Janahiriya, lladagaacar, l'lalarri, l,lalaysia, !4aldives, !,1aI1,
Malta, Uaurltania, lGxico, l6rocco, !4ozambique, Nepal, Nlcaragua,
Niger, Nlgeria, Nornay, qnan, Pakiatan, Papua New Gulnea, peru,
Phi lippines, Qatar, Rdandar Salnt Chrlstopher and Nevis, Saint
IAcia, Saudl Arabla, Senegal, Singapore, Sonalia, Sri Lanka,
sudan' slraziland, streden, syrian Arab Repub1ic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, 1'trni6ia, furkey, Uganda, United Arab
Enirates, United RepubLic of Tanzania, venezuela, Viet Nam,
Itugoslavia, zaire, zambia, zlmbablre.

Auatralia, Belglum, Bu1garia, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Relublic r Czechoelovakia, Geanan Denocratic nepublic, cernany,
Federal Republlc of, Hungary, Japan, lbngolia, poland, Ukralnlan
Soviet sociallgt ReFrblic, tnion of soviet soclalist ReBrblics,
United Kirgdom of creat Bribain and Northern lreland, United
Stateg of Anerica.

ig. {rstt

Abstaininqr Afghanistan, Argentina, Au€tria, Brazll, Chile, Colonbia,
Dennark, Ecuador, France, Greece, Iraq, IreLand, I6rael, ftaly,
Lao Peoplera Delpcratic Republic, t uxetnbourg, Netherlands,
libw Zealand, portugal, bmania, Spain, Uruguay, yenen.



?y'3e/792
English
Page 5

(b) the @mrnlttee adopted revlsed draft resolutilon A/c'2/39/L'65'lRev'1' a6 a
erlrole, blt a recorded vote oi lol votes to 10r with I2 abstentions (see Para' 2I'
draft resolutlon I). The voting uas as followst

In farrour r

lg@'

Liberia, the
T1rn161a and

,$ghanistan, Al9eria, Angola, Argentina, Bahanast Bahrain'
eaigladesh, Bolivia, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina FaEo' Burma'
Caneroon, Canada, caPe verde, Central Afrlcan Republic' Chile'
chlna, Congo, costa nica, Cuba, cYPrus, Democratic Yenen'
o.rrr.ir, ojiuouti, ootirri."n n"p,ruli", Ecuador ' Egypt' 

EthioPla'
finland, Ganbiar Ghana' Greece' Guyanat I'xlnduras t Iceland ' Indiat
iiJ""."i", rraqr lrelantlr rsrael, italy, rvory coast' itamaica'
Jordan, Kenya, 

-Iao 
PeoPlers Denocratic RePublic t l€sotho '

Liberia, Libyan Arab ,lamahiriya, Madagascar ' Malawi ' 
Malaysia'

lbldives, ualir Malta, Mauritaniar l'bxico, Morocco' l'tlzanblque t
Nepal, Nettlerlands' I'lett zealand, Nicaragua, Niger' Nigerla'
rqoir"f. onan, Pakistan' PaPua tilew alinea' Peru' Phitippines'
portugal, Qatar, Rnanda, Saittt christopher and-Nevis' Saint
rxcia; saudi Arabia, Senegal, singapore, Somallar Spainr
sri Lanka, sudan, ${aziland, s*r.den, Syrian Arab RePublict -
Thailanal ' !ogo' Trinidaal 

and Tobago ' 
Tr'rnlsia, Turkey' Uganda'

United Arab Enirate6, Ihited Republic of Tanzania' uruguay'
venezuela, vlet.l'lan, Yugoalavia, ?'airet zanbia' zitnbabwe '

Bu lgari a, Byelorussian Sovi et soclalist RePublic t Czechoslot/aklat
c.^.n o"to"ratic Fepublic, ttrngary' lbngolia' Foland' ukrainlan
sovlet social-ist ttepubflc ' 

Union of soviet socialist l€publlcs'
Uni ted Stales of nmerica'

Abstalnlngr Australia, Austria, Belglunt Brazil, colonblat Francet Gernany '
Fetteral ReBlblic of , Japan' rrlxett$ourg ' 

brnaniar ttni ted Kingdotr
of Great Britain and l{orthern lreland' Yenen'

11. After the aaloptlon of ttre revised clraft resol-utiont stater ents were made 
by

the representatives of Argentina, Australia, Derunar k, Francer Italyt 'laPan' the
l€therlandsr Norway, trre irrainiin sovlet socialist iepublic (aLso on behalf 

of
ili;;;i;, tte ryellrussian soviet sociarist Repubric' czechoslovakia' the Gernan
Delpcratic ReFrb]ic, Hungary, !'[cngolia, Folandl and the ttnion of sovlet soclalist
Republics) and th. unltei xi rqdorn of Great Britain and Northern lreland'

L2. At lts 47th rneeting ' 
on 20 November, the rePresentative of catneroon

introduced r on behau of
African Republlc

Institute for
spongori ng the

, a draft resolu (A/c.2/3e/L.671 tled 
rlrnlted Na

trlinine and Research ". iuL""qu""try, 91g@ jotnea
draf t resolutlon, whictl read ag follotts:



A/39/792
English
Page 6

"Th€ ceneral Assenbly,

nRecalling 1t6 resolution 3A/L77 of 19 Decenber 1983 on the United
Nations Instltute for Training and Research,

trHaving considered the report of the Executive Director of the United
Natlons Institute for Training and nesearch J-/ cot'et|ng the perlod from
July 1983 to June 1984r and hlB lntroductory statenent of 9 Novenber L984, V

'Recalfinq. the important role assigned to the lrnited l,tations Institute
for Training and Research in enhancirq the effectlveness of the United Nations
in achieving its najor objectives, partlcularly in the-raintenance of peace
and securiey and the pronotion of econonlc and aocial development,

"l'loti nq wi th satisfactlon the entr*lasis being placed b,y the Lrnited lilations
Institute for Training and lteaearch on the revitalization of ita programme,
the dissemination of the results of ita research and the lnprovernent of ils
nanagenent, and on the lpbilizatlon of adequate resources to enable it to
per forn its functions satiafactorily,

"sharing the concern of the Executive Director that only a small nunber
of States are contrlbuting to the cenerat nrnd of the ltnited Nations Institute
for Training and Research, as well as hi6 concern over the inadequacy of tbe
resources available to the Institute for its krork,

Takes note with appreciatlon of the report of the Executive Director
of the United Naeiona Institute for Trainlng and Fesearch on the
inplenentatlon of the wor k progranrne ln f983-1984, th€ measures taken to
inprove the nanagement and the budgeting process of the Institute and the
Priorities and vror k programne for the biennium 1984-1985 approved by the Board
of Trustees of the Institutet

n2. we lcomes the contlnuing enFhasis of the Unlted Nations Institute for
Training and Research on economic and social training and research and the
irclusion of specific projects on the problems ttlat exist in the areas
identified by the ceneral Assendlly at its sixth 9,/ and seventh !!/ sp€cial
sessions, in the relevant decisions adopted at lts trrenty-ninth and subEequent
sessions, and in the International Development Strategy for the Third Irnited
Nations Developnent Decade, l-y taklrq into consideratlon the statements on
the progranme of sork of the Institute made at the current sessionr

y official Records of the ceneral Assenblv, Thirtv-nlnth Session,
Supplenent No. 14 lDJ39/L4r.

9/ *e A/c.2/39/sR.38.

9J See resolutlon€ 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of t I'ray 1974.

A/ See resolutlon 3362 (S-WI) of 15 Septenber 1975.

ly Resolution 35,/56, annex.



N 3e/7e2
ErEll€h
Page 7

r3i ggEs.g--lote ot the ctaritication provided by the Erecutive Director
on tfie nanEEEE andJhe tuture role of the unlted Nations Inatitute toE
Tralning and Re6earch as they relate to the rEndates and roles of other
instltutions active ln the InstltuterF tield ot cooPetence' and notea htith
satisraction the efforts being lEde to Etrengthen co{Pelatton gith tlroae
institutionst !l/

hited Nationt fnstilil tor ltaining and l€searcb to do ao' and ealls upon
al1 donor countrleg, eslecial'ly thoae that are not contltbuting at a level
c€turEnEurate wlth tJreiieaPaclay, to increlae their voluntary contributlons t'n
ordel to neet tne urgent tlnancial needE oi tbe Institute during the biennl(at
I98 4-r98 5 t

Aqain reouestE all stateE to continue to announce their
contributionE to tne-Eiteo llatronE InsBitute tor Tralnlng and Eseatch early
andr ii Possible, not later than the annual United NationE Pledgltrg conterence
tor DeveloPtEnt Activrtiesr and to sp€ed up the paynent ot their voluntary
contri butlons to the Instltute.r

13. At its 58th meeting, on 10 Decsnber, the Conmittee considereo a dratt
reaolution (A/ C.2/3g/I'.133 ) subnitted bi tlrr. Habib l4' l€abachi ' 

Vlce-Chairman ot
the Comni.ttee, on the DasiS ot intorhal consultations held on draft regolution
r./c.2/39/L.67.

14. At the sane meetlng, the Connittee adopted draft resol'ution AC'2/39/L'133
(see para. 2I, dlatt resolution II).

15. In the Ligbt ot the adoption of draft lesolution NC'2/39/L'L33' draft
re€olutlon NC.2/39/L.67 was withdrawn by the sPonaols'

16. After the adoPtlon ot che draft resolutlon, the representative ot the
oRralnian sovlet social.igt hl.rublic mde a statel€nt also on b,ehalf ot tr'llgar1a,
the ay":.orussian soviet socialist &epublic, czechoslovakia. the GermaD Democratic
nepublic r Hungary, lDngolia, Fland and the ttrri on o! sovlet Sociallst RePublicE'

b. United Nations Un iversity

L7. At the 4 sth treetlng t on 19 l5vetdter, the tePreEentatlve ot Au€tria lnttoduced.
on behalf of theInOonesia, Irelancl, the
!U]}EE1IgE-i!!9gPs, the nonited Nationa

in qronsoring the alratt
;"d , "it"r. 

resolutlon (Nc.2/39/L.58) entitled
Urlversity'. Srbseguentlt, the lbnintcan tEpul1ic loined
resoluti.on, $hich reacl a6 tollot{s:

lu see 9!!
supplefi€nt tib. 14 (A/39/14) ' Palas. 

3-22.



A/39/792
English
Page 8

'Ece.eral assenbu,
'Recalling it6 resolutions 2951 (x:(\tll) of 11 Decenber 1972,

308I (xxVIIIl of 6 Decernber 1973, 3313 (xxIX) of 1{ December 1974'i3439 (xxx)
of 9 Decenber 1975' 3L/LL7 and 31,/118 of 16 Decembet L976, 32/54 of
8 December L977, 33/L08 of 18 DecenDer l9?8, 34 /LL2 of 14 Decenberi,lg7g, 35/54
of 5 December L980, 36/45 of 19 tilovember 1981, 37/L43 of 17 Deeember 1982 and
3A/L78 of 19 Decerber 1983'

'ltaving considere.g the report of the Council of the United Nations
lrniversity on the work of the UnlvereLty, E/

"btfnq wittr appreciation the covernrnent of Japants continuirq interest
in and support for the lrniversity in regard to the conatruction of a permanent
headquartera building,

"tbtina decision 5.2.1 adopted on 18 oc tober 1984 by the Executive Board
of the United libtions Dducatlonal, Scientific and Cultural organization at its
one hundred and twentieti sessLon,

the medium-term period 1982-1987, the progress achieved by the lrnited Nation6
Universlty in realizing the nain objectives se! forth in its nediun-tern
per spect lve, naneLy, developing and inplenenting the Irniversity prograrnme
focused on five thernes relevant to the presslrE global problems of hunan
survival, developnent and welfare tiat are also the concerna of the tnited
Nations and tle speclalized agerriesl ernbarking on a new lha6e of
institutional developnent, with emltrasis on eEtabllshing the tniversityrs own
research and training centres as called for in its Chartery and obtainirg
supplementary prograflme support ln addition to the Erdovflnent nrnd,

"2. welcorEs the reports of external evaluatlon teans lndicating the
IFsitive result€ of the universityrs research, lnstltutiohal relations and
IDst-graduate training, and particularly t}le advanced trainirg of University
Fellows lrho have returned to key positlons in cheir home institutionsr in
collaboration rrith the Unlverslty's assoclated and co-operating instltutions
in bolh deveLoping and industrlalized countriest

..g.@theProgressingettlrguPthewor1drnatitutefor
Develolnent Dconomlcs nesearch, the Universityts first research and training
lnstitutlon, at Helsinki, flnland, and expresses lts appreciation for the
leading role and lnvaluable support of the covernment of Finland ln
establishing the fnstltute by providirg finarrcial and other forrns of supportt

tibtes nith Eatlafaction the advance nade towards establishlng the
proposed In6tltute for Natural. Resources in Africa and an international
progranme ln blotechnology ln Venezuelal

!3/ Ibid., .egPEle'||en.9-N9j_1L @/3e/3L') .



v3e/792
BnOlish
Prg. 9

EgElg@ tne continulng nced ot tbc lhlv'rslly to ltr'ogth€o 
the

capaclty oGG;fE scllolarly and scicotitlc lnatilutlons ln dceeloPlng
countriea tor heuring thelr nltiona tb actrl€vc !'1t-scll''tlt plogrca8t

lbteg th€ need to tuEthet gontinue, arPlnd 'nd 
lntrnsltl

"o-on"I".rffi.i"i.i."1t 
rh€ rhlted t{ariona uriverrlty .,ith the utltGd

Nationa, lts bodles ano the Epecla]itGd agencleat on the one handt rnd sith
the lnternational acadenic ao{i aci€ntltlc cournitt, on thc oth€r-, rDlch
enhance the reaponaiven€Es of the unlvcrslty to g lobril lssuc3 anal Ptoblcoa tnq
bring 1t8 sorx lnto closer relatlon ttidr th€ conccrnt ot th€ urlted Nrtiona
syateo and the $orL'l acad€iric ccnounltl' ln r€grrd to grobar lsaue6 an'l
problenat

-7. I{ecoqnlzes that the united Nrttona Ontverstty neeila to lntenttfy lt'
tund-ratsing 

"ttort" 
to build uP lta EndorGnt ttrnd and oPcfating nrnd and to

ensure the develoloent of it8 activitiea 1n ! r€ll-co-ordlmtcd ranner 1n
accordance wlth ita cllarte4

Earnestlvappealatoalll.€d|bc!stltestota|rccognl'|nceofthc
progresg naiEE ttrffiiie-d l€tiona lhiverslty and th€ r'lcvrnc€ ot.its Yorli
to the concerna ot thc united Natlona and to contllbute urgsntlt rnd
genelously to ita thdosmnt nlnd and, addltionally or alternatlvely ' 

to DkG
ip", ttitE-.ontr rbutiona to thc unlgerslty to Gnabl' it to tultil lts ntnoate
ettectrvely, rn accordance nith rt8 charter aod uith thG rslevlnt General
AE EenbIY resolutlons. "

18. At its 55th mectittg, on 30 NoYe$ber, tbe Comtttec conardeled a draft
reaolution (ty'C.2/3g/L.57) aubnitted by r'rr. BnDib !|' xr'Dachi ' 

VlcFchrliD'n ot thr
cotmittee, a8 a resuLt ot lntormal consultatlons h'ld on dratt r'30lut10n
N c.2/39/ L.58.

Ig. At thc Eee Deetlng, the conelttee adopteat draft t.lolutLon ArlC.2/39/L.8? (3'c
parr. 2L, draft resotution III) r

20. In the l19bt ot the adoPtlon ot dEatt reaolutlon A/C'2/19/L'87' draft
reEolutlon Nc.2/39/L.55 cas ei thdraen by tlre 4Dnsola'



u 39/792
ErEllsh
Page l0

III. RECOUIIENDATIONS OA TBE SECOND COhTTITTEE
21. Ihe second comittee recolGnda to the cenerrl ilss€nbly the adoptlon of the
f ouoHlng draft resolutians:

DRAFT RE$O.UT ION I

Ionq-ter& trnancrnq rnd the iuture role ot the lrnlted
tiaciona Inatltute tor Trainino ano l€ee!rch

lle General Asse rDIt ,
Recalli,r:q ira re€olutions 37/L4Z or l? Decenbe! l9A2 and 3g/L77 ox

19 llece&er 1983, t'n yhich it called upon the Secretary-General to aubnrt a
rePort on long-term tinancrng arrarB€nenta tor the unlted Natrons rnatitute
tor Training anct Faearch rhlch rrould place ltg t1nanclng on a mre
Predictable, aasured and Contlnuoue ba8lS,

Iiavinq consrdered the report of the liecr€tary-ceneral ]!y and the
atatementa lnade by tne E:(ecutive Dircctor ot the united Nationa rnstitute tor
ltaining and Research before ttle S€€ond @tmtttee on the tinanclal
difttculties ot the Instlrure, l!/

Takinq note ot ttre priorttles and sork laogaame tor the blenniun
1984-1985 approved by rbe Board ot rrustees ot the unlted Natlons rnatitute
for Trarning ancl lbsea rch,

I'loti.ng with concern that the Unlted Nrtron8 pLeqglrB Conterence for
DeveloprrEnt tctivitrea, held on ? and g lbvenber lgg4, sas unabl.e to plovtde
the General Fund of the united Natlona rnsBrtute for TrainlrB and Research
durir€ 1985 Hith the level ot legoulcea conslderecl by ttle Board of ltuateea ot
the rnssltute a5 the 0ini.n8r regurrcd to nalotaln the rnatitute as a vlable
enti,ty,

Acknorvleoqinq nith reqret that the ayaten ot voluntary contrrbutions,
lnstituted to provide resources tor the operalton ot the urlted l{atlons
Ingtl'ture tor Trainir€ and Re8€a!ch, ttad thuB tar failed tully to guarantee
the ninrhum level ot resourcea neeced Dt the rnstrtute tor its General rhnd,

l,lo ting rrl. th reqret Bhat tha three optlons tor long-tern tinancing
arrangelcnts tor the rnEtitute reco@nded b! the Board ot truateea, naml' ,the setting up ot a regerve tund, the adoption of a replenlshhent ststsn and
the establishEnr ot an endorFnt tund, hav€ not been tound acceptable bi the
najor conrributore, M

N39 / r48.

see NC.2/39/5R.38, paraa. lI-20 ancl A/C.2/39/SR.4I, paras. I-8.
A/39/L48, para. 8.

]!/
L5/

!9/



N 3e/792
EngIish
Page l1

1. E(presses its appreciatlon to the s€cretary-General tor hi6 rePortt

z.Endorge€thevier'ofthesecretary-Generalabouttbecontinuing
ilportance of the rore ot the LLrlted lbtion€ Institute for Iraining and
I{e sea rch ,

3. Requests the secre tary-General to PrePare a cqnPrehensive study on
the tlri.teO-Elf6iE Institute tor Trai,ning and Esearch, its activities in
trainlng and research, lts tunding and its future rofe, keeping ln nind
related activities withrn tne ullted t'lations systen and the relevant
provisions of the statute ot the Instituter In order to deteflnine the nost
eftective nanner ot dischargrng ttroEe tunction€t

4. Further requesta the Secre tary-General to sutmit hia report '
together rrith the conflEnis ot tbe Board ot Tru3tees of the Institute for
Training and Research thereon, to the Gen€ral Assgnbly at it6 fortleth aeeaiont

5. Decides to grant tlre ltrited llations Institute for Training and
Research up t" sus 1.5 nlIlion, on an excePtional ba6is, to suppleneDt the
fundsraiaedtbroughvolunlarycontributionsfortlleGeneralFund,inorc|erto
enable lhe Institute to carry out a nlninrm training and reaearch prograrnrue ln
1985 at a levef to De oecide; by the Board ot Trustees ot the Institute at it6
forthccnlnq sPecial se€Eion, but not exceeding $us 3 tniuiont

6.Requestgthatt'ttel5ardofTrugteesottheLttite(tl'|atlonslnatltute
tor Trarni.ng ano Research and, it it agrees' the Advrsory conun rttee on
Administratlve and Brdgetary Questronsr exa[ine urgentl! the PlogE arutre and
Duqget propoaals ol the Inatitute for l'985, uith a view to obtaining gavinga
i.n lts budget t

7. i;Ecides to Cake a decision at its tortieth session on the basiE ot
ttre rePort ot the secreta ry-General on the future, PrograffiEa' and tundlng
arranganrents of the united Nation8 In6titute tor Training and Research'

DRAFT RESO&UTION II

the General Agset$lY t

Recallinq its resolution 38/177 ot 19 Decenber 1983 on the Unitecl Nations
Institute for Training and nesearch,

Having considered the report ot the Executive Director ot the United
Natj.ons Institute for Training and Fsearch !fi/ coverLng tbe Perlod tron
July ]983 to,tune 1984, and his introductory statement ot 9 Novenber 1984' !9/

I7/ Official
supplenent No. 14

ly see ry'C.2/39/sR.38, Paras. ll-20.



P\/ 39/792
English
Page 12

Recalling the itnportant rol.e asslgned to tbe United Natlons Institute for
Training and nesearch tor.the purtrDse ot enhancing the ettectlveneas of the
United Nations ill achieving it6 nafor objectlves, in particular ln the
mai,ntenance ot peace and security and the prorDtron o! econornic and sociaL
develotrment,

Recalling also the need tor the Unitecl Natlons Institute tor Tralni.ng and
Researcn to contrnue to evolve clear, Long-tern prioritieE in the tralnlng anct
reaearch progrannes ot ttte Inatitute that woulct enl*tasrre its role 1n the
prolption and atrengtheni,ng ot the developttEnt ftroceas,

l,{otinq rrith satigtaction the ent*raais being placed by the unlted Natlons
rnsti.tute tof Trahrng and Fsearcb on the revltalizatron ot its prograrule,
the diss€ninatron ot the reault,E ot its research and the inploveuent ot its
rErnageflEnt, and on tne flpDr].tzatlon ot aoeguate resources to enable it to
l,eltorn lts tunctions satlstactorrly,

sharlng t}le concern ot the El ecut,rve Directo! that only a snall nunber ot
licares are conurbuting to the ceneral tr'und ot the united Nations rnstitute
for Trarning and l€search, as krell as his concern over the inadeguacy ot the
resources available to the Institute tor its rrork,

I. Takes note rtiLh appreciatron ot the report of the hecutive Director
of the uniled Natrons rnstitute tor Training and Research ahd ot the neaaurea
taken i.n L984 to rmprove the nEnagenBnt ano tne buqg€ting procea€ of the
In sti Lutet

2. Alao takes note ot the priotrties and worl( prograrune tor the
bienniun 1984-1985 approved by the tioaro ot trugtees ot the Ingtltute,

3. helccmes che continuing enphaals of tbe Untted Nationa Ingtrtute foE
Training and Research on economic and aoclar training and research and the
incluslon of specitic profects on the probl€rns that exrat in the areas
identitied by the ceneral A€serrbly ar its sixth )y and aeventh ?!1 specialsessions, rn tbe relevant declsionE adopted at its tirentFnlnth and subseguent
sessions, and rn the rnternational Everopraent strategy tor tbe Thtrd thited
Nations DeveloHnent Decade, Z!/ takhg into consideration the atatenents on
the progranlne ot work ot the InstiCute made at the current sessiont

4. Takes note ot che claritication provrded by the Elecutrve Dlrector
on rne nandate and the tuture role ot ttre LLrited l.{ations Instltute tor
Trarning ano Research as they relate to the mandatea ano role€ ot oiher

lv
?9/

?!/

see resolutlons 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) ot 1 May 1974.
See resolution 3362 (TFVII) ot 16 S€ptenber 1975.
Resolution 3 5,/55, annex.

(



A/39 /792
Eng l-lsh
Page 13

lngtitutions active in the Instituters tielcl ot cotq/etence, and notes with
gati.staction the ertorts berng nade to streng then ceoPeration with those
ingtitutionsr 3Sl

5. Calls upon aII States that have not yet contrrbuteo to the uniteo
!,lations Institute tot Trarnrng and l€search to do go, and urges once again all
donor countries, ealeciallt those that are not contributrng at a level
corrutEnauEate rrri tn tneir caFacity, to increaae their voluntar! contributions in
orclet to tneet the urgent t inancial needs ot the In€titute during the bienniun
198 4-I98 5 t

5. Aqain requests all states to continue to announce their
contributlons to the Lhited l,htrons Institute tor Training and Research early
and. if pos€ible' not later than the annual United Nations Pledging Conterence
for EveloprEnt Activi.tieb, and lo sPeed uP the paynEnL ot their voluntary
contributions to the Institute.

DRAFT RESOI,UT ION III

*" on.a"r. *"a*r.ff
Recallinq its resolutron€ 2951 (XXVII) ot Il Decenber 1972, 3081 (XxvIII)

ot 6 Decet$er .L973, 3313 (xxlx) ot I{ r€cerDer 1974, 3439 (xxx) ot
9 Dec€rnber 1975, 3L/fL7 and 3IIII8 of 15 Decernbet J976, 32/54 ot
8 Decefter L977,33/IOA ot 18 Decenber L978, 34/LL2 ot t4 Decenlcer L979, 35/54
ot 5 uec€rnber 1980, 36145 ot 19 Nov€tnber l98I' 37/L43 ox 17 DecsnDer 1982 ano
3A/L78 ot 19 Decetber 1983,

Having gonsidereo the rePort of the council ot the united Natrons
thlversiLy on the nort ot the universLt.y, 2l,1

tloting t|ith appreciation the conLrnuing interest of the Goverrunent ot
,JaPan in, and its auPPort tor, the univergity in regard to the constructron ot
a pernanent headguartet6 bu i1ding t

IgllEg declsion 5.2.I adopteo on 18 October 1984 by the Executive Boaro
of the Llnlteq lutions lhucational', screntitic and Cultural organization at its
one hundred and twentleur sesalon,

23/ ftee Ofticial Records ot the General Asaenblt, Thirty-ninth Seasion,
supplenent lto. I{ (}y'39/L4't, paras. 3-22.

?y orricial a of the
supplenent lb. 3l (A/39 3r,.



A/39/792
Er€Ilsh
Page 14

l. Noces nitlr satisraction, a6 the United Nations Universrty reaches
the niddle ot j.ts nEdiun-tetrh perspectrve (1982-1987), the progress achieved
by the Univer€rty in realizrng the Daln oDjectives ser torth in its
l€diun-term per spective, narlEly, developing and inplelEntrng the Linive!sity
PloglaMre focused on five thenee relevant to the pressing global probletrr6 ot
hunan aurvival, oevelopnent and seltare that are also the concerns ot the
United Nations and the speclalized agenclest enDarking on a new phase ot
institutionaL develop[Ent, rrith ent$aara on establishj.ng the Universityts own
research and training centrea aa called for in its Chartert

2. $€lcoms the reports ot erternal, evaluation teans 1nclicating the
positive results ot the Unlversity16 reaearch, institutional relations and
post-graduate training, particularly tb€ advanced tratning of Universj"ty
Fel.Iorrs rrho have returneo to their hdre instrtutiona, in collaboration rrtrn
the Ltriveraity's a66ociated ano co{perating institutions in both developing
and industrralized countr iesi

3. AIso relccmea the progresa made in settrng up the horld Instirute
tor DeveloplEnt l)cononics Faearch, the lJniversityrs tirst research ano
tralnrng inatitution, at llelsrnki, and expresses its appreciation tor the
leadlng role ano invaluable aupport ot the C€vernr€nt ot Finland in
establi€hj.ng the Inscrtut€ by provrding financial and other torns ot support'

4. lbtes $i.th €atistaction tbe advance rnade torrarda establishrng the
Proposed Institute tor Natural Reaource6 in Atrica and an international
Progranne I'n biotechnology in rteneruela,

5. Ellllraaizes the continuing need of the University to strengthen the
capaclty ot etrlstj.ng scholarly and screntitic institutions in developing
countr iesi

6. libtes the need to turtheE continue, elrl)ancr and intensity
co-operatlve activities of the ttrlted ltatronE Lhiver6lty with the unlteal
tlatlon€, its bodies ancl the specialized agencies, on lhe one hand, and witb
the international acadenic and scientific commrnlty, on the other, which
enhance the resl,onsrveneaa ot the University to g],obal issues and problerns and
bring its work into closer relatlon uith the concerns ot the lrnited Nations
systen and the hrorld acad€mic cdtrrunity ln regard to global issues and
problenst

7. Recognrzes that the Uniteo Natione Univelsity needs to intensity lts
fund-raising eftorts to bui.Id up its llroor'trpnt trtnd ancl Operating !'und and to
ensure the develotment ot rts activlti,es in a gell-co-ord rnated rnanner in
accordance erth its Ctrarter t

8. Ilarnestlt appeala to all lrember states to taKe cognizance ot the
Progress nade by the thrted l'iationa university and the relevance of its $ork
to the concerns ot the United Nationa and to contrlbute urgently and
generously to ltg EloohflrEnt nJnd ano, adctltlonally or alternatlvelt, to nake
operatlng contrlbutiona to tbe Unlversitt to enable it to tultiI its mandate
ettectivel!, in accordance wlth rt6 Charter and rrrth the relevant resolutions
ot th€ General Asssnbl,y.




