








































UNITED

) 
NATTONS

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/39/7 50
6 Decemb er 198 4
ENGLISH
ORIGTNAL: FFEI{CH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda item 60

REVTEW AND IMPLE!,4ENTATTON OF THE COIiCLUDING DOCUMEN] OF
THE TVIELFTIT SPECIAL SESSION OF TIIE GENERAT, ES SWAT,V

Report of the First Conmittee

Rappor teur r Mr. Ngar6 KESSELY (Chad)

I. INTRODUCTION

I. The item ent i tled:

"Review and implemencation of the concluding flocument of the Tv',elfti Special
session of the C,eneral Assenbly:

"(a) Consideration of guidelines for conf idence-bu ild ing neasures: report of
the Disarnament Commission?

" (b) Freeze on nuclear \./eaFons?

"(c) United Nations progranme of felloreships on disarnanent? report of the
Secretary-G€n era I?

'(d) Vlorld Disarnanent Canpaign.. report of the secr eCary-C,€ner a li

" (e) Implementation of ceneral Assembly resolution 38/73 E on a nuclear arrns
fr e eze?

'(f) Convention on the Prohibition of the use of Nuclear lieapons.. report of
lhe Conference on Disarnarnent;

" (S) Disarmanent and international securityr report of the Security Councili

| " (h) Regional disarmanent: report of lhe secretary-cen eral "

84-31928 0207P (E)



A/39/750
English
Page 2

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-ninth session in accordance
with ceneral Assenbly resolutions 38/73 A to J of 15 December 1983.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 2I September 1984, the General Assernbly, on the
reconmendation of the General Conmittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First conmietee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on f5 october, the First Conunittee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarnarnent itens allocated to it. name.Iy, items 45 to 65 and
ieem 142 which was allocated to t}|e First Conmittee by the General Assenbly at its
27th plenary neeting, on 9 october, foltowed by statements on specific disarmament
agenda itens and continuation of the general debate, as necessary. The
deliberations on those itens took place beeween the 3rd and 36th meetings, from
17 October to 12 Novenber lsee A,/C.V3q/PV.3-36\ .

4. In connection with item 60, the First connittee had before it the following
docunents:

(a) Repor t of the Conference on Disarmamenti y

(b) Report of $re Disarnament Cornnissiont 7

(c) Report of the secr etary-cener al on regional disarnanent (A/39/485) 1

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the World Disarmament Canpaign
( /39/4s2t,,

(e) Report of the Secr etary-Gener al on the Advisory Board on Disarnameht
studies (N39/5491.,

(f) Repor t of t}le Secr etary-G€ner aI on the United Nations progral ne of
fellor{ships on disarnanenL (N39/5671 i

(s) Note by the Secre tary-cener a L on inplementation of General Assenrbly
resolucion 38/73 E on a nuclear-arrns freeze (A/39/523) i

(h) Letcer dated 9 April 1984 fron the chargd drAffaires a.i. of tt|e
Permanent Mission of brnania to the ttnited Nations addressed to the
Secr e tary-C€neral (A/39/L75, 1

(i) Letter dated 23 May 1984 fron the representatives of Argentina, Greece,
India, Mexico, Sveden and the tnited Replblic of Tanzania to tbe lrnited Nations
addressed to the Secr e tary-cenera I, transnitting the Joint Declaration by
l4rs. fndira candhi, Prine Minister of India,

V official Records of the ceneral Asser,bly, Thirty-ninth session,
supplernent No. 27 (N39/27',1 .

U rbid. I Supplement No. 42 (A/39/42\ .



^/39/7 
5s

English
Page 3

Mr. Miguel de la l,tadrid, presidene of t€xico, l,lr. Julius Nyerere, president of the
United Republic of Tanzania, !!r. OIof palme, prime ltlnister of S:neden,
Mr. Andreas Papandreou, Prine t4inister of creece, and Mr. Radl Alfonsln, president
of Argentinar issued on 22 r4ay L9B4 at Athens, Buenos Aires, Dar es salaaril, lrexico
City, New Erelhi and Stockhotm (A/39/27 7-s/L6SB7 | 7

(i) Letter dated r ,June 1984 from the permanent Representative of the union
of soviet Socialist ReF.lbllcs to the lhited l,tat ions addressed to che
secre tary-Gener aI (A/39/28FS,/I6 600) t

(k) l'lote verbale dated 7 June l9g4 from t}'e perrnanent Mission of peru to the
untted Nations addressed to the tnited Natlons secretariat (A/39/29 6-s/L66Lg) |

(f) Letter dated 12 .tune 1984 from the Permanent Representative of the United
Ktngdom of creat Britain and Northern rreland to the united Natlons addressed to
the Secre tary-Gbnera I ' transnitting the Declaration on Eas!-llest ltelations and ArmsControL issued at the London Economic Sumrnit, held fron Z to 9 June 1984(t/39/3osl t

(m) Letter dated 14 ilune 1984 from the permanent Representatlve of the tniteal
Kingdom of Great Brltain and Northern lreland to the uniteal Natlons addressed to
the secr etary-c€neral lA/ 39/3LL-S/L662gl t

(n) I€tter dated 27 septedler I9g4 from the Charg6 drAffaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Togo to the United Nations addlessed to the secr e tary-cener al
(A/39/s29).,

(o) Letter dated I Oc tober 1984 from the Pernanent Representative of India to
the ttnited Nablons addressed to t}le secretary-ceneral, transnitting the Final
conrrruniqud of the !,1e eting of t{inisters and Heads of Del-egation of the Non-Arigned
countrles to the thirty-ninttr session of the ceneral Assenbry, herd in NevJ york
fron I to 5 oc tober 1984 (A/ 39/560-s/L6773) |

(p) I€tter dated 22 @tober l9B4 fron
Union of Sovlet Soclalist Republics to t}le
Secretary-cen era]- (N39/5971 .

the Pernanent Repreaentative of the
ttnited Nations addressed to tie

II. CONSIDE&ATION OF' PROPOSAIS

A. Draft resolutlon VC. V3 9,/L.17
5. On 5 Novenber 1984, hJlgaria, the cerman Denocratic Republic, !,bngolia,
Ronan+a and vie! ttam subnitted a draft re€olution, entitled nwcra oisarlnarnent
campaign'. actions and activitiesn $/c.L/39/L.17), whictr was rater also sponsored
by the Bverorussian s9q1€!--999!eli€t getublic and the ukrainian soviet sociarlstnppuori uv u,.ffi"t
the 40th rneetlng, on 15 NovenDer.



A/ 39/7 50
Eng.].ish
Page 4

5. At its 4Lst
A'ic.V39/L.L7 by
draft resolution

In favour:

Aqainst:

Abstaining:

rneeting, on 19 Novsnber, Lhe Connittee adopted dratt resolutron
a recorded vote ot 96 to none, uj,th 34 abstentions (see para. 30,
A). The voting was as toLlowss y

Atghanistanr Algeria, Angola' Argentina, AustEaliar Bahrain,
BangJ.adesh, Benin, Bhutan, tsolivia, Botswana, Bulgaria' Burundi,
Byel-orussian Sovret Socialj.st Republrc, Cameroon, Central African
RepubJ-ic, chad, china, col-c.nbia, congo, costa Rica, cuba, cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Derpcratic Yemen, DlibouLi' fbninican Republic,
F.cuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gennan Dernocratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea' cuyana, I{onduras' Hutrga ry ' India, 

Indonesia, Irag,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kurdait, Lao Peoplers
Delpcratic nepublic. I€banon, Liberla, Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya,
Madagascar, trralawi, Malaysia, lilaldives, I'tali, Maurj.tania,
Mauritius, !.Exj.co, lDngoll'a, I'brocco, lDzallDlgue, l€pal,
Nicaragua, Niqerra, Pakiscan, Panarua, Peru, PhilipPines, Poland'
QaEar, bnania, &randa, Sao Tone and Princ j.Pe, Saudi Arabia,
senegal, Sierra Leone, somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinane,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, ?hailand, Tro9o, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, uganda, URrainian soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of soviet Socialist Republics, tlnited Arab EmiraLes' tlnited
Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet l|an, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
zambra, Zlmbabwe.

lilcn e.

Austri.a, Bahamas, BelgiuD, Brazil, Brunei DarusgalanL, Burma,
Canada, Chi].e, Denocratic f\atrpuctrea, IlenrErk, Finland ' 

France,
GernLany, Federal Republic of, Greece, cuaternala, Haiti' Iceland,
Ireland. Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxenbourg, Netherlands' tlew
zealand' Niger, Norway, Paraguay, Portugal, Spain, Sweden,
Turkey, United Kingdon of Great Britain and liorthern Ireland,
United Stages ot Amerrca, Uruguay.

b. Dratt resolution A/C. V39,/L.29

7. On 8 Novenber 1984, Algeria, Australia, Bangladesh, Cajneroon, Ecuador, creece,
India, Indonesia, Renya, Liberia, litali, Nigeria, the Philippines, Seneqal, Sri
lanka, Togo, Tlini.sia, tqanda, Uruguay, venezuela, Yugoslavia, zaire and @El!g
submitted a draft resolution, entitled "United l{ations programle of tellowships on
dj.sarmarrent" (A/C.I/39/L.29) , which was later also sponsored by the Bahanas,
France, lletr Zealand, the Niqer and the Sudan. The draft resolution rras introduced
by the representative of Nigelra at the 39th meeting, on 15 Novenber.

8. At its 41st [Eeting, on 19 I'lovenber, the @nnittee adopted dratl resolution
A,/C.L/39/L.29 h,ithout a vote (see para. 30, draft resolution B),

v
it

The delegation of the
had intended to vote in

Is.lanic Republic ot Iran subsequently indicated
tavour ot the draft resolution,tha t



il39/7 s0
English
Page 5

C. Draft reEolution A/C.I/3 9/L.3 2

9. On 9 November 1984 ' Indonesia, Mexico, Pakistan, Sveden and llMgI subrnitteda draft resolution, entltled nNuclear-arrns freeze" (A/C.L/39 /L.f2) , $hich eras later
also sponsored by Ronania. The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of l€xico at the 40ti meeting, on 15 November.

tO. At its 44ti meeting on 20 November, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution
VC.V39/L.32 by a recorded vote of III to 12, r,ri ttl 7 abstentions (see para. 30,
draft resolution C). The voting was as followsi

In favour: Afghanlstan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bofivia, Botsrrana, Brazil,
Brun€i Darusaalan, Bulgaria. Burkina Fasor Burna, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Central African ReFtblic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cuba,
CyFrus, CzechosLovakia, Denocratic yenen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Donlnican Reptblic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, Gernan Denocratic Republlc, chana, creece, cuaCenala,
cuinea, cuyana, Haitl. Honduras, Hungary, India, rndonesia, Iran
(Islarnic Republic of) , Iraq, Ireland, Ivory coast, Jordan, Kenya,
Runaitr Lao Peoplers Denocratic Rep$lic, L€banon, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, l4adagascar, l4alawi, !4alaysia, ualdives,
l4ali, laalta, l,tauritania, l.tauritius, l,texico, l,lrngolia, l'torocco,
l,lozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, pakistan,
Panama, Peru, poland, eatar, nomania, Rr,randa, sao Tone and
Principer Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, $raziland, Sdeden, Syrian Arab Repubtic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, tunisia, uganda, Ukrainlan
Soviet Socialist Republlc, tirrioh of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Irn ited Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Utruguay,
venezuela, Viet litam, yemen, yugosl-avia, Zarnbia, Zinbabwe.

Belgium, Canada, France, cermany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxenbourg, portugal, Turkey, Ijnited Kingdom of
Great BriCain and l\lor Cherh freland, tnited States of Arnerica.

Aga inst:

Abstaininq: Bahanas, China, Iceland, NetherLands. New zealand, Norlray, Spain.

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/39,/L.35
11. on 9 November 1984, Balgladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, trexico; pakistan, Srl Lanka,
Sdeden, Venezuela and Ig@,iE submitted a draf t resolutlon, entltled tworld
Disarmament Campaign' IA/C.L/39/L.35), which vras later also sponsored by Ronania.
The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of lGxico at the
37th meeting on 14 November.



A/ 39 /7 50
English
Page 6

L2. At its 4Lst
A/c.L/39/L.35 by
draft resolution

In favour i

49e.ins!'.

13. on 12 November 1984,
caneroon, canada, chile'

meeting, on 19 November, tie conunlttee adoPted draft resolution
a recorded vote of I24 to none, with 12 abstentions (see para. 30,
D). The voting was as follot s'. y

Afghanistan, A1geria, Angolar Argentina' Australia, Auatria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Beninr thuqan, Bolivlar Botswana, BraziI,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Buiklna Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian soviet socialist [tePubLic, cameroon, canada, central
African Republic, Chad' Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Coata
Rica, cuba, Cyprus, czedroslovakiar Denpcratic KamPuchea,
Denocratic Yemen, DEnrnark ' Djiboutl, fbninica, 

Domlnican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, EthioPla, Fiji, Finland' German
Delocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala' Guinea, Guyana,
Haitir Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia' Iraq,
Ireland' Ivory Coast' Jarnaica, itapanr .fordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Iao
Peoplers Denocratic Republic' Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jarnahiriya, lradagascar, l,hlawi, !'laIaysia, l'bldlves, l'ta1i, ualta,
l,laur i tania, !4a ur i tius, !{exlco' l,longolla, !{oroccor tlozanbigue'
NeIEI, Nen zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, oman,
pakistan. Panarna, Paraguay, Peru, PhiliPPines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, samoa, sao Tome and PrinciPe, saudi Arabia,
senegal, sierra Leone. singapore, SornaLiar spain, sri lanka'
Sudan, suriname, S{aziland r svedenr Syrian Arab ReFbIic,
Tha iland, Togo, Trinidad and qobago, Tunlsia, uganda' ukrainian
soviet socialist ReF)blic, ulion of soviet socialist tteFrblics,
united Arab Enirates, tnlted RePublic of Tanzaniar uruguay,
venezuela, viet Nam, Yemen' Yugoslavl.a, Zairer zafl|bia, zinbabwe.

I'lon e.

Abstaininq: Bahamas' Belgiun' France' Gerrnany, Federal Republic of' Israel,
Italy' Luxenbourg, Netherfandsr Rdanda, ?urkey, tnj.ted Kingdon of
creat Britain and Nor ther n Ireland, United States of Atnerica.

E. Draft Igsolution A/C.I/39lL.36

Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh' Belgiun, Bolivia,
the conqo, Dennark, Ecuador, Eg!'pt, Finland. France,

the Federa I lic of, chana, Greece, Ireland, Italyr .taPan, l'lauritania
I,letherlands, I,lelt zealand. Norway ' PaKrsEan, 

Perur Ene t,nlJ.lPPrnes' rt nrcrrJ'4,

!E3j", tt" sudan, sweden, Turkey, the ltnited Klngdon 9f Gre.at.Brigain-anq Northern
i-reuna, ttreunitedstat and zaire submitted i-q"ft
i6l6llflon, eititrea "consiaeiation oe guidelines for conf idence-building measuresn
lA,/c.L/39/L.36), which was lacer also sponsored by Eberia,-33!L and @19. The
draft resolution was introduced by the representative of tlre Federal RePublic of
cernany at the 33rd meeting, on B Novenber.

!/ rbid.



M39 /7 50
English
Page 7

14. At i'ts 46th r.eting, on 2r rbvenDer, trre comrrt Eree acropted draft resolution
NC.L/39/L.36 uithout a vote (see para. 30, dratt resolution E).

F. Drat t fesolution A,/C.V39lL.48
15. On 12 Nov€mber 1984, Austr ia, the Bahanas, Bangladesh, BeIqiun, Bulgaria,

1:.l+!.n,,,,,"*u"n, T!*?, tn: F ..Ireland, Uruquay ancr Zaire suh,itCeO al
clisarrnament'f (A/c.v39/L.48't . The drait resorution ras introduced by the
repregentative ot Aelgiun at the 39th rneeting, on 15 Novenbe.r.
L6. At its 4lst metlng, on 19 lbvember, the comnittee adopted draft resorution
UC.L/39/L.48 without a vote (see para. 30, dratt resolution F).

G. Drat t resolurron A,/C.V39lL.49
17. on 12 Novehber 1984, rndia sufrritted a dratt resolution, entitled ',Freeze on
nucrear weapons' (vc.v39/L.49). The dratt resolution nas introduced bv the
repreaentative ot India at the 4oth neetj.ng, on lS Nov€rnber.
18. At its 44th rEeting, on 20 tbvedcer, the @mnlttee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/39/L.49 bt a recorded vote ot IIO to 12, rvitb 9 abstentiona (aee para. 30,
draft resolution G). The voting uas as follor{s:

In tavourr Afghanistan, ALgeria, Angola, Argentina, Auatria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, E€nin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botshrana, brazil, Bruner
Daruaaalar, Bulgaria, Burkina Faao, Burtna, Burundi, Byelorussian
Stcviet socialist t€public, Cafiproon, Cape Verde, Central African
Republic, Chact, Chil€, Colqnbia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Derpcratie yemen, Ibnmark, Dlibouti, Doldnican
RepubliC, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, cabon, cernan
Delpcratic Republic, chana, creece, cuatemala, cuinea, naitr,
Hottduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (1slanic Republic of),
lraq, Ireland, Ivory @ast, Jordan, IGnya, Nuwait, L€o peoplers
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab ,Jarnahirlya,
$adagascar, t{alaii, !4alayEia, lqaldlves, !,tali, Mauritania,
lqaurrtiug, hexico, $ongoli.a, I{orocco, lrozarnbigue, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigerra, quan, pakistan, panama, peru,
Philrppines, poland, eatar, &,qnania, Rpanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi Arabra, Senegal, Srerra I€one, Singapore,
sri Lant(a, sudan, suf iiar!, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
nepubllc, thailano, Ibgo, Trinidad and lrobago, Tlrnisia, IEanoa,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist kepublic, Union of soviet SocialrsL
IGpublicg, United Aiab Enirates, Unlted Fpublic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nan, yenen, yugoslavia, zarnbia, Zimbabwe.



A/39/750
English
Page 8

Against: Belgium, Canaoa, France, Gernany, FederaL Republic of, Israel,
It.aJ.y, I xenbourg, lletherlands, portugal, Itrrkey, united Kingdonr
ot Great Britain and Northern lrel.and, Unrted Statea ot America.

Abgtainj.nq r Augtralia, BahatrEs, ChLna, cuyana, Iceland, ,Japan, l.lew Zealand,
Norgay, Spain.

H. Dratt resolutLon A/C. L/39 /L.sO
19. On 12 Novenber 1984, Algeria, Araentina, the Datra:uas, Bangladesh, Bhutan,

and
Yuqoslavia submitted a draft regolution entitled 'convinEionGn- trrE- pioE-i.bition ofthe use ot Nuclear rreapons" (A/c.v3g/L.5ol . The dratr resolulion was inrloouceq
by the representative ot India at Ehe 40th tEeting, on 15 llovember.
20. At its 45th meeting, on 2I Nov€&ber, the Coonittee adopted dratt resolution
A/C.V39/L.5O by a recorded vote oi I13 to 17, eith 5 abstentions (see para. 30,
draft resolution H). The voting rras as tollffsr

In tavourr Atghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, tiaharDas, Bahrain,

Againsr:

Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Boli,via, Brazi:-, Brunei Darusaalarr,
Bulgaria, IrJrkua Faso, Burna, Burundi, Byelof,ussian Soviet
Socialist RepubLic, Ca.Deroon, Cape Verde, Central Atrican
Fcpubl,ic, Chaa, Chile, Chrna, @Iombia, @Ilbroa, Corgo, 6sta
Rlca, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakla, Detnocraeic Kampucnea,
DerDcratic YetrEn, DJ ibouti , bninican Republic, Euador, Eglpt,
Ethiopia, FiJi, Finlandl Gabonr Gernran Denocratic Republic,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Gutana, Haitj., lioncluras, HurEary,
India, Inoonesla, Iran (Islanic Relubl-ic of), Iraq, Ivory Coast,
Jarna!.ca, Jorclan, Ienya, Kurait, Iao peoplers DerEcratic l€public,
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jar0ahirrra, &ada9a6car, Ma1awj.,
l4alaysra, MaLclives, OaIi, halta, Iauritania, l4elico, tprgolia,
l4orocco, Iqozarnbigue, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan,
Pakistan, Panana, peru, Ibland, eatar, bnania, Rh'anda, Sarpa,
sao Tome and Princip€, Sauoi Arabia, Senega1, Sierra Leone,
srrBapore, Sri lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Ssaziland, Sireden, Syrian
Alab ltepub.l.ic, Thai]and, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Ijganoa, Ukralni.an Soviet Sbcialist Republlc, Union ot Soviet
Socia].ist Repubbcs, Unlted Arab hirates, United Republic ot
tanzania, uruguay, venezue.La, viet Nan, yemen, yugoslavia, zaire,
Zardcia, Zilltabwe.

Austlalia, Bel.girs, Canada, Derunark, france, cernany, Federal,
Republic ot, Iceland, Italy, Lu:renbourg, ltetherlands,
Nee zealand, l.lorway, portugal, spain, Turkey, United Kingalcn of
Great Brltain and Northern lreland, Unitect States ot Anerica.

Abstaining: Austria, creece, Ireland. I6rael. ,tapan.



A/39/750
Eng11sh
Page 9

I. pratt resolurion A/C.V391L.57

Peru Ronania Sri lanka, the Sudan,
and subnitted a draftresolution entitled ,'Conveni.ng ot the third speci.at sea ot the ceneral" Assenbly

devoted to disarnanentt (A/C.\/39/L.57), rrhich was later alao sponsored byBol'ivia. The dratt re.olution was introcluced by the representative of yugoslavia
at the 38th meeting, on 14 November.
22. At its 4lst neeting, on 19 Nov€mber, the Committee adopted dratt resolution
A/C.V39/L.57 uithout a vote (see para. 30, dratt resolution I).

J. Dratt resolrrtion A,/C.l/39lL.59
23- on 12 Nov€ruber 1984, Anqola, Botsi{ana, Burundi, carueroon, the central Atrican
Bepublic, Chad, the Conqo. cuinea, Liberia, t4ali, tpza&bique, IJganda, Seneqal,
Sinqapore, Thai.land and gggo sutnitteal a dratt r@
DLsarmanent Car[,aign,, (A,/C.V39/L.59) rrhich wa6 later also sponsored by [r]ibouti
and the I:gg. lhe dratt resolulion was inlroduced by the representative ot Togo
at the 39th meeting, on 15 ltovenber. The dratt resorution read as forrorrs:

I'Ihe General Assenbly,

"Recalfinq thaE paragraph 15 0f the Finar Docuuent of its tenth special
session, the fir6t special session devoted to disarnarEnt, states that it is
esaential that not only coverrments but alao the peopl.es of the h,orld
recognrze and understand the dangers in the present situation and also slares
that in order that an international conscience nay develop and that lrorld
pubric opinion nEy exerclse a posltive influence, the tnited libtions should
increase the disssnination of infonration on the armanenEs race an(r
disarmanent lrith the tull co{peration of !€&ber States,

"Recalling nith satisfaction that the lrolLd Disarmanent Canpaign, whose
first three fundatlFntal objectlves are to lnform, to educate and to create
understanding and public support tor tlre oblectives ot the United Nations in
the fielal ot arDs limitation and disarnal€nt, rraa solefinl!, launched by
unaninous decisj.on ot the General AsEdrrbly on Z ilune l9B2 at the opening
nEeting 0! the Assernbty rs tfertth special se6sion, the second special session
devoted to d isarrnanent,

_ _"kecallinq also its resolutions 37AOO I of 13 Decenrber 1982 and 3g/73 Dot 15 Decenber 1983 on the iuE)lerrntation ot the Ca[[)aign,
"Taking iully into account the objectiv€s, contents, nodalrtrea anclfinancial ilplj,cations ot the ttorld DigarnarEnt Ca$Elaign detined bt the

General Assembly at its threltth special seasion,

2I. On J-2 Novenber 1984,



F{ 39/750
EngIish
Page l0

"Reaffirminq i.ts convictlon that the CanPaign should be carried out under
the auspices of the ttrrited llations in all parts ot the uorld in a balanced,
positive and objectlve ma ter and that the universality of the Canpaign shoulci
be guaranteed by the co{peration and particlpatlon ot all Statea and the
rridest possible di.ttusion of infornation relatir8 to it,

"Recoqnizing chat with a view to strengthening the oblective ot
unj.versality and giving the Canpaign the contidence and continuity necessary
to ensure its naxinun ettectivenegs, there nay De a need for arrangenenhs at
the regional level, nakirE it possibte to devel.o! initiatives, discuss
concepts and take specitic actlon in order to Prorote the objectives ot tbe
Carnpaign with the participation ot the countrles ol the reqion concerned,

I'Recallt nq its resolution 37,/tO0 F of 13 Decenber 1982 on regional
disarnanent,

"Having exanined the secretary-ceneral's reports ot 12 septgnber 198{ on
regional disarnanent and ot 3 october 1984 on the lorld Disarnament catlPargn,

"Taking note ot the l.ln6 lteaaage, adopteal at the Natlonal seninar tor
Peace and Disar[Ement shich raE held at lon6, trogolese Repub].Ic, trotn 6 to
9 August 1984,

"Convinced that the lnplaentation of the recqruuendations contained in
the aforelEntioned l.resEage gould contrlbute signiticantly to the effective
promotion of the oblectives of the lrorld DiBanreent Canpaign and rrould in
particulaE encourage ettortg to linj.t arnarenta and prormte peace and
develoHnent in Atr ica,

'rDesirinq to nake the be6t poasible use ot the contributions that have
been or r|ay be rnade by tEnber states ln the form ot local or non-convertible
currency and also of other typ€a ot material assistance in the countries or
regions concerned in order to attain the objectives ot the horld Disarnatnent
Canpaign in specitic countrles or regions,

"EnBhasizinq tbe need tor &aninun econotny and naximuru results in the
adninistration of the Campa ign,

"Recognizlnq the potential benetj.cial ettects in terna of results'
efficiency and econony in the u6e ot fleld otficea to carry out all regional
or local activities ln the context of the Progranhe ot the lrorld Disamarnent
Canrpai9n,

"Reattirminq that the Uniteo Nations ahould tufni.an the infornational
naterial and should in general co-ordinate the iryfe[Entation ot the Catq)a ign
and that the Department of Dlsarnanent Atfair6 Ehould supelvise and centralize
such co-ord ination,

"4!c of the specltlc needs ot developing countrles rrittr regard to
prograrnnes ol intortnation, reaearch anal tlalning in the fields ot arms
linitati.on and d i.sanrdn€nt,



u 3e/'1so
ErEli6h
Page I1

nI. Requests the sbcretart-cenelal to provlde assiatance to such lrrerfiber
States in the regions concerned as tnal requeet rt with a vlerv to establishing
regj.onal and lnatitutional arrangecnts tor the inplenEntation of the lprtd
Dlsarmarent Carnpaign, on the basis ot e:risting resoulcea and ot voluneary
contributlons nbich fien cer States nay lnake to that endt

"2. Requests the Secre tary-cener al to report to the ceneraL Ass€nbly at
its fortieth session concerning the i.DplerEntation ot this resolution.r'

24. At the 46th meeting, on 2l Nov€nber, the repreaentative of To9o, on behalf ot
the aponsor s, orally reviseci the tenth prearDbul€r paragraph ot draft resolulion
UC.L/39/I'.59 to read as tolLqrs:

[Convinced that the implenentatlon ot the reccmtrrendation contained in the
aforefiEnlioned fiessage would contribute significantly to the ettective
pronotlon of the objectlves ot the horto Disarnanent Canpaign, ".

25. At the same nEetlng, the @nndttee adopted dratt resolutLo A,/C.V39/L.59, as
orally reviseo, eithout a vote (see para. 30, dratt resolution ,t).

R. Dralt re6olution6 A,/C.V39lL.67 anal Rev. I ano 2

25. On 12 November, gM$ sulmitted a dratt reaolutlon, entrtled "Disarnanent and
international security" (NC.V39/L.67), which waE introduced by its representative
at the 3?th rDeeti.ng, on 14 Novenber. The dratt resoLution read as followsr

"ghe_-G€ng a I -eglsgllf ,
rcravely concerned over the ehalp deterloratlon in world aftairs and the

escalation ot the arns race, particularly in new and tmre destructive nuclear
weapona, to a point where, every day, the two auper-Poflers produce at least
four nes nuclear weapons. adding to their guantity and guality,

"Concerned alao over the vast erlendlture, anounting to nany billions of
dollars, in preparatLon tor a nutuallt and univergalLy destructive
controntation, rrhile nillionE are dyrng trql tamlne thia year,

"Considerinq that in these clrcumgtances, coinciding as thet are rrith the
fort ieth anniversart ot the Unlied Natlona, the international co:Mrunicy nust
cross the threshol-d and take a hlstorlcal decigion to bring the alms race to a
halt betore it is too late,

CaIIs on the Securlty Counci.l, as the only organ ot tlre United
Ilations nhose decisions have the elenent ot entorceabillty. to hold a sp€cial
session to glve conslderation to ttre escalating arms race rrith a vien to
bringing it to a haftt

x2. ReaueEts the secretary-ceneral to report thereon to the General
Assenlrly at its fortieth ses€ion."



N 39/7 50
English
Page 12

27. subseguentll, on 2I Novenber, !}ru, surnitted a revi.sed dratt resolution
(A/C.V39/L.67,/ReV.f ) l,hich read as tollows:

"ltle ceneral Asssnblv,

"Gravely concerned over the sharp deterioraLion in the world attairs
characterized by the continued recourse to the uge ot torce in violation ot
the Charter of the United Natrons anct the eEcalatron ot the arms race,
particularly in new and nore oestructive nuclear treapons, adding to lheir
guantitt ancl quality,

"ConceEned also over the vaEt e:.lenditure, amounting to many billions of
dollars, j,n escalation of the arms race while millions are dying from tamine
this y ear,

rrconsidering that in theae circunstances, cornciding as thel do ni.th the
fortieth anniversary ot the united Nations, the international conmuni ly nust
cross the threshold and taRe a histori,cal deci.sion to bring the arms race,
particuLarly the nuclear-arns race to a halt betore it is too late,

rr8earinq ln nlnd that under Article 26 of the Charler, the Securlty
Council shalL be responsible for tornulating plana tor the establ.ighment ot a
systeln tor the regulation of arnaruents,

"Calls on the Securitt Council to holq a session devoted to the
consideration ot the escalat,ing arns race - partlcularJ,y the nucLear arms
race - nith a vieu to initrating procedures for bringj.ng it to a halt,

"Requests the secre t.ary-ceneral to report thereon to the ceneral Assernbl-y
at its fortieth session.rr

28. On 23 November, gl.ru, sutlnirted a turther revised dratt resolutron
(MC.L/39/L.67/Rev.2', in shrch the tirst operative paragraph rcas revised to read as
follons:

"I. CalLs upon the securrty Council to hold a sessron devotecl to the
consideration ot the escaLating arrlla race - particularly the nuclear arns
race - with a vrer to iniLrating due procedures in accordance witn the Charter
ot the United tihtj.ona tor bringing ,'t to a haltt".

29. At j.ts 48ch neeting, on 25 Novernber, the Connittee adopted dratt resolution
A/c.V39/L.6URev.2 bl a recordeo vot€ of 99 to none, t,ith 22 abstentions (see
para. 30, dralt resolutron K). The voting was as fol]'oes:



In favour:

Aqainst:

A.bstaining:

A/ 39/7 50
En91i6h
Page 13

Mghanistan. Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Bahanas,
Bahrain, BangLadeslt, Benln, bhutan, Bolivia, Botssana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalan, Bul.garia, Burklna Faso, Burna, Byelorusslan
Soviet socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central Afrlcan Repubtic,
Chad, Chile, Chlna, Colordrla. Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, De&ocratlc yernen, Dj ibouti, Dd[inlcan Republic,
Ecuador, Egfpt, Ethiopla, Fiji, Gabon, Gernan DerDcratic
RePublic' Ghana, Greece, Itaiti, Honduras, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Jordan, Renya, Kuwait. Iao people.g
Denocratic Repubtic, Lebanon, Liberia, tibyan Arab Janahiriya,
l{adagaacar, Malawi, Malaysia, llaldives, Hal.i, Uauritania, l.E)rlco,
I'longolia, l4orocco, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Olran,
Paki.stan, Panana, Peau, fbland, eatar, nonanla, Saud i. Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Sqralia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinatre,
sYaziland. Strian Arab Republic, Ttlailand, Io9o, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganqa, Ukrainian soviet socialist RepuDlic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republ-lcsr Unlted Arab Enirates, tnited
Republic of Tanaania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, temen,
Yugoalavj.a, Zaire, Zanbia, Zirnbabwe.

llcne.

Austria. Belgi,um, Canada, Dermarl(, F1nl.ano, Ffance, Germany,
Federa.L RepubLic ot, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Ivori @ast,
,Ianaica, Japan, Lux€tubourg, Netherlands, Norcay, portugal,
Rdanda. spain, Sreden, United Kingdon ot creat Britai.n and
Northern lreland, United States ot Aluerica.

III. RECOUI'IENDATIONS OF TIIE FIRST COttlIlITTEE

30. The First corntnittee recsnnenda to the ceneral Ass€tnblt the adoption of tbe
following draf t resolutionst

A

horld Disarnanent Carpaign: actions anct activities

The ceneral As€enblv,

Auare of tbe growing public concern at the dangers ot the arm€ race,
particularly the nuclear arms race, and lts negatlve gocial and econonic
consequences,

Noting reith satistaction the successtul implsnentation ot the horld
Disarn6menc Canpaign. and lts positive itlpact on the mbilization on a large
scale ot world public opinlon on behalf ot peace ano drsarmanenr,

ot fhe Tweltth Speclal Seesion



N 39/7 50
English
Page L4

Recalling its resolutlons 36/92 J of 9 December 1981' 37,/100 n of
13 Decenlcer 1982 and 3S/73 F of 15 Decerber 1983, as neII as the rePort of the
secr etary-c€nera I on worl&-rride actioh for collecting slgnatures in suppor t of
measures to prevent nuclear war, to curb ttle arng race and for dl6armament, 9/

Vl€l-cciminq the voluntary contributions made to the $orld Dlsarmanent
carnpa ign voluntary Trust nrnd to carry out the objectives of the Canpaign,

Taking into account the report of the secetary-General on the progress
in the inplenentation of the programne of actlvities of the vibr Id Disarnrament
CamtrEign, 9/

Convirrced that the UniCed Nations 6ysten, !,bmber States, nith respect for
their sovereign rights, and otier bodies, in particular non-governmental
organlzations, all have thelr role to play in actrieving tie objectives of t-he
wor ld Disarmanent CanlEign,

Taking into account the great nunber of varioug activitles carried out
within the frameHork of tlle t{or ld Disalnanent canpaign, including actlons for
collecting signatures in support of measures to prevent nuclear war/ to curb
the arms race and for disarnament,

1. Reaffirms the usefulness of further carrying out actions and
acti.vities which are an irnportant nanlfestation of the will of world public
opj.nion and concribute effectively to the achievenent of the objectives of t}le
World Disarmanent carnpaiqn and thus to the creation of a favourable clinate
for nakihg progress in the field of disarmar,rent Hith a view to achleving t}le
goal of general and complete disarmament under effective international controlt

2. urgea t}Ie cotrernnents of all States, especially the nuclear-weaPon
states and other mlLitarlly signlflcant States, in formulating t}lelr policieB
in the field of disarnanent, to take lnto account the min demands of tlle nass
peace and disarmament rflovenents, ln particular, with regard to the Prevention
of nuclear lrar and curbing the nuclear arms racet

3. Reaffirns ttre importance of carrying out the hior ld Disarnanent
camla iqn in accordance Hit}I the priorities in the field of disarmament
established in t}Ie Final ficcunent of the Tenth Speclal Session of the General
Assembly, \/ taking lnto account tha! the adoption of effective measures for
nuclear disarmament and prevention of nuclear lrar has the hlghest Priorltyt

A/g-L7/LS and Add.I .

N39/492.

Resolution S-I0 /2.

!-/

v
J-t



v39/750
English
Page 15

4. Invites once again lbmber Statea to co-operate hriti the tnited
Nation6 to ensure a better flor{ of accurate infornation rrith regard to the
various agpects of disarnanent as hrell as actions and activities of the norld
public in support of peace and disarnanent, and to avoid dissenination of
falae and tendentious information?

5. Requests the s'ecre tary-ceneral, in inplenenting the programlle of
activities of the norld Disarmament Campaign, to give wider publicity to the
wck of the ceneral Assernbly in the field of dlsarmament, paying due
attention, in partlcular, to the propsals of lGnber States and the actlon
taken thereon?

6. AIso requests the Secr e tary-cener al to report annually to the
General Assenbly on the irnplernentat ion of the prdrisions of the pre€ent
resolution.

United Nations prograrune of fellorsshila on dlsarnanent

The General Assenbly,

Recalling its deciaion, contai.n€d in the Final flocument of the Tenth
Special Session of the ceneral Assenbly, !r/ to establish a programe of
feUorrehlps on disarnanent, as neII as its decisions contained in the
Concludlng Docutnent of the ltreLf th Special Seasion of the ceneral Assetnbly, g/
in whldt it, lnter alia, decided to continue the programne and to increase the
nunber of fellorrships fron twenty to trrenty-flve as frotn 1983,

libtlng with satisfaction that the progr anne has already trained
one hundred and thirty Frblic officialE from seventy-aeven countriesl nost of
Hhorn are now in posltions of responsibility in t}le fleld of disarrnarnent
aftairs within ttreir covernnents or permanent lrdsslon6 to the urited Nationa,
or repregenting their covernmentE at internatlonal disarnament meetings,

necoqnizing t}le fact ttrat the progranme of studies and activities a€
outlined ln the report of t}|e Secr etary-ceneral on the tnited Nationg
progralnrne of fellolrshiF on dlsarmanent l9/ has continued to extrEnd andintenslfy,

y .Ig!1., para. l0B.

2J Official Records of the ceneral Assenbly, .Ivelf ti speclal session,
, agenda items 9-13, docunent. A/s-12/32, annex Iv.

!g/ A/3e/567.
I



^/ 
39/7 50

English
Page 16

Believlng that existing facilitie€ witiin the secretariat for
implenenting the fetLorrship progralnne can be furcher utilized to Promote
exp€rtise in disarnament,

I. Takes note with Eatisfaction of the report of the secretary-
General? !q/

2. Exf[esses its aptrxeciation to the Governrnents of the Federal
Relrublic of cermany, .IalFn, Ibnaniar Sreden and the lrnited States of America
for inviting fellotrs to the 1r countr les in 1984 !o study selected activlties
in the field of disarnament, thereby contrlbuting to the fulfilment of the
overal-l objectives of t.he progranmet

3. Requests the secretarl-Generalt

(a) To devise a system of evaluatlng tlle research PaPers Prepared
by the fel-lolrs rrith a vie$ to ldentifylng tiose that are outstandingt

(b) To Frbli€h such papers ln an annual issue of an appropr late
publication to be de\roted to tlte dlsarmanent fellotship progranne;

(c) To sutmit proposals for further utilization of existing
capacity within the Deparcnent for Disarmatnent Affairs of the Secretariat
for training in ttre field of disarnarnentt

4. Also requeats the Secretarfceneral to rePort to the General
Assembly at its fortietlr session on tl|e operations of tlle programne and the
implenentation of the present resolution.

c

Nuclear-arms freeze

The ceneral Assendrly,

Recalling that in the Final Document of the tenth special session of tbe
ceneral Asselbly, ry t],. first special session devoted to disarrnament'
adopted in 1978 and unanimously and categorically reaffirned in 1982 durlng
the twelfth special session of the General Asset$ly, Izt/ Lts second special
session devoted to disarmanent. the AssendcLy expressed deeP concern over the
threat to the very survival of mankind Posed by the existence of nuclear
vreapons and the continuing 6!ms fdc€r

ly Resolution s-Lo /2.

]a/ official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth special Session,
Annexes, agenda items 9-13' docurnent A/s-I2/32, Para. 52.



F,./39/7sO
Englieh
Paqe 17

8ecallinq also that, on those occasions, it pointed out that e*isting
arsenals of nuclear rteapons are more than sufflcient to destroy all life on
earth and stressed that mankind is therefore confronted with a ctroicer halt
the arms race and proceed to disarmanent or face annlhilation,

loEilg tltat tlle condltions pre\railing today are a source of erren nore
serious concern than those existing ln l9?8 because of several factors, su(tt
as tlre deterloration of the international situatlon, the increase.in the
accuracy, speed and destJuctlve For,rer of nuclear weapons, the pronotion of
illugory doctrines of rlimited' or lrinnabler nuclear nar and the nany false
alarms which have occurred owing to accidental reasons,

Noting also t}lat the Serrenth Conference of Heads of State or Government
of NorFAligned Countries, held at New Delhi in Mar ch 1983, declared that the
renewed escalation in the nuclear-arms race, both in its quantitative and
qualitatlve dirnensions, as rrell as reliance on doctr ines of nuclear
deterrencer has heightened the risk of the outbreak of nuclear war and 1ed to
greater insecurity and instability in international relations, E/

Bearinq in mind tiat in tieir Jolnt Declaration, issued on 22 uay 1984,
the lleads of covernment of six l,Fnber States of the Unlted Natlons, coning
frorn five different continents, urged the nuclear-weapon Statea nas a
necessary first step ... to halt a1l testing, production and deployrnent of
nuclear neaFons and tielr delivery s)6temsr, !!/

Believing that it is a matter of the ulnoat urgency to stop any further
increase in the awesome arsenals of the two major nuclear{reapon states, wh ich
already have arnpl e retaliatory power and a frightening overkiLl capacity,

Believinq also t}Iat it is equally urgent to initiate or resune
negotiations for the substantiaL reduction and qualitative limitabion of
nuclear arms,

Conslder ing that a nuclear-arns freeze, lrhile noC an end in itself, nould
constitute the rost effective first step for the achievement of the
above-nentioned tno objectives, since it r,rould encourage the initiatlon or
resunption of negotiatlone and prerrent the continued lncrease and qualltative
lmlxovenent of existing nuclear vreaponry during the period $hen t-he
negotiations rculd take place,

Firmly convinced that at pres€nt tlle conditions are nos! propitious for
such a freeze, since the thion of Soviet Socialist Retrxtblics and the lrnited
States of America are now equivalent in nuclear mllitary Fower and it seems
evident that there exists between then an overall rough parity,

p See A/38/L32-g/L557 5 and Corr.l and 2, annex, sect. I, para. 28.

Lt/ N3e/277-slr6s87.



v39/750
Engllsh
Page 18

ConEclous that the applicatlon of the syatena of aurveillance,
verlflcatlon and control already agreed upon ln €one previous cases would be
Eufficlent to provlde a reaaonable guarantee of faithful conpl iance nith the
undertaklngs derlveal fron the freeze,

Convinced that it rrould be to the benefit of all ottrer states possessing
nuclear weapons to follow the exanpJ,e of the tno rnajor nuclear-{reapon States,

I. Urges once more the Un ion of Soviet Socialist liepubllcs and tlle
United Statea of N[erlca, aa the tl|o rna j or nuclear.{reapon Statee, to proclain,
either ttrrough airnultaneouE unilateral declaratlons or through a joint
declaratlon' an irnnediate nuclear-arns freeze, which rDuld be a first step
torrards the comprehensive programrne of dlgarmament and who€e structure and
scope rvould be t}te following:

(a) It eould embrace:

(i! A conlEehenEive test ban of nuclear lreapona and of thelr delivery
vehicle sl

(i1) The complete ceGsation of tbe nanufacture of nuclear hreapons and of
the ir del i.very vehiclest

(iil1 A ban on aII further deplolment of nuclea! neapons and of thelr
dellvery veh iclesl

(iv) The complete cessation of tlre production of fissionable material for
weapons purpsest

(b) It eould be Eubject to appropriate tTleasures and procedures of
verificatlon, suct! as those nhich have already been agreed by the parties in
the case of the SALT I J5/ and SALT II !E/ treatles, and those agreed upon ln
Prtnciple by then aurinl-the preparatorftrllateral negotiations on the
comlrehensive test ban held at Genevat

(c) It rrouJ,d be of an inltlal f lve-year dutation, subject to
prolongation hrhen other nuclear-weatrnn States join in suctr a freeze, as the
ceneral As6er$1y urges then to dol

2. Notes vrittr satiEfactlon that the Union of Slol'let gbciallst Republlcs
haE already submitted the report ff/ requested by the ceneral Assenbly in lts
resolution 38/73 E of 15 Decenber l983t

E/ nlnterim Agreenent betneen the tnlted States of Aner ica and tl:e Union of
soviet socialist ReFlblics on certain neasures nith respect to the Linitation of
strateglc offensive arnsi (Uhited Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 944, lb. 13445,
P. 3).

lV trTreaty between the Unieed States of America and t}le Unlon of Sovlet
Socialist Rezublics on the Limitatlon of gtrategic Offensive Armst (see
CDl53,/Appendix IIIlvoI. I document CD/281 .

ly P,/3e/623.



v39/750
Engu5h
Page 19

3. lgE tlat the other najor nuclear.+reapon State siII find lt
possible to comply also rritl the request of the ceneral Aseenbty before the
closure of its thirty-ninth sessionl

seasion
ona

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fortleth
an ltem entitled rlmplenentatlon of ceneral Aaserbly resolutlon 39/...
nucl€ar-afns freezei.

D

Th" c."o"r A"r.,ob;: 

rd Disarnatnent canlEign

Recalling that in the Flnal Document of the Tenth special session of tre
General Aasenbly, the firBt epecial eeEsion derroted to dtsatmanent, it
declared that it was essential that not only covernnenta but also the peoplesof the h'or ld recognlze and understand the danger6 in tl'e pre€ent situaiion and
atressed the imFortance of mobirlzlng norrd pubric opinion on behalf of
disarnanent, !!r/

Recalling al6o its resolutione, 3S/L5Z I of L2 Decenber LggO. 36/92 C of
9 Deceflber 1981, 3?,/100 I of 13 Decentrer I9A2 and gB/73 D of 15 Decer$er 1983,
as well as the reports of the secE e tary-ceneral of It septenber LggL, W1l June Lggz, ly 3 Nc rerdo er L9g2 ZL/ anal 30 AuguEt L9e3 . 22/

Ilaving exarnined the report submitted by the Secr e eary_c€neral on
3 octotrer Lga4 &/ cotrering the implenentation of $re prograrnme of actlvitiesof the I'Jor ld Disarnament carnpa ign during r9g4 and the actlvitles conteqlated
for 1985, as well as its maln financial aspect6,

Having also exarnlned the section of the report ot the Secretary-ceneral
of 4 @tober L984 Wt dearing witi the activitles of the Advisory Boarit on

!9/

!2/
29/

zy
4/
E/
2!/

Resolution s'-10/2, para. 15.

N36/458 .

vs-12/27.

v37/548.

A/38/349.

N3e/192.

A,/39/549.



v39/7 so
English
Page 20

Disarnament Studlies relating to tlle liorld Disarmament Campaign, as well as the
final act of the second ullted t'lations Pledging conferehce for the canpaign,
held on 24 Oc tober L984 . 4/

1. connends the manner ln whidt. as descr ibed in the above-nentioned
reports, tl'i6-mpai gn has been geared by the secretary-General in order to
guarantee "the vtidest possible dissemination of information and unimpeded
accessforallsectorsofttrep:bllctoabroadrangeofinforrnation
and opiniona on questions of arn6 llmitation and disarnalnent t and ttre
dangerg relating to all aspects of the arms race and nar, in Parhicular
nuclear war' t !p/

2. Recalls that, as $aa also agreed by consensua in the concludinq
Docunent oE-EEGeIf tU Special Session of the G€neral AssenbLy' the €econd
special session devoted to dlsarnament, it is likewise an essentlaL requisite
for the universality of the carnpaign tlrat it receive 'the co-oPeratlon and
participation of aII statesrt 3?/

3. Endorses the statenent rnade hry the slecr e tary-Gener al on the occasion
of ti" 

"..ond 
rnit"d Nations Pledging conference for the llor ld Dlsarnament

cam[Eign, helal on 24 oc tober 1984, to tie effect t}lat 6ucfi co-operatlon
inpiies that aatequate funds be made available and that consequently "the
"rito 

lotr of universality also aPPIies to pledgesn, gLnce ia canpa igm without
world-wiile participation and funding will have difficulty in reflecting this
principle in its implementation', ry

4. Regrets Ehat tnost of the States lrhich have the Larges! nilitary
expenditures have not so far rnade any financial contribution to the world
Disarrnanent canpai gn?

5. Decides that at its fortietl session, there should be a third united
llations rleaging conference for the ilorld Di6arnament campaign, and expresses
the hope that on that occaslon all tlose l€n ler States that have not yet
announced any voluntary contrlbution may do so1

6. Reiterates ita reconn€!!!l4q!94 that ttre voluntary contr ibutions made
by Medter ffit Canpaign Voluntary Trust R.lnd should
not be earmarked for speclfic activitles inasnudr as it is n6st desirable that
the secretary-ceneral enjoy full freedom to take the decisions he deem€ fit

A/CINF.127.

official Records of the General Assembly, Tltelf th sp€ciat session,
agenda itens 9-13, docurnen t A/s-U/32 ' annex v, Para. 

4.

rbid.

rbid.

!2/

z9/
!!!1€,

2l/
2_3/



A,/39/7 sO
Engllsh
Paqe 2l

within the framewor k of the Campaign previously approved by the General
Assembly and in exercise of the powers vested in him ln connection wittr tlre
campa i gn 1

7. Requests the secr e tary-General to glve permanent character to hls
instructions to the ttnited I,lat ion6 information centrea and regional
coimissions to give wide publlcity to the llbrld Disarnarnent Canpaign and,
whenever neceasary, to adapt, as far as possible, trllted Nations information
naterials to ]ocal languagesl

8. AIso requests the Secr e tary-ceneral to subrnib to the ceneral
Assenbry at its fortieth session a report cov€ring both the imprenentation of
the progranme of activitiee of the tiorld Disarnanent Canpaign by the ttnited
Nationa system during 1985 and the programme of activiCies contenplated by the
systen for 1986t

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forCieth session
the iten entitled rworLd Disarmament CanEtaign'.

E

Consideration of guidelines for conf idence-buildlnq measures

The ceheral Assenbly,

Recalling its re8olution 38/73 A of lS December 1983 on confidence-
building tneasures,

Taking note of the views expressed and the useful work accotnpl ished
durlng the 1983 and 1984 sessions of the Dlsarmament Conrnission, 29/

A$rare
well as of

of the heightened inportance of conf idence-building measures as
tneasures of disarnament ln the present international situation,

Expressing it6 regret that, notwitlslanding the progresE already
achie\red, the guictelines for appropriate type6 of Confidence-buildihg measures
and for t}Ie inplenentation of 6udr measures on a global or regional level
could not be elaborated fully k'ithln the allotted time frame,

l. Reiterates its invitation to all States to encourage and assist all
efforts desig'ned ho explore further the ways in which confidence-bu i1d ing
measutes can etrengthen peace and security and promote disarmamenC,

. . _ -?. g$q all States to conslder the rridest lD66ible use of confidence-bulrdrng measures in trre 1r inCernational relationq, taking into account t}le
views expressed during the work of the Disarnament CorutiEsiont

4/ see official ds of t}Ie
Supplement No. 42 (N38/42,
lv3e/42', .

and



u3e/7s0
English
Page 22

3. Requests the Dl sarnarnent Cotrunisaion, at its 1986 ses€ion, to
continue ai?-Ioncluae its consideration of tlre iten "Elaboration of guidelines
for aptrEoprtate types of conf idence-building neasures and for the
inplementation of such neaBures on a global or regional level"t

4. Further requests the Dlsarnament comnission to subnit a retrbrt
containing such guldelines to the c€nera rs6er$ly at its forty-first sessionl

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of ite fortleth eeseion
the item .iffiI' rconalderatton of guidelines for confidence-building
neasuresi.

P

8eS!gq?f disarnament

The ceneral Asset$lv,

Recalllng it8 resolutlon 37 /L0o P of 13 Decenber 1982 and 38/73 J of
15 Decerb er 1983 on regional disarnament t

Taking note of t}Ie report of the secr etary-cener aI' !9/
l-. Request€ the secretarft-General to submit a further rePort on the

lmplementation of resolution' 37/Loo r and 38,/73 ,t at its forty-Becond sesalont

2. Decldes to include in ttre provisional agenda of its forty-second
session the itern entitled 'Regional disarmament: report of the
Secretary-ceneral ' .

G

Freeze on nuclear r,reapons

The ceneral Assenblv

Recalling its teso.Lutioirs 37/LOO A of 13 Decenber 1982 and 38/73 B of
L5 Decenb er 1983 entitled rFre€ze on nuclear weaponsnl

convinced that in this nuclear age lasting world peace can be based onllt i
on the attainnent of the goal of general and cornplete disarmament undei
effective international controL,

Fur ther convirrced that the highest priorlty objeceives in the fleld of
disarnament have to be nuclear disarmanent and the ellminatlon of all neapona
of nass destructlon,

zg/ 
^/3e/485.



A/39/7so
English
Page 23

Recoqnizinq the urgent need to halt the arns race, particularly in
nuclear weapons '

Recogrnizing further the urgent need for a negotiated reduction of
nuclear-neaFon stockpiles leading to tieir cotnplete elinlnation'

Noting rritl deep concern that nuclear-weapon States have not so far taken
any action in response to tie call made in resolutionE 37/L00 A and 38/73 B,

1. once again calls upon all nucfear-weapon states to agree to a freeze
on nuclear neapona, nhich would. lnter alia, provide for a simultaneous total
stoppage of any further production of nuclear hreapons and a complebe cut-off
in the goductlon of fissionable naterial for weapons purtrEsest

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of lts fortieth session
the lten entitled rFreeze on nuclear rreaponsi.

TT

Convention on the Prohibition of the Uae of ltuclear ldeapons

The ceneral Assenbly,

Alarned by tie tireat to the survival of mankind and to the
life-sustalning system posed by nuclear wealDns and by their use, lnherent in
concepts of deter rence,

conscious of an increased danger of nuclear war as a result of the
intensification of the nuclear-arms race and the serlous deterioration of the
international sltuation,

convinced that nuclear dlsarmament is essential for the prevention of
nuclear war and for the strengthenlng of international peace and security,

!\rr ther convinced that a prohibitlon of the use or threat of uae of
nuclear weapons nould be a step torrards the conplete elinination of nuclear
weapons leadlng to general and conplete disarmament under strict and effective
international control,

Recalling ltB declaratlon, contained ln the Final Docunent of the Tenth
special session of the c€neral Assenbly. lI/ that alL states should actively
particilEte ln efforts to bring about conditlons in international relations
anong stateg in whlch a code of peaceful conduct of nations in international
affairs coutd be agreed upon and whictr rrould precl.ude the use or threat of use
of nuclea! weapons t

neaffirmirq the declaration that the use of nuclear weapons would be a
violation of the charter of the tnited Nations and a crirne against humanity,
contained in its resolutlons 1653 (xVI) of 24 Novenber I96L, 33/7L B of

:y Resolution s-10/2, tara. 58.



^/ 
39/7s0

Engl ish
Page 24

14 December 1978. 34/83 c of I1 December L979, 35/]-52 D of 12 December 1980
and 36/92 I of 9 Decenber 199I,

Noting lrith reqret that the Conference on Disarmament, during its session
in 1984, was not able to undertake negotiations wlth a view to actrievrng
agreenent on an internationar convention prohibiting the use or threat of use
of nuclear vreapons under any circunstances, taking as a basis the text
contained in cenerar Assembry resolutioh 3g/73 c of 15 December 1983,

1. Reiterates its request to the conference on Disarmament to conmence
negotiations, as a natter of priority, in order to achieve agreement on aninternational convention prohibiting the use or trreat of use of nucrear
weapons under any circunstances, taking as a basis t}Ie annexed draft
convention on the prohibition of the Use of ltuclear Weapons?

2. Fur ther
results of those negotiations

Conference on Disarnanent to report on the
to the ceneral AssedtrIy at its fortieth session.

ANNFN

Draft convention on the prohibition of the use of
Nuclear _lgggg

The States Parties to this Convention,

Alarmed by the threat to the very survival of nankind posed by the
existence of nuclear weapons,

Convinced that. any use of nuclear weapons constitutes a violation of the
chart.er of the United Nations and a crime against hunanity,

- Convinced that this Convention would be a step Cowards the completeelimination of nucrear weapons reading to generar and complete disaimarnent
under strict and effective international control,

Deternined to continue negotiations for the achievement of this goal,

Have aqreed as follows:

Article I

The States Parties to this convention solemnly undertake noe Co use or
threaten to use nuclear weapons under any circunstances.

Article 2

This convention shall be of unlimited duration.

Article 3
1. This Convention sha1l be open to all States for signature.
which does not sign the Convention before its entry into force
witi paragraph 3 of this article nay accede to it at any tine.

Any State
in accordance



N3e/7 stJ
English
Paqe 25

2. This Convention shall be subject to rabification by signatory states.
Instrunents of ratification or accession shall be deposited with the
srecretary-Gen eral of the United lrations.

3. This convention shall enter into force on the deposit of instruments of
ratification by tvtenty-five Governnents, includlng the Governnents of che five
nuclear-weapon states, in accordance wittr paragraph 2 of this article.

4. For slatea whose instrunents of ratification or accesslon are deFosited
after the entry into force of this Convention, it shall enter into force on
the date of the deposit of the ir instruments of ratification or accession.

5. The depositary shal-I promptl-y inforrn all signatory and acceding Staees of
the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each instrument of
ratification or accession and the date of the entry into force of this
Convention, as weII as of the receipt of other notices.

6. This conventlon shall be registered by t}Ie depositary in accordance with
ArticLe I02 of the Charter of the thited liations-

Article 4

This conventlon' of whlctr the Arabic, chinese, English, French, f{rssian
and spanlsh texts are eqluauy autientic, shall be deposited rr'i th the
se cr e tary-@nera I of the United Nations, who shall send duly certified copies
thereof to the covernments of t}le signatory and acceding states'

IN WITNESS WIIEREoF, the undersignedl
their resp€ctive Governrnents, have signed

being duly author ized thereto bY
this convencion, opened for

on the day ofs igrrature at
one thousand nine hundred and

convening of the third special session of the General
Assembly devoted to d i8armanent

&_99neral_Aegembu,

Bearing.in mind the decision adopted at its twelfti sPecial session
concerning the convenlng of the third special session devoted to
disarrnament, 3Al

Recalling its resolutlon 38/73 I of 15 Decernber 1983 in whictt it decided
that the third special sesslon devoted to disarmament should be held not later
than 19 88,

:7 official Records of the ceneral Asaembly' Tldelfti special sesslon,
@9g, agenda lterns 9-13, documen t A/s-)2/32, para. 56.



^/ 
39/7 s0

English
Page 26

Desit ing to contr ibute to t}Ie fur ther ing and broadening of positive
processes initlated through the laying dlovrn of the foundations of an
international digarmanent strategy at its tenth epecial session,

Decides to set, at its fortieth session, the date of the third special
session of the ceneral Asgenbly devoteal to diaarmament and to establish the
preparatory committee for the third special session.

it

glor Id Disarm;nent Campaign

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recalting that paragraph 15 of tfie Final Docunent of tfie Tenth Special
Session of the ceneral Assen61y, !!,/ tfle first special session devoted to
disarmament, states tiat it le essential that not only covernnent6 but also
the peoples of the world recognize and understand the dangers in the present
situation and also atatea that in order that an international conscience may
develop and tiat world p.rbllc oplnion tlay exercise a positive influence, the
United Natlons should increase the dlssemination of inforrnation on t}Ie
armanents race and dlsarnament with the full co-operation of lGrnber States,

Recalling Hiti satisfactlon that the Viorld Disarmarnent Canpaign, whose
first tlree fundamental objectives are to inforrn, to educate and Co create
understanding and public support for the objectives of tlle United Nations in
the field of arrns limitation and dlsarnament, was soletnnly launched by
unaninous decision of the ceneral Asseflbly on 7 ,fune 1982 at t]re opening
neeting of the Asseltblyre tt{elfth special session, the second special session
devoted to disarmament, 39/

Recalling also it6 resolutions 37/100 I of 13 Decenber 1982 and 38/73 D
of 15 Deced)er 1983 on the inplementation of the canpaign,

Taking fully into account the objectivea, content€, nodalitles and
financlal inplications of ttre lit)r Id Diaarmament Carnpaigin deflned by the
ceneral Assembly at lts twelfth speclal session, L!,/

Reaffirming its conviction that tbe Canpaign should be carried out under
the auspices of the United Nations in all parts of the wortd in a bal.ancedl
positive and objective manner and t$at the un iversality of the Canpaigm should
be guaranteed by the ceoperation and participation of aLl states and the
widest possible diffu€ion of inforrnation relating to it,

33/

2!/

Resolutlon S-IO /2.

official Records of
4n , agenda items 9-13, documen t A/S-J2/32, annex V.

3!,/ rbid.



A/39/750
Enqlish
Paqe 27

Recognizing tlat, with a view to strengthening the objective of
universality and giving the canpaign the confidence and continuity necessary
to ensure its maximurn effectiveness, there may be a need for arrangenents at
the regional level, rnaking it possible to develop ini.tiatives' discuss
concepts and take specific action in order to promote the objectives of the
Campa ign witl: the participation of the countries of the region concerned,

R€calling its resolution 37,/100 F of 13 December 1982 on regional
disarmarnent.

Having examined the reports of the secr: e tary-cener aI of
12 septenrber L984 ?91 on regional disarmament and of 3 october 1984 on
t}le World Disarmanent Campaign, 37/

Taking noce of the Lom6 Peace Message, adopted by the National serlinar on
Peace and Disarrnament, held at Lom6 from 6 to 9 August L984, ?3/

Convinced that the implementation of the recomrnendations contained in the
aforementioned Peace l4essage r^'ou1d contribute significantly to the effective
pronotion of the objectives of the l,lor ld Disarmament Canpa ign,

Desiring to make the best possible use of the contributions that have
been or may be nade by !"!enber states in tie form of local or non-conver tible
currency and also of other types of material assistance in the countries or
regions concerned' in order to attain the objectives of the world Disarmament
campaign in specific countries or regions,

EmFhasizing the need for maxinun economy and maxinum results in the
administraEion of the Camln i gn '

Recognizing the potential beneficial effects in terms of results'
efficiency and econorny in the use of field offices to carry out all regional
or local activities in the context of the proqranne of the Inlor ld Disarnanent
Campargn '

Reaffirning thae t}|e United Nations should furnish the informational
naterial and should in general co-ordinaLe the implernentation of the canpaign
and tiat t}le Department of Disarnarnent Affairs of the Secretariat should
supervise and centralize such co-ordination,

Aware of the specific needs of developing countries rr'i t}t reqard to
progranmes of information, research and training in the fields of arms
limitation and disarmament,

3l/
3_9/

N39/48s.

^/ 
39/492.

N39/529 , a^\ex.



A/39/750
English
Page 28

1. Requests the Secr e tary-cener a I to provide assistance to suc$ Menber
States in t}Ie regions concerned as nay request it rrith a view to establishing
regional and institutional arrangements for the inprementation of the ltlorld
Disarmanent Carapaign, on the basis of existing resources and of voluntary
contributions which ttember States nay nake to that end,

2. Requests the Secretary-cener al to report to the ceneral Assenbly aE
its fortieth session concerning the implementation of the present resolutron,

Disarnament and international- secur i ty

cravely concerned over the sharp deterioration in world affairs
characterized by the continued recourse to the use of force, in violation of
the Charter of tie United Nations and the escalation of the arms race,
particularly in new and more destructive nuclear vreapons, adding to theirquantity and qual i ty 7

Concerned afso over t}le vast expenditure, anounting to many billions of
dorrars' in escarati.on of the arns race whire nirrions are dvinq from farnine
t-}t j. s year ,

Bearing in nind that under Article 26
shall be responsible for formulatinq plans
for the regulation of arnaments,

of the Charter the Security Council
for the estabtishnent of a system

- 
Co.nsider ing that in these circumstances, coinciding as t.hey do vith thefortieth anniversary of the United Nations, the international conmunity nust

cross the threshold and take a historical decision to bring the arrns lace,particularly the nuclear-arns race to a ha1t before it j.s too 1ate.

1. calls upon the Security Council to hold a session devoted to the
consideration of the escalatj.ng arms race - particutarly the nuclear arns
race - with a view to initiat.ing due procedures, tn accordance with the
Charter of the United Nations, for bringing it to a hatt,

2. Requests the Secr etary-cener aI to relrort thereon to t}le General
Assefib1y at its fortieLh sessron.




