








































UNITED
NATIONS

(@) Gcncrer ArsembrY Distr.
GENERAI,

A/39/75L
5 December 1984
ENGLI SII
ORIGINAL: FREIICS

Thirty-ninth seasion
Agenda iten 61

REDUCTION OF }TIIJITANY BUDGETS

Repor t of the First Connlttee

Rapporteur: t'tr. wgard KESSELY (chad)

I. INTRODUqIION

t. The iten entitled!

"Reduction of military budgets 3
n(a) Report of the Dlsarrnament Cotntni6sioni
n(b) Reports of the Secretary-Ceneralr

was j-ncluded in the proviEional agenda of the thirty-nlnth session in accordance
wlth ceneral. Asaenbly resolutions 38,/184 A anal B of ?O Decenber 1983.

2. At itE 3rd plenary meeting, on 2I september 1984, the ceneral Assenbly, on the
reconrnendatlon of the ceneral Conmittee, decided to lnclude the iten in lts agenda
anal to allocate it to the First Cormittee.

3. At its 2nd neeting, on 15 October, the First Conmittee decided to hold a
general debate on the dlsarnament items allocatetl to it, nanely, ltetns 45 to 65 and
iten 142 which ras atlocated to the Flrst Comnlttee by the ceneral Assembly at its
27th plenary neeting, on 9 october, follooed by statenents on specific disarnament
agenda items anal continuatton of the general debate, as neceasary. Ttle
deliberations on those iten€ took place betueen the 3rd and the 36th neetings. frotn
17 october to 12 NovenbeE (see A/C.L/39/pv.3-36).

4. In connection with ilen 6L, the Flrst Connittee had before lt the following
docunentg!

84-31374 4532P (8)



A/3e/75r
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Disarnament Comnissioni y
(b) Progress report on the construction of prlce indices and purchasing-pov,er

Parities for mil-itary expenditures! report of the secretary-ceneral (A/39/3ggl ,
(c) l,lilitary expenditures in standardized form reported by States: report of

the Sec retary-ceneral IA/39/S2L and Aald.L anal Z),
(d) Letter dated 23 May 1984 fron the representatives of Argentina, creece,

India' Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the Uniteal Nations
addressed to the Secretary-ceneral, transmltting the itoint Declaration by
Mrs. rndira candhi, pr ixne Minister of rndia, Mr. Miguel ale la Maalrid, presialent of
!,!exico, Mr. Julius Nyerere, president of the United Republic of Tanzanla,
!4r. orof Parme, Prine Minister of sweden, Mr. Andreas papandreou, prine Minister of
Greece, and l.tr. Ra61 Alfonsfn, president of Argentina, isaued on 22 May 19g4 at
Athens, Buenos Aires, Dar es Salaam, llexico City, Nen D€lhi antt StockhoLm
(^/39 /277 -s/L6557 \ i

(e) Note verbale dated ? June 1984 frm the pernanent Mission of peru !o the
United Nations addressed to the United Nations Secretariat 1A/39/296-S/L6GI9I t

(f) Letter daeed 2? september 1984 frdn the Charg6 d,Affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mj.ssion of Togo to the United Nations addressed to the secretary-General
@/r9/s291i

(9) Letter dated 8 october I98{ from the Pernanent Representative of India to
the united Nations addressed to the sec retary-cenerar, transnlttlng the Final
conrnuniqu6 of the lteeting of lttinisters and lteads of Deregation of the Non-Arigneal
countries to the thirty-ninth session of the General Assenbty, heltr in New york
fron I to 5 october Lgg{ (A/39/560-S/167731 .

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAI,S

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/39,/L.19

-1.-. 
O" 5 Novenber, Austria, Bangladesh, Colc,nbia, Costa Rica, Indonesia, Ireland,

Ualt?, Hfgeria, _peru, f.om?nia, nwanda, i@uay
suDnrrcecr a dratt resol"ution entitled "Reduction of nilitary budgetsr(A/c.L/39/L.r9, . The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of
Romania at the 35th neeting, on 9 Novefiiber.
6- At its 42nd neeting, on 19 November, the cotnnittee adopted alraft resorution
A/C.L/39/L.L9 without a vote (see para. 9, draft resolution A).

Official Records of lnthv !hirt



A/39/7fi,
English
Page 3

B. Draft resolution A/c.1/39,/t.28

7. On I Novenber. Austria, Bangladesh, Belgium, Canada, Colonbia, Cosea Rica,
Dennark' Finland, France, cernany, Federal Republic of, Ireland, Italy, Malta,
UexiCo, New Zealand, Nonray, nornania, the Sudan, Sneden and llllgggl submitted adraft resolution entitled trReduction of nilitary budgetsn (A/C.L/39/L.28), which
was later also sponsored by Australia. The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of Sweden at the 38th neeting, on 14 November.

6. At its 42nd meehing, on L9 Novenber, the Comflittee adopted draft resolution
NC.L/39/28 by a recorded vote of l0O to 14, wittr 7 abstentions (see para. 9, draft
resolution B). The voting wab as follows: /

In favour ! Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgiun,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Darussalan, Burundi, Cameroon,
Canada, Central Afrlcan Republic, Chad, Chile, ColoNnbia, Costa
Rica, Clt)rus, Denocratic Kampuchea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican
RePublic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, cabon, cermany, Federal
RepubLic of, chana, creecer cuatemala, culnea, Guyana, Haiti,
l{onduras, Iceland, Indonesla, Iran (Islamic Repubtic of}, Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory @ast, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Liberia, Luxerobourg, Madagascar, !4aIani, Malaysia, MaIdives,
l,tali, Ma1ta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal,
Netherlands, Netr Zealand, Nig€r, Nigeria, Norway, pakistan,
Panamar Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Ronania,
Rnanda, Sao Tqne and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalla, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Srrazil-and, Sweden,
Thailandl Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunj.sia, Turkey, Uganda,
Uniteal Arab Enirates, United Kingdom of creat Britain and
Northern IreLand, United States of America, U!uguay, Venezue.La,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, zimbat re.

Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Congo. Cubar Czechoslovakia, cernan Democratic Republic, Hungary'
Lao Peoplers Democratic Republlc, l4ongolia, poland, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, ljnion of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Viet Nan.

lggileg!

Abstaininq 3 Bahanas, Brazil, Burma, China, India, United Republic of
Tanzania, zambia.

u rhe
indicated that

delegations of the Islamic Republic of Iran and eatar subsequently
they had not intended to participate in the vote.



N39/?sL
English
Page 4

III. RECO.IIUENDATIoNS oF THE I.IRST coulitlrrEE

9. The First Conllittee recotrulends to the ceneral A6se[DIy the adoptlon of the
folloHing draf t resolution:

Reductlon of nilitarv budgets

A

The ceneral Aesenbly,

Deeply concerned about the ever-spiralling arms race and growing nilitary
expenditures, whlch constltute a heavy burden for the economiea of all nations
and have extrenely harnful effecbE on ror 1d peace anal Eecurity,

Reaffirning once aqain the provieions of the Final Docu[ent of the Tenth
SPecial Session of the General AesenbLy, the flrst special gesslon devoted to
disarnanent, accordlng to which the gradual reduction of nilitary budgets on a
rnutually agreed baais, for example, i,n absolute figures or in terma of
Percentage' particularly by nuclear-neapon States and other nilitarily
significant States, rculd contribute to curbing the arma race and $ou1d
increase the possibilities for the reallocation of resourcea noH being uaed
for rnilitary purpoaes to econo[ic and social developrnent, particularly for the
benefit of the developing countriesl /

Convinced that the freezlng and reduction of niLltary budgets would have
favourable consequences on the norld econonic and financial situation and
might facilitate efforts nade to increase internatlonal asgistance for the
developing countr ies,

Recallinq that at its twelfth gpeclal sesslon, the second speclal seseion
devoted to disarmament, all Menber Stateg unanimously and categorlcally
reaffirrned tbe validity of the FlnaL Document of the Tentb Special Session, as
well as their aolemn corElitnent to it, tl

Recalling also the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second United Nations
Disarrnament Decade, !1 in which it is provided that during this period renewed
efforts should be nade to reach agreement on the reducEion of military budgets
and the reallocatlon of resources thua saved to econonic and social
development, especially for the benefit of devel.oping sountries,

y Resolution S-L0/2, para. 89.

!/ Official Record6 of the cen€ral Aasenblv, Twelfth Special Session,
, agenda itens 9, 10, II, 12 and 13, document A/S-L2/32. para. 62.

y Resolution 35146, annex.



A/t9/75r
English
Page 5

Recalling further the provisionE of lts r€solutlon 3/f/83 F of
f f o#iluEr-rgZg, subsequently reaf,f irued in its reeolutlong 351142 A of
12 DecernbeE Lg9O'. 36/82 I of i oecernber 1981, 37/95 A of 13 Decenber 1982 an'l
38/L84 A of 20 December 1983, in which it considered that a new iryetus should
be given to the endeavourg to achleve agreenent€ to freeue, reduce or
oth6rwise restraln, in a balanced nanner ' 

nrllltary exp€nditure, including
adequate measurea of verificatlon satiafactory to all Partles concerned,

3E of the various ProposalE submltteal by Menber states and of the
activities carried out ao far rrithln the frarnesork of the United Natlons in
the field of the reductlon of n{lltary budgeta'

convlncedl that identlflcation and elaboration of the princiPlee $hich
should--!6TEii-further actions of states ln freezl'ng and reducing nilitary
budgets could contribute to harrrnizing the viewa of StateE and create
confidence anong then conduciVe to achievlng international agreements in the
reductlon of nilltary bualgets.

Considerlnq that the identiflcation and elaboration of the Prlnciples
wtricir- etro-utd govern further actlons of gtates in freezing and reducing
nilitary budg-ts and the other current actlvltles wlthln the f ramework of the
uniteil Nations related to the questlon of the realuctlon of nllitary budgets
should be regaraletl as havlng the funtlanental obje€tive of reaching
international agEeenentE on the reduction of nilltary eaPenditureE'

Taking note of the rePort of the Digarnament contniEsion on the work
ac"g1olIIEEEE-EIIing its seEsion ln 1984 on the iten entltled 'Reduction of
nilitary budgeten, g

I. Declares once again its conviction that it 13 ttos8ible to achieve
international agreenents orl the reductlon of nilitary budgets t'ithout
prejudice to the right of all states to undltnini€hed security, self-defence
and sovereigntY i

2. ReaffirrnE that the huraan and naterlal regourceE released through the
reduction 6t m-Iffity expenditures couldl be reallocated for econonic and
social development, particularly for the benef,it of the develoPing countriesi

3. catls upon all Menbe! stateE, in Particular the nost heavily arned
states, to reineorce their readiness to co-oPerate ln a constructive nanner
rrith a vien to reaching agreenents to freeze, reduce or otheft'lge restrain
milltary expenditure8,

4. AppeaIE to all Statesl in partieula! to the no€t heavlly armed
States, peiETi?-ttre conclusion of agreeurents on the reduction of nllitary
expendibures, to e:.ercise self-restraint in their nilitary exPenditures wlth a



A/39/75l.
English
Page 6

vie' to rearlocating the funars thus saved to economic and soclar development,particularly for the benefit of developi.ng countriesl
5. Requests the Diaarnament Cotnniasion to continue, at its L9g5

aubstantive sesaion, the consideration of the item entitled nReduction ofrnilitary budgetstr on the basis of the relevarft working paper annexed to itsrePort' ]../ as well aa other proposars and ideas on the subject-matter, rdith a
view to finarizing tbe identificatron and elaboration of the principles which
should govern further actions of states in the fiettt of freez!.ng ani reductlonof nilitary expenditules, keeplng in rninat the possibility of enbodying suchprinciples in a suitable docunent at an appropriate stagei

peci'les to incrude rn the provisionar agenda of its fortretlr sessionthe iten entitled ,Reduction of rRilitary budgetsi.

B

The ceneral Assenbly,

Deeply concerned about the arms race and present tendencles to increasefurther the rate of growth of rnilitary expenditures, its deplorable waste of
hunan and econonic resources and its potentially harmful efiects on rrorldpeace and security,

9gnsidering that a gradual reduction of nilitary expenditures on anutually agreed basis would tre a measure that would contribute to curbing thearms race and wourd increase the possibllities of rearl.cating resources now
being used for military purpoaes to econonic and soclal developrDent,particularly for the benefit of the aleveloping countries,

convinced that such reductions could and should be carrled out on a
mutually agreed basi6 nithout detrinent to the national secur ity of anycountry,

Rgaffirming its.conviction that provisions for alefining, reporting,
conpar ing and verifying military expenditures will have to be bril" elernentsof any international agreenent to reduce such expenditures,

. RecaLling that an internatlonal systen for the stanalaralized reportlng ofniritary expenditures has been introduced in pursuance of Generar As'embry
resoLution 35/L42 B of IZ Decenber 1980, and lhat annual reports on nilitaryexpenditures are now being received frorn a number of Menber States,

- 
cjrlEiderinq that a wiber participacion in the reportlng systen of states

from different geograptric regions and representing di?fereni ulageting systemsnould pronote its further refinenent and vrould, by contrlbuting io greater
openness ln miritary matters, increase confidence between states,

u E!1., supplenent No. 42 (A/39/42,,, annex x.



A/39/75I
English
Page ?

Noting, in this connection, the proposat to convene an international
conference on military expenditures,

Recalling its resolution 37/95 B of 13 Dec€mber 1982. in which lt
requested the S€cretaEy-General, with the assiEtance of a group of quallfied
experts and with the voluntary co-operation of States, to undertake the task
of constructing price indices and purchas ing-Ipwer parities for the military
expenditures of parCicipating States,

EnPhaslzing that the above-tnentioned activitle€ and initiatives, as well
as other ongoing activities rrithin the united Natlons related to the leduction
of nilitary budgets, have the objective of facilitating future negotiatlons
ained at the conclugion of international aqreenents on the reductlon of
nii-i,hary expendltures,

I. Takes note wlth appreciation of the r eport of the Secretary-
General V containing the replies received in 1984 fron Menlcer States in the
framework of the above-mentioned reporting systemt

2. stresses the need to increase the nurnber of reporting states nith a
view to ttrilGEst poEsible participation from ttlfferent geographic regions
and representing different budgeting aystensi

3. Reiterates its reconmendation that al,I Member States should reporb
annually, by 30 April, to the Secretary-ceneral, using the reportlng
lnstrumenC' thelr nilitary expenditures for the l-atest fiscal year for vrhich
data are available;

4. Alao takeE notg_ri!!_gpElggg of the progress report of the
secretary-c@e under*ke; in pursuance of
resolutlon 37/95 B, and which vrill result in a final report to the ceneral
Assenbly at its fortieth sessioni

5. Requesta the Secretary-ceneral to provide the croup of Experts on
the Realuction of Military Budgets nith the neceE6ary asslstance and
Secretariat 6ervicesi

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fortieth session
the item entitled rReduction of military budgetstr.

A,/39/52L and Add.l and 2.

^/19/399.

v
2/




