








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Aseembly Di str .
GENERAI,

^/39/7375 Decenber 19 84
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL! FRENCH

)

Thirty-ninth session
Aq enda item 47

URGENT NEED TOR A CO!'PRE}IENSIVE NUCI,EAR-TEST-BAN TREATY

Report of the First Corunitlee

.EeP.@.g,!. l'1r. r,lgar6 KESSELy (Chad)

I. INTRODUCTION

I. The item entitled "Urgent need for a conprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty:
report of the Conference on Disarmanentr sras included in the Provisional agenda of
the thirty-ninth session in accordance vrith ceneral Assembly resolution 38/63 of
15 oecember 1983.

2. At ils 3rd plenary neeting, on 2l Septenber 1984, the General Assembly, on lhe
reconnendalion of the General Committee, decided !o include Lhe item in its agenda
and t.o allocate it' to the First CommitLee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 15 Clctober, bhe Fj,rst Connitlee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarrnament items allocated to it, namely, items 45 to 65 and
item 142 which was allocaLed to the First @Iruntttee by the @neral Assemb.Ly at its
27th plenary neeting, on 9 October, follovled by statements on sPecific disarmanent
agenda items and conlinuation o! the general debate, as necessary. The
deliberations on those iten6 took place betvree the 3rd and the 36th neetings,
f ron 1? October to 12 Novernber (see VC. I/39IPV. 3-3 6) .

4. In connection vrich iten 4?, the Firsc Comnittee had betore it the follotrting
doculnents:

(a) Report of the Conference on DisarmamenLi V

y otticial Records ot the General Assembly, Thirty-ninth session,
suppl.enent No. 27 (r{ig/2'rl .

I4-3ls 91 0192P (E)



^/ 
39/737

English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 23 uay 1984 trom the representatives of Arg entina, creece,
Indj.a, l.texico, Sneden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the United Nations
addressed to the Secre tary-ceneral, transnitting the Joint Declaratien by
l,lr s. Indira candhi, Prine Uinister of India, l,tr. r,tiguel de l-a lradrid, president oi
Ae:(ico, l,tr. alulius Nyelere, pEesident ot the United RepubLic of Tanzania,
l,tr. olof Palre, Prine t4inister of s$eden, !lr. Andreas papandreou, prime liinister of
Greece, and ur. Raril Alfonsfn, presidenc of Arg enti,na, issued on 22 uay I9g4 at
Athena, Buenos Aires, Dar es Salaam, llexico City, Nen Delhi and Stockholm
(^/ 39/277-s/ L6587l- i

{c) Note verbare dated 7 June t9B4 tron the permanent Mission of peru to the
United Nations addressed to the United Nations Secretariat lA/39/29 6-S/L66L9! ,

(d) Letter dateat 9 ,fu ly 1984 fron the permanent Representatives of Chile,
Colombi. a, Ecuador and peru to the United Nations addreased to the
secre tary-ce neral, transmitting che text of the declaration aalopteat by the
Permanent Commission for the South pacific (A/39/343, t

(e) Letter dated 27 Septenber l9g4 fron the Char96 draffaires a.i. of the
Permanent Misslon of Tog o to the united Nations addressed to the secret,a rv-@neral(N 3e/52e, ,

(t) Letter dated I october 1984 fron the l€rmanent Represencative of India to
the Uni.ted Nations addressed to the SecEetary-C,enera 1,, transmitting the Final
communiqu6 of the !'teecing ot trinisters and Heads of Delegation of the Non-Arlgned
@untries to the thirty-ninth session of the c€neral Assenbly, heLd ln New york
trom I to 5 ocrober L9s4 (N 39/ 56o-s/L67731 .

rr. @NSTDERATTON OF DR,AFT RESOIJUTTON A/C.L/39/L.7\
5. On 12 Novenberr 4ge!glE, the Ba har$as, Canada, Denmark, Flji, pin.Land,
Ic:.lgnd-. .f ref ayra, 

. la€fr,-r<erla, the pua new
Go,t"?f: the thi+ippine.s, Sarba, the Solonon-Islands, Splin, Srreden and Vanuatu
aubdtritted a dratb reeolution, enti.tled nUrgent neea for a co4'retrensive-
nuclear-t esc-ban treaty. IVC.L/39/L.7L), which waE Iater also sponsored by
Brungi Darussalan, Portugal, sierra I€one, sinqapore and Thailand. The draft
re6olution !,a6 introduced by the representaLive oi lustralia at the 4oth neeting,
on 15 Novernber.

5- At its 47th neeting, on 26 Novet0ber, the comnittee voted on draft resolution
A,/C.V39/L.7L as follorrs i

(a) Operative paragraph 4 iras adopted blr a recorded vote of 7l to lg, rrith
35 abstentions. The votj.ng was as tollorrss 2/

y Subseguently,
to abstain.

the delegation of the Congo indicated t.hat it had intended

/...
I



In tavour !

A/39/737
Bng I' i sh
Page 3

Australlar Austria, Bahariras, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgiun,
Bhutan, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cameroon, Canada, central African Republic ' Conoroar Congo,costa Rica, cyprus, Dennark, Djibouti, Fiji, Finland,
cermany, Federal Republic of, Creece, cuatenala, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland. Israel, Italy'
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenta, Kuwaitr Liberia,
Luxembourg, M,alaysia, Maldives, Nepal, Netherlands' Ne$
zeaLand, Norrray, dnan. Pakistan, Papua Nefl Guinea,
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Sarnoa, saudi Arabia, Sierra
L€one, Singapore, sol@on Islands, Sornalia, spain, $reden,
Thailand, logo, Trinidad and Tobago, Turhey, Onited Arab
Bnirates, united Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern
IreLand, United States of Anerica, Vanuatu, Zaire, Zanbia.

4g1gt: Afghanistan' Angola, Argentina, Bulgaria, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Gernan
Denocrat.ic Republic, Hungary, India, Lao Peoplers Denocratic
Republic, uexico, Mor4olia, Mozanbique, Poland, ukrainian
soviet socialist Republic, Union of soviet socialist
Republics, Viet Nam.

AbsLaining: Algeria, Burna, Chile, China, Colonbia, DemocraCic Yemen,
Ecuador, EgypL, France, Gabon, chana, Indonesia, Iran
(Islani.c Republic of), Lebanon, Libtan Arab Jamahlriya,
!,ladagascar, Malawi, I'tali, t{auritania. Mauritius, Nicaragua,
Nlgerj,a, Panana, Ronaniar Rrranda, Srl Ianka, Sudan, Syrian
Arab Republicr Tunisia, uganda, uniteal Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

(b) The dratt resolution, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded vote of 109
none, with 26 abstenCions (see para. 7). The voting eas as follottst

In f avour: Algeria, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Eahrain, Bangladesh,
Belg iurn r Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundj., Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, cbad r Chile, Colonbia, Conoros, costa Rica'
Cyprus, Derunark, Dj iboutl, Dorninican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, cabon, cernany, Fealeral
Republic of, chana, Greece, cuatemala, Guinea. cuyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic
ot), rraq, rreland' rsraeL, rlaly, rvory coast, Janai.ca,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kulrait, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malarri, Ualaysia,
!4aldives, MaIi, halLa, l,taurilania, l4auritius, ltlorocco,
Nepal, Netherlands, New zealand, Norway, Onan, Pakistan,
Papua New cuinea, Peru, Phi.lippines, Portuga1, Qatar,
Ronania, Rwanda, Samca, Sao Tone and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
sierra Leone, singapore, solonon Islands, Sonalia, spain,
sri t,anka, sudanr suriname, swauiland, Sweden, syrian Arab

)



A/ 39 /7 37
English
Page 4

Republic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey' Uganda, United Arab Brirates, United Bepublic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, vanuatu, venezuela, Yenen, yugoslavi.a,
Zaire, Zanbia, Zinbabre.

Aqainst: None.

Abstaining: Afghanistanr Angola, Argentina, Bu1garia, Byelorussian
Sovi.et Socj.alist Republic. China, Congo, Cuba,
czechoslovakia, France, cernan Denocratic Republic, Hungary,
Indra, Lao Peoplers Denocralic Republic, !4exico, t4ongolia,
!,tozambique, Nicaragua, Nigeria, panarna, poland, Ukrainian
Soviet Socj,alist [Gpublic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Kirqdon of creat BriLain and NorChern
Ireland, United Slates of Anerica. Viet Nam.

III. RECOI4I4ENDATION OF TTIE FIRSA @MT,U TTEE
7. The First ConniLtee recornnends t.o the ceneral Asaenbly the adoption of the
following dratt re solution:

Urgent need for a conprehensive nuclear-t est-ban treaty
The ceneral As sembly

Convinced of the urgent need for a conprehensive nuc lear-t est-ban treaty
capable of attracling the widest possible inlernational support and adberence,

Reatfirnir€ it.s conviction that an end to aII nuclear testing by all
SLates in all environnents for a1I time nould be a major sCep towards ending
the qualitative irnprovenent, development and proliferation of nuclear weapons,
a means ot relieving the deep apprehension concerninE the harnful conseguences
ot radioactive contaminati.on for the heal.th of present and future generations
and a neasure of the utnos! importance in bringing the nuclear-arms race to an
end '

Recalling fhat the parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in
the ALfiosphere, in Outer Space and under Water 3/ undertook not to carry out
any nuclear-rreapon-t est explosion, oE any other nuclear explosion, in the
environments covered by that Treaty, and that in tha! Treaty the parties
expressed their determination to con!inue negotiations to achieve the
discontinuance of aLl test explosions of nuclear vreapons for all time.

I

y United Nationsr Treaty Series, vol, 480, No. 6964, p. 43.



^/39/737Bnglistr
Paq e 5

Recalllng also that the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Prolif eratlon of
Nuclear fteapons 4/ recalled the detelninatlon exPressed bV the parties to the
Tleaty Banning Nuclear Weapon ?ests in the Atlosphere, in outer space and
under lraler in its prearnble to seek to achieve the disconllnuance ot aII tegt
explosions of nuclear fleaFons for all tine and Lo continue negotlations to
this end, declaring thelr lntention to achieve at the earllest possible date
the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and to unaertake effeclive meaaureg tn
the direction of nuclear disarnanent,

Recalling further its previous resolutions on this subject,

Takinq into account that part ot the report of the Conference on
oisarilfrEiE-EoEEining conaideration of the iten entitled nNuclear-teEt ban'
during its session in 1984, 5,/,

Algo taking into account, reLevant proposala and initiatlvea Put fontard
in the Conference on Disarrnanent during lls session in 1984t

E:(pre ssing . its' profound regret that, in sfiite of, strenuous efforts, the
conterence on Disalmanent lras unable to reach agleement on the
re-e stabl ishmenc at its session in 1984 ot an Ad Hoc Corunittee under iten l of
its agenda, encitled nNuclear-test ban",

Recognizing the important role of the Conference on Disarnanent in the
negotj.aci.on of a comprehensive nuclear-ces t-ban treaty'

Recognizing the lnportance t'o such a treaty of the work on a global
seismic decection network, assigned by the Conference on Disarmarnent to the
A:l_glg Group ot Scientific Experts !o Conslder lnLernational Co-operative
Measures to Detect and Identify Seisnic Events,

Recalling paragraph 31 of lhe Final Document of lhe Tenth Special Session
of the General Assenbly, 9,/ relatinS co verification of disarnanent and arrns
control agreements, vrhich stated that the torn and nodalities of the
verification to be provided for in any specific agreement dePend on, and
should be determined by, the purposes, scope and naeure of the agreement,

f. Reilerates its protound concern that, despite the exPress nishes of
the majority of !,tenber States, nuclear testing continuesi

2. Reaftirns ils conviction that a lreaty to achieve the ptohibition of
aII''uclea@statesinaIlenviront!entafora11tine1s
a matter ol greales! inportancei

y Resolution 2373 (XXII), annex.

2/ Ofticial Records ot the General Assembly, Thirty-ninth Session'
supplement No. 27 (N39/271 , sect. IIr, A.

9/ Resolution s-Lo/2.



M 39/737
Eng lish
Page 6

3. Expresses the convictign thrt such a tEeaty rouLl con8titute a vital
elenent for the succegs of eftorts to halt and reverae thc nucLear-arns race
and the gualLtative inprovenent of nuclear reapona, and to prevent the
expansion of existing nuclear araenals antl the Epread of ntrclear reapona to
additional countriest

4. Urges Che Conlererce on Di,Earsament to establlsh at the beglnning of
its 1985 session an Ad ltoc @ornj,ttee under i.teD I of lts agenda, entitled
'Nuc.!ear-t est ban' aiF-

(a) To resume i trediately lta substantive rcrk relatlng to a
conprehensive test ban, j,nclualhg the isgue of scope aa sel,l aE those of
verification and compli.ance, ui,th a vi.eu to the negotiatlon of a treaty on the
subject,'

(b) Taking inco account the uork prevlouslt perforned by and the result€
of the technical test being conducteal by the El:Eg croup of Scientiflc
ExPercs to Consider Internalional Co-operative lteaaurea to tetect and Identify
Seisnic Events, to take gteps tor the eatabllghncnt as aoon aa possible ot an
j.nlernational seisnic monitorir€ netnorl(t

(f) to monitor nuclear exploslonat
(ii) to deternine the capabilitlee of such a network tor Bonitorlng

conpliance eith a comprehenEtve nuclear-test-ban treaty,
(c) To initiate detailed inveEtlgaeion of other Eeasurea to nonltor and

verify conpliance with such a treatyl including an intelnatlonaL netnork to
monilor atmospheric radioactivity,

5. Urges all nenberg ot the Conference on DiaarEanent, in parttcular
the nuclear-weapon States, to crperate rithin the @nterence in fulfitling
these t.asksi

6. Calls upon the Conterence on Dlsarmanent to report on progre€s to
lhe General Assenbly at ita fortieth seEsioni

7. Decides to include in the provlslonal agenda of its fortieth session
the iten entitled "Urgent need tor a cqnprehenslve nuclear-teE t-ban treatyi.




