








































UNITED
NATIONSo

GeneralAsaembly Distr.
GENERAL

N39 / 676
21 Novenber 1984
E}.lGLI SH
ORIGINAI: SPANISH

i

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda ilern 103

INFORMATI ON FRO}I NON- SELF-C OVERNI NG TERRI TORI ES TRANSI4I TTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 e OF THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS

Report of the Fourth Cornmittee

Rapporteur! Mr. Denetr io INFANTE (Chile)

I. Ac its 3rd pLenary neeling' on 2I Septenber 1984' the General Assembly' on the
recorunendation of the ceneral Conmittee, decided to include in the agenda of its
thirty-ninlh session the item entitled:

nlnformation from Non-Se lf-cove rn ing Territories Eransmitted under
Article 73 e ot the CharEer of Ehe United Nali.ons:

" (a) Report of the Special Conmittee on the Situation vrith regard !o lhe
Ifiplenentation of the Declaratj.on on the Grantinq of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples i

"(b) Repo!t of the Secr etary-{eneral . "

A! the sarlE meeting' the Assembly decided to allocate the i.ten to the Foqrth.
Corulittee.

2. At i.ts 2nd neeting, on 24 Septenber, the Fourlh Comnittee decided to hold a
general debaEe cover ing aqenda irens I8, I03, .I05 and 12, 106 and 107 on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items vrould be
considered separalely. The CorNnittee hel-d the general debate on Ehese iterns at its
13th to lSth neetlngs, between 2 and 12 November.

3. The Fourth Conrnittee considered item 103 at its l2th to ISth neetings, between
30 October and 12 Novenber (see A/C.4/39/SR.L2-I8'|.

84-29235 4s17P (E)



^/3e 
/ 67 6

Engl ish
Page 2

4. At rhe 12th meeting, on 30 october, the Rapporteur of the sPecial Conmittee on
the Situation with regard to the Inplenentation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to colonial countries and Peoples nade a statemen! in which he gave
an account of the relevan! activities of the Special Conmittee during 1984 and dretrt
atEention to chapter VIII of the report of that Comnittee relating to item 103
(A/39/23 (Part. IV)) V containing' inter alia, lhe related draft resolution
subnitted by that Conmittee for consideration by the Fourth ColNnittee.

5. The Fourth Conrnittee also had before i! the report of the Secr etary-General
relating to the iten (A/39/5!9\.

6. In addition, the Fourth Committee had before it a note verbale dated
12 l4arch 1984 from the Permanent Representative of Portugal Eo the United Nalions
addressed to the Secretary-ceneral (A/39/!36)

'1 . At its IBth meeting, on 12 Novernber, the Fourth Conmittee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 9 of chapter VIII of the reporc of the Special '
Conmitlee (A/39/23 (Part IV)) by a recorded vote of 130 to noneT wilh 3 abstentions
(see para. g). A/ rt.e voring was as follows: y 

I

Infavour:Af9haniStan,Albania,A19eria,Angola7An!iguaandBarbuda'
Argentina, Australia. Austria' Bahrain' Bangladesh, Barbados,
BeIgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswanar Brazil' Brunei
Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape Verde' Central African
Republic, chad, chile, China, Colornbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba'
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yernen, Denmark' Djibouti, Dominican
Repubtic, Ecuador, Eg!'pt, El Salvador, Egualorial Guinea,
Ethiopia' Fiji' Finland, cernan Dernocratic Republic, Gernany'
Federal Republic of, Ghana, creece, cuatemala, Guinea'
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Icaly, Ivory Coast' Jamaica'
Japan, Jordan, Kenya' Kuwait' Lao Peopters Denocratic RePublic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya' Luxembourg 'Madagascar' Malawi, Malaysia, !4aldives, t{al-i' Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nelherlands, New Zealand, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Onan, Pakistan, Papua New Gui.nea, Paraguay,
Peru, Fhilippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Ronania, Rrranda '

y To be incorporated in official Records of the ceneral Assemb1y,
rh i r ty-n in th ses s ion, suppremen t-I6ll5-'ii7J!ZI) .

U The represenlative of the united Ringdom of creat Britain and Northern
Ireland made a statenent in explanation of vote,

y subsequently, the delegation of the Sudan informed the secretariat !hat,
had it been present at the lime of the votinqr it would have voted in favour of the
draft resolution. u

o

{
/...

o



o

o
A/ 39 /67 6
English
Paqe 3

saint Lucia, saint vincen! and the Grenadines, sanoa, sao
Tone and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solonon
Islands' Spain. Sri Lanka, Sweden, syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand. To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, Unlted RepubLic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen,
Yugoslavia, zambia, z imbabwe.

Against: None.

Abstaining: France, UniLed Kingdon of creat Brilain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

RECCI.{!,IENDATION OF THE FOURfH CCMMITTEE

8. The Fourth Coruliltee recommends to the Ceneral Assembly the adoptlon of tbe
, following draft resolution:

Infornation fron Non-Self-coverning Territories transnitted
under Argicl.e 73 e of the Chapter of the United Nations

The ceneral Assembly,

Having examined the chapter of the report of lhe Special Commiltee on the
Situation with regard to the lrnplementation of the Declaration on the cranting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and peopl-es relating to the information
fron Non-Setf-Governing Territories transmilted under Article 73 e of the
Charcer of Che United Nations 9/ and the action Caken by the Corunfttee in
respect of that information,

Having also exanined the report of the Secretary-General on tbe
question, !-/

Recalling its resoturion l9?0 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
requested the Specia1 Cornrnit't'ee to study the information transmitted to the
Sec retary-General in accordance with Article 73 e of the Charter and to take
such infornat.ion fully into account in examining the siEuation with regard to
the inplenentabion of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Recalllng also its resolut.ion 38/49 of Z Decernber 1993, in which it
requested the Special Committee to conlinue to discharge the functions
enErusted to it under lesolutlon 1970 (XVIII),

!/ V39/23 (Part rv) , chap. vrrr.

2/ A/39/5re.O
)



A/39 / 67 6
Eng I ish
Page 4 o

1. Approves the chapcer of the reporE of the SPeciaI Conmiltee on the
Situation with regard to the InpLementation of lhe Declaralion on the Granting
of Independence go Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
fron Non-Self-Governing Territories Eransnitted under Article 73 e of the
Cbarter of lhe United Nations,

2. Reaffirns that, in the abaence of a decision by the General Asaenbly
itsel,t that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full nEasure of
self-governrnent in terms of Chapter xI of the Charter, the administering Power
concerned should continue to transmit infolrnation under Article 73 e of ttte
Charter with respect to that Territoryt

3. Requests the administering Poflers concerned to transnit' or continue
to transnit, to the Secretary-ceneral the infornation prescribed in
Article 73 e of the Charter, as weII as the fullest Possible information on
political and constitutionaf developments in the Terrilories concerned, vrithin
a maximum period of six nonths following the expiraEion of the administrative
year in those Territoriest

4. Requests the specia.L comlittee to continue to discharge the r
functions entrusted to it under General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in
accordance with established procedures, and !o report thereon !o the Assembly
at its fortieth session. o

o




