








































UNITED
NATIONS

@
GeneralAroembly

Di str .
GENERAL

A/39/'790/Add.2
10 December 1984
ENGLISH
ORIGTNALi ARABIC/ErncLIsH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda iten 80 (b)

' DEVELOPMEI{| AND INTERNATIONAL ECOITOMIC CO-OpERATIONT REVIEV'
OP TIIE IMPLEI'4EI\I"IATION OF TU]E CHARTER OF ECONOMTC RIGH"S AND

DIIIIFS OF STATF,S

Feport of the Second Cogrjttee (part II)

Rapporteur: t'rr. Ahmed Alawi AL-HADDAD (Dernocratic Yenen)

I. IITTFODT'CTIOIJ

1. The Second Comnitgee held a substantive debate on itern gO (see A/3g/jg\,
para. 2) . Action to be taken on sub-iten (b) was considered at the 55th and
56th meeLings. on 30 Novenber and 6 December 1984. An account of the comnittee's
discussion is conlained in the relevant sunnary records (A/c.2/3g/sR.55 and 56) .

II. CONSIDFFATTOI{ OF DRAFT FESOT,UTIOTi A/C.2/39/r,.98

2. At the 55th neeting, on 30 Nov€mber, the representative of Egl4)t introduced.
on behalf of the states tr{enbers of the united Nations nhich are menbers of the
Group of 7'l , a draft resolution (A/c.2/39/L.gB), entitled ',Charter of Economic
Rights and Duties of States".

3. A statement by the Secretary-ceneral on the prograrnme budget irnplications of
the draft resolution (A/C.2/39/L-98) was circulated in docurnent A/C.2/39/L.IL3.
4. At the 56th neeting, on 6 Decenber. stacenents were rnade by the
representatives of Pinland' the Ukrainian soviet sociatist Republic (a1so on b€ha1f
of Bulgaria, the Byelorussian soviet social,ist Repubtic, czechoslovakia, the cernan
Democrat ic nepublic, Hungary, lr4ongolia, poland and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics) r Austria, Mexico and EglPt, as well as the Secretary of the conrnittee.

84-325s4 4s55P (E)



A/39 /79O/Add.2
English
Page 2

5' At the sane meeting, the conuniCtee adopted draft resolution A/c.Z/39/L.98 by a
recorded vote of 101 to 11, with 12 abstenlions (see para. ?). The voting vras as
follows: /

fn favour: Afghanistan, Afgeria. Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, BangJ.adesh,
Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswanaf Brazil. Brunei Darussalan'
Bulgaria. Burkina Faso, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, cameroon, cape verde, ceneral African Republic, Chile,
China, colonbia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechosl.ovakia, Denocrat ic
Kampuchea, Denocratic Yernen, Djibouti' Doninican Republic'
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, canbia, cerrnan Denocratic Republic.
Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, India, fndonesia, fran
(fslanic Republic of), Irag, fvory Coast, Janaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Denocratic Republic, tesotho, Liberia.
Madagascar, llalaysia, f4aldives, Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozanbique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger. tJigeria, Ctnan,
Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Po1and, Qatar, Ronania'
Rwanda, Saint christopher and Nevis, saint Lucia, Sao Tone and
Principe, saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sornalia, sri Lanka,,
swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet socialist Republics, United Arab
Enirates' United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela,
Viet Nan, Yenen. Yugoslavia. Zambia, Zinbabr^'e.

A9ainst ! Be19iun, Canada, DeDnark, France, Gernany, Federal Republic of,
Italy, Japan, tuxenbourg, United Kingdon of Great Britain and
Northern freland, United States of Anerica, Zaire.

Abstainingr Australia, Austria, Finland, Iceland, Ireland, fsrael,
Netherlands, New Zealand, NorwayT Portugal, Spain, Srn'eden.

6. After the
repre se ntat j ve s

7. The Second
following draf t

adoption of the draft resolution, statements were nade by the
of Portuqal, the Netherlands. Sweden and Austrialia,

III. PFCOV|TFNDAT ION OF THF SFCOI.TD COMITITTEE

Conmittee recommends to the General AssenlJl-y the adoption of the
resolution:

V Subsequentlyr the representative of cabon stated that his delegation had
voted in favour of the draft resolution, although hls vote had not registered owing
to a mechanical error. The representative of zaire stated that, although his vote
was registered as being against the draft resolution, his delegation had intended
to vote in favour.



M39/790/Add.2
English
Page 3

Charter of Econornic Rights ard Duties of States
The ceneraf Assembly,

Becalling its resolutions 32Ol (S-Vr) and 3202 (S_Vr) of L May Ig.74lcontaining the Declaration and the programme of Action on the Establishnrent ofa New fnternational Economic Order, 32g1 (xxIX) of 12 Decenbe r ::974,containihg the Charter of lconornic Rights and Duties of States, and3362 (s-vrr) of 16 septenber 1975 
"" 

i.rr"ropr"'t and internationa.l econonrcco-operation, which ]aid down the foundatioirs of the nev, international
econom ic order,

- -. 
Bgarihg in nind article 34 of the charter of Econonic Ri.ghts and Dutiesof States and ceneral Assenbly resolution 34g6 (XXX) of 12 Decenbe r 1975,relaCing to tbe review of the inptenentation of the Charter,
Recalling its resolution 37/204 of 20 Decenher 1982, in which it decidedto conduct at its thirty_ninth session, on the occasion of the t€nthanniversary of the adopiion of the c''rit". oi'*"onor." Rights and Duties ofStates, a cornprehensivi review of its iftFlementatronT as provided for inartic]e 34 thereof.

- .. 
HaYlng exanined the.report of th€ secr etary-cenera r on the inplenentationof the charter of Econonic Rights and nuties oi-states 2/ subnitted inaccordance erith ceneral Assenbly resolution 37)204,

.__ g€rE+lrnc+ed at the gravity of the wortd economic situation and itslnpact on the developing countries,

. Dgcideg to undertake a thorough and systenatic review of theinplernentatioh of the charter of Econornic nifris ana Duties of states, takinginto account the evolution of a1l the ."onori", social, legal and otherfactors related to the principles upon vrhich the charter is based and to itspurpose, in order to identify the most appropriate actions for theimplementation of the charter that rrou ld i.ri to tasting solutions to thegrave econonic probrens of developing countries within the frarner,Jork of theUnited Nations;

-- ..3.. 
Dgciges also to establish an &LFoc Intergovernnental cornrnittee ofthe whole, to be convened for three *..Illi-19g5, to carry out the reviewmentioned in paragraph r above, and reguests the conmittee to report thereonto the ceneral Assenbly at its fortieftr sessioni

. Requests the Secr et ary-Ge nera I to prepare a reportinplenentation of the charter oi Economic eigtri-s-ano Duties,to the 4d Hoc fn t ergovernmental Conmittee in l9g5-
on the
to be subm itt ed

!/ A/39 /322-E/19 84l10s .




