








































UNITED
NATIONS

(@) Gcnerar Assemb' Di str .GENERAL
A/39/743
7 December 19 84
ETSI.ISH
ORrGI r{AL : FFEr€Il

ThirtlFninth seseion
Agenda it€rn 53

ISFAELI IJTTLE,AN ARMAIT'ENT

Repor t of the First Comrittee

&ppg!!sg: llr. tlgarc KESSELY (chad)

I . I IiTFoDuc TIoriI

I l. The iten entitledl "Israeli nuclear armamentt report of the Secretary-General"
I ,". included in the provislonal agenda of the thlrty-nlnth session ln accordatre

with General Assenbly resolution 38/69 of 15 Dec ember 1983.

2. At lts 3rd Pl.enary meeting' on 2I september 1984, the General Assembly, on the
recornmendatlon of the ceneral comnittee, dectded to include the item in lts agenda
and to allocate it to the First cornmittee.

3. At its 2nd rneeting' on 15 october, the First conftittee decld€d to hold a
general debate on the digarmalnent ltens allocated to it, narnelyr ltems 45 to 65
and 142 rrhlch rdas allocated to the First Conmittee by the General A68elflbly at its
27th plenary meeting, on 9 October, follorved by statements on speclfic dlsarnament
agenda ttens and continuation of the general debate, as neces6ary. The
diliberations on thoee items took place between the 3rd and the 36th rneetings,
fron 17 oc tober to 12 November (see MC.L/39/W.3-361 .

4. rn connectloir h'ith iten 53, the Ftrst connittee had before it the follonlng
docurnents:

(a) Repor t of the secretary-General on Israeli nuclear arrnanent (A/39/435) |

(b) Letter dated 13 rGrch 1984 frotn the Permanent Repres€ntative of Morocco
to the United Nations addressed to the Secr etary-General, transnttting the texts of
the Final Colrununiqud and of the resolutions adopted by the Four th Islanic
Conference held at Casablanca, Ii{orocco' from 16 to 19 .tanuary 1984

| 6/lg/tlt-s/I64L4 and corr .l I t
7

84-32038 4539P (E) /...
L

I

I

I

I



A/39/7 43
Engllsh
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 15 l,tarch 1994 from the Chargd d,Affaires a.i, of the
Perrnanent Mission of Bangtadesh to the united Natlons addressed to theSecretary-ceneral, transmitting the reports, resolutlons and final declaration
{ortea by the Fourteenth rslanic conference of Foreign l.rinisters, held in Dhakafron 6 to 11 December L9B3 (V3g /133-5/16 4L7 ) .

II. EONSIDERATION OF T,RAFT RESOLUTIONS A/C.I/39/L.45 ANd REV.I
On November, Af st BahrainAI

, the Lib\ran
o[nan Arjlbia, somalia, the sudan, Tu;isia,the United lrat Emi,.i-i .ia- wIIi tted a draft resolution entitled nfsraeli

nuclear armamentn (ty'C.I/39/L.4S' vhfeh
Arab Republic. The draft resolution was
at the 38th rneeting, on 14 Novenber, and

t

rras later also sponsored by the Syrian
introduced by the repres€ntative of fraq
read as followsr

"The General Assenblv,

nRecalling its prevlous resolutlons on fsraell nuclear armanent,

_ - "Reqalltnq resolution 38/64 which called, inter alia upon aLl countriesof the uiddle East pending the establishnent of-E nuErear--weapon-free zone inthe uiddle East to agree to place all their nuclear activltles under the rAEAsafeguards, and lhvites those countries also, peding the establlshment of anuclear-neapon-free zone in the region, to declare their support forestablishihg such a zone and to deposlt those declarations rrith the SecurityCouncll,

_ 

rconsiderlng that the Israeli statenents contalned in deumene AngniD
contlnue to disregard the safeguards systen of the IAEA,

'Recalling further Securlty Councll 4g7 (f9g1) which lnter alla called
uPon fsrael urgently to place its nuclear facilltl€s under-IlFEEguards,

-nlir_oting 
with concern rsraelrs persistent r€fusaL to coftllit itseLf not tonanutacture or acguire nuclear lreapons, despite repeated calls by the ceneraLAssernbly, the securlty council and th€ lnteinationil Atqnic Ener;y ageicy, anato place its nuclear facilities under Agency safeguards,

nconscious of the grave conseguences vrhlch endanger international peace
and security as a result of fsraelrs developnEnt and acqulsitlon of. nuclear
weapons and Israelts collaboration with South Africa to develop nuclear
oeapons and thelr delivery syst€ms,

'Recalllm its repeated condemnation of nuclear collaboration betrreenfsrael and South Afr ica,

"Talfng note of the report of the. secret ary-ceneral on rsraeli nuclear
arna|rpnt. I



v39/743
English
Page 3

"1. Condemns fsraelrs continued refusal to imPlel|Ent security Council
resolutlon 487, unaninously adopted by the securlty Council on 19 .tune 1981,
and lts refusal. to renounce any possesslon of nuclear r4eapons t

Requests the Security Council to take urgent and effective rneasures
to ensure that Israel conplies nith the resolution and places all lts nuclear
facilities under fAEA safeguards 1

Requests the securlty Councll, once againr to prohlblt all forrns of
co-operation rrith. Israel ln the nuclear field;

n4. 
"93-15_-uPon all states and other partles and institutions to

terninate forthgith al.I nuclear collaboration trlth rsraelt

Reiterates its request to the fnternatlonal Atomic Energy Agency to
suspend any scientific co-operation lrith fsrael until it cotnplies with
Security Council resolution al87 (1981)t

Reiterates further its condemnation of the Israeli threatt in
vlolation 

"f th. ch".t.r "f 
the Unlted Nations, to repeat lts arrned attack on

peaceful facllities ln frag and in other countriesi

"7. Reaffirns ils condemnation of the continuing nuclear collaboration
betrdeen Israel and South Africa?

It "8. Reguests the unlted tJations fnstitute for Disarmament Research, In
co-ope r at i;;-;;;-the Departr€nt for Dlsarnarent Affairs and ln consultatlon
with the League of Arab states' Ehe organizatioh of African Unity to Prepare a
report provlding data and other relevant information relating to fsraeli
Nuclear Arnament and further nuclear developnents takinq into account'
lnter alla, the rLport of the secretary-cenera I on fsraeli Nuclear ArmaaEnt
lV37 /434't and to submit it to the fortleth session of the General Assemblyr

'9. Reguests the secretary-Ge neral to provide the necessary support to
the Unlted Natlons Institute for Disartnanent Research to enable it to carry
out the task entrusted to it under the present resolution and for the
fnstitute to submit a report to the ceneral Assembly at its fortieth sessiont

i10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fortieth session
the itetn entitled nlsraell nuclear armatTlent. "

6. on 3 December, the sponsors submitled a revised draft resolution
(A/C. I/39 /L. 4 s/Rev. I ) containi ng the following changesr

(a) operative paragraph 3 r.tas revised to read as follot s!

"3. Requesis again the securlty council to investigate Israelrs nuclear
activities and the collaboration of other states, parties and lnstitutions in
these ac tlvit iesl r

I tU) operative paragraph 4 era s deletedt
' ,...



v39/7 43
Engllsh
Page 4

(c) The original opelative paragraph s, now operative paragraph 4, was
revised to read as follons:

"4. ReiteraCes its request to the International Atolnic Energy Agency to
suspend any sclentiflc co-operatlon rrlth fsrael which coutd contribute to
fsraelrs nuclear capabllltlesr r

(dl The subsequent operatlve paragraphs h'ere renunbered accordingly.
7. fn connection vrich the draft resolution, the secretary-ceneral submitted a
statement on the proqranne budget lnpllcations (A/C,I/39 /L.g4l .
8. At its 58th neeting, on 4 December, the Corunlttee voted on draft resolution
A/C.L/39 /L.4slFev.l as follonsr

(a) Operative paragraph 3 was adopted by a recorded vote of 73 to 23, with
18 absentlons, The voting nas as follows:

fn favour? Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Byel.orusslan Sovlet Sociallst Republic, Cajreroon,
central African Republlc, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic
Yenen, DJibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, cabon, cerman Denocratic
Repub]ic, Ghana, Greece, Guyana, Hungary, fndia, Indonesia, Iran
(Islatnic Republic of), Irag, ,fordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Irao peopLers I
Democratic Republlc, Lebanon, tibyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, llaldives, Mali, Irtauritanla, Mexico, lilongolta, Morocco,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oran, Pakistan, Philippines, Boland, Qatar,
Romania, saudl Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leon€, Sonalia, sri lanka,
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, To9o, ?unlsia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic. Union of Soviet Sociallst
Republlcs, United Arab Etnirates, venezuela, Viet Nan, yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zanbi a.

Against: Australla, Auatria, Belglun, canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
cernany, Federal Republic of, Halti, fceland, Ireland, fsrael,
f!aly, Japan, Luxernbourg, Netherlands, !det{ Zealand, Norway,
portuga}, spain, sweden, Unlted Ringdom of Great Brltain and
Northern Ireland, United States of Anerica.

Abstaining: Argentina, Bahanas, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, chile, colornbia,
Doninican Republic, Ecuador, fvory Coast. lib€ria, Malani, Nepa1,
Paraguay, peru, Surlnane, Uruguay, zaire.

(b) Operative paragraph 4 wa6 adopted by a recorded vote of G8 to 26, rrlth
23 abstentions. The voting was as follof,'s:

In favourt Afghanistan, Albanla, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
B€nin, Bhutan. Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Camerc,olrr 

(



v3e/743
English
Paqe 5

central Afrlcan Republic, congor cuba' czechoslovakla. Democratic
Yernen, Djiboutt, Eqt/I)t, Ethiopiar Gabon, German Denocratic
Republic, Ghana' Guyana' Hungary' India, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic
nepublic of) , Iraq, .tordan, Ruwait, Lao Peoplers Dernocratic
nepubLic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jatnahir iya, !'ladagascar, Malaysia'
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, I'longolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nicaragua' Nigeria, onan' Pakistan, Poland, Qatar, Ronania, saudi
Arabia, Senegal' sierra r,eone, sonalia r srl Lanka, sudant Syrian
Arab Republlc, Tunlsia, Turkey, Uganda' Ukrainlan soviet
Sociallst Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist RePublics, United
Arab Eniratea' viet Nam, Yenen, Yugoslavla. zanbla'

Australia, Austria, BeLgium' Burma, Canada, Denmark, Flnlandr-
FrarEe, Germany, Federal Republic of, Haitl, fceland, Ireland'
Israel, ftaly, ,tapan, r,iberia' Luxenbourg, Netherlands, Neh'
zealand, Norivay, Portugal, spaln' Sweden' United Kingdom of Great
Britain and ttorthern lreland, Uhited States of America, Uruguay'

&qgini r,9: Argentina, Bahanas, Bolivia' Brazil, chile, colombia' 
Dominlcan

Republlc' Ecuador, Greece, fvory Coast, Kenya' Malatti ' Mexico'
Nepal, Paraguay, Peru, Philippinesl Surinarne' Thailand' Togo'
Trinidad and Tobago, venezuela, zalre.

(c) The draft resolution as a whole was adopted by a recorded vote of 85
to 2, wlth 35 abstentlons (see para. 9). ?he voting was as followsl

4lslour ! Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina' Bahrain'
Banglattesh, Benin. Bhutan' Botahtana, Brazll, Brunei Darussalam'
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorusslan soviet seialist
Republic, cameroon, central African Republic, chad' chlna' congo'
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denocrat ic Kanpuchea, Democratic Yemen'
DJlbouti, Eglpt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gernan Denocratic Republic '
Ghana, Greece, Guyana, gungary, rndia, fndonesia' rran (fslamic
RePublic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Xuwait' Lao PeoPlers
Democrat ic Republic, lebanon, Llbyan Arab Jamahiriyar l'ladagascar '
l,lalaysia, ualdives, Mali, Ma]ta, !'!aurltania, Mexico' Mongolia'
I'torocco, Irtozanbique, Nlcaragua, Nigeria, Onan' Pakistan' Peru'
Phlllppinesf Polandr Oatar, I{onania' saudi Arabia' senegal'
sierra Leone, solrlalia, sri Lanka, sudan, surinane' syrian Arab
RePublic, Thailand' Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey'
Uganda. Ukralnian Soviet socialist Republic' Union of soviet
Soctalist Republics, United Arab Emirates. Venezuela' Viet Nan'
Yenen, Yugoslavia, zambia'

Against:

s!n€g:
Abstainlng:

)

Israel, united states of America.

Australiar Austria' Bahamas, Belgium, Burma, canada' Chile'
CoJ-ombia, Dermark' Dominican Republic, Ecuador' Flnland, France'
cernany, Federal Republic of' Haiti' fceland, Ireland' Italy'
rvory coast' Jamaica' ,]apan, Liberla' Luxernbourg, Malavti, Nepal,
Netherlands, tlew zealand, Norway' Panana, Paraguay' Portugal'
gpain, Sweden, unlted Kinqdon of Great Britaln and Northern
freland, uruguay, zai re.



A/39/7 43
English
Page 5

III. RrcO!fiENDATION OF TITE FIRSI CO!4MITTEE
8. The First comnittee recolurEnd s to the General Assembry the adoption of thefollowing draft resolut ionr

fsrael I nuclear arnanent
The ceneral Assenblv,

Recalring rts previous resorutions on rsraeri nucrear arrnafient,

-- Becallinq resolution 3A/64 ot 15 Dec ember 1983, in which, lnter alia, rtcalled upon arr countries of the Middre East, pending the estab liilrnt or anuclear- weapon-free zone in the Middle nast, io agree to place all theirnuclear activities under International Atomic f...iy ag.n"y-".i.g"rr;, 
-r"a

invited those countries also, pending the eatablishnEnt of anuclear-neapon-fr ee zone in th- regiin, to declare their support forestablishlng such a zone and to deposlt those declarations with the security
Counc i1,

Considering that the Israeli statenents contained ln docunent At/3g /34gcontinue to disregard the safeguards system of ehe rnterna!ionar Atomlc Energy
Agency,

- - Regalling further security councir resorution 4s7 (198r) of 19 June 198r
tdh 

-ich, i!!gl'3f :is, called upon Israel urgently to place its nuclear facilitiesunder fnternatlonal Atonic Energy Agency- safeguaras,

lgLi-!g--!I$--co!gEl! Israel'a perslstent refusal to cornnit itself not ronanutacture or acguire nuclear rreapons, despite repeated calls by the GeneralAssenbly, the security courcil and the International Atonic Ener;y Agency, andto place its nuclear facilities under Agency safeguards,

- consc_ious of the grave consequences whlch endanger international peaceand security as a result of rsraerrs developnent anat acguisition of nucreark'eapons and fsraelrs collaboratlon with Souah Africa to develop nu"f..r--vreapons and their delivery systens,

Secalling its repeated condennation of nuclear collaboration betrreenfsrael and south Afr ica,

Takint.note of the report of the secretary-cen€ra l on rsraeli nucleararnan€nt, l/

l. Condenns Israelrs continued refusal to
resolution 4BZ (1991) r unanirnously adopted by theits refusaf to renounce any possession of nuclear

inplenent Security Counc i I
Council on 19 June 1981, and
vre apona t

Iv
A/39,/435 .



A/39/7 43
English
Page 7

2. Requests the security council to take urgent and effective measures
to ensure tbal tsrael cdlplleE with the resolution and places aU its nuclear
facillties under Internatlonal Atonic Ehergy Aqency safeguardsi

3. Requests agaln the security council to investlgate Israelrs nuclear
activit ies-liE-TEEiollaborat lon of other States, parties and institutions 1n
these ac tivl t lest

4. Reiterat€s its requeGt to the International Atonic Energy Agency to
suspend any scientlflc co-operation wlth fsrael whlch could contribute to
Israel rs nuclear capabl.li t les'

5. Reiterates further lts condennation of the Israeli threat, in
violation of tfre Charter of the Unlted Nations, to rePeat its arned attack on
peaceful facilities in fraq and in other countrlest

6. Reafflrns its condemnation of the continuing nuclear collaboration
between fsrael and South Africat

7. Requests the United Nationa fnstitute for Disarmanent Research ' ln
co-operati6iEthe Departrent for Disarnanent Affairs of the secretariat
and in consultation vtith the League of Arab states ahd the organlzation of
African Unity, to prepare a report Provldlng data and other relevant
inforrnaLion relatlng to fsraeli nuclear armament and further nuclear
developrEnts, taking into account, inter alia, the report of the
S€cretary-ceneral on IsraeLi nucleai arrnahent 2/ and to eubmit it to the
ceneral Assenbly at lts fortieth sesaionl

8. Requests the secrecary-General to provlde the necessary suPport to
the United NEions Institute for Disarnan*nt Research to enable it to carry
out the task entrusted to lt under the present resolutlon and for the
fnstitute to subrnit a report to the General Assembly at its fortleth sessiont

g. Decides to lnclude in the provisional agenda of its fortleth sesslon
the ltem entltled "rsraeli nuclear arnat€nt".

)
u A/37 /434.




