








































UNITED
NATtOl{S

Gcneral Assembly Distr.
GENEBAI,

^/39 
/658

16 Novernber

ORIG INAL:

1984

EI.|GT,I SH

Thirly-ninth session
Agenda item 88

ETIMINATION OF ALI, FONMS OF NACIAI, DISCRIMINATION

Report of Ehe Third Connittee

Rapporteur: At. GtzegoEz POIphCzYK (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 September 1984, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the ceneral Cormittee, decided to lnclude ln the agenda of its
thirty-nlnth sesslon the iLem entitled:

"Elinination of all forms of racial discrimination!
n (a) Repor t of the Comnittee on the Elimination of Racial Discrininationt

"(b) Status of the International Convention on the Elimination of AII
Forns of Racial Discrimination! report of the secretary-ceneral t

"(c) Status of the International Convenlion on the SuPpression and
Punishmene of the Crine of Apartheldt r€port of Ebe Secre tary-Generalr

and to allocate it to the Third Conmittee.

2. The Ihird Conmittee consldered the iten jointly witb items 84, 85 and 87 at
lts 4th to l5th, 27th, 34th and 35th meetings, on 8, 9, 12 to 18 october and l,
8 and 9 Novemb€r 1984. An account of the discussion of the Cornmittee is contained
in che relevant sunmary records (A/C.3/39/5R.4-L5, 27, 34 and 35).

84-28607 0156P (E)



A/39/658
Eng Iish
Page 2

3. The ConmiEtee had before it the followinq docurneneation:

(a) Reporg of the Committee on the Elimination of Racia.L Dlscrimination' V
submi.tted in accordance with article 9 of the International Convention on the
Elimination of Al1 ForrB of Racial Di6crimination (ceneral Assembly resoLution
2106 A (xx), annex) i

(b) SEatus of the International Convention on the Elimination of A1I Forms of
Racial Discrinination! report of the Secretary-ceneral (A/39/459\, submitted in
accordance wilh ceneral Assenbly resolutions 2106 A (XX) and 38/l8t

(c) Status of the International Convention on the Suppression and Punisbroent
of the Crine of Apartheid: report of the Secretary-ceneral (A/39/460'r, subtnitted
in accordance nigh ceneral Assembly resolution 3380 (XXX) t

(d) Reporling obligatlons of States parties to the International Covenants on
Human Rights and the International ConvenEion on the Elimination of All Forrns of
Racia1 Discrininalion: nole by the SecEetary-ceneral @/39/4841 t

(e) Letter dated 16 ,January 1984 from the Pernanent Representative of Israel
to ttre United Nations addressed to the Secretary-ceneral (A/39/79 and Corr.l) t

(f) Letler dated 15 March 1984 fron tbe Charg6 drAffaires a.i. of the
Pernanent Mission of Bangladesh to the Unlted Nations addressed to the
Secretary-ceneral, lransmitting lhe final declaration and resolutions adopted at
lhe fourteenth Islarnic Conference of Foreign l4inlsters, held at Dhaka from 6 to
I0 December 1983 (A,/39,/13 3-S/L64I'? \ i

(g) Letler dated 13 April 1984 frorn the Perrnanent Representative of Israel to
the United Natlons addressed to the Secretary-ceneral (A/39/L80 and Corr.1) t

(h) Letter daeed I October 1984 fron the Permanent Representative of Indla to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transnlltinq the Final
Cornrnuniqu6 of the Meeting of Ministers and Heads of Delegaeion of the Non-Aligned
Countries to the thirty-ninth session of the ceneral Assefltbly, held in New York
fron L to 5 October L984 (A/39 /56O-S/L677 3l t

(i) tetter dated 15 October 1984 fron Ehe Pernanent Representative of
Nj.caragua to lhe United Natlons addressed to the Secretary-ceneral, transnitting
the resolutions and other docunents of the Third Conference of Ministers of Labour
of Non-Aligned Countries and Other Developing Countries, held a! Managua frorn l0 to
12 May 1984 lA/39 /58L-s/L67821 1

(j) Letter dated 16 October 1984 fron the Permanent Representative of the
Sudan to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transnitt.ing the

y Official Records of the ceneral Assembly, Thirty-ninth Session,
supplemenu No. l8 lA/39/L8'.,.



resoLutions adopted by the 72nd
29 Septemb€r 1984 (a,239l590 and

A/39/658
EngLish
Page 3

Inter-Parliamentary Conference, heLd at Geneva on
Corr. L) .

4. At the 4th meeting, on I october, the Asslstant secretary-General for Human
Rights nade an introductory statenent.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT NESOLUTIONS

A. Draft resolution A,/C.3/39,/L.5

5. At the 27th rneeting, on I Novenber, the representative of the cernan Democratlc
Republic introduced a draft resolution (NC.3n9/f,.51 entitled "Status of the
International Conv€ntion on the Suppresslon and punisbment of lhe Crime of
ApartheId", sponsored by Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bulqariar Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Ethiopia, the certtEn Denocratic Republic, culnea, HungaEy, Iran
(Islamlc Republlc of ) ' the Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, @ELlg, Nigerla,Rltanda, the Uklainlan Sovlet Socialist Republi.c, g!4S and Zanbla, as rrell as
lhe Congo, cuinea-Bissau and Madagascar.

6. At its 34th r0eet1ng, on I November, the Comroittee adopted draft resolutlon
UC.3/39/L.5 by a recorded vote of L10 to 1, wigh 23 abstentions (see para. I5r
draft resolution I). The voting was as follorrsa 2/

In favou! r Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahanas, Bahrain, Barbadost
Benj.n, Bolivia, Botsvrana, BraziI. Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian Sovlet Sociallst
RePubLic, Cameroon, Central Afrlcan Republic, Chad, Cbile, China,
Colornbia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cllprug,
Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Kampuchea, Democratic yenen, Djibouti,
Donlnican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinear EEhiopla,
Fijl, Gabon, cambia, cernan Democratic Republi,cr Ghana,
Guatenala, Guinea, cuinea-Bissau, cuyana, Haltl, Honduras,
Hungary, Indla, Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory CoasC, ,tanaica, ,tordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Denocratic Republlc, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab ;Ianahiriya, Madagascar, Ma1aysla,
Maldives, Mal1, l.{aurltania, Mexico, Mongo}ia, Morocco,
!4ozambique, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, paklstan, papua New
Gulnear Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Ronanla, Rvranda,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, sudan, Surinane, Syr ian Arab Republic,
rhalland, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisla, Turkey, uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Sociallst
Republics, Unlted Arab Enlrates, united Republic of Tanzanla,

U Subsequently, the repreaentative of Singapore indicated that, as a result
of a mechanlcal fallurer his voEe dlal noE register and that hiE delegation had
voted in favour of the draft resolution.



A/ 39 / 6s8
EngIish
Page 4

uruguay, venezuela, viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia,
z imbabwe.

Against! United States of ltmerica.

Abstainlngs Australia, Augtria, Belgium, canada, Dennark, Finland, France,
cermany' Federal- Republic of, creece, rceland, Ireland, Italy,
,fapan' Luxembourg ' Malavrl, Netherlands, Nev, Zealand, NontaytPorEugal, Spain, Swazlland, Sweden, United Kingdon of Great
Britain and Norlhern Ireland.

B. Draft resolutlon A,/C.3/39lL.8

7. At the 27th rneeting, on I Novernber, the representalive of Belgiun introduced a
draft resol-utLon (A/C.3/39/L.8) entitled "sgatus of the International Convention on
the Elimination of AII Forns of Racial Discr imination I . sponsored by Algerlat
Argentina, Auatraliar the Bahanas, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Burkina f,'aso, Cuba, Cl.prus, @E, Eqypt, cernany, Federal Republic of , Hungary,
India, Morocco, New zealand, Pakistan, Portugal' Sg!n, the svrian Arab Republlc t
Tr inidad and Tobago, Venezuela and yugoslavia, as well as cuinea-Blssau and 3gjlglg,
subseguently joined by Colonb1a and Surlname.

8. At the same meeCing, the representatlve of Uruguay introduced amendments lo
the draf t resolution (A/C.3/39/L.LO) sponsored by Costa Rica, 43llg, France,
EI4!!r rtaly, the Netherlands, Norway, Senegal, sweden and Uruguay, subsequently
joined by Colombia and Somalia, which read as follows:

"1. Add a new preanbular paragraph reading aa follovrs!

Expressing its aatisfaction at the entry into force, on
3 Decenber I982r of the competence of the committee to accept and to
exanlne cornnunicatlons from persons or groups of persons under artlcle 14
of the International Conventlon.

Add a nee, operative paragraptr 5 reading as follows:

CalLg upon Stales parties to the Convention to consider the
possibility of naking the declaration Provided for in article 14 of the
Conventiont

"3. Renumber the present paragraph 5."

9. At its 34th neeting, on I November, the corurittee took the following action on
draf,t resolutton NC.3/39/L.8 and Che anendments thereto:



(a) Tbe amendnenrs (A/c.3/39/L.Lol
40 abstentionai 9/

were adopted by 83 votes

A/39/ 6s8
English
Page 5

to none, $ith

(b) Draft resolutLon n/C.3/39/L.8 as amended was adopted rithout a vote (see
para. I51 draft resolution II).

C . Draf t resolut.lon A,/C .3,/39,/L.9

IO. At the 27th meeting, on I Not enber' the representative of yugoslavia
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/39/L.9', entltled "RePort of the Conmittee on
the Elirnination of Racial Discr imlnation" , sponsored by Angola, Argenti+a,
4g.lg9seh, Bolivla, !tsPg-lelds, china, Cuba, &!daq. gl4€3!, Niqeria'
Batcistan, velnen, yugolfavia and gambla as sell as zimbahre, subsequenlly joined by
uauritania, Morocco and sonalla.

lI. At the 34th meeting, on 8 Novenber,
revised the text of the draft resolution

the representative of Yugoslavia orally
as follor{s:

(a) By replacing resolution "38/18 of 22 November 1983" with "39/-
of _ 1984" in the first Preanbular Paragrapht

(b) By rePlacing the words "a crirne against humanityr with "the nost
abhorrent forn of racial discrinination" in operative paragraPh 2t

(c) By delet.ing the worda "in south Africa and Namibiatr afEer "the
elimination of -g!.]!E.ig." in operative paragraph 4t

(d) By deleting the vtords rand lnvites the Commlttee to conslder the
posslbllities of preparing, as part of ics activlties within the Second Decade Eo
Cornbat Itacism and Raclal DlEcr irnination r studies on gome other articles of the
Conventionr in operative paragraph 5l

(e) By deletj.ng the word dthe'r before "states Pareies' and before measures
taken'r in operative paraglaph lIi

(f) By inserting the words "the GeneraL AssenbLy andn betvteen the nords
"to infornr and "the committeen in operatlve Paragraph 15.

L2. In the ligbt of those revisions and folloning a procedural debate, the
representatives of, l'lauricania and somalia withdrew as sPonaors of the draft
resolutlon.

y subsequenlly, the representatlve of Botswana lndicated thatr as a result
of a mechanlcal failure, her vote dld not regiater and that her delegation had
voted in favout of the draft amendnents to the resolution, The representatlve of
Turkey indicated that bis vote should have been reglstered as abstaining instead of
in favour of the draft resolution.



A/ 39 / 658
English
Page 5

13. At the 35th neetlng, on 9 Novetnber, the represenlative of yugoslavia informed
the Co[unlttee that the sponsors had deeided to retain the oriqinal text of
operative paragraphs 2 and 4.

L4. At Ehe same meeting, the comnittee voted on the draft resolution as revlsed,
as followsr

(a) Operative paragraph 2 $as adopted by a recorded vote of Lt5 to I, wlth
20 abstentions. The voEing was as follons: 4/

In favour l

Against:

Abstaining r

Afghanlstan, Albania, Algerla, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Babraln-, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivla, Botswana,
Brazll, Brunel Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burklna Faso, Burundl,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republlc, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombla, Comoros, Congo, Cuba,
CyPrus, Czechoslovakla, Den@ratic Karnpuchea, Democratic yemen,
Djlbouti, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Eguatorlal culnea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, cabon, canbia, cerman Denocratlc Republic, chana,
Greece, cuatemala, cuinea, culnea-Blssau, cuyana, Itaiti, gungaly,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ivory coas!,
,iamaica, Japan, ,fordan, Kenya, Kuflait, Lao peoplers Detnocratic
Republic, Lebanon, Ireaotho, Llberia, Libyan Arab Janahtrlya,
Madagascar, [alaysla, ualdlves, !,tali, ltauritanla, liexico,
!4ongolia, Morocco, ttozanbique, Nepal, Niger, Nlgerla, Onan,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, peru, philippinea, poland,
Qatar, Ronania, Rnanda, Sao Tome and principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal. Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalla, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudanr Surinane, Syrian Arab Republic, Itralland, Togo, Trlnldad
and Tobago, Tunlsia, uganda, Ukrainian soviet Socialist Republlc.
Union of Soviet Sociallst Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republlc of Tanzanla, Uruguay, VenezueLa, Viet Nam, yenen,
Yugoslavla, Zaire, zambla, Z lmbabre.

Unlted Stales of Aner ica -

Australia, Austria, Belgium, Burma, Canada, Dennark, Finland,
France, Gernany, Federal Republic of, fceland, Ireland, Italy,
Luxenbourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nonray, portugal-, Svreden,
Turkey. United fingdom of Great Britain and Northern lreland.

(b) Operative paragraph 3 was adopted by a recorded vote of 130 to none, with
6 abetentions. The votlng ras as follows: 5/

!/ Subseguently, the representative of
delegation should have been lecorded in favour
ab8tainlng.

Burma indicated that the vote of his
of operatlve paragraph 2 instead of

cabon indicated that his vote did not
favour of operative paragraph 3.

y Subsequently, the representaEive of
regigler and that his delegation had voted in



A/39/6s8
English
Paqe 7

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argenlina, Australiat
Austria' Bahanaa, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalani Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burrna, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Sociatist
Republic, Cameroon, central African Republlc, chad, chile, Chlna,
Colonbla, Conoros, Congo, Cuba, Cj4)rus, Czechoslovakia,
Denocratic Kanpuchea, Democratlc Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dorninican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Bquatorial cuinea, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, Gambla, cernan Denocratic Republic, chana, creece,
cuatenala, cuinea, cuinea-Bissau, cuyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, IndoneEia, Iran (Islamic Republic of)1
Iraq, Irelandr Ivory Coas!, Janaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kur.rait, Lao Peoplers Dernocratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Alab Janahiriya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozanblque, Nepal, Netherlands, New zealand, Niger, Nigeria,
Norvray, oman, Pakistan, Panafta, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philipplnes, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rrdanda, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri lanka, Sudan, Surlname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thalland, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunislar Turkey,
Uqanda, Ukrainian soviet Socialist Republic, union of soviet
Soclalist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United Republic of
Tanzania' Uruguay, venezuela, viet Nam, yenen, yugoslavia, zaire,
Zambia, Z imbabwe.

Against: None.

Abatalning: Canada, France, cermany, Federal Republic of, Italy, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
Amer ica .

{c) The retentlon of the concluding part of operaeive paragraph 12, beginning
, r'ith the r'rords "includlng information on", was adopted by a recorded vote of 116 to

none, wj.th 20 abslentions. Tbe votlng nas as follorrs:

In favour: Afghanistan, A19eria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, BraziI,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Fasor Burma, Burundj,,
Byeloruasian Sovlet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Centlal African
Republ ic, Chad, Chile, China, Colonbia, Conoros, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Clrprus, Czechoslovakla, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democra!ic Yenen, Djibouti, Donlnican Republic, Ecuador, Eglpt,
Equatorial culnea, Ethiopia, Fiji, cabon, carnbla, cerman
Denocratic Republlc, Ghana, cuatetnala, cuinea, culnea-Bissau,
cuyana, Haiti, Bonduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Irag, Ivory Coast, .tar0aica, .tordan, Kenya, Kuwait,

-^ Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
! Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, l4alaysia, Maldives, MaIi'

Mauritania, !,texico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,



A/ 39 / 658
English
Page I

Nen Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, Pakislan, Panama, Papua New
Guinear Peru, Philippines, Poland r gatarr Rornaniar Rwanda,
Sao Tone and Principe, Sauali Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinane, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thalland, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuniaia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukralnian soviec socialist Republic, Union of soviet
Socialist Republiee, Unlted Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzaniar Uruguay, venezuela, Viet Nan, Yenen r Yugoslavia, Zaire,
zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aqalngt: None.

Abstaining: Austria, Belgium, canada, Denmark, Finland, France, cermany,
Federal Republic of, Greecer lceland, Ireland. Italy, Japan,
Luxenbourg, Netherlands, Norpay, Portugal, Spaln, Sweden, Unlted
Kingdom of Great Britain and Nortbern lreland' United States of
Aner ica.

(d) The draft resolution as a rrhole, as orally revised, was adopted by a
recorded voEe of 137 to I (see para. t5, draft regolutlon III). The voting was as
follows 3

In favour: Atghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austrla, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin.
Bhuean, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria,
Burkina Fa6o, Burmar Burundir Byelorussian soviet socialist
Republic. cameroon, Canada, cenlral African Republic, Chad,
chile, chinar colornbia, Cornoros, congo, costa Rica, Cuba, C!?rus'
Czechoslovakia. Democratic Kanpuchea, Denocratic Yenen, Dennark,
Djibouli, Doninican Republic, Ecuador' Egypt, Equator ial Gulnea,
Ethlopia, Fljl, Finland, France, cabon, canbia, Gernan Denocratic
Republic, cermany, Federal Republic ofr Ghana r Greecer Guatemalat
cuinear cuinea-Bissau, cuyana, Haitir Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Irag, Ireland,
Italy, Ivory coast, Jamaica, ilapan, ,tordan, Kenya, Kuvrait, Lao
Peoplera Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberla, Libyan
Arab,tamahiriya, Luxenbourg. Madagascar, Malaysiar Maldives,
Malir Mauritania, Mexlco, Mongolia, Morocco, Uozanbique, NetrElt
Nelherlanda. New Zealand, N19er, Nigeria, Norway, Onan, Pakistan,
Panana, Papua Nen cuinea, Peru, Phillppines, Poland, Portugal.
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Prlncipe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra lJeone, singapore, sonalia, Spain' sri Lanka,
Sudan, Surinane, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thail.and, To9o,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey' Uganda, Ukrainian soviet
Socialist Republic, Unlon of Soviet SoclaIlst Republics, Unlted
Arab Enirates, United Kingdon of Grest Britain and NorEhern
Ireland, UniCed Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuelat
Vlet Nam' yenen, Yugoslaviar zaire' Zarnbia, zinbabne.

United States of Amer ica -AgaInst:



I
A/39 /658
Engllsh
Page 9

III. RECq{UENDATIONS OF THE THIRD CO|IIITTEE

15. The Thlrd Cotnnl tlee reconnends to the ceneral Assenbly the adoption of lhe
follouing draf t resoLutions:

DR.ATT RESOLUTI CN I

The General Assembly,

Recalling 1b6 ieEolutlon 3068 (xxvIII) of 30 November 1973, by whlch It
aalopted and opened for gignacure and ratification the International Convention on
the Suppression and Punishnent of the Crine of Agleig, and igs subseguent
resolutions on the status of lhe Convention,

Reaftlrning its conviceion that apartheid constitutes a total negation of the
Purposes and PrinclPles of the Charter of the UniEed Natlons' a gross violatlon of
hunan rlghts and a crlrne against humanlty' seriously threalening internatlonal
Peace and 6ecur ity,

Convinced that the inplenentation of the objectives of the Second Decade for
nction to conbat nacism and Racial Dlscrlmlnation Proclained by ita resolutlon
38/L4 ot 22 November 1983 and of the Progranme of Action adopted by the second
horld Conference to Conbat Raclsn and Rac1al Discriroination !t/ wfLL contribute to
the final eradication of g@E.lg and all other forms of racisrn and raclal
discr inination '

strongly condemning south Afrlcars contlnued policy of aparcheid and itg
continued lllegal occupation of Namibia, as r.rell as its repeated acts of aggression
agalnst sovereign Afrlcan States, rrhlch constltute a manlfest breach of
international peace and secur ity,

Condemning the contlnued coll,aboration of certain States and transnational
corporations wlth the raclst rfu1ne of south Africa in the Po1i.tical, economic'
nilltary and other fields aa an encouragement to the lntensificalion of its odioua
pol lcy of apar theld '

Underlining lhat the strengchening of the existing nandatory arms enbargo and
the application of comprehenaive nandaLory economic sanctions under Chapter vII of
che Charter are vltal ln order to compel the racla! r6glrne of south Africa to
abandon its policy of apartheid,

V Report
DlscrlminaLion.

Id
(Unl(Unlted Natlons publlcation'I

No. E.83.xlv.4 and corrlgendun) ' 
chap. II.

sales



A/39/655
English
Fage 10

Flrmly convinced that the legltlmate struggle of the oppressed peoples in
southern Africa against apartheid, raclsm and colonialisn and for the effective
itnplenentation of thelr lnallenable right to self-determlnatlon and independence
denands more than ever all necesa€ary supporE by the lnternational com0unity and,
in particular, further action by the Security Council,

Underlining that ratlfication of and accession to the Convention on a
universal basis and lhe implementatlon of its provisions Hithout any delay are
necessary for ils effectiveness and nould be a useful contrlbution towards
achleving the cornplete elininatlon of apartheid,

I. Takes nole of the relror t of the Secretary{eneral on lhe stalus of lhe
International Convention on the Suppression and Punlshnent of the Crime of
Apartheial? 1/

2. Connends those States partleg to the Convention that have aubnieted their
reporCs under article VII thereoft

3. ApPeals once again to tho6e States !ha! have not ye! done so to ratify or
!o accede to the Convention without further delay, ln particular those States which
have jurlsdlction over tranEnational corporatlons operating ln Soutb Africa and :
Namibla t 

^r
4. Expreases 1ts appreciat,ion of the conatructive role played by the Group -

of Three of the Commission on Human RighCs, established in accordance with
article IX of the Conventlon, in analysing the periodlc reports of States and i.n
publicizing the experl€nce galned in the internatlonal sEruggle agalnst the crine
of apar che id t

5. Calls upon aII States parties to the Convention to aalopt leglslative,
judicial and adninistrative meaaures to prosecute. bring to trial and punisb, in
accordance nith thelr Jurlsdiction, pergons responslble for, or accused of, the
acts enumerated in arEicle II of the Conventiont

6. Further calls upon States partles to the Convention to Bubnit their
opinions on the extent and the nature of tbe regllonsibilitsy of transnat.lonal
corporations for the contlnued existence of the system of apartheid in South Africa
and on the appllcation of article III of Ehe Conventlon to the activilies of those
corporations,

7. Requests the Conmission on Hunan Rlghts to intensify, in co-operation
nith the Special Conmittee against Apartheld, its efforts to conpile periodical,Iy
the progressive liat of individuals, organizations, instituti,ons and
represenLaEives of States deemed resEonsible for crine6 enumerated in article II of
the Convention, as well as those agalnst nhon or nhich Legal proceedings have been
under takeni

o

o

U 
^/39/460.



o
A/39/658
Engl ish
Page 11

8. Requests the secretary-General to diatribute the above-nentloned list
anong aII States partieg !o the Convention and all Member Sbates and to bring such
facts to the attention of the public by all neans of mass cofinrunication t

9. Appeals to all States, United Nations organs, specialized agencies and
international and national non-qovernmental organizations to step uP their
activities in enhanclng public ardareness by denouncing the crlrnes conrmi.tted by the
raclst r691me of South Africat

10. Requests the Secretary-ceneral Co intensify his efforts, through
appropriate channels, to dlssernlnate lnfornatlon on the Convenlion and its
implenentalion nith a viet' to pronotlng further ratlflcatlon of or accession to the
Conventiont

11. Requests the Secretary-ceneral to incLude in hls next annual report under
General AssembLy reEolution 3380 (XXX) of l0 November 1975 a special section
concerning the iftFlenentation of the Convention.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Stalus of the Internatlonal Convention on the ElininaEion
of AtI Forns of Racial Discrirninalion

The General Assernbly,

Recalling its resolutions 3057 (xxvIII) of 2 Novenber 1973' 3135 (xxvIII) of
' 14 December L971, 3225 (xxlx) of 6 Novenber L974, 338I (xxx) of l0 Novenber 1975,

3L/79 oE 13 December L976, 32/LL of 7 Not enber L977,33/LOl of 16 Decembe t L978'' 34/26 of 15 Novenbet L979' 35/38 ot 25 Novenber 1980, 35lfl of 28 october 1981'
37/45 ot 3 December 1982 and 38,/18 of 22 Novenber 1983,

Expressinq lts satisfaction at the entry into forcer on 3 December 1982, of
. the conpelence of the Comnittee on the Elinination of Racial Discrimination to

accept and to exanlne corTmunications fron persong or grouPs of persons under
' article 14 of the International Convention on the Elinination of AlL Forns of

Racial Discrimination' 8,/

I. Takes note of the report of the secretary-ceneral on the status of the
International Convention on the Elinination of AII Forms of Racial

. Dlscrininationl !/
2. Expresses its Batlsfactlon at Che increase in the nunber of states that

have ratlfied the Convention or acceded theretot

O 
y General Assenbly resolution 2106 A (xx). annex'

y A/3e /45e .



A/39/658
Engl ish
Page 12

3. Reafflrns once again itg conviclion that ratlflcation of or accession to
the Convention on a universal basis and implenentatlon of its provlsions are
necessary for the realization of the objectives of the Second Decade to Combat
I€cism and Racial Discrinination; 10/

4. Reguests those States that have not ye! becone parlles to the Conventlon
to ratify it or accede therecoi

5. Calls upon States parties to the Conventlon to consider the posslbitity
of making the declaration provided for In artlcle 14 of the Conventiont

6. Requests the Secretary<eneral to continue to submit to the ceneral
Assenbly annual reports concerning the status of the Conventlon, in accordance vrith
Assembly resolution 2105 A (XX) of 2I December 1965.

DR.AFT RESOLUTION III

Report of the Conmittee on the Ellminatlon of Racial Discrimination
The ceneral Assenbly,

Recalling its resolutions 38/2L of 22 Novenber 1983 on the report of the
Connj.ttee on the Ellmination of Racial Dlscriminat.ion and 39/_ of _ 1984
on the €tatus of the Internatlonal Convention on the Ellninatlon of All Forns of
Racial Discr lrnination, 11,/ as well as tls olher relevant resolutions on the
implementation of the programme of Action for the second Decade to conbat Racisn
and Racial Discrlnination, ry

Having considered the repor! of the Comnlttee on the Elinlnation of Raclal
Discrlnlnatlon on its twenty-ninth and thirtleth 6es6Lons, ry submltLed underaEtlcle 9, paragraph 2. of the International Convenlion on the Ellmlnatlon of All
Forns of ltac ial Dlscrlnination,

Enphasizing that it Is inportant for the aucceas of the struggle against alt
lnstances of racial discrimlnatlon, including vestigea and manifestations of lacist
ideologies wherever they exlst, that all Menber states be gulded in thelr lnternal
and foreign pollcles by the ba6ic provlEions of the Convention,

Lq/ See cenela.L Assembly resolution 3g/I4.

fl/ ceneral Assembly resolution 2f06 A (XXX) r dnlt€xr

LZl ceneE aL Assenbly resolutlon 38,/14, annex.

-ly offlcial Records of the ceneral Assembly, Thirty-nintb session,supplenent No. 18 {A/39/L8l

o

o



o
A/ 39 / 658
EngIIsh
Page 13

Bearing in mind the fact that the Convention 1s being inplemented ln different
economicr social and cultural conditions prevaiLing in individual SCaCes partie6.

Mindful of, the obligatlon of all States parties to compLy fuUy rrith the
Provislons of the Convention,

Anare of the lnportance of the contribution of the Comnittee on the
Ellmination of Racial Dlscrimlnatlon to the implementalion of the Progranrne of
Actlon for the Second Decade to Combat Raclsm and Raclal Discr irnination,

Taking note of the declsions adopted and the recommendations nade by the
Committee at its trrenty-ninth and thiltleth sesslons,

l. Takes noBe witEppree:ation of the report of the Comtittee on the
r1irn1nat'ioffiitstwenty-nlnthandth1rtiethsessions1

2. Stronqly condemns the policy of gPg!3lstd In South Africa and Nanlbia as
a crlrne agalnst hunanity and urges aLl Member States to adopt effective political,
econornlc and other measures in conformity vrith tbe relevant regolutions of the
General Assenbly, the security Council and other Unlted Nations bodies, in order to
support the legi.tlmate struggLe of the oppressed people of South Africa and Namibia
for their natlonal liberation and human tlignity, and Co secure the ellnination of
the raciat apartheid systen;

3. Notes with appreciation the report subnitted t'o the Comnlttee by the
United Nations Council for Namibia !L/ as the legal Administering Authority for
Nanibia until independence and encourages the Councll in lt6 determined endeavours
towards the elfuninatlon of apartheid from the Territory and the attainment of
independence of the peopLe of Namlblat

4. Corffnends the Conmittee for its cont!.nuous endeavours tordalds the
etlmtnatton-E@1giq in south Africa and Nanibia and of all form6 of
dlscrlnlnation based on race, colour, deacent or naeional or ethnic originr
irherever it exlsts,

5. Notes with appteclation the Comnittee's decision to partlclpate actively
in the inplementation of Ehe Prog ramme of Acclon for the second Decade to conbat
Rac lsn and Racial Discrlminationt

6. Requests the secretary{eneral to explore the possibilllles of lgEuing as
United Nations publicalions the two studies prepared by'Ehe conmiEtee on
articles 4 !t/ anA 7 lY of the Convention,

w cEPo/ c/ rollAdd . 7 .
rI,/ VcoNF.119,/lo .

at/ A/CotrE.LL9/LL.

o



^/ 
39/658

English
Page 14

7. lilelcones the efforts of the Committee ained a! the elinination of all
forns of discrimination agains! national or ethnic minorities, persons belonging to
such ninoritles and indigenoug populaglons, vrherever such discrinination exists,
and the attairunent of the fuII enjol.ment of their human rights through the
implementation of the principles and provisions of the Conventlont

8. welcones furEher the efforts of the Connittee aimed at the eliminatlon of
all forms of discrimination against rnigrant workers and Eheir faniLles, the
pronotion of their rights on a non-discr irnlnatory basis and the achievenent of
Eheir fuU equality, includlng the freedorn to maintain their cultural
character ist lcst

9. Calls upon all lilenber States to adopt effective legislativ€,
socio-economic and olher necessary measures in order to ensure the prevention or
elinination of discrimination based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic
oriqint

l-0. !'urther calls upon slates parEles Eo the Convention co protect fully, by
the adoption of the relevant leglslatlve and other measures, in conformity wifh the
Convention, the rights of national o! elhnic ninorities and persons belonging to
such minorities, as well as the rights of indigenous populationst

ll. Connends States partiea to lhe Convention on neasures Eaken to ensure,
rrlthin thelr jurisdlction, the avall-abllity of appropriate recourse procedures for
lhe victims of raclal discrimlnationt

L2. Rei.terates its invitation to the States parties to the Convention to
provide the Conmittee, in accordance with its general guidelines, with lnformation
on the inplementation of the provislons of the Convention, including infornation on
the demographic composition of their populatlon and on tbeir relations with the
racisb r6girne of South Africat

13. Cal1s upon the United Nations bodies concerned to ensure that the
Connittee is supplied with all relevan! infornation on all the Telrltorles to which
ceneral Assembly resolution 1514 (xv) of 14 December 1960 applies and urges again
the administering Porders to cG-operate with tbese bodies by provialing all the
necessary inforrnation in order to enable the conmittee to discharge fuUy its ir
responsibillt,ies under article 15 of the International Convention on the
Elitnination of Atl I'orms of Raclal Discriminationt

14. Appeals to tbe states parties to take fully into conslderation their
obligation under the Convention to submit thelr reports in due time,

15. Takes note of the deci8ion of the Conmittee lf/ to hold lts sesslon in
one of the-I?-r ic an countries at the appropriate tlme aiE' requests the

o

yJ See Official Records of the ceneral ABsenbly, Thirly-ninth Session,
Supplement No. I8 (A/39/f81, para. 593. o



^/39/ 
658

English
Page 15

Secretary-General to explore the possibililies and flnancial inpli.cations of
holding lhat session within the context of the Second Decade to Conbat Racisn
Racial- Discrimination and to inform the General assernblv and the Conmittee on
findings;

16. Requesta the Secretary-ceneraL to take the necesgary gEeps to ensure
wider publicity of the work of the Conmlttee, vrhich vrould facilltate its task to
inplement effeclively its functions under tbe Conventlon.

and
his




