








































UNITED
NATIONS

@
General Assembly D istr .

GENERAL

^/39/790 
/^dd.3

15 Decenber 19 84
ENGLI SH

ORIGINAI,: ARABIC/ENGLISH

Thirty-ninth sess j.on
Agenda item 80 (c)

DEVEIOPMENT AND INTERNATI ONAL ECONOI.,II C CO-OPERAT ION :
TRADE AND DEVELOPI,IENT

Report of the second conmittee (Part rv)

Raoporteur: Mr. Ahmed Alawi AI-HADDAD (Denocratic Yenen)

1. lNTRODUCTION

I. The Second Cofiunitbee held a substantive debate on iten 80 (see N39/'19O,
para. 2). Action to be taken on sub-item (c) was considered at the 53rd, 56th,
58th, 60th and 61st meetings, on 28 November and 6, I0 and 14 December 1984' An
account of the Corunittee's di,scussion is conCained in the relevant sunmaly records
(A/c.2/39/sR.53, 56, 58, 60 and 6I) .

II. CONSIDEFATTON OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/c.2,/39lL.3

2. By its decision 3A/437 of 19 Decenber 1983, the cenera]. Assenbly decided to
refer to its thirty-ninth session for consideration a draft resolution
(A/c.2/39/L.31 entitled "specific action related to the particular needs and
problens of land-locked developing countries", whi.ch read as follows:

"Ihe ceneraL Assembly

"Reiteratinq the specific actions related to the particular ndeds of the
Iand-Iocked developing countries stated in resolutions 63 (III) of

84-336s3 4s83P (E)



A/39/790/Add.3
English
Page 2

19 r'ray L972, y, 98 (tv) of 3I r,ray L976 2/ and 123 (v) of 3 June L979 3/ of.
the United Nations Conference on Trade and Developnent,

"Recalling the provisions of its resolutions 31/j-57 of 2l Decenber 1976,
32/l9I ot 19 Decenber 1977, 33/150 of 20 Decen cer 1978, 34/L9g of
19 December L979, 35/58 of 5 December 1980 and 36/:-73 of t? Decenber I98l and
other resolulions of the United Nations relating to the particular needs and
ploblens of land-locked developing countries,

"Bearinq in mind various other resolutions adopted by the General
organs and the specialized agencies, emphasizing special
favour of land-locked developing countries,

Assenbly, its related
anq urqent measures tn

"Recalling lhe relevant provisions of Lhe International Devetopment
strategy for lhe Third United Nations Developnent Decade, 4,/

"Recognizinq that the lack of territorial access !o the sea, aggravated
by remoteness and isolation frorn world markets, and the prohibitive transit,
transport and trans-shipnent costs itnpose serious constraints on the
socio-economic developnent of Land-Iocked developing countr ies,

"Noting with concern that the neasures taken so far in favour of
land-locked developing countries and the assistance given fall far short of
their needs,

"I. Reaffirrns the right of land-locked countries to free access to and
flom the sea and their right to freedom of transit through the territory of
translt States by all means of transporli

"2. Appeals to all States, international organizations and financial
institutions to implement, as a matter of urgency and priority, the specific
actions related to the particular needs and problens of land-locked developing
counCries envisaged in resolution 63 (III), 98 (IV), and 123 (V) of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Development, in the International Develolrnent
Strategy for the Third United Nations Development Decade, in the Substantial

!/ See Proceedings of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, Itrird Session, vol. I, Report and Annexes (United Nations publication,
Sales No. E,?3.II.D.4), annex I,A.

?/ Ibid., Fourth Session, vol. I, Report and Annexes (United Nations
publication, Sales No. E.76,II .D.I0 and corrigendum), part one, sect. A.

y lbj.d., Fifth Session, vol. I, Report and Annexes (Uni.ted Nations
publication, Sales No. E.79.II.D.14), part one, sect; A.

!/ ceneral Assenbly resolution 35/56, annex.



v39/79g/^dd.3
EngliEh
Page 3

New Prog ranne of Action for the I98oE for the least aleveloped countrles !i/ and
in othe!. relevant reaolutlons of the United Natlonsi

n3. glg aII donor countr iea 
' 

as neII aE others in a Positlon to do 60,
and the internatlonal organirations concerned, to proviile lanal-lockeal
tleveloping countrles wlth the appropriate ftnancial antl technical a3sistance
in tire forn of, gratrtE or oonceEsional 1oan6 for the conEtruction and
irryroveltrent of thelr translrort anal tranEit infrastructurea and facllities,

"'1. Urges also the lnternational connunity and nultilateral and
bllateral financial instltutlons to intenEify effortB in raiglng the net flod
of resources to land-Iocked developing countr ies to heLp offEet the adverse
effects of their atisadvantageous geographical situation on their econonic
developrnent effortE, in keeping nitb the overall developnent n€eds of each
Iand-locked developing country?

Invltes the transit countrlee to co-operate effectlvely eith the
Iand-locked developing countries in harrnonlzing transport planning andl
Promoting other jolnt v€ntures 1n the field of transport at the reglonal,
subreglonal anal bilateral, levels t

'6. Further invites the international comnunity to give financlal
suppor t to interested translt and land-locked developlng countrieE in the
construction of a.Lternative routeB to the seai

colMendq the United Nation6 Develolment Prog ratnme r the United
Nations Co6-f6E;GE on Trade and Develo5 nent lnd other United Nations agencies
for their rror k and the agsi6tance they have provitled to the land-locked
developir€ countrles andl invites then to continue to take aEpropriate and
effective meaaureE to reEpond to the speclfic needg of those countries,

i8. neco{Enend6 contlnued and intensifieal activi.ties relating to the
conducting of necessary studies and the inurlementation of special actions anal
action programles for the land-Iocked cleveloplng countrieg, inc1udlng thoge in
the area of economic co-operation anong developing countries, as well as those
that have been envlsaged ln the progranne of work of the United Nations
conference on Trade and Development, the regional corulissions and other
prog ramnes and activitieE at tbe reglonal and subregional level€,

'9. Reco mends to the United Natlons conference on TEade and DeveloFent
at its eixth saEbion, ln the light of the lack of progre66 nade in the
inplenentatlon of the resolutions adopted so far, to take further specific
actionE related to the particular needs and problens of land-locked developing
countr iesi

r10. I€queBts the Secretary-ceneral to Eubnlt to the ceneral Asernbly at
its thlltfelghth eeeeion a report on the progress nade ln the inplenentatlon
of the pregent r€aol,utlon. i

NationE Conference on thev
Par Oll€ I

t of the uni
tions publicatlon '



A/39/790/AAd.3
Enql ish
Paqe 4

3. At the 58th neetlng, on 10 December. 1i4r. Enrique de Ia lbrrea, viee-Chairnan
of the eonunittee, nade a statenent.

4. At the same meetinq , the representatlve of lgl introduced draft arnendments
(A/c.2/39 /L.L34 ) to draft resolution A/C.2/39/L,3, and orally revlsed Paraqraph 2
of the draft arnendments by substltutlng the word "adoptlonn for the wordnsigning", The revised draft amendments therefore read a6 follotts,

(a) rrn the firat prearnbular paragraph, delete the word 'and' before the
words 1123 (v) of 3 June 1979', and after thoEe $ords insert the rords 'and
I37 (vI) of 2 JuIy 1983';

(b) "Insert a ne$ preambular paragraph after the fourth Preanbu.lar
paragraph, readlng aa folloeEt 'Recalllng the adoPtlon, on l0 Decenber 1982,of the llhited Natlons eonventlon on the l.av of the Sear t

(c) 'Replace operatlve Paragraph I tryr the follonlng text;

Reaffirms the rlght of access of tand-Locked Eountries to and
fron the sea and freedorr of translt throuqh the terrltory of transit
states by all rneans of trangport, ln accordance with artlcle l-25 of tbe
United Nations conventlon on the Ia!, of the Sea'i :,
(d) "fn operative paragraph 2, delete the nord 'rnd' before the words

1123 (V)r. and after those nords lnsert the words 'and 137 (VI)"

(e) nfn operative paraqraPh 3, after the word rurqes" -replace the b'ords
rall donor countries, as well a6 others in a posltion to do Eo, and the
international organizatlons concerned' by the words 'all concerned countries
as lrell. as international organlzatlons'i

(f) nln operatlve paragraph 4. lnsert the rtord rallr before the words
t land-locked developinq countries r i

(s) nln operatlve paraqraph 5, after the words rlnvites the translt
countriesr, insert the uords 'and the land-locked developlng countries'i

(h) nrh operative paragraph 5 after the nord 'financlal" insert the
words I technical and otherri

(i) nrn op€ratlve paragraph 8, replace the rrord e tactlon programnes' by
the lrords 'specific rneasures' i

(j) "Delete operatlve paraoraph 9 and l0 and repl"ace them by the
followinq text:

19. Takes note of the report of the g1-Igg Group of Experts to
study h'ays and l,lean8 of fnprovlng Transi t-transport fnfrastructures and
Services for Lanil-locketi Developi no eountrJe6t



A/39 /790t/ldd.3
English
Page 5

tlo. Reduegts itember states to transrnit to the secretary4eneral of
the Unlted Natlons Conference on Trade and DeveloFment thelr views and
cor lents on the report of the Ad troc Group of Experts,

'Il. Requests the Secretary4eneral of the United Nations
conference on Trade and Develotrnent to auhnit to the General A6senbly at
Its fortleth seaslon a report on the seographical disadvantages of
land-locked clevelopl no countrjeE and thelr conaequenceE for the
developnent of those countriesr,"

5. At the sane neetinq. the repr€sentative of fndia rnade a statenent ln which he
suggested that paragraphs 2 and 7 of the draft amendments be refornulated (see
para. 4 (b) and (q, above)

5. The rePresentative of Paklstan also rnade a statement in \rhich he proposed that
Paragraph 2 of the draft amendrnents (see para, 4 (b) above) be revised to read as
follovrs:

"Recalllng the Unlted Nations eonventlon on the I"an of the Sea, adopted
on I0 Decernber L982,n

7. After inforrnal consultations. the representative of Nepal lnformed the
Comnittee that he accepted the refornulation of paragraph 2 of the draft amendnents
(see para. 4 (b) above) propoaed b,y the repreaentatlve of pakistan, and that
operatlve paragraph 5 of draft resolution VC.2/39/L.3 read as follows.'

".Invites tran€lt countries and the land-locked developtng countries to
co-oPerate effectively in hannonlzlng transport planni.ng and pronotinq other
joint ventures in the field of transport at the reglonal, subregional and
bilateral levelsr'

8. At the sarne neetlns, the comrittee adopted the proFosed amendnent to
paraqraph 3 of the anendments contalned tn A/C.2/39/L.134 (see para, 4 (c) above)
b,y a recorded vote of 85 to none, rtlth 29 abstentions. The votinq was as follows:

In favour ! Afghaniatan. ALqerla, Angola, Arsentina' Australla, Austrla,
Bahanas, Bahraln, Banq-ladesh, Eollvla, Frazil, Brunei Darussalan'
Bulgarla, Burklna Faso. Burna, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
nepubllc, Canada, eape verde, central Afrlcan Republic, e.hile'
china, Colonbia' costa Rlca, cuba, cyprus' czechosrovakla '
Denocratlc yenen, Doninlcan R€publlc, Ecuador, Fthiopia, Flnland'

.Gambla, Gernan De[Ktcratlc Republic, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Indla, Indonesla. Ivory Coast, .tanalca, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
I€o People I s Detnocratic Republicr Lesotho, Malah'1l. lralaysia 'ualdlves, uall, trraLta, lr.exlco, uongolia, Nepal, Nelr zealand.
Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, oman, Papua New Gulnea' Peru,
Philippines. Poland, Portugal, gatar, Rnanda, saudi Arabia.
singapore, Spaln, Sri lanka, Swazlland, sweden, syrian Arab
Republlc, lhalland, Togo, ttganda, Ukrainlan Sovlet Socialist
Republlc, Unlon of Sovlet Soclallat Republlcs, Unlted Arab
Enirates, Unlted Republlc of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
vlet Nam, tugoslavia, zaire. zarnbla and zitnbabwe.



A/39/790/Add.3
Enqlish
Paoe 5

@1E.!.! l,lone.

Ahstainlnq: Belqlun, caneroon, congo, Denrnark, Eqypt, France, Germany,
Federal Republrc of, Ghana, Greece, Iraq' rreland, ftaly, Japan,
Liber la, Luxenbourg, ltadagaacar, !4orocco. uozarnblque,
Netherlands. Nlgerla, Pakl6tan, Rqnanla, senegal' sudan, Trinidad
and Tobago, Turkey, thited Klngdoltl of Great Britaln and Northern
Ireland, United States of Atner ica and yemen.

9. The cofimi ttee then adopted the renainlnq draft anentlnents contaln€d in
docunent A/c.2/39/L.L34, as orally revi6ed.

10. At the same neeting, the cotunlttee adopted the draft resolution contalned in
docutnent A/c.2/39/L.3, as amended (see para. {1, draft reBolution f).

11. After the adoptlon of the draft resolutlon, staternents t ere nade blt the
representatives of Peru, Senegal, lraurltanla, Ilrkey, Llb€rla, tbuador ' the Unltedstates of America, Djihoutt, Canada, Ghanr, freland (on b€half of the states
lfenbera of the European Economic Comunlty), Flnland, the Congo, fndla' Algeria and
Brazil.

F. Dr aft resol.ntTon- A/e.2/39/L.4

12. By lts declslon 3812438 on 19 ttecet )er .1983. the General AEEenbly decided to 1
refer to its thirty-ninth session for conslderation a draft reEolution
6/e.2/39/L-41 entltted "Protectlonlsrn and structural adJustrnent"

13. At lts 56th neetino, on 6 Decernber r on the ProPos€l of
!{r. Enrlgue de la Torr€, vice-chairrnan of the comnlttee, the comnlttee decided to
recomnend that the General Asaenhly should refer to lts fortleth sesslon for
consideratlon the text of the draft resolution contalned in docunent VC.2,/39/L.4
(see para. 42, draft declsion f).

C. Dlaft resolutIon l,/C.21139llrl5

14. At the 53rd neeting, on 28 Novenber. the repregentative of gIE! lntroduced,
on behalf of the states uenbers of the United Natlons lthich are nenb€rs of the
Group of 77, a draft resoLutlon (A,/c.2/39/L.75) , entitled nEconomic neasures as a
tneans of political an<! econsnic coerclon against developlng countrles'.

L5. At its 56th meetlnq, on 5 Decenber, the conunlttee adopted draft resolution
A/c.2/39/L.75 by a recorded vote of IO2 to 19, h'lth 5 abatentions (see para. 41,
dr6ft resolutlon ff). The votino tras aE followgs 6,/

9/ The representative of the Llbyan Arab itanahlrlya lndicated that, had his
deJ.eqation been preaent at the tine of the rrote, he tould have voted ln favour of
the draft resol utlon.



v39/790,tld,d.3
English
Page 7

In favoun Afghanlstan, Albania, Algeria' Angola. Arsentina' Bahatnas'
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana.
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria' Burkina Faso' Burtna,
Byelorussian Soviet Soclalist Fepublic, carneroon, Cape
verde, central African Republlc, Chile' chlna' eolombia'
conqo, euba, cyprus, ezechoslovakla, Democratic Fampuchea,
Denocratic yenen' DJibouti, Doninican Republic, Ecuador '
EqyPt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambla. Gerrnan Democratlc R€public,
chana, Guyana, lfonduras' Itunqary, fndia, fndonesia' fran
(Islanic Republic of), fraq. Jordan, Kenya, Kuwalt, I,ao
Peoplers Denocratic Republic. Lesotho, Liberia. uadaqascar '
talaysia, t4aldives, tall, laalta, tr,lexico, lbngolla, !,Jorocco,
l4ozanhique, NeF€l, Nlcaragua, Niger, NiqerJ.a' ornan.
Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraquay, Peru, Phil ipplnes,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rr.randa. saint christopher and NevJs,
saint tucia, sao Tone and Plincipe, saudl Arabia, seneqal'
Slnqapqls, sonalia. sri Lanka. sudan, syrian Arab RePublic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago. Tunisia, Uqanda,
Ukralnlan Soviet Socjalist Republic. Union of soviet
socialiBt Republics, United Arab Emlrates, Itnited Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezueLa. viet Natn' ternen.
ugosLavla, Zalre, zambla, Zlmbabwe-

Aqainst: Australia, Belgium, eanadar De nark, France, Gernany.
Federal nepublic of, fceland, Ireland, fsrael, Italy, ,tapan '
f,uxenbourg ' Netherlands, New zealand' 

Noreray' PortuqaL.
?urkey, Unlted Kingdorn of creat Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Abstalning! Austria, Finland, creece, Ivory Coast, Spaln, Sweden.

16. After the adoptlon of the draft resolution, staternents were made W the
representatives of turkey. Sweden, Austrla, Irortuqal, Israel, freland (on behalf of
states nenbers of the European Economlc comnunity) and JaPan.

D. Draft resolgjion A /C.2/39/L,.7E
17. At the 53rd neeting, on 28 Novenber, the representative of Eg]Eg introduced '
on trehalf of the 6tates !.{etnbers of the United Nations which are nenbers of the
Group of 77, a draft resolution lNc.2/39/L.76), entltled "Developtnent aspects of
the reverse lransfet of technolodyn.

t8' At the 58th tneeting, on 10 December, Mr' Enrique de Ia Torre' vice-chalrnan of
the Connittee nade a statement.

19, At the sarne neetlng, the representatlve of Eqypt (also on behalf of the states
l4brnbers of the Unlted Natlons whlch are members of the Group of 77) nade a
statenent.



A/391790/Ada.3
Enqltsh
Page 8

20. At the 50th neetlnq, on 14 December. the Cormlttee adopt€d draft resolutlon
VC.2/39/L.76 by a recorded vote of 105 to 2t (€ee para. 41, draft resolution
III!, The votlnq waa as follower /

tn favour: Afghrnlatan, Algeria, Anqoh, Arqenttna, BaharEs, Bahrain,
Bangladeah, Barbados. Benin. Bhutan, Bolivia' Boeswana,
Brazll, Brunei Darus€alern, Bulgarla, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Byelorueelan goviet Socialist Republlc, Cameroon, C€pe
verde, central African Republlc, Chlle, Chlna, eolonbia,
corgo, cuba, Czechoelovakia, Dernocra t ic yenen. Dominican
Republlc, Ecuador. Eglpt, Eguatorlal cuinea, Ethiopia,
Gambia, Gernan Denocratlc Republic, Ghana, cuinea, Guyana,
Haitl, Fonduras, Hungary, fndla, tndoneaia, frag, tvory
coast, Janaica, Jordan' f,enya, Rurrait, Lao People's
Denocratic Rerrublic, I€banon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
.tanahl r iya, Itadaga 6car, ualawl, lralaygla, lraldives, i4al i,
li4alta, Uauritanla, llexlco, l.rongolia, l,foroeco, lrozamblque,
Nep.l, Nlger, Nlgerla, onan, Paklstln, Panama, Papua Net{
Guinea, Peru, Philipplnea, poland, oater, Rornsnia, Sao Torne
and Princlpe, Saudi Arabia, senegal, Sierra leone,
slngapore, sonalla, Srl Lanka, Sudan, Surlnane, suaziland,
Syrlan Arab Republic, Thalland, Toqo, trinidad and Tobago,
ltnisla. frrkey, UgandA, Ukrainlan Sovlet Soclallat
Republlc, Itnlon of Sovlet Soclallst Repubflcsr l?nlted
Fepubllc of Tanzanla, Uruguay, Venezuela, viet Nam, yenen,
yuqoslevla. zalle, zanbla, Zlntubwe.

Aqainst: Australla, Austrla, Belqlun, eanada, Denmark, Finland,
Prance' Gertnany. Federal Republlc of, Greece, Irelandr
ftaly, ,Japan, Luxefibourg, Netherlands, Ner.r zealand, Norway,
Portuqal, Spaih. Sweden, United Klnqdon of Great Britaln and

. Northern freland, Unlted states of Anerica.

Absta 1nllrg, None.

2I. After the adoptioh of the draft resolutlon statements Here nade by the
replesentatlves of Ireland (on b€half of th€ States nenbers of the European
Economic connunlty), the cernan Dernocrattc Republic (also on behatf of Bulgarla,
the Byeloruseian Sovi€t soclallst nepublic, Czechoslovakla, Fungary. i,rongolia,
Dolrnd' the Ukralnlan Soviet soclallst Republic and the Union of Soviet Socialist
nepublicsl , the Unlted States of Anerlca, Flnland and Canada.

Y subsequently the representatives
had thcir delegatlons been preaent at the
in farrour of thc draft resolutlon,

of Djibouti and Nicaragua stated that,
tlne of the vote' they r'ould have voted



v39/790/Add.3,
EngI ish
Page 9

E. Draft resolutlon l/c. 2/39lL. 80

22. At the 53rd meetinq,
introduced, on behalf of

on 28 l'lovenber, the representatlve of z initlabve
ia,

Rwanda, Sornal ia, srraz l land and , a draft resolutton
e Trade Area and Southern African

Statesr. which read as follorrs:
nThe ceneral Assembly,

"Recallinq lts resolutlons 3362 (S-VII) of 15 Septerntr€r 1975 on
developrent and international co-operation and 36,/180 of 17 December 198I,
callinq upon the internatlonal conununl ty to adopt a trlde ranse of speclaL
neasures for the socjal and econonic develotrnent of Afrlca ln the 1.980s'

"Recal.Iinq aLso lts resolutlon 37/139 of 17 Decernbe r 1982, in which it,
inter alia, called upon donor Governnents, organg, organizations and bodles of
the Unlted Nations system to provlde substantlal resources for promotl ng the
accelerated developlent of Afrlcan countrles and the effectlve inplernentatlon
of the Iagos Plan of Actloh for the Inplenentation of the lronrovia Strategy
for the Economic Developnent of Afrlca g,/ and the Flnal Act of Lago9. 2/

'rAppreciating in this regard the establishnent of the Preferentla.L Tra(te
Area for Eastern and Southern African States ln Decenber 1981.

"Notlnq the rapld progress nade in the reduction of tarlffs among nenb€r
State6 to stinulate gro$th and develolnent in the area ln the launching of
clearance and palments arrangenent€ and ln the measures taken to intenglfy
co-operatlon anong rnenber states ln the agricultural, industrlal, educatlonll,
cultural and other sectors. wlth a vlew to creatlnq an econonic cofirnuni ty of
the eastern and southern African states by the year f992,

Reque6t6 donor coverrurents to provlde substantial financlal and
technlcal assistance to the Preferentlal Trade Area for Eagtern and Southern
Afrlcan States to accelerate ita dev€lolnent lnto an economlc cor nunltyt

resources available to the Preferential Trlde Area fron lts reqional
lndicative plannlno flqures on an urqent hasl6t

calls upon all lnternatlonal financlal jn6tltutions, partlcularly
the ttorld Bank, the Ihternatlonal Develolnent Assoclatlon, the fnternatlonal
Fund for Aqricul.turaL DeveloFment and the African Developnent Bank. to provifle
inulediate asslstance to the Preferential Trade Area,

A/S-II/14, annex !.

&!!, , annex rr.
v
2/



v39/790ft,d.d.3
Engllsh
Paqe 10

"4. Invltes the organa, organlzations and bodles of the unlt€d Nation6
systetn to take into aocount ln thelr nork programnes asslstance to th€
Preferential Trade Alea t

"5. nequests the secretary{enerel to r€port to the General Asaenbly ai
its fortieth acsalon oh the irnplencntet J on of the Present resolutlon.'

23. At the 56th rneetlnq, on 6 Decetnbcr, on the proposal of
ur, Enrique de la Torre, Vice-Chainnan of the co|rnlttee. the co nlttee decldcd to
recoomend that the ceneral Assenbly ahoultl refer to lta fortieth seEsion for
con8lderation the draft reEolutlon contrlned in docurnent A"/C.2/39/L.8O (see
para, 42, draft declslon fl).

F. watt teEotuttgnE A/c.z/39/L.e2 ang_A/c.2/19/l:!!
21. At the s3rd tneetlng, on 28 t{ovetnber, th€ rcpreaentatlve of ELp9 lntroituced,
on behalf of the stateg ifernbers of the Unlted Natlona whlch are nenb€rs of the
Group of 77, a draft re8olution (Vc.2/39/L.82), entltlad rActlon programa ln
favour of tsland developing countrl€sr, shlch r€ad as follon6,

rTfie ceneral Assembly,

'RecaLllnq the Declantlon and the ProErarune of Actlon on the
Establlshtnent of a New fntcrnetlonal Econdtlc order, conta lned ln its
reaolutlona 3201 (S-W) and 3202 (s-rE ) of I u-.y Ir97{, the Charter of Econd|tlc
Rlghts and Duti€s of States, contrlned tn lts resolutlon 3281 (XXIX) of
12 Decenber 197{, ltB re5olutlon 3362 (S-wIt of 16 s€ptenher 1.975 on
develor nent and lnternatlonal. econonlc co-opcratl on and the fnt€rmtionel
Developrent Strategy for the tbird unlted Natlons Developnent Decade,
contalncd in the annex to lts reaolutlon 35,/56 of 5 December 1980'

"RecaLl lng aleo ita resolutlenB 31,/156 of 2t Decenbe t 1976. 32/Lgs of
19 December 1977, 34/203 of 19 Decenber 1979, 35/6I of 5 December 1980 and
37/206 of 20 Decenber 1982, relatlnq to the spcclal needs and problem6 of
island developlnq countrles,

iReiterltlnq the progrlror€ of apeclflc actlon ln favour of ialand
developinq countrieB envlsaged in resolutlons 98 (Iv) of 31 nay 1976, W

See Proceed of the ted
' Fourth seaslon, vol. I, ReFort and Annqxea (ftntted Nationg, saLe6 No. 8.76.fI.D.10 and c.orrigendun), Part oi€, sect. A.

y/



v39/790/AdA.3
Engltsh
Pace 1l

111 (v) of 3 .Tune LgTg &/ and 138 (r{I ] of 2 ,tuly 1983 E/ of the untted
tdatlons confererice on friAe anal Develofnent,

'Recoqnlzlnq the dlfflcult probletnE faced by island develo'Ping countriea'
tn parttcuta" ttto"e whlch suffGr hanatlcapa duc esPeclally to thelr EmallneaE'
renoteness, vulnerabllity to natural disasters, conetralnts ln transPort'
great dlgtances frdn narket centree, a hlghly limlted lnternal narket, lack of
natural resources. heaw depenilenoe on a fer' c@rcditles, shortage of
a&nlnlstratlve personnel and heaqt flnanclal trurdeng,

"irlndful of the f.ct that urqent ard addltlonal efforts are need€d to
inplenr6it the- spectf lc tncasurea requlred to aasist island developlng countr lea
ln offsettinc the tnajor handlcaPs whlch retard thelr develoFnent Proceaa'

nl. Reaffirns lts resol.utlon 37/206 and other relevant resolution€ of
the Untted Natlona and of the unlted Natlons conference on Trade and
DevelofEnt, end cal.ls for thelr lmtedllte anal effectlve lnpl ementa t ion,

Takesnoteofth€notebythesecretary{encralonneasuregtakenhy
the internEEl6ial corcnunlty and recdm€ndatlons for future actlon ln favour of
Lsland developinc countriesr f!r/

!L/ Ibfd., Flfth seaslon, vol.
Fubllcatlon. Sales No. 'E.79.It.D.1'l) '

t. Retprt and Annexes (Ithtt€d Nations
part one, aect. A.

n3. E(preasee ltE apFreclatlon to all states and orqanizatione whlch
haoe fact liled th" irnPlenentf,llon of resolutlona ln favour of island
developlnq countr les t

llotes rrlth concern that sdne stateE and lnternational organlzatlona
ha?e not yet resp.nded posftively to th€ action Prograane ln favour of lslan'l
developlng countrteat

Requests the secretery{encral to aeek the vie$E of rePreaentatlveg
f.*, lglanE-leveloplng countrles and other intcrested countriea ln orderr

'(a) To review the lnplementatlon of the Proqrame of sPecific actlon ln
favour of lEland developlng countrleat

'(b) To propo€e further concr€te BPeciflc action6, taklng into account
the etudles undertrken thus fart

ry ryfi. ' slxth sesslon. vol. t, ReEort end Antlexea 
(ttntted Natlona

public.tlon. sales No. 8.83.II.D.6). Prrt one, 3ect. A.

P/ V3e/463.



A/39/790/ld.a.3
Engllsh
Page 12

calls upon all States and lnternatlonaL organizatlons and financial
instltutlons to intensify efforta to lnplenent speciflc actlona in favour of
island developinq countrles in acc.ordance hrith the relevant resolutions of the
United Natlons and of th€ Unlted Natlons Conference on Trade and Developnent t

Reguesta the cdnpetent orqans and organizatlons of the ttnited
Nations systen, ln particular the reqlonal- conmlssions, to take adequate
neasures to respond positlvely to the partlcular needs of island developinq
clountries t

Fequest6 the Unlted Natlons Conference on Trade and Devel opnent to
Pursue further its role, not only aa a focal poJnt for specific action at the
global leve1 ln favour of island developing countrles but also as a catalyst
in thls regard. ilter alia by organizing and facllltatino cross-regional
interchange of inforrnation and experience,

Invltes the lrnited Natlons DeveloFnent Programte to give support to
the Unlted Nations Conference on ?rade and DeveloFent, the regional
coflfltissions .nd other conpetent United Nations organlzation8 ln itnPlementing
this and other relevant resolutlonst

'10. Requests the secretary+eneral. in co-op€ration nith the organs'
orqanizations and bodlee of the United Natlons system, to organize a follorr-up
neetlng to the lnterreglonal borkshop hetd ln Salnt Vlncent and the Grenadines
in Novernber 1983. with the partlcipatlon of representatlveg of l€land
developlnq countrles and other interested countrlest

nll. Also requests the Secretary<eneral to report to the ceneral
Assenbly at lts forty-first ses6ion on the rneasur€s taken by the lnternational
comnunlty to respond to the apeclflc needs of laland developlnq countries. as
called for ln this and other relevant re€olutlons of the United Natlons, and
to recounend further approprlate actlons to permlt the Assernbly to undert.ke
at that sesslon a conprehenslve revJew of the problems and need6 of the lsland
developino countrles.'

25. A staternent by the Secretary-ceneral on the progranne hudget irnplicatlons of
draft resolutTon A/C.2,/39/L.82 r.rae clrculated in docunent A/c.2/39/L.7AL.

26. At tts 56th neeting, on 6 Decenber, the comnittee had before it a draft
resolution (A/C.2/39/L.LI4 ) entitled "speclflc rheasureg in favour of lsland
developing countriesi, submltted by ur. Enrlque de la Torre. Vlce-Chairman of the
Cqnnittee' on the basls of lnforrnal conaultationa held on draft resolution
A/c.2/39/L.82.

27. The Connittee was lnforrned that d6ft resolution A/C.2/39/L.II4 had no
pEogramne budget inplications,

28. At the aame neetillg, the @mnittee adopted draft resolut lon A/C.2/39/L.LL1
(see para. {1, drafe resolutlon fv).
29. tn the llght of the adoptlon of tlraft reaolutlon VC.2/3|/L.1:4, draft
reaolution A/C,2/39/L.82 h'as wlthdrawn by tt sponsorE.



v39/79o/!d,d.3
Etqllsh
Page 13

c. gr8ft resotutlon arc
30. At the 53rd tneetino, on 28 l.tovernber, the representatlve of Bqypt introduced,
on behalf of the States uenbers of the Unlted Natlons whlch are rnenb€Es of the
croup of 77, a draft resolutlon lA/c.2/39/L.84) , entltled nunlted Nrtiong
conf€rence on condltions for Regtstration of ShlPs".

3I. A statenent b'y the secretary-ceneral on the progratme budget inpllcatlons of
draft resolutton A/c.2/39/L.84 tras circulated in docunent Vc.2/39/L.100.

32, At lts 56th meetlnq, on 6 December, the cotmlttee adopted draft resolutlon
1y'c.2/39/L.84 (6ee para. 41, draft resolutlon vl .

33. After the adloption of the draft reaolution, the representative of the [tht ted
States of Arnerica nade a statenent.

lt, Draft rcsolutlons MC.2/39/L.L09 and A/e.2/39/L.l4L

34. At the 56th neetinq, on 5 Decemher, the representatlve of IgIg! tntroduced, on
behalf of the states !.4ernbers of the Unlted Natlons which are nembers of the Group
of 77, a draft resolutTon (Me.2/39/L.109) , entltled "RePort of the Trade and
Develolrnent Boaral of the United Natlons Conference on Trade and Develotrment', tthich
read as follotrs:

nThe General Assenblv,

"Recalllnq ltg resolution8 3201 (s-vr) and 3202 (s-vr) of I l|ay 1974,
contatnTf t]re Declaratlon and the Prograrore of Actlon on the Establlabtnent of
a New Internatlohal Econonic order, 328t (xxlx) of 12 Decenber 1974,
containlng the Charter of EcononJc Rights and Duties of States, and
3362 (S-VII) of 15 septenber 19?5 on develoFnent and international econqnlc
co-operation,

'Recalllng further lts reaolutlon 38,/155 of 19 Decenber 1983,

'Recosnlzing the urgent need for reversing the uorsening sltuation in
internFional co-operatlon for development and, ln partlcular, its detrlnental
effects on developl ng countries,

Takes note of the report of the Trade and DevelopEnt ltoard on the
nork of fts ttoenfrfqhth, thtrteenth sPecial and tltenty-ninth scsalonst ![,/

14l Offlclal. Records of the
l, vol.E. f and If.



A/39/790/Add.3
English
Page 14

Notes that the ?rade and DeveloFnEnt Report, 1984, 15,/ was of
particular valu€ to Governnents in the useful debate on the interdependence of
prohlens of trade, developnent, flnance and the internatlonal monetary systen.
rthich took place at the tnenty-nlnth session of the Trade and DeveloFnent
Boa rd ,

n3, Calla for early and futl ltnplenentation of the nork progranme on
protectionlsn and structural adJustnent adopted b'y the Trade and Developrnent
Board at its twenty-eighth sesslonr !q,/

'4. !re develop€d countries to undertake action to elinrinate forthnith
the restrictive rneasures lncompatible with their international conmitments,
including those on standstlll and roll-back, and to dra$ up a prograrnne, to be
conpleted vrithin a certain tirne timit, for the elinlnation of protectionlst
measures' including subsidies on non-cornpetitive products, h'hich adversely
affece the trade of developing countriest

Reafflrns the need for stability ln the generallzed system of
preferences, and ca.Lls upon preference-qivlng countries to ensure contlnulty.
inprovenent and broadenlng of their generalized syetem of preference schemes
and to avoid the introductlon into the system of dlscrininatory neasures,
lncludlng those applled under the concepts of graduation and reciprocityi

"5. Affirns the inportance for the developrnent of developlng countrles
of their attaining self-reliance in the sector of servlces, and cal1s uFon the
United Natlons Conference on Trade and Develoltnent to assist thern in this
regard;

"7. Etphasizes the ursent need to accel.erate the flow of financlal
resources, in partlcular concessional financlal flows to developing countrlea,
on an assured, contlnuous and predlctable basls, so as to reach
lnternationally agreed talqets, for the developed countries to respond
favourabl.y in reqard to fundlnc supplenentary to the seventh replenishment of
the fnternatlonal Developnrent Assoclatton, and to take concrete rneasures to
stop and reverse the net transfer of resourcea fron developlnq to developed
countries;

Ca1ls upon the internatlonal conununi ty to urqently address the debt
problems of developinq countrles, taklng lnto account the agreed conclusions
of the Trade and Developrnent Board at its twenty-eight sesslon on the revie$
and the itnpletnentat ion of the agreed features for future operations relatinq
to the debt probletns of developlno countriesr 17,/

15,/ UT.ICTAD/TDV4, vols. I-III, to be issued as a United Natlons publication.

16./ official Records of the ceneral Assenb1v, Thlrty-ninth Session,
Supplenent No. 15 (F,/39n5'), vol. I, sect. rI.A. resolution 286 (XXWII) .

L7/ rbid., resolution 288 (xxvIII),



A/39/790/Add.3
English
Page 15

"9. Takes note of Trade and DeveloPnent Board decision 297 (xxlx) of
21 sepcember 1984, conceEning further work in the fleLd of trade relations
among counCries having different economlc and social systens and all trade
flows resultlng therefroni l8l

"10. Reiterates the importance of holding a sesslon of the Trade and
Developnent Board at the ministerial level in lhe autunm of 1985 and, in this
context, looks forward to the successful outcome of the consultations to be
held in accordance with Trade and Development Board decision 30I (xxlx) of
2l Septenbe! L9ea; !!11

"lI. stresses the need for urgent action to increase the comrlotllty exPort
earnings of developing countries and urges all Governments to exPedite the
implenentation of the rntegrated Progr artrne of conunoditles through, inter alia'
the achievement of concrete and positive results at the sessions of the
Coffnittee on Commodities in 1985 and at the fourteenth special session of the
Tlade and Development Board, which will be convened to consider coffnodity
natters, in accordance with resolutions 156 (vI) and 157 (VI), adoPted on
2 July 1983 by the United Nations conference on Trade and Developnent at its
sixth session; 20,/

"12. Reaffilns its strong support for ttle Agreernent Establishing the
Cor non Fund for Conunodities, and urges all States that have signed but not yet
ratified, accepted or approved the Agreernent to e:(pedite the necessary action
to that effect, and strongly urges all statea that have not yet signed and
ratified the Agreenent to do so without any further delay so that the Conmon
Fund nay becone operational i

"13. calls upon all countries to exert every effort to strengthen
international economic co-operation by adopting and implementing the neasures
necessary for attaining reactivation of the developnent process of the
developing countries and for dealing with structural problens in the global
econony, and reiterates the continuing inportant role of the United Nations
conference on Trade and Development in this regardi

"14. Enphastzes that the developed countries, ln accordance lrith relevant
regolutions of the united Nations conference on Trade and Development r ahould
follow policies to facilitate structulal adjustnentr taking inco account an
equicable international division of labour i

f9/ Ibid., vol. II, sect. B.

I9l rbid.

r Proceed of the United
No. E. .I1.D.6), pa!t one'

t tion '



A/39/790/Add.3
Engli sh
Page 16

"15. Requeats the lrade and Developnent Board anal the subsidiary organs
ot the United Nations Conference on Trade and Developnent to take the
appropriate necesaary action on the resolutions and decisions adopteal by the
conference at its sixth session."

35. At the 5lst meetlng, on 14 Decenber, Mr. Enrique de Ia Torre, Vice-Chairnan of
the conmitteer orarly introduced a draft resorution, as a resurt of i.nfornal
consurtations on draft resorution A/c.2/39/L.LD91 which was subseguently reproduceal
in docunent A/C.2/39/L.L4I.

36. At tbe sane meeting' staternents were nade by the representatives of rndla, the
Philippines and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republlcs.
37. Also at the sane neeting, the Conunittee adopted draft resolubion
A/C.2/39/L.L4I (see para. 41, draft resolution VI),
38. Atter the adoption of the draft resolution, statenents r,rer e tnade by the
representatives of the ukrainian soviet socialist Repubtic (arso on behalf of
Bulgaria, tbe Byelorussian soviet soclarist Republlc. czechoslovakia, the cernan
Denr@ratlc Repubrrc' Hungary, ltongoLia, poland, and the union of soviet socialistRepubrics' Egypt (on behalf of the states Menbers of the united Nations which are
me rbers of the croup of 77) and Canada.
f9. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/3L/L.I41, alraft
resolution A/c.2/39/L.L09 r,{as vrithdrawn by its sponsor.
40. At the 60th rneeting, on 14 f,i€cenber, on the proposal of the Chairrnan, the
corunittee decided to recomnend thab the ceneral Assembly shoulal take note of the
note blt the secretary-cener at on progress in che imprenentation of special action
related to the particurar needs and probrems of the rand-lockect developing
countries (A/39/462 and Add.r) and the report of the secretary-ceneral on the
status of the Agreement Establishing the comrnon Fund for conmoditie8 lA/39/Lg2\(see para. 42, draft decislon III).



v39/790/AAd.3
English
Page 17

III . RECO!,O4ENDATIONS OF TEE SECOND CCI.IMITIEE
4r. The second cormlttee recorunends to the cenerat Assembly the adoption of thefolloring draft re€olutiong!

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

The ceneral Assenbly,

Relteratinq the Epecific actlona relateal to the particular neeals of the
land-Iocked developing countries stated in resoLution8 63 (III) of
l?_!ray 1972, L/ 98 (rv,, of 3l l{ay 1976, ?21 123 (V) of 3 June LgTg E/ anaf37 (\/I) of 2 JuIy L9S3 24/ of the Unlted Natlons ConfeEence on Trarte and
Developnent,

. Recallinq the provislona of ita reeolutlons 3L/L57 of 21 Decenber L926,
32/L9L of 19 Decenber L977, 33A50 of 20 Decernbe r Lgl8, 34ngS ot
19 Decerober L979, 35/58 of 5 Decenber 1980 and 36/L75 of 17 Decetnber r98r and
other regolutions of the united Nations relating to the particular needs and
Problens of land-locked developing countries,

Pgarinq in rnlnd various other resolutlons adopteal by the General
Aasen JIy, its related organs and the specialized agencies, ernphasizing Bpecial
and urgent measures in favour of lancl-locked aleveloping counti les,

Recallinq the relevant provleions of the Internatlonal Developnent
Strategy for the Thlrd Uniteal Nationa Developnent Decade, ?:j/

_ Recallinq the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, aalopted on10 Decernber 1982,

3ll Proceed
.D.4), annex I.A.

. -_p/ 
Ibid., Fourth Sesslon, vol. I, Report and Annexes (United NatlonE

Publlcation, Sales No. E.76.II.D.lO ana corrfgenaunl , part one, 6ect. A.

, -,ry ,Ibig., Fi.fth seggigg, vgl. I, Report and Anner.es (united NaEionspublicatlon, sales No. E.29.II.D.14), pai t-5 l1ect. l.

. -.3!/.Ibld., Sinth s€ssion, vol. I, Report and Annerces (united Nationspublication, sales No. E,83.rr.D.5), parE-onEl-Ele t. e.

:9/ Resolutlon 35/56, annex.



N39/790/A&t.3
EngLlBh
Page 1.8

R€cognlzlng that the lack of territorlal access to the Eea, aggravated by
renoteness and lsolation froin.worlit markets, and the prohibitlve translt,
transport and tran8-ahlFlent coBt6 i4rcre serious conatralntE on the
Bocio-economic develolfient of lanal-lock€d develoPlng countr ieE t

Noting rith concern that the neasurea taken so far in favour of
tana-tockea aevetoptng countriea and the a8Eistance given f,all far shor t of
tbeir needs,

I. Reaffirms the rlght of aecesE of land-Iocked countries to and frdr
the sea and freedon of tran6lt through the territory of translt States by aII
neans of transport, ln accordance wlth atticle 125 of the United Nations
Convention on the Law of the Seat

Z. A!4!eale to all states. international organizationg and flnancial
institution6 to implernent, as a natter of urgency anal Priority. the slrecific
actlona relateal to thc particular needs and Problens of land-Iocked develoPing
countrie6 €nvisaged in resolution 63 (III), 98 (IV) ' 

123 (v) and 137 (VI) of
the unlted Natl,ons conference on Tr ade and Develotn€nt, ln the International
Develotrment strategy for the lhlrd unlteil Nations Develolnent Decade ' Zrl 

Ln
the subatantlal Nqt ProgramF of, Act ion for tbe 19808 for tbe least ileveloped
countries 29/ and ln other relevant reaolutlons of tbe Unlted NatlonEi

3. !l!E aU concerned countriesr as s€ll a6 international
organizations to provide land-Iocked developing countriee wltlr the al)I'rqtriate
financlal anal technlcal aEaistance ln the form of grants or concesgional loans
for the construction and inprovenent of their transPort and tranait
inf raatructures and f acilitieat

4. urqes also the intatnatlonal cotmunlty and nultllateral and
bi.Iateral financlal lnstltutlons to intenai.fy ef,f,orts ln raislng the net flot
of resources to aU land-lockeal developlng countriea to help oftset the
adverae eff€cts of, thelr disadvantageous geographtcal altuatlon on thelr
econonic develoPtEnt efforta, tn keePlng with tb€ overall develoPnent needs of
each land-locked aleveloping countryt

5. hvltes translt countrieE and the lanaFlockeat developing countries
to co-operate--fiectively in harmoniztng transPort Plannlng and Promoting
other Joint venturea in the fleld of transport at the regionalr Eubregional
and bilateral levele,

6. Further lnvttes the international coflmunity to glve flnancial.
technical and other suppor t to interested transit and land-locked ileveloPi'ng
countries in the conEtruction of alternative routes to the aeat



A/39/790/A.jrl..3
English
Page 19

7. coninenai the Uniled Nations Develotrnent Progratnme, the United
Nations Co;fe-E;A on Trade and Developnent lnd other Uniteat Natlons agencies
for their work and the assistance they have provlded to the land-locked
developing countries anal invltes thern to continue to take appropriate anat
effective measures to regponal !o the Epecific,needs of those countrieai

8. Recqnnends continued and intenstfled activltieE relating to the
conducting of necessary studles and the inplementation of special actlon8 and
Epeciflc measures for the Land-locked aleveloplng countries, including those ln
the area of economlc ceoperation arnong developing countrieE, aE well as tho8e
that have been envisaged ln the prograrune of rrork of the United Natlons
Conference on Trade and Developnent, the regional comli.EEions and other
Prog rafiunes and activltieE at the regional and Eubregional levelgi

9. lakes note of the report of the Ad goc croup of Expert6 to Study
Ways and l|eans of Improving Trangit-transport Infrastructures and Services for
l,and-Locked Developing Countr iea i

10. RequeatE Menicer states to transmit to the secretary-G€neral of the
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development their views and cdnEnta ql
the report of the Ad ltoc Group of Expert6i

II. Reque8t6 the Secretary-General of the United Natlong Conference on
Trade and Development to submit to the ceneral Asaenbly at its fortieth
session a report on the geographlcal disadvantages of land-locked developing
countries and their consequences for the developnent of tho6e countries.

DRAFT RESOLIJTION II

The General Aaaenbly t

Recal.llnq the relevant principles set folth in the Charter of the United
Nabions,

Recallinq also its resolutions 2625 ixxvl ot 24 october 1970, containlng
the Declaration on Princlple€ of International Law concerning Ar ienau,y
Relationg and Co-operatlon alrcng States in aceordance with the Charter of the
united Natlons, 3201 (s-vl) and 3202 (s-vl) of I May 1974, contalnlng the
Declaration and the Progranne of Action on the Establishnent of a Nefl
International Econqric Order, and 328I (XXIX) of 12 Decenbe t ].974, contalning
the Charter of Econonic Rights and DutieF of States,

Reaffirning artlcle 32 of the Charter of Econoollc Rlghts and Dutie6 of
State6, which declarea that no State nay use or encourage the use of econoraic,
political or any other type of neasures to coerce another State in order to
obtain from it the subordination of, the exercise of its sovereign right6,



N39/7eO/Add.3
EngIish
Page 20

Bear ing in nind the general principles governing international trade and
trade policies for developrnent contained in its resolucion 1995 (xIX) of
30 December 1964, resolution 152 (VI) of 2 ,IuIy 1983 of the United Natlons
Conference on Trade and Developnent 27 entitled "Rejection of coercive
economic neasures", and the princlples and rules of the General Agreement on
Tariffs and Trade and paragraph 7 (tii) of the Ministerial Declaration aaloPtetl
on 29 November 1982 by the Contracting Partie€ of the ceneral Agreefirent on
Tariffs and Trade at their thirtfeighth aes6ion, 3!/

Reaffirninq its resolution 38/197 of 20 Decenber 1983,

Taking note of the report of the secretary-General on the adoPt ion and
effects of econornic measures taken by developed countr ies as a neans of
Political and economic coercion against aleveloping countrj.es, 29,/

Gravely concerned that the u6e of coercive neasures adversely affects the
econonies and development effortg of developing countries and thatr in sotne
cases' those measures have rrorgened, creating a negative inpact on
international econonic co-operation,

t. Deplores the fact that some developed countr ies contlnue to apply
and, in sorne case6, have increased the 6cope of economic measures that have
the purpose of exerting coerclon on the soverelgn decisions of developing
countries subject to those measureEi

2. Reaffirns that ateveloped countrles should refrain fron threatening
or applying trade restrictions, blockades, enbargoes and other economic
sanctions, incornpatible with the provisions of the Charter of the Uni.teal
Nations and in violation of undertakings contracted nultilaterally or
bilaterally, against developing countr ies as a forn qf political and economic
coercion which affects their econonic, Political and social develoPnenti

3. Requests the Secretary-ceneral to prepare a cornprehensive report on
che economic neasures mentioned ln parag raph 2 above, raken by developed
countries for coercive purposeg, incluallng their lmpac! on international
economic relations' vrith a view to aasisting in concrete internatj.onal actlons
against those measures, and to subrntt that report to the ceneral Assenbly at
its fortieth sessioni

!i/ see vy of the Uni on Tr ade and
E 9!, vol. I, R

Part one, sec
publication,

Sales No. E.

Zzjl See General Agreenent on Tariffs and Trade, Basic Instruments and
Sqlecied Documents, Supplenent No. 29 (SaIe6 No. cATf,/1983-I), doctaent L/5424.

?2/ A/3e/4L5.



A/39/7e0/Ad,d.3
Eng 1i sh
Page 2I

_^_^-1. . -AIso 
regugsts, the secretar.y-General, ln preparing the corq)rehensiverePorE, to request further conments fron covernnents and to use inputs fromconpetent organizations of the united Nations system, particurarly the unrtedNations conference on Trade and Developnent 

"rri- 
tn" regional conunissions;

^ - :. 
Appeal? to coverrunents to provide the necessary lnformaClon to theuecretary-ceneral, as requested in paragraph 4 above.

DRAFT PESOLUTION III

The General Assemblv _

Recallinq its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S_lrt) of I l4ay J-924,containing the Decraration and the prog ranune of Achion on the Estabrishrnent ofa Netr International Econonic order, 3A6I (xXIx) of IZ Decembe r Ig74.containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, 3362 (S_uI)of t6 septenber t9?5 on developnent unO i"t"in"tional econonic '"o_ope.itiorr,35/56 of 5 Dece$ber 1980, the lnnex to wnictr contains the rnternational
Development strategy for the Ehird United Nations Development Decade, anit allrelevant resolutions concerning the reverse transfe! of Lechnology,

convinced that the search for durable solutions to the problem of thereverse transfer of technology requires the full participati;n of all partiesconcerned,

:. Tales. nole of the report of the Inter-Agency croup on ReverseTransfer of technorogy, 30/ covering meetings hetd at Genevi on 22 March and12 and 13.JuIy 19841

^ ?. 
TaFes note also of the outcome of the second Meeeing of covernmentalExperts on the Reverse Transfer of Technology, f!/ held at Geneva fron27 August to 5 septenber I9O4i 

rt' =

- Requgsts the secretary-cener ar of the united Nations conference onTrade and Developrnent to convene the requisite meetings of governmentalexPerts on the reverse ttansfer of techriology, a6 provided for in GeneralAssembly resolution 3g/L54,

!9/ A/39/397, annex.

supei#ntT:. on,



A/39/790/Add.3
English
Page 22

32/ see Pr
Fourth Session, , I,

of the United Nat
t10n,

No. E.76,ILD.l0 and cor !, part one, sect. A.

33,/ Ibid., Fifth session., voI. 11 Repor t and Annexes (United NaLions
publication, Sales No. E.79.II.D.14), part one, sect; A.

2!l/ abLd., sixth session' voI. I' Repor t and Annexes (united Nations

4. Invites the secretaly-General to undertake intensive consultations
with aII Governments Hith a view to obtaining their full Participatlon in the
meetings of governmental experts on the reverse transfer of technologyi

5. Requests the Trade and Development Board to include, in its rePort
to the cenEiEI-IEEenbIy at, its forlieth sessLon, a section on the outcome of
the Third Meetlng of Governnental Experts on the Revetse Transfer of
Technology i

6. Requests Lhe Secre lary-General to convene further meetings of the
fnter-Agency Group on Reverse Transfer of TechnoLogy and to reporC on the
resulls of those neetings to the General Assenbty at its fortieth session.

DR,AFT RESOI,UTION IV

specific neasures in favour of island developing countries

The General Assenbly,

Recalling the Declaration and the Progranne of Aclion on the
Estabiishment of a Ner, International Economlc order, contalned in its
resolutions 32OI (S-W) and 3202 (S-VI) of I May 1974, the Charter of Econonic
Rights ancl Duties of statea' contained ln its resolution 3281 (xxlx) of
12 December 1974. its resolution 3352 (S-VII) of 16 sePtember 1975 on
developnent and internatlonal econonic co-oPeration and the International
Development Strategy for the T:hird Unileal Nations DeveloPnent Decade 'contained in the annex to its resolution 35,/55 of 5 Decenber 1980'

Recalling also its resolutions 31,/156 of 21 December L976. 32/La5 of
19 pecernber Lg'17, 34/205 of 19 Decenbet L979r 35/6L of 5 Decernber 1980 and
37/2o6 of 20 December 1982, r€Iating to the sPecial needs and problems of
island developing countr ies,

' Reiterating the caII for speciflc action in favour of island developing
countries contained in resolutions 98 (Iv) of 3I uay L976, 22/ Itl (v) of
3 .lune 19?9 9 "rrd 

138 (VI) of 2 \tuly L983 2!ll of the United Nations
conference on Trade and Development.

publication, sales No. 8.83.II.D.6), part one, sect. A.



A/39/790/Add.3
English
Page 23

Recoqnizing the difflcuLt problelns faced by islandl develoPing countries.
in particular those which suffer handlcaps du€ especially to their smallnesst
rernoteness, vulnerability to natural aligasters, constralnts ln transPort,
great distances from narket centres, a highly llnlteal internal market, Iack of
natural resources, heavy dependence on a few comodltleE, shortage of
administrative personnel and heavy financial burdents,

Mindful- of the fact that tlmely addllional efforts are needed to
implei?iTTe specif ic neaaures required to assist i€lanat tleveloping countr ies
in offsetting the major handicapa uhlch retard their alevelopment process,

l. Reaff irms its resolution 37/206 and other relevant resolutions of
the United Nations and of Lhe United Nations Conference on Trade and
Developnent, and calls for lheir itmedlate and effective lroplenentationi

2. Takes note of the note by the secretary-General on neasures taken by
the international conmunity and recqnrnendatlonE for future action ln favour of
islanal develbping countries; 35,/

3. Expresses its appreciation to all Statea and organlzations which
have facilitated the implementation of reaolutions in favour of igland
developing countr iesi

4. Notes wlth concern that the specific neaaures envigaged in the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations andl the Unlteal Nationa Conference
on Trade and iDeve).opnent, incluallng Confer€nce reaolutlon 138 (VI) r have not
yet been fully implenented and call6 upon gtates and international
organizations to respond posltively in this regaralt

5. R*luests the secretary-General of the unlted Nations conference on
Trade and De\ielopmen!, in co-operatlon wlth Governnents and reglonal and other
conp€tent institutions' to continue the prog ranne of in-depth stualles of the
comlton problems of island economl.es and of the constrainta inhibltlng their
econonic glowth and developnent carried out by the €ecretarlat of the United
Natlons Conference on Trade and Development, rith a view to proposing concrete
specific actions, taking into account, j!!]!-!ig, the geographical factors'
lraditional island life and lnstitutions, the phyeieal environtnent'
development pr-iorities and the problens of island develoPlng countries ln the
internaEional,economyi

6. A]so requests the secretary-General of the unlteal Nations conference
on Trade and Development to seek the views of the rePresentatives of island
developing countries and other intereEted countrlea on the lmplernentation of
the specific measures ln favour of island tlevel-oping countries, taking into
account studies undertaken thus far and the studie6 envisaged in paEagraPh 5
above i

!/ ^/39/463.



^/39/79o/Add.JEnglish
Page 24

7. Calls upon aII States and lnternational organizations and financial
instituti.ons to intensify efforts to imple[ent specific actions in favour of
isLand developing countries in accordance with the relevant resolutions of the
United Nations and of the United Nationa Conference on Trade and Developmenti

8. Requests the corE)etent organs and organlzatlons of the united
Nations systen, in particular the reglonal comnissions, to take adequate
neasures to respond positively to the partlcular needs of island developing
countr ies i

9. Requests the United Natlons Conterence on Trade and Development to
pursue further its role, not only as a focal point for specific action at the
global level in favour of island ateveloping countries but also, where
necessaryr as a cataly6t in this regard, lnter alia, by organizing and
facilitating cross-reglonal interchange of infornration and experience in fu11
co-operation with reg ional and subregional organizationsi

I0. Requests tbe conpetent organizations of the United Nations systen,
in Particular the United Nationa Conference on Trade and Dev€lopnent, the
Uni.ted Nations DeveloFEnt Programe, the United Nations Industrial
Developnent organization and the United Nations Capital Developnent Fund, to
take adequate measures in order to respond positively to the particular needs
of island developing countr ies t

II. Request.s the Secretary-ceneE aI, in co-operation wilh the organs,
organizations and bodies of the Unlted Natlons system, to explore the
possibility of organizing a follorr-up neeting to the interregional ryorkshop
held in Saint vincent and the GEenadines in Novernber 1983. vtith the
palticipation of representatlveg of lEland developing countries and other
interested countr ies;

12, Also requests the Secretary-ceneral to report to the ceneral
Assenbly a! its forty-first session on the neasures taken by the international
community to respond to the Epecific needs of island developing countries, as
called for in this and oeher relevant resolutions of the United Nations, in
ordel to pernit the Assenbly to undertake at that session a comprehensive
review of the problems and needs of the isLanal developing counlries.

DNAFT RESOLUTION V

The General. Asse$bly,

Recal'ling its resolution 37/209 of 20 Decenber L982. by which it decideal
to convene the united Nations Conference on Conditions for Registration of
Ships,

United Nations conference on conditions for



A/39/790/Aad.3
Engl ish
Paqe 25

Taking note of the note blr the Secretary-ceneral on the united Nations
Conference on conditions for l€gistration of Shipe, ]!/

Notj.ng that lhe Conference adopted on 3 August 1984 a resolutLon, ?f-/ by
whicb it took note of the slgniflcant progresE achieved towards the
preparation and adoption of an internatlonal agreement on conditions for
registration of ships and recognized that there is a need for a resumed
session of three weeksr duratlon in order to cot0plete ltg work,

I. Endorses the regolution adopteat bn 3 August 1984 by the united
Natj.ons Conference on Conditions for Registration of Ships, 37 and decides to
convene a resumed session of the Conference to be held at Geneva frd{i
28 January to 15 February 1985i

2. Requests the Sbcretary-General of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Developrent to nake aL1 the necessary arrangements for holding the
resuned session of the Conference.

DRAFT RESOLUTIG{ VI

Report of the Tr aale anal Developnent Board [of the United
Nations Conference on Trade and Developmentl

The General Assenbly

Recalling its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) anal 3202 (S-W) of I !,tay 1974,
containing the Declaration and the Prog ralone of Action on the Establishlent of
a New International- Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of t2 D,ecembe r L974,
containing the CharCer of Econonlc Rights and Dutles of States, and
3362 (S-VII) of 16 Septenber 1975 on development and lnternational economic
co-oPeratidr,

Recalling further its reEolution 38/155 of 19 Decenber 1983,

Recognizing the need for reverslng the negative trentls ln lnternational
co-operation for developn€nt and, in particular, their detrinental effects on
developing countr ies,

Iccognizing also the irnportance of acbieving a suatained norld econonric
recovery, in particular the reacti.vation of the economies of developing
countries, and ensuring rapid expansion of international trade that is
supportive of econonic Aronth and developnent, in partlcular that of
developing countr ies,

w 
^/39/5s8.

3'1J/ fbLd., annex I.



M39/790/^e.3
English
Page 26

1. Takes note of the report of, the Trade and Develo[ment Board on the
vrork of its twentfeighth' thlrteenth EPeciaI and twenty-ninth sessionsi f!,/

2. Ele that the Traale and DeveloPnent RePort, L984, 321 was of great
interest to Governnents in the valuable debate on the interalependence of
problems of trade, d€velopment, finance and the lnternational nonetary system,
rrhich took place at the trenty-ninth seaBion of the Trade and Developnent
Board i

3. g:Llg for early and full irplementation of the work progranme on
protectionism and Etructural adJustnent adoPted by the Trade and DeveloPnent
Board at its twenty-eighth sessiont ll9l

4, calls upon the international comnunity to continue to address, in an
adequate ana appropriate ![anne! r the alebt problerns of devel-oping countriest
taking into account the agreed conclualons of the Trade and Develoixnent Board
at its twenty-elghth eeeElon on the review of the inPlementation of the agreed
features contained in (Board) resolution 222 $Xrl of 27 Septenber 19e0 $/
and in pursuance of resolution l6t (vI) of 2 JuIy 1983 of the United Nations
conference on Trade and Developm€nti g/

5. Take6 note of Trad€ anal DeveloFf,ent Board declsion 297 (xxlx) of
2l septernber 1984, concerning further nork in the fleld of trade relatlons
anong countriee having different econornic and social systerns and all trade
flows resulting therefrorni 43/

6. welcomes Trade and Devel.oFnent Board declslon 301 (xxlx) of
2I septemb€r L981, &l in nhich the Board requested the Interim coflmittee to
report to the Board at its thtrtieth sesaion with a view to the taking of a
decision to hold the ninl6terial Eesslon in the autunn of 1985 anal, to this
end, lnvltes all GovernnentE to exert efforts to ensure the succesaful outcorne
of the consultationsi

p official
supplement No.

igl UNCTAD/TDR / 4, vol6. I-IIII to be issued as a United Nations publication.

jlgl official RecordE of the General Asaenblv, Itrirty-ninth session'
Supplement No. 15 lrJ39/L5',, vol. I, sect. II.A, resolution 286 (xxvIII).

!! Pt of the Unlted Nations Confer
vo

.D.6) 
'

4r/
t.

OI|€ rpart

9j/ see qf!19&l Eegglqs ol thg



A/39/790/A'dd.3
English
Page 27

7.__ Expresses iLs concern at the current state of corlunodity narkets, and
urges aII Governnents to expedite the implementation of the Integrated
Progranme for Conunod ities through, inter alj.a, positive and constructive
decisions at the sessions of the co.tIEIEE-6i conmodities in 19g5 and at Lhe
fourteenth special session of the Trade and Development Boardi

8. Reaffirns the inportance of the Com on Fund f,o! connoditj,es, and
urges aJ-I States that have not yet done so to sign and ratify the Agreement
establishing the Fund h'ithout any further delay so that the Corunon Fund would
become operationali

9. Calls upon all countries to exert every effort to strengthen
i.nternational econonic co-operation by adopting and implementing the measures
necessary fo! revj.tatization of the devetopment process of the developing
countries and for dealing with structural problerns in the global econorqg, and
reiterates the conti.nuing inportant rore of the united Nations conference on
Trade and Devel-opment in this regardi

L0. RequesCs the Trade and Development Board and the subsidj.ary organs
of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Developnent to take the
aPProPriate necessary action on the resolutions and decisions adopted bv the
Conference at its sixLh session.

42. The Second Corunittee also reconnends to the
lhe following draft decisionss

General Assembly the adoption of

DRAFT DECISION I

Protectionj.sm and structural adj ustrnent

The General Assenbly decides to refer to its fortieth session for
consideration the draft resolution entitted "protectionisn and structuraL
adjustnent" . 44,/

DRAFT DECIS]ON II

Preferential Trade Area for E4qtern and Sou@iggstates
The General Assenbly decides to refer to its fortieth session for

consideration the draft resolution entitred "preferentiar T!ade Area forEastern and Southern African State6", 45/

g
ry

Alc.2/29/L.4.

A/C.2/39/r,.80.



A/39/790/^ad.3
Engf ish
Paqe 28

DFAFT DFCISION III

The General Assenbly takes note of the note by the Secretary{ eneral on
progress in the irnplernentat ion of specific action related to the particular
needs and problems of the land-locked developing countries 46/ and the report
of the Secreta ry-G€neral on the status of the Agreenent Establishinq the
comnon Fund for comrnod ities. 47l

46/ A/39/462 and Add.I.

47/ A/3e/r92.




