








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/3s/'tts 'l l';lrl '! 'a-
13 Decen rer 1984
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: ARABIC/ENGLISH

Thirty-ninth session
Ag€hda item 12

REPORT OF THD

Report of the

ECONOMTC AND SOCIAL COU}€ IL

Second Comnittee (Part I) *

Rapporte ur: Mr, Ahme d Alawi AL-HADDAD (Denocratic yenen)

I. INTRODTETION

L. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 2l September 1984, the ceneral Assenbly, on the
recorunendation of the ceneral Conmittee, decided to include in the agenda of its
thirty-ninth session lhe item entitled:

rrReport of the Econonic and Social Council:

'l (a) Report of the Council,

" (b) Reports of the Secre tary-C€nerali

" (c) Report of the United Nations High Commissioher for Refugees".

At the same neeting, the Assenbly decided to allocate to the Second Corunittee
chapters of the Councilrs report I/ which, in accordance with ceneral Assembly
resolution 34/212 ot 19 December 1979, were considered under the relevant items of
the agenda lsee A/c.2/39/It. The Asserbly al.Iocated subitem (c) to the Third
corunitcee.

* The reFrort of the Conrnittee on this iten will be issued in three parrs.

y A/39l3 (Parts f and II). Rl be issued subseguently as Official Records
of the ceneral Assembly, Thirty-ninth Session, Supplenent No. 3 (py'39/31 .

84-3318I 0254P (E)



A/ 39 /7 89
English
Page 2

?. In the context of iten 12'
questions:

the second corunittee considered the following

(a) Pernanent sovereignty over nacional resources in the occupied Palestinian
and other Arab t er ri torie s t

(b) Assistance co the Palestinian peoplel

(c) @nsumer Protectiont

(d) InternaLional Conference on fbpulalion, 1984t

(e) Exchange of infornation on banned hazardous chenicals and unsafe
pharmaceutical productsl

(f) Transport and cofiununications Decade in Africat

(s) Confidence-building in international econonic relationst

(h) special neasures for the social and economic development in Africa in the
198 0s t

(i) Economic comnission for Africa! regional programning, oPerations'
restructuring and decentral i zation issuest

(j) Proclanation of a transport and connnunications decade in Asia and the
Pacific t

(k) Repor t of the conunission on Transnational corporations on its reconvened
special sess ion t

(1) world confererce on Fisheries Managenent and Developmenti

(m) l,for Id population situation in 1984.

3, The Second Corunittee considered this iten at its 28th to 33rd, 38th to 41st
anal 54th to 56bh neetings, on 30 and 31 october, L,2' 9, 13, 14 and 30 Novenber
and 6 Decenber 1984. An account of the discussion of th€ comnittee is contained in
the relevant summary records (A/c.2/3g /sR.28-3 3, 38-4I and 54-56) ' Attention is
also drawn to lhe general debate held by the connittee at its 3rd to l5th meetingst
on 5, 8 to 12, 15 and 16 October (A/e.2/39/SR. 3-I5) -

4. For its consideration of the iten, the corunittee had before it the fouowing
documents:

(a) Repor t of the Econonic and Socia1 council on the work of its
organizational session for 1984 and its first and second regular sessions of 1984
@739/3 (Part r), chaps, rrr (sect6. D, F and G) ' Vrrr and 

rx (sects' B, D, E



P{39/789
English
Page 3

and Q)t and A/39/3 (Part II)r chaps. I, II, IIr (sects. C and E), IV (sects. A,
B and D), VI (sects. C and E) and VIII) r 7

(b) Report of the s€cretary-c€neral on the further inplementatlon of G€neral
Assenbly resolution 37/214 ( / 39/97-WL984/591 t

(c) I€tter dated 9 February 1984 fron the Pernanent Representative of tbuad or
to the United Natlons addressed to the Secre tary-ceneral, transnitting the text of
the Quito Declaration and PIan of Actlon agreed to at the Latin Anerican Economlc
ConfererEe, held at Qulto on 12 and 13 ,January L9g4 (A/ 39,/LL8-E/19 84 / 45) |

(d) Report of the Secretary-ceneral on Ehe world potrrlation situation in 1983
(A/3e/L2s-V1984/3s, ,

(e) tetter dated 15 !,larch 1984 fron the chargd drAffaires a.i. of the
Pernanent Mission of Bangladesh to the lrnited tibtions addressed to the Secretary-
General, transmiltirg the reports, resolutiohs and final declaratlon adopted by the
Iburteenth Islamic Conference of Fore!.gn MlnlEters, held at Dhaka fron 5 to
1I Decenber 1983 (A/ 39/L3ys/L6 4L7l t

(f) I€tter dated 29 March 1984 from the permanent Representative of France to
the United Nations addressed to the secretary-General, transtnitting the text of the
declaratlone adoPted by the l4lnieters for tbreign Affairs of the 10 States rnenbers

) of the Europ€an Econotnic Conununi ty lA/39/L6Ll t
(9) Report of the Secre tary-Ge neral on the Tranq)ort and Conununications

Decade in Africat inplementatlon of C€neral Assenbly resolution 38/I5O lA/39/223't,
(h) RePor t of the secre tary-ce neral on asslstance to the Palestinian people

(A/39/265-E/L984/7 7 and Md.I) t
(i) I€tter dated 21 !,lay 1984 from the pernanent Representatlves of Argentlna,

Brazilr Colombia and Mexico to the United !.lations addressed to the Secretary-
General, transnittirq the text of the Declaration issued on f9 !,lay 1984 by the
Presidenbs of those countries (A/39/269-E/I984/IO2, ,

(j) Note by the Secretary-cenera 1, transmitting the progreEa report of the
Eeculive secretary of the Economic comnission for Africa on the lnplenrentation of
the Prograrnme for the Transport and Communlcatione Decade in Afrlca lA/39/ 27L-
E/1984/981|

(k) Repor t of the Secre tary-Ge neral on the Transport and Cbmnunlcatlons
Decade in Afttea lA/39/27 2-E/L994/99) ,

(I) Repor t of the secre tary-c€neral on apeclal mea8ures for the social and
econornic develolxnent of Afrlca in the 1980s (A/39/28FE/L984/LO7 and Add.I)t

| 2/ rbid.



A/39/789
English
Page 4

(m) Report of the secre cary-ce nera 1 on the exchange of information on banned
hazardous cherni.cals and unsafe l*larnaceuti.cal products (A/39/29o-E/ I98a/L2ol t

(n) I€tter dated I June 1984 from the pernanent Representative of Israel to
the United Nations addressed to the secretary-c*neral, transmltting a rePort
entitled ",Judea-samaria and the caza District - A sixteerFyear survey" (U39/295-
E/I954/L24 and Co! r .1) t

(o) I€tter dated 12 June 1984 from the Pernanent Representatives of
Arg€ntina, Brazil, Colombia r Ecuador, l,bxico, Peru and venezuela to the thited
Nations addressed to the Secre tary-ce neral, transmlttirg the text of a
corununication addressed to the Heads of State or covernment of the countries
participating in the London Sunrnit I',leetirg (A/ 39/ 3OyE/ 19 S4 A25) t

(p) Report of the secretary-General on conf idence-bui ldi ng in international
economic relations (A/39/3I2-E/L9 84n 0 6 and Corr.l and Add.l and 2) t

(S) Report of the secretary-ceneral on pernanent sovereigmty over nationat
resources in the occupied Palestinian and other Arab territories
(^/ 39 / 32FE/ L98 4 / LILI t

(r) I€bter dated 26 ilune 1984 fron the representatives of Argentina, Bolivia'
Brazlll Chile, Colonrbi a r the bminican Rep.rblic, Ecuador, lhxico, Peru, Uruguay and
venezue!.a addressed to the Secr€ tary-ce neral, transmittirtg the text of the
cartagena Consensus signed by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and the l,linisters
of Finance of those countrles on 22 ,tune 1984 at Cartag€na, Cotorntria
(^/ 39 / J 3L-E/ L9 84 / 12 6l I

(s) L€tter dated 5 July 1984 from the Pertnanent Representativ€ of Jordan to
the United ldations addressed to the Secretarf ceneral concerning the letter
contained in document A/39/29?E/L984/L24 (A/39/ 347-E/Lg84 A321 ,

(t) I€tter dated 20 JuLy 1984 froh the Permanent Representative of Israel to
the United Nations addressed to the Secre tary-ce neral concernirg the letter
contained in docurnent A/ 39 / 3 47-E/ 19 84 / 13 2 lA/ 39 / 35 6-E/ L9 84 / LsIl t

(u) I€tter dated 14 August 1984 from the representatives of Bolivia,
colonrbia' Ecuador' Nicaragua, Panama, Peru and venezuela to the Urited lilations
addressed t'o the Secre tary-Ge neral (A/39/4O7r,

(v) I€tter dated 16 Auguat 1984 fron the PenEnent Representative of
Guatemala to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-C€neral (A/39/4Ia, I

(tr) Report of the secretary-ceneral on products harmful to health and
environnent (A/ 39/ 4521 ,

(x) Repor t of the Secre Cary-ceneral on assistarEe to the Palestinian people
(A/39/474 and cor r.1) t



A/39/789
English
Page 5

(y) L€tter dated 5 Septemlcer 1984 fron the Pernanent Representative of JaPan
Co the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Cje nera I (A/39/4771 t

(zl L€tter dated 3 October 1984 from the permanent Representatives of
Argentina, Bolivia, BraziI, Chile, colornbia. the fbnlnlcan Republlc, Ecuador,
Mexicor Peru, Uruguay and Venezuela to the tnited lihtions addresaed to the
Secre tary-ceneral, transmittlng tie text of the Mar del plata Cornmunlqu6 (A/39/SS1,' I

(aa) Report of the Secretary-ceneral on the Ihternational C.onference on
Population, L984 (A/ 39/ 5591 t

(bb) I€tter dated 15 Oc tober 1984 from f}le pernanent Itepresentative of
Nicaragua to the tnited Nations addressed to the Secretary-@nera1, transnitting
the repor t of the Rapporteur and other documents of the Third Conference of
Uinlsters of Iabour of lbn-Aligmed Countries ahd Other Developing Countries, held
at Managua fron 10 to 12 May l9e4 @/ 39,/ Sgt-S/L67gZ and Corr.I) t

(cc) Ietter dated 16 October 1984 fron the pernanent Representative of the
Sudan to the Unlted Nations addressed to the Secre tary-cenetal (4,/39,/590 and
Corr .l ) t

(dd) L€tter dated 5 Decenber 1984 frorn t}le pernanent Representative of the
German Dernocratic Reprblic to the United l,htions addressed to the Secretary-General

) 
(^/39/763-s/L684el r

(ee) Report of the secre tary-c€nera I on consumer protection (E/L983/7I, I
(ff't Report of the Oommission on Transnational Corporations on j.ta reconvened

speclal session (11-29 June 1984) (E/I984/g/Add.2,,,

(SS) I'lote verbale dated 25 Septenber 1984 from the Pernanent Representative of
Poland to the Unlted Nations addressed to the Secretary-ceneral, transmitting the
text of a working paper of the covernment of poland on confidence-bu il,ding in
inter nationat economlc relations (A/ C. Z /39/ 2l t

(hh) l:Iote by the Secretariat, transmitting the report of the FAO Vtbrld
ConfererEe on Fisheries !,lanagement and Developnenx (Nc.Z/i9/6),

(ii) L€tter dated lO fttober 1984 from the Permanent Representative of fsrael
to the United Nations addressed to the Secre tary-ce neral (NC.Z/39/71 |

(jj) Note by the secretary-cen€ral containing the corunents of coverrunent on
the draft guidetines for consumer protection (A/C.2/99/L.2,,.

5. The Connittee held a general discussion on this iten at its 28ti to 32nd
meetings' held fron 30 oc tober to 2 l,lovember (see a/C.2/39/SR.28-32).

6. At the 28th meeting, on 30 fttober, statements were nade by the Secretary-
G€neral of the International Conference on popul.ation and by the Executive

)



^/39/789English
Pag e 6

secretary of the Ebononic and soclal coffinlssion for Asia and the Paciflc (see
A/c.2/39/SR.28l .

7. At the 29th meetlrlg, on 3I october, the Executive Director of the united
Nations centre on Transnational Corporatlons tnade a statement (see A/c.2/39/5R.30').

8. At the 3lst rneetirg, on I Novenber, the Executive secretary for the Economic
conunission for Africa nEde a Etatenent (see A/c.2/39/se.3ll .

9. At the 3hd meetirg , on 2 libvenber , ttle Dlrector-@nera.L for DeveloPnent and
Internatlonal Econonic co-operation made a statenent on the International
Confererce on rbpulation (eee A/C.2/39,/SR.321 ,

10. At the 4l-6t neeting. on 14 November, the chairnan of the FAo I'Iorld conference
on Fisherieg Managenent and Devel€pnent made a Etaternent lsee A/C.2/39/SR.4LI .

II. CONSTDERATION OF PROPOSAI,S

A. Draft decislon A/C. 2/39lL.17

11. At its 33rd neelirg , on 2 Novenber, the represencative of 4!g introduced
a dlaft declsion lA/c.2/39/L.L7) entitled "Permanent eovereignty over natLonal
resources in the occupied Palestinlan territoriesn. Sub6equently, Madagascar r I
gglg and [unisia joined in sponsoring the draft decislon.

L2. At the 40th rneeting, on 13 November, the secretary of tlte conEnittee, at the
request of the sponsors, inforned the Conmittee of the follotting revisions to the
draft decision:

(a) The title of t}Ie draft decision, which read "Pernanen! sovereignty over
national resources in the occupied Palestinian and otber Arab terrltorles'r, should
read nlsraeli econonic practlces in the occupied Palestinlan and other Arab
tBr ritorie srr t

(bl subparagraph (a) nhich reaalr

" (a) look not€ of the report of the secretary-@neral on permanent
sovereignty over naEional resource€ in the occupied Pal"estinian and other Arab
territorieE",

Ftpuld be deletedt

(c) The words as adoPtedn should be inserted at t}te end of
gubparagraPh (b), after the words "19 Decenrber 1983".

13. At the sane neeting, the representative of Israel made a statement (see
A/c.2/3e/sF..40't .



N39/789
EngIi6h
Page 7

14. At the satne neeting, the c.orunittee aatopted draft decision A/C.2/39/L.L7 ' a8
orally revised, by a recorded vote of 1I5 votes to 2 (see para. {9' draft
decisionl . The voting rras as follonst !./

EElglgt Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina. Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahralnr Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgiumt Benin'
Bhutanr Bolivlar Botswana, Brazll, Brunei Darussalan, Bul-gariat
Burklna Fa6o' Byelorussian Soviet soclalist Republic t catneroon,
canada, Cape verde, chile, China' Colombia, Cuba, CyPrus,
czechoslovakia, Denpcratic KanrPuchea ' Democratic Yemen, 

Denftark,
DJibouti, Doninican Republic ' 

Ecuador. Egyptr EthioPia, Finland,
France, Gabon, Gernan Democratic Republic, Gemany. Federal
Republic of, Greece, Honduras, Hungary ' rceland, 

rndia, Indoneslat
rran (rstamic Republic of), rraq, rreland' rtaly' rvory @ast'
itanaica. itapan, rtordan' Kenya, Kuvrait, Lao PeoPLer s DetrFcratlc
ReFrblic, Lebanon ' I€sotho, Liberia, Libyan 

Arab ilamahirlya'
ltadagascar I Malawl, Malaysla, MaldiveE, llexicor l'tcngolia, l'brocco,
lbzanbique, I'tepal ' l'letherlands, l'len 

zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, qnan, PaPua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru.
PhilipPines, Poland, Portugal ' Qatar, 

bnania, Rdanda, sao Tome
and prirrcipe, saudi Arabia; senegal, Sinqapore; somalia, spaln'
sri Lanka, Sudan' suriname, Sraziland, S{eden, Syrian Arab
Republicr Tha iland, Togo, Trinldad and robago, Tuniaia. uganda'
Iftralnian Sovlet socialist ReFlblic. Irnlon of goviet slocialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britaln
and Nortbern lreland, ttnlteal Reprblic of Tanzania, uruguay, viet
Nan, zanbla' zimbabrre.

Againstr Israel' tnited states of Arnerica.

L5. After the aalo,Ptlon of the draf t'decie'lon, staternents were nade by the
representativeg of Ireland (on behalf of the states nenberE of the EuroPean
Econonic Cbnuunl ty) ' Japan., the Llbyan Arab Janahiriya, 

the Uni teal states of
allerica, the German Derpcratic Reglblic '(arso on behau of hllgarla, Ehe
Byeloruasian Soviet Social.ist Republic, Czechoslovakla, gungary, !,bngolia, Poland'
the Irkrainian so\tiet Soclalist R€Public and th€ Union of Soviet soclali6t
Republics), Australia' the Islamlc Republic of lran and Derpcratic yemen (6ee
Alc.2/39/sR.401 .

B. Draft resolutions A,/c.2/39,/L.18 and Rev.l

15. At the 33rd meetirE, on 2 Novernber, the r€Presentatlve of Pakiatan
on behalf of @ and !9Sl)!, a draft re€olution -
(A,/c. 2,/39,/L.IS ) entitfed "honomic development proJects ln tJte occupied
territoriesr'.

introduc€d,

Palestlnian

y The representatives of Burmar the Central African RePubllc, the Coltgo '
Ghana, q.llnea, Guinea-Bissau, I[xembourg, l4aLi, ]bllar Pakistan, Turkey, Venezuela,
Yenen and Yugoslavla stated that, had ttleir delegabions been present durirE the
vote, they would have voted ln favour of the draft decislon.



A/39/78e
En91i6h
Page 8

L7. At the 38th neeting, on 9 Novenber, the representative of Pakistan
and Yenen a
Madaga€car

on behalf of Alqeria, Banqladesh, l,lorocco, Pakistan, Ilniaia
to the draft resolutlon (A/C.2/39/L.L8,/Rev.l) . Subaequently,
sponsoring the revised draft resolution.

introduced,
revision
joined in

18. At the 40th neetirq 1 on 13 Novenber, the Secretary of the Conmittee, at the
request of the sponsora, inforned the Oomtl. ttee of the folloning Eevisiona to the
revi eed draft re solutionr

(a) The fourth preambular paragraph which read!

"UinaEuf of resolution 14 of 19 Aigust l98rl of the tuurth ceneral
ConfererEe of the Unlted Nationg Industrial Development Organization on
technical assistance to the Pale€tinian peopl.ei,

should be deletedt

(b) In operative paragraph 2, the $ords ineed to establishx should be
replaced by the words 'intereat ln establishingn.

19. At t}te same meetirq, the representative of fErae1 made a Etatement (6ee
A/C.2/39/SR.4Ol .

20. At the sane meetirE, the Cornrnlttee adopted draft resolution
A/c.2/39 /L.f$rlRev.I ' as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 115 votes to 2, wi ttl9 abatentlons (see para. 48, draft resolutlon I). The votlng was aE followsr g/

In favour r Mghanistan, Albanla, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria,
Bahanas, Bahrain, Bangladeeh, Barbados, EeIglutn, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivla, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalarn, BJlgaria, Burkina
Faso, Byeloru6sian soviet Soclallst F€pub1ic, cape verde, central
African ReFrblic, Chile, Chlna, Colornbia, Oongo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakla, Denbctatic Kamzu($ea. Delpcratic yetnen, Dennark,
Djlbouti, Ecuador, Dgypt, Ethiopia, France, cabon, cernan
Denocratic nepublic, cernany, Federal Republlc of. creece,
Grinea' qllnea-Blssau, Ibnduras, Eungary, India, Indone6ia. Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, ,Iamalca, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kunai t, Lao People I s DerFcratic ReFrblic, L€banon,
I€sothor Liberla, tlbyan Arab Janahirlya. Luxembourg, ladagascar,
!4alawi, l,lalay6la, llaldives, l,bxico. lbngolia, !{orocco,
lbzambique. Nepal, Netherlanda, Nehr Zealand, Nicaragua, N19er,
Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan, Papua llew orinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Oatar, Ibnanla, R{anda. Sao lone and prlnclpe,

!/ The representativeE of Burna, chana, t€li and Malta Etated that, had
thelr delegations been preaent during the vote, they nould have voted in favour of
the revised draft resolution.



A/39/789
Englistr
Page 9

saudi Arabia' Senegal, singapore, somaLia, sPain, sri r'anka'
sudan, surinane, swaziLand, syrian Arab RePubllc r Thailandt Togot
Trinidad and Tobago, 1un16ia' Turkey, Uganda, ukrainian soviet
Sociallgt RePublic, Union of soviet Socialist Republics' United
Arab Enirates, United Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United RePublic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela' Viet
Nanr Yenenr Yugoslavia, zatnbia, Zlnbabwe.

AggiElt Israel' Uniteal States of Anerica.

ebstaining: Australia, caneroon, canada, Flnland, Iceland, Ivory coa6t,
I'brway, Paraguay, sweden.

2] . After the adoption of the draft resolution' statenents vrere made by the
representatives of lreland (on behau of t}le States nenber s of the European
Econonic @mrunlty), $reden (aLso on behalf of Flnland, Iceland and Norway) 'canada, Austria' the Libyan Arab Jamahlriya' che United states of Amerlca, the
German Derpcratic Repubtic (a1ao on behatf of Eulgaria, the Byelorussian soviet
sociatist Republic, czechoslovakla' Hungary, !6r€01ia, Poland ' 

the ukrainian soviet
soclalist Reprblic and the Union of soviet sociallst lGFrbllcs), Australla' the
Islamic RePublic of Iran and Denrocra tic Yenen. The observer for the Palestine
Liberation organization also rnade a statenent. (*e A/C.2/39/5R.40. I

C. Draft resolution A/C.2/39,/L.19
22. At the 33rd neeting ' on 2 November, the representatlve of Denocratic 

Yetnen

introduced ' on behalf ofand @r a draf t resolution (A/C.2/39/L.L9) entitled I'Asslstance to thepalestinian people". subsequently, china, lbdasascar, uali and glllglg joined ln
sponsor i ng the draft resolution.

23. At the 4oth meeting, on L3 Novenber, tlle secretary of the commlttee' at the
request of the sponsors, inforrned the Conrnittee that oPeratlve paragraph 5 of the
draft resolution, which read:

"5. Draws the athention of the international comnunity, in the uniied
l.lations system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizationa to the
need to ensure that their aid to the occu[ried Palestinian terrltories is
disbursed only for the beneflt of the Pal€stinian people and is not used in
any nanne! to serve the interests of the fsraefi occupation authoritiear,

should be revised to read as follonsr

'5. ry!4!!g!u of the international conununity, the United
Natlons system and ihtergovernmental and noniover nenCal organizations to the
need to disburse their aial to the occupied Palestinlan territories onl'y for
the beneflt of the Palestinian people and is not used in any manner to Berve
the interests of che lBraeli occupa tion authorities".



A/19/789
Engli6h
Pag e 10

24. At the same meeting, the representative of Israel made a statenent (see
vc.2/39/sR.4ol .

25. At the same neetlr€, the @nnlttee adopted draft resolutLon A/c.2/39/L.19, as
orally revlsed. by a recorded vote of l3l vote8 to 2 (see para. 48' draft
re8olutlon II). The voting lras as followEr

In favour ! Afghanistan, Albanlar frlgerla, Angola, Argentina' Australia,
Austria, Bahamaa, Bahraln, Bangladeshr Barbado€, Belgiumr B€nin.
Bhutan, Bolivla, Bot6rrana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalanl B,rlgaria,
Burkina Faao, Burma, Burundi, Byelorus6lan Soviet Sociali6t
Republic, Caneroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Reptblic,
chad, chlle, chlna, colonbia, congo, cuba, cyprus,
Czechoalovakia, Deflbcratlc Xar$puchea, Denbcratic Vetnenr Dentnark,
DJiboutir Dornlnican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorlal Guinea'
Ethlopia' Flnland r France, Gabon, cerman Der ocraEic RePublic,
Gernany, Federal Republic of. Ghanar creece, cuinea,
G.rinea-Blseau r lbnduras, Hungary, Iceland ' India, Indonesia, Iran(rslanic n€publlc of) 

' Iraq' Ireland, 
rlaly' rvory coast,

Jamalcar Japan, rtordan, Kenyar Kuwalt, Lao PeoPle t s Denocratic
RepubLic ' lebanon, r€6otho. Liberla, Libyan Arab ,tamahirlya,Ir.lxenbourg, l,ladagascar, l'lalawl, l,lalaysia, Maldives. l.lali r Ma1ta,
!4exico, lbrgolia, l,brocco, !,lczambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New
zealand, Nicaragua, Nigerr Nigeria, lilcrvray, qlran, Pakistan, Papua I
Nen Guinea, Peru, Phillppines, Poland, tlortugal, Qatar, nonania,
Rranda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabla, Senegal, Singapore,
Somlia, gpaln, Sri Lanka. Sudan, surlname, Swaziland, Srreden,
syrian Arab Reprblic, Ihailand ' 

trogo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunlsia, T'lrrkey, Uganda, ukrainian sovlet socialist Republic,
Itrlon of Sovlet Soclali6t nepubllcs, Writed Arab Erirates' united
Kir€don of creat Britain and titcrther n Ireland' Unlted Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet litam, Yenen' Yugoslavia,
Zadlia, Zinbabwe.

Aqainstr Israel, United Statea of Arnerica.

26. After the adoption of the draft resolution, Btater€nts were made by Ehe
rePresentatives of Jordan, Derrcratic lenen, Japan, Gabon, Ireland (on behalf of
the States menbers of the European Econonic Comnunity), the Libyan Arab ilamahiriya,
the Unlted States of Atrerica, the cernan Denocratic Republic (also on behalf of
BuLgaria, the Byelorugalan Soviet Sociali6t Regrbllc, Czechoslovakia, Hungary,
tbrEolia' Poland ' the Ukrainian soviet socialist nepubllc and the Union of sovietSocialtst Repilblics) 

' Auatralia anal the fElamlc Republic of Iran 
(see

vc.2/39/sR.4ol ,



N39/789
English
Page 1l

)

D. Draft resolutlons A/C'2l39ll'28 and t'86

27. At the 4l8t neetlhg, on 14 Novernber, the representative of the Netherlands
introducedr on behalf of Banqladesh, canada, France, Grinea, alanaica ' !'txico, the
NetherlandE, Nicaragua, Pakistan antl the Phllippines. a draft resolution
|A/C.2/39/L.28) entitled nFAo world confererice on Fisheries Managenent and
Developmenti, whicti read as follortsr

"Eie!|eralAsselbly,

'Recognfzinq that the new rdgirne of the oceans has created new
opporttrnities anO responglbili ties for coasta] states and that national and
international objectives and policies for fisheries management and develoPment
are being re-exanined and adjusted.

'Bea$-!g.-in -mind 
the lnpor tance of the need to Pronpte inProvenenta in

the production and diatribution of aII food and agricultural products'
ilEfuding those fron fisherieEr and to raise levels of nutrition and gtandardE
of I ivirq '

"Ifrting wfth appreciatfon the connening of the FAo t{orld @nference on
risheries ltanagement and Developnent in lbtne fron 2? ilune to 5 JuIy 1984 wlth
a vien to pronptitE the optlmum utilization of rdorld fishery resources from

r the economlc, social and nutritional Points of viewr increasing the
I contrlbution of fisheries to natlonal self-suf f lcierEy in food Productlon and

tonards food security, enhancing the self-reliance of develoPing countries ln
the rnanagenent and developnent of fl6herie6, and fosterlng international
co{peratlon in fisheries betueen developed and developing countrleE
themselvea,

!1. :E!rc the strategy for Fisheries Management and DeveloPment and
the associated Prograrnmes of Actlon aatopted by.the FAo libr ld @nference on
Fisheries l,Lanagement and Developmentt 9/

" 2 . filE states and international organizattone concerned to take
into account the prlrElPles and guidellnea contalned in the Strategy nhen
planning the tnanagenent and develoPnenh of fiaheriest

"3. Urges all bl.Lateral and nultllateral donor agerrciee and flnanclttg
lnstitutlons to protride the support required for the effective impLenentation
of the Programmes of Actionl

y See Food and Agriculture olganizatlon of the Unlted Nations, .BggEl,g
the FAo world conference on Fisherles l'bnaqetnent and DevFlopmeEtf. bEe.

a the rnernbere of the @neral
I Assembly by a note by the secretafiat lVC.2/39/61 .
f

/...



A/ 39/7 89
English
Page 12

n4. Invltes the Food and Agrlculture organlzahlon of ttre united Natlons,
in collaboration with the organa, organizations anal bodies concerned within
the United Nations syatem' to continue to play its inportant role in assistirg
states in their efforts toerards the improved nanagenent and developnent of
fishery resources. "

subsequently, gina joined in sponsorirg the draft resolutl.on.

28. At its 54th neeting, on 30 l,lovenber, the Conrni ttee consldered a draft
resolution |A/C.2/39/L.85) subolitted by Mr. Habib M. Kaabachi, Vice-Ctrairman of the
Comnlttee, on the basis of lnformal consultations held on draft resolution
A/C.2/39/L.28.

29. At the same neetlng, ttre representatives of the united States of Anerica and
Poland (also on behalf of Bulgaria, the Byelorussian sovlet sociaust Republic,
Czechoslovakia, the cerman Denbcratic Republic, tbrqolia, the Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist ReFrblic and the Unlon of Soviet Soclalish Republics) made aeaternents.
The DirecEor-General of tie Department for International Econornic Co-operation a.Lso
nade a statenent (see A/C.2/39/5R.54'| .

30. At the same meetirE, the ColErittee adopted draft resolution A/C,2/39/L.86 (see
para. 48, draft resolution III).

31. In the light of the adoption of alraft resolution A/C.2/39/L.86, draft
reaolution A/C.2/391I..28 nas withdravrn by tbe sponsors.

32. After lhe adoption of the draft resolution, the representatives of Turkey,
ilapan and the United Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern Ireland nade statements
(see L/c.2/39/sR.54).

E. Draft resolution A/C.2/39lL.30

33. At the 4lst lneeting, on 14 Novenber, the representatlve of PoLand introduced a
draft resolutj,on lA/c.2/39,/L.30) entitled nconfidence-building in international
econornic relations'.

34. At the 54th rneetlng r on 30 Novernber, the chalrnan of Ehe Connittee, at the
fequest of the sponsor, informed tbe Comnl Utee of the follorJing corrections to the
dtraf t resolutioni

(a) In the footnote to the flrst prearnbular paragraph, the word6 nand Corr.lr
thould be added before the lrords 'and Add.I and 2n,

(b) In the third preanbular paragraph, the word I'stager should read 'stater'.

35. At the same meetlng, the representative of the United States of Amerlca rnade a
Ftatenent (see A/C.2/39/5R.54, .



A/39/789
Engllsh
Page 13

36. At the same meeting, the connittee adopted draft resolutlon A/c.2/39/L-30 by a
recorded vote of 93 to t8, rrtth 10 abstentlons (6ee para. {8, dtaft
reEolutlon IV). f'he voting wa6 as folloorsr lil

In fa \rour r Afghanistan. Algeria, Angola, Argentlna, Bahamasr Bahraln,
Bangladesh. Barbados, Ehutan, Boliviar Botsnanar Brunei
f,larugsalam. Bulgaria, Burklna 8aBo, Burna, Byelorussian govlet
Soclal.lst ReFrblic r Carneroon, Cape Verde, china, colotnbia, Cuba'
Czechoslo\rakia, Denbcrat:c NamFrcbea, D€[pcratic yemenr Doninican
Republic, Ecuador, Egilt)t, Ethiopla, German DelrDcratic Republic,
Ghanar Greece, Guinea, Gulnea-Bis6au, Guyanar lfondurasr Hungary,
Indla' Indonesia, Iraq, Jarnaica' Kenyar Kuwait' Iao PeoPle I s
Delpcratlc Republic, Le€otho, Liberla, Libyan Arab ,tanahiriya,
Madagaacar ' 

llalawi 1 Malaysiar l.hldlves' MaIi, Malta' !4exico,
l6n9ol1a, lltzanblque, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria' qnan'
Paklstan, Panama, Paraguay, Perur Philippinea, Poland ' Qatar,Romanla, Rranda, saint Lucla, sanoa, sao Tome and Prlncip€r saudl
Arabla, slerra L€one, sonalia, sri lanka, suriname, srtaziland,
Syrlan Arab Republlc. Thailand, Togo' Trlnidad and Tobago 'lrrnlslar Uganda, Ukrainian sovlet socialist ReFtblic ' unlon ofsoviet Soclallst Republlcs, United Arab &nlrates' tnlted Republlc
of Tanzaniar Uruguay, VenezueLa, viet !lan, Yemen r Yugoslavia.

ArBtralla, B€lgiumr Canada, Denmark, France' Germany r Federal
ReFbIic of, Iceland ' Ireland' 

Iarael' Icaly, ;Iapan ' I-uxenbourg,Netherlands. New Zealand, Norway' Portugal' thited Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern lreland, Irni ted States of Anerlca.

Agalnstr

glglgllgt Austtia' chile, Finland' cabon' Ivory coast' lbrocco' senegal'
Spain' Sreden, Turkey.

37. After the adoption of the draft regolutlon, statementa were nade b!' the
representatives of Indla, Egl'pt r saint lxcia, Paklstan and the Gernan Detrpcratic
RepubLlc (also on behalf of Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet Sociallst Republicl
Czechoslovakia, ftungary. lbngolia' Poland 

' 
the Ukrainian Sovlet socialist Republic

anal the Lhion of Sovj. et Sociall6t Republics, asee A/C.2/39,/SR.54).

r. Draft resolutlons VC.2/39l,.31 and t.112

38. At the 39th neetlrg, on 13 l,lovember r the representative of Eg.yE lntroduced,
on behau of the Statea l,Fnbers of the United Nations which are nembers of the

y The representative of the Central African Republic staced that, o{dlng to
a nechanlcal error, hls delegationrs abstentlon had not been ref.Lected in the
result of tie vote. The representatlve of Venezuela stated that his delegation had
not intended to participate ln the vote. The representatives of CyPrus, the
Islanlc Republlc of Iran and Zarnbla stated subsequently that' had thelr delegations
been present, they rroutd have voted in favour of the draft r€solution. Tbe
repreaentatlve of the Sudan stated that his delegatlon had not particlpated in the
vote.



A,/ 39/789
English
Page 14

Group ot 77, a dratt resolution (A/C.2/39 /L. iL'l
@lulrni,cationg Decade tor Aaia and the Pacific,

entitled "TransPorL and
r985-1994i', which read as tollorrs:

rlhe ceneral Aas€mblv,
n&eca.Llinq paragrat)hs 30 and 128 to 133 ot the hternational Develolment

strategy tor the ltrird Urited l,btlons Etsve.LoPnent Ecade' annelted to General
Ass€sbly resolutlon 35/56 of 5 Decqober 1980,

"Ibcalling al€o Econonic and Stcct aI @unclI resoluliona 1983,/69 ol
29 ,IuIy 1983 ano L984/78 ot 27 July 1984 on the TransPolt ano cohhunications
Decade tor Aaia and the Pacrtic,

nNoting reaolution 236 (XL) ot 27 April l9g4 of the Econcmic and Social
conniasi,on tor A6ia and the Pacitic concerning a tranEport and connunications
decade for A6ia and the Pacific durirg the period 1985-1994,

trnecal-Iinq the section ot the srbstantial New Progranne of }ctlon tor the
1980s for the L€ast Developed countries f/ relevant to the inprovenent ot
transport and comrnications infras tructure,

" onvinced of the critical role of transport and cqnnunications in
economic developr€nt and the ingortance, theretore, ot tJe inprovernent and
growth of tran€Port and ccmnunlcationg infrastructure and services in a manner
cornnensurate rith tne anticipatecl growth ol all sectors ot the econon'
generatlng the dernand tor transport and cqununicatlons,

"1. Endor6ea the recomrendation nEde in par agraph 2 o! Itconomlc and
lbciaL Council resolution L984/78 ano proclarns a Transpolt and Comunications
Decade tor Asia and the Pacltrc during the perioo 1985-1994, with a vret, lot

'(a) RaisitB the transport ano ccfttnunications intrastructural tacrlrLie6
ot oeveloping tlrrnber countries to a level coruensurate wittt their develoPfient
objectives and priorities' 9iving particular attention co the specral neeo€ of
the least oevelop€d, Iand-locKed and raland developing countries of the regiont

rr (b) Identitying syst€mattcalty and in a cqnprehenslve nanner the
problens ot tranaport and comnunications rn the region and $orkLng out
feasible solutronat

" (c) Prototing a nore etfective and ef,ticient transport and
comnrni.cationE network comprising aII Imdea and JEan6 ln an integrated way, ln
particular tor develolment of intraregional ano interregional Cransport and
conmrnications linkages, as well as in the fields ot nalntenance and
crord ination of neBworka, tarrit setting and physical Planning?

y sree Report ot the United Nations Conterence on the Least Developed
Countrie6, Paris. l,-14 ber,t€nber 1981 (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.82.I.8), part one, aect. A.



N39/'189
Engli6h
Page 15

" (d) Encouraging ettective co-ordrnation and co<Peration in the tield of
transport and ccr0nunications in tbe regioni

-2. RequesCs the Secrelary-General to extencl all necessary tacilities
and support to tbe Executive secretarieg ot the Econcmic and Social Conmisgion
for Asla ancl the Pacitrc and the Econonic Comrni,ssion fot h/estern Asla in their
develolment of the regional action proqrarnme tor the f,iecade in a practical and
integrated nanner and to trDbilize the necessary international supPort for the
€uccesatul irnplsnentation ot the progranmes for the Decadet

United Nations Develotrment Progranne, to contribute to and Provrde assrstance
tor the effective rrnptelrEntat ion oi tl|e regional actron progralune tor the
Decadel

n4. Invites al} Goverments, in particular those ot the developed
countrieg, to contribute to and participate eftectively in the ilPlelrEntatron
ot tne regional action ProgramJDe tor achievlng tne oblectives of the Decaoei

r5r I€quests the Secretary-C€nera I to submit a rePort on the
implementation of the present resolution to Lhe Econcnic and Social Councrl at
its second regular session ot 1986, and every trdo years thereatter untj.l, the
end of the Decade. "

39. At its 56th neeting, on 6 Decernber, the Cotunittee consioered a dratt
reeolution (A/C.2/39/L.LL2 ) subnrtted by lar. Iiabib Dr. Xaabachl, Vice-Challnan of
the Cd|'trtttee, on the basis o! lntorna.]. consultations held on dratt resolution
N C.2/39 /L.37.

40. At the sane neeting, the cornmlttee adopted dratt reaolutLon A/C.2/39/L.LL2
(aee para. 48, dratt resolution v).

41. In the Iight ot the adoption ot drafl regolutlon 1y'C.2/3g/L.LL2, dlatt
resolution NC.2/39/L.3L was wrthdrawn by the sPonsors.

42. Af,ter the adoption of the dratt resolution, the rePre6entative ot the United
StateE ot Aloerica nade a statenent (see NC.2/39/S,R.56,

G. Dratt resolutions A,/C.2/3gll.36 and L.106

43. At the 39th neetirq, on 13 Novenber, lhe lepresentative ot Banglaoesh' on
behalt ot Alstralia, Banglaoesh, China, Co].otsia, Eqypt, trtance, India' Indonesia,
Lrberia, Mexico, Nepal, the Netherlancls, PakrsLan, Peru, the P3l]:EPlsr-..J4
EIi r the sudan, Iunisia, ttre
and Yuqoslavia, lntroduced a ctraf,t resolution (A/c.2/39/L.36) entj.tled
rlnternational Contelence on Fopulatron, 1984u, whlch reacl as foll-owst



N 39/789
Engl ish
Page L6

rrThe ceneral A€sdnbl,l,
I'Recal-IirB Econqnic and social Council re6olution 19S!/87 ot.

25 lbvenber 1981 on the convening ot an International @nterence on Fopulation
rn 19 84,

"kecaIIim a160 Econqtic ancl Social Council resolutions I9A2/7 ot
30 April L982. 1982/42 ot 27 July 1,982 and J983/6 ot 26 lqay 1983,

"k€callifif turthe! ceneral Ass€rnbly resolution 38/148 ot 19 DecernDer 1983,

Erdotses the recontrEnoations tor the turther irnplementation ot the
Iror Io Population Plan ot Actlon, contained in the report ot the InLernational
Conference on bpulation,. L984, y

adopted by the Oonterence on 14 Alrguet 19847 fu/

"3. s(presses ita appfeclation to the coverrment and people ot Mexico
for their generous hoapitalitl , co{peration anct supportt

Conterence tor the successtul organization ot the Conterencet

"5. Attirms that the princr.l,al aim ot social, econcrnic and hrman
developfiEnt, ot $hich population goals and policies are integral parta, is to
irnprove the standards ot living ano guali.ty ot lite ot the people?

Also alftrns tiat populatron growth, b19h rDrLality and trErbidiry
and nj.gration problems continue to be causeg ot great concern requiring
itur€d i.ate actioni

Cofference, to !espect naciona.L sovereignty, hunan rights and individual
fr eeoqn i

rr8. Reattlrr&s the i,nportance attached by the Conterence to the
tornulation and itrsrle|IEntat j.on ot concrete lolicies which wj,ll enhance the
status and role of ncmen in the area ot population policies and proglameat

the natronal level and to inpl€n'ent alpropriase populati.on policies and
[,rograrnmes, rn the context ot thei! nationa], plans, neecls and requirerEntsi

V Report ot th€ International Conterence on population, 1984, hexico Citv,
6-14 Arqust 1984 (thited l€tions publicatj.on, Sales },lo. E.84.XrII.8 and
corrigendum), chaP. I, sect. b,

y M.r chaP. I, sect. A.



A/ 3e/789
Englistt
Page 17

"lO. EnFtrasizes tha! internati.onal co'oPeration in the field ot
population ls essential lor the inplementatlon of recqnnendations actoPted at
the Oonterence and calls upon the international conmrnity to Provlde adeguate
and substantial international suPlort and asaistance tor poPulation
activities, particuLatly through tbe l.hited tlations !\rnd for FoPulation
Activlties, in the light of growirrg need€ Ln the field and increa6in9
cornnitmen t ot developing countrresf

r11. nviles the Population Commis€ion, at its twenti-thlrd sesaion, to
reviel, the recorurendations of the @nference and their ilPfrcation€ tor the
activities ot the United Nations aystsn, and to transnit its vieus to ttte
Econonic and soci.al Council at ita firgt regular seasion ot I985t

ItI2. Requests the Eboncmic and social Councll to exanine, at its tirst
regular session ot 1985, the reconEnoations ot the @nterence for the turther
inplementation of the hor.ld Population Plan ot Action, in order to Provlcle
overall pollcy guidelines rithin tt|e Erited tlations ststen on Population
guestions, and to keeF unaer revieiv, on a regular basls' the moniloring and
appraisal ot ttle vrorld Fopulation PIan ot lction,

"I3. Requests tne secre tary-Genet aI to tal(e ali;ropriate action on the
recorur€ndation6 tor the turther rtrFlenentation or the lrorld PoPulation Plan ot
Action as they relate to the role ot intetnatlonal co-operation, ]9/ ln
pafticular recomEndation 83, taking lnto account the suggeatlong otteled by
varlous oelegations, and to report to the General Assembtt, through the
Econonic ano Social Oouncll, on their irPlelEntatiotl aa soon as possible but
not later than 1986. "

44. At its 56th rneeting, on 6 Decenber, the Con|I|lltee considered a draft
resolution (Py'C.2/39/L.LO6) suDmitted by !4r. Habib }1. xaabachi, Vice-Chairtnan of
the Comtnittee, on the basis ot intormal consulrations held on dratE resolution
N c.2/39/L.36.

45. At the sane meeting, the Cornrnittee adopted draft resolut].on F,/C,2/3\/L.LO6
(see para, 48, oratt resolutlon VI).

46. In the 1ight of the acroptron ot dralt resolution A/C.2/39/L.L06, dratt
resolution AC.2/39/L.36 was wi thdrarrn by the aponsora.

47. Afte! the adoption ot the dratt resoLutlon. stat€nents reere made by the
representaeives ot Israel and the Lhlted States ot AnErica lsee A/C.2/39/SR.56).

)
1.9/ Ibio., chair. I, sect. b, para. 37.



N 39/7 8e
Engl is h
Page 18

III. RECOTIIII1ENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COI,rr4I TTEE
48. rtre second @nnittee reco![Ends to the General Assenbly the adoptlon ot the
tollow]'ng draf t resoLutionsr

DR,AFI RI5OI,UTION I

Econonrc develol,llEnt projectg in Lhe occupied
Palestinian ter ritories

The General As6ernbly.

Aware ot Che Israell restrrctions ioposed on the torergn trade of the
occupied Palesti,nian terri,torles,

Avrare a160 ot the itnposecl dcrninaEion ot the palesti.nran market bI Israel,

Tqkina into account Che need to give Paleati.nian tirm6 and lroducts
direct access to external barkecs ui.Lnout Israeli interference,

1. CaII6 tor the urgent lifting ot eh€ Israe].i reatrictionE i.n{)osed on
the econqnt ot the occupied Palestinian terriCorj.es,

2. Iiecoanizea the Palestlnlan interest in establishing a seapor! in the I
occupied Gaza StriF t'o give Palestinian tirns and products direct access to t
external n rrket e t

3, Cal]s upon all concerned to tacili.tate the establr.stment of a
seaport in the occupied Gaza SCrip,

4. AIso calls upon aII concerned to racilitate the establishnent ot a
cenent plant in the occupied hest Bank and a citrus plant in the occupied Gaza
strrp i

5. RequesE6 the Secre cart -cener aI to report to tte ceneral Assemby at
ita tortreth session, through the lcononic and g)cra]. Council, on the i,rogress
nade ln the implgnentation ot the present fesolutron.

DKAI'T RASOLUTION II

Assistance to the palestinian people

The Generel Assenblv,

Recallim its resolution 38/145 of 19 Decsnber 1983,

l€calling also Econornic and Social Oouncil resolution 19S4/56 ot
25 July 1984,

(



A/39/789
Eng]-rsh
Page 19

necalling turther the ceneva Progralune ot Action tor the AchievelEnr of
Palestrnran Rights, adopreo by the Int.elnarlonal Conterence on the QuesLron ot
Palestine, ly

Notinq the need to provioe econonic and soclal assistance to the
Palestinian people,

I. Takes note of the report ot the Secre tary-cener al on assistance to
the Palestinj.an peoplet Ial

2. ?akes note also of rhe relort of the Secre tarl -cener al. l9l
concerning the llEeting on aasistance to the Palestinian people which rvas held
aE Geneva on 5 ano 6 .luly 1984 in re€ponse to ceneral Assembly
resoluti.on 3g/L45,

3. Expresaes it6 thanks to the Secre tarl-cener aI tor convening the
neeting on assistance to the Palestinian peopl.e

4. Regarda such a meeLing as a valuabI€ opportunrty to assess progress
rn econonic and social assistance to the Patestinian people and to exklore
ways and neans ot enhancirrg such assisEance?

5. Drawglgglllglglgg ot the internarlonal corununrty, the Unrted
) lutions syG ano intergoverrmentar and non-governnental organrzations !o the

neecl to disburse thei.r aid to the occupied Palestini,an territorres only tor
the benetlt. ot the Palestinian people and lo ensure that it i9 not useo in any
nanner to serve the interesta ot the Israelr occulxrtion authorities,

6. kequests the Secre tary-cener aI..

(a) To expedite the trnalizing, tbrough existing inter-ag€ncy
mechanisns, ot the ceordinateo programme ot econcnric and social assistance to
the Palestinian people requested rn General Assenbly resolution 38/L45,

(b) !o convene in 1985 a meeting of Lhe relevant progralunes,
organizations, agencies, tunds and organa ot the Lhited Nations systeD to
consider Lhe co-ordinated progranme ot econcnric and social assistance to the
Paleseini.an peopl.e t

ly Report ot the Inlernatj.onal Conterence on the euestion ot palestine,
Geneva, 29 &rqust-7 lreplenb€r L983 (United lilalion€ publication, Sales
No. E.83.I.21) r chap. I, 6ect. B.

lU A/39/26rF/19 84,/77 and A.ld.1.

) L3/ N39/4'14 and @rr.r.



v 39/789
Erqlish
Page 20

(c) To provide tor the particj.pation j.n the neetrng ot the Palestine
Liberation Organization, the Arab ho6t countriea ancl relevant
interg over mental a nq norFgoverrfiental organizationE t

7. Requests the relevant progra&me8, organizations, agencies, tunda and
or9an6 of the united Nation6 syeten to r'ntensity their etforts, in
co-operation rdith the Palestine Liberation Organizationr to provioe econonic
and socraJ. assj.atance to tbe Palestinian peoplet

8. AIso requests that krited I'lation6 assistance to the Paleatinians ln
the Arab host countriea should be renoered in ceoPeration r{D. th the Palestine
tiberation Organization and with the conaent ot the Arab host C-vernrnent
concerneot

9. Requests the Secre tary-Gener al. to report to the General Assembly at
its fortieth session, tbrough the ltonomic and Social @uncll, on the lrogress
maoe in Ehe inpl€rnentation ot the present reEolution.

D&AFI. RESOLUTION III

FAO horlcl Conlelence on Fi6neries Banaqdrent ano Devefoment

The General A6sqlbll

Recognizing that the recent develolmenta in the lau ot the sea have
created new oPportunities and responsibiliires tor states and that national
and lnternational obfectives and policies tor fisheries nanagdnent and
developnent are being re-exarnined ancl adjusted,

Recogni.zinq also relevant provislon€ ot the Unrted Nations Conv€ntron on
the Lav, ot the Sea, !g/

Bearlna in nind the rnportance ot the neeo to pronote inlrovenents in the
production and dj.stributlon ot aIl tood and agricultural products, including
tho6e trom tiaherles, and to rar.€e levels of nutritron and sLandarcls ot livlng,

lbting nith aprrreciatlon the convening ot the FAo horld conterence on
Fisherres Managenent ancr Develotment at Rqne xxom 27 .tune to 6 ilu]'y 1984, with
a vlew to prolDting the optinum utilization ot norld fishery resources from
the econcnrrc, aocial and nutrltj,onal points ot vierv, increaatng th€
contributj.on ot tisheries to nati.onal selt-reliance in f,ood production and
towarqs tooct gecuri.cy, enhancing the capacrty ot develoling counuies in the
nanagenent and oevelop[Ent ot tisberies and tostering internatronal
ceoperation in tishetiee between developed and developing countrres and atnong
developing countries therB€J-ves,

!4/ see ofticiaL Recoros ot the Thtrd unlted Nations conierence- on the La$ of (
the Sea, vol. XVII (United Nations publrcation, bales No. 8.84.V.2), document
oucoN. .62/ )22. 

,,



N3e/789
English
page 2I

I. Endorse€ the strategy tor Fj.sherles &anagel€nt and DevelopnEnt and
Lhe assocrated. progt anmes Ot actron aOopted by the FAO horlo Conterence On
Fisheries hanagelEnt and DevelopnEoL| ry

2. hvj,tes States and International organrzationE concerned to take
lnto account the princrples and guideJ-ines contained in the Strategy when
pfannrng the nanagsrent and develolment oi tisherreat

3. Urqes aII biLateral and nultifateraf donor agencies and tinancrng
institutions ro provj.de the aull.,ort regulred tor the ettective inplernentatron
ot the prograruEs ot actiont

4. hvites the Food and Agricutture Organrzation of the United Natlon6,
in eollaboration with the organs, organizationa and bodies concerned $ithin
the United Nations aystem, to contlnue to llay its important role in aasisting
States rn their efforts towards the i.mproved nanagerent and developr€nt ot
tishery resources.

DRAFT RESOIUTION IV

Conf i.qence-build ing in j.nternational econonic relationE

The C,eneral Asaenblv.

Taktnq note ot the report ot tbe Secre tarl -cener aJ' prepared in response
to its resolution 38/196 ot 20 Decenber .1983 on cont idence-building 1n
international econqn ic relati.ons, lly'

kecalLrng urat the silirit ot mrtual contidence nade possible the tounding
ot the United Nations nearLy tortg yeara ago,

Convinced that the state ot, and trends prevailing in, the Horld econony,
as x,e1l as th€ deterrorating international cliJnate, call tor new ettorts aimed
at enhancing contidence rn international economic relationg,

Convlnced also tna! there can be no sustained global develoHnent unlesE
there rs an improvement in the econonic situation ot the developing countrles,
ehrch dePends, tnter alia, on structural ad]ustnent€ In the international
tinanci.al and trading ayBten ano on the reinforcement o! contidence arpng aJ.l
Statea in their econcnic relations,

!E/ see Food AgrLcul-ture Organization ot united Nations, Eqpel!_ ef
7

the5 ,lulv J.98 4 ( norre , 4) t transmj.tted to tne r€nbers ot
note bt the SecrerariaE (NC.2/39/6).

E/ A/39/ 312-E/ L984lL06 and Corr.l and Add.l and 2.

General a.saenbly by



N 39/749
English
Page 22

Reiteratinq its concern over the impact ot political Lenslons on
internati.onal econonic co-operation and over the incteaaing departure fron the
r.rultilateral plactorm ot econ€ax ic excharxJes and negotiatlons on key
development issues,

1. Invites all states and the Unrted Nations bodiee and organlzation6
concerned to continue th€ exchange ot views on contidence-builaling in
international econcmic relations and on wayg and meana ol enhancrng such
confidence t

2. Regueats the secretary-Gener aI to contrnue hr.s conguItations sitlr
Governments and the thited llation6 bodies and organizatrong concerned on the
scope of possib-l,e cont idence-Duil,orng measur€a in j'nternational econqric
relations ano on the role ot the thited tlations in that endeavout, and to
present hr,s anal,ysis and conclu6ron6 tbereon to the General Agsg[b1y ac its
tolty-tirsE sesaion, througlr the Econonic and Social @uncil.

DKAFT RISOI,UTION V

Transport and Conninications Decade tor Asra and
the PEci!rc, 198 5-L9 9 4

The General AsseltDly,

Recallinq tne relevent l,aragraphs ot the International DeveloFnent
Strategy tor the Third thited l€ti.ons DevelopnEnt Decaoe, annexed to C#nera.L
Assernblt resolution 35/55 ot 5 Decqrber 1980,

Recalllng also Fbonomic and lbcial @uncil resolutions 1183,/69 ot
29 July 1983 and 1984/74 ot 27 ,tuly 1984,

lgjllryi resolution 236 (XL) of 27 AL,r iL 1984 ot the Econoh rc and socral
comlission for Asia and tbe Pacit j.c, concerning a Eransport and 'conlrunicationa
decad€ tor Aaia ano the Pacj.trc durrng the period I98FL994, !11

Recalling the section ot ttre SubsLantial tlew Progral0rne of Action for the
1980s tor the Least Devcloped Countrr.es relevan! to the improvenent ot
transpor t and co&nLlnications i ntr as tructure, lg.,/

L7/ See ,Otlicial Records ot the Econqrlic and Sgci.al Counsil, .984, liuliplEneat
.&j--!l (E/I984,/24), chai,. Iv.

ly See Beport ot the Unj,ted Natrons Conference on the L€aat Deve1oled
Countries, Parls, L-I4 Sept€rnber 198I (Unlted Nations publication, SaLes
No. 8.82.I.8) , part one, 6ect. A.



econcuriiiAEEveloHnent and the imPortance, theretore , ot the inprovenent
gror,rth ot transPort anct corttlrunlcati.ons intrastructure and gervlces rn

Convi,nced ot the critical role ot transport and collmunicatrons ln

ccnulengurate witlr the anticiPated gEowth ot a.Il sectors ot the econqllt
generating tlle denano tor transport and cormuJnrcat lon s,

A/ 39/789
Eng lisb
Page 23

ano
a nEnner

)

I. Endoraes the reccnunenoatron nade ln FaragraHx 2 ot Econcibrc ano
social Council resolutron )984/78 and Proclaim€ a Transport and ComluJnlcations
Decade tor Asia and the Pacrric durj.ng the perrod 1985-1994, t'ith a vlew to:

(a) Rarsing the transPort ancl connunicacions infraatructural facilitie8
ot develolrng nember counttres co a Ievel cqunen€urate with their develotrment
objectiveE ano prlorltres, giving particular attention to tbe aPecial needs ot
tni l,"ust developed, land-l'ockeo and island develoPing countrles ot the regloni

(b) Identifylnq systematically and in a conprehensive nanner the
problens of transl,ort and ccnmunications j.n tbe region and $orklng out
feaslble solutionst

(c) Prffioting a nore eftectt've ancl etticrent transPort ano
conmrnicatlons netrto! l( conprising aII npcles ancl nEans in an integrated way' in
part icula! tor develolment ot intraregional and interreglonal transPort and
eornnunications linkaqes, as HeIl as in the lields ot maintenance and
ceordination oi networks, taritt setting and Physlcal planningt

(d) Encoulagrng eltectlve co-ordination and co{Peratlon i'n the tield of
transport ano ccntnunicacions in the regroni

2. Requests ttle s€ creta ry-c€neral to er.tencl a1l necessary facilities
ano sulrlort to the Executive secretarres ot the Econqlic and social cornis6ion
tor ,llsi a and the Pacifrc and Ure Econonic Connrission tor lresteln Asia in their
develoFuent of the reglonal action Prograltme to! the Decaoe in a practical and
integrated nanner ano Eo IIDbiIize the necessary international suPPort tor the
successtul r.mP.l,€nentatron o! the PrograNnes to! the Decaqe' bearing in nind
the concents ot tt|e aeventh Preambu.Lar ParagraPh ot resolution 236 (xL) ol the
Econcru ic and soclal cotttnlssron tor Asia ano the Pacitrc?

3. Urqes aII relevant lnternatronal organi'zations' Partlcularly the
united Nations Develognent Prograrule ' to contribute 

to and provrde a6sistance
for the ettective lnp.LertEntatt on ot the regi.onal action Progratnme for the
Decaoe?

4. Invites all Goverrments, in particu.Lar those ot the developeo
countries, to concrlbute to and particiPate effectively in the inPletrEntation
of the reglonal action progralnme lor achieving the ob]ecLivea ot the Decadet

5. Requestg the secretary-General to subnit a rePort on t}Ie
i.nplsnentatron ot the Present risolution to the Econdrlc and social council at
its second regular sesslon of 1986, and every ti'o yeals thereafter until the
end ot the Decade.



Ar/39/789
English
Page 24

6-14_ .4q9usr 1984 (United Nations publlcation,
corrrgendun), chap. I, sect. b.

DKAFA RESOI,UTION VI

International Conterence on population, I9g4

The General Assen cly,

Recallinq Econqnic and Soci.al Council resolution ]-ggL/g1 ot
25 Novenber 1981 0n the convening ot an rnternationat conterence on Fbpulation
in 1984,

\ecaJ.ling also lconqnic an(l social Councit resolutions I9g2/7 ot
30 April ]-982, L982/42 or 27 JuIy 1982 and t983/6 ox 26 hay 1983,

Recalrinq rurrher cenefa.L Aasenbl! resorut.r.on 3a/L4a ot 19 Decenber 1r183,

I. Endorses tie report ot the Internattonal @nterence on population,
1"984' contarning the recqnnendattons tor the turther inipLgrrenEatlon ot the
norlo Fopul.atton p]'an ot Action, fg/

2. lrel-ccrnes ano slronqly sulrport s the l4e:(ico CrLt Declaratron on
tbpu.Latlon ano Developnent, adopted b! the Conlerence on 14 August L9ga7 lp/

3- Expresses j.ts all,reciation to the Governnent ano people ot lrte:rrco
tor their generous hospitality, co-operation ano sutr)porE.,

4. Conutends the secre tary-cener a} ot the uni,ted Natrons and the
Secretary-@nera 1 ot the Conlerence for the successtuL organizatj.on ot the
Cont erencei

5. Att j,rns that the princilal ain ol social, econoanic and hunan
development, ot which popul,ation goals and policies are j,ntegraJ' parts, 1s to
improve the standards ot living ano gualj.ry ot ].rte ot the peoplei

6. Also aftirns that populat.ron groHth, high nortality and fiDrbidity
and rnr9ratron F,robl€nis continue Lo be causes of great concern requj.ring
rrunediate action,

7. Emtriasizqs che need, in i[,plsnenting tne recqunenqatrons ot the
Conference, to respect nationa]' sovereignty, to conUtat al1 forms ot racial
discrlnhatron, inc.j.udj,ng aparthel.o, ancl to protnote socraL and econqnic
develo!,nenL. hunEn rights and j.nditidual treedom,

(

L9/

?9/ Ibid., chap. I, secr. A.

Sales lio. E.84.XIII.8



N 39/78e
Enql:.sh
Page 25

8. I€attirms the lnflortance attached by the Oonterence to ghe
formuLation and inpletnentation ot concrete policies which will enhance the
status and role ot wonEn r,n the area o! Populatlon Polj.cies ano ProgralulEs,
and to the need to pay attention to specilic problens ol PopuLation structutesi

9. Invrtes @vernn€nts to consider the recompndations tor action at
tne national level and to lnp.l-€ment appropriate poPulation Policies and
prograflunes, in the context of their natj.onal Plans, needs and reguirelEnCst

10. Enlfiasizes that internaLional co-operation in the tield o!
population is essential for the itrPlerEntation of reconnEndations adoPted at
the conterence and, in that contextf cal1s upon the international colmunitl to
provide adeguate and substantial internatronal support and assistance for
population activities, parbicularly through the unrted Natlons Fund for
Fopulation lcti.vities, in order to ensure nDre etfective delivery of
population asgistance in che Iigltt ot grovtrng neeos and the incleaslng ettorts
being nade by develoi,ing countries,

1I. Invltes the Population Conunission, at its t$enty-thild sessron' to
revie$, withrn its area ot cofipetence ' 

the reconnEndations of the @nference
and their implications for the activitres or lhe un1ted Nations systsn, and to
transmrt its vielts to the lbononic ano lbcral Council at its tirst regu.Lar
session of 1985,

L2. Requests the Econcrn ic and Social Councir to exarrlne, at rts tirst
regular sesslon of 1985, the recon[Endat].on s ot the Conference for lhe turther
irnplsnentatron of the horld Populatlon Plan ot Actron. in order to provroe
overall Policy guidelines krithin the thiled liations systen on population
questions, and Co undertake or to continue, on an appro&riate basls, the
review, Ilpnitor].ng and aPpraisal of the hrcrld Fopulation Plan ot AcLion' in
accordanee with the PIan and relevant reccnmendations ot the Conterencet

13. Requests the ltecrecary-Genera I to take, erthout delay, aPpropriate
steps regarding the relevant reccmnendatiorrs, in paltlcular recoanmendation
83, 2f/ for turther itrplelEntation ot the l/or lcl FoPulation PIan of Action
concerning the role of international co-operation, taking note aLso of the
suggestions oftered by various delegatrons and benef itj.ng, in the process,
trqu the dellberations of the Econcorrc and social Courrcj.l, and to rePort to
the General Asse!6lt ' through the 

Economic and Social council, on their
lmplsnentation as soon as possible but not late! than 1986.

) 4t/ IbLg., chap. Ir sect. B. para. 3?'



A/39/7 S9
English
Page 26

19. The second committee also reconunends to the cen€ral Assenbly the adoption of
the following draft deciEionr

Israeli economic practices in the occupied Palestinian
and other Arab terri tori es

The Geheral Assenbly decides to request the secre tary-cjeneral to submit
to the cenerat Assenrbly at its fortieth sessionl through the Economic and
Social Councll, the comFarative study on the Israell practices in the occupied
Palestinian and ottrer Arab territories and its obligations under lnternational
law, requested in ceneral Assembly resolution 3a/L44 of 19 Decenber 1983 as
adopted .

(




