








































UNITED
NATIONS

(@) General Aesembly Distr.GENERAL
A/39/7]-2
L0 Decenber 1984
ENGLI SH
ORIGINAI,s SPNIISH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda item 7I

REPOFT OF TIIE SPECIAT, CO!MITTEE TO INVESTIGATE ISRAETJI
PRACTICES AFEE TING TIIE HUMAN RIGHTS OF THE POPULATION

OF THE OCCUPIED TERRITORIES

Rapfrorteur: Mr. Jorge Eduardo CHEN CHARPENTIER (Uexico)

I. INTRODUCTION

l'- The item entitred "Report of the special connnittee to rnvestigate raraeli
Praceices Affecting the Hunan Rights of the population of lhe Occupied
Territoriesi reports of the secretary-cenerar', was included in th- provislonal
agenda of the thirty-ninth session of the ceneral Assembry in accord-ance with
Assenbly resolution 38/79 D of l-5 December 1983.
2. At it6 3rd plenary rneeting, on 21 September 1994, the General Assernbly, on tbe
recommendation of the General committee, decided to include the lten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Special political Comrniltee.

3. The special- Political committee considered the iten at its 31st to 39th anal
43rd meetings, held between 14 and 29 November (see A/SqC/3|/SR.31_39 and 43).
4. The Comnittee had before it the follor,ring documents:

(a) Note by the secretary-cener ar transmitting the report of the speciar
cornmittee to rnvestigate rsraeli pract.ices Affecting the Human Rightg of the
Population of the Occupied Territories G/39/5gLl t

(b) Report of
38/79 A (A/39/6651 ,

(c) Report of
3a/7e D (A/3s/62o1 ,

84-32530 4563P (E)

the Sec retary-Gener aI subnitted in pursuance of resolUtlon

the Secretary-ceneral subnitted in pursuance of resolutlon



A/39/7L2
English
Page 2

(d) Repor t of the Secretary-General subrnilted
38/?9 E (A/3e/527) i

(e) Report of the Secretary-General submitted
3a/79 F (A/39/532 anal corr.1) i

(f) Repor t of the secretary-General subnitted
38/79 G lA/39/50Lr 

'
(S) Repor t of the secr etary-General subnitted

?8/79 E lA/39/33e1 .

in pursuance of resolution

in pursuance of resolution

in pursuance of resolution

in pursuance of resolution

5. At the 3lst meeting, on 14 Novenber, the representative of sri Lanka
intrduced the rePort of lbe special conmittee to Investigate Israeli Practices
Affecting the ltuman Rights of the Population of the occuPied Territories lA/39 /59L1

II, CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAIS

6. In the course of its deliberations, the Special Political Conmittee considered
eight draft resolutions, as set forth below.

7. Before the vote on all the draf! resolutions statenents in explanation of vote
were nade by the representatives of Australia and Israel'

8. At the
introduced

A, Draft resolution A/sPc/39lL.2 z/Rev. 1

43rd meeting, on 29 November' lhe rePresentative of the sudan
the revised text of a draft resolution lN sPc/!g/L -z2lRev. l) ' sPonsoredatic Yemenby ia, Bahr ladesh

Kur.ra i t

anal fgg, subsequently joined bY the

9. At the 43rd meeting, on 29 November' the corutrittee adoPted draft resolution
EJ sPc/3g/r'.22,/Rev.l bry a recorded vote of l-01 to 2, wittr 11 abstentions (see
para. 26, draft resolution A). The voting was as fotlows: ],/

4lEg3 Afghanistan, Albanial Algeria' Angola, Argentlna, Austrra,
Bahrain, BangLadesh' Belgiun, Benin, Bhutan' Bolivia, Botsvtana'
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
socialist Republic, Canada' Central African nepublic, China,
colonbia, congo, cuba' cyPrus, Denocratic Kampuchea ' Democratic

y Before the voter the delegation of Iceland indicated that it would not
part[ipate in the vote. After the vote, tbe delegations of Brunei Darussalam'
cuyana and somalia indicated that, had they been Present, they woulal have voted in
favour of the draft resolution.



A/39/7L2
EngIi6h
Page 3

Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Eglrpt., Ethiopia' Finland,
France, cabon, cernan Denocratic Republic, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Ghana, creece, cuinea, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Iretand, Italy, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait., Lao Peopler s Dem@ratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Netherlands, New zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Peru. Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saudi Alabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Spain, Sudan,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Tunisiar Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviee Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zindcabwe.

Against: Israel, United states of America.

4!E!gililg: Australia, Barbados, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Liberia, Malawi,
Nepal, panana, paraguay, Sri Lanka, Zaire.

B. Draft resolution A,/sPc/39lL.23

10. At the 43rd neeting, on 29 November, the
a draft resolution (A/SPC/39/L.23 ), sponsored

India, Indonesia ascar

representative of Pakistan introduced
by
Mati tan and

11. At the same neeting, the Corunittee voted on draft resoLutlorr A/SPC/39/L.23
follows:

(a) Operative paragraph I was adopted by a recorded vote of ll9 to l-. The
voting was as folLoirs: 7

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina. Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, BangLadesh, Barbados, Belgiun, Benin, Bhutan,
Bo1ivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, canada, Central
African Republic, Chile, China, Colonbia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic Kampuchea, Dem@ratic Yenen. Dennark, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, cabon, German
Denocratic Republic, Gernany, federal Republic of, ctrana, creece,
Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kuwait, Lao peoplets Denocraeic Republic, Lebanon,

The delegations of Brunei Darussalam, cuyana and Sornalia inallcated lhat,
been present, they would have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

u
had they



A/39/7L?
En91ish
Page 4

IJesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahir iya, Luxernbourg, Madagascar,
Malawi' ttalaysia ' Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico' Mongolia,!,lorocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, Nev, zealandr Nlcaragua,
Nigerr Nigeriar Norway, onanr Pakistan, Panana, Paraguay, Peru, t
Philippinesr Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania ' Rwanda, saudiArabia' Senegal' sierra Leone' Singapole, Spain, Sri Lanka'
Sudan, Sr.{eden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togor Tunisia. n
Turkey, Uganda' Ukrainian soviet Socialist Republic. Union of
soviet socialist Republics, united Arab Emirates, united Kingdon
of Grea! Britain and Northern Irelandr United RePubllc of t
Tanzanla, United States of America, Uruguay' Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslaviar zaire, zanbi.ar z inbabwe.

49Eig*: rsrael.

(b) The draft resolution as a whol-e vras adopted by a recorded vote of d
II7 to I, with 3 abstentions (see para. 25, draft resolution B). The votlng was as
folLowst !1/

Ejleg: Afghanistan' Albania' Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia'
Austria' Bahrain, Bangladesh' Barbados, Belgium' Benin'
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsvrana, Brazil, Bulgariar Burkina Faso,
Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet Socialist RePublic t
Canada, Central African Repubtic, chile' china' colombia,
congo, Cuba, clFrus, Denocratic KamPuchea, Democratic Yemen'
Dennark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt' Ethiopia, Finland,
France, Gabonr Gernan Democratic Republic' Germanyr FederaL
Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Irag' Ireland, Italy,
Ivory coast, Janaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
Peopler s Dernocratic Republic, Lebanon, tesotho' Libyan Arab
Janahir iya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar r !4a1awi, Malaysia,
Maldives, MaIi, Mauritania, Mexicor Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozarnbique, Nepal, Nelherlands' New zealandf Nicaragua'
Niger, Nigeria, Norway' Oman r Pakistan, Panana r Paraguay'
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar' Romania r Rwanda,
saudi Arabia, senegal, sierra Leone' singaPore, sPain, sri
Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic ' Thailand, Togo'Tunisiar Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Soci'alist
Republic, union of soviet Socialist Republica, united Arab
Eniratesr United Kingdom of Great Bri.lain and Northern
Ireland. United Republic of Tanzania, Uluguay, venezuela,
viet Nan, Yemen, Yugoslavia' zarnbia, z imbabwe.

Aqainst: Israel.

A,bstaininq: Liberj.a, United States of America, zaire,



A/39/7I2
EngIlsh
Page 5

12. At the
introduced a

43rd neeting, on
draft resolution

C. Draft resolution A/sPC/39lL. 24

29 November, the representative of Pakistan
(p/sPc/3e/L.24) , sponsored by gtglglg!3g

ladesh cuba

13. At the sane neeting, the corunittee adopteat draft resolut|o A/SPC/39/L.24
bt/ a recorded vote of lI7 to I, with 1 abstention (see para. 26, draft
resolution C). The voting was as follovrs: 3/

In favour:

Against:

Abstaining:

Afghanistan, A1bania, Algeria. Argentina, Australia,
Auslria, Bahrain, BanglaaleEh, Barbados, BeIgiun0. Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botslrana, Brazil, Bulgariar Burklna Pasot
Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Soclallst Republict
canada, central African RepubLic, Chiler Chinar Congo, Cubar
Cyprus, Denocratic Kampuchea, Detnocratic Yemen, Dennark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finlanil, France ' Gabon,German Denocratic Republic, cermany, Federal Republlc of,
Ghana, creece, Guinea, Hungary, Icelandl India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory
Coast, ilamaica, ,Japan. ,fordan' Kenya, Ku$tait, Lao PeoPlers
Denocratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, IJiberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia'
Maldives, MaIi, Mauritania, Mexico, !{ongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepa1, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaraguat
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Onan, Paki.stan. Panatna, Palaguay,
Peru, Philippines, Polandr Portugal. Qatarr Ronaniar Rwanda,
Saudi Alabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sli
Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialis!
Republic, Union of soviet socialist Republics, united Arab
Emirates, United Kingalon of Gleat Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela,
viel Nam, Yenen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zambia, zinbabwe,

Israel.

United States of Amer ica -

D. Draft resolution VSPCI39,/L.25

14. At the 43rd rneeting, on 29 November, the representative of Bangladesh
inlroduced a draf t resolution lA/sPc/39/L.25) , sponsored by lIg@!g!&.
Bangladesh, Cuba, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Madagascar, l.,talaysia, l4ali, Nicaragua,
Pakistan, eatar and g9g9g1,

15. On 2I November, the Secretary-General, in accordance with rule I53 of the
rules of procedure of the General Asserubly, submitted a statement (A/sPc/39/L.301
on the programne budget implications of the draft resolution.



A/39/7L2
English
Page 6

16. At the same meetlng, the connittee voted on draft resoLutLon A/Spc/39/L.25 as
followa:

(a) Operative paragraph 6 was adopted by a recorded vote of 94 to IB,
with 17 abstentions, The voting vras as follows: 3/

In favour 3 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan r Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundl, Byeloruasian Soviet Socialist
Republlc, Central African Republic, China, Colombia, Crngo,
Cuba, CypEua, Denocratic Kampuchea, Dernocratic yemen,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, cabon, cerrnan Dernocratic Republic,
Ghana, cuinea, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republlc of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kurrait, Lao
Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahlriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mal-dives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, l4ongolia, Uozamblque, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Qatart
Ronania, BvJanda, saudi Arabia, senegal, singapore, sri
Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Ihail-and, Togo, Tunisia,
Turkey, tganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union
of Sovlet SoclaliEt Republics, United Arab Enirates, Unitefl
Republlc of Tanzania, Venezuela, viet Nam, yenen,
Yugoslavia, zanbla, z inbatrlee.

Agai.nst: Australia, Belgiun, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
cermany, Federal Republlc of, Ice1and, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, .tapan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
United Kingdlon of creat Britain and Northern lreland, Unlted
states of Anrerica.

Abstaining: Atgentina, Austria, Barbados, Chile, Ethiopia, creece, lvory
Coast, Liberia, Ualawi, Panana, Paraguay, Philippines,
Portugal, S-pain, Sweden, Uruguay. Zaire.

(b) The draft reaolution as a whole nas adopted by a recorded vote of 93
to 2r rdith 23 abstention6 (see para. 26, draft resolution D). |Ihe voting was as
foUorrs ! g/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burkina Fa6o, Burma, Burundi, Byelorusaian soviet
socialist Republic, Central African Republic, China,
Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic Kampuchea,
Denocratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabonl

y Sub6equently, the representative of Jamaica inaticated that his ilelegation
had intended to abstain in the vote on operative paEagraph 6 of the draft
resolution.

a

I

tr



A/39/7t2
English
Page 7

German Denocratic Republic, chana, creece, Guinear Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republlc of), Iraq, ilanaica,
Jordan. Kenya, Kurrait, Lao peoplet s Democratic Republlc,
Lebanon, t esotho, Libyan Arab .famahiriya, lladagascar,
Malaysia, MaLdives, MaIl, Mexico, l4ongoliar Morocco.
!{ozambique. Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Gtian, paklstan, panama,
Paraguay, Peru, philippines, poland, portugal, Qatar,
Ronania, Rrranda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, sierra Leone,
Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian A-rab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Tuni6ia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, Uniteal Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
venezuela, viet Nan, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zambia, zlmbabwe.

Against: rsrael, united states of tuaerica.

Abstaininq: Australia, Austria, Barbados. Belglum, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, cermany, federal Republic of, Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coa6t, Japan, Liberia, Luxenbourg,
llalawi, Netherlands, Nen Zealand, Norlray, Sweden, Uniteal
Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern lreland, zaire.

E. Draft resolution A,/SpC,/39IIJ.2 6
17. At rhe
introduced a

43rd meeting, on 29 Novernber, the
draf t resolution (VsPc,/39 /r,.261 ,

representative of Bangladesh
sponsored by Afqhaniatan,

I

Iadesh Cuba India
senegal.

I8. At the sane neeting, the Cormlttee adopted draft resolut Lon A/SPC/39/L.26 by
recorded vote of 121 to I, rrith I abstenCion (see pata. 26, draft resolution E).
Ttre voting wa6 as follows: A/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Al.geria, Angola, Argentina, Austral,ia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladeah, Barbados, BeIgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bu1garia, Burkina Faso,
Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Soclallst Republic,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile. China, Colornbia,
Congo, Cuba, ClT)rus, Democratic Kanpuchea, Democratic yemen,
Dennark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Eg!'pt, El Salvador, Etliopia,
Finland, France, Gabon, cernan Denocratlc Republic, Gernany,
Federal Republic of, Ghana, creece, Gulnea, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, ilapan,
itordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peopler € Denocratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Alab ilamahiriya,
Luxernbourg, Madagascar, ltalarri, Malaysia, Maldives, t'lali,
Mauritania, llexico, t4ongolia, !,torocco, llozambique, Nepal,
NetherLands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway.
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, peru, philippines. poland,



A/39/7r2
English
Page I

Portugal, eatar, Ronania, Rnanda, Saudi Alabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain. Sri Lanka, Sudan. Sweden,
Syrian itrab Republic, itrailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey,
uganda, Ukralnlan Soviet socialist Republic, union of Soviet
Socialist Republica, United Arab Emirates. United Kingdom of
Great Britaln and Northern lreland, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, VenezueLa, Viet Nam, yenen, yugoslavia,
zaire' zambia, z inbabwe.

Agalnsti Israel.

Abstaininq: United States of Anerica.

F. Draft reaolutfon A/9PC/39/L.27

19. At the 43rd meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Bangladesh
introduced a draft resolutton (NSPC/394,.27 ) , sponsored by AEg@!g!eg3
B?ngladesh, Cuba, Eg!,'pt, India, Indonesia, !,tadagascar, ttalaysia, MaIi,
Nicaragua, Pakistan, Qatar and ESSI.
20. At tjre satne neeting, the @mnittee adopted draft re6olutior| A/S9C/39/L.27
by a recorded vote of 116 to 1, nith 3 abstentions (see para. 25, draft
resolution F). The voting was as follows: !/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Auatraliat
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, BeIgiun, Beninr
Bhutan, Bo1ivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colotnbia,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Der0ocratic Kanpuchea, Denocratic yemen,
Denmark, Djibouti' Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finlandr
Srance, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Gernany, Sederal
Republic ofr Ghana, Greece r Guinear Hungary, Icelandr India.
Indonesiar' Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, ,fapan, itordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
Peopler s Denocratlc Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahirlya, Luxembourg, l,ladaga€car, !,talawi, llalaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, tbrocco,
Mozanbiquer Nepal, NetherlandE, New zealand, Nicaragua'
Niger, Nigeria, Norvray, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Phiuppines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Slerra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan. srreden. syrian Arab Republicl llhalland, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republicsr gnited Arab
Emirates, United Kingalo!0 of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Vlet Nan, Yemen, yugoslavia, Zarnbia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Israel.

Abstaininq: Liberia, united states of America, zaire.

d

a
I



b

A/3e/7L2
English
Page 9

G. Draft resolutlon VSPCI39IL.28
2L. At the 43rd meeting, on 29 Novenber, the represenlative of Banglaalesh
introduced a draft resolution (A/spc/3g/L.28) , sponsored by Afghanistan,

22. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolut Lon A/SpC/3gh,.2g by a
recorded vote of 93 lo 2. r.rith 26 abstentions (see para. 26, draft resolution c).

r The votlng was as follovrs: 2/

LE4!: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Algentina, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republicl Central African Republic, China, Congo,
Cuba, Qprus. Czechoslovakia, Denociatic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Eglrpt, Ethlopia, cabon,
cernan Democratic Republic. Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Hungary,
India, hdonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, ilamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kunait, I,ao peoplers Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, tibyan Arab Jamahirlya, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia. ttaldives, MaIi, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozanbique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, peru, philip5rines, poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Rornania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Si.ngapore, Spain, Srl Lanka, Sudan, Svreden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisial Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet SociaList Republic, Union of soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, Unlted RepubLic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, yugosLavia, Zarnbia,
Zinbabwe.

Againsts Israel, Uniteal States of Anerica.

Abstaj.ninq 3 Australla, Barbados, Belgium, Burma, Canada, Chile,
colombia, Dennark, Finland, France, Gernany, Federal
Republic of, lceland, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast, .fapan,
Liberia, Luxer0bourg, Netherlands, Nery zealand, Norlray,
Panana, Paraguay, United Kingdon of creat Britain and
Northern lreland, Uruguay, U aire.

!t. prafts resolutlon VSPCI39IL.29
23. At the 43rd meeting, on 29 November, the representative of Afghanlstan
ineroduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/39/L.29), sponaored by Afghanistan,
Par.lgladesh, Cuba, Egypt, India, Indonesia, tladagaEcar, ttalaysia, !,ialt, Nicaraqua,r Pakistan, earar and @gql.



A/39/7L2
Engl-ish
Page 10

24. At the saflr€ meeting, the Connittee adoPted draft resolutLon A/SPC/39/L.29 by a
recorded vote of LzL to 2. vrlth I abEtention (see Para. 26. draft resolution E).
I'lxe voting was as follorrs: g/

rn favour! Afghanistan, Al-bania, Algeriar Angola, Argentina' Austlallat
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgiutnr Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, BotsHana, Brazilr Bulgariar Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundir Byelorussian soviet Socialist Republic,
canada' central Afrtcan RePublic, chile' china, Colonbia,
congo, cuba, CyPrus' czechosLovakia, Denoc ratic KamPuclrea,
Denocratic Yemenr Dennark, Djiboutir Ecuador, Egypt, BI
salvador ' Ethioplar 

Finlandl France, Gabon, Gernan
Denocratic RePubllc' Gerrnany, FedeEal RePubllc of, Ghena 'Greece' Guinea' Guyana r Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India'
Indonesia' Iran (Ialanic RePublic of) ' 

Iraq, Ireland' Ita1y'
Ivory Coast' Jamaical ilaPan ' Jordan, Kenyar Kuwait, 

Lao
Peoplers Denocratic ttePublic' Lebanon, Lesotho, LibeEiat
Libyan Arab,lanahir iya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar, Malawi''
!4alaysia, !,taldives, MaIi ' 

!'tauritaniar !'!exico, Mongolia'
!,lorocco r Mozanbique, NePal, Netherlands, New zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Ctnan ' Pakistanr Panama,Peru. PhilipPines, Poland ' Portugalr 

gatar' Ronanla ' Rwanda'
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, SingaPore' SPain, sri
Lanka' sudanr sweden, syrian Arab Republic, rhailand. Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, uganda, ukrainian soviet Socialist
Republic ' Union of Soviet Socialj.st 

Republics, United Arab
Emiratea, United Kingdon of Great Brltain and Northern
Ireland, United RePubIic of Tanzaniar Uruquay' venezuela,
viet Nam' Yemen, Yugoa!.avia, Uanbia, zirnbabvr€.

AE:!4: IEraeI, United states of Anerica'

3!.@: zaire.
25. statexnents in e:(Planation of vote following the vote were made by the
representatives of lreland (on behalf of the ten rnernbers of the European
Co-rununity), sweden, the United States of Anericar sri Lanka, AusLria, Canadar the 

N

Libyan Arab Janahiriya and Argentina.

!/ Subsequently, the delegations of Brunei Darussalan antl Sonalia indlcated
that, had they been Present, they viould have voted in favour of the draft
resolution.



b

A/39/7L2
English
Page Il

III. RECO!.IMENDATIONS OF TIIE SPECIAI, POLITICAL CO!,II4ITTEE

26, The Special Political Conmittee recornnends to the ceneral Assenbly the
adoption of the follorring resolutions:

A

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recalllng its resolution 38/79 A of 15 Decenber 1983,

Takinq note of the report of the International Cornrnlttee of the Red cross
of 13 December L983, y

Taking note of the report of t'he Secretary-ceneral of I{ Novembe t 1984, 9l
I. Deplores the fact that the Israell authorities, at the last hinute,

took one prisoner, ziyad Abu Eln, Hho had been registered before enbarkatlon
by del.egates of the International Comittee of the Real Cross at Tel Aviv
airport I

2. Condemns Israel for its fallure to conpty rrith resolution 38rl79 A of
15 Decetnber 1983;

3. Denands agaln the inn€diate release of all prisoners, lncluding
Ziyad Abu Ein, lrho were duly registered to be freed fron Insar Camp and other
military conmand posts in Bouthern Lebanon and Iarael but have not, ln fact,
been released, and the securing of their transfer to Algiers in conformlty
with the agreement reached through the good otfices of the International
Connittee of the Red Crossi

4. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the ceneral Asaembly as
soon as possible and not later than the beginning of the fortieth seasion on
the implementation of the present resoluti.on.

see A/38/735,

A/39/665.

:t

g



A/39/7L2
Eng Iish
Page 12

B

The General Assenbly t

Recallinq its resolutions 3092 A (xxvIII) of 7 December 1973'
gzao E-lfrilj-of 29 Novenber Lg74. 3525 B (XXX) of 15 DecenbeE L975. 311106 B
of 16 Decembe r !976t 32/gL A of 13 Decernlce r ]-977 r 331113 A of
l8 Decenber Lg78, 34/go B of t2 Decenber ]-,979. 35/122 A of 1l December 1-980,
1O/Ul e of 16 Decenber 198I, 37 /Ag A of IO December 1982 and 38/79 B of
15 Decenber 1983,

Recalting also securily council resolution 465 (f980) of I March 1980 in
,ni.nllilEl-Ji., the Council afflrrnetl that the Geneva Convention relative to
trr" pi offii-iE civilian per.ons in Tine of war, of 12 August L949, 7/ is
appllcabte to the Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967' including
Jerusalern,

conEider ing that the promotion of respect for the obligations arising
fron tbe charter of the United Nations antl other inshruments and lules of
international law is annong the basic purPoses and princiPles of the united
Nations,

Beasing in mind the provisions of the Geneva convention,

Notinq tha! rsrael and those Arab states whose territories have been
occupFd-ry Israel since ,lune l'967 are Parties to that convention,

Taking into account that Seates Parties to the Convention undertake' in
accore;A-;;6-;rt ic le I thereof ' 

not only to resPect but also lo ensure
respect for the Convention in all circumatances'

I. Reaffirm6 that the Geneva convention relative to the Protectlon of
civilian persons in Tlne of vlar. of 12 August 1949, is aPplicable to the
palestinian and other Arab territories occuPied by Israel slnce I967t
including .terusalemi

2. condemns once agaln the failure of Israel, the occupyinq Power, to
acknowleag-TiffifillEaffifi! of that convention ro rhe relritories it has
occupied eince 1967r including ,ferusaleni

3. strongly demands that Israel acknowledge and comPly vJith the
provisions-ffilT-$ivfiTion in the Palestinian and other Alab terrilories it
has occuPied slnce 1967, including Jerusaleni

4.Urqentlycallsuponallstatesparti€stothatconventiontoexelt
au efforts in order to ensuie respect for and cornpliance i.rith its Provisions
in the Palestlnian and other Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967,
including Jerusalem.

I
U United Nations, Trealv series, vol. 75, No. 973' p. 287'



I

A/39/7I2
English
Page l-3

the General Assenbly,

Recalling its resoLutio^s 32/5 of 28 october L977, 33/LL3 B of
rg pe;;;6er 197a, 34/90 c of t2 Decembe! L979' 35/L22 B of U December 1980,
36/147 B of 16 Decenber 198I, 37 /85 ts of I0 Decettber 1982 and 38/79 C of
15 Dec€mber 1983,

Recalling also security council resolution 465 (1980) of I March 1980,

Expressing qrave anxiety and concern at the present serious situatlon in
the occupied Palestinian and other Arab territories, including J€rusalen, as a
result of ttte continued Israell occupation and the measures and actions taken
by Israel' the occupying Porrer, designed to change the legal status,
geographical nature and demoglaphic composition of those territories,

Confirming lhat lhe Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of
civj.lian persons in Time of vlar, of 12 August L949 ' 

y i6 aPPlicab1e to all
Arab territories occupied since June 1967, lncluding .terusalem'

1. Determlnes that all such measures and actions taken by Israel in the
Palestinian and other Arab territories occupied since 1967' including
Jerusalem, are in violation of the relevant ProviElonE of the Geneva
convention relative to the Protection of civilian Persons in Tine of war, of
12 August 1949. and constitute a serious obstruction to the efforts to achieve
a just and lasting Peace in the Middte East and therefore have no legal
validity;

2. Strongly deplores the persistence of Israel in carrying out such
neasureg, tn particutar the establishnent of settlements in the Palestinian
and other occupied lerritories, including Jeru6alemt

3. Lernanats that larae1 comPly strictly vtith lts international
obligationi in accordance rrtith the PrincipleE of international law and the
provisions of lhe Geneva conventioni

4. Denands once more that Israel, lhe occuPying Povrer, desiEt forthwith
tron taking any action wnich would resul! in changing the legal slatus,
geographicaL nature o! demograPhic comPositlon of the Palestinian and other
Arab terrltories occupied since 1967' incluiting Jerusalemi

5. Urgently calls upon all states parties to the Geneva Convention to
respect ana to exert atl efforts in order to ensure resP€ct for and conPliance
with its provisions in aII Arab territories occuPied by Israel since 1967,
inclualing Jerusalen.



A/3e /712
English
Page 14

@.,
Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United

Nalions and by the principles and provisions of the Universal DeclaEation of
Hunan Rights, g/

Bearing in nind the provisions of the ceneva Convention relative to the
Protection of civiLlan Persons in Tine of war, of 12 August L949, U as well
as of other relevant conventlons and regulations,

Recallinq all its resolutions on the subject, in partlcular resoLutions
32/9f B and C of 13 December L977, 33/LL3 c of 18 December 1.978, 34190 A of
12 Decenber L979, 35/L22 C of II December LgeO, 36/147 c of 16 oecenber l98lr
37/88 C of l0 tecember 1982 anal 38/79 D of 15 December 1983, and also those
adopted by the Security council, the conmission on Hunan Rights, in particular
it6 resolutlons 1983/1 of 15 February 1983 and L984/L of. 20 February 1984, and
other UniLed Nations organa concerned and by the specialized agencies,

Having considered the report of the Special Committee to Investigate
Israeli Practicea Affecting the Human Rights of the PoPutation of the OccuPied
Territorles dated 29 October 19841 which contains, inter alia,
self- incr irninating pubJ.ic statements nade by officials of Iaraelr the
occupying lrower,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-cener aI dated
6 Novenber 1984, Ll

1. Cotm€nds the Special Cormittee to Investigate Iaraeli Practices
Affecting the Eunan Rlghts of the Population of the Occupied Territories for
its efforts in perforning the tasks assigned to it by the General Assembly and
for its thoroughness and impartialltyi

2. Deplores the continued refusal by Israel to allow the Special
committee accesg to the occupied territoriesi

3. Demands lhat Israel altow the specla]. Cornmittee access to the
occupied tffi?ies;

4. Reaffirms the fact that occupation itself constltutes a grave
vi.olation of the hurnan rights of the civilian population of the occupied Arab
ter r itor ies t

Resolution 217 A (III).

A/39/620.

d

v
2/



b

A/39/7L2
English
Page 15

5. Conderuls the continued and peraistent violation by Israel of the
Geneva ConGiEiireLative to the protection of Clvilian persons in Tine of,
War, of 12 Augugt 1949, and other applicabl.e internatlonal instruments, and
condemns in particular those vlolations which that Conventlon designateE as
"grave breachesi thereof i

6. Declares once rpre that Israelrs grave breactres of that Convention
are war crimes and an affront to humanityt

7. Strongly condemns the followlng lgraeli pol-icles and practlces:

(a) Annexation of parts of the occupied territories, including ilerusalemt
(b) Iq)ositlon of Israell. larE, Jurlsdiction and administration on the

Syrian Golan Heights, which haE resulted ln the effective annexation of the
syrlan Golan Heights t

(c) I11egal impositlon and Levy of heavy and disproport ionate taxes and
dues t

(d) Establishment of new l6raeli settlenents and expansion of the
existing settlements on private anal publlc Arab lands, and transfer of an
alien population theretoi

(e) Eviction, deportation, expulaion, displacenent and tranafer of Arab
inhabitants of the occupied territories and denial of thelr rlght to returni

(f) confiscati.on and exproprlation of private and public Arab properEy
in the occupied territories and all other transactions for the acquiaition of
land involving the Israeli authorl.tles, lnstitutions or nationals on the one
hand and the inhabitants or lnstitutiong of the occupied territories on the
other i

(S! Excavations and tran€fornatlona of the landscape and the hlatorical.
cultural and religious site6. e6pecially at ilerusalemi

(h) Pi Uagi,ng of archaeological and cultural property,

(i) Destruction and demolition of Arab houseE, the most recent of which
have been in the Jordan valley,.

(j) Collective punishnent, nass arresta, aalmlnistrative detentlon and
ill-treatn€nt of the Arab population t

(k) Ill-treatment and torture of persons under detentlont

(1) Interference with religious f reedona and practices as nell as fatnlly
rights and cuatonst

t.

a

I

o



A/39 /7L2
English
Page 16

d
i(n) rnterference with the system of education and with the sociar antl

economic deverop[ent of the popuration in the occupied palestinlan and other
Arab terr itor ies t

(n) Interference with the freedon of novenent of individuals vrithin the
occupied Palestinian and other Arab territoriesi

(o) IIlegaI exploitation of the natural rrealth, reaources and population
of the occupied terr itor ies i

8. Strongly condenns the arming of Israeli settlers in the occupied
territories to comnit acts of violence against Arab civllians and the
perpetralion of acts of violence by these arned settlers against indlviduars,
causing injury and death and nide-scale danage to Arab propertyi

9. Reaffirns that all measures taken by Israel to change the physical
character, dernographic cornposition, institutional 6tructure or status of the
occupied territories, or any part thereof, lncluding JeruEalen, are null anal
voidr and that Israelrs policy of settling parts of its population and new
imnigrancs in the occupted territories constitutes a fragrant violation of, the
Geneva Csnvention and of the relevant reaolutions of the United Nations;

L0. Denands that Israel atesist forthlrith fron the policles and practices
referred to in parag raphs 7, I and 9 abovei

tl. Calls upon Israel, the occupying power, to take irnnediate sleps for
the return of arr displaced Arab and palestlnian inhabitants to their hones or
forner places of reaidence in the territories occupied by Israel since 1962;

L2. Urqes the internat ional organlzations and the specialized agencies,
in particular the International Labour Organi6ation, to exanine the conttitions
of Arab norkers in the occupled palestinian and other Arab territorie6,
including,terusalemi

13. Reiterates its call upon all States, in particular those states
parties to-Ef,E6EG-ld6-nvention, in accordance rrith articte I of that
convenEion, and upon international organlzations and the speciarizedl agencles
not !o recognize any changes carried out by rsrael in the occupied territories
and to avoid actions, including those in the field of ald; which night be used
by IsraeL in its pursuit of the policies of annexatl.on and colonization or any
of the other policies and practlceg referred to in the preeent resolution,

14. Requests the Speciat Corunittee, pending early ternlnation of IsraeLi
occupation' to conlinue to investigate rsraeli poticles and practices in the
Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1967, Co consult, as appropriate,
nith the International Committee of the Red Cross in order to enaure the
safeguarding of the nelfare and human rights of the population of the occupiealterri.tories and to report bo the secretary-cenerar as soon as posslbre and
wheneveE the need arises thereafteri

,'t

I

tt



b
;

^/39/7L2English
Page 17

15. Requests the Special Conunittee to continue to investigate the
treatment of civilians in detention in the eiab territories occupiett by rsraer
slnce 1967i

16. condenms Israelrs refusal to pernit persons from the occupied
territories to appear as vritnesses before the Special Connittee and to
participate in conference. and neetings herd outsiare the occupied berritoriesi

17. Requests the Secretary-ceneral !
(a) To provlde all necessary facilitieB to the Special Conmittee,

including those required for its visite to the occupied territories, with a
vie$ to investigating the Israeli pol.icies and practices referred to in the
present resolutioni

(b) To contlnue to make available actdltional staff as may be neeessary
to assist the Special Comnittee ln the performance of its tasksi

(c! To enEure the widest circulation of the reports of the Special
Cotntnittee and of infornation regarding lts activities and findings, by all
means available through the Departnent of public Infornation of the
Secretariat and, where necessary, to Eeprlnt those reports of the Special
Connittee which are no Longer available,

(d) To report to the General Assembly at its fortieth session on the
tasks entrusted to hirn in the present paragraphi

18. Requeats the Securlty Councll to ensure Israelrs respect for and
cdnpriance wlth arr the provisionE of the ceneva convention relative to the
Protection of Civllian persons in Tirne of War, of 12 August 1949, in the
Palestinian and other Arab territories occupied since 1967, inclutting
Jerusalem, and to initiate measures to halt Israeli poLicies and practices in
those ter r itor les t

L9. Decldes to lncl-ude in the provieional agenda of its fortieth session
the iten entitled "Report of the Special Conniteee to Investigate Israeli
Practices Affecting the Hunan Right€ of the population of the Occupieal
Terrilories'.

E!

The General Assembly,

Recalling security Council resolutions 468 (1980) of 8 May 1980,
469 (L980) of 20 ltay 1980 and 484 (1980) of 19 Decenber 1980 and ceneral
Assembry resolutions 36/L47 D of L6 D€cember r98l, 37 /Bg D of Lo December rggz
and 3A/79 of 15 Decernber 1983,

il.

O



A/39/7L2
English
Page 18 d

I
Takj.ng note of the secretary-ceneral I s report of 27 septenber l9g{, ry
Deeply concerned at the expulgion by the Israeli nilitary occupation

authoritiea of the Mayors of Hebron and Halhul and of the Sharta iluclge of
Hebron,

RecalLinq the ceneva conventlorr relative to the protectlon of Civllian
Persons in Ti.ne of war, of ]-2 AuguBt L949, U in particuLar article I and thefirst paragraph of article 49, which read aE follows:

'Areicle I

"Ihe High Contractlng partles undertake to reepect and to enEure
respect for the preaent Convention in all clrcutnatances. r

'Article 49

"Indlvldual or naa6 forclble transf€rs, as Hell as deportations of
protected persons from occupied territory to the territory of the
occupying Poner or to that of any ottrer country, occupied or not, are
prohibited. regardlesB of their rnotive ...n
Reaffirninq the applicabillty of the ceneva conventlon to the paleEtlnlan

and other Arab territories occupled by Israel since 1957, including alerusalen,
1. Demands once more that the covernnent of Israel, the occupying

Power, rescind the illegal meaaureg taken by the Israeli nil,itary occupatlon
authoritieE ln experring and imprisoning the ttayorg of Bebron and Harhur and
in expelling the Sharia alualge of llebron and that it facilitate the irmediate
return of the expelled palestinian leaders so that they can resume the
functions for nhich they were elected and appointedi

2. Requests bhe Secretary-ceneral to leport to the General Assenbly as
soon as possible and not later than the beginning of its fortleth session on
the implementation of the preaent resolution.

F

The ceneral Assenbly.

Deeply concerned that the Arab territories occupied aince 196Z have been
under continued Israeli military occupation,

Recallins security Council. resolution ,f9Z (1991-) of 17 Decenber lggl and
ceneral Assenbly resolutions 36/226 B of 17 Decenber 198I, ES-g,/I of
5 February L982, 37 /88 E of 10 December 1982 and 3g/79 F of 15 D€cenber 1983,

'.1

-

1

L0./ 
^/39/527.



b
A/39/7L2
English
Page 19

resol.utions 3414 (XXX)
25 Novenber L977, 33/2A
and 35422 E of
Israel to put an end to
fron all- those

l

, Having considered the report of the Secretary-Genera1 of- I October L984, LLT

Recalling iEs previous resolutions, in particular
of-s_Decenber L975, 3L/6L of 9 Decenber L976. 32/20 of
and 33/29 of 7 December L919, 34/70 of 6 Decenber 1929
11 Decenber 1980, in which it, inter alia, called upon
its occupatlon of the graU territories ana to withdraw
territor ies,

Reaffirning once more the iUegatity of Israel,s decision of
14 Decenber 1981 to impose its lahrs, iurigdicLion and administration on thesyrian Goran rieights, which has resurted in the effective annexation of thatterr itory,

Reaffirming that the acquisition of lerritory by force is inaahnissible
under the cha'ter of the united Nations and tbat a1l territories thus occupiedbl' Israe} nust be returned,

Recalling the ceneva Convention relative to the protection of Civilian
Peraons in Time of !tar, of 12 August L949, U

1. Strongly condemns Israel, the occupying power, for its refusal Eo
comply with the rerevant resorutions of the ceneral Assembly and the securitycouncll, particulaEly Council resolutlon 492 (I9Bl), in whi.ch the council,
inqer -a+i?, decided that the rsraeli decision to impose its laws, iurisdictionand adninistration in the occupied syrian colan Heights was nurr anrt voia and
rrlthout international legal effect and demanded that rsrael, the occupying
Poner, should rescind forthwith its decisionl

Z. condenns the persiatence of Israel in changing the physical
character, denographic cornposition, institutlonar structure and regar status
of the occupied Syrian j\rab colan Heightgi

3' Determines that arr legislative and adrninistrative neasures and
actions taken or to b€ taken by Israel, the occupying power, that purport toalter the character and regar status of the syrian Golan Heights are nurr and
void and constitute a flagrant violation of international law and of the
Geneva crnveneion rer.ative to the protection of civilian persons in Tlme of
Vlar, of 12 August 1949, and have no legal effect,

4. Strongly condernns Israel for its attenpts and measures to inpose
forcibly rsraeli citizenship and rsraeli ialentity cards on the syrian 

"iti""tt"in the occupied syrian Arab coran Heights and carls upon it to d-estst fron its
repressive measures againsc the population of the syrian Arab Golan tteightsi

U A/39/532 and corr.1.



A/39/7L2
English
Page 20

5. calls once again upon Menber states not to recognize any of the
1"g islacivii?IfiIiistrative measures and actions referred to abovei

6.Requestgthesecretary-GeneraltosubnittotheGeneralAssemblyat
its f or tieEGEEEIon a report on the implementation of the Present resolutlon.

f

{

The General Assenb.Iy '
Bear inq in ninal the

Civilian P€rsons ln Tine
ceneva Convention relative to the Protection of
of war. of 12 August L949. U

Deeply concerneal at the continued harassnent by Israel' the occuPying
po". r-;afi;E:A-uc;f ional inst itut ions in the occ uP ied Pare stin ian
territoriest

Recallinq its resolution X8/79 G of 15 Decenber 1983,

Takinq note of the report of the Sec retary-General of
i.a seFE-n6FT66-1, ral

1. Reafftrns the aPPlicabil-tty of the Geneva convention relative to the
protectionE- Clvilian P€rsons in Time of war, of 12 August 1949, to the
Palestinian and other Arab territories oceupied by rsrael since 1967,
including Jerusaleni

2. Condenna Israell poticies and practices against Palestinian students
and facultlElFin schools, universities and other educationat institutions in
Lire occupietl Palestinian territories' especially the policy of opening fire on
defenceless students, causing nany casualtiesi

3. Condemne the systenatic IEraeIi caltPaign of rePression against and
closing otlt tverrittes lnd other educational and vocational institutions in
the ociupied Palestinian Eerritories, restricting and impeding the academic
activitils of palestinian universities by subjecting the selection of courses,
textbooks and educational Prograntnes, the admission of students and the
appointnent of faculty rrembers to the contlol an'l suPervislon of the.nilitary
oiiupatton authorities' in clear contravention of Ehe Geneva Conventioni

4. Denands that Israelr the occupying Power ' conply 
with the Provisions

of that Coi6II6n, resclnd all actions and rneasures aqainst a1l educational
institutiong, ensure the freedom of those institutions and refrain forthwith
fromhinderingtheeffectiveoPerationoftheuniversitiesandother
educa!ional institutionEt

!Z/ A/3e/5oL-



I,

^/3e/712EngIish
Page 21

!o subrnit a report on the
to the General Assenbly as soon asof its fortieth session,

Rgquests the Sec x e tar y-cene r a 1
rnpJ_enentation of the present resolution
possible and not 1ater than the beginning

The General Assernb.

Recallinq Security Counci] resolution 471 (l-980) of 5 ilune 1980, in wrrichthe council condemned the assassination attenpts against the Mayors of Nabrus,Ramallah and AI Bireh and cal1ed for the i*rn"aiut. apprehension andprosecution of the perpetrators of those crill€s,
Recarling arso ceneral Assenbty resolutions 36/L47 c of 16 Decenber 1981,37/88 c of tO Decenber lg82 and 3e/1g u of 15 oecenoer 1983,
Taking note of the Secretary-ceneral' s report of 9 JuLy 1984, !!/

^,__-,Beca_lling 
onge again the ceneva Convention relative Co the protection ofurvrrran persons in Tine of war, of 12 August Lg4g. y in particulararticle 27, which states, inter al-ia:

"Protected persons are entitled, in all circunstances, to respectfor their persons ... They shalt at aII times be hunanely treated, andsha1l be protected especiiuy against.ri a"t, of viorence or threaEsl.hara^f

legffirminq the applicability of that convention to the Arab territoriesoccupied by Israel since 1967, inclucling ,ferusalen,

- 
1. Demands that Israel, the occupying po\,rer, inform the

Sec retar y-General of the results of the investigatrons and prosecutionrelative to the assassination attenptsi

-2._ . B,"quu=tg the Sect etary-cene ral- to submit to the ceneral Assembiy arrEs fortieth session a report on the inprementation of the present resolution.

I L3/ ^/3e/33s.




