








































UNITED
NATIONS

L
J General Assembly

Distr.
GENENAL

A/39/7 Os
6 December 1984

ORIGINAI,: ENGLI SH

b

)

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda iten 96

HUMAN RIGHTS AND SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAI DEVELOPMENTS

Report of the Third Conunittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Grzegorz POLO!{C ZYK (Poland}

I. INTRODUCTION

1. AC its 3rd plenary neeting on 2l- Septenber 1984, the ceneral Assemb1y, on the
recoNnendation of the ceneral Corunittee, decided to include in the agenda of its
thirty-ninth session the iten entitled "Hunan rights and scientific and
t.echnological developments" and to allocate iC to the Third Corunittee.

2. The Third Corunittee considered the item jointly with itens 95t 97,98 and 99
at its 44th to 46th, 48th to 52nd, 56th, 57th and 60!h neetings, on 19 to 2I, 2J.
26 to 28 Novenber and 3 and 5 Decenber 1984. An account of the Connittee's
discussion is contained i.n the relevant sumnary records (A/C.3/39/ 5R.44-46, 48-52,
5ti, 57 and 60).

3. The Conmittee had before it the following documents:

(a) Report of the Bconomic and Social Council-, chapter v, section A (A/39/3
(part r))r I/

(b) Hunan rights and scientific and technological developments: report of
the secretary-ceneral (A/39/422 and Add.1);

(c) Letter dated 12 June 1984 from the Pernanent Representative of the United
Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern Ireland to the United Nations addressed to

y To be issued as
session. supplement No, 3

84-31946 4538P (E)

Official Records of the ceneral Assenbly, Thirty-ninth
(A/3e/3t.



N3e/705
English
Page 2

the Secretary-Gener al, transmitting the
London Economi.c SuNnit' held fron ? to

(d) Letter dated 15 october 1984 fron the Pernanent RePresentative of
Nicaragua to the United Nations addressed to tbe Sec retary-General ' 

transmitting
the resolutions and othe; a".or"nt" of the Third conference of Ministers 

of Labour
of Non-Aligned countrles and other Developing countries' held at Managua 

from I0 to
12 laay 1984 (A/39/581-s/L6782 and corr'I) '

4. At the 44th meetingt on 19 November ' the 
Assistant Sec r etary-Genera I for Hunan

Rights nade an introductory statement '

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAIS

5. At the 56Lh neetrng, on 3 December, the representative t: :T-ul:::u'i::9i"7
:; ",::.;;t;"; ffi;;;1."'"-t"i'"i 

i''c'oa""i '.9:?r:,::?:*l::: Ji{";l{le/L'46):;Jl;$ :;;;ii:";;;-"i-""i""tiirc and technor"si:?1-9"::1:n :*:..:"',:lf"Fi'i i, the
rights" r sPonsored bY ivia. Bo Colombia ' Costa

I
text of ghe Decl-aration issued at t'he

9 June 1984 (A/39/307\ i

and the
]'erra

United Great gri and Nor

6. At its 57th meetrng, on
r.{ithout a vote (see Para. 11'

3 Decemberr the comnittee adopted the 'lraft 
resolution

draft resolution 1).

'l . Ar
Sovlet
"Human

Viet Nam, Zanbia and 4!!Eiry'

8. At its 57th meeting, on 3 December, the connitcee
iy - r""o.a"a vote of 100 to none' 'lrith 20 abstentions
rlsolution ff). The voting was as follows: 2,/

Yemen, the
Lao

! The rePresentatives of the rslamic
sudan-indicaLed that' had Lhey been present
voted in favour of the resolution'

ia, Morocco'

aaloptetl the draft resolution
(see para. Il' draft

sonalia and the
they would have

Republic of Ir an,
during the voting,

I

B. Draft resolution A/c. 3,/3 9/L ' 6 5

meeting, on 3 Decenber, the representative of .the Byelorusslan
;.;;;ii; introduced a draft re-solution (A/c ' 3/ 3s fi",6,5-l ::tttttu

, the

the 56th
Soc ialist
right s and s-cientific and technological developmencsn ' 

sponsored by

la

the $y-.1@!' the



I
-

l.I

!

ln favour !

@.!,:
uEisis.:

A/39/7os
English
Page 3

Afghanistan, Algerla, Angola, Argenbina, Bahrain, Bang.Ladesh,
Beninr Bhutan, Bol-ivj.a, Bots$ana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria. Burkina Faso, Burmar Burundir Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, cameroon, central African Republic ' Chile,china, c.olonbial Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, cyPrus, czechoslovakia,
Denocratic Kampuchea, Denocratic Yenen, Donlnican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt r Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, German Dernocratic
Republic, Ghana, creece, cuyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India'
Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Japan ' Jordan, Kenya,Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lesothor Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, lladagascar ' 

Malawi, Malaysia' Maldives' MaIi,
Mauritania, Mexico, llongolia, !,tor@co, Mozambique, Nepal, Niger,
Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Papua Nevt Guinea, Peru, PhiliPpines,
Polandr Qatar, Ronania r Rwanda' sao Tome and Principe, saudi
Arabia, senegal, Singapore, Sri Lanka, surinaner Swazilandr
syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago'
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda ' Ukrainian soviet socialist Republic,Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United
Republic of Tanzania' uruguayr venezuela, viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, zaire, zarnbia.

None.

Australia, Austria, Belgiun, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France'
cermany, I'ederal Republlc of, Ireland, Israel' ltaly, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New zealand, Norrray, Portugal, spain, sneden, United
Kingdon of Great Bxitaj,n and Northern lreland, United States of
Atner ica.

C. praft resolu!ion A/C.3/39lL. 55

9. At the 55th neebing, on 3 December, the representative of the Union of Soviet
socialist Republ-ics introduced a draft resolution (A/c.3/39/L.55) entltled nHuman
rights and use of scientific and technological developnents" I sponsored by
Afqhanistan, Angola, Benin' Bulgaria, the Bvelorussian Soviet socialist Republicr

, the

D

atic Republlq, the
Ni

&fgnd, the Syrian Arab Republic, the @, the
Union of soviet socialist Republics and viet Nam.

10. At its 60th rneeti.ng, on 5 December, the conmittee adoPted draft resolution
A/c.3/39/L.55 by a recorded vote of 97 to 6' with I7 abstentions (see Para. 11'
draft resolution III). The result of the votlng nas as folloers: 3,/

y The representatives of Benin' Burkina Faso' Cape Verde, Gabon, .Jamaica 'Malawi' the sudan and the United Republic of Tanzania indicated that had they been
present during the votlng r they vroutd have voted in favour of lhe draft reBolution.



A,/39/705
English
Page 4

I
In favour:

Against!

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria,
Burma, tsyelorussian Soviet gocialist Republic, Caneroon, Central
African Republic, Chad. Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba,
Clt)rus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Eg!'pt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, canbia,
Gernan Denocratic Republic, chana, creece, cuatemala, cuyana,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, lran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Ivory Coast, ,tordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao peoplers Denocratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesolho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya,
Malaysia, Maldives, MaIi, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, pakistan, panama, papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines. poland, eatar, Rornania,
Rwanda' Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Surinarne, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Sociatist
Republic. Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, Uruguay, Venezuela, viet Nam, Yemen, yugoslavia, zaire,
Zarnbia.

Canada, France, cernany,
Kingdon of Great Br itain
Aner ica.

Federal Republic of, Italy, United
and NorLhern Ireland, United States of

rl

e

I

E!g!]gl!g: Australia, Austria, Be19iun, Dennark, Fin1and, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, .Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Nelr Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Svreden, Turkey.

III. RECOI.III'IENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMI.4ITTEE

11. The Thlrd Conmiteee reconnends to the ceneral- Assembly the adoption of the
fouowing draf t resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

The General Assernbly,

Recallinq its resolution 33,/53 of 14 Decembe r L978, in which it requested
the Comnisslon on Human Rights to urge the Sub-Cornnission on prevention of
Discrinination and Protection of Minorities to undertake, as a matter of
priority, a study of the question of the protection of those detained on the
9round6 of mental ill-health, with a view to fornulating guidelines,

Recalling also its resolution 38/1II of 16 Decernber 1983, in which it
urged the Comrlission on Hurnan Rights and the Sub-Connission on prevention of
Discriminatlon and Protection of Minorities to expedite their consideration of
thls question, so that the commission could submit its views and



L

- recorunendaL ions, including a draft body of
guarantees', to the General Assenbly at its
Economic and Socia.I council,

^/39/705English
Page 5

guidelines, principLes and
fortieth session through the

-

Recalling further Economic and socia]. council resolution I9g4/33 and
decision L984/I42 of 24 May 1984,

Noting that the Commission on Human Rights rrill not be in a position to
subnit its views and reconmendations to the ceneral Assembly at its fortieth
session through the Econonic and social council because the sub{onrnission on
Prevention of Discrimination and protection of Minoritles ha6 stiLl not
concluded its consideraCion of the draft body of guidetlnes, principles and
guarantees,

Noting with satisfaction the progress nade by the Sub-Commission on
Prevention of Dj-scrinination and protection of Minorities on this questlon,

Reaffirmj.ng its conviction that detention of persons in nental
instj.tutions on account of their political views or on other non-medical
grounds is a violation of their hurnan r j.ghts,

Aqain urges the Comnission on Human Righgs and, through it, the
sub-cofirn.iss ian on Prevention of Discrimination and protection of I'tinorities to
expedj.te their consideration of the draft body of guidelinesl principles and
guarantees, so t.hat the Conmission can submit its views and recommendations,
including a draft body of guidelines, principles and guarantees, to the
General Assenbly at its forty-first session through the Economic and Social
council.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Hunan riqhls and scientific and technological developnents

The General Assembly,

Noting that scient.ific and technological progress is one of Lhe important
factors in the development of hunan society,

Noting once again lhe great inportance of the Deelaration on the Use of
ScienCific and Technological- Progress in the Interests of peace and for the
B€nefit of Mankind, adopted by the ceneral Assembly in its resolution
3384 (XXX) of I0 November 1975.

Considering that inplenentation of the said Declaration hrill contr ibute
to the strengthening of international peace and the security of peoples and to
their economic and social development, as r,rell as to internati.onal
co-operation in the field of hunan rights,



A/39/7s5
EngIish
Page 6

seriously concerned that the results of scientific and technological
progress ;ould be used for the arns race to the detr irnent of international
peace and security and social progress' human rights and fundamental freedoms
and the dignity of the human Person,

Recognizing that the establishment of Ehe nevt international economic
order ca1ls in Particular fo! an inportant contribution to be made by science
and technology to econonic and social Progress,

Bearing in mind that the exchange and transfer of scientific an'l
tectrnotogicaf fnowJ.edge is one of the irnportant ways to accelerate the social
and econorrric developnent of the develoPing countries,

Noting lrith sat,isfaction the report of the Secretary-General on human
r igntE-Ena scientif iC lnd technological develo6xnenl's. U

1. Stresses the inporLance of the implementation by all states of the
provisions and principles contained in the Declaration on the Use of
Scientific and Technological Progress in the Interests of Peace and for the
Benefit of Mankind in order !o pronote hunan rights and fundamental freedons;

2, calls upon aLl states to nake every effort to use the achievefients
of science and technology in order to promote Peaceful social, economib and
cultural development and progressi

3. Requesta the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
united uacions systern to take into account in their programmes and activities
the provisions of the Declarationi

4. Invites those Menber States' specialized agencies and other
organization,s oF the unj.ced Nations system tha! have not yet done so to subnit
their information pursuant to General Assembly reaolution 35,/130 A of
11 Decenber 1980;

5, Requests the conrnission on Human Rights to glve special attention,
in its conEf[eration of the iten entitled "Human rights and scientific and
technological developrnents", to the question of the implementation of hhe
provisions of the Declarationr taking into consideration the infornatlon of
;tember stales, specialized agencies and other organlzations of the United
Nations system subrnitted in accordance with Generat Assembly resolution
3sl130 Ai

6. Decides to incl-ude in the provisional agenda of its fortieth sessLon
the ltem entitfea ',Human rights and scientific and technological developnents".

?

a!/ A/39/422 and Add.L.



l.

-

tf

A/ 39 /7 05
English
Page 7

DR,AFT RESOIJUTION III

ttuman rights and use of scientific and technological alevelopnents

The GeneraL Assembly,

Reaffirning the deternination of the peoples of th€ united Nations to
save succeeding generations from the scourge of vrar, to reaffirn falth in the
dignlty and rrorth of the human peraonr to naintain international peace and
security and to develoP frienttly relations among peoPles and international
co-operation in pronoting and encouraging universal resPect for hunan right€
and fundanental f reedoms,

Recalling the relevant provisions of the Universal Declaration of Hunan
aigtrts, / ttre International Covenant on Econonic, Social and Cultural
Rights, !/ and the International covenant on clvl]- and Political Rights, q/

RecalLinq also the charter of Economic Rlghts and Dutles of states f/ and
che Declaration and the Progra$ne of Action on the Establlshnent of a New
International Econonic otdet, 8/

Recalling further the Declaration on the strengthenlng of International
security, 9/ the Declaration on the use of Scientific and Technological
Progress in the Interests of Peace and for the Benefit of Mankind' ]9/ the
Declaration on the PreParation of socleties for Life in Peace ' 4/ 

tne
Declaration on the Prevention of Nuclear Cata6troPhe !]1/ and General Assembly
resolutions 36/92 f of 9 December l98l on the non-use of nuclear weapons and
prevention of nuclear war, 37 /I0o c of 13 December 1982 and 38/73 G of
15 Decenber 1983 on a convention on the prohibition of the use of nuclear
weaPons r

y Resolution 217 A (III).

y Resolution 2200 (xxl) ' annex.

U Resolution 3281- (xxlx).

y Resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (s-vl).

y Resolution 2734 (xxv).

p/ Resolution 3384 (xxx).

!L/ Resolution 33,/73.

g/ Resolution 36/Lo0 '

I

D



A/ 39 /'105
English
Page I

Bearing in mind that, in its resolution 38/75 of 15 December 1983,
nuclear wa! lJas resolutely, unconditionally and for aII tine condenned as
being contrary to human congcience and reason, as the most monstrous crime
against peoples and as a violation of the forenost hunan right - the right to
Iife,

RecaLling its appeal for the conclusion of an internationa.l- convention
prohibition of lhe use of nuclear weapons with the participation of all
nuclear-{eaPon states,

Taking note with appreciation of comnission on Hunan Rights lesolutions
L9A2/7 of l-9 February 1982. L3/ L983/43 of 9 March 1983 L4/ and 1984/28 of
12 March L9A4, ly

Reaffirming the inherent right to life,

Profoundly concerned that inlernational. peace and securily continue to be
threatened by the arns race in all its aspects, particularly the nuclear-arns
race, as well as by violations of the principles of the Charter of the United
Nations regarding the sovereignty and territorial integrity of States and the
se lf-determinat ion of peoples,

Aware that all the horrors of past nars and all other calamities that
have befallen people nould pale in comparison with what is inherent in the use
of nuclear \deapons capable of destroying civilization on Earth,

Elilg the pressing need for urgent measures towards general and complete
disarmanent, particularly nuclear disarnament, for the sake of life on Ealth,

Bearing in mind that, in accordance with the International Covenant on
Civil and Political Rights, any propaganda for lrar shall be prohibited by law,

Recall-ing the hiscoric responsibility of the Governrnenls of a]-I countries
of the world to r emove the threat of war from the lives of people, to preserve
civilization and ensure that everyone enjoys his inherent right to life'

convinced that for no people in the world today is there a more inportant
quesEion than that of the preservation of peace and of ensuring the cardinal
r j.ght of every hunan being, namely the right to life,

!]/ See official Records of the Economic and social Council, 1982, Supplement
\p.2 G/r982/LZ and Corr.l), chap. xXvI, sect. A.

rbid., f.9.9.1$@.!.!_ r'rLl @/L9s3/L3 and corr.l), chap. xxxvrr,

I

the
the

!!"/
A.

L5/

!

I

I
secE.

rbid., 1984, supplenent No. 4 lE/L984/L4t, chap. II, secL. A.



D

A/39/7Os
English
Paqe 9

1. Reaffirms that aLl peoples and all individuals have an inherent
righ! to life and that the safeguarding of this cardinar Eight is an essentiarcondition for the enjoymen! of the entire range of economi.c, social andcullural, as well as civil and political rights,

Z. Stresses once again the urgen! need for the international conmunityto make evfr-E?8ffi-trengthen peace, remove the growing threat of war,particurarly nucJ.ear rrar, hart the arms race and achieve general and conplele
disarmanent under effective internationar controt and prevent viorations of
the principles of the charter of the united Nations regarding the sovereignty
and territorial integrity of states and the self-deternination of peopres,
thus contributing to ensuring the right to tife;

3. Stresses further the forenost importance of Che inpLementation ofpractical ;easrtr;;f dGrmament for relelsing substantial additional
resources, which should be utllized for social and econonic devetopment,
particularly for the benefit of the developlng countries,

4. Calls upon al]. States, appropriate organs of the United Nations,
specialized agencies and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations
concerned to take the necessary measures to ensure that the results of
scienlific and technorogical progress are used exclusively in the interests of
intelnational peace, for the benefit of nankind and for promoting and
encourag ing universal respect for hurnan rights and fundanental freedoms?

Again calls upon all States that have not yet done so to take
effective measures with a view to prohibiLing any p[opaganda for war, inparCicular the formulation, propounding and dissemination of propaganda for
doctrines and concepts ained at unleashing nuclear liar t

6. Looks forward to further efforts by the Conunission on Euman Rights
with_a view to ensuring the inherent righc of alL peopres anal all individuarsto life;

7. Decides to conslder this question at its fortieth session under the
item entitled rrHunan rights and scientific and technologicaL dlevelopmentsn.

b

D




