








































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAseembly
Distr .
GENERAL

A/39/7 47
5 Decenber
EIiG],ISH
ORI GT NAL:

1984

FREI,ICH

)

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda iten 57

IIi'PLFMEIqIATION OF TBF DFCLAFATIO}J ON
TEE DFI\IUCLFIFIZATIOTJ OF AFFICA

ReDort of che First comlftittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Nqard KESSELY (chad)

I I\rT FODI'CTION

I. The item entitled:

"Implenentation of the Declaration on the Denuclear j zat ion of Africa:

" (a) rnplementation of the Declaration: report of the united Natlons
fnstitute for Di sarnament Research,

" (b) Nuclear capability of south Africa:

'(i) Report of the Disarnanent eoflmissiont

'(ii) Report of the secr etary-Ge neral "

was included in Che provisional aqenda of the thirty-ninth session in accordance
with General Assenbly resolutions 38,/181 A and B of 20 December 1983'

2. At its 3rd plenary tneeting, on 2f septernber 1984, the General Assenbfy' on the
recomnendation of the Genela1 comnittee, declded to include the iten in its agenda
and to altocate lt to the Flrst conmittee.

3. At its 2nd neeting' on 15 october, the First comrnittee decided to hold a
generaL debate on the iisarrnament itens allocated to it. namely, items 45 to 65 and
it€rn l4Z ra,hich was alfeated to the First Conmittee by the General Assenbly at its
27th plenary neeting, on 9 October, followed by statements on specific disarnanent

)

84-3t6 09 4534P (E)



A/39/ 7 47
English
Page 2

agenda items and continuation of the general debate, as necessary. The
deriberations on those items took place between the 3rd and the 36th meetings, fron
17 October to 12 Novenber (see A/C.L/39/pV,3-36)

4' rn connection lrith iLen 57, the First committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Disarnanent Conunission, I/
(b) Letter dated 15 March 1984 from the Char96 d,Affaires a.i. of the

Permanent Mission of Bangladesh to the United Nations addressed to the
secrelary-General, transr'ritLing the reports, resorutions and final decraration
adopted by the Fourteenth rslamic conference of Foreign l.{inisters, herd at Dhaka
from 6 to II Decenber L9A3 @/39/L33-S/L64L7),

(c) Report of the sec retary-cener a1 on the nuclear capability of south Africa(^/3e/ ab6t ,
(d) Note by

Nati.ons Institute

(e) Letter
Permanent I'li,ssion
(^/3e/s29|, i

the Secretary-General transmitting the report of the United
for Disarnanent Research (A/39/470) i

dated 27 Septenber 1984 from the Charg6 d,Affaires a.i. of the
of Togo to the United Nations addressed to the Sec r etary-ceneral

(
(f) Letter dated I Octobe! L984 fron the Pernanent Representatrve of India !o

the united Nations addressed to che secretar y-General, transrnitting the Final
connuniqu6 of the Meeting of Ministers and Heads of Delegation of the Non-Aligned
countri.es to the thirty-ninth session of the cenerar Assenbry, held in New york
fron I to 5 Octobex I9S4 (A/39/S6O-S/L6773!.

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAIS

A. Draft resolution A/c.1/39lL.4 4
5' on t2 Novenber L984, cameroon on beharf of the states Members of the united
Nations that are rnenbers .EJIEET ican croup, subnitted a draft resorutionentitled "rnplementation of the Decraracion on the Denuclear izat ion of Af rica,'
(A/c.l/39/L-44:, . The draft resorution was introduced by the representati.ve of
Caneroon at the 40th neet.ing, on IS Novenber.
6. At the 45th meeting' on 21 Novenber, ghe cornmittee adopted draft resorution
A/C.L/39/L.44 by a recorded vote of 132 to none, with 5 abstentions (see para. 11,draft resolution A). The voting was as follows:

I_ -y . 
of f ic jjgl Records of the cenerat Assenbll:_l!i4.@.!!_Eggg!gg,

supplerner,t



)

In f avour:

Against: None.

Etuilijg.: Belgiun' France, rsraer,
Northern Ireland, United

A/39/717
English
Page 3

Afghanlstan, Albania' Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia'
Austria, Baharflas ' Bahrain, BangladeEh, 

Benin, Bhutan,
golivia, Botsrrana, grazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria'
Burkina Faso' Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet Socialist
Republic, cameroon, Canada, caPe verder central African
Republic, chadr chile, China, colornbiar comoros, congo,
(bsta Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoelovakiar Denocratic
Kampuchea, Democratlc Yenen' Dentnark, Dj ibouti r Dorninican
nepuutic, Ecuador, Egypt, EthioPia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon'
German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal RePublic of,
Ghana, Greece, Guatenala, Guinea' Guyana, Itaiti' Ilondurast
Hungary 

' 
Iceland, India, Indonesia' Iran (Is1anic Republic

of) r lraq, Irelandr ItaLy, Ivory coast, Jamaica, JaPan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kurrait, Lao PeoPIe's Denocratlc RePublic'
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg,
Madagascar, I'talahri r Malaysia, Maltlives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico' Moroccor Mozambique, Nepal-' Netherlands'
New Zealand. Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norvray, Oman,
Pakistanr Panana, Perur PhlliPPines' Poland, Portugal'
Qatarr Romania, Rwandar samoa, sao Tone and Principe, Saudi
nrabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone r SingaPore, SPaint Sri Lanka'
sudan, suriname, Swaziland, srreden ' syrlan 

Arab RePublic '
ThaiLand, To9o, Trinidaat anat Tobago' Tunisla' Turkey'
uganda' ilkrainian soviet socialist Republic, union of sovlet
socialist Regublics, Unlted Arab Emirates, Unite'l RePublic
of Tanzanla, Uruguay' venezuela, Viet Nam, Yenen,
YugosLavla. zaire, zatnbia, Zimbabwe.

United K ingdon' of Great Britain and
States of Aner ica.

B. Draft resolution A/C.l/39,/L.51

7. On 12 November 1984, @, on behalf of the States Menbers of che united
Nations that are members of tte ltrican GrouP, sunitted a dlaft resolutlon'
entitled "Nuclear capability of South Africa" (FJC.L/39/I'.5D . The draft
lesolution r,ras introduced by the rePresentative of cameroon at the 40th neeting ' 

on

15 November. The draft resolution read as follows:

'!E Gene!gls.@,
"Recalling its resolutions 34/76 B

12 Decenber I980t 36,/86 A of 9 Decenber
38,/I8I B of 20 Decenber 1983,

of 11 Decernbe t I979i 35/L46 A of
f98]-i 17/74 B of 9 Decetnber 1982 and

t "Bearinq in nind the Declaration on the Denuclear i zation of Africa
) adoprea-E;T;;-1;;;6ly of Hea.s of srate and coverru'ent of rhe organization



v3e/747
English
Page 4

of African Unity at its first ordinary session, held at Cairo frorn 17 to2I July 19 54,

- 
"Reca+ilS that in the Finat D@ument of the Tenth special session of the

General Asserobly it noted that the accunuration of arnaments and theacquisition of arrnanent technology by the racist r6gimes as well as their
possible acquisition of nucLear seapons pre€ented an i.ncreasingly dangerous
and.a challenging obstacle to the s;rld conununity faced with tie urgent needto disarn, a/

. 
nRelralling also that in its resolution 33/63 of 14 Decernb€r 1978, itvigorously condenned any overt or covert attempt by south Africa to incroduce

. nucrear rreapong into the continent of Africa and denanded that south Africarefrain forthwith fron conducting any nucrear expr-osion in the continent or
else$here,

'Noting resolution cC(XXVIIIT,/RES/73I on South Afrlca,s nuclear
capablrities' adopted on 27 septenber 1984, by the cenerar conference of theInternational Atomic Energy Agency during its twenty-eighth regutar sessron,

_ . . "TFkirlg note eith appreciation of the repore of the Uniteat Nationsrnst,rtute for Diaarnament Research, .South Africars nuclear capabilityr, !/undertaken in co-oPeration with the Departtnent for Disarnarnent affairs and lnconsultation with the Organization of tfrican Unity, as well as the report of
the Disarmaftent Comnission, j/

xE:cpressing regret that despite the threat south Africars nuclear
caPability constitutes to internationar peace and security and, in particular,to the r€alization of the objective of the Declaration on the Denuclear j. zation
of, Africa, the Disarmanent Comrnission has, once againr in 19g4, failed to
reach a consensus on this inportant item on its agenda,

rcravelv concerned that South Afrlca, in flagrant vloLation of theprinclples of international law and the relevant provisions of the charter of
the.united Nation., has continued its acts of aggression and subversionagainst the peoples of and hhe independent StaEes of southern Africa,

. 'Strongly condenning the continued rnilitary occupation by South Africancroopa of parta of the territory of Angora in violatiqn of ics national
Eovereignty, independence anat territorial integrity, ,and urging the innediate
and unconditional wibhdravral of South Afrlcan troops fron Angolan soil,

a
v
!/

ReEolution S-LO/2, para. 12.

A/39/ 470 .

Official Records
ItNo.4? ( Session,



"Stressing the
that the continent

^/39/747Eng1i5h
Page 5

"Expressing its qrave dis?ppointnent that desPite repeated appealB 
by the

international co munity,;;rtain western states and l6rael'have continued to
collaborate with the racist rfuine of south Africa in the rnilitary and nuclear
fields and that sone of the salne western states have' by a ready recourse to
the use of the veto, consistenEly frustrated every effort.in the securlty
Council to aleal decisively with the question of south Africa,

"Recalling its decision taken at the tenth sPecial sesslon -devoted 
to

disarnanent that the security council should take aPProPriate effectlve stePs
to prevent the frustration oi th. decision of the organization of African
Unity for the denuclear ization of AftLca. y

need to pEeserve peace and security ln Africa by ensurlng
is a nuclear -weaPon-free zone'

"I. condenns the massive build-uP of south Afrlcars military nachine ' 
in

part icutarl--il!-Eenz ied acquisition of nuclear-weaPot. "tE"P+li:I-f ?:iepressive and aggressive PurPoses and as an insgrument ot blacKmarrt

Expresses t'ts fuU support for the African states face'l sith the
danqer of south Africa's nucLear capabrrrEyi

"3. Reaffirns that the racist r&lirne's acquisiEion of nuclear*teaPon
capabitity constitutes a ,r"ry gr.t " 

daiger to international Peace and security
and, ir, particularr ieoparaizei the security of African states and increases
the danger of the Prol"iferation of nuclear weaPons i

"4. condenns all folns of nuclear collaboration by any State'
corporation, institution or indiviitual with the racist r6gine of south Africa'
in'particulir, the alecision by some Menber states to grant Iicences to several
corporations in their territoiies to Provitle equipment' technical and
maintenance services for nuclear instaltations in south Africai

DernandsthatsouthAfricaandallotherforeigninterestsputan
ir[ilediate end to the exPloration and exploitation of uranium resources ln
Nanibia i

calls upon all states, corporations r institutions oE individuals to
terninate forthwith arr forms of 'collaboration v'ith the racist 169itne1
including nilitary and nuclear collaborationi

"7. Resuests the DiBarnament Colrmission to consider'
priority, 6GiTF.i"a'" nuclear capabllity during its L985
into account, inter alia, the findings of the rePort of the

)

I

as a naller of
session, tak ing
United Natlons

Institute for Disarnatnent Research on south Afrlcarg nuclear

v Resolution S'LO/2 ' Para. 63 (c).

capability,



v39/747
English
Page 5

'8. Requeats the Security Council, for the purposes of disarnament andto fulfll its obr.lgations and responstbtrity, to take enforcenent measures toprevent any racist rigirnes fron acqulrlng arms or arns technology,

-_ .:9. .Turthgr ,reguests the securlty Council to conclude expedltiously itsconsideration of the recomendatrons of rts conmrttee estabrisired byresolution 42L (L977'! corrernlng the gueEtlon of south Africa, wlth a vlew toblockirg the existlng tootr*rote€ in thj arms embargo, so as to render it rnoreeffective and prohibiting, in partlcular, all forns of ce_operation andcollaboration 
''ith the racist rigirne of south Africa in the nucrear fieldi

- "L0. Demands once asain that South Africa submit forthhrith all itsnuclear installations and faclllCie6 to inepection by the fnternationat AtomicEnergy Agencyt

'lf. 3gqu""t. the secretary-General to follor{ very closeLy South Africarsevorution in the nuclear field and to repor t thereon to the Assembly at itsfortieth session.'

8: .-oa the 4oth rneeting, on 15 November, the repres€ntatlve of carneroon, on behalf
9{ tlt€ sponsors, oralry revi6ed the sixth preanburar paragraph of draft resolutionA/c.L/39/L.sL to read as follows:

rTaklng note of the report of the Unlted Nations Institute for IDisarnatnent Research, tsouth Afrrca's Nucrear capabtrityr, undertaken r.nco-oPeration wlth the Deparment for Digarmament Affairs and in consultationwith the Organizatlon of Afrlcan Unity'.
9l 

-ot the 45th meetlng, on 2l Novenber, the representatlve of carneroon, on behalfof the sponsors, oralry revised operative paragraph 6 0f the drafc resolution toread as folloh's:

"Calle upon alL states, corporat lons, lnstitutions or lndividuals totermin€te forthwith ar-r forns of tntlitary and nucrear corraboration withracist rdgirnel "
10. At the sarne meeting, the connittee adopted draft resolut hon A/C.I/39/L.SL
recorded vote of ],,23 to 4, with 1l abstentions (Eee para. tI, draft resolution
The votirq was as followst !/

fn favour r Afghanistan, Albania, Algerla, Angola, Argentina, Austria,
Bahanas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Eotsnana, Brazll, Brunel Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso.
Burrna, Burundi, Byelorusslan Soviet Socialist Republic,
carneroon, Cape verde, Central African Republic, ilaa, Chtte,

the

bya

. y subseguently the delegatton of Ualawi indicated that it had intenatedabstain.

;,i



)

Aqainst:

v39/747
Engllsh
Page 7

china, Colonbia, Comorosr Congo' costa Rica, Cuba, Cl|prus'
Czechoslot/akia, Denocratic Kanpuchea, Denocratic Yemen,
tlehtaark, DJiboutt' Domlnican Republlc, Ecuador, EElPt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, cabon' Gernan Denocratic R€public,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana' fiaiti' Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India' Indonesla, Iran (fslarnic liePublic
ofl , Iraq, freland, Ivory coast, ,tamaica, ilordan, Kenya'
(uwalt, Lao Peoplers Dernocratic RePubllc, Lebanon' Liberla'
Litryan Arab .Tamahir iya, Madagascar, ualawi' ualaysia,
Maldives, uali, Malta. Maurltania, ltexico, Mongolia,
!,lorocco, lbzanbigue' Nepal, Nlcaragua, Niger, Nigeria'
Nonray ' Otnanr Paklstanr Panama, 

Peru, PhlllPpines, Poland,
Qatar, Romanla' Rwanda, sanoa, sao Tone and PrinciPe, Saudl
Aratia, senegalr sierra Leone, singapore, sri Lanka, sudan,
suriname, staziland, sneden' syrian Arab Repubflc, Thailand'
!ogo, Trihidad and Tobago, Tunisla, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainlan Soviet Seialist RePublic' Union of Soviet
soclallst Republlcs, United Arab Etnirates, united Republic
of Tanzaniar Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugo€lavia, zaire, zambia, z inbab\'te.

France' Israel' United Kingdon of Great Britaln and ldorthern
Ireland, United States of Arnerica.

@!g!gbgr Australia, BeLgium' canada, Germany, Federal Republlc of'
Italy, .taPan' Luxenbourg, litetherlands, l'te$ zealand,
Portugal' Spain.

III. FFCOITI'FNDITIOIJS OF I:FF FIRST CO!'r,!ITTFE

11. The Flrst CoNrmlttee recorfi€nds to the General Assembly the adoptlon of the
foLlowing draf t resolutions:

A

fnplementation of the Declarat ion

Tbe General Assernbly,

Bearing in rnind the LLeclaration on the Denuclear i zat ion of Africa 7
aaoptft-I!ffiEffibly of Heads of Sgate and covernnent of the Organization
of etrican Unity at its first ordinary session, held at calro frorn 17 to
21 July 1964 r

)
agenda iteln



v39/747
English
Page I

Recalling lts resolutlon 1652 (xVI) of 24 November 1961, its earliest on
the subject, as well as its resolutlons 2033 (xX) of 3 Decenber L96S,3I/69 of
10 Decenber L976. 3z/gr of 12 Dec€mbe r L977t 33/G3 oE 14 December 1978,
34,/7 6 A of 1l December f979, 35/]46 B of t2 Decernber 1980, 36/96 B ot
9 December r9gr, 37/74 A of 9 Decenber 1982 and 38ll8l A of zo Dec eflib€r 1.983r
ln which it called upon all States to consider and respect the cohtinent of
Africa and its surrounding areas as a nuclear-weapon-fr ee zone,

Recallinq that in its resolutlon 33/63 it vigorously condemned any overt
or covert attempt by South Africa to introdrre nuclear rreapons into the
coneinent of Africa and denanded that South Africa lefrain forthnith fron
conducting any nuclear explosion in the continent of Afrlca or elsenhere,

Taking note of the report of the United lirations fnstitute for Disarmarnent
Research entitled rsouth Africars nuclear capabllityr 9/ undertaken inco-operation lrith the Departnent of Diaarmanent lffatrE of the secretariat and
in consultation with the Organizatlon of African Unity, as well as the report
of the Disarnanent Conmisslon, 2/

Expres6lng regret that despite the threat South Africars nuclear
capabil-ity constitutes to int€rnational peace and security, and in partlcular
to the realization of the objeetive of the Declarat ion on the Denuclear izat ion
of Africa, the DisarmanEnt commlssion has, once again, in 1994, failed to
reach a consensus on this inportant iten on lts agenda,

1. StronqLy renervs its call upon all States to consider and respect the
continent of Africa and its surrounding areas as a nucleqr-hreapon-fr ee zone,

2. Reaffirrns that the iry)lenentatlon of tbe Declaraeion on the
Denuclear i zat ion of Africa adopted by the tteads of state and covernment of the
Organization of African Unity $ould be an lnportant neasure to prevent the
proliferation of nuclear weapons and to pronote international peace and
secur ityt

3. Expresses once again its qrave alarn at South Afrlcars possession
and coneinued development of nuclear-u€apon capability,

4. condenns south Africars continued pursult of a, nuclear capability
and al.l forns of nuclear collaboration by any State, corForatlon, institution
or individuat vrith the racist rCAime that enable lt to fEustrate the objective
of the Declaration which seeks to keep Africa free from nuclear neaponst

5. Calls upon all States, corporations, institutions and inallvlduals to
desist fron furth€r collaboraelon with the racist rCgtn;.Lhat may enable it to
frustrate the objective of the Declaration on the Denucldar lzatlon of Africat

(

V 
^/3e/47o-

2/ Official Rgcords of the ceneral A6aenbly, Thlrtv-ninth Session,
SuppLen€nt No. 42 (A/39/421 .

(



v39/7 47
Enqlish
Page 9

6. Demanda onee aqain that the racist rig lne of south Africa refrain
from manuf-Etirlng, tesiing, aepfoytng, transporting' storing, using or
threatening to use nuclear vreapons i

7. Appeals to all states that have the neans to do so, to monltor south
Africar€ research on, and developncnt and production of nuclear weaponsr and
to publicize any infornation ln that regardi

8. DenaMs once again that south Africa subnlt forthnith all lts
nuclear installations ani-?acilities to in.pection by the fnternational Atotnic
Energy Agencyt

9. Reguests the secretary-Genera I to render all necessary assistance
that the organization of African Unity may seek tol'ards the lmPlenentation of
Its solenn Declaration on the Denuclear i zat ion of Africat

to lnclude in the provlsional agenda of lts fortleth session
ntmplenentatlon of the Declaration on the Denuclear i zat ion

B

Iiluclear caPabillty of Soutb lfrica

The General A€senbly,

Recalling its reaolutions 31/76 B of 1l- Decetnber 1979 ' 35/145 A of
tz oecEGi ts 80 , 36,/86 A of 9 Decernber 198 t, 37 /7 4 B of 9 Decetnber 1982 and
38,/IS1 B of 20 December 1983,

Bearing ln rntrd the Declaration on the Denuc lear izat ion of Africa adopted
ly tnilffiIFTE'eade of state and Governnent of the Organization of
alr ican unity at its flrst ordinary session, held at calro frorn 17 to
2l .tu ly 1964 ,

necallinq that ln the Fina1 Docunent of the Tenth special session of the
cenerlf asse.bly it noted that the accumulatlon of arnanents and the
acquisltion of ar[ament technology by the racist rdgimes as well as their
possible acgul Eition of nuclear weaPons preeented an increasingfy dangerous
ind a chaUJng ing obstacle to the world cornnunl ty faced v'ith the urqent need
to dlsarm' !9.,/

Recalling aldo that in lts reEolutlon 33/63 of 14 D€c ember 1978' tt
v igoriffilEiea any overt or covert attenPt by south Africa to introduce
nuile", t lapont into the continent of Africa and denanded that south Africa
refrain forth$ith from conducting any nuclear exploslon in the continent or
el€errhere,

10. oecides
the ltem entitled
of Afr ica'.

) rc/ Resolution s-I0 /2, Para. 12.



M39/747
English
Page l0

IgUlIg r€solutlon e (XXVIITI /gES/423 on South Africars nucfear
capabllities, adopted on 27 Septenber 1984 by the ceneral. Conference of the
International Atomic Energy Agency during lte twenty-elghth regglar se66ion,

Takinq note of the repor t. of the United Nations Institute for Disarnament
Reaearch, 'South Africa's nuclear capability", !y undertaken in co-operation
wlth the Departnent for Disarmament Affairs and in consultation irlth the
Organization of Afr ican Unity,

Expressing regret that desplte the threat South Africa.s nuclear
capability constltutes to intern€tional peaee snd security and, ln partlcular,
to the reallzatlon of the objective of ttre Declaration on the Denucfear i zation
of Africa, the Dlsarnarnent Cofiunission has, once again, ln 1984, falled to
reach a consensus on this lnportant iten on its agenda,

GEavely concerned that south Africa, in flagrant violation of the
principles of international law and the relevant provisions of the Charter of
the United l{ations, has contlnued its acts of aggression and subverslon
against the peoples of and the independent States of €outhern Afrlca,

strongly condemning the contlnued mllitary occupation by south African
troops of parts of the territory of Angola in violation of its national
soverelgnty, independence and territorial integrlty, and ur91n9 the fumedlate
and unconditional hrlthdralral of South African troops from Angolan soil,

Expressing its grave disappointnent that, desplte repeated appeals by the
lnternational conrnunity, certain Western States and Israel have continued to
collaborate nith the racist rdgine of South Africa in the mltltary and nuclear
fielde and that sone of the sane l{estern States have, by a ready r€courae to
the use of the veto, conslstently frustrated every effort in the Security
Councll to deal decislvely Irith the guestion of South Africa,

Eecauinq its declslon taken at the teneh special session devoted to
dlaarmanent that the Security Council shoutd take appropriate effective steps
to prevent the frustration of the decislon of the Organlzation of African
Unity for the denucl.ear i zation of AfE ica, W

Stressing the need to preaerve peace and aecurlty ln Africa by ensuring
that the contlnent is a nucLear-weapon-free zone,

I condenns the massive build-up of South Afrlcar6 tnllitary machine, in
particular' its frenzled acquisition of nuclear-rr€apon capability for
repre66ive and aggreesive purposee and as an instrurnent of blacknailr

2. Expresses lts fuII gupport for the African states faced r'rith the
danger of South Africats nuclear capabilltyr

(

lv
E/

A/39 /470 .

Resolution S-Lo /2, para. E3 (c).
I



3. Reaffirns that the racist 169imers acquisition of

A/ 39 /7 47
Ehgl j.sh
Page lI

nuclear-weapon
and secur ity

increasescapability constitutes a very 
grave

andr in particular, jeopardizes the
the danger of the Proliferation of

danger to international Peace
securitY of African states and

nuclear weapons t

4. condemns all forns of nuclear collaboration by any state'
corpotation, institution or individual with the racist rdgime of south Africa'
in particular the decision by some Menber states to grant licences to several
corporations in their territtries to provide eguiprnent, technical and
naintenance services for nuclear install"ations in south Africa;

5.DenandsthatsouthAfricaandallotherforeigninterestsput.an
imnediate ena to the exploration and exploitacion of uranium resources In
Nan ibi ai

6. calls upon all states, corporations' institutions or individuals to
terninate forthwith alt forns of nilitary and nuclear collaboration with the
racist rdq imei

7. Requests the Di sarnament conmisslon to consider during its 1985
session, as a natter of priority, south Africars nuclear capability' taking
into account, inter alia, the findings of the report of the Uni ted,T::.l,:rt"
Institute for EGarrnament Research on south Africa's huclear capablrlEy'

8. Requests the security council, for the purposes of disarmament and
to fulfi] its obligations and iesponsibility, to take enforcenent rneasures to
;;.;;;t any racist rdgitnes fron acquiring arns or arns technologyi

9. Further requests the security Courrcil to cohclude expeditiously its
consideration of the rec-omnendat ions of its comrnittee established by
resoLution 42f (1977) concerning the guestion of south Africa' 13/ with a view
to blocking the existing loopholes in the arms embargo, so as to render it
more effeclive and proniuiting, in particular. atl forrns of co-operation and
collaboration with the racist-rdqime of South Africa in the nuclear field?

IO. Demands once again that souCh Africa subnit forthwith all its
nuclear installations rff-fu"ititi.s to inspectlon by the rhternational Atonic
Enerqy Agencyi

11. Requests the secret ary-Ge nera 1 to follord very closely south Africats
evolution in the nuclear field and to report thereon to the General Assernbly
at its fortieth session.

)

11/

I

se€ Offic ial
lenent for Jul

s of the security council, Thirty-f




