








































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAssembly(@ Distr.
GENERAL

^/39/66319 November 198 4
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

)

Thirty-ninth sess ion
Agenda item 104

ACTIVITIES OF FOF.EIGN ECONOI4I C AND OIHER INTERESTS VIHICH ARE
IMPEDING THE IMPLEI"IENTAT ION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING
OF INDEPENDET{CE To COLONIAI, COTJNTRI ES AND PEOPLES IN NAMIBIA
AND IN ALL OTHER TERRITORI ES UNDER COIONIAL DOMINATION
AND EFFOFfS TO ELIMINATE COLONIALISI4, APARTHEID AND RACIAI,

DISCRIMINATION IN SOUTHERN AFRICA

Report of the Fourth Conmittee

P"apporteur: Mr. Denetrio INFANTE (Chile)

I. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 21 September 1984, the ceneral Assenbty. on the
recommendation of the ceneral Conmittee, decided to include in the agenda of its
thirty-ninth session the item entitled!

"Activities of foreign econonic and other interests which are impeding the
implenentation of the Dectaration on the cranting of Independence to colonial
countries and Peoples in Namibia and in all other Territories under colonial
domination and efforts to elininate colonialisn, apartheid and racial
discrinination in southern Africa: report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard !o the Inplementation of the Declaration on the Grantinq
of Independence to Colonial Countries and peoples,'.

At the same meeting' the Assembly decided to allocate the it.en !o lbe Fourth
Cornmitt.ee for consideration and report.

2. The Fourth Conrnittee considered the iten at its 2nd to llth neetings,
betr.reen 24 Septenber and 26 October tA/C.4/39/sR.2-1I).,

3. At the 2nd neeting, on 24
dafed 24 Augusr 1984 (A/39/4781
of the Special Corunitbee on the

)oeclaration on the cranting of

84-28678 0160P (E)

Septenber' the Chairrnan drew attention to a letter
addressed to the secretary-General by lhe Chairman
Situa!ion with !egard to the Implenentalion of the

Independence to Cotonial countries and Peoples,



A/39/663
English
Page 2

transnitting the reconmendation of the Cofiunittee that nilitary aclivities and
arrangenents by colonial Powers in Territories under lheir adninistration h'hich
night be inpeding the implenentation of the Declaration on the cranling of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples should be taken uP by the General
Assenbly in connection with its consideralion, in the Fourth Conunittee' of the
present ilern.

4. At. the sane rneeting. the RapporLeur of the special Corunittee nade a statenent
in which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the SPecial Comrittee
during 1984 and drew attention to chapter V of the report of the Corunittee relating
to itern 104 and chapter v' of the report relating to nilitary activities and
arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their administration which
migh! be i.mpeding the impl.ementation of the Declaration on che cranting of
Independence to cotoniat Countries and Peoples (A/39/23 (Part III) , !/ as well as
the relevant documentation of the Special comnittee (A/Ac.109/766. 778, 779, 7SL,
7 82, 786 and 787).

5. The general debate on the iten took place at the 3rd to llth neetings, oelween
16 and 26 October.

6. At its 7!h meeting, on 22 October, the Fourth Conunittee granted requests
for hearing in connection with its consideralion of the iten to
Mr. J. A. Go nze lez-conz Alez (A/C.4/39/'11 and Mrs. Wilna E. Rever6n, Oficina de a
Informaci6n Internacional para 1a Independencia de Puerto Rico (A/C.4/39/7/Add.L\. I
Mrs. Rever6n and Mr. conzalez-conzd lez rnade statenents at the 8th meeting, on
23 October.

7. On 23 October, the United States of America subniteed anendnents
(A/C.4/39/L.21 to the draft decision contained in chapter VI, paragraph 14,
of docunenl A/39/23 (Part III), which were subsequently introduced by the
representative of the United States in a staternent to the Fourth Corunittee at
its 1lth meeting on 26 October. The anendments read as foltows:

"(a) fn paragraph 8, lines 2 and 3, delete the words rin particular the
United States of Anerica and Israel, ri

"(b) fn paragraph 9' line 11, delete the nords rin particular lhe United
slates and Israelr."

8. At. the IIth neeting, on 26 October, the Chairman drevr attention to documents
A/39/23 (Part III)/Corr.I and A/c.4/39 /L,2/ Cor r .I r issued j.n Chinese, French and
Spanish only.

U To be incorporated in Official Records of Ehe ceneral Assernbly,
Thirtv-ninlh session' Supplenent No. 23 (A/39/23\ .

a

I



)

A/ 39 / 663
English
Page 3

9. At ehe sar0e neeting, the Fourth Commlttee aalopted lhe draf! resolution
contalned in A/39/23 (Part III), chapter v, paragraph f2, by a recorded vote of
1I2 to 4, with 23 abstentions (see para. LL't, Z/ The voting was as follows: 9/

I!@gr Afghanistan' Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Australia, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize'
Benin, Bolivia, Botshrana, BraziI, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet socialist Republicl cameroon,
Central Afrj.can Republicl Chad, ChiLe, China, Colonbia, Conoros,
congb, cosca Rica, Cuba. CYprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yenen' Djibouti, Doninican Republicl Ecuador, Egypt, EI Salvador,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ganbia' German De$ocratic RePublic, Ghana,
Guinea-Bissau, cuyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India,
Indonesla, Iran (Islamic Republic of) , Iraqr Jamaica, ;Iordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Denocratic Republic, Liberia,
Libyan Arab ,tamahiriya, Madagascar, l,lalaysia, lfaldives, MaIi,
Mauri tania, Mexico, i,tongolia, l'lorocco, l,iozambique, Nepal t Nerd
zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigerla, ornan, Pakislanr Panama ' PaPuaNev Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rvranda,
saint vincent and the crenadines' samoa, saudi Arabia, senegal,
Sierra l,eone, Singaporer Solomon Islands, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of soviet socialist Republics, united Arab Emlrates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela. Viet Nam, Yenen,
Yugoslavia, zaire, zambia' zimbabwe.

Againstr Doninica, crenada, United Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern
Ireland, United states of Anerica.

Abstaininqr Austria, Belgiun, Canada, Dennark, linland, France, Gernany,
Federal Republic o!, creece, Iceland, Ireland' Israel' Italy,
Ivory coast, Japan, Lesotho, Luxembourg, ualawi, Netherlands,
Norway, Paraguay' Portugal, spain, sweden.

10. At the sane rneeting, the Fourth Connittee took action on the draft decision
contalned Ln A/39/23 (Part III), chapte! vI, paragraph 14r and Ehe United states
anendnents thereto, contalned Ln A/c.4/39/L.2, as follows:

2/ statements in explanation of vote were nade by the representatives of the
foUowing Member statea: Australia, Au6tria, Barbados, Belgium, Botswana, canada,
Cltadr Chller D€nnark, Dominican Republic, Fiji, France, cermany, PeateraL Republic
ofr Greece, Irelandr IsraeL, Italy, Jamaica, ;Iapan, Malawi, Netherlandsr New
zealand, Norrray, Onan. Papua New cuinea, Senegal, Sudan, Sweden, Turkey, Uruguay,
Viet Nan and zaire.

- 
y Subsequent to tbe voting, the representative of Guinea stated that hls

I delegation had intenaled !o vote in favour of the draft resolution.

)



A/ 39/663
English
Page 4

(a) The first anendment (see para. 7 (a) ) was adopeeal by a recorded vote
of 62 to 47, with 24 abstenlions. 9/ \he voting was as follows:

In favour t Atgentina, Australia, Austria, Bahanas, Bel-gium, BeIize, Burna,
Caneroonr Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
Colombia, Conoros, Costa Rlca, Dennark, Dotninica, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, El salvador, Fiji, Finland, France, cabon,
Ganbiap cernany, Federat Republ-ic of, creece, crenada, Haiti,
Ilonduras, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Ita1y, Ivory coast, Janaica,
Japan, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malawi, Nepal, Netherlands, Ner.r
Zealand, Niger, Nonray, Panarna, Papua Ner., cuinea, Philippines,
Portugal, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sanoa, Senegal,
SingaPore, Solonon Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, Swedenr Thailandr
United Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern lreland. United
States of America, Uruguay, Zaire.

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbudal
Bahrain' Bulgaria, Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, china,
Congol Cubar Czechoslovakia, Democratic yenen, Ethlopia, German
Denocratic Republic, Ghana, cuinea, cuyana, Hungary, lndonesia,
Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq, itordan, Kuwait, Lao peoplers
Detnocratic Republic, Libyan Arab ilamahiriya, Mauritania, Mexico,
ttongolia, Nlcaragua, Nlgeria, pakistan, poLand, gatar, Sauati I
Arabia, syrian Arab Republic, runisiar Uganda, ukrainian soviet
Social-ist Republic, Union of Sovie! Socialist Republics, United
Arab Erirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nan, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, zanbia, zinbabwe.

!g!nE!:

Abstai.nings Barbados, Benin, Boliva, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
cyprus, Egypt, India, Kenya, Lesotho, !4alaysia, ualdives.
Mozambique, Oman, Paraguay, peru, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Sudan,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Venezuela.

g Statenents in explanation of vote were rnade by the representatives of the
follosing Menber Statest Austratia, Austria, Barbados, BeIgiun, Botswana' Canada,
Chad, Chiler D€nmark, Doninican Republic, Fiji, f'rance, Germany, Federal RepubJ.ic
of, creece, Irelandr Israel, Italy, ,Jamaica, Japan, l4a1arri, Netherlands. New
Zealand, Norway, Onan, Papua Neu Guinea, senegal. sudan, Sweden, Turkey, Uruguay, IViet Nan and za ire.

I



)

(b) The second amendment (see para. 7 (b))
of 52 to 4?, with 25 abstentions. 9/ The voting

A/ 39 / 663
English
Page 5

was adopted by a recorded vote
was as follows:

)

In favour s Argentina, Augtraliar Austria, Bahamas, Belgiun, Belize, Burma,
cameroon, canada, central African nepublicr chad, chtle,
Colonbiar comoros, Co6ta Rica, Dennark, Dominica, Doninlcan
Republic, Ecuador r El Salvador, Flji, Finland, France, cabon,
Ganbia' cermany, Federal Republic of, Greecer Grenada' Haitir
Ilonduras, Icelandr lreland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, ,tanaica,
Japan, Liberia, Luxenboulg, !,l,alawi, Nepal, Netherlands' New
Zealand, Niger, Nornay, Panama, Papua Ner.r cuinea, Phllippinesr
Portugal, saint vincent and the Grenadlnes, sanoa, senegal,
Singapore, Solornon Islands, Spain, Sri Lanka, SvJeden, Thailand,
United Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern Ireland, Uniteal
States of America, Uruguay, zaire.

Afghanistan, ALbania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Bahrain, Bulgaria, Byelorussian goviet socialist RepubLic, china,
congo, cuba, czechoslovakia, DemocEa!ic Yemen, Ethiopia, Gernan
Denocratic Republic, chana, Guinea, cuyana, Aungary, Indonesla,
Iran (Islanic Republic of) . Iraq, Jordan, Nulraitr Lao People's
Denocratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya, !.{auritania, Mexico,
!,tcngolia, Nicaragua, Nigeria, pakistan, poland, eata!, Saudi
Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
socialist Republic 

' Union of 
sovi.et socialist Republics' United

Arab Enirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nan, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, zanbia, u imbabwe.

Aqainst r

Abstaining: Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
DarussaLam' Cyprus, Egypt, India, Kenya, Lesotho, lralaysia,
l,laldives, lt'czambique, Onan, Paraguay, Peru, Rnanda, Sierra Leone,
sudan' Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey' Venezuela.

y statements in explanation of vole were nade by the representative€ of the
following Menber states! Australia, Austria, Barbados' Belgiun, Botstrana, canada,
Chad' Chile, Denjnark, Doninican Republic; Fiji, France, cernany, Federal Republic
of, Greece' Ireland, Israel, Italy' Jamaica, Japan, l,lalar.ri, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Onan, Papua New Guinea, Senegalr Sudan, Sweden, Turkey, Uruguay,
viet Nam and Zalre.

)



N39/663
Bnglish
Page 6

(c) The draft decision contained in a,/39/23 (Patt III), chaPter vI,
paragraph 14, as arnended, nas adopted by a recorded vote of 115 to ]1, wich
15 absbentions (see para. Lzr. g The votlng was as followst

ILE4,S!! Afghanistan. Albania' Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda'
Argentlnar Bahanas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin,
Bhutan, Bollvia, Botswanar Brazllr Brunei Darussalam' Bulgaria,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Soclallst Republic, Cameroon,
central African Republic ' chad, 

china' colonbia, comoroa, Congo,
costa Ricar cuba, Cyprus, czechoslovakia' Denocratic yemen,
Djibouti, Doninican Republic, Ecuador ' EgyPt, El SalvadorrEthiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ganbia, German Denocratic Republicl Ghana,
Glenada, Guatenala, Guinea, Guyana, Balti, Eondulas, Hungary.
India' Indonesia, Ilan (Islamlc RePublic of), Iraq' Ivory Coast,
,tamalcar Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao PeoPlers Denocratic RePublic,
lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya' l'Ladagascar, Malayaia,
!'laldives' ltal i, Maur itarr ia, l4exico, uongolia, lrorocco,
uozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria' oman, Pakistan'
Panana, Papua NerY Guinea, Perur PhillPPines, Poland, Qatar,
nonanla, &randa, Saint vincent and the Grenadines, samoa, Saudl
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, SingaPore, Solomon Islands' Sri
IJanka, sudan, syrian Arab Republic, Thailandr Togo, trinldad and a
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Sociatist !
RePublic, Union of Sovlet soclalist RePublics, United Arab
Enirates, Uniteat R€public of Tanzania, uruguay, venezuelar viet
Nam, Yenenr Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia, zimbabwe.

s!Eg!.r Belgiun, canada, Doninica' France, Gernany, r'ederal Republic ofl
Italy' ilapan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, united Klngdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, united states of Anerica'

Abstalninqr Australia, Austria, Dennark, Finland, Greece, Iceland' rreland,
Israelr l,talawi, New zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Portugal, Spain,
srreden.

RECO}TUENDATIONS OF THE FOURf,E COM!{IITEE

11. the Fourlh Cotnnittee recomnende to lhe General Assenbly the adoPtion of the
follouing draf t resolution:

V statementa in explanatlon of vote were nade by the represenlatlves of the
following tianber Statest Australia, Austria, Barbados, Belgium' Botswana, Canada,
Chad, chile, Denmark, Doninican RePublic. Fij1, France, Gernany, Federal Republic
of,, Greecer Irelandr Israel, Italy, .fanaica, Japan, t{alawi, Netherlands, New

;::i"l* lll-ilirT"., 
Papua New Guinea, senesal, sudan, sweden, rurkey' urueuay' 

I

I



A/39/663
English
Page ?

The ceneral Assernbly,

Having considered the iten entitled 'Activities of foreign econonic and
other interests rrhich are inpeding the lnplementation of the Declaration on
the Granhing of Independence to Colonial Countries and peopler ln Nanibia anal
in all other Territorles under colonial domination and efforls to elininate
coJ.oniali6m, apartheid and racial discrinination in southern Africa.,

Aaving examined the chapter of the report of the Speclal Codmittee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the crantlng
of Independence to Colonial Countries and peoples relatlng to the iten, ?/

Taking into consideration the relevant chapter of the report of the
United Nations council for Nanibia, 8/

RecalLinq its resolutions 1514 (xv) of L4 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the cranting of Independence to Colonial Countrieg and Peoples,
262I (xxv) of 12 october I9?0, containing the progr arnrne of action for the full
implementation of che Declaration, and 35lII8 of II Decernber 1980r the annex
to which contains the plan of Action for the E'uII Implenentation of the
Declarationr as well as all other resolution€ of the United Nations relating
bo the iten.

Reaffirminq the soLexnn obligation of the adtninistering poeerg under the
Charter of the United Nations to pronote the political, economlc, Boclal and
educational advancerflent of lhe inhabltants of the Territories under thelr
administratlon and to prolect the hut[an and natural resources of those
Territories against abuses,

Taking into account the relevant provielons of the pariE Declaratlon
on Nanibia and the Programme of Action on Namibia, 9/ adopted at.theInternational Conference in Support of the Struggle of the Nanibian people
for Independgnce.

A/39/23 (Part III), chaP. V.
4/39/24, part tvro, chap. IX.v

Aclivities of foreiqn econonic and other interests which are



A/ 3e / 663
English
Page I

Reaffirming that any econonic or other activity nhich irnpedes the
implernentation of the Declaration on the Granting of IndePendence to colonial
Countries and Peoples and obslructs efforts aimed at the el-inination of
colonialism, apartheid and racial discrimination ln southern Africa and other
colonial Territories is in direct viol,ation of the rights of the inhabitants
and of th€ principles of the charter and aLl relevant resolutions of the
United Na tions,

Reaffirning that the natural resources of all Territories under colonial
and racist dorninaiion are the heriLage of the peoples of Ehose Territorles and
that the exploitation and depletion of those resources by foreign economic
interests, in particular in Nanibia, in association with the occupying r69ine
of South Africa, constitute a direc! violation of the rights of the peoples
and of the principJ.es in the charler and all relevant resolutions of the
United Na tlons,

Bearing in mind the relevanE provisions of the Econonic Declaration and
other docunents of the Seventh Conference of Eeads of StaCe or Governnent of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at New Delhi fron 7 to 12 !4arch L983, LL/

Takinq inco account the relevant provisions of the Bangkok Declaration
and Progranme of Action on Namibia, II/ adopted by the United Nations Council
for Natnibi.a on 25 May 1984 at its extraordinary Plenary neetings held at
tsangkok' and of the Councilrs conclusions and reconmendations of the
seminar on the Activities of Foreign Econonic Interests in the Exploitation
of Nanibiars Natural and lluman Resources, organized by the Council at
r,jubljana, Yugoslavia, from 16 to 20 Aprll L984' !L/

Noling with profound concern that tbe colonial Poners and certain
states, througb their activitles in the colonial Territories, have continued
to disregard United Nations decisions relating to the item and that they
have failed to inplement, in particular, the relevant provisions of
ceneral Assenbly lesolutions 262I (xXV) of 12 October 1970 and 38/50 of
7 Decenber 1983, by which the Assenbly called upon the colonial Powers and
those Governments that had not yet done so to take legislative, adninistrative
or other neasures in respect of their nationals and the bodies corporate under
their jurisdiction that own and operate enterprises in colonial Territories.
particularly in Africal which are detriftental to the interests of tbe
inhabitants of those Terlitories, in order to put an end to such enterprises
and to prevent nee investnents lhat run counter to the interests of the
inhabitants of tbose Territories.

L0/ See A/ 3A/L32-S/ L567 5 and Corr.I and 2, annex.

g/ A/39/24, Part three' chaP. II.

L2/1 lbtd., part two, chap, II1.



)

A/39/663
English
Page 9

Condemning the intensified activitles of those foreign econonlc,
flnanciar and other interests whlch continue to expLoit the naEural and hunan
resources of the colonial Territories and to accunulage and repatriate huge
Profits to the detrinent of the interest of the inhabitants, particularly in
che case of Nanibia, thereby impeding the realization by the peoples of the
Territories of their legitimate aspirations for self-deterrninat ion and
independence,

scrongly condemning the support which the racist ninority r6girne of South
Africa continues to receive from those foreign economic, financial and other
interests iihich are collaborating wlth the r6girne in the exploltat.lon of the
natural and hunan resources of the international 1erritory of Nanibia, in thefurther entrenchment of its ilLegal racist domination ovei the Terricory and
in the strengthening of its system of apartheid,

strongly condemninq the investment of foreign capital in the production
of uranium and the collaboration by certain l{estbrn States and other States
with the racis! rninority r69ime of South Africa in the nuclear fieltt which, by
providing that r6gine with nuctear equipnenL and technol-ogy, enables lt bo
develop nuclear and rnilitary capabilities and to becone a nuclear power,
thereby promoting South Afr-icais continued iltegal occupation of Narnibial

Reaffirning that the natural resources of Namibia, including its marlne
resources, are the inviolable heritage of the Namibian people and that the
exploitatlon of those resources by foreign economic lnterests under the
protection of the illegal colonial administralion, in violation of the
CharLer, of the relevant resolutions of the ceneral Assenbly and the
Security CounciL and of Decree No. I for the protection of the Natural
Resources of Namibia, enacted by the United Nations Council for Namibia on
27 Septenber L974, !Z/ and in disregard of the advisory opinion of the
rnternational court of alusEice of 2l- ,rune L97L, y/ is.iuegar and contrlbutes
to the naintenance of the il1e9a1 occupation rdgine and is a grave threat to
the integrity and prospericy of an independent Nanlbiar

Concerned abou! the conditions in other colonlal Territ.ories, including
certain Terrilories in the Caribbean and the pacific Ocean regions, where
foreign econornic, financial and olher interests continue to deprive the
indigenous populat.ions of their rights over the riealth of their countries,
and lrhere tbe inhabitants of those Territories continue to suffer fron a
loss of land ordnership as a resurt of lhe fairure of the administering powers
concerned to restrict Che sale of land to foreigners, despite the repealed
appeals of the ceneral Assembly,

)

_ -13/ OlficigL.Rqcolqs of the cenerat Assenbt-y, Thirtv-flfrh Session,Supplement No. 24 (A/35/24\, vol. I, annex iI.

Africa in



A/ 3e / 663
EngLlsh
Page 10 I

conscious of the continuing need to nobilize world Public oPinion against
the involvement of foreign econonic ' financlal and other interests in theexploitation of natural and hunan resources, which inPedes the independence of
colonial Territories and the elimination of racisnr partlcularly in southern
Afr ica,

I. Reaffirns the inalienable right of the peoples of dependent
Territories to sel-f-deterninacion and independence and to the enjol[ent of
the natural resources of their lerritories, as well as their right to digpose
of those resources in their best interests,

2. Re iterates thae any administering or occupying Poirer that depr ives
the colonial peoples of the exercise of their tegitimate rights over their
natural resources or subordinates lhe rlghts and interests of those Peoples
to foreign econornic and financial- interests violaLes the solemn obllgations it
has assumed under the charter of the United Nationst

3. Reaff irns that, by their dePletive exploitation of natural
resourcesr the continued accunulation and repatriation of huge Proflts
and the use of those profits for the enrichrnent of foreign sectlers and
the perpetuation of colonial donj.nation and racial discrlminatlon in the
Territories, the activities of foreign econonic, financlal and other
interests operating at present in the colonia.l- Territoriesr particularly in
southern Africa, constitute a major obstacle to political indePendence and
racial equality, as well as to the enjoyment of the natural resourcea of
those Territories by Lhe indigenous inhabitantsl

4. Condenns the activities of foreign econonic and other interests in
the colonial Territories impeding the inplenentation of the Declaratlon on
the cranting of Independence to colonial countrles and Peoples, contalned
in General Assembly resolutlon I5I4 (xv), and the efforts to elinlnate
colonialism, apartheid and racial discriminationl

5. C!DEe44q the policies of Governtnents that continue to support ol
collaborate with those foreign economic and other interests engaged ln
exploiting the natural and human resources of the Territories, lncluding, in
particular, iUegally exploiting Nanlbla's marine resources, violating the
political, economic and social rights and interests of the indigenous PeopleE
and thus obstructing lhe fuII and speedy lnplenenlation of the Declaratlon in
respect of those Territor ies,

5. strongLy condenns the collusion of the covernments of certain
western states and other states with the racist ninority r69ime of south
Africa in the nuclear field and calls upon those and aII other Governments
to refrain fron supplying that r69ime, directly or indirectly, with
installations that might enable it !o produce uraniun, plutoniuttr and other
nuclear materialsr reactors or military equiPmentt

7. Reduests the special Connittee on the situation with regard to the
Inplementation of lhe Declaration on the Granting of IndePendence to Colonlal

I

I



A/39/663
English
Page 1l

countries and PeopLes to continue to monitor closelt fiie sltuation in the
renaining colonial Territories so as to ensure that all economic activities
in those Territories are aimed at strengthening and diverslfying lheir
econornl.es in the interests of the indigenous peoPles and ttreir speedy
accession to independence and, in that connection, requests the adnlnistering
Porder s concerned to ensure that the peoples of the Terrilories under their
administration are not exploited for political, nllitary and other purposes
detrinental to their intereals t

8. strongly condernns those western states and aII other states' as wel-l
as the transnational corporations, which conti,.-ue their investnents in, and
supply of arnaments antl oil and nuclear technology to, the racist r6girne of
south Africa' thus buttressing it and aggravating the threat to world peacet

9. Calls upon all statesr in particuLar certain l{estern States, to take
urgent, effective neaEures to terminate all collaboration with the racist
r6gime of south Africa in the pollticaL, diPlonatic r economic, trade' nilitary
and nuclear fields and to refrain from entering into other relations with that
r6gime in vlolation of tbe relevant resolutionE of the unlted Nations and of
the Organization of African Unityt

10. Calls once aoain upon all covernments that have noc yet.done so
to take fegislative, adltinistrative or other m€asures ln resPect of lheir
national.s and the bodies corporate under their jurisdiction that ovtn and
operate enterprises in colonial Territories, particularly in Africa, which are
detrinental to the interests of the inhabitants of those Territoriesr in order
to put an end to such enterPrises and to Prevent new investrnents that run
counter to the interests of the inhabitants of those Territoriest

11. calls upon all states to terninate, or cause to have terninatedt any
investnents in Nanibia or loans to the racist ninority r69ime of south Africa
and to refrain from any agreenents or rneasures to promote trade or other
econonic relations with that r6gimel

f2. Requests all states that have not yet done so to lake effective
neasures to end the supply of funds and other forms of aasigtancer including
rnilitary supplies and equiPnen!' to the racist ninority r69ime of South
Africa, which uses such assistance to rePress lhe PeoPle of Namibia and their
national liberation movementt

13. strongly condernns south Africa for its continued exPloitation and
plunaering-TEE-naturat resources of Nanibiar in conplete disregard of the
legitimate interests of the Nanibian peoPle, for the creation in lhe Territory
of an economic structure dePendent essentially uPon its mlneral resources and
for its illegal- exlension of the territorial. sea and its Proclanation of an
econonlc zone off the coast of Namibiat

14. Declares that all actlvities of foreign econonic inlerests in
Namibia are irregat under international law and that consoquently south Africa
and all the foreign economic interests oPerating in Namibia are liable to Pay
damages to the future lanful Goverru ent of an indePendent Nanibiat



A,/39/661
English
Page l?

15- cal1s upon those oir-producing and oi1-exporting countries lhat havenot yet done so to take effective measures agains! the oil conpanies concerned
so as to terminate the supply of crude oil and petroleum products to lhe
raclst 169ime of South Africat

15. Reiterates that the exploitalion and plundering of the marine and
other nalural resources of Namibia by south African and other foreign econonicinterests, including the activities of those transnalional corporations which
are engaged in lhe exploitation and export of the Territory's uraniun ores
and other resources, in violation of the relevant resolutions of the ceneral
Assenbl-y and che security councir and of Decree No. I for the protection ofthe Natural Resources of Namibia, are illegal dnd contribute to the
naintenance of the lllegar occupation rdgirne and are a grave threat to theintegrity and prosperity of an independent Namibia;

17. Condemns the plunder of Narniblan uranium and calls upon the
Governftents of all statesr Particularly those whose nationals and corporations
are invorved in the ninlng or enrichment of, or traffic in1 Namibian uraniurn,to take all appropriate rneasures in compliance vrith the provisions of
Decree No. I for the protection of the Natural Resources of Namibla,
including the practice of requiring negative certlficates of origin, toprohibi! and prevent state-owned and other corporationsl together with theirsubsidiaries, from dearing tn Narnibian uranium and fron engaging in uranlunprospecting activittes in Namibia t

I8. Requests all States to take legisLative, administrative and other
measures, as appropriate, in order effectlvely to isolate South Africapolit.ically, economically, militarily and culturally, in accordance with
ceneral Assembly resolulions ES-B/2 of 14 Seplember 198I, 361121 B of
10 December L98L, 37/233 A of 20 December I9B2 and 3g/36 A of l December 1983,

19. Calls once again upon al1 States to discontinue a]-l econonic,
financial and trade rerations with the racist minoriEy r6gine of south Africa
concerning Namibia and to refrain fron entering into any relations vrrth south
Africa, purpor t ing to act on behal.f of or concerning Namibia, vrhich may Iend
support t.o iCs continued illegal occupation of that Territoryl

20. rnvites arr Governrnents and organizations of the united Natlons
systen, having regard to the relevant provisions of the Declaration on th.e
Establishrnent of a New rnternationar Economic order, contained in Generar
Assembly resoLution 3201 (S-VI) of I l.,tay 1924, and of the Charter of EcononicRights and Duties of states' contained in Assenbly resolution 32gr (xxrx) of
12 Decenber 1974, to ensure, in parlicular, tbat Che permanent sovereignty ofthe coloniar Territories over lheir natural resources is furty respected and
safeguarded t

2I. Calls upon the administering powers to abolish aII
and unjust wage systems and working.conditions prevailing in
under theif adninistration and to apply in each Territory a
flages to aII the inhabitants withou! any discrlminationl

discrininatory
the Ter r itories

uniform system of



A/39/663
Engllsh
Page 13

22. Requests the secretary-General to undertake, through the Departnent
of Public information of the secretariat, a sustained and broad canpaign wlth
a view to informing world Pubtic oPinion of the facts concerning the piUaging
of natural resources ln colonial Territories and the exploitation of their
indigenous. populations by foreign monopolies and, in resPect of Nanibia, the
support they render to the racist minority r6gine of south Africat

23. Appeals to aII non-governmental organizations to continue their
canpaign to nobilize international public opinion for the enforcenent of
econonic and other sanctions against the Pretoria 169ime1

24. Requesta the special comnitEee to continue to exanine this question
and to report thereon to the GeneraL Asset0bly at its fortieth session.

L2. Tbe Fourth co littee also reconmends to the ceneral Assenbly the adoption of
the following draft dec ision:

I. The General Assenbly, having considered lhe chapter of the report of
the sPecial Committee on the situation with regard to the Inplementation of
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to colonial Countries and
Peoples relating to an ilen on che sPecial Connltteers agenda entitled
nMilitary activities and arrangenents by colonial Powers in Territoriea under
their administration nhich might be irmeding the inPlenenbation of the
Declaralion on the cranting of Independence to colonlal Countries and
Peoples"' L\/ and recalling ils decision 3g/4L9 of 7 Decenber 1983 on this
subject, deplores the fact that the colonial- Powers concerned have taken no
steps to implement the requests repeatedly addressed co them by the Assembly,
most recently in paragraph 10 of it.s resolutiod 38/54 ot 7 Decenber 1983,
to withdraw immediately and unconditionally their rnilitary bases and
installations from colonial Terrltories and to refrain from establishing
new one s.

2. The General Assembly, in recalling its resolution 1514 (xv) and alL
other relevant united Nacions resolutions and decisions relating to miLitary
bases and installations in colonial and Non-self-Gover ning Territoriest
reaffirns its strong convlction that the Presence of nilitary bases and
installatlons in the Territories concerned could constitube a major obstacle
to the inplementation of the Declaratlon on the Granting of Independence to

acBlvlEres

!9/ 439/23 (Part III) , chap. vI.



^/ 
39/663

English
Page 14

colonial countrles and peoples and that lt is the responsibility of the
adninistering Pohters concerned ln ttrat regard to ensure that the existence of
such bases and lnstallations does not hlnder the populations of the
Territories from exercising their right to se lf-determination and
indeperderEe in conformity niti the purposes and principles of the Charter.
Furthermore, anare of the presence of mltitary bases and instalratlons of the
administerirg po$rers corcerned and of other countries in those Territories,
the Assembly urges the administering powers concerned to continue to take all
necessary measures not to invorve those Territorles in any offensive acts or
interference against other States and to comply fully with the purposes and
prirEiples of the Chart.er, tlle Declaration on the crantlng of fndepend€nce to
Colonial Countries and Peoples and the resolutions and decisions of the Uniteal
Nations relatlrg to mllitary activities and arrargements $r colonial po,rrer s in
Territories under the lr aaunini strat ion.

3. The General Assembly deplores the fact that South Africa anat the
colonial Pohter s continue to enqage in actlvities and dispositions of a
military character and to establlBh and malntaln ba€es and other milltary
installations in Nanibia and other colonial Territories in violation of
the purposes and prirE iples of the Charter and of Assenbly resolution
1514 (xV).

4. The ceneral Assenbly condernns atl military activitles and
arrangements in colonial Terrltorles which deny the peoples concerned thelr
right to self-detern ination and lndependerEe.

5. The ceneral Assenbly note6 tlat, ln southern Africa in general and
in and around Namibia in particular, a critical situation continues to prevail
a6 a result of South Africa.s continued i11e9a1 occupation of the lerrltory.
I'he illegal occrryyirg 169 ime has resorted to deq)erate rneasures in order to
suppress by force the legltlnate aspiration6 of the p€opl-e and nalntain lts
control over the Territory. In its escalatirE rrar agalnst the pe@le of
Nanibia and thelr national llberatlon movenent, the south we6t Africa peoplers
organlzation, strugglirq for freedon and independerper the 169 irne has
rep€atedly cormrltted acts of armed aggression against the neighbouring
indeperdent African countri.es, particularly Angola, whlch have caused
extensive loss of hunan lives and destruction of the economic infrastructure.

6. The ceneral Assenbly, notlrB that in Namibla, the SoutJr African
covernnent has continued to expand its network of mlritary bases and carried
out a rnassive build-up of its mllitary forces, condernng any contlnuirq
co-operation of certain Hestern States and other States wlth South Africa in
supplyirE it with arns and mllitary egu ipment as rrell as technology, incl-udirg
technology and equipment ln the nuclear field capable of being utilized for
nilitary purposes. The Assenbry condenns south Africa for its ever increaslrg
and large-scale military build-up in l€nlbla, its lntroduction of conpulsory
mllitary service for Namibians, ltE forced recru itnent and training of
Nanibians for tribal arnies and its recruitment of rnercenarles and other
fore ign agents in order to carry out its pollcies of internal repression ahd
its rnllitary attacks against independent African states. In this connection,



D

A/39/663
English
Page 15

the Assenbly calls upon all States to co-operate in taking effective measures
to prevent the recruitment, lraining and transit of nercenaries for service in
Narnibia. The Assembly is particularly nindful in that regard of the relevant
resolutions of the organization of African Unity, the Polilical Declaration
igsued by the sevenEh Conference of ueads of State or Governnent of
Non-ALigned Countriesr held at New Delhi from 7 to 12 l4alch f983, ly the
t'ina1 conmuniqu6 of the sumlit Meeting of Front-Iine states' held at Arusha'
United Republic of Tanzania. orL 29 April 1984, L|j/ Lhe Final Corununiqu5 of
the Regional symposiun on south Africa'a lUegal Occupation of Nanibial
The Threat to lnternational Peace and security' herd at Arusha, united
Republic of Tanzania' fron 2 to 6 April L984. &/ the relevant Provisiong of
the Declaration adopted by the International conference on the Alliance
between south Africa and Israel held at vienna from U to 13 ,tuly 1983, ry
and the relevant decisions aalopted by the Fourth Islanic Sunmit Conferencet
held at casablanca fron L6 to 19 January L984. 20/

7. The General Assembly, accordingly' denands the inmediate cessation
of the lrar of oppression waged by the.racist minority r69ime against the
people of Nanibia and their national liberation novenent, as weII as the
urgent disnantling of atl nilitary bases in the Territory. neaffirming the
legitinacy of che struggle of the people of Nanlbia to achieve their freedon
and independencer the Assenbly appeals to aII Scates to render sustained and
increased noral and poLitical support, as rrell as f inanc j.al, milltary and
other naterial assietarrce, to the south gfest Africa PeoPLers Organization to
enable it to intenslfy its struggle for the liberation of Narnibia.

8. The General Assembly condemts any continued military collaboration
and support which certain t{eEtern countries and other states render to the
Governrnen! of South Africa antl calls uPon all States to cease such
collaboration and suppor ! to that Govettrnent, Particularly the sale of
weaPons and other matgrielr which increases its caPacity to wage uars against
neighbouring African slates. In particular, the Assembly calls uPon all
Governnents to conply strictly with the provisions of Security council
resolution 4I8 (19?7) of 4 Novenber 1977, by ldhich the Councilr actlng under
Chapter vII of the Charter, decided to aPPly speclfic sanctions against
south Africa. In this connection, the Assembly draws Particular attention to
the relevant provislons of its resolubion 38,/36 of f December 1983, the Paris
Declaration on Namibia and tbe Progranrne of Acblon on Namibia adoPted at the

L6/

nl
ry
!9/
n/

A/ 38/L32-s/L5 675 and corr. 1 and 2, annex' sect. r.

A/AC.rLsll,.6tl.

A/39/24, part three' chaP. II.

Arz38l31I-S/1588 3 .

A/ 39/LgL-s/L6 4I4 and Corr.I.

l



A/ 3e/ 663
English
Page 15

lnternational conference in support of the struggle of the Narnibian people for
Independence, Ll ana the Bangkok Declaration and progranme of Aclion on
Namibia 2j/ adopEed by the United Nations Council for Namibia on 25 !,iav I9g4
at its extraordi.nary plenary neetings held at Bangkok.

9. The ceneraL Assenbly considers that Che acqulsition of nuclear
neapons capabirity by the racist rdgime of south Africa, with i.ts infanous
record of violence and aggressionl constitutes a further effort on its part to
terrorize and intimidate independent states i.n ehe region into submission
while also posing a threat to all rnankind. The continuing assistance rendered
to the south African rSgirne by certain westeln countries and other states in
the military and nuclear fields beries their stateat opposilion to the racist
practice of the South African r6gime and rnakes then rrilling partners of its
hegemonistic and crlninal poricies. The Assenbly accordingly condenns the
continued nucrear co-operation by certaln l{eatern countries and other states
rrith South Africa. It calls upon the States concerned to end all such
co-opelation and, in part.icuLar, to halt the supply !o South Africa of
eguipnenC, technology, nuclear nateEials and related training, which
increases its nuclear capabi l ity.

10. the ceneral Assembly, noting thac the militarization of Namibia has
led to the forced conscription of Namibians, to a greatly intensified floyr of
refugees and to a cragic disorganization of the faniry rife of the Nanibian
PeoPle, strongly condemns the forclbLe and wholesale displacenent of Narnibians
from cheir hones for rniJ.itary and poritical purposes and the introduceion of
ggmpylgory military service for Nanibians and declares that all measures bythe ilregal occupation r5gime to enforce nilitary conscription in Nanibia are
nurr and void. rn this connection, the Assenbly urges arl covernments, lhe
specialized agencies and other intergover nmental organizations to provide
lncreased naterial assistance Co the thousands of refugees who have been
forced by the apartheid r69irne.s oppresslve policies ln Nanibia and south
Africa to flee into the neighbouring front-Iine States.

I1. The ceneral Assembly recalls its resolution ES-g /Z of
14 Septenber 1981, by vrhich it sbrongly urged States to cease forthwith,
indivldually and collectively, all dealings with south Africa in order totallv
to isolate it politicallyl economically, nilitarily and culturally.

L2. The ceneral Assenbly strongly deprecates the establishment and
naintenance by colonial Powers and their al-lies of military bases and other
i'nstallations in the colonial Territories under their adninistration phich
inpede the ixnplementation of the Declaration on the cranting of Independence

I

I

2L/ Re of of
the Nanibian Pe
Part th ree.

I4/ A/39/24, part three, chap. Ir.
(A//CONF. 12 0,/13 ) ,



A/39/663
English
Page 17

to Colonial countries and Peoples and which are inconpalible with the purposes
and Principles of the Charter of Che United Nations and of Assembly resolution
r5r4 (xv).

13. The General Assenbly reiterates its condennation of all military
activities and arrangenents by colonial Porrers in Territories under their
administration which are delrinental to the lnterests and rights of the
colonial peoples concerned, especially their righ! to self-det€rnination and
independence. The Assernbly once again callE upon the colonial powers
concerned to terrninate such activities and eliminate such nilitary bases in
conPliance with its relevant resol-utions and in partlcular with pargraph 9 of
the PIan of Action for the FuIl Inplenentation of the Declaration on the
GranCing of Independence to Colonial Countries and peoples, contained in the
annex to its resoLution 35/ll8 of 11 December 1980.

14. The ceneral Assembly deprecates the continued alienation of land in
colonial Territories for military installations. While it has been argued
that the servicing of such installations creates emplol4nent, nevertheleqs,
the large-scale uti].ization of local econonic and nanpower resoulces for this
Purpose diverts resources wbich could be more beneficially utilized in
pronoting the economic development of the Territories concerned and is thus
contrary to the interests of their populations.

15. The General Assenbly requests the Secretary-ceneral to continue,
through the Department of public Inforr0atlon of the Secretariat, an
intensified canpaign of pubJ.icity with a vlew !o inforning world public
oPinion of the facts concerning the nilieary activities and arrangements in
colonial Territories which are inpeding the inplenentation of th€ Declaratlon
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained
in General Assenbly resolution 1514 (XVl .

16. The General Assembly requests the Special Committee to continue its
consideration of the ilem and to report thereon to the Assenbly at its
fortieth sess ion.




