








































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

A/39/6L
4 January 1984
ENGLISiJ
ORIGINAL! RUSSIAN

Thirty-ninth session

\ r have the honour to transmit to you the text of a resolution of the Suprerne
I Soviet of the Union of Soviet socialist Republics concerning the international

situation and the foreign policy of the Soviet Stat€ adopt€d on 29 December 1983 at
a session of the suprene soviet of the ussR.

I request you !o distribute the text of the resolution of the Suprene Soviet
of the USSR as an official document of the ceneral Assembly under the item entitled
"Revierd of the lnptenentation of the Declaration on the strengthening of
International security".

(signed) o, TROYANOVSKY

REVIEI! OF THE IT,IPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE STRENGTHENING
OF INTERNAT IONAL SECURITY

Letter dated 30 Decenber 1983 from the Pernanent Representative of
the union of soviet socialist RepubJ-ics to the United Nations

addresg@

I
84-00319 0853v (E)



A/39 /6L
English
Page 2

ANNEX

Resolution of the Supreme Soviet of the Un ion of Soviet Socialist
Republics concerninq the international situation and the foreiqn

policy of the Soviet StaCe

The Suprene Soviet of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, expressing
serious concern about the sharp deterioration of the situation in the world
resulting fronn the rising of militarism and aggressiveness of the inperialist
forces, prinarily Che Uni.ted States, resolves:

To approve fully and completely the statements dated 28 September and
24 November 1983 of Comrade Y. v. Andropov, ceneral secretary of the CentraL
Connittee of the Conmunist Party of the Soviet Union and Chairman of the Presidiun
of the supreme soviet of the USSR, which contained a deep and far-reaching
aPp.raisal of the reasons underlying the present deterioraEion of the internationaL
situalion and reaffirned the steadfast course of the Soviet Union aimed at
maintaining and consolidating peace, curbing the arms race and broadening and
deepening co-operation among states,

The Suprene Soviet of the USSR r.rholeheartedl.y supports and approves the
practical steps and neasures undertaken by the Connunist party and the Soviet /
Government for the strengthening of the defence capabirity of the soviet union and I
the maintenance of the security of the Soviet people and its allies.

Mankind is warned of the threat to peace posed by Lhe foolhardy, nilitaristic
policy of inperiatism. That policy manifests itself prinarily in the attempts of
the United States and its NA10 allies to do theLr utlllost to upset the present
military balance, rrhich serves as the basis for ihternationaL security, and in Che
deploynent in Western Europe of new Anerican nuclear rnj.ssiles, whi.ch has thsarted
continuation of the Geneva talks.

This is borne out by lhe actions of the United States and of the reactLonary
169irnes and covernments which co-operate with itr aimed at igniting international
conflicts in various parts of the world. The Anerican mititarists are sowing death
and destruction and are violating the sovereignty and i.ndependence of the peoples
of other countries. Like the war in VieC Nam, the aggresslon against Grenada and
the illegal occupation of that country rrriU 9o down as a shameful page in the
annals of the United States. Anger and revulsion are evoked by Washington I s
pursuit of big-Power politics in Central tulerica, where an undeclared war is being
waged against Nicaraguat by its threaes against the Republic of Cuba, by the
Anerican and Isra€li occupation of Lebanon, and by its open support for South
African aggression against Angola and other African states. In violation of the
united Nacions charter and the norns of international law, the inperialist states
are atrogating to themselves the right to wield power in foreign 1ands, to dispose
of the natural resources of other countries, and to impose their wiII on the
Peoples of Asia, A,frica and Latin Anerica.

I



N39/6r
Engl lsh
Page 3

Firnly condemning imperiallst interference in the affairs of indePendent
states and peoples and the policy of aggression and brute force. the supreme Soviet
of the UssR calls upon the United states Congress and the parliaments of the otlter
NATO countries to utilize all the opportunitiea available to them to ensure that
the C.overnments of those countries renounce the pursuit of a pollcy based on a
"position of strengthr', which is a danger to th€ cauae of peace, and refrain from
attempts at achieving military superiority. In the present circufistances, the only
possible way to consoLldate peace and the securlty of peoples lies in the de facto
recognition of the princlple of equality and equal security and the endeavour to
achieve, on that basls, mutually acceptable areas of agreement.

The supreme soviet of the USSR conflrrns that, should the unlt€d states and
other NATo countries display a readiness to relurn to the sltuation that existed
prior to tbe instaUatlon ln Europe of Americab medium-range nissilesr the soviet
Union will also be ready to do so.

The supreme soviet of the ussR expresses deep satisfaction at the adoption by
the United Nations ceneral Assembl.y of the Declaration on the condemnation of
Nuclear war and of decisions on the freezing of nuclear neapons and the prevention
of an arms race in outer space, and declares that the soviet unlon i5 ready to
consider measures for the inplementatlon of those decisions, if the United States
and the other NATO countries are ready to do likewise,

The supreme soviet of hhe USSR deems it esaential to achieve the urgent
implementation of the proposal for the conclusion betrreen the states parties to the
Warsaw Treaty and the nembers of the North Atlantlc alliance of an agreemenE on the
nutual non-use of nilitary force and Ehe naintenance of peaceful relationst the
proposal that all nuclear Polrers should follor, the example of the Soviet Union and
give an undertaking not to b€ the first to use nuclear weapongt and the proposal
for the prevention of an arns race in outer space.

The supreme soviet of the usSR empowers the sovlet Government to continue to
follow a policy for the naintenance of the security of the soviet state and its
allies, and to take the necessary steps, in the light of the prevailing
circumstances, to effect an improvement in the international situatlon, and
actively to pursue that policy at the stockholm conference on Disarmament and
Confidence- and Secur i ty-building l'leasures ln Europe.

The Supreme Soviet of the USSR solernnly stat€s that the Sovlet Union does not
encroach on the securlty of any other sountry, be lt ln th€ l{est or in the East.
It wishes to Live in peace with all countries and to put into practice the
principle of the peaceful coexistence of states wlth different social and politlcal
systens.

The highest organ of ponef, of the soviet state expresses Lts assurance that
reason can and must gave nank ind from a nuclear catastrophe. A signiflcant
contribution to the solutlon of thls npst burning issue of the day can and must be
made by the parliaments and peoples of all countries of the Horld, as urged by the

I suprene soviet of the USSR and the Soviet people.
t

)



N39/5L
EngLish
Page 4

The peace-loving foreigh policy of the Soviet Union will continue to be firmly
based on the selfless labour of the entire peopler closely united around the
Communist Party of the Soviet Unlon.

Y. AIIDROPOV
CHAIRMAN OF A}IE PRESIDII'M OF THE

SUPREME SOVIET OF THE USSR

T. MENTESHASHVIII
SECR.ETARY OF THE PRESIDIUM OE THE

SUPREME SOVIET OF THE USSR

The (renlin, Moscow' 29 Decenber 1983

I

I




