








































UNITED
NATIONS

A

GeneralAesembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/39/7 49
7 Decenber 198 4
ENGIl SH
ORIGINAI: FRXNCH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda iten 59

I. The item entitled !

"(i) Repore of the Disarmament Comnissioni

"(ii) ReporL of the Confexence on Disarmamenti

84-32198 4540P (E)

FEVIEW OF THE IMPI,EI'IENTATION OF TIiE RECOMMENDATIONS AND DECISIONS
ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AT ITS TENTTT SPECIAL SESSION

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ngar6 KEssEI,y (chad)

I. INTRODUCTION

"Review of the inplenentation of the reconmendations and decisions adopted by
the General Assembly at its tenth special session:

" (a) Repor t of the Disarmarnent Corunissioni

" (b) Report of the Conference on Disarmamenti

"(c) Status of multilateral disarmament agreenents! report of the
Secretary-cener aI i

"(d) Prohibition of the nuclear neutron r.reapon: report of lhe Conference on
Disarrnament i

"(e) Cessation of the nucl,ear-arms race and nuclear disarmamentj report of
the Conference on Disarnament. i

'(f) Prevention of nucLear wara report of the Conference on Disarmanenti

"(g) Inplenentation of the recommendations and decisions of the Lenth special
session:



A/39/ 7 49
English
Page 2

'(h) Unilaterat nuclear disarmanent neasures!
Sec re tarv-GeneraI i

report of the

" (i) comprehensive progranme of disarmameng: report of the conference on
ni cArs:maFt'!

"(j) Disarnament week: report of the Secretary-General;

"(k) Bilaleral nuclear-arrns negotiationsi

"(f) Advisory Board on Disarnament Studies:

"(i) Work of the Advisory Boards report of the Secretary-General i

"(ii) Draft statuLe of the Unieed Nations lnstituCe for Disarmament
Research"

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-ninth session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 36/92 H of 9 Decen cer 1981 and 38/183 A to P of
20 Decerber 1983 and decision 3A/447 of 20 December 1983.

2. At its 3rd plenary neeLing, on 2l september 1983, the General Assenbly ' 
on the

recoNnendation of the General Corunittee, decided to inctude the iten in ils agenda
and to allocate it to the First Cornnittee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 15 october, the tr'irst cornnittee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmanent items allocated to it, nanely, items 45 to 65 and
item 142 which was allocated to the First conrmittee by the General Assembly al its
27th plenary neeting, on 9 october' followed by staternents on specific disarnanent
agenda itens and continuation of the general debate, as necessary. The
deliberations on those items took place betlreen the 3rd and the 36th neetings, fron
17 October to 12 November (see A/C.L/39 /PV .3-36', .

4, In connection with item 59, the First cofimittee had before it the following
documents:

(a)

(b)

(c)

Report of the conference on Disarmament, 1,/

Report of Lhe Disarnament Cornnission i 2/

Report of the Secretary-General on the status of rnultilateral
disarmament agreenenls lA/39/ 45Al i

y official Records of the General Assenblyr Thirty-ninth session'
supplenenr No. 27 lA/39/2'7).

?/ official Records of
Supplenent No. 42 (

ceneral Assembl Thirt.v-ninth session



A/39/749
English
Page 3

(d) RePort of

(e) RePott of
measures (A/39/5161i

(f) Report of
studies (A/39/5a91i

ehe secretary-Genera1 on Disarnament week (V39,/493) t

the secretary-General on unilateral nuclear disarnament

lhe secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament

(g) Note by the secretary-General, transmitting che rePort of the Director
of the United Nations Institute for Disarnanent Research (A/39/5531 i

(h) Letter dated 29 !4a'rch L984 from the PerrEnent RePresentative of France
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmltting on behalf of
the 10 States mernber8 of the European Economic corununity the text of the
declarations aalopted on 27 March 1984 by the Ministers ior Foreign Affalrs of the
community lA/39 /L5L-S/L6456',t i

(i) Letter dated 9 APril 1984 from the char96 d'Affaires a'i' of the
Permanent l,lission of Rornania to the United Nations addressed to the
secretary-Gen er aL (A/39/L751 i

(j) Letter tlated 23 lray 1984 from the rePresentatives of Argentina' Greece'
lndia, !.,lexico, sweden and the Uniteal RePublic of Tanzania to the United Nations
addressed to the secretary-General, transnittlng the Joint Declaration by
Mrs. Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India' Mr. Miguel tle la Ma'lrid, President of
Iilexico, Mr. Julius Nyerere' Presialent of the United Repubtic of Tanzaniat
Mr. OIof palme, prime I'linlster of S$eden, Mr. Andreas 

-Papandreou, 
Pr lfiie Minister of

Greece, and Mr. nail etfons(n, President of Algentina' issued on 22 May-1984 at
Athens, Buenos Aires, Dar es Salaam, Mexico CiUy, Nen Delhi an'l Stockholm
(A/39/277 -s/L65c'11 t

(k) Letter dated I ilune 1984 fron the Pertnanent RePresentahive of the union
of soviet socialisb RePublics to the United Nations addre66ed to the
secretary-ceneE al lA/39/2s5-s,/16600 ) t

(1) Note verbale dated 7 June 1984 fron the Pernanent Representative of Peru
to the United Nations addressed to the United Nations Secretariat
(A/39/296-s/L66L9l ,

(nr) Letter tlated 12 ,fune 1984 from the Pernanent BePresentative of the
United Kingclon of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General., transmitting the text of the Declaration on
East-west Relations and Arns Contlol issued at the London Econonic sunmit, held
fron 7 to 9 itune 1984 (A/39/3051i

(n) Letter dated 14 ,lune 1984 frorn the Permanent RePresentative of the
united Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Irelanat to the uniteal Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General lA/39 /3IL-S/I6629') ,



v39 /749
English
Page 4

(o) Letter dated 16 August l9g4 fron the Chargi d,Affaires a.i. of the
Pernanent Mission of the union of sovlet socialist Republics to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-ceneral (M3T/4O9-S/L67 OSI t

(P) Letter dated 4 septenb€r 1984 fron the Charg6 d'Affaires a.l. of the
Pernanent uission of the union of soviet socrarrst Repubrrce to the unlteat Nations
addressed to the Secretary-ceneral (A,/39/4671 |

(q) Letter dated 27 September l9g4 fron the chargd drAffaires a.i. of the
l9!!1lg!! Mlssion of To90 to the unlted r.rations addressed to the secretary-General(U39/s2el r

(r) Letter dated I oc tober 1984 fron the pernanent Representative of rndiato the united Nations addreseed to the secretary-cenerar, trlnsmitting the Finar
conmuniquc of the lqeeting of Ministers and Head; of Deregation of the Non-Arigned
Countries to the thlrty-nlnth sesslon of the ceneral Assernbly, held ln New york
fron 1 to 5 oc tober L9g4 (V39/560-s/I67j3l I

(s) Letter dated 29 Novenber 1984 from
Rornania to the United Natlona addressed to the

(t) cormunlcation dated 22 November r9g4 frorn the chairnan of the Flfth
Colrnittee to the Chairman of the Flrst Comnitt ee lA/C.V3g/7r.

IT. CO!.ISIDERATIOq OF PROPOSAI^g

A. Draft resolution A/C. L/39^,.4
5. On 3I October, Austr iq, ..Ecgador, Eglpt, uexico, paklstan and S:weden subritteda draft re60lution effiisarrnanent neasurea"(A/c.l/39/L.4'l 

' nhlch rras introduced by the representative of Mexico at the37th neetlng, on 14 Novernber.
6. At tts 44th neeting, on 20 November, the conmittee adopted draft resolutlon
Ye-L/zg'tl-q by a recorded vote of ll8 to 1, wlth 13 abstentlons (see para. G7,draft resolutlon A). The voting was as follorrBl g/

fn favour: Afghanlstan, Algerta, AngoLa, Argentlna, Australta, Austrla,
Bahanas, Bahraln, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazll, Brunel f,iarussalan, Bulgaria, Burna,
Burunali, Byelorusslan Sovlet SocialiEt Republic, Cafieroon,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chlle, China,
Colombla, Congo, cuba, clt)rus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic

the Pernanent Representatlve of
Secr etary-Gene r aI (M39/720) t

1/
that they

The delegatlons of Burkina Faso and Sri Lanka subsequently indlcated
had lntended to vote in favour of the draft resolution,



A/t9 /7 49
English
Page 5

Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti' Dominican
Republic, Dcuador, Egfpt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon,
German Democratic Republic' Ghana' Greece, Guatenala,
Guinea, cuyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Indiat
Indonesia, Iran (Islarnic Republic of), Iraqr Ireland, Ivory
Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao PeoPleis
Denocratic Republic, Lebanon ' Liberia, Libyan 

Arab
,Iamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives' MaIi,
Maltar Mauritaniar Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
NePaI, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway' oman' Pakistant
Panarna, Perur Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Rornania, Rwanda,
samoa, sao Tome and Principe, saudi Atabia, Senegalr Sierra
Leone, singapore, spain, sudan, suriname, S$taziland' sweden'
syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo' Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia' Uganda, Ukrainian sovie! Socialist RePublic, Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates' United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguayr venezuela, viet Nam, Yemen,
YugosLavia, zaire, zanbia.

United stales of Amer ica.

Belgium, canada, France, cermany, Federal Republic of,
Israel, Italy, ,tapan, Luxenbourg, Netherlands, New zealand'
Portugal, Turkey, United Kingdom of creat Britain and
Northern lreland.

B, Draft resolution A/C.1/39lL.5

Against:

'f

!/ The delegation of
intended to vote in favour

Burkina Paso subsequently indicated that i.t had
of the draft resolution.

On 31 October, Belgj.um, Canada, France f. r
Japan, the Netherlands. Norway, Portugal, Turkey and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ir€land submitted a draft resolution entitled rBilateral
nuclear-arms negotiations" (A/c.l/39/L.5), which vras subsequentLy also sponsored by
Rvtanda. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative qf the United
Kingdon of Great Brit.ain and Northern lreland at the 34th neetingr on 9 Novernh r.

8. At its 44th meeting, on 20 Novenber, the cofimittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.I/39/L.5 by a recorded vote of 86 to I7, with 24 abstentions (see Para' 67,
draft resolution B). The voting was as followsr jy

In favour: Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Bolivia'
Botsirana, Brazilr Brunei Darussalan, Burundi, Caneroon,
canada' central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia,
Denocratic Kampuchea, Denmarkr Djibouti, Dominican RePublic,
Ecuador, Eglpt, Fiji, Finland, I'rance, Gabon, Germany,
Federal Republic of, cuatenala r cuinear Guyana, Haiti,



A/3e/749
English
Page 6

the Lao

Aqainst:

Hondurasl Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republlc of),
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, ilamaica, ,Japan,
.fordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, LlberIa, tuxernbourg, !,laLahri,
!,lalaysia, MaLdives, ltali, Mauritania, !,torocco, Netherlands,
Ner{ Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Noreray, Onan, pakistan,
Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, R$anda. Samoa, gaudi Arabia,
Senegal, Slerra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Swaziland, Srreden, Thailand, fogo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United K ingdon of
Great Britain and Northern lreland, Uniteat Republic of
Tanzania, United states of Anerica, zaire, zambia.

Afghanistan, Angola, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Sovlet Socialist
Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakla, Democratic yenen, cerman
Denocratic Republic, Hungary, Lao Peopler s Denocratic
Republic, !,!ongolia, llozanbigue, Poland, Syrlan Arab
Republic, Ukrainian Sovlet Sociallst Republic, Union of
Soviet Soclalist Republics, Viet Nan.

SSgi-EiIg! Algeria, Argentina, Bahatnas, Benin, Bhutan, Burma. Cape
Verde, China, Congo, Cyprus, chana, Greece, India,
Madagascar, Mauritius, Mexico, Nlcaragua, Peru, Sao Tome and
Pri.ncipe, Surinane, l8anda, Uruguay, Venezuela, yugoslavia.

c. Draft resolution A/C.1/39lL.8

On I November, , the Byelorussian Soviet
the German Deneratic Republic, Hungary,

the
,thelJ@

Viet Nan and z irnbabwe

resolution
at the

resolution
Pata.67,

tted a draft resolu enC "Nuclear weapons ln aspec ts"
(A/C.L/39/L.8) r which sras later also sponsored by Ronania. The draft
was introduced by the representa!1ve of the cernan Denocratic Republic
35th meetingr on 9 November.

10. At its 44th meeting, on 20 Novenber, the Comnittee adopted draft
A/C.L/39/L.A by a recorded vote of 95 !o 19, with 12 abstentions (see
draft resolution C), The voting was as follolrs:

In favour i Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan. Bolivia, Botsnana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, BuLgarla, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi.,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central
African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, C!T)rus,
Czechoslovakla, Denocratic yernen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Piji, Finland, Gabon, cernan Denocratic Repub1ic,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, cuyana, llalti, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic nepublic of), Iraq, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon,



A/?9/749
Eng llsh
Page 7

Liberia' Libyan AEab Janahiriya' !!,aclagascar, Malani,
l,ialaysla, t€Idiveg, !'[ali. Mauritania, Maurlhius, Mexico'
Mongolia, l,lozarnbigue ' NePal' Nicaragua' 

Nigeria, onan'
PakiBtan, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Romaniar Sao lone and
PrinciPe. saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, singapore, sri Lanka,
sudan, suriname' sltaziland, syrlan Arab RePub1ic, Thailand,
fogo, Trlnidad and Tobago, Tunisiar Uganda, Ukralnian soviet
Sociall6t RePubllc, Union of Soviet socialist Repubfics'
United Arab Etfiirates, Uniteal Republic of Tanzania,
Venezuelal viet Nan. Yemen, Yugoslavia, zanbia, zinbabue.

4g@: Australia, tselgiu$, Canada' Denmark, France, Germany,
Federal RePublic of, Iceland, Israel, Italy' ,tapan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands r New Zealandr Norway, Portugal,
sPain, Turk€y, Unlted Kingdom of Great Britaln and Northern
Ireland, United states of America.

Ab6taininq: Bahanag, Cape verde, Dominican Republic, Eonduras, Ireland,
vory Coastr Nigerr Rwanda, SenegaL, Sneden, Uruguay' Zaire'

D. Draft resolutlon A/c.l/39ll.9

11. On I Novetab€r, the @ submitted a draft resolution
entitletl .obligatlon of States to conLribute lo eTfective disarrnament negotiatlons"
|A/C.I/39/L.91, which uas introduced by its rePresentative at the 3?th meeting, on
14 Novernber. The alraft resolution read as follows!

'Ib@,
rHaving reviewed the implementation of the reconnendations and decisions

of the eenerll AssenbJ.y aatopted at its Tenth special- session, the first
special aeBgion devoted to disarnanent,

iRecalunq its relevant resolutions on this subject,

'Deplorinq that no tangible progress has been achieved in the
ilwlenentaEion of these resolutions,

rstresEinq the inportance of, the Final Docutnent of the Tenth sPeclal
geadion of the ceneral Assenblyr which, r,ras unaninously and categorically
reaffirmed by all !'fember States at the Tr.relf th speclal Sesslon, as the
codE rehenslve and long-tern basi6 for efforts tonards halting and reversing
the arrns race,

'Recatling paragraph 28 of the ['inal Document of the lenth sPeclal
seesioh, statlng that rall the PeoPlea of the wor lal have a vital interest in
tlle gucceas of disarnanent negotlatlonsr and that I consequentLy, all states
have the duty to contt ibuhe to efforts in the fleltl of dlsarmanentr ' 

and
gtatlng fulther that rrrhile disarmanent is the resPonsibllity of all state6'



A/39/7 49
English
Page 8

the nuclear-rreapon States have the primary responsibi.lity for nuclear
disarmament and, together with other rnililarily significant states, forharting and reversing the arns racer, and that tit is therefore inportant to
secure their active participation.,

"Bearing in mind the fundamentaL iEportance of disarmatnent for the
acconplishrnent of the principal purpose of the United Nations, i.e.
naintaining international peace and security and settling international
disputes by peaceful means,

iConvinced that the active participation of !,ternber States in effective
disarmament negotiations is inperative ior discharglng their responsiblrity tocontribute to the rnaintenance of international peace and security,

"StressiqS, the commltnent of States, rrhich they have undertaken under
terns of international raw in various existlng international instrunents, to
conduct negotiations which wouLd lead to early agreements on disarmament
measures, in particurar on nucrear diaarmanent, and which seEve the overal-r
objective of general and complete disarnament,

"Bearing in mind the soJ.enn connitnent of all Member states to the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Seasion and their pleatge to respect thepriorities in diaarmament negotiations as agreed upon in its programfie ofAction,

"Alarmed at the grording threat of nuclear rrar, wh lch can lead to the
destruction of civillzation on Earth,

"Arar. of the neceasity to proceeat to honest, business-Like and
constructive negotlations tn good faith aimed at the achievement of early
re6uLts, in particuLar at the prevention of nuclear war. in order to save
mankind fron the lrpst acute danger facing lt,

"ExpressilS._its concern about attenpts at using disarmament negotiations
as a cloak for the arns race as well as attempts at striving for lTrilitarysuperiority, which constitute a serious obstacle for such nigotiations,

. 'Expresslng the view that disarnanent negotiatlons conducted without thearm to reach tanglble results, whlle the arns race continues unabated, could
have a negative i''pact on the worrd-wide striving for harting and reversing
the arng race,

- 
rEelieving that the preservation of the existing bilateral, regional andgrobal system of arns linitation and disarrnamen! agreenents as rdelr as thestrlct obaervance of such agreements are inportant erenents of disarnanent

efforts at all levels,
11. Expresses its ararm that the nucrear arms race has entered into a

new, extreneLy dangerous phase i



A/39/749
Eng Ii6h
Page 9

Expressegitsconvictiontha!itlstheforemostobligationofall
State6, i.@eapon States anal the other nilitarily
signiflcant stateE. to Live up to their conuni tnnent un'lertaken ln internationaL
instrumencs and to the reconnendations and decislons of the General Assenbly
at lt6 Tenth Speclal Session and to conduct serious negotiations in good faith
on arms tinitation and disarnanent on the basi6 of equality, reciProcity and
tbe undiminished security of each sidei

"3. calls again upon these states to refrain from any actionE $hich have
or nay havd negat i-vJef fects on the outcome of disarnanent negotiationS and
urges then to renove obstacles which stand in the way of those negotiati'onst

lllg the Conference on DisaEnament to concentrate its YJor k 
on the

substantiv;-;;A prlor ity items of ita agenda' i.e' to start negotiatlons on a
nuclear test ban treaty; the cessation of the nuclear arnE trace and nuclear
disarmament, the preventton of nuclear war as well as the prevention of an
arms race in outer space rdithout further delayr and to lntensify- its
negotiatlons on a coirvention on the corylete and effective prohibitlon of the
develotment, production and stockplling of chemical' weapons anit on their
destructiont

"5. CaIIE upon states engaged in tlisarmaroent negotiations outside the
united Nations frame{ork to iniensiry their efforts with a view to achievlng
concrete results rrtthout delayl and to irnplement such results imtediately so
as to create favourable conditions for further Progresg'

Urilerllnea the need for preservlng the existing systen of bllateral'
regional and global disarrnament agreements t

Invitea atl states engaged in disarmanent antl'/or arns linitation and
reductton nigotiatlons outside the Unit€d Nations framework to keep the
ceneral AsEenbly and the conference on Disarnanent lnforneat of the resultB of
such negotiations in conformity with the Eelevant provisione of the Final
Document,

'8. @l9 that at subsequent sessions of the General Assenbly
speclal attention stioultt be attached to the continuous revlew of the status ot
diaarmament negotlations on the biLateraL, regional and multi.lateral levels.'

L2. At the request of the sponsor r no action was taken on draft re6olution
A/C.L/39/r..9.



u39/7 49
EngIish
Page I0

E. Draft resolution A/C.l/39ll.12
13' on 2 Novetnber, crrba, the cernan Detqocratic Repubr-ic and Itungarv submitted adraft re'olution entEre-ed "u"r.:G-;E;fiffir"pons and prevention of nucrearvatr (A/c.l/39/L.L2l, nhich rras later .f"o .poi"o..at by Ronania. The ttraftresolution ltas introducear by the representat'lve or tne-eEi-nan oernocratic Republicat the 35th neeting, on 9 Novenber.

_I4. At the 45th meeting, on 21 November, the representative of the GernanDern@ratic Repubric orarly revised operative paragrapn 3 0f the draft resorution,rePlacing the uord "containingn in ti:e third iine ot tbe paragraph by the rroralsrlaying down'. .

11:,.oa the same. neeting, the comibtee aatopteal draft resolut ion A/c.L/3g/L.I2, a6orarly revisedl by a recorded vote of 95 to'ri, with 15 abstencions (see para. 67,draft resolution D). The voting lras as follorrg !
In favour ! Afghanistanl A1gerial Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh,

B€nin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsrrana, Bulgaria, Burkina Fiso,
Burundi. Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, capeVerde, CentraL.African Republic, Chad, Congo, Cuba, C!T)rus,
czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Djibouti, ucuador, ifypt,Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, cabon, cerman Den@ratic nepu6lic,
Ghana, Greece, cuatenaLa, Guinea, cuyana, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islarnic Republic of), Iraq, ire-tana, irordan,
Kenya, Kunait, Lao peopler s Dem@ratic Republic, Lebanon,Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascir, Malarri, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mall, Mauritania, ltexico, I,longolia, Moroccb,
l,tozamb ique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, wileria, onan, paki.stan,panama, peru, poland, eatar, Rorninia, S;o Tone and principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Svraziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republ-ic, Ttlailand, Togo, Trinialadand Tobago 

' Tunisia, uganala, ukrainian soviet socialilt nepuolic,Union of soviet socialist Republics, Unitedl Arab Emirates, unitedRepublic of tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nan, yenen, yugoslavia,
Zanbia, zinbab,,re.

Aqainst! Augtralia, Belgium, canada, Denrnark, France, Gerrnany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Israel, Ilaly, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New zealand, NoEteay, portugal, Spain, Turkey. United
Kingdorn of creat Brltain and Nort.hern trelandr United St;tes ofAner ica.

Abstaininq ! Austria, Bahamas, Brazil, Burrna,
Rlca, Dominican Republic, Haiti,philippines, Uruguay, Zaire.

Chile, China, Colombia, Co€ta
Honduras, Ivory Coast,



OnJ-O -

F. Draft resolution A,/C.1/39lL.20

Novernber, Afghanistan, Angola, Bulgar ia '
Democ r Y

EEiElist nepuutic, vieu Nan and zinbabwe subnittetl a draft
ipr oh ib irion of rhe nuc realneurr6iG@n, la,/ c. L / 39 / L. zo | .
was introduceaf by the rePresentative of the German Democratic RePublic
35th rueeting, on 9 Novetnber.

L7. At its 44th meeting ' 
on 20 November ' 

the conrnittee adopted draft resolution
Nc.L/3g/L.zo by a recorded vote of 6l to U, trith 51 abstentions (see para' 67'
draft resolution E). The voting was as follows3 y

Afghaniatan, Algeria, Angola, Bahralnr Benin, Botsnana ' Bulgaria'
euikin. Faso, Buruntli, Byelorussian soviet socialigt RePublic'
cameroon, central African Republic, congot cubat cyprust
czechoslovakla, Democratic Yemen. EthioPia, Fijil Finland' German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Hungary, Indiat Indonesia'
Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Lao PeoPlers
Denocratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahir iya, Mahagascar, Malasi'
l,talaysia r !4ali, l4auritania, llauribiusr Mexico, Mongolia,
Moza*b!.qu", Nicaragua, Niger' Nigeriar Pol-and, Ronania' Sierra
Leone' syrian Arab Republicr Togor Trinialad and Tobago, Tunisla'
uganala ' ikrainian Soviet 

Socialist Republic, union of soviet
s6ciafist RePublics, Unitett Arab Ernirltee, United RePublic of
Tanzanla, viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zambiat zinbabvJe'

Belgium, canaala, France, Gertnany, Federal RePublic of, Israel'
Italy, ilapan r Portugal, Turkeyr Uniteal Klngdom of Great Britain
and Northern lreland, United States of America'

&gEg!ig!!g3 Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh' 
Bhutan'

BoliviarBrazilrBruneiDarussalamrBurnatchad'chlle'c-hina'
Colombia, Dernocratic Kanpuchea, Denmark' Dj ibouti t Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egyptr Greece, Guatemala, Guyana' gaiti'
Ilonduras, rceland, rilfana, Ivory coast, Lebanon' Liberlar
IJuxenbourg r !'taldlves, Morocco' Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand'
Norway ' omanr Pakistan, 

Perur Rwanda, Senegal' Singapore' SPain'
Sri Lanka' Sudan, Sweden, Thailand' Uruguay, Venezuela' Zaire'

The delegation of Bahrain subsequently indicated that it had intended to

the Bvelorussian soviet

A/39 /7 49
English
Page lI

enbitled
resolution

at the

,the@

, t}te iet
resoLution

The draft

In favour 3

Against:

2t
abstain.



A/39/749
English
Page 12

G.

18. on 7 November, Indl?f Hexicgr. paklatan, Srreaten, uruguay and yugoslavlasubritted a draf t r.Giution enttt1Ea-r,ruElEii-Ernter " (vc. r,/ 3g/L.221. ttre draf tre'orution was introduced_by- the t.pt."-ni.ti"e of uexlco at ttre 37th'reetrng, on14 Novernb€r, and read ae foIIoHs:
,The_ ceDeral Assernbll,

- 'Becallinq that in the Final Docunent of its first special sesgiondevoted to d j.sarroanent, after referrlng gpecificaUy to 'lhe threat to thevery Eurvival of nankindr posed by the existence of nuclear weapona, ltdeclared that I removing the threat of a worrat war - a nuclear war - is themost acute and urgent task of the present dayr,

-- 'No!i!g that as a result of recent atrbgpheric and biological studlestn€re have been new frndings Fhlch inarlcate that in addition io brast, heatand radiation, nuclear war, even on a limlted acale, rrould produce snoke, 6ootand dust of sufflcient magnitude a6 to tr rgger an arctic Nucr€ar winter rrhlchnay transform the Earth into a darken"d, fiozen pranet ehere conditione Hourdbe conducive to mass extinctlon,

"t{otilq Furthgr that the above studiee have been and are being carriedout not only by eninent Ecienttsts on a national acale but also by aninternationar organ, the scientific co@llttee on probrems of the Environnent
( SCOPE) of the International Council of Sclentific Union6, whose study groupon the environnentar consequencea of nucrear rrar consista of scientiatE froDnany countries, inclr.liling the five nuclear_rreapon States,

- 
"RecognizinS that the prospect of Nuclear winter poses an unprecedented

Peril to all nations, even those far renoved from the nuclear exp-1oaions,tthich rculd add lnneasurably to the previou.ly knoon dangers of nucrear war,
'cons"ious of the urgent need to continue and deverop scientrfic studiesto increa€e the knolrledge and understanding of the variou6 elenents andconaequences of Nuclear Wlnter,

__ :1. Reguesta_ the s€cretary-ceneral to compile, classify and distributeas a docutrent of the United Nation€ the essentiaL parts of ail national analinternationar scientiflc studles on Nucrear winter pubridhed so far or whlchnay be published before 30 April 1985,
i2. Urge6 a1I states and intergovernmental organizations as rrell aEnon-governnental organizatlons, through their intermediary, to transrnit to thcSecretary-General, prior to the abovelmentloned date, the relevant rnaterial inthelr possession which may be useful for the above purposei

. Rgcomrcnds that the report of the secretary-ceneral be exanined atthe fortleth session of the ceneral Assembly in connection rrith the lteDdealing with the preventlon of a nuclear wai."



20.
the

v39/749
English
Page 13

19. on 23 Novenber, the sponsors subtnitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.I/39/'.22/Rev.1) entitled ncllmatic effects of nuclear war: Nuclear winterr,
nhich was later also sponsored by Bangladesh and Rofiranla. The revised draft
resolutlon contained the following changes;

(a) A nev, second preambular paragraph htas added which read as follows:

'Notinq that in spite of recent scientific endeavours, the environmental
and other clinatic consequences of a nuclear uar still poBe a m€rjor challenqe
to ecience,' i
(b) The original th ird. preanbular paragraph was deletedi

(c) The first operative paragraph rras revised to read:

'1. Reque6ts the secretary-General co cortrpile and distr ibute as a
doculent of the United Natlons appropriate excerpts of all national and
international scientific stualies on the climatic effect8 of nuclear war,
including Nuclear winter, publishetl so far or which may be Publisheat before
3I iluly 19851" .

At the 49th rneeting, on 27 November, the representatlve of canada submitted
foltowing oral at$end!0ents to draf t resolution Nc.L/ 39 /L.zz/Rev. 13

(a) Ihe third preambular paragraph was to be replaced by the follo$lngt
rBearing in mind that some recent scientific stualies have concluded that

a nuclear war @uld trigger large-scale clinatic consequences, leading in the
rrorst analysis to rdhat is sometines termed a nuclear winterrrt
(b! operative paragraph I rras to be amended to read:

'Request6 the sec retar y-General to conplle andl distribute as a document
of the unlted NaLlons, within existing resources, approPriate excerPts of a1l
national and international scientific studies on the climatic effects of
nucleaE rdar, includlng Nuclear Wlnter, pubtisheal so far or which nay be
published before 3I July 1985".

2L. At the same rneetlng, the Connittee voted on the oral anendnents as follows:

(a) The amendtnent to the third preanbular paragraph was rejected by a
recorded vote of 63 to 24, with 3L abstentions. The votlng hras as follo't ss

In favour: Australia, BeLgium, cameroon, canada, Denrnark, France, Germanyt
Federal Republi.c of, Greece, Iceland' Ireland, lsrael, Italy,
Japan, Liberia, Luxernbourg. Netherlands ' New zealand, NorwaytPortugal, Rwanda, spain, Turkey, Unlted Klngdon of Great Britain
and Northern lreland, Uniteal states of Anerlca.



v39/749
Englleh
Page l{

@.!:

(bl The amendlment to operat.j.ve
56 to 27. Hlth 35 abstention6. The

Against!

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahraln, Bangladesh.Benin, Bhutan, Bolivta, Bulgaria; Burklna Fas;; Byerorussiansovlet Soclalist Republic, Ctrile, Congo,. Cuba, Cyprus,
czechoslovakia. Denocratic yernen, EthiopLa, German Denocrat icRePublic, 

_ 
chana, Guinea, Guyana, Hondurls, Hungary, rndia, Iran

Jftii: RePubric.of), rraq, Lao Peopler s D.r"diali. n.po6ric,-'lrbyan. Arab. atanahir iya, t{,adagaEcar, Maldives, MaLl, Mexico,lbngolla, Nicaragua, Nigerla, pakistan, panana, peru, poland,gatar, Romanla r saudi arauia, sri r,ania, i*""iirno, sireden,Syrian.Arab Repub.Llc, Togo, Trinldad and Tobago, Tuniala, Ugarda,Ukralnian Soviet socl.alist Republlc 1 Union of soviet SocialistRepublic6, Uniteal Arab Elnirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, venezuela, Vlet Nan, yenen, yugoalavia, zambia, Zimbabwe.

4bstaininq: Au6tria, Bahamas, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burna, Burundi,China, ColoNlbia, Costa Rica, Denocratic Kampuchea, Ojibouti,Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Esypt, r.iji, r,inrana, ciu"", -i"iti,Indonesia, Jamaica, ,Jordan, r,e6anon, Milawi, Uozarnbique, 'w ige.,
Onan, senegal, sierra Leone, Singapore, Sudan, zaire.

In favour r Auetralla, Belglurn, caDeroon, canada, ftennark, Finland, f,.rance,cernany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, tsrael, ftafy, ivoiyCoast, ,fapan, Lebanon, Liberla, Luxembourg, n"tt..:.lnas, wlwZealand, Norsay, portugal, R anda, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Spain,rurkey, united (ingdom of creat Britaln and Northern trerana,United States of Amer ica.

paragraph I was reJected by a recorded vote of
voting wa6 aE follorrs!

Afghanietan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivla, Brazll, Burklna Faso, chile, Congo, Cuba,CyPrua, Denocratlc yenen, Dotrinican nepublic, icuaaor, Ethlopia,
Ghana, culnea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Iran (Islamic nepubli!of) r. Iraq, Lao peoplers Denocratic Republic, Libyan Arab
i,T:hlr lry, Madagascar, ltaldives, laafi, uexico, iicaragua,Nrgerra, Pakistan, pan€nla, peru, @tar, Ronan ia, Saudi Arabia,Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab nepuUiic, Trini6ad and
Jd"So: Tunisla, Uganda, Unlteal Arab Emirates, United nepublic ofTanzanla, Uruguay, venezuela, viet Nan, yenen, yugoslavia,
zanbia, z inbabvre.

Abstalninq: Au'tria, Bahamas, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgarla, Burma, Burundi,Byeloru6glan soviet socialist Republic, ifrinr, cofoo,lii, c".t"Rica, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Kampuctrea, oj iuouit; ;;ypt;FiJll Gabon I certnan Denocratic Republic, creece, Haiti, gonduras,Indonesia, r-reland, .tamaica,,loraan, ualawi, uongolla,
Mozanbique, Nlger, onan, polanal, singapore, suqa;, Togo,ukralnian sovlet socialist Republic, union of sovlet socialisERepublics.



v39/719
Engllsh
Page 15

ZZ. The Cmnittee then adopteal alraft resolut lon A/C .L/ 39 /f. .22/Fiev .t bry a recorded
vote of 123 to none, with Io abstentions (see para. 67, alraft resolution F). The
vobing was as follons!

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola' Argentina, Australiat Austrla,
Baharnas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan. Bolivia, Botawaoa,
BraziLr Brunel Darussalan, Bulgaria' Burkina Faso, Burmat
Burundl, Byelorussian sovlet Soclalist RePubllc, Catleroon'
canada, central Afrlcan RePublic, chaaf, chile, Chinar Colonbia,
@ngor costa Rica, cuba, cyPrus, czechoslovakia. Denocratic
Kampuchea r Democratic Yenen, Dennark, Djibouti, Doolnican
n"poU:-i., Ecuador, Eqypt, EthioPia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gernan
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greecer Guinea, Guyana r Haltlt
Honduras, Hungaryr lcelandt' IrdLar Indonesia, Iran (Islanlc
Republic of), Irlq, Ireland, Ivory coast, Jamaicar Ja['an ' 

Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao PeoPlet s Denocratic RePublic ' Lebanon 'r,lU-eria, Libyan Arab Jinahiriya, !,ladagaBcar, tilalawi, Malaysia,
Ma1dives, MaIi, Malta, ltaur it-ani'a, Mauritius, Mexico, t{'ongolia'
Iilorocco, !,bzarnlclque, NePal, New zealand, Nlcaragua, Nigert
Nigeriar Norway, oman r Pakiatanr Panama r Peru, Philipplneat
Poland, Portugalr Qatar, Itqflania, Rnanda, sautti Arablar Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singagore, sPain, Sri Lanka ' Sudan, Surlnane,Swaziland, sweden, Syrian eraU Repubfic' Thailand, Togo, Tr iniilad
and Tobago, Tunisia, uganda' Ukrainlan soviet sociali6t RePubllct
Union of Soviet socialiBt RePublics' United Arab Emlratea, Unlted
Republic of Tanzania, uruguay, venezuela, Viet Nan, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, zanbia, zlrnbabrre.

Against!. None.

Abstaining: Belgiun, France, Gernany, Federal RePubllc of, Israel, Italyt
Luxemliourg, Netherlands ' 

Turkey. Unlted Kingdon of Great Brltain
and Northern lreland, United gtates of ,\merica.

E. Draft resolutions VC.I/394.26 an'l Rev'l

23.on8Novenber,@andI]Lq@sutmittedadraftreeolution
entitled "Bilateral ;"clear-armr ..gotftions' (A/C.L/39/L.Z61, which read aE
follorrs:

"&-!]@'
'Recallinq that at its tenth sPecial session, the first sPecial €€ssion

devoted to disarnanent., it aPproved by consensus a Declaration, contalned ln
the Final Docunent of tbat session, in whlch, lg3!ig, it proclained. that'
in order ef fectively to diacharge the central ffiffi' pr irnary responeibillty
in the spbere of diiarnament which belong to the Unlted Nation6 in accordance
nich ita charter, the united Nations shouldl be kePt aPproPriately lnforned of,
all step6 in thls fielcl, whether unilateral, bilateral, regional or
nultilateral, rdithout prejutlice to the Progreas of negotiations,



A/39/749
English
Page 16

. 
"Regalling also that at its trre*th special sesaion, the second specialsession devoted to disarmarnent, lrenber staies reiterated their solenurconmitment to tunprenent the Finar D""rr;;t;- the valrdity of lrhich receivedtheir unanimous and categorlcaL reaffirmation,

- 
"Re'gretlg that the union of soviet socialist RepubLics anat the unitedstates of Anerica have interrupted the two series of blrateral nucrear_arm.negotiations begun on 30 ltovernber fgAf and ig .f,rn" I9g2, respectively,

- . _ "Peploring thatr_prior to such interrupcion, it had arreaary beconeevident that the negotlations were not prJi"ing the desired reaults,
'Pe?r.grjl_Il!4 that the ceneral Assenbly on several occasions hasrequested the nalor nuclear{deapon States to proclain a freeze enbraclnglnlgr aria a ban on arl further d"pr"vr"nt "r nucr.". we apon" 

-"iJ-li" i,delj.very vehicles,

- _"I. RequesCs the covernment of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republlcsand the covernnent of the United States of America to inforn tbe ceneralAssenblyr before the. cloEure of itg thlrty-ninth session, on the reas.ns forthe i,nterruption of their negotiations, tira pr"".rrt situation and theproapects for their resumptioni

. -.r: _Urges again the trro above_nentioned covernnents to exanineimediately, as a way-out from the present impasse, the possibility ofcombining into a singre forur the il 
";;i";- 

of negotiations whici'they naabeen carrying out and of broadening their scope ao as to embrace ar50 theItacticalr or ,batt1efield. nusleai ,".pon" i
'3' rnvites such covernnents to consider the advisability of conductingh"ttcefotruffii. bilateral negotiations in a suosiatary body of theconference on Disarnament nhose rnembership courd be riniled ti tt 

"a"":-.ras, 
apossibillty which was e:q)ressry contempriieJ when article 25 of the Rules ofProcedure of the comnictee - no, the conference - on Disarnanent was atproved,

- - 
"4' Requeats the same covernnenta to announce officially a moratoriun ondeployment of nuclear weapons and their alelivery vehicles in order to createfavourable conditions for the bilateral, r,o"i."r_..r" negotiationsi
n5. Reiterates o.nce.nore its request to the tt'o negotiating partles that

:l.y !:.: "".st""Ffi-mi"d that not 
-only 

their nattonal intereets but alsothe vital intereat€ of arr the peoples 
"i'tt. "rorra are at stake in thisquestioni

, 
"6. pi?19"! to include j.n the provisional agenda of it6 fortieth seesionthe iten entieled rBilateral nuclearlarns negotiationsr.



M39/749
EngllEh
Page I7

24. on L5 Novenber, the gponaora autxnltted a revised draft resolution
(vc.L/39h..26lRev.I) , which was introduced by the representative of llexlco at the
iloth neeting, on 15 Novenbe!. The revised draft resolutLon contained the follosing
changea:

(al Ehe third preanbular Paragraph was reviged to read:

"Reqretting the interruPtion of the tno serie6 0f bilateral nuclear-arms
negotGtf6$-Eun on 30 November l98I and 29 ,tune 1982, respectivelyr between
the union of soviet socialist Republlcs anal the onited states of America"i

(b) Operattve paragraPh 4 waB deleteal and the subs€quent ParagraPhs were
renunbered accordllngly.

25. At lts 48th neeting ' 
on 26 November, the Contlittee adoPted draft resolution

Vc.L/3g/I'.26/Rev.I by a recorded vote of 93 to 11. ttith 22 abstentions (see
para. 6?, alraft resolution G). The votlng nas as follo$s3

4Eryr Afghanistan, Algeria, Angol'a' Argentlna' AuEtria, Bahraln'
Bangladeshl Denln, Bhutanr Bo1lvia, Botstana, Brunei Daruasalan'
Burkina Fa€o, Burmar carneroon, Central African Republic I Chad t
Chiler china, Congo' cuba, clT)rus, Democratlc Yemen, Djibouti.
Domlnican Republic I Ecuador ' 

E9IPI, EthioPia. Fiji, Finlandl
Gabon, Ghana; Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Ilonduras' rndiat Indonesia,
Iran (Iglanic Republlc of) ' 

Iraq, Irelandt Ivory CoaEt' ilordan '(enYa, Kuwaitr Lao PeoPle's Der0ocratlc RePublic, Lebanont
Llbiria, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, l4adagascar ' 

Malattl ' t{alaysla'
ltaLlives, Mali' Malta. Mauritaniar t'lexico, !'brocco, Mozanblqu€ t
Nepal, Nicaragua, N19er, Nigeria' of,lan, Pakistant Panana. Peru'

' Qatarr Saudi Arabla, Senegal, sierra Leone, Slngaporel Sonalia.
sri Lanka' Sudan, surinane, snazilandr sweden, syri'an Arab
Republlc, Ihailanat' Togo' Tunigiar Uganda, United Arab Emirates.
united nePubtic of Tanaania, Uruguay, venezuela, viet Narn, Yemen'
Yugoglavia, zairer zanbia, zitubabee.

Belgiuto, Canada, Gernany. Federal RePublic of, Israel, Italy.
LuxembouEg, Netherlands, Portugal, Turkey' United Kingdoro of
Great Brilain and Northern lreland, United states of Anerica'

E!g!g!gg: Auatralla, gahamas ' 
Brazll' Bulgaria, ByeloruEslan sovlet

sociallst Republlc, Colonbla, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France t
Gernan Denocratlc lrePubuc, trai'tl, Hungary, Iceland, itapan,
l,bngolia, New zealand, Norway, Polanal, Rwanda t SPain. ukrainian
Soviet socialist RePublic' Union of Soviet Socialist RePubllcs'

AgatnEt!



A/39/7 49
English
Page 18

Pakistan
subnitted a draft r

I.

and Yugoslavia
rEs(jruELqn enElcled .,unlted NationsResearchr (A/c.L/39/L.3o) r which rras subsequently alstly also. sponsored by Bangladesh.

tute for Disarmament
The draft resolution was,,rr,. -^^!:__ 

rntroduced by the representative of N iger ia-EFtEE44th meeting, on 20 Novenber, and reaa i.-t"ii"*L,
" Ttre ceneral Assenblv,

. "considelrg the rore of disarnament research as a means to prorctedisarnanen! measures,
trRecalring its resorution 37/gg K, section rv of t3 Decenber r98z,

. .:'].- TaFes ngie of annex II of the report of the Secretary-ceneral,submit.ted inter alia under agenda lten 59 (I) (ii), g

- '2. a"* the trraft statute of the unibed Nations rnBtitute for
Drsarmament Research, adopted by the rnstituters Board of Trustees andattached to the SecretaEy-General I s reporti

_ . "3. Takes note of the report of the Director of the united Natlon'rnscrtute for Digarmament Researchi ?/

:4. Renews the invitations to covernnents to consider making voluntarycontributions to the Institute i

" . lu: Bgquests 
the secretary-ceneral to continue to give the hstituteadninistrative and other support i

- 
'u.' rnvites the Director of the uniteat Nations rn€titute for DisarnanentResearch to rePort annually to the ceneral Assernbly on the activities carriedout by the Instltute..

27, In a comaunication addressed to the Chairnan of the Flfth Connittee(A/c.5/39/43r, the chairman of the First comrnittee stateal that, pursuant to ceneralAssembly decision 38/447 of 20 December 1983, the Board of Trustees of the UnitealNations rnstltute for Disarmanenh Research haal revised the alraft statuce which hadbeen submitted to the current session of the ceneral Assenbry for consideration andapproval (A/39/549. annex rr) and requested that the revised draft statute of thernstitute be brought to the attentiori of the rittt co.rtttee, for necessary action,before the First committee took any decisi.on on it. rn a connunication addreasedto the chairman of tbe Sirst connittee lA/c.L/39/7) I the chairman of the FifthComittee stated that, in accordance with established practice, the ter.t of the

^/39/54e.
A/39/553, annex.

entitled

v
u

26. On 8 November,



revised alraft statute, as tell as the Sec retary-General r s statement on its
adninistratlve and flnanctal impLlcations (A/c.5/39/ 33) ' 

had been considered
Advi€ory comittee on Aalministrative anal Butlgetary Questions tA/39/7/Add-81 .
his cormrunication, the chairnan of the Fifth co|Iunlttee also inforned on the
conaideration of the natter in the Fifth corntnittee.

28. on 27 November, the sponsors submltted a revised alraft resolution
lA/c.L/39/L.3o,/Rev. 1) , in which oPerative Paragraph 2 was reeised to read:

'Approves the draft statute of the gnited Nations Institute for
Disarnament Research, as attached at annex I herewitht'

29. with respec! to the programne budget lnplications of draft resolutlon
Mc.L/39/I'.30/Rev.I the conmittee had before it a note by the secretariat
aA/c.L/39/L.821 .

30. At its 56th neeting, on 3 Decenber, the conmittee voted on alraft reSolution
A/c.L/39/L.30/Rev. I, as follows:

(a) operative [aragraph 2 was adopteal by a recorded vote of 88 to 3, wlth
18 abatentions. The voting rras as follots: V

In favour: Angola, Argentlna, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahraln,
Bangladesh. Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazilr Brunel Darussala$, Burklna
Fa6o, Bur!{la' caneroon, Canada' central Afrlcan RePubllc' ctrad t
chiler china, coLotobia r congo, cyprus, Denocratlc Ye[€n, Denmark,
Djibouti' Dorninican RePublic' Ecuador, Egl?t' EtbloPia' Finland,
France ' Gabon, Ghana' Greece, Guyana. 

Honduras 1 lcelandt Indla,
Indonesia' Iran (Islanic Repub]lc of) ' 

Iraq' Ireland, Ivory
' coast, ilordan, Kenya, Kuvralt' Liberia, Libyan Arab Jarnahirlyat

DladagascaE r Maldives, l.lalir !4alta, Mauritanla, Mexicor !{orocco,
NePal, New zealand, Nlcaragua' Nigeriar Nornayr oman ' Paklstant
Panama, Paraguay, Portugal, Qatarr Ronania, senegal, slerra
Leone, SingaPore, Spain, Sri Lankal sudan, Surinamef sweden,
syrian Arab Republic, Ttrailand, Tunisia, Turkey' Uganda, United
AJab Emlrates, uruguay, Venezuela r YenEn' Yugoslavia, zalre,
zanbia r z irnbab$e.

4g9@' Japan' United Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of Aner ica.

Abstainlng: Afghanistan, BeLglun, Bulgarla' Byeloruagian sroviei sociallst
RePublic, czechoslovakia, Gernan Den@ratlc Republ'ic r Germanyt
Federal nePublic of, Ilungary, Israel, Italy, f,,ao PeoPlers
Denocratic RePublic, Luxenbourg r !'!,ongolia ' Netherlandsr 

Poland,
Ukrainian soviet gociatist Republic, Union of Soviet Sociallst
RePublics ' viet Nan.

y The delegation of
vote in favour of the tlraft
intended to abstain.

M3e/749
English
Page 19

Togo subsequently indicateal that it had intendeal to
resolutlon, and the delegation of Malawir that it haal

by the
In



A/39/749
English
Page 20

(b) Draft resolution A/C.L/39/L.3O/ReV.1, as
recorded vote of 108 to I, wlth A abstentlons (seeresolutlon H). The voting rraa as follorrst p/

a rrhole, was adopted by a
para. 67, draft

In favour: Afghanistan, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamaa,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgiurn, Bhutan, Bolivla. BraziJ.,
Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burklna Faso, Durma,
Byelorusaian sovlet soclalist Republic, cameroon, canada,
Central African Repub1ic, Chad, Chiler China, Colotrbia.
@ngo, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, DelFcratic Kampuchea,
Denocratic Yenen, Den!0ark, Dj ibouti, Dominican Republlc,
Ecuador, Egl.I)t, Ethiopia, finland, france, cabon, cernan
Democratic Republic, cernany, Federal Republic of, chana,
Greece, Guyana, Bonduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesiar Iran (Islamlc Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy,
Ivory Coastr Jordan, Kenya, Kusait, Lao people. s De[Fcratic
Republic; Lib€ria, Libyan Arab ilaroahir iya, Luxenbourg,
rvlaqaga6car, !,1,a Id ives, !,tall, Ualta, !4auritania, Mexlco.
Mongolla, ttlor@co, Mozanbique, Nepal. Netherlands,
New zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Noruay, oman, pakistan,
Panana, Paraguay, poland, Ilortugal, eatar, Romania, Senegal,
sierra Leone, Slngapore, spaln, Srl Lanka, Sudan. suriname,
s_wed9n, syrian Arab nepublicl Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey,
uganda. ukrainlan Sovlet Sociallst Republic, union of Soviet
socialist Republics, Unlted Arab Enirates, united K ingdon of
Great Britaln and Northern lreland, Uruguay, Venezuel.a,
Viet Nam, Yenen, yugoslavia, Zalre, Zambla, Z inbabwe.
Uniteal States of America,Agai.nst!

Abstaining: Israej., Japan.

.t. praft resolution A,/C.l/39ll.31
31. On 9 Novenber,

subraitted a draft
lA/c.r/39/L.3\ ,
37th meeting, on

resolution entitled
which was intrcduced
14 Novenber.

anal Yuqoslavia
iCorqrreheneive prog rarme of dilirmanent'
by the repreaentative of Mexico at the

32. At lts 4IEt meeting,
resolution A/C.t/39/L.3L

on 19 Novenber, the CotDnlttee adopted draft
without a vote (see para. 67, atraft resolution I).

K. Draft resolution A/C.l/39lL.39

The delegations of Cuba, Eaiti,
that they had intended to vote

Malawi and Togo
in favour of the

6ubsequently
draft resolutlon.

2/
indlcated



^/ 
39 /7 49

Englleh
Page 2I

socialist Republic and viet Nan subnitted a draft resolution entitled
"Di..r^.*."i W..k' lNc.VSg/L.Sg), which was lntroduceal by the rePresentative
of Mongolia at the 3?th neeting, on 14 Novenber.

34. At the 4lst meeting, on 19 Novenber ' 
the rePreEenbative of l,ongolla

oially revised the draft resolution, changing the fifth preambular Paragraph,
which had reaal !

nnecognizing the inportant role which nass rnedia shoulal PIay in
nobilizing worltl public opinion in support of disarnanent",

to read as follows:

"Recognizlng the itq)ortant role of nass nedia in nobilizing xtor ltt
public opinion in suPpor t of disarnanent".

35. At the sane meeting, the Conrnittee adoPted draft resolution
A/C.L/39/I'.39, as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 110 to none,
with 20 abstentions (see para. 57, alraft resolution J). The votlng was as
f ollows: !q/

Afghanistan, Algeria' Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin. Bhutan' Bollvia, Brazil, Erunei
Darussal.am, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna' Burundi,
Byel-orussian Soviet Soclalist RePublic, Cameroon, Central
African Republic, chad' chile, colombia' congo, cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yenen r D j lbouti,
nomitrican Republic, Ecuador' EgyPt, EthioPia, fijir FinLan'l,
German Denocratic RePublic, Ghana, Greecer Guatenalat
Guinea, Guyana, Haitir Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iraq, Ireland, JaPan r Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait. Lao PeoPler s
Democratic RePublic, Lebanon, Llberia, LibYan Arab
Janahiriya' Madagascar, Malawi ' 

Malaysia ' Maldives, 
MaLi,

Malta, Mauritania, l,[auritius' Mexico, Mongolia, l{orocco,
l,lozanbique, NePaI, Nicaragua, Ni'ger, Nigerial Pakistan'
Panama, p.rrr, itritippines, poland, Portugal, Qatar' Rornania,
Rwanda, sanoa, Sao Tone and Principe, Saudi Arabiat Senegal'
Sierra Leone, sonaliar sPain, Sri. Lankar sudan, Suriname,
svraziland, Sereden r Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, To9o'
Tr inialad and Tobago' Tunisia' Uganda' Ukraintan Soviet
socialist Republic ' 

Union of soviet socialist RePublics,
united Arab Emlrates, united RePublic of Tanzania' uruguay'
venezuelar viet Nan, Yemenr Yugoslaviar zarbia, zinbaboe'

None .

Australia, Belgium, canadar China, Dentnark' France, Germany,
Federal Republic ofr IceLandr Israel, ItaLy, Ivory coaEt'
Jamaica' Luxembourg r Netherl'ands' New Zealand, Norwayt
Paraguay' Turkey, Unlted Xingdom of Great Britain an'l
Northern Ireland, Unlted States of Am€rica.

In favour:

Aqain6t:

Abstaining:

1gl fhe delegation of bhe Islanic Republic of Iran subsequently
inalicated that it hatl intendeil to vote in favour of the.alraft resolution'



A/39/749
Engllsh
Page 22

36. On 9 Novefiber, Australia, Canada otJ?!"n."ng I9Elg luo. ,

[.

nar, incruding all relateal natterss prevention of war in the nuclear aje"l(Mc'L/39/L.40), which was introduceo-;y'tiiJ-ilplesentarive of rhe FearerarRepubllc of cernany at the 4OCh meeting, on 15 iovenber.
37. On 23 Novenber, Austr
Northern Ireland subtritted i revisea EiFt-
containlns chanses in the f if rh and renrh pr...uurui-pJ;t;fi;'il-i; .1) r
oPerative paragraphs 2, 5, LO and IIl ana ldaing a new operativeparagraph 12. The revised draft resolution reai as foLlows:

.,Itte ceneral Assembly,
rrRecalllng the deternination of the peoples of the worlat to save

succeeding generations from the €courge of war and, for thls end, tostrengthen their resolve to naintain internationat peace and security,

_ - "N"t!!S. wibh grave concern the irnplicationg of a continuj.ng arnsbuild-up' particurarry in its nucrear aspect, anrr expresaing ibi profoundconviction that the prevention of nucleai war, inileed aIL wir, r*,.in"the nost acute and urgent task of the preEent day,

_. "Convinced that tbe succeasful fulfilnent of this task requires allStates to do their utrnost to avoid conflict antt to resolve disjutes
Peacefully, so as to ensure that war is no ronger vierred as an instrufl*ntfor aettrlng internationar disputes and that the use and the threat offorce are ellminateal from international life as provided for ln theCharter of the United Nations,

_.._. ^]1u.1!!"t,,"""yin"* 
that rhe prevenrton of war, and particutarlynucrear war, requires.lhul gll states respect the sovereignty, equaiity,independence and territorial integrity oi'iif o*r". states, anal recalllngthe cornnitnent by all r'renber states under the charter of the unitedNations to refrain in their international relations from the Chreat oruse of force,

"Recarugs none the less the inherent rlgbt of Etates to take themeasures neceasary to defend themselves agalnst attack, and recognizlngthe vital importance of deterring and preienting armed conflict in anyforn,

_. "Rei.terating the vital interest of the peoples of the wor lal indisarmanent, but also. recognizing the importance of conf idence_buildingneasures for the estabrishmene of rnore co-operative re:.atlonstrrfs-u""r..r,States, the preventlon of conflicts, in particular by lessenlng thepossibirity of Eurprise attack, and the iacrrltation of furtheidisarmanent neasures, and noting in that retarO ttre Large nunber ofproposals for adalitional confidence_buildint neasures currentLyconsidered in a large number of multilaterai forums,



A/ 39 /7 49
Eng lish
Page 23

'stressing the necesslty of builtling on,the inportant 
stePs that

have already been taRen to ,idoa" the risk of war' nost notabLy on-the
verifiable arms control "gt..taat" 

that have already been concluded '
nnecaltinq Patagraphs 47 to 50 and 56 to 58 of the Final 

Document of

theTenthspecialsessionatevotetltodisarmaTnent,regardingthenecesgity
for, and the Proce6s of, nuclear disalnament'

runderlininq the Prinary resPonsibility of nuclear-rdeapon states' 
in

particular those nith the largest nuclear arsenals' for the Preventlon 
of

a war involving the use of nuilear weap'ons and for nuclear disarmamentl
uui-iii" ueariig in rnina ine colLectivl responsibllity of all states 

to

rrork to\tards these end6,

'Betievinq that the critlcal goals of securing 
peace and Preventing

nuclear war and ur,v .rt"a-.oniiit t-utt best achievetl by fully recognizlng
and resPecting tne aigniiy oi-^"tt. u""it freedoms an'l the !19ht 

of
national self-deterninatton t

rNoting nith dleeP concern that, in sPite of their important
contrlbution to tne prevention of war' negotiations to reduce 

the current

Ievel of Unitetl states anal sovlet nuclear weapons are ausPended an't 
other

;;;-";;.;;i i"goti.ti"i; pioceed at a pace which ls crearl'v inadequate
totheseriou6ne6sof,the-threatan.ltheurgencYoftheProblem,

"I.Reaffirmgthatreducingandremovlngthethreatofnuclearwar
is the nost acute and urgent task of the present alay and that elimlnating
the threat of all armed lonftict rernains tbe ultirnate goal of 

the

international comnunitYi
n2. gIgg all States' ln confort0lty with their obliqations un'ler

the chart€r ot the united-'.ti"n", to refiain.ln their lnternationar
relations frotn the ttr.ll "i-o". 

of fof,ce against the territorial
iniegrity or political independence of any stace' an'l thus never 

to use
any or thelr eeaPons, .;;;;il;-d" "tt"i"t 

of their inherent right of
lnaiviaual or collective self-dlefence t

catlsuponallstatestomaintain'asaPrlorityobjectiveof
their polictes, ttre renovai of the danger of war at any level 

of

hosti.lity, therebY Precluding the use of nuclear rireaPons'

@ aII State6 to exercise restraint 
in thelr relations Hith

otherar to act ln such a nanner as to Prevent- the 'teveloPnent 
of

situations whiqh couLal l"o"t'i"ns"t"ue- exacerbation of their relationa'
to avoid nilitary .onttoil"iio"s and to Prevent the outbreak of 

wari

'5. Ermhas+Pes the lmPortance of conclutling agreementa 
on

nllitarily signiflcant aia-"-.iiri.ur. reductiona of armannents and forceE,
incLuding nucrear armamentg r taking into account the relatlve itnPortance
of the exlBting arsenals of the nuclear-weapon states and other states
concerned, antl ot aeniliiig "ituit 

military- batance' globally antl
regionally' at the loeest possible levelsi



A/39/749
Eng Iish
Page 24

,r 6. Calls
"oui".,o.i.ffi,uil:""::;::r:ii;.L":.ff ':;;":li,:E ::il:":'-reduce to the lowest posslble levef"- tn"i, strategic andinterned iate-range nuclear rreapons i
.- -_-l' lgq 

es au states to rrork for concrete and verifiabre resurtsrn arns control negotiaClons, especlally those aimed at the elininatronof whore catesoriei 
"r ,..p"i"-Ii;-;l;:.;". rhar have destabitizinseffecrs, as werr as those U; ;;;;."iil pro"p""r, for the reducrlon of

:::;:lt 
armanents to lorrer r""err coisislint wittr stricrry defensive

"ui".ai"" "ffi:tt 
states to Pronote, to the best of their ability, the."i-ii-.ir,Ii";:,i'ilT:il:,"i,Hi;.;:.$ll;*iiili.,r;.Xl;,:!:;::""

expanded exchange of lnformation 
"iJ-rr."" on niritary natters and otherconf idence-building 

-rneasures, with a view to enhancing both confidenceand. stability' particurarry i" t.gi"r"i-.ontexts, and taking into accounrregronal security needs,

_ - :. -tat"i"":_:l: necessity of preventrng nititary confricr rrhichnay take place by accident, .t="hcorition or 
"omrrnications failure, bytaking stepa to maintain, 

", 
,rr.i"-.J.!I"r" ,rprorr", cormunicationsbetrdeen coverrutrents, pa,iicoraiiy-rii-li.i" of lension i

-,^-_^]-to: 
calls uTn::rt.staces to prevent the proriferation of nucrear

:::il:: :::;r". 
such protlferacion woura-seriously increase ir,.-a"nq., or

.'II. Reiects nilitary atoctrines and policies which explicitly orimpticirlv lfrlFth" 
-a"nr"".i."l 

-"i-riiialt" 
superioritv in the place ofbatance, stability ana unairrinishJ-;;;i;y for aLl srate6,

'I2. Declares. its view that a nuclear war cannot be won and that aconvenlionat wa-iTi], involve ti;-r;";-;;=;l"rrutio' to nuctear nar i
"I3. Takes note of the report of the conference on Disarnanent onits 1984 *i i-E.cerning the con"ia.i.Iio. of che agenda item entitledrPrevention of nuctear.war, fncruaiiJ-Iii -.-.r.t.a natters,, and requesrsthe Conference to continue its ,uU"tuntiie consideration of this issuei
xI4. Decides

:sxl ilffi ::,il"il::,il. ff #";*i:::'":::"i;.;i. i,T :ii.'..n
38. On 26 Novenber, Arq(
ro'o,i,,g a;Jh;;;;;: ?#S.!h*#%ffi :::"#ffi#. ilili::ir;:;.,,

(a, The second preanburar paragraph was anended to readJ

^,,.,'-"Notirg 
ltth ar"u. . the lnprications of a continulng armsourrd_up part icularf

the threals ", " "i,lutl.lt: :T*i:.:"lil.: 1u.;..;:ll.:.:l:t*;::;::.



^/3e/749Engli6h
Page 25

task of the present day and that mankind is conf ronted with a choice: 
rde

nust hatt the arms racl and proceed to diaarnanent or face annihilation"

(b) A new third preambular ParagraPh was added' reading:

"Recalling ParagraPb 13 of the Final ltocument of bhe Tenth speclal
session, stating tnat e;ra,rring international peace and security cannot 

be

built on the accunulation of weaponry by military alliances nor be
sustained by a Precarious balance of deterrence or ttoctrines of strategic
suPeriority. Genuine antl lasting peace can onlY be created ttrrough the
effective rPlernentation of the security systen Provided fol i"-tlt:..
charter of the uniteal Nations and the speedy ancl substantial reduction of
arns and artned forces, by international agreement and nutual exat[Ple '
leading ultinately to- ge-neral and cornplete disarmanent under effective
lnternatlonal controi. ai the safle tine, the causes of tbe arm' race and
threats to peace srust be reduced antl to this end effective action ahould
be taken to elininate tensions and settle diaPuteE by Peaceful means' t

(c) The original fifth Preambutar Paragraph tlas deleted'

(d) The seventh preambular paragraph waa amended to read:

"stressinq the necessity to take further stePs to reduce the risk 
of

nuclear nar' most rrotiury by- renouncing the use oi nuclear weaPons and
appt-ying a freeze on nuclear weapons" t

(e) In the eighth preambular Paragraph, the nunber 
n2on v'as inEertecl

after the nord nParagraphs" in the first linei

(f) The tenth prearnbular paragraph was deletedt

(S) In the original eleventh Preanbular ParagraPh, not' the tti:!- 'preambular paragraPhr the word "nuciear' was inseried- betv'een the Horda 
iof'

and nwarn in the second linei

(h) operative Paragraph 2 uas amended to read:

'lllggg aU State6, in confornity t{ith their obligations under 
the

charter of the United Natlons, to reirain in thelr internatlonal
relationsfromthethreatoruseofforceagainsttheterrltorial
integrity or Political indePendence of any State"t

(i) oPerative paragraPh 3 was annended to read!

'calls upon aII states to naintain' as a priority objective 
of their

pollcies, the removal of the alanger of nuclear war at any level of
ho€tility't
(j) operative paragraph 5 was anended to reads

nEtqthasizes the inportance of concludinq agreefiEnts on tnilitarily
stgnificant and verifialle reductions of armamencs and forces' including /...



A/3s/7t9
English
Page 26

nuclear arnaments, and that measures for the prevention of nuclear warnuat take into account the security interest of nuclear_rreapon andnon-nuclear-seapon states alike relecting, in particufar, aif thJrlesand concepts pertaining to the possession of nucrear lreapons and theiruEe under any circumstances";
(kl Operative paragraph 7 was deletedi
(U The orlginal operative paragraph g, now operatlve paragraph 7, wasanended to read 3

"Urges a1I nuclear-ryeapon states to pronote, to the best of theirability, the objective of the prevention if nuclear war. through,lnlef alia, more op€nnesa and an enhancenent of nutual knorrleatge aboutmllitary activities, an expanded exchange of information .na viers onnilitary natterE and other confidlence-biildlng neaEures, nith a viev toenhancing both confidence and atability, particularfy in regionaf 
'

conte:(ts, and taking into account regtonat security needsri
(!n) The original operative paragraph 9, nor operative paragraph g, rrasamended to read:

_ "StresEes the necessity of preventing nuclear war which nay takeplace by accident, niscalculatioi or comminications failure, uy'taii,ngstep6 to loaintain, or-where neceasary improve, cornnunlcations betrreennuclear-ueapon State6n i
(n) The original operatlve paragraph l2r now operatlve paragraph 11, wasreplaced by the follonlng:

'knderns the notion that a nuclear war, and equally a conventionalwar involvlng the risk of escalatlon to the nuclear level, can be rron,,
(o) the orlginal operative paragraph 13, now operative paragraph 12, rrasreplaced by the following:

. ^^. 
"Takgs note of the report of the Conference on Disarnament on its198{ session concerning itern 3 0f its agenda and requests the conference

:":"! up an Ad Hoc cormlrtee u"a"i 
-in"-il., .preveirion of nucteii ,ar,including al-I related mattersr to initlate negotiations on appropriateand practical lneasures for the prevention of nuclear warr.

39. At the request of the sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolutionNc,L/39/L.AIlRev.l.



l!. Draft resolution A/c.1/ 39lL.4 3

40. on 9 Novenber, !!i!g!,i.&.-India!@, and Sweden subnitted a draft
reaolution entltled "cessation of the nuclear-armslace and nuclear disarnament"
lL/c.L/3g/t'.43), which v,ras later also sPonsored by Bangladesh' Gr9eg9, rnqonesia
and Ronania. T:he draft resolution was introducea Uy ttre lepresenCaeive of
Argentina at the 36th meeting. on 12 Novemb€r.

41. At its 44th meeting, on 20 November, the Corunittee aaloPted draft resolution
A/c.L/3g/L.43 by a recorded vote of 115 to 13, t{ith 7 abstentions (see para' 57,
alraft resolution K). The voting rilas as follot{s:

A/39/749
Engllsh
Page 27

In favour !

4egi4:

@.

Afghanistanr Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladeshr Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsvana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Sovtet socialist nepublicl Caneroon, cap€
v-rde, Central African Republic, chad, Chile' China'
colorflbia, congo, cuba ' cltprus, Czechoslovakia, 

DelFcratlc
Kampuchea, Denocralic Yenen, Dj ibouti, Dominican RePubLic'
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopla, Fijir Finland, Gabon' German
Denocratlc Republic r Ghana, Greecer Guatemalar Gulnea'
Guyana, Itaiti, Honduras ' Ilungary, 

India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islanic RePublic of) ' 

Iraq, Ireland, Ivory Coast' itordan,
Kenyar Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Denocratic RePublic r Lebanon,
Liberla, Libyan Arab ilamahir iya, Madagascar' l'lalawi,
t{alaysia, !,taldives, !{ali, Malta, Mauritania' Maurltiua'
ltexico, uongolia, l.lorocco, !,rozanbique, NePaf , Nicaragua,
Nlger, Nigeria, onan' Pakistanr Panama r Perur PhillPPine-s'
Po1and, Qatar, Ronan ia, Rwanda, Sanoa, Sao Tone and
Prinelpe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra teone, SingaPore'
sri tanka, Sudan, sur inane, S$aziland, sweden' Syrian Arab
Repub1ic, Thailantl' Togo' Trinidad and Tobago' Tunisia'
Uglnda, ukrainian soviet socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republi.ca, united Alab Enirates, United RePublic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela. Viet Nan, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, zairer zanbia, z inbabiwe -

Be1giu$' canada' France, Gernanyr Federal RePublic of'
tceian<I, Italy. Lur<embourg, Netherlands ' Norway, 

Portugal'
turkey' uniced Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, united states of iherica.

Australia, Bahatnas, Denmark, Israel, ;Iapan, New zealandt
spain.



A/39/74e
Bnglish
Page 28

!oz.l"91$.L_P"1"rd, th. ,
5;3g.u"d\ri.r-"uE''it-i"a--iHiiffi iriri"_.*.*-=iffi ffi i

N.

42' on 12 Novernber, rrag submitted a traft reaorution entitled nrnprenentation ofthe reconmendations ana a-decision' 
"e 

ti.-a.rii-Jpec iar session. rA/c.L/3g/r..47),$bich rrae introduced by its repres.rtili".-.i"tie aoth neeting, on 15 November.
43. At its 43ral rneet!.no, on 20 November, the comtrittee aalopted alraft resolution
Y!;i'i3i3;ll,H i,:"'*i'l"nf ii,:i'::,13;ii,rith 2r .u"tentions (se. pa'a. ez,

rn favour ! Afghaniatan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Bahamas,Bahrain, Bangladesh, senln, ihutin, eofivia, s"t"*i"il'Brazil, 
-Bulgaria, 

Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian sovietsoc ral ist- Repubric, cape Verde, cent.rar African Republic,chad, ch ire,_ ctr ina, coionui;;-c"il;;-;";- il;, tfi ;;,C]4)rus, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic yemen, Deru0ark, Dj ibouti,Doninican Republic, ucuaaor, -igypt, Fijl, Finlanal, France,Gabon, German Denocratic n"iuuii-., - ci.!"", - c".i.*irr, -.,culnea, Ibiti, Hungary, Iceiand, Iraq, Ireland, Ivory coast,ilamaica, J3pan, ,lorclan, Kurait, r,ao peopler s Den@raticRepublic, 
!:!.not, r.,ibyan Arab Jamahirila, u"a"g.""*, 

-
!,talari, Maldives, Uati, tltatea, Uauritania, Ururiiir",,Irlexico, Uongolia, Morocco, ttzanbique, Hf"ar"gua, ;ig.r,Norrray,, oman, panatrE, paraguay, peru, philippines, poland.portugalr- eatar, Ronania, ir"rrau, sao Tome and principe.Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra lJeone, Somalia, Spain, SriLanka, sudan, suriiane, Jri"irlna, syrian Arab Republic,Togo, ?rlnidad and Tobago, Tunieia, Turkey, Ugandl,ukrainian sovlet sociali"i n"poufi", unioi ot_sovietsoclalist Republics, unitea ariu Emirates, urri !"i 

-nJpuurrc
of Tanzaniar 

- 
Uruguay, Venezuela, VLet Nanr yernen,yugoslavla, zaire, zambia, zinbahde.

Aqalnst: None.
Abetaining: Austria, 

Trsl_u., canada, Ethiopia, cernany, FederalRepublic of, Ghana, llonduras, India, Iran tisf.*ii n poufi"of), rsrael, rtaly, Kenya, tiberia, Luxenbourg, Netherlands,New zealand, Nigeria, paListan, srreden, unit.i.xingd;-;fcreat Brltain and Northern treiand, Uniteal states of &rcrica.

{'1. On 12 Novenber, Afq

o.

co-operation E?Gr.",ne" r,. r vc. r7r iz;. ;; i,,iiliT::'::. ; j::::1";;"li:repreaentative of czechoslovakia at tn.' liit 'r".atng, on 14 Novernber.



{5. At its 43rd
Mc.L/39/L.53 by
draft resolution

In favour:

Bolivia. The draft

A/39/749
ang IiEh
Page 29

meeting, on 20 November, the Conunittee adoPted draft resolution
a recorded vote of 99 to 19, with 8 abstentions (see para. 67,
M). The voting was as foll-ovJs:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentlna' Bahrain,
Banglatlesh, Benin, Bhutan, BoIivia, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi' Byelorussian soviet Socialist Republic' caneroon,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chilel Colonbia' Congor
Costa Rica, Orba, clprus, czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yemen'
Djibouti, Doninican Repubtic ' 

Ecuador ' Egypt, 
EthioPia'

Fiji' Gabon ' German Denocratic RePublic' 
Ghanar Guaternala,

Guinea' Guyana r Haiti, Honduras ' Hungary, 
India' Indonesia'

Iran (Islarnic Republic of) ' Iraq, Ivory 
Coastr ilordan,

Kenyar Kuwait, Lao PeoPlers Democralic Republic, Lebanon'
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, t{adagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, MaLdives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Mongolia, l,bzanbique, Nepal, Nicalagua, Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Polandr Qatar' Romaniat
Rwanda, sao Tone and PrinciPe, saudi Arabia, Slerra Leone '
sonalia, srl Lanka' sudan, surinane, swaziland r syrlan Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinldaal and Tobago, Tuniaia,
Uganda, Ukrainlan soviet Socialist RePubllc, Union of Sovj'et
Socialist Republics, Unlted Arab Enirates, United lrePublic
of Tanzaniar Uruguay, venezuela ' viet Nam, 

Yemen,
Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia, Zinbabwe.

Australia, Belgium, canada ' Denmark, 
France, Gernany,

tr'ederal Republic of, Iceland. Israel' Italy' JaPan,
Luxenbourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norvray' Portugal'
Spain' Turkey, Unl.ted Kingilom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland' United scates of Anerica.

Aqaln6ti

Abstaining: Austria, Bahamas, Brazil' Finland, Greece, Ireland,
Paraguay, Sweden.

P. Draft resolulion A/C.I/39lL.56

46. On 12 November ' az

and zaire tted a draft resolution en
conference on E" (A/c.L/39/L,56), which was later also

representativeresolution was introduced bY the
on 15 November.

tog
sponsored by

of Yugoslavia
et -E- 40th neeting,



V39/749
English
Page 30

17. At its 4]st
A/c.L/39A,.56 bv
draft resoLutioi

In favour:

Against I

Abatainind:

neetlng, on 19 Novenber, the Connittee adopted draft resolution
a. recorded vote of 113 to t, with L9 abstentions (see para. 67,N). The votlng was as follows! lV

lfplar.rist3n, Atgeria, AngoLa, Argentina, Austria, Bahanas,Eanrarn, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsrrana,Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna,Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,Central African Republic I Chad, Chile, Cbina I Colonbia,
Congo'- costa Rlca, Cuba, c)T)rus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Kampuchea, Democracic yenen, Djibouti, Doninican Republic,Ecuador, EglT)t, Ethiopla, fiji, finlana, Gerrnan oernocrattc
Republic, Ghana, cuatemala, Guinea, cuyana. Haiti, Honduras,Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland, Ivory coast,Jamalca, Jordan, Kenya, Kunait i' r,uo p.opie is O'emocratic
Republlc, Llberla, IJibyan Arab Jarflahiriya, Madagascar,Iilalawi, Malaysia, ualdives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,Ii{auritiu6, Mexico, MongoLia, Morocco, u""".[itu., N.p"r,
Nicaragua, Niger, wigeria, Onan, pakistan, panarna, paraguay,
Peru, PhlliFpines, poland, eatar, Ronania, Rwanda, SaudiArabiar senegal, sierra Leone, singapore, sonalia, srrLanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, ThaiLand, Togo, Trinidad anrl Tobagl, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian sovieh socialist nepublic, Union of sovietsocialist Republics, united Arab anirates, uniteal RepubLicof Trnzania, uruguay, venezuela, vi€t Nan, yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, zarnbia, Z imbabwe.

Uni.ted Slates of Aner ica.
Australia, Belgiurn, Canada, Denmark, France, cernany,
Federal Republlc of, creece, Iceland, Israel, Italy, ilapan,Luxenbourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, worway, poitugaf,-
SPaln, TuEkey, United Kingdon of creat sritiin and NorthernIreland.

{8. On

a.

November,

ran

Uruqua lGtezuela, viet Nam, Yu oalavia and Zaire subnitted a drafCentitled 'rqrlementition of the reconnendations and decisions of the
h,as later also sponsored by Bolivia.aegsioni l^/c.L/3e/L.s8) , which

resolutlon
tenth special
The draft

fy The delegation of the
that lt had intended to vote in

Islanic Republic of
favour of the draft

Iran subsequently indicated
resolution.



A/39/749
EngIlEh
Page 3I

resolution vtas introduceal by the lePres€ntative of Yugoslavia at the 
37th lneetlnq '

on 14 November, and read as foLlows:

|lThe ceneral Assenbly '
"Having reviewed the imPlenentation of the reco$oendations and decl6ionE

adopted by the Generaf essemlfy at its tenth speciat session' the flrat
special session devoted lo dis-armanent, as vre11 as the Concluding Document of
the Twelfth sPecial session of the General Assemblyt the second special
session devoted to disarnament,

f'RecalLing its resolutions s-lo,/z of 30 June L978' 34/83 c of
11 Decenber Lglg, 35/46 of 3 December Lgso, 35/L52 E of 12 December L980'
36/92 rr of 9 Decenber tgii, zi/ls F of 9 December 1982' 38'1183 H of
io'oecenruer 1983 and its alecision s'!2/24 of I0 iluly 1982'

nDeeply concelned that no concrete results regarding the imPlementation
of the recornmendations ancl decisions of the tentb sPecial session have 

been

realized in the course of to'" than six years since that session' that' 
in the

meantine, the arms racer Particularty in lts nuclear asPectt has gained 
in

intensity, that there has'been furthlr dePlolment of nuclear ldeaPons 
in sone

parts of the sorld r that the abEence of constructive dialogue anong the
nuclear-veapon states nut-ii*tt"a unPrecedented levels' that the annual 91oba1
military expenditures niu.-i.i"rt.a tire staggering figure of $us l'000 blllion'
thatnankindlsfacedvritharealdangerofspreadingthearmgraceintoouter
space ' that urg"na 

.au.uies to prevenf nuclear ltar and for dlsarnatnent have
not been aaloPted ana tnal contiirue'l colonial tlonination and foreign
occulation, open threats' Pressures and military intervention agaln::
indepentlent states and vioiations of the fundarn;ntal Principles of the 

charter

of the united Nations have taken placel posing the most seriouE threat to
international Peace and secur ity '

"ryIgss.ilS serious concern that even the I'inite'l negotiatlons 
on arms

reduction and digarrnanent tthtch were already under way have 
been stalletl'

"convinceal that the renewed escalation ln the nuclear arms 
race' in both

the quantitative and qualitative dimensions as r'tell as reliance on 
nuclear

deterrence and on the use of nuclear rreaPona, has heightened th:.:i:l ?f th'
outbreak of nuclear war and letl to great-r insecur ity and instablllty 

tn

international relaEions,

'Further convlnced that international Peace and security can 
only be

ensured through general anal conPlete disarmanent under effectlve lnternatlonal
control anal that one of Ehe rnosi urgent tasks is to halt and rever6e the 

arng

race and to undertake aoi"tatt ttt"it"" of disarmament' Particularly 
nuclear

dlsarmanentr and that, in hhis resPect, the nuclear-r''eapon States antl 
other

militarily significant states have the Prinary resPonsibility'

"Noting with great conce{n that no real pfogress in disarnament
negotiations has been .6M6-f ot several years ' 

which has rentlered the

cuirent international situation even nore dangerous and insecuret



v39/749
English
Page 32

"c".g1a"ff!jl that it is more than ever lnperative in the presentcircumstances to gir

i:tHIitrJ[ii.i"li:::ffiJH':t",ii [t:i:':i:.:"":.it$:T*:,.;.';.*."=.
'colvinced that the success of drsarmament negotiations, ln which all thepeople of the world.l:1.-: vital interesi,'.rn o. achieved throurh the activeparticipation of Men

the rnaiirrenan.. ";--i:::.::l:ff.i"":::: li!"lllliiii; 
conrributini trrereby to

uReafflrrninq that the United Nations has a central role and prirnaryresponsibility in the sphere of a isarmarnent,

^ 
'rgtIessinq that. the Final Docunent of the Tenth special session of thcGeneral Assenblv, which was- un.ni.ouriy iia 

-c-t.gor 
ically reaffirned by a,'Member states at the tweuth special slssion as the conprehenstve basia forefforts torrards hart-ing and reiersing ;.-;;." race, retained arr its valialityand that the objectives and measure"'.""t"i."a therein still represent one ofthe rnost important and urgent goats to i.-u"ti"uaA,

._, _]i:. 
El{presses its grave concern over the acceleration andintensification of the arms race, paiticularty the nuclear_arnS lic€r as rrellas very serious deterioration of rlLations in the world, intensification offocar points of aggression ana no.oeJs-oi-aln"ro' in different region' of theworld' which threaren inrernationii-;.;" ;; security .na in"r."!.-tn" aung".of outbreak of nuclear wari

"2. calls uDon all.states, in particuLar nuclear_vreapon states and other.niritarity-ffiIGnt. states, to tu'k. urg.nl 
^.""u.es in order to put an endto the serious aggravation of the interniii"i"r situat.ion, to prmoteinternationar. security on the basis of disarnament, to hart and reverse tbearms race and to Launch a process of genui.ne aisarnamenti

-__-_ll:. 
fnyites aII States, particularly nuclear_rreapon States andespeciarly those among them- which po"s.".- tie nost inportant nuclear arsenars,to take urgenr measuris.wirh.a 

"i";-;;-i;pi;ienting rhe recomnendatlons anddecisions contained in the Final oocument oi the Tenth special session ot theGeneral Assenbly, the first special 
""""i"i-a.""aed to disarnanent, as rrell asto fuL_filling the priority t.-"tr ,.t-i"iii"ii tr," progranune of Action of theFinal Document i

constructive and acconnodating spirit ana tatlng into account the interest ofthe entire inrernational. 
"oouniniiy i; ;;;.;-;" halt rhe arns race,Parbicularly the nuclear-arns race, and to achieve disarmamenti

,r^ -"5. -^cg*ls_up?n lhe conference on Dlsarmanent to concentrate its work onEne substant.ive and priority items on its agenaa, to proceed lo 
-n"got 

i"t forr"on nuclear di'arnament and on prevention oi'iucrear war without fu;ther delayand to elaborate drafts of tre-aties 
"; 

; ;;"i"", _neapon_test ban and on acomplete and effective prohibition ot ttre aevi:.opnent, production andstockpiling of aII chemical rreapons urra orr-ii"i, destructioni



A/39/749
EngLish
Page 33

Calls upon the Disarmanent Cornrnission to intensify lts work ln
accordance wlttr ttre lnandate and to contlnue inProving 1t5 rvork with a view to
naking concrete recommendations on sPecific itens on lts agenda i

tt?. Invltes atl states engaged in dlsarmament and arrns limltation
negotiatioiF6ilEide the framework of the United Nations to keeP the General
Assembly and the Conference on Disarmament inforr0ed on the status and./or
results of such negotiations, in conformity vrith the relevant provislons of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Sessiont

"8. Decides to include in the Provisional aqenala of its fortieth session
the iten eiETEE[ 'rmPlenentation of the recorutrendations and alecisions of the

49. On 20 Novenber, 1lg.g!gljggg']!!E, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, BoliYia' Pufma,
colombia, cuba, Ecuador, Esypt, Ethiopia, the Gernan Denocratlc Republic, Ghana'

tenth special sessLoni. rl

Indones

Zaire tted a revised draft resolutlon lvc.L/3g .58/Rev.1), con
following changes:

and
the

(a) In the thiral prear$bular paragraph, the seventh line rras reviaed to rea'l
nunprecedented levelsr that annual global nititary exPentlitures are aPProachlng
the' ;

(b) In the seventh preanbular paragraph, the following te*t wa6 aaLled at the
end of the paragraphs "and that negotiations on disarmament issues are lagg ing far
behind the rapid technological developr0ent in the field of ar[lanenta and the
relentleas growth of mllltary arsenals, Particularly nuclear araenalsr i

(c) The eighth preambular paragraph nas revlsed to read.'

"Consialerinq that it is more than ever imperative in the present
circunstances to give a new impetus to negotiations in good fatth on
disarmament, in particular nuclear dlaarmament, at all levels and to achleve
genuine progress in ttre lmlealiate future, and that all States should refrain
from any actions nhich have or nay have negative effects on the outcone of
disartoanent negotiationa" t

(d) In oPerative pa.ragraph l, after the words 'as nell asi. the worda itbe
contlnuedi, foLlowed by a comma, lrere insertedi

(e) operative paragraph 5 was revised to read:

ca113 upon the @nference on Disarmanent to concentrate its work on
the substantive and prlority items on its agenda, to Proceed to negotiatlons
on the cessation of the nuclear-arns race and nuclear diaarmament, on the
preventlon of the nuclear $ar ag weII as the prevention of an arna race in
outer space rrithout further delay anal to elaborate drafts of treatids on a
nuclearaleapon-test ban and on a comPlete and eff,ective Prohibition of the
developrnent, production and stockpiling of all chenical $eapons and on thelr
destruction". 

/...



A/39/7 49
English
Page 34

Ttre revised draft resolution was introduced by
the 43rd neeCing, on 20 November.

the representative of yugoslavla at

50- At its 46th neeting, on 2r November, the conmittee voted on draft resorution
NC.L/39/L.58/Rev. I as follons:

(a) The fifth preambular paragraph was adopteat by a recorded vote of IOOto 19, with 3 abstentions. Itte voting was as follor,ra s
In favour: Afghanislan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,

Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina faso, Burna, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Central Afrlcan
Republic. Chile, Colonbia, Conoros, Congo, Cuba, Clrprus.
czechoslovakia, Denoc ratic yemen, Dj ibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Eglrpt, Finland, Gabon, cerman Democratic
Republic, chana, creece, Guatenala, cuinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Iionduias, Eungary. India, Indonesia, Iran (Iglatnic Republie
of), Iraq, Ireland, alordan, Kenya, Kurrait, Lao peopler s
Denocratic Republic, Libyan Arab Janahlr iya, !{adagascar,
Irlalaysia, Maldives, MaIl, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
l.lcrocco, Mozambique, NepaL, Nicaragua, Nlger, Nlgeria, Onan,
Pakistan, Panama, peru, philippines, poland, eatar, Rornania,
Rwanda, sao Tone and principe, Saudi Arabia, senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, SomalLa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
swaziland, sweden, syrian Arab RepubLic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Sovlet
sociallst Republic, union of soviet socialist Republics,
United Arab Enirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
venezuela, viet Nan, yenen, yugoslavia, Zanbia.
Australia, Belgiun, Canada, Dennark, France, Gernany;
Federal Republic of, Iceland, Iarael, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, portugal,
SPain, Turkey, United Kingdlon of creat Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of &nerlca.

Abataininq: Austria, cameroon, Malawi.
(b) Draft resolutfo^ IJC,L/39/L.58/Rev.l1 as a rrhole, rras adopted by a

recorded vote of UI to 11, rrith 9 abstentions (see para. 67, draft resolution O).
The voting was as follows: I2,/

Aqainst:

U rn" detegation
to vote in favour of the

of the Bahamas subsequently indicated that it had
draft resolution.

intended



In favour:

Against:

Abstaininc:

^/39/749English
Page 35

Afghanistan r Algeria, Angolar Argentina, AuEtria, Bahrainr
gangladesh, Benin' Bhuta;, Bolivia, Eots$ana, Brazil, Brirnei
Darissalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Fasor Burrna' Burundit
Byelorussian soviet Socia1ist RePubllc, central African
nlpublic, Chaal' chi.Ie ' 

China, colonbia, conoros' Congo'
cula, Cyprus, czechoslovakia, Democratic KamPuchea,
Denocratic Yenen, Dennarkr Djibouti, Dorninican RePublic '
Ecuador, E91pt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gernran
o"*o"t.ii"-n"public, Ghana ' Greece, 

Guatemala t Guinea'
Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary r rndia, rndonesia. Iran
(fskmic RePublic of), Iraq, Iretand' Ivory coast' ilordan'
i"nya, xo*ait' Lao PeoPlers Denocratic RePublict Lebanon'
Llberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya' Madagascar, l4alari '
Malaysia, t'taldives, !4ali, Ma1ta, !4aurltania, Mexlco'
llongolia, lloroccor lror"^biqu", Nepal, Nicaragua t N iger ia'
oman, PaklEtan, Panarna, Peru, PhilipPines, Poland, Qatar,
Ronania r Rwanda, sao Tqne and PrinciPe, Saudl Arabia'
Senegalr Slerra Leone, Singapore, sonalia, Sri t'anka, Sudan'
surinarie, S$raziland, swetlen, syrian Arab Republicr llballand'
Togo, Tr inialad and Tobagor Tunisia' Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
socialtst Republic, union of soviet socialist Republics'
United Arab Enlrates, United Republlc of Tanzania' Uruguay'
venezuela, viet Nam. Yemen, Yugoslavia. zanbia'

Belgiutnr canada, i'rance, Gernanyr Federal RePublic of'
tsrael-, Italy, Luxenbourg ' Netherlands r 

Portugalt Turkeyr
Unitett states of Anerica.

Australia, Caneroon, rcetand, alapan ' New zealand, 
Nigert

Norway' Spaln, Uniteal Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.



A/t39 /719
Eng1l€h
Page 35

51. On 12 November, Algert

R. Draft deciston A/c.7/39/L.62

ed a draft deeislon entltled
negotiated arna reductrona and rnternatronar decurrty and other related nattera.(rt/c 'L/39/L'62) . The draft declaion was introdrEed by the repreaentative of rnatiaat the 40th neetlng, on 15 Noeenber, and read a6 followsr

'The First conmlttee reco n|end6 that the ceneral Ass€mbly should requestthe Secretary-ceneral to prepare a study under the titler
rDeterrence: rts irq)lrcat rons for disartnanent and the arms race,negotiated arms reductiona and rnternationar securrty and other relatedmatter6l

'a6 recommended by the Advr..ry Eoard on Di.armanent stuatie€ in paragraph 6 0fth€ teport of the Secretary-ceneral, !g/ that the study ehould be carri€d outin accordance nrth the recornnenaat iins-or 
-trre 

Advrsory Board rn paragraphs cand 7 of the eane documnt, and that the secretary-ceneral should be reguesteatto subrnlt the frnal report to the ceneral Assenbry at rts forty-frrst seasion.n
52. At the 46th neetlng, on 2l Novernber, the repregentative of rndla orallyrevlsed the draft deelsion, adding a neu aecond paragratr*r, which read as follorrsr

rThe Comtlttee further r€conmend6 that tho6e ,.{ernber Stateg that wiah tosubnlt their vlews on the subject may cmnuntcate theD to theSecretary-General not later than f Abrtl fgAS."
53. fn connectlon nlth the draft decl8lon, the Secretary_ceneral subritted astatenent on the progr anne budget trDltcatlonE (4/e.l /3g/L.771 .
5{. At the same neetlng, the Connlttee ado,pted draft decision A,/C,L/3I/L.62, asorally revlsed, bV a recorded vote of 128 to t (see para. 6gl . The voting rraa asfolloes r lrl

fn favour s Afghanletan, Algeria, Angota, Argentlna, Australla, Austria,
Bahrarn r- Bangradesh, Belgiutn, Benrn, Bhutan, solivia, Botstdana,Brazil, Brunel Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Fyeloru€alan Soviet Soclali st Republic, CanEr@n,
Canada, cape Verde, centrrl African nepubftc, Chad, Chlte, Chlna,Colonbia, Conoros, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, oenrocrat lc
Kampuchea, D€nocrat lc yenen, Dertlark, Djibouti,

L3/ A/39/519.

w \he deregation of the Bahanas subsequentry lndrcated that rt haat intend€dto vote in favour of the draft decleion.



N39 /7 4e
English
Page 37

DominicanRePublic,Ecuador,Eglpt,Ethiopia'Fiji'Finfandr
Francer cabon, Gerrnan Democrati; RePublic, Gertnanyt Federal
Republic of, Ghana, Greece' Guatenala' Guinea' Gu!'ana'
Halti, Honalurasr Hungary' fcelandr fndia, Indonesia' fran
(Islamic RePublic of), Iraq' Ireland, Israel'-Italy' Ivory
coast' Japan, ,tordan, renyi, xuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Regrblic, Lebanon' Liberia, lib'yan Arab Jarnahiriya'
Luxembourg, l4ad agascar, ltaiawi, t'talays ia, Mald ives' !{a11'
ualta, Maurltania, Mo<ico, lfongolia, Morocco' lbzanbique'
NepaL, Netherlands, Nev, zealand, t{icaragua' Niger' !'Iigeria'
Norvray, Gnan' Pakistan, Panatlar Peru' PhilipPines' Poland'
portui.t, Qatar, Rornania, Rnanda, sao Tone and -Pr 

inciPe '
saudl Arabia, sierra Leone, singapore, sPain' sri l'anka'
iuJ.n, surtnate, swaziland' Sweden, syrian Arab Republic'
Thailand, Togo, Trinldad and Tobagot Tunislat Turkey'
;;;il;; irr.itini"n soviet socialisi nePublic, union of soviet
socialist RePublics' united erab ntitlt""' united 

(ing'lon of
creat sritai-n and Northern rreland, United RePubllc of
Tanzania, uruguall, venezuela' viet Nan, YenEn' Yugoslaviat
zanbi a.

united states of Amerlca.

the Congo'
the gudan,

Urucuav, Ve ne zue la ".a reSUt* 
subtnitted a draft re , entitled

later also sPonsored bY the
introduced bY the
November.

Agalnst 3

55. On November ,

c

"#Gntt"" "f r""Iear 
war " (A/C.I/39 /L.64) , which nas

Gernan Democratic Republic. The draft resolution i'as
@ at the 37th meeting, on 14

56. At its 48th neeting' on 26 Novenber, the Conmlttee adoPted draft resolution
V\.L/39/L.64 by a recorded vote of 116 to 5, l'ith f3 abstentlons 

(see Para' 67'

draft resolut.ion P). The voting Das as fol-lons:

g-feyg: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina' Australia' Austria'
sahamas, ealt"i", aangladesh ' Benin' 

Bhutanr Bolivia' Botswana'
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria' Burkina Faso' Burna'
Byelorussian soviet seialist iepuniic' caneroon' central Afr ican
Republic, Chad, Chile, china, colombia' congo' costa Rica' cuba'
cl4)rus, czechoslovakia, Democratic KamPuchea' Democratic 

Yemen'

Djibouti, Dominican Republtc, Ecuador ' Egypt' 
EthioPia' FUi'



A/39/7 49
English
Page 38

Finland, Gabon, cerrnan Den@ratjc Republlc, chana, creece,
cuatenala, cuinea, cuyana. Eaiti, gonduras, Hungary, fndla,
rndonesia, rran (rslamic Republlc of), Iraq, rrala;d, Ivory
Coast, Jamaica. .tordan, Renya, Burvait, Lao peoplers Denocrat lc
Repub1ic, Lebanon, fibe!ia, Ltbyan Arab ,tanahirtya, Iitadagascar,
Malani, lGlaysia, Maldivesl !,taIi, !,talta, ltaurltania, uau;itius;
Mexico, Mongolia, l4orocco, Morambique, lrepal, Nicaragua, Nlgerl
Nigeria, qnan, paklstan, panaTla, peru, phllitrryines, poland,
Qatar, Ronanla. Rrdanda, Saudl Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Scrnalia, SEi Lanka, Slrdan, gurlnarne, Sriazlland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republlc, Thalland, Togo, ?rlnidad and
Tobago, Tunlsla, Uganda, Ukralnian Stcviet aoclalist Republic,
Union of Soviet Sociallgt Republlcg, United Arab nnlraies, Irnlted
Retrxrbl ic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nan, yelrEn,yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Z inbab&re.

Againstr Belgiun, Fr€rre, cerrnany, Federal Republ lc of, Unlted Klnqdom of
creat Britain and Northern Ireland, Unlteat States of Anerica.

AbEtaininq: Canada, Dennark, IceLand, fsrael, ftaly, g6p5n, Luxenbourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norray, portugaL, Spaln, Turkey.

57' on 12 Novemb€r, Alqiria,:Afgentlna, Banglidesh, rndla, rndonesia, r,riqeria,
Egkis--an, _Rqiania, Tdffieat a draft resolution, entltleat'Revieh' of the Declaration of t[E- rSgosls the second Dlsarnanent Decaden(Py'c'7/39/L.65'). The draft resorutron was introduced by the representatrve ofNigerla at the 39th meetlng, on 15 November.

!9: At its 42nd rneeting, on 19 November, the Coflmittee adopted draft reBoluttonVe.L/39/L.65 l'lthout a vote (see para. 671 draft resolution O).

T. praft resolutjgn A/c.t /39/L.6s

Lr. Draft resol ut ion A/C.l/39lL,.66

draft resolution entitled nprohibltion of
which eas introduced by lts repre€entative
read as followsr

59, otl 12 _Novenber, Nigeria submitted ause or nuctear weaponsn (A/C.L/39/L.661 ,at the 39th tneeting, on lS Novernber, and

It€tt,

nay

"Er(pressing again its deep alarn at the ever-groeing threat of nuclear

.'FePly colgcious that Euch a war wlll. have devasCating consequences andrnqeed resuLt in the destruction of civilization,



A/39/749
English
Page 39

rconvinced that the Prevention of such a global catastrophe is the nbst
urgent task confronting hunanlty,

"Arrare of the determination of all state6. includlng the nuclear-neapon
States, to avoid the outbreak of nuclear $rar t

"Expressinq its regret that concrete neasures of nuclear disarmament have
not been agreed uPon t

"Believlng that penar ing nuclear dlsarmament, it ls abEofutely neceesary
to ensure that nuclear ltreapons are not used,

"Recalllng its resolutlons 1653 (xt/r) of 24 Novenber 1961' 37/100 c of
13 Decenber 1982 and 38/73 e of 15 Dec enber 1983. whereby the General Assenbly
req[ested the Comnittee on Disarmanent to cdnmence negotiations, as a matter
of priority, in order to achleve agreefiEnt on an international conventlon
proiriUiting the use or threat Of use of nuclear weapons under any circumstance,

fortieth
adopt a

Decides to convene in 1985, as Part
anniversary of the United Nationsr a

legal instrutnent Prohlblting the uee

of the activlties narking the
plenipotentiarY conference to

of nuclear ffeaponst

Dlrects the Dlsarnanent eonnission, acting as the Preparatory
Conunlttee for the Plenipotentiary conference, to work out the draft of the
instrument durlng lts 1985 sesEion, taking as a basis existing draft€ and such
other proPosala as nay be made by part ic tPating Statest

Calls upon Member States to transmit their views and proPosala in
thls regard-I6 ttre Eisarnanent coNnisslon not later than I April 1985t

the DlsannirnenE cornmtssion ln inplenentinq the PresenE resolutiont

Itequests the Secretary-General to rePort to the General Assembly at
Its fortleth sesslon on the outcone of the Plenlpotentiary conference. "

60. fn connection with the alraft resolution, the secretary-General subnitted a
6tatement on the prograrnne budget inplications (Vc.1/39/L.781 '

61. At the request of Ehe sponsor ' no action was taken 
on draft resolution

L/c.L/39/L.66 .

62. c)rr 12 tilovember, @gg and Gernany, Pqdllgl Republlc of submitted a draf t
regotution entitted "studies on nuclear wlnter nF--e-sis' (Vc.L/39/L.691 . The
draft resolution was introdlrced by canada at the 40th meetlng, on 15 November '

63. On 15 l,rovember, Belgium, Canda, Gernany' Federal Republic of ?nd gip,
8ubNnittedareviseda@lnev.l),containingchangesin
the preanbular and operative parts. The draft resolution read as follows:



A/39 /7 49
English
Page 40

'rf e_Selera l_4F sgnlu,

"considering the devastation that r.rould be visited upon all mankind by a
nuclear war and the consequent need !o nake every effort to avert the danger
of such a war and to take neasures to safeguard the securlty of peoples,

"Bearing in nind that continued efforts are also needed in the future to
seek ways of reducing the risk of outbreak of war in the nuclear age,

iNotlng that in spite of mankindrs scientific endeavours, the
envirormental and other. consequences of a nuclear war are still not adeguately
known, that these consequences of a nuclear conflict remain incalculabLe, and
a major furth€r challenge to science,

"Bearing ln nind that some recent scientific studies have concluded that
a nuclear lrar could trigger large-scale climatic consequences, leading ln the
rvorst analysis to what is sometlnes termed a nuclear winter,

"Taking into account the need to continue scientlflc studles in order to
increase understanding of these climatlc phenonena, including the possibility
of nuclear winter.

trConsidering that
es sent ial,

Invites al1
reports or studies on
clarifying underlying
therei n t

wide participation in thes€ sciehtlfic strdles is

Menber States to submit to the Secret ary-cenera I any
large-scale cLirnatic effects of a nuclear conflict
hlT)otheses as weLl as nethods of analysis enplotred

"2. IGquests that the Secr etary-General provide an annotated list of
these reports or studies to the cenera.l Assernbly at its fortieth sessiont

Decides to include in the provlsional agenda of its fortieth session
an item entitled rstudies on climatic effects of nuclear war including a
possibility of nuclear winter | . tr

64. At the request of the sponsors, no action nas taken on draft resolutlon
A/c .I/39/L.69,/Rev . t.

l'. Draft reso]ut ion A/C.l/39,/f,.70
55. On 12 Novenber, Argentina, the Bahamas, the Byeloruaslan Soviet sociallst
Republic' the eernan oenocratic nepublic, cernany, pederaL netrublic of, chana,
Greece, I'lepal ' Pakistan and the Sudan subfitltted a draft resolution entitled 'Reportof the Dlsarrnanent conuniss ion" l-Ve-t/gg/L.7ol . whtch nas rater also sponsored by
Liberia, Romania and Ur uquav.

65. At its 41st rneetlng, on 19 trovenber, the cotrunittee adopted draft resolution
A,/C.L/39/L.7O rr'ithout a vote (see para. 62, draft resolution R).

/...



67. The First comtllttee reconmEnds
followlng draft re solut ion6I

A/39/719
Engllsh
Page 4l

to the General Assenbly the adoptlon of the

A

Unilateral nuclear dlsarmalEnt lrea8ures

The ceneral Aseenbly,

Recalling its reGolution 3812183 J of 20 Decanber 1983, In which it
requested the secretary-General to prepare, with the aseletance of qualifled
governnental experts and apply lng the nethods custdDary ln these caEear a
report on ways and means that se€med advlsable for stlnulating the adopt ion of
unilateral nuclear disarmanent neasures whlchr without prejudice to the
securlty of States, wou ld come to prdrote and conpleaent bilateral' and
multllateral negotlations ln thlB sptrere,

Recalllng also tbe concrete proposal subnitted to the Dlsartnanent
cotrmi8sion at lte 1983 session to the effect that the preparatlon of a study
on unilateral measures wou ld be at preaent of particular value in vier of the
lnpasse exl€ting both in the bllateral and the nultilateral negotiat lons ' I5l

Recalllng further the conclusion of the General Assembly at lts
tenth speclal geseionr ry to the effect that unllateral rneasures of artns
llnltatlon or reduction could contribute to lfiniting the arm€ race,

Ilaving exanined the report of the secretary-General transnitting the
study prepared by the croup of covernnental Experts on Unllateral truclear
Di sarmament l.leasur€sr lf//

satisfactlon of the study on unilateral nuclear
disartnanent meadurest !g/

of
in

2. Expresses it€ apprec iation
Gover Ental Elq)erts on Unilateral
the preparation of the sttrdyt

to the S€cretary-General and to the Group
DlsafllanEnt lteaaures that assisted h futl

El Officlal Records of the ceneral
, annex vr.

see A/S-10/4, para. 41.

A,/39/5t6.

!!.,!!., annex.

E/
n/
lv



ny'39/7 49
Engllsh
Page 42

3. Takes note of the concluslons of the Etudy and trusts that they nay
eDcourage nuclear-Feapon States to take the steps necessary to pronote and
orient adeguately dlsarnanent negotlatlons t

4. Requests the secretary-G€neral to arrange for the reproduction of
the report as a Unltd Natlons publicatlon and, naking full use of all the
facilitieE of the Departm€nt of Public fnfornatlon of the Secretarlat, to
publicize the report ln as rnany languages as ls coneldered desirable and
pract lcable.

E

_ 
Bllateral ntrclear-arrns negotlations

The ceneral Assenbly,

Fecalling its resolutlon 38/L83 P of 20 December 1983r

Deeply regrettlng that the bilateral nuclear-arns negotlations at ceneva
between the Unlon of Sovlet Soclalist [iepubllcs and the Unlted States of
Aner ica are not continulng,

Firtnly convinc€d that an early agreement in those disrupted negotlatlons,
in accordance i{ith the prirrciple of unilinrlnished security at the lorrEst
trtosslble level of armaments and nllltary forces, would be of cruclal
inportance for the strengthening of lnternational peace and security,

Deeply concerned that the absence of negotlations has itnpeded efforta to
strengthen lnternatlonal peace and securlty and to achleve progresB torrards
dl6arnanent,

Convirrced that, through negotlationE pursued ln a splrit of flextbillty
and responsiblllty for the securlty intereEta of all StateE, it 16 posslble to
reach agreetnent,

1. gIjls the @vernment of the Union of soviet Soclalist Republics and
the Gover Ent of the United States of A|nerlca to resume, rrithout delay or
pre-conditions, bilateral nuclear-arns negotiations in order to achleve
positlve results ln accordance wlth the security lnterestG of all States and
the universal deslre for progreEs towards disarnanentt

2. calls upon the covernrnent of the Unlon of Soviet Seiallst ReFrblics
and the Government of the Unlted States of America to spare no effort in
seeking the attainment of the final objectlve of the negotiationat

3. Invites the covernnent€ of the two States meneloned above to work
actively towards the enharrcement of mutual trust in order to create an
atnoaphere nore conduc ive to dlsarmanent agreernents,

4. Expresses lta firneat posslble encouragement and suppor t to efforts
to resune negotiatlons and bring them to a successful conclusion.



v3e/719
Eng1lsh
Prge {3

c

Iouclear s,eaPonE ln all a6Pect6

the G€neral Assembly,

Recalllng that at lts twelfth spec tat sesglon, the second sltec lal ses8ion
aevoted to disartnanEnt, lt expreesed its profound preocc uPat ion over the
danger of warr in particular nuclear trar, the preventlon of whlch renalns the
rtost acute and urgent task of the present da!, I

neaffirtnlna that nuclear weapons pose the rnost Eerlous threat to manklnd
and its survival and that it is therefore e66entlal to proceed nlch nuclear
disarnanent snd the ccnplete ellminatlon of nuclear rreapons,

Reafflrning also that all nuelear-neapon States' in particular those
wblch possess the no6t irnportant nuclear arEenals, bear a sp€clal
responslbiltty for the fulfilnent of the task of achieving the goal€ of
nuclear dlaarmament,

strea6ing agaln that existlng areenals of riuclear reaPon€ alone are rnore
than sufficient !o destroy all life on Earth' and bearlng in nlnd the
devastatlng results whlch nuclear nar would have on belllgerents and
tpn-beIl lgerents a ll ke,

Recalllng that at lts tenth speclal 6esslon, the flr€t spec lal aeaslon
devoted to dlsarrnanent' lt d€cided that effectlve nea6ures of nuclear
dlsarmment and the prevention of nuclear rar had the highest priority and
that tt rnas essentlal to halt and reverae the nuclear-arrns race ln all its
aspects in order to avert the danger of war lnrrolving nuclear fleaPons ' !!!/

Stressing that any etqtect at ion of Hlnning a nuclear $6r i€ senseleas and
that such a uar would inevltably lead to th€ destructlon of nat lona, to
enornouB deva€tatlon and to catastrophic consegu€ncea for civillsation and
llfe itEeu on Earth,

Recalllng further thatr in lts resolution 35/L52 B of 12 D€csnber 1980,
lt noted with alarn the tncreased Eisk of a nuclear catastroPhe asaociated
both wlth the lntenstfication of the nuclear-armg race and rith the adoptlon
of the nen doctrlnes of linlted or partlal use of nuclear rreaPonE, lthich are
incdnpat lble wlth its resolutlon lI0 (rr) of 3 Novenber 1947, entttled
iueasures to be taken agalnst propaganda and the lrrciters of a nett rarnr and
give rise to illustons of the adniesibtlity and acceptablltty of a nuclear
confl lct,

!9/ offlclal Records of the ceneral Assembly, lvelfth speclal ses3lon,
, agenda lt€lns 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, docunent A/s-L2/32, Para. 62.

!g/ nesolutton S-L0n, para. 47.



N39/719
English
Page {4

Not lng rrith alartn that to the doctrlne of a llnlted nuclear nar was later
adated the concept of a Protracted nuclear war and tbat these dangerous
d@trlne€ lead to a ner tvlEt in the sPlral of the arns race' whlch may
seriously haqrer the reachlng of agreelEnt on nuclear disarnanent,

Gravely concerned about the renewed eacalatlon ln the nuclear-arms race,
in both lts quantltative and gualitative dinrenslons, as rrcll as reliarrce on
the doctrlne of nuclear deterrence, ruhlch ln fact are heightening the r16k of
the outbreak of nuclear roar and lead to lncreased tenslons and lnstabillty In
incernational relations,

aaking note of the relevant deliberatlons of the Dlsarmanent Conunission
ln 1984 with regard to item 4 of lts agerdal as contained in its repor t, 3y

stressinq the urgent need for the ceesatlon of the develoPnent and
deplolmEnt of new types and ayst€[Tlg of nuclear ueaPons as a step on the road
to nuclear di sarnanent,

stressirig aqain that priorlty ln dlsarrnatnent negotlatlona should b€ given
to nuclear rveapona and referring to paragraPhs 49 and 54 of the Final Deurent
of the Tenth Speclal session of the GeneraL Assenbly, 32/

Recalling lts relevant re6olutlonE on this subject'

welcornlng the Jolnt Declaration issued on 22 May 1984 by the Heads of
State or Governnent of Argentinar Gre€ce, fndia, uer.ico, Sweden and the Unlted
Republlc of Tanzanla, 2!/ as xell as the posltive responae this tteclaration
has net wlth in nany States,

Not lng that the Conference on Disarnanent, at ltd session held ln 1984,
dlscussed the question of the ces€ation of the nuclear-arns race and nuclear
disarnamenC and, ln F€rticular, the establishment of an ad hoc conmittee for
negotlatlon€ on that guest ion,

Reqrettlng' horeever, that the eonference on Dlsarrnament lras prevented
from reaching agreerEnt on the eEtabllshmnt of an ad hoc comnittee for the
purpose of undertaklng nultilateral negotiations on the question of the
cessation of the nuclear-arma race and nuclear disarnamntr

considerlnq that efforts wlll contlnue to be nade in order to enable the
conference on Disarrnament to fulfil its negotlating role with regard to the
cegsation of the nuclear-arns race and nuclear dlsarnanent, and that for thl6

2y see offlclal Records of the General Assenblv, Thirtv-ninth ses6ion'
supplenElrt No. 42 (A/39/421 .

ZZl rregoLutTon s-10/2.

4t/ V39/277-sl16587, annex. 
/...



A/39 /7 49
English
Paqe 45

PlrPose all nenbers of the Conference on Disarmanent should dlEplay a
constEuctlve approach to such negotiat ion6, bearing in rnlnd the high priorlty
they have accorded to this gue8tion in the Final DoculEnt of the T€nth special
Session,

convinced that the Conference on Dlsarmament is the nost suitable forum
for the pEeparatlon and conduct of negotlatlon6 on nuclear disa.rmanent,

I. Call€ upon the Conference on Disarmament to pr@eed reithout delay to
n€gotiations on the cessatlon of the nuclear-arns race and nuclear disarnanent
and especlally to begin the elaboration of practrcar measures for the
cessation of the nuclear-arns race and for nuclear disarnanent in a@ordanceeith paragraph 50 of the Final Docunent of the Tenth special sesaion of the
9"*tf1 As€enbly, inclrding a nuclear disarrnanent progranme, and to e€tablishfor this purpose an ad hoc comnittee,

2, Decidee to include ln the provisional agenda of its fortieth session
the ltern entltled ice€sation of the nuclear-arm8 race and nuclear
dlsarnanentr report of the Conference on Disarnanentn.

D

Irron-u6e of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear uar

The ceneral Aasenbly,

Alarmed by the threat to the survlval of mankind posed by the existence
of nuclear ueapons and the cohtinulng arns !ace, in particular ln the nuclear
fleld,

Recalling that, ln accordance with the Flnal Docutnent of the Tenth
sp€cial seasion of the ceneral Aseenbly, pll the first speclal eesslon devoted
to disarnanene, effective measures of nuclear disarnanent and the prevention
of nuclear Har have the highest priorlty,

Recalllng also that this comnitment has been reafflrned by the ceneral
Assetnbly at its tnelfth special s€s6ion, the second speciar se€alon devot€d to
dl6armanent,

Bearlng in rnlnd its relevant resolutions on thie subject,
Reaffirmlng that the rDst effective guarantee agalnst the danger of

nuclear htar and the use of nuclear neaponE is nuclear di€arm€ment anal the
cotrPlete ellmlnation of nuclear weapona,

Recalling it€ declaratlon, contained in the Final Docurnent of the Tenth
SPeciaI Se€slon, that all States should aceively participate in efforts to
brlng about conitltions in lnternatlonal relations anong states in nhich a coale
of peaceful conduct of natlons ln international affairs could be agreed upon
and Hhich nould preclude Che uae or threat of use of nuclear rreapons,



A/39/749
English
Page 46

Reaffirtnlng alEo that the nuclear-eeapon states have the pr inary
responsibilittt for nucLear dlsarmamnt and for undertaklng measures ained at
preventing th€ outbreak of nuclear war, lnter alla. by e€tabllshing
corresponding r:orms regulattng relatlons betn€en them,

convlnced that the renunclation of the flrst use of nuclear weapona ls a
tnost important and urgent neasure for the Prevention of nuclear htar and taking
note of the broad, poaltlve lnterhatlonal reaction to tbe corcept of norFflrst
use of nuclear rEapons, inctudlng the apPeal contained ln the Final Cormuniqud
adopted by the Meettng of tllnisters and lleads of Delegatlon of the NorFAligned
Countries to the current sesEion of the General Assenbly' ry

l. conslders that the aolemn declarations by two nuclear-weapon states
nade or relterated at the ttrelfth speclal sesgion of the General Assenbly, the
second spec ial sesslon devoted to disarn€ment, concerning their resPective
obllgations not to be Che first to u6e nuclear $€apons offer an lnportant
avenue to decrease the danger of nuclear wart

2. ExpresEeg the bope that those nuclear-$eapon States that have not
yet done so nould consider naklng slnllar declaratlons nith respect to not
being the flret to u€e nuclear Fealrong t

3. Resuests the Conference on Diaarnament to conslder under its
re.Levant agenda lten, lnter alia, the elaboration of an lnternational
instrunent of a le9a11y bindlng character laytng dorn the obllgatlon not to be
the first to ue€ nuclear rieaponE t

4. D€cldes to lrrclude ln the provisional agenda of its fortleth sesslon
an item entitled 'Iikrn-us€ of nuclear $eapon€ and preventlon of nuclear uar".

E

Prohibltion of the nuclear neutron ueaPon

?he ceneral Assembly'

-="* 
"-""t-t*o 

of the Plnal Docurent of the Tenth speclal s€sslon
of the General Aseembly, !!r/ ln vhich lt ls stated that the achieverEnt of
nuclear disarnarnent will require urgent negotiation of agreenencs, ;!g!9- alh,
for the cessation of the qualitaelve lmprovenent and developnpnt of
nuclear-weapon ayscens' whl;h is especially enu)haslsed ln paragraPh 50 (a) of
the Final Docu€nt,

Recalling also that in paragrapb 50 of the Final Docurnent it ls also
underlined that in the course of negotiatlons consideration can be given to
mutual and agreed litnltation or prohlbltion' wlthout prejrdice to the security
of any state, of any tlpe6 of nuclear armalEnts'

4/ V39/56o-s/L6773, annex.



A/39 /7 49
8n9li5b
Page 47

St{e6sing that the developn€nt and proatuction of the nuclear neutronlr'eapon is a dangerous consequence of the contlnuing qualttative arns race inthe field of nuclear ueapona, especially through tf,e qualitatiu. i.pr".rl*nt
and developnent of neu nucrear lrarheads by enhanctng speclfrc characteriatrcsof nuclear s€apons,

. Reaffirning lt6 relevant reeolution. on the prohtbltlon of the nuclearneutron rneapon,

$harirg the world-wrde concern expre'sed by Member states, as well as bynon-gover Ehtal organizatlons, about the contlnUed and expanded proaluct ionand lntroduction of th€ nuclear neutron ueapon ln nilltary arsenaie, whicnescalated the nuclear-arms race and signlflcantly ]-o$er6 the threshol.d ofnuclear war,

Aware of the inhuman- effects of that $eapon, yhich constltutee a gravethreat, partlcularly to ehe unprotected civilian population,
Notinq the conalderation of ieguee connect€d with the cessation of thenuclear-arm6 race and nuclear ari .arnarEnt as reIl as the prohibrtion oi tt"nuclear neutron $eapon by the Confer€nce on Disarmament I; 19g4, Z!/
Reqfettlng that the conference on DlsamarEnt was prevented fron reachingagreement on the ccnmencarent of negotiatlons on the cesaatlon of thenuclear-arns race and nucrear drsarrnanent, rncludlng the prohibtiton ot ttrenuclear neutron weapon ln an appropr rate organraational franercrk,

... 1: _ Seaffirms ita reguest to the Conference on Diaarmatnent to 6tartwrEnouE delay negotiatl.ns withrn an appropr tate organizatronal frafterlrork.rith a vlew to conclirdr ng 
_a conventron on che prohibition of the developnent,production, stockplllng, deplotfnent ahd use of-nuclear neutron ,"apo* l" 

"norganic elenent of negotlations, ae envleaged ln paragraph 50 of the FlnalDocunent of the Tenth speclal sesslon of the Geneiaf aeeernUfyl
2. reqyg"ll the gecretary-ceneral to transmit to the confer€nce onDi aarnarnent all docurnents relrtrng to the discussron of this gueettoi tf tneceneral Aes€|llbly aC lt6 thirtlFninth sessionl

l. RequestB the Conference on Dlaarnanent to subnlt a report on thlsquestion to the ceneral Assanbly at tts fortleth Eesalon,
4' Decldee to rnclutte in the provlaronal agenda of ita fortreth sessionan iteft entltled rprohibitlon of the nuclear neutron $eapon,.

E/
), sect.

Offtclal xegords of the General



A,/39 /719
English
Page 48

F

Clirnatlc effects of nuclear uart nuclear wintel

The General Assenbly,

Recalling that in the Final Docunent of the Tenth sPecial seEsion of the
cen.rifrffiEly, its f irst special aeasion devoted to disarnatTcnt' after
referring speciitcal.ly to "thl threat to the very survival of rnankind" posed
by the exlstence of nuclear Hreapons, it declare'r tbat iremoving the threat of
a $orld war - a nuclear war - il the most acute and urgent task of the present
day", E/

Ig!i4 that, ln spite of recent scientlfic €ndeavourg ' the envirormental
and other climatic Conseguences of a nuclear war still pose a najor Challenge
to sc lence,

49,1!!91 thatr as a result of rec€nt attlpsPherlc and blologlcal Etudle6'
there-IliE-been new findings whlch lndicate that in addltion to blast, heat
and radtation' nuclear ,.., 

"ar"n 
on a linlted scale, woufd ProdtEe smoke' Soot

and duEt of suff icient t"gnit,rd" as to trigger an arctic nuclear winter vhich
may transform the Barth lnto a ttarkened, frozen Planet ehere condltione would
b€ conaluc ive to nags extlnction,

Recoqnizinq that the proBpect of nuclear wlnter poae s an unPrecedented
p" r r rE-lffilElons, even^ tho-"" f". renoved fron the nuclear exploslonB'
nhich wouLl add inmeasurably to the prevlously knonn dangers of nuclear war'

Conscious of the urgent need to contlnue and develoP scientlfic studieg
to itrc]E-."" ttt. knowledg- and understanding of the var ious elements and
consequence€ on clllttate' lnctudlng nuclear winter,

1. Itequests the secretary-General to coNrplle and distribute as a
docunent of the unitear Natlons lpproPriate excerpta of all natlonal and
internatlonal scientlflc Etudies on the clinatlc effect6 of nuclear wart
includlng nuclear relnter ' 

publlshed so far or \th lch nay be publlshed before
31 July 19 85r

2. Urgea all states and intergovernnental organizations' aa well ae
mn-governterrtal organlzatlons, through their internedlaryt to transnlt to the
secr;tary-ceneral, Prior to the abovelrnentloned date, the relevant naterlal ln
their posses8lon which nay be useful for the above purposel

3. Reconnends that the above-rnentioned docunent be exatnlned at the
fortleth session of the General Assernbly ln connection ttith the iten deallng
$ith the preventlon of a nuclear war.

26/ Resolutlon s-L|n, Para. 18.



G

Bilateral nuclear-arns negotiations
The ceneral Asse bly,

. . Ri"ilf i-E that at lt6 tenth speclat s€ssion, the first 6pec lal sessiondevoted to disarnanent,. lt approvei Uy 
""i*i""" a Declaratlon, contalned inthe Final Docunent of the tenlh sp."rh-i"""iii or tr" cenerar Assenbry, lnwh-ictt, 

- 
intgr alia, lt proclaineat lf,.t, irr-orJ"i effectlvely to dlscbarge thecentral role and pr lnary 

_ 
reaponsibtlity rn the str*rere of diaarnanent whichbelong to the unlted Natione fn accoraarrce *IIf, it" charter, the UnltedNations shourd be keot appropr r"t"ry inroinJ ot .ll Eteps in thi6 fleld,nh€ther unrraterar, Lttateral, regirnal oi rurtir.t..al, $rthout prejuatlce tothe progress of negotlatlonst !/

_ _ _,lic:ff iF 
=af 

so that at itE Crrelfth speclal seaslon, the aecord speclalsessr.on devoted to di8arnarEnt, uenb€r st-ates retterated their aorennco* ltnent to rrprenent *re _riiai-ooc*."i, 
-it.'*ridrty 

of ,,hrch recervedtheir unanimous and categorr""r reariiir"ii"il :g/
_ Tegr:ettiryr the interruption of the t$o aerles of bilateral nuclear_arnenegotiatrohs begun on 30 Novefiber rgsi-"id-29-iune ,el, re.pectivery, betseenthe Lnlon of sovi et socrariet nepuurrcs-aia-;rl-unrt.a state€ of Atner ica,

-- Peplorlng that, prior to such interruptron, rt had alreaity become evrdentthat the negotiatione were not prodEing tie deslred results,
_^_ -Eiq:f{tg 

in nina that the ceneral Assenbly on Geveral oc.caslons hasrequested the naJor nuclear-weapon states to proclain a freeze enbracing,inggr atta, a ban on arr further ;;i;;r;-J'iuerear $eapons and therrdelivery vehiclee,

- .l' Requests the @vernment of the union of sovtet socialret nepublrcsand the covernnent of the Unlted states o; ara'ri.. to tnforn the ceneralAssembly, before the cloeure of_its thlrty_niiti 
".."ron, on the reaaona fortb€ lnterruptlon of their negotlatlons, the preaent Eituation and theprospec t6 for their resurqrtion,

--__, 
r_: - lr+g:-agat n the covernntents of the trc States Dentloned above toexanrne imredtately, as a uay out of rhe present i,*"r;.;'-il;-;;"iiJiitv 

"r:*t:::: :l.o a. sinele forun the t,ro ,.ri."iinegotrations which they hadDeen carrying out and of broadenlng thetr scope so aa to enbrace also the'tacticalr or "battlefteld. nucleai ;;;;;--''

A./39 /7 49
Engll6h
Page t!9

zltt rbtd., para. 27.
29/ see Offlctal R,

^""#, .,.i. i- 
- 
iE;*o f i*i I' i'i;a""iili'**?€H?? #E'f # "fT fe'z i*'*,



v39/74e
Engllsh
Page 50

3. Invites thoae covernnents to conalder the advisabllity of corducting
henceforwalE-Elteir bilateral negotiations ln a subeidiary body of the
conference on Dl sarnanent tfhose nenbershlp could be limlt€d to themselves, a
possibillty which nas exPresaly contemplat€d nhen article 25 of the rules of
procedure of the Comnltte€ - non the Conference - on Disarnament rraB aPproved t

1. Reiterates once lpre lta request to the trlo negotiaclng partje€ that
they bear Ed;trnalyln nri-nd that not onty their national interesta but also
the vltal interest6 of all the peoples of the ror 1d are at qtake ln thle
questlon,

5. Declde6 to lnclude ln the provlsional agenda of lts fortieth session
the lten entitled rBllateral nuclear-arms negotlations"

F

Unlted Nations Instltute for Disarmanpnt Research

The General Aaaembly,

Consldering the role of diearmanent res€arch a8 a tneana to promote
dl aarmarEht rneaaures,

Recalllng its resolutton 37 /99 R' aectlon IV, of 13 Decdnber 1982,

l. Takes note of annex II of the repor t of the secretary-General '
sub|rltted, lnter rlia, under the agenda itent 4/

2.ApprovesthestatuteoftheunltedNatlonalnBtitut€forDigarnanent
Reaearcb annexed to the ljreEent regolutiont

3. Takea note of the rePort of the Director of the Unlted Natlons
fnstltute for Dl sarmament Re8earch, !9/

1. nebews the lnvltatlons to @vernnents to conElder naking voluntary
contr ibut t6;ffi the hBtitutet

5. Requeata the s€cretary-G€neral to contlnue to glve the Instltute
adrninistratlve and other suPportt

6. Invltee the Dlrector of the Instltute to report annually to the
General Assenbly on the activitleE carrled out by the fnstitute'

Etl A/39/s49.

19tt A/39/553, anne!(.



A/39/749
English
Page 51

ADTNEX

Statute of the Unlted Nations Institute for Dls.rmanent lGsearch

Artlcle f

Purposes

The Unlted Natlons InEtitute for Disarmalrent Re s€arch (herelnafter
referred to as ithe Instltute,,) ls ah autonomous lnBtitutlon wlthln the
frarnenork of the Unlted Nations, established by the cenerat A€senbfy for che
purpose of undertaking lndependent res€arch on dlaarmament and related
Problems, particularly internatlonal security issues, and bDrklng ln clo€e
relationEhip rrlth the Departrnent for Disarnament Affalr€.

Article ff

lLnctions

l. The fnatltute €hall uork on the basla of the provl5lons of the Flnal
Docutnent of the T€nth Sp€cial Seesion of the cen€ral A66enb1y, the first
Epeclal Bession devoted to disarnarEnt.

2. The work of the tnstitute 6ha1l ain atr
(a) Provldlng the international cor61luni ty Fith rpre diveralfied and

cdltr,lete data on problema relating to.lnternatlonal securlty, tbe artnanents
race and dlsarnamnt ln aII fieldsl particularly In the nuclear field, 8o as
to facllitate pro9re6s, through negot lationa, tonards greater securlty for all
states and tonards the economic and Eocial development of all peopl€€t

(b, Pronotlng informed partlclpatlon by all States in dlaarnarnent
effortel

(c) Assi6ting ongolng negotlatlons on dlaarnatnent rnd continuing effort6
to ensure greater lnternational security at a progreEsively lo$er level of
armarnente, particularly nuclear armanenta, by neans of objective and factual
studiea and ahalysest

(d) Carrying out more fuFdepth, forwaraf-looklng and long-term reEearch
on dlsarnarEnt, ao a6 to provide a general in€lght to the probl€rna lnvolved,
and atinulating new initlatlves for nelr negotiations.

3. The Ingtltute shall take into account the relevant r€comnendat lons
of the General Assernbly and 6hall be organized in such a nanner aa to enaure
Participatlon on an equltable polltical and geographical baEl€.



V39ttl49
Engllsh
Page 52

Artlcle flt

Board of Tru6tee6

1. The fnstitute and ltB w,ork ahall be governed by a Board of Truateeg
(herelnafter referred to as rthe Board,l. lthe Advisory Board on Dlsarnament
studle6, referred to ln ceneral Ae€enbly reEolutlon 37/99 x. rlr, wlth the
Dilector of the fngtltute (hereinafter referred to as rthe Director') a€ an
e5. officio rn€rnber. Ehall functlon as the Board.

2. The Board ahallr

(a) Eatrbllsh prlnclples and dlreetivea to govern the actlvltles arld
operab lon of the Instltutet

(b) Con6lder and adopt the annual nork progranme and the propoged annual
budget e5tinateat

(c! Recomendr lf lt. conslders neceasary, a aubventlon fron Ehe regular
budget of the United Nationa.ln accordarce elth artlclea vfl and vffft

(dl Revlew the financlal sltuatlon of the fnstltut€ and nake appropr iate
recomendatlons Flth a vlew to ensuring the effectlveneE6 of its operattong
anil thelr continultyl

(e) Take 6uch other declaiona aa are deerned necessaty tot the effectlne
functloning of the fnstitutet

(fl lrndertake the other functiona speclfled in thls statute.

3. The Board 6ba11 neet at least once a year.

1. Organs of the ghitetl t0at lons, sp€clallzed agencies and the
lnternatlonal Atomic Bnergy Agency nay be represented as approprlate at
e€tlnga of the Board upon invltatlon.

Article w

The Dlrector and the Etaff

1. The Dlr€ctor ehall be atrpolnted by the Secretary-cer:eral of the
Itnl ted tfatlons, after conaultatlons rlth the Board.

2. The Dlrector shall have ovelall responslblllty for the organlzatlon,
directlon and adrnlnistratlon of the fnstltute, ln accordance nlth general
directive5 fornulated by the Bolrd and shall, inter aliar

{a) Prepare and subinlt the drafE work progranune of the fnstitute to the
Boardt



^/39 
/7 49

Engli6h
Page 53

(bl PrePare and subrnlt a Proposed annuat budget to the Board in
accordance with articles VfI and VfIIt

(c) b(ecute the work progr alrme and nake the exPendlture authorized ln
the approved budgett

(dl Appoint and direct th€ staff of the Institutet

(e) Set up ad hoc congultative bodles as may be necesaaryt

(f) Negotiate arrangements rith Governments and internatlonal as h'ell as
natlonal, publlc and private agencies with a view to offerlng and receiving
services related to the actlvltles of the fnstitutet

(g) Accept, subject to the provielons of article vfl, Paragraph 4,
belon, voluntary contributions to the fngtltutet

(h) co-ordinate the nork of the fnstltute wlth that of other
internatlonal and national programrnee in slnilar fteldet

(i) Report to the Board, as appropriate, on the fnsti.tuters activities
and the execution of its work prograrnrnest

(j) subnit to the General Assenbly rePorts approved by the Board.

3. The staff of tbe Institute shall be appolnted by the Dlrector under
letters of appolntrEnt signed by him in the name of Che Secretary-G€neral and
lfunited to servlce with the fnstltute. The staff shall b€ responsible to the
Dlrector ln the exerclse of their functlons.

4. The terna and condltlons of servlce of the Director and the staff
shall be those provided in the staff Regulations and Rul-es of the united
Nations, subJect to such arrangementa for special rules or terns of
appointnent aE may be proposed by the Director and aPproved by the
Secretary-General.

5. The Director and the staff of the fnatltute 6hall not seek or
recelve inatructions fron any Governnent or from any authority external to the
Itnlted Natlona. They Ehall refraln from any actlon whlch might reflect on
their ltoEitlon ae lntetnational off icials responslble only to the organization-

6. :the Dlrector ahd the Btaff of the Instltute are offlclal8 of the
United Nations and are therefore covered by Article 105 of the Charter of the
ttnlted Natlons and by other international agreenents and Unlted Natlona
reaolutions defining the Etatus of such offlcials.



v39/719
Engllsh
Page 54

Artlcle v

Senior fellowg, consultanta and correE ondents

t. The Dlrector nay designlte each year, nlEh the apProval of the Board
and for a peEiod not longer than one year .t a ttme, quallfted Persons to
serve a€ sehlor feltorrs of the fnstltute, Such persons, who may be invited to
partlclpate aa lecturera or reaeerch acholara, Ehall be selected on the baeis
of outatanding contributlons they have nade ln flelde gernane to the rrcrk of
the InEtiEute. They nay recelve honorarluls and be paid travel e:.Penaes'

2. The Director nay alao arrange for the services of consultanta for
the purPose of contrlbutlng to the analy6l8 and planning of the actlvleles of
the rnstltute or for speclal assignnents in connectlon nith the rn6tltutera
progrannes. Such consultants shall be engaged in accordance lrlth pollci€6
establlehed by the Secretary-cen€ral.

3. The Dlrector may appolnt correspondents ln countrtes or reglona to
asaist ln malntaining contacts slth natlonal or reglonal tnstitutions and in
carrying out or adviging on studiea and reeearch.

Article vf

l. rn addttlon to the cLose co-operatlon wlth the DepartnEnt for
Dlaar[anent Affaire requlred by artlcle f, the fnatltute shall develop
arrangerpnta for active co-op€ratlon nlth the 6peialiued agencles and other
organlzatlonsr prograrul€s and ln3tltutlon6 of the lrnited Natlong syaten.

2. The Institute nay alao develop arrangerEnta for co-oPeratlon wlth
oth€r organlzatlonr and instltutlonE actlve in the field of dtsarnanent
rea€arch whlch nay be of laslstarrce in the perfortnance of the In6tltuterg
functiona.

Artlcle vrl

Flnarrce

l. voluntary contrlbutions froo statea and publlc and prlvate
organlzations shall form the principal source of financlng of th€ fnFtitute.

2. A Eubventlon tqwarda meeting the coets of the Dlrector and the staff
of the Instltute may be provided fron the regular budget of the unlted
Natlona. The actual arount of any Eubvention Ehall be deternlned ln
accordancc rith artlcle VIff belorrt it may b€ lesa than, but ahall not exce€d,
an anount egulvalent to one half of the assured lncone of the fn€titute frorn
voluntary source8 ln respect of the year for *hlch a subvention i6 belng
regueated. The aaaured lncorne shrll be that whlch has already been recelved
or t{hich has been pledqed ln nrittng by the tirne the level of any aubvent lon
is beino consldered.



v3e/7r9
Engllsh
Page 55

3.specificactlvitieEwhichtheGeneralA€getnblynayrequeatthe
rnstltute to aald to its regular nork programne shall be pald for from- the
regular budget of the unit;d Nations ln arouhts to be 

'teternined 
!t the tlrE

the actlvltles are requested.

4. The Dlrector nay accept voluntary contrlbutions to the fnstltute
that are unrestricted o. ih"t aie designateal for the irq)lenentatlon of en
actlvity approved by the Boartl. other voluntary contributlona nay b€ accePtcd
only with the approval of the Board, which shall take into account the
comnents of the Secretary-General.

5. Voluntary contrlbutiona to the rnstltute shall be kept ln a sP€cial
account to be established by the Secretary-Ge neral ln accordance Hith the
Financlal Regulations and Rules of the United Natlons.

6. The speclal account of the Instltute shall be held an'l adllnlstered
Eole1y for the Purposes of the rnstitute. Th€ controller of the t'nlted
Nations shall p-rform all necessary financlal and accounting functlons for the
rnstitute, incluating the custody of lte funds, and shall prepare and certify
the annual accounts of the Instltute.

7. The Financia.l Regulatlona anal Rules of tbe Unlted Nat lon6 an'l the
financial potlcles established by the secr€tary-General shall apply to the
financlal operatlons of the rnstitute. Funds of the fnatitute shall be
subject to atdit by the unlted Natlons Board of Auditors'

Artlcle VIII

Budget

1. The ProFosett annual bu@et of the Instltute shall be b'sed on the
proposed draft work progranrne of the Institute. It shall be prePrrcd b'y the
Dlrector in consultation rtith the DePartment for DlarrnaEent Affalss and the
offlce of Flnancial Servlcea. ,'/

2. The propo€ed annual bualget' toqether wlth the cdtltnent6 and
recomnendatlons thereon of the Ad;l8ory comnlttee on Admlntstrative and
Budgetary Ouestions, shall be subnttted to the Board of Truat€es for actlon ln
accordance with article IIr' paragraPhs 2 (b) and {c) above'

3. A recomnendation by the Board of Trustees, under articl€ ffl'
paragraph 2 (c) above, for a zubvention from th€ regular budget of the Untted
Natlons shall be transnitted by the seeretary-General to the General A8senbly
for approval.



A/39 t/7 49
English
Page 56

lrt Jcle IX

Administrative and other support

The secretary-ceneral of the United Nations shall provlde the fnstltute
with appropr iate adninistrative and other support ln accordance rrith the
Financial Regulations and Rules of the United Nation6. The InEtitute shall
reimburse to the United Nations the costs of such support, as determlned by
the Controller of the Unlted Nations after consultation with the Director.

Article X

L@at lon

The Institute shall have its seat in ceneva.

Article XI

Statug

The Institute, being part of the United Nations, enjoys the status,
privileges and innunitles provided in Articles lO4 and 105 of the Charter of
the United Naeions and other relevant international agreements and Untted
Nations resolutions relating to the seatus, privileges and lnrnunities of the
Organization.

Article XIf

Amendnents

Atnendnents to lhis statute nay be made by the Generat Assembly.

Comprehenslve programme of di sarman€nt

The ceneral Assembly,

Recalling that ln paragraph 109 of the Final Document.of the Tenth
special session of the ceneral Assembty. 2Z,t/ the first special aession devoted
to disarmanent, the Assenbly called for the elaborat ion of a conprehenelve
progr anne of disarnanent encompassing all rneasures thought to be advisable in
order to ensur€ that the goal of general and conrplete disarnanent under
effective lnternational control becomes a reality in a rcr1d in wh lch
international peace and security prevail and in which the nen international
economic order is strengthened and consolldated,

Recalling also lts resolution 3g/L83 K of 20 December 1983, in ehich lt
urged the Conference on Disarnanent, as soon as it considered that the
circunstances were propitious for that purpose, to r€new its work on the
elaboration of the conprehensive programm€ of disarmatnent previously
requested, to subrnit to the ceneral Assenbly. at its thirty-ninth session a
progress report on the natter and to submit to the Assembly not later than at
its forty-first session, a cornplete draft of such a programme, r



A/39/719
Eng lish
page 52

Eavlng exanined the Progres€ report of the 4!-E9g comittee on the,
conprEfrEi-s t ve rrogramne of Dlsarnament. L/ which Ie an lntegral Part of the
report of the conference on Dl€arnanFnt on it€ 1984 se66ion,

Not lng that ln its report the Ad Hoc cd,[nlttee stated that it rra€ agreeal
that circurstances $ere not condrclve io naking Progress to$ards the
reEolution of outstandlng lssues and expreesed the hope that maxfulun efforts
rrould be et(erted to ensure that early next year the clrcrmetancea nouLl b€
such as to permit the resutttption of the $ork on the elaboration of the
programrc and its succegaful concluaiont

1. negrete that during the 1984 seEslon of the conference on
Disarmarpnt lt was not possible to renes the $ork on the elahoratlon of the
contrr eheneive prograrfie of dlsarnanentt

2. @ that all efforte be nade ao ehat the Conference on DlsarnarEnt
nay resume ita work on the elaboratlon of the cqqtrehensive programte of
dlaarmarEnt early ln it6 1985 eesslon nith a vievr to subnltting to the Generrl
Assembly at lta forty-first ae6sion a coNq)lete draft of euch a progtamet

3. nequestE the Conferenc€ on DlsartnatrEnt to report to the General
Assernbly at lt6 fortleth session on the progress of its work.

J

Dlsarnanent lieek

The Gen€ral Assenbly'

Gravely coricerned over the escalatlng artrE racer espec lally the
noclear-arnts racer whlch represents a Eerlous threat to the very exlstence of
nank i nd,

stressing the vltal tnportance of elimlnating the threat of a nuclear
,ar, EiElngt the nuclear-arms race and brirqlng about disarnanent for the
malntenance of norld p€ace,

Enphaslzing anen the urgent need for and the iry)ortance of wlde and

"ontliiE-EEIIII"t 
tott of ror ld publlc o,Pinlon in suppor t of haltlng and

reversing the arr s race, especiaUy the nuclear-arme race ln aU lts aEpectB,

Mlndful of $or l*-h'lde anti-rar and anti-nuclear ma8a novenent,

necoqnltlng the l4)ortant role of the rnass medlla ln nobllizing rDrld
prrblic optnion ln sul4)ort of disarnarEnt,

W See officlal Records of the General A6sembly' Thirtv-ninth Session,
supplenent No. 27 lA/39/271, para. 125.

/.,.



v39/7 4e
English
Page 58

. Not+ng wlth satlEfactlon the broad and actlve support by covelnrnents andinternationar and nattonal organrzatlons of the decrsion takin by the cenerar
Assernbly at lts tenth speclal aeaslon regarding the proclanation of the week
stareing 24 October, the day of the foundation of the Unlted Natlons, as a
week devoted to fostering the objectives of dlsarnanent, Zy

_ Becel+Inq the recomrcndations concernlng the $or ld DisarnanEnt Caryraigncontained In anne:< v of the concruarrng Lrocrnent of the nrerfth spectal sesaronof the ceneral Assenbry, 3:./ rn partlcular the recornnend at ion that DiaarmanEne
week should contlnue to be wldely observed, !!!/

Recillilg also its resoluClona 33fiL D of 14 Decernber Lglg, 34/g3 f of.ll Decenber 1979, 37/78 D of 9 Decenber 1982 and 3gl183 L of 20 Decenber 19g3,

_ 1. Takes note with satisfaction of the report of thesecretary-cenerar 35/ on the forrorFup neasurea undertaken by governmental and
rlrn-governnlental ofiani zatlons in hofatng Disarnaruent week,

Expresses it€ appr€cratron to alr states and internatronar andnaclonar governnental and rrcn-governnentar organizationa for theiE energetlc
support of and active partlclpation ln Dlaarnanent Week,

3. Exprease. serious concern over the contrnued escalation of the arnsrace, espec ially the nuclear-arns race, .nd the innrinent danger of itaextension into outer epace which gravely jeopardizeB lnternailonal peace andsecurity and increases the danger or ouirreai of a nuclear wa'
4. StresE)s the inportant role of the mass media in acquainting the

worta pubtFiEi-the ains of Disarrnarnent week and measures undertaken lrithrnIts fr anetork 1
5. Recomrends to all States to observe Dlsarmanent lleek in l9g5 in

close connection with the cerebrations of the fortieth anniversary of the
fou_ndation af the United Natlons and the fnternatlonal youth year; as rre 11 as|9lth other connqnorative dates,

- -6: Invltes all States, in carrylng out appropr iate rneaEures at therocal level on tbe occaslon of Disarnanent weekr to take lnto accouht theelenents of the raodet progranne for the t{eek, p,repared by the
secretary-cener a]'t !!r/

El
Annexes, agenda it€rns 1, 10,

33l lbid., para. 12.
3g/ 

^/3e/4e3.
19/ A/34/436.

th
ll, and 13, docunent us-Lzn2.

S€ssion,



v39/7re
English
Page 59

?. AIEo invltes the relevant sp€cialized agencles and the International
Atqnlc Energy Agtenclt to lntenslfy actlvlties, withln their areas of
corqretence, to disseninate lnfornatlon on the Conaeguence8 of the drms racer
especially the nuclear-arns race' and requests them to lnform the
secretary-ceneral accordlnglyt

8. rnvite€ internatlonal notFgovernmental organlzations to !"q +
active parffi-EfEarmattEnt tfeek and to inform the secretary-General of the
activlties undertakent

9. Invltes the Secretary-General to use the ttnlted Natlona naas ned ia
as nidely ffiEErrre to pronote better undetstandlng annng norld public
oPlnlon of di sarmatnent problema and the obJectives of Dlsarnament Weekt

IO. .Bgglg Governnenta to continue, in accordance httth General
Assenbly rEEIlEIon 33/7L D, to inforn the secretary-General of activlties
undertaken to prdnote the objectives of DisarmalrEnt lteek t

11. RequestE the secretary-General, tn accordance rtith Paragr alttr 4 of
reeolutlon 3V?1 b, to subnit to the General Assetnbly at its fortleth seeelon
a report on the lnqrlernentat lon of the provlslons of the PreE€nt resolutlon.

x

cesEatron of the nuclear-arn6 race and nuclear dlsarnanent

ghe General As6ernblv,

Recalling that in the Final Document of the Tenth spec ial seaslon of the
ce nerEIlIEE&E LY, U the flrst special sesaion devoted to disarnanent' the
Aeserubty stated that the nuclear artns race, far fron contrlbutlng to the
strengthening of the securlty of aU States, on the contrary reakens lt and
irrreises the danger of the outbreak of a nuclear war and that existlng
arsenala of nuclear mapons are rpre than sufficlent to de€trcry all llfe on
earth,

Recalllng also that ln that Document the Assenbli exPreased the bellef
ttrat iffiai ueapons pose the greatest alanger to rnankind and to the eurvlval
of clvllization' that tt ls eE6ential to halt and reverse the nuclear arma
race ln all lts asPects in order to avert the datrger of war lnvolvlng nuclear
treaponB, anat that lhe ultlnate goal ln thls context ls the ccflplete
ellninatlon of nuclear weapons,

Not lnq that the Seventh conference of Heads cif state or Government of
Non-AfE;A countrles, held at New Delhi ln l'larch 1983, declare'l that the
rene$€d escalatlon ln the nuclear-arna race' both ln lts quantitative
dirensionsr as r€ll as reliarce on doctrlnes of nuclear deterrence, has
heiqhtened the ri6k of the outbreak of nuclear war and led to greater



A/39/749
Engltsh
Page 60

lnseeurity and lnstabtlrty ln lnternatlonal reletlona, and that rt also strt€d
tbat nuclear neapons are tnore than Heapons of mr, that Buch Healxrns are
lnEtrumenta of na6E annlhllatton, 3Z/

Eelievlnq that all natlona have a eltal lntere6t in negot i at lon8 on
nuclear dlBarnanent becauEe the e.lat€nce of nuclear $eapona ln the aruenala
of a handful of statea and the quantltatlve and qualltative develapmnt of
such neapons alirectly and fundanentally Jeopardl8e the vttal eeeu.lty
intere8ts of both nuclear and noFnuclear $eapon states allke,

- Conslderlng that tt ia neceaaary to halt all teEtlng, prodrEtlon and
depl-ctment of nuclear rreapons and their dell"ery aystema as a flr€t step ln
the Process which ehould lead to the achievenent of substantlel rcductlon! ln
nuclear forcea and Hercoming in thi8 context the Joint Declaratlon lssued on
22 Uay 1984 by the n€ads of State or Governnent of Argentina, Greece, lndla.
Mexlco, sweden and tbe Unlted Replbllc ot Tanzanla, A,/l

Convlrced of the urgent ne€d to take con€tructlve actlon tohrards hafttng
and reversing the nuclear arrls race,

1. Believe6 that effort€ should b€ lntenslfled $lth a vlew to
lnltlating, aE a matter of the hlghest priortty, multilateral negotiatlons in
accordance nlth the provleione of paragraph 50 of the Flnal Docunent of the
ceneral AsEembly at ltE lenth Speclal Seaalont

2. Requeats the Conference on Dl8artnanent to establish an ad hoc
cdmlttee at the beginni rq of its sesslon tn l9g5 to €laborate on-paragraph 50
of the Flnal Docunent and to Eubnlt rec@tendat lons to the conferetrce as to
hon it cou ld best inltlate rnultllateral negotlatlone of agreerents, rlth
adeguate meaaures of verlflcatlon, ln appropr iate strges forl

(a) Cessatlon of the qualltatlve lmprovelEnt and developmnt of nuclear
hreapon systenat

(b, Ceasatlon of the prodEtlon of all tl4ges of nuclear hreapons end
thelr Deans of dellvery, and of the prod uct ion of flgslonable naterlal for
weapons PurPoaeat

(c) Substantial redrrtton ln the existlng nuclear xeapon€ wlth a vler to
th€lr ulttnate ellrDlnationt

3. Regueats the Conference on Dlaarmanent to repor t to the cetEral
As6embly at lts fortleth session on lts conaiderat ion of this subjectt

4. Decides to irrclude in the provlelonal agenda of lts fortleth sealion
an itetn entltl€d 'ceasatlon of the nuclear arna race and nuclear disrrnrE t..

3lJ see l,/38,213 2-s/I567 5 and corr.l and 2.



L

IDplenentation of the recoDr€ndations €nd decision6 of the
tenth spec ial Eesslon

The General Assenbly'

Recalllng paragraph 28 of the Final Docunent of the Tenth sPec lal' sessio4
or tlffiGf eseembly, 4t/ the first speclaL aesston devoted to diaarnauent'
in which it affirrned that 'all the PeoPles of the vtorld have a vital interest
in the success of dlsarnalpnt negotiatlons- Consequentl'y' all state6 have the
duty to contrlbute to the efforts in the field of disarnament. All states
have tbe right to particlpate in dlearrnarnent negot iationa",

Recalllng ite resolutlon 38,/183 E of 20 December 1983, in which lt caued
upon ff,?Ei-ntnents of all states to contrlbute 6ub€tantially, E!gj&!3' to
nlftfng and reversing the arm€ race, Partlcularty ln the nuclear fleld, and
thus to reductng the danger of nuclear wart

Taking note of the fact that at the 1984 sesslon of the Conference on
Dlgar;*nt, twentlt-one States not nernbers of the conference partlciPated ln
lt6 nork,

1. Reafflrns the right of all stateE not tnembera of the eonfer€nce on
Diearmalnent--f6$rt iclPate ln the uork of the Plenary sesslons of the
Conference on substantlge que€tlons t

2. Requests the States menbers of the conference on Dl Earnanent not to
,isose the.ffiJf pr€edure of th€ Conference so as to pre'ent StateE not
nembera from partlcipatlng in the work of the Plenary €esaions of the
conference.

M

Intelnational co-oPerat ton for dlsarna[€nt

s-@!U'
stresslng again the urgent need for an active and au6talned effort to

tnt"n-sifythei'.'P1e,'EntatlonofchereconnEndationsan.tdeclgionsunanlnous1y
aatopted at tts tlnttr sPeclal seeslon, the flrst ePec ial session devoted to
dlsarmanent' a€ contalnett ln the Final DcunEnt of that seselon !ful and
confirmed in the Concluding fbcurnent of the Tselfth SPecial Sesslon of the
c€neral Assenbly, :y the aecond epeclal Fession devoted to dlaarnament'

Recalllnq the Declaration on fnternatlonal eo-operation for Dl6arnanent
of ff oecernner LgTg 29/ and General Assembly resolutions 36/92 D of
9 December L9eL, 37 /TE B of 9 Dec€mber 1982 and 38,/183 F of 20 December 1983,

A,t39 /7 t9
Engltsh
Page 61

gL/ IGsolution 34/88.



v3e/749
English
Page 62

stresslng the eital l||{)ortance of ellminatlng the danger of a nuclear
war, haltlng the artn€ race and attainlng diaarmalEnt, particularly in the
nuclear fleld, for the preservatlon of peace and the atrengthening of
internatlonal security,

Deeply cofrcerned over the contlnued nuclear-arna race and the inltlatlon
of a nerv, quantitatlveLy and qualitatlvely nore dangerous round of that race,
which has an lmflediate negatlve lnpact on the developnene of the internatlonal
situatlon and internatlonal retat ions,

Bearing in nind the vltal lntcrest of all Statee ln the adoption of
concrete effective disarmatnent rncrasurea, which rFuld relea€e conFiderable
financial and naterial resources to be used for the ecorxrmlc and social
developnent of all states, in particular developlng countries,

Considering the lncreased activlty Of peace and antl-I'ar movements
against the arns race and for disarmarcnt,

Convirrced of the need to Etreogthen constructlve internatlonal
co-operation based on Che politlcal 9oodc111 of Stateg for succesEful
negotiations on diearnanent, ln accordance wlth the Flnal Docurnent of tne
?enth Special Seseion,

Eq)hasizinq the duty of Statee to co-op€rate for.the preservation of
international peace and securlty, in accordance Flth the charter of the Unlted
Nations, as confirned ln the Declaration on prlnciptes of rnternational r,art
concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operatlon arpng States ln accordarce rlth
the charter of the ltnlted NatlonE, of 2l October L97O, !Z/ the obtlgatlon to
co-operate actlvely and conEtructlvely for the attal Ent of the airuE of
disarnanent belng an indispeneable part of that duty,

Stressing that, withln the franework of internaCional co-operation for
the attalhnent of the ains of dlaarmarnent, it is necessary to avert nuclear
war by means of gradual linitatlon and r€duction of nuclear arnamnts up to a
coltprete liguldation of all thelr klnds on the basi6 of the pr lnciple of equal
s€cur i ty,

Expressing the convlctlon that concrete nanlfestations of trolltlcal
goodwilll includlng unllateral neaaures, auch as an obltgation not to rnake
first use of nucl.ear weatr)oDa, lrnprove conditlonE for re€olvlng dlsarmanent
issues in a spirit of co-operation arpng Statea,

stresslng that proposalE, relatively slrpte In thelr e!.ecution and at the
6ame time effective, and agreerFnts aimed at eriminatlng the use or the threat
of use of force, be it on a rDtld-trlde or regional Bcope, contribute
considerably to that end,

2/ Resolution 2625 (xxv), annex.



A,/39/7 49
Engllsh
Page 53

Bearlng ln nlnd that the Untted Nat ions beara Prlmary restbnsibillty and
ptays-E central rote ln unifylng efforts to maintaln and to develop actlve
co-operation arpng Stateg in order to resolve the lsaues of dlaarnarnent,

1. calls upon all State8' in irqtlementing the Final Docurnent of the
renth spectal seeeton of the General Assenbly, to nake active use of the
prlr|ciples and ideaa contained in the Declaratlon on fnternatlonal
Co-operation for DlsarnarEnt by actively participattng ln disarnalEnt
negotiations, with a view to achievlng concrete resulta, anal by conducting
them on the basis of the princiPles of reciprocity, equality, undininished
aecurity and the norFuse of force ln internatlonal relations' and to refrain
at the Eane time fron iteveloplng net channels of the arms racet

2. stresses the ftq)ortance of atrengthenlng the effectlveness of the
United Nation6 in fuuilting lts responsibillty foE maihtainlng internaElonal
peace and securlty ln accordance nith th€ charter of the Unlted Nations t

3. Empha6luea the necesslty of refralnlng frdn nar propagandat in
particular a nuclear war - global or lfinlted, and frotn the elaboratlon and
dtsEemlnation of any doctrlDea and concepts endangering international peace
and justlfying the unleashlng of nuclear warr which lead to deterloration of
the lnternabional situation and to further lntensiflcation of the arma race,
and whlch are alsb detrltnental to the generally recognlzed necesslty of
lnternrt ional co-oper !t lon for dlsarnarGntt

1. Declareg that the use of force in lnternatlonal relatlons as weII as
tn atterqrte to prevent the full lnPlenEntation of the Declaratlon on the
crantlng of fndependence to colonlal countries and PeoPles !9i/ te a PhetDftenon
incompattble xlth the ldeas of international co-oper at ion for disarilanEntt

5. E(preases the firn convlctlon that, for effectlve lnternational
co-op€r at lorl for the attalrumnt of the alna of dlsarmarent it te lnevitable
that the pollcy of stat€s, prirnarlly of those whlch dispose of nuclear
neaponsr be dlrected to averting a nuclear nart

6. Appeals to states which are menbrB of mllltary groupings to
prdnote, oi-Ee-baels of the Final DocuEnt of the tenth special session, in
the EPlrit of international ceoperation for dlEarnarnent, the gradual nutual
lisitation of nilitary activities of these groqllngs, thue creating condltions
for the lr dleeolutlonr

7. Calls upon all uenrber Statee to cultlvat€ and dlsaenlnate,
part icuhrl!-I;Einect lon rrith the l{or ld DlsamarEnt canPaign' Iaunched by
the General Asserbly at its twetfth sPecial seaaion, .!l!l/ the ideas of.
lnternatlonal co-operat ion for dlsarnanent. ln Partlcular through their
educatlonal aystens, nrss nedh and cultural policlest

40/ nesolutlon l5!l (x\tt,

!]/
ANNET€ A, agenda it€lns 9, I0, ll, d oc urEnt L2/32 ' annex 

v.



v39/719
English
Page 64

8. Calls upon the ltnl t€d Nat ions Educational, Sclentlfic and Cultural
Organization to continue to conalder, in order further to lbbilize mrld
Publlc oPlnlon on behalf of dlaarnanent, neraures ained at strengthening the
ldeas of internatlonal co-operation for dlaarmallpnt through reaearch,
educat lon, lnformatlon, ccnmunicatlon and culturet

9. call€ upon the coverMEnts of aU states to contribute
substantlafit;jfiE observlng the prlrclpte of undinlnlshed s€curlty, to
halting and reveralng the arrns race, particularly ln the nuclear field, and
thus to reducing the danger of nuclear nar.

N

Iieport of the Conference on Di sarmarEnt

The ceneral Aaaenbly,

Recalling lts reaolutlons 34/83 B of U Decenrber L979, 35 /L52 J of
12 Decenb€r L980.36/92 F of 9 Decenber 1981, 37/78 G of 9 D€cernb€r 1982 and
38/L83 t of 20 Dec€rnber 1983,

Recalllng also the Final Docu €nt of the Tenth Speclal Seaalon of the
General Aasernbly, 4/ fhe flrst special aesalon devoted to disarmarEnt, and
the CorEl,uding Docunent of the Trrelfth speclal Sesslon of the cen€ral
Aasenbly, 3:,/ the second special sesslon devoted to dlsarmarFnt,

Faving con€idered the report of the Conference on Dlsarnanent, .!!/
Convlnced that th€ Conference on Disarnarent, a6 the sitrgle multllateral

hegotlating body on diaarnanent, should play the central role in aubstantive
negotiatlons on Prlorlty guestlons of dlsaHrarEnt and on the inplerEntation of
the Prograrnne of Actlon aet forth ln section fII of the Final Document of th€
Tenth Speclal SeaElon,

Reaffirnlng that the e6tabllEhment of ad hq(: cdtrnlttees offers the best
avallable nachlnery for th€ cond uct of multllateral negotlatlons on ltens of
the agenda of the Conference on Disarnament and contrlbutea to the
strengthenlng of the negotlating role of the Conference,

DeplorinE the fact that, degplte the repeated request6 of the ceneral
Assembly and the expressed wleh of the great nalorlty of nenberg of the
Conference on Dlsarnanent, the eBtabltslaent of an adt hoc cdullttee on the
cesaatlon of the nuclear-arms race and on nuclear dlsarfiarEnt rrag olEe again
prevent€d durlng the seaaion of the Conference ln 19811,

.jl! Official Records of the ceneral Aasemblv, Thlrty-nlntb Session,
Suppl-ernent No. 27 (A/39/27).



^/39,/7 
49

Engllsh
Page 65

Deplorlng further the fact that the Conference on Dlaarmarent has not
b.eh enabled to 6et up ad hoc cdmittees under item l of lt6 agenda, entitled
'liluclear-test ban', on the ceaaation of the nuclear-arma rrce and nuclear
alls€rnasent, on the prevention of nuclear war and on the preventlon of the
arna race ln outer 6Irace,

l. B.pressea its deep concern and dlsapDointnent that the Conference on
DlsarnuEnt has not b€en enableal, thls year either, to reach concrete
lgreenents on any dlsarnanent lesues to yhlch the ttnited Nation€ has aasigneil
graateat prlorlty and urgency antl nhich have been utLter conBideration for a
nunber of yeargt

2. Calls upon the Conference on DiElrnanent to lntensify its r{,ork, to
further lts nanalate nore earneEtly through negotlatlons and to adq)t concrete
mcttures on the speciflc prlorlty isguee of disarnanent on its agenala, ln
partlcular thoee relatlng to nuclear dlsannalentl

3. ot|ce agaln urge8 the ConferetEe on Dlsarnrment to contlnue or to
und€rtrka, durlng its eesslon to be held In 1985, arbstantlve negotlationE on
the Prlority queatlons of diearnanent on lts agende, in accordance wlth the
provl slons of the Flnal Docrnent of the llenth speclal Sesslon of the ceneral
AEsenbly and other relevant resolutlona of the Assenbly on thoEe questionsl

4. calls upon the conference on DlsartnarPnt to provlde the €xiEting
gLE cofiunltt€es uith approPrlate negot iat tng rnandatea and to e8tabllehr as a
Datter of urEency, the ad hoc cou lttees under iten I of lts rgenala, entttled
'ltrclear-teat ban', on the ceagation of the nuclear-arns race and nuclear
dlsarnaDent, on the preventlon of nuclear sar and on the prevention of the
arns rrc€ 1n outer apac€'

5. lrrges the Conference on Disarnament to undertake, tdthout further
d.lay, negotlations eith a vlex to elaborating a alreft treaty on a
nuclear-w€apon test bant

6. Also uf,q€s the Conference on Dl Errmarent to lntenaify its $ork on
the elaboratloh of a draft connentlon on the prohlbltlon of the ilevelo;rrrcnt,
prodtEtlon and etockpillng of !11 chernical rJEalrona and on thelr deEtructlon
and to suboit the prelimlnary draft of auch a conventlon to the General
Aasenbly at lts fortieth a€salont

7. Orce agaln calls upon the Conference on Dlaarnanent to organlze lts
tprk in such a way !E to concentrate Dat of lt6 attentlon and tlne on
lubEtrnttve negot lat lona on prlority lasues of dlsarDanentt

8. Calla ulpn the tDemb€r8 of the Conference on Disarm!rent that have
Aposed the negotlatlona on aubgtantlve laeuee of dlsarnlnent to enable the
@nference, by rdoptt ng a poEitlve stand, to fulfll eff€ctlvely the mandate
that the lnternatlonal cdmuntty haa entruated to lt ln the fleld of
nagotl.t ions on allaarnaGntt



v39/749
Engl1eh
Plge 55

9. Requests the Conference on DlEarnament to €ubmlt a report on its
mrk to the ceneral Assenbly at it8 fortieth eeseiong

10. Declde6 to lnclude in the plovlsional agen<ta of lts fortleth session
the itetn entttled rReport of the confererce on DisarnarEnt'.

o

fnplel€ntatlon of the recoDr€ndatJons abd decislons of
the tenth sp€cial session

The G€neral Assenbly,

Eavlng revleHed the lqrlenentatlon of the recounendat ions and declslons
ldoPted by the c€neral Assernbly at lts tenth speclal aesslon, 22i/ the fLrat
spec lal sesaion devoted to diEarnetnent, as well rs the Conclud ing Docunent of
the T$elfth special session of the ceneral Assenbly, !y the second special
eession devot€d to disarnanent,

Recalling lta resolutlona s-LO /2 of 30 ,tune L979, 34/83 c of ll December
L979.35/15 of 3 Deember L980. 35/LS2 E of 12 December LggO, 36/92 M of 9
DecsDer L98L' 37/78 F of 9 Dec€mber 1982, 38,/f83 Ir of 20 Decenb€r 1983 and
its declslon *IZ/24 of l0 July 1982,

Deeplv cotEeEned that no concr€te results regardlng the iq)lenentation of
the reconnErd.tion€ and deciEion€ of the tenth ep€cial eeeslon have been
reallzed in the couree of rpre than slx years slnce that ses6lon, that ln the
lreahtine, the anns Eace. particularly in ita nuclear aspect, has gained ln
intenelty, that there has been further deploynent of nuclear neapona in eorne
parta of the $orld, that tbe ab€ence of congtructive ttlalogue anong the
nuclear-weapon State€ has reached unprecedented levels, that annual global
tnllltary expendltures are approaching the staggerlng flgure of
$tS l'000 blllton, that manklnd ls faced with a real danger of apreadlng the
artnE race into outer space, tbat urgeht neasures to prevent nuclear war and
for dlaarnanent have not been adopt€d and that continued colonlal dqninatlon
and foreign occupat lon, open threats, pres€ures and mllltary lntervention
aEalnst rndependent states and vlolations of the fundanental prlncipres of the
Charter of the Unlted Natlohs have taken place, posing the rIE6t serloua threat
to lnternational peace and aecurlty.

E+Freeaing serlou€ conceEn that even the ltrntted negotlatlona on arrns
redtEtiol and dlearnanent Hhlch were already under reay have been etalledl

Convirced that the renew€d escalatlon in the nuclear-arms race, ln both
the quantitatlve and gualltatlve dtnenslons, as vell as rellance on nuclear
deterrence and on the uee of nuclbar rd\eapohe, ba€ heightened the ri6k of the
outbreak of nuclear rar 6nd led to greater lneecurlty and lnstablllty ln
internatlonal relatlona,



^/39 
/7 4e

English
Page 67

Further convitrced that international peace and s€curity can only be

"tteurElTGG'fr}ffiil andl conlrlete 
d I earnanent under ef f ective lnternat lonal

Control and that one of ehe n'sl urgent task6 i6 to halt and reverce the arns
race and to undertake concrete neasures of dlsarmamentr Particularly nuclear
dlsarmarnent, and tbat, in this reaPect, the nuclear-neaPon stateE and other
nllitarlly siqnlficant States have the pr inary responslbility'

Notlng with great concern that no real progresa ln dlBarnafpnt
negotm for several years, whlch has reldered the
cuirent internatlonal sltuation ev€n more dangerous and lnsecure, and that
negot lat ion6 on disarmatnent i€sues ale lagging far behtnd the rapid
teihnol-og lcal. 6eveloprEnt in the field of armar*nts and the relentless g'owth
of nilitary arsenals, particularly nuclear arsenala,

Consldering that it is nFre than ever inperatlve in the present
circulnstances to give a ner l4)etus to negotiations in good faith on
dtgarrnalEnt' ln Partlcular nr"l.". disarmamenti at all levels and to achleve
genulne progress in the irnmed iate futule, and that all State€ ahould refraln
fron any actlons which have or may have negative effects on the outcdne of
disarmanent negotiat lons t

convirced that the success of dlEarrnanent negot lations ' 
in !'hlch all the

peopfEliFlf,i-t orld have a vital intere€t, can be achieved through the actlve-paritcipation of !,lenber States ln 6uch negotlrtions, contributlng thereby to
the maintenar:ce of lnt€rnational peace and securlty,

Reaffirrning that the United Natlona has a central role and Pr inary
responslbility in the sphere of disarnarEnt'

Stresslng that the Final Docunenc of the Tenth sp€ctal ses€lon of the
G€ner-;;en bly, wh ich was unanlnouely and categorlcally reaff lrned blt all
l,tenber states at the twelfth sp€clal sesslon as the conpr ehe ne lve basis for
effortg tomrds baltlng and rever6lng the arms race' retalns all lts valldlty
and that the obJectives and meaaurea contained theretn atlll represent one of
the ltbst inportant and urgent goal6 to be achlevedr

1. ExpresaeB lts grave conc€rn over the acceleration and
intenstficffiticular1ythenuc1ear-armgrace,aswell
aa the continued, very gerious deterloratlon of relatlons ln the rorld' and
the intensification of focal polnts of aggression and hotbeds of tension ln
atifferent regions of the $orl;, which thieaten int€rnatlonal P€ace and
securlty and increase the danger of nuclear rrar t

2. CaIIs upon all States, ln particular nuclear-weapon States and other
ni tltarily-s ignf lcant states' to taie urgent measuree in order to Put an end
to the serious aggravation of the tnternational situatlon, to Pronote
international securlty on the basls of disarmanent, to halt and reverae th€
arm6 race and to launch a proceas of genuine dlaarnanentt



v39,/719
Engllsh
P.ge 58

3. fnvitee aLl state6, partlcularly nuclear_weapon States andespeclauyE6Famng th€rn rhi.*t ;;;;;'the rmet lnportant nucrear ar€enara,to take urgent rneasures Dlth a vre' to inplementtng the recq mendations anddecisions contalnd ln the Finar Docur.nt of the Tenth sp€crar seaalon of the
General Assenbl.y, the first spec lal sesalon devoted to disarmanent, as well asto fulflrling the prrority tasks Eet forth in the progranme of Act ron of theFinal Docunent,

.4. _Calla upon great powera to undertake genulne negotlatlons ln aconstructlve and accomndating spirit and taking into acncarnt the int€rest ofthe entlre internrtional cwnuntiy ln order to halt the arms race,particularly the nuclea!-arrne race, end to achieve dlsarnanent,

.. 5.. calla upon the conference on Dlsarnanent to concentrate {ts cork onthe subgtantive and prlorlty tt€ms on lts agenda, to proeeed to negotlationson the ee.satlon of the nuclear-a*e 
"""a 

rid nuclear dr'armanent, on the
Preventlon of the nuclear ear aa $ell ag the preventlon of an arm€ race inouter apace erthout further delay end to elaborate atrafts of treatre' on anuclear-ueapon-teat ban and on J complete and effectlve prohlbltion of thedeveloptnent, productlon and Etekplling of alr chernlcal i".pon" and on th€irdestruct{ont

9. Ca+ls upon the Dl sarrnanent Comlission to intenslfy its rrork lna@ordance rtith 1t6 nandate anar to continue irnprovi ng tte irk rrrth a vle' to
naking coticrete reco nendatlona on speclflc lt€ms on lts agenala,

.7. fnvltes all Statea engaged in dlsanralrnt and arns llmitattonn€gotlatrona outside the framercork of the 0nlted Nations to keep tbe ceneralAsaenbly and the conference on Di€armarFnt lnforned on the statirs and/orreaulta of such negotlatlons, ln conforrrlty with the relevant provislons ofthe Slnal teu|t|ent of the lenth Speclal Seasion,

the lten entitled ilnPlerentatlon of the recotnnEnat at lons and d€clsions of thetenth spec lal Eessionr.

prevent{on of nuclear war
The cen€ral Aaaenbly,

- Alarned by the threat of the survlval of nanfttnd posed by the extEtenceof nuclear u€atrxrns and the contlnulng n,rcl""i_"ir. ,.".,
Deeplv, gonceqned by an lncreased danger of nuclear nar a8 a result of thelntenalflcatlon of the ntrcrear-arn. race and the serious deterroration of thelnternat lonal sl tuat lon.



A/39 /7 4e
English
Page 59

consciou€ that removal of the threat of nuclear etar is the rtD€t acute and
urgent task of the Present day,

Reiteratirg that lt is the shared re8ponslbility of all ltenber states to
6ave eucceeding generations from the scourge of another wor ld sar' which rcould
lnevitably be a nuclear war,

Recaltlng the provisions of paragraphs 47 to 5o and 56 and 58 of tbe
Ftnal Docunent of the Tenth Speci;l S."rion of the General Assernbly 2?/
regardllng the procedures designed to secure the avoidance of nuclear war'

Recalllnq also that the seventh Conference of Eeads of states or
eouerifrfiTffiEt lgned Countr les, held at Nevt Delhi in Itarch 19 83 , stated
that nuclear rteapons are rllore than ueapons of 'dat, they are ingtrunents of
mass annlhllatLon,37/

Recalllng further its resolutlons 36181 B of I December 1981 and 37 /74 I
of 9 December f9S2 and, in Particular, lts resolution 38,/183 G of
20 Decsnber 1983, tn whlch lt requestd the conference on DlsarmanenE to
undertake, as a matter of the highest priorltyr negotiations rdith a vier to
achlevlng agreement on aPPropr iaie and practical neasures for the prevention
of nuclear !tar,

Having co]lqklqlgq the report of the conference on Disarnament on lt€
1984 sesslon, 42l

Noting ttlth grave concern that the Conference on Dlsarnatnent was once
agaln unable to start n"g-6Ffion" on the question during its L984 session'

Taking lnto account the delib€rations on this lten at lts thirty-nlnth
gegslon,

convlnced that the prevention of nuclear war and the reductlon of tbe
risk of nuclear lrar are rnatters of the highest Priorlty and of vital intereat
to all. peoples of the norld,

Also convlnced that the Preventlon of nuclear war i6 a problem too
inporEiilE te tert to the nuclear-neaPon states alone,

l.libteswithreqretthatdesPitethefactthattheconferenceon
Dlsarnanent has dl scu s sed-the guesti;n of the Prevention of nuclear $ar for
t$o years, it has been unable even to establlsh a subsidlary body to conslder
appropriate and practical neasures to Prevent itt

2. Again reouestE the conference on Dlsarmament to undertake' as a
matter of ttre nigh""t priorlty, negotlations with a view to achleving
agreement on aPpropriate and practical neasures for the preventlon of -nuclear
war and to estitfiin for that- purpos€ an gLE cormittee on the subject at
the beginnlng of its 1985 ses€iont



u39/7a9
English
Page 70

3. D(I'resaes lta convlctlon tha t tn view of the urgency of this natter
and the lnadequac? or Insufficl€ncy of e(lstlng measures, it is necessary to
devlse Eultable atepa to e:ap€dlte effecttve actlon for che prevention of
nuclear sar t

it. Reque6ts th€ Secretary-General to prepare a report on stepa to that
effect t'hlch ahould b€ coryIeted in tine to be transmitted to the conferenc€
on Dl sarDament ln Aprll 1985 and submitted to the ceneral Assenblv at its
fortleth eselont

5. lnvltes all @vernnents to submit to the Secretary-ceneral, not
later than 1 February 1985, thelr vlews on steps to expedite effective actton
on the guestlon of the prevention of nuclear war 60 Chat they night be taken
lnto account ln the preparation of the above-trEnt ioned report?

6. Decldes to lnclude ln the lrovisional agenata of lts fortieth session
the lten entitled 'preventlon of nuclear war'.

o

Revlew of the Declaration of the 1980s as the
Secdnd Di sarnarent Decade

lhe GeneEal Aasenbly,

ReaEllinq ita resolution 35/46 of 3 Decenber 1980, by whlch it adopted
the Declaratlon of the 1980s as the Second DlsarnarEnt Decade,

b{preaatnq ltE corEern that the purpoEea and objectlves of ehe Decade are
far froor be{ng reallzed,

Alarned at the contlnued escalation of the arns race, particularly the
nuclelr-arna race,

Alao lhrned at the recent ftnallngB of the possible coneequences of a
nuclear $ar under present clrcunstances, as docurgnted by conpetent sclentigt€,

Decply cotrcerned at the continued dieslpation of ever-increaslng hurnan
and natetial resourceE oh the arnE race,

Ei(presslng lts angulBh that no negotlations are taking place on the
cruclal lasue of nuelear weapona,

Convlnc€d of the urgent heceselty for the resufiptlon of negotiatlons,
both bllaterally betreen the covernment of the Union of sovlet sociallst
&Publlc8 lnd the @vernrnent of the ltnlted Statee of Arnerica and
hultilaterally by the Conference on DisarrnarEnt,

1. Declde8 to undertake at lts fortteCh session, in 19g5, a revlew and
aPPrarsal of the inErlerEntatlon of the Declaratlon of the lggoe as the second {Dl srrhanent Decadet



v39/749
Engllsh
Paae 7I

2. Requests the Disarmamnt connlssion at it€ sesEion in 1985 to make a
prelinlnary asaessnent of the lmplenentation of the Declaratlon, as rrell as
suggestlons to enaure Progressr and to subrnlt a report to the General Assenbly
at its fortieth sessiont

3. calls uPon the Disarmanent cotttttl i ss lon to include in its asseEsrnent
any relevant matters which, in the vlew of any llenber Stater r€guire 6uch
revietrt

4. Requests Member states to suhnlt to th€ secretary-Genera I thelr
vier,rs and suggestionst

5. Calls upon the secretary-General to gtve all necessary assistance to
the nlsarmanrent Cbnmisslon in irnplenenclng the Present resolution.

F

FePort of the Disarmafl€nt conmi€3ion

g@!v,
Havlng considered the report of the Disarmament conmissiont !)/

Emphasizing again the lnPortance of an effectlve follow-uP to the
relevant recorunendat ions and decisions contalned in the Final Document of the
Tenth speclal Sesslon of the General As6embly' &/ the first sPecial Beselon
devoted to dlsarmament,

Taking InEo account the relevant sectiona of the Concludlng Document of
tfre fwe fftfr Spectal sesslon of the General Assembly, :fj/ the second sp€cial
session devoted to di sarmament,

conslderlnq the inFortant role that the Dl Barmament Corurission has played
ana ttre slgrniricant contrlbution that it has nade ln exarnlning and submltting
recomendattons on various problens ln the fleld of disarmanent and ln the
prornot ion of the iq)Ienentatlon of the relevant deciaions of the tenth special
session,

Deslrous of strengthenlng the effectlVeness of Ehe Dlsarmament Commisslon
as the deliberative bodf in the fleLl of dlsarmanent,

Recalling its resolutions 33/7L tl of 14 Dec emb€r L978, 34/83 H of
ft necirnber Lg7g, 35/L52 F of 12 Dec emb€r 7980,36/92 B of 9 Decenber 1981,
37/?g H of 9 Decetnber 1982 and 38,/18 3 E of 20 Decenber 1983,

ly official Recorda of the ceneral Assenbly, Thirty-ninth Session,
supplenent No. 42 (A/39/42'l .



A/39/7 49
English
Page 72

l. Takes note of the repolt of the Dlsarnament Corrnission,
2. Notes that the Dlsarrnan€nt Comnission has yet to conclude its

consideration of sone items on its agendat
3. Requeats the Disarnanent Conmlssion to continue lts work in

accordance with lts nandate, as set forth in paragraph 118 of the Flnal
Docunent of the Tenth Special S€sslon of the c€neral Assembly, the first
special session devoted to disarmament, and with paragraph 3 of resolution
3'l/78 H. and to lhat end to tnake every effort to achieve sp€cific
reconmendat ions, at lts next aubstantl.ve session, on the outstanding it€rns on
its agenda, taklng lnto account the relevant resolutions of the ceneral
Assembly as well as the result€ of it6 1984 substantive sesslonr

4. Reguests the DisarnarElrt Cornnisslon to neet for a period not
exceedlng four weeks durlng 1985 and to sutmit a substantive report,
containing €peclfic reconnendations on the it€ms inscribed on its agenda, to
the ceneral Assenbly at its fortleth session,

5. Resuests the Secretary-Ge neral to transnit to the Disarnanent
Comtnission the report of the Conference on Diearnanent, !.:y toqether wlth aIIthe official records of the thirtlFnlnth session of the cenerat Assenbly
relatlng to dlsarmanent matters, and to render alI assistance that the
Comnission may reguire for inrplenrenting the preseht resolution?

5. Decldes to include in the provisional agenda of its fortieth session
the it€n entitled 'Report of the Disarnament Comnissloni.

!!/ rbid. , Thlrty-ninth Session, Supptement No. 27 (M39/27).



A,/39 /7 49
English
Page 73

DFA FT DEC IS ION

68. The Pirst committee recoN[nends to the ceneral Assenb]y the aaroption of the
following draft d€ci slon:

"ahe ceneral Assembly requests the Secretary-General to prepare a study
under the title:

rDeterrencet its inpllcations for disarnament and the arms race,
negotiated arns reductions and internatlonal securitv and other related
matters | , t

"as recomnended by the Advlsory Board on Disarnanent Studles ln paragraph 6 of
the reporE of the Secretary-ceneral, !Z/ to carry out the study irt accordancewith the reccmrendations of the Advl so-ry Board in paragraphs 6 and ? of the
same docunent, and to submit the final report to the ceneral A6senbly at its
forty-first sesaion. The Assembly requests those Mernber States that wish to
subnit thelr views on the subject to comlunicate thetn to the Secretary-ceneral
not later ehan L April 1995."

!t/ 
^/3e/s49.




