








































UNITED
NATIONS

General AesemblY Distr.
GENERAL

^/39/77LIO Decenber 198 4

ORIGINAL: ENGTI SH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda item I2I

OBSERVER STATUS OF NATIONAL LIBERATION MOVEI{ENTS RECOGNI ZED

BY THE ORGANIZATION OF AFR]CAN UNITY AND/OR BY T}IE LEAGUE
OF AIAB STATES

Report of Che Sixth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Mehmet ci'Nev (turfey)

1. The iten entitled "Observ€r status of national liberation novenents recognized
by the organization of African unity anal/or by the League of Arab states3 report
oi th. se"..tary-Genera1" was included in the provisional agenda of the
thirty-ninth sesslon pursuant to paragraph 3 of General Assenbly resolution 37/104
of 16 Decenber 1982.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 2I septenber 1984, the General Assernbly' on the
recommendati.on of the General conmittee ' decitled to 

include the item in its agenda
and to a.Ilocaee it to the Sixttl Connittee.

3. In connection witb bhe iten, lhe committee had before it a report of the
Secretary-Gen er aL (A/3g/437 ) containing the views presented by Member stsates
pursuant to paragraph I of resolution 37/L04.

4. The Conunittee considered the iten a! its 3lst to 33rd and 65th meetingsr on
3I october r 1 November and ? Decenber. The summary records of those meetings
(A/c.6/3g / sR.31-33 and 65) contain the views of che representatives nho sPoke
during the consideration of the iten.

9. At the 65th meeting, on 7 December 1984' the rePresentative of cuba introduced
a draft resolution (A/c.6/3g/L.25) sponsored by A.Iqeria' Bahrain' Benin' cuba'
Denocratic Yenen, Ir ,theL Arab t{a 1i

the N
Tunj.sia,

e-G5li]-El?r<ina I'aso, xu$tait, Mozar,l"ique, llElglg and zanbia'
lg!9.9.' @ and Yugoslavia, later joined bY

Cuba

84-32s36 4564P (E)



A/39/77L
Eng I ish
Page 2

!: At the same neeting, che coNnittee adopted draft resolut lon L/c.6/3g/L.25 by
92 votes to 10, with 17 abstentions (see para. g below).
7. The representative of Israel- made a staternent in explanation of his vote
before the vote. After the adoption of the draft resorution, the representativesof Be1giun, Canada, France, Italy, Japan, Kenya, the Netherlands, the United
Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern rrerand and the uniteal states of America
spoke in explanation of their vote.

RECOMI,IENDATI ON

8. The sixth corunittee recommends to
foJ-Iowing draft resolut. ion:

OF TITE SIXTH COMMITTEE

the GeneraL Assenbly the adoption of the

observer stqlus of national liberation ,novenents

The General Assernbly.

Recalling its resolutions 3i/L67 of 15 December l9B0 and 37 /LO4 of
16 Decenber 1982,

Recallj-ng also its resolutions 3237 (XXIX) of 22 Novembe! 1924,
3280 (xxlx) of 10 Decenber j,974 and 3L/t5Z ot 20 Decernber 1976r

Taking note of the report of Secretary-ceneral, I/
Bearing in nind the resolution of the United Nations Conference on the

Representation of States in Their ReLations with International Olganizations
relating to the observer status of national liberation movements recognized by
the Organization of African Unity and/or by the League of Arab Stute", Z/

Noling that Che Vienna Convention on the Representation of States in
Their Relations with International Organizations of a UniversaL Character, of
14 March L975, y regulates only the representation of States in their
relations with international organizations,

Ytglr.e, 
= 

4 F"b. 
"". 

y
E. t 5.v. Lzr, docunent A/CONF.67 /L5 l

L/ A/3e/ 437 .

U see Official Records of the
esentation tes in

ted Nations

vol. II (United Na
annex.

on the

publlcalion, Sa1es No.

v Ibid. , vol. II , p.2O7.



A/39/'17r
English
Page 3

Taking into account the continued and uninterrupted current practice of
inviting the above-nenlioned national liberation novements to particiPate as
observers in Lhe sessions of the General Assembly, specialized agencies and
other organizations of the United Nations systern and in the work of the
conferences held under the auspices of such international organizations'

Convinced that the participation of the national liberation movements
referred to above in the work of international organizations helps to
strengthen international peace and co-operation,

Desirous of ensuring the effective participation of the above-mentioned
national liberation novenents as observers in the work of international
organizations and of regulating' to that end, their status and the facilities,
privileges and inmunities necessary for the pe!formance of their functions,

I. Urges all States chat have not done so, in particular those which
are hosts to international organizations or to conferences convened by, or
held under the auspices of, international organizations of a universal
character, to conside! as soon as possible the question of ratifying' or
acceding to, the vienna Convention on the Representation of States in Their
Relations with International Organizations of a Universal Characteri

2. calls once nore upon the states concerned to accord to the
delegations of the national Liberation novenents recognized by the
Organization of African Unity and/or by the League of Arab States, and whi.ch
are accorded observer status by international organizations' the facilities,
privileges and innunities necessary for the perfornance of their functions in
accordance with Lhe provisions of the vienna Convention on the Representalion
of states in Their Relations vith International orqanizations of a universal
Ctlaracter i

3. Requests the Secretary-General to report Eo the General Assembly at
its forty-first session on the inplenentation of the present resolution.




