








































UNITED
NATIONS

@
General Assembly

Di str .
GENERAT

^/39/84s17 Decendcer 198 4

ORTGINAI,T ENGLISH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda iten 116

PERSONNEL QUESTIONS

Report of the Fifth Connittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Al- i Achraf Mo,lTAfiED (lstanic Republic

t

of lran)

INTRODTICT ION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 Septernber 1984, the @neral Assernbly, on the
reconmendation of the ceneral Conmittee, decided to include in the agenda of its
thirty-ninth session the item entitledr

rrPer sonnel queseions:

" (a) Composition of the Secretariatr report. of the Secre tary-cener al?

" (b) Respect for the privileges and immunities of officials of the Unlted
Nations and the specialized agencies and related organizations: report
of the Secretary-eienera I t

" (c) Other pe!sonnel questions: reports of the Secre tary-ceneral ",
At the same neeting, the Assellbly decided to allocate the item to the Fifth
Conmi ttee.

2. The Fifth Corunittee considered the item at its l-4th, l5th, 17th to 30th, 38th,
40th' 42nd, 44th, 46th, 48th, 49th, and 53rd to 55th meetings, held from 19 October
to 17 Decenber 1984. The viens expressed by delegations during the discussion are
reflected in the relevant surnnary records (see A/C.5/39/5R.14, 15, 17-30, 38, 40r.
42, 44. 46, 48, 49, and 53 to 55).

3. The Comrittee considered under agenda iten I.16 the following documents:

84-13792 o281P (E)



A/39/445
EngIi sh
Page 2

(a) Note by the secre tary-c€neral, transmitting the repor! of the Joint
Inspection unit on competitive examinations in the united Nations (A,/39l483) and
the retated conunents of the secre tary-Ge ner a I (A/39/ 483/Add.l and Corr,I) t

(b) Note by th€ Secretariat on Econornic and soci.al council resolution L984/8I
of 27 .luly 1984 on staff and adninistrative questions of the Econonic commission
for l,testern }sia (A/c.5/39/871 .

4. For j-ts consideration of sutsitem (a), the committee had before it the
following documents t

(a) Report of the secre tary-c€ neral on the conPosition of the secretariat
(A/39/453'),

(b) Report of the secre tary-c€neral ' transmitting 
a list shoning by office,

department and organizational unit, the names, functional titlesr nationality and
saiary 1evel of all staff nember s of the United Nations Secretariat as of
30 June L984 (Nc,5/39 /7'.2') ,

(c) Note by the secre tary-General, transnitting the views subtnitted by the
staff representatives of che united l'btions Secretariat (A/c'5/39/23) '

5. For its consideration of sub-iten (b). the Connittee had before it the report
of the s€cretary-ceneral on respect for the privileges and immunities of officials
of the united Nations and the speciatized agencies and related organizations
(A/c.s/39/L7't,

6. For its consideration of sub-item (c), the conmittee had before it the
following documents r

(a) Report of the secretary-General on personnel policies (A/c'5/39/91 ,

(b) Report of the secrecary-General on the status of the linguistic skills of
United Nations staff (A/C.5/39/6 and corr.l) t

(c) Report of the secretary-General on a system of career development for all
categories oi staff (A/C.S/31/LD and the related report of tbe Advisoty Corurittee
on Administrative and Budgetary Questions la/39/7 /Md.sl t

(d) RePor t of the secre tary-General on amendments to the staff Regulations of
the United Nations (A/c.5/39/2).

(e) Reports of t-l]e secretary-Genera I on the amendments to the staff Rules
(A/c.5/39/4 and corr.I and Add.1) .

'1 . At its 14th meeting, on 19 october, tbe comnittee decided without objection co
invite a designated representative of the staff of the united Nations secretariat
to nake an oral statenent before the comnittee, pursliant to the provisions of
ceneral Assenbly resolution 35/213 of 17 Decenber 1980'



A/39/845
English
Page 3

I I . CIT,IS IDERATION OF PROPOSALS
A. Draft resolution A/C. 5/3 9/L.I ?

8. At the 49th meetllrg, on 14 Decernber, the representative of saudi Arabia, on
behalf of 

- 
p?hrai E,."oenoeretlc yemerl, rsvpr, rraq, oatar, saudi fiEI;;-GTni ted

Arap E'rnlrates and f@, introduced a draft resolution entitled nstaff ana
adnlniatrative questions of the Econoni c connisslon for wtsstern Asiatr
(A/c.5/39/L.L7l .

9. At the 53rd meeting, the repre.entative of rndonesia orally proposed tlat the
aecond preatnbular paragraph, which read:

iDeeply concerned about the high vacancy rate which has prevailed in the
Ilconomlc Conmieslon for l{estern Asla for a nurnber of yearsl

should be reviged to read as follorrsr

"rEeply concerned about che high vacancy rate and the difficurties in
recruitment rrhlch have prevailed in the Regiona1 @mrnisslonsr and in
IErtlcurar in the Econornic conmlgsion for western Asia, for a nunber of years..

1.0. _lt the sane rneeting, explanationE of vote were rnade by freland on behalf ofthe I0 Statee member s of the European Community.
rt. At lts 53rd meetlng, the corfllittee adopted draft resolut ron A/c.s/39fi,.r7. aE
orally revised, by a recorded vote of 72 to 2, with l? abstenlions (see para. 20,
draft resolution I). The votlng rras a6 followst

In fa\rour: Algeria, Argentlna, Austria, Bahrain, Banglaalesh, Bhutan,
. Botsnana, Brazlll Brunei Darussalam, h:Igaria, Burkina Faso,

Burma, Byelorusslan Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, China,
Colonbia, Congo, Costa Rtca, Cuba, czechoslovakia, DenEcratlc
Yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, cernan Democratic Republic,
chana, Greecer Gtlnea-Bissau, Hungary, India, rndonesia, Iraq,
Ireland, .Tordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Janahiriya,
Ualaysia, !,!aldives, ltaliI ltauritania. tlexico, Mrngolia, Morocco,
l,bzamblquel Nlger, Nigerla, Onan, pakistan, panana, peru,
Phllippines, Ibmania, R.randal Saudl Arabia, Singaporel Somalia,
SIEin, Snaziland. Thailand, Togo. Tunisial Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialigt Republ-ic, Union of soviet socialist
Republics, Unlted Arab EmLrates, United Republlc of Tanzania,
Venezuela, yenen. yugoslavia, zanbia.

Against t Israel, United states of America.
Abstalningr Australia, Bahamas, Belgium, Canada, Chiler Denmark, France,

Gernany, Federal Republic of, Italy, Jamaica, ,tapan, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, portugal, United Kingdom of creat Britain
and tilorthern Ireland, Uruguay.



A/39/8 4s
Enqlish
Page 4

a, Draft resolution A/c. 5/39lL. 24

L2. At the 53rd meeting, on 15 Decenber, the representative of the Netherlands
introducedl on bettalf of Australla, the Bahamas, Barbados' Belgium, canada,
Dennark, Finland, Norway, Sierra Leone, Spaln, Sweden and Tunisiar a draft
resolution (A/C.5/39 /l'.29) entitled "Respect for the privileges and imnunities of
officlals of the United Nations and the speciaJ-ized agencies and related
organizations' and orally proposed that the r.rords 'staff regulationsr in particular
regul.ation 1.8" ln operative paragraph 6 shoutd be replaced by the follot ing worde:

rstaff Regulations of the lrnited llations, in particular regulation 1.8, and
the equivalent provision governirg the staff of the other agencieso,

13. At the 53rd meeting, the co! nittee adopted draft resolution A/c.5/39/L-24, aa
oralLy revised (see para. 20, draft resolution II).

C. Draft resolution A/C.5/3 9,/L.3 2

14. At the 54th neeting, the Chairman introduced the draft reEolution
(Nc.5/39fi'.32 and corr.l) entltled "oomposition of the secretariatn and oraLfy
revised it as follcrys:

(a) Be tneen the third and fourth preanbular paragraPhs, a new preambular
paragraph was added, which read as follovrsr

"Baving consfdered the report of the .toint Inspectlon Unit on conpetitive
examinations (A/39/483) and the related conments of the secretary-General
(A./39l483^dd.I and Cor r.l ) ",
(b) In oPerative paragraph 5' the words "reque€ting that th€ co"ordlnator

per fonn leithin the exlsting personnel services lstructuresl and noting that the
office of Peraonnel services will contlnue to be responsible" were replaced by the
folloui ng r

rrequests that the co-ordinator function wit-trin the office of Personnel
Services, requests further elat the office of Personnel Services ensure that
the Co-ordinator is provided with all necessary assistance for the effective
carrying out of all tasks assigned to the co-ordinator and notes that the
office of Per sonhel. services will contlnue to be responsible ...".

15. At the 6ane neeting, the representative of Morocco orally prolDsed an
anendrnent !o replace in operative Faragraph 6 (e) the words "the appeals nachinery"
by the words "the various aPPeals machineriesn and to delete the following lrords
'irEluding the concillahion and rnediation functionan.

15. At the same meeting ' a Etatenent in explanation of 
position was made by the

representative of Yenen.



A/39/845
EngIlsh
Page 5

17. At the same meeting, the Conunittee adopted draft resolutLon A/C.5/39/7,.32, as
orally revlsed (see para. 20, draft resolution IIf) .

18. At the 55th meeting, on the proposdl of the Chalrn|an, the @nmittee decldeal to
recotrulend that the ceneral Assetnbly should take note of tie reports of t.he
Secretary-@netaL (A./C.5/39/4 and Corr.l and Add.l, on the amendments to the Staff
Rules (aee para. 2l).

19. Staternents in explanation of positions r.rere nade at the 54th neeting by the
Unlted Ki ngdon of creat Britain and Northern lreland, and at the 55th neeting, by
Bargladesh, Canada, Chlna, Egypt, India, Nigeria, pakistan, Spain, the Union of
Soviet Socialist ReFtblics, and the tnited States of America.

III. RECO!4MENDATIONS OF TEE FIFTE COMUITTEE

20. The Fifth Conmlttee reconnends to the ceneral Assembly the adoption of the
following draf t resolutionsl

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Staff and admlnistrative questions of the Economic CoFmission
for nestern Asia

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recallinq Ibonomic and Social Counclt resolution L9B4/8I of 2? July 1.984,

Deeply correrned about the high vacancy rate and dlfficultie5 in
recruitrnent which have prevailed for a nunber of years in tie regional
conmissions, particuLarly in the Econonic Comnission for Hest€rn A6ia,

convinced that the high vacancy rate has had a serioua impact on the rdor k
progranrne of the Economic @nmission for $estern Agla,

Recognizinq that repeated efforts have been made by the secretariat of
ttre Econoni c Cornrnission for l.lgster n Asia to flnd qualified staff frorn
unrepresented or under repre sented States in the region covered by the
Connission, but that ttre difficulties stilL perslst in the recruittnent of such
staff,

Recognizing aleo the inportance of knowledge of the Arablc language bry
the staff of the Econonic @mnisslon for t{estern Asia for the effective
p€r formance of ttreir work,

1. gIEg unrepresented and under repre sented States to endeavour to
encourage competent personnel to work in the secretariat of the Economic
Conmission for western Asia as staff mernber s on a regular or fixed-tern basiat



Al39/845
English
Page 6

2. Authorizes the secretary-General !o take all necessary neasures to
enable the Econonlc commlsslon for !{estern AEla to recrult staff fron any
state nember of the comrll€sion to neet it6 peraonnel requirementat

3. Decidea that aII mernbers of the Econonic @nnlssion for tfestern Asia
should be t-"'ated in a nanner consistent wltb thelr full rnetnbershiP ln the
Corunisslon in regard to ernplolment Ln the secretarlat of the Cornnisslon.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

The General Assembly,

Recalling lts resolulions 35/2L2 of 17 Decetnber 1980, 36/232 of
fa OecemUer fiS;-, Sl /ZtS of 2l Decernber 1982 and 38/230 of ?0 Decenber I983r

Recalllng that, under Article 105 of the Charter of the United Nationa
otricIIIE-6F ttre organizatlon shall enjoy in the territory of each of its
t{ember stales such privileges and innunities as are necessary for the
independent exercl.se of their functions ln connectlon with the OrganlZation,
tthich ls indispen€able for the proper discharge of their dutles,

Recalling the obligation of the staff ln the conduct of thelr duty to
observe fuUy the laws and regulations of l'lember statest

1. Takea note nittr concern of the report subrnitteal to the General
Assenbly by the secre tary-Generaf on behalf of the Aalninistrative Comrittee on
co-orallnatlon, !,/ which shors a continuing neglect of the observance of the
principles relaEed to respect for the priviteges and lnnunitles of officlalE
of the united Nations and the gpeclallzed agencles and related organlzationst

2. Reaffirms the above-rnentioned resolutiongt

3. welcomes the rneaaures already taken by the secretary-General in
furtherance of ttte safety and security of international civil servants as
outlined in paragraph 7 of his report, y

4. calls upon the secretary-General a€ Chlef Admlnistrative Officer of
the organization, to continue personally to act aE focal point in promotlng
and ensuring the observance of the Prlvileges and lmnunities of offlcialB of
the unlted Nations and the specializeal agencies and lelated organizations by
uslng aII such means as are available to hitnt

v ^/c.s/39/L7.



^/39/845Eng1lsh
Page 7

5. glllg the secretary-General to glve priority through the onited
Nations Seeurf t-ty Co-ordinator and the other Epecial representatives to
reporttng antt pronpt fo1low-uP of cases of arrest' detention and posslble
other nalterE ielating to the securlty of official'e of the gnited Nations and
the speclallzed agencles and related organlzationst

6. Calls upon the Etaff of the united Nations and of the BPecializetl
agencies a;e=GIea organizations to comPly with the obllgatlons resulting
fion the staff Regulatlons of the united Nation6, in particular regulation
1.8, and from the equivalent provisions governlng the staff of the other
agenclesl

7. tlecuests the secretary-General, aa chairnan of the Administratlve
conmlttee on cNrtlination to review anal aPPralse the neasures already taken
to enhance the safety anal Protectlon of lntarnational clvil servants and to
nodi fy tben rrhere neceEsaryl

8. Invltes the secr€tary-General, as chalrman of the Adnlnistratlve
comittee 6i- cFordination, tJsuggest ln his next annual rePort to the
General Asaembly further steps ateslgned to alleviate the preEent Eituation'

DRAFT RESOI,UTION III

Conpoa ition of the secretarlat

!!@!1Y.,
Recalllng its prevlous reaolutions on personnel pollcy and ln Particular

resolillons 317143 of 20 Decenber Lg7S. 3S/2LO of 17 Decenber 19801 37/235 of
21 Decenber 1982 and 38/23L of 20 Decenber 1983,

Eearlng in nlntl Article I0l, paragra[th 3r of the Charter of the unlted
Natlona whtch states that rThe pararnount consideratton in the enPlolment of
the staff and in the tleternination of the conditlona of service shalL be tbe
necegslty of securing the highest standardE of efflciency, cotnPetence and
integrtty. Due regard shall be Paid to the inportance of recrulting the staff
on as wide a geographical basis as Posslbler,

Eaving taken note of the lePorts of the Secretary-General on the
compoEEl6i-6E-If,E-Eecr e tar iat, E/ on personnel policies / and on the status
of the l.lnguistlc skiUs of t nited Nations sEaff . 9l

v3e/153 .

A/c.s/39/9.

A/C.5/39/6 and Cor r.l.

u
v
v



A/39/845
Engltsh
Page 8

. 
Ha:rlng cgnsldereg the report of the Jolnt Inspection unlt on conpetitiveexamlnationa in the tnlted Natlons E/ and the related conments of thesecretary-cener aL. V
concerned by the lack of progreag towards neeting the goal-s and.obJectlves e6tabll8hed ulth reEpect tot
(a) The situation of unrepreaenteal anal underrepresented Uernber states,
(b) The recrultnent, career developrnent anat pronotlon of $onen,
(c) The achlevenent of a balanced and egultable geographical

distribution of staff throughout the Secretarlat,

^_.^-1. _Tl!fly" the prtnclples enbodten in its resoruttons 331143, 3s/2L0.37/235 and 38/Z3Lr

. 2. Requests the Secretary-ceneral to nake special efforts to pursue !nactive recruitnent pollcy ln order to accelerate recruitment frorn
unrePresented uenber statee and to increase the nunber of staff recruited from
under represented lGnber stateg and from trrenber state. be10r, the rnid-point oftheir desirable ranges, to the extent posslble torvards their mld_point, anafurther to report to the C€neral asaernbly at lt6 foEtieth seEsion on theresults of these efforts to achieve a baianced and equitable geographicaldlstributlon of €taff throughout the Secretariat,

- 
3: Requesta the Secretary-General to take all necegaary measures inorder to ensure that the recruitment procedures are compreted wrth au arue

epeed within a reasonable tirne frafie, bearlng in nrindl the need for the
co-operation of the substantive departments and offices with the office ofPersonnel services, and that all candidates are duly notified of the res;tt oftheir applicati.onst

4. trLlrther reouests the Secretary-ceneral to continue to increase tbe
representatlon of developlng countries in senlor andl policy_formulating posts,while Eafeguardlng the piinclpte of equitable geographical dietributlon in
accordance with the relevant reEolutions of the ceneral Assenbly,

. 5. Ta.kea. note of the decislon of the Secretary-ceneral to de6ignate, ona temporary basis, a senlor offlclal with the tltle of Co-orallnator for the
rnprovernent of the status of rfonen in the s€cretarrat of the tnited Nations,to review the sltuation of sornen rn the secretarrat and to nEke proposars forits inprovenent, in the franeuork or tne re[il-ie tn" secretary-cienerar tothe General Assenbly at lta fortieth session, reguests that the Co-ordinator

v
g

A/39,/453,

M39/183/Na.L and corr. t.



A/39/815
English
Page 9

function rrithln th€ office of personnel Services, requests further that the
office of Peraonnel services ensure that the co-ordinator is provided with llr
nece€sary aaslatance for the effective carrying out of rll ta6ks asalgned to
the co-ordinator and notes that the offlce of peraonnel servlces will continue
to be regponaible for the implementltion of General Assenbly dlrectiveg and
the Secretary-ceneral I a policies in personnel natters for the formulation and
apPlication of the personnel policy and for the recrultnent and adrniniEtration
of all stafft

6. Requests tbe Secreeary-Genera1 r
(a) To lmplement recomnendatlong ltos. l, 2 and 3 of the report ef the

Jolnt Inspection Unlt L,/ to t,be extent posslble and ln such a rnahner that
lmplenentation will not advergely affect the flerlbluty of personnel policyt

(b) !o ensure to the extent posstble that the creation of new po8ta in
budgets include a reasonable proportion of p-l and p-2 pogtst

(c) !o conduct an overall revlew of the system of conpetitive
exatnlnatlona in the t rrited Natlons, iricludinE the conseguences of the proposed
expanalon of the conp€titive examinations to the p-3 level and, taking lnto
account the recornEndationa of the report of the Jolnt Inspectlon Unit on the
eubject, to subnit hl6 view6 ln thle regard to the General As€enbly at its
fortieth sessionl

(d, To pursue hls work progranne 6n the design and implenentation of a
caleer developnent sy6tem, taklng lnto Cccount staff Eerving on different
tt/pes of contf,acts lnd to report thereon to the General Assernbly at tt€
fortleth aasslont

(e) To Etrengthen the various appeala nachinerlea, pith a viee to
eliminatlng the baektog of casesl

(f) To report to the ceneral Assenbly at its fortieth ae66ion on the
feasibillty of establishing an office of ftrbudenanl

(9) To lnplenent reconunendatlon No. ? of the iloint Inspectlon Unit $ith
a viiw to facilltating an ln-depth consideratlon by the ceneral Ae6enbly of
the natter of appointn€nt of staff ln the ceneral Servlce category at its
fortieth se66lon t

(h) Requests the Sectetary-General to studly ways .nd nean6 of applytng
tbe population factor and to report tO tbe C€nerll Assembly at lts fortleth
session, taklng lnto account the views expreased by Uenber State€ at lts
thirty-nlnth aession.

U A/39/183.



A/39/e4s
English
Page 10

7. Relterates lt6 request to the Secretary-ceneral to atrenqthen the
role and ernphaslze the authortty of the Office of personneL Service8 of the
Department of Adnlnlstratlon and llanagenent in recruitnent and other personnel
natters tbroughout the Secretariat and to report to the General Aagembly at
Its fortieth seseion on neagures taken to this effectt

8. Invites legislative bodles of aII internatlonal organizations and
organs of the ttn lted Natlons syaten to examLne as s(x)n as possible the
situation nlth regard to lnplenentatlon of the principle of equitable
geographical distributlon in thelr respective Eecretarlatg and to take
neasures, ehere appropriate, wlth the airn of securlng lts inplenentatlon
throughout the systern, wlthin the fr amework of Article 101.3 of the Charter of
the United Natlons and the relevant provislone of the constltutional
instruments of the other organi8atlons.

II

The General A66enbly,

Recalling lts decislon r,ith respect to the education grant referred to tn
paragraph 3 (a) of sectlon III of lts regolution 38/232 of 22 Decernber 1983,

Taklng note of the reFort of the Secretary-ceneral on anendmenes to the
Staff Regulations of the United Nations, g/

Approves the Aeendments to the Staff Regulations bf the Unlted Natlons
with effect from I January 1984 as set forth in the annex to the present
resolution to give effect to its declsion hrith respect to the education grant.

ANNEX

Anendnents to the Staff Requlations of the Unlted Natlons

Regulation 3.2

In the first paragrapb, replace the third senlence by the foltowing textr

"The anount of the grant per echolastic year for each child shall be
75 per cent pf the flrst $6,000 of adnissibLe educational expense€, up to a
naximun grant of $/t,50 O. r

In the third paragraph, replace Ehe second Eentence by the following Cextr

v ^/c.s/39/2,



A/39/84s
EngI ish
Page 11

'The anount of this grant per year for each disabled child shall be equal
to 100 Per cent of the educational expenses actually incurred, up Co a naxinun
of $6,000. i

***

2j-. The Fifth Committee also recomnends to the ceneral Assembly the adoption of
the follorring draft decisionr

Anendmenls to the Staff Rules

The General Assembly decides to take note of the rePorts of the
Secretary-General on the anendnenta to the Staff Rules (A/C.5/39/4 and Corr.l and
Add. 1) .




