








































UNITED
NATIONS

J

i
I

r
I;

Gsneral Aeeembly Distr .
GENENAL

^/39/714fI Decenber 1984
ENGI. ] SH
ORIGINAI: SPANISH

t
I
i

b
r

t

Thirty-ninth 6ession
Agenda Ltem ?4

OUESTIOIIS REIATING TO I NIORIi'IATION

Report of the Special Folitica.I Conunlttee

Bg!.@.9!! Mr. Jorge Eduardo CIIEN CEARPENTIER (l,lexico)

I. INTRODLETION

1. The itern enti tl€d:

"Questions relating to information:

'(a) Report of the oonmittee on Informationt

'(b) Report of the Secre tary-C€neralt

'(c) Report of the Director-General of the Ihited l'Iatlons Educational,
sclentific and cultural" organization"

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-ninth session of the c'eneral
As sembly in accordarre with assenbly reaolution 3A/SZ B of 15 Decenber 1983.

2. At its 3rd plenary neetlng, on 21 septenber 1994, the General Assenbly r on the
rec€ronendation of the ceneral coNnittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Speclal Folitical @nnittee.

3. The special Political comnittee considered the itern at its l9th to zlst, 23rd'
25th to 30th, 50th and 51st rneetings' held betrreen I Novenber and I0 Decenber 1984
(see A/sPC/39,/sR.l9-21, 23, 25-30. 50 and 5I).)

t
84-32805 0228P (E)



A/39/7L4
English
Page 2

4. The Corunittee had before it the following docunents:

(a) Report of the Conmittee on lnfornati.on (A/39/2Il t !/

(b) Repor t of the secre tary-Genera I (A/39/479, 1

(c) Report of !h€ Director-General of the thited lilations Educationa I 'scientific and cultural- organization (A/39/4971 t

(d) Report of the ,Ioint InsPection thit entitted "zublications policy and
practice in the United Nations systemn and corunents thereon (A/39/239,
N39/239/Md.1 and Corr.l and Add.2) |

(e) Report of the Advisory Connittee on Adninistrative and Budgetary
Questions (N39/602t.

5. At its 19th meeting, on 1 November, the Conmittee heard j.ntroductory statenents
by the tl:nd er-Secret ary-C'eneral for Public Infornation of the Secretariat, the
Chairrnan of the Corunittee on Information, the Assistant Director-C'enera I ad interin
for the Comnunication Sector of uNEscO and the Chairman of the .toint Inspection
Unit (JIU).

6. At its 2nd neeting ' on 2 Ocgober, the Committee 
decided to establish an open-

ended vrorking group on questions relating to inforrnation. under the chairmanship of
l'1r, Giovanni .Iannuzzi, Vice-Chairrnan of the Conmittee.

I I. CONSIDERATIoN oF DRAFT RESoLUTIoNS A/sPc/ 39 /L.2O /F.ev. I
AND A/SPS/39/ L. zllRev.I

7. At the 50th meeting, on 7 Decetnber, the representative of Eg)E! introduced
two draft resolutions (A/sPc/39/L.2O4ev.l and A/sPc/39/L.2LlRev.1) on behalf of
the States I'bnber s of the United l'lations that are rnenbers of th€ Group of 77-

8. At the 5lst meeting, ori 10 Decenber, the Conmittee had before it the statement
by the secretary-Genera1 (A/9PC/39/L.3L and Md.I) on the progranrne budget
inpl ications of draf t re solution A/sPc/3g/L. 20,/Rev. 1.

9. At the same meeting, the representatives of Egypt, Nicaragua and Portugal made
statements in connection with the language editions of the draft resolutions.

10. statements in explanation of vote before the vote h,ere nade by the
representatives of Barbados, Ecuador r France, rtaly and the union of soviet
socialist Republics.

1

I

I

1

.t
l

d
I

I

1

L/ official

asuDplement 
No. 21.



D
N39/7L4
EngIish
Page 3

11. At the same meetlng, the Oomrnittee adopted draft resolution
VSPC/39fi'.2OAev.1 by a recorded \rote of 108 to 6 , nith 7 abstentions (6ee
para. 15r draft resolution A). Ihe voting lraa as followsr a/

In favour t Afghanistan, Alg€ria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benln, Bhutan, Bolivia, bts$rana, Brazil,
Brunei Darusaalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Fago, Burma, Burundi,
Eyelorusslan Sovlet Socialist ReF$lic, Caineroon, Cape verde,
China, Col-ombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, C)rprus, Denrocra tlc
KanFrchea, [btftocratlc Yenen, Dennark, Djiboutil Ecuador, Egypt,
El salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, cabon, German Dernocratic
ReFlblic, Greece, G.rinea, Ibnduraa, Hungary, Iceland, Indla,
Indone€ia, Iraq, Ireland, fvory Coast, Janaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait r lao Peoplers Dernocratic Relubllc, I€banon, Liberia,
Lih/an Atab Janahiriya, Madagascar. ltalaygia, t'taldlves, I'IaIl,
Mauritanla, l€xico, !6ngolia, Morocco, l,bzanb lqu e, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, l,brh'ay, Onan, pakistan, panana,
Paraguay r Peru, Phllippines, Foland, Portugal, Qatar, tbnania,
Rwanala, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Sonalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan' Surinane, Srveden, Syrian Arab Reptblic, thailand, tbgo,
Trinidad and Tobago, T\rnisia, Ttrkey, Lrganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Soc1a116t ReFbIic, Irnion of Soviet Soclallst Ir€FrbIics, Irnlted
Arab lhlrates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet lilan r Yemenr yugoslavia, zalre, zanbia. zinbabve.

c€rnany r Federal Republic of, Israel, ilapan, NetJrerlands, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern lreland, Irnited States of
emerica.

l9gi4r

E!g!]U!g.r Australla, Belgium, Canada, france, Italy, Luxenbourg,
l€w Zealand.

12. At the sane meetlrlg, the Corunittee atlopted draft resolution
A*C/J9/L.2L/ReV.1 by a recorded \tote of 98 to 6' wlth L7 abstentions (see
para. 15, draft resolution B). The voting was as follo$rar Z/

E@r Afghanistan, Algeria. Arqo]-a, Argentlna, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsnana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam. Bulgaria, Bufkina Fa6o, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian

.Soviet Socialist Republic, Cam€roon, Cape Verde, China, Colonbia,
6n9o, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cvprus, Denpcratic lGmpuchea, Denocratic
Yenen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, EI Salvador, Ethiopia, cabon,
Gerrnan DenEcratic Rep.rb1ic, Glinea. Iionduras, llungary, India,
Irdone€ia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, ,tamalca, Jordan, Kenya, Kuuait,

,

I

-
)r

,
U The representatives of

Lesotho and senegal stated that'
favour of the .draft resolution.

Ghana, cuatemala, the Islanic Republic of Iran,
had they been present, they would have voted in



A/39/7t4
Engll6h
Pag e 4

Lao PeoPle's Denpcratic RePublic, Lebanon, Liberia' Libyan Arab
Janahiriyal Madagascar r t'tataysla, l,bldives, !'tal1, l'lauritania,
tlexico, trongolla, l,brocco, t4o zarnbique, NePalr Nicaragua, Niger,
Nlgerlar Cnan, Pakistanr Panama' Paraguay, Perur PhlllPpines,
Ilolard, gatarr Romania, Rwandar Saudi Arabiar singapore, Somaliat
Sri lanka, Sudan' suriname, Syrian Arab neplbllc. llhailand' !ogo,
Trlnidaat and Tobago' Tunisia, lfurkey' Uganda' Ukrainian soviet
sbclatis ReFrblic, Itrlon of soviet socialist Repubucs, tnitetl
Arab Eniratea, unlted RePublic of Tanzania, uruguayr venezuela,
vtet Nan' yemen. yugoslaviar zaire' Aambia, zimbabne.

4ggigr Gernany' Federal Repfrbllc of' I6rael, JaPan' Netherlands, United
Ki ngdon of Great Britain and Northern lreland, Irni ted states of
America.

Abstalnlnqr Austrafia' Austrla' Eelglun, canadar Denrnark' Finland, France,
Greecer lceland, Ireland, Italy r lrxenbourg, tile$ zealand, lforway t
Fortugalr SPain' Slreden.

13. Statementa in exPlanation of vote w€re nade by the representatives of Albaniat
Austria, Benin, canada' Colonbia, Flnland' Gerrnany. the Federal Republic of,
Israel, .ra[En, tlalaysiar the tiletherland6, Portugal, Turkey, the ulited Klngdo$ of
Great Britain and t'torthern lreland and the United states of ltnerica.

14. the r€presentative of lbypt, a6 chalrman of the Group of 77, nade a atatement.

II

I

!
l



I
t-

r

a

A/39/7L4
EngIi6h
Page 5

III. RE@MUENDAT TONS BY TBE SPECIAL POI,ITICAL @MUITTEB

15. The special Political connittee recolunends to the General Asaenbly the adoPtion
of the folLo{ri ng draft resolutionsl

QueEtion6 relating to infor ation

A

&-9cns.a1A6.ss@f,

Recaflingitsresolutions3535(xxx)of17December1975,31,/139of16
r. t-E-cenuer 19?6 ' 33,/115 

A to c of 18 Decenber L978, 34/IsL and 34,/182
of L8 Decenbet LgTg' g5/2oL of 16 Decenber 1980, 36/149 B of 16 Decenber 1981
and 37/94 B of Io oecernler :Lg82, 38/82 B of 15 Decenber 1983 on questions
relatlng to infornatlon,

Recallinq artlcl-e 19 of the universal Declaration of ltutnan Rights, 3/
wnicrt-F6ifEEE that everyone has the right to freedon of opinion and
ex;xession and that this rlght include6 freedon to hold oplnlons nithout
interference and to seek, receive and inpart inforrnation and ideas tlrrough any
media and regardless of frontlers' and artlcle 29r whlch stipulates that these
rightsandfreedomsrnaylnnocasebeexercisedcontrarytothepurPogeaand
prirEiples of the United Nations'

Recallingaleoarticleglgand20ofthelnternatlonalcovenantonCivil
and Folitlcal Rights. /

Recallinq the relevant provisions of the Polltical Declaration of the
seventh conference of Heads of state or Governnent of lbn-Aligined @untrie6
helal at New Delhi from T to 12 l'Larch 1983, y in whictr the importance of
the establiatment of the nen world informatlon and cornmunlcatlon order was
stressed anet ' as weII as the relevant 

provisions of the Final Declaration of
the Sixth @nference of Heads of State or Government of lbn-Ali gnedl Countries
heldatllavanafrom3togsePternber.l.gTg/andparticularlythefinal
documents of the oonference of the uini€ters of Informatlon of lbn-Aligned
countries held at Jakarta from 26 to 30 January L984. U

Resofution 217 A (III) .

nesolution 2200 A (xxl).

see A/3s/L32-sA5675 and corr.l" and 2, annex' sect. I,

*e A/34/542, allrl€X r s€ct. I' Paras- 280-299.

N 39/L39-s/L6430, annex.

v
!/
v
9J

v

I
i

I

t

I

'a

-.
-

para. 173.



A/39/7L4
English
Pag e 6

Recallins its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 {S-VI) of I l{ay 1974r
containlng the Declaration and the Progranme of Aatlon on the Establlstment
of a New International Econornic order, 3281 {XXIX) of 12 Decenber 197{,
contalning the Charter of Economic Rights anal Dutiea of stateE, and
3362 (S-VII) of 15 September 1975 on developnent and internatlonal economic
co-operatlont

Recalling the Declaration on Fundanental Princlples coneerning the
@ntribution of the Hass Media to strerqthening l€ace and Internatlonaf
Understanding, to tbe Promotlon of Human Rlghta and to CounterirB Raciallsn,
Apar.theid and Incitenent to war, as vrell as the relevant re6olutions on
infornation and nas6 comlunicatlons adopted by the ceneral Conference of
the United Nationg Educatlonal, Scientific and Cultural organization at ita
nineteenth, twentieth, twenty-f irst and t\renty-second sessions,

&callins the rele\rant proviBions of the Final Act of the @nference on
security and Co-operation in Europe, signed at Eelslnki on I August 1975, and
those of the oncluding f,bcument of the neetl.ng of representatlv€E of the
participating States of the Conference on Security and Co.operation ln Europe,
hel-d at !,liadrid from 11 Novenber 1980 to 9 septernbe! 1983,

Recalling also the reLevant provisions of the Declaratlon on the
Preparation of societies for Life in Feace, g/

Conscious of the need for all countries, the Unlted Nations sy€tem as a
whole and all otherE concerned' to collaborate in the establlshment of a nelt
world information and comnunication order based, gElllb, on the free
circulation and r,rlder and better balanced dissenination of infornatlon,
guaranteeing diversity of sources of inforrnatlon and free accesa to
inforrnatlon, and, in particular, the urgent need to change the dependent
statua of the developing countries in the field of infornation and
comrunicatlon, as the principle of sovereign equality arpng nations extenda
also to this fleld, and intended alao to strengtien peace and international
understanding, enabling all persons to participate effectively in polltical,
econonic, social and cultural life and protrpting understanding and friendshlp
anong all nations and human rights'

Reaffirminq that the establlshnent of a nev, rrorld information and
comnunication order is llnked to the new international economic order and is
an integral part of the international developtnent process.

EnFhaslzinq the inportant role that prblic inforrnation play6 ln pEotrEtl ng
understanding of and suppor t for the establlshlent of the ne[, internatlonal
economic order and international co-opeiation for developnent.

Enphasizinq the role that public informatlon plays in pronoting support
for universal diaarnanent and in lncreaslng arrareneas of the relatlonshlp
between disarmarnent and developnent anorg as broad a public as posslble,

I

:
i

I

1

I
I

v Resolution 3 3/7 3.



I

I

.

I
;

I,

A/39/7t4
Enqlish
Paqe 7

Reaffirming the prirnary role which the General Assembly is to play in
elaborating. co-ordinatirg and harmonizlng United Natlons policies and
activities ln the fleld of inforrnation. and recognizing the central and
inportant role of the United Nations Educatlonal, scientific and Cultural
organization in the fielal of information and corununication, and tiac the
United Nations systen as a whole and aII others concerned, give that
organj.zation adequate suptrrrt and assistance in the field of infornatlon and
eonununicatlont

Recoghlzing the importarEe of tlre cc-ordination and co-oPeration between
the Departtnent of Public Informatlon of the secretariat, the lhited l'lations
Deve lopment Programne. the ttnited Natlons Educational' scientific and cultural
organization, and the Internatlonal Prograrnme for the Developrnent of
conrnunicatlon in the protrFtion of the establishnent of a new rlorld infornatlon
and corununication order,

nrlly alrar€ and cognizant of the imlDrtant contribution which the mass
media worltl<ride can make in enhancing and strengthening peace, deeP€ning
international understanding, pronptirq justlce, equality' national
independence, deveLopment, the exercise of human rights and the establishment
of a new world infornatlon and comNnication order,

Notlnq that the forthcorning celebratlon of the fortieth anniversary of
tie creation of the United Nations wlII provlde a unique opportunity to
prorpte and prbliclze the noble goals and aconPlishments of the tnlited lgtiona
as a major forun for pooling the efforts of states to contribute to the
solutlon of vital world problens,

lbtinq that the year 1985 will elso nark the twenty-fifth anniversaEy of
the adoption of the hlstoric Declartion on the Granting of IndeP€ndence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained ih General As6ernbly resolution
1514 (xv) of 14 Decenber 1960, and the irnportant role that the tnited Natlons
plays in its inplementation,

Expressing its satisfaction lrith the successful co-ordination and
co-operation dispLayed try the Departnent of Pub1ic InfornEtion with the
titon-Al- ign ed Nehrs Agencies Pool, as well as nith nerrs ag€ncies of other
developi ng and developed countries, and convlnced tiat such efforts have
contributed significantly to progreEs towards a nen world infornation and
conuunication order,'

Taking note of the implenentation by the Department of Public Information
of those parts of the Declaratlon and Prograinme of Action relevant to
infornation of the International conference ln Support of the struggle of the
llanlblah People for Independence held ln Parls in APril 1983 9/ as ttell ag
those parts relevant to infornation of the Declaration and Programne of Action

t
I

2/
e for

eInternational Confere of the
c$NF.12043), part



N3e/7L4
English
Page I

of the Extraordinary !'leeting of the United Nations council for Namibia held
at Bangkok, from 21 to 25 f,ray 1984. !L/ in order to develop and further
strengtlen the dissenination of infornation regarding the struggle for
independence of the people of Nanibia, with a view to reaching the broadeat
posslble prblic by means of a nore systematic and better co-ordinated
infornation in accordance with @neral Assembly resolution 38/36 D ot
2 Decenber 19 83,

Takinq note alao of the inplementation W ttre Departnent of Public
Infornatlon of those part6 of the progranme of action for the achlevement of
PaLestinian rights relevant to information, ln accordance with General
Assenbly resolution 38/58 E of 13 Decenrber 1983.

Taking note of the report of tie ,Ioint Inspection Unit on ptblications
pollcy and practice in the lhited lGtions syatem ' fy

El<pressirq its satisfacbion with the work of the connittee on Information
as reflected in its report to Ule ceneral Assembly at its thirty-ninth
session, !a/

Takirg note with satisfaction of the report of the Secre tary-ceneral on
questlons relating to infornation, ll/

Taking note rrith satisfaction of the reFort of the Dlr ector-ceneral of
the lrnited !,lations Educational, Scientific and clrltural organization, !L/

1. Approve s the report of the Conunlttee on Inforrnation, and a]-l the
recomlendations contained and annexed to Che pregent reaolution and affirns
the requests ard appeals reproduced thereln as well as all tbe provisions of
@neral Assenbly resolution 38/82 B, antl particularly all those uninp:lenented
recormendatlons, and urges their full lmplementationl

2. Reaffirns the nandate given to the Corunlttee on Infornation by the
ceneral Assembly in its resolut.ion 34,482'

3. Requests the @nmittee on Infornation, keeplng Ln mind its nanalate.
the essential tasks of trhicfi are to continue to examine the policies and
activitieB of the Departnent of Publlc Infornation of the Secretariat,

!9/ A/39/24 (Part I), para. 495.

ry v3e/23e.
!y Official Rec"ords of the ceneral Aasetnbly ' Thirty-ninth Session,supplenent No. 21 (F'/39/2L').

lY V3s/47e.
!L/ A/3e/4e7.

U

I

,l

1

:

l
,i

i

I

U
I



I
A/39/7L4
Engli6h
Page 9

to continue to profiote the establlshment of a lr€wr lllor€ just and effective
world information and conmunicatlon order and to continue to seek the
co-op€ration and aceive partlciPation of all organizations of the Lnited
Nations system' particularly the united Nations Educational, scl€ntific and
cultural organlzation and the International ltleconununication unlon, while
taking all possible step6 to avoid any overlapPirE of activltles on this
subject tII

4. Reaffirqq its strong suPport
sclentlfic and oJltural organization,
reflected therein' its actlvi tles and
capabilities witlt a view to prorbtj'ng
information and comnunication order t

for the United Nations Educational,
its constitution and the ideals
for itE efforts to further enhance its
the establish{rent of a new world

i
I

5. Reiterates its aPpeal to I'bnber states' to the information and
conununicatl6i-TEdia, both public and private' as well as to non-governnental
organizatlona, to disseminate more widely objective and better balanced
iniornation about the activities of bhe united Nations and, inter alia' about
the efforts of the developing countrles tooards their econornic ' 

social and
cultural progress and about the efforts of the international' comnunity to
achieve internatlonal social justice and economic develoPment, international
peace and security with the pronotion of disarnament and the progressive
elirnlnaiion of international inequities and tensionst and the pronotion
of human rights and fundarnental freedons and the righb of Peoples to
se lf-determinationt such dissemlnation being alned at achieving a more
cornprehenelve and realisti.c image of the activities and potential of the
united l,lations systen in all its purposes and endeavourst

6. lilEg. the D€partment of Public Information to give the i'rialest
pogslble dissemination of igformation pertaining to the observance of the
trrenty-fifth anniversary of the Declaration on ttre Grantlng of IndePendence
to colonlal @untries and Peoples with a view to strengttrening international
conrnitnent to the total eradlcation of coloniallsm in all its fornst

7. I4ggg the Department of Frblic Infornation to strengthen its
co-oper a tia;fth the Pool News Agencles of the I'lon-Nigneal Countries and ln
particular to ensure that its dally dis[Etches are received by the United
Nations offlce at Geneva and United Natiohs Headquarters in New Yorkt

8. Requests the Department of Public Information to continue its
fo1l-on-up prograrunes in further imPlementation of those Parts rel'evant to
pubJ.ic infornration in the Declaratlon and PrograNne of l|ctlon of the
International Confererce in SupPort of the Struggle of the Namiblan PeoPle for
Independence' held in Parie in APril 1983, 9/ as weJ'l as in the Declaration
ard Progranune of Action of the Extraordinary t'beting of the United Natlons
councll for l'Ianiblar held in Bangkok frorn 2l to 25 !4ay L954, yj/ and to report
thereon to the next substantive sesaion of the Conunittee on Infortnationt

9. BeSggg. the DePartment of Public Information to cove! adequately
Folicies and piactices rrhich vlolate the PrinciPtes of lnternational law
ielative to belligerent occupatlon, in particular the Geneva @nvention



v39/7L1
English
Page l0

relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of war, of
12 August L949, E/ wherever they occur. eBpecially those policies and
practices vhich frustrate the attainment and exerclse of the inal.ienable and
natlonal legitirnate rights of the Palestinian people in accordarrce wlth the
relevant resolutions of the United Natlons, and to report thereon to the next
6ub6tantive session of the @rEnittee on Infornationt

10. Reiterates the reconnendation contained in ite resolution 351201
of 15 Decen$er 1980 that addltional resources for the Departnent of Public
Informatlon should be conunensurate wi.th the increase in the activitles of the
Itni ted l.lations which the Departnent is called upon to cover for the purpose
of pblic lnformation, and that the Secre tary-C€neral should provlde such
r€sources to the Department to this end Hhere neededt

11. Ige:ElEgE the importance of the rapitlly increasing role of United
tlatlons public infornation progranmes in fostering prblic unalerstandlng and
sqrprt of Unlted Nations activitles and requests the Department of publlc
Inforrnatlon to conslder the recontnendations contained in the report of the
ilolnt Insp€ction Unit ly on publications pollcy and practice in the United
Ntlons system and to repore to the ommittee on Infornation at its next
6ubatantive sessionr

12. Elb to increase the nernber ship of tbe Unlted Natlons Conmlttee
on Infornation from sixty-seven to sixty{rlne anal appoints Chlna and !,lexico as
new arenber s1

13. Requests the Secre tary-General to report to the Cornnittee on
InforrEtion, at its Bubstantive seasion in 1985, on the implenentation of
all the recolunendations contained ln the Conmitteer s reportt

14. Requests the Secretary-ceneral to consider the proposalB of the
cover nnEnts of Benin and Poland on the opening of tnited Natlons lnfornation
centres, in the llght of reconurendation 37 of the @nmittee on Information
and of the criteria establish€d in ceneral Assenbly resolution 38/82 of
15 Decenber 1983, and to report to the ceneral AssenbLy at its fortieth
sesslont

15. 3ggslq the Secre tary-C€neral to report to the ceneral Assenbly at
itd fortieth session on the implementation of the present lesolution and, in
particula!, on the lnpletnenhation of all the reconrnendationa contained in the
annex to the present resolutiont

16. Requeets the Conudttee on Information to report to the ceneral
Assernbly at its fortieth sessionl

17. Decides to lncl-ude in the provi6lonal agenda of its fort ietlr sesslon
the lten entitled nQuestions relating to infornation'.

a
1

l

'l

1

I

f

tf!/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 751 p. 287.



I
v39/7L4
Engli6h
Page 11

ANNEX

E. Reco0nendatlons

86. The Connittee on Information submits the following recoNnendatlons to the
General Assenblyr

t. The recordflendations of the Co nittee on Infornation approvetl by the
ceneral Asaenbly ln resolution 38/82 B of 15 Decefiber 1983, as wel-L as
all provisions of the resolutionr should be reiterated., taking into
account the views exPressed by alelegations at the plenary neeting of the
thirty-eighth session of the General Assenbly on 15 December 1983. Those
recorunendations should be inplenented in fu]'I. and the Lniled libtiong
secre tary-General ahould be requested to rePort to ttle next substantlve
se€sion of the Comdttee on Inforrnation on measures taken for the
implenentation of those reconmendations and provisions Pending
inplenentation.

2. The mandate of the Cornmittee on Infornation should be rene$ed as
set forth in General Assenbly resolution 34/L82 ot I8 Decenber 1979 and
reaffirmed in Assentbly resolutions 35/2oL of 16 Decenber L980, 36/L49
of 16 Decenber 1981, f7/94 B of IO Decenber 1982 and 3a/AZ B of
15 December 19 83.

3, AII countries, the United Nations systern as a wholer and aII others
corcernedr should collaborate in the establishnent of a new world
infolnation and corununl-cation order based, inter alia' on the free
circulation, and rrider and better balanced dissemination of infornEtion'
guaranteeirry the diversity of sources of information and free access to
infornation, andr in particular, the urgent need to change the depende"t
atatus of the deve loplrg countrie6 in the fleld of informatlon and
comunications, as the principle of sovereign equality atrpng natlons
extenda also to this field, and intended also to stretrgthen Peace and
international understandlng, enabling aII persons to PartlciPate
effectively in Political, econonic, social and cultural life, and
pronFting understanding and frlendghip arpng all nations and human right8.

4. The United states system should reiterate its aPPeaI to the
international media and increase its efforts for actlon by the
international community tonards global deve loPment and, in Particular,
for the efforts of the developi ng countries to achieve econonic, soclal
and culturaL progress.

I
t

,
I

t

,^,
-
t



A/39/7L4
English
Pag e 12

a
5. under the current rnternationar crinate of poritical conflicts and
econonic disorders, the Comnittee on Infornation, fully aware and
cognizant of the inportant contributlon that the nass media worLal-wide
can nake in enhanclng and strengthening peace, aleepening lnternational
under standing, prornoting justlce, equality, national independerrce,
developnent, the exercise of hunan rights and the eatabllshrnent of a new
rdorld informatlon and cotmunication order, reconnends that the ceneral
Assenbly appeal to the mass nedia to re spond in a positive way to
opportunities available to them ln this fleld. in order to open new
vistas of progresa for the norld connunity.
6. Arrare of the existence of structurar inbarances in the internationar
distributlon of nei{s affecting the t*o.aray flow of nerrs, the @m.ittee
on rnformaLion recomrnends that urgent attention should be given to the
elinlnation of existing inequalities and arr other obstacres in the freefror and wider and better bar.anced dissemrnation of information, ideag
and knowledge, by inter alia, diversifying the sources of information asa step toward free and more baranced information and the pronptron of the
establishnent of a world infonnation and cormnunication order.
7. lrhe conunittee on rnformation recomnends that the need be stressed
to ensure and prornote the accesE of the developing countrles to
conununication technology includirg conmunlcation satellites, nodern
electronic information syst€ns, lnformatics and other advanced
information and conununication facilities with a view to inproving their
olrn lnfornation and comnunlcatron sygterns corresponding to the specific
conditions prevalling ln each countiy.

8. The Cormnittee on Infornation, expresEing its satisfaction with the
succeasful co-ordination and co-operation dlsplayed by the Department of
Public Information with the lbn-Aligned Nerrs Agencles bol, ae rrell a6
wlth news agencies of other developirq and developed countries, and
convinced that such efforts have contributed significantry to progress
torrards a new worrd inforrnation and comnunication order. recomnendg thatthe Departrnent of pubric rnfornation of the secretariat strengtheh its
co-operation witi the pool and wiur tbe agencles of aleveloping countriea
as this co-operation constitutes a concrete step torrards a more juet andequitable flor{ of information thus contributlng to the establishtnent of a
new world information and conununication order.

9. The comtnlttee on fnformation, while recognizirq the lnpor tance of
the co-ordlnatLon and co-operation between the Departrnent of Fubric
Information, the United Nations Development progranne, the United Nations
Educatlonal' scientific and orltural organizatlon and the rnternational
Programne for the Deveroprnent of conrnunication in the pronrtion of the
establishnent of a neH vorld information and cornnunlcation order,
recomnends that the Secre tary-General ghould be requeated to prepare
a consolidated study, hrithin existlng resources, on the contributlons,effects, levels of co-ordination betneen thoae organizations and the
fnternational Teleconrrunlcatj.on tnlon j.n support of the develoFnent

:
I

I
I

I

{
I

I

I

:

l

1
l

-)



D

i
I

J

I

M39/714
English
Page 13

of infornation and communlcation infrastructure and systena in the
de\re loping countrles for suhnission at tbe next substantive session of
the Connittee on Information.

10. The United Nations systen as a whole as vtell as the developed
countries should be urged to cHperate in a concerted nanner nlth the
deve loping countrles towards strengthening the infornation and
cornnunication infraetructureE of the latter countries in accordance wlth
the priorities attached to such areas bY the deveLoplng countries with a
view to enabling them to develop their own infortnatlon and comlunication
policies freely and independently and in the light of their history,
aocial values and cultural hraditions. In this regard' full suPport
for the International ProgranEne for the Developnent of communication
which constitutes an important Etep in ttre develoPrnent of these
infrastruc ture sr should always be emphasized.

11. lthe ltnited uations systern should co-operate ln a concerted nanner,
th rough its infornation servlces, in Pronoting r as a natter of high
priorlty, the developnent actlvlties of the lrnited Natlons and, ln
particular, tlle lmprovement of the conditions of the lives of the people
of developi ng countries.

L2. The Unlted Nations system should constantly proltDte the creation of
a clinate of confidence in relattons a|I|ong statea, as a means of easing
tension and factlitatirg the establishnent of a new world infornation and
conmunication order.

13. Reaffirming the prirnary role lthidt the General A6senbly Is to Play
in elaborating, co-ordinating and harnronizlng thited Natlona policies and
activi ties in the field of infornation and recognizirg the central and
inportant role of the urited t'lation€ Elucational. sclentlfic and cultural
organization in the field of lnformation and cormtunication, the conmittee
on Infornation recomends tllat the lrnited l,tations system as a lrhole and
all others concerned should be urged to give that organizatlon adequate
support and assistance ln the field of lnfornation and comllunlcation-
The D€partment of Public Inforrnation in particula! should co<perate nore
regularly with the thiteal l'lations DElucational, Scientific and cultural
organlzation, especially at the workirry level. Lith a view to rnaxinizing
the contributions of the Department of Rrblic Information to the efforts
of the Unlted Natlons Educational' Scientific and cultural organizatlon
in pronotl ng the establishnent of a new world infornation and
conrnunication order and to disseminatlrg as widely as posslble
infornation on the actlvlties of that organlzation in this respect.

14. The secre tary-General should be requested to present to the General
Assenrbly at its thlrty{rlnth session lnformation concerning the
arrangenents for the convening, jointly with the Unlted Nations
Educational, sblentlfic antl orltural organlzation, of a round table
ln 1985 on a new world infornation and comnunication order.

t



^/39/7L4English
Pag e 14 a

15. The Departnent of public Inforrnation should be urged to rnonitor, as
appropriate, important neetings of the l,tcvement of lbn-Aligned ountries,
as nell as of regional intergovernmental organizations devoted to
lnfornation and comlunication questions within existing resources.

16. The United Nations system, partlcularly the United Nations
Educational, scientific and qrltural Organisation, should aitn at the
provision of all possible support and assistance to the developing
countries, withln exlstlng resources, wlth regard to their interests and
needs in the field of information and to actlons already adopted within
the Unlted Nations system, includi ng, in particular s

(a) Assistance to developirg countrl.es in training journalists
and technical personnel and in setting up appropriate educational
institutions and research facllltiesr

(b) lthe granting of favourable conditlona to provide access to
developing countries to such comnunlcation technology as is requisite for
the establishennt of a national information and comnunication system and
cor respondent vrith the specific situation of the country concernedl

(c) The creation of conalltions that will gradually enable the
deve loping countries to produce the conmunication technology suited to
tbeir national needs. as weII as the necessary progranne naterial,
specificauy for radio and television broadcastirE, by uslrq their own
resource s,

(d) Assistance in establishlrg teleconmunication links at
subregional, regional and interreglonal levels, especially anpng
developing countries, free from any kind of condltioning.

17. A11 the information activities of the Departnent of public
Information should be guided by and carrled out in conforrnity wlth the
prlncipilea of the Charter of the Uhited Nations and the aEpiratlon for a
nen world infornation and communication order, as rrelL as conforning to
the consengus reacheci arnong States in resolution s 2L C/4/Lg, Zl anal 22,
as adopted at the twenty-first session of the ceneral Conference of the
Ulited tlatlons Educatlonal, Scientific and Orltural Organization.

18. The role of the Departnent of public Infornation as the focal point
for the fornulation and inplenentation of inforrnation activitles of the
gnited Nattons should be re-ernphasized, and in this regard the Cornmittee
reconunends that the proliferatlon of infornEtion unlts in the Secretariat
lndependent of DPI should be discouraged.

19. The Secretary-ceneral should be requested to enaure that the
activities of the Departnent of public Infornation, a6 the focal point
of the p:blic information tasks of the lhited l,btions, Ehould be
strergthened' keePing in view the prlncipLes of the Charter of the Unlted
l.btlons and along the llnes established in the pertinent resolutions

:
I

!

I

{
I



t
t

;

t
I

t
I

I
I

;

)

A/39/7L4
En911sh
Pag€ 15

of the ceneral Assenlcly and the recorunendations of the @rnmittee on
Information, to ensure a nore coherent coverage of and a better knovledge
about the thlted Natlons and its hrork, especlaUy ln its priority areas,
such as those stated in section III, paragraph I, of Agsernbly resolution
35/20L of 16 December 1980, including lnternatlonal peace and security,
disarmament, peace-keeping and peace-rnakirg operatlons, decolonization,
the pronption of human rights, the struggLe against apartheid and racial
discriminatlon, econonlc, soclal and development issues, the integratlon
of women in the struggle for peace and d€velopment, the establiatunent of
the new international economic order and of a new world information and
comrnunicatlon order, the $ork of the lhlted l.lations @unciI for t{anlbla
and programnes on women and youth.

20. The final docunents of the onference of the l,linisters of
Information of the !.lon-ALighed Countries, held at .takarta fron 26 to
30 January L984,- U should be noted.

2L. The Departrneht of Public Informatlon should nalntain editorial
independence and accuracy in reporting for a1l rnaterlal produceal by the
DelErtnent and should prolpte to the greatest possible extent an inforned
understanding of the nork and purFoses of the lhited I'latlons arDng the
peopl e of the rrorld, It should take the neceissary measurea to en€ure
that its output contains objective and equitable infornatlon about lasueg
before the Organization, reflectlng divergent opinlonE where they occur.

22. The resolution adopted at the onference of the l.dnisters of
Infornation and Communication of the countrles acting as centres of
redistrlbutlon of the lbn-Allghed Neers AgencieE lrool, neeting in Cairo
on 9 and 10 May 1984, on the establishnent and consolidation of an
inforrnation netrrork for news and broadcasting agencies of the l,lcvement
of Non-Aligned Countries should also be noted.

23. The relevant resolution on the question relating to infortratlon of
the sunmit meeting of the Fourth Is].amlc Sun[nlt Conference, held at
CasabLanca frotn 16 to 19 January L9A4,. !9/ should be noted.

24. In connection with the forthconing celebratlon of the fortiettr
anniversary of the creation of the lhited libtlons, DPI should be urged to
give app,ropriate support to the Preparatory Comnittee for the Fortieth

inuation of exanlnation of

Ll t/ lg/tlt'st/L6 4]-4 and corr.I.



A/39/7L4
English
Pag e 16

!

t

I
I

/(-

'l

d
I

t
1

rl

1

{

n/
!9/

Anniver8ary of the United Nations in proroting and publicizirq the noble
goals and acconplishments of the Uhited Nations as a rna j or forurn for
pooling efforts of states to contribute to the solution of vital world
Prob1en6.

25. The Department of Pub1ic Information should continue to ensure that
the daily dispatches of the lbn-Nigned News Agencies FooI that it
receives are appropriately utiLized in the per fornance of the public
infornatlon ta6ks of lhe ttni ted liationss

(a) With a view to further pro[lptlon and development of a
functional and nutually beneflclal co-operation betrreen the Departnent
ard the t'lo n-Aligrred News Agenclea Pool the existing arrarqenents in the
Department for the conduct of this co-operatlon should be eatablished on
a rnore regular bas isl

(bl Having in mind the successful joint coverage by the PooI of
inportant conferences and other events rdlthin the tnited l{ations systen'
this practice should be continued and further strengthenedt

(c) Ttre Department should consider the posslblllty of utilizing
tbe digpatches received from the Pool to establish a data base on the
information and comnunication facilities in the non-aligmed countrles.

26. In connection lrith its annual traininlt prograrure for journalists
and broadcasters frotn developlng countrles' the Department of Public
Infornation should allocate the last week of the programne for thei.r
visit to one of hhe developing countrieE tiat expresses readiness to
receive them for the purpose of acquainting thernEelves with the ways in
which infornation on the thlted lbtions is received and utilized.

27. The interirn report of the fnternational Telecomnunication Union
on the world @nulunications \ear !f1l should be noted and the
Secre tary-ceneral should be requested to make available to the Comnittee
on Infortnation at its Bubstantive aeeslon ln 1985 a comprehensive report
on the outcone of the activities of the International Telecommunlcation
Union witlt regard to the Year.

28. The exchange of information between the Corntnittee on Infornation and
the @runission on fran6national corporations in natters pertaining to the
nandate of the conmittee should again be encouraged.

29. The report of the Secretary-C€neral on the aoquisition by the thited
Nations of its ordn cornmunicatlons satellite ]g/ should be noled. The
secretary-ceneral should be requegtetl to present, at the next substantive

A/Ac.L98/79.

A/^c.L98/7 3.



D

A/39/7L4
English
Page l7

session of the Conrnittee, a conplementary report on the acquiEition ot
a United Nations colununicatLons satellite, in compliarrce with the
Comnittee I s reconmendatio[ 36. L2r1

30. The attention of the pertinent organs of the ceneral Assembly and of
the Ihited natlons system as a whole should be drawn to the findings of
the International Te lecomnunication Union' !9/ especially as concerned
the problem of the geostationary orbit reflected ' 

inter alla, ln
paragraphs 33 and 49 of that report, taking into account the needE of
the developi ng countries.

31. witi regard to its co-operation with the Non-Al igned Nerra Agenciea
Fool a6 well as with the regional news agencies in developing countrieB,
the tepartment of Public Infornation should co-operate as appropriate
with the lhited l.Iatlons Ealucatlonal, scientiflc and Crlltura1 organlzation
in assisting that organlzation, witiln existir€ resources' in the
followi ng act ivitiesr

(a) In tlle preparation and inplementation of a plan of integrated
conmunication nethror k and regional data and cornmunication centreat

(b) In providing facllities for meetirgE on data and comnunlcation
6xchange of the prblic information bodies of the non-aligned countrles,

(c) fn the preparation for observarFe of 1985 as the Year of
bmlunication for information bodies in the non-aligned countries.

32. The Departnent of Public Information should cloEely co-operate wlth
the united l,lations EducationaJ.r Scientific and C'r.rltura1 organization
and the !{on-Aligrned Nevrs Agencies PooI to organize a vror kshop, wittrin
existing r€6ouEe€sr in 1985 for farnlli arizlatlon of news agenclea of
deve Loping countries with nodern tec,h nology of relevarce to news
agencies, and in the standardlzation of teaching me tioda and syllabuses
and to produce training manuals in various larguages for the trainlng
centres of the Fool.

33. The Secre tary-cenera I should be requested once agaln to malntain the
functlons of the I'tlddle East/Arabic thit a6 the producer of Arabic
televislon and radlo progranmes, and to strengthen and expand this unit
to enable it to functlon in an eff€ctive flltrD€f r and to report to the
next substantive session of the CorMdttee on Informatlon on the measureE
taken in implenentation of this recomlendation.

34. In vievr of the inportarpe of ltn itedl Nations broadcastirg for the
European region, steps should be taken to tnaintain and enbance the
functlons of the European Unit in the ltadio Servlce through redepLola0ent
of exlsting resources.

It



A/39/7L4
Eng1i6h
Pag e lE

35. The Departnent of Public Information should be requeated to u€e the
offlcial ceneral As6enb.Ly languages aalequately in lts docurpnts and t
audio-vi sual documentation ln order to inform the Frblic better about the
actlvltles of tbe thited lilations. It should also make available to the
Frerch language sectlon of the press and publications Division of the
Department, rrlthln exlsting resources, the means that will allow lt to
distribute consistent press releases in sufficient quantlty to satisfy
the needs of numerouE delegations tlat use French as a working language. \

36. Effectlv€ step6 should be taken to ensure that the Unlted Nations
lnformatlon centres glve adequate services in local languages. Such r
steps are to be taken wlthln existing resources. The Conudttee should
be inforned about the impLenentation of this reconmendatlon at its next
gubstantive session. t
37. The Secre tary-crneral nay be requested to consider the proposal of
the c,overnnents of Benin and hland on the openi ng of ulited t{ations
inforrnation centres in thelr respectlve countries in the llght of
criteria established in cen€raL Assenbly resolution 38/82 of
15 Decetnber 1983, th rough the redeplo)rnent of resources, and to report
to the General Assetnbly at it6 thlrty-ninth session.

38. United Nations infornation centre€ should continue to assist pres6
and information media in their respective countries, and, lnter aLia,
pronote the establlshnent of a nen world information and comunication
order.

39. While the co-operation betneen the Departnent of publlc Information
and the tnited I'latlons Developnent Programne in the fleld should be
protnoted to the naxinutn €xtent, it is also inportant to bear in nind the
intrinsic functions of Lirited liatlons lnfonEtion centres as distlnct
from those of the United Nations development activities. The United
tlations informatlon centres should redouble their effort to publicize the
activities and achievements of operational activitLes for development, !
includlng those of the [hited tlations Development programe, taking into
account the priorlties deterrnined by the ceneral Assernbly.

40. The report of the Secretary-General concerning neasures to improve
the effectiveness of United Natlons infornation centres ltl should be
noted and the Secretary-ceneral should be encouraged to lmplenent the 1
proposals made by hin, within the exlstlng resources atlocated to DpI.

4I. l'he Departnent of public Informatlon should focus on and glve $1der
coverage to the econornlc, social and development activities throughout
the thited l{ations system aimed at achieving a more comprehensive inage
of the activities and potential of the United Nations system, taking into !
account the prlorities set by the ceneral Assernbly, particularly in the
light of the forthcoming fortieth anniversary of the United NationB.

l
I

-
I
I

Iw A/Ac.LgS/7s.



I
A/39/714
Engllsh
Page 19

42. llhe Departnent of Ptdblic Infomatlon should prorEte an informed
understandlng of the work of the United Nations in the area delineated
in ceneral- Assenbly resolutions 34/L46 of IZ December L979. j6/].:19 ot
l-0 Decenber 1981, 37n08 of 15 December L982, 38,/130 and 38,436 of
19 Decenber 1983.

43. Pendirq the possible acquisition by the Unlted Nations of its own
short-wave radio netnork anal taking into accouht the study carried out
by the Departtnent of publlc Inforrnation on this subject 2U, *e
Secretary-ceneral should be requested to report on the question raised in
the document mentioned above, and to inforn the Conrnittee on Infornatl.on
on the rrorking of such a systen and to present an evaluation report on
dally short-wave radio broadcasts from Eeadquarters.
44. Ihe thited Nations infomation centrea Ghould intensify direct and
systenatic comnunication exchange with local infornation and educatlonal
comrunltles in a rnutually beneficial way, espeeially in areas of
particular interest to host countries.

45. the Secretary-@neral should continue his efforts to develop a
system for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the actlvitlee
of the Department of trblic Infortnation, particularly ln the priority
areas deternined by t-tle ceneral Assenbly.

46. lltre Departnent of Rrblic Infomation should lnprove, eithin er<isting
resources, its data-collectlon procedurea with regard to the actual
use nade by redisserninatore of mateiials distributed by the Department
and its information centres and subnit a report to the Cormrlttee on
Infornation at ie next Eubstantive session on progresg nade in this area.
47. Future reports of the Department of public Infornation to the
Conunittee on fnforrnation and to the ceneral Assetnbly, in particular on
nen prograrunes or on expansion of exiating programl€s, should contains

(a) !!ore adequate lnfonnation on the outlrut of lhe Departnent ln.
respect of each topic included in its work programne, nhich forms the
basis of it6 progranme budgett

(b) The coata of the activi ties undertaken ln respect of eactr topicl
(c) More adequate infonnatlon on target audierrces, end use of the

DelErtmentra products, and analysis of feedback data received by the
Departnent t

(d) The Departnent. s evaluation of the effectlveness of lta
alif ferent programnes and activltiesl

r

29/ A/Ac.L98/74.



v39/7L4
Engll6h
Page 20 a

(e) A statement detailirq the Priority level that the secretary-
ceneral has attached to current or future activities of the Department in
docunents dealing with such activities.

48. Itle Secretary-General should be requested to strengthen the
planning, Programning and Evaluation unit of the Department of Public
Informatlon through the redeptotPnent of exlstlng resources-

49. The steps taken by the DePartment of Public Infortnation in
redressing the lmbalance ln its staff should be noted. The DePartmeht
Ehould contlnue to intensify it6 efforts to that end and tbe
Secretary-General should be requested to take urgent step6 to increase
the representation of under repre sented developing countrles, and of other
under represented groul)s of countrles' especially at the senior levels' in
conformity t iti the relevant provisions of the United Nations charter,
anal to submit a reporc to the @nnittee on Infornation at its next
substantiv€ sesaion.

50. Uember States should be called uPon once again to nake voluntary
contrlbutions to the United Nations Trust tund for Econonic and Social
Infornatlon.

5I. Qualityr uaefulness and coverage of the daily press release and the
r,eekly nens aunnary lssued by the Department of t'tlblic fnfornation in all
uorking languages should be further €nhanced and inproved in view of the
inportant lublic infornatlon task8 that they can Perform. ServiceE
provided at the Fress Section of t}|e Departnent of Public Infortnatlon
bo th for the nedia and the delegations should be further inproved. The
Department of Public Infornation should contlnue to co-oPerate closely
wtth and provide aasistance to the thited lilatlons CorresPondents
Association.

52. The DeparLment of Publlc Information should revlew and report to the
next substantive seesion of the orrunittee on Information on the present
systen of charglng the lGrnber Statea and the media for vldeo taPes' audio
tapes and news photogradls of inPortant uhited Natlong events such as
ceneral Assenbly and securi ty council debates witi a view to reduclrE the
present prohlbitive coats of those naterials so as to enable the nedia in
the !€mber states, particularly in the developing countriea, to give
wlder prblicity to such events.

53. The interim report of the secretary-General entitled trThe Departnent
of Public Informatlon as the fbcal Foint for the Formulation and
Inplenentation of Infornation Activities of the unlted Nations' 2f/
should be noted and the secretarlb@neral should be requegted to Gubmit
hls finaL report on the subject to the General Assembly at its
thirty-ninth seasion.

I

t

1

2L/t A/AC.L9e/82.



I
:

I

I

I

/

I
F

I

I
I

/

A/39/7L4
English
Page 21

54, The operations of the l,lon-Governnental Liaison Services (Geneva and
New York) as inter-agency Proj€cts reachirg speciflc target audi€nceE ln
the induEtrialized countries on international development issues should
be continued on a stable financial basis through the United Nations
participation in those services. Ihe Secretarlt-c€neral should be
requested once again to urge all United Nationa specialized agencies to
make long-tern contributions to the financing of those services, thereby
stressing the ir inter-agency character.

55. The .toint United l,lations Information @rnmlttee' as the essential
instrument for inter-agency co-ordination and co-operation in the field
of prblic infornationr ghould be further atrengthened and given nore
responsibilitsy for the Public infornation activities of the entire Unlted
Nations system.

56. since Deve lopnent Forurn is t-he only inter-agency publication of the
United Nations slrsten that concentrates on developm€nt is6ues, the
secre tary-ceneral should, nhile continuing his efforts to secure a sound
and lndependent basls for the periodicall make auch arrangenents through
the regular budget as neceEsary to ensure lts continued Frblicatlon.
ALI the specialized agercles and other organizatlons of the uhited
Nations system should be urged to contribute to the finahcing of this
system+ride publication, thereby recognizl n9 i ta inter-agency character.

57. The Secre tary-General should cohtinue to ensure that Development
Forun retaing lts editorial policy of lntellectual independence, thus
enabling this Fbllcation to continue to serve as a uorld-wide forum in
which diverse opinlons on iscues related to economic and social
deve lopnent can be freely expreased.

58. the Secretary-General should be encouraged to continue and lntensify
his efforts to explore all possibilities outside the regular budget
of the Irni ted Nations of securing the adequate reaources for the
continuation of the lbrld Nerdspaper supplement project.

59. Ihe lior ld Disarmament canlElgn should give full conslderation to
the role of mass media as the nost effective nay to protrote ln rorld
publ-ic opinion a climate of understandingr confidence and co-operation
conducive to peace and disarmarnent ' 

the enhancenent of human rights atrd
developient. wlthin the t'ibr ld Disarrnament caslpaign and Diearmanent l{eek.
the Departnrent of Publlc Information should fulfil the role aaaigned to
it W the cieneral Assenbly by utllizing its expertise and reaources in
grbJ.ic infornatlon to ensure itg rnaxi.murn effectiveness.

l,



Al39/7L4
English
Prye 22 a

B

The ceneral A6senbly,

Recalllng 1t6 resolutions 34481 and 34/L82 of 1g Decenbet f979, 3S/ZOL
of 16 Decenber 1980, 36/149 A of 15 Decernber 198L, 37/94 A and B of
l0 December 1982 and 38/82 A of 15 December 1983,

Recalllnq, the relevant provisions of the fblitical Declaration of the
Seventh Confererpe of Heads of State or @vernment of l.tron-Al.igned Countries,
held at lle$ Delhi frorn 7 to 12 March L983 y in which the importance of the
establishhent of the netr rrorld lnforrnation and conununication ordef was
stressed anew as weLl as the relevant provisions of the final Declaration of
the Slxth ConfererEe of Heads of State or covernrnent of l,ton-Al ighed Countries,
held at Havana from 3 to 9 September 1979, !/ and particularty the flnal
document of the ConfererEe of the Hinisters of Infornatlon of tibn-Aligned
Countries, held at Jakarta from 26 to 30 .tanuary ]994, U

Recalling the reL€vant resolutions adopted by the Conference of geads of
State and covernment of the Organization of Afrlcan Unlty at its eighteenth
ordlnary aes6ion, held at Nairobi frorn 24 to 22.tune LgA]-, &1

I€callinq article 19 of the ttniversal Declaration of zuman Rights, E/
whictl provides that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and
expression and that this right lncludes freedom to hold opinlons without
interfererce and to seek, receive and impart infornation and ideas th rough any
media and fegardless of frontiers, and article 29r which stipulates that these
tights and freedonB nay in no case be exerciaed contrary to the purposes and
principle6 of the United lilations,

Recalllnq the relevant provlslons of the Final Act of the conference on
Security and Co-aperation ln Europe, signed at lielsinki on I AuguEt l9?5i and
thoae of the CorFluding Docunent of the Mattrld meettng of representatives of
the participating States of the @nference on Security and Co-operation in
Europe. held fron 1l November 1980 to 9 Septeinber 1983,

RecalLing also resolutions 4/Lg anA 4,/21 adopted by the ceneral
ConfererEe of the United Nations Educational, Sclentj.fic and Cultural
Organization at itg twenty-first session, held at Belgrade frotri
23 Septemb€r to 28 Oc tober 1980, as well ag resoLutlon 2/03 adopted by the
C,eneral onfer€nce at itd fourth extraordinary ses6ion, held in paris fron
23 l,lovenber to 3 Decernber 1982,

Recalllqg also part VI of resolution /t49 adopted by the ceneral
@nference of tshe United i{ations EEucational, Scientific and Cultural
Organlratlon ln e tober 1980 and, in this context, expresslng anerv the wiah

I

't

t

I
I

\

I&/ N36/534.



I
;

I

r
I

I
r
t
I

,i

\

7

I
/

I

^/39/7L4Engllsh
page 23

that that organizatlon delpnstrate lte t|lllingness to contribule to the
clarificatlon, elaboration and apptication of the concept of a new norld
i nfornation and cormunicatlon order,

Recalurq the Declaration on Fundanental PrlnclPles concernitE the
contrlbution of the l,taas I'bdia to strengthening ltace and International
undleratandirq, to the PronDtlon of Human Rights and to Counterirg Raclallsm,
Apartheid and Incitement to war, adopted on 28 l'lovenber 19?8 by the General
@nfererse of the lrni teal Nations Educational, Scl€ntlfic and Cultural
organization,

Itecalling also the relevant provisions of the D'eclaration on the
Preparatlon of societles for Llfe in Feace' g/

conglderirg that internatlonal co<peration in the fieltl of con ounlcation
dlevetollnent should take place on the basis of egualityl justice' mutual
adtrantage and the prlrElPlea of internatlonal lawt

@n6ciou5 that, in order Progreasively to refitedy existing inbalances' it
is essentlal to strengthen and intensifY the development of infraatructures.
networka and resources in the colrmunicatlon field and tlruB encourage a wlder
ard better balarped dlssemlnation of lnfornatlon,

conscious also ttrat diverse solutlona to information and conmunicatlon
prourEii-EE-IElIIIed becauae soclal, PoutLcal' cultural and economic
problens differ fron one country to another,

EnFhaEizim itB full suPPort for the fnternational PrograIEIE for the
Oevel6frIiE-f Oonnrunlcation of the Ulited Nations !tsucational. Sclentlflc
ard cultural organlzatlon uhlch con6tltute6 an essentlal lnstrunent for the
deveLopnent of the lnfrastructures of communication in the develoPing
countries and the egtabllshnent of a new htorld information and cotnJ0unlcation
order t

Recognizlng the central role of the United Nation8 Educational'
scientific ana cultural organization in the field of information and
colununicatlon wlthln lts nandate, ae rrell as the progress acconpl ished by
that organlzation in that field'

1. Takes note witlt aatisfaction of the rePort of the . Director-General
ot ttre unitea Gtlons tlucatlonal, Scientific and Orltural Organization on
the lmpletnentation of tlle International Programrc for the DeveloPment of
@nununicatlon, !!i/ on the actlvities relating to the establishnent of a new
rrorld infornation and corununication orderr and on the soclal, econornic and
cultural inpact of the new comunication technologiest

2. Appeals to lhe nas6 media all over the world to exPlore aII posslble
avenues for lnore equitable inteEnational eo-operation in the field of
informatlon and comnunicatlon and to re spond ln a tDsitive way to the
exceptlonal opportunlties now available to them in the field of internatlonal
relations, ln order to open new vistaa of Progress for t}le world s€mnuni tyl



A/39/714
English
Pag e 24

3. Underlines the inportarEe of efforts rnade to inplement the
PrihciPles set forth in the Declaration on nrndanental Principles concerning
the contribution of the l,tass f,tedia to strengthenlng peace and rntelnational
Irnderstandlng, to the Pronption of ltunan Ffghte and to ountering Racialisn,
Apartheid and fnciternent to War, adopted on 28 NovernlJer 1978 b,y the ceneral
@nference of the United Uations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
organizatlont

4. Reiterates its appeal to all lEnber States and all organizatlons of
the ttnited ttations aystem, lnternatlonal, governmental and nongovernmental
organizations and professional organizations in the field of comnunication to
exert every effort to make better knorrn through all means at their dlsposal
the issues underlying the demand for the deve lopnent of comnunication
capacities ln developi ng counEries aa a step toeards the establishment of
a new world information and comnunication oldert

Communication of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
5. Considers that the International Progranne for the Developflent of

I
i

1

t

i
I

I

,|

l

I

;

Organization represents a significant step towards the establishnent of a new
world inforrnation and conununlcation order and welcones the declslons adopted
by the fntergovernmental Council of the prograrnne at iCs flftl aession, held
in Paris fron 3 to 9 May 1984,

6. l.lotes rriti satisfaction the co{peration existing between the United
l,lations, the United tlations Ealucational, Scientific and Cultural Organlzation
arxC all otber organizations of the United Nations systen, particularly the
International Teleconununication Inxion, the Food and Agriculture Organization
of the united Nations and the universal postal union, whose projects have been
approved by the Intergovernnental council- of the International p(ograrnme for
the Developnent of conununicatlon of the united Nations Educationar, scientific
and culturaL organizationt

7. E5{presses its appreciation to aII l,Fmber States that have rnade or
pledged a contribution towards the inplenenCation of the International
Progranme for the Development of ConErrunlcation of the United Nations
Educational, sbientific and Chltural organizationt

8. Relterates its lequest to Member States and organizations and bodles
of the United Nations systen as well as other international goverru ental and
non-gover nmental organizations and concerned public and private enterprises
to respond to lhe appeals of the Director-ceneral of the Uhited llations
FHucational-, Scientific and Cultural organization to nake an increased
contri.bution to the International progranme for the Development of
cormunication by making greater financial resources availabLe, as well as
moEe staff, equipment, technologies and training resourcest

9. Notes with satisfaction the progress rnade under the clobal SateUite
Project for Dissemination and Exchange of fnformation, executed by the Urited
Nations Educational, scientific and Cultural organization in co-operation wittr
the regional radio broadcasting unions in Africa, Asia and the AJab States and
guPlDrted bY the Progranmet



I
.

r
I

I
t

I
I

o
?

A/39/7L1
English
Page 25

10. lfakes note of the final rePort submitted by the United Nations
Educational, scientific and Cu1tural organization relatirg to the synposium
on the cultural, Social and Econonlc Inpact of Nert @nnunication Technologies'
held in Rorne in December 1983, as well as the final report of the Roundtable
on the establistment of the neht wor Id information and conmunication order
organized jointly by the United Nations and the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural organization, held at lgls, Anstria, from 14 to
19 september L9e31 29/

II. l,btes that very few countries have so far responded positively to
resolution 4/22 concerning the reduction of teleconununication tariffs for
news exchangesr adopted by the General Conference of the Unlted Nation8
Dducational, scientific and cultural organization at its twenty-first session
ard calls once again upon !'lenber States to resPond Positively and effectively
and to take the necessary steps in order to implenent that resolutlont

12. Reaffirms its strong support for the United Natlons Educational'
Scientific and Cultural Organlzation, its constitution, the ideals reflected
in it, its activities and for its efforts to further enhance its caPabilities
rrith a vlew to pronpti ng the establishrnent of a new world information and
comnunication order t

13. Invites the Dlrector-ceneral to prepare a study on the progress
so far nade ln the Unlted l.lations Eilucationalr srclentific and cultural
organization in the field of research on a new world infortnation and
conununication order, analyse the cohclusions reached andr if hecessary,
broaden the basis for the studyt

14. Encourages the Unlted Natlons Educational, scientiflc and Cultura1
organization to continue and intensify its studiesl Programfles and activities
with a view to identlfying new technological trends in informacion'
comnunication, telenatica and informatics and assess their soclo-economic and
cultural impact on the deveLopment of peoples, and ln thia context requests
it to provide periodic studles relevant to these toPicst

f5. lgi.gE the Director-General of the Uniteat Nations Educatlonal'
Scientific and cultural organization to continue his efforts in the
information and cormnuni.cation field and to Eubmit to the General Asgembly'
at its fortieth session, a aletalled report on the application of the
International ProgramrG for the Deve lopment of Corununicatlon of the Unlted
Nations Educatlonal, scientific and cultural organlzation and the activities
relating to the establishment of a new world information and coflununication
order, as well as on the socialr econonic and cuLtural effects of th€
accelerated developnent of comnunlcatlon technologies.

23t/ A/38/457, paras. 15-20,




