








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Aeeembly
Distr.
GENERAT

N39/7 45
5 December 198 4

oRIGINALT FREICH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda item 56

II.4PL E!48 N"AT ION OF GENERAL ASSEI4BLY RESOLUTION 38/72 ON THE II4MEDIATE
CESSAT ION AND PR@ITBITION OF NTJCI,EAR-IIEAPON TESTS

Repor t of the First Comnittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ngard KESSELY (chad)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. the iten entitled nlmptenentation of ceneral Assenbly resolution 38,/72 on the
imrnediate cessation and prohlbition of nuclear-weapon tests: report of the
Conference on DLsarnanentn vras included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-
ninth session in accordance rrith ceneral Assenbly resolution 38/72 of
15 Decenber 19 83.

2. At lts 3rd plenary meeting, on 21 s€ptember 1984, ttre ceneraL Assembly' on the
recorunendation of the ceneral comnittee, declded to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to tie First Conunittee.

3. At its 2nd neeting, on L5 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarnanent itens allocated to it, nanely' ltems 45 to 65 and
item 142 which was allocat€d to the First @nunittee by the ceneral Assent)Ly at its
27th plenary rneecing, on 9 occober, followed by statenents on specific disarnairent
agenda items and continuation of the general debate, as necessary. The
deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and the 36th meeeings, from
17 Octob er to 12 Novembet (see A/C.v39,/pv.3-36).

4. In connection with iten 56, the First Committee had before it the following
docunents:

84-31579 019 0P (E)



aJ39/7 46
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Conference on DisarnanenXl y
(b) L€tter dated 23 l.4ay 1984 from the representatives of Argentina, creece,

India, Mexico, sweden and tbe United Republic of Tanzania Co the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-cen eral, transnitting the Joint Declaration by
!4rs. Indira candhi, prime Mihister of India, Mr. Miguel de La !4adrid, president of
!€xico, !,1r. Julius lwerere, president of the thited hpublic of Tanzania,
l4r. Olof Palne, Prine Minister of Sweden. Mr. Andreas papandreou, prine Minister of
creece, and Mr. Itadl Alfonsfn, president of Argentina, issued on 22 l4ay I9g4 at
Athens, Buenos Aires, Dar es Salaam, ltexico City, New Delhi and Stockholm
(At/39/27 7-S/L6587 

' 
i

(c) Note verbale dated 7 ,lune 1984 fron the Perrnanent Mission of peru to the
united Nations addressed to the united I'lations secretariat (N3g/zg 6-s/L66rgl I

(d) Letter daeed 27 september 1984 fron the Chargd d,Affaires a.i. of the
Pernanent Mission of lbgo to the lrnited Nations addressed to the Secretary-c€neral
(A/ 39/5291 i

(e) Letter dated I october 1984 fron the Permanent Representative of India to
the tlhited Nations addressed to the secretarFcen era1, transrnitti.ng the Finat
comnun iqu€ of the Meeting of lainisters and Heads of Lleregation of the Non-Aligned
Countries to the thirty-ninth session of the ceneral Assembly, held in Ne!, york
fron I Lo 5 october L9g4 lA/ 39/ 560-5/167731

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.L/39/L.L8
5. ftr 6 Novenber, Afghanistan, Angola, tie Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Rezublic ,_ CzechgF+ovak ia, the cerman Denrocrat@ people,s
oi rnocE tiE-nepuE f ElEigo I i a,
unioh of Soviet socialist Republica ahd Viet Nan subnitted a &aft resolution,
entitled nlmplementation of ceneral Assembly resolutlon 3g/?2 on the innediate
cessation and prohibition of nuclear-neapon testsn (A,/C. Vgg/L.IBr, which was later
also sponsored by Bulgaria, The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of Hungary at the 3Zth neeting, on 14 Novernber.
6. At its 47th meeting, on 26 November, the Coru$ittee adopted draft resolution
AC.V39/L.LB by a recorded vote of 109 to 2, with 24 abseentions (see para. 7).
The voting was as followsr

y Official Records of the ceneral Assenbly, Thirty-ninth Session,
Supplement No, 27 (N39/27').



In favour:

A/39/7 46
English
Page 3

Afghaniscan, Algeria, Ango1a, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Bhutan, BoIivia, BraziI, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundi, Bvelorussian so\riet socialist
Republic, cameroon, central African Republic, chad, chile,
Colbnbia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, CYprus,
Czedloslovakia, DenocTatic Yenen, Djibouti, troninican Repub1ic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, cabon, cerrran Denocratlc
Republic, Ghana, Greece, GuatemaLa, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Ilonduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic of),
Iraqr Ir€landr ,Jarnaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers
Dernocratic ftepublic, I€banon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya,
l,tadagascar, !,blaysia, Maldives, t4ali, l4aurltania, !4auritius,
l4exico, !'bngolia, Morocco, l,bzanbique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigerlal
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, papua New cuinea, peru, philipplnes,
Poland,oatar, btnania. Randa, Sao 1bne and Principe. I'audi
Arabia, sierra Leone, Singapore, somalia, Sri tanka, Sudan,
Suriname, $raziland, S,reden. Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian soviet
Socialist Reprblic, Ihion of soviet Socialist lGprblics, United
Arab EXnirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Viet lilam, Yemen, tugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

United Kingdom of creat Britain and Nor Chern Ireland, united
States of America.

Aga inst'.

Abstaining.. Australia, Bahamas, Belgium, Canada, China, Dennark, France,
cermany, FederaL Rep:blic of, Ice1and, Isxael, Italy, Ivory
Coast, Japan, Luxembourg, l.lalalii, Netherlands, New zealand,
Norway, Portugal, Samoa, Solomon Is1ands, Spain, Turkey, Zaire.

II]. NECO!.4MENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The Fist Conmittee recolunends to the ceneral Assembly the adoption of the
following draf t resolutlon..

enentation of resolution 38
cessation and prohibition of nuclear-weaFon tests

The c€h€raL A€senbly,

Deeply concerned over the intensification of the nuclear-arms race and
the grcwing threat of nuclear war,

Recalling that over the past t}lirty years the need for cessation and
prohibition of nuclear-weapon testing has been in the focus of agtention of
the ceneral Assenilly,



A/ 39/7 46
EngIish
Page 4

indispensable elenent
nuclear-arms race and
prevent the expans ion
wealpns to additionaL

3. Decides to include in the
an item entitled nlnplementation of
immediate cessation and prohibition

conviction that the conclusion of a multilateral treaty
nuclear-rveapon testa by al"l StaEes rrould constitute an
for the success of efforts to halt and reverse the
the qualitative imprqrernent of nuclear weapons, and to
of existing nuclear arsenala and tjre spread of nuclear
countries.

stressing once again that the elaboration of such a treaty is the task of
the highest priority and shourd not be nade dependent on the attainment of any
otier measure in the fietd of disarmanent,

Deeply deploring that the Conference on Disarmanent has, to date, been
prevented fron carrying out negotiations with a vieH to reaching agreemenE on
such a trealy,

Recallinq its previous resolutions on this subject,
l. Resolutely urges aII Statea, and especially al.l nuclear-vJeapon

States, to exert naxinum efforts and exercise political will for the
elaboration and conclusion. wit$out any delay, of a nuJ-tilaterar creaty on theprohibition of huclear-rreapon tests by all States.,

2. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to proceed pronptly to
negotiations with a view to el.aborating sucfi a treaty as a natter of the
highest priority, taking into account all existing proposals and fuCure
initiatives, and, for that purpose, to estabr-ish an ad hoc committee with a
negotiating mandatei

provisional agenda of it6 fortieth session
Ceneral Asserbly resolution 39/... on the
of nuclear-i{eapon testsn.




