








































UNITED
NATIONS

I

D

@
General Aseembly

Di str .
GENERAL

A/39/7 rr
5 December 1984

ORTGIl{AL: EIELISH

Thirty-ninlh session
Agenda iten 102

ALTERNATT\IE APPROACHES A}ND WAYS AND MEANS WITfIIN ITIE UNITED
NATIONS SYSTHT,I FOR TMPROVTNC fiIE ET'FECTIVE ENJOYMENT OT

HUMAN RIGHTS AND FLNDMEN|AI, FFXEDOMS

Report of the Third corunittee

FeFporteur: Mr. Grzegorz POlOr4t?Yf (Poland)

I . I ITFOFUCTIOI\T

l. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 21 Septenber 1984r the General Assenbly' on the
recomhendation of the General connittee, d€cid€d to include in the agenda of its
thirty-ninth session the iten entitled..

I'Alternative aPproaches and wavs and neans within the Unit€d Nations systen
for irnproving the effective enjoyment of hunan rights and fundamental freedqrns:

(a) rhplenentation of ceneral Assetnbly resolution 38/I24r

" (b) National institutions for the protecclon and pronotion of hunan
rightsr report of the Secretary-cene ra 1"

and to allocate it to the Third Comnittee.

' 2. The Third Committee considered this iten at its 33rd to 35th, 47thr 53rd and
, 55th neetings, on 7, 8, L2, 2I, 28 and 30 I'rovenber. An account of the eommittee's

discussions is contained in the reLevant surunary records (A/c.3 /39 /5R.33-36 , 47, 53
and 55) .

3. The Conmittee had before it the following docunentation:

(a) Nationaf institutions for the pronotion and protection of hunan rights:
report of the Secretary-ceneral (A/39/556 and Add.I).'t
84-315s5 4535P (E)



^/3e/7IrEng li sh
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 15 October 1984 from the Permanent Representative of
I,ricaragua to the United Natlons addressed to the S ecretary-Ge neral, tranffiitting
the resolutions and other documents of the Third Conference of Ministers of Labour
of l,ron-Aligned countries and other Developing countries, held at ltanagua frotn L0 to
12 May 1984 (A/39/581-s/ 16 78 2 and corr'1)?

(c) Letter dated 16 october 1984 fron the Permanen! Representative of the
Sudan to the United Nations addressed to the Secr etary-Genera l, transnltting the
resolutions adopted at the 72nd I nt er-Par 1i amentary conference' held at Geneva on
29 september L984 (A/39/590 and corr.I).

4. At the 33rd meeLing, on 7 Novenber, the under-secr etary-Genera I for Political
and General Assenbly Affairs made an introductory statenent'

II. COIJSIDEFATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resoluticn A/c.3/39lI .39

5. AC the 47th neeting, on 21 November, Ehe representative of rndia introduced a
draft resotut ion lA/C.3/39/L.39) entitled "National institutions for the promotion
and protection of hutnan rights', sponsored by Australia, fndia, rraq, Morocco,
Nigeria, Peru and sri tanka, subseguently joined by Nen zealand'

6. At its 53rd meeting, on 28 I'rovenber ' the conunittee adopted 
draft resolution

A/C.3/39/L.39 h'ithout a vote (see para. 13' draft resolution I)'

F, Draft resolution A/c.3/39lL.36

7. At the 47th neeting, on 21 Novenber, the rePresentative of euba introduced a
draft resolut ion (A/c.3/39/L.36) entlt.Ied "Alternative approaches and ways and
neans within the United Nations system for inProving the effective enjctynent of
human rights and fundal€ntal freedoms". sponsored by Alqeria, Anqolar Arqentina,
Banqladesh, Bolivia, Burkina Faso, Cape Verde, the @,
ETi-l6Finea-sissau, cuyana, India, Che Libyan Arab Jamahiriva,. Madasascar '
M"lt, Nicttrsra, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panana' Ronania, the syrian Arab ReDublic,
Ug."d", viet N.t ..a IgggEESj. ' as well as 

sao Tone and Principe, subsequently
joined by Benin, colonbia, Mercico and Mozambique.

8. At the 53rd meeting, on 28 Novenber, the comnittee had before it anendnents to
the draft resolution submitted by Italy (A/c.3/39/L.53) which read as followsr

For the existing text substitute

and that massive and flagrant violations and all other violations of
human rights, wherever they occurf are of concern to the United Nationst

a

I



I
M3e/7rr
En91l6h
Page 3

"2. operative paragraph 13, llne 2

After the Uord

and the massive
r{hich continue

nprlrriples', for the existlng text substltute

and flagrant and all other vlolations of hrnan riqhts
to take place ln many parts of the worldtn.

9. At the sane neeting, Ehe representative of
Republic orally proposed the following anerdment
in docunent Iy'c. 3 /39/L. 59..

tle Ukrailrian Soviet Sociali st
h'hich was subsequentty clrculated

nfnsert a new operative paragraph 7, S!.i3g.
17. Reafflrms the duty of a State to refrain fron the explo{tation

and the distortion of human rights lssues as a means of interference in
th€ internal affalrs of gtates, of exertlng preesure on other states or
creating distrust and dlsorder wlthln and among States or group of
States, I

and renunber the remalning paragraph8 accordingly.'

IO. At lhe 55th rneeting, on 30 Novenber, the representatlve of Cuba, on behalf of
the sponsors and folloering consultatlons on the proposals made byEe deregations
of rta]y and the ukrainian soviet seiallst Repubric, orally revlsed the draft
resolutlon as foLlowsr

(a) fn the slxteenth preanbular paragraph and operative paragraph 12, after
the words "to er(ercise full sovereignty over its r.reallh and nalurai risourcesn, the
t{ords 'rsubject to the principles referred to ln article 1, paragraph 2, and
artlcle 25 of the fnternational Covenant on Econornlc, Soctal .tra Cultural Riqhts"
were i nser ted t

(b) fh operative paragraph 2, before the words 'for all peoplen, the words
"to pronote p€ace, freedon and dlgnlty" uere replaced by the Hords "a tife of
freedom, dignity and peacetr I

. (c) fn operative paragraph 6, the words "antt that conaistent patternE ofvlolations of hunan rights in partlcular mass and fl.agrant violatlons of these
ri.ghts, t{herever they exist, are of concern to the unlted t'latlons" were replaced by
the word6 "and expresses lts corrern at serious violations of hlxtan rights, inparticurar mass and flagrant violatlons of these rights, wherever they occurnt

(d) operative paragraph Il which read

"stressea that the right to full development inplies equal acceas to the
means of pereonal and collectlve advarcerEnt and fulfitnent in a cllmate of
respect for the varues of civlllzatlons and cultures, both nacional and
$orld-wide r "

was deleted and the rernainlng paragraphE r.rere renunber€al accordlngly,I



a39/7Lr
Ettgll3h
Page 4

(e) fn operative paragr a;:h 18 (not 17), betrreen the words 'Requests the
secretary-General to" and rto the G€neraf A€senbly at its fortieth session" the
vord iaubmlt' was rephced by the trord ntransmit', and the words "which will be the
fortleth Annlversery of the united Nations' were deleted.

ll. At the aatne neetlng, the representatlves of ftaly and the Ukralnian Soviet
seiafist RePublic conaequently withdrew the amendnents subnltted by their
delegtlon6 (aee para6. I and 9 .bove).

12. At the srme neetlng' the Comfltttee adopted draft resolut ion A,/c.3/39/L.36, as
olrlly rcviseil, by a r€corded vote of ll8 to l, with 13 abstentions (6ee Para. 13,
dtaft rcslutlon III . The voting na6 as follor.vs t y

4!ryr AfghanlEtan, Algerla, Angola, Argentlna, Australia' Bahraln'
Bangladesh' Barbados, Belgluttl' Benln, Bhutan, Bollvia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria' Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist RePub1ic' camerooh,
Central Afrlcan RePublic, ehad, Chlle' Chlna, Colombia' conoros,
Congo, Costa Ricar Cubar C)4)rus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
YerEn, Djlbouti, Ecuador, Egl?t' El salvdor, Ethiopta, France'
Gabon' Ganbia, Gernan Denocratic Republlc' Ghana, Greece'
Guatsnala, Guinea-Bisgaur Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, frag' Italy, Ivory Coast, ,Janaica, Jordan'
Renya, Kurralt' tao PeoPle rs Denocrat lc Republic, Lebanon,
Leaotho, Llbyan Arab .famahlriya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar '
!,lalay8ia, l,Laldives, Uali, auritanla, Me){ico' llorocco'
tlozanblque, Nepal' Netherlands, Ne$ Zealand, Nicaragua, l'liger,
Nlgerla, O[an, Pakistanr Panana' PaPua Nen Guinea' Paraguay'
Peru, Phllipplnes, Poland, Portugal' Oatar' Ronania, Ilwanda'
sao Tone .nd Prit|clPe, saudi Arabia, senegal, sierra Leone,
Slngapore, Sonalia, SPaln, Sri lJankar sudan, surinane, Sldaziland,
syrian Arab Repub1icl Thalland, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago'
Tunlala' lrganda, ukralnian soviet soclalist Republic, Union of
soviet sociallst nepubllcs, united Ar.b Emirates' united Republic
of ?anzania, uruguay, venezuela, viet Narn' Yemen, Yugoslavia,
zeire, zmbia.

a

Agrlnstr Unlted States of Anerlca.

Abstalningt Austria, canada, Derunark, Finland, Germany' Federal Republlc of'
tceland, freland, fsrael, JaPan, Norway, sirteden, Turkey, ttnited
flngdon of Great Brltain and Northern rreland.

v
h.d

The delegat ion of tlongolla
not been recorded and that

indicated that, due to mechanical fallurel its
it had voted in favour of the draft re€olution.vo,t e



b
u3e/7rL
EngIlsb
Prge 5

DPI FT PFSOLI,TIOIi' I

The ceneral Assenblv,

,_ _ Rec?llilg lts reaolutlons 32/IZ3 of 16 Decetnbe r Lg:l. 33/46 of14 Decernber 7978, 34/49 0f 23 Decemtre r L979, zi/nq 
"t il 

' 
oeclntei- rg81 and38/L23 ot 16 Decenber r9g3 concerning national institutrons for the protectronand pronotion of hu an rlghts,

Iltindful of the guidellnes on the structure and functionlng of natlonaland local instltutions for the prcmotion and protectton of human rights,endorsed by the ceneral Assenbly in tts resolition 3316,

III. FFCPI.IIIIEND,I rIONS OF rFE TFIFD COIITITTEE
13. The Third conmittee recoflmends to the cetleral Assenbry the adoption of thefollowi n9 draft re sol ut ions:

Iltindful also of the need
and international level.a, for

to create conditlons, at the natlonal, reglonal
the protection and promot ion of hunan rtgits,

_. . _ Enphqslzinq the inportance of the Unlversal Declaratlon of BrrlllnRights, 2/ the rnternational covenants on Huma; Rights E/ and otherinternational human rights instrunents for prcmoting 
"."pect 

for andobservance of hunan rights and fundanental ireedons,

_ conscious of the srgnrficant role which rnstitutrons at the nattonlllevel can ptay in protecting and pronoli ng hurnan rights and fundanentalfreedotns and in developing and enhancing iu oi ic--awareness and observance ofthose rights and freedims,

I. ?akes note h'lth apprec iat ion of the report of the Secr€tary-ceneralr 47-

,Em41s+?es the lnportance of the lntegr ity and independence ofnational lnstitutlons for the protection and prornot ion of humin rtghts, lnaccordance rvith national leg lBlat ion,

)

u
!/
!/

Resolution 217 A (IIII.

nesolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

4/39/556 and Add.l



A/39 /7 Lr
English
Page 5 a

3- Drans attentlon to the constructlv€ role that natlonal
non-sovernmentar orcantz;ti"n" ""n 

pi"y ln the rrork of euch national

I0. Requests
enhance assistance
reguest, under the

lnstltutionst

4. Encourages all uenber States to take apPtoPr iat€ stePs tol .tn!]
establishment or, where tney arreaay exist, the -strenglheni 

ng of nationa-
institutions for the prot*tion and prornot lon of hunan rightsr

5. Invlte€ all uenber States to take aPProPrlate steps to disseninate
the texts of hunan rfqnts instrutnents. lncluding international covenants 

and

conventions, in their ,""p*li"" national or rocal languages, 
in order to give

the widest possible publlcity to these instrumentst

6. Recot rEnds that all ltenber state6 should consider including 
naterial

relevant to a compr eherr" irra-unaat"tand ihg of hunan rights issues in their
educacional curr iculurnt

7. Reconnends that all Member State5 should take appropr iate steps 
to

encourage the excharqe of experience ln the establlshrnent 
of national

instltutionat

8. Reguests the secretary-General r ln carrying Out public lnformation

'".r.,iir""Tiffr;;ifi;-;;;; 
iighi;''t" eive iue-attentio4 to the role or

national inatttutions .ni-no*gottttinental oiganlzatlons concerned with 
the

protectlon and Prsnot ion of human rlghtst

g. Requests the Eecr etary-General to Provlde all necessary asslstance
to Member States' upon ttreir reiueet' in the lnpletrFntatlon 

of paragraph 5
above, high Priority u"itg-""."Jatd io the needE of developlng 

countriest

the secretary-General to continue andr as apPropriate'
i"-ti"-i i"ia'"i hutan right€ to @vernments ' at their
;;;;;. of advtsory seivlces in the field of human 

rishtst

11. Requeste the secretary-General I in the light of his rePorts 
and of

further inforrnation ..".it"d, tL PrePare and- subnit to the General 
Assenbly'

through the conmission "i-iui"n 
nighis and the Econonlc and soclal eounclr' a

consolidated rePort, for 
'eotitu"f 

iubltcation as a United lratione handbook on

national instltutlons for the o"" of @*"'nmenta' including 
infornation- on the

vaEious t!.pes and nodels of national and leal lnstitutions 
for the protecEion

and protr|otlon of hunan ,iftrte, taking into account dlffering 
social and leqal

systems'

12. Also r€quests the Secretary-General to report to
Assernbly affi- 6?€i"th session on the lnrplenentat ion of
re solut ion.

the General
the Present

I



f
v39/7r7
English
Page 7

DRAFT FIESOLUTION II

Th€ General AssernblY,

Recalllnq that the peoples of the Unit€d Natlons have, in the Charter of
the unlted Nations' declared thelr determlnation to reafflrm falth in
fundarnental hunan right6' ln the dignity and worth of the hunan person and in
the equal rlghts of men and rdonpn and of natlons large and small and to enploy
international nachlnery for the prornot lon of the econonic and eoclal
advanc ernent of all peoples,

Recalling also the purpose and prlnclples of the Charter to achleve
tnternaEtnCl co-operrtl.on ln solvlng int€rnatlonal Problens of an economic,
social, cultural or hunanltarlan character, and in pronot ing and encouraglng
respect for human rights and for fulrdanEntal freedoms for all wlthout
distlnctlon as to racer sexr language or re1191on,

EmphaFizinq the slgniflcance and validity of the unlversal Declaration of
Human nights y and of the fnternational convenants on Human Rtghts 9/ tn
promoting respect for and observance of hunan rights and fundanental freedorns,

Recalling its resolution 32/L30 of 15 Dec embe r L977. ln whlch lt declded
that the approach to the future $ork nithln the united Nations systern wlth
respect to hunan rlghts questions should take into account the concepta set
for th in that reEolution,

Recalting also its resolutions 34/46 of 23 Novetnber L979, 35/174 of
fs oe"ernuei 1980, 36./133 of 14 Decenber 1981 and 38/L24 of 16 December 1983,

IgglgEg thar
that everyone has the
development pr@ess,

the hunan being is the naln subject of developnent and
right to participate ln, as well aE to benefit from' the

b

ReiCeratlng once agaln that the establlshment of lhe ne, international
econom lc order is an essential elernent for the effective Promotion and the
full enjoFrent of hurnan rlghts and fundanental freedorns for all,

Reiteratinq also lts profound convictlon that all human righcs and
fundanental freedqns are indivlsible and interdependent and that equal

Resolution 217 A (III) .

Resolution 2200 A (xxl), anne*.v



A/39 /7LL
Engllsh
Page 8 I

attention and urgent conslderation lhould be glven to the hplementation,
prornot ion and protection of both civil and polltlcal and econonic, social and
cuLtural r iqh ts,

Reafflrmlng the lrportance of furth€rlng the actlvltles of the
organs of the United Nations systetn in the field of hunan rights in
with the prlrciples of the Charter,

UnderllninE the need for the creatlon of conditions at the natlonal and
international levels for the promotion and full protection of the hunan rlghts
of individuals and peoples,

Enphasizing that @vernnent€ have the duty to enEure respect for all
hurnan rights and fundaflEntal freedqns,

Taklng note of the w,ork done by the worklng Group of covernnentar Experts
on the Right to f,ievelopnent as reflected in its reporta to the comnlssion on
Hunan Rights,

Underllning that the right to development is an inalienable hunan rlght,
Recognizing that international peace and s€curlty are es€ential eletEnts

for the full realization of human rights, lncluding the right.to developnenr,
Considering that the resources nhich r+ou ld be releaeed by dlaarnanent

could contribute significantly to tbe development of aLl states, in partlcular
the developing countrles,

Recognizinq that co-operatlon arnong all- natlons on the basia of resp€ct
for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of each State,
including the right of each peopre to choose freely its or,rn soc io-econonic andpolitical systen, and to exerci se full aoverelgnty over its wealth and natural
resources, subject to the principlea referred to ln article 1, paragraph 2,
and article 25 of the rnternationar covenant on Econornic, social anal cultural
Rights, ls essential for the protnot ion of peace and development,

convinced that the prinary airn of such lnternational co-operatlon muet be
the achievement by each hunan belng of a life of fr eedom and dignity and
freedorn fron h'ant,

Acknovrledg ing the progress
in the prornotion and protection

so
of

far achieved by the internatlonaL comnunlty
hunan right6 .and fundatnental freedoms,

concerned, horrever, at the occurrence of vlolations of hunan rights ln
the vJor Id,

Reaffirming that nothing in the Universal Declaration of Hunan Rights and
the International Covenants on Hunan Rights nay be interpret€d as implying for
any State, group or person the right to engage in any activity or perform any
act aimed at the destruction of any of the rlghta and freedons set forth
there in,

exlatlhg
conforrnity

I



A/39 /7I'I
Eng.lish
paqe 9

Affirninq thaC the ultitnate ain of developnEnt is the constant
inprovement of the trell-belng of the entire populatioh, on the basis of its
fulL participation in the process of developnEnt and a fair distribution of
the beneflts therefrom,

l. Reiterates its request that the Cottmlgsion on Human Rights contlnue
itscurreni-workontheovira11analysiswlthaviewtofurEherpromotingand
lnproving hunan rlghts and fundanental freedons, including the qu€stion of the
Cornmiaeion rs progranme and $orking methods, and on the overall analysis of, the
alternative approachea and ways and means for inproving the effective
enjoylTpnt of hunan rights and fundalEntal freedmts, ln accordance with the
provisions and concepts of General Assembly reaolution 32/l3O and other
relevant textst

2. Affirms that a prirnary ain of international ceoperation ln the
field of human rights i€ a llfe of freedom, dignlty and peace for all peop.Le
and for each human belngl that all human rlghta and fundanental freedoms are
indivlsible and lnterrelated and that the pronotion and protection of one
category of rights should never exenrpt or excuse States from the pronotion and
protection of the otherst

3. Affirms lts profound conviction that equal attention and urgent
consideratlon should be given to the inplenention, protection and prornotion of
both civil and political and econonic, social and cultural rightst

4. Reaffirms that it ls of paranount inportance for the promotion of
human righGEiil fu-ndamental freedqnE that Member states should undertake
6pecific obllgations through acceBsion to, or ratification of. international
instrunents in this fleld and, consequently. that the standard-sett ing work
eithin the United Natlons system Ln the field of human rights and the
universal acceptance and irnplernentat ion of the relevant international
instrunents shou ld be ercouraged,

5. Relterates oncslgh that the international comrnunity should
accord,or-6ii-t'rnuetoaccora,prioritytothegearchforso1ution6tomass
and flagrant violation€ of hunan riqhts of peoples and indlviduals affected by
situations such as thoEe nentloned in paragraph 1(e) of resolution 32/L30,
trEylng due attentlon a16o to other sltuatlona of r'lolatlone of human rightsl

6. Reaffirrns lts responsibtltty to achieve lnternational co-operation
pronot Ing and encouraglng req)ect for hurnan rights and fundanental freedons
all and expre a€es its corrern at Eerlous violations of hunan rights, ln

particuLar mass and flagrant vlolations of the6e rights, wherever they occurl

7. Expreaaes concern at the preeent €ltuatlon with regard to the
achlevenent of the objectlves and 9oa1s for eetablishlng the nen internatlonal
econon lc order and lts adverse effects on the full realizatlon of human r ights
and, in particular, the right to developnentt

8. Reaffirms th.t the rlght to develq)rnent ls an inalienable human
r ightr

1n
eot

I



A,/39 /7 7L
Eng1i6h
Page I0

9. Reafflrms also that international peace and securlty are essentlal
elenents in achieving the full realizatlon of tbe rtght to developnent,

10. Recognlzes that all hunan rtghts and furdanental freedons are
indlvlsible and lnterdependentt

ll. Conslder€ tt necessary that
co-operation on the basis of respect
terrltorial lntegr ity of each state,
choose freely its ohrn socio-econonic
full sovereignty over its wealth and
principles referred to in article lt

all Menber states pronote international
for the independence, soverelgnty and
includlng the rlght of each people to
and political system, and to exercise
natural resources, subject to the
paragraph 2, and article 25 of the

fnternational Covenant on Econornic, social and cultural Rlghts, nlth a view to
resolvlng internatlonal problems of an econonicr soclal and hunanitarian
characte

12. Expresses concern at the existing dispartty between the established
norns and prlnclples and the actual situatlon of all hurnan rights and
fundamental freeddns in the worldr

13. qS aU States to ceoperate with the comnisslon on ltunan Rights
in the pronotion and protection of hunan rights and fundanental freedqlst

14. Reiterqtes the need to create, at the natlonal and international
leveLs' conditlons for the ful-1 prdrotion and protectlon of the htltlan rights
of lndlviduals and peoplesl

15. Reaffirms once again that, in order Co facllitate the full enjol.rnent
of all rlghts and complete personal dignity, it ls neceasary to prornote the
rlghts to education, work, health and proper nourishnent through the adoption
of tneasure6 at the natlonal level, including tho se that Provide for workers'
partlclpation ln management, as $ell as the adoption of measures at the
internatlonal level, lncLudlng the establlshl€nt of the ner' lnternational
econornic order r

16. Reque6ts the Conmisslon on lfunan Rlqhts to take the neceasary
tn€asurea to proNnote the right to developnent, taklng into account the results
of the Wbrklng Group of Governmental Experts on the Rlght to [r€velopment,
which ls engaged in the 6tudy of the 6cope and content of the right to
developrent, and welcores the decision of the Comnission in its resolution
L984/ L6 of 6 arch L984 U thaC the working croup should continue lts lrork
wlth the aim of preeentlng as soon as poeslble a draft declaration on the
right to developmentt

U s€e
!gl! (E/f984,/14), chap. rr, sect. A.

a



I

D

l

A/39/7LL
English
Page 11

.-17: lgqugsts ehe Secr etary-ceneral to tran$nit to the ceneral Assernbtyat its fortieth session a report containing information on the progress rnade
by the Working croup of Experts of the Conrnission on Hunan Rights in the
drafting of a declaration on the right to development;

18. Decides to incrude in the provisional agenda of its fortieth session
the item entitled nAlternalive approaches and ways and means within the united
Nations systen for inproving the effective enj olrrbnt of hunan rights and
fundanentat freedons".

b




