








































UNITED
NATIONS

(@) Gcncral Agsembr' Distr.
GENERAL

^/39/79r15 Decernber 1984
ENGLISE
ORtGINALT ARABIC/ENGLISE

Thirty-ninth sesslon
Agenda item 8l

OPBRATIONAL ACTIVTTIES FOR DEVE I,OPUENT

Report of the Second Cornmittee

Rapporteur: [1r. Ahned Alavrl AL-BADDAD (Denocratic yernen)

I. INTRODT'CTION

) f. At its 3rd plenary meetlng, on 2I Septernber 1984, the ceneral Assembly, on the
recomtnendatlon of the General conmittee, decided to include in its agenda the item
entltled 3

ioperational activitles for developnent:
| (a) operational activities of the United Natlong syaten: report of the
Sicr etary-General t

i (b) United Nations Developnent progranme: report of the Secretary-ceneraf,

'(c) united Nations Capital Development Fund,

" (d) United Natlons Fund for population Activities,
i (e) Unlted Nations Volunteers progr'amne,
r (f) United Nations Special Fund for Land-locked Developlng Countries,
.{g) United Natlons Children's Fund,

' (h) world Food progranmet

" (1) Technical- co-operatlon activities undertaken by the secretary-ceneral t

'(j) Ligutdation of the United N€tions Erergency Operation Trust Fund and
allocation of the rernaining balances repor! of the Secretary-ceneral. r

rl/
{;/}

84-33475 0268P (E)



^/3e/79LEnglish
Page 2

At the sane meetlng, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Second
Conunittee.

2. I'he Connittee considered this iten at its 4gth to S3rd, 55th, SGth, 5gth and
60th meetlngs, on 2L, 26 to 28 and 30 ltovenber and 6, IO and t4 D€cember 1994. An
account of the Com itteers discussions on lhe iten is contained in the relevant
autElary records laee IJC.2/39/5R.48-53, 55, 55, 58 and 60). Attention is aLso
drawn to the general- debate held by the Conunittee aC its 3rd to Isth neetings, on
5, B-Lz, 15 and L5 october 1984 (A/c.2/39lsR.3-I5) .
3. For its consideration of the iten. the Conunittee had before it the follo$ing
docunentation r

A/39/3 (Part rtl

N3e /L].B-E/L984/4s

Report of Che Econornic and Social Council, y

I€tter dated 9 February 1984 from the Permanent
Representative of Ecuador to the United Nationa
addressed to Che Secretary-ceneral, transmittlng
the text of the ouito Declaration and PIan of
Action agreed to at the Lalin Anerican Econonic
Conference, held at Orito on 12 and
13 ,tanuary 19 84

A/39/I3I-S/L6 414 and Corr.l Letter dated 13 t'rarch I9g4 from the Perlranent I
Representative of l,lorocco to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-ceneral, transmitting
the texts of the Final Connuniqu6 and of Ehe

A/39/r13-s/L64I7

resolutions adopted at the Fourth Isl,anic Sunmit
conference, held at casablance, Morocco, from 16
to 19 ilanuary 1984

Letter dated 15 tiarch 1984 fron the Chargd
dtAffaires a.i. of the Perrnanent Mission of
Bangladesh to the United Nations addres€ed to
the Secretary-ceneral, transnittlng the textd of
the final declaration and of resolutions adopted
at the Fourteenth Islanic Conference of Foreign
Iillnisters, held at Dhaka from 6 to
l-0 Decenber 198 3

A/39/236-S/L6535 Letter dated 2 Uay 1984 from the Chargd
drAffaires a.i. of the Pernanent Mlssion of the
Niger to the United Nations addres8ed to the
Secretary-ceneral, transmitting the text of the
conmunlqud lseued at the end of the
cGordination rneeting of Foreign l,tinlsters of
the Organization of the Islamic Conference, held
ln New York on 10 October 1983

y !o be issued as Official Records of the ceneral Assembfy
sesslon, supplement No . 3 @i7ii:-



^/39/79LEngli6h
Page 3

Letter alated 16 october 1984 fron the Pernanent
nepreserrtattve of the sudan to the Onlted
touiion" addressed to the secretary-General '
trin=iitti"g the text of the resolutions adoPted
iv-ltt"-i i"a 

- 
tnter-Par liamentary conference' held

.l c"n.tt. on 29 sePtetnber 1984

A/39/59O and Cor r.1

(al

^/3e 
/ 4L7

(b)

A/3e/s0

^/39/80/Add.L

^/39/3OS-E/L984/rL8

E/L984/20

Note by the secr e tary-General transrnitting the
ieport- of the Direct;r-General for DeveloPment
ani rnternalional Economic co-oPeration

Note by the secr etary-General transnlttlng the
report of the Joint InsPection onit entitled
'oifice for Projects Execution of the Unlted
Nations DeveloPment Progratnme'

Conments of the Secretary-General on the rePort
of the Joint InsPection t'nit

Note by the Secretary-General on the role of
qualif-ied national personnel in the social antl
.iono.i. developlnent of deve-loPing countr ie6

Report of the Governlng council of.the unite'l
n"liont Development Proqrar0ne on its-
oiginizational meeting for 1984 and its
thirty-first session

E/L984/2o

(d)

A/39/537

(c) uniteat Nations capltal Development Fundl

RePort of the Governlng Council of the United
Nations DeveloPnent Progralune on its
organizational meeting for 1984 and itg
thirtY-first session

uniteal Nations Fund for Population ]\ctivities

Note by the secretary-General transnittlng the
reporJof the Executive Director of the United
tlations Fun'l for PoPulation Actlvities on the
unitea llations PoPulation Award and Trust Fund

RePort of the Governing Councll of the United
Nations Develognent Progranne on itE
organizational tneeling for 1984 and its
thirty-first sea6lon

activities

E/L981/20



United Nations childrenra Fund

^/39/79LEnglish
Page 4

(e)

E/L984/20

(s)

A/39 /292

E/L984 /I9

(il

DP/7984/42

E/1984/20

United Natlons Volunteers proqrame

Report of the coverning Council of the tnitedNations Development programne on its
organizational meeting for l9g4 and itsEnrrty-first session

Letter dated I June 1994 from the pernanent
Representative of Czechoslovakia to the United
Natlons addressed to the Secr etary_ceneral,
transnitting the text of an appeal of the UNICEFNational Conunittees of the socialist countries
Report of the &(ecutlve Board of the UnitedNations Childrenrs Evnd 2/

Report of the Secretary-General oh United
Nat.ions technical co-operation acc ivi ties
Report of the coverning Council.of the UnitedNatlons Developrnent progranme on itsorqanizational neeting for 1984 and itgthlrty-first session

and ridd.t-3

(i )
auocation of the iEiEGlEliTliE

l:f:: of the s€cretary-cener al on theJ.lgurdation of the United Nations Emergency
Operation Trust Fund and allocatlon of the-renaining balance

4' At the 48th meeting, on 21 November, rntroducto.y statements. were made by theDirector-cenerat for Developnent .na rnte.iaiiJi"l r"onori. co_operation, thePresident of the coverning councir of the united Nations Deveropnen! progranme(ITNDP), the Adninistrator of UNDP, tfre fxe"uiiv. Director of tbe fiorld FoodPrograme (wFp) ahd the under-secre eary-cenerai of che Departnent of TechnicarCo-operation for Developmen! of the Secretariat.
5. At the 49th neetlng, on 21 Novenber, introductory statements rvere nade by theExecutlve Director of the united Natron' Funar for popuration Actrvitres (uNFpA) andthe Executive Director of the united Nrtioie-ci iiaren 's Fund (uNrcEF).

A/39/284 and Add. t

official Recordsu
No. 9 (



6. At the 53rd neeting, on 28
Agriculture organization of the

A/39/79r
Enqlish
Page 5

November, the representative of the Food and
united Nations (FAO) made a staternent.

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolutions A/C.2/39,/L.85 and Rev.I and A/c.2/39lL.124

7. At the 53rd tneeting,
introduced, on behalf of
Cuba, Derocratic Yemen, Ethiopia, the cernan Re
cuinea-Bissau, Hungary, the Lao
.tamah ir iya, Mongol-ia, Nicaraqua, the Syrian Arab Republic and Ilg!-g, a draft
resolution (A/c.2/39/L.85) entitled nRole of qualified natlonal Personnel in the
social and econornic developnent of developing countriesn, which read as follows:

trThe ceneral Assembly,

"Referring to its resolutions 33/135 of 19 Decenlcet L978t 35/80 of
5 Decenber l98O and 37 /228 of 20 Decenber 1982 on the role of guallfied
national personnel in the social and economic development of developing
count! ies 

'
rReferring also to its resolutions 32OI (S-vI) and 3202 (s-vl) of

I !,tay 1974, containing the Declaration and che Programrne of Action on the
Establishnent of a New International Economic order, and 3281 (xxlx) of
12 rrecember 1974r containing the charter of Econonic Rights and Duties of
States,

nDesirinq to promote full implernentation of the provisions of the
International Developrnent strategy for the Third united Nations DeveloPment
Decade concerning the inportant role of qualified national personnel in the
achlevenent of the developrnent goals of the develoPj.ng countries, :/

'Noting nlth regret that the report on the inplernentation of
resolution 37/228, including possible elenents of general guidellnea on
principles' objectives and structures of education and training of Personnel
of lhe developing countries, has not yet been preparedt

Requests the Secretary-General to take necessary steps with a vieu
to irnplenenting the provisions of resolution 37/228t

Also requests the secr etary-General to consult as soon as Posslble
with Member states and relevant organizatlonB of the Uniced Nations systen on
posslble elernents of general guidelines on princtpfes, objectives and
sbructures of education and training of personnel of the develoPing countrlest

on 28 Novenber, the rePresentative of Mongolia

Resolution 35156, annex, para.47.



^/39/7erEng11sh
Page 6

n3. Rene*s its app€al to the coverntnents of the r4enber states to rnake
avallable to the Secretary-ceneral informatlon on and experience in
establishing and deveroping thelr national systens of training gualified
natlonal personnel nith a view to facilltating the implenentation by the
Secretary-ceneral of paragraph 3 of resolution g7/229,

i4. Requests the Secretary-General to submit to the ceneral AssenbJ.y at
its fortieth session a report, to be prepared in accordance lrith the
resolution 37/228, and to keep the Economic and social councll and the ceneral
A6senbly informed of the inplenentation of the present resolution.i

8. subsequently, a revlsed draft resolution was circulated ln document
VC.2/39/L.85./ReV.I, which read as follows r

"The General Assembly,

'Referring to its resolutlons 33/135 of 19 December 1979, |S/AO of
5 D€cember 1980 and 37/228 of 20 Decetnber l9g2 on the role of qualified
natlonal personnel in the social and econonlc developrnent of developing
countrie6,

"3gEg54!g_-also to its resotutions 3201 (S-vI) and 3202 (S-vr) of
I l,lay 1974, containing the Declaration and the progranne of Action on the
Establishment of a New International Econonic Order, and 32gl (XXIX) of
12 Decenber 1974, containing the charter of Economic Rights and Dutle6 ofStates,

'DesirilS to promote fuII inplemenCation of the provisionE of the
rnternational Deveropment strategy for tlre Thlrd unlted Nations Developnent
Decade concernlng the inportant role of qualified national personnel in the
achievement of the developnent 9oa1s of the ateveloping countries, !r/

'Noting uith regret that the. report on the irnplenentation of
resolution 37/228. includlng posslble elenents of general guidelines onprinciples' obJectives and structureg of education and tralning of personnel
of the developing countries, has not yet been prepared,

'1. Reafflrms the importance of inplementing the provislons of
resolution 37 /228t

'2. Resuests the secr etary-ceneral to consult a6 soon as poEsible with
the Governments of Member States on their experlence in establishing and
developlng lheir national systens of training gualified national personnel as
an.initlal step toreards the eventual elaboratlon of general guidelines on
Principles, objectives and structures of education and traininq of gualifieat
national personnel of developing countrieEl

v rbid .



^/39/79LEnglish
Page 7

r'3. Also requests the secretary-General to conPlle and sununarize the
information provided by the Governrnents and to submit lt Co the General
Aagembly at itE fortieth session.'

9. At the 58th rneeting, on l0 Decenber' ttr. Habib u. Raabachi ' 
Vice-Chairnan of

the Conunittee, introduced a dtaft re€olution (A/c.2/39/L.L24), subnltted on the
basis of informal consultatlon€ held on draft resolutLon A/C.2/39/L.854ev.1.

10. At the sane neeting, the Comittee adopted draft resolutlon A/C.2/39/L'I21
(€ee para. 29r draft resolution I) .

II. tn the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/39/L.L24, dr.ft
resolution A/C.2/39 /L.85,/Rev.1 was withdrawn by ils sponsors.

B. operational activities of the Unlted Nations systetn (sub-lten (a))

12. At the 55th neeting, on 30 tlovenber, the 
- 
representative of Evpt introduced '

on behatf of the states Menbers of the uniceal'Nationa which are nenibers of the
croup of 77. a draft resolution (A/C.2/39 /L.96) , entitted 'Financlng of oPerational
activities for develoPnent'1 which read as follows:

'@lel.Ag6enbu,
rRecallinq lts resolutlons 32OI ($-vI) and 3202 (S-vIl of I uay 1974,

containing the D€claration and the programne of Action on the Establishnent of
a Neu International Economic Order, 3281 (xxlxl of 12 Decenbet f974'
containing the Chart€r of Econonlc Rights and Duties of stateE, and 35/56 of
5 December 1980, the annex to whlch contains the Internatlonal Developnent
strategy for the third unlted Nations Develotrnnent Decade,

istressing the urgent need to strengthen nultllateral co-oPeration for
development ' 

in particular through a gignificant increase ln official
developnent asslstance f lo{rE,

"Having conEidered the report of the Director-General for DeveloPment rnd
rnternllionll econornic Co-operation on operatlonal activlties for develoPneht
of the Itnited Nations system, 9/

Reaffirnlng its re€olutions 38/171 and 38/L72 of 19 December 1983t

n2. stre€ses the lnportance of oPeratlonal activitieel including
technlcal EE6Feration, for the econonic and social developmene procesa of the
developing countriesr and ernphasize6 that the alereriorating economic situation
of the develoPlng countries and the critlcal economic sltuation in Africa

v A,/39,/4L7, annex.



A/ 39 /7 9t
Erlglish
Page 8

requlre an urgent increase in ftnancial resourcea devoted to strengthenlng
multilateral co-operationt

Expresses deep concern at the decreaae in resources for operational
activities for developnent ln 1983 conpared to 1982, especiaUy in the light
of the fact that the As Eenbly had conaldered the year 1982 as a crisis year in
that regard t

Also expresaes deep concern that, despite some positive signs at the
United Nations 1984 pledging @nference for Development Actlvities, the
overall level of re€ourceg rernalns far below the requirenentst

15. strongly relterates the need for a Eubstantial and real increase ln
the flon of resources for operational activities on an increasingly
predictable, contlnuous and asgured basi6, 60 as to enable the organizations
of the gysten to increase the level of their operational progrannes and, in
that context' caflg upon llenber states, particularly developed countries whose
overall perfornance is not comteneurate rrlth thelr capacities, to increase
raplfuy anal substantially their voluntary contributions for operational
actlvities for develoFnent ao as to attain and, where posslble, aurpass
planned funding levels of the United Nations Development prograrnme and its
administered funtls,

'6. ggg the developed countries to reach an early agreetnent on
supplenentary fundlng of the International Developnent Associatlon of not less
than $3 b illlonl

r?. Urges all developed countrleE to fulfil their pledges under the
first replenishment of the International Fund for Agricultural Development and
to announce the Ievel of their contrlbutions for the second replenishtnent on a
prlority basia, to enable the Fund to continue its effectlve contrlbutlon at
an adequaee levelt

'8. Reaffirms the 14 per cent annual rate of grot{th for resources of the
united Natlons Developnent prograrmre, anal call€ upon the Governing Council of
the United Nations Development programrne, while considering the level of
resource€ of the fourth prograrunlng cycle. to take fully lnto account the
increased needs of the developing countrieg ln the area of technical
cHperation and the internatlonal targets rrarranting a steady increase of
official developflent asslstance over the present decade,

19. Reaffirns alao the central responsibllity of coverhnents of
developing countrieE ln the process of co-ordinatlon of external assistance,
includlng the deternination of local co-ordination arrangementst

'10. Request6 the gecretary-ceneral to ensure that the Unlted Nations ls
reaponsive to assi€ting developing countrie6, ae their request, in
strengthening their capabillties ln exerclsing ceordination and requests the



^/39/79LEngliEh
Page 9

Director-General for Development and International Economic co-oPeration Eo
include in his annual rePort for 1985 on operational activlties for
development of the united Nations systen infornation on sPecific acbion taken
to that endt

'rl.@'theDirector-GeneraItolnc1udeinhi6annua1rePort
for 1985 spectfic infoinatlon on the stePs belng considered to inProve the
process and effectivenegg of round tables aponsored by the uniteal Nations
DeveLopnent Progrannet

'12. rylqlglg the Director-General to include in his annual
report for 1985 gpeciflc infot.ation on the Prevailing situation in varioug
agincles andl programes of the United Nattons systen with regard to tied
contributions' and on the outcdne of diEcussions on this lssue by the
AaLnin istr a t lve Cotrunlttee on co-ord lna tlon,

.u. gf@ the relevant flnancial and funding instltutlotla of the
united nations systJrn to make full use of tbe experience and oPeratlonal
capabilities avallable withln the Departtnent of Technical Co-oPeration for
Devel-opmentt

il4. Requests the Dlrector-General fOr Developnent and International
Econonic CEiEiEton, in his annual report for 1985, to continue to Provlde
data on the various issues identified in nssernbly resolutlon 38/L7I,
particularly in its Paragraphs 15 and 24, and to rePort to the Assernbly, at
its fortieth session, on the Progress achieved wlth regard to Paragraphs 23
and 27 of that resolution.'

13. At the 6tst meeting, on 14 DecenbeE. !lr. ttabib ltl. Kaabachi ' 
Vice-Chairnan of

the Cotnmlttee, introduced a revised draft reaolutLon lA/C.2/39 / t.138/Rev ' I)
6Ublritted on the basls of infornal consultationE held on draft resolution
A/c.2/39/L.96.

14. At the same meeting, the Comrlttee adoPted dlraft resolution
A/C.2/39 /L.L38,/Rev.1 (see Para. 29, draft resolutlon III .

15. After the adoption of the draft resolutlon, statenents nere made by the
repreaentatives of the Ukrainian Soviet gocialist nePublic (alBo on b€half of
Bulgaria, the Byeloruasian govlet sociallst Republic' czechoslovakla. the Gernan
Democratic Republlc. Hungary, tbngolia' Polan'I, and the union of sovlet sociallst
Republics! and Sweden.

16. In the light of the adoPtion of draft resolution A/C.2/39/L.L38AeV' I, draft
regolution A/C.2/39/L.96 was rithdrarn by lts sponsor.



A/39/7eL
English
Page l0

C. United Natlong Speclal Fund for Land-locked Developing
@untriea {sub-item (f ) )

Draft resolution A,/C.2/39,/L.9 7

f7. At the 55th neetlng, on 30 November, the representative of E$tp! introduced,
on behalf of the states l{enbers of the united Natlons which are nernbera of the
Group of 77, a draft resolutlon la/C.2/39/L.97 !, entltled 'Uniteal Nations Special
Fund for Land-locked Developing Countriesi.

18. At the 58th neetlng, on I0 D€cenber, !|r. Babib !t. traabachi, Vlce-Chalrman of
the Connlttee, made a statement.

19. At the same rneeting, the Conmittee adopted draft resolut Lon A/C.2/39/L.97 by a
recorded vote of 101 to none, trith 22 abstentlons (eee para. 29, draft
resolution III). The votlng h'as as follor{sr g/

In favour:, Afgbanistan, ALgerla, lhgola. Argentina, Bahama6, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Bolivlal Brazil, Brunei DarugEalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, ByeloruEslan Soviet gocialist Republic, Caneroon,
Cape Verde, Central Afrlcan Republlc, Chile, China, Colonbia,
congo, @sta Rica, Cuba, Cyprug, Czechoalovakia, Detnocratic
xampuchea, Democratic yenen, Dj lboutl, Donlnican Republic,
Dcuador, Dgypt, Ethlopia, carnbla, c€rman Democratic Republic,
Gbana, Guyana, Eonduraa, nungary, India. Indonesla, fraq, Israel,
Janaica, Jordan, Renya, truwalt, Lao people I s Denocratic Republlc,
I€sotho, Liberla, Llbyan Arab .tamahiriya, ltadagaacar, Malawi,
l,lalaysia, l{aldives, ltlali, Malta, l4auritania, Mexico, l,tongolla,
Irlorocco, lilozarnbique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan,
Paki€tan, papua Nen cuinea, peru, philippines, poland, Oatar,
Ronania, Rrranda, Saint Christopher and Nevi6, salnt Lucla, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, sri Lanka, sudan, Seaziland,
Syrlan Arab Republic, Thailand, tlogo, Trlnidad and robago,
ftnisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist RepubLic,
Unlon of Sovlet. Sociallst Republlcs, Unlted Republic of Tanzanla,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen, Iugoglavia, Zaire, Zambia
and Zimbabrre.

Againstt . ttone.

Abstainingr Au€tralia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, prance,
cermany, FederaL Republle of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Ita1y,
ilapan, Luxenbourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nonray, portugal,
Spain, Ssedenl United Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern
Ireland and Unlted States of America.

V The representative of the
alelegation been present at the tirne
the draft resol.ution.

Onited Arab Emirates etated that, had hi6
of the vote, he would have voted in favour of



A/39/79L
Engl lsh
Page ll

20. After the adoption of the draft resolution' statetnents nee nade by the
representatives of the Unlted States of America, Ireland (on behalf of States
membera of the European Econonic Communlty) and the union of Soviet socialist
Republics.

D. ) )

Draft resolut Lons A/C.2/39/L.95' and A/C.2/39/L.LLL

2L. At the 55th meetlngr on 30 tlovenber, the rePresentative of Australia
introducett, on behalf of Algeria, Arqentlna, Australia, BangLadesh, Belgiun,
P@,
!!]l4!9II,
SLr the

Flnland

@nd, Sareden, Thailand, the
of la and , a draft

9/L.95r) en Nations enrg sub€eguently
colondcia, the qgg, the lygry_Sgggll-!&glA and uali jolned in sPonsorlng the
draft resolutlon, which read as follows:

"gls.Genersl.@r,
"Recalling its resolution 38/175 of 19 Decenber 1983,

'Taking note of Economic and Social councll decision L981/L7I oE
25 Juty 19 84,

'Having considered the report of the Executive Board of the United
Nations chilalren's ltund on its session held ln liome from ?4 April to
4 lray 1984' Z,/ and having noted in particular ln this context the Boardrg
discusslons on the child survival and child developnent revolution anil the
present emergency situation in Africa' g/

'Reaffirming the princiPles and guidel-ines for progra$ne activities
establiEhed by the Executlve Board in its efforts to reach the nost
disadvantaged in order to bring about a major irnProvetnent in child survlval
and child developrnent, taking sPecial advantage of developnents in Primary
health care techniques and comrnunications t

U offic
No. 9 (E/1984/I9-E/ICEP/L981/I2) .

y Ibid., chap. II.



A/39/79r
English
Page 12

"Noti"g the reconmendations of the InEernational Conference on
Population, 1984 and tbe Declaration on population and Developnent, 9/ r4,hichstated, lnter aLia, that those developments have the potential to ac-h-ieve a
virtual revolution in child survival, ]!r/

nAcutely aware that the present global situation adversely affects
vulnerabLe groups, such as children, and therefore makes the need for those
efforta all the more critical-,

"1, Comnends the policies and activities of lhe United Nations
Childrenrs Fundt

'2. Endorses the conclusions and recoffiirendations contained ln the report
of the 1984 session of the Executive Board of the United Nations Children,s
Fundr lf,/

n3. Urges the Executive Director, hrithin the context of the basic
services approach for chirdren in the delivery of prograrnnes, to continue and
intensify his efforts on the basis of receht developnents in the social and
biorogical sciences that present a neir opportunity to bring about a revolution
in child survival and child development, at a low cost and in a relatively
short tine' in accordance with the relevant decislons of the Executive Boaral
of the Fund and in ceoperation with other relevan! bodies and organizations,
in particular the World Health Organizationt

"4. Notes with satisfaction the inportant efforts made by the Executive
Director of the Fund to respond to the present criticar energency situation of
chlrdren and nochers in Africa and urges hin to continue his efforts in this
respect, as rrell as to continue to implement child survival and child
developnent activities generally in Africa in accordance with the decisions of
the Executive Board of the pundt

'5. Reaffirns the goals of the Inlernational Development Strategy for
the Third united Nations Developnent Decade with reference to children, in
Particular the goals of ensuring childrenrs inmunization agains! najor
diseases by 1990 and of reducing the infant nortality rate to less than 50 per
11000 llve births in all countries by the year 2OOO, &/ and notes the crucialrole of lhe chird survival and child deveropnent revolutlon in meeting those
goals,

No. 9 (E/1984/L9-E/rcEF/L9e4/tZ,.

{ - S:" Repof!..of thg lrJternqtional Conference on population, 1984, l,texicoq,ity, 6-14 Auqust 1984 (nntted lt . r.
n1 IE!l. r para. 22 , recomnendation 19.

!/

LU Resolution 35156, annex, para. 48.



A/3e /79L
English
Page 13

Reafflrns the role of the unltetl Nations childrenrs F'und as the lead
agency in tfte n"it"a Natlons system responsible for co-ordinating the
foffow-up activities of the Iniernational Year of the child relaeed to the
goals and obJectives concerning children set forlh in che International
Development strategyt lY

"7. Conunends the Executive Dlrector of the United Nations childrenrs
Fund for his contlnulng efforts to enfarge the resources of the Fund so that
the Fund can respond eifectively to the needs of the developlng countries' in
contlnued pursuance of lts nandatet

n8. Expresees its appreciation to Governments that have resPonded to the
needg of i@oPe that more states wilr come forward
r., ith posltlve resPonses t

'g.APpealgtoallGovernmentstoincreasetheirconcributionssothat'
in the liglrt of the current econornic sltuatlon, the Fund nay be able to
strengthen its co-oPeration with tteveloping countries and respond to the
urgent needs of chilatren in those countries'"

22. At its 56th meeting, on 5 December, the Conmittee had before lt a draft
resolution lA/C.2/39 /L.L!I) , subnitteat by !'!r. Habib l'!t' Kaabachi' vlce-chalrnan of
the conmittee, on the basis of informal consultations held on draft resolution

^/c.2/39/L.95*.
23. At the sane meeting, the conmittee attopted draft resolut ion A/C.2/39/t"LIl
(see para. 29' draft resolution IV).

24. In the llght of th€ adoPtion of draft reaolution A/c'2/39/L'LLl' draft
resoLution A/c.2/39/L.95' lras withdrawn by its sPonsors'

25. At the 6tst meeting 1 on 14 December' on the ProPosa1 of the Chairman' the
Comnittee declded to recomnend to the ceneral Assetnbly that lt should take note of
the follolring !

(a) Note by the secretaEy-ceneral transnltting the rePort of the Joint
Inspection lrnit entitleal 'office for Projects Execution of the united Nations
n"ultoprnent progr arnner anil the com''ents of the Secretary-ceneral thereto (4/39/80
and Add.l) t

(b)Notebythesecretary-Generalontheroleofquallfie.lnationalPersonnel
ln the social and econonic develoPment of develoPing countries lA/39/3o81 t

E.

E/ rbid., para. 50.



A/39/79L
English
Page 14

(c) Report of the coverning Council of the United Natios Developnent
Progranme on its organizational meeting for 1984 and its thirty-first session
(E/L984/2OI (see para. 29p draft deciston I).

26. At the 6lst meeting, on 14 Decernber, on the proposal of the Chairman, the
conrnittee decided to recomnend to the ceneral Assembry that it shourd take note ofthe note by the Secr etary-General transnittlng the report of the Executive Director
of the united Nations Fund for populat.ion Activities on the united Nations
Population Arrard and Trust Fund (A/39/537, {see para. 29r draft decislon II).

c. Technical co-operation activities undertaken by the
Secretary-ceneral (sub_item (i) )

2'1 . At the 6rst rneeting ' on 14 Deceflber, on the proposal of the chairman, theconnittee decided !o reconrnend to the ceneral Assembry that it should take note of
the report of the secretary-ceneral on united Natlons technical ce-operation
activities (Dp/L984/42 and Add.l-3) (see para. 29, draft decision III).

28. At the 61st rneeting, on 14 Decenber. on the proposal of the chairrnan, theconnittee decided to reconunend to the ceneral Assenbry that it should take note of
the report of the secretary-ceneral on the liquidation of the united Nat.lons
Energency operation Trust Fund and allocation of the renaining balance (A/gg/Zg4
and Add.1) (see para. 29, draft decision IV).

ITI. RECOIITMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE
29. The second commlttee reconmends to the ceneral Assembry the adoption of thefollorring draft resolutions !

DRAF? RISOI,UTION I

The ceneral Assembly,

Ref€rring to its resolutions 331135 of 19 Decenbe r Lg7g. 35,/gO of
5 Decernber 1980 and 37/2zg of 20 December 1992 on the rore of quarifled
nationaL personnel in the social and economic developnent. of diveloping
countries,

and a[ocation of the remaininq balance (iub-iteln (jD



A/39/79L
EngliBh
Page 15

Referring also to its resolutions 3201 (g-vl) and 3202 (s-vl) of
r uayrgza-]l6iGli-ing the Declaratlon and the Programne of Actlon on the
Establlshrnent of a Neyr International Econorflic order, and 3281 (XXIX) of
12 December I974r contalning the charter of Economlc RlghtE and Duties of
States,

DeEiring to Promote fuII tmpletnentatlon of the provisions of the
Irrt.riitional DeveloPment strategy for the Thlrd tnlted Nations DeveloPrnent
Decade !y concernln! the importint role of qualifled national 

personnel ln
the ach-ievefirent of the develoPnent 9oal8 of the ileveloping countrleBt

Noting with regret that the rePort on the it0ptementatlon of
resoIiIG;-:rET; inc'luding Possible eLenents of general guidelines on
pr inclples, objectlves and ;;ucture€ of education and training of Personnel
of the ateveloping countries, has not yet been PrePared '

I. Reaffirms the inPortance of itnplementing the Provlsions of
reaolutlon 37/228 of 20 December I982t

2. Requests the secretary-General, in the inpletnentation of that
resolutioniT6-E6isult as soon as possible with the Governnents of Member
states on iheir experlence ln eatabliehlng and developlng their systems of
trainlng quatified natlonal PerEonnel, Particulally on the PrinciPles'
objectives and structures of those systenst

3. A15o requestg the secretary-General to comPlle and surmarlze the
inf orrnatloil;TlEEE-uy th€ covernments anat to subrnit it to the General
Assenbly at its fortleth seEslon.

DRAFT RESOLUAION II

The General Assenblyt

Recalling ita resolutions 32oI (s-w) and 3202 (s-vl) of I !'laY 1974'
corrtaliTiffiE Declaration antl the prograrme of Action on the Bstablishnent of
a tletr rnttrnational Eeononlc ortler' 3281 (xxrx) of 12 Decenbex L974'
contalning the Charter of Elcononic Rights and Dutlea of states, and 35'156 of
5 December 1980, the annex to rrhich contalns tbe International DeveloPnent
strategy for the Thirat United NatiohB DeveloPnent Decade,

Recalling further its resolutlon€ 2588 (xxvl of ll' December 1970 on the
capacfll-6E-Ttte u.,itea Nations develoPnent systen and 3405 (xxx) of
28 November 1975 on new dimenslons in technical co-opetation'

!!/ Resolution 35,/56, annexr Para. 47.



A/39/79L
English
Page 16

Relterating its resolutlons 3Z/Lg7 of 20 Decenbe t Lg77. 33/ZOL ot
29 .ranuary 1979 and 35,/gr of 5 Decenber r9g0 on a comprehensive policy reviewof operatlonar activrties for deveropment. 36/Lgg of rz December rggr anar
37/226 of 20 Decenber 1982 on operationar activities for development of the
United Nations syslem,

Reaffirming the exclueive responsibllity of the covernrnent of the
recipient country in formulating its nationai deveropnent pran, priorities andobjectives, as set out in the consensus contained in the ai.rnex ti eeneral
Assernbry resolution 26aB (xxv), and emFhasizrng that the rntegrarion of theoperational activitiea of the 0nited Natl.n. syatetn rrith national progranmes
would enhance the impact and relevance of those activities,

stressing the urgent need to atrengthen nultilateral ceoperatlon for
developnent, including increased voluntary contributlonE to operatlonal
activitles for developnent of th€ United Nations systen,

Hav+ng consi.dered the repor! of the Director-cenerar for Deveropnent and
rnternationar Economic co-operation on operational activities for deveroprnentof the United Nations systen, ftl

1. Reafflrms its resotutions 38lt7l and 3B/L72 of 19 Decenber 1983;

- 
2. Notes the positive signs at the 1.994 United Nati.ons plealglng

conference for Deveropment Actrvities, whlch nev€rtheress forrow a stagnationin resources for operationar, activitres for deveroprnent in r9g3 compared to1982, bearing in mind that the continuing needs of ateveloping .ountii."
require greater efforts- to-strengthen that positive trend to read to a processof grok'th Ln resources by increasing significantly lhe lever of contrlbutions
on a more equitable basist

- 
3: stresses the need for the successful conpletlon of the flrst

replenishnent of the rnternational Fund for Agricurturar. Deveropnent, andurges arl countries concerned, bearing rn mlnd the particurar c-ontribution of
the deveroped countrie$, to reach agreenent on a prlority basis for the second
repLenishnent, in order to enable the Fund to continue lts effective
contribuCion at an adequate tevel,

4: glg|= developed countries to proviale supplementary financinq for the
seventh replenishment of the rnternational Developnent leEoct.tion ln order tocover the shortfalt and enabre lhe Association to increase lts assrstance todeveloping countries' particurarry in the dreveroplent of food ancr agricurture,

5. Reaffirms the unlque and central role of the united Nations
Development programrne in the fielcr of technlcar co-operation for deveropnent,

!e./ A/39/4I7, annex.



A/39/79L
Engl ish
Page 17

6. Recognizes the contribution of covernnents to the Unlted Nations
Development Programre, particularty thoge which have increased their
contributions by l-4 per cent, bearing in mind decision 80,/30 of 26 ,tune 1980
of the Governing Council of the Programrc, )U reaffirns the inperativeness of
providing the Progranne nith adequate resourceg, and calls upon the Goveining
Council, while considering the level of resources of the fourth progranning
cycle' to take fully lnto account, in accordance wlth the princiPles of the
consensus of 1970, the increased needs of the developlng countries ln the area
of technlcal co-operation and the need for achieving real growth in resourcest

7. Reaffirms also the central responsibility of covernments of
developing countri€s in the process of co-ordination of etternal assistance,
including the determinatlon of local co-ordination arrangernentst

8. Requests the secretary-ceneral to ensure that the united Nations
gystem is responslve to agsisting developing countries, at eheir request' in
strengthening their capabilities in exercislng co-ordinationt

9. Requests the Director-ceneral for Development and International
Econornic Co-operatlon, in his annual report for 1985, to continue to Provide
data on the various issues identified in ceneral A€senbly resolution 38/I7L,
particularly in ils paragraphs 15 and 24, and to report to the Assenbly, at
its fortleth session, on the progress achieved with regard to paragraphE 19,
23 and 27 of that resolutlon, and also requests the Director-General to
include in his report informatlon on the following:

(a) steps being considered to lnprove the process and effectiveness of
round-table neetings ln the light of the experience gained in the nid-term
global revlew of the itnplementation of the Substantial Nen Progranme of Action
for the I980s for the Least. Developed CountrieE. !f./ in close collaboratlon
with the Adninistrator of the tnited Natlons Development Progranune,

(b) The prevalling situation in various agencies and programnes of the
united Nations system with regard to tied contribution6 in the light of
Paragraph 8 of General Assembly resolution 38,/l7l and the outcome of
discussions on this issue by the Adminl€trabive Comrnitcee on Co-ordinationt

(c) Data on procurement undertaken by organizations of the systetn
engaged in operational activitiest

!5./ official Records of the Econonlc and social council, 1983, supplement
No. 12 (E/1980/42/Rev.rr, chap. XI.

n/ Report of the unlted Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries,
Parls, I-14 septer ber 1981 (united Natlons publlcation, salea No. E.82.I.8),
part one, sect A.



^/39/79LEnglish
Page 18

(d) Further data on and analysls of the relationship betneen programme
delivery and adninlstrative and support costs of tho6e organizationa,

(e) Inforrnation on speciflc actlon taken ln response to paragraph I of
the present resolution.

DRAFT REgOLUTION III

United Nations Special Fund for land-locked Developing Countries

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recalllng its resolution 3L/L77 of 2l Decenber 1976, by which lt approved
the statute of the United Nations Special Fund for lEnd-locked Developlng
Countrles, and its 6ub6equent r€solutions on the Fund, including resolutlon
3A/I74 of 19 December 1983,

Taking note of resolutlon 13? (VIt of 2 July 1983 of the united Nationg
@nference on Trade anal Developnent !y and decision g3/Zg ot 24 June 1983 ofthe Governlng Councll of the Unlted natlons Development progranme, 19,/

Recalling the relevant provlslone of the International Development
Strategy for the Thlrd United Nations Developnent Decade, 3gl contained in the
annex to lts resolution 35/56 of 5 Decenber 1990,

AIso recalling the relevant paragraphs of the Subslantlal New progranne
of Actlon for the 1980s for the l€ast Developed Countries, ?I/

Convihced that access to norld markets at lbe least possible cost is an
integral part of the meaningful econonlc developnent of land-locked developing
countries,

Expresslng deep concern at the very low level of contrlbutiona that have
been conslstently pledged to the Funal alnce it6 establishnent,

L9/ see
No. 9 (E/1983

ly See ?roceedings of the Unlteal Nation6 Conference on Trade anal
Deyeloment, Sixth Session, vol. I, Report and Annexes (United Nations pubftcatlon,
Sales No. 8.83.II.D.5), palt one, sect. l.

29/ Resolutlon 35,/56, annex, paras. t5A-155.

_ ZV. See Bepolt_ of the united Natlons conference on the Leas! DevelopedcounErres, part6, I-14 September I9gI (frnlted Nations publication, Salee
No. 8.82.I.8), part orie, 6ect. A.



No.9

A/39179L
English'
Page 19

Noting that the denands for assistance from the Fund are aalditionaL to'
and generally tlifferent from, the types of activities financed fron other
sources in the United Natlons system,

l. Expresses concern at the lack of lmplenentation of its resolutions
on the United Nations Special Pund for Land-locked Developing Countriest

2. Renews its appeal for adequale resourcea to be provided to lhe Fundl

3. glf the international connunity to give full consideration to the
special conatraints facing the Land-Iocked developing countries in their
economic and social developrnentt

1. Requests the Administrator of the United Nations Development
Progranme, in consultation with the Secretary-ceneraL of the United Natlons
Conference on Trade and Develolnnent and the executlve heads of the organs,
organizations and bodies of the United Natlons systen, to continue to pursue
actlon ln favour of the land-locked developing countries nithin the f ramelatork
of the interim arrangenents, bearing in nlnd that each country concerned
should receive appropr iate technical and financial assistance.

DR,AFT RESOLUTION IV

United Nations children I s Fund

Ttre General AEsernbly,

Recalling its resol-ution 3B/I75 of 19 December 1983,

Taklhg note of Econonlc and Social council declElon I9g1/L7L of
25 July 1984,

Having considered the report of the ExecuCive Board of the United Nations
Childrenfs Iund on ita session held at ltome frorn 24 April to 4 l{ay L994, 4/
and having noted in particular ln this context the Boardrs digcussions on
achleving the child survival and child developnent tevolution and on the
present energency situation in Africa, 23/

Reaffirtning the principles and guidelines for programtne activlties
establiahed by the Executive Board in lts efforts to reach the rnos!
atisadvantaged in order to bring about a major inprovernent in chtld survival
and child development, taking special advantage of developnent8 in primary
health care technigues and connunications,

23/ $g!., chap. tt.



A/39/79L
English
Page 20

Noting the reconnendationE of the International conference on population,
1984 and the Declaration on populatlon and Developnent, ?y which stateal,inter aria, that those developments have the potential t6-achieve a virtuar
revolution in child survival,3gl

Acutely aware that the pregent global siCuation adversely affects
vulnerable groups, such a6 children, and therefore makea the need for those
efforts all the nore critical,

1. cornmends the policles and activities of the Unitett Nations
chlldren's-FGEi

2. Endorses the goncluslonE and recornnendatlons contained in the report
of the Executive Board of the United Nations Childrenrs Fund on its t9B4
sessiont 3,9/

3. Urges the Executive Director, within the conte*t of the basic
services and prinary health care approach for children in the delivery of
progrannes, to continue and intenslfy his efforls on the basle of recent
developments in the gocial and biological sciences that present a nex
opPortunity to bring about a virtual revorution in chird survivar and child
deveropment, at a J-ow cost and ln a relatively short tine, ln accordance lrith
the relevant decisions of the Executlve Board of the Fund and in co-operation
with other relevant bodles and organizations, in particular the world Hearth
organizationt

4. Notes nith satlBfaction the ltnportant efforts r"a. Uy the Executive
Director 

"?-fie r-u-ii to respond to the present criticar energency €ituation ofchildren and rnothers in Africa and urges hin to continue his efforts in this
respect, as rvell a€ tc continue to inplement child survival and child
develoPment activities generally in Africa in accordance sith the deci.Eions of
the Executive Board of the f'und,

5. Reaffirrns the goalF of the International Developnent Strategy for
the Third united Nations Devel.opnent Decade with reference bo chtrdren, inparticular the goals of ensurlng chlldrenrs inmunlzation against najor
diseases by 1990 and of reducing the infanl nortality rate to less than 50 per
1,000 live births in all countries by the yeer zoo0, 26/ and notes the crucial
role of the child qurvival and child developnent revolution in neeting those
goals i

23/ See lteport of the International Conferelge glpopulatlon, I984r Mexico
atat, a-tn oon . r.

25/ E!1. r para. 22, recomnendatlon 19.
29 Resotution 35156, annex, para. 48.



v39/79L
Engl18h
Page 21

6. Reaffirms the role of the lrnlted Nations chlldrenra Pund as the lead
agency ln the tJntted Natlon5 Eyatem responslble tor croEdinatlng the
follon-up actlvltles of the Int€rnrtlonal year of the ctrtld related to the
goals anal objectlves concerning children Bet forth ln the International
Developnent Strategy, !f/

7. Connends the Executive Director of the United NatlonE Childrenrs
Fund for his continulng effoEta to enlarge the reaources of the Fund so that
it can respond effectively to the needs of the dev€loplng countriegr in
contlnued pursuance of lts nandatct

8. Expre5se6 itE rppreclrtion to GovernmentB thtrt have reElronded to the
needs of th- rund ana etpreEiis tEe trope that tnore State5 eill come forward
rdith positive response6t

9. Appeala to aII Governnenta to increase their contributlon€ 60 that,
tn the llght of the current econonlc aituatlon' the Fund nay be able to
strengthen lta croperatlon wlth develoPing countries end reaPond to the
urgent needa of children in those countrlea.

30.. The second Cornnlttee alao reconuuendg to the General Asaenbly the adoPtlon of
the follorrlng draf,t decialo,nag

DRAFT DECISION I

The cen€ral AsEembly takes note of!

(al Note by the S€cretary-Genelll ttrn6nitting the rePort of the ilotnt
Inq)ection Unlt €ntltled roffice for Proj€cts b(ecution of the unlted Nltlona
Developnent Progratrmer and the cotrn nts of the Secretary-Generrl theretot !g/

(b) Note by the secretarlbceneral on the role of quallfieal natlonal
peraonnel ln.the social and econonlc develoFent of dcveloPing countrleat g9/

2l/
29/

2v

S.r Para. 50.
A/39/80 and Add.l.

^/39/308.



A/3e/79L
Bnglish
Page 22

(c) Report of the coverning Council of the Unlted Nations Development
Progrannne on its organizational meeting for 1984 and it6 thirty-first
session. !9/

DRAFT DECISION Ti

The General Assembly takes note of the note by the Secretary-General
transnltting the report of the Executive Director of the united Nations Fund
for Popul-ation Activities on the onited Nations population Atard and Trust
Fund. g/

DRAFT DECISION III
Report of the SecretarFceneral on United Natlons technical

co-operation activities

The ceneral Assenbly takes note of the report of the Secretary-ceneral on
United Nations technical croperation activlties. gy

DR,AFT DECISION IV

Liquidation of the United Nations Ernergency Operation Trust Fund
The ceneral Assetnbly takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on

the liquidation of the Unlted Nations Energency Operation trust Fund and
allocation of the renainlng balance. 33l

2g/ E/Le84/2o.

3!/ A/3e/537.
32/ DP/L984/42 and Add.l-3.

g A/39/284 and Add . I.




