








































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAssembly Distr .
GEMRAL

A/3e/775
7 December 1984

oRIGIIiALt E!.'GI,ISTI

Thirty-ninth se s sion
Agenda item 125

DFAFT CODE OF OFFENCES AGAII'ST THF PEACE AND SFCURITY OF I4AI\TKIITD

Report of the sixth committee

3e!3oll!tt!, Mr ' Mehmet e iiwrv (rurkey)

I . I I']TFODLICTIOI\T

l. The item encitled "Draft code of offences against the Peace and security of
!,lankind: report of the secr etary-Ge neral r v"as included in the provi sional agenda
of the thirty-ninth s€ssion of the General Assenbly pursuant to paragraph 5 of
ceneral Assembly resolution 38/132 of 19 Decernber 1983'

2. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 21 September 1984, lhe General Assembfy' on the
reconn€ndation of the cehetal Comnittee, decid€d to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the sixth comnittee.

3. fn connection with th€ iten' the sixth Coflmiecee had before it 
ghe report of

the Internationaf Lar., Connission on the work of its thirty-sixth session y
(paras. 10-65) and the report of lhe secretary-General (A/39/439 and Add'1-5)
subnitted pursuanc to par-agraPh 2 of resolution 38/!32, containing comrnents and
observations subnitted by Menber states under the same Paragraph'

4. The comtnittee also had before it the following d@unengsr

(a) Letter dated 12 June 1984 fron the Pernanent nepre€entacive of the Unit€d
Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the united Nations addressed to
the secr etary-ceneral (A/39/3061 1

I/ official Records
supplenene No. 10 (A/39/I0) -

84-32270 4548P (E)

Se ss ion,



A/39/77 s
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 23 JuIy 1984
Arab Republic to the United Nations

5. The sixth connittee considered the
15 and 16 Novenber and 5 December 1984.
(A,/c.6/39/sR.47-49, and 53) concain the
the consideration of the item.

frorn the Pertnanent Representagive of the syrian
addressed to the secretary-Ge neral (A/39/3601i

item at its 47th to 49th and 63rd neetings,
The sumnary records of these meetings,

views of representatives who spoke during

(c) Letter dated 4 October 1984 from the Permanent Representative of
Afghaniscan to the United Nations addressed to the s ecretary-Ge nera I
(A/3e /ssz-s/167 691 .

II. CONSIDEFATTON OF DFATT RESOIUTION A/C.6/39/L.27

6. At the 63rd ne€ting, on 5 December, the representative of Egypt introduced a
draft resolut ion (NC.6/39/L.2I) sponsored by Algeria, Angola, Benin, Bolivia' the
congo' cubar Eqvpt, cabon' the cerman Dernocratic Republic, the Jvoly_leeeqr_ xelryE,
the Lao Peoplers Denocratic Repub1ic, Ma1i, Mauritania, Ir{ongolia, Morocco' Nigeria,
the Philippines, Poland, Rlranda, sao Tone and Principe' senegal' the sudan,
Thailand, Tunisia and viet Nam, later joined by cyprus' Iran (Islanic Republic of) '
Toqo and Za i re.

7. At the same meeting, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.6/39/L.21 by a
recorded vote of 96 to none, vtith t6 abstentions lsee para. 9) . The voting was as
follor{s..2,/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Benin, Boliviat Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Eurkina Faso, Burundi. Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic'
cameroon, centtal African Republicr Chile, China, Colornbia,
Congo, Costa Rica, cuba, Cl4)rus, Czechoslovakia' Democratic
Yenen, Dennark' Djibouti, Ecuador, Egyigt' Ethiopia, Finland,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic' Ghana, Greece, Guinea' Guyana,
Honduras' Hungary, rceland' India' Indonesia' Iran (rslanic
Republic of) ' fraq, Ireland, Ivory 

coast' Kenya' Kuwait, Lao
Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebahon' Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives' Mali' Mauritania,
Mexico. l4ongolia, Morocco, Mozanbique, New zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria. Nonray, Onan, Pakistan' Panana' Papua New Guinea,
Peru, philippines, Poland, oatar, Romani6' Rwanda, senegal'
sierra Leone, Sudan, sweden, Syrian Arab Republic' Thailand'
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
socialist Repub.lic 

' Union 
of soviet Socialist Republics' United

Arab Enirates, venezuela, viet I\ram ' Yemen, 
Yugoslavia, zaire,

Zarnb i a.

4 The representagives of suriname and Bangladesh stated that, had they been
present during the voting, they woufd have voted in favour of the draft reso.Iution'

/...



A/39/775
Engllsh
Page 3

Against: l,lone.

Abstaining: Belgium, Burma, canada, France, cernany, Federal Republic of,
fsraeL, Italy, Japan, Lux€mbourg, Malawi, Netherlands, Portugal,
Spain' Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Brieain and tlorthern
Ireland, United states of Amerlca.

8. Statements in explanatlon of vote before the vote were made by the
representalives of France, Gernany, Federal Republic of' Norway (on behalf of the
Nordlc countries), the United States of America, Italy and fsrael. Statenents in
explanation of voLe after the vote were made by the representatives of freland and
Australia.

rII. RECOMMENDATION OF TIIE SIXIFI CO!.4MTTTEE

9. The sixth cotrunittee reconnends to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
follor.ri ng draft resolution:

Draft Code of offences aqalnst tbe Peace and security of uankind

The ceneral Assenbly '
Mindful of Article 13, paragraplr I g. of the Charter of the United

Nations' which provides that the General Assenbly shall initiate studies and
make reconrnendat ions for the purpose of encouraging the progressive
developrnent of internacional law and its codification'

Recalling its resolution 177 (II) of 2l t':ovembe r L94'7, by which it
directed the International Latt Commission to prepare a draft code of offences
against the peace and security of mankind,

Having considered the draft Code of offences against Ehe Peace and
security of lrankind prepared by che International Law Commission and subnitted
to the General Assenbly in 1954. y

Recalling its belief that the elaboration of a code of offences against
the peace and security of mankind could contribute to strengthening
internat.ional peace and security and thus to promoting and implementing the
purposes and princlples set forth in the charter of the United Nations,

Recalling a16o its resolution 361106 of 10 Decenber 1981, in whlch it
invited the fnternational Law Comrnission to resune ies r"ork If ith a vien to
elaborating the draft code and to exanine it with the required priority in
order to review it, taking into account the results achieved by the process of
the progressive development of internaLional law,

y See official Records of che ceneral Assembly, Nlnth session'
Supplenent No. 9 lA/26931 , para. 54. 

/...



A/39 /77s
English
Page 4

Bearing in mind that the International Lar., eommission should fuuil its
task on the basis of early elaboration of draft articles thereof'

Having considered chapter 2 of the report of the
Comnisslon on the work of its thirty-sixth session, {/paragraph 65 of the report, cont.aining the conclusions

fneernational Law
in particular,
of lts dlscussions t

Taklng note of the report of the S ecretary-ce neral on the toplc, !,/
the views express€d during the debate on this iten at

the surrent se ss 10n,

Recognizing the importance and the urgency of the subject,

1. Requests lhe International !arr' Cor nission to continue lts rr'ork on
the elaboration of the draft Code of Offences against the peace and Security
of Mankind by elaborating an introduction as ra,ell as a list of the offences,
taking into account the progress nade at the tast session of the rnternational
tara' Connission. 6/ as uell as the views expressed during the thirty-ninth
session of the ceneral Assembly;

2. Requests the secr €tary-ceneral to seek the vlews of Member States
and intergovernmenta I organizations regarding the conclusions contained in
paragraph 65 of the report of the fnternational Lar., Commission on the r.rork of
its thirty-sixth session and to include then in a report to be submitted to
the Gen€ral Assernbly at its fortieth session with a view to adopting. at the
appropriate tine, the necessary decisj.on thereont

3. Decides to include in th€ provisional agenda of its fortieth sesslon
the iten entitled iDraft Code of Offences against the Peace and Security of
Mankind", to be considered in conjunctlon rr'ith the consideration of the report
of the fnternational Lar., Conmission.

4/ rbid. ' Thirty-ninth Session, Supplernent No. J.0 (A/39/].01 .

y A/39/439 and Add.l-5.

9/ see Official Rsgorqs of the ceneral Assenbly, Thirty-ninth Session,
supplernentNo.ffi




