








































UNITED
NATIONS

(@) Gcnerar Assembr' Distr.GENER,AL
A/39/790/Add.9
14 Decenber 1984
ENGLISH
OFJGINAL: ARABICANGLISH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda iten 80 (i)

DEVEIOPIIENT AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC CGOPER,ATION! BNVIRONIIENT

Report of the Second conmittee (Part x)

Rapporteur: Ur. Ahmed Alawi A!-HADDAD (Democratic Yemen)

I. INTRODOCTION

l. The Second cbmmittee held a substantive debate on ltem 80 (see A/39/790.
Para. 2). Action to be taken on sutsiten (i) was considered aC the 3?th, 50th,
54th, 58th and 60th meetings, on 6t 26 and 30 November and 1.0 and 14 Decenber. An
account of lhe Cornnitteers discussion is contained in the relevant aummary records
lA/c.2/39/sR.37, 50, s4. 58 and 60).

II. CONSIDEMTION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.2/39lL.12 and Rev.l

2. At the 37th neetlng, on 6 November, the representative of ualta inEroduced a
draft resolut|on @/C.2/39/L.12) entitled nRemnants of waril on behalf of

stan Bahrain Beni.n Verde, the
an

the

the
emen, Zambia and

ab
t

and Sao Tone and Principe ioined ln sponsoring the

84-33505 0259P (E)

read as follo'ws r



A/39/790/Add.9
English
Page 2

"fr"_g=.=:gl 1""=rUfu,

"-RecaUilg its resolutions 3435 (XXX) of 9 December L975, 35/7I of
5 December 1980' 36,/f88 of 17 December 198I, 37 /2L5 of 20 Decenber 1982 and
38/L62 of 19 December 1983 concelnlng the problem of rennants of war,

'Recal-Ilng also declslons 80 (Iv) of 9 April L976, y 101 (v) of
25 r4Ay 1977. U 9/5 ot 25 May t98r y and r0/8 of 28 May 1982 g/ of the
Governing Councll of the United Nations Environment Programe,

rRecal.ling further resolution 32 of the Fifth Conference of lteads of
6tate or covernnent of Non-Aligned Countries' held at Cofotobo fron 16 to
19 August L976. y and reeolution 26AL-p of the Eleventh rslanic conference
of Foreign l.linisters' held at IElamabad fron l7 to 22 !4ay L98O, L/

"convinced that the responsibility for the rerpval of the rennants of nar
should be borne by the countries that planted them,

'esogn i zils that the presence of Che naterlal rennants of hrar, ineluding
nines, in the territories of developing countrtes seriously itnpedes their
developnent efforcs and causes loss of life and property,

Takes note of the report of the secretary-General on the problem of
remhanta offiZa

Regrets that no concrete neasures have been taken to solve the
probletn of rennants of war despite the various resoluEione and declslons
adoPted thereon by the ceneral A66embly and the coverning Council of the
United Natlons Envlronment Progranune t

Ibjg., lA/32/2sl , annelt r.

Ibid., Thirty-sixth ses6ion, supPlement No. 25 (A/36/25 and Corr.l),
v
v

annex I.
g

annex.
I!:lg. ' Thlrty-seventh session, Supplenent No. 25 (a/37 /25t, part tlro,

See A/3L/L97. annex IV, sect. B.

see A/35/ 4L9-S/I4L29. annex I.

A/39/580.

v
v
v

of the ceneral Assenbl



^/39/790/Dfjd.9English
Page 3

Reiterates its support for the just ilemandE of the develoPlng
countrles affected by the inplantation of mines and the presence of other
remnants of rar ln thelr terrltories for cotnpensation and for cornPlete relpval
of those obstacles by the States that lmplanted thernt

Requests the appropriate organizations of the United Nations system
to collect the expertise and eguipment necessary for evaluaLing, on requegt,
the actual needs of the developing countries affected in their efforts to
detect and clear naterial remnants of wart

calls upon all states to co-operate trith the aPproPriate
organlzatlons of the Onited Natlons system ln carrylng out tbe taak aa8igned
to then in paragraph 4 abovet

'6. Also calls upon those developed countries dlrectly responsible for
the presence of rennants of war to intensify bilateral consultations rlth the
aim of conclualing, wlthout undue delay, agreenents for the solution of those
problemst

'7, Requests all States to inform the secre tary-General of actlons they
have taken in the implenentation of the present resolutionl

"8. -l9gg!g the secretary-ceneral to subrnit a detalled report on the
replies received and action taken to the cenerat A66emb1y at lts fortieth
session.'

3. At its 54th meeting, on 30 November, the Connittee had before it a revtsed
draft reEolut Lon (A/c.2/39/L.I2rlRev.I), submltted in the nane of the sponeors
llsted in paragraph 2, $ho r,rere jolned by Suriname.

4. At the sane neeting 
' 

the co nittee aalopted draft resoluLion
A/C.2/39/L.L2nev.1 by a recorded vote of 105 to none, irith 23 abstentions (see
para. 21, draft resolution I). The result of the voting was as follot"Et 9/

In favour g Afghanistan' Albania, Algerla, AngoLa, Argentina, Bahanas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Eotgwana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna, Byelorusslan
soviet socialist Republic. cameroon' caPe verde' central African
Republic, chile, China, colonbia, Comorosr cuba, Czechoslovakla,
Democratic Kampuchea, Denocratic Yenen, Dj ibouti, Doninican
Republlc, Ecuador, Bglpt, Ethiopla, cabon, Gernan Dernocratic
Republlc, chana, culnea, cuinea-Blssau, Guyana' Honduras t
Hungary, Indla. Indonesia, Iraq, Ivory Coast, .tanaica, Jordant

y Sub6equently, the representatlves of Cyprus, Iran (Islanic Republlc of),
sao librne and Principe and zanbia stated thalr had they been Present at the tfune of
the voting, thei( delegatlons $ou1d have voted in favour of the resolution.



A/39/790/Add.9
Engli6h
Page 4

Kenya, Kuwalt, Lao people.s Denocratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberla, Libyan Arab alamahiriya, !'ladagascar,
l,Lalawi, MalayBia, ltaldiveE, t4ali, Ualta, Mauritania, !!exico,
l,tongolla, li{orocco r tlozarnbique, NePalr Nlcaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakl5tan, panana, paraguay, peru,
Philippines, Poland, @tar, Romania, Rnanda' Saint Lucia,
Sanoa, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Sonalia, Sri Lanka,
sudan, Surlnane' swazilandr Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trlnidad and Tobago, Tunisla, Turkey, Oganda,
Ukralnian sovlet socialist Republlc, Union of sovie!
Socialist Republics, Irnited Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzanla, Uruguay, venezuela, viet Natn, Yernen, Yugoslavia.

Agalnstt llone.

Abstainlng r Au€tralia, Austrla, Belglum, canada, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Federal RePublic ofr Greece' Iceland,
Ireland, Italy, alapan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Nen Zealand,
l,lontay r Portugal, senegal, sPainr snedenr united Kingdon of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, thited States of America.

5. Statements were made by the representatlveE of the Federal Republic of
Gernany (also on behalf of ltaly and the Unlted Kingdorn of creat Brltaln and
tlorthern lreland), Indla, srreden, the Unlted States of Arnerlca and the Union
of Sovlet Sociallst Repubtics.



A/39/79O/^d4.9
Eng11sh
Page 5

6. At the 37th meetlng, on 6 Novenber, the repreEentative of Uganda introduced a'
draft resolutlon (t/C.2/39/t.20) entitled 'Implementation of Che Plan of Action to
combat Desertif lcat ion', on behalf of Alqerla, Egypt, Ethiopia, Renya4 the egggL
Uganda, the United Republic of Tanzania and zanbia. subsequently, !!!g!i.gJ.
!,lozanbique, Togo and Yenen Joined in sponsoring the draft resolution, rhich read ae
follows:

'E jsElg@]I,
iRecalling its resolution 32/L72 of 19 Decernbet L977, by ehich lt

approved lhe Plan of Action to Combat Desertlf icat ion, g/

'.Reca]l-i$lfgg paragraph I of it6 resolution 38,/165 of 19 Decernber 1983,
by which it eelcomed the declslon of the covernlng Council of the Onited
Nations Environment Programme:19/ to devote two dayg, during its twelfth
session, to a detalled assessment of the implenentatlon of the Plan of Action
to Conbat Desert lfication,

nTaking note of Economic antt Social Council reEolutlon L984/55 of
26 July 1984 on the Implernentation of the Plan of Action to Combat
Desert i flcation,

iltaving consldered the views of the coverning Councit of the United
Nations Environnent Prograrme on the general assessment of progress in the
implementatlon of the plah of Action to CombaE Desert i f ication, 19?8-198{, l!r/

'Having also consldered Economic and social Council resolution L981/72 of
zl tu lfTfa-lrrr-iiGTEii?iFand devetopnent in Africa,

"Bearlng in mlnd the current serious problem of prolonged drought and
desertlflcation which has contributed to the tridespread econonlc catagtrophe
in a large nurnber of African countries south of the Saharat

"1. Takes note h'ith appreciation of the viens of the coverning Council
or tne uni@ranne on the generar aasessnent of
progress in the irnpLenentation of the ptan of Action to Conbat
Desertif ication, 1978-1984 t

LO/ Official Records of the ceneral Assembly, Thirty-eighth Ses6lon,
Supplement No. 25 (A/39/251, annex, decision ll/1, Bect. VII!.

Ly t IEP/@,.LT/g and corr.l.

of the unlted Nations Conf



A/39/7e0/l'dd.9
EngIi6h
Page 6

12. AIso takes note with appreciation of the report of the Governlng
council on the implementation of the Plan of Action to combat
Desert i ficat l onr. W

Endorses Governing Council decislon L2/LO oE 28 uay 1984 on
aesertiricEll6ii-57

NoleE l{i!! glee! _q n that, during the seven years since the
unitea nations conference on oes;;tiflcation in 1977, desertification has
continued to spread and inten6ify ln developlng countries, Particularly ln
Afrlcat

15. fielcorneB the reconflrnatlon by.the coverning councll of the validity
of the Plan of Action to conbat Desertlfication r the reafflrrnatlon of the
central role of UNEP in catalyaing, co-ordlnattng and asaessing the
implenentation of the Plan of Action at the lnternational levelr anal the
aPProval by the Governlng Councll of concrete, tine-bound activlties to combat
desertlfication over the next fift€en yearEt

'6. Ells to expand the role oi the consultacive Group for
Desertiflcation Control, irhlch 18 financed fron voluntary conttibutions, to
ihclude explicitly responelblllty for adviaing the Executive Director ont

r{a} The Progre66 and effectiveness of actlvltieg imPlenented under the
PIan of Actlon, iilentlfying con6traints and posslble Eolutlons to problerna,
taking account of relevant evaluations and case 6tudiea,

'(b) Prograrrne prioritles of the onited Nationg Envirorunent Programi€t

'(c) Measures required to irnprove imPlenentatlon of the plan of Action on
a reglonal and world-side basisl

'7. Catls upon the conEultative croup for Desertlfication Control to
intensify eurttrer itE efforts to asalst the E(ecutive Dlrector of the United
Natlons Envlronment ProgranurE in the moblllzation of resources for the
irnplenentatlon of the Pfan of Actiont

"8 . -ryg covernnents of countr les sufferlng f rom or prone to
desertificatlon to accord priority to the conbating of desertification tn
their developnent plans and in their requestE for developnent assistance and
to the establishtnent of national progranmea to conbat desertif ication, aa well
as to consider settlng up appropriate natlonal rnachinery or aesigning
responsibility to exlstlng natlonal nachineryl rrhere aPPropriate, to that endt

lU t/Zg/qSS, annex I.

f!/ see official Records of the cenoral Aaaenily, Thlrty-ninth session,
supplenent No. 25 (A/39/251, annex.



A/39/790/Add.9
English
Fage 7

n9. Requests the Governlng Council of the United Nations Environnent
Programme to examlne' a! its thirteenth session, the possibitity of including
the United Republic of Tanzania in the list of countries which receive
assistance, through the united Nations sudano-sahelian office, in inplenenting
in the sudano-Sahelian region the Plan of Action to conbat Desertification and
to report on this natter to the ceneral Assembly at its fortleth 6ession,

r10. Urges all covernments to increase their asslstance, through
appropriate channels, to countrie6 suffering fron desert ificat ion, including
the financing of regionaL and subregional programmes, and to contrlbute to ahe
special Account created under c€neral Assenbly resolution 32/L72 ot
19 Decenber 1977 t

rl1. Endorses the decision of the Governlng Council that a further
overarr assessment of progress in the inplementatlon of the plan of Action to
Conbat Desertificatlon should be carried out in 1992. !!,/"

7. At.the sane meeting, the representative of the Niger introduced a draft
resolution lA/c.2/39 /r'.23) entrtled r rmplenentat ron, in the sudano-sahelian regr.on,
of the Plan of Action to Combat Desert ificationr, on behalf of Burklna Faso,
9ape.vgrdef chad, MaIt and the Niqer and oratly revised it by .Eliii6frii-*orarsatisfactlonr in operative paragraph 3 by the eord rappreciltion. ana-
refornulating operative paragraph 4 to reaat as followsr

iETpresses its appreclation al6o for the efficiene and co-ordlnated
nanner in which the Executive Director of the United Nations Environrnent
Programne and the Adninistrator of the unlted Nations Developrnent programne
have continued to develop this joint action through the united Nations
sudano-sabeLian office l n

subsequently, gglplr the canbla, chana, Gulnea, Guinea-Bissau, Li and
S. Joinea in sponsoring read aE
f ollorrrs:

. Ttr e__ce neBl_As seglu,

'Recallins its resolutions 36490 of lZ December I9Bl, 37 /216 of
20 Decenber 1982 and 3A/L64 oE lg Decenber 1983,

"raktnC_nolg of the decision, dated 2g May 1994, of the covernlng Council
of the United Nations Environment progranme fgl on the irnplernentat ion, ln thesudano-sahelian region, of the pran of ac tioi-to cornbat Desert i f ication, 16l

4,/ Ibid. , decision !Z/!0. para. 28.

al Assernbl Th inth session 't5l officNo
of the

), annex.

^- J9/ BeForp 
o.f th9-ljnited Nattons Conference on Desert i fication, Nalrobi,

Zg luqust-g



^/19/790/Add.9English
Page I

'Laking hote of Econuric and social council resolution 1984/65, dated
26 ,tufaf984, on the inPlenentation, in the sudano-sahelian region' of the
plan ol Action to Conbat Deeertification and Council resolution 1984/72' dated
27 July 198,1, on the environDent and develoPnent in Africa'

rTaking note also of the incluaton of Ghana and Togo in the list of
countries to be coveTed by the Unlted Nattons Sudano-Sahelian Office under the
Plan of Actlon to Combat Desertif icationr

'Havlng consldereal the rePort of the Governlng councll of the united
Natlors Envirorunent 

-Progr 
rnm€ on the inplenentation, in the sudano-sahelian

region, of the Plan of Actlon to Cot bat tlesertl ficatlon '
'Bearlng in rrintl the speclal revlee undertaken by the Governlng councll

of ureEfiEE-Ilti6iE Envtronment Progranne of the ProgreEE made in
lrnplenentlng the plan of ACtlOn, based, inte! alia, on Ehe general assessment
by the B{€cutlve Director of progres5 in the inPtenentatlon of the Plan of
l-tion !/ and on the relevant document on the aseesernent of ateEertification,
ln the gualano-sahellan region' l9?8-I984t

Takes note of the rePort of the Governlttg councll of the uniced
Nations nnviromnent prograrEle on the irnplenentation, in the Sudano-sahetian

Notes sith concern:
r(a) That the perslatent drought ln the sahel has lneensified and spread

lnto several parts of Africa, assuming the proPortions of a generalized
tlroughtt

i (b) That the inaaleguacy of financlal resources continues to Plac€ a
Eerioug constraint on the flght against desertiflcation t

i3. ExPresses lts appreciaEion at the progress made touards overconlng
these ousticles by the unrtea Natton6 sudano-sahelian offlcer on behalf of the
Unlted Nations Environnent Programtre, rs Part of a Joint actlon by the t'nited
Nations Frvironment prografime and thc unltecl t{atlons Development Progratntne to
as€ist the Governrnents of the region ln combating desertif lcation,

Expresse6 lt6 apPreciation also for the efflcient and co-ordinated
manner Ln *hlctt ttre Executtva Director of tbe united Nations Environment
Progranne and the Adnlnistrltor of the tnited Nations Developnent Progranme
have continueat to develop thl6 Joint action through tbe united Nations
sudano-sahellan of f icet

region, of the PIan of Actlon to Conbat Deaertificatlon,

Ll TJNE.P/C'C.L2/9 and corr.l.



A/39/790/,d'd.9
EngliEh
Page 9

15.Itequeststhe@vernlngcounciloftheunltedNationsEnvirontnent
Programne and the Governlng Council of the unlted Natlons Develo'Pnent
Progratfirne to contlnue to provide and lncrease thelr support to the Unlted
Natlons sudano-sahelian office ln order to €nable it to re6Pond fully to the
urgent needs of the countries of tbe Sudano-Sahellaa. regiont

'6. !IPryL!Eg!L!g!!9 to the Governtnents, unlted Natlona bodleel
lntergovernrnentaf organizattons ind other organizatlons which have cohtributed
to the inplenentatlon. in the gualano-Sahelian region, of the Plan of Actlon to
combat Desertlf icationt

mrphaslzee the need to redouble the efforts ln order to inplenent
the plan of Action io Conbat lresertlf,lcatlon tn the Sudlano-Sahellan regJ.on'
and g5g all Government6 to reE[tond favourably to the requests Eubmitted by
the @vernnents 0f the countries of the Sualano-sahellan region for asEiatance
in conbating desert if icatlon,

'8. Requegt€ the Governlng Councll of th€ unlted NaEiona Envlronnent
progranune to rrnafe the neceaEary arrrngenenta at each ses6lon for Eubmlttlng a
report to the General Aesenbly, through the Bconornlc and Social Council, on
the lnplenentation, ln the guaano-srh-lian reglon, of the Plan of Actlon to
Combat Lreaert I f icatlon. i

8. At the 54th tneeting, on 30 Novetnber, the Comittee had before lt a draft
resolutlon (A/c.2/gg/L.g2) entltled 'Plan of Action to combat Desertiflcation"
subnltted by ur. Habtb Kaabachi 

' 
vice-chalrnan of the connittee, on the basls of

infornal conEultations held on draft reEolut lona A/c.2/39/L.20 and L.23.

9. At the sane meeting 
' 

the conunittee adopted draft resolutto a/c.2/39/1.92 (3ee
para. 2lr draft resolution IIl.

10. After the adoption of the alrafE reaolutlon, Btaternetlts $ere nade by the
representatives of Syeden (al6o on behalf of Dennerk' Finland. Iceland anal ltorrayl ,
canada, the United states of Anerica, Bglpt and Senegal.

tl. In the llghC of the aaloPtion of dlraft resolutlon A/C.2/3g/L.g2, draft
resolutions A/C.2/39/L.2O and L.23 were wltbdrawn by their aponsors.



A/39/790/AdA.9
English
Page 10

4 and amendment thereto
9/L.55 8nd dr

12. At the 37th meetlng, on 6 November, the representative of Norway introduced a
draft resolutLon (A/C.2/39/L.24) entitled rlnternaEional co-operatlon in the field
of the
Flnland

environment' on behalf of Argentina, Australia, Bangladesh, Canada, Derunark,
Indonesi.a the Netherland€,

i-subsedF6Elil--
the draft resolution,

rhich read as follotrs:

of

sponsoring

'@re!E!-lsslfr,
'Havfnq consfdereq the report of the

llations Environment Prograflune on the work
covernlng Council of the United
of lts twelfth session, 18/

" Ta k ing__lgte of the report of the Executive Director of the United
Nations Environment Progranne on international conventions and Protocols in
the field of tbe environnent, ]g/

'Recalling its reaolution 38/165 of 19 December 1983, in which it
reafflrmed the need for strengthenlng the co-ordinaeing role of the United
Nations Environnent Prograrnme and the need for additional resources to assist
developing countrie6 in dealing nith thelr serious envlronmental problems,

'Recognizing the international dimension of envlronrnental problerns, the
role of environmental factors ln economlc development, and the need to
consider favourably the forfirulation and implenentation of environrnental
policies and neasures,

"t{oting with deep concefn that the drought now seriously affecting rnany
African countrles exacerbates and is exacerbated by the continued erosion of
the natural resource base for developrnent in those countries,

rReiterating the lmportance of the environnent in the context of
development and the need to take environnental considerations fuuy lnto
account ln the inplenentation of the International Development strategy for
the Third United Nations DeveLopnent Decade, 2O,/

f,lq/ offlcial Records of the ceneral Assenbly, Thirty-ninth session,
Supplem-ent

P/ 
^/3e/432.

3q/ Resolution 35155, annex.



A/39/790/add.9
Engllsh
Page 11

rNoting with satlgfaction that the dialogue between and among aleveloped
and developlng countries lE almed, inter alla, at a better understanding of
the inportant role of environmental-IEFEElfi a broader econonic and eoclal
context,

'.E@ the inportance of the need to take into account the
interrelatlonsh4rs between developnent, environment, PoPulatlon and resourcest

TaBeE lqole of the report of che coverninq Councll of the united
Nations snvironnent Progratnne on the work of it8 tselfth session and the
declslons contained thereln, !!i/ and in thig context decldes:

" (a) To welcorne the establiBhnent of the Intergovernrnental
Inter-aessional Preparatory Cornmlttee of the Governing Council to asaiEt the
coverning council ln carrying out lts lfiandate ln regard to the preParation of
the Enuironnental Perspective to the year 2000 a d beyondt 4/

'(b) To recomnend the lppropriate bodles of the Unlted Nations to take
fully into account the rep,ort concernlng the inplenentation of the
environmental aspects of the tnternatlonal Developtrent strategy fot the Third
unlted Natlons Development Decaale prepared under the aegis of the
Adtninistrative @tE|llttee on co-ordlnat lan ' ful 

toqether with the conments of
the Governing Councll. thereont U in particular in the imPlenentatlon of
policy measurea ln the renalning perlod of the Decadet

'(c) To take note of coverning Council declsion I2/3 A of 28 uay 1984 on
the environrnent ln the dialogue betu€en and atnong developed and developlng
countries, and encouragea contlnued efforts in this dlrectionl

" (al) To endorEe @verning council decislon L2/4 of 28 uay 1984' ln uhlch
the Governing Council aleclded to extend the clearing-house exPeriment for
tbree years withln avallable voluntary resourceg. and expresses its
appreciatlon to Governmenta and international orqantzations that financially
support the experinent, anat invltee others to ato likewise and to contlnue to
facllitate slthin the franework of the clearlng-house the Provlsion of exPert
asElstancet

4/ offlcial necords of

U bfr., trhirty-elghth seeelon, supplenent No. 25 aA/39/25t, annex,
alecislon lll3.

29t tJtIEP/cc.l2/8/Nd.L anal corr.I.

4i/ [ll.d,EP/CC,12,/19, chap. IV, paras. 1l-15.



^/39/790/Add.9English
Page 12

'(et Also to endorse Governing Councll declslon L2/L0 ot 28 May 1984, by
whlch the Governlng Councll, j;@, calleal uPon aII countries to increase
thelr asalstance to countries euffering fro$ desertiflcation and urged
@vernments of affected countries to conslder favourably giving Priority to
the establishnent of national programrea to cotnbat deEert i f ication t

'(f) To take note of the endoraement by the Governing counc1l, in
aection I of its declsion L2/L2 of 28 uay I984r of the Globa1 Plan of Action
for the conservatlon, lhnagetnent anal Utilization of l{arine l4atunal s p and, in
section II of that declsion, of the Plan of Actlon for the rnplementation of
the tlorlil Soils Pclicy, 3!/ both of which Provide a timely and valuable
framework for policy platming and Progranme formulation by Governnents and
internatlonal organizat,ions concernedt

'(g) To welcome Governing council decision L2/L7 of 28 uay 1984'
concerning efforts towarals the strengthening of regional co-operation,

'(hl To take note of Governing Council decision I2/5 of 28 May 1984, in
nhich the Governing council requested the Executive Director of lhe united
Natlone Environrnent Programne to trea! the issue of poPulation and the
environrnent in the report on the state of the environment for the year 1985,
ln the llght of the resultG of the Internatlonal conference on PoPulationt

'(t) To take note of Governing council decision I2/L4 ot 28 tt{ay 1984'
concerning the progress rnade in the inplenentation of the envirorunental law
programne ' ln particular the follow-uP 

to lhe reconnendations of the Ad Eoc
Meetlng of Senior coverntnent Officlals Expert in EnvironlDental Law, held at
l,bntevideo fron 28 occober to 6 Novetnber L98L, 4/

a2. welcotnes the e8tablishrnent of the world Conunission on Environment
and Developrent,

considerE that measures to deal vrlth the critical econonic and
EoCiaI situation in Africa in relatlon to the erosion of the natural resource
base should have as one of lts major aitng the sustainable exploitation and
increaged productivity of the natural reEource base of the continentt

'4. Notes with appreclation that a conference of African ministers on
the envlronment is to be convened in 1985 as a co-operative effort of the
United Nations Enviroru[ent Programne, the organization of African Unity and
the Economlc Colmisslon for Africa ln order to tdentify and deal with the
serious environnental problens of Africa within the franevtork of lbe Lagos

E/ aNEP/c'c..12.//l5, annex I .

2!l/ rl'iEP/@.12,/14, annex I.
gl UNEP/@.LO/5/IJjd.2, annex, cbap. !



A/19/790/Add.9
English
Page 13

plan of Action for the Implementation of the Monrovla strategy for the
Economic Developnent of Africa 28,/ and in the context of the economlc and
social crisis in Africai

@ the Governlng Council of the United Nations Envlronment
Progranme to continue to give high priority to dealing flith the rnost seriou6
environnental problems of developing countries, ln Particutar the recurrence
of drought, desertif lcation, deforestationr soil loss and water nanagementt

Expresses lts appreciation to the Governnents that continue to
contribute to the Fund of the United Nations Environnent Programne t
particularly those that have increased their contributionst

Noteghtlthdeepconcernrhowever,theverytneagrepledgegtothe
Fund thus f a-;- receFAA-Eorn Governments, and strongly apPeals to those
Governnents that have not yet paid their contributions to the F'unal for 1984 or
made thelr pledges for 1985 to do so as soon a€ possible.'

t3. At the 50th neeting, on 26 Novernber, the representative of the gnlgg9evig!
socialist Republics lntroduced an amendment (A/c.2/39/L.55) to draft resolution
A/c.2/39/L.24, which read as follows:

nlnsert the follorring new paragraph between the fourth and fifth
Preambular paragraPhs:

'Aware that the contlnulng increase in the Productlon, stockpiling and
risk of use of i{eaPons of nass destruction and the development of new
typesofweaponsnotonlyposeamajorthrea!totheenvlronmentandeven
to life on earth, but also conpele for liniEeal resources that could be
better used for constructive purposes, including development. "

14. subseguently' the sPonsors of draft resolution A/c.2/39/L'24 subnitted a
revised draft resolut lon lA/c.2/39/L.24lRev.1), which read as follotts:

"!Ihe General Assembly '

'Eaving considered the report of che Governing Council of the United
Natlons nnvironment lrogrannme on the work of its twelfth session, 29,/

nTaking note of the rePort of the Executlve Director of the Onited
Nations Environment Programne on international conventlonE and Protocols in
the fleld of the environnent' !9/

29/ A/s-\/L4 , annex I .

?9/ official Records of the

39/ A/3e/432.



A/39/?90/Add.g
En911sh
Page 14

'Recallllg its resolution 38,46l of 19 Decenber l9g3 concerning the
process of preparation of the Bivironmental perspective to the year 2000 and
Beyond,

'Recalling its resolutlon 38,/l6s of 19 Decenber 1983, in which it,
inter alia, reaffirmed the need for strengthening the co-ordlnatlng role of
the united Nations Environrnent Programne and the need for additlonal resources
to assist developing countrlee in dealing with their serlous environnental
problerns,

nw!jg!!g the international dlnenslon of environtnental problerns, the
role of environmental factors in the broader economic and social context, and
the need to conslder favourably the fornulatlon and itnplenentatlon of
environmental policies and neasures,

'Noting with deep concern that the drought now serlously affectlng nany
African countries exacerbaees and is exacerbatetl by the contlnued eroslon of
the natural resource baae fo! developrnent in those countries,

'Reiteratlng the need to take environnental conslderation8 fuUy into
account in the implenentation of the International Development Strategy for
the Third United Nations Developlent Decade, !y

'B".ti"q ir ri"d that the dialogue betvreen and anong ileveloped and
developing countriee is airned, inter alla, at a better understanding of the
irnportant role of environnental issues in a broader economic and social
context ,

'h.g!Igi!g the lmportance of the need to take into account the
lnterrelationships betneen development, environment, population and resourcesl

"1. Take€ note of the report of the coverning Council of the tnited
Nations Environment Prograrune on the worh of its trrelfth session and the
decisions contained therein, !!11 and in this context resolvesr

"(a) To take note of section II of coverning council decision L2/L of
29 llarch 1984 on the Environmental perspective Co the year 2OO0 andl Beyonalt

" (b) To recorurend the appropriate bodies of the United Nations to take
fully lnto accoun! the report concerning the irnplementation of the
environmental aspects of the International Developnent Strategy for the Third
United Nations Developnent Decade prepared under tbe aegis of the

!y Resotution 35156, annex.

!/ Official Records of the ceneral
$upplenent No. 25 lA/39/25) , annex.



A/39/790/ld'd.9
English
Page 15

Adninistrative Conmittee on Co-ordinat Lon, !1/ together with the coments of
the Governing Councll thereon, l!/ ln particular in the irnplenentation of
pollcy neasures ln the remalnlng perlod of the Decaale t

'(c) ro take note of coverning council decision L2/3 A ot 28 May 1984 on
the environnent in the dialogue between and afirong developed and developlng
countries, and encourages continued efforts ln this dlrectionl

" (d) To endorse coverning councll decision L2/4 of 28 t,tay 1984. ln which
the Governing Council decided to extend the cl-earlng-house experlment for
three years nithln available voluntary re6ources, to express its appreciatlon
to Governments and international organizations that flnancially support the
experinent, to lnvite otbers to do like$iee and to continue to facilltate
within the framework of the clearing-house the provision of expert assistancet

'(e) Also to endorEe Governlng council decision I2/I0 of 28 Itay 1984, by
wbich the Governing council, inter alia, declded upon ingtitutional reforne to
enable the gnited Nations Environment Prograrnme nore effectlvely to Pronote
itnplenentation of the Plan of Actlon to Combat Desert ification, 35l called
upon all countries to increase their assistance to counlries sufferlng fron
desertification and urged Governments of affected countries to consider
favourably giving priority to the establishment of national Progranmea to
combat desert ification I

" (f) To take note of the endorsenent by the coverning Coungil, in
section I of its decision L2/L2 ot 28 May 198{, of the Global Plan of Action
for the conservation, Managernent and Utllization of Marine llarMlals !,!/ and. in
section II of that decisionl of the PIan of Actlon for the ImPlementation of
the liorld soils pollcy, lit both of which provide a tinely and valuable
franewor k for policy plannlng and programe fornulation by @vernments and
internatlonal organizatlons concernedl

"G) To rrelcome Governing council tlecision 12/L7 oE 28 ltay 1984,
concerning efforts to{rards the strengthening of regional co-oPerationt

'(h) To take note of @verning Councll decision L2/5 ot 28 titay 1984 on
population and the environrnent t

291 tJ tFjP /cc. L2 /8 /Add.I and Corr.1.

?91 wtEP /Gc. L2 /I9 t chap. Iv, Paras, 11-15.

q9/ Ireport of the United Natlons
29 August-g September 1977 (

:!,/ UNEP/cc.l2lIs ' annex I.

22/ gNEP/e{.I2/].4, annex I.

erence



A/39/790/Add.9
English
Page 16

39/

ao/

"(i) To take note of coverning council declsion L2/L4 ot 28 ay 1984,
concernlng the progress rnade in the inpletnentatlon of the environnental lavt
programme 

' in partlcular the follow-up to the reconnendations of the 4g_geglteeting of Senior @vernment officiats ExPert in Envlronmental Lan, held at
!4ontevideo from 28 October to 6 Novenber l98ll 38,/

welcomeE bhe establishrnent of the inter-sessional prePaEatory
conunittee E6f,ffit the covernlng council ln carrying out i ts mandate in
regard to the preparation of the Environnental PersPective to the Year 2000
and Beyondt

vlelcones alEo the escablishtnent of the special coaunlssion referred
to in cenelEl-Issernbly resolution 38/L6L, which should, inter alia, assist in
the preparation of the Environrnental Perspective lo the Year 2000 and Beyond,
and which has corne to be known as the world CoNnisaion on Envirorunent and
Developmentt

i4. considers that neasures to deal wlth the critical economlc and
soclal situation in Africa in relation tO the erosion of the natural resource
base of the continent should have as one of thelr major ains the sustainable
exploitation and increased productlvlty of that natural reaource base,

'5. Ig!ryllllpllgigjlig that a conference of African minj.sters on
the environment is to be convened in 1985 as a co-oPerative effort of the
United Nations Environment Prograrule, the Organlzation of Afrlcan Unity and
the Economic coNnission for Afrlca in order to ldentify and deal with the
serious environrnental. problens of Africa nithin the franework of the Lagos
Plan of Action for the Implenentation of the l,lonrovia Strategy for the
Econonic Development of Africa 39i/ and in the context of the economic and
social crisls in Afr lca t

"6. Reafflrns the need to strengthen the co-ordinatlng role of the
united Nationa Environnent Progranme to aEsigt developing countrles of
different regions in dealing wlth Berlous environmental problems;

Expresses its appr€clation to the @vernnenes that continue to
contribute to the Fund of the united Nations Environmen! Programne,
partlcularly those that have increased their contributions,

"8. t'l,otes with deep concern, however, the very neagre pledges to the
Fund thus far received frotn Governments, and strongly aPPeals to those
Governrnents thaC have not yet paid their contrlbutions to the Fund for f984 or
nade their pledges for 1985 to do so aa soon as posslblet

UNEP/cC.10/5/Add.2, anner, chap. l.

A/S-lI/L4. annex I.



^/39/790/Add,9Engl ish
Page 17

'9. Urges the H.ecutive Director of the united Nations Environnent
Progranme, in consultation nigh covernnents and inCernational organizations
concerned, to continue to intenelfy his efforts to ensure the provision of
additional resources to assist developing countries in dealing nith serious
environmental problems. rr

15. At the 58th neetlng, on lO December, ur. Hablb Kaabachl, vice-Chalrman of the
Connittee, nade a statemeht in rrhlch he inforned the Comnittee on the outcone of
informal consultations held on draft resolutfon A/c.Z/39/L.24^ev.l and the
proposed amendnent |A/C.2/39/L.551.

16. After a statenent rnade by the repregentative of Nornay. the reptesentative of
Pskistan nade a statenent and proposed a revision to the amendment by the Unlon of
Soviet Socialist R€publics |A/C.2/39/L.55), which would then read as follows:

'Aware that the contlnulng arms accufiutation in nany regions of the
world' as well as the risk of thelr use, cohEtllute a major danger for the
envLronment and compete for linited resources that could be better used for
developnent. n

L7. After statements by the represenlatives of Indla, l,brway, the cerman
Irenocratic Republic, Saint Lucia, the ttnion of sovlet sociallst Republics' the
uniced States of Anerica, Bulgaria, Argentina, the Federal Republic of cermany,
Uganda, Pakistan, Liberia. Braril and Yugoslavia, the repr€sentative of IISS
proposed a revision to hhe reviBion proposed by pakistan (aee para. 16l, nhich
would then read as follo|,s:

iA$rare tbat the continuing stockpiling and risk of use of weapons of mass
destruction in nany regions of the world constitutes a najor danger for the
environrnent and competes for linited resources tha! could be better u6ed for
develoPment. '

18. The representative of Norway. on behalf of the sponEora, then wlthdrew draft
resolution A/C.2/39 /L.z4lRev. l.

D. Draft decision

19. At the 60th neeting, on 14 December, on the proposal of the Chairman, the
comnittee decided.to reconunend that the General Assetnbly take note of the report of
the Governing Council of the United Nations Ehvironment Programne on its tvrelfth
session 40.,/ and the note by the secretary-General transmltting the report of the
Executive Director of the United Nations Environrnent Prograrnme on lnternatlonal
conventions in the field of the environrnent (A,/39,/4321 (see para. 22).

20. The representative of Australia rnade a Btatement.

lV offictal
Supplenent No. 25



A/39/790/^dd.9
Bnglish
Page 18

II I. NECOIiII,'ENDATIONS OF TIIE SECOND COMMITTEE

2]-. The second Cotrmittee recolo0enda to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
following draft resolutlonsr

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Rennanta of war

Ttte General Assembly,

Recauihg its resolutions 3435 (xxx) of 9 tlecenber 1975, 35/7I of
5 Decernber 1980, 361188 of 17 Eleceober 1981, 37 /215 ot 20 Decenber 1982 and
38/L62 of 19 Decernber 1983 concerning the problen of rernnants of war'

Recalling also decisions 80 (Iv) of 9 APrll L976' g/ 101 (v) of
25 Wy L977. 42,/ 9/5 of 25 tiay L98L 9/ and 10,/8 of 28 ay 1982 !!11 of the
@verning Council of the United Naclons Environnent Programme'

Recalling further resolution 32 adopted by the Fifth conference of Heads
of state or Government of Non-Allgned Countrles, held at Colonbo from 16 to
19 August L976, E/ and resolution 26/LL-P adopted by the Eleventh Islanic
conference of Poreign ulni6ter6, helat at Islarnabad from L7 to 22 l.taY L9SO. !91

convinced that the responslbility for the removal of the rennants of war
should be borne by the countries that planted then.

Recognizing that the preaence of the naterial rennants of lrar, including
mines, in the territorles of developlng countries seriously inpedes their
developnent efforts and causes losE of tife and property,

9/ 7bid.. thirty-seconat SeEslon, Supplenent No. 25 lA/32/25',, annex I.

43/ Ibial., Tblrty-@ lA/36/25 and corr.ll 'annex-r.

W lbia., Thirty-seventh se6sion, Supplenent No. 25 (A/37 /251 , part two,
annex.

l!5/ See A/gL/Lg7, annex Iv, sect. B.

!9/ see A/35/ 4L9-s/1412 9, annex I.

!!l see Officlal Recorda of the ceneral Assernbl
Supplement No. 25 lA/3V25t ' annex



\

A/39/790/Add.9
EngLi€h
Paqe 19

l-. Takes note of the report of the secretary-GeneraL on the Problem of
rennants of vat, !fJ/

2. Regrets that no concrete meaaures have been taken to solve the
problem of remnanta of war desplte the various resolutions and decisions
adopted thereon by the General Assenbly and the Governing Councll of the
Unlteal Nations Environment Prograrmet

3. Reiterates its support of the just demands of the developing
countries ;rr;IEaEffe:mpttantatlon of nines and the presence of other
rernnants of war in their territories for conPen6ation and for conplete renoval
of those obstacles by the states that inPlanted thern t

4. Requests the Secretary-Gener al, in co-operation wihh the tnitec
NationE Environment Programne and other organizations of the Uniteal Natlon6
system, within their nandates, to collect all inforrnation on exPertise and
available equipnent. so as to evaluate, on request, the actual needs of the
devefoping countriea affected and to assist those countries ln their efforts
to detect and clear material retnnants of warl

5. Calls upon all States !o co-operate r.rith the apProPriate
org"nl"rti6l-FTfrE Uniteal Natlons system in carrying out the task asslgned
to them ln paragraph 4 above,

6. Also caLls upon those developed countries directly resPonsible for
the presence of remnants of rrar to intenslfy bilateral consultations with the
aitR of concluding, without undue delay, agreements for the solution of those
problems;

7. Itequests al.I States Co inform the Secretary-General of actions they
have taken in the imPtementation of the present resolutiont

8. Requests the secretary-General to subnit a detailed and
conprehensliE rePort on the inPlenentatiod of the present resolution to the
General Assernbly at its fortieth session.

DRAF{ REEOLUTION II

Plan of Action to combat Desertlfication

A

Inplementation of the Plan of Action to combat Desertlfication

@4@!1Y.,

!3rl A/3e/sgo.



I
A/39/79O/Add.9
English
Page 20

(

Recalling its resolution 32/L72 of 19 Decenber L977, by which it approved
the Plan of Action to Conbat Desertif icati on, lU

Recalling also paragrapb I of its resolution 38/L65 of 19 Decernber 1983,
by which it welcomed seclion VIII of decision 1I,/1 of the Governing Council of
the United Nations Environment Prograrnme l!9/ to devoEe th'o days, during lts
tnelfth session, to a detailed assessnent of the itnPlementation of the Pl-an of
Action to Conbat Desert i flcation,

Taking note of Econonic and social Council resolution L984/65 of
26 \tuly 1984 on the inplemenlation of the PJ-an of Action to Combat
Desertif lcation,

Having considered the views of the coverning Council of the United
Nations Envlronnent Programne on bhe general assessnent of progress in the
inplementation of the PIan of Action to CombaC Desert i flcat ion, 1978-1984, 50,/

Having al-so considered Econonic and social council resolution L984/72 of
27 July 1984 on environment and development in Africat

Bearing in nind the currenE serious problen of prolonged drought and
tlesert i ftcation that has contributed to the widespread econonic catastrophe in
a large number of African countries south of the Sahara,

l. Takes note with appreciation of the vievts of the Governing Couneil {
or tne un i@amme on the general assessnent of
progreas in the itnpl-ementatlon of the Plan of Action to Conba t
Desert i fication, 19 28-19 841

2. Also takes note wlth appreciation of the report of the coverning
councir on@ Aclion to conbat
Desertificatio'tr,5y

3. ltakes note with lnterest of coverning council decision :.2Ao of
ZSUay:.ee@

39/ ReEort of the United Natlons Conference on pesert lfication, Nairobi,
29 August-g Septenber 1977 (A/CONF.74I36) ' 

chaP. I.

!91 see official Records of the ceneral Assernbly, Thlrty-eighth session,
supplement No. 25 lA/38/25't, annex, decielon 1ll1, sect. VIII.

:9/ UNEP/CC. L2/9 and Corr.1.

!L/ A/39/133, anne* I.

52/ See Official Records of the ceneral Assembly, Thirty-ninth Session,
supplement l.fo. 25 aA/39/251 , annex. 

/...



A/39/790/Add.9
Eng I ish
Page 2l

{. llotes rith great concern that' during the seven years since the
Unlted Natlons Conference on Oee"rtttication in 1977, deserbificatlon has
continuetl to spread and lntenslfy in developlng countries, partlcularly ln
Africat

5. welcones the reconflrnation by tbe Governlng council of the United
Nation5 arvfronment Programe of the validity of the PIan of Action to conbat
Desertification 

' 
the reafflrmation of the central role of the Programne In

catalysing, co-ordlnating and assessing the lnPlenentatlon of the P18n of
Action at the lnternational level' anal Ehe aPProval by the Governing council
of concrete, tine-bound activities to combat desertification over the next
flfteen yearEt

6. Decides to expand the role of the Consultative GrouP for
oeserttf tclll6i-Eontrol, whtch is financed from voluntary contrlbutlona, to
lnclude explicltly responsibllity for advising the E(ecutive Director on:

(a) Ttre Progress antt effectiveness of activltied irnPlemented under the
Plan of Actlon; tdentifying constraints and possible Eolutions to Problena,
taking account of relevant evaluations and case studiest

(b) Prograrme prioritles of the United Nation6 Envlronment Progranme
related to problens of desertlfication t

(c) Irleasures requlred to imProve irnPlenentatlon of the Plan of Action on
a reglonal and world-wlde basls;

7. calls upon the conaultative croup for Desertification control to
lntenslfy tu-iln-er its effortE to asslat the Executlve Director of the unlted
Nations Environment Progranne in the nobilization of regourcea for the
lnplementltion of the Plan of Actiont

8. j:llgsg Governments of councrles prone to or sufferlng from
desertiflcllffi to give Priority to the establishnent of national programnes
to cornbat desertlfication and to consider setting up appropriate national
machinery or assigning responsibllity to exi6tlng natlonal machlnery' wbele
appropriate, to that endt

9. Requeata the Governlng Council of the United NaCions Envlronnent
Prograrme f6-*.ttitte, at its thirteenth seasion, the possibirity oft

(a)thelnclu€ionofreferencetothetnitedRePublicofTanzanlainthe
terns of reference of, the Unlteal Nations sudano-sahelian office in order to
enable that country to receive assiEtance ln the implen€ntation of progranules
for combatlng deser t i f lcation I

(b) The expansion of the scoPe of the Fork of the United Nations
sudlano-sahelian offlce so aa to enable it to assiBt the states rnenbera of the
Southern African Developnent Co-ordination conference in inplementing the
recomrendalione of the united Nations Envlronnent Progralme on combating



^/39/790/Add.9English
Page 22

desertificatlon and drought, in the sane nay as the office is currentry
aaaisting the States nenbers of the Permanent Inter-State Conmittee on Drought
Control in the Sahelt

,. I0. Urges all Governnents to increase their asEistance, inter alia, byfinancing regional and subregionar progranmes, through approprT6rE--nanners-,
including the sPeclal Accounl creatid inder General i."ei'61y- reso Lu1ion 3z/17Z
of 19 December L977, to counlries suffering from deserti ficationl

11. Endorses the decleion of Che coverning council in paragraph 2g of
its decision 12,210 that a further overall assessment of progress in the
inPrementation of the pran of Action to conbat Desertification shoulal be
carrled out in 1992. 52l

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recalling lts resolutions 36,/190 of IZ Decenber l9gl, |T/ZLG of
20 Decenber 1982 and 38/164 ot 19 Decenber 1983,

Taking note of decision LZ/IO of 28 nay t9g4 of the covernlng Councit of
the United Nations Envirorment prograntne ZJ/ on the inplenentatlon in tbeSudanc-Sahelian region of the plan of Act-ion to Combat Desertificati on, !g/

Taking note of Econonlc and Social Council reEolutions Lg84/65 ot
26 July 1984 on the implenentation ln the sudano-sahelian region of the plan
of Action to Conbat Desertification and 1984/72 of 2j July I9A4 on the
environnent and devetopment in Africa,

Taking note also of the inclusion of chana and Togo in the list of
countries to be covered by the united Nations sudano-sahelian office under the
Plan of Action to Conbat Deser tification,

Having consldered the reFort of the coverning council on the
implementation in the sudano-sahel-ian region of the pran of Action to combatDesertification, !:/

Bearing in rnind the speclal reviek, uhdertaken by the coverning Council of
the progress nade in inplementing the plan of Action, based, lnter alia, on
the general assessment by the Executive Direclor of progress in the
implementation of the plan of Action, I9?S-19S4, !/ and on the relevantdocunent on the assessnent of desertification in the Sudano-Sahelian reglon,

tation ln the sudano-sahelian

!!/ A/39/439, annex rr.



A/39/79A/Add.9
Engllsh
Page 23

Aware that the prine responsibility in the struggle against
desertification and the effects of drought rest6 upon the countries concerned'
and noting the efforts of those countrLes to conbac desertificatlon and
drought,

I. leleg lsote of the report of the coverning Council of the United
Natlons Environment Progranrme on the lmplementation ln the sudano-sahelian
region of the PIan of Action to Combat Desert i f icatlon t

2. tlotes nith concern3

(a) ?hat the persistent drought in the Sahel has intensified and spread
into other parts of Africa, assurning the cataatrophlc proportions of a
generalized alroughtt

(b) That the inadequacy of financial resources continues to place a
serloue constraint on the flght against deserti ficatlon t

(c) That struggle against desertification requires financial and hunan
resource€i beyond the neans of the affected countriest

3. B.presses its appreciation of the progress nade towalds overconing
the€€ obstacles by the United Nations sudano-sahelian Office, on behalf of the
Unlted Nation6 Environment Prograrfire. as part of a joint action by the united
Nations Environnent Progralune and the thited Nacions D€veloPmenc Progralflne to
assist the covernments of the region in combating desert if ication t

4. E:(presses its appreclatlon also for the efficient and co-ordinated
manner in rrh lch the Executive Director of the united Nations Envirorulent
Progranme and the ldminigtrator of bhe United Nations Developnent Programme
have continued to develop this Joint action through the Unlted Nations
sudano-sahelian of f icet

5. Requests the Governlng Councll of the United Natlons Eneironmen!
Programne and the @vernlng Councit of the United Natlons DeveloPment
Progranune to continue to provlde and lncrease their support to the onlted
Natlons sudano-sahelian office in order to enable i! to respohd fully to the
urgent need€ of the countries of the Sudano-Sahelian regiont

6. Expressea its gratitude to the c'overnnents, United Natlons bodies,
intergovernnental organizations and other organizations which have contrlbuted
to the inplementation in the Sudlano-Sahel ian reqlon of the Plan of Action to
Combat Desert if ication I

7. Enphasizes the need to redouble the efforts in order to inplement
the Plan of lctioJ Eo Combat De5ercification ln the sudano-sahellan region and
urges all Governments to respond favourably to the requests submitted by the
covernmenta of the countrles of the Sudano-sahelian region for assistance in
cdnbating desert ificatlon I

)



A/39/790/Aad.9
English
Page 24

8. Regue6ts the covernlng Councll of the tnited Nations Environment
Prograr ne to nake the necessary arrangements at each gegsion for Gubrnitting a
rePort to the ceneral Assernbly, through the Bcononic and gocial Council, on
the inplenentation ln the sudano-sahelian reglon of the Plan of Action to
Combat Desertlf ication.

llt

22. llhe gecond Cornnittee also recoflrends to the ceneral Assembly the adoption of
th€ follosing alraft decl6ionr

Envlronment

The ceneral Assenbly decides to take note of,

(a) The report of the covernlng Council of the United Nations Envilonment
Prograrnme on its tweLfth ses6ion, 91/

(b) The note by the Secretary-ceneraL transrnittlng the report of the
Executive Director of the United Nation6 Environrnent Progratune on lnternational
conventiona and protocols in the fleld of the environnent. :I/

!3/ official Recorda of the ceneral Asselob1y, ThirtlFninth Sesslon,
Supplenent No. 25 lA/39/251 .

E/ ^/39/432

I
I

I




