








































UNITED
NATIONS

GcneralAssemblY Distr.
GENERAL

A/39/7s4
6 Decenber 198 4
ENGI, I SII
ORIG INAL: F FIEIEH

Tttirty-ninth session
Agenda item 64

The item entitled:

CHEMICAL AND BACTERIOI,OG ICAL (BIOLOGICAL) ViEA.PONS

Report of the First committee

SippellCg: l'1r . Ngar6 KESSLY (chad)

]. INTRODUCTION

1.

"chenical and

" (a) Report of

bacteriological (biological) weapons:

the conference on Dis arnarnent t

'(b) Report of the Secr e tary-Gener aI"

was included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-ninth session in accordance
witJr ceneral Assenbly resolutions 38/LA7 A to c of 20 Decenber 1983'

2. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 21 sePtemtler 1984, the General Assembly' on the
reconrnendation of the General corunittee, deciderl to include the item in its agenda
and to a]..locate it to the First Corunittee.

3. At its 2nd neeting' on 15 october, t}te Firsc conrnittee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarnanent items allocated to it, namely, itens 45 to 55 and
i tern 14Z which lras allocated to the Fj.rst Committee by the General Assenbly at its
27th plenary neeting, on 9 october, follovred by statenenls on stEcific disarnanent
agenda iterns and conlinuation of tie general debate, as necessary' The
aeliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and the 36th rneetings, from
17 oc tober to 12 November Gee A/c.L/ 39/Pv.3-361 '

4. In connection with iten 64, the First corunittee had before it the following
docunents:

84-3L922 0r97P (E)



A/39/'154
English

(d) l€tter dated
Denocra tic Kamplc:hea to
lN39/89-s/ L62e7 | ..

(e) Letter dated
Dernocratic Kanprchea to
( /s9/e2-s/L630L' i

(S) Note verbale dated 21
the united States of Anerica to
secretary-(Fner aL (A/ 39 / I'I3',t i

(h) Letter dated 2 March
IGnFrchea to the lrnited Nations
(A/ 39 /L2L-s/L63831 i

(i) Letter dated 5 March
Ranglchea to t}le United Nations
(A/ 3s/ L2a-s/L6393\ i

(a) Report of the conference on Disarnanentl !

(b) Report of the secretary-Gen era I (F/39/4881 1

(c) Note by ttle secr e tary-Gener a I (t/39/2LOl t

25 January 1984 from the Pernanent Representative of
the United Nations addressed to ttle Secr e tary-General

27 January 1984 from the Pernanent Representative of
the United Nations addressed to the secretary-Gen eral

(f)Letterdated14FebruaryIgS4flomthePernanentRepresentativeof
Democratic Kamprchea to the united Nations addressed to the secretary-Gen eral
(A/39/]-L]--s/L63331 i

February 1984 from tie Permanent Representative of
tfle tlnited I'lations addressed to the

1984 frorn the Pernanent Representative of Denocratic
addressed to the s€cretary-General

1984 fron the Permanent Representative of Denocrati'c
addressed to the secretary-General

(j) Letter dated I l,tar ch 1984 frorn the Permanent Representative of the
Islanic Republic of lran to the lrnited l,lations addressed to the secretaly-Gener aI
(t'/ 39/]-.271 t

(k) Letter dated 13 !.lar ch 1984 from the charg6 drAffaires a.i. of tre
permanent Mission of the Islamic Reglblic of Iran to the thited Nations addressed
to the Secre tary-cener a1 (A/ 39/L32-S/L64).6) i

(1) l€tter dated 5 April 1984 from the Perrnanent Representat ive of Denocratic
Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the secr e tary-General
(^/39/L7 2-s/L6469 t ..

(m) Letter dated 12 April 1984 from the Permanent Representative of the
Islanic Republic of lran to the tfiited Nations addressed to the s€cretary-Gen eral
(A/ 39 / I8 2- s / LG 48I) t

L/ official Records
Supplement No, 27 (A/39/27 |

of t}le ceneral Assembl Thir t ninth Sess ion ,



A/39/7s4
English
Page 3

I

(n) I€tter dated 17 April 1984 fron the Permanent Representative of
Denocra tic KamFldrea to the United Nations addressed to the secretary-General.
lN3e/us-s/ L6a86l r

(o) Letter dated 26 April 1984 fron the Permanent Representative of the
Islanic ReFub1ic of Iran to the thited libtions addressed co the secretary-ceneral
(N 39/2L5-s/]65081 t

(p) tetter dated 10 May 1984 from the Permanent Representative of the Islamic
Republic of Iran to the thited Nations addresged to the Sbcretary-ceneral
tA/ 39/ 266-s / I6s7 21 7

(q) Letter dated 28 .Tune 1984 from ttre Permanent Representative of the
Islanic Republic of Iran to the Uhited Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
lN 39/333-s/L66s2l 1

(r) Letter dated 3 August 1984 from the Permanent Representative of the
Islanic Reg:blic of Iran to the thited Natlons addressed to the secretary-ceneral
@/ 39/ 37 4-s/ 16 6901 1

(s) Letter dated 8 Oc tober 1984 from the pernanent Representative of India to
the lhited Nationa addressed to the Secretary-c€neral, transnittlng the Final
Communiqud of the l,Feting of Ministers and Heads of DelegaCion of the Non-AL ign ed
Countries to t}le fhirty-ninti session of the General Assembly, held in Nev, york

) r.or I to s oc rober Lg84 (A/39/560-s/10773).

II. CONS IDERAT ION OF PROPOSALS

Draft resolution A/C.1/39lL.10 and Rev.l

5. Ox 1 Novernber' the United States of Anerica submitted a alraft resolution
entihled "Chemical and bacteriological (blological) weapon ea (MC.V39/L.LO} . The
draf t resolution was lntroduced by the repreaentative of the E!!gg_ Stagggg
Amerlca at the 36th neetingr on 12 Norrember, and read as followBg

.!!s_cenera I AsseftU,
nRecalllng its previous resolutions relating to the strict observance by

all States of the princlples and objectives of the Protocol for the
Prohibltion of the tse in War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases, and
of Bacteriological llh tiods of warfare, slgned at c€neva on 17 June 1925, and
of the adherence by all States to the Convention on the Prohlbitlon of the
Development, Production and stockpillng of BacterioJ-og ica.L (Biological) and
Toxin l{eapons and on thei! Destruction,

nl.totinq reporte that such weapons have been used in railltary operations
in varlous reglons of the world,

. 'Noting aIEo efforts under r.ray to gtrengtben relevant international
I constraints, including efforts to derrelop appropriate fact-finding medranlsrns,

/...



^/3e/7s4Engli6h
Page 4

,3g-dedicatinq its efforts to pEotect nankind frorn chemlcal and bioLogical
nar fare,

'1. qllg for strict observance of existing legal constraints on
chemical and biological weapons and condenurs actiona t}lat contravene tlese
constra int€t

'2. Elgg the ongoing efforls to ensure the nost effective possible
constraints on ctrenical and biological weaponsl

i3. Urges t}le Conferehce on Disarnanent to accelerate its negotiations
ained at a conplete, effective and verifiable elininatlon of chernical weapons.'

6. on
I9E.' the

I'lovenber, Australia, Be
lile

la, Dennark, Itqlyr gapan,

the Cornmittee adopted draft resolution
99 to 14' with 13 abstentions (see
waE as fof lows.. 2/

the Unlted Kinqdom of creat
i tain and ther n thited States of Aner ica. and gljglq subnitted a

revised.draft resolution (VC.V39/L.LO/ReV.1) , which lras later also sponsored by
qosla Rlc- and Ecuador. The revlsed text contained changes in t}Ie preambular and
operat ive parts of the draft reaolution.

7. At its 46th neeting, on 21 Novenber,
A,/C.V39/l'.n /Rev.l by a recorded vote of
para. 2l draft resolution A). The votirq

u
in

4bgslr Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahraln, Eangladesh, Belgiun,
Bhutan, Bolivi.a, Ebtswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burma,

Sgelnst:

Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central Afrlcan Republic, Chad, Chile,
Chinar Costa Rica, Denocratic Rarnp:drea, Dennark, Djibouti,
Donlnican Reprblic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, cabon,
cermany, Federal Republic of, chaha, creece, cuatenala, cuinea,
cuyana, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, I€banon, Liberia, Luxernbourg, l4alawi, I'b1aysla,
!'la ldives, !,ta I i, !.fa lta, l4a ur i tania, l,hur i tius, l.lorocco, Nepal,
Netherlands, tlew Zealand. Niger, Nlgerla, Norway, Ollan, pakistan,
Panama, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Oatar, Rwanda, Sao Tone and
Principe, Saudi Arabla, senegal, Sierra I€one, Singapore, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinanel Swaziland, S.neden, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and lobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, thited Arab
Enirates, Unibed Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern lreland,
uhited Retrrrblic of Tanzania, thited States of Anerica, Uruguay,
venezuela, Yemen, zanbia.

Af ghanistan, Bulgaria, Blreloruss ian Soviet Slocialist ReFrblic,
Cuba, Czedroalovakia, cernan Denocratic Republic, Hungary, Lao
PeoFlers Derpcratic ReFrblic, Libyan Arab ilamahiriya, l,bngolia,

The delegation of Ruwait subaequently indicated that it had intended to
favou! of the draft resolution.vote



8. on5

A/39/754
English
Page 5

Poland, ukraihian soviet socialist Republic, Union of soviet
Socialist Republics, Viet Nam.

S!e!I!nS.: Algeria, Angola, Benin, Burkina f'aso, Congo, Cyprus, Ethiopia,
Ind ia, l4adagascar, ltexico, lbzambique, RonEnia, Yugoslavia.

B. Draft resolution A/C.l./3 9/L.15

November, Afghanisban, Angola, Bulgaria, t}Ie Byelorussian Soviet
. the atic , the

, the !E! Soviet Slcc ial i6 t
and viet Nam submitted a draft

entitled rProhlbltion and bacteriological r.reaponsi
(NC.L/39/L.$1 . The draft resolution k'as lntroduced by the representative of the
German Democratic Republic at tbe 39th neeCing, on 15 Novenber.

9. At its 45th neeting r on 2I Norrenber, the comnittee adopted draft reaolution
VC.L/39/L.L5 by a recorded vote of 75 to I, with 5l abstentions (see para. 2I,
draft resolution B). The votlng was as follows: !./

In favour: Afghanistanr dgeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin,
Bolivia, Botswana, BuLgaria, Burklna Faao, Burundi, Byelorussian
soviet socialist Republic, Caneroon, Central African Republic,
congo' cuba' cyprus, czectroslovak i a, Denpcratic Yemen, Ecuador 'Egypt, Ethiopla, FiJi, cerman Dernocratic Republic, chana, cuinea,
Guyana, Hungary, Indonesia, Iraq, alordan, Kenya, Kunait, Lao
Peoplers Denocratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab ,tanahiriya'
l,ladagascar ' Malawi r !,blaysia, l,laldives, l,bli, Uauritania,l,rauri tius, I'Fxico, !,bngolla, !,bzanblque, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeriar goan, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Po1and, gatar, Rotnania,
Sao Tome and Prlnclpe, Saudl Arabia, Senegal, sierra Leone,
&raziland, Syrian Arab Rep.rblic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and
lobago, Tunisia, Uganda, ukrainian soviet Sociali6t lGpublic.
Irnion of Soviet Socialist Reprblics, thited Arab llrlirates, tnlted
Repub]ic of Tanzania, Viet Narn, yenen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

United States of Amer ica.
.Argentina, AustraJ.ia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burma, Canada, Chile, China, Costa Rica, Denocratic
Kanprchea, Denmark, Djiboutl, Dominlcan Republlc, Finland,
France, Gabon, cernany, Federal Republic of, Greece, cuatenala,
Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, tndia, Iran (Islanic Republic of) r
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory coaac, rfapan, Liberia, Luxembourg,
Itorocco, Nepal, Netierlands, New zealand, Nornay, Philippines,
Portugal, Rdanda, singapore, stEin, sri Lanka. sudan, surLname,
sweden, Turkey, tnited Kirqdom of creat Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uruguay, Venezuela.

f

a@.!.:
@i!e.:

y The delegation of the Bahamas subsequentty lndicated tlat it had intended
to abstain.



Japan, Kenva, Norsav, Poland and the ukrainian sgv+et. sogiql+g! Rgglplic subfiitted

" 
dr"ft E;o1rtf". ."titled ichemical and bacterlological (biological) vreapons'

lvc.L/39/L.24) r which lvas later also sponsored by Al'rstralia, Belgium' the @g
Denocratic Republic, Ireland, tbngolia, the @,

ae lntroduced by the represenCative of Poland
at tEEJEEn--rneeting, on 15 Novenber.

v3e/7 s4
EngLish
Page 6

c. Draft resolution A/c.I/39lL.2 4

10. on 8 Novernber, rna

11. At its 46tI meeting, on 2l November, the comnittee adoPted draft resolubion
A/c.V3g/L.24 ldlthout a vote (see para. 2I, draft reaolution c).

D. Draft resolution A,/C.I/39,/L.27

stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin v|eatrDns and on Their
Deslruction' lA/c.I/3g/L.27), whidr was later also sponsored by ryg19,
Banqladesh, ,Janaica' Niqer, Rtanda and Thailand. The draft resolution was
intioduc e representative of tlorway at t-he 35th meetingr on 9 November.

13. At ita 41st neeting, on 19 Nortenber, the corunlttee adopted draft resolution
NC.L/39/L.27 hritlout a vote (see IEra. 21, draft resolution D).

E. Draft resolution A/c'V39lL'46 and Rev'1

14. on 12 I'bvenber, the @ submitted a draft resolution
entitled nPre\tentive measures against the further use of drenical weapons"
lLr/c.I/ 39/L.46) , which was introduced by lts representative at the 40th meeting,
15 NoverdJer. The draft resolution read as followst

'-The cenerat Assentrly,

'Recalling paragraph 21 of ttte Final Docunent of the Tenth special
session of the ceneral A.seelblyr the first speclal session devoted to
disarmanent, rrhich asserts that effective neasurea should be adoPted to
prohibit or Prevent the derrelopment, production or use of weapons of mass
destruction with special attention to ctrenical i.reapons as a natter of high
prior ity,

Britaln antl t'torthern Ireland, the hited states of lmerica, uruguey and lglEfgb
subrnitted a draft resolution eneitled ,S€cond Review Conference of the State6
Parties to the convention on the Prohibition of the frevelopment, Production and



N39/7 s4
English
Page 7

'Further recalling its unanirnous reaolutions 37/98 B of 13 D€cemller 1982
ana I effEl A of 

-eO 
UecemUer 1983, reaffirning the neceseity of strict

observance by all states of the princiPles and objectives of the Protocol for
the Prohibition of the use in iiar of AsPhyxiating, Polsonous or other Gaaes'
and of Bact er lological' l'Ethods of liarfare' 8igned at Geneva on 17 June 1925'

'Sgaf f irIlS. that the use of chemical and biological weapons has been
declarEi-liE6ropatible with the accepted norna of civillzation' and that any
action contrary to t}te PrinciPles and objectives of the Genet/a Protocol of
1925 is condenned,

'Takfng note wfth deep c of the recent report (s/16433) of the
sp".i.iEEa!$6l!a u1' tir! secretarv-Gener al to investigate arlegations bv
tire rsLanic nlpublic of rran concerning tlte use of dtemical lteaPons' and

rseriously alarmed by the unanitnous conclusion of the sp€cialists
conf iriltrg ttt" "tt.gatlons 

that ctremical rreapon€ have been used'

"consciousoftheurgentneedtoreaffirmandstrengthentheauthorityof
the ceneva Protocol of L925 '

strongly condemns the use of c$emical ueapona rePorted by the
nission of sPectallsts in March l'984' and exPresses abhorrence torvards
rePetition of such an act wherever and Ithenever it nay occur t

12. Takes note with appreclation of the secretary-G€neral 's lnitiatives
ana ettortffiinvestigation of the use possible, and
for his hunanitarian and tinely aPpeal of 29 June 1984 to the Governments
concerned to undertake a solenn connltment not to use ctremical rteaPonal

Enphaticallv catls upon those concerne'l to resPond positively and
iflunediately to ttre secetlry-General I s aPPeal (s,/I6653) of 29 'tune 1984t

Requests the secretary-General to continue hi6 efforts in
prevent ingl- invesEigating , and reportlng to the General Assembly on any
further use of ctrernical weapons.n

15. On 14 Noven rer, L!39 subnitted the follorying amendtnents lA/C'L/39/1"75l to
draft resolutlon NC.U39 /L.46'.

(a) "After t]re present thirtl preambular paragraph, insert t}e following
new preanbular paragr aPh:

rTaking note of the spirit of humanitarian concerns whidl gulded the
secrelary-ceneill t s decieion to aPIDint a mission of aPeclalist€ to
undertake a fact-findlrq visit to Iran regarding allegations by the
Islanic Republlc of Iran concerning the use of drenical weapons' 

r t

(b) nAfter the present fifth preanbular paragraph, insert the following
two new Prearnbular Paragraphs:



M39 /7 s4
EngIish
Page I

'Notinq the reply of lraq contained in docunent 5/16438 of
27 Mar ch 1984,

rNoting further the conviction of tf|e Secr etary-@ner al that tlle
sald humanitarian concetrns can only be satisfied by putting an end to the
tragic conflict ttlat continues to deplete tie preclous hunan resources of
Iran and Iraq, t t

(C) "After the present sixtl prearnbular paragraph, insert the followlng
tlro new preanbular paragraphs:

I Recalling the relevant resolutions of t}Ie Secr etary-cener al and its
resoLution 37/3 of 2? etober 1982,

rRecallinglg@ Articl€ 25 of the Charter of the United Nations,
uy wniEi-ffiGr states agreed to accept and carry out the decisions of
the Security Council in accordance vrith the Charter,it
(d) ilnsert the follogri ng new operat ive paragral*ls 4r S and 5, and

renunber existing paragraph 4 accordingly:

Reaffirns once again the necessity for the strict observance of
a cease-fire and witldrawal of forces to internationally recognized
boundaries and for a peaceful Golution to the conflict, dnd calls upon
all covernments concerned to co-operate fully to bring about conditions
Ieading to a peaceful settlement in conformity with the principles of
justice and international lari

15. welcomes the fact that one of the partles has already expressed
its witlinfrffi settle the conflict by peaceful neans and call6 upon
the otJrer to do likewiset

r5. Ex[Eesses its appreciation of the rnediation effores of the
Secretarl.-ceneral and his readiness to assist in any endeavour that could
lead to peace for the peoples of fran and lraq by a cornprehensive, just
and honourable setllement acceptable for boti sides. In

16. On 2l November, tie Islamic Republic of Iran subrnitted a revised draft
reaolution (VC.V39/L.45lRev.1) which read as foll-ows:

"Ttre_C€neral Assell|bfx,

nRecallinq paragraph 2l of the pinal Docunent of the Tentl Sp€cial
Session of the ceneral Asaenbly, the first special session devoted to
disarmanenC, lrhich asserts t}|at effective neasures should be adopted to
prohibit or prevent the developnent, producCion or use of weatrpns of mass
destruction, with special attention to chemical lreapons, as a matter of high
pri or ity,



A/39/754
English
Page 9

nFurther recalling its unaninous resolutions 37/98 B of 13 tecetrber 1982
and 38,/187 B of 20 Decetnber 1983, reaffirning the neceasity of strict
observance by aII States of the prlnciples and objectives of the Protocol for
the Prohibition of ttre Uae in War of Asltyxlating, Poisonous or Other Gases,
and of Bacteriotogical l€thods of warfare, signed at ceneva on 17 June 1925'

"39-af f frm$g- that the use of chenical and blological weapons has been
declared inconpatible with the accepted norns of civlllzation and that any
actLon contrary to che principles and objectives of the ceneva Protocol of
1925 is condenned,

nl.loting with appreciation tie secretary-ceneral I s report of his mission
to inspect civilian areas in Iran and Iraq whi€h have been subject to military
aLt,ad< t/ and his recent note on allegations concerning the use of cbemlcal
vreapons, 9/

"Taking note vrf$ deep c of the recent report of the specialists
appointed by the s€cretary-cener al to investigate allegaEions by the f€larnic
Republic of lran concerning the use of chenical rreapons, g/ and

'seriouslv alarmed by the unanimous concluslon of the speciallsts
confirrning the allegations by the Islamic Republic of Iran that chenlcal
neapong have been used,

strongly condemns the use of ctrenical vreapons reported by the
specialists in Mar ch 1984 and deplores su(fi actions wherever and $rhenever they
may occur ?

'2. Takes note wit}l appreciation of the sec etary-ceneral ts lnitiatlves
and efforts which nade ttre successful lnvestlgation of the use possible, and
of his humanitarian and tinely appeal of 29 ,tune 1984 to t}te covernmentE
concerned to undertake a solemn conrni tment not to use drenical ueaponsl /

"3. Takes note of
covernments in respect
concer ning the nor>use

the positive response received fron one of the
of the secretary-ceneral I s appeal of 29 .tune 1984
of chemical weapons? and

14. Urges the party hrhich has not yet done so to respond inunediatel-y and
in a positive manner to that appealt

strongly condemns alL aerial bonbardrnents and nissile attacks
againse civilian areas, and the deatruction of towns and villages under
rnilltary occulntion by high explos ives or engineering equipmentr as rePorted
in the Se cr e tary-ceneral t s report (S/I5834), and

v

v

Securi Cy Councll document

Security Council docurnent

Security CounciI document

s,/15834 of 20 .'une 1983.

s,/16433 of 26 !4ar ch 1984.

s/15663,



N3e/7 54
EngIish
Page 10

(

'6. urges the observance of the generally recognized princiPLes and
rules of internatlonal humanitarian law which are apPlicable to arned
confl icts and the obligations under internationaL conventions desigmed to
prevent or alleviate t}le hurnan suffering of warfarel

"7. 39sg!g the secr e tary-@neral to continue hie efforts in
pr€venting, inve€tigating and reporting to the General Asserbly on any further
use of chemical weapons.'

L7. on 21 November, E1jl subnitted the following amendments lA/c,V39/L.75lRev.I)
to draf t resolution Dy'C.V3g /L.46lRev.1:

(a) iAfter the present thlrd preambular paragraph, insert the following
new prearnlf,ular paragraphr

rTaking note of the spirit of humanitarian concerns whictt guided the
Secretary-General in aplDinting specialists to investigate allegatlons by
the Islamic nepubLic of Iran concerning the use of chenical weapons, 11

(b) 'After tie word 'attackt in the present fourth preanbular paragral*t1
insert the foLlorr'lngr

ras lrell as docunents s/L66O9 of 10 June L9a4. s/L66L0, S/L66IL of
LI ilune 1984, s/166L4' s,/166I5 of 12 June L984. s/L6627, s/L6628 of
15 June 1984 resPectively, Idhidl constitute undertakings to the I
S€cretary-Gsneral that all dellberate military attacks by any rneans on
purely civillan population centres in eitler country will ceaserrl

(c) 'After the present sixth preanbular paragraph, insert the following
four new pr eambular trnragraphs:

'.g!!gq. the reply of fraq contained in document s/L6438 of
27 uarcfi 1984.

tl!q!!E]jE!lg!g the conviction of the secretary-General Ulat the
sald humanitarian concerns can only be satisfled by Puttlng an end to the
tragic confl lct thac continues to depLete the precious hunan resources of
Iran and lraq,

'@I:L!!g the relevant resolutions of the secretary-General and its
resolution 37/3 of 22 Gtober 1982,

t3g.e!!i!LlEg]!g Article 25 of tie Charter of the united Nations'
by which lbrlber stateg agreed to accept and carry out the decisions of
the se(r e tary-cenera I in accordance witt! the Charterrt

(d) 'Revrord present operatlve Paragraph 5 as follows:
I strongly condemns all de.Liberate milltary attacks againat prrely

civilian poFr.Lation centres in eittrer country in violation of the
undertakiigl given to the secre tary-ceneral r r I



v39/754
SngIish
Page lL

(e) rReword present operatlve paragraph 5 as folloHst
rcondemns aLl violations of international hunanitarian law and urge

both parties to observe the generally recognlzed Prlniiples and rulea of
international humanitarian law whictr are applicable to armed conflicts
and ttre ir obllgations under international conventlons tlesigned to prerrent
or alleviate the human Euffering of rrarfaret It

(f) 'Inaert the follorrlng paragralhs as new oPeratlve Paragraphs 7, I
and 9 and renumber present paragraph 7 accordlnglyr

t7. Reaffirns once again the necessity for the gtrlct observance of
a cease-fire and witidrawal of forces to internatlonally recoqnized
boundaries and for a peaceful solution to the conflictr and calls upon
all covernments concerned to ccoPerate fully to bring about conditions
Leading to a peaceful settlement in confornity rrith the principlea of
Justice and international lant

'8. ltglgE the fact tiat one of the Partles has already erlEessed
ite willlngnresa to settle the conflict by peaceful means and calls upon
the other to do likewise?

'9. @ of ttre nediatlon efforts of the
secretary-ceneral and his readiness to asEist in any endeavour ttrat could
lead to peace for the peoples of lran and Iraq by a comPrehens lve ' 

just
and honourable settlement acceptable for both sides. t"

18. At the rtgth neeting, on 27 Novenber, t}le repreeentative of the Islanlc
leprblic of Iran withdrew draft resolut Lon !y'c.V39/L.45./Rev.1 and regueated that
actlon be taken on the original draft resolution IVC.I/39/L.46I. The
repreE€ntativ€ of Iraq stated tiat, in view of t}at request, he naintalned the
original amendments contalned in document A/C.L/39/I'.75. on the basis of rule 115
of the rulee of procedure of the ceneral Assenbly' the rePresentative of rraq then
noeed to adJourn ttre debate on the tlraft resolutlon VC.I/39/L.16 and the
anendnent5 contalned in docunent NC.V39/L.75. The notion was adoPted by a
recorded vote of 34 to 2, 9,ith 68 abstentions. The votlng ltas as follqdE: 7

4Eggl!|E'. Mgbanistan, Bahrainr Brlgaria, Burundi, Byelorusslan Sorriet
sociallst Republic, central African RePubllc, chad,
cololbia, cyprus, czec:hoslorrak la ' 

Dj lbouti. Eg!,'Pt, Gernan
Dernocra tic lfepub.Lic' Guyana, Eungary, Iraq, .lordan, Xu$ait,
Iebanon, l,burilanla, tbngollar lbrocco, Onan r Poland r Qatar,
Rwanda, saudt Arabla, sudan, Tllniaiar ukralnlan soviet
soclali€t Relubllc, union of soviet soclallst ReFDIics,
United Arab !trnlrates' Yenen, Yugoalavia.

Again6t: Iran (I6lamlc Reprblic of) ' libyan 
Arab Jatnahiriya.

U rhe delegation of tlre Syrian Arab Republlc subseguently indlcated
that lt had intended to vobe agalnst the notion.



^/39/7s4EngIlsh
Page 12

AElglgilg,t Argentina, Australia, Austr ia, Bahama6. Bangladesh, Belglum,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Burma, Cameroon, Canada, Chile,
china, costa Rica, cuba, Denmark, Ecuador, hthiopia, FiJi,
Finland. France, Gabon, cernany, Federal Aepublic of, chana,
Greece, Haitir Honduras, Iceland, India, Ireland, Italy,
Ivory Coaat, .Tanaica, ilapan, Kenya, Liberia, Luxenbourg,
Malani, l,talaysia, lraldives, Mexlco, Nepal, Netherlands,
l{en ?aa1and, Nigerla, Nqway, paklstan, panana, peru,
portugal, Sierra Leone, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, St eden,
Syrian Arab ReFrblic, $cgo, Tufkey, Uganda, Ihited Kingdon
of creat Britain and ttorthern lreland, united l€public of
Tanzania, thited Statee of Anerica, Uruguay, Venezuela,
za ire, Aanbla, zimbabse.

F. Draft resolution A/C.l/3 9/L.60

l9:. T 12 ttovenlf,er, Auatralla, Belgiun, Colotnbia, costa Rica, Ecuador, France, thetlethetrqn_a9., new gearqng, nqyav, sweoEnffisolution
enElEreo 'cnenlcar and bacterlologlcar (biotogical) weaponsn a/c.L/3g/L.60), which
was later also sponaored by canada, the uritett Kingdotn of GreaL Briialn and
Northern rreland. The drafc resorutron @tve ot
France at the 39th meeting, on 15 No\rember.
20- At its 46th neecing, on ar November, the coru'.ittee adopteal draft resorution
,'/c-v39/L-6o by a recorded vote of 93 to 17, nith 30 abstentions (see para 21,
draft resolutlon E). The votlng $as as followa:

In favour: Au5hralla, Austria, Bangladeah, Belg{um, BoIivia. btawana,
Brunei Darussalam, Burundl. Caneroon, Canada, Central
AfEican Regrblie. chad, China, costa Rica, DelFcratic
KarnFrdrea, Dennark, Dj ibouti, Dominican Republ.ic. Ecuador,
Iigypt, FlJi, Prance. cabon, cernany, Federal R€tr[btic of,
creece, cuatemala, culnea, cuyana, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Repbllc of), Ireland, Israel,
ftaly, Ivory Coa6t, Jarnaica, ,fapan, Kenya, Lebanon, Liberia,
lu:.eflbourg, l,talawi, t,blaysia, Maldives, !4allr Malta,
l,laur i tania, !,h ur i tius, l,brocco, Nepal, Netherlands,
llew Zealand, Niger, Nigerla, Noftray, pakistan, panama, peru,
Phllippines, Por tugal, Rotnanla, Rwanda, Sao Torne and
Principe, 6enega1, Sierra t4one, Stngapore, Somalia, StrEin,
Sudan, surinane, Svazlland, Sweden, Thailand, To9o, Trinialad
and lobago, lunlEia, Turkey, Ihited Nlngdon of creat Britain
and Nor thern lreland, tnlted states of America, lrruguay,
Zanbia.

Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorussian soviet socialist
ReFrbllc. Cuba, Czectloelorak ia, Delpcratic yenen, cernan
Democratic Republic, Hungary, fndia, 1qs peoplers Denocratic
ReFrblic, Llbyan Arab alamahiriya, fongolia, poland, syrlan
Arab Republic, ttkrainian soviet Socialist liepublic, Union of
Sovlet Socialist Retrrblics, Vlet Nan.

Aga instr



A,/39/754
English
Page 13

I

Abstalninq: Algeria, Angola, Argentlnar Bahrainl Benin, BraziI, Burklna Faso.
Burroa' chile, congo, cyprus, Ethiopia, Finland, Ghana, rraq,
Jordanr Ruwaitr lGdagascar, l€xico, Nicaraguar Onan, Oatar, Saudi
Arabia, sri Lanka, Ijganda, tnited Arab Enirates, tnlted Republic
of Tanzania, Venezuela, yemen, yugoslavia.

III. RECOII1I4ENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

2L. The First Cornmittee recornmends to the c€neral Assenbly the adoption of the
following draf t resolutions:

Chemical and bacter iological (biological, vreapons

A

Chernical and bacteriologicat (biological) weapons

The ceneral Assembly,

Reaffirmitrg the urgent necessity of strict observance by alL States of
the princlplee and objectives of the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use
ln liar of Asl*tyxiating, Poisonous or other cases, and of Bacteriological
!b thods of llarfare, signed at ceneva on 17 June 1925 V' and of the adherence

I ly all states to the Convention on the prohibition of the Developnent,
' Productlon and stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biologtcal) and Tot(in llealDns

and on The ir Destruction, siglied ln London, l"b6con, and Viashing ton on I0 April
L972, 2/

Iglilg tnat it has been reported that sudr weapons have been usedl

Noting aLso international efforts under hray to strengthen refevant
lnter national prohibitiohs, including ef forts to develop appropr iate
fact-f lndlng nechanisms,

Rededicating its efforts to protect nankind from chemical and biological
nar fare,

I. Calls for strlct observance of exlsting lnternational obligations
regardlng prohibitions on chenical and biological rreapons and condemns actions
that contravene thernl

2. Welcones the ongoing efforts to ensure the nost effectlve
prohibitions pssible on chemical and biological weaponst

y League of l.tations, ?reaty series, vol. xclv (1929), No. 2138' p. 65.
y Resolution 2825 (xxvl), annex.

)
/...



v39/7s4
English
Page 14

3. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to accelerabe its negotlations
on a nultilateral convention on the condete and effectlve prohibition of the
developrnent, production and stod(piling of chenical weapons and on their
destruction.

EI

Prohibition of dlernical and bacteriological weapons

The ceneral Assen$Iy,

Recalling paragraph 75 of t}le Final Document of the Tenti Speclal Sesslon
of the ceneraL AsseflbLy fg/, nhich states tiat the complete and effectiveprohibition of the developnent, production and stockpiling of all ctremical
weapons and the ir deatruction represents one of the npst uigent neasures of
d isarmament ,

Referring to t}le unanlrnous and categorical reaffirmation by aII l,tenber
states at the twelfth special sesslon of the ceneral Asserbly of the validity
of the rinal Document of the Tenth Speclal Sesslon, fy

Convinced of the need for the earllest conclusion of a convention on the
prohibition of the developnent, productlon and stockpiling of all ctremical
weapons and on the ir destruction, which would significantly oontribute to
general and compleCe dlsarmanent under effective international control,

Recalling lts resolutions 36/96 B of 9 Decerber 1981, 37/99 A of
13 De cenber 1982 and 38/187 A of 20 Decenber 1903,

E<pressing profound concetrn at lhe intended production and deployment of
binary chenical weapons,

Taking into consideration the decision by the Conference on Disarmanent
on the nandate for tie ry!_ tec Connittee on Chenical l{eapons, as HelI as the
work of this conunitte. EiiI$ the session of the conference on Disarnament in
1984, &/

Deeming it desirable for States to refrain from taking any action that
could delay or further conplicate negotiations and to display a construct lve
apFoach to suctl negotiations and t}le political will to reactr an early
agreement on the chenical weapons convention,

AHare thac t}te qualitative lnprovement and development of chemical
weapons conplicate ongoing negotlations on the prohibition of clremical weapons,

]!/ Resolution s-10,/2.

]y see of{icial Records of the ceneral Assembly, 'Brelftl special session,
Annexes, agenda iterns 9, 10, II, f2 anil @

W IbLd., Thir ty-nlnth session, supplement No. 27 (A/39/27r, para. 98.
/...



A/39/7s4
English
Page 15

Takinq note of proposals on the creation of chenical-weapon-free zonea
aimed at facilitating tlle complete prohibition of ctrenical weapons,

I. Reaffirns the necessity of the speediest elaboration and conclusion
of a convei€I6i-6fr-the prohlbition of the development, production and
slockpiLing of all chernical. weapons and on tbe ir destruction?

2. Appeals to a1l states to facilitate in every possible htay the
conclusion of such a conventiont

3. .!lli!gg the Conference on Disarnament to intensify the negotiations in
the Ad Hoc Comittee on chernical lGapons wi th a view to acfiieving accord on a
chenical weapons conventlon at the earliest possible date and' for this
purpoaer to proceed itnmediately to drafting such a convention for submission
to the ceneral Assenbly at its fortleth sessioni

4. Reafflrms ite call to all states to conduct serious negotiations in
good faith and to refraln frorn any action that could imp€de negotiations on
the prohlbition of chenical weapons and specifically to refrain from the
production and deployment of binary and other new types of chenical weaPons'
as well as from stationing chenlcal weapon6 on the territory of ocher states.

c

Chemical and bacteriological (blologicall vreatrbns

The General Assenblv ,

Recalling lts previous resolutions relating to the complete and effectlve
prohibition oi the det/elolnnent, Production and stockpiling of all ctrernlcal
weapons and to their destruction,

Reaffirming the urgent necessity of strict observance by all states of
ttre principfes and objectives of the Protocol for the Prohibibion of the use
in tlar of Asphyxlating, Polsonous or other Gases, and of Bacteriological
l4e thods of tlarfare, signed at Geneva on 17 June 1925 !/t and of the adherence
by all states to the convention on the Prohibition of the DeveloPment,
Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and lrox in l{eapons
and on The ir Destruction, sigled in London, l.loscow and $ashington on
10 Apr il 7972, t/

fiaving conslqered the report of the conference on Disarmanent, r.th ictr
lncorporates, intdr aliar the report of its Ad Hoc comnittee on Chemical
$eaPons, Ill

considerinq it necessary that al1 efforts be exerted for the continuation
and successful conclusion of negotiations on tbe prohibition of the
developnent, productlon and stoc-t<piling of all ctremical lreapons and on their
deEtruction,

1. Takes note of the work of the Conference on Disarnatnent during its
session in 1984 regarding the prohibition of chenical weapons andr in
particular. appreciates ttre work of its Ad Hoc Corutlittee on chenical l,|Eapons
on that question and the progress achieved therein; 

/ ...



^,/39/754English
Page 16

2. Expresses its regret and concern that an agteetnent on the conPlete
and effective prohibition of the de\teloFlent, Production anal stockpiling of
all ehemicaL neapons and on their destruction has not yet been elaboratedl

3. urges again the conference on Disarmament, as a natter of h19h
pridlty, to intensify' durinq its session in 1985, the negotiations on suctr a
convention and to reinforce further its efforts, inter alia' by lncreasing the
tine during the year that the conference on Disarnament devotes to BudI
negotiations, taking into account al]- existing ProlDsals and future
lnltiatlves, with a view to t}le final elaboration of a convention at t}le
earliest possible date and to re-establish its Ad Hoc Corulittee on Chenical
qteapons for this F.lrpose witi the 1984 nandatel-

4. Reguests the Conference on Disarmament to leporb on the results of
it6 negotiations to the ceneral Assenbly at itE fortleti session.

D

s€cond Revlevr Conference of the States Parties to th€ Convention on
the Prohibition of the Developnent, Production and Stockpiling of
Bacterlological (Biological) and Toxin !{eapons and on Their

Destruction

The ceneral A.ssenbly,

Recalling lts resolution 2826 (xxvl) of t5 December I97I in whic*t lt
conmended the Conventlon on the Prohlbition of the DeveloPnent, Production and
Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biologicalt and Toxin weapons and on Their
Destruction, and expressed the hope for the widest tDssible adherence to the
Convention'

lgEl3g that, in accordance wittr tie provisions of article xII of the
conventLon, the firat Review conference of the Parties to the Convention on
the Prohibition of the Developrnent, production and stockplLing of
Bacteriofogicat (Biologicat) and loxin l{eapons and on Ttte ir D€struction rtas
held at ceneva fron 3 to 2l l{ar ctr 1980,

Bearinq in mlnd ttrat the Revies conference decided, in its Final
Declaration, tiat a second Revieg conference should be held at Geneva at the
request of a maj ority of states parties not earlier than 1985 ahd' in any
case, not later than L990, !!/

RecalLing its resolution 35/144 A of 12 December 1980, in whidt it
welconed the final declaration of the Revield conference of the Parties to the
convent ion,

1. !g!e that, at the request of a najority of states parties to the
convention on the Prohibltion of the De\relopnent r Productlon and stockPiling
of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin weapons and on Their Destructionr a
second Review Conference of the States Parties to the convention wi]l be held I

ll,/ see B!€,/CoNF.I/I0, Eect. II, article XII.



A/39/7s4
English
Page I7

in 1986 and that, folloning appropriate consultatlons, a preparatory conrnittee
iE to be establighed prior to the holding of the RevLeH Conferencei

2. RgqueslB the Secretary-ceneral to render the necesBary assistance
and to provlde 6udr services, includirg sunnarl, re@rds, as may be required
for the second Review Conference and its preparation.

E

Chenical and bacteriological (biological) rreapong
The ceneral Assenbly,

necilling its resolution 37/gg D of 13 Decernber I9g2, and particutarly
paragraph 7, in which lt r€quested the 'secretary-c€neral, with the assistanceof quarified consultant experts r to devi.e ;r.oceduree for the rnve.tigation of
information concerning activitles that nay constitute a violation of the
Protocor for the prohibition of the uae in nar of AsFhyxiating, poisonoua or
other cases, and of Bacteriological l.re thods in tJarfare, signed at c€neva on lz
June 1925 y or of the relevant rules of custonary international Ia!, and Eo
asselbl-e and organize systetnatically docunentation relating to the
identification of 6igns and 6yr ptoms associated trith the use of aqents covered
by the 1925 cenena protocol,

Recognizing that the use of sudt agents in war ie universally condemned,

.. tFderllning tJre importance of inpartially and rapiclly aacertaining,
th rough an appropriate international procedurt as provided for in
resolution 37/98 D. facts that may constitute a violation of the proviaions of
the ceneva Protocol or of the rerevant rure6 of custonary internationar law,

RecarLing its resolution 30/187 c of 20 Decernber r9g3, whlctr took note of
the report 19l subnitted by the secetary-ceneral on the work of the
Consultant Drperts pursuant to resolution 37/gg D, paragraph 7, and hrhictr
requested him to complete during r98/t, nit}I the aasigtahce of tbe consultant
E(perts, the task entrusted to hirn under the tertns of resolution 37/gg Dl
paragraph 7, and to repor t to the cenerar Assetnbly at its thlrty-ninth session,

I. Take6 note of the report by the Secretarli-ceneral, f!/ to which ie
annexed the report of t}le Consultant Experts desiqnated by hin concerning the
inplenentation of the prorriaiona of resolution 37/gB D. paragraph 7, anal ofresolution 38/La7 Ct

2. lirotes hriti satisfaction that wit}, the subrnisslon of the report of
the croup o?c;-urtant experts the provisions for the inprementation of
resolution 37/99 D are connpleted.

lJ

El
ly'38/435 .

A/39/488,




