








































UilITED
NATtOl{8

Gcneral Amembly
Distr.
GENEP,AL

A/39/744
5 Decenber 1984
ENGIJI SII
ORIGINAI,: FRE}.ICH

Thirty-nintb sesslon
Agenala iten 54

PNEVENTION OF A}I AR!.{S NACE IN OUIIER SPACE

)

E3EE9$9!.! ur. ugar6 KEssELv (chad)

I. INTRODUSTION

I. The iten entitLed 'Prevention of an arns race in outer sPace: report 
of the

conference on Disarmamentn was lncludett in the provisional agenda of the
thirty-ninth sesslon in accordance rdith General Assenbty resolution 38/70 ot'
15 December 1983.

?. At its 3rat Plenary neeting ' 
on 2I sePtenber 1984' the G€neral Assembly' on the

recorMEndation of the General iornmittee, dec itleit to include the item in its 
agenda

and to allo€ate it to the First Conmittee '

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 15 october, the First conmittee declded to hold 
a

general debate on the dr6arnament itenE allocated to it' na$ely' itens 45 to 65 and
iten L42 which was allocateal to the First connlttee by the General. Assernbly at 

its
27th plenary neeting, on 9 october, follouetl by staternents on epecific 'lisarmament
agenai ilerni and continuation of the general debate' aa neceasary' The
tleliberations on those ltens took place between the 3rd and the 36th meetings' 

froD

17 @tober to 12 Novenbe t lsee A/c.L/ 39lPv.3-36) '

4. In connection with iteo 54' the First Comnittee hail before it the follooing
docutoenta:

(a) Report of the conference on Disarnanentt y

84-31638 4533P (E)



A/39/744
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 23 tttay t9B4 fron the .r€presentatives of Argentina, creece,rndia, Mexico, sweden and the unitett Republio if ranzania to the united Nationsaddressed tb the secretary-General l traisnitttng the Joint D€claration byMrs' rndira Gandhi', prime uinister of rndia, Mr: Miguer de la Madrid, president of
-Yt"i::, _Mr. ltullus Nyerere, President of the uniteal Republic of Tanzania,Mr. Olof Palme, prlme Minlster of Sweden, Ur..enareas papandreou, prlne Minlster ofGreece' and Mr. RaGl Alfonsln, pEesident of ergentina, issued on 2A Uay J.9g4 atAthens, _Bueno6 Aires, Dar es salaarn, Mexico cf[y, ne* Delhi and Stockholn(A/39 /277-s/ r6s87 | ;

(c) Letter dated l ilune 1gg4 fron the permanent Representatlve of the unronof soviet sacialist Repubrics to the united nitions addlessed to the secretary-General (A/39/295-S/L66OO|,

(d) Note verbale dated ? .tune l9g4 froNn the perr'nent Mission of peru to theunlted Nations addressed to the united Nations sec'etariat r'/3g/2g5-s/L66lgr ,
(e) Letter dated 14 ,June l9g4 frorn the

Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern Ireland
lhe S€cretary-ceneral (N37/3LL_S/L6OZ1|,

(f) Letter dated 4 JuIy 1984 fron the permanent Representatlve of the Union
3:":::i"i^i$i3i;i: *'n'otics to the united Nations addressed ro rhe secretary-

(g) L€tter dated 30 ;Iuly 1984 fron the char96 d,Affalres a.i. of thePerrnanent Mission of the union of soviet socialist Repubric' to the unitear Natl.nsaddressed to the Secretary-ceneral (A/gg/36gi;
(h) Letter dated 4 septenber l9B4 fron hhe Charg6 drAffaires a.i. of thePermanent Miaslon of the union of soviet sociali't Repubrics to the united Nationsaddressed to the Secretary-ceneral (A/3.9/467,),
(i) Letter dated 14 Novenber ].ggl fron the permanent Representative of the

ffi$iafflTtatic Republic to the uniteat Nations addressed to rhe secreralrcenelal

Pernanent Representative of the United
to the United Nations addressed to

II. CONSIDERATION OA PROPOSAI,S

A.

5' on 23 october ' china subnitted a draft r€sorution entitred rpreventi^on of anarns race ln outer sFlE-ce" (Vc.f /3g/L.3), ,t i"f,-,o"" introttuceat by itsrePresentative at the 35th neeting, on 9 Novenber. The draft resolut{on reaal aEfollords:

"T:he General Assenbly,

..^^ ^l*!lg!.t?rtln rhe connon interesr of atl mankinar in the exploration anduse ot outer space for peaceful purlro6es,



)

A/39/744
Eng lish
Page 3

: "&3]i]i!!!i!g that the e:.plorabion and use of outer 6pace, including 
the

U"o" ail-.T[FEf es tial bodies, shall be carried out fo! the benefit and in
the interests of aII countries, irresPective of their dlegree of econonic or
scientific deveLopment, and €hall be the province of, all nankind,

"Reaffirning the principles anal objectives of the Treaty on PrinciPles
corr.rnTfil-TfiEEfivities of States in the Exploratlon and Use of Outer SPace,
including the tiloon and other cele6tial Bodies,

'Recalling ParagraPh 80 of the Pinal D@unent of the T€nth sPecial
s.ssi<riE th. General Assenbly, its resolutlons 36/97 c anA 35/99 9!
g Decenber I98I, 3?,/83 of 9 oecernber L982, J7/99 D of 13 Decernber 1982 and
38/10 of 15 Decenbe! 1983,

"Gravely concerned at the danger posed to aII nankind by an arns race in
outer sPace,

ncravely concerned in paEticular at the intenstficatlon of regearch and
devetopment ot outer sPace neapon s)tsterns t including anti-Satellite systens
and the systema of antl-missile weapons,

"convinced that urgent and effective neagurea are needed for the
prevention of an arn6 race in outer sPace t

'Convinced that the Union of soviet socialiEt RePubllcs and the United
states-of Anericar rhich possess ruilitary strengthe far exceeding those of
other countries and are aitually engaged in the testlng and PreParatlon of
deploynent of outer space lteaPons, have sPeci'al responsibility for the
prevention of an arrns race in outer sPace,

rTaking note of the rePort submtbted by the conference on Dlsarnanent on
the prevention of an arm6 race in outer apace,

"Taking special note of the demand of the PeoPIe of the vorld that
tregotilEl6iE-6i-TEis oigent question to be undertaken without delay'

concern and disa ointnent that the Conference on

"1. Reaffirms the wiu of aII states to ensure that outer sPace should
be used.*EGfiES for Peaceful Purlrosee and ahould not becorne an arena for
arms race i

n2. Calls uPon all states, eePecially those Poasessing enormous outer
space "apabiliti.s, 

to contribute Positively to the realization of the
oljective of peaceful uses of outer 6pace and to aatopt proqrt anil effective
measures to prevent an arns race in outer space i

"3. .B9g!g the Conference on DiBarliament tO gPeeil uP the conslderation
on preventli!-Ii-Erns race in outer sPace in atl itE asPects as a natter of

Oisarnffin able to €et up an ad ho6 Cd*nittee on outer



^/39/744English
Page 4

prioricy and urgency, taking into account arl relevant alraft resolutions and
Proposals, and for thi6 purpose to get up an ad hoc connittee at the beginningof its 1985 session to conduct negotiati;s to-l;-ncluding an agreement or
agreenents on halting the research, testing, developnent, production,
dePloyment and use of outer space neapons, Leading ultlmately to the totalprohibition and destruction of all such weapon aystemsi

"4. urqes the union of soviet sociarist Repubrice and the united sratesof tunerica to starc as earry as possibre serious biraterar negotiations for
the sane purpoae and to keep the Conference on Disarrnament properly infornedof the progress of these negotiationsi

, ':. Requests the Conference on Disarnarnent to submit its Eeport to the
Genera.L Assenbly at ita fortieth session on its considerations of thls iten,

Disarnament alr the documents rei.ating to the consideration of this subject bythe General Assenbly at its thirty-ninth session;

'.7. Decides to include in the provisional agenara of it6 fortieth gessionlhe itetn eiti-EGd' I prevention of an arms race in outer space ' i.

9.., A! the request of the sponsor, no action r.ras taken on draft resolutionF{c.L/3e/r".3.

B. Draft resolutions A/C.1/39,/L.37 and Rev.1 and 2
,_.- on 9 Novenber, Egvpt and sri Lanka aubflritteal a alraft resolution entihled-Preventron of, an arrns race in outer space' (NC.L/39/' .37), which t as later alsoslols?red by Bangl'adesh. The draft resolutlon rras introduced by the representativeof Sri Lanka at the 39th neeting, on 15 November, and read as follors!

nThe ceneral Assembly,
rlnspired by the great prospects openlng up before nanklnd as a reault of

nanrs entry into outer space,
rRecognizing the coru[on interest of alJ, nanklnd in the exploration and

use of outer space for peaceful purposea,

-- 
rRgaffirming that the exploration and use of outer space, including the

Moon and other celestiar bodies, sharr be carried out for the benefrt and inthe intereEt of all countries, irrespectlve of their alegree of econonic orsclentific development, and shall be the province of aIi nankind,

. "Rica]].!!jl that the states parties to the Treaty on principles Governingthe Activities of states in the Exproration and uee Lf outer splce, includin6the !!eon and other cele€tiar sodiel, have undertaken, in articre rrr, to carry
on activities in the exproration and uae of outer space, rncruding the r.roon
and other celestial bodies, in accordance rrith international 1aw ;nd the

(



)

A/te/744
English
Page 5

charter of the uniteat Nations, in the interest of naintaining 
international

peace and security und P;;;;lid rilernationar co-oPeration and 
understandins '

rReafflrmlnq' in Particular, article Iv of the above-mentloned 
Treaty'

which stipulates that states parties to lhe trreatv undertake 
not to place in

orbit around the earth any objects carrying ,rucre'.r weapon' 
or any other kinda

of weapons of nass a."urritioi, instalf such weaPons on celestial 
bodies or

atatlon such weapons in outer sPace ln any other Inanrl€r r

"Reaffirrninq also ParagraPh 80 of-the.Ftnal Document 
of the Tenth special

session of the General e""..urv, in which it is stated 
tbat' in order to

prevent an arms race in outer lpace, further neasures should be taken 
and

appropriate internationai-t"g"li;ti""" helct in accordance 
with the sPirit of

the Treaty t

"Recalling its resolutio ns 36/97 c an'l 36'199 of 9 December 
I98l' as Ytell'

as resolution s 37/A3 oa-i-o"".*u"r Lgsz, 37/gg D of 
L3 December 1982' and

38/70 of 1.5 December 1983,
ncravelv concerned at the danger Posed to all nankind by an arns 

race in

outer space, in partrcu:'ii ine inpenaing danger-of exacerbating 
the current

state of insecurity ny tna a""ttoirnent of nett tyPes of weapons 
systemgt

iMindfulofther.'r'despreadinterestexpressedbyMemberstateginthe
.ou.".ffi ;r;;";i;;"-;i and followine rhe adoption of -the. "b":::-
nentioned rreaty in .""ili"g thtt the exPl;ration and 

use of outer sPace
ahould be for Peaceful PurPoseg, and tak ing "ote-'oi 

proposals submitted to the

ceneral Assenbly at its te*nth special sessionr aevot-ea 
to disarnament' and at

it"-i.guf"t g""-tion" and to the Conference on Disarmanenc'

rNotinq the grave concern expregsed by the second united 
Nations

conference on the DxPro;illon tna p"tceful uses of outer space 
over the

extension of an arms ,"rl-ii'i"-"ra"i-"p.." ana tie i".ott"-tta.C 
ions nade to the

cornpetent organs of the Unitett Nations' in Particular the General 
Assemblyt

and alao !o the connittee on Digarrnament'

"convlnced that turther measures ale needed for the 
preventlon of an arms

race in outer sPace '
'Recognizing that' ln the context of.multilateral 

negotiations for
preventlng an arms ,u"" ii out", "p""., 

bilat€ral negotiations between the
unlon of sbviet g'oclalist RePublics antl the unilea slatds of 

Anerica cou]'d

nake a signifi.""n. .o"i' iuuiion to such an objective ' 
in accordance wlth

paragrapir-ZZ of the Final Docunent of SSoD I'

.tielconingalleffortstowardsbilateralnegotiatlonsbetweentheUnion
of, soviet gociali.st *'p"liit" and ttre United states of Anerica 

on the

preventlon of an arns race in out€r gpace '

'Taktng note of the rePort of the Conference 
on Dlsarnanent'



A/39/744
English
Page 6

^ "Ar.." of the varloue pEopoaalB submitted by Menber states to theconference on Diaarnanent, particularry conc€rning tbe e'tablishment of anAd Hoc coftnittee on the preve"tron 
"i;"-;;;" race i,n outer space anal itsdraft r'landate which had been consider.a' 

"*l"n"ro"ry by a contact group andthrough infornal con'urtationa J-;;-;";;i anar infonnar meetings of rheConference on DisarnamenE,

-^ ^.l that, although there wasno oblection, ln Drlnciple, to-Ttr;ffifGimenr wlthout delay of such anAd Hoc conmittee, the conference on Disarnatnent has not thus far been enabled
::":iff: 

agreenent on a nandate for the Ad Hoc comrittee during its 1984

"I. Reaffirma the yill of all States that the exploration and use of,outer spacffiffiing the uoon ana 
"it".1"r."ttal bodies, sha1l beexclusively for peaceful purposes,

"2. Further reefFirns tbat general and ccmplete disarnanent undereffective frternffi;ffiontr"r ,iii.nt" Iiit o,rter space shatt be usedexclusi'ver.y for peacefur purpo.e' 
"na 

trr"i ia 
"r,.tr not become an area for anarms racei

.- ^..-1: 
EThasizef that further effectlve neagures ro prevent an arms racern outer space should be adopteal by the international coiununityl

_^_--,1:..callg upon all states, in particular thooe rrith najor spacecapabilities' to contribute activery to the objective of the peacefur use ofouter space and to take imnediate 
^la"urar 

-to 
prevent an arma race ln outersPac e i

_..'..,i: ,Rgifgrates that the conference on Drsarnament., as the singlemurtrlateral disarmanent negotiating forut, has the prirnary role in thenegotiation of an agreement or agreinent', as approprlate, on the preventionof an arns race ln alt its 
""p..[" 

- 
ii-"ui.r-]n.".,

l:. IEggeqt' the conference on Disarnanent to consider as a matter ofpriority Lhe question of preventing un 
".rr-'ruaa rn outer space,

-^_-,:r. .+IEo {eqpe6ts 
the conference on Diaarnanent to intenslfy it€consideration of the qu€Etron of the prevention of an arrns race ii outer spacein all its aspect6, taking into 

"".ou;l-;ii 
-;erevanr 

proposarsi

^, -^'8. _ IYJlhe+EeBlg 
the conference on Disarrnarnent ro estabrish an

*H,fTt_t:::-?l^:19-b:etnnlns of irs session in 1e85. wirh a vieH toundertakins negotiatlonE ror ttre-co'cir"i""-"i1"'lg;:;:.i';; :r;:ffi:=, ",apPropriate, to prevent an arnE race in al1 its aspect.s in outer spacei
^- - l't: 

qrqes the union of.soviet socialist Republics and the united statesot America to inltiate inmediarely n"9"ai;ai;n;-i:.mea at preventing an arms
:::e_11 outer space and to adviae the conferenc€ on Disarmarnent regularly ofEne progress of chelr bilateral negotiations 

"o "" 
to facllitate its vrork,

(

I

t



A/39/744
English
Page 7

'IO. Bequests the Conference on Digarnarnent !o report on its
conslderatia of this subJect to the General Assetnbly at its fortieth sessioni

"II. Requests the Secretar y-General to transmit to the. confer:"t: :n
Dlaarnaroent all docunents retating to the consideration of this subject by the
ceneral Assembty at its thirty-ninth sessioni

'12. Decldes to inclutle in the Provisional agenda of its fortieth
6esEi,on tire-lEdlntttled t Prevention of an arns race in outer sPace 

| 
' "

8. on 23 Novernber, Banqladesh, Eglrpt and sri Lanke subnitted a revised draft
resolution GJc.L/39/L.37/Rev.1) containing the follol'ing changes:

(a) A new fourth Preanbular ParagraPh was atldetl reading as followst

'&gEl!Igl!g@ the rriLl of all States that the exploration 
and uae

of outfrFlffiffi! the 1toon and other celestiat bodies, shall be
excluEively for Peaceful Purposes," i

(b) In the origlnal eighth prearnbular paragraPh' now the ninth Preanbular
paragraph, the rords 'which coul'd increase the risk of nuclear !tar" were added at
the end of the paragraph;

(c) the original thirteenth preambular paragraph, now bhe fourteenth
paragraphr was revised to read as folloirs!

"Deeply reqretti'ng that bllateral negotiations between the Unlon of
Soviet Sociallst neififlcs and the United States of tufier ica on the Prevention
of an arns race in outer aPace have not taken Place,n;

,(d) The last Preanbular ParagraPh vras revised to read as follovts:

ointrnent that, although there was
,ro oUj witnout delay of such an
ad hoc connittee, the conference on Disarnament has not thus far been able to
ffi;=.;;;;;rri 

- 
on 

" 
nandate for the gl-E connittee during its 1984

gegEl,onr 

"
(e) oPerative ParagraPh I ras rePlaced by the folloiding:

'Recallq the obligatlon of all Statea to refrain froto the threat or use
ot force in tbeir space activitiesi",

(f) In oPerative ParagraPh 4, the words "in the interest of maintainlng
internatlonal peace and gecurlty and pronotlng int€rnational croPeratlon'
especiallY in space;' were added at the end of the ParagraPhi

(9) rn oPeratlve Paragraph 7. the htords " including those Presented to the
ceneral Assembly at its thiity-nintb sessioni" were added at the end of the
paragraph.



^/39/744English
Page I

9. On 2tt November, Austr la China
, the
(A/c. 9/L. .2't ,

the foUotlng change6:

In the fourth prearabular paragraph the lrord "exclustvely" was ateletedi
The ninth prearnbular paragraph nas reviaed to read as follds:

I
Yugoslavia
containing

(a)

(b)

rcravely concerned at the danger poseat to all mankind by an arns race in
outer space, in particurar the inpendlng danger exacerbating th6 current Etateor rnsecutity by developlento that could further undernlne international peace
and secur ity, r I
(c) operative paragraph 3 naE revi€ed to read as foLlorrsj

"g*ptt."l"er that further tneaEures rrlth appropriate and effective
ProvlBions for verification to prevent an arns race in outer space €hourd be
adopted by tlre inCernatlonal conmunityi tr i
(d) operative paragraph 4 rra6 reviaed to read as follorrs:

. ]!911" uo"" aII states, in particular those with najor 6pacecapabilitles, to contribute actively to the objective of the peaceful use of
outer space and to take im[ediate measurea to prevent an arns race in outer
space in the interest of rnalntainlng international peace and security and
promoting internatlonal co-operation and undeEstanding i " ,
(e) In operative paragraph 5, the lrords ,,an agreement or agreer0ents' s€re

replaced by rra nuJ,tilateral agreenent or agreenentsn i

. Jlt In operative paragraph 7, the rrords rpre€ented to the ceneral Assenbly atits thirty-ninth seEsionr rrere replaced by 'preiented at the thirty-ninth eeEElinof the United Nation6 ceneral Assernbly, i,

(S) Operatlve paragraph 9 rras revised to read aa follong:

"Urqea the Unlon of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Unlteal States of
America to initiate lmnediatery and in a constructive spirit negotlatlons
ained at preventing an arns race in outer Bllace and to aalvise the Conference
91 9is:Jlflanent regurarry of the progress of their bilaleral negotlatlona so asto facllitate its sork, ".

r0. At the 49th neetlng' on 27 Novernber, the connitbee votear on draft r.esorutron
NC.L/3g/L.37/Rev.2 as f.oLuosaz 2/

u subsequently the delegatlon of ttogo inaricated that it had intended to (
vote in favour.



(al op€ratlv€ ParagraPh I was aaloPted by a
abstentlonB. tlhe voting wag as follows:

A/39/744
English
Page 9

recorded vote of II4 to I, Itith 11

EElgggt! Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola. Argentlna, AuatraLia' 
Austrla'

Bahanas, Bahrain, Bangladeshr Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana'
Erazil, Brunel Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso' Burmat
Burundi ' 

Byelorussian sovlet socialist RePublic, canada' central
African Republlc r chad, Chile' China' Cololnbla, Congo' costa
Rica, Cubar q/Prus. czechoslovakia, Derpcratic Kampuchea,
Denocratic Yenen, Dennark, Djibouti' Dominican Republic' Ecuador '
EgyPt, EthioPia, FiJi, Finland, Srance' Gabonr German Democratic
nepuuftc, Ghina, Greece' Guinea, Guyana, Haitl' Honduras '
Itungary, Iceland, India' Ihdonesia, Iran (Istanic RePublic of)'
Iraqr lreland, Ivory coast, Jaloaicar Jordanr Kenyat Kuwait' Lao
leople t s Denocratic RePublicr Lebanon, Libyan Arab Janahiriya'
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia' Maldives, MaIi' Mauritania'
Mauritius, !,!exico' lfongol'ia, !'brocco ' NePaI' NeH 

zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigerlar Nor{ay, onan, Pakistanr Panama r Perur
PhtlitrPtnes, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda ' 

gaudi Arabia'
Senegal' Sierra Leone, Spain, Sri Lanka, sudan' suriname'
swaziland, swgden' syrian lrab Republlc, Thalland, Tunisia'
uganda r Ukrainian sovlet soctallst RePublict union of soviet
socialist RePublics, uniteal Arab Enirates' united RePublic of
Tanzania. ur-uguayr venezuela, Viet Narnr yenen' Yugoalaviat zalre'
Zanbia, zinbabwe '

!gg!E!r united states of Anerica.

l9g!gfJ!.!gl! Belglum, cameroonr Gernany, Fetteral RePubllc of' Israel' 
Italy'

alapan. LuxeBbourg, netherlands, Portugal' Turkey' United King'lon
of Great Eritain and Northern lEeland'

(b) Dr.f,t reaolut Lon A/c.L/39/r..37 /Rev-z, as a whole' was adoPted by a
recordcd vote of 12? to none, wlth I abstention (3ee para. l3). Itte voting l,as as
CoLLo$az y

gEggs Afghanistan' Algeria, Angola, Argentina' Australia' Auscria'
Bahalras, aahrain, Bangla'lesht Belgiun, Benin' Bhutan' Bolivia'

' Botawana, Brazllr Brunei Darugsalam, Bulgaria' Burkina Faso'
Burma' Burundi, ByeloruEslan sovlet SociatiEt RePublic ' Caneroon'
canada, centrai lirlcan RePublic, cha'l, chile' china' colofiDia'
congo, costa Rica, cuba' cyP[us, czechoeloriak ia ' Den@ratic
Kanltucbea, Denocratlc Yenen r Denmark, Dj ibuti t Dominican
RePubllc, Ecuador, EgyPt, EthloPiar FUir Finlandr - France ' 

Gabon'

Gernan DenocEatlc RePubtic, Gernany' Federal RePublic of' Ghana'
Greec€, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Bonduras, Eungaryt Icelandt India'
Indonegia, Iran (I6lanic RePublic of) ' 

Iraq' Ireland' Israel'
It"Iy, Iuoty coast, Jamaica, Japan, Jordant l(enya' Kuwait' f'ao
PeoPler s oernocratlc RePublic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Janahiriya'
L,uxenbourg, Mattagascar r MataHi, Malaysla' Malilives' Mali'
llauritanii, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia' Morocco' Mozambique'



u39/744
English
Page l0

NePal. NGthcs lrnala. Ney uealahd, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Noruay,
Onan, Pakl6t.n, Panana, peru, phltipplnes, poland, portugal,
Qatar, Rooani,a, Rrranda, saudt arabiil senegal, sierra Leone,
Slngapore. Spaln, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surlnane, Seariland, Sr.€den,
syrian Arab Republlc, Itrallanal, Tunisia, Turiey, uganda,
Uhtainlan Sovlet Soclalist Republic. Union of Soviet Sociallet
Republics, United Arab Enirates, Unlted Kingatom of creat Britain
end Northern lreland, Unlted Republlc of Tanzania, Uruguay,
v€neruela, Viet t{an. yenen, yugoalavla, Zalre, zambia, Zimlabre.
Nonc.

Unlted Strtca of Aoerica.

C. Drrft sesolution A,/C.1,/39,/L. 6I

]1. on l,2-Novenber, ,the {9!'h9r taqds _rnd thG llrrtea xt{reao or creat bilffiaubnltted a draft reaolutlotr, ent pace.
lA/c.L/39fi'.6L1 . fhe draft rGeorutlon uaa introduceal by thc repreaentative ofItaly at the 38th n€eting, on Il Nov€Db€r, and read as folloHe:

'The ceneral Assenblv,

'B€llevlnE thlt any actrvity in outer 6pace ahourd be carrr€d on for thebeneflt of au peopl€3, rrresp€ctrve of the ar€gree of thelr econoolc anar
sclentt,f, lc develop ent,

rRecallinE that thG statee parttes to the Treaty on pr lnciples covernlng
the ActivitleB of statea in the Exploration and uae of outer space, inclualing
the tltoon and other ccl€stiar godrei, have undertahen, rn artrcre rrr, to carry
on activities ln the explorstion and uEe of outer apace, including the !{oon
and other celestlal bodles, ln accordance rrlth international law, lncludlng
the Charter of the Unlted Natlona, in the j,ntere5t of naintaininginternatlonrl peac€ rnd Becurity and proNrcting internatlonal co-6peration and
understanding,

'Arare ot the funalroental contrlbution that space activltles nake to
lnt€rnational p€age and securlty, to th€ goal of averting the alanger ot rrr,particularly nuclear yat, and to the inplenentation of diaarnanenl. agreerenta,

. 
rconvinced that turth€r cotrcideratron shour.ar be given to eftectlve and

verlflable raya to prevent the u6e of space fron unalermlnlng internatlonalsecurlty and Btablllty,

- .'Rggallino ItB relevant resolutlons as well as the a[I,Iicab1e provieionsof the Final ltoc.-ent of the lenth spectal gesslon of the General Aieenbly 1
rAuare of the crucirl role that pertalne to the union of soviet soclarr.t

Republi,cs and to the united states 0f Anerica ln the purauance of thia goal,

Aqainatr

Abstalnlns s



A/39/744
English
Page lI

'Noting the varlous ProPosals of a procedural and substantive character
whi,ch have Ueen subnitted by Menber States.to the. Conference on Disarmanent'

"Expressing its deeP concern and dlsaPPointrnent that the conference on
DisaEnanent has been unable so far to reach an agreement on Che establishnent
of an ad hoc comflittee on outer space and its rnandate,

Reaffirns that further consideration should be given bY the
international conmunity to effective and veriflable ways to prevent the use of
space from underrnining international securlty and stabilityi

"2. Reiterates that the Conference on Disarmament' as the single
nultilateral disarrnanent negotiating forunr has the Primary role in the
negotiation of agreenents of a nultiLateral nature on Preserving the use of
space for peaceful purposes i

"3. stresses the great responsibility towards nankind a3 a vrhole whlch
falls on the najor Porrer s in this regard and calls for a highly co-oPerative
attitude on their part in contronting the particularly comPlex Problens Posed
by arrns control in sPace and its verificationi

n4. Deeply reqrets that the union of soviet socialist Republics and the
United States of enerica have to date been unable to reach agreenent on
bilateral talks and urges thern to carry out their proPosed meeting pronptly
and without preconditions and to maintain, as appropr iate t a constructrve
co-ordination rdith the work of Che conference on Disarmanenti

"5. catrls upon the Union of soviet socialist Republics and the united
States of Anerica to seek nith priority nutually accePtab!'e negotiating
aPProaches nhich could lead to agreenent or ag reements ' as apProPrlate' 

Ythich
lroulal be effective and verifiabLe and irould strengthen international security
and stabi lity i

"6. @ the Conference on Digarmament to consider this question with
prioriCy .I-EEE beginning of its session in 1985 and to intensify efforts to
ieach agreement on the establishment of an ad hoc cornnittee and on its
nandate i

Di.sarmament aI1 documents relatlng to the consideration of thls subject by the
General Assembly at its thirty-ninth sessioni

consideration of thls eubject to the General Assenbly at its fortieth session'

n9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fortieth session
the item entitletl rPrevention of an arrns race in outer sPacer 

"'
L?. At the request of the sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolution
Nc.L/39/L.6L.



A/39/744
English
Page 12

III. RECOTiIMENDATION OP TIiE FIRST COTI.I.TITTEE
t3. The Flrgt comnittee recortrtends to the cenerar A66etrbly the adoption of the
fol,lowlng draf t resolution:

prevention of an arna race in outeE space
The General Assembly,

Inspired by the great prospecta opening up betore tnankind as a reEult of
nanrg entry into outer space,

Recognizinq the contnon intereat of all mankind in the e!.ploratlon and use
of outer space for peaceful purpoEes,

Reaffirriing that the exploration and use of outer space, including the
Moon and other cele'tial bodles, shal,r be carried out for the benefit and in
the interest of all countries, irreapectlve of their degree of econoraic or
scientlfic deveLopment, and shall be tbe provlnce of a1l nankind,

Reaffirni.ng further the will of a1l States that the exploration and use
of out€r space, inclutling the Moon and other celestial bodles, shall be for
peaceful purposes,

. Recalling that the States parties to the Treaty on principles Csvernlngthe Activilies of statea ln the Expl,oration and use of outer spacer includingthe l4oon and Other Celestlal aodiei, / have undertaken, ln ariicle III, tocarry on activlties in the exploration and uae of outer apace, inc],uding the
liloon and other cerestial bodles, in accordance elth internationar law and thecharter of the uniteal NationE, ln the lnterest of naintaining international
peace and security and pronotlng internationar co-ope! at ion and understandrng,

_ Reaffirninq, in partlcular, article IV of the above-rnentloned Treaty,which stlpulate5 lhat States partles to the Treaty unalertake not to place inorbit around the earth any objechs carrying nuc.Lear $eapon6 or any other kind6of neaPons of mass destruction, inetall such weapons on celestial bodies or
station such weapons in outer apace ln any other mdno€lp

_ . ReaffirlRing also paragraph 80 of the Final Docunent of the Tenth SpecialSesaion of the ceneral AEsenbly, !/ in which 1t ls etated that, in order to
Prevent an arns race in outer 6pace, further measur€E should be taken and
aPpropriahe internationaL negotlatlons held in accordance nlth the spirit ofthe Treaty,

Resol,utlon 2222 IXXII, annex.

Resolution S-LO/Z.
(

v
v



v39/744
EngIish
Page 13

R€calling its resoluttons 36/97 c and 36,/99 of 9 December 1981' aE uell
as r"6IiIf6IE 3i/gg of 9 Decenber Lg82. 37/99 D of t3 December L9a2 and 38/70
of 15 Dec ember 1983,

Gravely concerned at the danger Poseal to all nankitd by an arns race in
outer-iFa" e, in Partlcular the t! P€ndlng danger of exacerbatlng the current
state of insecurity by developnenis thal couLl further undermine international
peace and secur ity,

llindful of the wldeq)read interest exPreased by ltember states in the
cour s;;?;Ee negotiations on antl followlng the adoptlon of tbe above-
nentloned Treaty in ensurlng that the exploration and u6e of outer sPace
shoulal b€ for Peaceful Purpo6es, and taking note of proposals subnitted to the
elir"irf assenbiy at its- te;th €Pecial session, devoted co disarmanent' and at
Its regular sessions and to the Conference on Disarmatnent'

gg!!g the grave concern expressed by the second unlted Nacions
confe6E-on the lxplor ation and Peaceful Uses of Outer space over the
extension of an arms race into outer space and the r econnend at I ons made to the
conpetent organs of the unlted Nattons; in particular' the Genera] Assembly'
and a16o to the comrittee on Disarnament' 5/

Convirced that further neaaures are needed for the prevention of an arns
race in outer space t

Recognlzlnq that, in the context of multilateral negotiatlons for 
r

preventlng an arns race in outer sPace, bllateral negotlations between the
Union of soviet socialist nepublics and the United states of Amerlca could
nake a significant contribution to such an objective, in accordance with
paragraph 2? of the Flnll Doculent of the Tenth Sp€c la1 Seaaion'

Deeply regretting that bilateral negotiations betneen the Unlon of Soviet
SociaffiFi[IlE" .na the United Etates of America on the Prevenbion of an
arms race in outer spa.ce have not taken Place'

Taking note of the rePort of the conference on Dlsarmament' 9/

Aware of the varlous proPosals subnitted by ltenber states to the
conference on Disarnarnent, paittcularly concerning the establi€hnent -of - 

an

ad hoc cornrnittee on the Preventlon of an arns race in outer space and its

-r"fc 
r";;d;a;, 

-rr,i.tr 
had been consldered exten'ively by a contact grouP and

y see t of the second ted Nat

2), paras. 13, 26, ttee on
Ife2 (VcorrF. rol/lo and corr.l
lifranent was redeslgnated the

)

Conference on Di sarmanent as fron 7 February 1984.

v
supPlenent No. 27 (ry'39/27',1 .



^/.39/744English
Page 14

through informaL consurtations and by fornar and infornar neetings of theConference on Disarmamentr.i .: .
. 

. +xprgssing its.alegp concern and disappointment that, although there leas
:::!i.:!i"i,.in principLe, lo the esd-Iishrnent wirhout oelay oi.such ancq ooc conmrttee, the conference on Disarmament has not thus iar been ab.Le toreacb agreement on a mandate for the ad hoc comlttee durlng its 1gg4 session,

i. Recalls the obligation of all states to refraln from the threat oruse of force in their space activities;
2. Reaffirms that general anal complete dlsarmament under effectiveinternatioiiT?&Eol rrarrants that outei space shall be used exclusively forpeaceful purposes and that it shall not become an arena for an arms racei

.3: Errphasizes that further neasures with appropriate and effective
Provisions for verificacion to prevent an arna race in outer space shourd beadopted by the international community i

.4-....CaIIs upon all States, in particular those rrith najor spacecapabilities, to contribute accivery to the objective of the peaclful use ofouter space and to take inuneal iate ,otas,rre, to prevent an arms race in outerspace in the interest of naintaining lnternational peace ana security arropronoting international co-operatio; and understanding i

-,..t-.,?:,--_!Fi!?r"t." 
that the Conferenc€ on Disarmament, as the singlemurErrateraJ. disarnanent negotiating forum, has the primary role in thenegoCiation of a nultilateral agreement or agreenents, as appropriate, on theprevention of an arms race in a]l its aspects in outer space;

. 9: BgggeEqs the Conference on Disarnament to consider as a rnatter ofPrrorrty the question of preventing an arms race in outer spacei

consideration of the question of the prevention of an arns race in outer spacein all its aspects, taking into accouirt all reLevant proposals, inslualingthose presented at the thirty-ninth session of the uni'ear Nations GenerarAssemblyi

Fyrther requests the Conference on Drsarmanent to establish an
+1,!9::9mmittee at the beginning of its session in 1985, wirh a view tounoertakrng negotiations for the concrusion of an agreement or agreernenrs, asapProptiate, to prevent an arns race in a1l its aspects in outer spacei

Urges the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Uniteat Statesof America to inltiate innedlately and in a constructive spirit negotiationsained at preventing an arrns race in outer space and to advise the conterenceon Disarmament regutarly of the progresa of their uilaterai 
".joiiitiorr" ,o ".to facllitate its work;

I



A/19/714
Bnglish
Page 15

lO. Request6 the conference on DiBarnarncnt to rcPort on ltg
consideration of this €ubject to the General Aatcnbly !t ita fortieth seesion,

ll. BggEg the secretary-General to tr.ndtrlt to the @nf€!€nce otr
Disarnanent all ilocument6 relatlng to th€ conelal€ntlon of this eubject by the
cenelal Assenbly at lte thlrty-nlnth EeeBiont

L2. Decld€s to include in the proviEional agend! of its f,ortleth aeasion
th€ lten entitled 'Prevention of an art0a racs in outsr sPacer.




