








































UNITED
NATIONS

' (@) Gcncral AssembrY Di str .
GENERAI.

A/39/790 /!dd.t7
15 December 1984
ENGLISH
ORIGII,IALT ARABIC,/INGLISH

Thirty-ninth sesEion
Ag enda iten 80

DEVEIOP!.1E}IT AND INTM,NA?IONAL ECONOMIC CG-OPENATION

Report of the Second Comnittee (part X\IIf I)

Rapporteur r Mr. Ahned Alawi AL-HADDAD (Denocratic Yetnen )

I. IN1RODIETION

) f. The Seconal Connittee held a substantive debate on icem 80 (see A/3g/7gO,para. 2). Action to be caken by the Comnittee on draft proposals subnitted under
Iten 80, not allocated to a specific sub-iten, was considered at the 56th, 57th and
60th neetings, on 6, ? and 14 Decenber. An account of the Comnitteer s discussion
ie contained in the relevant sunmary records (NC.2/39/5R.55, 52 and 60).

II. COT'IS TDERATION OF PROPOSAIT;
A. DrafC re8olution A/c.2/39lL.116

2. At the 55th neeting, on 6 December, the representative of Mexico introduced a
draft resolutlon (A,/C.2/39 /l,.LL6l entitletl nDev-lopment ana intaiFional economic
co-operation", whi ctr read as followss

nlhe ceneral Asserbly,

"considedg. the vital importance of issues related to noney, finance,
debt and trade for d eveloprnen t, proEperity and good relations atrpng lreoplles,
and the urgency of neasur€s to pronote wider co-operation among nations on
these issues,

"etp$sizit5 the need for coneistency between the internatlonal trader
tnonetary and financing slrsterns and policie6,

) ,*rrr* o26tp (r'



A/39/790/\dd.L7
English
Page 2

"g3-b!q note of the forthconlrg meetirgs of the Interlrn Commlttee and the
Developrent Connittee of the I'lbrld Bank and the International l.tlnetary Fund,
at which debt, adjustment and gronttr, and the related i6sues of nDney, finance
and trade, will be conaidered in an lntegrated rnanner,

'gglig_-afso_note of the relevant proposals and reports regarding these
issues,

Reouesta the Secre tary-Genera 1r

" (a) !o consult Governments of States lbnbers of the thlted lilatlons and
nenbe! s of the speciallzed agerEies and to ascertain their specific vieus on
the no€t practical rrays and rneans to expand internatlonal co-operation in the
fieldls of rnoney, finance, debt and trade, r,ri th special attentlon to the
intere€ts of the developing countrlesl

' (!) sinilarly to seek the opinion of the relevant organs, organizations
anal bodies of the United Natlons al.sten, in particular the ltrited Nations
Confererce on Trade and Development I the ceneral Agreenent on Tariffs and
Trade' the International lbnetary EUnd and the Wor Id Bank, on these subjects
and on the nodaLities of co..operation atnorE them to suppor t in every nanner
actlona by Statea conducive to this goalt

" (c) On the basis of the results of his consultations, to relbrt to the
General Ass€ntrly as early a6 Fossible and in any case not later than the
fort ieth €essiont

i2. Also requests the Secre tary-ceneral to prepare a report, in
consultation with the rele\rant organs, organizations and bodies of the
tnited Natlons system, on ttre economic problens of develo,ping countries, in
Particular the effects of the econonic crleis on florrs of financlal resources
for developnent to tbose countrie€, as well as its social consequences
therein, and to submit that report to Governments not later than
15 l€rch 1985, and to tlte Assenbly at its fortieth Eessiont

Further requeste the S€cretary-ceneral to undertake a 6tudy of
reletrant proposals and reports regardirg international npnetary, flnanclal,
debt and traale problemE, to be subnitted to the ceneral Assernbly at its
fort ieth sessionl

'4. Decide6 to include in the provisional agenda of its forti€ttr
sesaiqr an item entltled I l,bney, finance, debt and trade for developrnentr.n

3. At the 57th rneeting, on 7 libvember r the representative of lhxico hrithdree
draft resolutLon A/C.2/39/L.L16.



. A/39/7904dd.r7
Enqllsb
Page 3

l

B. oraf t decieion WC.2/39A.115

4. At the 57th neetirg, on 7 Decenber the representatlve of E9S!,, on behau of
the states l,hnbers of the united Nations which are members of the Group of ?7r
introduced a dlraft decislon (A/C.2/39/L.IL5 ) entitled nlnternatlonal confererrce
on flbney and finance for develo;mentn.

5. Statements were nade by the representative of Pakistan and the tnion of Sovlet
soclalist Reprbllcs. The Chairnan and the vlce-Cbairman of the @mniEtee.
Mr. Enrique de la Torre' also made atatenents.

6. At the 60th meeting, on L4 Decenber I Mr. h-rrigue de Ia Torre, Vice{hainnan of
the Comnittee, made a slaEenent in which he proposed a draft decielon b1t rhich the
General Asser$ly would decide to transmit draft decielon A/C.2/39/L.L15 to the
Assenbly a! its fortieur session.

7. lhe rePresentative of t}Ie United states of Anerica nade a statement'

' 8. The comtittee ttlen adoPted the draft deciBion as orally Propoae'l by the
vice-Chairnan of the conmittee (see Para. 17).
g. statements were nade by the representatives of Egypt and the tnited states.

c. Draft Eesolution A/c. 2,/39lL.I28

lo. The @fiunittee haat before it a draft resolution (A/c.2n9/r,-f28) entitled
i Developnent antl international economic co-oPeration" submitted by Eqt/pt on behalf
of tlle Stateg l,tenber e of the United Nations nhic:h are menb€r s of the GrouP of 77.

ll. At the 6oth meeting' on 14 Decenber, Mr. Elrique de la llbrre, vice-Chalrnan of
the Cotrmittee, inforned the Cornnittee on the outcotne of infornal consultatlona held
on draft resolutlon NC.2/39/L.L28.

L2. At the same neeting, tt|e rePresentative of the United states of Anerica
proposed a draft decisionr which read as folLow6:

dlhe ceneral Assembly decides to transrnit draft resolutlon A/C.2/39/L.L28
to the fortieth session of the ceneral AssenblY.'

13. Af tet a statement matte by the representative of t]re Union of Soviet Sociallst
FelrJblics, the comIrlttee rejected the draft decision by a recorded vote of
97 to 22, with I abstention. The votirq t,as as foll*fs3 y

y Subsequently, the representatives of Dj ibouti and Nicaragua stateal that'
hail they been present at the tine of the votlng, their delegations ttould have voted

r against the notion.
a

/...



A/ 39/7 90 /Add.L7
English
Pag e 4

4!ryr Australia, Austria, B€lgiumr canadar Denrnark, Finlandt
France, Germany, Ilederal Rerubllc of, Ire1and, Israel,
Italy' .tapan, Luxembourg, Netlerland6, New Zealand, lilcrvray,
Portugal, Spaln, Sreden, Turkey, United Kingdon of Great
Britain and l'torthern lreland, united States of Anerica-

4ggi.E!.: Mghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentlna, Bahanas, Bahrain'
Bangladesh, Barbado€, Benln, Bhutan, Boliviar Botshranat
BraziI, Brunei Darussalan, hrlgaria. Burklna Fago, Burma,
Byelorussian sovlet Soclali6t R€public, Caneroonr cape
verde, Central African Retrrblic. Orile, China, Colombla,
Congo, Czecho€lovakia. Denpcratlc Yemen, Dorninican Republic,
lbuador ' Egypt, Ettrlopia, cerman Derpcratic RepubLic, chana,Guyana, Ilalti' Honduras, Hungary, Indlar Indonesiar lvory
Coast, Jamaica, ilordan, I(enya, Kuwait, Iao Deople tg
Denocratic Republic, I€banon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Janahlriya, Madagascar, l,blani, f,ltlaysla, l,taldive6, MaIi,
MalCa, Maurltanla, ltexico, !,tcngolla, I'brocco, I'to zanb ique,
tlepal, Niger, Nigeria, han, pakistan, panama, Papua l.kw
Guinea, Peru, Philipplnes, Poland, Ronania, Rwanda, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, senegaL, Singapore, sonalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Srraziland. Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
lbgo, Trinidad and lbbago, 1'rrni6ia, Irganda, tJkrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Unlon of Soviet Sociallst Republics,
United Relxblic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela. viet t{ant
Yenen' Yugoslavia, zairer zanbia, Zimbabwe.

E!g':bl!g: creece.

l{. Draft resolution A/C.2/39/L.128 was adopted by a recorded note of 102 to 14,
vltb 7 abstentions (see para. 16). The voting rras as follons, A/

.XI!f4]g!_t Afghanistan, Atgeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bo].lviar Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darusaalamr Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burmar Byelorussian
sotriet soclalist ReFrbUc, Carneroon, Cape verde, central African
Republic. Chllel Chinal colornbia, corgo, czechoslovakia'
Dernocratic Yenen, bmLnlcan Republ,ic, Ecuador ' 

Eg]pt' EthloPia.
Gertnan Delpcratic Republic, chana, creece, cuyana, Haiti'
Iionduras, Ilungary, fndia, Indonesia, Iraq, fvory coastr ,tanaica,
ilordan, xenya, KuHait, Lao People I s Derpcratic Republic, Lebanon,
I€sotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab .taRahiriya' Madagascar 1 l,lalarri,
!4a1aysia, Maldive6. Mali, Malta, l.Iauritania, l{exlco,

U Subaequently, ttte representativea of DJlbouti, Equatorial cuinea, the
elnbla and Nicaragua stated that, had they been present at the tine of the votlng'
their delegations would have voted in favour of the draft resolutlon.



A/39/7 90 /Add.I7
Engllsh
page 5

l,lcngoli a, t4orocco, l,bzambique, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, chan,paklatan, pandma, papua Nel, cuinea, 
"".u, 

*ttffpgirr"",Foland, Q1!ar' mm"n1a, Rranda, sao tbme and prii"G,Saudi Arabla, Senegal, singapore, Soma1la, Sri Lanka, sudan,surLname, $razllanal, syrlan aral RepJbllc, thalland, rbgo,Trinidad and- Te669e, runisia, Turkey, Irganda, Ukrainiansoviet 
. 
sociall Bt RezubLic, Utrion of Soviet Sociafisi_Repub-lic€, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela,Vlet l,t6p, yenen, yugoelavial zaireT zarOf a, 

-ziirL*":,

Aqainatt Australla, Felgiurn, canada, DenrErk, France, Germany,."d.ri1..fFr:ti: 
"I, rEetand, rsrael, rtaly; Ja;;;"Luxenbourg, Netherrands, united Kingdom or-ireai girt.rn anaNorthern lreland, Uniteal State6 of Amerlca.

Abstainlnqt Austrial Flnland, New zealand, lbrway, portugal, spain,$redeh.
15. statenentE were nade by tbe representatives of Finland, the Ukrainlan sovletsocialist Republics (also on behalf of arrsarla, the ByeLoruseian soviet sl,cciaristRepublic' cuechosrovakiar )he German o"il.r'Jiil'*.pubric, Hungary, l6n9oria, poranaland the tJnion of sovter sociatl.t n"n uii""i]'J"*n, rhe rrri ted Kingdon of creatBritain and lbrurern rreland, c.naaa, tt e-iii.lfr n puuric of cernany, France, theunited States of America and auscria. ff,. ..pr!""rrtatlve of Egypc (also on behalfof states nenbers or the croup ;i;;; #; i=ii,!....r,..

III. RE@MITIEIIDATIONS OF THE SECOND CqqMIgIEE

i3;r#irt!il?i ::Si"ttnlecomrends to rhe cenerar Asaenbry rhe adoprion or rhe

The General A6senbly,

.-,^ "t4i"i"inq- the vital inpor_tance of issues rerated to nbhey, finance,oebt' Eesource flons r"d_l::d. tor aevetoprneill prosperity and good relationa
:5ff":":1tff"::ur"T;"::t"*v or 'n'asur"s-i" "i"k".. 

wider co'oieration anone

,__-^En+aslzinq also the need for consLstency between the internatlonalErade, nbnetary and finarning aystems and policies,

-^*^l: .+querts the secretary-c#neral to consult covernnent' of statesr'enDers of Ehe unlted l'rations and n"rbe.s 
"r-ti" speciatized agencies and toascertain their specific 

"iT: "n "*p"iair,g 
-f 

.iL natiorral co..operatfon ln thefields of rnoney, finance,- debt 
"na "i"oui.! iiJs, rncrualng developnentassigtance and trade, wr.ur speclal .t1..!i""-iJ"the interests of thed eveloping counrrles, taking into 

";"-";;;;";fecrs of rhe economic crlsison thelr econonLc anrl sociai a.""r"p..iti -'- '-'

_l_ ,



A/39/790 lldd.L7
English
Page 5

2' Also recueata the secretary-Generll to aeek ure 
v1tr6 of the

rereltant oreinar "tffii;Jt;:;;'di;; "i 
ut" uit"a Netlons svatem' in

tartlcular tte unrt6a Natlons cont€retre on-tiiae 
and DcveloPment t the General

Agre€lBntonTariffsandtraderthelnternAtionall'bnetaryRrn.lantlthel|orld
Bank, on enhanc ing ttre ir ef fectlveneae to ?uPPort in- 9ver1 

t::!'::t-tht actlona
taken bv statea to ;;;;r;;; international co+Itelltlon 

in these areaat

3. Further reauesta th€ Secretary-Ceneral to laePare 
a 

-rePor't 
baeed on

the outcone ot ti,. ffito;;";-il;;tion to ure iasueg 
referred to ln

ParagraPha 1 an'l 2 il;-'; be circulated to 
Go"ernnents not later than the

first quarter or uiiaia-io be updated subaequently' as approprlate' 
for

aubmission to tne ceieral lesenbly at tts fortieth 
geaalon.

ais

L7. The seconal cor nittee a18o recomrenda to tbe General 
Assedly the adoptlon of

the followlng draft decislonr

I

The Genelal Assembly <lectdes to tran$trit to lt€ fortieth 
seesion the

draft declsion entltle't iriiernatronal conference on 
trtney antl flnance for

develoPnenti. 3/

v A/c.2/39/L.LL9.




