








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Aesembly
(@) Distr .GENERAL

A/3e/755
6 Decenber 1984
ENGL] SH

ORIGINAI: FRINCH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda item 65

GENEFAL A}ID COMPLETE DI SARMAMENT

Report of the First Cornmittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Ngar6 KESSELY (Chad)

I. INTRODUCTION

l. The item ent itled:

"General and complete disarmament:

r'(a) study of the question of nuclear-vJeaPon-free zones in all its aspects:
report of the Sec r etar Y-General i

"(b) Mititary research and develoPnent: report of the secretary-Generall

"(c) Study on conventional disarnanent: report of the sec retary-GeneraL;

"(d) Measures to provide objective infornation on military caPabilities!
report of the sec retar Y-Gene ral i

" (e) Prohibition of the developnent, production, stockpiling and use of
radiological weapons: rePort of the conference on Disarrnament;

" (f) Prohibition of the production of fissionable material for weapons
purposes: report of the Conference on Disarmanent;

"(g) curbing the naval arms race: limitation and reduction of naval armanents
and extension of conf idence-building measures to seas and oceans: rePort
of the Sec retary-General i

84-3I958 4536P (E)



A/39/755
Eng]-ish
Page 2

o(h) contribution of the specialized agencies and other organizations and
programnes of the united Nations system to the cause of arns limitation
and disarmamentn

tlas included in the provisional agenda of the thirty-ninth session in accordance
ni.th General Assembly resolutions 37/99 F and J of 13 Decenber 1982 and 38./188 A,
C, D' E, F, I and J of 20 December 1983.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 2I september 1984, the General Assenbly' on the
recorurendation of the General Connittee, decided to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Fi.rst Conmittee.

3. At i.ts 2nd neeting, on 15 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarnament itens allocated to it' namely, items 45 to 65 and
iten 1,42 which was allocated to the First @nnitee by the Genera]. Assenbly at its
27th plenary meeting, on 9 October, followed by statements on sPecific disarmament
agenda itens and continuation of the general debate, as necessary. The
deliberations on those itens took place between the 3rd and 36th meetings, from
17 october to 12 November (see A/c.1/39/Pv.3-36\.

4- rn connection nith item 65, the First comnittee had before it lhe following
documents:

(a) Repor t of the Conference on Disarnamenti I,/

(b) Report of the sec retary-General on the study on conventional disarmarnent
(^/3e/3481 i

(c) Report of the Secr etary-ceneral on the study on the question of
nuclear -ueapon-f ree zones in all its aspects (A/39/ao}'r,

(d) Report of the Secretary-ceneral on curbing the naval arns race:
linitation and reduction of naval- armaments and extension of conf idence-bui ld ing
measures to seas and oceans (A/39/4Lg),

(e) Report of che secretary-General- on measures to Provide objective
j.nfornation on military capabilities G,/39/4361 i

(f) Report of the sec retar y-General on the comprehensive study on the
nj.litary use of research and developnent (A,/39l525);

(S) Note by the sec retar y-Gener aI on the contribution of the specialized
agencies and other organizations and progrannes of the United Nations system to the
cause of arns li.mitation and disarnanent (A/39/544),

(h) RePort of the secretary-ceneral on measures to provide objective
infornation on military capabilities (A/39/5a91 ,

!/ official Records of the General- Assembly' Thirty-ninth session,
Supplement No, 27 lA/39/271 .



A,/39/7 s5
English
Page 3

(i) l€tter dated 2 April 1984 from the Permanent Representative of poland to
the Unlted Nations addressed to the Secretary-ceneral (A/3g/162 and Corr.1),

(J) Letter dated lo Ap?il 1984 from the Permanent Representative of the Unlon
:f sovle!- sgg iar I st Republics to the united Nations addressed to the secreeary-General (A/39/L78) r

(k) Letter dated 24 Aprir 1984 from the permanent. Representative of Eungaryto the united Nations addressed to the secretary-ceneral, transrnrtting the text ofthe conmuniqud on the meecing of the commlttee of the Ministers for Forelgn Affairsof the States nembers of the gfarsaw ?reaty, held at Budap€st, on 19 and
. 20 Aprtl 1984 (I/39 /209-s/L6s04l 1

(1) Letter dated u lray 1984 fron the char96 dlAffaires a.i. of the perrnanent
Mission of rrag to the united Nations addressed to the secretary-ceneral (A/39/2641|

(m) Letter dated 23 lrray t9g4 frotn the representatives of Argentina, creece,rndia' tilex ico, sweden and the unlted Rezublic of ranzania to the united Nationa
addressed to the Secretary-ceneral, tra;smitting the ,Ioint Declaratlon by
l'lrs. rndira candhi' pritne r,rlnister of rndial Mr. uiguer de la Madrid, president of
Me:(ico, l,lr. .tulius Nyerere, presialent of th; United Republic of Tanzania,
Mr. orof Palner Prine Irtinister of sueden, !rr. Andreas papandreou, prlme Minlster ofGreece, and Mr. RadL Alfonsin, president of Argentlna, issued on 22 lqay l9g4 at
lll:Ff Buenos Aires, Dar es Salaam, Mexlco City, New Delhi and Srockhoin(A,/39/277-S/L6587r,

(n) r'etter dated I June 19g4 from the permanent Representatlve of the unionof soviet sociatist Republics to the unlted Nations addressed to the secrerarv-ceneral (A/39 /285-S/]t6600l r
(o) Iirot€ veEbare dated 7 June r9g4 from the pernanent lilission of peru to theunited Natlons addressed to the unrted tJations secretariat (A/39 /zg6-s/r66rgl ,
(p) r,etter dated 12 ,tune 1984 fron the pernanent Representative of Hungary tothe united Nations addressed to the secretary-ce neraf, transnitting the text of the

Appeal by the warsalr Treaty member states to the llATo mernber states concerning theconclusion of a treaty on the mutual renunclation of the use of arrned force and on
the naintenance of peaceful relations (A/39 /3OO_S/L66L7 | i

(S) Letter dated 12 ,tune 1984 from the Pernanent nepresentative of the unlted
Kingdom of creat Eritain and Northern rreland to the unitett Nalions addressed tothe secretary-General, transmitting the text of the Declaration on East-t{est
Relations and ArmB eontror issued at the r,ondon Economic sumnit, held from 7 to
9 June 1984 (A/1q/3OS', I

(r) Letter dated 14 June 1984 fron the permanent Representative of the united(ingdom of creat Britaln and Northern rreland to lhe united Nations addressed tothe Secr etary-cenerat (A,t39 /3LI-s/:.:66291 t
(s) r'etter dated lg June l9g4 from the permanent Representative of yugosravrato the United Nations addressed to the s€cretary-ceneral (A/3g/3I4), 

,...



A/39/7ss
English
Page 4

(t) Letter dated 22 June 1984 fron the Permanent Representative of the union
of soviet socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the secretary-
General, transnitting the texts of the statenent on baslc lines for further
developing and intensifying econonic, scientlfic and technical co-operation anong
the ne;ber countries of the Council for Mutual Econonic Assistance and of the
Declaratlon of the nember countries of the courrcil for Mutual Economic Assistance
entitled nllaintenance of peace and international econornic co-operationrr, adopted at
tbe Econorn ic Conference of the nenber countries of the CouIrciI for lllutual Econonic
Assistance, held ln l.toscow from 12 to 14 June 1984 (A/39/3231 t

(ul Letter atated 27 septernber 1984 from the char96 drAffaires a'i' of tbe
Pernanent Mission of Togo to the united lilations addressed to the secret ary-General
(A/3e/5291 1

(v) Letter dated 8 october 198/t from the Pernanent Representative of India to
the United Nations addreased to the secretary-General, transmlttinq the Final
ColrununiquC of the Meeting of inisters and Heads of Deleqation of the Nor-Aligned
countries to the thirty-ninth session of the General Assembly, held in New York
fron 1 to 5 oc tober !981 (A/39 /560-s/L677 3l t

(w) Letter alated 29 lilovenber 1984 fron the Permanent RePresentatlve of
Ronania to the United Nations addressed to the secr et ary-General (A/39/7201 |

(x)Letterdated15octoberlgs4fromthePermanentRepresentativesof
czechoslovakia and Poland to the united Nations addressed to the secretary-General '
transrnitting the text of the ,Joint Polish{zechoslovak statenEnt siqned at warsaw
on?septe'nberlgs4bytheMlnlstersforForeignAffalrsofthePolishPeople|s
Republic and of the cz€choslovak socialist Republic (A/C.I/39/3) |

(y) Final oeclaration of the First Revlew conference of the Parties to the
convention on the Prohibition of Military or Any other Hostile use of Environmental
lbdlfication Techniques, held at Geneva fron 10 to 20 septenber 1984t circulated
pursuant to the request of the rePresentative of Met( lco at the 36th meeting of the
First Comnlttee on 12 Nov€nber !984 (A/c.L/39/5't.

rI. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

On 2 tilovember 1984, Czechosl nd ia ,and the
of Great Eritain and Northern f suUmittea a draft resoluEion

entltled 'Review Conf e r.EE-6FIf,EE, t l. " 
to the Convention on the Prohlbition of

A.

tttilitary or Any Other Hostile Use of Environmental Hodlfication Techniques'
Q/e.rng/L,1lJ, which was later also spono sored by the Byelorussiar'r soviet
soctaltst nepubltc, the Ukrainlan soviet socialis-t Republic' the unloB 9f soviet
GGiiilliEiuuri"" .na @. rhe draft resolution erasfiffiucfiTil-he representaffith neeting, on 7 lrovenber.



6. At its 4l st
A/c..V39 /L.LI by
draft resolution

In favour:

Against:

Abstaininq:

A/39/75s
English
Page 5

neeting, on 19 November ' the Comnittee 
adopCed draft resolution

a recorded vote of I29 to none, wlth 2 abstentions (see Eata' 29'
A). The votlng was as follows: 2il

Afghanistanr Angola, Argentinar Australia, Austria, Bahamast
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia' Botsl'ana'
Brazil, Brunei Darussalarn, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burnat
Burundi' Byelorussian soviet Soclalist RePublici caneroon'
canada' Cape Verde. central African Republic, Chad, Chiler
colornbia' congo, costa Rica' cuba' cl4)rus, czechoslovakia'
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratlc Yemen. Dennarkr ojiboutt,
Doninican RePublic, Ecuador, Eglpt, Eguatorlal Guinea' Ethio'pia'
Fiji, Finland' German Democratic nepublic; Gernany' Federal
Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Gulnear Guyana' Halti, Honduras,
Itu-ngary, fceland, India, fndonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) '
fraq, Ireland' Israel, Italy, fvory Coast, Jamaica, Japan'
.fordan, Kenya, Kuwait, I,ao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon'
Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar ' Malawi'
Malaysia, MaIdives, Mali, Iilauritania, Mauritius, Mongolia,
!lor@co' l,tozambique, NePal' Netherlands, New zealand. Nicaragua'
Niqer, Nigeria, Norvray, Panana' Paraguay' Peru' Philippines'
Poland, Portugal, Oatar, Ronania. Ritanda, sao Tome and Prircipel
Saudl Arabia, 

- 
Senegal, sierra Leone ' singaPore, 

somalia, sPain,
sri Lanka, sudan, Surinane, swaziland, sweden' syrian Arab
Republic, svreden' ?hailancl, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago' Tunisia,
ruir.y, uganda, ukrainian lovilt socialist Republic' union of
soviei Sociatist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United KingddYt
of Great Brieain and Northern rreland, United Republic of
Tanzania, United States of Anerica, Uruguay' viet Natn ' Yemen,
Yugoslavia, zaire, zambia, z imba bwe.

lib ne .

!!exlco. Venezuela.

7. on 2 Novenber, Finland subtniteed
guestion of nuclear-lreapon-free zones
h'as later also sponsored by Ronania.
representative of Flnland at the 30th

a draft resolutlon, entitled nstudy of the
in all its aspects" (Fy'C.fn9/1"I3), which
The draft resolution was lntroduced by the
meeting, on 7 November.

8. fn connection vtith the draft resolution, the Secr et ary*Gene ral subrlltted
statement on the progranne budget inplications (A/C.I/39/L'731 '

U The atelegation of MalLa subsequently lndicated that it had intended to
vote ln favour.



A/39/7s5
English
Page 6

9. At its 41st
Ne.I/39/L.I3 by
draft resolutlon

In favour:

neeting, on 19 l,Iovember, the Comllttee adopted draft resolutlon
a recorded vote of 135 to none, with 2 abstentions (see para. 29,
B). The voting was as followsr

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentlna, Australla, Austria,
Bahamasl Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgiutn, Benln, Bhutan, Bollvla,
Botsrrana, Brazil, Brunei Darusasalan, Bulgarla, Burkina Faso,
Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republlc, Carneroon,
canada, cape verde, Central African Bepub1lc, Chad, Chile, China,
Colonbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Clrpru€, Czechoslovakia,
Democratlc Kanpuchea, Denocrat ic Yenen, Demark, Djibouti,
Doninican Republic, Ecuador. Egypt, Equatorial culnea, Ethlopta,
Fiji, Finland, PrarEe, Gernan Denocratic RepubLicr cerrnany'
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, culnea, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, rceland, rndonesia, rran (rslamic Repubtlc
of). fraq, Ireland, Israel, ftaly, fvory Coast, ,fanaica, ,tapan,
.tordan, K€nya, Ruwalt, Lao Peoplers Democrat ic Republic, Lebanon,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahirlya, Luxenbourg, lladagascar, llalavd,
Malaysia, Itlaldives, Mali, !,lalta, lrtauritania, Maurltius, Mexico,
Mongolia, l,lorocco, ltozanblque, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Niqeria, tilorway, Onan, Pakistan, Panana,
paraguay, peru, philipplnes, pol.and, portugal., gatar, R6nania,
Rlranda, Sao Tone and Prlncipe, Saudi Arabla, Senegal, Sibrra
Leone ' Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinane,Swaziland, Sr,r'eden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thalland, Togo. Trinidad
and ?obago, Tunlsia, Turkeyl Uganda, Ukrainlan Sovlet Sociallst
Republic, union of soviet Socialist Republlcs, Unlled Arab
Enirates' United Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern freland,
United Republlc of Tanzanla, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nan, yemen,
Yugoslavia, zalre, zambial Zirnbabwe.

No ne.Against:

Abstaining: fndia, Unlted States.

C. Draft re sol utjon A/C.l/-?9/!.J6
10. On 5 November, Derunark subnitted a draft reBolution, entitled "Study on
conventional disarnament" (A/C.I/39/L.16l . The draft resolution waa introduced by
Its representative aC the 37th meeting, on 14 Novenber.
I1. At the 42nd neeting, on 19 November, Derunark submitted an oral anendnent to
operative paragraph 3 of the draft resolutionl which had read:

'comftend_g the study and ils conclusion to the attentlon of all Member
Statestn to read as followsr

nDraws the
conc lu sions t "

attention of all Member States to the studv and its



A/39/755
English
Paqe 7

L2 At the same meeting' the conunibtee adoPted draft resolut Lon A/C.L/39/L'16, as
orally anended, by a recorded vote of I29 to none, nith 6 abstentions (see
pata. 29, draft resolulion C). The voting was as follows: 3,/

Afghanistan, ALgeria' Angola' Argentina' Australia, Austria'
Bahamas' Bangladesh' BeLgiut0, Benin' Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalamr Bulgaria. Burkina Faso, Burna,
Burundi, Byelorussian soviet Socialist RePublic r caroeroon'
canada, central African Republicl chad, chile, china, colonbia'
Congo' costa Rica, cuba, clT)rus, czechoalovakia, Denocratic
Kampuchea, Democratic Yernen, Denmark, Djibouti, Doninican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon'
Gernan Detnocratic RePubllc, Gernany, Federal Republic ofr Ghanat
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana' Haiti, Honduras, Hungary 'Iceland, India, Indoneaia' Iran (Islamic Republic of) ' Ireland,Israel, Italyr Ivory Coast, Japanr Jordan' Kenya, Lao Peoplet s
f,iernoc r at ic RepubLic, Lebanon, Liberia, Luxenbourg, !4adagascar '
Malavri ' Malaysiar MaIdives, Mali, 

Malta, Mauritanla, Mauritlust
Mexicor Mongolia, Mor@co' l,tozambique, NePaI. Netherlands'
New zealand, Nicaragua, NigeE, Nigeriar Nortrayr onan, Pakistan'
Panama, Paraguay' Peru, Phili[trines, Poland, Portugal, Romania,
Rwanda' sao Torne and Principe, Saudi Arabia, senegal, sierra
Leone, Singapore ' Sofiialia' spain, Sri 

Lanka, Sudan' suriname,
Swaziland' Sereden' syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobagor Tunisia' Tulkey, Uganda' Ukrainian soviet sociaList
Republic, union of soviet socialist RePublics' United Kingdon of
crlat aritain and Northern lreland' united Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuelar viet Nan'
Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia, zinbabne.

None .

Bahraln, Iraq, Kuwait, Qatarr United Arab Enirates, Yemen.

D. praft resoLution A/c.1/3 9/L.2 5

13. on 8 November, 49ggtfu319jg!9, the
@.,the

In favour:

si!e!:
Abstaininq:

aubBitted
The drafC
Socialist

Soviet Soc and the Union of Soviet sociqligt. Be.puPlics
ffi a "r,ruc reiJlEEpon T: e-e ze " |a/ c. L / 3 9 / L. 25 | .
resolution was introduced by the rePre€€ntative af the Union of Soviet
Republics at the 40th neeting, on 15 Novenber.

y The tlelegations of Kuwait ajrd the
indicated that they had intended to vote in

united Arab Enirates sub6equently
favour.



N39/7s5
English
Page I

14' At its 44th neeting, on 20 Novenber, the conmittee adopted dlafc resol,ution
A/0-_L/39/L.25 by a recorded vote of 95 to 18, rrith 13 abste;tions (see para. 29,draft resolution D). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian
soviet socialist Republlc, caneroon, cape verde, central African
Republic, Chile, Colonbia, congo, cuba, cyprus, czechoslovakia,
Denocratic yenen, Djlbouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fijir
Finland, Gabon, cerman Denocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
cuinea, Haiti, Eungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jordan. Kenya, Kuwait, Lao peoplers
Denocratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Janahlriya, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malays j.a, Maldives, Irtali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico,
Mongolla, llozanbique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, OnBn, paklstan,. Panama, peru, poland, eatar, Ronania, Saudi Arabia. Sierra Leone,
singapore, Sri Lanka, sudan, Surinane, sr.raziland, syri.an Arab
Republic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, united Republic of Tanzan:.a,
venezuela, vlet Nan, yenen, yugoslavia, zanbia, Zirnbabwe.

Aqainst: Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Gernany, Federal Republic of,
Iceland, Israel, Italy,,tapan, Luxembourg, Netherl-and;,
New Zealand, Norway, portugal. Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Bahatlas, China, Doni.nican Republic, Guaternala, cuyana,
Ilonduras, Ivory Coaat, Liberia, Niger, Rwanda, Sweden, Uruguay.

E. Draft resolution A/C.L/39/L.34 and Rev.I
15. on 9 November,tcontribution of the

cuba and Czechoslovakia subnitted a draft resolution, entitled
specialized agencies and other organizations and prog rarnmes ofthe uniced Nations system to the cau8e of arms l-itnitation and disartnament,,. Thedraft resorution was introduced by the representaeive of czechosrovakia at the37th meeting, on 1,4 Novenber, and read as'follows:

.rThe General Assenbly,

rRecalling i.ts resolution 3glLg8 iI,

'Reeffirning that the uni.tedl Nations, in accordance wich the char.er, hag
a central role and prinary responsibility in the sphere of disarmament and
6hould, accordingly, play a more active role in.this fielal,

-.."Reaffirmlng also the role of the conference on Disarmanent as a singlenultilateral negotiating body,



^/39/755English
Page 9

lgtressing agai.n the close relationship betvreen matters concerning
international secur ity and disarmament, and the interest in close co-operation
between the units in the secretariat dealing with thern,

'Co"yincea that all possible avenues shoulal be effectively utilized for
the cause of p!€venCing war, in partlcular nuclear war, and achleving
disarrnarnent,

"3g3girmlnq furthel ! close link exi8ting between disarnanent and
development,

"Convinced that disarmament woultl contribute !o the effective econornic
and social development of all States, in partlcular, developing countries, by
contributing !o reducing the economic disparitie6 beCaeen developed and
developing countries, and establishing the new international econonic order on
the basis of justice, equality and co-operation, and toirards solving other
globa]. problems,

"Convinced also lhat there Ls a close relationship betreen the
deveLopnent of international co-operation in various fields, such as trade,
economic developmenc, exploEation and use of oucer space, environnental
protectlon, healch and the prevention of war, in particular nuclear nar, and
the achievernent of arms timitation and disarnanent,

"Taking note of various activities conducted by Unihed Nations
institutions and agencies in pursuance of lts resolution 38/188.t as reflected
in the report of the Secretary-ceneral, g./

"Noting also a wide range of activities carried out by the specialized
agencies and other institutions and programmes in the franework of the World
oisarmarnent Canpaign and in observance of Disarrnanent Week, reflected in
le]evant reports of the Secretary-ceneral, 5,/

"Noting the report of the Comnittee for Progranme and Co-ordination on
the work of ies twenty-fourth session, !,,/

"I. Reaffirms its invitation to the speciallzed agenciea and other
institutions and prograrunes within the Unlbed Nations syEten to broaden
further their contribution, lrithin their areas of competence, to the cause of
arms limitation and disarmanenti

A/39 /544 .

A/39/492 and A/39/ 493.

v
v
y Official Records of



A,/39/755
Eng lish
Page I0

"2. Reconmends that at periodic meetings
the executlve heads of the specialized agencies
its resolution 38,/188 J consideration shoulal be
plan of co-ordination of the activities of thefield of disarmanenti

"3. Requests the Secretary-GeneEal to subnit a report to the ceneral
Assenbly at its forty-first session on the inprementalion of this resorution,
incruding information on rerevant activities carried out by the speciarized
agencies and other institutions and progrannes within the united Nations
systemi

'4. Resolves to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-flrst
sessi.on an iten entitled rcontributlon of the speciaLized agencies and other
i.nstitutions and prograrnrnes within the unitear Nations system to the cause of
arrns limitation and disarmanent: report of the Secretary-GeneraL r . n

16. on 13 November, the sponsorE subnitted a revised draft resolution
INC.L/39/L.34/Rev.1) , whlch was later also sponsored by the Byelorussian Soviet
soc+a]+st Bezublic and the German Denocratrc Repubtic. rn ttrffifext, the
htord "instilutions" contained in the ninttr ana tenth preambular paragraphs, and
oPerative paragraphs I and 3, was replaced by the lrord norganizations".

11: ,1! its 43rd neeting, on 20 November, the CoNuolttee adopteat draft reaolutionA/c -L/39/L,34,u Rev. r by a recorded vote of 98 to rz, with 16 abEtentions (see
para. 29, draft resolutlon E). The voting rdas as fol.loers:

In favour: Afghaniscan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain. Bangladesh,
Benin, _Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsg'ana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,Burundi, Byelorussian soviec socialisi nepublic, cape verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chi1e, Colonbia, Congo, Costa
Rica, Cuba, Clzprus, Czecho6lovakl-a, Denocratic yemen, Doninican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, certnan Democratic
Republic, chana, Guinea, cuyana, Eaiti, Honduras, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republlc of), Iraq, Ivory Coast, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao peoplers Denocratic Republic, Lebanon, Libyan
Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar, Malani. Ma.Laysia, Maldives, Ma1i,
Maur itania, l,tauritius, Mexlco, Mongolia, Morocco, llozambique,
Nepa1, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, pakistan, panama,
Paraguay, Peru, philippines, poland, eatar. Romania, Rnanda, Sao
Tome and Principe, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republlc, Union of soviet socialist Repubtics, United Arab
Emilates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yernen, yugoslavla, Zaire, zambia, Zinbabwe.

AustraLia, BeIgium, canada, rrance, cernany, Federar Republic of,
Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxernbourg, Netherlands, New
zealand, Norway, portugal, Turkey, United Kingdorn of Great
Britain and Northern lreland, United States of Anerica. 

/

of the Secretary-ceneral with
mentioned in paragraph 4 of
given to the eLaboration of a

specialized agencies in the

Against:



A/39/755
English
Page 1I

Abstaining: Austria, Baharnas' Brazil' Brunei Darussalan' China' Dennalk'
Djibouti, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Janaicar Liberia' saudi
Arabia, somalia' sPain' Sweden'

F. Draft resoluliprr 4-g-}1-22/!4

I8. on 9 November, sneden submitted a draft reaolution, entitled 
r'!{ilitary

R€search and DeveloPne nt" (A/c.L/J9/L.g8l . The 'lraft 
resolution was introduced by

the representative of sweden at the 3?th meeting ' on 14 
November'

L9. In connection with the draft resolution, the s€cretary-General submltted a
statenent on the Progratnme budlget inPlication6 (A,/c.l /39/L '761 '

20. At its 4tst meetlng' on 19 Novenber. the colturtibtee adoPted draft regolution
A/c.L/3g/L.38 by a recorded vote of 133 to I' with 4 abstentions (see para' 29,.
draft resolution F). The voting was as follows: 7

ln favour:

U The delegation of Turkey subsequently inallcated that it hatl intende'l 
to

abstain.

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australlat Austria'
guhur"t, Bahrainr Bangladesh' Benln' Bhutan t Bolivia' Bots$anat
Brazil. Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma'
Burundi, Byelorussian soviet Socialist Republic t cameroon'
canada, cape verde' central African Republic, Chad' chiLe' China'
colombia, Congo, c.osta Rica' cuba' cyPrus, Czechoslovakia'
Denocratic Kampuchea, Denocratic Yernen' Dennark, Dj ibouti'
Dominican RePublic ' 

Ecuador' EglT)t, Equatorlal Guinea' EthioPia'
Fiji' Finlandr France' Gernan Denocratic RePublic ' Ghana' 

Greece'

Guatenala' Guinea, Guyana. Haiti, Itondurag, aungaryt Iceland'
rndia' Indonesia' Iran (rihrnic RePublic of) ' Iraq' 

Ireland'
Israel' ItaLy, lvory coast' ,Janaicar JaPan, Jordan' Kenya'
Kuvtait, Lao PeoPlers Dernocratic RePublic, Lebanon, Llberia'
Libyan Arab ilamahiriya' Madagaacar ' 

Malawi, Malaysia' Maldives'
Ma1-i, Malta, !,lau! ltania ' Mauritius' 

Mexico, Mongolia' Moroccot
Mozambique, Nepalr New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger' Nigeriat
NorHay, Onan, Pakistan, ?anatna ' Paraguay, 

Perut PhilipPines' 
-

Poland ' 
Portugar, Qut"r, iot.ttia, nwindl, sao fone and Pr incige '

Saudi Arabia, Senegal, sierra Leone, singaPore, Sonalia' Spain'
sri Lanka, sudan, surinane, sHazlland, sneden. syrlan Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo' Tr inialad and Tobago' ltunisia' Turkey'
Uganda, Ukrainian sovlet socialist Republic t Union of Soviet
socialiEt RePubIics, United Alab Enirates' united K ing'lon of
GreatBritainandNorthernlreland,Unite.lRePublicofTanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuelar Viet Nanr Yenen' Yugoslaviat Zalre' Zambia'
Zirnbabne.



A/39/75s
English
Page 12

Against: United States of tuner ica.
Abstaininq: Belgiun, cerrnany, Federal Republic of, Luxembourg, Netherlands.

G. Draft. resolution A/C.1/39lL.41
2L. on 9 Novenber, Burundi, Caneroon, the @, theconqo, Equatorial Guinea, cuinea, Guyana, Kenva, Liberia. Madagasaait MaIi,
Sinqapore, logo, Uganda and zaire subnitted a draft resolution, entitled nReview of
the role of lhe United Nations ln the field of disarmamenL" (V|.L/39/L.4I), which
vras later aJ.so sponsored by the Baha.nag, Cape Verde, Djibouti, Gabon, cernany,
Sederal Republic of, and !!g. itre araft resofution rras introduced by the
representative of Caneroon at the 40th meeting, on 15 Novenber.
22. At its 43rd m€eting, on 20 November, the Comrittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.I/3g/L.41 without a vote (see para. 29, draft resolution c).

H. Draft resolution A/C.I/39lL.42
23. On 9 Novenber, Australia, Auatria, tbe Bahanas, Bangladesh, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, Greece, Indohesia, Ireland, ,tapan, the @,the and !-.1ggg31 submitted a draftresorutlon' entitled "Prohibition of the production of fissionable rnaterial for
rieapons purposesn (NC.L/39fi,. 421 .

24. At its 44th neeting. on 20 Novenb€r, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/39/L.42 by a recorded vote of I25 to L nith 9 abstentions (see pata. 29,
draft resoLution H). Ihe voting was as foll.ons: V

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgarla, Burklna Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Sovlet Socialist Republic, Caneroon, Canada, Cape
verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Col-onbia, Congo,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kanpuchea, Denocratic
Yemen. Denmark, Djibouti, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, cabon, cerman Denocratic Republic,
Germanyr Federal RepubLic of. Ghana, Greece, cuatemala, Guinea,
Guyana, Itaitl, Honduras, Ilungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran
(IsLanic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory Crast,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kur.rait, Lao peoplers Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab ,Jamahir iya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, l,talaysia, Maldives, Mali, MaLta, MauriCania, Mauritius,

9/ The delegation of Mozanbique subsequently indicatetl that it had intended
to abstain.



A/ 39 /7 55
English
Page 13

Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepalr Netherlands, New zealandt
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oloan, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Rornan ia, Rwanda, samoar sao
Tone and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierfa lJeone'
singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, sudan, Surinane, swaziland' S$eden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thai.Land, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, ukrainian Soviet Soclalist Republic, Union of
soviet sociali6t Republics, United Arab Emirates, United RePubl ic
of Tanzaniar Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yernen, Yugoslaviar
Zaire, Zanbia, Zimbabwe.

Aqainst: l4ozambique,

Abstaininq: Argentina, Brazil, china, France, India, Nicaragua, Turkey,
United Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, united
States of Aner ica.

I. Draf! resolution A,/C.l/39ll.55
25. On 12 Novenb€r, Bu1gaEia, Denocratic yenen, th. @,
the Lao Peoprers Democratic Repubric, the @, the
Syrian Arab Republic and viet Nan suhnitted a draft resolution entitled "Curbing
the na\raf. arns race: linGEi-and reduction of naval arrnaments and extension of
conf idence-bu ilding measures to seas and oceans" (A/C.L/39/f,.55't. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representalive of Bulgarla at the 40th neeting, on
15 November,

26. At its 43rd meetlng, on 20 Novenber, the Comrlittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/39/L.55 by a recorded vote of 68 to 20 with 45 abstentlons (see para. 29,
draft resolution I). The votlng was as follows! 9/

In favour: Afghanistan, A1geria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrainr Benint
Botshtana, Bulgari.a, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, caneroonr central Afrlcan RePublic, chi1e,
Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Ethiopia' Gernan Denocratic Republic ' Ghana, Guinea, 

Guyana 'Hungary' Iran (Islarnic Republic of) r lraq, ,famaica' Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic r Lebanon, Libyan
Arab ,tamahiriya, Madagaacar, l.lalawi, Ma1i, MaLta, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nicaraguar Nigeria, Panama, Poland,
Qatar, Romania, saudi Arabia, Senegal, sie!-ra Leone ' swaziland,syrian Arab Republic, To9o, Trinidad and Tobagor Tunisia, uganda.
ukrainian soviet socialist Republic, Union of soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Ernirates, United Republic of Tanzaniar
venezuela, viet Nam, Yenen, Yugoslavia, zanbia. zinbabyte.

2/
ain

The delegation of Uruguay subsequently indicated that it had intendeal to
abst



A/39 /7 55
English
Page 14

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Demark, France, cernany,
Federal Republic of, Iceland, f6rael, ftaly, ilapan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Noryay, portugal,
spain, Turkey, United Ringdon of creat Britain and lilorthern
freland, tnited States of Amerlca, Uruguay.

Abstaining3 Austria, Bahanas, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazll'
Brunel Darussalan, Burma, Chad, Chlna, costa Rica,
Democratlc Kanpuchea, Djibouti, Doninican Republic, Ecuador 'Eg!'Pt' Fiji, Flnland, creece, cuaternala, Faiti, Itonduraa,
fndia, fndonegia, freland, Ivory coast, !iberia, Iualaysia,
Ma1dives, l,lorocco, Niger, Onan, pakistan, paraguay, peru,
Philippines, Rwanda, sarnoa, SingaEore, sdnalia, sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, $reden, Za lre.

J. qr ft resolutlon A,/c.f /39/L.68
27. On 12 Novenber, Czechoalovakla, Gernany, Federal Republic of and Sweden
submitted a draft reeolutlon, entitled rprohibition of the developnent,
production, stockplllng and use of radiological neapons r (A/c.L/39/L.65').
which was later also 6pon sored by ,Japan. The draft resolution wa6 introduced
by the representative of Czechoslovakia at the 37th meeting, on 14 Novernber.
28. At its 4lst neeting, on 19 litovenber, the Cotnmittee adopted draft
resolution AC.I/39/L.68 without a vote (see para. 29 1 draft resolutlon J).

II I. RECOI{IIENDATIOIIS OF TTIE F'IRST CIMiIITTEE

29. The First Conunittee reconmends to the ceneral Assenbly the adoption of
the following draft resolutions:

General and cornpl et e disarnanent

A

Review Conference of the Parties to the convention on the
Prohlbltion of lrtilitary or Any Other Eostile Use of

Environmental l{od lf jcation Technigue6

The ceneral Assenbly'

Recalling lts resolutlon 3I/72 of lO Decembe r 1976, ln which it
referred the Conventlon on the Prohlbitlon of Military or Any Other
Hostile Use of Environmental Modification Techniques to all States for
their consideratlon, signature and Eatiflcatlon and expressed its hope
for the widest possible adherence to the Conventlon,



A/39/755
English
Page 15

Recalling that the States Parties to the Convention net at Geneva from
fO to-f6-E@*er I98{ to revilw the operation of, the Convention' wlth a view
to enauring that its purPoses and provlsions were belng reallzed'

Noting with satisfaction that the Review Conference concluded that the
ourrgfficonventionha.lbeenfaitttfuuyobservedbythe
States parties, l9l

Notlng also ttlat the R€view conference foutrd the convention an'l its
oUiecfGes to ue of continulng inportance and that lt waa in the comrpn
interest of nankind to nainLain lts effectlvenegs in prohibiting the use of
envirorunental modification technigues as a neana of war'

Noting ln this context that the Revieu Conference recognlzed the nee'l to
reep ffiGiffiTrilglffir' and exanrination tbe provialons of ParagraPh I of
artlcle 1 of the convention' in order to assure thelr contlnued effectivenesst

EIE!!g that in its FinaL Declaration the Review Conference affirned 
its

belief that universal adherence to the convention v{ould enhance international
Peace and secur ity, f.ly

Noting furthernore that the States Parties to the Convention reaffirned
their strong aupPort f,or the conventionr their continued dedication to ita
principles and objectives and their commitnent to lmPlenent effectively its
provisions,

1. Takes note of the Posihive assessment by the Reviey Conference of
the Parties to the conventlon on the Prohibition of Military or Any other
Hostite use of Environrnental llotlification Techniques of the effectivenegs of
the convention since its entry into forcer as reflected in lts Final
Declarationi

2. calls upon all states to refraln from military or any other hostile
use of environmental nodification t€chniquesi

3. Reiterates its exPressed hoPe for the vridest posEible adherence to
the Conventlon.

es to the



v39/7s5
English
Page 16

B

study of the ouestlon of Nuclear-lfeapon-Free
Zonea in All lts Aspects

The ceneral A6senbly,

Recall.inq lts resolutlon 37/99 F of 13 December 1992, tn whlch it declded
that a Btudy shou Id be undertaken to revietr and supplenent the comprehenBive
sludy.of the questlon of nuclear-treaporFfree zones ln all lts aspects !y inthe ltght of information and experlerce iccurn@ -

Recalllng also that lt requested thc SecretarFGeneral, elth the
assistarrce of an ad hoc Aroup of qualified govermEntal e:q)erta, to carry out
the study and to submit lt to the ceneral Assembly at ttE thlrty-Dtnth sesslon,

R€calling further lte reaolutlon 38,/188 I of 20 Decenber 1983, in whlch
It reguested the Secretary-ceneral to transnlt to the croup of covernnental
Experts' for its consideratlon and analysis all the relevant documents
subnitt€d to the General Aseernbly at lts thtrty-elghth sesaton, as well as the
records of the debate on the gue6tion of nuclear-$€apon- free zones,

l. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-ceneral, l!/ to which is
annexed a letter from tbe Chalrman of the croup of Governnental Experts,
inforning the Secretary-ceneral that the croup has not been able to cotclude
the study Hlthin the t irne available and that the exp€rts consider that the
work could be coq)leted lf the tlfie perlod of the study nere extendedr

2. Regueats the Secretary-General to continue the study and to submit
the report to the Genelal A8senbly at lts fortleth ses6ion,

3. Requests the Secretary-General to tranEnlt to the Group of
Governrnental Experts for lts conalderatlon and analy6t6 all the relevant
docurnents subnitted to the ceneral Assernbly at it8 thlrty-nlnth se€aion, as
welr as the records of the debate on the gueetlon of nuelear-eeapon-fr ee zonea.

c

Study on conventlonal di sarnanent

The ceneral Assembly,

Recallinq ita prevlous resolutions tn rdhich, lnter alia, it approved the
carrying out of a study on all a6pecta of the conventlonal arms race and on
disarnanent relatlng to conventional lreapons and armed forces, to be

!!1

!4/

United Nations publ.icat{on, Sales No. E.?6.I.2.

A/39 /4O0 .



A/39/755
English
Page 17

undertaken by the secretary-G€neral with the asslatance of a group of
gualifietl exferts aPPolnted by hlm on a ba lanced geographical basis,

Recallinq the discusslons at the 1981 and 1982 sub6tantive sesslons of
the Di sarnarnent Comrisslon on the general aPproach to the study, lts structure
and scope. whtch resulted in the establishnent of agreed guidelines for the
study,

Recalllng also its resolution 38/188 A of 20 Decqnber 1983, by which lt
took note of the status rePort of the secretary-General !11.a"9 requested the
secretarY-General to conti-nue the study and to subN|llt the flnal report to the
ceneral Ass€mbly at its thirty-ninth Eesslon,

Havlng exanined the rePort of the secretary-General contalninq the study'

l. trotes with satisfaction the study on all aePects of the conventional
arns race ;na;-eG;rnffitating to conventlonal lreapona and arned forces
pEepared by the secretary-Generalt

2. Expresses its appreclation to the Secretary-General and to the Group
ofnxperts@ventionalarmsraceandondiaarnanent
relating to conventlonal $teapons and arned forces who assiBted hin in
preparatlon of the studyt

3. comnends the study and it€ conclusions to the attention of all
Iilenber Statest

4. Invltes all Member St€ites to inform the Secr etary4eneral ' no later
than 31 Uay 1985, of their vlews regardlng the studyt

5. Requests the Secretary-General to nake the necessary arrang€menta
for the reiiEuct'ron of the study as a unite'l Nations lrubllcation and to give
it the wldest possible di6tributiont

6. Requests the secretary-General to prePare a rePort for the General
Assembly aE-fis fo-rtieth sesslon containinq the vievts of Menber states
received regarding the study.

D

Iquclear-$eaPon freeae

llhe General AssemblY,

Expressing its deep alarn over the contlnuation and intenslfication of
the nuclear-arms race, which seriously lncreaaes the threat of nuclear nar'

!2r/ A/3e/348.



A/39,/7 ss
English
Page 18

conscious of the fact that further build-up and lmprovement of nuclear
$eapons is not only dangerous but senseless,

.- Taking ir.rto account the great responsibility of nuclear-rreapon States forcne preservation of univergal peace and the preventton of nuclear war,
Recalling its previous resol.utions cau.lng for a nuclear-weapon freeze

both in guantltative and ln gualitatlve terns,

.Regalling a]so that on several occaaionB it has expressed the firmconviction that at preaent the conditions are tnoat propittous for such a
fr eeze,

Noting the Hide support for the declaration of the heads of State and
Government of six countries issued on 22 Uay Lgg4, Ur/ whiih contalned anappeal to the nuclear-rf,eapon states to har.t test ingr-prod rf, tion and deproyment
of nucLear weapons and their means of delivery,

. Deeply regrettinq that some nuclear porrers have not re sponded positivelyto its relevant appeals or to appeals and proposala by other States rnade
repeatedly during the last tlro year€,

Convinced that a nuclear-ryeapon freeze wou ld raise the level of trust
anong states' ease lhternatronar tensron and create a favourabie atrnospherefor drastic reductions of nuclear ar€enals,

convinced also that strivlng for such reductlons on the basls of equal
."-!lity up to Che complete eLinination of nuclear weapons shouLd become abindinq norn of conduct for the nuclear-weapon States,

1: Reaffirns its appeal to a1l nuclear-$eatrbn States to freeze. frorn aspecific date, their nuclear arsenals on a global scale and under appropriateverificatlon as provlded for in lts resolution 3g/76 ot 15 Decenber 19g31

?. Urges once again the Unlon of soviet Socialist RepublicE anal theUnited States of Anterica, trhlch possess the largest nuclear arsenals, to
freeze, in the first place and slmultaneously, their nuclear weapona on abilateral basls b,y way of exanple to the other nuclear-lreapon States,

. 3. Ftromlv believes that all the other nuclear-weapon States shouldsubseguentLy and as soon as posslble freeze their nuc.lear teapons,
4. stresses the urgent need to lntensify efforts ained at the speedy

achievenent of agreements on substantlal linitatlon€ on and radical reductionsof nuclear rveapons, with a view to their cornplete elimination as the ultinategoaL

]!t/ r{3e/277_s/r6s87.



A/39 /7 ss
English
Page 19

E

contribution of the Speclalized Agencies and other organizations
and Progralunes of the United Nations Systetn to the Cause of Arns

Llnitation and Di sarneDent

The General Assetnbly,

Recalling its resolution 38/t8g J of 20 December 1983,

I€afflrminq that the united llatlons, in accordance rrlth its charter, has
a central role and pr inary responsibllley ln the sphere of disarnarnent and
6hould, accordingly, play a npre active role ln this fleld,

Reafflrmlng also the role of the Conference on Disarmarnent as a single
rnultilateral negotlatlng body,

stresslng again the close relationship betteen tnatters concerning
international security and disarrnanent, and th€ interest in close co-operation
between the unlts in the Secretarlat dealing with them,

Convinced that a]I possible avenues should be effectlvely utilized for
the cause of preventlng war, in particular nucfear war, and achieving

) disarnarnent,

Reaffirning further the close link existlng betvreen disarnarnent and
developrEnt,

Convinced that disarnament uould contribute to the effective econonic and
seial developnent of aII States, in particular developing countries' by
contributlng to reducing the econonlc disparities between developed and
developing countries and establishing the nen international economic order on
the basis of Justlce, equality and ceoperation, and tonards solving other
global problems,

convinced alao that there ls a close relatlonshlp betrreen the development
of international co-operation ln various fielde, 6uch as trade, econonic
developnent, exploration and use of outer space, environrnenEal protection'
health and the prevention of nar, in partlcular nuclear war, ahd the
achievenent of arns llmitation and disarmament,

Taklng note of various actlvltieE conducted by united Nations
organizations and agencles ln pursuance of lts resolution 381188 it as
ref.lected ln the note by the Secretary-ceneral., 15/

Notinq also a wlde range of actlvities carried out by the specialized
agencies and other organizations and prograrnmes in the franehork of the Wor ld

!il t/sg/sna-



M39/753
English
Page 20

Dl sartnanent Canpaign and in obaervance of DlEarmament !{eek r reflected in
relevant reports of the Secretary-ceneral, fy

Noting the report of the cotnnittee for Programme and co-ordinatlon on the
rcrk of lts twenty-fourth se6sion, lzl

1. Reaffirns lt8 lnvltation to the gpec-ialized agencies and other
organlzations and prograt@E of the United Natlond sy6ten to broaden further
thelr contrtbution, within thelr areaa of coflq)etence, to the cause of arn6
li[ltation and disarnanentt

2. Reconmends that at perlodlc meetinga of the secretary-General r'ith
the er.ecutive heads of the Epeciauaed agencles rFntioned ln Paragraph tl of
its reGolution 38,/188 J con6ideratlon should be glven to the elaboration of a
plan of co-ordlnation of the activlties of the ePecialized agencles in the
field of dl Earmanentt

3. Reguests the secretary-General to submlt a report to the General
Assenbly at it! forty-first Eesalon on the inplementatlon of thi6 reEolution,
tncludlng inforrnatlon on relevant actlvitlee carrled out by the speciallzed
agerrcles and other organlzations and progr anmes uithin the United Natlons
syatelrt

{. &!9!!eE to lnclude ln the provlsional agenda of its forty-first
session the lten entltled icontrlbutlon of the speclallzed agerries and other
organizations and progranme6 of the lrnlted Nations systan to the cau6e of arns
linitation and disarmarcntr report of the secretary-Generalr.

F

Military Fesearch and DeveloPnent

The ceneral Aasenbly

Recalling resolutlon 37 /99 ;I of 20 tecarber 1983 ln which the
secretarfc€neral was regueat€d to carry out, nith the as6lEtance of gualified
govelnnental experts, a coqrrehenslve study of the mllitary use of research
and developnent,

!9/ V39/192 and V39/491.

]?/ Official Records of the ceneral A6sembly, ThlrtFninth Seasion,
SupplerEnt No. 38 lA/39/3e'l .



A/39/755
Eng Iish
Page 21

I. Takes note of the report I8,/ of the secretary-General containlng a
letler fron the Chairnan of the croup of Experts on Military Research and
Development informing the Secretar y-ceneral that, alhhough substanlial
progress has been made in the preparation of the report, certain Lssues renain
to be resolved, and that after consultations among the experts an extension of
the tine period of the study is requested in order to enable the Group to
resolve these issueE and to subnit its final report in tine for the fortieth
sesaion of the ceneral Assemblyi

2. Requeats the Secretary-General !o continue the studyl bearing in
nind the savings that might be made frorn the existing budgetary
aPPropriations, and to submit the final report to the ceneral Assenbly at its
fortieth session.

Review of the role of the United Nations in the field
of disarmanent

The ceneral Assernblv,

Bearing in mlnd that the prinary purpose of the United Nations is to
maintain international peace and security,

Reaffirning its conviction that genuine and Lasting peace can only be
created through the effectlve funplenentation of the security system provided
for in the Charter of the United Nations and the speedy and substantial
reduction of arms and armed forces, by lnternatlonal agreement and nutual
exanple, leadlng ultinately to general and complete disarnanent under
ef fective international control,

Deeply concerned that the arrns race ha€ continued unabated and that vrorld
nilitary expenditures are increasing,

conscious of the need to utilize resources spent on tbe arms race for
conshructlve develotrment purposes, particularly in the developing countries,

Reaffirming its conviction that the process of disarmament affects the
vital security interests of all States and that all States must be actively
concerned with and contr ibute to that pr@ess,

Reaffirming further that the United Nations, in accordance with itg
Charter, has a central role and primary responsibility in the sphere of
disarmament,

Regretting that, especially in recent years, no substantive progress has
been made in the field of disarmament,

p/ A/3e/525.



A/39/7ss
Engli.sh
Page 22

Recognizinq the urgent need for meaningful neasures to prevent any
erosion of the security of states and initiate the long overdue process of
real disarmanent, particularly in the nuclear field,

Recoqnizing further the need for the united Nations, in alischarging tts
central tole and prinary responsibllity in the sphere of disarfitament, to play
a nore active rote in the field of digarnament in accordance with its prlnary
PurPose under the Charter to maintain international peace and security.

Recalling its resolution 31./90 of 14 December 1976 blt which it,
inter alia, decided to keep the question of the strengthening of the role of,
the united Nations in the field of disart0arnent under contlnued revlee,

I. Invite6 all States to conmunicate to the sectetary-General, not
later than 15 Aprll 1985, their vierrs and suggeations on ways and neang by
thich the United Nations can nore effectively exercise its central role and
prinary responsibility in the fielal of disarnamenti

2. Requests the Secretary-General to transnit those views anal
suggestions to the Disarmament cdmission before the convening of it6
substantive session in 1985 t

3. Request€ the Disarnanent ConnlgEion, at lts substantive session in
1985, to carry out as a matter of priority a corq)rehenaive review of the rol€
of the United Nations ln the field of disarnanent, taking into accountr anong
other chings, lhe views and suggestions of Menber states on the subjecti

4. Requests further the Disarmament Connission to submit its EePort on
the subject, including finalings, recordrendations and proposals, as
appropriate, to the ceneral Asaenbly at its fortieth sessioni

5. Decidea to include,in the provisional agenda of its fortieth aesBion
an item entitled "Review of the role of the United Nations in the field of
disarmament: relrort of the Disarmanent cdnmisslon".

H

Prohibition of the Production of Fisslonable uaterial
for Weapons Purposeg

The General Assemblv,

Recallinq its resolutione 33/91 H of 16 December L978, 34/87 D ot
1l December L979, 35/L56 H of 12 Decenber L980, 36/97 c of 9 December 198I.
3'1/99 E of 13 Decenber 1982 anat 38,/188 E of 20 Decenber 1983, in nhich it
requested the Cormittee on Disarnament, L9/ at an appropriate stage of the
imPlenentation of the Progratnme of Action set forth in section III of the
Final Docunent of lhe Tenth speciat Session of the General Assedtly, 29/ fbe

!J/ 'the connittee on Disarnament wa6 redesignated the Conference on
Disarnament as frotl 7 February 1984.

3,9/ Resolutio[ a-Lo./2.



A/39/7s5
English
Page 23

first special session de\roted to disarnar0ent, and of it8 work on the ltem
entitled "Nuclear weapons in all aspects', to consider urgently the que6tion
of adequately verified cesaatlon and prohibltlon of fisgionable naterial for
nuclear weapons and other nucLear explosive devices and to keep the Assembty
informed of the progress of that consideratlon,

E!!!g that the agenda of the Conference on Dlsarmament for L984 included
the item entitled "Nuclear weapons in all aspectsr and that the Conferencer s
progranne of work for both parts of its seseion hefd in L984 contained the
iten entitled ncessation of the nuclear arlns race and nuclear disarmamentrr,

Recalling the proposats and statenents made in the conference on
Disarmament on those itens,

Considering that the cessatlon of productlon of fisaionable naterial for
weapons purposes and the progressive conversion and transfer of 6tocks to
peaceful uses vrould b€ a significant step towardg halting and reversing the
nuclear arms race,

considering that the prohibition of the production of flsslonable
naterial for nuclear weapons and other exploslve devlces also would be an
inPortant mea€ure in facilitating the preventlon of the proliferation of
nuclear weaponE and exploglve devices,

Reguests the conference on Disarnament, at an appropriate stage of lts
work on the lten enlitled iNuclear weapons in aI1 aapectsn. to pursue its
consideration of the question of adequately verified cesEatlon and prohibltion
of the produceion of fissionable material for nuclear weapons and other
nucleai explosive devices anal to keep the ceneral Assembly informed of the
progress of that consideration.

Curbing the Naval Arns Race! Limitatton and Reduction of Naval
Arxnanents and Extension of Conf idence-Builcling Measures to Seas

and oceans

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recallinq its resolution 38rll88 F of 20 December 1983,

convinced that all channels of the arms race andr in particular, the
nuclear-arns race, should be effectively covered by the efforts to halt and
reverse it,

Disturbed by the growing threat to peace, international secur ity and
global stability posed by the continuing escalatlon of the naval arns racer

Alarned by the ever more frequent use of naval fleets or other naval
formations for deflpnatrations or use of force and as an ingtrunent to exert



A/39/755
English
Page 24

Pressure against sovereign States, especially aleveloping States, to interfere
in their internal affairs, to cotunit acts of arnd aggression and inteEvention
and to preserve the rennants of the col-onial system,

Aware that the growing presence of naval fleets and the intensification
ot the naval activities of sone States in confLict areas or far fron Cheir own
shores increase tensions in these regions and could adversely affect the
security of the international sea lanes through these areas and the
exploitation of naritine resources,

Firnly convinced that the undertaking of urgent steps to curb military
confrontation at sea nould be a slgnificant contribution to preventlng war.
especially nuclear lrar, and to strengthening peace and international security,

@ of the numerous initiatives and concrete proposals to undertake
effective neasures aimed at limiting naval activities, liniting and reducing
naval- arnaments and extending conf idence-build ing r[easures to seas and oceansl

Stressing once again the inportance of relevant measures of a regional
character, such as the implementation of the Declaration of the Indian Ocean
as a zone of Peace, U th" transfornation of the Mediterranean into a zone of
peace, security and co"-operation,

Reaff irning once again that seas and oceans, being of vital lmportance to
rnankind' should be used exclusi.vely for peaceful purposest

Taki.ng note of the report of the Secx etary-ceneral, 4/ containing the
Eeplies of l'lenber states, i.ncluding a najor naval Poftrer, on the nodalities for
negotiations, as well as various specific ideas and new proposals for joint
measures on curbing the naval arns race and naval activities,

Noting with satisfaction that the prevailing vievr expressed in these
replies strongly favours an earl-y commencement of negotiations ained at
curbi.ng th€ naval arms race and naval activities. strengthening confidence and
security at sea and reducing naval arnamentg,

t. APPeals once again to alL Member States, in particular the major
naval Povrersr to refrain fron enlarging their naval activities in areas of
conflict or tensions, or far from their olrn shoresi

2, Reaffirms its recognition of the urgent need to start negotiations
with the pEiEi-ifrEion of th! rnajor naval powers, the nuclear-weapon states in
Particular, and olher interested States on the linitation of naval activities,
the l-initation and reduction of naval arnanents and the extension of,
confidence building rneasures to seas and oceans, especiaUy to areas vJith the
busiest international sea tanes or to regions where the probability of
conflict situations is high;

L/
22/

Resolution 2832 (XXVI).

^/39/4re.



u39/755
English
Page 25

.:. I"vi!." Menber states, particularly the major naval porders, toco:ts_l9er the possibility of holding direct consultatlons, bilateral or,/anclmu1ti1ateral, with a view to preparing the opening at an earfy date of suchnegotiations i

. 4. -Invites Menber States, especially those that have not yet done so,to conmunicace to the secretary-cene ra1 nor rater than Aprir r9B5 lheir vlewsconcerning the nodalitles for holding the negotiations referred to above;

:. Rpquests the Disarmament cornmission to consider this question and toreport to the ceneral Assenbly at its fortieth sessloni
6. Decides to incrude in the provisionar agenda of its fortieth sessionthe iten 

"iffi "curbing the naval arms race! rimitation and reductlon ofnaval arrnaments and extension of confidence-buitding measures to seas and
oceansrr .

' Prohibition of the Developnent, production, stockpiling
and Use of RadioLogical Weapons

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recallinq its resolution 3g,zIB8 D of 20 December 19g3,
1. Takes note of that part of the report of the Conference onoi"urr...r,EEfrlld.neral Assenbly ab its ihirty-ni.tr, session that dealswith lhe question of radiorogicar weapons, p/ in particurar the report of theAd goc co*nittee on Rattloroglcat weap;nr unilitr reconmendation that, in viewof the fact that the connitteer s mandate waa not fulfirJ.ed, the conference onDisarnament should re-establish the Acl ttoc Coftniltee on Radlotogical weaponsat the beg inning of its 1985 sessionl--

. T"gl."!" the Conference on Disarmanent to continue its negotiationson the subject with a view to a pronpt conclusion of its work, taki;g intoa:count all proposaLs presented to the Conference to this end, the result of,which :shourd be submit.tear to the cenerar Assenlcly at rts fortieth 
'esslohi

3' Requests the secretary-ceneral to transmit to the conference on
Disarnament all rerevant docunents rerating to the atiscussion of a1r aspectsof tbe issue bV Che ceneral AssembLy at it; thirty_ninth sessioni

4- Decides to include in the provisionar- agenda of its fortieth sessronthe iten eiEr-d iprohibition 
"r tn" aeveiof..nt, proa,r.tion, stockpiring anduse of radloLogical weaponsr'.




