








































UII!TED
NATIONS

FT

Gcncral Aeeembly
Distr.
GENERA',

A/39/79o/^dd.Lo
? Decetnber 198{
ETIGI,I SH

oRrGrNALt ABABTC'/ErGLISH

.53tPry? Ur' Ahnedl AIa$i AL-BADDAD (Denocratic 
Yemen)

I. II$IFODI'CTION

1. The second Cdrunittee held a sub€tantlve debate on ltem 80 
(see A/39/79o '

parr. 2). Action to be taken on subltem (J) was considered at the 33rd' 37th'
{oth and 55th rneetings, on 21 6, 13 and 30 uoveurbei ' An account of the 

cotlfiittee tg

diecussion lE contained ln the relevant Eumlary records lA/c'2n9/sR'33 ' 37' 
40

and 55).

Thlrty-ninth €esslon
lgenifa itanr 80 (Jl

DEVEIOPI.IEM AND IMERNATIONAL ECONOUIC CO-OPERATION

Runan settlement€

lf. CONSIDERATTON OF PROPOSAT'S

A.

Z. At the 33ril neeting, on 2 Novenber, the representatlve of ryI- introtluced
atraft resolut ion lve'2/}g/t'Ill entitled 'Lieing condltlons of the Palestslnian
;Gi.- i;-il;-occuprea ialestinlan territorles", strrnaored by his 

deregation'

subsequenely, r.r"a"oa""at, n"ii, Qata, and Tuniela 
-joined in sPonsoring the 'lraft

resolution.

3. A stat€nent by the secretary-Gen€ral on the prograDnc bu'tge-t - 
ittlPlications of

draft resolut ron A/c.z/3g/r,.11 was clrculated in docunent A/c.2/39/L'27 '

Draft reeolut ion A/C.2/39/L.lL

s+32L92 4554P (E)



A/J9/790/Add.L0
English
Page 2

4. At the 40th neeting, on 13 November, the Secretary of the ConnitLee read out,
at the request of the sponsors, revisions to the draft resolutlon as follotts!

(a) In operative paragraph I, the trord "appreciation,' was replaced by the
word "concernn,

(b) In operalive paragraph 6:

(i) In subparagraph (a), the k'ord ofive-dayn I appearing before the r.rord
"seminarr', was deleted, and the nords xeconony of" were replaced by the
words 'recononic anil social conditions of the Palestinian people in';

(ii) In subparagraph (b), the phrase rin croperation tithn was rePlaced by
the phrase nproviding for the participatlon of";

(iii) In subparagraph (c)' the nunber '20' was aleletedi
(ivl A new subparagraph (d) was inserted to read "to lnvite also relevant

intergovernmental and non-governrnental organizatlonsn, and the former
subparagraph (d) was relettered as (e).

5. statements were nade by the represenbatives of Canada r Israel, Pakistanr the
United States of America and Yugoslavia, as rrelL as by the representative of the
Budget Division of the Office of Financial Services of the secretariat.

6. At the sane meeting, the Conmittee aatopteal draft resolutfon A/C.2/39/1.I1, a6
orally revised, by a recorded vote of L29 Eo 2, with 2 abstentions (see para. 17,
draft resolution I). The result of the voting yras as follonst l,/

EE4E: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argenlina, Ausbralia'
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunel Darussalarn, Bulgariar Burkina
Faso, Burna, Burundi, Byelo!ussian Soviet sociaList Republ-ic,
cameroon, canada, Cape verder Central African nepublic, Chadl
Chile, China, Colornbia, Congo, Cuba, Clprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic KarRpuchea, Democratic Yenen, Derunark' Dj lbouti t
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France,
German Democratic Republlc, cermany, Federal Republic of, chana,
Greece, Guinea, cuinea-Bissau, Iionduras, Itungary, IceLand, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, ilapan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab ilamahiriya'

y rhe
Present at the
resolution.

representative of Belgiurt stated thati had his delegation been
time of the voting, it would have voted in favour of the draft



Against:

A/39/790/^dA.r0
English
Page 3

Luxenbour gr llladagaacar, !,lalarrl, Malaysia, llaldlvesr UaIi,
Malta, Mexico, llongolia, l,lorocco, Mozamblque, NePaI'
Netherlands, Nelr zealandr Nicaragua, Niger, lligeria, Norray,
oman, Pakistan, Papua Nev, Guinea, partguay, Peru,
Phllippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Rdnania, Rrranda, sao
?ome and lrincipe, Saudi Arabla, senegal, Sinqapore,
sdlta.Lla, sPaln, sri Lanka, sudan, Surlnane, Swazlland'
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thallandr To9o, Trinidad and
Tobago, tlrnlEia, lurkey' tjganda, Ukrainlan goviet soclalist
Republic' Union of Sovlet Soctalist Republlcs, United Arab
Emiratee' United Kingdon of Great Brltain and Northern
Ireland, Irnited Republic of Tanzanla, Uruguay, Venezuela,
viet Nan' YelrEnr yugoslavia, zaire, Zambla, Zlnbabwe'

Israel' Unlted states of ilmerlca.

Abstalnlng: cabon, Ivory Coast.

7. statements after the vote hrere made by the repre6ehtatives of Australia,
Democratic yenen, Plnland (also on behalf of Llennark, rceland, Norway and sl'eden) '
the German Denocratic Republic {also on behalf of Bulgarla, the Byelorussian soviet
seialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, Eungary' r,bngolla. Poland, the Ukralnian SovieE
soclallst Republic and the Unlon of soviet soclallst Republics), the Islamlc
ReFrbl ic of lran, Ireland (on behalf of the state6 rnembers of the EuroPean
Comnunity), Japan and the Llbyan Arab Janahiriya. ilhe observer of the Palestinlan
Liberation Organizatlon a16o made a stateflent.

B. Draft r€solutlons A./C.2/39lf,.21 and L.90

8. At the 37Eh rneeting, on 5 Novenber ' the representative 
of the Netherlands

introduced draft reaolutions A and B (ly'C.2ng/r'.21) entitled nReport of the
Comrlssion on Hunan Settlementsi and nco-ordlnatlon of huhan settlenents programmes
within the United Nations system' on behalf of canada, Colonbia' Ethiopia. Gabon 'fndia' ,Janaica, Kenya, the Netherlands, the Philiplrineg, sri lanka, Uganda and
zdnbia. Liberla also Jolned ln sponsorlng the draft resolution which read as
follous:

"A. Report of tbe Comnl€slon on Eunan settlenents
rThe General Assernbly'

nRecal.Ling its resolution 3201 (S-vI, and 3202 (s-vl) of I May 197'!'
containing ahe Declaration anal the Progr afrne of Action on the EstablishlEnt of
a New fnternational Economic Order, 3281 (xxlx) of 12 Dec€ftb€ r L971,
containing the Charter of Economlc Rlghts and Duties of Stat€s, and
3362 (s-vllt of 15 Septernber t9?5 on developnent and lnternational ecorpmic
co-oper at ion,



A/3e/790/Add.Lo
Eng Iish
Page 4

"Recalling also iCs resoLutions 32/L62 of 19 Decenber 1977 on
institutional arrangements for internatlonal co-operation in the field of
human settlenents and 34/LL5 of 14 Decenber 1979 on the strengthening of hunan
settlements activities,

"seriously concerned at the continued lor.r level of voluntary
contr i-butions made available to the Unihed Nations Centre for llunan
Settlenents (Habitat) in sulport of the human settlenents activities of the
United Nations,

trTaking note of Economic and SociaL Council resolution L9S4/57 A of
26 JuIy 1984 on international co-operation in the field of hurnan settlenentE,

"Having considered the reFort of the Cormission on Human settlements on
the r.ror k of its seventh session, !/

rrl. Takes note of the report of the Comolssion on Human Settlements on
the work of its seventh session;

"2. Expresses its ap,preciation to those Governnents and others which
have nade voluntary contributions to the Unitetl Nations Habitat and Human
settlements Foundalion in support of the work of the united Nations centre for
Human Settlenents (Ilabitat) and comnends in particular those nhich have alone
so on a regular basisi

"3. Renews its strong appeal to Member States, partlcularly the
developed countries, and others in a posltion to do so, to begln making
reguLar voluntary contr ibutions to the United Nationg Habitat and ltunan
Settlenents Foundation of the Centre, if they have noh already done so, and if
they have' to consider increasing the anount of their contributions.

"8. ceordination of hunan settlements prograrnnes withln
the united Nationd systern

'rn. ""n"ru-, *r,
'fRecalling its resolution 35/77 C of 5 December 1980, in which it inviteat

the secretary-cener aI to arrange, ln consultation with the members of the
Adninistrative CoNnittee on Co-ordination, for the United Nations Centre for
lluman SeCtlernents (ttabitat) to participate in al.L aspects of the work of that
Conmittee and ita subsidiary nachinery,

U official Records of the



A/39/79o/^dd.LO
English
Page 5

nBggs.Ill39.3}g its resolution J7/223 c of 20 Decernber 1982. in which it
requested the Seiie{ary-General to accelerate his efforts in arranging for
guch partlcipation and to rePort thereon to the General Assenbly at its
thlrty-eighth session,

tR€calling further its resolution 38/L67 B of 19 December 1983 in which
it tooX note ot ttrJ report y of the secretar y-General surnmarizing decision
1983,/tg of 27 @tober 1983 of the Aalninistratlve conmittee on co-ordination,
xhich decision it noted did not conPletely neet the requirement of its earlier
resolutions 35/77 c ar]d 37 /223 C, and requested a further report to it by the
secretar y-Gener al at its thirty-ninth seasion,

"Noting also the vi.ews of the Economic and social council as contained in
i.tr r"l6IIII6i-19 s4/5'1 A of 26 Jury 1984, particularl-y oPerative paragraph 6
thereof ,

rHaving considered the rePort of the secretary-General on the
co-ordination of hunan settlements prografitreg rrithln the United Nations systen
entitled'rDevelopment and International Economic co-operation: Hurnan
settlenentst', I Preparecl in response to General Assembly resolution 38/167 B'

r!1. Takes note of the rePort of the Secretary-General entitled
oevelopment and International Econonic Co-operation: liuflan settlenents,

Takes note in particuLar of resolution 7/5 ot 9 May 1984 of the
conuigsion on Hunan settlements, 5/ on the question of a biennial cycle of
gessions for the conmission and again requests the conunission, Pursuant to
General Assenbly decision 3A/ 429 and Economic and Social Council declsion
L984/Lo4 to consider adopting a biennial cycle of sessionsl

Takes note in Particular of the sec retar y-General r s intention to
reviev ln the naa; iuture the existing arrangements regarding the
participation of the United Nations centre for Human settlements
the work of the Adninistrative Comflittee on co-ordination in the
Centrers mandate and respons ibilities and the aPPlicable General
resolutions i

(Habitat) in
tight of the
Assenbly

the uni ted
of the work of

4.
Nations

rrRestates its convlctlon that full ParticiPation by
Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat) in all aspects

v
lJ

A/38/s18.

M39/547.

)

y official Records of the
supplenent No. I ( It annex I, sect.



A/3e/790/^dd.1o
Engl-ish
Page 6

the Administrative Conmittee on Co-ordination and its subsidiary machinery is
necessary for effectlve co-ordination anong the organizations of the United
Nations system of their hunan settlenents progranmesi

sesslon on lhe implementation of its resolutions on this question, taki.ng into
account the pertinent corunents of the Connittee for prog ranune and
Co-ordination at its twenty-fourth session. q

9. At the 55th meeting, on 30 Novenber, the Conmittee had before it a draft
resolution lA/C.Z/39/L.9O) submitted by Mr. Habib Kaabachi, Vice-Chairman of the
Comrnittee, on the basis of informaL consultations held on draft resolutionpJc.2/3e/L.2L.

I0. At the same rneeting, the Cornnitte adopted draft resolut Lor, A/C.2/39/L.90 (see
para. 17, draft resolution II).
11. rn the ligh! of the aaloption of alraft resolulion A/C.2/39/L.qO, draft
resolution A/C.2/39/L.2L nas withdrawn by its sponsors.

C. Draft resotutions A/C.2/39,/L.22 and L.9I
12. At the 37th rneeting, on 6 Novernber, the represenEative of the Netherlands
j.ntroduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/39/L.22) entitled "InternationaL year of
Shelter for
Netherlands,
Ronania and

"The cenejal Assenbly,

"ItecaLlinq its resolutions 37 /22L of 20 December 1982 and 38/168 of
19 Decendcer L983 on the International year of Shelter for lhe ltomeless,

"Noting lrith atrDreciation that over one hundred countries have
established nationaL focal points for the International Year of Shelter for
the Honeless and that national programles and projects for the year are
already under way in many countries,

'!g!ing also that no6t of the voluntary contr ibutions pledged to date
have been pledged by developing countries and that further voluntaly
contributions are needed in order to carry out effectively the overal,I
plans 7,/ endorsed by the ceneral AssenbLy for Che activities before and during
the International Year of Shelter for the Honeless,

Ibid., Supptenent No. 38 (A/39/38), chap. V, sect. A.

A/38/ 233-E/r983/7 4 and corr.I.

the Honelessn on behalf of Canada. Colombia, India, Jamalca, Kenya, the
the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Uqanda and @Eb. Subsequently, Liberia,

Ecuador joined in sponsoring the draft resolutlon, which read as

9_/

(

follovrs:

z/



A/39 /790/Add.L0
English
Page 7

'Beg4!g.-ln xnind the need for Governments to integrate the objectives of
the Internatlonal YeaE of Shelter for the lloDeless into their current and
future national developnent p1ans,

nHavlng considered the conclusions and resomlendations of the Conmission
on Human Settlements contained in its resolutlon ?/L of 10 May 1984' / and
Economic and Social Council resolution !984/57 B of 26 JuIy 1984 2/ on Ehe
International Year of Shelter for the Honelesa,

{1. urges all Governmenta to lntensify their activities relatedl to the
International Year of Shelter for the Horneless and in parlicular to undertake
or designate as soon as poasible suitable human settlements projects that can
serve as dernonstration projects in accordance Fith the guideLines establiBhed
under the programme of the International Year of Shelter for the Homelessi

n2. Expresses its appreciation to those covernments which have already
made voluntary contr ibutions and plealges to the International Year of shelter
for the Honelegsi

contribution, especia)-Iy those of developed countries and others in a position
to do sor and to lnternational financial institutions, intergovernmental and
non-governnenlal organizaEions, to provide effective financial and other
au[4)or t for the programme for the International Year of Shelter for the
HoneLess i

"4. I|equests the speciallzed agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system, lncluding the regional commissions, to revietJ their
policies and progratnnes with a vien to incorporating therein and augmenting
activities hrhich serve tbe objectives of the International Year of Shelter for
the Homeless i

rr5. Requesta the secretary-ceneral to submit to the ceneral Assetnbly at
its forcieth session a report on progress acbieved in the inrPlenentation of
the aPproved prograrone of neasures and activlties to be undertaken before and
during the International Year of Shelter for the uonel-ess i

"6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of lts fortieth session
an iten entitled "International Year of Shelter for the Homelessn.'

y Official Records of
SupDlernent No. 8 ( ), annex I .A.1.

y Official Records of the Economic and Sc'cial Council, 1984, Supplement
No. lA (8,/1984/84/Add.L).



A/39 /790 /Ada.rO
English
Page I

13. At the 55th neetlng, on 30 Novenb€r, the comrittee had before lt a draft
resolution lF{c.2/39/L.91) subnltted by ur. Ilablb traabachl' vice-Chalrnan of the
comnittee, on the basis of infornal conaultat lon6 held on draft resolutlon
vc.2/39/L.22.

14. At the sarne neetlng, the Comnlttee ado,pted draft resol.ut lon A/C.2/39/L.91 (see
para. 17, draft resolutlon Irr!.

15. In the llght of the adoptlon of draft resolutlon VC.2/39/T'.9L, draft
resolution Nc.2/39y'L.22 sas trlthdramr by its aponEora.

16. The representative of Poland nade a statetnent, also on behalf of Bulgarla, the
Byelorusslan soviet soclallst ReFrbllc' czechoBlovakla' the German Democrat ic
Republic, Hungary, tbngolia, tbe ukrainlan sovlet sociallst Republic and tbe union
of Soviet soclallst Republics.

rrr. oF rmE SEOND c!l[|tl TIEE

the ci€neral Assembly the adoptlon of theL7. The Second
following draft

Cotunlttee recomelrds to
re60Iutlonsr

DnAFT FESOLUTION I

The ceneral Asaenbly,

Recalltng the vancouver Declaration on Eumah Settlenents, L9?6, ]91 and
the relevant reconunendat iona for natlonal action !y adopted by Habitat:
United Nations Conference on [uman Settlements,

necalllnq also its reEolutloa 38/L66 of 19 Decenber 1983.

Gravely alarmed by the continuatlon of the Ieraell settlenent po11cle8,
whlch have been declared null and void and a najor obstacLe to peace,

Recognlzinq the need to lnvestigate nays and neans of arre€ting the
aeteriora€ion ln the economy of the occupi ed Palestinlan territoriea'

10,/ Report of Habitats thited trat lon9 Conference on !u!!gt! €g!!-lsnenE
varrcouver, 3l uaFll ,tune 1975 (Untted Nations publlcatlon, sales No. E.76.Iv.7 and
cor r igend un, . chap. f.

ry lbtd., chap. II.

t



Py'39/79O/Add.Io
EngIish
Page 9

l. ltalea note sith colEern of the report of the Secretary-Generaf on
the llving condltlonE of Effistlnlan pe-ople in the occupled Paleatinian
territoricst Jltl

2.Take€notea].soofthestatcmentnadebytheobselverofthe
Palestlne r,lberaCion organizatlonl f!r/

3. ReJ€c!6 the Israeli pfans and actlong lntended to chang€ the
demographlc cottI)o6ltlon "i 

tfte o"",rpfed Paleotinian terrltorles' particularly
tt. ir*i"."" ana expanaioi of the riraeli aettlenentg, and other plans and
a"tfon" creltlng 

"-r.afttoi" 
ieaalng to the di4tlacelpnt and exodug of

Palcstinlans fom the occupled Palestlnlan terEltorleat

{. E:.prease3 lts aLarn at the deterioration' as a result of tbe rsraell
occupat lon, ln ltlons of the P'leEtlnlan peoPle ln the
Peleattnlln terrltoriea ecupied slnce 196?r

5. Afflrns that the Israeli occuPatlon ls contradlctory to tbe baslc
requlrcmnta for the aelal and econom ic develqncnt of the Palestinian People
ln thc occupl€d Falestinian territorieat 

..

6. nequeata the secretary-Generalr

(a) to organize ln I985r a semlnar on reneiliee for the deterloratlon of
the GconoNDlc and E€ial condltlons of the Pat€stlnlan peoPle ln the ecupied
Prlestinhn terrltorleat

(b) To nake the nece6aary PreParatlone for the genlnar proviiling for the
partlcipatlon of the PaleEtlne Liberatton orglnizationt

(ct 1!o lnvite expcrta to Preaent PaP€rE to the semlna

(d) To lnvlte also relevant intergovern&ntal and non{overnmental
orErnl zatlons,

(et lb rePort to the General A8senbly at lts fortleth session' through
tha EconqDic and Sclal coutEtl, on the a€lillnar '

!z/ ry'39.t233-E/re84/79.
I

)



A,/39n90/Add.10
Engltsh
Page l0

DNAFT RESOT,IITIOTry I
Hteen sett lemnts

A

Fepor t of the Co!|!|ls6ion on Bunln Settlenentg
The Gencral Aaacobly,

_ BegaffiJE lts resolutlon8 32Ol (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI, of I r,ray t97t,containlng tbc Dcchratron and the prograflme of Action on the EstalltsbEnt of
a NeF fnternational BcotEnlc Order, 32gl (xxlx) of 12 Ireccmbe r Lg74,contalnlng the Chart€r of Econ@lc nlghts anat Dutles of States, and
3362 (S-VII) of 16 Selrtcober l9?S on developDent anat tnternational ecotEnlc
co-oper at ion ,

Rec!lllnE rl8o its r.slutlorr' 32A62 of t9 Decemb€r 1977 onin€tltutlonal arrangermnts for international co-operation ln the fi€ld of
nunan aettlenents anar 3rAL6 of rir Decsnber 19?9 on the streDgthenrng of hunanaettlernenta actlvltles,

seriously, cotrcerned rt the continued low level of voluntery contributlonabelng made avalbble to thc unlted N.tlona cenere for Hunan setalenents(Babitat) ln sutr4rost of the human scttlenents actlvltles of the unitd Natton€,
Takinq note of &ononlc and geial Councll resolutlon l:gea/S7 A of

26 .Iuly l9A4 !!t/ on lntcrnrtton l cloperation ln thc fiald of humansettlerpnta,
Eavlng conslder€d thc report of the cormtsgion on Humen settlenenta onthe $ork of lte eeventlr Ee8slon, !:/
l. Takes note of the report of the Cotmlsslon on Euman SettleneDts onthe uork offintrt aesaion and the resolutlona contlined therein,

- 2. - Express€a lts apprec lat lon to thoae covernnenta and others $hlchnave nade troluntary contrlbutlons to the unlted Natlons Elbitlt and [uman
settlement' Foundrt lon ln support of the rcrk of the unitd Nations centrc for
Hunan settlenEnt8 (Eabltat, and cqrmnds ln particular thoae wh ich have done60 on a reguhr baglct

!!/ offlgial Record8 of the
NO. 1A

(



v3engo/^dd.Lo
English
Page ll

3. Renews lte ap,peal to all GovermEntE, l'articultrly those of the '
developed 6GEte", to begln rnaking regular voluntary contributlona to.the
united Natlon6 Eabitat and Hulan SettletlEnt8 Foundatlon of the centre' lf they
have not already done 9o, anal, if they haveq to cons lder lnireasing the amount
of their contrlbutions.

The General Aaaenb1y'

Reaffirninqltsresolutlon33/77cof5Decdnber1980'lnwhlchit
tnvlted the secretary-General to arranqer ln conaultatlon nlth the menbers of
ine aanlntEtratlve comrittee on Co-ordination, for the unlt€d Natlons centre
for Humn settl€tnents (Habltatl to partictpate ln all aaPects of the rork of
that cofinlttee and ltE suboidlary machiDery'

Recallinq lts resolution 37 /22g c of 20 Dec€mber 1982' ln shich it
requested the secretary-General to accelerate hls efforts in drranglng for
suih participatlon and to rePort thereon to the General AsEarbly at lts
thirty-elghth session'

Recalllng also ita reEolution 18/167 B of 19 Decerirber 1983' ln whlch it
took note of the rePort of the secretary-General 3y sumarlztns allsfn
19 83,/f8 of 27 october 1983 of the Admlnistratlve comnttte€ on co-ordinrtion'
whlch declsion lt not€d diat not cofiptetely neet the requirelrEnt of lts earlier
reEolutlons 35/77 C and 37 /223 C, and requested the Secretary-General to
report to tbe @neral As6€mbly at lts thlrtfninth seaEion'

Notlnq alEo the viens of the EcoDonic and Social council' contalrEd ln
its resolutlon tga4,/s1 a "r 

is oury lggl, Partlcularly paragralth 6 thereof'

Ilaving consldered the rePort of the secretrry-General- :9q":-1lT?-lh"
co-orEGation of human settlenEnts prograrnnes rlthln the united Nattons
systenr, !/ prepared in responae to General Assembly resolution 38/L57 

B'

1. Takes note of the rePort of the secretary-General concernirg the
ccordinltlon of human settlem;nts Progrrtnnes slthlh the t'nlted Nat lon8 syat€nt

!9/
nl

A/38/518.

u39/s47.
I

)



^/39/790/^dd.L0EngliBh
Page 12

2. Takes note in p.rtlcular of resolution 7/5 ot g fiay 1984 of the
Comrission on Runan Settlements !g/ on the queBtlon of a blennial c!rcIe ofsessions for the comlission, and egaln r€quests the collrniBaion, purauant to
General Assernbly decision 38/429 of 19 D€cember 1983 and Econqnic and Soclal
courEil declsion L981/I:01 of l0 February 1984, to conalder ldopting a biennlal
cycle of seseionsl

3. Welcone6 ln partlcular the intention of the Secretary-ceneral to
review in the near future the er(lsting arrangemnta regarding the
participatlon of the United Natlons Centre for Euman gettlements (Habltat) ln
the work of the Adrlinlstrative Comitlee on co-ordinatlon ln the light of the
Centrers mandate and lesponslbillties and the relevant ceneral ABsenbly
resolut ionst

4. Requests the Secretary-ceneral to report to the General AE€entbly at
its fortieth sesslon on the lnplenEnt€tlon of lts resolutlons on this
question, taking lnto account the pertlnent coNEnenta of the Com lttee for
Progranne and Co-ordinatlon at ttB trEnty-fourth 6esslon. fgl

DRAFT RESOLUAION ITI

Internatlonal Year of Shelter for the aorpless
The General Asaenbly,

Recalling its resolutiorg 37/22I of 20 Dec€lTlber 1982 and 38/L68 ot
19 Decenber 1983 on the fhternatlonal year of Shelter for the HonElega, aa
well as Economlc and Social Council resol.ution LgeO/67 of 25 ,tuly 1980,

. . NotiPq wlth appreclatlon that over one hundred corntrles have e8tablishednaElonar focal polnta for the fnternatlonal year of ghelter for the Eoneless
and that natlonal programtles and projects for the year are already under way
in rdany countr les,

Notlng alBo that most of the voluntary contributions pledged to date hlve
been pledged by developlng countries and that further voluntary contributlons
are n€eded in order to carry out effeetively the overall plane Agrl endorsed bythe General Assembly for the actlvttles before and dlurlng the Internatlonal
tear of Shelter for the Eoneles€,

ry Official Records of the ceneral Assernbly, Thirty-nlnth Sesaion,
Supple Ent No. I (A/39/8), annex t, sect. A.2.

l-gl rbid., supplement No. 3g (ly'}gng,), chap. v, aect. A.
391 A/38/233-E/L98n 1 and corr.l.



v39/790/Add.L0
Engllsh
Page 13

Bearing in nlnd the need for Governnenta to integrate the objectivee of
tbe fnternatlonal Year of shelter for the Hotneless into their current and
f uture national developnent plans,

Having conaldered the cohclusions and recomnendations of the Commisslon
on Hrmran Settlenents, contalned ln its reeolutloa 7/L of tO May L984, fu/ anA
EcotroDlc and social councll re8olutlon L984/57 B of 25 July 1984 on the
International Year of shelter for the HonFless,

l. Urgea all covernnentE to lntenslfy their activitles reLated to the
International Year of Shelter for the Honteless and ln particular to undertake
or deaighate as soon a€ possible suitable human aettlements projects that can
6erve as derpn6tration Projects ln accordarce wlth the guldelines establlshed
under the progranne for the fnternatlonal Year of thelter for the lfomelesst

2. Further urgeg all GovernnEnts to initlate a conPrehenaive assessnent
of proaPecta, prlorities and reEourcea regardiDg shelter and settlenente,
leading to the fornulatlon of national shelter strategies applicable untlL the
year 2000 t

3. Expresses its appreciatloh to those c,overnnenes that have already
nade voluntary contributions and pledgea to the fnternational Year of Shelter
for the Eonelesst

1. ApDeals to all covernnentE that have not yet announced voluhtary
contrlbution€ to do ao, and to lnternatlonal financlal in6titutions'
incergovernmental and norFgovernnental organl zations to provide adequate
financial and other €upport for the programme for the International Year of
shelter for the Eomelesst

5. rnvites the speclallzed agencles and other organizations of the
United Nationg syatem, incluating the regional comissions, to revlew thelr
polic ies and prograrmres wlth a vier{ to lncorporatlng and promoe ing therein
actlvitles nhlch serve the objectives of the fnternatlonal year of Shelter for
the Boneleest

5. Requesta the gecretary-Gen€Eal to subN lt to the ceneral Assenbly at
its fort.ieth seseion a reporE on progress achieved in the iqrlearentation of
the approved programre of neasureE and activitles to be undertaken before and
during the fnternational Yerr of shelter for the Honelesst

7. Decidea to include in the provisional agenda of ita fortiech session
the lten entltled rlnternational Year of shelter for the HoneLess".

3y Offlcial RecordE of the ceneral Assembly, Thlrty-nlnth sesslon,
Supplepent No. I (A/39/81r drin€!( I, sect. A.f.




