








































UNITED
NATIONS

Gcneral Aerembly
DisEr.
GENERAl'

v39/736
4 DccelDer I98 4
ET|GT,I SH

ORIGINAIJT FRBIiEH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda item 45

CESSATION OT ALL TEST EXEIOSIONS OF NUCL.EAR NEAPONS

Repor t 
, 
of the Fi.rat @nmlttee

.@.8: !rr. Ngar6 KESSELY (Chad)

I. INTNODUCTION

. I. The item entttled trCesaation of all teat explosions of nuclear seaponar
I report of che Conference on Dlsarnar{Entr waa lnclucled in the provlslonal agenda of

the thirty-ninth sesslon ln accordance wi,th cen6ral Asaernbly reaolution 38/62 ot
15 Decenber 1983.

2. At its 3rd plenary m€etlng, on 2l Septernber l98,lr tbe Genrral Assenbly, on the
reconmendation of the ceneral Corntni ttee, dsciated to inctude the ltettr ln its agendr
and Lo allocate it to the Flrst Coot0ittee.

3. At lts seconct meecing, on 15 October, the flrat CoMnittee dcclded to hold r
general debate on the disarnarEnt ltens allocrleal to lt, nanely, I tena 45 to 65 and
iten 142 which $as allocated to th€ Flrst @nnitte€ by the General Aslctnbly at lts
27th plenary neeting, oD 9 october, follored by statenent8 on speclflc dlsarmncnt
agenda j.tens and contlnuatlon of the g€nelal debate, aa neceasary. ltt!€
deliberalions on those itenE took place b€tH€en thc 3rd and the 35th neetings, froNtr
l? October to 12 Novenbex (Eee UC.L/39,/PV.3-36).
4. In connection with iten {6, the Ftrst Connittee hld beforc lt the folloelnq
docunents:

(a) Repor t of the Conference on Diaartnan€ntt y

(b) Letter dated 23 !,ray 1984 tron th€ repreaentrElves of Argentlna, Greece,
rndia, Mexico, sweden and th€ united Republic of lanzanla to the Unlted NaEIons

I
' y official Records of tne cenesel A3sednbly, fblrty-nlnth Scaaton,

supplenenr No. 27 (A/19/27 | .

a4-31323 4528p (E) /...



A./ 39 /736
English
Page 2

addressed to the Secretary-ceneral, transmitElng tbe Joint Declaration by
Mrs. Indi.ra Ganalhl, Prime llinister of India, Mr. Miguel de Ia Madrid, president of
Mexico, I4r. atuliua Nyerere, President of the gnlted Republic of Tanzania,
Mr. OIof Palme' Prine l,linisEer of S,eden, Mr. AndEeas Papandreou, Prime Minister of
Greece, and llr. Ra6f Alfon8{n, Pr€sldent of Argentina, issued on 22 Uay 1984 at
Athens, Buenos Aires, Dar ea Salaan, Mexico City, New Delhi and Stockholn
(A/39/277 -s/L6s87 l ,

(c) Note verbale dated 7 .tune 1984 from the pernanent !,tission of peru to the
Unit€al Nafions addreaaed to the United NatlonE secretariat (A/39 /296-s/!66f91 t

(d) Letter dated 9 JuIy 1984 frql the Pernanent RepresenEatlves of Chi1e,
Colombia, Ecuador and Peru to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-Generll, transnltting Che text of ehe declaratlon adopted by the
Permanent cornrni.s i ion for rhe souut pacific (A/3g/3431 ,

(e) IJetter dated 2? Septenber 1984 from the Cbar96 drAffaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mi.Eslon of Togo to the united Nalions addressed to the secr etary-General
(A/39/529 t ,

(f) Letter dated 8 October 1984 ffm the Permanent Representative of India to
the United Nations addresEed to the Secre Eary{eneral, lransmitting the Final
Comunique of the Meeting of Ulnisters and Iteads of Delegation of Che Non-A1lgned
Countriea to tbe thirty-ninth Eeealon of the ceneral Assembly, heLd in New York
fron I ro 5 oc rober L984 lA/39/560- s,/I6773 ) .

II. CONSIDEN.ATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.L/39/L.33

5. On 9 Nolrember,
Sweden, Uruguay, Venezuela rnd Yugoalavla Eubnltted a draft resolution tled
'Ceasatlon of all test exploaionE of nuclear weapons" (A/c.!/39 /L.33 ) , which was
Iater also sponsored by Indoneaia. The draft resolutlon was introduced by tbe
representallve of Mexico at the 38th meeting, on 14 llovenber.

6. At its 47tb meecingr on 26 Novenber, the Connittee adopted draft resolution
VC.L/39/L.33 by a recorded vote of IIl !o 2, with 24 absLentions (see para. 7).
The voting rras as follorrs:

In farrour: Afghanl.Btan, Alg€tla, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladeah' Blrutan, Bolivia, Brune! DarussaLan, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet SociaList Repub1ic, Cameroon.
Central African Republlc, Chad, Chile, Colornbia, Conoros ' Congo,Coata Rlca, Cuba, C$)rus, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic yenen,
Djlboutl, Doninlcan Republic, Ecuador, Bgyp!, Ethiopiar Fj.jir
Fi'nland, Gabon, Gernan DenocraEic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, culnea, Guyana, Halti, Honduras, Hungary, Indonesla,
Iran (IEIanlc Republlc of), Irag, Ireland, Ivory Coast, ,Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kueattr Lao Peopl€ | s Denocratlc Republicr Lebanon,
Llb€ria, Llbyan Arab ,tanahirlya, Madagascar, Malani, Malaysia,
Maldlvee, !,tali, t{alta, t4aur itania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,



A,/39/736
Engllsh
Page 3

Mor@co, Moza.mbique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Ntgeria, onan, Paklstant
Panama, Papua lirew cuinea, Peru, Philipplnee' Poland, Qatar,
Rornania, Rlranda, sao Tone and Princlpe, saudi Arabia' Senegal,
Sierra Leone, slngapore, sonalia, Srl Lanka, sudanr Surinamet
slrazlland, srreden, syrian Arab nepubllc, Thalland' Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago' Tunisla, Irqanda. Ukrainian soviet Socialist Repub1ic,
Unlon of sovlet soclalist Republicsr Unlted Arab Ehirates' United
Repubtic of Tanzania, Uruguay' Vanuatur venezuela, viet Nan,
Yenen, Yugoslaviar Zaire, zarnbia, zlmbab$e.

United xingdorn of Great Britain and Northern lreland, United
States of Aner ica.

Australia, Bahamas, Belgiurn, Brazilr Burma, canada, ehina,
Denrnark r Prance, cermany, Federal RePublic ofr fceland, India,
Israel, Italy, ,Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, NeY zealand,
Norway, Portugal, sanoa, solonon Islands, SPaln, Turkey.

I I I . FECOI,{I,IENDATIOIT OF TITE FIRST COi'$IIT!SE

7. The First connittee recommends to the G€neral Assernbly the adoption of the
follora'ing draft resolution..

Cessatlon of 
"11 

t@

The ceneral Assenbly'

Bearing in nind that-the complete cessation of nuclear-neapon tests,
t{hich has been examined for more than trenty-five years and on rhich the
Geheral Assenbty has adopted nearly fifty resolutlons, ls a baeic objective
the unlted Nations in the sphere of disarrnanentr to the attai nent of which
has repeatedly assigned the hiqhest priority,

stressing that on seven different occasions lt has condernned such tests
in the strongest terns and that, since 19?4. lt has atated its conviction that
the continuance of nuclear-weapon testing will lntensify the arms race, thu€
increasing the danger of nuclear war,

convinced that the exlsting means of verificatlon are adequate to ensure
cornpliance h'ith a nuclear test ban and that the alleged absence of such neans
of verification is notbing but an excuse for further development and
refinement of nuclear weapons,

Reiterating the assertion made in several previous resolutions that,
whatever nay be the differences on the question of verification, there is no
valid reason for delaying the conclusion of an agreenent on a cdnprehensive
test ban'

Recauinq that since 1972 the secr etary-ceneral has declared that all the
technical and scientific aspects of the Problem have been so fully explored
that only a political decision is now necessary ln ord€r to achleve final

Agai ns t:

Abstainings

or
ir



A,/39/7t6
EngllEh
P.ge 4

agreernent that when the exlatlng [erna of verlflcatlon are taken into account
it is dlfflcult to understand further delay in achievlng agreenent on an
und€rground-teat banr and that the potentlal riaks of continuing undergrouhd
nuclear-neapon testa would far outuelgh lny pos6lble riske from €nding such
teats,

Eearlng in nind that the thre€ nuclcar-geapon States which acted as
depoEltarles of the lre€ty Bannlng Nuclear tleapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in
outer space and under flater U in the report they subnltted on 30 ,tuly 1980 to
the Comnlttee on DLaarnarEnt, after four yerrs of trllateral negotiatiohs,
stated, jlglLtLlg, thrt they nere "nlndful of the great value for afl nankind
that the prohlbltlon of all nuclear-rreapon teEt exploalons ln all environments
will have" ae well a6 'congcious of the inportant responsibillty placed upon
then to find solutlons to the renalnlng problene"' adding furthermore that
they rrere rdetermined to exert thelr best efforta and necesEary lrlll and
PerElstence to bring the negotlatlona to an early and successful
concluaion., !/

Taklng lnto account that the satne three nuclear-r,reapon States undertook
t$enty yeara ago, ln the above-mcntloned Treaty' to geek the achievenent of
the dlscontlnulnce of !11 test exploslons of nuclear weapona for all tine and
that such an undertaking uas expllcltly relterated ln 1968 ln the preanble to
the ?reaty on the Non-Prol lferlt ion of Nucleer WeaFons, 9/ at tlcle VI of lrhich
further enbodles thelr solemn and legally blnding comitment to take effective
ncaaureg relatlng to cesaatlon of the nuclear-arma race at an early date and
to nuclear dlsarnanncnt,

Bearing ln m{nd the groulng negatlve lnfluence that the total lack of
coryliance nlth tho3€ undertaklngc hld on both the flrst and the second Revievt
Conferences of the Partlcs to the Trcaty oh the ltorFProliferat ion of Nuclear
welpons, held at Geneva fron 5 to 30 ay 1975 and from Il August to
7 Scptenber 1980 ' r€sp€ctlvely,

Convlnceq that the nalntenance of sucb a Bituation would not augur well
for the thlrd revlen conference of that Treaty, nh ich ls to take place
ln 1985' and even for the future of thc Treaty ltself,

Deplorlng that, due to the peraistent obstruction of a very small nunber
of ltg nenbers, the Conference on Dlslrmanent has been unable to inltiate
multilatera.l negotiation of a treaty for the prohlbltion of all nuclear-weapon
tests, as lt tras dpeciflcally requested to do ln ceneral Assembly resolutlon
3S/62 ot 15 Decefiber 1983,

y Unlted Natlons, g!L.j!g!je, vol. 634, No. 9068, p. 326.
y See cD,/139,/Append lx I l,/vol. fI' dcurnent @,/I30.
y Resolutlon 2373 (XXII) r ann€r(.



A/39 /736
English
Page 5

4. Reaffirrns also its convictlon that such a treaty $ould constitute a
contribution of ttre utmost importanCe to the cessation of the nuclear-artns
race and an indlspensable €lement for the succeas of the Treaty on the

&!!!g that the conference on Disarmanent has already received various
concrete pioposals on this question, includlng a cotq)lete draft for the
eventual text of the treaty as a whole'

l. Reiterates, for the eighth cine, its strongegt condernnation of all
nuclear-rveapon testst

2. Reiterates also once again its grave concern that nuclear-rreapon
testing 

"ontl*r.@s 
of the over$helming majority of

Member Stat es ?

3. Reaffirrns it conviction that a treaty to achleve the prohibition of
arl nucleailffif,IEll6iE by all states for all tlne ls a matter of the
hiqhes! pr iorityt

Non-P rol ifer at ion of Nuclear Weapons, slnce lt is only through the fulfilnent
of the obligations under the Treaty that its three depositary Powers may
expect all other partiee to conPly llkevrise wlth their respective obligationst

5. Urges once nore the three dePositary Pot ers of the Treaty Banning
Nuclear Weapon Tests in the etmosphere, in Out€r Space and under Water and of
the Trealy on the Non-Prol iferat ion of Nuclear lleapons to abide serictly by
thelr undertakings to s€ek to achieve the early dlscontlnuance of all test
explosions of nuclear weapons for al1 tine and to expedite negotiations to
this end?

6' Urges also all States that have not yet done so to adhere to tbe
Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atnospherer ln Outer Space and
under water and, meanr.rhlle, to refrain frotn testlng in the environnents
covered by that Tr€atyt

7. Reiterates its appeal to all statea nembere of the conference on
Disarmament to initiate imlneaiatety the multllateEal negotiatlon of a treaty
for the prohibition of all nuclear-weapon tests and to exert their best
endeavours in.order that the conference nay transnlt to the General Assenbly
at lts fortieth session the conplete draft of Euch a treatyt

8. calls upon the states deposltaries of the Treaty Banning Nuclear
weapon Tests in the Atnosphere, ln Outer Space and under Water and the Treaty
on the Non-Prol iferation of Nuclear weaPons, by vlrtue of thelr special
responsibilities under those t$o Treaties and as a provlslonal rneasure, to
bring to a halt without delay all nuclear-test explosions' either through a
trilaterally agreed noratorlun or through three unllateral moratorlat

g. Decides to include in the provlsional agenda of its fortieth session
the item entitled "eessation of all test explosions of nuclear weapona"'




