








































UNITED
NATIONS

- GeneralAssembly
Distr.
GENERAL

v39/7O7
7 Decenber 1984

ORIGINALT ENGLISH

Thirty-ninth session
Agenda iten 98

INTER,NATIONAI COVE NANTS ON HUMAN RIGHIS

Repor t of the Third Conmittee

3ggPe!!S 'rr: l'1r. Grzegorz POLOIIC ZYR 
(PoIand)

I. INTRODIrcTION
.' I. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 2l Septenber 1984, the ceneral Assembly, on the
! recorunendation of the ceneral comm.lttee, decided to include in the agenda of its
, 

thirty-ninth session the iten entitled:

+ t., - =..,- ---,ra]" covenants on Hunan Rightsr
n(a) Repor t of tie ltunan Riqhts Committee.,

" (b) Status of the International co\renant on lbonomic, social and Cultural
Ridrts, t}le fnternational Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the
Optional Protocol- to the International Covenant on CiviL and PoliticaL
Ri$rts: report of the Secr e tary-ceneral'

" (c) Elaboration of a second optional protocol to the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights, aining at the abolition of the death
penal!y"

and to allocate it to the Third conmittee.

: ,, The Thiral committee considered the item jointly with items 95, 96, 97 anal 99
aE its 44th to 45th, 48th to 52nd, 56th, 57th and 60th neetings, on 19 Xo 2It 23t

- 26 to 28 Novefiber and 3 and 5 Decenber 1984. An account of the Connitteers
i discussion is contained in the relevant surunary records (A/C.3 /39/5R.44-46 , 48-52,
* 

56, 57 and 60).

-
84-3 2300 0214P (E) /...



A/39/707
EngIish
Page 2

3. The comnittee had before it the followj'ng documents"

(a) Report of the rbonomic and social council' chapter III, section c' and
chapter v, seccion A, and chaPtet v'Lr 6/39/3, 1 U

(b) Report of the Hunan Rights Conmitteel U

(c) status of the International covenant on Econonic, social and cultural
Rights, the International co\tenant on civil and Political Rights and the optional
pr;tocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights: refrort of
the secretary-Gener aI lN39/a6Ll t

(d) Repor t ing obligations of States parties to the fnternational Covenants on
Hutnan Rights and the International convention on the Elimination of ALl Forns of
Racial Discrininationl note by the secr e tary-Gener aI (A/ 39/ 4841 '.

(e) Elaboraeion of a second optional protocol- to the International covenant
on civil and political Rights, aining at the abolition of the death penaltyr note
by the secretarlF-Gen era I (N39/53511

(f) Report of the Human Rights Corunittee'. note by the Secr e tary-Cenera I
(N3e/644't I

(S) Letter dated 15 l,tar ch 1984 from the char96 drAffaires a.i' of the
Pernanent l4ission of Bangladesh to the united Mtions addressed to the
sec€tary-c€neral, transnitting the final declaration and resolutions adoPted at
the Rrurteenth Islamic conference of !'oreign Ministers, held at Dhaka fron 6 to
tO Decenber 19 83 (A/ 39,/13 3-s/L6 aU ) i

(h) Lecter dated 23 July 1984 from the Permanent Representative of the syrian
Arab Republlc tO the united Nations addressed to the secretary-Gener al,
transmitting the text of the letter dated 1 l4ay 1984 fron t'he Pernanent
Representative of the Syrian Arab ReFtblic to ttle United Nations addlessed to the
President of tlle security council lA/39/360'l i

(i) Letter dated 15 fttober 1984 fron the Permanent Representative of
Nicaragua to the United Nations addressed to tie SecT e tary-General, transnitting
the resolutions and other documents of tshe Third Conference of l,tinisters of Labour
of Non-AI igned countries and other Developing countries, hel-d at l"lanagua fron 10 to
12 !4ay 1984 (N39/581-s/ L678 2 and Corr.l).

yl\f,beissuedasofficialRecordsofttreGenelalAssembly,Thirtv-ninth
session, supplenent No. 3 (N39/31 .

y of ficial of the al- As s emb

!

a

rt
Supplenent No. 40 (N39/4o and Cor r .l and

nth se



i
4. At the 44th meeting, on 19 No\renber,
Rights made an introductory statelnent.

v39/707
English
Page 3

the Aasistant secretary-c€neral for Human

II. CONSIDBRATION OF PROPOSAIS

A. Draf t resolution A/C.3/39lL.69
5. At the 55th neeting, on 3 December, the representative of !,ror$ray introduced a
draft resorut ion lA/c.3/39lL.69) enEitred 'The rnternationar ccn enantE on Human
!iqe":, sponsored by Australia, Brlgaria, Canada, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Denmark,Frlralrd ' rqelanal, Jtarv, tie Neth€rrands, Nicaragua, Nori'ay, peru, spain, snedenand the united xingdom of creat gricain and Northern ire lanelg/-
5. At the 57th meeting, on 3 D€cenber, the representat ive of Norway, on behalf of
the sponsors' oralry revised operative paragraph 14 of the draft resolution by
deretlng the word 'again' after the word i!5gn and by adding the rrordE icontinue
toi before the vrords ito expeditei.

7- At the same rneeting, the connit.tee adopted draft resolug lon Nc.3/3g/L.69, asorally revised, witloue a vot€ (see para. 151 draft resolution I).

B. Draft reBolution A/C.3/39lf,.48 anal Rev.I
8- At the 55th meeting, on 3 December, the representative of the trederal RepubLic
of Germany introduced a draft resolution (Mc.3/39/L.49) entitred rEraboration of a
second optionar protocol to the rnterhatlonal covenant on civir and poriticar

I
Rights, aiming at the abolition of the death penaltyn, aponsored by Argentlna,
Austria, BeIgiun, Cape Verde, Colonbia, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Derunar k r- ttE@i"e!
Iceland, Italy, Luxenbourq, the
solornon I6lands, Spaln, $reden

9. At the 60th meeting, on 5 December, the representative of ttre Federal Republic
of cerrnany' on behalf of the aponsors, introduced a revised text of the draft
resoLution lL/c-3/39/L.48nev.r) , whidr contalned the following revislonst

(a) fn the second preanbular paragraph, after the rrords "Secalling also its',
tjxe words rresolutt on 37 /L92 of l8 Decenber 19 82 requesting' weiE-iEllac-ea by the
words irequest ton,

(b) In tie third preanbular paragraph, t}|e nord6 'gg.bL!Li!]9gg,gg" were
repraced by '!@g--!s9j?!.' and the word 'of r was inserted beteeen the nordsiPrevention' and'Discriminationtt

y At ttre 58th neeting, on 4 Decernber, t}Ie
tiat his delegation as6ociated itself r|it]l draft
should have tiked to cesponaor.

Honduras,

representative of Ecuador stated
resolution A/C.3/39/L.69 h'hich it

uruguay.

)



pl39/707
English
Page 4

(c) In the last preambular paragraph, the word nttotlng ' rras replaced by the
Yrords'!eEi!ry!s-3]lg9"

(d) operative trbragraph I, thidr readt
illelcomes the consideratlon belng given and the action being taken by the

Comnisaion on Hurnan Rights and tie sub-Comrniss lon and encourages tie
conEnission and the srubcomrnission to continue to give careful and thorough
conslderation to t}|e idea of elaborating a draft of a second optional Protocol
to the International covenant on civil and Politica1 Rights, aitnlng at the
abolition of the death Penalty"

wa6 replaced by the follo'eing textr

'BgueElg the cornmisslon on Eunan Rights and the sutscontniasion to
conElder further the idea of elaborating a draft of a second cFtional Protocol
to tbe International covenant on civil and Polltlcal Rlghts, altning at the
abofition of the death penaltyrt

(e) In operative paragraph 2, before the rrord 'state", the word "alln was
replaced by 'l€Itlber I, and the words 'wh ich are in a position to do so" t ere added
after the wordE 'l,lenber Statee't

(f) In a,peratlve paragral*Is 3 and 4, tlle rrords iforty-first session" was
replaced by the tords rforty-second sessionr.

10. At the same neeting, the representatlve of the Federal RePublic of Germany
wihhdrew hia reviEion of the second preadrular paragraph.

1I. At the eane tneeting. the Cornmittee adoPted draft resolution
Nc.3/39/L.48/Rert.l' as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 57 to I8. with
50 abstentions (see para. 15, draft reaolution II). The voting was as follorrs: j!/

In favour.. Argentina, Augtralla, Au€trla, Be1gium, BoIivia, Brazl.I, Burundl,
Canada, Central Afrlcan RepubLic, ChiIe, Colotnbla, Congo, Coata
n1ca, cyprus, Denmark, tbninican ReFrblic, Ecuador. El salvador,
FiJi, Finland. France, cabon, cermany, Federal Republtc of,
creece, cuatenrala, Guyana, Ilaiti, Ilondura6, Iceland, Ireland,
Ivory Coaat, .tamalca. .tapan, Kenyar Luxenbourg, UaIi, Mexico,
tletherlands, Netr zealandr Nicaragua. llorway, Panarna, Papua Nelt
Guinea, Portugal, Rrranda, sanoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Spain,
Suriname, Sreden, !ogo, Trinidad and lbbago, Turkey, United
Klngdom of creat Britain and Northern lreland, United States of
lnerlca, uruguay, venezuela.

y The delegatlon of Italy lndicated that itE vote had not been recorded and
tJtat it had voted in favour of the draft resolution. The representativea of cape
verde and Peru indicated that, had tlley been Present during the voting ' theirdelegatlons sould have voted ln favour of Ule draft resoLution.

!

I

I



^

-

v39/707
English
Page 5

Againatr Bahrain, Bangladesh, Iraq, .tordan, Kuwait, Libyan Arab
,tanahir iya, l,laldtves, oran, Pakistan, Oatar, saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republicr ljlrited
Arab Emirateg, Yenen.

Abstainingr Afgbanistan, Algerla, Angola, Bahanas, Barbados, Benin, Botswana,
Brunei Darussalam, Bu1garia, Burkina FaEo, Burna, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, china, cuba, czecho6lorrak la.
Eglpt, Ethiopia, Ganbia, cerman Denrocratic Relxtblic, chana,
Hungary, India, Iran (Islamic ltepublic of), Israel, Lao People.s
Democratic Regrblic, I€banon, Lesotho, Llberia. !,ladagascar,
Malawi, llalaysia, f.tauritania, ItongoLia, Niger, Nigeria, paraguay,
Poland, Sri Lanka, ${aziland, IhaiLand, nrnisla, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist fiepublic, tnion of Soviet Socialist
ReFrblics, United ReFlblic of Tanzania, Viet Nan, yugoslavia,
za i.re, zar$i a.

C. Draft resolutton A/C.3/39^,.70

L2. At the 56th neeting, on 3 December I the representative of Italy introduced a
draft resolution (A/c.3/39,/L.70) entttled il|eportlng obllgations of the states
parties to the United Nations conventions on human rights", sponsored by Finland,
IEry and 9iE3!, as $eII as Belsium and the @,
aubseguently joined by @ll!g and Jamaica, whidl she oraLly revlsed by replaclng
the word 'harrEnizei wittr the word rimprove" before the wordg 'the existing
repor t ing systemai in tie last preanbular paragraph.

13. At the 60th meeCing, on 5 tJecenber, the representative of ftaly further orally
revised tie draft resolution as follolrs:

(a! In operative paragraph I, after the words 'including their respect ive
reporting systemsi, the words iunder duly ratified or acceded inBtrunlents' were
deleted t

(b, In operative lEragraph 3, tbe words "the ctrairpersons of" were Lnserted
between the nords "]ts.ryE the view tlat the presence of. and the words .all
bodies concerned with reporting obligationsi.

L4. At the aame meeting, the Connittee aatopted draft resolutLon A/C.3/39/t.70, as
orally revised, without a vote (see para. 15. draft reaolution IIII .

t

t



N 39/7 o7
English
Page 6

I1I. NECOIi4IGNDATIONS OF' THE THIRD COMIIITTEE

15. The Third corurltcee recorunends to the General Asselbly the adoption of the
follofling draf t reaolutions'.

DRAFT RESOIUT ION I

International Covenanta on Hunan Rlghts

!!]g.9.f3aesll.,
RecalLing its resolutions 33/5L of 14 Decenber L978' 34/45 of

23 I'lqrenber L979 ' 35/L32 
of ll EEcenber 1980, 35,/58 of 25 No\tetiber I98I,

37/LgL of 18 December 1982 and 38,/116 and 38/LL7 of 16 December 1983,

Taking note of t}|e report of the secretarlbceneral 9/ on the status of
the International covenant on EconomLc, soclal and cultural Rights. 9/ the
International co\renant on Civil and Ifolitical Rights' V and the oPtional
protocol to tbe International co\tenant on Civil and Politlcal Rlgbts ' 

q/

Noting with apprectatlon tlat, foIlowlng its aPPeal, rnore libnber states
have acceded to the International Co\tenantB on Hunan Right6, g/

Recoqmizing the inPortant role of the llunan Rlghts conunittee in the
implernEntatlon of the Inlernatlonal Covenant on civil and Political Rlghts and
the Optional Protocol thereto,

Taking into account the useful wor k of t}le sessional $orking GrouP of
covernnental D(perts on the Inp:Lementation of the International co\tenant on
Economic, social and cultural Rights,

Bearing in nind the important resFons ibitlties of, the Econonic and Soclal
CourE iI ln relation to the International Covenant€ on Hunan Rights,

l. t'lotes rrtith appreclatlon ttre report of the l{uman RightE Conmittee on
its twentieti, tnenty-first and twenty-aecond geesions, !/ and exlEesSea
satisfactlon with the serlous and constructive manner ln which the Comittee
ls continuing to undertake lts functions?

Y N3e/46L'
y Resolution 2200 A (III) ' annex.

U offlcial Records of the Generar AFseliblv' thirty-nlnth sesslon'
Supplenent No. 40 lA/39/40 and Corr.I and 2).

!

I

.a

.

!



-

A/39/707
English
Page 7

2. D{press€6 its appreclation to the states parties to the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights that have submltEed tltek
reports under article 40 of ttre co\tenant and urges state€ Parties that have
not yet done ao to sutrmit tieir reports to the Human Rights, cotmittee as
speedlly as possiblel

3. glEE those States partles to the International co\tenant on Civil
and Polltical Right6 that have been requested by the guman Rlght8 Conrnittee to
provide additional informatlon to comply witi that requestt

4. Connenda tlose States Parties to the Internatlonal Cottenant on
Econornic, Social and Cultural RlEltB tl|at have submitted tleir r'epor ts under
article 16 of the Covenant and urge6 Staees tiat have not yet done eo to
submit t}le lr reports as soon as posaiblet

5. Notes niti sati8faction tiat lhe majority of State€ partieB to the
International covenant on civil and Po.Litical Rights, and an increasing nutnber
of states partles to the International covenant on Econonic, soclal and
Cultural Rightsr hav€ been rePresented by exper ta for the presentatlon of
ttte ir report€' thereby assisting the ltunan Rights connittee and the Economic
ard Social council in their work, and hoPes that all states parties to both
Cotrenants wlll arrange such representation ln the futurei

5. Again urges all states tiat have not yet done Bo to becone Parties
to the International co\renant on Ebonomic ' social and cultural Rights and theInternatlonal co\renant on civil and Political Rightsr as vrell. aE to consider
accedlng to the Qtional ProtocoL to the Internatlonal covenant on Clvil and
Political Rigtttsl

7. Inyileq the states lrartles to ttle International Covenant on civil
and Polltlcal Rights to consider making ttre declaration protrided for in
article 4l of the Covenantt

8. Bnphaslzes the lnportance of the stricteat compllance by states
parties trith their obligations under the International Covenant on Econotnic,
Social and Cu1tural Rights and the International cottenant on Civil and
Political Rlghts and, here appllcable, the oPtional Protocol to the
fnternatlonal co\renant on civil and Political Rightst

9. Request6 lhe secretarfceneral to keep the Human Rights Conmittee
inforned of the relevant activities of the ceneral A€sembly, the Economic and
Social Council, tbe Conmission on Hunan Rights, tbe suFconmis€ion on
prevention of Dlscr inination and Protection of Minorities, the Comnittee on
the Elinination of RaciaL Discrlnlnation and the Cormlittee on the Elinination
of Discrimlnation against t{ornen and al6o to transmit the annual reF}orts of the
Hunan nights Cornrnlttee to those bodiest

)

i



A/ 39 /7 O7
English
Page I

10. Looks forward to the report of the Sece tary-ceneral to be submitted
to the Econonic and Soclal Council at its first reguLar session of 1985 on the
cornposition, organization and administratlve arr.angements of the Sessional
working croup of co\rernm€ntal D<perts on the Implementatlon of the
InternationaL Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and other
bodies established 1n accordance witII existing international inatrutnents in
the field of hunan rights in accordance witlr Council resolution I9A2/33 of
5 tvhy 1982t

lf. !{glre the decision by the Econonic and s'ocia1 Council in its
resolution L984/9 of 24 [4ay 1984 to conduct the review a! an early stage of
its first regular sesslon of 1985 to allow enough tine for a full discusslon
of this inportant natter t

12. .Ec@!g the SeCr e tary-@nera I to subnit to the ceneral Assernbly at
its fortieth session a report on the status of the International Covenant on
Flconomic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on civil and
Political Rlghts and the Optional Protocol to the fnternational Covenant on
civil and Political Ri$rts1

13. Urges again the Secr e tary-cenera I, taking into account the
suggestions of the Human Rights Conmittee; !o take deternined steps wlthln
existing resources to give nore publicity to the work of the Human Rights
Corunittee and similarly to tie work of the Economic and Social Council and its
Sessional tdorking croup and to iml[ove the adrninistrative and related
arrangernehts to enable tiem to carry out t}Ie ir respective functiona
effectively under the International Covenants on Hunan Rights?

14. llI$g the Secrelar lt-Gen eral to continue to expdite the publication
of the officlal publlc records of the Hunan Rights Committee in bound volunes,
as indicated in ceneral Asselbly resolution 37/L9L. starting with its first
s ess ion t

15. Requests the Secre tary-Genera I to ensure that t}|e Centre for Human
Rights of the SecretariaC effectively assiats the Human Rights Connittee and
the Economic and Social Council in the irnplenentation of tieir respective
functions under the International Covenants on Hunan Rights.

DRAF1T FtsSOT,UTION II

Elaboration of a second optional protocol to the International
Covenant on Civii and Polltical Riqhts, airning at the abolition

of the death penalty

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recallinq its decision 35/437 of 15 December 1980 and its resolution
36/59 of 25 No\renber I9SL concerning the idea of elaborating a draft of a

!

a

a



r-.
t-

A/39/707
English
Paqe g

second optional protocol to the rnternational covenant on civll and politicat
Rights, g/ aiming at the abolition of the deatl penalty,

RecalLinq also its resolution 37/L92 of 18 Decernber Lggz, in which it
requested the conunission on Human Rigtrts to consider the idea of eraborating adraft of a second optionar protocol to the rnternational covenant on civir and
Political Rights, aining at the abolition of the death penalty,

Taking note of Conrnission on Human Rights resolution 1984,/19 of
6 l.tarch 1984 y and the acLion taken by the Sub.-Commission on prevention of
Discrininablon and protection of l,tinorities to inplement thi6 regolution,

Taking note also the repott of the Ses etary-ceneral, lgl
I. Requests the Comnission on Hurnan Rights and the Sub-Comrnission on

Prevention of Discrinination and protection of l4inorities to consider further
the idea of elaborating a draft of a second optionaL protocol to the
rnternatlonal- covenant on civir and po]lticar Rights, aiming at the aborition
of the death penaltyi

2. Invites Menber States whidr are in a position to do so, specialized
agencies and international 0rganizations to assisc the commisslon and ttre
su b-Cornmis s ion 1n the consideration of this question?

3. Requests ttre S€cretarlEc€neral to lnforrn the c€neral Assembly aC its
for t!r-s econd session of the consideration given Co tiis question by the
Cornmiss ion and the sub-Conrnissiont

4. Decides to continue its conslderation of, this question at its
forty-second 6eesion' in the light of the accion taken by the commission and
the sub-comnisslon, under the itern entitled trrnternational covenants on Human
Rightsi.

DRAFT FESOT,UTION III

The General Assernbly,

Recalling its resolutions 37/44 of 3 Decenber I9B2 and 3A/LL7 of
16 Decerb er 1983, concerning the reporting obligatlons of states partles
united Nations conventions on human rights,

v Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

to

I'

I

-

)

a

9/ -9:. 9f fic+l Records of $re ial council, t984, supplenentq! (E/f984/14). chap. rr, sect. A.

c.,onvention€ on hunan r ight6

n/ A/39/535.



N39/707
English
Page I0

conaialer lnn that the General Assenbly, as the najor organ of t'he united
natioiE-Eilllled to adopt conventions on human rights' is ln the positlon to
take an overvien on thelr indementation as an lnteglabed Eysten of
substantive pro\riaions and reporting obllgations of statea parties to the
varioug conventlons,

!

{

f1

a

J

a

q:1g!g'9 that
essential elenent of
assessnent of thelr

the fulfilnent of reporting obligations constltute8 an
co-operation by the States parties in contributing to the

conpl iance wlt}I tieir obligations,

Bearinq in mind the rePort of Ule Secretary-General on the reporting
obllgatlonE of States Parties under varioua Unlted Nationa conventiona on
hunan righte, ly

Ilaving coneidered the report of the meetlng of the chairmen of the
Coxunission on t{uman Rights, the Human Rlghts Conunitteer the Sessional fio(kinq
croup of covernmental Exp€rts on tie Irnplenentation of the International
covehant on Economic, Social and Cultural RightE and the ConmiEtee on the
Elirnination of ttacial Dlscrimination' !a/

concerned about the problems exPerienced by the above{ent{oned bodies in
tfre tunctioning of the rePorting Procedures, includirq the burden whictl
several coexlating rePortlng aystelns placeg uPon States partles to the
convent lons on hurnan rlgftts,

convinced therefore of the need to lmlEove ttle existing r€porting systena
in ordE-[ rerolve the problens experienced both by the bodies entrusted with
the consideration of t}le Periodlc rePorts of the states parties and by the
states partles to hunan rlghts conventionst

1. Re itera tes the imFortance it attadles to tie obllgations established
unaer lnternational conventionsl includlng the ir resp€ctive reporting systensl

2. Takes note wltll interest of the rePort of tJle neeling of tbe
Cha lrnen ot ttre Conmlesion on ltuman Rights, the Hunan Rlghts Committee, the
seaslonal t{orklng Group of Governnental ExPertE on the Inplementation of the
Internatlonal covenant on fEonomic, $bclal and cultural Rlghts and the
Conmittee on ttle Elimination of Iracial Discrinlnatlon' containing suggeatlons
made by the chairmen witlr regard to exchange of information atnong their
respectlve bodl.es, co-ordlnation of guidellnes for the submisslon of the
reportG of Statea partles, advlsory services and assistance to States parties
to the varioqs hunan rlghts conventions and other matterst

LT/

lv
N38/393.

V39l484, annex.



I
-

A/39/707
English
Page fI

3. Expresses the view tiat the presence of the chairnen of al1 bodies
concerned witi reporting obligations of the States pareies to United Nations
conventions on hunan rights vrould have further contributed to the review of
problems experienced in the functioning of reporting proceduresi

4. Acknowledqes that conmon problens have arisen in the functioning of
t}|e reporting procedures, thus indicating the necessity of considering then
within the overall franework of reporting obligations of states parties under
the various hunan rights conventions'7

5. Decides to keep under consideration the problems that have arisen
from the coexistence of several different reporting systems, in particular the
pro].iferation of reporting obligations under the various instrumenls' as well
as the serious delays \.rhi ch have occurred in the subnission of reportst

6. Requests to that effect the Secletary-cener al to subnit to the
ceneral Assembly at its fortieth session a report containing:

(a) Updated inforrnation on the general situation of Che submissi.on of
repor ts of States lrErties to all conventj.ons wh ict) are already in force. thus
enabling the ceneral Assernbly to take an overview of the futfilnent of all
reporting obligations and to consider how to achieve an improvenent,
particularly in the interest of States parties with linited technical and
adnin istra t ive resources..

(b) A consolidated text of the guidelines of the various bodies
entrusted with the consideration of the reports of States parEies on the
implementation of all United Nations conventions on human rightsi

7. RequesEs the Commission on Human Rights to consider Ehe suggestions
nade by the Chairnen on advisory services in the context of its standing iten
concerning advisory services in the field of human rightsi

8. Decides to consider the questj.on of reporting obligations of States
parties to United Nations conventions on hunlan rights in the light of the
repor t of the Secr e tary-cener a 1 under paragraph 6 above and to consider also
the evenCual convening of another meeting of the Chairnen of the bodies
entrusted witi the consideration of the repores of the States part j.est

9. Invites the bodies concerned to give particular attention to the
present resolution when they next neett

I0. Decides to consider the natter at its fortieth session, in the 1i9ht
of the report of the Secr e Cary-ceneral under paragraph 6 above.

f

D




