








































UNITED
NATIONS

General AssemblY Dislr,
GENERAL

A/40/ 969
4 Decernber 1985
ENGLISE
ORIGINAL! FRENCH

For t i.eth session
Agenda item 102

HUMAN RIGHTS AND SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNOLOGICAL DEVEI,OPMENTS

Report of the -!hirg-qe[tgi!!S9
Rapporteur: Mr. Paul-D6si16 KABoRE (Burkina Faso)

INTRODUCTION

l. At its 3rd Plenary meeting. on 20 septenber 1985, the General Assembly' 
on the

recommendatio., oi tn" General cornmittee, decided to include in the agenda 
of lts

fortieth session the item entitled "Hurnan righEs and scientific and technological
developments" and to allocate it to the Third Connitlee'

2. The Third commlttee consi.dered the iten iointly ttith itens 19-t' tol: 104 
and

144 at its 46th to 48tb, 5oth to 53rd, 58th and 60th fteet 
j-nqs on 19 to 22' 25 afid

29 November and 2 December 1985. An account of the discussion of the conmittee 
is

contained in the relevant sumnary records (A/C.3/40/5R.46-48, 50-53' 58 
and 60) '

3. The Cornnittee had before it the folloeing drcurnentation:

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council' chapter V' section 
A

(A/ 40/3\ i !/

(b) HDman riqhts and scientific and technological developmenls: report of
the sec r elarv-Gener a I (A/40/493 and Add'1 and 2) '

4. At the 46th meeting' on 19 Novenber. the Assistant secr etary-Gene ral for 
Human

Riqhts made an introductory staterrent'

!/ To be issued as
Sqssion. SuPPlenent No. 3

85-36036 0316P (E)

40/3/Rev.



A/40/969
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATTON OF DRAFT RESO],UTIONS

A. Draft resolUri.on A/C.3,/401L.62
5. At Che 58th meetinq, on 29 Nouenber, the represengative of the United KLngdom
of Great Britain and Northern rrelanr introduced a dratt resorution (A/c.3/40/L.621
entitled rrlnplications of scientitic and technoLogical deveLopments of human
llSl!?ll:. sponsored by Bolivia, Cotornbia. Cosra Rica, Fi.ii, rhe Ivory Coast (C6re,: t""rrel , lramalca , the Netherlands, Nornav, Sanoa, Srreden and the United
f itlqgoln.ot cre4t gritain ana Nortle@riginal sponsor
and Honduras and Sinqapore. ttte - epiElEntltTve of tbe unitea xingaom orally
corrected the title to read ,'Inplications of scientific and technolooica-
develoDments for hunan rights".

6. At its 60th meecing, on 2 Decenber. the Comnittee adopted the draft
resolution, as ora1ly corrected. oithout a voCe (see para. 11. draft resolution I)

B. Drat ! resolution A1C.3,/40,/L.65

7. At the 58th meeting, on 29 Novenber. the representattve of t.he Union of Sovlet
sociarist Republics lntroduced a draft resorution (A/c.3/Ao/L.65) entitled "Hunanrlgbts and use of 6cientif i.c and t.echnological developments',, sponsored by
+fghaniglao, AnqoIa. Benln, Bulqari.a, the Byelorussian Soviet socialist Repqqllq,

1a , the German Denocratic ReDublic,
Hulgary, India, tne r.ao peopjeii oEiEiEE-I!- oJic, @,g.1ir.yoncolia. mozamuique, Nicaraqqa, Niqerla, poland, Ro;;;i;;-TI;-E;;]E-qr!-6
+p!!+fg, the ukrainian sovier socilRepubl ics rno vffiand zambia.
I' At its 60th meeting' on 2 December.. the comnittee adopted the draft resolution
bv a recorded vote of 109 !o 6, q,ith t9 abstentions (see para. ll, draft
resolut.ion II). Tbe voting r,^ra s as follorrs.. 2/

In favour: Afghanistan, Alqeri.a. Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Arqentina,
Bahrain, Bangladesh. Barbados, Benin. Bhutan, Bolj.9ia, Bolst,ana.
Brazi.L, Brunei Darussalan, Butgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundj,, Byelorussi.an Soviet socialist Republic, Caneroon,
Central African Republic. Chad. China, Colonbia, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Kampuchea. Dernocratic yemen,
Dlibouti, Domini.can Republic, Ecuador, Eqypt, Ethiopia, Fiji.
cabon, Gernan Denocra!ic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
cuinea. Guyana. Haiti. Honduras, Hungary. India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islanic Republic of). Irao, fvory Coast (C6te d,fvoire), Jordan,
Kenya. Kuwai!, Lao peopters Denocratic Republic, Lebanon,

?/ rhe
present dur inq

represenlative of the carnbj.a indicated that, bad his delegation been
the voting, it i,,ould have voted in favour of the draft resolution.



A9Ei4:

Absla ini nq:

9. Ar the 58th
Soviet socialist
"Human rights and

A/40/969
Enq lish
Page 3

Lesotho,Liberia,LibYanArabJanahiriva,Uadaqascar'lr{alaysia'
MaIdives, Uali. Maurltania, Mexico, i4ongolia, morocco'
Mozanbique, Nicaraqua, Niger' Nigeria, onan, Pakistan' Panama'
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay. Peru. Philippines, Poland' Qalar'
Ronania. Rlranda' sanoa, saudi Arabia, senegal, slngapore'
Sonalia. Sri Lanka. Sudan, suriname, Suaziland, Syrian Arat)
Republic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago. Tunisia' Uqanda'
Ukrainian soviet socialist Republic' union of soviet soclalist
Republlcs, united Arab Emirates, united RePublic of Tanzania'
Uruguay' venezuela, viet Nam, Yenen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zarnbia'
Z inbabue.

France, Germany' Federal Republic of. Italy' Unite'l
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of

Australla, Austria, Belgiun, Chile, Dennark. Finland' Iceland'
Irel-and, IsraeI, Japan. Luxenbourq' tilalaei' Netherlands' N-aw
zealand. Noreay, PorCugal, SPain' sxeden' Turkey'

c. Draft resolution A/c.3,/4o,/Lr69

neeting' on 29 November' the representatiee of the Byelorussian
Republic introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/4O/t"69) entltled
scientitic and tecbnoloqical developnentsn, sponsored by

Canada,
I(ingdorrl
Aner ica,

Neoal. Nicaraqua. Poland, Romanla' ie!qq Leone'
ard 3g!!!g as tell as czechoslovakia, as original

l:gt, tne
Deqocratic Yenen, the @igig3Lg:egqLlg, the
Gu l nea- , the

In favour:

ahe svrian Arab RePublic, viet Nan
sponsor, subseouentlY joined bY

), the

Ben i n.

Lo. At its 6och neeting. on 2 Decenber, the co$rrittee adopted the draft resolution
by a recorde.t vote of ll3 to none, 'rith 23 abstentions (see para' ll' draft
resolutj.on III) . The voting was as folloes:

Afghanistan, Al9eria, Angola, Anttgua and Barbuda' Argentina'
Bahrain. Bangladesh. Barbados, Benln, Bttutan, Boliuia, Botseana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, BuIgaria, Burkina Faso' Burna'
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Sociatist Republic, carneroon.
Central African Republic' Chad. Chile, China, Colonbia, Congo'
cuba, cyprus. czec hosl.ovak ia. Denocratic Kampucbea, Democratlc
Yenen, Djibouti, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Eqypt, Echiopia,
FiJi, Gabon, Gatnbia, German Dem@ratic Reputtlic' Ghana, Greece'
Guatenala, Guinea, Guinea-Bigsau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras'
llunqary, India. Indonesia. rran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ivory coast (ca!e d'Ivoire), Jordan' Kenya, Kutrait, Lao Peoplers
Denocratic Republic, Lebanon. Lesotho, Liberia' Libyan Arab



A/4O/96e
English
Paqe 4

Aqainst!

Abstaininq;

Janahlriya, !'tadaqascar, Malaysia, MaIdives, !4a1i, Mauritania,
Me:tico, Monqolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, panana, papua Ner| Guinea, paraquay, peru,
Philippines, Poland, eatar, Ronanla, Rwanda, Sanioa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Sonalia, Sri lJanka, Sudah, Surinarne.
Swaziland. Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo. Trinidad and
Tobago, Tuni.sia, Turkey, Uganda, ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Uoion of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arat)
Enirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yenen, Yugoslavi.a, Zaire, Zambia, Zinbabee.

None.

AuslraIla, Austria, Belgiutt, Canada, Denftark, Finl.and, France.
Gernany, Federal Republic ot, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Luxenbourg. MaIaHi, Netherlands, New ZeaLand, Norway,
Portugal. Spain, S{eden, Unlted Kinqdon of creat Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

III. RECO!4I{ENDATIONS
lr. The Third committee recomnends to the Generar Assenbry the adoption of the
follolring draft resolutions,

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

The General Assenb lv.

Recallinq its resolution 33/53 of 14 Decenber l9?9, in ehich it reduesteal
the Connission on Hunan Rigtrt.s to urge the Sub-Commission on preventi,on of,
Discrimination and protection of uinorities to undertake. as a natter ofpriority. a study of the question of the protection of those detained on the
qrounds of nental i1l-health, oitb a view to formulating guidelines,

Recallinq also its resolution 39/132 of 14 Decenber 1994, in $hich rr
urged tbe connission on Hurnan Rights and the sub-connisaion on prevention of
Discrimination and Prot.ection of Minorities to expedlte their consideration of
this question, so that the Connission could submit itg vier.s and
r ecornmendat ions, includlng a draft body of guidelines, principles and
quarantees, to the ceneral Assenbly at its fort.y-first session throuqh the
Econonic and social Counc i I .

Reqallino furlher Econonic and Social Council resolution 19g4/33 ano
decision 1984/142 of 24 f"tay 1984,

f or buman r i,qhts



A/40/96e
Engli sh
Page 5

Notino oith concern that the Conmission on lluman Rlghts t ill not be in a
posltion to subnit its vierrs and recdnmendationa to Che General Assembly at
its forty-ftrst sesslon throuqh tbe Econornic and Social Council because the
Sub-Conntssion on Prevention of Discrinlnation and Protectlon of Mlnorities
bas still not concluded its consideratlon of the draft boaly of guidelines'
pr inciples and guarantees,

Reaffirmlnq its conviction that detention of persons in nental
institutions on account of their political views or on oEher non-nedical
qrounds is a violation of their hunan rights,

Aoain urqes tbe Connission on Hunan Rights and, through it, the
Sub-Conmission on Prevention of Discrlnination and Protection of, l4inorities to
expedite their consideration ot the draft body of guidelines, principles and
guarantees, so that the Connission can submit ita viess and recomnendat ions,
includlnq a draft body of guidellnes, principles and guarantees, to the
General Assembly at its forty-aecond session, througb tbe Econonic and social
Counc i l.

DRAFT RISOLUTION II

Hunan riqbts and use of scientific and technoloqlcal developoents

The General Assenbly,

Reaffirnj.ng the deternination of che peoples of lbe United Nations to
save succeeding qenerations fron Che scourge of ear. to reatfirm falth in the
dignity and rdortb of the human person, to naintaln international peace and
security and to develop frienalty relations among peoples and international
co-operation in promot.ing and encouraging universal respect for human rights
and fundanental f r eedons.

RecaIIing the relevant provisions of cbe Universal Declaraeion of Hunan
Rlqhts' / Cne fnternational covenant on Econonic, social and Cultural
Rights 4/ and the International Covenant on Civil and Polilical Right.s, 4/

Recallinq also the Cbarter of
the Declaration and the Programne
Internatlonal Econonic Order, 6/

Econonic Rlghts and Duties of states 5/ and
of Action on the Establistrment of a Nee

2/

!/
2/

9/

Resolutlon 217 A (III).

Reaolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

Resolution 3281 (XXIX).

Resolutions 3201 (S-vI) anal 3202 (s-w).



A/40/969
English
Page 5

Recallinq further the Declaration on the strengthening of roternationar
Security. ]/ the Declaraeion on the Use of Scientlflc and Technolog ica!.
Progresa in the Interests of peace and for the Benefit of Mankind. g,/ the
Declaration on the Preparation of Sei.eties for IJif e in peace, !/ tfreDeclaracion on the prevencion of Nuclear caeastrophe ]g/ ana th; Declarationon the Right of Peoples to peace, ILl as eell as ceneral Assenbly resolutions36/92 r of 9 Decenber 1981 on the non-use of nuclear ueapons and prevention of
nucrear rrar, and 37/r0o c of 1.3 Deceinber l9B2 and 3g/73 c of 15 December 1983
on a convention on the prohibition of the use of nuclear rreapons,

Bearinq in mind that, in it.s resolution gA/75 of 15 December 1993. the
General Assembly resolutely, unconditionally and for all tine condemned
nuclear far as being contrary to human conscience and reason, as the no6t
nonstrous crlne againat peoples and as a violation of the forernost hunan
r19ht - ttte right to life,

Rgca]linq its appeal for the concluBion of an internalional convention on
the prohibition of the use of nuclear oeapons eith the participation of all
the nuclear-eeapon States,

Takinq note oith appreciation of Conmission on lluman Rights re3olutrons
L982/7 ot 19 February L982, L2/ 1983/{3 of 9 t{arch f9B3 lll aod tg\4/28 of12 trtarch f984. L4/

Reaffirminq the inherent right to Life,

Profoundrv concerned that. international peace and gecuri,ty conti,nue to be
threatened by the arms race in all its aspects. particularly the nucl.ear arms
race' as eell as by violations of the principles of the charter of ehe united
Nations regarding the sovereignty and terrltorial inteqrity ot states and the
3e I f-deterni nat ion of peoples,

7/

9./

2/

J9./

]_v

Resolution 2734 (XXVI .

Resolution 3384 (XXX).

Resolut ion 33,/73.

Resolution 36/IOO.

Resolut ion 3 9,/11.

12/ see i
w @/79s2/r2 and Corr.l), chap. XXVI, sect. A.

Ibid., 1983. Supplement No. 3 G/t993/L3 aDd Corr.l), chap XXVII, sect. A.

Ibid.. 1984, Supplement No. 4 (E/1984/14 and Corr.t). chap. II, sect. A.

E/
l4/



A/40/969
Enqlistr
Page 7

4g!Ig that all the horrors of paat $ars and all other calanities that
haee befallen people $ould pale in conparison with ubat is lnherent in the use
of nuclear ?eapons capable of destrqting ciuilization on Earth,

Notlnq the pressing need for urgent measures toeards general and complete
disarnanent, particuLarly nuclear disarmanent, for the sake of life on Earth,

Recognizino that the fortieth anniversary of the United Nations -
established at the conclusion of the Second v,orld tlar, ehich had brought
untold sorrow to nankind - sbould serve to Dromote the riaht to life,

Convinced that for no people in the oorld toalay is there a more
question than that of the preservation of peace and of ensuring the
right of eeery human being. namely, the right to life,

EsgI]lgjg@ that.
Civil and Political Rights,

Recallinq the histor ic
ol the world to Eenove tbe
clvilization and to ensur e

l.
r ight to
condition
cu ltur al,

2. Stresses once aqai.n the urg
to nake every effort to strengthen pe
partlcularly nuclear rrar, halt the ar
disarnanent under effeclive internat i
the pri.nciples of the CharEer of the U

practical neagures of diaarnamene for
resources, which should be utilized f

4, Calls upon all States to do
the rlghe to life through the adoption
national and tbe lneernational Leveli

in accordance with the International Covenant on
any propaganda for war shalt be prohibited by lap,

responsibility of the Gover nents of all countries
tbreat of liar from tbe lives of peoPle, to preserve
that everyone enjoys his inberent tight to life,

rmportant
cardinal

Reaffirms lhae all peoples and all individuals haee an inherent
life and Ehat the safeguarding of t.his cardinal right is an essential

as irell as ciell. and politic+ , rightst

and territorial integrlty of States
thus contributing to en6uring the ri9 to lifei

3. Stresses further the for

need for gbe internatlonal cor|ullunity
, renove the groeinq threat of oar,
race and achieve general and conplete

control and prevent violations of
ted Nat,ions regardinq the soeerei.gnty
tbe sel f-detarmlnat ion of peoples,

inportance ot the irnplenentation
eleaslng Bubstantial add itj.onal
social and econonic develoPment '

ir uEnost to assist in i.nplernent ing
neasures at both theof appropr iate

of

partlcularly for the benefit of the loping countr iesi

5, Calls upon all States, appr iate orgsns of the Unlted Naeions,
specialized agencies and intergoeer and non-gover nmental orq a ni zat lons
concerned to take the necessary neasur
scientif 1c and technolog ical progress

to ensure that the results of

international peace, for the benefit
e used exclusively in lhe ineerests ot
nankind and for pronoting and
riohts and fundamental freedonsiencourag ing unluersal respect for



A/40/969
Eng 1i sh
Page I

5. Again caLls upon all StaCe6 that have not yet done so to take
etfeclive neasurea nith a vie$ to prohibtting any propaganda for ear, in
particul.ar the tornulatlon, propounding and dissenination of propaganda for
doctrines and concepea alrDed at unleashing nuclear rari

7, Looks forard to further eff,orts by the Conntssion on Human Rights
rith a view to en6uring t.he inherenl ri.ght of al.l peopl.es anat all individuals
to Iif et

8. Decides to consider this cuestion at its forty-first session under
the iten entitled nHurnan rights and scientific and technolog ical deeelopnenes"

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Human riqhts and scientific and technoloqicat developments

The General Assenblv,

!gj!i!g that scientific and tecbnologlcal progress is one of the inportan!
factors in the developnent. of buman Bocietyr

Recallinq tbat the year 1985 marks Che tenth anniversary of the
Declaration on the Use of sclentific and Technologlcal Progress in tbe
Interests of Peace and for the Benefit of l4ankind, adopted by the ceneral
Assembly in its resolution 3384 (XXX) of I0 Nouenber 1975,

Consi.der inq that the implenentation of the said Declaration vrill
contribute to the strengtbening of international peace and Che security of
peoples and to lheir economic and social develogtrent, ag eell as to
international co-operation in the field of hurnan rights,

Bearinq in nind the relevan! provisions of, Che Declaration on Social
Progress and Development . !2/

Se!iouslv concerned that the results of scientific and technological
progress could be used for the arma race to the detrinent cf in[ernational
peace and securi.ty and social progress, human rights and fundamentaL freedons
and the dignity of the hunan person,

Convinced that in Che era of nodern scientific and technological progress
the resources of mankind and the acliviCies of scientists should be uaed tor
the peaceful economic, social and cultural development of countries and for
improvinq the living standards of all people,

Recoqni2inq that. Che establishnent of the nee inEernational economic
order calls in partlcular for an inportant contribution to be nade by science
and technology to economic and s@ial progress,

l5l Resolution 2542 (XXIV),



2. Calls upon all
of science and technoloqy
cultural development and

A/40/969
Eng lish
Paqe 9

Bearinq i.q mind Ehat lhe e)rchanqe and transfer ot scientific and
technoloqical knoeledqe is one of the inportant ltays to accelerate lhe social
and econonic development of tbe develoPing countrrest

Noting r.ith satisfaction the report of the s ecr etary-Gener a I on hunan
r iqhtl-fiE-GElliflf ic a.d-TEEhnolos ical developnents, 16l

l. stresses the rmportance of the inplenentation by all slates ot the
prol'i*lons and .orinciples contained in the Declaration on the Use of
Scientific and Technological Proqress in the Interests of Peace and for the
Benefit of Manki.nd in order to prornote hunan rights and fundamental freedomst

States !o make every eftort to use the achievenentg
in order to promote Peaceful social, econonic and

progressi

3. Requests the specialj.zed aqencies and other organizations of che
unlted Natton6 system Eo take into account in their Progranmes and activitres
the provisions of the Declarationi

4. Invites lhose Menber states. specialized aqencies and other
orqanizations of the United Nations system tha! hai'e not vet done so to submit
their infornatlon pursuanc to General Assenblv resolutlon 35/130 A of
Il December 1980 t

5. S.gSggElE the Cottrnission on Hunan Rights to 
continue to giue special

attention. in its consideration of the ilen entilled "Ilunan riqhts 
and

scientific and tecbnologlcal (ievelopmentsi, co the ouestion of the
inpletnentation of the provisions of lhe Declarationi

6, Inviles the conmlssion on lluman Riqhts to take appropriate neasures
to assist ttle Sub-Connissioa on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection 

of

Minorities in preparing the studv reduested in itB resolutions 1982/4 of
19 February Lg82 11/ and !984/29 of 12 March 198at l9l

T.Decidegtoincludeincheprovisionalagendaotitsforty-firgt
session the itern entitleal "Iluman rlghls and scientific and tecbnological
develoDnentsi.

L6/ A/40/493 and Add. I and 2.

l7/ See Off 1C
No. 2 (E/1982 /12 and Cor r. I) , chap. xxvt I sect. A.

I8l Ibid., 1984. supPlenelt No. 4 (E/lgA4/14 and Corr.I) ' chap- 
II' sect. A'




