








































UI{ITED
NAT|Ol.lS

Gcncral Aesembly Distr.
GENENAL

A/40/883
14 Novenber 198 5

ORIGINAL: ANGLISH

Fortieth Seasion
Agenda lten 1I0

AC?IVITIES OF FOREIGI{ ECONd{IC AND OTITER INTtsRESTS WEICF ARE
IIIPEDING TIIE II,IPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLAR,ATION ON TtsE
GR.ANTING OF INDEPENDENCE TO COTONIAL COI'NTRIES AND PEOPLES
IN NMIBIA AND IN ATL OTHER TERRTTORIES TJNDER COL'ONIAI,
DOT,IINATION AND EFFORTS TO ELII.IINATE COLONIALISIII, AEA3@'

AND RACIAI, DISCRIMINATION IN SOTITHENN AFRICA

Report of lbe Fourtb Conrnlttee

.E!P-P9L99.9,!.! r'tr. Stefano S?EI'ANINI (Italv)

l. At ii6 3ral plenary neeting, on 20 Septenb€r 1985, che General Assenbly' on the
recomnendation of the General conmlttee, decided to lnclude in the agenda of its
fortieth seseion the iten entltled:

rActtvities of foreign econonic .nd other interests which are itnpeding the
implenentation of the beclaratlon on tbe Granting of Independence to Colonlal
countrles and Peoples in NamLbia and in all other Terrltorles under colonial
dcmlnation and efforta to elinlnaee colonialien, apartheid .nd raclal
discrlmination in aouthern Africar report of the Special Commlttee on the
situation with regard to the fmplementation of the Declaratlon on the Grantlnq
of Independence to Colonial Countrles and Peoplesn.

At the aame neettng, the Asaenbly declded to allocate the lEen to tbe Pourth
Conmlttee for conalderat.ion and report.

2. Tbe Fourth CoFmittee considered the iten at its znd to llEh rneetings, beteeen
23 September and 30 October (A/c.4/4O/sR.2-11).

3. At the znd meeting, on 23 September, tbe Rapporteur of the Special ConniEtee
on the Situatlon rdiEh regard to the fmplementatlon of the Declaration on Che
Grant.tng of Independence to Colonial Countri€c and Peoples nade a statement ln

85-32555 4600P (E)



A/4O/883
Engl ish
Page 2

ehich he gaue an account of the releeant actlvities of the Speclal @nnittee during
1985 and drew attention Eo chapter v of the leport of the ConnltCee relating to
itsem ll0 (A/4O/23 (Part IV) | , !/ ae ysll as the relevant documentation of the
Comnittee (A/AC.l09l803, 805, 8lI, 812, 815, 819, 826 and 829). rn pursuance of
Paragraph 16 of General Assembly d€cieion 39/1L2 of 5 Decernber 1984 on th€ ouestion
of mllltary activities and arrangenenta by colonial Poeers in Territories under
lheir adninistration vtrich night be inpeding the inplenenEation of Ehe Declaration
on che Granting of Independence lo Colonlal @untries and PeopIeE, the Rapporteur
of tbe Special Conmittee aLeo gave an account of the Co$nltt€e'e consideratioo
during the year of that queation and dree aCtention to chapter vI of tbe reporE of
the Connittee (A/4O/23 (p.rt fV)1, \/ ae $ell aa the releeant docunentatlon of the
Comnittee IA/AC.L09 /8L0. 817 and 825).

4. The general debate on the iten too* place at the 3rd to loth neelings, betgeen
15 and 29 Occober.

5. At it6 4th meeting, on 16 October, the Fourth @mnittee granted reouests for
hearlng in connection i.rith ita conslderatlon of the ltern to r. Ronesh Chandra,
l{orld Pe€ce Council (A/C.4/10/61 and Mr. J. A. conzClez-ejonzelez (A/C.1/40/6/Add.ll
and at its 5th neetlng, on 17 @tob€r, to Mr. R.fael Anglada-Idpez, Partido
Soc iaL i sta Puer tor r iouefi o I l,/ C. 4 / 40 / 6,/Add. 2 ),

6. At it6 6th neeting, on 17 Octofrer, Btltenents eere made by Mr. Chandra and
Mr. Luis Echeverria (t{orld Peace Council}, Mr. @nzt lez-conzile" and
Mr. Anglada-L,6p€ z,

7. At lts loth neeting, on 29 October, the Fourth CommitEee adopEed the drafb
resolulion contained in document A/40/23 (Part Iv), chapter v, paragraph Il, by a
recorded vote of 98 to 9, r'ltb 15 abstentions (Bee para. 91 . U "the roting nas aa
follons: 3/

y To be incorporated in qffiqtaf Recorqq of the ceneral Assenbly, Fortieth
Session, Supplenrent No. 23 6/40

U Slatenents in explanltion of vote rdere made by the representatives of the
follorting Member Sdates: Afghanistan, Australla, Belgiun, Bulgarla,. Canada, Cbile,
Col.or||bia, Cuba, Czecboslovakia, Denocratic yenen, Denn.rk (on behalf also of
Finland, Iceland, Noruay and su€den), Flji, France, Gernany, Pederal Republlc of,
Gbana, lreland, Italy, Japan, Lao people's Denocratic Republic, Llyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Luxembourg (on behaLf of tlre European Econonic Cormunity), Mongolia,
Netherlabds, New Zealand, Portugal, Swazlland, Syrian Arab Reputrlic. Turkey, Union
of Soviet Sociali6t Repub!.ics, United Ringdon of GreaE BriEain and I'lorthern freland
and Viet Nan.

2/ AC the llch meetlng, on 30 October, the represenEative of Madagascar
stated that, had hi.6 delegatlon b€en present at the tlne of tbe voting, it. eould
have voEed in favour of the draft resol.ution. Subsequently, the delegatione of
Djibouti and Sierra Leone inforned the Secretariat to the sane effect'



A/40/883
F:ng I r sh
Page 3

In lavour r Alghanratanr ALbania, Algeria, Aogola, Antrgua ano Barbuda,
Argentina, Austtalra, Bahanasr tJahrain, Banglaoesh' Batoados'
Benin, Bbutan, Bolioia, BEazil, Brunei Daruaaalan, Bu.Lgaria,
Burktna Fa6o, Buroa' Burunol, Byeloruasian Soviet Socralist
RePublic ' Cape \rerde, Central Afrt'can liePubli'c, 

Chaa, Cbl-re'
china, @Ioobia' congo, cuba, cypru6, caecnoarovakra, Denocralic
Yenen ' tbninican [GPublic, Ecuador, 

Dgypt, Equatorial Gulnea'
Ethiopra, i'if r, Gaboa, Gernan Denocratic tlePublrc, Gurnea,
Gutnea-Blssau, Haiti, Honduraa, Hungary' India, Indonesia, Iran
(rslataic Republic o!), Iraq, Ieory coast, Jamarca, Jordan' Kenya,
Ku$ait, IJao PeoPIe's Denoclati'c liepubllc, Lebanon, Lrbyan Alat'
Jamahrrlya, ual,aysla, Maloi1'e6, MaIlr Uaurltanla, Mexlco,
l4ongolia, Morocco, l4ozaobigue, Nes Zealano, Nicaragua, Nrger,
Nigeria, Oman, Paklstan, Panaoa, PaPua Net. Guinea, Peru, trolano,
Qatar, Ronania, saudr Araola, srngaPore, suoan, syrlan Arab
RePublrc, Tnallano, To90, trrnrdad ano Tobago, Tuntsra' Turkey,
lrganda, ULrainran Soviet socialrsg n€Public, union ot socr.et
sociallat t{epuolrcs, unr.ted Arab Eorrates, unlteo l€puolrc ol
Tanzania, venetuela, vlet Nan, Yenen' Yugosravia, zalre, zanoia,
Zrmbabse.

Belgturo, France, G€rnaly, Eeoeral RePuolrc ot, Italy, Lu:(emoourg,Agalnstr
NetheElanos, Portugal, United Xin900n ot Great Brltaln ano
llorghern lrelano, IJnilea States ot AtDerrca.

AbstainlnQt Austrra, canada' Dennar k, Pinland, Greece, tceland, Ireland'
Israel, Japan, L€gotho, Nor?ay, Rrt6noa, spaln' s$azrland' sl'e(len'

8. At tbe sane neeting, the Fourth co ti.ttee adoPted tne dratt oecl€lon cont,alned
in docunent A/4O/23 (Parc IV), cbaPter vI, paragrapn I2, Dy a recoroeo vote ot
95 to It, wilh .1.4 abstentions (see Para. LOl - !/ rtre eotrng eas as follow6: 9/

!/ state[enta in e:(planation ot vote sere n6de oy tbe represeotatrees ot the
folloeing MenbeE State6r Atghaoiatan, Australia' Belgrun, Bulgaria, Canada' Chile'
colorlbra, cuba, c2echoslovrk r,a, Deoocratlc Yeneo, Denmark (on Dehalt 6Lso ot
Finland, Iceland, I'lcr{ay ano Sseden}, Fiji, France, Geroanyr Federal t{epubric ol,
Gnana, Ireland, lcaly, Japan, Lao PeoPlers Denocratrc lGPublic, Lrbyan Arab
Janahirrya, Luxenbourg (on behalf ot the EuEoPean Econonic connunlty), t'!on90l1a,
Netherlands, I'leu zealano, Portugal, srazlland. Syrian Arab Republrc, Turket, union
ot Soviet Sociallst Rrpuolica, unileo Krngdorl of Great Brrtain ano lilcrtbern Irelano
anq vlet Nan.

y At the llLh neetlng, on 30 octooet, gne rePresenEaErue ot Maoaqascar
stated thatr had hi.6 del.egati.on been P!€sent at the trme ot the votrn\ rB-{ouro
have voted rn tavour ot the oratt oeci6ron. suo€eqdentll' tne oelegat\ons ot
Dlrbouti and sierra I€one rntormed the secletarrac to the sane etlect. \



A/ 40 /e83
Eng11Bh
PrEe 4

In favour r AfghanisEan, Albanla, Algeria ' tlngola, Antlgua 
anal Barbuda,

Atgentlna, Bahaoaa, Bahraln, Banglade3h, Barbad66, Benln, Bhutan,
Bollvla, Brazll, Brunel Dasus6alan, gulgarla' Burkina Faso,
Burna, Burundi, Byelorueslan soviet Soclal,lst Republlc' Cape
verde, Cenbral Afrlcan Republic' ch.d, China, Colot0bla, congo,
cuba, cypruar csechosloylkla, Demcratlc Yemen, Dominlcan
Republlc, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea' EthloPla, FiJl,
Gabon, Gernan Denocratlc Republic, Gulnear Gulnea-BiEsau, Haitt,
Ilungary, India, Indon€ala, Iran (Iglanlc R€publ ic ofl . Itaq,
Ivory Coast, Janalca, Itordan, Kenyar Kunalt, I€o Peoplere
Democratlc Republlc, Leblnon, Libyan Arab Janlhlrlya, U,alaysla,
l.laldlves, l.Lli, ulurttrnla, Irlextco, ttongolla, l.iorocco,
Moranblgue. Nlcaragua, Nlger, Nlgeria. Otnen r Pakistan, Panamat
Papua NeU G:ulnea, Perur Poland, Qatar, Ro[anla, Rt anda' Saudl
Arabl.a' Stngapore, Sudrn, Syrian Arab R€publlc' Thelland, togo,
Trlnidad antl Tobago, tunlgla, lurkey, Ugande, Utralnlan govlet
sociallst Republlc, Unlon of sovlet sociallst RePublics, united
Arab Enlrate6, Unlted Republic of Tantania, venezuela. vtet Nan'
YerD€n, Yugoslavia, zlire, zarnbla, zlnbabrye.

Belgiun, canada, Srance, Gernany, Rederal Republlc of, Italy,
Japan, Luxenbourg, Netherlaoala, Portugal, Unlted Kingdon of Great
Brltain and Northern lreland' United SCate€ of Anerlca.

Agalnat:

Abstainlngr AugtraLia. Auatrla, Denn rk, Finland, Gredce, Iceland, Ireland,
tsrael, L€sotho, Nes Z€alandr tlorray, Spiln, Snaziland, Sseden.

OF TITE FC'URfII COIOIIfTEE

9. The Fourth Cortrmlttee r ecomende to the General As5€nbly the adoPtlon of the
folloeing draf t resolutlon:

The ceneral Aesenblv ,

Havlng conaidered the iteo entleled rActlvltteE of forelgn econonic and
other lntete€ts rhlch are lnpsding the lnPlenentatlon of the Declaration on
tbe Grantlng. of Indep€ndence to colonlal Countrles and P€oplee ln Naotbla and
in aII other Territorles under colonial donlnatlon and efforts Co elimlnate
colonlaLism, apartheld and racial ttlscr lrDination In €outhern Afrlcat

Activitle6



A/ 40/883
Englrsn
Page 5

lla{ino exaoi,ned the chapt€r ot tbe report ot che SPeclal Cdnoittee on she
sltuatton el.th regaro to the Inpleoentatton ot the DecLaratlon on the Grantrng
ot Independence to @lonial @untries ano l€oPle3 relating to the rten, !i/

Taking into conglderatron the relevant chaPters ot lhe report ot the
Untted Nationa @uncil for Nanibia, 7

Recalling its ceaolutiooe l5l4 (xV) ot 14 DeceoDer 1960, containing the
fEclaration on the Granting ot Independence to Colonlal Countriea ano Peoplee,
2621 (xxv) of 12 Octooer 1970' contalning the plogranne o! actron lor the fuII
inplenentation of tbe Declaration' and 35/118 of .lI Decebber 1980r the annex
to ghlch contai.na the PIan o! Action tor Ehe FUII Inpleoengation ot th€
Decl"aration, aa geII as alL othe! re3crlutions of the United Nation€ telating
to che iteo,

Reattirninq the eol€on oDligacton ot toe aonrnrstetrng Porets unqel the
charter ot the unlted Nations to pro[ote the [rolitrcal, econonrc, Eoclal ano
educatronal adgancenent ot the rnnabltantg ot tne Tetrrtorrea unoer thelr
aq[inietration and to protect the hunan ano natural reaourceg ot those
TerrlCortes againgt abuoeE,

Reattiroing tnat any ecoaonrc or ocher acrivrty ehtch rnPedee the
iaPlenentatlon ot tne Declarati.on on tne Graotlng oi Inoepenoence to colonral
countriea and Peoples ano obatructs ettolts aroed at tne elrolnatlon ot
colonialrsn, apartheid and racial di,scrlnination in aouthern Atrlca ano other
colonral lerritorleB i.a in direct trioLatron ot the lrghta ot the lnnablcanta
ano ot the Prrnciptes ot the Charter and aII televant reeolutlons ot the
United Nations,

Reatft r[lng tnat the natufal resoulces ot alL Terricorleg under colonial
and racist donlaation afe the heritage of the PeopleE ot thoge Terrltofleg ano
that the expl,oitatlon aod depletron ot those resourcea by torei,gn economlc
intereats, in partlcular in Naelbia, ln association flith the occuPyrng r69lne
ot soutn Mrica, constitute a direct glolation ot the rlghta ot the PeoPIeg
ano. of tbe prlncipLeE of the CharteE and aII lelevant resolutiong ot the
uni.ted Natlona,

Recauinq the lelevant Provlsr,on6 ot lhe conE€nsus on NanlDta aoopted by
the sPecial coooittee on the situation eith regard to the Iopleoentatron ot
the D€claration on the Grantrng ot Inoepenoence.to colonlal countriea anq
People6 at it6 extEaordinary aeaEion held at tuni.a tron 13 to I7 ltay 1985, V

B€arlng in nioo the relev€nt provrsiona ot the Econonic Declarat,ron ano
other clocotDents ot the seventn contefence ot Heads ot state ot Govelnnent ot

A/4O/23 (Part IV), chap. V.

A/40/24.

A/N,. LO9/81O.

v
v
v



A/4O/883
EngIi,sh
Page 6

Non-Ali.gned Countries, ir€lo ac N€f Delhr trofi 7 to 12 MaEch I9E3, 9/ ano ot
the Final. Docunen! ot the E(traordinaly Minrsteri6I MeeBlng Ot the
Co-ordrnating Bureau ot }lon-Aligneo Countrlee on the guestron ot Nanlota hela
at Ner' Delhi fron 19 to 2I Apr i.l L985, pt/

Tal(rng into account tne rctelranc provlstong ot the vienna Declaratron ano
Progranme ot Actlon, l!/ adopted by tbe Uniteo Nations Council tor Nanibra on
7 June 1985 at iea extraorolnaly pleoary DeeErnga neld at Vrenna,

l,lot inq oien protounq concern that the colonral Ebeers and certaln Stares,
chrougn tnelf actrl,ltles 1n the colonraL ,lerrrcorles, Dave conElnueo to
disregard United Narlons decisions relatlng to Che iten and chat they hase
tailed to inpleoenc, tn partrcular, Eoe relesant provtalona ot General
Aase.DIy reaolutiona 262f (XXV) ot 12 October 1970 and 39/42 ot
5 Decenber 1984, by rhr'ch tne Assenbly calI€d upon Ehe colonial poifers and
those Gbvernmenta tnat hacl not yet done €o to take legi.alative, adni.nrstrative
or other lreasures 1n reaPect ot tnelt oaLloaalS and the bodres corpoEate unoer
therr lurisdiction that orn ano op€rate enterprlsea rn colonial Terrltorrea,
particularly in Atrtca, ehlch are oetrlnental to the 1ntere9t6 ot che
inhabitants ot thoae Terrltories, in orqer to put aa end to auch enterprrses
and to Pfevent ner inveetoenca that run couoBet to the inlerestg ot the
inhabitancg ot those Terr itor 1e3,

Coodenning the intensitreo actrvitiea ot those forei.gn econooicf
iinancial and other inter€ats ehich contlnue to exploit the natural anct hunan
resources of the colonral Territorie8 an(l to accunulat€ and repatrrace huge
Profi.tg to the detrr.oent ot tbe intereats ot the inhabrtants, particularly in
the case ot Nanibta, tbereby ietr)eorng the rcalraatlon bt ttre peoples ot the
Terrltorrea ot their Iegitinate aepirations tor Eelt-oeternlnat t on ano
lnoepen(rence,

stronqly condenninq the support rhrcn the racis! minolrty r€gine ot south
Atrlca continues ro receig€ tron thoge toreign econoarc, trnancial ano other
rnterests uhich are coll.aboraclng ertn Bne r6gue t(r tne exptortation ot the
natura.L ano homan reaourcea ot th€ internat.ronal Terlrcory ot Naoroia, in the
turt.her entrenchnent ot rta illegal ractEt oonl,oatlon oeer che Terrrtory ano
in the strengthening ot ita systeo ot gE@,

Strongly condenning the rnlreatoenE o! torergn caprtal in the proouctlon
ot uraniun ano Che collaboratron by certain Wegtern ano other countrles srth
the racist ninoritlr r69rne of sjoutn Atrrca in the nuclear tield ehrcn, by
Providrng that r€gin€ eith nuclear eguiptent anO technologt, enaole r.t to
develoP nuclear and [llrCary capabilrttes ano Co become a nuclear Poter,
thereby Pronoting South Atricara continuect iUegal occupatlon ol Nanibiat

v
Lo/

!!/

See A/38/I32-S / L56? 5 and Corr.I and 2, aooex.

A/ 40/307 -S/ L7I84 and Corr.l, annex.

A/ 40/37 5-S/ L7 262, annex.



A/40 /883
Engllsh
Pag€ 7

neaffirrning that the natural reaources of Namibia, lncluding ita marine
resources, are the invlolable and inconteatable heritage of tbe Namiblan
people and that the exploltation of those resourcea by foreign econonic
interests under the protectlon of the itlegal. colonial administration, in
violation of the Charter, of the relevant resolutlans of the @neral Asaemtly
and the Securit.y Council. and of Decree No. I for the protection of the Natural
Regourcea of Nanibla, enacted by the Unlted Nations Council for Nanribia on
27 septenber 1974, W and in dleregard of the adelsory opinion of the
fnternational Court of Justice of Al June L97I. 13/ is llleqal, conErlbutes to
che maintenance of the illegal occupation r{gtme-and is a grave threat to the
integrity and prosperity of an independent Naolbia,

Concerned about the condlelons in other colontal Territories, including
CerCain Territories in the Caribbean and the pacific Ocean regions, .rdhere
foreign econonic, financial and other lnlere€ta continue to deprive Ehe
indigenous populations of thelr rlghts oeer the Health of their countrieE, and
Phere the inbablEants of tho8e terrltories contlnue to auffer frorn a losa of
land ownerahip as a reault of the fallure of the adninistering Irouers
concerned to restrict the sale of land to foreigners, despite the repeated
appeals of the ceneral Assenbly,

Consclous of the contlnuing need to nobillze uorld public opinlon agaihst
the involvenent of foreign economic, financial and olher lnteresta in Ehe
exploication of natural and hunan reaources, uhich inpedes tlre independence of
colonlal Territorles and the ellnination of raclsm, particularty in southern
Africa, and emphasizing the inporBance of action by local authoritiea, trade
unions, religious !'cdies, acadenic instltutiona, nas6 rnedia, solldarity
novements and other non-governnental organizationa, as rell as indlviduals, ln
exercising pressure on transnational corporatlons to refrain fron any
investnent or activity in tbe Territory, ln encouraging a pollcy of aystematlc
dtvestment of any financial or other interest in corporations dolng busln€sa
wlth South Afrlca and in counteracting all forms of collaboration t'ith che
occupation r6qirne la Nafiibia,

. 1. Reafflrms the inalienable rlght of. the peoples of dependent
Territories to se I f-detern ination and indepenalence and to che enjoyment of the
natural reaources of their Terribories, as uell aa their right co dispose of
those resources ln thelr best inlereatgt

2. Reiterates that any adftinlatering or occupylng poeer thae deprives
the colonial peoptes of Ehe er(erclse of tbelr legltinate rights oeer Ebelr
natural reaources or Eubordinates tbe rightg and interests of chose peopr.es to
foreign econonlc and financial lntereats vlolates lhe solenn obligations it
has assumed under the Charter of the .Uniteat Nationa,

- -!21 
OFficial Records of the c€neral Aasenbly, Thlrty-fifth Session,

supplenenc No. 24 (A/35/241 , vol. I, annex If.



A/40 /883
Engliah
Page I

3. Reaffirms thlt, by their depletive exploitation of natural
reaourceg, tbe contlnued accunulatlon and repacrlatlon of huge proflts and tbe
use of thoae profits for t.he enrlchnent of forelgn settlerB and the
perpetuation of colonial donlnatlon rnd racial discrirnlnation in the
Territorles, the accivitle8 of foreign economlc, flnancial 6nd other lntereEta
operaCing at presenC in the colonial Territories, pareicularly in aouthern
Africa, constlt.ute a maJor obstacle to polltlcal independence and racial
equality, as rrell aB to the enjoyment of the natural resourcea of thoae
Terrltorles by tbe indlgenoua inhabitants,

4. condenne the act.ivitlea of foreign economic and other interests in
the colonial Terrltories inpedinq the lnplernentatlon of the Declar6tlon on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countrtes and peoples, contsined ln
ceneral Aesembly reaolution I5l4 (XV), and the effortg to ellninate
colonialism, apartheld and racial dlscrlminationt

5. Condenns the policies of Governnents that contLnue to aupporC or
collaborate r|lth tbose foreign econotic and other interests engaged in
exploltlng the natural and human reaources of cbe ?erritorlea, including, in
parEicular, illegally exploitlng Nanibla.s narlne reeources, vlolatlng the
Polltical, econonic and soclal right.s and interest€ of the tndigenous peoplea
and thus obstructing the full and Epeedy lnplenentatlon of the Declaration in
respect of thoae ler r I tor ies r

6. Scrongly condenna the colludlon of the Governmentg of certaingfestern and other countrlea nith the raclst ninority r€gine of south Africa in
the nuclerr field and calla upon those and all other @vernnents to refrain
fron supplylng chat ECAime, directly or indlrectty. rdith lnstallattons tbat
night enable it to produce uranlun, plutonlum and othe! nuclear naterials,
reactors or nllltary equlpnent t

7. Decidea to continue to monltor cloaely the sltuEtion in tbe
remainlng colonial TerriEories so aa to enaure that all econonic acttvlties ln
those Terrltorie' are ained at strengthenlng and divergifying their economiea
in the lnterests of tbe lnd igenous peoples, at pronoCing the econon ic and
financlal viabillty of those ?errllorie' and at speeding Ehelr acceasion to
independence and, ln Ehat connectlon, requeats the adrninisterlng por.erg
concerned to ensure tttat the peopl.es of the Terrltorles under their
adminiErratlon are not exploited for polltical, nllitary and otber purFoses
detrlmental to cheir interes ts t

8. Strongly condemns those weBtern and aLl other countrieB, as well as
the transnational corForatlons, r'hich concinue their ineestments in, €nd
supply of armanenta and oll .nd nuclear technology to, the raclst rdgime of
South Africa, thue buttresging it and aggravating tbe threat to world peace,

9. Calls upon all States, in particular certain ltestern States, to take
urgent, effectiue nea8ures to terninate all collaboration rrith the raclse
r6gine of south Afrlca in the polltical, at iplornatic, econontc, trade, milltary
and nuclear fields and to refrain fro,m eneering into other relaclons lrith that
r691ne in violation of the releeant resolutions of the united Nations and of
the Organizatlon of African Unltyt



A/40/883
Bng118h
Page 9

10. Cal,l€ once aqain upon r11 @vernnent8 that hav€ not yet done ao to
take leglslatlve. sahnlnistratlve o! otber neaaure€ ln re€pect of, thel,r
natlonal3 and the bodles corporate under thetr Jurisaltctlon that osD and
operate enterprlses ln colonlal Eerritorle8, particularly tn Africa, shlch are
detrlmentrl to th. lntere3ts of the inhabltants of thoBe Terrltorles, in oriler
to put .n end to such €lrterprlEes and to prevent n€rr lngeahnenta that run
counter to thr lnEeresta of th€ lnhabltants of those Terrltorl€st

lI. Calls upon all States to Eer[lnate, or cause to have tcrnlnated, any
lneestnenta lt| Nanlbla or loana to th€ raclat mlnortty s69lno of south Af,rlca
and to refraln froE any agreenentE or meadurea to pronote trade or other
€conooic relatlons wlth that raginet

12. Requests lll statee that have not yet dofle so to take effectlve
neaaur€s to end the supply of funds anat other forns of asslstancer lncluding
nlllt|ly augplteE and egutpoent, to the raclEt ninority r6g1Ee of Sorth
Afrlca, rhlch uaes such asgistance to repress tbe people of Nanibh and th€lr
nrtlonal libeEation mvenent t

13. gtrongly cond.nns South Africa for i.ta contlnued exploltrtloo lnil
plunaterlng of the natural resources of N6r0ibl!, leading to the raPld deplQtlon
of guch reaourcGs, ln compl€te ali€regard of the legltlmate lntereats of th€
Nanlblan people, for th€ creatlon in the Territory of an econonlc Gtlucture
dePendenE esaentlally upon ita nlneral resource3 and for it8 tUegal extension
of the territorlal aea and lta proclanatlon of an econodllc zone off the coast
of Naolbiat

l{. D€clases that all activltlea of forelgn econonic lntereats in
Nr|Dlbte are lltegal under internltlonal la$ and thrt conseguently Souti Afrlc!
anal rll Ure forelgn econonlc lntereats operating in Namlbla ar€ liabLe to psy
ilanagea to the future laef,ul Gorern$ent of an lnalep€lrdent Nlolblat

f5. qllglPgg thoge oll-produclnE and otI-e*portlng countrl€a that have
not yct done ao to take effectlve neaaur€s again8t the oll coopan les concerned
ao as to t€rninate the eupply of cruile oil and pctroleun prductE to tb€
racist rSgtme of South Afrlcat

16. Relt€rates that the exploltatlon anal plundering of th. narlne rn(l
other natural resources of Nanlbla by South Afrlcan anal otber forelgn €cononlc
tnter€sta, lncludlng the activlties of those transnational corporatlons shlch
.re engaged ln the exploltltion and export of the Territoryre urrntuo orea and
other resources, in elolatlon of bhe relevant r€soluttono of, thc Generrl
Asssmbly and tbe securlty councll aod of Decree $o. I for the Protection of
th€ Netural Rc6ources of Nanlbla, ar€ lllegal, contrlbute to the nalntenance
of thc lllegal occupation rfulne and are a grave thre.t to tbe lntegritt and
prosperlty of an lndependent Nrmibiat

17. Conalenns thc plunder of Nsrtrtbian uranlum antl calle upon the
Goverments of all States, partlcularly thoae rrhose nattonal€ ancl corPoratlona
ate involved ln the nining or enrlchnent of, or traffic ln, NatDtblan uranlun,
to take all approprlate neasures in conpliance sitb the plovialona of D€cree
No. I for the Protectlon of the Natural Resources of Namibla, includlng the



A/40 /883
Engli sh
Page l0

practice of requirlng negative certlficates of orlgin, to prohlblt and prevent
scate-osned and other corporaelooa, together rith thelr subeldlaries, fron
dealing in Namibian uranlum and fron engaglng in urrniun proapecEing
activities in Nanlblat

18. Requests the covernncnts of tlre Federal Republlc of cermany, the
Netherlanda and the united Klngdon of creat Britaln and Northern freland,
lrhich operate the Ur€nco uranlun enrlchloent plant, to have Nanlbian urantu[
specifically excluded frqtr the Treaty of Aloelo, rhlch regulateE the
aceivities of Urencof

19. Regu eats all State€ to take l€glElstlve, adnintatratiee anil othcr
neasures, a3 approprlate, ln order effect lvely to laolate south Africa
po.l.itically, econonlcally, roilltarlly anal culturally, ln accordance with
ceneral Assenbly resoluliona E,s-A/2 of l4 Septerder 1981, 36/121 B of
10 December LgSL, 37 /233 A of 20 Deceober L982, !8/36 A of I Decenber 1,983 and
39/50 A of 12 December l90lt

20. Calls once again upon all Ststes to discontinue all econotrlc,
financial and trade relatlons rith the Eaclst ninorlty r69ine of South Afrlca
concerning Nanibia and to rsfrain fron entaring lnto rny relatlooa eith south
Africa, purportlng Eo act on behalf of or correrning Nanibla, rhich nay lend
support to its continued tllegal ecupatlon of that lerrltoryt

2I. Invites alL @vernn€nta and organlaatlon6 of the UDited Nationg
system, having regard to the relevent provialons of tbe D€claratton on the
Establishnent of a Nefl International Econonlc Order, contained ln General
As8embly resolution 3201 (S-Ul of 1 i{ay 1974, and of the Charter of Econo0lc
Rights and Duties of states, contalned in Asseobly reaolutlon 3281 (xxlx) of
12 Decenber l9?{, to €o8ur€r in particular, that the pernanent soverelglty of,
the colonial Territoriea over their naEural re6ource3 ls f,ully respccted and
safeguarded t

22. Urges the adnint€tering Poeer s concerned to ttke effectlve oeasureg
to safeguard and guarantee the inNllenable right of Cbe peoples of the
colonial Territorles to thelr natural re3ources and to egtabllsh anal rnalntain
control over their future dey€loFrent and reguestg the atlnlnisterlng Irorers to
take all neceasary 6teps to protect the propGrty rights of th€ p€ople6 of
tbose Territoriest

23. Calls upon the adniniBterlng Poder 6 concerned to abollsh all
discriminaEory antl unjust eage syatcma and sorklng condltlons praralling in
the Territorieg under their adrnlnistration and to apply in each Territory a
uniforn system of irages to all the inhabitants slthout rny dlscrinlnatlont

24. Reguests tbe Secr eCary-General to undertake, through the Departnent
of PubLic Infornatlon of the S€cretarlat, a auatalned and broad canpaign {ith
a itien to inforning world public opinlon of the facts concernlng the plUaging
of natural- resources in col,onlal Terrltorles and the expl,oltatlon of their
indigenous populaEions by foreign [pnopolies and, in respect of Namlbia, tbe
support lhel render Eo the rlciat nlnorlty rfuine of South Afrlca,



^/ 
40 /s83

Eng Iish
Page 11

25. Appeals to nasg m€dia, traite uniong and other non-goverffnental
organtzationa, as weU as individuals., to co-ordinate and intenElfy thelr
efforts to mobillse international Public oPtnion agalnaE th€ pollcy of the
apartheid r6g1ne of South Africa and to $ork for the enforcement of economic
and other saDctiong against that r6glEe and for encouraging a pollcy of
systenatlc dleestnent in corporatlons doing buslness in Soutb Afrlcat

26. Requests the sPecial Connlttee on the Sttuation $ith regard to the
Inplenentaffii-o?-the Declaration on the cranting of Independence to Colonial
Countries anal Peoples to conCinue to examine thi6 guestion and to report
thereon eo the General Assernbly at its forty-firs! se€sion.

**t

LO. The Fourtb Connittee also reconnends to the General Assenbly the adoPtion of
the follorring draft decl6lon:

l,tilltarv actlviti
thelr

atlon on

f. The General Asaenbly, having conaidered the chapter of the rePort of
the Special- Co!finittee on the Sltuatsion with regard to the tnplenentatlon of
the Declaratlon on the Grantlng of Inalependence to Colonial Countries and
Peoplea relatlng to an ltem on the SPecial Connitteera agen'ta entibled
'Miiitary activities and arfangenents by colonlal Powers ln Territories unde!
their aalmlnistration which nlght be impedlng the irnpl€nentation of tbe
Declaratlon on the Grantinq of Inatependence Eo Colonlal Countrles and
Peoples", !!/ antl recaltlng lts tleclEi'on 9g/4L2 of 5 December 1984 on chls
subjectt deplores the fact that the colonlal Powers concerned have taken no
steps to lnplernent the reguest which the As8enbly bas repeatedly addreEaed to
tbem, rnoet recently in paragraPh 10 of its resolution 39/9L of
14 December 1984, to withdra, lnn€diately and unconalltionally their nilitary
bases and in€tallations fron colonial Tetrltorie5 and to refraln fron
eatablishing nes ones.

2. In recalllng its resolutlon I5I4 (xv) of 14 Decenber L95O and all
other relevant Unitett Nations resolutlonE and alecisions relating to nilltary
bases and inatallatlonE in colonial attal Non-self-Governing Terrilories, the
ceneral Aseenbly reaffirfis lts strong conviction that the Presence of nilltary
bases and lnstallations in the colonial and Non-self-Govern lng Terrlcorles
could conscitute a naj or obstacle to the inPlenentation of the Declaration and
that it is the responsibtllty of the adnlnlstering Powera to ensure that the
e*istenee of such baaes and instaltations does not hinder the populations of
the Territoriee fron exercising their rlght to self-aleternlnation and
independence in conformity ttith the Purtrxlses and princiPlea of tbe charter of
the United Nations and the Declarallon. Furthermore, a$are of the preEence of

ltl A/40/21 (Part Iv), chap' vI.



A/40/s83
EngLiEh
Page 12

nllitary b6ges and in3tallations of the admlnlstering poyers concerned and
otber countries in those Terrttoriea. ghe Assembly urges the adminlstering
Porer E concerned fo continue to take all necessary neasures not to involve
those Territories in sny offenSive acta or interference agalnFt other States
and to conply fully rlth the purposes and prlnciples of Che Charter, the
Declaration and the reeolutlons aDd decisions of the United Natlons relatlng
co milltary actiulti.es and arrangement.s by colonial poners in Territories
under lhelr adnlnlstration.

3. The General Assenbly reiterates tts condemnation of all nilitary
actlvltieg and arrangenentr by coloniEl lrowers ln Territorles under thelr
adnlnictration whlch are detrinental to the rigbta and incerests of ttre
colonlal peoples concerned, especially tbetr righE Eo se I f-deterninat ion and
indepeodence. Tlte Assenbly once agaln calls upon the colonial powers
concerned to tenninate auch activltlee and elininate such nilitary baaes in
compliance elth the r€Levant reaolutlons of the Assenbly, in particular with
paragraph 9 of the Plan of Actlon for the Full fnplerDentation of the
Declaration on the cranting of Independence to Colonial Countrlea and peopleB,
contained in the anDex Eo Assenbly reaolutlon 35lll8 of ll Decenber 1.980.

1. The ceneral Assenbly declaree that the cotonlal Terrltories and
areas adJacent th'ereto should not b€ uaed for nuclear teeting, dumplng of
nucrear uaates or deployrnent of nuclear rnd other ireapons of ma6s destrucBlon.

5. Tbe General Asaenbly notes wltb eerioue conc€rn that, in southern
Africa in general .nd in and around Nanlbla in particular, a critical
sltuatlon contlnues to prerall as r result of South Africa'6 contlnued llleg6l
occupatlon of the Territory and itB inhunan represslon of tbe people of South
Africa. T'l|e racigt rCAirne bas resorced to desperate neasures in order to
suppresa by force the legitlnate aspirltlons of thone peopleg and, in its
edcalatlng r,ar agalnst tben and thelr national llberatlon moeenent.q.
Etruggling for freedon, justlce and independence, the r6gime has repeatedly
conni.tted acta of arned aggreasion against the neighbouring independent
African countries, parclcularly Angola and Botswana, r.bich have caused
excensive loFs of hunan lives and destruction of the econonic infrastructure.

6. ?he General Aesenbly atrongly condernns SouCh Afrlca for lts
ever-increasing and large-scale mllitary build-up in Namibis, particularly its
nasgive nilitary offen€ive launcbed recently in north€rn Nanibia. its
introduction of conpulsory nllitary service.for Namibians, it8 forced
recruitment and trainlng of Nanlbians for tribal arniea, tts use of
mercenarieB to reinforce ite illegal occupation of the Territory and to
participate in its aBtacks againat independent African Statea and its lllegal
use of Nanibian terrltory for acts of aggres€ion agalnse independent African
countries. The Aasenbly calla upon all States to take effectlve measures to
prevent Che recruitnent, training and transit of nercenaries for service ln
Nanibia. It condemns the continued milltary, nuclear and intelligence
collaboration betueen South Africa and certain countries. shich constitutes a
violation of the arms enbargo irnpoeed against South Africa by the SecurlCy
Council in ita resolution 418 (1977) of 4 Novemtrer 1977, and nhich Foses a
threat to inCernational peace and security. The Aesenbly urges that ehe



a/40 /883
Engl lsh
Paqe 13

Security @uncil consi.der, aE a matter of urgency, the report of ghe Conmittee
establlshed under its resorution 4zt (Lgi7l of 9 December Lg77 Ls/ rnd that. it
should adopt further neasures to rlden Ehe scope of resolution lfA (tgZZ) tn
order co nake it nore effectlue and comprehensive. The Aasenbly .lso callg
for the scrupulous obsereance of Security Oouncil reaolution 558 (l9g/t) of
l3 December 1984 enjoining enber States to refrain fron lnportlng armanents
fron South Africa. The Assenbly is particularly ninatful in thet reqard of the
relevant reaolutions og tbe organiratlon of Africen unity, the Final Document
of the Extraordinary Ministerlal Meeting of the Co-ordtnatlng Bureau of
Non-Aligned countrieB on the ouestlon of Nanibia, held !t Ner, Delhl from lg to
2l Aprll 1.985. L6/ tbe Vienna D€claration and progranne of Actloh, f1,/ adoptedby the United Nati.on6 Council for Namibia on 7 .tune lgg5 at lta exti-aordrnary
plenary meetings held at Vienna, and Security Council reaolutions 562 (1985)
of 20 June 1985 and 569 09S5) of 2l June 1985.

7. The General Assent ly demands the urgent disrnantllng of all nllltary
bases il] the international. Territory of Namibia and calls for the imrnedlete
cessatlon of the $ar of oppreseion eaged by the racist ninorlty rigfune against
che people of Nanlbla and cheir national liberation nouenent, the south t{eat
Afrlca People's Organization, their aole and authentlc representattee.
Reaffirning tbe legitinacy of the struggLe of the people of Nanibia to achieee
their freedom and lndependence, the Assenbly appeala to all Statee to rend€r
suslained and increaBed moral and politlcat aupport, as sell as financial,
mil-itary and other naterial assiatance, to tbe South west Africa peoplers
Orqantzation to enable Lt to intenslfy it6 struggle for the Llberatton of
Nanibia.

8, ?he ceneral Aasembl.y considers that the acculsitlon of nuclear
ueapona capabiliCy by the racis! r69ftne of South Afiica, nlth lCs infarnoug
record of violence and aggression, constitueea a further efforE on lts part to
terrorize and ineirnidate lndependent States in the reglon lnto submisaioh
rrhile alao poEing a Chreat !o all manklnd. The continuing a66istance rendered
to the South African r&ime try certain l{estern and other countries in the
nililary and nuclear fields belies their Etated'opposltlon to the raclst
practice of the South African rCgime and makes then wltllng partners of tts
hegenonist ic and criminal policies. The Assembly condemns the contlnued
nuclear co-op€rat.ion by c€rtaln Western and other countriea eith Soutb
Africa. ft calls upon tbe States concerned to end all Buch co-operation and,
1n particular, to halt the eupply to South Africa of eoulpnent, technology,
nuclear naterlals and related craining. .'hlch increasea lts nuclear capablllty.

LV
ulv

of icial Records of the Securl Council, Thirtv-fifttl Year
st and r 1980,

ernent

!!/ e/Ao/gOt-S/L7I84 and corr.1, annex.

W A/4O /315-s/L7262 , a6nex.



al 40 /853
EngLish
Page l4

9. The General A€senbly, notlng that tbe nilitarizatlon of Nanibia has
leal to the forced conscription of Namibiana, Eo a greatly intensified fl,ow of
refugees and to a tragic disorgant zaElon of the fanily life of the Natlibian
people, Elrongly condemns the forcible and wholeaale dlePlacenent of Nantbiang
from their homes for nilltary and poLitlcal purposes and the introduction of
conpulsory nilltary gervlce for NaDlbian6 and declares that all neaeure€ by
the itlegaL occupation rfuine to enforce nilltary conGcription in Nanibia are
nuII and vold. In thig connection, the tlseenbly urgea all Governments' the
specialired agencies and other inEergotrernnental organlzatlons to provide
increased naterial asEistance to the thousanda of tefugeeg who have been
forced by the gEg.]gElll rfuiners oppreEslve pollcles ln Nanlbla and south
Africa to flee into tbe nelghbouring State€.

10. The cenerat Assembly, ln recalling its resolution Es-8/2 of
14 september 1981, by shlch it strongly urged states to cease forthwith,
individually and collectlvely, all. deallngs rrlth South Africa in order totally
co iEolate it poLitlcally, economicalty ' 

nilitarlly and culturally, strongLy
condenns the continulng collaboratlon of certain countries with the raclst
r6gime in the political,. econonl.c, Rllltary and nuclear fielda. It caLls for
the terrnlnation forthslth of all Buch collaboration as it underrninee
international solidarity against the gpg4Ell 169ine and help6 to perpetuate
that rfuiners iUegal occupati.on of Nanlbla.

11. Tbe General Assenbly deprecates the continued alienation of land in
colonial T€rrltories for military lnstallationg. vfhile it has been argued
that the servtcing of auch installationa creates enploynent' nevertheless, the
large-scale utilization of locaL econonlc and rnanpoeer resources for this
purpose dlverts resources shich could be nore beneficially utillzed in
pronoling the econonic developnent of bhe Territories concerned and is thus
contrary to the interests of thel.r populations.

L2. The General A€aenbly requ€ste the secr ecary-General to coneinue'
through the Departnent of Public Informatlon of the Sectetariat, an
intensified carnpa ign of publicity flith a vies to infornlng yror ld public
opinion of the facts concerning the nititary activities and arranqements in
colonial Territoriea uhlch are lnpeding the inplemenEation of the Declaration
on the cranting of Independence to Colontal Countries and PeoPlesr cohca.ined
in Assembly resolution 1514 (XV).

13. The General Aasenbly requeEtE the Special Conmittee to conEinue iCs
conslderation of the ltdn and to report thereon to the Asaembly at its
forty-first session,


