








































UNITED
NATIONS

@
General Aseembly Distr.

GENER,AL

A/40/932
27 Novenber 1985
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fortieth sesslon
Agenda itefi 63

CHEMICAL AND BACTERIOLOGICAL (BIOLOGICAL) WEAPONS

Report of the First Connitfee

RaPporteur3 Mr. Yannis SOULIOTIS (creece)

I. IMRODUCTION

I. The item entitled "Chenical and bacteriotogical (biological) weapons r report
of the Conference on Disarrnament" nas included in the provisional agenda of the
fortieth session in accordance with General Assembly resolutions 39/65 A, B and C
of 12 Decenber 1984.

2. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 Septernber 1985, the ceneral Assenbly. on the
reco nendation of the ceneral Corunittee, decided to include the ilem in its agenda
and to allocate i.C to the First Connittee.

3. At its 2nd rneeting, on 9 October, the First Conmitlee decided to hold a
general debate on the di.sarmanent itens allocaled to it, narnely, itens 48 to 69 and
ilem 145, followed by statements on specific disarnament agenda items and
continuation of general debate, as necessary. The deliberaeions on those items
took place betr.reen the 3rd and the 32nd meetinqs, fron 14 October to I November
(see A/c.I/40/PV.3-32) .

4. In connection vrith item 63, the First Committee had before it the following
docunents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarrnamentl L/

V Official Records of the ceneral Assernbly, Fort.ieth Session, Supplernent
No. 2'l (A/40/27 and Corr.t).

8s-34667 462'tP (El



A/40/932
EngI i sh
Page 2

(b) Lelter dated 5 February 1985 fron the Charg5 draffaj.res a.i. of the
Pernament Mission of the Islarnic Republic of Iran !o the United Nations addressed
to the Secr efary-General (A/ 40 /LL8-S/I69 4I) t

(c) Letter dated 27 February 1985 fron the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of lhe Islarnic Republic of fran !o the United Nations addressed
to the Secretary-ceneral (A/4o /154-s/L698 7 and Corr.I);

(d) Letler dated 12 March 1985 frorn the Permanent RepresentaLive of the
Islamic Republic of fran to the United Nations addressed to the secretary-Genera I
(A/40/L7 4-s/I70211 r

(e) Letter dated 13 March 1985 fron the pertnanent RePresenCative of the
Islarnic Repubtic of fran to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/ 40 /L7 6-s/L7o28\ t

(f) Letter dated 20 March 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of the
Islanic Repubtic of Iran to lhe United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Genera 1
(e/40 /I89-s/L70461 t

(S) Letter dated 26 March 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of the
Islanic Republic of lran to the United Nations addressed to the secr e ta ry-Genera I
(A/40/2o9) t

(h) Letter dated l1 Aprit 1985 frorn the Pernanent Representative of the
Islamic Republic of Iran to the United Nations addressed to the Secregary-General
(A/40/23I) t

(i) Letter dated 21 May 1985 from che Pernanent RepresentaEive of Democratic
Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the secr etary-General
(A/40/331-s/I'72091r

(j) Letter dated 16 JuIy 1985 frorn the Pernanent Representative of the
Islarnic Republic of fran to the Uniled Nations addressed to the Secr e tary-Gene ra I
(A/4o/481-s/I7342], t

(k) Letter dated 19 September 1985 from the Pernanent Representative of Papua
New cuinea to Che United Nations addressed to the S€cr etary-General ' 

transrnitting
the conmuniqu6 adopted at the sixteenth south Pacific Forurn. held at Rarotonga,
Cook Islands' on 5 and 6 August 1985 lA/ 40 /672-s/L7 488) j

(f) Letter dated 4 Novenbe r 1985 fron the Permanent Representati.ve of the
Isl-arnic Republic of fran to the United NaCions addressed to the Secr e tary-Genera I
(A/40/849-s/I7 606l i

(n) Letter dated ll Novernber 1985 fron the Pernanent Representative of the
Islamic Republic of lran Co the United Nations addressed to the secretary-General
(A/ 40/87 3-S/r7 623\ t



^/40/932Engllsh
Page 3

(n) Letter dated 18 Novelnber 1985 fron the Pernanen! RePresentative of the
Unlon of sottiet socialist Republics to the united Nations aaldressed co the
Secretary-General (A,/401900),

(o) Letter alated 20 Septerob€r 1985 fron the Permanent RePresentativea of
Czechoslovakla and the German Democratic Republlc Co the Untted Nations addressed
to the secr etary-ceneral lA/C.L/40/2lt

(p) Letter dated 25 october 1985 from the Pernanent RePresentative of
BuJ.garia to the United Nationa addressed to the secreEary-Genera I ' transmitting 

the
Declaratlon issued on 23 October 1985 at Sofia by the Political consultative
Connittee of the gtarsaw Treaty OrganizaELon (\/c.l/40/71,

(q) Letter dated 25 October 1985 addressed to the chairnan of the First
Connittee by the rePresentalive of the Federal Repub!'lc of Gernany on Ehe First
connlttee (A/C,L/40/81 t

(r) Letter ilatetl 20 Novenber 1985 from che Pernanent Representative of
Czechoslovakia to the Unlted Natsions and the Chargd d'affaires of the Pernanent
ltisslon of the Gernan Denocratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-Genet aL (A/C.L/40/IL, .

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAI.S

A. Draft resolutlon A/c.1/40lL.15 and Rev.l

On 5 Novenber 198 5, ia, the

a Dener the Ukra Sovlet
and viet Nam tted a

entitled "Proh of and bacter iologlcal weaponsrl
lvc.L/40/L.]-5l . Ttle draft .reaolutlon was introduced by the representative of the
Gernan Denocratic Republic at the 36th meeling' on 13 Novenber ' 

and read as followst

t

"The ceneral Assenbly,

"Recalling paragraPh 75 of the Final Docunent of
Session of the General Assenbly, ?/ nhlch states that
effective prohibition of the develoFlent, production
chenical rdeapons and thelr destruction rePresents one
measures of d isarmament,

'Recalling icB prevlo{rs resolutions relating to
effecllve plohlbicion of the de?eloplent, Production
chemical weapons and to their desEruction,

the Tentb Special
lhe cottplete and

and stockpiling of all
of Ehe nost urgent

the conplete and
and stockPiling of all

lf Resolution S-L0/2.



A/40/932
English
Page 4

"ggnv incgg of the need for the earliest conclusion of a convention on theprohibition of the developnent, production and stockpiling of aII chemical
weapons and on their destruction, irh tch would significantly contribute togenerar and cornplete disarnament under effective internationar control,

, . "stressing the coneinuing inportance of the protocol for the prohibitionof the Use in t{ar of Asphyxiating, poisonous anat Other cases, and ofBacteriological Methods of warfare, aigned sixty years ago at ceneva, :/
.'Pg!grnir:eA. for the sake of all nankinal, to exclude conpletely thet'ossibility of the use of chemicar. weapona, through the ear].test conclusion

and inplenentation of a convention on the prohibition of tbe deverolment,production and stockpiling of all tlrpes of chemical weapons and on lheirdestruction' thereby complementing the obligarions assumed under the GenevaProtocol of 17 ,Iune 1925,

- 
rrTgking inlo consid€ration the rrork of the conference on Disarmamentourrng lts seasion ln 1985 regardlng the prohibltlon of chenical weapons andl

r.n particular, the work of iea Ad Eoc Conntttee on Chernical Weapons,
"ExPregsilrq profound concern at recent decisions on the production ofDrnary chenical weapons, as h,ell- as at their intended d€ploynent,

- -"Qegmlng 
it desirable for States to refrain frorn Eaking

could delay or further conplicaEe negotiations and to itispliy
approach to such negotiat.ions and the political wtLl to reach
agreenent on the chemical neapons convention,

"Aware that the qualitativ€ iEprovenenc and developnent of chemlcal
neapons conplicate ongoing negotiacions on the prohibition of chenicar weapons,

. - "TFk ing -:rgte of proposars on the creation of chenical-weapon-free zonesaimed.at facilitating the corDplete prohiblt.ion of chenical weapons and atcontributing to the achievenent of stable regionar and lnternationar securlcy,

_ "I. Regffirms Ehe necessity of the speettlest elaboration and conclusionor a- convention on the prohibition of the developnent, production andstockpiling of aII chenical weapons and on thelr destruction,

"2.. Appeals Co all States to faciliLate in every possible way the
conclusion of such a convenEion,

. "3. Urges the conference on Disarrnament to intensify the negotiations intlt" 49 !t"" Comrni.ttee on Chemlcal Weapons with a view to achieving accord on achernical weapons convenEion at the earliest possibte date and, for Chis
purPose 

' to proceed irnmediately to drafilng such a convention for subrnissionto the ceneral Assenbly at its forty-first sessionl

any action that
a constructive
an ear ly

y League of Nations, Treaty Series, vol. xCfV (1929), No. 2138, p. 65.



A/40/s32
Engl ish
Page 5

Reaffirns its call to all states to conduct serious negotiations in
good faith and co refrain fron any action that could fuIlpeale negotiations on
the prohibition of chenical oeapons and Epeciflcally to refrain frolD the
prduction and depi.oyment of binary and other new tl.pes of chemical weaPons,
as well as frorR stationing chenlcal weapons on the territory of other Statest

'5. Calls upon all states that bave not yet done so to become parties Eo
the Geneva Protocol of June 1925.r

5. On 13 Novenber, Afghanisean, Angola, Bulgarla, the
Socialist Republicr Czechoslovakia, the cernan Democrat
Mongolia, Poland, the
Socialist Republics and
(A/c.l/4o /L.tslRev. 1),

socialist RepubLic, the Union of Soviet
et Nam subnitted a revi.sed draft re€olution

containlng the following changes i

(a) The sixth preambular paragraph was revised to readr
tTaking into consideration the work of the Conference on Disarmanent

during its session in 1985 regarding the prohlbitlon of chemical reaPons r andr
in Particular' bighly appreclatlng the vrork of lts Ad !&q Connittee on
Chemical weapons',

(b) Operative paragraph 3 leas revised to readr
nglEj1 the Conference on Disarnanent to intensify the negotiations ln the

Ad Hoc Conmlttee on Chemical Weapons nith a vierr to achieving accord on a
chemical weaPons conventi.on at. the earliest possible date and, for this
Purpose, to intensify the draftlng process of such a convention for submlssion
to the General Assenbly a! ies forty-first eession".

7. At its 39th neetlng, on 15 Novenber, the Connittee adopted draft resolutlon
A/c.L/40/L.L5,/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 81 to 13, uith 38 abstentions (Eee
para. 12, draft teEolution A). The votlng waa a6 fol.lowar

In favour t Afghanistan, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan'
Bolivla, Botseana, Bulgarla, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet' gocialist Republic, Caneroon, Central
Afrlcan Republic, chad, Colonbia, congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Gernan Dernocrat ic Republic, Ghana, cuinea, Guyana, Eungary,
Indonesl.a, Iran (Islanic Republic of), fraq, Janaica 'Jordanl Kenya, Kusait, Lao peoplers Democratic Repub1ic,
Lebanon, Lesotho. Llbyan Arab Janahiriya, !{adagascar 'Malaysia, MaIdives, Mali, Mauritius. ltexico, Mongolia,
Moaanbique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, papua New Guinea, peru, poland, Oatar,
Ronania. Saudi Arabia, Sonalia, Sudan, Sr{aziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidaal and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, ukralnlan soviet soclalist Republic, gnlon of soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, Unlted Republic
of Tanzanlar venezuela, viet Nan, Yenen. Yugoslavia, Zalrer
Zan ria, Z inbabne.



A/40/e32
English
Page 5

Against: Belgrum, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland,
Italy, Luxenbourg, Netherlands, liiorrray, portugal, Spain,
Turkey, United Kingdorn of creat Britain and N.orthern
Ireland, United States of Anerica.

Abstaining: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalan, Burna, Canada, Chlle, Chlna, Comoroa, Democratic
Kampuchea. Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republicr Ecuador,
Finland, cabon, Greecer Honduras, India, Ireland, Israel,
Ivory Coast (C6te drlvoire) r Japan, Llberia, tlalasi,
Maurilania, llorocco, tier Zealand, paraguay, Rr.anda, Senegal,
Singapore, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Srreden, rjruguay.

B. Draft regolut.lon VC.l/40/i,.24
L On 6 Novenber, Austr the German
Democratic r al,
Kenya . l'longolia, the r lands the Ukrainian
Soviet Socialiqt Republic, the eat, Br itain thern
Ireland, Ijruguay and Viet Nan submi a draft r (A/C.L/40 .24) entitled
"chemical and bacteriologicar (bio].ogicar) weapons,, which t|as rater also sponsored
by Greece' The draft resolucion nas introduced by the repregentaEive of canada at
the 35th neeting, on 13 liovenber.

9. At its 39th neeting, on 15 liovember, the connittee aatopted draft resorution
A/C.L/40/L.24 rdithout a voee (see para. 12, draft reaoluii.on B).

C. Draft resotution A/C.l/{O/L,3l

I0. on
Ecuador

BeIq i Rica Denmark
France raI

Iands
Tha
states of Arnerica and urggggl subnitEed a draft resorutlon tvc.l7qon.lIt antitted
@(bio1o91cal}geaponEr,r'hichwaa1ateralsosPonsored
by sanoa and spain. The draft resorut.ion Has lntroduced by the representative of
the IJnited States of Arner i.ca at the 3oth neeting, on 7 liovember.
lI. At its 39th neeting, on 15 tiovember, the Connittee adopted draft resolution
A/c.L/4o/--.3L by a recorded vote of 96 to 16, rdilh 2t abstentions (see para. 12,
draft resolulion C). The voting was as follows: 4/

In favour: Argentina, AustraLia, Ausiria, Baharnas, Bangladesh, Belgiurn,
Bhutan, Bolivra, Botswana, Brazll, Brunei Darussalam,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Central

!/ The delegation of Burkina paso subsequently indicated that it had
intended to abstain on the draft resolueion.

6 Novernber,



A/ ro/932
EngLish
Page 7

African Republic' Chadr Clriler china, Colonbia, Comoros,
Denocratic Banpuchea, Dennark, Djiboutl, Doninican Republlc 'Ecuador, Egypt, Frji, PinLand, Srance, Gabon, @rnany,
Federal Republic of, chana, creece, Guinea, Guyana,
Ilondurag, Ieeland, Indonesia, Iran ( Islanic RePublic of).
lreland, I6rael' Italy, 1vs1y CoaEE (c6te dtrvoire)'
Jamaica, Japan, (enya, Lesothor Luxenbourg ' ualaei,Malaysla, MaldlveE, Mali, !,talta, Mauritania, uauEltius,
Morocco, Nepal, Nethellands, Nen zealand, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Pakistan, Panana. Papua New Guinea, Paraguayr Pelu'
PhillPPlnes, Portugal, Ronanla, Rttanda, sanoar Sao Tooe and
Principe, senegal. Singalrore, Sonalia, spain' Sri IJanka 'Sudan, surinane, swaziland, sweden, Thailandr To9o, Trinldaal
and Tobago' Tunisla, turkey, Unlted Kingdom of Great Britain
a;ld tiorthern IreLand, Uniteat RePubtic of Tanzania' Unlted
Stateg of Anerica, Uruguay, venezuela, zaire, zambla.

lgglgqg: Afghanistan, Bulgarla' ByeLoruEalansovietSociallst
Republlc r Cuba, Czechoslovakiar Denocracic Yenen, GeEnan
Denocrati'c RePublic' tlungary, lFo FeoPIe's DemocraEic
RePubric, i,lbyan Arab Janahiriya, l,longorla, I,oland, syri.an
Arab RePublic, ukrainian Soviet socialist Republic, union of
Soviet socialist Republics, Viet Nan.

@gg: Angola, Balrrain' Beninr Congo, CirPrus ' EthioPia, 
India,

Irag' .tordanr Lebanon, ltadagaEcar, Mexico' tiicaraguar O[an,
Qatarr. Saudl arabia, uganda, united Arab Dliraees, Yemen,
Yugog1avia, Zinbabwe.

I I I . RSCOWEIiDATIOI|S OF THE FIRST COI'!,IIBTEE

L2. the Fitst Cornnittee recomenda to the General A6sembly che adoPtion of the
follo$lng draf t resolutions :

A

Prohibition of chenical and bacterlological rreapons

The General Asgetnbly t

Recalling paragraph ?5 of the Pinal Docunent of the Tenth Special Sessit)n
of etre Generat Assenbly, !/ rhictr states that the compleEe and effectiveprohibltion of the developnent' production and stockpiling of all chemical
ueapons anat their destruction rePreEents one of the IIDst urgent neasures of
disarnanent,

v Resolut ion S-LO/2.



v40 /932
English
Page 8

Recalli.ng its previous resolutions relating to the complete and effectrve
prohibition of the developnent, production and stockpiling of all chemical
rreapons and to their destruction,

prohibiLion of the developrnent, production and stockpiling of all chemical
HeaPons and on lbeir destruction, yrhich r{ould significanCly contrj.bute to
general and conplete disarmament under effective international control,

Stressing the continuing inportance of Lhe protocol for the prohibitron
of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, poisonous and Other Gaaes, and of
Bac ter j.ological Methods of Warfare, signeal sixty years ago at Geneva, g/

Determined, for the sake of aII mankinal, !o exclude conpletely tbe
possibi.lity of the use of chemicar neapons, through the earltest concrusion
and i'mprementation of a convention on the prohibition of the deveropment,
production and stockprli.ng of aII tlrpes of chenical weapons and on their
destruclion, thereby comprenenting the obligations asguned under the @neva
Protocol of 17 June L925,

Taking lnto consideration the uork of the Conference on Disarnarnent
during its session in 1985 regarding the prohibitlon of chenicar rreapons and,
in particuLar, hi.ghly appreciating the work of it6 Ad Hoc comnittee on
Chemical l{eapons,

Expressing profound concern at recent decisions on the production of
binary chenical lreapons, as well a9 at their intenaled deployment,

Deening it desirable for States to refraifl frorn t.aking any
could delay or further cornplicate negotiations and to display a
apProach to such negoeiations and the political r{ill to reach an
agreement on the chenical weapons convention,

Avrare that the qualitative inprovement and development of chenical
weapons conplicate ongoing negotiations on the prohrbltlon of chernical weapons,

. _t"li_tlg !g!". of proposals on the creabi.on of chenical-r,eapon-fr ee zonesained at facilitaring the conplete prohi.bition of chernical weipons ana aCcontributing to the achievement of stable regional and internationar securr.ty,
l. Reaffirns the necessity of the speediest elaboration and conclusionof a conveirl6i-o-n--the prohioition of lhe ieveropnrent, production andslockpiling of all- chemi.cal rreapons and on their destruitionl
2. . Appeals to all States to facilitate in every possible ray theconclusion of such a conventioni

Convinced of the need for t.he earliest conclusion of a convention on the

action tha!
conatructive
early

9/ League of Nations, Trgaty Seriesr vol. ICIV (1929), No. 213g, p. 65.



A/40/912
Enqli.sh
Paqe 9

.1'^ - 1..-- - 
trln"" 

. 
the Conference on Disarnanent to intensify the negotiations inEoe 40 lroc co',nittee on chemicar l,reapons with a view to a-hieving accord on achenical rdeapons convention at the earliest possl.ble dale and, for this

PurPoge, to intensify the drafting process oi sucn a convention for submiasionto the General Assembly at its forty_first sessiont
4. Reaffirns its call to aU

gooa e aierr-ana--6-iE??iTn from any
the prohibition of chemical *.apon"
production and deployrnent of binary
ag weII as fron stationing chernical

-,^ ^!:-_ 9gfls 
uPgn all st.ales that have no! yet done so to become parties toEne Protocol for the prohibiti.on of the Use in war of Asphyxiating, poisonousor Other Gases, and of Bacteriological Methods of .yrarfare, signed at Geneva onl? ,tune 192 5.

B

Chemrcal and bacteriological (biotogical) veapons
The ceneral Assenbu,

Recal!-i-lg its previo{rs resorutions rerating to lhe conprete and effectiveprohibition of the deveropnent, product.ion and 
"toctpiring 0f all chernicalweapons and to their destruction,

_. R9afEifming the urgent necessity of strict observance by atl States ofthe principles and objectives of the protocor for the prohibition of the rjseln war of Asphyxiabing, poisonous or other cases, and of Bacteriorogicar
Methods of warfare, signed at ceneva on t7 ,tune Lg2S. 6/ and of the adherenceby aII States to the Convenlion on the prohibition ot lhe DeveLopment,Production and stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and tixin weaponsand on Their Destruceion, signed in fondon, Moscoh, and Washington onI0 April L972, Z/

. Havir.lg colsidered lhe relrort of the Conference on Dtsarmanent, whichrncorporates, i.nter alia, the report of its Ad Hoc Comnietee on Chemical
eapons , 8,/

conrrln."a of the neceesity that all efforts be exerted for theconli'nuacion and succ€ssful conclusi.on of negotiations on the prohibirion oflhe deveroFnent' production and stockpiling ot att chemicar welpons and ontheir destruction.

States to conducC serious negotiations in
action that could inpede negotiations on
and specifically Eo refraj.n fron the
and oLher new types of chemical weapons,
t{eapons on the territory of other States,

!/
9./

ResoLulion 2826 (XXVI) , annex.

tio. 21 lA/40/27 and Corr.l) .
the iethOffic ial Record6 Lement



A/40/932
English
Page l0

l. Takes note of the $ork of the Conference on Disarnanent durtng its
session in tles regiaroing the Prohibition of chenlcal reapons and, j'n
particul.a!, apPreciates the work of itB !f!g Comnittee on Chenical l{eaPona
on lhat question.and the Progreas recorded in its lePortt

2. Expregses again its regret and concern that an agreern€nt on the
cornPtete ana effectlve proniUltlon ofltre develoPrEnt' Production and
stockpiling of alL chenical weaponE and on their destruction has not yet been
eLaborated,

3. Urges again the Conference on Disalnanent, as a natter of high
priority, to inte"sify, during its session in 1986r the negotiations on auch a
convention and to reinforce further i.ts efforts, inter alia, by increaaing the
tine during lhe year tbat the @nf,erence on Oigarnanent devotes to such
negotiations, taking into account aII existing ProPosals and fuCure
initiati.ves, with a view to che final elaboration of a convenclon at the
earliest Possible date, and to re-eEtablish its Ad Eoc Comnittee on Chenical
we apons for this purpose tdith the 1985 nandaget

4. Requests the Conferenc€ on Disarnanent co rePort to the General
Assenbly at its forty-first seseion on the reEulta of its negotiations'

i

Chernical and bacter iolog ical (biological) weapons

The General. Assenbly,

Reaffirming the urgent necessity of strict observance by all states of
ttre piincipfea artd objectives of the Protocol for the Prohlbltion of the uae
in war of Asphyxiating, Poiaonous or Other GaEes, and of Bacteriological
Methods of warfare, signed at Geneva on I? atune L925' 9/ and of the adherence
by alt sbates to the convention on the Prohibitlon of the Developnen!,
Production and stockplling of Bacteriological (Biological) and loxin WeaPons
and on Their Destruction, Blgned ln Iprrdon ' Moscor and 

Waahington, D.C.r on
I0 April L972t 7/

tioting with concern reports lhat chenical eeaPons have been used, aE eell
as inaications of tirei-emergence in an increaeing number of national araenalgr

Expressinq concern over the increa€ing rigk that chenical weapons aay b€
resorted to again,

!g!i!g internaEional efforts to Etrengthen relevant international
probibitions, including efforts to develoP approPriate f,act-finding nechanla a'

Recalllng it6 re8olutio^ 39/55 A of I2 Decenb€r 1984 on chenical and
bacteriological (biologlcal) ueaPons'

Rededicating its efforts to protec! rnank inil fron chemical and biolog ical
warfare '



A/40/9 t2
Eng li sh
Page il

i-. Reaffirms the need for strict observance of exj.seing international
obligati.onE-iElEiETng prohibirions on chemical and biolog j.cal r{eapons and
condemns all actions tha! contravene those obligations;

2. Welcomes the ongoing efforts to ensure the mose effective
prohibilions possible on chemical and biological weaponsi

3. tJrges the Conference on Disarmanent to accelerate its negotiations
of a rnullilateral convention on the conplete and effective prohibition of the
developnent, production and stockpiling of chenical \^reapons and on their
destruction t

4. Calls upon all Stat.es, pending the conclusion of such a
comprehensj.ve ban, to co-operate in efforts to prevent the use of chemical
weapons.


