








































UilITED
NATtOItS

General Araembly Distr.
CENERAT

^/40/e4227 Nov€mber 1985
EI{GI.ISH
ORIGIT{ALr FREIICH

Fortieth session
Agenda iten 51

URGEM NEED FOR A COMPRENENSIVE N(rcLEAR-TEST.BAN TREATY

Report of the Firsc conmit.tee
Rapporteur: Mr. yannis SOUTIOTIS (creece!

I. IMRODUCTION
l. The lteln entitled trurgent need for a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treatys
report of the conference on Dlsarnatnent' wag lncluded in che provislonar agenda of
the fortieEh session in accordance with cenerar Assenbly resolution 3g/sg ot
12 Decenber 1984.

2. At its 3rd plenary neetlng, on 20 september 1985, the ceneral Assenbly, on the
recomendatlon of the General connittee, decided to incrude the ltem ln lts agenda
and to allocate it to the First Comnlttee.

3. At lts 2nd neetlng, on 9 Oclober, the First Cortrmittee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarnanent items allocated to i.t, nanely, itens .lg to 69 anal
iten I45, follotred by statenents on apecific disarrnanent agenda itens and
continuation of general debate, as necessary. The deliberations on those itens
took place betneen the 3rd and the 32nd neetings, frorn 14 October to 8 Novenb€r
(see A/C.I/40 /pv.3-32) .

4. rn connectlon with iten 51, the Flr6t conrnittee had before it tbe following
docunents 3

(a) Report of the conference on Dlsarrnanent, y

y offic
w 1^/4O/ 27 and corr.

8s-34917 4629P (E)



A/40/942
Engl ish
Page 2

(bl Letter dated 30 January 1985 from the r€presentatives of Argentina,
Greece, India, Mexicor Sweden and the Uniteal Republic of Tanzanla to the United
Nations addressed to lhe secretary-ceneral, transnitting the Delhl Declaratlon
adopted and lssued at New Delhi on 28 January 1985 by the lteads of State or
Government of Arg€ntina, Greece, fndia, Itlexlco, S\reden and the United Republlc of
Tanzania (A/40 /IL4-S/L692Ll I

(c) Lehter dated lI February l-985 from the Pernanent Repreaentatlve of
ltongolia to the Unlted Nations addressed to the Secretary-General lA/40/I25'),

(d) Letter dated I Uay 1985 from the Pernanent Representative of Indonesia to
the United Nations addressed to the secrebary-ceneral, transmlUtlng the text of the
Declaration of the Cornnenorative Meetlng ln Observance of the Thirtieth Anniveraary
of the Asian-Afr ican Conference, held at Bandung on 24 and 25 April 1985
(^/40/275-s/!7L381 |

(e) Letter dated 19 septernber 1985 fron tbe Permanent Representative of Papua
Nelt Guinea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transrnitting
bhe conmuniqu6 adopted by the Sixteenth South paclfic Forurn, heLd at Rarotonga,
Cook Islands, on 5 and 6 August L985 (A/4O/672-S/L7 4881 t

(f) Letter dated 30 October 1985 from the repregentatives of Argentina,
Greece, fndia, !,lexico, Sweden and the Unlted Republic of Tanzanla to the United
Nations addressed to the Secr etary-ceneral, transnitting the joint nessage dated
24 october 1985 addressed to the President of the unlted states of Atner ica and the
General Secreeary of the Central Connittee of the Cornrnunist Party of the Soviet
Union by the Head€ of State or covernnent of Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico,
Srdeden and the Unlted Republic of Tanzania lA/ 4O/825-S/L75961 t

(gt Letter dated 25 October 1985 fron lhe Pernanent Representative of
Bulgarla to the United Natlons addressed !o the Secretary-General l transmittlng the
Declaration issued on 23 October 1985 at sofia by the Polltical Consul-Eative
Conmittee of the Warsard Treaty Organization (A/C.I/40/71 .

II, CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.L/4O/L.77

5. On 7 Novenber 1985, Australla, Dennark, Fiji, Finland, Iceland, Ireland, New
?ea.land, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Sanoa and Sweden subrnitted a draft resolution
(A/C.I/4O/L.73) r entitled rUrgent need for a conprehenslve nuclear -test-ban
treatyn,}'hichidaslateraIsosponsoredbyAustria,the@&x3',
the Philipplnes, singapore, the Solomon Islands, Thalland and vanuatu. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of New zealand at the 34th neeting.
on 12 Novernber.

6. At its 45th meeting, on 21 Novenber, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.L/4O/L.73 as follows:

(a) operative paragraph 4 lras adopted by a recorded vote of 70 to 3, nith
50 abstentlons. The voting vras as follovrs:



A/40/942
tngtish
Paqe 3

In favour r Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Austria, Bahanas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botsnana, Brunei Darussalan,
Burundi, carneroon ' canada, central African RePublic, Chad,cornoros, Dennark, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Fiji,
Finlandr Greecer Grenada, cuatemalar Fonduras, Iceland'
Indonesiap freland, fvory Coast (C6te d'Ivoire), Janalca 'ilordan, Kenya, I(uwait, Lesotho, ualaysla, !,taldives r llalir
Mauritania, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria,
Noruay' Oan, Pakistan' Papua Netr Guinea, Paraguay,
PhillPpines, Oatar, saint vincent and the Grenadines, Satrioal'
Saudi Arabiar Senegal, singapore, Solornon Islands' sonaliat
Spain, Swazitand, sweden, syrian Arab Republic ' thailand,Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuni6ia, Turkey, Uganda, United
Arab Enirates, zaire, zarnbla.

Aga instl France. unlted Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Unlted States of Anerica.

Abstainingr Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina. Bel-giun, Benin,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Byelorussian Soviet
sociallst Republlc, chile, China, colombia, congo, cuba'
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yenen, Egypt, Ethiopia,
German Denocratlc Republic, Gernany' Federal RePublic of,
Ghana, Gulnea, cuyana, Haiti, Hungary, fndia, fran (Islanic
RePubl-lc of), Iraq, farael-, ftaly, .taPan, Lao PeoPlers
Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahlrlya, Luxenbourg,
!{adagascar, Mexicor Mongolia r l.torocco, Mozanbique,
Nicaragua, Panana, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Ronania, Rnanda,
sri Ianka' sudan, surinane, Ukrainian soviet socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Unlted
RePubIic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela' viet Nan,
Yugoslavia, Zimbabrre.

{b) oPerative paragraph 5 was adopted by a recorded vote of 80 to 12, with
40 abstentlons. The voting vras as follows: e/

In favour r Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Austria, Bahanas, Bahraln,
Bangladesh, Belgiun, Bhutan, Botivia, Botsnana ' BrunelDarussalan' Burundil caneroon, canada, central African Republic,
Chad, Conoros, Denmark, Doninican Republic' gsuadel , Fijir
Flnlandp cabon, Gernany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala r Haiti, Ilondurasr rceland, Indonesia, Iran (IBlamic
Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast (C6te drlvoire),
Jamaica, Japan, ilordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Malaysla,
Maldivesr MaIi' uauritania, Nepal, Nethertands' New zealand,

' N19er, Nigeriar Norway, omn, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea'

!'he delegation of Uruguay subsequentLy indlcated that it had intended to
favour of operative paragrapb 5.

U
vote in



^/40/942English
Page 4

Againsbr

Paraguay, Phllipplnes, Portugal, Qatar, Saint Vlncent and the
Grenadines, samoa, saudi Arabia, senegal, Slngaporer solornon
Islands' Sonalia, spain, suaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic 'Thailand, Togo, Trinldad and Tobago ' 

Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda'
United Arab Enirates, Unlted Binqdon of creat Britain and
Northern Ireland, United states of Nler ica, zaire, zambia.

Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byelorusslan Soviet Seialist Republic,
czechoalovakla, Gernan Democratlc Republic, Eungary, Lao PeopLe's
Democratlc Republic, Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian Soviet SociaLlst
Repub1ic, Unlon of soviet Socialist Republlcs, viet Nam.

Abstainingr Algerial AngoLa, Argentlna, Benln, Brazll, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Chile, colonbia, Congo, Cuba, cyprus, Democratic Yemen, Egypt,
Ethlopia, France, ghana, Guinea, Guyana, fndla, fraq, Israel,
Libyan Arab ilanahir iya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar, Irlexico'
Mozamblquel Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, Rornania, Rrranda, Sri Lanka,
sudan' surinamer United Republic of Tanzania' uruguay, venezuela,
yugoslavia, zltnbabwe.

(c) Ttle draft resolution, as a whole, ta6 adopted by a recorded vote of I03
to 3, ttith 32 abstentions (see para. 7t. The voting was as follorrs3 3/

In favour r Algeria, Antigua ahd Barbuda, Augtralia, Austria, Bahanas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Boi-ivlar Botsnana, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundi. Cameroon. Canada,
central Afrlcan Republic, chad, Chile, Colonbia, Conoros ' Clttrus,Democrat ic Kanpuchea, DeNaark, Dj ibouti, Doninican nepublic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, FiJi, Flnland, cabon, creece r Grenada,
cuatenala, Guinea, Guyana, Haitir Eonduras, rceland, rndonesia.
Iran (Islanic Republic of), Irag, Ireland, fvory Coast
(C6te dtlvolre), Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, (enya, Kusait, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Janahirlya, ltalaysia, Maldlves, Mall, l,lalta,
Maurltania, !,iorocco, Mozanbigue, Nepal, Netherlands, Nen Zealand,
Nlger, Nigeria, NorHay, olan, Pakistan, Panatna, PaPua New Guinea,
paraguay, peru, philippines, eatar, Romanla, Rleanda, saint
vincent and the Grenadineg, samoa, saudl Arabla, Senegalr
Slngapore, Solomon Islands. SonaLia, Spain, Srl Lanka, Sudan,
Surinamel swazlland. S$reden, Syrlan Arab RepubLlc, Thailand,
Togor Trinldad and Tobago, funisia, Turkey, Uganda, Unlted Arab
Enirates' united RepubLic of Tanzanla, Uruguay, Yenent
Yugoslavia, zaire, zimbabwe.

Aqainst! Francer United Kingdom of Great Brltain and Northern lreland,
Unlted states of Arner ica.

y the delegation of Denocratlc Yemen subsequently lndicated that iC had
lntended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.



A/r0/912
English
Page 5

Abstainlngr Afghanistan, Angola, Argentina, Belgium, Brazll, Bulgaria,
Byelorussian soviet Soclallst Republlc, China, Congo, Cuba,
czechoslovakia, Denocratlc Yenen, G€rman Democratic RePublic,
Germany, Federal Republ ic of, chana, Eungarf, fndia, Iarael,
ftaly, Lao Peoplers Denocratlc Republic, Luxenbourg, !{adagaacar t
Mexico' l{ongolla, Nicaragua, Poland, Portugal, Ukralnlan sovlet
s@lallst Republic, union of sovlet Sociallet Republics,
Venezuela, Viet Nan, Zanbia.

III. RECOIIII4ENDATION OF TEE FIRST CO|0IITTEB

7. Ahe I'lrst Conmlttee recornmendg to the cenerat Assenbly the adoption of the
followlng draft resolution:

Urgent need for a conprehen5ive nuclear-test-ban treaty

The GeneraL AEsenibly,

Convinced of the urgent need for a comprehen€ive huclear-test-ban treaty
capable of attractlng the nidest posslble lnternational support and adherence,

Reaffirning lts convlction that an end to aII nuclear testing by atl
states in all envirodnents for all time would be a maJor step toreards ending
the qualitative irnprovenent, alevelopnent and prollferation of nuclear weapons,
a neans of relieving the deep apprehension concernlng the harnful consequencea
of radloactive contaninatlon for the heatth of present and future generations
and a measure of the utmo8t importance ln bringing the nuclear-arns race to an
end,

Recalling that the parties to the Treaty Bannlng Nuclear weapon Teats ln
the Attnosphere, in Outer Space and under t{ater 9/ under took not to carry out
any nuclear-weapon-test exploaion, or any other nuclear elaplosion, ln the
environnents covered by that Treaty, and that in that Treaty the Partiea
exPressed their deternination to continue negotiatlona to achieve the
dlscontlnuance of alt test explosions of nuclear neapons for all tine'

Rgcalling also that the parEies to the rreaty on the Non-Prol iferat lon of
Nuclear lfteaponE 5/ recalled the deternlnation expressed by the Parties to the
Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atnosphere, ln Outer Space and
under water in itg prearible to seek to achleve the dlscontinuance of all test
exPloslon6 of nuclear weapons for all tine and to contlnue negotlations to
that end, declarlng their intenfion to achieve at the earliest possible date
the cessatlon of the nuclear-armE race and to undertake effective neasuree in
the dlrection of nuclear dlsarnarnent,

United Nations, Treaty Serlesr vol. 480, t'to. 6964, p. 43.

General A8senbly reBolutlon 23?3 (xxII) r drln€!1.
A/

v



A/40/942
English
Page 5

Notlng thal in the Ftnal Dectaratlon of the third Revlen Conference of
the Parties to the Treaty on tbe Non-Proliferat ion of Nuclear weapons r lil
regret was exPressed that a corprehenslve nultilateraL nuclerr-test-ban treaty
bannlng all nuclear tests by all States ln all environnents for all tlne had
not been concluded and that aLl nuclear-neapon States were called on to
participat€ in the urgent negotlation and concluslon of such a treaty, as a
natter of the highest priority, in the Conference on Dlsarnanent,

Recall-lng further its previous resolutlons on this subject,

Taking into account thae part of the report of the Conf,erence on
Disarmafient concerning consideraElon of the lten entltleal nNuclear-test ban'
during its sesslon ln ].ggg, U

Also taking into account relevant proposals and inltiatlves put fofl ard
in the Conference on Disarnanent during its session in 1985 and other
proPosals and actiona advanced in 1985 concerning effortg to pronote an end to
nuclear testlng,

Expresslng its profound regret that, in spite of atrenuous efforts, the
Conference on Disarmanent tras unable to reach agreenent on the
r e-establ ishnent at its sesslon in 1985 of an ad hoc comittee unaler itefi I of
its agenda, entitled nNuclear-test bann,

Reccgnizing the important role of the Conference on Dlaarmament ln the
negotiation of a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban breaty,

Recognizing the inpor tance to such a treaty of the nork on a 91oba1
seistoic detectlon netnork, assigned by the Conference on Diaarnament to the
Ad ltoc Group of Scientlfic Experts to Consider 'International Co-operatlve
Measures to Detect and Identify Seisnic Events,

Recalling paragraph 31 of the Final Docurnent of the ?enth Special Seaslon
of the ceneral Asser0bly, g/ the firsc speclal session devobed to dlEarmanentr
relating to veriflcation of disarmament and arns control agreements, shich
stated that lhe forn and modallties of the veriflcation to be provided for ln
any speclfic agreeEent depend on, and should be deternlned by, the purposes,
scope and nature of the agreehent,

1. Reiterates lts profound concern that, despite the express nlsbes of
the majority of Uember States, nuclear testing continues,

V A/C.L/AO/g, annex.

U Official Records of the ceneral Assembly, Fortleth Session, Supplenent
llo. 27 (A/4O/27), sect. III.A.

V General Assernbly resolution S-L0/2.



A/40/942
EngliBh
Page 7

2. Reafflrns its conv:igtfo! that a treaty to achieve the prohibition ofau nucreaiGit ex-i-iEi6ifi?Er states in a1i environrnents for a1r time 1s
a natter of greatest importancet

3. B.presses the conviction that such a treaty woulal constitute a vital
el.enent for the euccess of efforts to hatt
and the qualitative inprovenent of nuclear
expanalon of exlstlng nuclear arsenals and
addltlonal countr leE I

and reverse the nuclear-arns race
lreapons and to prevent the
ehe spread of nuclear weapong to

. Urges the Conference on Dlsarnarnent to establish at the beglnning ofits session in 1986 an Aq_Egg Comittee unaler ltem I of its agenda, entitledrNuclear-tegt bani, to E!'-tn negotiations on a coryrehensive nucrea! -test-bantreaty ln accordance nith the following prografiune of workr
(a) Scope

(i) Conrprehensive ban on nuclear explosions in all envlronnents,
(1i) The queEtion of nuclear exploslons for peaceful purposest

(b) ver ification

(i) ltle central inportance of verification of a conprehensive test
banl

(ii) Factors affecting verification needs,
(iii) Means for nonitoring conpliancer

a. national technlcal means,

b. lnternational seisnlc monitoring networkt

i. determination of capabilitles for nonltoring cornpliance I
ii. steps for eEtabllshnent and inprovenentt

tii. institutional, administrative and ftnancial
arrangetnents for establishnent, testing and operationt

iv. relationshlp to an effective verlflcation sy6tern,
c. oEher means t incJ.uding an international atmospheric

. radioactiviby monitoring netrrork,

d. on-site lnspectiont
(iv) speciflc verificatlon problens and their solutlon6, includling:

a. nonitoring large land nassest



A/40/942
Engl ish
Page 8

b. nethods of possible evaaiont

c. che0ical exPlosions,

{c) @nPliance
(i) Preedures and nechaniang for consultation and co-oPeratlon,

(ii) co€rdinating body ' 
e.9. co{0nlbte€ of exPertat

(iii) consultative comnittee t
(iv) series of actionE triggered brr Euspicion or vioration'

includirq co4tlalntE Procedurest

5. Further urges th€ Conference on Dlsarnanent!

(a) so take inuealiate EtePs for tshe establishment, with the wldest
possible particlpation 

' of an international 
seismic nonitoring network to

deternine the capabtlltie€ of auch a netsork for lBnltoring and verifying
conpliance with a ccmprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty, taklng into account
the work performed by the 4L@ GrouP of Scientific E rPerts to @nsider
International Co-operative Meiiures to Detect and ldentify Seismic Eventst

(b) lro lnltiate detailed inveEtigatlon of other neaEures to tFnitor and
verify conPliance wlth euch a treaty, including an international netrork to
rFnitor atrmspheric radioactivity,

6. glggg att enbels of the conference on Disarmanent, In Particular
the nuclear -setpon states, to co-oPerate within the @nference in fulfilling
these tasks as called for, inter alia, in the Final Declaration of tbe Tbird
Reviev @nference of the paiIlElElhe Treaty on the tron-Proliferation of
Nuclear weapons, 8/

7. Calls upon the @nference on Disarnanent to report on Progreas to
the ceneral Assefubly at its forty-first session,

8. Decides to incluale in the Provlslonal agenda of itE forty-flrst
session the iten entitleat "urgent need for a conprehensive nuclear-test-ban
treatyx.


