








































UT{ITED
NATIONS

General Aeaembly Distr,
GENERAL

A/4o/es6
9 Dec ember 1985

ORIGINAL: ENGLISE

Fortieth session
Agenda iten 70

OUESTION OF AMARCTICA

Report of the First Conmittee

Rapport.eur: Mr. yannis SOULIOIIS (creece)

I. INTRODUCTION

I' The item entitled the nQuestion of Antarctican iras includeal in the provisional
agenda of Lhe fortieth session in accordance wi.th General Assenblv resoluclon
39 /152 oE I7 Decenber 1984.

2. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 Seplember 1984. the ceneral Assembly, on the
reconunendation of the ceneral comnittee, decided to include the iten in its aqenda
and lo allocate it to the First Cornmittee,

3. The Committee considered the iten at its 48th to 55th meeeings, from
25 Novenber to 2 December 1985.

4. In connection with iten 70, the First Conmittee had before it the follolring
documents:

(a) Letter dated 25 Novenber 1985 from the permanent RepresentaEive of
Belgiurn to the United Nations addressed to the Secr etary-cener aI transnittinq the
English version of the final report of the Thirteenth Antarctic Treaty consultative
Meeting, held at Brussels fron 7 to 18 October L9BS |A/C.L/4O/]-Z, i

(b) Letter dated 5 Novenber 1985 fron the permanent Representative of Angola
to the United Nations addressed !o the Secr etary-cener al, transmitting the Final
Political Decraration and the Econornic Declaration adopted by the conference of
Foreign Ministers of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Luanda from 4 to
7 September L985 ( / 40/854-S/L76LO and Corr.1).

85-36834 0330P (E)



A/4O/996
Engl i sh
Page 2

rI. CONSI DERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. praft resolution A/C.l/40ll.8 2

5. On 27 Novenber, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mali,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Rwanda and Sri Lanka subnitted a draft resolution entitled
"Question of Antarcti.ca" (A/C.I/4O/L.82) , which was introduced by Che
representalive of Malaysi.a at the 55th meeling, on 2 Decenber.

6. At Che sane neeti.n9, the Corunittee adopted draft resolution A/C.L/40/L.82 (see
para, 12, draft resolution A) by a recorded vote of 80 to none, with 9
abstentioos. V The voting was as follows:

In favour! Atgeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Darussalan, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Cbad.
Comoros, Congo, Cyprus, Denocratic Kanpuchea, Djibouti, Doninican
Republic, Egypt. Equatorial cuinea, Elhiopia, cabon, chana,
Guinea, cuyana, Indonesia, fran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq,
Ivory Coast (CAte drlvoire), Jordan, Xenya, Kurda j.t, Lebanon.
Lesotho. Libyan Arab Jamahiriya' Madagascar. Malawi, Malaysia'
Maldives, Mali, lrlauritania, Ivlexico, Ivlorocco, Mozanbigue, Nepat,
Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Panama. Peru' Philippines, Qatar,
Ronania. Rl'anda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
sonal-ia' Sri Lanka, sudan, suriname. Swaziland, Thailand, Togo.
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda. Unj.ted Arab Enirales,
United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela. Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire'
Zanbia, Zinbabvre.

Against: None.

Abstaining: Austria. Canada, China, Haiti, Ireland, Luxenbourg, portugal,
Sarnoa, Turkev.

L/ The following 35 detegations announced that they were not participating
in the vote: Argentina, Australia, Belgi.um, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialisl Republic, Chile, Colornbia, Czechoslovakia, Denmark. Ecuador, Finland,
France, German Dernocratic Repu,llic, Gerrnany, Federal RepubLic of, creece.
cuatemala, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland. India, Israel. Italy. Japan, Netherlands.
Nelr Zealand. Norway, Poland,.Spain, Sweden, Ukrainian Soeiet Socialist Republic,
union of soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of Anerica and Uruguay.



^/40/996English
Page 3

B. Draft resolut ion A/c.L/4O/L.83

7. On 27 November, Bangladesh, Brunei Darussalan, Malaysia, MaIi, Nigeria{ OmaE,
Pakistan, Reanda and srl Lanka submicted a draft resolutlon entitled 'Questlon of
Antasctica" (A/C.I/4O/L.83 ) , wbich eas lntroduced by the rePresentative of Pakletan
at the 55th meetlng, on 2 Decenber.

8. At the same neetlng, the committee adopted draft resolution A/c.L/4o/L.83 (see
para. 12, ttraft resolutlon B) by a recorded vote of 78 to none, with I0
abstentlons. l,/ tte voting sas as follons:

In favourr Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahra!.n, Banglatlesh' Benin,
Bhutan' Bolieia' Botsuana, Brunei Darussalan, Burklna Faso,
Burma, Burundl, Caneroon, central African Republic, chad,
Comoros, Congo, cyprus, Democratic Kampuchea, Djtboutt, Dominican
Republic, Egypt, Eguatorial Gulnea. Ethiopla, Gabon, Ghana,
Guinea' Guyana' rndone€ia, rran (rslanic Republic of), rraq,
Ivory Coast (C6te drlvoire), Jordan, Kenya, Ku$ait, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahirlya, lrtadagascar, Malawl, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Maurltania, Mexlco, Mozarnbigue, NePal, Nigeria,
ornan, Pakistan. Panama, Philippines, Qatar, Ronania' Rrvanda,
sautli Arabia, senegal, Sterra Leone, singapore, Sona1ia, sri
Lanka, Sudan, Surinane, Sttaziland, Tbailand' Togo, Trinialad and
Tobago, Tunisia' Uganda, United Arab Emlrates, Unltetl Republic of
Tanzania' venezuela, Yenen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia, Zirnbabwe'

4s.!!.9,e: None.
Abstainingr Auslria, canada, china, Ilaiti, Ireland, tuxenbourg, Peru,

Portugal, Sanoa r TurkeY.

9. on 27 Novenber, Australia eut|Itrltted a draft resolution entitletl "Question of
Antarctica'r (L/C.L/40/L.94), which read as follons:

'&g_c"r"..l Ar".rbly-,
I'Recalling its resolutiona 3a/77 of 15 Dec enber 1983 and 39/L52 6f

17 Dec enber I98 4,

' Havlng._consjdered the item entitled "Questlon of Antarctlcan,
nBearing in rnind the Antarctlc Treaty and the signiflcance of the systen

it has developed,

"Taking into accounE the debate on this item at lbs fortieth sesslon,

"Convlnced of the advantages of a better knoldledge of Antarctica,

"Affirmlng the conviction that, in the incerest of all manklnd,
Antarclica should c eeer to be used excluslvely for peaceful
purposes, and that it should not becone the scene or object of international
discord,



A/40/996
English
Page 4

"No!!lS the increasing International incerest in Antarctica, as evidenced
by the deliberations nhich took place during Che thirty-eighth and
thirty-ninth sessions of the united Nalions cenerar- Assenbly, in the meetings
of Che Movenent of Non-Aligned Countries, at the recent sumnit of the
organization of African uniey, at the t6th neeting of the south paclfic. Forun,
at tbe recent meetlng of the Antarctic Treaty parEies in Brussels, and by the
grovring membership of the Antarctic Treaty,

"Conscious of the signlficance of Antarctica to the world community in
terns of inter alla international peace and security, environment, scientific
research and rneteorology,

"Recog_q=ing fug.thel that activitiea in Antarctica are conducted in
accordance intet alia with the purposes and prlncipLes of the charter of the
unitea uat i6i?-iF-in the rnterest of maintaining int,ernationar. peace and
security, and of promoting international co-operation for the benefit of
mankind as a whol-e,

nNotlng once again wlth appreciaEioo lhe study on the quesblon of
Antarctica,

"Noting the interest in exanining furEher certain natters relatlng to
Antarctica,

'rl. Requests the Sec r etary-ceneral to supplenent the studly on the
gueseion of Antarctica by addressing questions concerning the availabl!-ity of
information from the Treaty partiea on their respective actj.vities and the
Antarctic Treaty system to the united Nations, the invorvement. of the relevant
speciarized agencies and intergovernnentar organrzations rn the Antarcttc
Treaty Systen,

"2. Requests the Secr etary-ceneral to seek the co-operation of all
Menber states, the relevant speclalized agencies, organa, organizations and
boalies of the united Nations syatem, as well as the relevant intergovernnental
bodies, in the preparation of the study as was provided for in resotution
3a/7 7 t

^ "3, Requests th€ S ec r etary-General to issue the upalated supplement intine for the fofty-second session of the General Assenbly,
'4. Requests the Secr etary-Gener al- to report on his progress on the

updated supplement to the ceneral Assembly at lts forty-first session;

informlng the Secr etary-ceneral on their neetlngs as neII as on tberr
respective actlvi.ties in Antarctica i

"6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty_first
session the itern entltled rguestion of Antarcticar.n

Subsequently, at the 55th meeting, on 2 Decenber, Australia withilreH atraft.
resolution A/C. l/ 40 /L. 54.



pJ40/996
English
Page 5

c. Drafc resolutlon A/C.1,/40lL.85

10. on 2? November, Maurltius, on behalf of the states Menbers of the united
Nations that are memUEG-68-TEe Group of African States, subnitted a draft
resolution entltled "Question of Antarctlca" (A/c.I/40/L.85't . The draft resolution
eas introduced by the representaLive of Burundi at the 55th meeling, on
2 D€c enber 1985.

lI. At tbe sane meeting, the Connittee adopted draft resolutLon A/C.L/40/L.85 (6ee
para. 12, draft resolution C) by a recorded vote of 81 to none, etith 9
abstentlons. 2/ The voting was as follorrs:

In favour ! Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Bahf,ain, Banglaalesh' Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Brunei Darussalan, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cameroon, central African Republic, Chad, China, Colonbia,
Comoros' Congo, Cyprug, Denocratic Kanpuchea, Democratic Yenen'
Djibouti, Do inlcan Republlc, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana, Gulnea, Guyana, Haiti, rndia, rndonesla'
Iran (Islanic Republic of), Irag, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait' Lebanon,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, l4adaqascar, t{alaysia, Maldives, l4a1i,
luauritania. Mexicor Mozanbigu€, Nepal, Nigeria, o'man ' Pakistan,
Panama, Peru' Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia'
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sonalia, Sri Lanka' Sudan,
surinane, syrian Arab RePublic, Thaitand' ?ogo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tuni.6ia, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, Uniteal RepubLic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
zinbabrre.

None.Again6t:

4!1!1!g!gg, Austria, Canada, Ireland, Luxembourg, Malaei, Portugal, Samoa,
Swaziland, Turkey.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF TIIE FIRST COMI{ITTEE

]-2. The First committee recoNnends to the General Assenbly Ehe adoption of the
following r esolutLons :

U The folloeing 36 delegalions said they vtere not parcicipating in Ehe
vote: Argentina, Australia, Belgiutn, Botsvtana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burna'
Byelorussian Sovlet socialist Republ.ic, chi!.e, Czechos lovak i'a, Denmark, Finland,
France' German Democratic Republicr Germany ' Federal RePublic 

of, Gr€ece,
Guatemala, Ilonduras, Hungary ' Ice1and, Israel, Italy, Ivory 

Coast (C6te drlvoire),
Japan, Lesotho, Netherlands, New zealand, Norrray, Polandr SPain, sweden. ukrainian
Soviet SociaList Republic, Union of Sovlet Socialist Republlce, United K lngdorn of
Great Britain and Norlbern rreland, united states of Amerlca and Uruguay'



A/40 /996
Engllsh
Page 6

Quest.ion of Antarctica

A

The ceneral Assenbly ,

R€cal-Iing lts resolution9 3g/77 of 15 December l9g3 and 39/L5Z of
17 Decenber 19 84,

Having considered the ltem entitled "euestlon of Antarctican,

Welconlng lhe increasing international auareness of and inEerest in
Antarctica,

Bearing in nind the Antarctic TE eaEy y and Lhe signlficance of Che
gystem lt has devel-oped,

Taking into account the debate on this iten at its fortietb sesslon, E/
Convlnced of the advantage€ of a better knouledge of AntarcEica,

Affirnlng the conviction that, in the interest of all nanklnd, Anharctica
should continue foreuer to be used excluslvely for peaceful purposes and thab
it shoul-d not becone the scene or object of Lnternational discord,

RecaLling tbe relevant paragraptrs of tbe Economlc Declaratlon adopted at
the Seventh Conference of Heads of State or coverntnent of Non-Allgned
Countries, held at Neu Delhl from 7 to 12 March L983, y and of the Flnat
Political Declaration of the Conference of Forelgn MlnGters of Non-Aligned
Count.ries, held at Luanda ffom 4 to ? Sept.ember 1985, V as well as theresolution on Antarctica adopted by the Council of ttiniaEers of the
Organization of African Unity at its forty-eecond ordinary session, held aC
Addis Ababa frorn LO to 1? ,tuly ]-9gS, L/

Conscious of the significance of Anearctica to the lnlernational
cotununlty ln terns, tnter alia, of internaEional peace and securlty, econony,
envi.ronnent, scientific research and rneteorology,

!/ United Nations, Treaty Series. vo:-. 1O2. No. SZ?8, p. 72,

L/ Officlal Records of the ceneral Assemblv, Fortietb Session, FirsE
cotnniitee,

y A/35 /L32-S/L56 7 5 and Corr.l and Z, annex, eect. III, patas. LZ2 andt I23.
y A/ 40 /854-s/L7 6 L0, annex I, sect. v.
y A/40/666, annex II, resolution ClVRes. ggg (XLIr).



A/40/996
Engllsh
Page 7

Recognizing, therefore, tbe interest of roankind a6 a nhole in Antarctica'

Bearlng in nind the conlng into force of the united Natlons Convention on
the La$ of the Sea, q/

Noting once agaln with appreciatlon the study on the question of
Antarctica, 9/

Convlnced that it nould be desirable to exarnine further certain isgues
affecting Antarctica,

l. RequesEs the Secr etary-G€nera I to uPdate and exPand the study on the
ouest.ion of ancarctlca by addressing ouestions concerning the availablllty of
information from the Antarctic Treaty Consultatlve Parties to the United
Nations, on their respective activities in, and their deliberations reqarding
Ancarcttca, the involvenent of lbe relevanE specialized agencies and
intergovernnenta 1 organlzailons in the Antarctic ?reaty Systen and the
significance of che united Nations conventioh on lhe Law of Ebe sea ln the
gouthern ocean t

2. Requests the SecreEary-Genera I to seek the co-operat ion of all
Menber scates, the relevant sPeclalized agencies, orqans, organizationa and
bodies of the United Nations syslem, as well aa the relevant intergovernmenta I
and non-goverdflenta]. bodies' in lhe preparaEion of the study by inviting thern
to transnit, as appropriate, their views and any infortnaEion they nay wish to
provide t

3. Reouests tbe Secretarv-Genera 1 to submit Che study to the General
Assenbly aEE-Erty-f irst ses;ion,

4. Decides to include in the provi6iona!- agenda of its forty-firsL
session the itern entitled "Question of Antarctlca".

D

The General Assembly '
Recalllng its resolutions 38/77 of

17 Decemt er 1984,

Havinq considered the ltem entltled

15 Decenber 1983 and 39/152 of

"Oues!ioh of Anlarctica ",

Sea,
A/ CO

8/ of f ic ial ird l ted t iong Conference on
vol. XVrI (Uniled

NF .62/L22.
Nationg publ icat orl r Sales No. 8.84.V.2), document

2/ A/39/583 (Part r) and corr.l and 2 and A/39/583 (Pare rr) and corr'l'
vols. I-IIt.



A/40/996
Eng I ish
Page I

igUing the relevant paragraphs of the Economic Declaratlon adopted atthe Seventh Conference of tieads of State or Governnent of Non_Aligneat
CountrieE, held at Net, Delhi from 7 to 12 March Lgg3, 2/ and of the FinalPolitical Declaration of the Conference of tbreign Minfsters of the
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Lu€nda fron 4 to Z Septenber 1995, 6,/ as wellas the resolution on Antarctica adopted by the councit of Ministers of theorganizatlon of Afrlcan unity at rts forey-second ordinary sessron, helar at
Addis Ababa fron 10 ro 1? July L985, y

Recognizing tha! the nanagement, exploration and use of Antarctlca should
be conducted in accordance wiEh the purposes and princlpres of the charter ofthe united Natrons and in the interest of naintaining incernational peace andsecurity and of promoting internationar co-operation for the benefit ofnankind as a whole.

Aeare that negotiations are in progress among the Antarctic Treatyconsultative parties, with the Non-conau rtat ive parties as obaervers, to whrchother states are not privy, with a viee to e8tablishinq a rdgime regardingAntarctic ni nera 1s,

1. Affirns tbat any exploitation of the reaources of Antarcti.ca should
enaure the naintenance of rnternational peace and security in Antarctica, tbeprotection of lts environnent, the non-appropr iat ion and conservacion of r.tg
resources and ttre international nanagenent and eouitable sharing of lbebenefits of such exploitation,

2. fnvites the Antarctlc Treaty Consultative partiee to inform the
secreta ry-cenera I of their negotiatlonB to establish a 169ine regardlngAntarctic minerals r

.:. R€ouestg the Secretary-Genera I to aubnit to lhe General A6senbly forconsideration a! its forty-firat ses€rion a report containlng the repLiesreceived fron Consultative pa r t. ies,
4- Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forCy_first

session Ehe iten entitled "euestion of AnEarctlca".

Tbe General Assenbly,

Having considered the iten entitted "Ouestlon of Antarctica",

.. . Ngting with reqret that tbe racist apartbeid rdgrme of south Afrrca,whicb has been suspended frorn pa r t ic ipa t$i'-i,l tte General Assembly of the
Unlted Nalions, i6 a Consultative party to the Antarctic ,IreaEy, y

Recalling the interest of African Statea in Antarctlca as shorn by thereaolution adopted by the council of Ministers of the organlzation of AfricanUnity at its forty-second ordinary sesaion, held at Addis Ababa from l0 to
17 JuIy L985, 7/



^/40/996English
Page 9

Recalling furhher that the Antarctic Treaty is, by its terrns, intend€d to
further the purposea and princlples enbod led in the Charter of the United
Nations,

1. Vieos wlth concern the conttnued status of Ehe apartheid r6girne of
South Africa aa a Coneultative party to lhe AntarcElc Treatyt

2. Urges the Antarctic Treaty Consultatlve parties to exclude the
racist apartheid rfuine of South Afrlca frorn participatlon in the rreetlngs of
the Consultatlve partieg at the earlieet poEsible date,

3. Invl.tes the States parties to the Antarctic Treaty to inform the
secr etary-General on the actlons taken r€garttlng the provisions of tbe present
feeolution.




