








































UI{ITED
NATIONS

General Atrenbly Dlstr.
GJTNERAL

^/40/95029 tlovetlber 1985
ENGLISB
ORIGINAI,: FRENCH

Fortieth session
Agenda iten 52

REDIrcTIOII OF UIIJITARY BI'DGETS

R€port of tbe Flrst Corornittee

RaPporteur s Mr. Yannis SOUL,IOfIS (creece)

I. INTrcDUCTION

1. The iten entitled t
{Reduction of military budgets:

((a) Report of lhe Di8armanent Cornmlssiont

"(bl Reporte of the Secretary-Gene raL,,

wag included in the provieional agenda of the fortleth session in accordance siEh
General Asserdbly resolutions 39/64 A and B of 12 Decenber 1994.

2. At its 3rat plenary neetlng, on 20 September 1985, the General Assembly, on the
reconnendation of the General Cmnittee, dec ided to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Codnittee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 9 October, the Birst C@nittee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament itena allocated to ic, narlely, ttens 48 to 69 and
iten 145, folloeed by Etatements on speciflc disarmament agenda itens anc
contlnuation of th€ gen€ral. debate, aa necessary. The deliberations on thoae itens
took place betHeen the 3rd and the 32nd meetings. fron 14 October to 8 November
laee A/C.L/40/Pv.3-32)

4. In connection with iten 62, the First Comrnithee had before it the following
docunents:

85-35013 4630p (E)



A/40/950
English
?age 2

(a) Reporb of the Disarnament Conniasioni V
(b) Military exF€nditures in standardized forn reported by States: report of

the Secr etary-General (A/4O/3L3 and Add.I anal 2),

(c) @nstruction of nilitary price indexes and purchasing-power paribieE for
cotnParison of nilitary expenditures! report of the Secretary-cene ral (A/40/4211 t

(d) fJetter dated 30 iranuary 1985 fron the repregentatlves of Argentina,
Greece' India, Mexico, Sneden and the Uniteat Republic of tanzania to hhe United
tiations addressed to the Secretary-General, transnitting the DeIhi Declaration
adopted and issued at Neu Dethi on 28 iranuary I9A5 by the Eeads of State or
Government of Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico, seeden and the United RepubLic of
Tanzania |A/4O/LL4-9/L69ZL\,

(e) i,etter dated 15 pebruary 1985 from the Chargd d,affaireg a.i. of the
Pernanent !.tission of the cerman Dernocratic RepubLic to the United Nations addressed
to the Secretary-cenerat ( A,/40ll3O-S,/169 59 ! t

(f) Letter dated 12 Augu8t 1985 from the Acting Pernaneht Representative of
Peru to the United tiations addressed to the Secretary-cene ral, transmitting the
Cext of the L,ina Declaration signed on 29 July 1985 by the Beads of State of
Argentina, Bolivla, colonbia, the Dominican Republic, panana, uruguay and peru, and
by the special Represenbatives of BraziL, Chile, @sta Rica, cuba, Ecuador,
EI Salvador ' Guatenala, Baiti, Eonduras, ltexico, Nicaragua, 

paraguay and Venezuela
(A/40/5441 t

(9) iJetter dated 19 Septenber 1985 from the Pernanent Repreaentative of Papua
New Guinea to the lJniteal Nations addressed to the Secretary-G€neral, transnitting
the connuniqud adopted at the Sixteenth South pacific Forun, held at Rarotonga,
Cook Islands, on 5 and 6 August L985 aA/4O/672-S/L7 4881 ,

(h) lJetter dated 14 October 1985 fron the Pernanent Repreaenlati.ve of Togo to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transnitting the Declaratlon
and Prograrule of Action adopteal at the Ministeria] Reglonal Cbnference on Security,
Disarnament and DeveLopnent in Afrlca, held at lpn€ from 13 to 15 August 1985
(A/ 40 /76I-s/L757 3l t

(i) Letter dated 30 October 1985 fron the representatives of Argentrna,
Greece, India, l,lexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzani.a to tbe United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, trananitting the joint nessage dated
24 October 1985 addresged to the president of the Unlted Stabes of Anerica and the
General Secretary of tbe C€ntral Conmittee of ttre Communise party of the Soviet
Irnion by the Heads of State or @vernrnent of Argentina, Greece, India, llexico,
Srdeden and the United Republic of Tanzania lA/ 40/525-S/L75961 ,

Ll Official Records of the ceneral Assenbly, Fortieth Session, Supplement
tlo. 42 (A/4O/421 .



A/40/950
Eng 1i str
Page 3

(j) Letter datedl 25 October 1985 fron the Permanent RePresentative of
Bulgarla to the rrnited Nations addressed to the sec retary-General, cransmitting the
Declaration issued on 23 October 1985 at Sofia by the Political @nsultative
Conmi ttee of the l{arsatr Treaty organization (A/c.I/40/71 .

II, @NSIDERATIOIi OF PROPOSAI.S

A. praft resolution A/C. L/40ll..12

5. On 4 [bvember 1985, ta Indonesla,

(^/c.I/40/'-.L2) , which was .Later also sPonsored by the lvoly @ast (c6te
drlvoire). The alraft resolution was introduced by ghe rePresentative of Romania at
the 3lst neeting, on 7 tiovember.

6. At tts 37th rneetlng, on 14 Novenber, the Connittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.I/40/L.L2 without a vote (see para. L01 draft resolution A)'

B. Draft resolubion A,/9:1/40lL.16

Dennark, Finland, France ral
l,lalta, New zealand, Nornay, sudan and

Ireland, liiqeria Peru Rvranda
tted a draft reaolut

resolutio{r entltled trReduction of military budgetsn (
later al3o sponEored by ganoa and qlgggI. Tbe draft
the representative of Sweden at the 29th neeting, on

, the Sgdan' swedgn and !5gggg1
of nilitary budgets"

t/40/L.].6l .
reaolution was

6 lgovenber.

whlch was
introduced by

8. At the 37tb neeting, on L4 lgovenber, the representative of sweden, on behalf
of the sporors, orally revised operative paragraPh 3, nhich had read:

"Draws the attention of ai.l Membe r states to the study and its
conclusrona and recorunendations r

to read as follons:

"Corfiiends the study and its conclusions and reconnendations to the
attention of all Member Statestr.

9. At the sane meeting ' the conmittee adopted 
draft resolutLon A/C.L/40/L.I6, as

orally revised, bry a recorded vote of 96 to 13, vtith 15 abEtentiona (see para' l0'
draft resolution Bl . The voting was as folloss:

In-favog!: Argentina, Australia, auatria' Bahanas, Bangladesh' Belgiuml
Be;in, Bhutan; Bolivia, Bolswana, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi,
cameroon' Canada, central African Republic, chad, chile'
Colombia, Conoros, CIT)rusr Denocratic KamPuchea' Denmark,
Djibouti. Doninican Republic, Ecuador, EgtErt, Fiji' Finlanil'
erance, Gabon, Gernany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Gteece'

7. on 5 libvember,



v40/95o
English
Page 4

Guinea, Guyana, Eonduras, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Ivory Coast (C6te dtlvoire), Janaica, Japan, Kenya.
Lebanon, Lesotho, Luxenbourg, Madagaacar, M,alawi, ltal.aygia,
!l,aIdives, l,iali, Ualta, ltaur itania, Maur itiu6, !,texlco, !,iorocco,
Nepal, Netherlandg, New Zealand, NigeE, Nigeria, Norway,
PakiBtan, panar8a, papua ties culnea, peru, philippines, Aortugal,
Ronania, R$anda, Samoa, Sao Tme and principe, Senegal,
Singapore, Sonali,a, Spaln, Sri Lanka, Sudan, gurinane, Suazl}and,
sweden, Thailand, togo, Trinidad and tbbago, Tunisia, Turkey,
tganda, Unitetl Kingdon of creat Brltain and NorEhern lreLand,
Unlted Statea of Anerica, Uruguay, Venezuela, yugoglavla, Zalre,
Z lobatn e.

Againatr Afghanistan, Bulgaria, Byeloru€Elan Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Gernan Democratic Republic, Eungary, Iao
People I s Deoocratic Republic, Mongolla, poland, Ukrainian Soviet
soclalist Republic, union of soviet socialist Republics, viet Nam.

Abalainlngs Algeria, Angola, Brazil, Burkina ea6o, Burna, Chlna, congo,
India, Irag, itordan, Nicaragua, Saudl Arabia, Unlted ltepubllc of
Tanzania, yenen, zanbla.

III. RE@UMEI|DATIONS OF TEE FIRST COT,fiITTEE
10. The First Cotunittee recor |ends to the General Assenbly the adoption of the
follot'lng draft re€olutions s

Realuction of military budgeta

A

DeePIy concerned about Che ever-spiralling arms race and gro{dlng tsilitary
exPenditurea, vhi.ch constltute a heavy burden for the econonieg of all nations
and have extrenely harnful effects on world peace and securlty,

Iteaffirning once ggain the provision€ of the Final Document of the Benth
sPeciar sea'ion of the cenerar Assenbly. the flrst 6pecial session devobed to
disarmament, accordlng 'to rrhich tbe graduaL reduction of nilitary budgeta on a
mutually agre€d basls, for exanple, in absolute figures or in cern6 of,
percentage, partlcularly bli nuclear-$€apon states and other nilitarily
Eignificant Statea, $ould contrlbute to curbing the arma race and uould
increase the possibilities for the reallocation of resources nor. being used
for nilltary purposes to €conomic and social development, particularly for the
benefit of the developlng countries, 2/

v Resolution S-L0/2, para. 89.



y see official Record6 of the General Asoembly, Twellth special session,
Anneles, agenda itens g @;-

!/ See reEolutj.on 35/46, annex, para. 15.

A/ 40/950
Snglish
Page 5

Convinced that the freezlng and reductlon of nilitary budgets nould have
favourable congequencea on the i|oEld economic and financial sltuation and
night facilitate efforts nade to increase international assistance for the
developlng countr ies,

lecaLling that at its tnelfth speclal sesEion, the second special session
devoted to disarmanent, all litenber States unanimously and categorically
reafflrned the vali.dity of the Final Document of the TenEh Special Sesslon, aa
trell as their so].enn conrnitrrent to Lt.. y

Recalling also that, in the DeclaEabion of the 1980s as bhe Second Unlted
NatlonE DiaarmarEnt Decade, it ls provided that during this period renewed
efforts ghould be nade to reach agreement on the reductlon of nililary
expenditureE anat the reallocatton of reSources thus saved to econonic and
social developoent, e8pecially for the b€nefit of developlng countries' 4/

RgcaUing further the proviEions of its resolution 34/53 E ot
Il Decenber I9?9, subsequently reaffirned in it8 reBolutions 35lI42 A of
12 Decenber 1980, 36/92 A of 9 December 1981, 37/95 A of 13 D€cenbe t L982.
38/184 A of 20 Decenber 1983 anal 39/54 A of 12 Decenber 1984' in wbich it
conEidered that a new inpetua should be given go the endeavours !o achleve
agreenentE to freeze, reauce or otherslse reEtrain, in a balanced rnanne r,
llilitary expenditure, includlng adequate measures of verification Eagisfactory
to all partieB concerned.

4tsgre of the various propoaals aubnitted by Menber States and of the
acllvit.les carrid out €o far wlthin tb€ franework of the United Natlons ln
the field of the reiluction of military budget8,

@neidering that the idencification and elaboration of the principles
that should govern further actiona of states in freezlng and reducing military
budgets and the other current activities within the franerrork of the United
Nationa related co the question of the reduction of milltary budget€ ehoulal be
regarded as having the fundanental objective of reaching ioternational
agreenents on the reduction of nilitary expenditureE,

Taking note of the report of the DisarnarEnt Cormission on the r'ork
acconpllshed during its session in 1985 on the ltem entitled tReduction of
nilitary budgets', y



A/10/950
EngLish
Page 6

I. De€Iarea again its convictlon that it is possible to achieve
international agree[Ents on the reduction of nilitary budgets eithout
Prejudice to lhe right of all StateE to unaliminished security, self-defence
and aovereignty,

2. ApPeals to aI1 states, in particular to Ehe mo6t heavily armed
States, pending the conclusion of agreements on the reduction of nilitary
exPenditures, to exercise self-restraint tn their rnililary expenditures with a
vien to reallocating the funds thus saved to econonlc. and social developnent'
partlcularly for the benefit of developing countries,

3. Reaffirms that the hunan and naterial resources released through t.he
reduction 6frfiIliry expenditures coul.d be reallocated for econonic and
social developnent, particularly for the benefit of the aleveloping countries,

4, Requests the Disarmanent Conmlssion to continue the consideration of
the iten entitled {Reduction of military budgetsn and, in this conte*t, to
finalize, at its substantive session in 1986, the principles that ehould
govern the actiona of States in the field of freezlng and reduction of
nilitary expenditures on the basi.s of the lrorking paper annexed to its
report, 6/ aa well as other proposala and ideas on the subject-natte

5. Draws +gw the atteltion of Uember States to the fact that the
identiflcation and elaboration of the principles lrhich should govern furEher
actions of States in freeaing and reducing roililary budgets could contribute
to harflpnj,zing the viewa of Statea and creating confidence aflpng them
conducive to achieving international agreenents on the reduction of nilitary
budgetst

6. Urgeg alL Mernber States, in particular the rBost heavlly arned
States, to reinforce their readineas to co-operate in a constructive nanner
eith a view to reaching agreenents to freeze, reduce or otherwise restrain
military expendituregt

7. Decides !o include in the provisional agenda of itg forty-first
session the itero entitled "Reduction of mititary budgetsx,

B

The General Assenbly,

DeePly concerned about the arma race and present tendencies !o increaEe
fulther the rate of growth of nilitary expenditures, the deplorabte $aste of
hurtan and ecorpnic resclurces and the potentiatly harmful effects on world
peace and security,

v Ib!d., Supplement No. 42 (A/4O/421, annex rI.



^/40/e50English
Page 7

Considering that a gradual reduction of nilitary expenalitures on a
mutuarry agreed basis sould be a, neaaure tbat rdourd contribute to curbing the
arns race and lrould increase the poBsibilities of reallocating regources nort
being used for ni.lltary purposes to economic anal social ct'evelopmen t,
particularly for the benefit of the developing countries,

Convinced that such teductions could anal should be carrled out on a
outuaLly agreed basis without detrinent to the national security of any
country,

Reaffirning its convlction that provisions for defining, reporting,
cornpar ing and verifyi.ng military expenditures ril1 have to be basic elenents
of any international agreement to reduce such expenditureg,

Recalling that an international system for the standardized reportlng of
Dlrltary expenditures has been introduced in pursuance of ceneral Assembry
resolution 35/L42 B of 12 December 1980r and that national reports on nilitary
expendilures have been received from a nunber of Membe r states belonging to
differen! geographic regions and having different budgeting and accountlng
6ystena,

considering that a wider participation in the reporting systen of States
fro,n different geographic regions and repreaenting different budgeting syseene
would pronote its further refinement and rould, by contributing !o greater
openneas in nilitary natter6, increase confidence between State6,

Enphasizing that the above-mentioned activities and inltiativea, as weli
aE other ongoing activitieg within tbe rtniteal Nations related to the reducllon
of nilitary budgets, have tbe objective of facilitating future negotiations
ained at. the conclusion of international agreements on tbe reduction of
ltrilitary expenditures,

Recalllng lts re8olution 37/95 B of 13 December 1982, in which it
requeated the Secretary-ceneral, wlth the asaistance of a group of qualified
experta and with the voluntary co-operation of States, to undertake the ta6k
of constructing pri.ce indices and purchasing-po er parities for the military
expenditureg of participating States,

Itaving examined the report of the Secretary-cene ral containing the study
of the croup of Experts on the Reduction of Uilitary Budgets, Z/

l. takes note t9itlr appreciation of the study of the croup of Experts on
the Reduction of Military Budgetst

2. Expresses j.ts appreciaeion to the Secreta ry-cene ral and to Che Group
of Experts that assisled hin in the preparation of the studyt

:-f A/40/42L.



A/40/95O
English
Page 8

3. Conrnends tbe study and lts concluaions and reconDendations to the
attention of aU Menber Stateg,

4. Requests the Secretary-General to nake the neces€ary aErangenenEa
foE the reproductlon of the study aa a United trations Publicaciont

5. Invites aII uenber statee to present to the Sec retary-General, no
rat€r than 15 April 1986, thelr vieus regardlng the study and to suggest
further measures flith a vles to facll,itatlng future international agreenenta
to reduce niLitary expendltureE t

6. Reque6ts the secretary-Gen€ral to subrtrit a rePort containing the
viewE of Membe r States received concetning this issue to the General Assenbly
at its forty-firEt aess ion t

7. Also takes notryi.!.@EEr&^ of Ehe leport of the
secretary-@eived in 1985 fro,n t'0enber states
in the framesork of the above-mentloned reporting Eystent g/

8. stresEes the need to increa6e the number of reportlng States with a
vlew to ttrS-SiGTst possible partlcipation fron dlfferent geograPhic reglong
and representing different budgetlng ayatenst

9. Reiterates its reconnendation tlrat all Member StateE should report
annually' @-cenerar, u€ing the reporting
instrunent, their nilitary expenditureg for the latesE fiscal year f,or which
data are available I

I0. Decides to lnclude in the provislonal agenda of it6 forty-firEt
sesslon the iten entitled rReduction of nllitary budgetsx.

v A/4O/313 and Add.l and 2.


