








































UNITED
NATIONS

General AseemblY Distr.
GENERAL

A/4D/884
15 Novenber 19 85

ORIGINAL! ENGLISH

Fortieth ses sion
Agenda i tern 109

INFORMATION FROM NON-SELF-GOVERNING TERRITORIES :TRANSMITTED UNDER
ARTICLE 73 e OF THE CHARTER oF THE UNTTED NATIONS

Report of the Fourth comnitLee

Rapporteu.r r Mr. Stefano STEFANINI (Italy)

I. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 Septenber 1985' the General Assembly, on the
recomrnendation of the General corunitgee, decided to include in the agenda of ics
fortiebh session the iten entitled:

"fnformation fron Non-self-coverning Territories transmitted under
Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations:

'(a) Report of the Special Corunittee on the Situation with regard to the
ImplemenEation of the Declaration on the Grantinq of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples t

i(b) Report of the Secr e tary-General. "

At the same meeting, the Assernbly decided to allocate the item to the Fourth
Conunittee.

2. At its 2nd meetingT on 23 september, the Fourch committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 109, uf and 12, Il2 and 113, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would be
considered separately. The Corunittee held the general debate on these itens at its
12th and 15th to l9th neetings, between 3l october and ? Novemlf,er.

3. The Foureh Conunittee considered item 109 at its tlth, Izth and l5th to 20th
meetings' between 30 october and I Novembe r (see A/C,4/40lSR.11, 12 and 15-20).

4. At the ltth neeting, on 30 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Conmittee on
the situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting

a5-32776 460sp (E)



A/40 /884
Engl ish
Page 2

of IndePendence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in vrhich he gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Connittee during 1985 and dre$,
attention to chapCer VIII of the report of that Corunittee relating to item 109
(A/40/23 (Part V)) V containing, inter alia. the related draft resolution
subnitted by that Commj.ttee for consi.deration by the Fourth Conmittee.

5. The Fourth Conmittee also had before it tbe report of the Secr etary-Gener a I
relating Co the itern (A/40/6291 .

6. At i.ts 20th meeting, on I November, the Fourth committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 9 of chapter VIII of the report of the Special
Conmittee (A/40/23 (Part V) ) by a recorded vote of I31 to none, with 3 abstentions
lsee para, 7). !/ The voting lras as follows: 3/

In favour: Afghani.stan, Albania, Afgeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austtia, Baharnas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic' Caneroon, canada, central African Republic, chad,
Chile. China, Colonbia, Conoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprusr
czechoslovakia, Democratic yenen, Denmark, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, ESypt, Equatorial cuinea, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, cabonT cambia, cerman Denocratic Republic, cermany,
Federal Repubtic of, Ghana, creece, cuatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, cuyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland. India,
Indonesia, fran (Islanic Repubtic of), Iraq, Ireland,
rsrael, Italy, Ivory coast, Jamaica, Japan. Jordan, Kenya,
Kunait, Lao Peoplers Denocratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho'
Lj.beria, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Luxelbourg, Madagassar r
Malaysj.a, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia'
Morocco, l4ozanbique, Nepa1, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua/ Niger, Nigeria. Norway, ornan, Pakistan, Panana,
Papua New Guinea, paraguay, peru, philippines, poland,
Portugal, oatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent
and lhe Grenadines, Samoa, Sao Tone and principe, Saudi
Arabia. Sierra Leone, Sonalia, Spain, Sudan, Suriname,
Sr.raziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic. Thailand, Togo,

!/ To be incorporated in Official Records@
session, supplenenr No. 23 (A/4o7rt):-

U The representative of Che United Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland made a statenent in explanation of vote.

1/ subsequent to voting, the delegation of Burundi stated that, had it been
present at the tine of the voting. it would have voted in favour of the draft
resolution' The delegati.on of Djibouti informed the Secretariat to the same effect,



A/40/e84
Engl ish
Page 3

Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey' uganda' Ukrainian
soviet Socialist Republic, Union of soviet socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates' United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen ' Yugoslavia, 

zambia,
zimbabwe,

Againsti None.

Abstaining: France, United Kingdom of Great Brilain and Northern
Ireland, United States of Anerica.

RECO!,IMENDATION OF THE FOURTH COUMITTEE

7. The Fourth Committee reconrmends Co the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolut ion:

rnformation fron Non-self-Govern ing Territories transnilted under
Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Conmittee on the
Situation with regard co the Irnplenentation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to colonial countries and Peoples relating to the infornation
fron Non-Self-Gove r ning Territories transmitted under Articte 73 e of the
charter of the united Nations 4,/ and the action taken by lhe conmittee in
respect of that inforrnation,

Havj.ng also exanined the report of the secretary-Gener al on the
question,5,/

Recalling its resolution I9?0 (xvrll) of 16 Decenber 1963' in which it
requestla ttre Special Conrnittee to study the information transmitted to the
secr etary-Gene ra1 in accordance with nrticle 73 9 of the charter arid to take
such infornation fully into account in examining the situation with regard to
the imptementation of che Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples '

Recalling also its resolution 39/4L of 5 Decenber 1984, in which it
requested the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusled to it under resolution 1970 (XVIII),

y A/4o/23 (Part v), chap, vIIr.

t/ A/40/629.



A/40/8e4
Engl i sh
Page 4

t. Approves the chapter of the reporC of the Special Conmittee on the
situation with regard to the rnplementation of the Decraration on the cranErng
of rndependence to colonial countries and peoples relating to the information
fron Non-sel f-covern ing Territories transnitted under Article 73 e of the
Charter of the United Nations,

2. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the ceneral Assenbly
itself that a Non-self-cove r ning Territory has attained a full measure of
self-governnent in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter, the administering power
concerned should continue to transnit inforrnation under Article 73 e of the
Charter with respect to that Territory,

3. Requests the adrninistering powers concerned to transnit, or continue
to transnit, to the Secr etary-Genera I the inforrnation prescribed in
Article 73 e of the CharterT as well as the fullest possible information onpolitical and constitutional- developnents in the Territories concerned. within
a naximun period of six nonths following the expiration of the adninistrative
year in those Territoriest

4. Requests the Special Comnittee to continue to discharge lhe
functions entrusted to it under ceneral Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in
accordance with established procedures, and to report thereon to the Assembly
at. its forty-first session.


