








































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAseembly 3Distr.
GENERAL

A/40/970
5 December 19 85
ENGLISH
oRIGTNAL: FRENCH

Fortieth sess ion
Agenda item l0?

!/ To be issued as
Session, Suppl enent No. 3

85- 3607 r 4643P (E)

Ot f ic i.a

ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES AND TIAYS AND MEANS I4ITHIN THE T'NITED
NATIONS SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVE ENJOYMENT OF

HUMJ\N RIGHTS AND FUNDAMENTAL FR.EEDoI"IS

Report of thq Thi.rd Committee

Rapporteur: trtr. Paul*D6sj.r6 KABORE (Burkina Faso)

INTRODUCTION

I. At ils 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 September 1985, the ceneral Assembly, on the
reconmendation of the General Comnittee, decided !o include in the agenda of its
fortietb session the item enti.tled ,'Alternative approaches and oays and neans
t ithin the United Nations systen for inprovj.ng the effective enjoynent of hunan
rights and fundamental freedons: reports of the Secretary-ceneral" and to allocate
it to the Third Connittee.

2. The Third Comnittee considered this item at its 33rd, 35th, 36th, 56th and
57th meetinqs on 7. 8, 27 a^d 29 November. An account of the dj.scussion of the
cornnittee is contained in the relevant sumnary records (A/C.3/40/sR.33, 35, 36, 56
and 57) .

3, The Committee had before it the followinq documentation:

{a) Repore of the Economic and Social Council, chapter V, section A
(A/ ao/3) t I/

(b) Nat.ionaI institutions for the protection and prornotion of human rightsi
report of tbe Secr etary-cener a 1 (A/4O/469't i

I.

(A/ 40 /3/Rev.ll



A/ 40/97 O
Enqlish
Paqe 2

(c) International condj.tions and hunaD
ceneral (A/4O/67't) i

rights: rePort of the Secretary-

(d) Draft declaration on the rjght to development: noee by the secretary-
General lA/ 4O /2'7 7 -E/ 1985 /7 0't ;

(e) Letter dated 4 March 1985 from the Permanent RePresentative of the United
States of Anerica to the United Nations addressed to tbe Secr etary-Gener a I
lA/ 40/ t6ol i

(f) Letter dated 26 November 1985 trom the Pernanent Representative of Indla
to the United Nations addressed to the Secrelary-General, containinq tbe text of
the Draft Declaration on the Rigbt to Developnent subrnitted by the experts fron the
Non-Aligned Councries of the t{orking GrouP of Governnental Experts in the
Cor0nt-ssion on Hunan Rights (A/C.3/40/lI\ .

4. At the 33rd neetlng. on 7 Novenber, the Unde r-Sec r etary-Gene r al for Political
and General Assenbly Affairs made an introductory statenent'

II. CONSIDEBATION OF DRAFT PROPOSAI,S

A. Draft resqlq!i2D A/C.3/4O/L-39

5. At the 56th meeting. on 27 Novenber'
draft resolutiorr (A/C.3/4O/ L.39) entitled
and pronotion of human rights", sponsored
Niqer ia and Sr i Lanka as oell as !9M:.

the representative of Indla introduced a
"Natlonal institutions for the protectlon
bv Australia, 1ndia, Iraq, Nen zealand,

the EI4g!_4I ab

6. At the same meeting, tbe Connittee adoPted draft resolution A/C'3/40/L'39
without a vote (see para. 17, draft resolution I).

B. Draft ! qsolut i.on A,/c.3,/4oll-.40

1. At the 56th rneetinq' the representative of cuba introduced a draf! resolution
(A/c.3/40/L.40) entitled "Alternative approaches and r{ays and means eithin the
United Nations systen for irnproving the eftective enioynent of hunan rjghts and
fundamental freedoms". sponsored by Alqeria' Anqgla Arq ent ina Banq 1ad es h

Jamahiriya, Madaaascar, Mexico' Nicqraqua, Paqalna' Romania'
ReDubIic and Yuqoslavj-a as 'rel1 as l'lozanbigle and Viel Na..qt.

8. At the same meeting, after a Procedural debate, the Cotlmittee decided, by 90
votes to 19, ,,{ith I3 ahstentions. to vote on the draft resolu!ion' Subseouently'
the Comnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/4O/L.40 bv 116 votes to 1. l.li'th 21
abstentions (see para, 17, dratt resolution II).



A/ 40/97O
Bng lish
Page 3

c. Draf! resolution A/C.3/40,/L.46

9. At the 56th rneeting, the representative of Australia introduced a draft
resolution (A/C.3/4O/L.46) entitled nDevelopnent of public informatlcrn activities
in the field ot hurnan rightso, sponsored by Arqentina. Australia, Bqrbados, Canade,
Colombia, Cvpru6. Ecuador. Finland. the cambia. India, freland, Mexlco. Morocco,
the Netherlands, Neu Zealand, Norpay, Peru and .I/!!LE]ggig as eell as eg and the
United Kinqdcm of Great Britain and Norehern Ireland, subsequently joined by
Bolivia. Costa Rica and El SalvatCer.

10. At the 57!h neeting, on 29 November, the Connitcee adopted draft reeolution
A/c.3/40/L.46 t{i.thout a vote (see para. 17, draft resolution III).

D.

11, At the 56th neetinq, on 27 Novenber, the representative of Yugoslavia
introduced a draft resolution lA/C.3/40/L.53) entitled iRight to deeeloPment",
sponsored by Banoladesh. Brazil. Colombiar Cyprus' Et.hiopia, Guvana, Niqeria, Peru'
the @ an.t Igg.gs.legjg as pell aB gg.lg::iE an.l the gSISeg
Denocratic Repuqllc, The draft resolution read as follotts:

'rThe General Assembly.

"Ilavinq considered the question of the right to development,

"1. Decides to adoPt the Declaration on the Rigbt to DeveloPment, the
text of ehi,ch i6 annexed to the present resolution.

.IANNEX

"Declaration on the.right gq development

"The.,Genera1 AssenblY,

rrBearinq i.n nlino the purposes and principle€ 9f t.he Charter of the Unlted
Natlons relatinq to the achievenent of idternational co-oPeration in solving
interhational problens of an econonic, social, cgltural or humanitarian
natur€. and in promoting and encouragiDq respect for butnan riqhts and
fundamental freedonc for all Pithout di.stinction as !o race, sex, languaqe or
r el ig ion,

"Recoqnizieg that. developmen! is a cooprehens{ve econonic, social,
cultural and political process ,hich ains at the constant improvenenE of the
uell.-belng of the eneire population and of alt i.ndividuals on the basis of
their active, free and meaninqful paf,ticipation in developnent and in the falr
distribution of benefits resultinq therefrom,

"Consideri.nq that under the provisions of tbe Unlversal Declaration of



^/40/ 
97 O

Eng l ish
Page 4

Hunan Right.s I/ everyone is entitled to a social and international order rn
which the riqhts and freedorns set forth in that Declaration can be full-v
realized,

nRecallinq the provisions of the International CovenanC on Econonlc.
soclal and culturar Rigtrts 2/ and the rnternaeional covenant on civir and
Politi.cal Rights, 2/

"Recallinq further the relevant agreenents, conventions, resolutions.
recommendations and other instrunents of the United Nationg and its
specialized agencies concerning the integral development of the hunan being,
econonic and social progress and developnent of all peoples, including those
instrunents concerning decolonization, the prevention of discrimination,
respect for, and obseEvance of, hunan riqhts and fundanental freedoms, the
malnterrance of inteEnational peace and security and the turther pronotion of
friendlv relalions and co-operation anonq States rn accordance ldith the
Char t er ,

nRecalling the riqhc of peoples to se l f-determ inat ion. by virtue of which
they have the right treely to determine their politlcaL status and to pursue
their econonic, social and culturaL development,

iRecallino further the righC of peoples to exerci.se their full and
complele sovereigntv over alt their natuEal lleal!h and resources in accordance
tdith the rel,evant principles of international lae,

I'i'lindlul of lhe obligation of States under the Charter to pronote
universal respect for, and observance of, human riqhts and fundamenlal
freedons for a1I rrithout distinction of any kind such as race, colour, aea,
lanauaqe, religion, political or other opini.on, natlonal or social origin,
Droper!y, bireh or ocher status,

"Colsiderinq that the elimination of lhe rnassive and f l-agrant violations
of the huftan rights of the peoples and individuals affected by situations such
as those resulting frorn colonialisn, neo-colonialis,t, apartheid, all forns of
racism and racial discrlminaEion, foreign domination ana occupation,
aqgression and threats against nat.ional sovereiqnty, national unitv and
territorial integrity and threats of war eould contribute to the establishmenE
of circumstances propitious to the developnent of a great part of ftankind,

"Conqerned at the existence of serious obstacles to development, as r9ell
as to the conplete fulfilrnent ot human beings and of peoples, conslituted,
ilte! alia, by the denial of civil. political, econonic. social and cultural
rights, and considering that all human rights and fundamental freedons are
indivisible and interdependent and that, in order to promote development,

" l/ ResoLut ion

" 2/ Resol ut. ion

2L7 A (IrI).

2200 A (XXIJ . annex.



A/4O/970
Enq Ii sh
Paqe 5

eoual attentlon and urgent conslderatlon should be given to the
implenentatlon, pronotlon and proCection of cleil, golitical, econonic, social
and cultural rlghts and that, accordingly, the prmotion of. respect for, and
enjoynent of certain hunan rlghts End fundanental freedona cannot juBtify the
denial of other hunan right8 and fundanental freedons,

".gglsidefilS that international peace and securlty are easential elenents
for the reallzatton of the rigbt to development,

"Reaftirftlng that there iE a close retationship betseen dlsarnanent and
developnent and that proqress in the field of disarnanent eould conEiderably
pronote progress in the field of d€velopnent and that resources released
throuqh dlsarnanent fteasures ahould be devoted to the econonlc and socia!
developDent and eelL-being of all paopl-es and, in particular, those of the
developing countr ie3,

"-Bgggg4-?.i!g that the hunan person i6 Ehe central subject of the
develenent process and thae develenent poltcy should therefore nake the
hunan being the Dain participant and beneficiarlr of degelopnent,

"Rec@nizinq that the creation of conditions favourable to the
development of peoples and indiei.duals is the prinary responsibiliCy ot their
States,

"A!gE that efforts to pronote and protect human rights at the
international level sbould be acconpanied by efforts to establish a ne!,
lnternational econonic order,

ncdlfirninq that tbe riqht to developnenc ls an lnalienable huna[ right
and ttrat eouality of opportunlty tor developnenC i6 a prerogative both ot
nations and of indllriduals wbo nake up nations,

"Proclains the follo.elng Dectarati.on on the rlgbt to development:

"Artlcle I

the right to deuelopnent is an inalienable hunan right by virtue of
ehich e{ery hunan person and all peoples are entitled to participate in,
contribute to, and enjoy econonic, social, cultural and political development,
in xhich all hunan rigbts and fundamental freedons can be fuLly realized.

"2. The human right to developnent also inplies the full realization of
the rigbt of peoples Eo 5e I f-detern inat ion, which includes the exerclse of
tbeir lnalienable riqht to full sovereignty ouer all their natural eealth and
resources.

'Articlq 2

'1. The hunan person is the central subject of deeelopnent and 6hou1d be
the actiee particiEant and beneficiary of Che right to developnent.



A/40/97O
English
Paqe 5

"2. All hunan beings have a responsibility for developrent. individuallv
and collectivelv, takinq into account the need for full respect of their hunan
rights and fundanental freedona as rell as their duties to the ccnnunlty,
ohich alone can en6ure the free and conplete fulfilnent of the hunan being.
and they should therefore pronote and protect an appropr iate polltical, social
and econonic order for developnent.

'3. states have the riqht and the duty to formulate appropr iate national
development policies ebich aim at the constant inprovenent of the well-being
of the entire gopulation and of all indivlduals, on the basis of gheir actiee,
free and neaningful partlcipation ln development and in tbe fair distribution
of the benefits reaulting tberefron.

rArticle 3

"1, states have the prinary responsibiltty for the creation ot national
an.l i.nternational conditi.ons favourable to the realization of the right to
developnent,

"2. The realization of, the right to developnent reqoires full respect
for lhe principles of inEernational lat, concerning friendly relations and
co-operation anong States in accordance eith the Charter of the Unicetl
NaC i on3.

"3. States have the duty to co-operate oith each 6ther in enBurinq
deeelopnent and elinlnaling obstacles to developnent. States should fulfil
their rights and duties in such a manner as to promote a ner{ international
econonic order baged on Sovereign equality, interdePendence ' 

mutual' interest
and co-operalion anong all SCates, as oell as to encourage the obs'eruance and
realizacion of hunan r iqhts.

"Articl.e 4

'1. States have the duty to take steps. indiqidually and collectiuely'
to fornulate international development Polici.es uith a vielj to facilitaeing
the tull Eeal.ization of the right to developnent.

'2. sustained action is recuired to pronote more rapid development of
developinq countries. As a cofplement to the efforts of develoPinq counEriea
effective interna!ional co-operation i3 essential in providinq these count!ies
with appropriate neans and facilities to foster thelr comprehensive
deueloFxlent.

'Article 5
nstates shall take regolute steps to eliminate the rnassive anal tlagrant

violations of the hunan rights of peoples and hut0an beinqs aff,ected by
situations such aa those resulting fron gEggLlgil!' all forns of racisn and



A/40/97 O
Bng li sh
Paqe 7

racial diacr inination, colonlalisrn, foreign donination and ecupatlon,
aqgression, toreign interference and threaEs agalnst national soveretgnty,
national unlty and territorial integrity, threats of ear and refusal to
recogni2e the fundanental right of, peoples to sel f-deternlnat lon.

"Artlcle 6

"1. All States should ce-operate with a eler to pronot ing, encouraging
and etrengthening unlversal respect for aod observance of arl hunan rights anal
fundanental treedons for all pithout any dletlnction aa to race, €et, language
and re I i9 ion.

"2. AII bunan rights and fundanental treedoms are tndlvisible and
interdependenti equal attention and urqent consideratlon should be gisen tothe implenentatlon, promotion and protection of civil, polltlcal, econonlc,soclal and cultural r ights.

"3, States should take steps to eliniDate obetacles to development
resulting fron failure to observe civil and political ri9bt9 as eell as
econonic. sd:ial and cultural rights,

"Article 7
iAll States should promote the establishrnent, naintenance and

strengthenlng of international peace and security and, to that end. should dotheir utmost to achieve general and conplete disarnanent under effectlueinternational control as eerl as to ensure that the re'ources released by
effectise disarnanent measures are used for conprehenstve devel,opnent, inparticular that of the deeeloping countries.

"ArCicle 8

"1. States should undertake, at the national level, all necessary
neasurea for the realization of the righe to developftent and shall ensure,inter alia, equ6lity of opportunity for arl tn thelr access to baslc
resources, educatlon, health services. food, houging, erDploynent and the fairdistribution of incone. Effectlve neasures shoular be undertaken to ensure
that uonen haee an active role ln the development procesa. Appropriate
econoftic and soclal reforna sbould be nade uith a vlen to eradicating alls@ial lnjust ices.

"2. States should encourage popular partictpatlon in all spherea as aninportant factor ln deveropment and ln the full realisatlon of all hurnan
r ig hts.



A/40/97O
English
Page I

nArticle 9

AII the aepects of the right to deeelopment eet forth in thia
Declaration are lndivislble and lnterdependent and each of then Ehoul.l be
considered ln the context of the ehole.

Nothing in this Declaraeion shall be construed as beinq conerary to
the purposes and principl.es of the Unlted Nations, or as ioplylnq that aoy
State, group or person has a right to engage in any actlvity or to perforn any
act alned at tbe violation of the rightg set forth in the Universal
Declaration of Hunan Fights and in the International Covenants on Hunan
RiqhtB.

"Artiele l0

"Steps shoulat be taken to ensure the tull exercise and progreselve
enhancenent of the righe to developfient, including the formulation, adoption
and lrplenentatlon of pollcy, Leqlslative and other oeasures at the national
and international level6. i

L2. At the 56th neetlng, the repreaentatlve of llllgg}3Sig orally revised the alraf t
regolution try deletinq the Hords iln accordance eith the relevant princlples of
international laei at the end of the seventh preanbular paragraph of the
Declar at1on.

13. At the sane meeting, the representatiee of EISS introduced anendments to the
draft reaolution (contained in d@ument A/C.3/49/L.6?), also sponsored by the
Netherlands. The aftendnents read as folloes:

"4C!fAle !r palaqraph 2, of the annex to the draft re8olueion

Replace the rrords rehi.ch includes, by the sord ruherebyr.

"2. Replace the renainder of the paragraph by tncorporatlng the text of
paragraph 2 of article I of the Internatlonal Covenant on Cieil and Polltical
Riqhts: f/

rall peoples nay, for their oen ends, freely diapose of tbeir
natural erealth and resources t ithout preJuatice to any obligltions arislng
out of international economic croperation, baged upon the principle of
nutual beneftt and international Ia{. In no case may a people be
deprived of its oirn neans of subsistence. r

"!/ See resolutlon 2200 A (XXI1 , gnngr(. '.



A/40/970
Eng Iish
Page 9

14. At tbe sane meeting, the representative of Pakistan lntroduced amendRents to
the alraf t resolution (contained in docunent A/C.3/4O/L.6O} , $hich read as followsj

r'1. In the annex, page 5 after present article 3, add net, article 4 as
folloies:

iArticle 
4

'1. The actrievement of tbe right to developnent requires a corcerted
international and national effort to elininate economi.c deprivation,
hunqer and disease in alt parts of the eorld without di6crininatlon.

"2. To this end, international co-operation shoulal aim at naintenance of
stable and suatained econonic aroeth tdith slnultaneous action to increase
concessional assistance to developing countries, build world food
6ecurity, resolve the debt burden, ellninate trade barriers, pronote
nonetary stability and enhance scientific and technological co-operation.

"2. Renumber renaining articles accordingl,y.,'

15. At the 57th neeting, on 29 Novenber, the representative of ylglegla orally
introduced a draft decision, as follopa:

'Ib.-SglgIgf_Aisggry., harinq considered rhe question of a draft
declaration oh the right to development, decides to transrnit to it6
forty-flrst seasion the draft declaration on the riqht to development
contained in docunent A/C.3/40/L.53, as eell as all relevant docunents oith a
vier to continuing the considerat i.on of this issue at its fortv-first
session. r

16. At the aane neeting, lhe Connittee adopted the draft declsion without a vote
(see para. 18) .

III. RECOIqMENDATIONS OF TEE THIRO,CS4MITTEE

L7. The Third Conmittee recommends to the ceneral Assenbly the adoption of tbe
folloeing draft r esolut ions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

National institutiona for the protection
and pronotion of hunan ri.qhts

The General Asgembly,

Recallinq its resolutions 32,/123 of 16 December L977. 33/46 ot
' 14 December 1978, 34/49 of 23 Novenber L979, 36/134 of 14 Decenber 198t,

38/L23 of 16 December 1983 and 39/144 ot 14 Decenber l9B4 concerning nati.onal
institutions for the protection and promotion of hunan rights,



A/40/970
English
Page l0

Mindful of the guidelines on the structure and functioning of national
and local institutions for the pro otion and protection of hunan rights,
endorsed by the General Aasembly in its resolutio 33/46,

Emphaaizlm the inportance of tbe Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 2/ the International Covenants on ltunan Riqhts 3/ and other
international hunan rlghts instrunents for promoCing respect for and
observance of hunan rightg and fundanental freedoms,

Conscious of lhe gignificant role that institutions at the natlonal leuel
can play in protecting and pronotlng hunan riqhcs and fundamencal freedoms and
in developing and enhanctng public arareness and observance of those righes
and fr eedons,

nelconino the holding o€ seninars at ceneva, under the auspices of Che
United Nation6' on the experlence of different countries in lhe implementation
of lnternational standards on human right.s, held in June and iluly 1993, and on
connisslons for cofilluntty relatlons, beld in September 1985,

l. Takes note of the report of the Sec r etary-cene ral i 4,/

2. Enphq6izes the importance of developing, in accordance elth national
legisl.ation, effective national institutions for the protection and pronotion
of human rights, and of malntaining their independence ard integrityi

3. Encouraqes all Menber States to take appropriate 6teps f,or the
establishnent or, ehere they already exi,et, the strengthening of naeional
j.nseitutions for the protection and pronotion of human rights,

4- Draps attention to the congtructiee role that national
non-governrnental organizations can play in ehe r.ork of such national.
inst i tucions i

5. Encoulqqes aLl Menber States to take appropr iate steps Co promote
Ehe exchange of infornation and experience concerni.ng the establiahnent of
such national i nst itut ions t

6. Requests th€ Secr etary-ceneraL to give due attention to the role of
nati,onal institutions and non-governnenta I organizations concerned r.ith the
protection and promotion of human rights and to provide all necessary
assistance to llenbeE States. upon their reouest., in the implementatlon of
paragraphs 3 and 5 above, according high pr j.orit!, !o lhe needs of developinq
countr les;

Z/ Reaolution 217 A (III).

1/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

!/ A/40/46e.



A/40/9'l O
Enqlish
Paoe l1

7.. Also requests the Secr etary-Gener al to concinue to provide and, asappropriate, to enhance assistance in the field of hunan r19hts to
Governments. at their reguest. r.rithin the franenork of the progranne of
advisory services in the field of hurnan rightsi

8. leLcomes and encouraqes the efforts of the secr etary-Gener al toprepare and submit to the General Assenbly, through the Conmission on gurDanRights and the Econonic and Social Council, a consolidated report, foreventual publication as a United Nations handbook. on national institutionsfor the use of Governments. includinq infornation on the various types and
models of nationar and rocal i.nstitutions for lhe protection and promotion of
hunan rights, taking into account differing social and leqal systens,

. 9. Requests the Secrelary-General to report to the General Assenbly atits forty-first session on the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

The General Assenblv.

Recalling that in the Charter of the United Nations the peoples of theUnited Nations have declared tbeir determinalion to reatfirn faith intundanental human right.s, in the .tignity and rrorth of the hurnan person and inthe equal rights of men and wonen and of nations large and snall and eo employlnternationaL nachinery for the pronotion of tbe economrc and soci.al
advancement of al1 peopl es.

. Rec?llinq atso the purposes and pri.nciples of the charter to achieveinternational co-operation in solving ineernational problems of an econoniclsocial, cuLtural or hunanitarian character and in pronotrng and encouraglngrespect for human rights and for fundamentar freedoms tor alr withoutdistinction as to race. sex, languaqe or religi.on,

-- EmPhasizinq the significance and validity of the Unj.versal Declaratron otHuman Riqhts:/ and of the International Covenants on lluman Riqhts G,/ inpromocing respect for and oblservance of hunan rights and tundamentaT freedoms,
Recallinq its resolution 32/130 0f 16 Decembec Lg77, in which it decraledtha! the approach to the future rror k uithin the united Natlons systen withrespect to hunan rights quostions should take into account the concepCs setforth in that resolution.

y Resolution 217 A

9/ Resolution 2200 A

(rrr).

(XXI) , annex.



a,/40/970
Engllsh
Page 12

Recallinq alEo its resol,utl.ons 34/46 of 23 Novenbet 1979, 35/174 of
rS pecetnuer 1986, ZA/BZ of 14 DeceRber 1981, 38/124 of 16 Decenber 1983 and
39/L43 ot 14 DeceBber 1984.

Taklnq into account Conmission on lluman Rlghts resolution 1985/43 ot
t4 ltarch f985, Z/

Underlininq that the rlght to develoPment ls an inalienable hunan right,

Recoqnltlnq th.t the hunan belrtg is the nain aubiect of development and
that everyone has the right to partlcipate in, ae eell as to benefit fro$, the
development Procegg '

Reiteratlnq once rqain that the establlshnent of the nee interna!ional
econonic order iE an esEentlal element for the effective Promotion and tbe
full enjoymenc of human rlghts and fundanental freedons for all,

Reiterat.inq also lcs profound convictlon tbat all hunan rights and
fuodanental freedoms are lndivisible and inEerdePendent and tbat equal
attentton and urgent con3ideratlon should be given to the inPlementatlon,
promotion and Protaction of both clvil anat Polltlcal and econofric, social and
cultural r i9 hts,

Reaffirninq the lnPortance ot furthering the actieitiea of the exigtlng
organs of itre Untted Natlona ayaten 1n the field of human rights 1n confornlty
eith the prlnciplea of the Charter,

Unalerlinlnq the need for the creation of conditlons at the natlonal and
inter;;tional levels for the prdrotion and full protection of the human riqhts
of inalividuals and PeoPles,

Recoqnizinq that lnternational Peace and security are essentlal elenents
for the full realization of hu|{ran rights, inctudinq the right to developnent,

Congiderinq that th€ reaources that bDuld be released by disarnanent
could contrlbute aiqnlficantly to the developnent of all States' in paEticular
the developinq countr ies,

Recoqnizinq that croPeration anonq all nirtions on the basis of respect
for the independence, sovereigntv and territorial integrity of each State,
including the right of each peoPle to chooGe freely its or.rn socio-econonic and
political system and co exerclse full sovereiqnty over its rrealth and natural
resources, subject to the princiPles referred to in article l, paragr aph 2,
and article 25 of the rnternattonal couenant on Econonic, social and cultural
Rights, 6,/ is essentlal for the Pronotion of peace and development,

U see officlat Records of the Economlc and social Council, 1985, Supplement
!g_z (E/1985 /22\ . chaP. Ir, sect. A.



A/40/97 0
Eng li, sh
Page 13

- Convinced that the pr inary aim of such lnternational co-operaCion nust bethe achlesenent by each bunan being of a life of fr eedon anal dignity anat
freedoD fr@ want,

. _ . Acknoi{Ieqq lnq the progress 9o far achieveaf by the international comnunityin the proootion and protection of hunan rights and fundanental freedons,
CQrlqerned, hoeeeer, at the occurrence of violati.ons of hunan rights inthe $or ld,

Reaffirmlnq that nothrng i.n the universar Declaration of Hunan Rights anarthe Internattonal Covenants on Hunan Rtghts nay be lnterpreteat as i@lylng for
any State, group or peraons the rlght to engage ln any acttutty or perforn anyact alned at the destruction of any of the rightE and freedoms aet forth
therein,

Affirninq that the ultinate aln of developDent is the constant
lnproeenene of the eell-beirq of the entlre population, on the basis of it.sfull partlcipation in the process of developBent anat a fair di6trlbution oftbe benef iEs therefron,

. Enphisizinq that Goeernments have the aluty to eneure respect for allbDnan rights and fundaoental freedons,
Takinq note of the eork done by the worklng Group of Governmental Erperts

on the Right to Deuelopnent, as reflecteal in its reports to the Co t|iaslon on
Human Rig hte,

Relterates its recueat that the Cdnisaion on llunan Rights continueits current eork on the overall analysis eith a vies to furtber pronotlng and
itnprovlng bunan rights and fundamental freedons, includtng the question of the
Cqnnissionrs programne and uoEking nethods, and on the overall analysis of thealternative approaches and pays and oeana for lnproving the effective
eDloyment of human rights and fundanental freedoms, ln accordance t'leh the
Proelgione and concepta of General Assenbl.y resolution 32/130 and other
relegant textsi

2. Affirms that a prlnarv ain of international co-operation in tbefield of human rlghts iB a life of freedon, atignity and peace for all peoples
and for each hunan belng, that all human rights anar fundanental freedons areindlvisible and interrelated and that the pronotion anat protection of one
category of rights should neeer exempt or ercuse states frtrr the pronot ion and
Protection of the othersi

.i. Affirns lte profound coneiction that equal attention and urgentconslderatlon should be-9iven to the lr@lenentation, protectton and pronotionot both civll and political and economic, soclal and cultural rlghtsi

. 4. Reatflrns that it ls of paranount lmportance for the pronotion ofnunan r19bts and fundanental freedons that Menber state€ should undertake
speciflc obligations through accession to, or ratification of, international



A/40/97 O
English
Page 1.4

instrunents in Chis tield and, consequently, that the standa rd- sett i ng eork
eithin the gnited Nations systen ln the field ot hurnan rights and the
universal acceptance and lnplernentation of the relevan! interna!ional
instruments should be encour aqed;

5. Reiterateg once aqaln that the international connunity should
accord, or continue to accord, prioriey to the searcb for solutions to masa
and fl-agrant violations of human rights of peoples and individuals affected by
situations such as those nentioned ln paragraph I (e) of General Assenbly
resolution 32/L3O, payinq alue aEtention also to other sltuations of uiolaEions
of hunan r ights i

6. Reaffirns its responsibtlity for achleving international
co-operatlon in prornoting and encouraginq respect for hunan riqhts and
fundanental freedong for all, and erapresses 1ts concern at serious violatlons
of hunan rights, in par!icular nass and tlagrant violattons of these rights,
trher ever thev occur;

7. Expresseq concer! at the present situation eith regard to the
achievenent of, the obiectives and 9oal9 for establishing the ne$ international
econonic order and ita adverse effecta on the full realization ot hunan
rights, in particular the right to deueloptrenti

8. Reaffi.rms that the right to deselopment is an lnalienable hunan
r ighti

9. Reaffirnli also that international peace and aecurlty are essential
elenents in achievinq the full reallzation of tbe riqht to developnenti

10. Becoqnizes that all hunan rights and fundamental freedomE are
indivisible and interdePendenti

11, Considers it necessary that all Menber statea promote international
co-operation on Etre basig of resPect for the independence, sovereignty and
tef,ritorial i.ntegrity of each State, includinq the right of each people to
choose freely its olrn soclo-economlc and political systen and to exercise f,ull
sovereignty over i.ts wealth and natural resources, subject to the Principles
referred to in article l, paraqraph 2, and article 25 of the Incernational
Covenant on Econonic, Social and Cultural Rights. rrlth a vies to resoleing
international problens of an econonic, social and humanitarian ctlaracteri

12. Expresses concern at the existing disparity beteeen the established
norns and principles and the actual situation of aII hunan rights and
fundamenlal freedons in the oorldt

13. gllg alI States to co-operate eith the Connission on Human Rights
in the promotion and protection of hunan riqhts and fundamental freedomsi

14. Reiterates the need to create, at the national and inEernational
levels, conditions for the full' pronotlon and Protection of the human rights
of individuals and peoplesi



A/40/97O
Enqlish
Page 15

- -15. 
Reatf i.rne oDce aoain chat, in order to facilitate the full enjorynent

oE arl rtghts and complete personal dignity, it is necessary to pronote the
rights to education, sork, lrealtlr and proper nouri8hnent through the adoption
of neasurea at the national level. includlng those that provide for workers.participation in nanagement, as gell as the adoption of measures at the
international leuer., incrudrng the estabrishment of the nes internatronar.
economic order t

15. Aqain requestg the Conlnission on Hunan Rlghts to take Che neceaeaEy
neasures to pronot.e the riqht to deuelopnent, and welcomes the decision of the
cornniasion in lts resolution 1985/43 concerning lhe tuture r.ork of tbe ttror k rng
Group of Governmental Experts on the Riqht to Developnenti

. I7. Reguests the Secr etary-cener a.L to t.ransnit to the ceneral Assemblyat its forty-tirst session a report containing informaeion on the progress
rnad e by the working Group in the inplenentation of the tasks nentioned in chepreceding par agr apb;

18. Decides to inctude in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the item entitled "Alternative approaches and rrays and neans rritbin
the United Nations systen for inproving the effectiue enjoynene of human
r igbts and fundamental treedons,,.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

qeeelopngnt qt public information activities
ln Chq tield of huEan riqht.s

The General Assemblv,

Reaffirmllrq that activities to improve public knolrledge in
hunan rights are necessary to the fulfilnent of the purposes of
Nations set out in Arti.cl€ l, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the
Nat ions,

the tield of
the United
United

Recarlinq Generar Assenbly resolutions on t.he status of lhe rnrernationar
Covenants on tluman Rlghts, B/ includi.ng resolution 39/136 ot 14 Decenber 1994.

Taking into account the relevant General Assembry reaolutions concernlnqthe further pronotion of human righls, including resolution 39/L44 ot
14 December 1984 relating to the activities of nationar institutions in the
f ield of hunan riqhts.

9/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.



A/40/9'to
English
Page 16

$telconinq ConEission on Human Rights resolutlon 1985/49 of l4 March 1985
on the developnent of Public lnfornation activities in the field of hunan
r ighcs, 9,/

Recoqnizino the fundamental lnportance oC national and reglonal public
infornation activltles ln the fieLl of human rights and the catalytic effect
that inltiattves of the United Nations can haue on Chese activities,

ECgEIfgLSq that proqranmes of teaching' educatioD and lnfornatlon in the
fielal of human rights are central to Ehe achieuenent of lastinq respect for
hunan rights and fundaDental, freedons'

Iglilg the import.nce of naking available United Nations materials on
trunan rigltts in national and }ocal languages, tncludinq ln simplified forn,
and of naktng rnore effectiue use of the !!ass nedia anal of nee technologies in
order to reach a pider ludience, especially lhe less-educated and those in
iaolated ar eas,

Betieellq that tbe pronotional activities of the uniteal Nationa systen ln
Che field of hunan riqhts shoulal be enhanced and strenqthened'

l. 8eoue3t3 all denber states to take appropriate steps, by all
avaitable nreans, inctuaing Ehe nass media, !o give publicity to the activittes
of lhe united Nations in the field of human rights and Eo accord Priority to
the disserinatton of the universal Declaration of ltunan Ri9ht6' ]l/ tne
International covenants on llunan Rights and other international conventions in
lheir respective national and local languaqest

2. calls upon alI relevant elenentE of the United Nations syslem,
including tfte speciafized agencies and reqional connisslons, to asslst further
in the dissemlnation of United Nations naterial on hunan rightst

3. welconee the efforts of the secr etary-Gener al to issue a
personalized versioo of the Oniversal Declaratlon of Itunan Rights in the
official languages of ttre Uniteal Nttions, having in mind the desirebility of
completing this task in 1985, and further eelcones the preparation of a list
of basic reference rrorks on hunan rights for use by united Natlons infor&ation
centres and other interested boali.est

4. Notes r.it! satiqfaction tbe reouest of the Coonlssion on Hunan
Rights to the secr etary-eener af, tn its resolution L985/49t to collect
relevant Raterial, includinq thac prepared by apeciallzed agencies, reqional
bodies, Governftents. groups. non-gover nnental organizations and individuals'
eith a view to preparing a basic teaching booklet on human rights in the
official languages of the United Nacions;

/ see
No. 7 (E/ 1985/2

I0l Resolution 217 A (III) ,



A/40/97O
Engl ish
Page 17

5. Recomnends tbat all uenber states consider incluallng, Ln their
educat ionarE6ii'i6ra, naterial rerevant. to a conprehensive under'tandrng of
hunan r igbts i ssues i

5. urqes the connrssion on Hunan Rlghts at its torty-second seasion toglve special attention to the developrnent of public infornation activiti.es inthe field of hunan rights and to subnit ite vleus anat recdnnendations onfurther action, through lhe Economic anal Social Council, to the ceneral
Assembly at its fortv-first sessioni

7. Decides to continue its consideratlon of this question at itsforlv-first session under the iten entitled rAlternatlve approaches and oays
and means eithin the lrnlted Nations systen for inproving the effective
enjoynent of hunan riqhts and fundamental freedomsi.

** *

18. The Third conmittee also recommends to che ceneral Asaenbly the adoption ofthe follor,ing draft decisron:

DRAFT DECISION

The General Asse4blv, hauj.ng considered the quest.ron of a draft
declaration on the r j,ght to development, decides Co transnit to it.gforty-first session the draft declaration on lhe right to developnent
contalned in document A/C.3/4O/L.53, as eetl as all relevant docunents
vier,, to contlnuing the consideration of this issue at tts torty_first

q,ith a
session,




