








































UNITED
NATIONS

Fortieth session
Agenda item 12

General Aeeembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/40/r009 /Add.r
11 Decenber 198 5
ENGLTSH
ORIGINAL3 ENGLISH,/SPANISH

REPORT OF'THE ECONON''TC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Second Cornmittee (part If)*

Rapporteur! Mr. Jorge LAGO-SfLVA (Cuba)

I. INTRODUCTION

1". The Second Connittee held a substantive debate on iten 12 (see A/4O/]-OO9,
para, 3). Action to be taken on ttre iten rras considered at tbe 22nd, 23rd, 29tlt,
30th' 32nd' 34th, 36th. 39Eh, 42nd, 43rd and 46tb neetings, on l, 4, 8, l1-f3, 18,
20, 22 and 25 Novenber and 3 Deceftber 1985. An account of tbe ComnitEee's
discussion is contained in lhe relevant sumnary records (A/C.Z/4O/9R.22, 23, 29.
30, 32, 34, 36, 39, 42,43 and 46).

IT. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft decision A/C.2 /4O/L.L4

2. At the 22nd neeling, on I Novenber 1985, the representative of Pakistan, on
behalf of Bangladesh, Indonesia. Pakistan, Seneqal and the Syrian Arab Republic.
introduced a draft decision (A/c.z/40/L.r4) entitled "rsraeli economic practices in
the occupied Palestinian and oEher Arab territoriesd. Subsequently' the Gambia'
Madagascar, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, Tunisia and yenen joined in sponsoring the
drafc decision.

3. At the 30th neeting, on 11 Novenber 1985, the representative of fsrael nade a
statenene (see A/C.2/40/sR.30) .

* The report of the Comnlttee on this itern wj.ll be issued in three parts
(see also A/4O/L009 and Add.2).

85-37386 0333P (E)



A/40 /r009 /Add.!
Engl j.sh
Page 2

4. At the same
recorded vote of
Eoll"ows z \/, 1/

neeting, the comnittee adopted draft decision A/C.2/40/L.I4 by a
126 to 2 (see para. 38, drafc decision I), The voling was as

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Anqola, Argenlina, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados. Belgiun, B€nin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burrna, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet socialists Republic ' Caneroon.canada, cape verde, Chad, china, colombia, conoros, cuba, cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Kampuchea, Dernocratic Yenen, Denrnark'
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Eglp!, Equatorial Guinea,
Eehiopia. Fiji, Finland, France' Ganbia' Germah Denocratic
Republic, cernany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana. Honduras, HungaryT IceLand' India'
rndonesia. fran (Islanic Republic of). Irao, freland, ItaIy,
fvory Coast (C6!e d'Ivoire), Jarnaica, Japan, Jordan. xuvtait, Lao
Peopl.era Denocratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia' Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya. Luxembou rg, Madagascar, Malani, Malaysia'
Maldives, alta. Mauritania, Mexico, l,iongolia, Morocco,
Mozambioue, NepeI, NeLherlands, New zea!.and, Nlger, Nigeria,
Norway, onan, Panana, Papua Ne}' Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, saint vincent and the
Grenadines, sao Tone and principe, saudi Arabia, senegal,
singapore. Somalia, spain, sri Lanka, surinafte, swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand. Togo. Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Sociallst Republics, united Arab Bnirates, united Kingdon of
creat Britain and Norehern freland, United Republic of Tanzania,.
Uruguay, Venezuela, Vlet Nan, Yenen. Yugoslavi.a' Zaire, zambia.

Israel, United States of Merica.

fn favour:

Again st:

5. Afler the adoption of tbe draft decision, stalements were nade by the
representalives of the United States of Anerica, Turkey. the Union of Soviet
Socialist. Fepublics (also on bebalf of Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet socialist
Republic, Czechoslovakia, the Gernan Denocratic Republic, Ilungary, Mongolia, Poland
and tbe Ukrainian Soviet socialist Republic), frao and Australia. The observer for
Ehe Palestine Liberation organization also made a seatement (see A/c-2/40/sR-30) .

L/ subsequently, the repreaentative of Mali indicated that, as a resulE of a
mechan j.cal failure, hi6 voee did not register. The representative of Mali had
voted in favour of the draft decision.

Z/ At. the 30tb, 32nd and 34tb neetings' on 1I-I3 November, Ehe
representatives of the Sudan, Nicaragua and Henya, respectively, stated that, had
tbeir deLegations been present at the time of the voting, they ltou !.d have voted in
favour of the draft decision.



A/4O/rO09/Aad.I
Englist)
Page 3

B. Drafl resolutlon A/C.2/40lL.15

9'- -la 
the 22nd meeting, on I Novenber 19g5, che repreBentative of Bangradesh, on

flit:,:: 9a l+ggj+-P+ t sta! and the sudan, introduced a drafr resorurionr^/e'2/qu/IJ.15) enEltred "Economic developnenc projects in the occupied pal"estinianterritoriesn. subseouenlly, the cambia. ltaatagascar, Malavsia, Tunisia and yenen
iolned in sponsoring the drafr reiilffil-
7' At the 30th neetlng, on lr Noeenber 19g5, the representalive of fsraer made astatenent (see A/C.2/40/SR.30).
8' At the same meeding, the Comtnittee adopted draft resolut ion A/C,Z/4O/L,15 by arecorded vote of L25 to 2. nith 6 abstentlons (see para. 37, draft resolution f).tlte voting nas as followa: g/

In favour: Afghanletan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria,
B€brain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
BtaziL, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Fa€o, Burma,
Burundl, Byelorusslan Soviet Social.is! Republic, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Chsd, China, Colonbia, Comoros, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakla, Denocrat.ic (anpuchea, Denocratic yenen, Dennark,
Djiboutl, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Eglrpt, Eouatorial cuinea,
Ethiopia. Fijl, France, cambia, c€rnan Denocretic Republic,
cermany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, creece, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Jndia, Jndonesia, fran(fslanlc Reput lic of), Irao, freland, rtaIy, Jvory Coast (C6te
drfvoire), Janaica, .tapan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuuait., Lao r€ople's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesoeho, Liberia, Llbvan Arab
Janahirlya, Luxenbourg, l,tadagascar, Hala!.'i. Uataysia, Maldives,
Mali, fralta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia. l4orocco, Mozambisue,
Nepal, Netherlands, Ner Zealand, Niger, Nlgeria, O[an, pakisean,
panama, papua New Guihea, peru, philippines, poland, portugal,
Qetar, Romanla, Rwanda, Saint Vincent and tbe crenadlnes, Sao
Tome and princip€, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sonalia,
Spain, Srl Lanka. Sudan, Surinane, Swaziland, Syrian Arab
nepublic, Thalland, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Sovie! SociaLlst Republic, Union of Soviet
Sociallst Republ.ics, Unlted Arab Emirates, United Kingdon of
Great Britain and Northern freland, United Republlc of Tanzania,
Uruguay, venezuela, Viet Narn, yemen, yugoslavla, Zaire, Zarnbla,

Aqainst: Iarael, Unlted state; of ilnerlca.
Abstalning: Augtralia, canada, Finland, fceland, Norway, seeden.

2/ At the 32nd neeting, on 12 Novenber,
Etated that, had his deLegation been present at
have voeed in favour of the drafC resolulion.

the representative of Nicaragua
the line of tbe voting, he erou ld



A/4o /L009 /AdA.r
English
Page 4

9. After the adoption of the draft resolution' statenents l,ere nade by the
representativeG of Luxembourg (on bebalf of the states tnembers of the European
Economic Conmunity), Sneden (also on behalf of Finland, Icel'and and Norway),
canada, tshe unlteat states of Anerica, Australia and the union of sovi.et socialist
Republics (also on behaIf of Bulgaria, the Byelorussian soviet gocialist Republic,
czechoslovakia, tbe G€rnan Democratic Republic, Eungary, Mongo!-iar Poland and the
ukrainian soviet socialist Republic). The observer for the Pale6tine Liberation
organization alao made a statenent lsee A/C.2/40/sR.30).

C. DraEt resoLrtion A/C.2/40/L-L7

10, At the 22nd rneeting. on I Novernber 1985' the representative of Yenen, on
behalf of Algeria, Bangladesh, rndonesia, Pakistan, senegal, Yenen and !!gg.lglg'
inlroduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/4o/L.L7 ) enticled "Assiscance to the
Palestinian peoplen. Subseduently' the @$g-.]g!ry and Tunisia joined in
sponsor ing the draft resolution.

11. At the 3oth neetinq, on ll Novenber 1985, the rePresentative of Israel made a
statenent (see A/C.2/4O/SR.30) .

L2. At the same neecing, the conrniEtee adopted draft reso!.uc ion A/c.2/40/L.17 by a
recorded vote of 131 to 2 (aee para- 37, draft resolution If) ' :rhe voting was as
follolrs! 3/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algerla, Angola' Argentlna, Australia,
Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh' Barbados, Belgiun, Benin, Bhutan'
Bolivia, Btazi]-, Brunei Daru6salan' Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burna' Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, cape verde, cbad, China, colombia, Conoros, Cuba, cyprus,
czechosLovakia, Denocratic Kaflpuchea ' Det0ocratic Yenen, 

Denmark'
Djiboutl, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Eqypt, Eauatorial Guinea,
Ethiopla, Fiji, Finland, France, Garnbia, German Denocratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana' Greece, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana' Honduras' Hungary, rceland, rndla,
fndonesia, fran (fslanic Republlc ofl , Irad, freland, Ilaly,
fvory coas! (c6te drlvoire), Janaica, .fapan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwai!, Lao Peopleis Denocratic Republi'c, Lebanon, lesotho,
Liberia' Libyan Arab Jarnatririya, Luxenbourg ' l'[Bdagaacar, 

Malawi'
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali' t{atta, Mauritania, Mexico. Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozanbique, Nepal, Netherland6. Nen zealand, Niger,
Nigerta, Nornay, oman, Pakistan, Panana, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Phllippines, Poland. Portugal, Oatar, Ronania, n!,anda, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao Tome and Principe' Saudi Arabla,
senegal, Singapore, Sonalia, Spain, Sri Ianka, Sudan, Surinane,
Sr,razlland, Sweden, syrian Arab Republic, Thailand' Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago' Tlrnisia, Turkey, Irganda, ukrainian soviet socialist' Republic, union of soviet Socialis! Republics, united Arab
Enirates, unlted Ringdorn of Great Britain and Norchern freland'
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela, viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, zanbia.

Israel, Uniled States of America.Aga inst !



A/40/lo09 /Add.L
Engl i sh
Page 5

13. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statenents were made by therepresentatives of the United States of Anerica, tuxernbourg (on behaLf of theStates nenbera of the European Economic Conmunity), Japan, Jordan, Australia andtbe Unlon of Soviet Socialist Republics (also on behalf of Bulgaria, theByelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Czechoslovatta, the German Democre!icRePubIic, Hunqary, !4ongolia, poland anct the Ukr;inian soviet socialist Republic).The observer for the parestlne r,iberacion organization arso rnade a statenent (seeA/C.2/40/sR.3O).

of the rsons ished
trangna

.f 
6.--Oa the same ndeting, the Comrflittee adopted a draft decislon, orally proposedby the Chairnan of lhe Connittee (see para. 38, draft decision fI).

E. Draft resolution A/C. Z/40lL.5
L7. By its decision IggS/L67 of 25 July 19g5, the Econonic and social councildecided to transnit to the ceneral Asserrbly for consideration at its fortiethsession the draft resolution (A/c.2/4o/L.5i entitled irnternatlonal Drinking waterSuPPly and Sanitation Decade".
18' 

-At.the 43ral meeting, on 25 November 1995, the comnittee adopted che draftreaolution (see para. 32, draft resoLution Iff).
19, After the adoption of the draft resoluEion the representative of tbeNetherlanda nade a statenent (see A/C.2/4O/5R.431 .

F.

30.. -lt the 29th neeting. od 8 November 19g5, the representative of spain, onbehalf of Mexico, Nepal, tbe phllippines, spain and Tunlsia, introduced a atraft

Afrat

14. 
-At.the 23rd meeting, on 4 November 1985, tbe Committee decided to authorlzethe chairnan of the connittee to reouest ttre' secretary-cenera r to clrculate tbereport and recordnendations of the panel of Hninent peraons established !o conducEthe public hearings on the activities of transnatlonal corporacions in south Africaand Nanibla as soon a6 possible, and also to lnvtte, on behalf of the committee,the chairman of che pan;l to introduce ttre reporl.

L5- At the 42nd meeeing, on 22 November 1995, the chairman of the panel of BninentPersons e8tablished to conduct the public heailngs on che activieies oftransnational cofporations in soutb Africa and ninrnra introduced the report. of thePanel.

!/ E/c."ro/L986/s.



^/40/LOOg/Add.tEngl i sh
Paqe 6

resolution (A/C.2/40/L.27 ) entitleal "Pronotion of novetnentE of persons and uorld
tourisrn for deveLopnent". subseauently, l'lorocco jolned in sponsoring the draft
resolution, ehicb read as follors:

"Promotion of novenente of persone and
Forld touliem for developnenE

nThe General Asaenbly,

"n€cauinq its resolutions 32/L56 and 32/L57 0f 19 Decenber L977. 33/L22
or rs ffiG;-1978 anat 34/L34 of 14 December 19?9, concerning Ette world
Tourisn Organi zat ion,

"Reca1llnq also iEs resolution 36/4I oE 19 Nouenber l98f in nhich it
,elcorned tlre lranila Declarati.on on world Tourism, S/

"Recalling further ite resolution 35/56 of 5 December 1980, by whlch it
pr oc laGE-IiETh i rd united Nacions DeveloPrnent Decade and adoPted che
International Developnent Strategy for this Decade,

rRecallinq also lts reaolution 38/L46 of 19 December 1983 concerning tbe
wor ld Touristn organi zation,

"Recalling that, by General Assenbly re€olution 36/4L and EcoDot[ic and
social-?mif-deciaion 109 (Lrx) of 23 JuIy 1975, it was decided lhaE the
world Touriam organlzation night parliclPate, on a contlnuing basis, ln the
work of the C€neral Aasenbly and tbe Council in the flelds of co$Petence of
and concern to that Organiza!ion'

rRecalling chat, in accordance lJith resolution 34/L34t th€ worLd Tourism
organ i ziEI6i--EIs since its inceptlon held two important lnternational
conferences' one at Manila in 1980 and lhe other at Acapulco in 1982r

"Havinq alreadv recoqnized the inportance of the€e treo conferences and of
tbe aecisions in stricn they culmlnated, ehich have b€en brouqht to the
actention of Member States so that they nay fornulate or imPlenent their
policies, plans and progranmes withln tsfte franework of the Programme of work
of lhe tlorld Tourian organlzation,

nHaving taken noEe of the rePort of the secretary-Gen€ral of the world
lor. i "i-6EiiffiiEu 

bnitted to lt in purauance of resolutlon 38/146 of the
General Agsembly,

Recognizes that th€ new apProach of the world sourlsm organl'aCion,
rhich consEEEEurisn not in isolation but as an integral part of novemenEs
of persona and travel, is intended to foster a tetter understanding of
eocio-economic, cultural, educational and polltlcal values of movenents of
persons and can make a positive contribution to econonlc developnent,

y A/36/236. annex' appendix r.



A/40/1O09/Add 'l
Engl l etl
Page 7

urqes states to base, as far aa posslble, their Eravel pol.icles and
strat.egies on thla lnnovative idea relatlng to movements of persona in order
to contribute to tbe setting up and developnent of tr.vel 6ervlce enterprlses
and, Chus, seroe Eo allevlate unenplolzmnt by creating neu jobst

AgreeB, ln this respect, tbat tbe establlEhrnent of Enall or
nediut!-slzed enterpriaes rhich can proelde services on travel routea, and
which are adapted to the circunBlances and traditions of the developing
countries, may foster th€ econonlc deuelopment of such countries by actlvatlng
the potenti.al narket of over 3,5 bllllon persons that travel, regardlees of
their mot ive t

'4. Redueats the United Natlona DeveloFlent Progranne and other
of the United Natlons systen with a dlrect or lndirect inetltutional
in this area, to co-operate wlth the world Touri.an Organization in
progressively applytng the innovaClve ideas of movenents of personB, ln
accordance rrith the Manila DeclaraCion on World Touriaro and the Acapulco
Document t

n5. Requests the Secreta ry-ceneral of the World lourlsn OrganizaElon to
subnit to the General Aasenbly at ltss forty-second seasion, Ehrough the
Economic and Social Council, a report on the progress nade ln lrnptementing
thia resolution and the relevant resolutions of tbe rbrld TouriED
Organization, parEicularly on the contrlbution of rrorld touriEm to regional
developnent and the preservation of and respect for Ehe cultural heritage of
developlng countries. n

2L. At the 43rd neeting, on 25 tfovenber, the Coftnlttee had before lt a draft.
resolutlon (A/c.2/4O/L.47 ) entitled itlorld Tourisn Organtratloni' Eubnitted by
Ms, fnga Erikgaon, Vice-Chairnrn of the Conmlttee, on the basis of informal
conaultation€ held on draft resolutLon A/C.2/40/L.27.

2?. AC the same neetlng, the Conrnittee adopted drafE resolut ion A/C.2/40/L.47 (see
para. 37, drafE resolutloh Iv).

23. In eh€ light of the adoption of draft regolutlon A/C.2/4O/L.17, draft
reaolution A/C.2/4O/L.27 ras wltbdrasn by its sponeor€.

G. DrafE resolut Lon A/C.2/40/L.2, L.28 and L,28,/Rev.1

24. By ite declsion 1985/180 of 25 July 1985, the Economlc and Social Councll
decided to recomtend to tbe General As5€lnbly that it consider the issues contained
in the draft re€olutlon (A/C.2/4O/L.Z| entitled rfnternationaL econonic securlty!
a rnajor condicion for accelerating the economic deeolonlratlon of developlng
countries", nhlch read aa follows:

bodiea
lntereat



A/40/L009 /ldd.r
EngI i ah
Page 8

nThe ceneral A8sernbly,

rRecalling its resolutlon t5l4 (XV) of 14 Decenb€r 1960, containing the
Declaratlon on the cranting of Independence to ColoniaL Countries and Peoples,
Ehe tsenty-fifth anniversary of Ehich is belng observed by the United Nations
thls year,

"SCcoqn i zl nS tbat, desplte the attalnnent of pol.itical independence, many
developing countries continue to be aubjected to exploitatlon and ineauality
and that the proceas of economlc decolonlzation of Ehose countries has
effectiv€ly alosed doun,

'ISlgg,f!S, to its re.olutions 3201 (s-vl) end 3202 (s-vl) of I uay 1974,
contalning the Declaration and the Prograrmre of Action on the Establlshnent of
a Nes fnternational Econonlc Order, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 Decenber ].974.
conta ining the Charter of Economlc Rights and DuBies of states, 3362 (s-vII)
of 15 September 1975 on deueloprent and international econonic co-operation,
and 35156 of 5 Dec€mber 1980, which laid donn tbe foundations of lhe neu
international econon!.c order,

'Reca!-lnS. thc principles set forth ln che Charter of lhe United Nstions,
in particul.ar the inadnlEsiblllty of the threat or use of force in
international relations,

"Sg.EerrinS to the piinciple enbodled ln the charter of Bcononic Rights
and Duties of states of the need to pronote collectlve economic security for
developnent, in particular of the developlng countries, with strict respect
for the sovereign eouality of each State and throuqh the co-operation of the
whole international comnunity,

"Reaffirming support for the denands of the developing StateE regarding
the acceleration of their econonic decolonization, Ehe achievemenC of full
sovereignty over their natural and oEher resources, thelr econonic activities,
full and esual participatlon ln the solutlon of lnternationaL econonic
problens, and tlre ceeeation of the outfloo, of capital and the braln drain,

"!g$!S. th€t the preaervatlon ln international econonic relations of any
forms of exploita!ion, ineouality and oppregsion, colonlatisrn and
neo-colon lal ism, the application of policles of blacknall, economic
aggression, boycottr embargo, and trade, credit and technologlcal blockade,
and the use of econornic relatlons for lnterference ln the donestic affairs of
States undernine their econonic Becurity and dlarupt the developrnenE of broad,
eoual and mutuatly beneficial lnternaEional co-operation,

"1. Conaiders that lhe safeguarding of the economic security of all
aov€reign statee should be regarded as a fundamental prlnciple of relations
between States and of internat.lonal economLc co-operatlon and as a vital
condition for accelera!1n9 the economic decolonization of developing countries,



A/40/L009/Nd 'r
Engli sh
Page 9

"2. Calls for the ellnination fron lnternational econotnic relations of
any forms of ineduality, exploltation, colonlali€m and neo_colon ial i sn,
econonic aggressi.on and blacknail, boycott, and trade, credlt andt€chnologlcal blockade, of any forns of lnterference in the donestlc affalraof €overelgn states, and of the use of economic relations as an instrumenc of
Polltical pres'ure, conerderrng this to be a gross violatron of the generarry
accepted norms of lnternational lse, ttle prlnclples of tbe Charter of theUnited Nations and the Final AcC of the Conference on Security and
Co-operatlon in Europe t

"3. Reouegtg tbe Secretary-Ge,nera I to prepare a conprehensive reporE
containing information on the use of neaaureE constituting a threae co
economic sec,rity and irnpeding the econonic development of sovereign statesfor auboission to tbe General Asaenbly at its forty-first sessionl

14. Calle upon @vernmenta to provide the Secretary-Genera I r.rith tbe
necesaary lnforrflatlon requested in paragraph 3 above."

25.. At the 29th neeting, on g Novenber 1985, the represeneative of the Union of
Sgvtet Soctalist Re tntroduced a draft resolulion (A/C.2/4O/L.2e)-AEiTf-ed
"Internatlonal economic s€curityn, rhlcb read as follorrs:

fnternational econonic aecur i ty
iThe General Assenbly,

"RecElling its resolutions l5l4 txv) of l4 Decenber l9bo, containinq rhe
Decraration on lbe Granting of rndependence to coloniar cbuntrles and neJples.
3201 (s-vl) and 3202 (s-vl) of L tiay Lg74, containing the Declaration and the
Programne of Actlon on the Eatabliahnent of a Neu rnternational Econonicorder, 3281 (xxlx) of 12 D€cenber 1924, containlng the cbarter of Econonlc
Rights and Duties 0f stEte6, 3362 (s-Vrrl of 1.6 Septenber rg75 0n development
and international econonlc co-operatlon, and 35/56 of 5 Decemb€r 1990,
contalning the rnternational Develorment st.rategy for the l'hird unlted Nacions
Development Decade,

'-necalllng_gtso the purposee and principles set forth in the Charter of
the UJrited Nations, ln particular achlevemene of international co_operation insolvlng international problems of an economic, social, cultural or
hunanitarian character and the lnadnlsgibility of the threat or use of forcein international relatt ons,

iReafflrmlng the princlple of full sovereignty of States over thelr
re8ource8 and economic acttvities, as eell as the right of each country to
egual partlcipation in the solutlon of international economic problerns,

'Noting that the uae of econonic relations for purposes which are
cont.rary to the Charter of the United Natlons disrupts the developnenC of
broad, eoual and nutually beneficiaL internatlonal co-operation,



A/40 /L009 /Ada.I
Eng11sh
Page l0

"considerinS. that ever -lncreaBt'nq lnterdependence betseen states and
regtoni-E-an lnettitable condltlon of torld econonic developnent tthich
delermlnes the nuturlity of lnterests of rll countries ln Pronot ing grosth and
developlent ln a secure rorld envlronnent,

'Convinced that all countriea nould b€nefit fron a nore stable econotnlc '
rorr.ta[-ri3-Enancial glturtLon, frm an eaultable solution of Ehe external
debt problen and fron the renova I of dlscrlloinatory restrlctions and other
obstacles to the deeeloFment of uorld trade,

"-Further convlnceg. that alleviaEion of the urgent econonLc problena of
a e.,e toFGZii tr ie-i-Tfr ellnlnation of the 

'ap 
1n the levela of economic

developnent are najor factols of lnEernational econom lc stability and a better
political cL inate '

Recognttes the need Eo Pronote international economic security alned
at the econotnic and -soclal development and progress of each country, in
particular developing countrtes, through internaEional economic co-operationt

conaiderathat'acotlectigeendeavourtopromoteasyetenofjugt
and mutually beneflctal inbernatlonal econornic relations rjou1d contribute to
the economic aecurlty of each State and to the establislrment of a nert
internacional econonic order I

r3. Regueats the secretary-Genera I to Prepare a comPrebenaive analytlcal
report on a concept of lnternational econonic Eecurity, including ways and
means of its attalnnent and the Unlted Nations role in thla process, t'lth
emphas is on the develoFnent interests of devetoplng countries. for subnission
through the Econonic and social Councll co the General A8senbly at ita
forty-second 8ea51ont

*4. calls upon all Governments and lhe unlted Natlons orqanizaEiona,
organs and bodles to contrlbute to the inplenentation of tbe preaent
resolut ion. '

26.Atthe43rdmeetlng,therepresentatlveofthe@..
Republica introduced a revised text of the draft resoluEion (A/C.2/4O/L.2Alnev.1) '
In introducing the draft reaolutlon the representative of the unlon of sovlei
Sociallst Republics orally revised opetative paragraph 2 by replaclng the uord
"collectiee" by the word "common., deleting the t,ords 'a system ofi, and by
replaclng the word "securityr by the word "uell-being".

27. Following a staternent by the rePreaentative of Egl?t, the representative of
the Union of Soviet SociElisl Republica further orally revised the draft resolution
by replacing the sord 'Recognlzes" in operative ParagraPh 1, by the word
'Recognlzing' arrd inserG-TTE the last preanbutar paragraph' The operaEive
paragraphs $ere renumbered accordingly.

28. At tbe same neeting the comnitlee adopted tbe drafE resolution, as orally
revlsedr by a recorded vote of 85 to 19, ttith 25 absEenlions (aee para' 37' draft
reaoluCion v), The voting eas aa follons:



A/40 /L009/Ada 'L
EngliBh
Page 11

!!-.jrys AfghaniEtan' Algeria, AngoLa, Argentina, Bahraln, Bangladesh,
Benln, Bhutan, Bolivla, Eotswana, Bratil, Bulgaria, Burklna Faso'
Burna, Burundl, Byelorusslan soelet socialist RePulrllc. Caneroon t
colonDia, congo, costa Rica' Cuba, Cyprus, czeclroslovak la.

Agaln6t!

Denocratic Yenen, Ddllnican Republlc, Ecuador, EgyPt ' EcuatorialGuinea, Ethlopla, German Deraocrat ic Republlc, Ghanar Gulnea'
Guinea-Blssau, cuyana, Haitl, Hungary, Indla' fndonesia, fran
(Iglamlc Republic of), Irad, Jord€n, Kenya, Kusait, I,ao PeoPle i s
Denocratic Republ lc 

' t€sotho, 
Libyan Arab Janahlrlya, l'l,adag.scar,

Maldives, uall, Malta, Mauritlnia, Mexico, l,longolia, Morocco '
lloaarubisue, Nepal, Nlcaragua, Nlgerr Nlgerla, olan, PaklEtan'
Panama, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Romania, saudl Arabla, somalla, Sri
IFnka' sudan, surinane, syrlan Arab R€public, !o9o, Trinidad and
Tobago' Tunlsia, ukralnlan Soulet socialist RePublic, union of
sovlet Sociallst Republicsr unlted Arab Eniratea, united RePublic
of Tanranla, Oruguay, Viet Nan, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zanbla,
zlnbabt e.

Auatralia, Belglun, Canada, Dennark, France, Gernany, Federal
Republlc of, Iceland' rreland, Itrael, Italy, JaPan, tuxembourg'
Netlrerlands, New zealand, Norsey, Portugal, SPaln, United Klngdotrl
of Great Brltaln and Northern lreland, united States of America.

. AglllligUg.t Auatrla, CaPe Verde, Central African RePubllc, Chad, Chile,
china, comoro6, Pinland, Gabon, Ganbla, Greece ' Grenada' 

reory
coast (c6te drrvolre), Jaoalca, Llberir, ualawi, Papua New
'G:lnea, &randa, sanoa, Senegal, s$arlland' sYeden, Tl,rkey,

. Ugatda, zaire.

29. Before thd draft re8olutlon ras adopteat, €tatenenta were made by tbe
representatives of the united sbatea of Anerlca, the Libyan Arab Jamahirlya,
Luxenbourg (on behalf of the stateg nenbers of the EuroP€an Economlc Cornnunity) '
JaPan, rndla, Dgypt, c6nada, Paklstan, the union of soviet sociallst RePublica. the
German Dernocratic Republic and Chile. After iC wa€ adopted, statenenEB were made
by the repr€sentatlvea of Indonesia, rndta, Argenttna, Eungary, China, Sweden,
Finland, venezuela, Eulgarta, Cameroon, Mongolla, Poland, zaire and l,lberia.

30. At the 34th neetl.ng, on 13 Novenb€r 1985, the rePresentatlve of Lebanon, on
behalf of the lao People's DenocrrCic Republic,
fEbanon
resolutlon lA/C.2/40 /L.36L
the Agency for Cultural and Technical Co-operat ion'. Subseouently' lggUr the
cqloroa and Rwanda Joined in sponsoring the draft re3crlutlon.

31. At tbe 43rd neettng, on 25 Novenber 1985, the Connittee adopted the draft
reeolution (6ee para. 3?, draft resolutlon vlr.

and !g!E' lntroduced a draft
n uetGen the united Nations and



^/40/L009/Aad.LEngl ish
Page 12

I. Draft resolutlon A/C.2./40lL.33

32. At the 36th neetlnq, l8 Nouember 198 5, the repreEentaElve of SenegaI, on
behalf of ina
Burund i, Cape Verde, the lhe Coflloros,
co{rgo, DjiPouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, France, the G
guinea, culnea-Bissau, fndia, Indonesia, ItaIy;

and drouqhtr. Subaesuently. Cbina, Llberia and Romania Joined indraft resolution. The draft resolution read as iafforrs:

AI
the

alanaica
Mozanbioue, the
Tr inidad a, the
freland' the o
draf t resolut ion (A/C.2/4O/r,.3 3 ) entitled -CountrlEE-Elf1ckenjy- desertiflcatlon

sponsorinq the

"Countries sCr icken

"The General Assenbly,

'n"c.!I!lg ira resotutlon 39/2Og cC. I? Decenber 1984 and Econonic and
social Council decision t985/L7 6 dated 25 July 1985,

"RecaUj!9._also its Declaratlon on the Crltical Economic Situation in
Africa, annexed to its resolu}.ion 39/29 of 3 Decenber t.984,

'Noting lhe priority progranne of aceion for econoric recovery
(1986-1990), adopted by the conference of H'eada of state and @vernment of the
organization of African unity, held aE Addls Ababr fron lg to 20 Jury 19g5,

nconqratulatlnq the coeernment of Senegal for brvlng taken tbe lnltiatlve
of convening a rninisterial conference for a Jolnt policy to corsb€ t
de6ertification in the countriee of the p€rnanent rnter-state connittee on
Drought Control in tbe Sahel, and the Bconorntc Comruni ty of West African
sEates, in the Maghreb countrlea and ln Egypt and the sudan, the flrst neeting
of nhich was held at Dakar from lB to 2? July 1984, anat flhtch met for a eecond
tlme at Dakar in November 1985,

"Conqratulating the Governnent of Egypt for havlng invlted the flret
African Environnental conference, organlzed by the untted Natlons Environnent
Programne ln consultatron witb the Econonlc conmrssion for Afrrca and the
organization of African Unity, to be held at Calro in Decenber 1995,

"Congl4ula$nq also the French @vernrnent for havlng taken Ehe
initiative of convenlng an international conference on foresta, to be held in
Paris in Pebruary 198 6,

"-!gg!!g the positive actlon taken ty the Unlted Natione Sudano-Sahelian
Office, as part of a joint effort by the United Natlons Developr ent programre
and tbe united Natlons Environment progra|lne, unatertaklng to help 22 Afr Ican

the
ic of



A/40/Looe/Arl'd.L
EngliEh
Paqe 13

countrieE, on behalf of the United NationB Environnent progralfie, !/ ininplementing the plan of Actlon to Conbat Deserli f lcat ion,

_ "No!i!s. decision Lz/ro of the @verning @uncir of the gnited NatlonsEnvlronm€nt programne, dated 2g fiay 19g4, 7 concernlng desertlficat ion,

_.. "WelcomfnS. the establishment by slx east African countrles _ DJlboutl,.E;Enropla, Kenya, Sonalia, Sudan and Uganda _ of IGADD for the purpose of
conbatlng ttre effects of drought in tbose counEries,

"Degpry concerneg by the tragrc conseouencea of tbe accereratlon ofdesertlficatl.n, comblned slth perai.tent drought - the noat serloua recordedthls century - which have resulted tn a substa;tlal drop ln the agrlculturaloutput of nany developing countries and have contrlbuted particul;rly to aworsenlng of the current econonic crlsis ln Afrlcs,

'T?tirP with great anxiety that desertification continuee to gpread andrnten€iify in developlng countrleE, particularly tn Afrtca,

"Ar.are that the problema of de€ertlflcatlon and drought are lncreaslngly
assuming a structural and endenic character and that real and permanentaolutions nuBt be found in lncreased global efforts based on concerted actronby the stricken countries and the internatlonal connunlty,

- "FJrinq ih nind that the rnajority of the countrles affected byal€sert i f icat ion and drougbt are lou-lncone countrles and, for the nost part,
belong to the group of the least developed countrlea, partlcularly those in
Afr lca,

_ 'luar'e that lhe prlne responaibllity ln the struggle again€tdeaertlfication and the effect€ of drought re€ts ,,ith the countrles concernedand Ehat such action is an eseentiat colnponent of their developNnenE,

. 'trgoqntzing, hosever, that given the acope and the ihtensity ofdesertlfication, the attainment of tbe objectiveg of programnes to conbat
chese scourges reguires financlal and hunrn resources beyontt.the neans of theaffected countr ies,

"cgnsidgring the interdependence beteeen developed countries and thoaeaffecEed by desertificatlon and drought, and the ,r.gielrr. inpact of those
phenonena on the econonles of the countrlea concerned,

'Emptras.k-i!9. the fundanental importanca! of all forma of south-south
co-oPeration in executing prograflneg to comba t desertificatlon and drought,

9/ see
29 Auqua!-g Septenber l97i

U see q!!
Supplement No.- 25 lA/39/25,t, annex.



A/40/Loog/Add.L
English
Page 14

"Tq!i!4!g of the preliminary rePort of the Secreta ry-G€nera I on Che
coun tr]ifiEfcke-n by desertlficrtion and drouqht, !./

welcron€a tlre resu!.ts of the Minlsterial @nference for a Jolnt
policy to 66-tt deae"tlf lcatlon ln the countrlea of the . Pertnanen,t - In::r:,:::te
iommltcee on Droughc Control 1n the Sahel and the Econonlc Corunun I ty of west
African Statea, ln the ftaghreb countrles and In EgyPt and'the sudan' held at
oatar, and noEea nith satlafactlon the final resolutions adopted by the firat
conference in fSg4. !/ and by the second Conference in 1985r

"2. Takea note eich satisfaction of the
Organlzation of African Unity of the Special
Drought. and Fanlne in Afrlcal

Reconnends that bigh Priortty ehould be glven in the develoPtnent
plans and F "r;ffi; 

of the affected countries thenaelves to the Problern of
desertlflcation and to problemE resultlng from drouqhtt

"4. .Eegg.jlg that Particular attention sboulal be glven to countrles
€rricken l' fFf cat lon and drought and tbat 'peclal 

efforts shoutd be
nade by lhe lnternatlonal comrunlty, Partlcllarly the develoPed counEriea' in
auppori of action taken lndlvidually or collectively by councries strlcken by
desertiflcatlon and drought t

'5. IEg@!!g that ehe internrtlonal comunity' above all the developed
countries,-;;;fiAEn!lnue to Provide coherent Bhor!-tertn, medlun-tern and
long-terlo igsistance go those countrtes in order to suPpore effectively the
rehabilitation process - in partlcular through lntenaive rerfforeatation - and
the reneral of gronth of aqrlcultural Productlon in the countries stricken by
desertification and drought, particularly ln Africat

'6. Recomenda that, eitbln the franet ork of bllateral and nultilateral
aeveloprrenGfE-Froqrames, the f ight aqalnst desertlf lcltion and drought
should be granted Prlorlty ln vlev of the extent of those Probl'ena,

tppeala to all nenbers of the lnternatlonal conmunlty, organs and
agenclea offie unitea Naclons syBten' regional and subreglonaL flnancial
inEtitutions, as eell a8 non-governNlental organizatlona, to continue to
provlde full supPort, in all forma - tncludlng financlal, technlcal, or any
oEher forrn of assistance - to lhe deeeloFent efforta of countries stricken by
desertlficaEion and drough t,

"8. takea note sith satlefactlon of the generosity eiEh which the
lnternatlonal comlunity tla;-;;sPone;d to the assistance needa resultlng from
the energency in Afrlca, particularly as regarda food atd' transPort anc
nedlcal assistancet

eatabltEhmenE bY the
Enerqency Asaistance Fund for

v
2/

A/40/3e2-E/t985/LL7 .

u39/53o.



A/40/L0O9/Add.L
Engl l Bh
Page 15

'9. Reouests the appropriate organs and agencles of the united Natlons
to provide th€ Secretary-cenera l, for trananlsslon to the stricken countrles'
uith all relevant etudies carried out in thelr respectlve apberes of
conpetence' ln parlicular nith reEpect to food and agrlcultural production,
deneloFnent of water resources, i;duB tr ial i zatlon and ras naterlals, includlng
Ehe studies carrled out by tbe United NEtiona Conference on Trade and
Develotrment on the inpact of desertificatlon and drougbt on the foreign trade
of the strlcken countr iea t

n10. Purther qequests the Secretary-Genera I to take all neceesary steps
to ensure that his final report on the lnplenentrtion of resolutlon 39/208,
rrh ich is to be subnitted !o tbe General Asaembly at lEs forty-flrst sesslon
through the Econonic and social Councll, contalns proposala for specific
action to be undertaken, as lndlcated ln the present reaolution.'

33. At the 46th neeling, on 3 Decenber, Ehe @nnlttee had bafore lt a draft
resolution (A/C.2/40/L.76) entitled oCountrles atrlcken by desertlfication and
droughtn, submitted by Mr. soenad i Brocodiningrat, vice-Chalrnan of the Comniltee 'on the basle of lnformal, consultatlons held on draft reaolut lo't A/C.2/40/L.33.

3{. At the sane meeling, the conunittee adopted drrft resolutlon A/C.2/4O/L.76 (eee
Para. 37, draft resolutlon VII).

35. In the light of the adoption of draft reEolutlon A/C.2/10/L.76, draft
reEolution A/C.2/40/L.33 was wi.thdrawn by its sponaors.

36. After lhe draft resolution was adopted, staternents yrere nade by the
rePresentatives of Bulgaria (also on behalf of the Byelorusglan Sovlet SoclalisE
RePublic ' Czecboslovak i.a, lhe cerman Democratic Republic, Eungary, fiongolia,Poland' the Ukrainian Soviet socialiat Republ lc snd the Union of sovlet Soclalist
Republi.cs) , France and Belgium.

III. RECOUMENDATIONS OF TIIE SEC9ND COTIIMITTEE

37. Tte Second Committee recorrnends to the ceneral A€senbly tha adoption of the
following draft resolut ions:

DRAFT RESOI.UTTON I

Econonic develogient proiects ln tbe occuPled

The General Asaenbly,

Arrare of the fsraeli restrlctlons lnposed on the forelgn trade of the
occupied Palegtinian territories,

IsraeI,

Palegtlnian terrltorles

Aeare also of the inposed donination of the Prlestinlan narket by



A/4O/LO09/Add.l
Eng l i sfl
Page l5

Taking into account the need to glve Palestlnian firns and producta
direct access to external narkets without fsraeli interference,

Notinq $ith regret tbe lack of progress in tbe inplenentation of ceneral
Assenbly resolution 39/223 of 18 December 1984, ae reflected in the report of
Ehe Secr eta ry-@nera L on economic deeeloprnent projects in the occupied
Pale8tinian Eerritorlea, 10/

1. Calls for tbe urgent lifting of the fsraeli restrictions imposed on
the econony of the occupled Palestinisn territoriest

2. Recognires the Palestinian interes! in eatabllshlng a seaport ln the
occupled Gaza Strip to give Palestlnlan firns and products direcl access to
external rnar keta t

3. Calls upon all concerned to facil.itate the establiehment of a
seaport ln the occupied Gaza stript

4. AIao calls upon all concerned to facilitaee the establishment of a
cement plant ln the occupled lrlesC Bank and a cierus pl€nE ln the occupied Gaza
Stript

5. Reguests the Secretary-Genera I !o conlinue hi8 efforte to facilitate
the establitlxaent. of the above-nentioned projects and to report to Ebe c€neral
Assembly at its forty-flrst sesston, through the Econonic and Social Councll,
on the progresa nade in lhe inplenentation of lhe present regolution.

DRAFT RESOLUIION II

AssiEtance to lhe palestlnian people

The General A€senbly,

RecalLing its resolution 39/224 of 18 Decernber 1984,

Recallinq also Ebonomic and Socl.al Council resoluElon 1985/57 of
25 July 1985.

Recalling further the Programre of Action for t.he Achievement of
Palestinian Rigbts, adopted by the Internat.ional Conference on the Oueselon of
Palestine, IL1

!!_/ A/40/36'1-B/Le8s/rL6.

!!/ Report of the fnternatlonal Confer_ence on the euestion of palestine,
ceneva, 29 August-7 September L983 (United Nations puh,lication, Sales
No. E.83.I.21), chap. I, sect. B.



Notinq the need to
Palestinlan people,

l. Takes note of
the Pale8tlnlan people t

A/40/LOO9/Add.r
Eng l i st)
Paqe 17

provlde econonic and Bocial assistance to the

reportr of the Secretary-cenera I on asslstance tothev/
2. NoEes the meeting on aseistance eo the Palestlnlan people thaC l{as

held at Geneva on 5 and I ,tuly l9O5 in responee to ceneraL AssembLy resol.utlon
39 /224r

!2/ vqo/tsl-E/L985/Lls and corr.r ana A/4o /35g/Add.r-E/Lgs5/ rr 5/Add,I and@rr. I.

I

ExpreaseE lts thank€r to the Secretary-General for convening the
neeErng on assiatance to Ehe pal.eetinian people;

. 4. _Regards auch a meeting as a valuable opportunity to assess progressin econonic and social asslstance to the paLestlnlan people and to explorel,ays and neans of enhancing such aasistance,
5. Draus the attention of the internatlonal. comnunity, tbe UnitedNationa syffiTtl i-iiiEgove rnrnen !a I and non-governnenta l organizations Eo che

need to disburse th€ir aid to the occupied paieatinian territories only forthe benefit of the paleEttnlan people,

5. Requests the Secretary-cenera l:
(a) To revler the progress nade in the lnplenentation of the proposedactlvtties and projects described ln bls report on aaslatance co the

Palestinian peopl.e,

(b) To take all neceEsary 6Cep€ to finalize the progranne of econonic
and social assistance to the palestlnlan people requested in General Assemblyreaolution 38./145 of t9 Decenber L993,

(c) tro convene In 1986 a meeting of the relevant progranmes,
organizations, agencles, funds and organa of the United Nailons system to
consid€r econonlc and aocial assistance to the palestlnlan peoplei

(d) fo provlde for the parcicipatlon in the neetlng of tbe palestine
Liberation Organlzation, the Arab ho6t countlles and relevant
Intergovernmenta I and non-governnental organizatlons,

7. , Requests the relevan! programnes, organl"at.ion6, agencies, funds andorgans of the United Nations syatem to intensify their efforCs, in
co-oPeratlon eitb the pale8tine Liberation Organization, to provide econornic
and s@ial assl.gtance to the palestinlan peopiel



A/40/LO09/ldd.r
English
Page l8

8. Also reouests that unlted Natl'ons agsi€tance to the Palestinians in
tbe Arab host cound]$ sltoufa be rendered ln co-operatlon with the Palestine
Lib€raEion Organization and Plth the consent of tbe Arab ho6t @vernnent
concernedt

g. Requests the secretary-ctenera I to rePort to the General Aaaernbly at
its f;;ty-7G;E;slon, through the Economlc and soclsl council' on the
progress made in the inplenentatlon of the PresenE resolution'

DNAFT RESOLUTION III

The General ,\ssembly,

Recallinq itE resotutlon 32/158 of 19 Decenbe t Lg77' in lhich lt aPproued
tr,. t6il?fE"ta Action Plan adopted by the united Natlong l{aEer
Conference ' I1/

Recalllnq alEo lts reaolution 35,/18 of 10 November 1980r by l'hlch lt
pr*fiffiE-iiffiioo 19s1-1990 as the Internatlonal Drlnklng water supplv and
SaniEation Decade,

Recaltinq further Bconomic and soclal councll resolutlon 1983/57 of
ea tuiF!ffiliGfi' the @uncll urqed @vernnenta of deveroping countriea
to adolt natlonal targetE for alrlnking sater aupply and sanltation services'
comrensurate wtth reaource availabllity, aosorptiue caPaciey and ability' 

and

to formulate action plans and progrannes for reacbing the targeEa €ett

Mlnalfut of lhe fact tbat slgnificant Proqreaa tonards r0eeEing the
ooi ecG'6r the D€cade by 1990 ult'l require a nucb greater aenae of urgency
and priority on the Part of @vernnents andl the conlinued suPPort of tbe
international comuniEY,

1, l{elcones the reconmendatlons and conclusions contained in the report
oe tle seciEEr-eeneral on Progress in the attainment of the goals of the
International Drinklng Water SuPply and Sanitation Decade t !:y

2. gl@ @vernloents to seeL to lmplenent the recoflmendatione for
actlon contalned in the report' in particular:

!y see
L4-25 i4'6tch L9?7 (United Na
cor r igendunl . chaP. I.

s publ

9/ A/40 /ro8-E/Le85/ 4e .

on, Safes No. E.77.II.A-



A/40/roo9/Add-L
English
Page 19

. (a) To strengthen national capabillties for policy fornul.ation and forthe Prep€ration, inplemenEatl.on and nonitoring of eater supply and sanltatlon
Progrannes and proJects,

(b) To prepEre and implenent national strategiea to neet and developboth present and longer-term needs for skilled hunan reaourceE,

. (c) To intenaify efforcs to impro$e the nobillzatlon and utiliration ofnatlonal financial resourcea t
(d) To increase the attention devoted to health educatron and comnunrty

Participation and to tbe need for close operattonal linkaqea beteeen bearth
and sater supply agenc ies I

(e) To fornulate and imptenent etrategies that wilt enhance thep€rticipatlon of sonen in the planning, operatlon and asaesanent of water andsanitation progralnnes and projects,

3. Cal.la upoo organs, organizations and bodies of the United Natione
systen, aa eell as other nultilrteral, bilateral and non -governrnen ta l-organizations, to c'ontinue and, nhere possible, increage lheir assislance co
@ternrnents in support of national plans and prograflune€ for the Decade aE wellas in support of efforts to lnpl€nent the aboue-mentioned recommendations foraction t

4. Urqes the internatlonal cornnuni ty to take note of the need to
enhance co-ordlnallon of technical co-operatron acttvirres at the grobar anarnational levels and, ln Chis regard, supports the role of the resident
representativea of the unlted Nations Developnent prograrune as focal polnt.sfor the Decade at the country leeel,

5- Takes note of Ehe need to focua efforts and re60urces on the leasr
deveroped countriea where recuirenents for drinkrng water and sanitation are
the greatast, and of tlie need to give special consideration Eo the countriesof sub-Saharan Afr ica,

. 6. Regugsts the Secretary-cenera l, at the end of the Decade, in 1990,to prepare, for aubnisalon to the General nssembly at 1t6 forty-fifth 6ession,a report on the progress achieved during the Decade, providing a detalled
conparative analysis baaed aa nuch as posslbre on ouantitative drta, ae wellas recomrendatlons for future and follorr-up actlon that nay be reouired.

DNAFT RESOLUTION IV

World 1tjurlam Organization

The General A6sembly.

_ __Recatling its resolutlone 32/156 and 3Z/L5:. of t9 Decernbe r 19t77, 33/LZ2of 
-19 Decembe r 1978, 34/L34 of 14 December rg7g. 36/4L of 19 Novenber 19g1 anar38/L46 of 19 Decenb€r 1983,



A/40/L0o9 /Fdd.L
Engli6h
Page 20

1. Takes note of tbe rePort of the secretary-Genera I of the world
Tourism oriEiEiEi'!1/ on the Progress I'oade ln irnplementing the !'t'anlla
DeclaraLion !!,/ and tlre Acaputco Docunent l7 on world Tourisn, and, in chls
context, recognlzee that the net, approach of the World Tourism Organi?ation'
in ltbich tourisD is eeen ln Ehe elder context of travel, can n ke a Poaltive
concribution to econonic developrent,

2. fnvltes Statee to take thaE approach lnto account nhen formulating
ttreir travil poltcles and atrategies, in accordance wlth their developrent
plan6t

3. Regueats the united Natlons Developnent Prograrmre and other bodieg
of ttre un iEEE-tl t ion s systen with an interest in tshis area to co-operate with
the world Touriam Organizatton in accordance with the Manila Declaration and
the Acapulco Docunent on World Tourismt

4. Requests tbe Secretary-@nera I of the world Tourl6n organization to
submit co the e'eneral Assenbly at its forty-aecond sessl'on, through lhe
Econonic and Social Councll, a report on the ProgreEa nade in inplementlng lhe
presenE resolution and the relevant resolucions of the tltorld Tourisn
organizatlon, part.icularly on' ure contribution of world touriatn to regional
developlent and Ebe preaervation of and respecE for the cultural trerltage of
developing countr ies.

DRAFT RESOLMION V

Internatlonal econonic secur ity

The General Assernbly,

Recalling itB resoluEions l5l4 (xv) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on tbe Grantinq of IndePendence to Colonial Countrie6 and !€op1ea '
320I (S-vI) and 3202 (S-VI) of I lby L974, containlng Che Declaration and the
Programne of Action on the Eatablishnent of a New fnternatlonal !,conotnlc
Oraler, 3281 (XXIX) of 12 December 1974, containlng the Charter of Econornic
Rights and Dutiea of States, 3362 (S-VII) of 15 Septenber 1975 on dev€loFnent
and internacional economic co-operat.1on, and 35/56 of 5 December 1980'
containing the fnCernatlonal Developlent Strategy for tshe Third United Nations
Development Decade,

!z/ 
^/40/36.3-E/r98s/9't.

!Sr/ A/36/236, annex, aPpendix I.

]7/ A/38/L82-E/L983/66, annex ' aPpendix.



.,- --i:ialf+g-=91€g the purposes and principles aer forth in rhe charrer
:1.-Y.t.:9 Nations, in parricular urai of ,lii."irn of inEernartonalco-operation in solvlno international problems of an econonlc, aocial,cultural or humanitariln character and the lnadnissibility of the threatuse of force in internaEional relations

RefeIfiqq to Econonic and Social Council resotution 1911 (LVII) of2 August 1974,

_^_, ^-9:+q!der^gg 
that ever-increaslng interdependence betrreen Stat€s andregtons is an inevltable condition oi wortd econorntc development, rrhich

::a:rl:T: fte :r:tual-iry of interesr or art couitries in promotins developnenErn a secure norld environhen!,

. - 
conuinced that arl countries $ould benefir fron a more stabre econonic,trade' nonetary and flnanciar. situation ana troln eduitable solutions of tbeexiatihg probleng in these areas,

- _FuTther convinced that alleviatlon of theoeveroping countries and elininatioh of the gap
deveLopment. are najor factora of internationalpolitical cl ina te,

-, 
Recognizing che heed to pronote international econontc security ained atthe econonic and €ocial developnent 

""a 
progre=" of each country, inparticular developlng countries, through tnieinationar econonic co_operationand utitizing the potential of rnulcilaieral and regionaL organizatlons,

-1.. -Considers that a conmon endeavour to protnote just and nutuallybeneficial internationar econonic relattons woula contribute co the econonicsel'l-being of each staEe and Eo che eslabrishrne;t of a nerd internationaleconornic order,

^_^-_.:-. _ ie?!,ests 
the secretary-ceneral, taking into account. the relevanr

?::lt"u:.studies, to prepare a comprehensive anilytical report on a concept ofrnternationar economic security, incruding rraya and means of its attainment.,with emphasis on the developno.nt int.r.scs of'Jevefoping countries, forsubnission through the Econonic and social councir to the ceneral Assembly arlts forty-second sess ion r

-__ ]. -aift? 
upog all covernnents and the United Nations organizacion!,organs and bodlea to contribuee to the itnplementaCion of tbe presenCreEolut lon.

A/40/LO09/Add.L
Engli sh
Page 2l

urgene econonic problens of
ln the 1evel6 of econonic

economlc stability and a better

of



A/40/L009/ldd.t
EngIish
Eage 22

DRAflT RESOLUTION VI

The General ABsenbly,

Recalling ita resolutlon 33118 of lo lilovenb€r 1978, by l,'hlch it accorded
observer scatua to ana ana*" for Cultural and Tectrnical co-operation'

Recalllng also ltg resolutlon 36/174 of 17 December 198f in which 
lt

recognized tlre necessiEy of strengthening co-oTeration b€tseen the 
Uhited

Nallons and the aq"ncy foi-culturil and it"ttnl"tl co-operation ' and 
its

resolution 37 /L32 of 1? Decernber 1982,

secrecary-Gene ral of Ehe united Natlona' in-
l....iiiv-c"tera I of Ehe Agency for cultural and
to update his rePorE on co-operation between-th:

lq"n.y-i"t cutturat and Technical co-operationl f!'/

ebis rePort to the
Econornic and soc ial

(a) Reque€ts the
collaboration ulth the
Technical Co-oPeracion,
united NaEions and Ehe

(b)
General Assembly
Council, at its second

tlre s€cretary-Genera I !o Gubmlt
forty-ftrst sesalon' through the

regular aession in I98 6.

The General Aaserobly,

Recalling lts resolutlon 3g/2og of 17 Decenb€r 1984 and Econonfc and
social councir decialon tiisl:Jd or zs 'r'ry 1985' as uell as 

lts Declaration
onthecrlticalEcononicsituatloninAfrica,annexedtoitaresolutLon39/29
of 3 Decenber 1984,

IglE:ilg the Prlortty Programne of action for 
econonic recovery

(1986-1990), f!/ adoptea iy it't l"""tolv of He-ads of state 
and c€vernment of

the organization of lfrlcai Unity, held- a! Atldis Ababa from 18 to 20 JuIy 
1985'

conoratulrtlng lhe @vernment of senegal for having caken the initiative
or coiffiiiilinl€terial conference for a joint policy to combat
deaertification in the countrie8 of Ette Pernanent hter-sEate cornni!!ee 

on

Drought Conlrol ln the sahel and the Bcononic comnunity of west African

DRAFT RESOLU?ION VII

!g/ A/38/?16-8/1983/75.

l9t/ A/40/666' annex I, reaolutlon AHG/Dect' 1 (xxl) ' annex I'



A/40/loo9/l .A.L
Engl i sh
Page 23

states, in the ltaghreb countries and in Egtpt and the Sudan, the first neeting
of trhlch was held at Dakar frorn 1g to 27 ituly 1984, &/ and wbich met for a
second time at Dakar in Novenber 1.985,

congratulating the covernmeni of rgypt for havlng invlted the firgt
African Environnental @nference, organlzed by the Unleed Nation6 Environment
Progratme ln consultaEion with the Itconomlc Connlsslon for Africa and the
Organization of African UniEy, to be held at Cairo in December 1985,

Congratul-aEinq also the Governnent of. France for havlng taken the
lnltlatlve of convening an lnternational conferenc€ on tree and foreat, to be
held ln Paria in February 1985,

Noting the poeitlve acgion taken by the United Natlone Sudano-Sahelian
Office, as parc of a jolnt effort by the unlted Natlons Developnent Prograrnme
and the Unlted Nat.ion6 Environment programe to belp teenty-trD African
countries, on behalf of the United Nations Blvironnent Progranme, in
implenenting the Plan of Actlon to ConbaC DesertlficaEion, U

!gl!i!q declgion L2/I0 of 28 llray 1984 on deEert i ficatlon, adopted by tbe
Governlng Councll of the United NaElone EnvLronment prcq:amne, Z2/

Ivelcominq the establishment by six east Afrlcan countrles - Djibouti,
Ethlopla, Renya, Sonalia, tbe Sudan and Uganda - of an Intergovernnental
Authorlty for Drought and Development for the purpoEe of combaElng the effecta
of drought ln Ehose countries,

Deeply @ncerned by the tragic conseouenceg of the acceleration of
d€sert ificat ion, combined with persistent drougbt - the most serloua recorded
tbis century - r4hich have resul.ted in a subatrntial drop in Ebe agrlcultural
output of nany developlng counEriee and have contributed particularly to a
woraenlng of the current econonic crlsls in Afrlc!,

!g!!!g wtth great anxiety that degertlfication and drought continue to
sPread and lntensify in developing countrles, particularly ln Afrlca,

Aware that the problems of. desertification and drought are lncreasingLy
aasutning a strucEural and endemlc cbaracter and that real and pern.nent
solutiona nust be found in increaaed global efforts based on concerted action
by the strlcken couneries and the international comtnunity,

20,/ See A/39/530, annex.

29/ See Official RecgrdE of the General Asserublv, .tttlrty-nlnth Sesslon,
Supplement llo. 25 lA/39/251 r iDo€x.



A/40/Loog/Add.r
EngI ish
Page 24

desertification and
belong to the group
Afr lca .

drought are low-l.ncgne
of the least developed

B€arinq in nind that the rnaJorlty of the countries affected by
countrles and, for the most part,
countries, part,icularly Chose ln

Awate lha! lhe
desertification and
and that such action

Recoqnizinq, hoeever, that given the scope
desertlficalion and droughe, parEicularly in tbe
the attai rent of the objectivee of programes to
reouirea financial and hurnan resources beyond the
countrieE,

prirne responslbility in the atruggle againet
the effects of drought rests ritb the countries concerned
is an essential conponent of their deeelopnent,

and the lntensity of
least deve loped countr ies,
conbat thes€ scourges
meana of the affected

Considerinq the interdependence betueen devel.oped countries and those
affected ty desertificaEion and droughE, and tbe negative inpact of those
phenonena on tbe economies of the countrieg concerned,

Enptraeizinq the fundanental importance of all forns of South-South
co-operation in e*ecut.ing progrannes to conba t desertification and droughE,

Taking note of the plellninary report of the Secretary-General on the
countries stricken by desertlfication and drought, 23l

1. we lcones the reaulta of the inisterial @nference for a joint
pollcy to cornba t desertificatlon in the countrles of the permanent rnter-state
Connittee on Drought @ntrol ln the Sahel and tbe Etonomic Conmun ity of West
African State5, in the Maghreb countries and in Egypt anat the Sudan, held at
Dakar fron l8 to 27 July 1984, and notes with satisfaction the final
resorutions adopted by tbat conference 2L/ and by a second conference, held at
Dakar ln Novernber 1985t

2. Takes note rfieh satlsfaction of the establishment by the
Organizatlon of African Unity of che Special Emergency Assistance Fund for
Drough! and Famine in Africat

3. Reconmend€ that high priorlty 6hould be given in the developnent
plans and prograrnnes of the affected countrles themselves to the problem of
desertification and to problens resuLting fron drought,

4. Recoqnizes that partlcular attention should be given Co countriea
stricken by desertificacion and drought and that speclal efforts should be
made by the international community, particularly the developed countri.es, ln
suPPort of action taken individually or collectieely by countfies stricken by
desertification and drough! t

2]./

4/
A/40/392-B/L98s/LL7 .

A/3e /s3O.



A/4O/rO09/Add 'I
Engl i 3h
Paqe 25

5. Reconmends that. the international comnunity, above all the developed
countries, should c€ntlnue to provide coherent short-term, nedium-terrn and
long-tern assistance Eo tbose countries in order to eupport the rehabilitation
procesa effectively - in particular through lntensive reafforeetatlon - and
the reneHal of groeth of agricultural production in the countrieE stricken by
desertification and drougbt, particularly in Afrlcal

6. Reconunends Ehat, nithin the frarnepork of bllatera!. and nulcilateral
developnent ald prograftres, tshe fight aqain6t de€ertificatlon and.droughL
sbould be granted prlority ln vlew of the extent of tbose problenst

7. Appeals to all nembers of the international corununity, organs and
agencies of che united Nationa systen, regional. 6nd subregional financial
instltutions, as $ell aB non-governnenta I organlzations' to continue to
provide fuU supporE, in all forms - including flnancial, technlcal or any
obher forn of assistance - Co the developnent efforCs of countries atrlcken by
desertificatlon and droughtt

8. Takes note eith aatlsfactton of the generoElty eith which the
internatlonal comnunity has reaponded to the asalstance needs reaulEing from
the emergency ln Africa, particularly as regards food aid, transport and
nedical asslstance t

9. Requests the approprlate organs and agenclea of che United Natione
to provide the Secregary-General, for transnlsEion to the sEricken countrles,
sitb all relevanb scudies carried out in Eheir respectlve sPhere€ of
competence, in particular wiEh respect to food and agricultural production,
deve!.opnent of rater resources, lndu Etr iali zat lon and ran naterlals, including
the studies carrled out by lhe United Nations Conference on Trrde and
Development on the impact of desertlflcaclon and drought. on the foreign trade
of the stricken countrie€, sinilarly' including lhe Btudlea to determlne the
interaction be Erreen forest zones and arid reglons and cheir lnfluence on the
acceleratlon of desert ificat lon, parlicularly ln Afrtca;

10. Further reouests the Secretary-Genera I !o take all necessary slePa
to ensure that his final. report on lhe tnplemenEation of resolution 39/208,
ubich is to be suhnltted to the General Assembly Chrough the Econonic and
social council at ita second regular sesslon of 1986, contains proposals for
speciflc action to be undertaken, as lndicated in the present resolutlon.

38. lfhe second Comnittee also reconrnends to lhe @neral Assembly lhe adoption of
the following draft deci6 iona:



A/40/LOog/Add.I
EngI lsh
Page 26

DRAFT DECISION ]

The G€neral Assenbly:

(a) Takee note, with concern, of the report of the Secreta ry-cenera I
prepared in purauance of lts declslon 39/442 of lB Decenbet 1984, 25/

(b) Regueats the Secretary-Genera I to prepare a report on the financial
and trade prrctlces of the Israeti occupation authorities in the occupied
Palestinian and other Arab terrltorles,

(c) fnrltes the Secretary-General to uEilize the services of conpetent
Unlted Nation€ bodles in preparlng that report,

(d) Recuesta the Secretary-General. to subnlt the report to the ceneral
Assembly at its forty-firat eesslon, through the Economic and Social @uncll.

DRAFT DECISION II

The General Assernbly takes note of the report of the panel of Eninent
Persons established Eo conduct the publlc hearlngs on the actlvlties of
trananatlonal corporationa in South Afrlca and Narnibia Zy and furEher notesthat tbe Conniaslon on lransnational @rporatlona aE lts twelfth selislon and
the Econonlc and Social Councll in 19g6 utll give ln-depth consideration Eo
the recomtendationa contalned ln the report and propose appropriate action.

E/
25/

A/40/3er-E/L98 s/t 0s.

E/c.n/Ls|6 /s.


