








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly Distr.
GENENAL

A/40/9r5
22 Novenbe r 198 5
ENGI,ISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fortieth session
Agenda item 48

ECONOMTC AND SOCIAL CONSEOUENCES OF THE ARMAMEMS RACE AND ITS
EXTREMELY IIARMFUL EFFECTS ON I,lOFl-D PEACE AND SECURITY

Report of the Firs! Corunj.ttee

Rapporteur! Mr. Yannis SOUIfOTIS (creece)

I. TNTRODUCTION

t, The item entitled "EconoTnic and social consequences of the arnaments race and
its extremely harmfuL effects an world peace and security,, was included in the
provisional agenda of the fortieth session in accordance with ceneral Assenbly
resolution 3'1/70 ot 9 December 1982.

2. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 septenber I9g5, the ceneral Assembly on the
recoflmendation of the ceneral comrnitEee, decided to incLude the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Firs; Connittee.

3. At its 2nd neeting, on 9 October, the First Conmittee decided Co hold a
general debate on the disarmanent j.tems atlocated to it, nanely, itens 48 to 69 and
iten 145, fotlor,red by statenents on specific d isarrnament agenda items and
continuation of general debate, as necessary. The deliberations on those itens
took place between the 3rd and 32nd meetings, from 14 Octob€r to I November (see
A/C.1/40 /Pv .3-321 .

4. In connection with item 48, the Fj.rst Cornmittee had before it the following
documents r

(a) Letter dated 28 May 1985 from the pernanent Representative of
Czechoslovakia to the United Natj,ons addressed to the Secr e tary-Gene ral ,
transmitting the text of the declaralion of the socialist countries on the
situation in the Internat.j.onal Labour organisation (A/ 40 /342-E/I985 /IL9) t

I5-34000 4617P (E)



A/40/9r5
Engl isb
Page 2

(b) Lelter dated 3 ,luly 1985
to the United Nations addressed to

fron the Pernanent Representative of costa Rica
the secr e tary-Gene ra 1 (A/ 40 / 458-E/I985 /L35't ?

(c) Letter dated 9 July 1985 from Che representatives of Australia' Belgiun,
canada, Dennark, France' the Federal Republic of Gerrnany' Ireland, Italy'
Luxenbourg, the Netherlands, Ner^' zealand, Norway, Portugal, Sneden, the United
Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern freland and the United states of Anerica to
the United Nations addressed to the secr etary-Gene r al (A/ 40 /4e9 -E/L985/143't t

(d) Letter dated 19 Septenber 1985 from the Pernanent RePresentative of Papua
New Guinea to the United Nations addressed to the secr etary-Gene ra1, transmitting
the conununiqu6 adopted at the Sixteenth South Pacific Forum, held at Rarotonga,
cook Islands, on 5 and 6 August 1985 (A/ 4O/672-s/L'148e\ r

(e) Letter dated 14 october 1985 from the Permanent Representative of Togo to
the United Nations addressed to the sec r etary-Gene ra.L, transmitting the Declaration
and Programne of Action, adopted at the Ministerial Regional Conference on
Securi.ty, Disarmament and Developnent in Africa, held at Lon6 fron 13 to
16 August L985 (A/40/76I-3/17573\.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAT'T RNSOLUTION A/C.L/4O/L.3O

5. On 6 November 1985' the Bahanas' Bangladesh, Colombia, Czechoslovakia'
Ecuador. Egypt, rndonesia' Ireland, Mexico, Peru' Ronania, Rwanda, srreden ' Urugu?y?veneru. Iution entitled "Economic and social
conseguences of the armanenls race and its extrernely harnful effects on world peace
and security" (A/c.L/4o/L.30), which was also co-sponsored by Bo t i!,lq!-qineleenl
Cuba. Greece and sanoa. The draft resolution vras introduced by the replesentative
of Ronania at the 35th neeting, on 12 November.

6. rn connection k'ith the draft resolugion, the secretary-Generat subnitted a
statenent on the progranne budget inplications lA/c.L/40/L.77'l -

7. At itss 42nd neetingT on 19 November, the Committee adoPted draft resolution
A/C.L/40/L.30 by a recorded vote of 126 !o 1, rrith 6 abstentions (see para. 8).
The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria' Ango1a, Argentina' Australia, Austria'
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botivia.
Bot.swana, BraziT, Brunei Darussalan' Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet socialist Republic.
cameroon' Canada' central African RePubIic, Chad' chile,
china, colonbia, conoros, congo, cuba, cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kanpuchea' Denocratic Yemen'
Derunark, Djiboufi' Doninican Republic, Ecuador ' 

EqyPt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Fintand, Gabon, German Democratic Republic'
Ghana. Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras' Ilungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republ-ic of), rraq,



A/40 /9r5
English
Paqe 3

Irefand, fsraeL, ftaIy, Ivory Coast (C6te d'fvoire) r
Jarnaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao people,s
Dernocratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, l,tadagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia. Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panana, papua New cuinea, paraguay, peru,
Philippines, poland, portugal, gatar, Ronania, Rwanda,
Samoa, saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, sonaLia, Spain.
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinarne, Svaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo. Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrai.nian soviee Socialist Republic. Union
of Soviet socialist Republics, United Arab Bnirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen,
Yugoslavia, zaire, zinbabwe.

Against: United states of Anerica.

Abstaining: Belgiun, France, cermany, Federal Republic of, Luxenbourg,
Netherlands, United Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern
freland.

III. RECOMIIENDATION OF THE FIRST COI4MITTEE

8. The First Cornmittee recomnends to the ceneral Assenbtv the adoption of the
following draft resotut ion:

and social ences of ts race and
extreme harmful ffects on world and secur i

The ceneral Asserbly,

Having considered the itern entitLed "Economic and social consequences of
the arnaments race and its extrenety harnful effects on world peace and
secur ity" ,

Recalling its resolutions 226j (XXV) of 7 December 1970, 283l (XXVI) of
16 Decenber 1971, 3075 (XXVTII) of 6 December I9j3, 3Z/j5 of 12 Decenbe: Igjl.
35/L4L of 12 December 1980 and 3'j/7O of 9 Decentcer 1982,

Deeply concerned that the arrns race, particularly
and nilitary expenditures, has continued to increase aE
absorbing enornous naterial and human resources, which
burden for the peoples of all countries and constrtutes
r.iorld peace and secur ity,

in nuclear armanents
an alarming speed,

represents a heavy
a grave danger for

Convinced that, as disarrnanent is a rnatler of universal concern, there is
a pressing need for all Governments and peoptes to be informed about and be
aware of the problems created by the arnanents race and of the need for
disarmament and that the united Nations has a centraL role in this connection.



A/40 /915
English
Page 4

Recalling also paragraph 93 (c) of the Final Document of Ehe 'Ienth
special session ot the General Assembly' / in which it is Provideal that the
secr etary-Gene ral shall periodically submit reports to the Assenbly on the
econonic and social consequences of the arnament race and its extrenely
harnful effects on worl-d peace and security,

Noting that, since the preparation of the updated report of the
secr etary-Gene ra I entitled Economic and Social Consequences of the Arns Race
and of Mj.titary Expenditures , !-/ new devel-opnents have taken place in the
fields covered by ghe report that are of particuLar relevance in the present
econonic and political conditions of the world'

Considering thaE the elaboration of such rePorts should be viewed as a
neasure ained at building confidence anong States'

Recalting further its resolution 39A-60 of l? December 1984' in vrhich it
decided to convene an International Conference on the Relationship between
Dj.sarmament and Developnent at which inevitably the issue of the economic and
social consequences of the arns race and of tnilitary expenditures would be
discussed.

l. Requests the Sec retary-cenera 1 to bring up to daCe, with the
assistance of a group of quali.fied consultant experts appointed by hjm and
naking appropriate use of the capabilities of the United Nations Inslitute for
Disarnanent Research in a consultant capacity, the reporC entitled Econonic
and Social Conseguences of the Arms Race and Military Expenditures, Z/ taking
into account the significant develotrnents that have taken place since the
preparation of that reportt

2. Invites all Governments to extend to the Secr etary-Gene ra I their
suppor:t and fu11 co-operalion to ensure that the study wilt be carried out in
the mosl effective way t

3. calls upon the specialized agencies, other international
organizations and institutions as well as non-governnenta I organizalions to
co-operate with the Secr ecary-Gene ral, uPon his request, in the preparaeion of
the r epo! t?

4. Requests the Sec r elary-Gene ra1 to present the report to the General
Assembly at its forty-second session?

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-second
session the iten entitled "Econonic and social consequences of the armanents
race and its extremely harnful effects on vrorld peace and securi!y".

Resolution S-I0 /2 -

United Nations publication, Sales No. E.83.IX.2.

L/

2r


