








































UNITED
NATIONS

General AssemblY Dist,r.
GENERAL

A/40/877t
15 November
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL:

198s

FRENCH

Fortieth session
Agenda item 65

I.

REVIEW OF TT'E II{PLEITTENTATION OF THE REC1CMMENDATIONS AND
DECISIONS ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AT ITS TENTTT

SPECIAL SESSION

Report of the First Committee (Part I)

Rapporteur: &tr. Yannis SOULIOTIS (Greece)

INTRODUCTION

The item entitled:

"Review of the implementation ot the recommendations and decisions adopted by
the General Assenbly at its tenth special session:

"(a) Report of the Disarmament Commission;
u(b) Report of the Conference on Disarmamenti

" (c) Status of multilateral disarmament agreements:
Secretary-General i

report of the

"(d) Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies: report of the Secretary-Generali

" (e) Cessation of the nuelear-arms race and nuclear disarmamen!: report of
the Conference on Disarmament;

" (f) Non-use of nuclear neapons and prevention of nuclear war: report of the
Conference on Disarmamenti

" (g) Prohibition of the nuclear neutron neapon: report of the Conference on
Disarmarrent i

Reissued tor technical reasons.

8s-32746 4603P (E)



A/40/877
EngI ish
Page 2

( i)

(j)

"(h) Prevention of nrcIear 0ar3

"(i) Report of the Conference on Disarmarnenti

"{ii1 Reports of the Secretary-General;

Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiationsi

united Nations rnstitute for Disarmament Research: report of the
Director of the Institute;

" (k) ComPrehensive progranne of disarmament: report of the Conference on
Disarmalrent;

"(I) Disarnament $leek: report of the Secretary-General;

" (n) Inplenentation of the recommendations and decisions of the tenth special
session:

"(i) Report of the

"(ii) Report of the

" (n) Review and appraisal
1980s as the Second
Commissiontr

Disarmament Commission i

Conference on Disarmamenti

of the implenentation of the Declaration of the
Disarnarent Decade: report of the Disarmanent

was included in the provisional agenda of the fortieth session in accordance with
General Assembry resolutions 39lI48 B to R of r? Decenber 1984.
2. At its 3rd plenary meetingr on 20 september 1985, the General Assembly, on the
reconrnendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocale it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd rneeting, on 15 october, the First conmittee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, nanely, items 48 to 69 and
item 145, followed by staternents on specific disarmarnent agenda items and
continuation of general debate' as necessary. The deliberations on those items
took place between the 3rd and the 32nd meetings, trom 14 October to 8 November
(see A,/C. L/40/pv.3-32) .

4- fn connection rith item 65, the First Committee had before it the folloring
docunents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; f/

No. 27 (A/40/27 and Corr.1).
the General Assembl Sortieth Sessiony official Records of



^/40/877
;:;:T'

(b) Report of the Disarmarrent ComrnisgLoni 2/

(c) Report of lhe Secretary-General on the climatic effects of nuclear r'ar'
including nuclear winter (A/40/4491 ?

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the prevention of nuclear ear
1P'149/4981i

(e) Report of lhe Secretary-General on the status of multilateral disarmament
agreenents |A/4O/55L1 i

(f) Report of the Secretary-Generaf on Disarmament t{eek (A/4O/552 and Corr.1);

(S) Report of the Secretary-General on tbe Advisory Board on Disarmament
Studies (A/AO/7all i

(h) Nole by the Secretary-General, transmitting the report of Ehe Director of
the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research G/aO/7251 i

(i) Note by the Secretary-General transmitting infornation received from
Governrnents in connection with paragraph 7 of General Assembly resolution 39/L48 O
@/a0/8a21i

(j) Letter dated 2I December 1984 from the Permanent RePresentative of the
Uniled Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General lA/40/571 t

(k) Letter dated 30 January 1985 from the representatives of Argentina,
Greece, India, Dlexico, Seeden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transnitting the Delhi Declaration
adopted and issued at New Delhi on 28 January 1985 by the tfeads of State or
Governmenl of Argentina, Greece, fndia, Mexico, Sceden and the Uniled Republic ot
Tanzania (A/40/LL4-S/L692Ll i

(1) Letter dated 11 February 1985 from the Permanent Representative of
Mongolia to the United Nations addressed to the SecreEary-General (A/4A/L251i,

(m) Ietter dated 15 February 1985 from lhe Char96 draffaires a.i. of lhe
pernanent llission of the German Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed
to the Secretary-C'eneral lA/40/L3O-S,/I6958) ;

(n) Letter dated 8 April 1985 from the Permanent Representative ot Romania to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General lA/40/2281 i

U Official Reiords of the General Assembly, Fortieth Session, SuPplement
!9,-l? @/40/421



A/40/877
English
Page 4

(o) Letter dated 1 May 1985 from the Permanent Representative of Indonesia to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the
Declaration of the Commemorati.ve Meeting in observance of the Thirtieth Anniversary
of the Asian-African Conference, held at Bandung, Indonesia, on 24 and
25 April 1985 (A/40/276-s/L7L3s)t

(p) Letter dated 7 June 1985 frorn the Permanent Representative of Romania to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General lX/40/3621 t

(e) Letter dated 17 June 1985 fron the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Generalr transmitting the text of the
conununigu6 issued by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the North Atlantic
Council at Lisbon on 7 June 1985 @/AOfi8Bl t

(r) Letter dated 19 September 1985 from the Permanent Representative of papua
New Guinea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transnitting
the conrmuniqu6 adopted at the Sixteenth South Pacific Forum, held at Rarotonga,
Cook Islands, fron 5 to 5 August 1985 (A/40/672-S/L7488),

(s) Letter dated 30 october 1985 from the representatives of Argentina,
Greece' fndia, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the joint message dated
24 October 1985 addressed to the President of the United States of America and the
General Secretary of the Central Comnittee of the Communist Party of the Soviet
Union by the Heads of State or Government of Argentina; Greece, fndia, Mexico,
Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania (A/40/825-S/L7596) t

(t) Letter dated 12 November L985 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Sorriet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/ 40 /e88-S/L7 6291 t

(u) Letter dated 25 October 1985 from the Perrnanent Representative of
Bulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
Declaration issued on 23 October 1985 at Sofia by the Political Consultative
Committee of the Warsaw Treaty Organization (A/C.L/40/71.

II. CONSIDERATTON OF PROPOSAI,S

5. The consideration of proposals submitted under this agenda item is divided
into two parts. Part I deals only with a draft resolution entitled trBilatera1
nuclear-arms negotiations". Part fI deaLs with a1l other protrnsals subrnitted under
the agenda item.

Draft resolution A/C. l/40lt.60

6. On 7 Novenber 1985, Algeria, Bahanas, Bangladesh, Colombia, Cuba, Eglt>t,
Ghanar fndiai Indonesia' Madagasgar, Irlexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, peru, Romania, Sri
Lankar Yenen and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution entitled 'Bilateral
nucl-ear-arms negotiations" (A/C.L/AO/L.60) r which was subsequently also sponsored
by Ecuador and Zinbabwe. The draft resolution nas introduced by the representative
of Yugoslavia at the 34th meeting , on L2 Norrenber . 

| .. ,



A/40/877
English
Page 5

7. At its 38th meetinE, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/40/L.60 by a recorded vote of I1? to none, with 16 abstentions (see
para. 8). The voting was as follows:

fn favour:

Aga inst:

Abstaining:

Algeria, Angola, Argenlina, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bolswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundir Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde' Central
African Republic, Chad, Chiler China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo,
Costa Rica, Cuba, Clprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Denocratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), fraq' freland,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuuait, tao peoplers
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
lladagascar, Malawi, Irtalaysia, ltaldives, Mali, Dtalta, &lauritania,
Mauritius, Mexico, tt{ongolia, Morocco, l,tozarnbique, Nepalr New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinarne,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviel Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguayr Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

None.

Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands' Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

III. RECOMIITENDATION OT' THE FIRST COMMITTEE

8. The First Committee recomnends to the General Assernbly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations

Tbe General Assembly'

Noting the agreement between the United States of America and the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to begin negotiations on "a complex of questions
concerning spaee and nuclear arms both strategic and intermediate range" with
lhe objective 'rto work out etfective agreements aimed at preventing an arns
race in space and terminating it on Earlh", which negotiations ultimately
"should lead to the complete eliminat,ion of nuclear arms everywhere",



A/40/877
EngI ish
Page 6

Deeply concerned by the fact that hunanity is confronted today with an
unprecedented threat to its survival arising from the massive and competilive
accumulation of the most deslructive weapons ever produced, especially nuclear
weapons more than sufficient to destroy all life on Earth,

Conscious that such a situation is all the more difficult to justify if
international consensusone takes into account that there already exists an

that a nuclear war cannot be son and mus! never be fought r
l. Expresses its hope that the forthcoming meeting htoeen the two

leaders of the United States of Anerica and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics witl give a decisive inpetus to their current bilateral negoliations
so that these negotiations produce early and effective agreements on the
halting of the nuclear-arms race nith its negative etfects on international
security as well as on social and economic development, reduction of their
nuclear arsenals, prevention of the arms race in outer space and its use for
peaceful purposesi

2. Invites
duly informed of

the two negotiating parties to keep the General Assembly
the progress of their negotiations;

3' Reaffirms that in these negotiations the vital interests of all
peoples, including those of lhe two negotiating parties, are at staket

4. Further reaffirns that bilateral negotiations do not in any way
diminishtminitiateandpursuemultilatera1negotiaLioni
the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament and on the
prevention of an arms race in outer spacei

5. Reguests the Secretary-General to convey this resolution to the
leaders of the United States of Anerica and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics before their neeting at Geneva on 19 and 20 November 1995.




