








































UNITED
NATIONS

A
General Assembly Distr.

GENERAI,

^/ 
40/983

6 Decembe r 19 85
ENGLISII
ORIGINAIJ: TRENCH

Fortieth session
Agenda item I04

INTERNATIONAIJ @VENAMS ON IIUMAN RIGHTS

Report of the Third Cornmittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Paul-D6si16 KABoRE (Burkina Faso)

I. IN?RODUCTION

l. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 septernber 1985' the General Assenbly' on Ehe
recommendation of the G€neral Corntlittee, decided to include in the agenda of its
fortieth session the item entilled:

'International Covenants on Eunan Rightss
{(a) R€port of the Hufiran Rights co mitteet

. "(b) status of the fnEernaEional covenant on Economic, social and cultural
Rights, the Internatlonal Covenaht on Civil and Political Rights anfl the
OPtlonal Protoeot to the International @venant on.Civil anr lrolitical
Rights: reporC of the Secreta ry-Gene ral,

't (c) Reporfing obLigations of seates parties to United Natlons conventions on
hunan rights: report of the Sec retary-Gene ral" .

At the same meeting, the Assetnbly decided to allocate the lten to the Third
Conmittee.

2, The Tbiral connittee consldered the iten jointly rrith items 101' 102, 103 and
I44 at lts 46th to 48th, 5oth to 53ral' 58th and 6oth neetings on 19 to 22, 25 and
29 Novenber and 2 December 1985. An account of the ttiscussions of the Committee is
contained in che relevan! sunmary records (A/C.J/40/9R.45-48, 50-53' 58 ahd 60) '

8s-36556 4657P (E)



^/40/s83English
Page 2

3, The Connittee had before it the fo1lor{ing docunents:

(a) Rep,ort of the Economic and social Council, chapters III, seclion D' vfl
and IX, section Ft V

(b) Report of the Human Rights Committee, Z/
(c) Reporeing obligations of States parties to United Nations conventions on

hunan rights: report of the Sec reta ry-cene ral (A/40/600 and Add.I) I
(d) status of the International Covenanl on Econonic, social and cultural

Rights, lhe International Covenant on Civil and politlcal Rights and the Optional
Protocol to the International Covenant on Civll- and Polilical Rights: report of
the Sec reta ry-cene ral (A/40/6051 ,

(e) Lelter dated 29 January 1985 from the Permanent Representative of
Denocratic Kampuchea to the Uniteat Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/40/L0e-s/L69L4),

(f) Letter dated 4 uarch 1985 from the Permanent Representative of the United
States of Anerica to the United Nations addressed to the Sec reta ry-Gene ral
(A/40/L60\ t

(S) Letter dated 25 April l-985 from the Pernanent Representaeive of
Denocratic Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secret ary-General
(A/40 /26'r -E/L985/69) t

(h) Letter dated 19 ,fune 1985 fron the Pernanent Representative of Democratic
Kampuchea to Che United Nations addressed to the Secreta ry-General
(A / 40 / 39 3 -E / L9 85 /L 2al t

(i) Letter dated
Democratic Kanpuchea Co
(A/40 /678-s/L7 4921 7

(j) Letter dated
Denocratic Kampuchea to
(A/ 40 /7 s'-s /r7 56s) r

23 September 1985 frorn the Permanent Representative of
the United Nations addressed to the secreta ry-General

14 october 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of
the United Nations addressed to tbe Secreta ry-ceneral

(k) Letter dated 27 Septenber 1985 fron the Pernanent Representalive of
Democratic Karnpuchea to the Uniteal Nations addressed to the Secreta ry-General
(A/c.3/40/2t.

!/ To be issued as Off
Sessign, SuppLenent No, 3 ( 40 /3/Rev. Ll

U Official Records of the ceneral Assenbly, Fortieth Session, Supplement
No. 40 (A/40l40).



A/40/983
English
Page 3

1: At the 45th neeting, on 19 Novenber, the Assislant secreta ry-General for HunanRights made an introduclory statenent.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOIJTTIIONS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/40lL.55
5. AC the 58th meeting, on 29 November, the representatlve of the German
Democratic 

. 
Republic introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/AO/L.55) entitledl"Indlvisibllity and interdependence of econonic, social, civil and politicalrights", sponsored bv Burgg{ia, the Byerorussian soviet sociarrst R;pubrrc, the

@b:!Er- the gglgaj. D;n-ocrar rc . Republic, Hunqarv, Monoolla, Nicaragua. peru and the
Sv r ign. +rab Republic. peru
resolut ion .

6' The tenth preainbur-ar paragraph of the draft resorution read as fo[owsr
nDesirous of removing all obstacles to the full reali.zation of hunanrights;l;;;ticular colonialisn, neo-coloniali sn, racisn, apartheid and al1

forms of foreign occupation. aggression, atiscrimination and Eiifif,Ifon, n,

7. At che 6oth neeting, on 2 December 1985, the representative of pakistan orauy
introduced an anendrnent to the tenLh preambular paragraph, as foUowF

(a) To add the eords nraciar discrinination in alr its forns. between the
r.rords " raclsn', and "apartheidtri

(b) To delete the rrords 'rand all forns of,, between the words ".apa.g.!.4." and"foreign",

(c) To add the words "intervention,, between the {ords
"occupation".

8' At the same meeting, the representative of ltorocco recalled that in 1966 the
General Assembly adopted first the covenant on civil and poritical Rights and thenthe Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The representative of
Morocco proposed, therefore, that the thirtt prearnbular paragraph should be
redrafted by referring to the rnternational iovenant on civir and Foliticar Rights
before the rnternatlonal covenant on Econonic, sociar anar curturar Rights. rn this
connection, the representative of the cerman Democratic Republi.c stated that che
covenant on lbononic, social and cultural Rights haal entered inlo force before lhe
covenant on civil and poriticar Rights and shourd therefore be nentioned first,
The proposal rras not taken lnbo accoune.

"foreignrrand

9. At Che sane meeting, the representative of lhe Gernan
behau of the sponsors, accepted the amendnent of pakistan
accordingly.

Dernocratic Republlc, on
and revised the Eext

r0. At the same meeting, the committee voted on the revised draft resoruLion asfollows:



^/4o/953Engl ish
Page 4

(a) The eighth preanrbular paragraph waa adoPted by a recorded vote of I07
to 8, wlth I8 abstentions. llhe votlng was as folLor"s:

Against! Costa Rica' France, Germany, Federal Republic of, gonduras '
Israel, Italy, Uniteal King'lom of Great Britain and t'lorthern
frelantl. Unitetl states of Amerlca.

Abstaininq! Austria' Belgiu!0, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Greece' Iceland'
Ireland' Ivory Coast (C6te d'Ivoire) ' Japan, Luxenbourg,
New Zealand' Norway, Fortugal' Senegal, Spain' Sl'eden' Turkey'

(b) The tenth preanbular paragraPh' as orally revised, was adopte'l by a
recorded vote of 113 to I, with 21 abstentions- The voting was as follo{s:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda. Argenlina,
Au3lralia, Bahatnaa, Babrain, Banglaalesh, Barbados, Benint Bhutan'
Bolivia, Botsnana ' Brazil, 

Brunei Darussalan, BuLgarla, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic'
cameioon, Central African RePublic, chad, chlle, china, colonbia '
congo, cuba, c:t)rus, czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yenen, Djibouti'
oominican RePubllc, Ecuador, EglPt' Ethlopia, Fijir Gabon,
Gambia, Ghana, Guatenala, Guinea, Guinea-Blssau' Guyana ' Ilair-i '
Hungary, India, Inalonesia, Iran ( Isi-amic Republic of), Iraq,
Jordan, Kenya, Kui{ait, Lao PeoPle's Democratic Republic' Lebanon'
Lesotho' Liberia, Libyan Arab ilanahiriya, Madagascar ' 

Malavti '
Italaysia, Maldivesr Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, !4ongolia'
I,lozanblque, Nepal, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Nigeria, PakisLan'
Panana, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland' oaEar'
Ronania ' Rcanda' sanoa, saudi Arabia, 

singapore, Somalia,
sri Lanka, sudan, surlname, Swaziland' syrian Arab RePublic'
Thailantl ' Togo, Trinidlatt and Tobago' 

Tunisia, Uganda, okrainian
sovlet socialist RePubIic, Unlon of soviet socialist Republics'
United Arab Etirates, Unltetl Repub!-ic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
venezuela, viet Nan, Yernen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, zanbia, zinbabt'e'

Afghanistan, A19eria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda ' Argentina,
Australia, Bahanas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin' Bhutan'
Bolivia, Bolseana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burtna, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist RePublic'
Caneroon, central African Republic, Chad, Chlle, China, congo,
Costa Rica' Cuba, C!?rus, czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen'
Djibouti, Doninican Republic ' Ecuador, EgyPt, 

Ethiopia, riji'
Gabon, Gambia, Gernan Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatenala'
Guinea, Gulnea-Bissau, Guyana ' Haitl, HungarYr 

tndia, rndonesia,
Iran (Islanlc RePublic of), Iraq, Ivory coasb (cdte drlvoire) '
Jordan, Kenya, KuHai!, Lao Peopl-e I s Democratic Republic ' Lebanon,
Lesotho ' Liberia, Libyan Arab 

Janahiriya, Madagascar, Mala!'i '
Irlalaysia, ltaldives, !,tali, l,fauritania, Mexico, MongoIia, Morocco,
Mozanbigue, Nepal, Ne\t zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
PakisEan' Pananar PaPua Nett Guinea' Peru' Philippines, Poland'

fn f avour.r

In favour:



A/ 40/983
Eng I ish
Page 5

Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sarra, Saudl Arabia, Senegal, SingaPore'
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, surinane, Swazlland, syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Bogo, Trinldad anal Tobago, Tunisia, 'I\rrkey,
Uganda, Ukxainian Soviet SocialisE Republic r Union of Soviet
sociallst Republics, united Arab EnirateE' unlted Republic of
Tanzania, uruguay' venezuelar viet Nam, Yenen r Yugoslaviar zairel
zanbia. z imbabwe.

Against! United States of America.

Abstaininq: Austria, Belgiurn, Canada, Denmark, Finlantl, France, Gernany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Honduraa, fceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxenbourg, Netherlands, tibrnay, Fortugal' Spain'
Sweden, Unlted Kingdom of creat Brltain and Northern lreland.

(c) The eleventh preanbular paragraph was adopced by a recorded vote of ll-3
to 7, rrith 16 abstentions. The voting $as as foll-ousr

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argdntsina,
Bahanas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benln, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Soclal-ist Republic, Caneroon,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colonbia, @ngo,
Costa Rica, Cuba, C)rprus, Czechoslovakia, Der0ocratlc yemen,
Djibouti, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia. Flji'
Gabon, Ganbi.a, German Denocraeic Republicr Ghana, Guatenala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissaur Guyana, Ilaiti, Honduras, Itungary, Jndia,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, rvory coast (C6te
drlvoire), Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahirlya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, l.taldiveg, lrali, Mauritanla, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozanbique, Nepal. Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Panana, Papua Nen Guinea, Peru, PhiliPpine6, troland,
Qatar, Ronania, Rwanda, Sanoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Sonalia' sri Lanka' sudan, suriname, swazlland' Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukralnian Soviet socialist Republic, union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, United Republlc of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Narn, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zanbia, Zimbabwe.

Against: France, Gernany, Federal Republic of, Israel, ttaly, Netherlands,
United Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of Amer ica.

Abstai.ning: Auslralia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Greece,
Iceland, Ireland, Japan, Luxembourg, Nes Zealand, tlorlta!',
Portugal, Spain, Sh'eden.



\/40/983
English
Page 6

(d) ltre draft resolution as a whole, as orally revised, vras adopted by a
recorded vote of I19 to I, lrith I8 abstentions (see para, t6r draft resolution I).
The voting was as folloes !

In favour 3 Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Aust(alia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorusglan Soviet Sociallst Republic,
Cameroon. Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congor Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Detnocratic
KarnPuchea, Democratic yenen, Djiboutl, Dominlcan Republlc,
Ecuador, Eglpt, Ethiopia, Ftjl, cabon, canbia, cerman Denocratic
Republic, Ghana, creece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, HaiCi, Honduras, Itungary, India, Indonesla, Iran (Islanic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Ivory Coast (C6te d,Ivoire), Jordanf
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho' Liberla, Libyan Arab Janahirlya, Madagascar, Irlalaysia.
MaLdives, MaIi, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongo1ia, Morocco,
Mozanbique, Nepal, Netherrands, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Panana, Papua New Gulnea, paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qaear, Ronania, Rwanda, Sanoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singaporel Sonalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinane, Swazlland,
Syrlan Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, ukrainian soviet socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet SocialisE Republics, Uniteit Arab Enirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela, Viet Nan, Yernen'
Yugoslavia, zaire, Zambia. z imbab\de.

Uniled States of Amer ica,

Auseria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Flflland, France, Germany,
l'ederal Republic of, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxenbourg,
Malawi, New zealand, Norway, portugal, Sweden, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Against:

Abstaining:

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/4oll,.55
11. At the 58th meeting, on 29 tr{overnber, the representative of Denmark introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.3/4O/L.56) entitled nThe International Covenants on Human
Rights', sponsored by Australia, Bulgaria, Canada, Costa Rica, q4)rus, Denmark,
Finland, Iceland, Italt the Nicar

of and No reland as \,rell as Ecuador and
deleting

and the
France. The representative of Dennark revised the draft resolution bv
operative paragraph 2, which read as follows:

"2. Appreciates that the Human Rights Connittee conlinues to strive for
uniforn standards in the inplenentation of the provisions of the International
Covenant on Civil and politicat Rights and the Optional protocol theretor,,.



L2. At its 60th neeting, on 2 Decernber,
resolution. as orally revised, without a

A/40/983
English
Page 7

the Conmittee adopted the draft
vote (6ee para. 16, draft resolution II).

13. At the 58th meeting, on 29
draf t resolution (A/C.3/40/L.731
to United Nations conventions on

Fi Ge
Nlcaragua, suriname and Venezuela.

Resolution 217 A (III).

see resolution 2200 A (XxI), annex,

C. Draft resolut ion A/C.3/4O/L.73

Novenber, the representative of Italy introduced a
entitled "Reporting obligalions of States parties
human rightsn, sponsored by Austria, Belgiuil,

of Morocco

oralIy
the Hord

as orally

L4. At the 6oth neeting, on A Decenber, the representaCive of Ital-v
corrected the draft resolution by replacing the idord ,'ConferencE;-6]
"Meeting" in operative paragraph 10.
15. At the sarRe meeting, the Connittee adopted the atraft resolution,
corrected, rrithout a vote (see.para. 16, draft resolution III).

III. REC]]MMENDATIoNS oF TIIE TIIIFD CoI,IMITTEE
16. The Third cornmittee reconmends to the General Assenbly the attoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

visibi and i econonl,c, soclal t
cultural, civi+ and polieicat rights

Tbe cenexat Assembly,

Mindful of the obligations of States under the charter of the united
Nations to pronote social progress and better standards of life in larger
freedon and uni.versal respect for, and observance of, human rights anal
fundanental freedons for all without distinction as to race, sex, language
relig ion,

Recalling the Universal Declaration of Human Rights 3/ as tell as the
International Covenant on Econonic, Social and Culturat nigirts g7 and the
International Covenant on Civit anal political Righfs, 4/

1/

!/



^/40/e83Eng I ish
Page I

Acknowlettging that the InternaEional covenant on Economlc, Social and
Cutturat nigtrts and the International Covenant on Clvil and Polltical Rights
have created nen standards anat obllgations to which states shoultl conforn'

Recallinq that 1986 narks the tflentieth anniversary of the adoPtion of
the fnternational Covenants on llunan Righcs, jy

Also recalllna the Declaratlon on SOClal Progress and DeveloPnent t based
on ttre Charter of lhe Uniteal Natlons and solemnly Proclained on
Ll Decenbe r L969, y

Taking note of ehe 1985 RePort on the world Social SituatLon, V

Reaffirming the Provlsions of its resolulion 32/f3O of 16 December 1977
trrat Efi-EiEilights and funtianental freedoms are indivisible anil
lnterdependent anat that the promotlon and Protection of one category of rights
can never exenPt or excuse states fron tbe Promobion and protection of the
other r ights,

the full reallzatlon of civil and politicaL rights is
flith the enjoyrene of economic, Eocial and cultural rights'

Convinced also that lhe achlevement of lasting Progress in the
irnpfenentation of trunEn rights i5 tlePentlent upon sound an'l effective national
ani international policies of econonic ' sociaL and Political 

develoPment'

ggigl that
inseparably llnked

Desirous of rernoving all obstacles co lhe full
rights, in par!icular colonlalism, neo-coloniali sm,
allscrinination in all its forms' apartheid' foreign

Resolutlon 2542 (XXIV).

unlled Nations publication,

realization of hurnan
raclsn, racLal
intervention, occugation,

aggression, discrimination and domination,

Recognizinq the fundarnental rlghts of eltery IteoPIe to exercise full
sovereignty over its natural vrealth and resources'

Recognizing also that the realizalion of the right to developnent could
n"fp 6 pto*ot. tne enjoyrnent of econonic, social and cultural' righEE'

Reaffirninq that there is a close relationshiP between diaartRament and
devel6fiEill-Ifrat progress in the fielcl of disarnanent could considerably
promote progress in the field of dleveloprBnt antl that resourceB released
ihrough disarnament measures nould contribute to che economic and social
develoPnen! and well-being of atL peoples. in partlcular lhose of the
developing countries,

v
v Sales llo' E.85.IV.2 '



A/10/983
Engl ish
Page 9

Recalling commission on Euman Rights resolutlon 1985,/42 of 14 l,tarch 1985,
in which the conmission stated that the pronotion and inplementation of
econonic, social and cuLturaL rights and the obstacle6 Eo their realization
have not received sufficlent attention within the framerrork of the United
Nations orga a, U

Requesting the secreta ry-Gene ra1 to enhance hiE efforCs under the
progr:u[tG of advisory services to States in the lnplementation of the
International Covenants on Hunan Rlghes,

I. Recoqnizes lhat equal attention should be glven to the
inplenentation, pronotlon and protection of economlc, social and cultural
rights and civil and political rights,

2. Appeals to all states, on the ccasion of the t$entieth annlversary
of the adopt ion of the International Covenants on llurlan Rightsr to pursue
policies ilirected to the full inplenentation of the rlghta contained thereinl

3. Requests bhe Conmisslon on Human Rlghc8 to contlnue its
conslderation of the realization of economicr Eocial and cultural rlghts and
to submit, through the Econornlc and social Council, lts views and
recommendations on these human ri.ghts to the General Asaenbly at its
forty-second se ss ion,

4, welcones the decision of the Econonic and social council ' 
in its

resolulion L985/L7 of 28 May 1985, co estabtish the ConmitEee on Econonic,
Social and CulturaL RighCs, whlch wlll be entrusted from 198? on rrith the
inportant task of exanining the inplenentation of the International Covenant
on Econornic, Soclal and Cultural Rights,

5. Encourages Governnents to glve careful consideratton to nominations
for the cornnittee on Econonic, social and cultural Rights in due recognition
of the status of cofirmittee nemb€rs as experts Hith recognized conpetence in
the field of human riglrts, serving ln their pergonal capacityt

6' Urges the sec reta ry-Gene ral !o take determined stePs' within
existing resources, to give publicity !o the Comrnittee on Econonic ' Social andCultural Rights and to ensure that it receives fulL admlnisErative suppor! ln
order to enable it to commence its functions effecllvely,

7. Decides to convene, on 15 December 1986, a commemorative plenary
meeting of the forty-first session of the General Assenbly devoted to the
twentieth anniversary of the adoptlon of Che International Covenants on llurnan
RighCs t

y See officiat Records of the Economic and social Council, 1985, Supplenent
No. 2 (E/1985/221 , ch^p, rr, secC. A.



A/40/983
English
Page 10

8. Decides also to discues the question of the Indivisibility and
interdependence of econonic, social, cultural, civil and poLitlcal rights ac
its forty-firEE session under the itern €ntitletl "International CovenanEs on
flunan Rights".

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Ineernational Covenants on Hunan Rights

The General Assenbly,

Recalling its resolutions 33151 of 14 Decenbe c L978' 34/45 of
23 lilsvembe r L979, 35/L32 of Il Decenber 1980, 36/58 of 25 Novenber 198I,
37 /L9l of 18 Decernber 1982 and 38/LL6, 38 /]-L7 of 16 December 1983 and 391136
and 39,2138 of 14 Decenber 1984,

Taklng note of the reporC of the Sec reta ry-cene ral 8/ on the status of
the rnternational Covenant on Economic, Social and Cullural Rights, g/ the
Internatlonal @venant on Ci.vil and tlolltlcal Rights 2/ and the Oplional
Protocol to the InEernat.ionl Covenant on civil and Political Rights, 9,/

Noting with appreciation that, follovring its appeal, mcre Menber States
have acceded to the fnternational Covenants on Hunan Rights' g/

Recognlzing Che inportant role of the Human Rights Committee in the
inplenenlation of the InternaCional Covenant on Civil and Political Righls and
Ehe Optional Protocol the reto,

Taking into account the useful work of the Sessional workinq Group of
covernmental Experts on the Inplenr€ntation of lhe InternaEionat Covenanc on
Econonic, social and Cultural Rights,

Bearing ln mind the inportant responsibilities of Ehe Econornic and Social
council in relation to the fnternational covenants on Hunan Ri.ghtst

CaIIing attention to the twentieth anniversary, in 1986, of lhe adoption
of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and lhe
International Covenant on Civil and Polilical Rights,

I. Notes l'ith appreciatlon.the report of che Human Rights conmictee on
its tgrenty-third, twenty-fourth and twenty-fiftsh sessions 10/ and expresses
satisfaction with the serious and construclive nanner in which the Conmittee
is continuing to underlake its functionst

v L/ 40 /6os.
2J See resolution 2200 A (xXI), afftex.

I0l Official Records of the General Assenbly, Fortleth Session. Supplenent
No. 40 (A//40/40).



A/40/983
Engllsh
Page 11

2. Expresses its appreciation to the States partles to the
rnternationar covenant on civit ana poriticat Rights that have subnitted thelr
reports under article 40 of the Covenant and urges states partie€ that havenot yet done so to subrnit their report.s to the Couni ttee as speedily as
possible t

3. urges the states parties to the rnternational covenant on civir anatPolilical Rights that have be€n requested by the Bunan Rights comnittee toprovide additional lnfornagion to conpLy with that request,
4. Connends the States parlies to the International Covenant on

Econonic, Social and Cultural Rights that have submitted their reporta underarticle 16 of the Covenant and urges States that have not yet don; €o tosubnit their reports as soon as possible,

5. Notes nith satisfaction that the nbjorlty of States parties to the
rnternational covenant on civil and political Rights, and an increasing numberof stales parties to the rnternationar covenant on Econonic, social and
Cultural Rigtrts, have been represented by experts for Ehe presentation oftheir reports, thereby assiscing the Hunan Rights comtni tLee and the Econonic
and Soclal Council in their $ork, and hopes that all States parties to both
Covenants will arrange such representation in tbe future,

Again.urqes all States that have not ye! done so bo become gartlesto the International Covenant on Economlc, Social anrt Cultural Rights anal the
rnlernatl'onar covenant on civll and politicar Rights, as well as io consider
acceding to lhe optional protocol to che rnternational covenaot on civil anatPolitical Rights t

7. Invitea the States parties to the
and Polilical Rights to consider makinq the
article 4I of the Covenanti

International @venant on Clvll
declaration provided for in

.8. Enphasizes the inportance of the strictest conpliance by Statesparties vrith their obligatlons under the rnternationar covenant. on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rlghte and Che fnternational Covenant on Civil and
Politlcal Rights and, where applicable, the Optional protocol thereto,

, 9. Stresses the inportance of avoiding lhe efoslon of human rlghts byderogation and underrines the necessity of sErict observance of the agreedcondition and procedures for derogation,
10. Reccmmends to stales parties that they continually ieview whether

any reservation made in respect of the provisions of the Intbrnational
Covenants on Human Rigbts should be upheld I

11. Urqes States parties to continue Co pay active attention to the
Protection and promotion of civil and political, as werl as econonic, social
and cultural, rights t



A/40/983
Engl lsh
Page 12

12. welcones the decision of lhe Economic and Social councif in its
resolutlon I985,/I? of 28 Uay 1985, to establish the Cornnlttee on Economic'
social and curturar Rights, t hich ttiu be enhrusted as at 1987 with the
important task of overseeing the ilqllenEntation of the rnternational covenant
on Economic, social and Cultural Rights,

13. Requests the Sec reta ry-Gene ral !o keeP the Human Rights Connittee
informed of the relevant actlvities of the Generat Assernbly, the Econonic and
social Council, the Conmission on Eunan Righls, the Sub-Commission on
Prevention of Discrininatlon and Protection of Minorities, the Connlutee on
the Elinination of Racial Discritnlnation and the Conmittee on the Elimination
of Discrimination against vlonen ' and also to 

transnit the annuaL rePorts of
che Hunan Rights comnittee to chose bodiesl

L4. Also requests the secretary-Cener aI to subnit to the General
Assembly at ihs forty-first session a rePort on the status of the
rnternational covenant on Econonic, Social and Cultural Rightst the
International Covenant on Civil and Politlcal Right.s and the OPtional Protocol
to the rnternational Covenant on Clvll and Political Rightst

15. Again urgea the Secreta ry-Gene ral, taking into accoun! .the
suggestions of Etre Human Rights Comnittee, to take delertoined stePs ttithin
exiseing regources to give nore Publicicy to the work of the Hunan Rlghts
comnittee and, sinilarly, to the work of the Economic and social Council antl
to inprove the a&trinistrati.ve and related arrangements co enable then to carry
out their respectiee functions effectively under the International covenants
on Human Rlghts,

L6. welcones the progress already made towards the publication of the
official poufi" t."ords of the Human Rights ConmiEtee in bound volumes and
l-ooks forward to receiving che volumes covering the first two segsions in the
near fucure t

L7. Encourages all Governments to publtsh the texts of the International
Covenant on Econonic, Social and Cultural Rights, lhe International Covenant
on Civil and Political- Rights and the OptionaL Protocol to the Internatlonal
Covenant on civil and Political Rlghts in as nany languaqes as possible and to
distribute then and make then known as widely as possible in their territories,

t8. Requests the sec retary-General to ensure that the centre for ltunan
Rights of ttte secretariat effectlvely assists the gunan Rights connithee and
the Economic and Social Council in the inplenentation of their respective
functlons under the International Covenants on Hunan Rights'



^/40/983English
Page 13

DRATT RESOLUTION III

RePorting obllgations of StateE part.ies to United Nations
conveneions on hurnan r ights

the General .Assembly,

Recalllng its resoLution 37/44 of 3 Decenber 1982, in nhich lt noted l'ith
concern the critical situation of overdue reports under the InternationaL
Convention on the Elimination of A11 Forms of Racial Dlscrinination !/ and
affirned the necessity to consider that sltuatlon in the overall framework of
all reportlng obLigalions of States parties to United Nations conventions on
hunan r lghts,

Recalling also its resolution 38 /L:-7 of 16 Decenber 1983, in which it
noted that nany delays were occurring also in the submission of reports under
the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, !3/ as
indicated in the first report of the Secretary-c€neral on the overall
situation of reporting obligatlons, !y

Recalling further its resolution 391138 of 14 December 1984, in which the
General Assembly, having considered the report of the neeting of Ehe Chairmen
of supervisory bodies for United Nations conventions on hunan rights and of
tbe Conmission on Hunan Rlghts, held at Geneva on 16 and 17 August 1985, 14l
expressed its concern about the problens experienced b'y those bodies in lhe
functioning of the reporting procedures and its conviction of the need to
lmprove the existing reporttng systen in order to solve the problems being
facetl by both the supervisory bodies and the States parties Co varj.ous human
fights conventions,

Ilaving considered the report of the Secre !a ry-Gene ra I containing updated
infornation as at I June 1985 on the general situation of the submission of
rePorts of States parties to United Nations conventions on human rights and a
comPilation of the general guidelines elaborated by the various hunan rights
bodies under the human rlghts instrunents, 15/

Noting wihh deep concern that the numb€r of overdue reports of states
parties to at least one of the conventions on huroan rights has reached serious
proportions and may even increase unless appropriate steps are taken to

fy Resolution 2105 A (XX), annex.

I2./ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

E/ A/38/393.

14/ A/39/484r doD€x.

y.!/ A/40/5OO and Add. t.



^/40/983English
Page 14

further ascertain the root causes of the situation anal to devise appropriate
tl/tr)es of action thac can progressively renove the difficultles being
exPer ienced,

Recalling in this respect Co'nmisslon on lluman Rights resolution I985/26
of 1I l4arch 1985 16/ concerning the programrE of actvisory services in the
fieltl of hunan rights, !/ and also resolution 1985/45 of 14 Marcb L985, !9/
in which the C€rnnissionl havlng consi.dered the status of the Internalional
Covenanls on lluman Rights, requested the Secreta ry-cene ral to consider ways
and meana of naking advice and assistance avaitable to sEates Parties to these
insCruments tn the preparatlon of their reports,

Recognizing once again and r.rith deeper concern the burden that several
coexisting reporting systens place upon Member States that are parties to
varlous conventions, nhich ln future may becone nore acute in relation to the
ratification of other conventions,

Reiterat.ing the importance it attaches to the fulfilment of obligations
under international conventlona on hunan rights, including reporling
obligations,

l. Takes note irith appreciation of the very conprehensive second rePort
of the secretary-ceneral on reporting obtigations of States Parties to United
Nations conventions on human rights, which containetl:

(a) Upalated lnfornation on Ehe general situalion of the submission of
reports of States partles to the five conventions currently in forcel

(b) considleratlon of and suggestj.ons on the question of consolidating
the guidelines of the supervisory bodies entruseed irith the consideratlon of
the reports of States parlies on the implenenlation of the conventionst

(c) A list of artlcles dealing with related rights under the various
conventions and a conpiLation of tbe current guiilelinesl

2. brpresses its deep concern about Ehe alarning nutnber of ovetdue
leports of nany states parties to the international conventions on human
rlghts L8/ whlch negatively affects the reporting systens of those
conventionsr in particular of the International convencion on the Elinination
of A1l Forns of Raclal Dlscrinination and the fnternatlonal Covenant on
Economic, Social and Cu1tural Rightst

lY Aee Official Records of the Econornic and social Council, 1985, Supplenent
No. 2 (E/1985/221 , chap. II, sect. A.

l-7 see E/cN.4/L985/3o.

!!/ See A/40/600, annex, paras. lt, 12 and 15.



A/40/953
English
Paqe 1,5

.^.._ ].- E{presses parlicular concern that sone states that are parties torour or to f ive conventions seen loEnd serious arif f icur-t ies in .ubnittingtheir reports, as indicated by the repeated rerninders addressed co them by the
Sec re tary-Genera1 at the request of the conpetent supervi.sory bodies, p,/

,^^-,1:- Tallgs note with interest of Econonic anat Social Council decisionL'42/Lrz ot 28 May 1985, which, vrhile naintainlng the first six_year cycle ofthe reporting procedures on the inpr.enentation of the rnternational covenanEon Economic, Social and Cultural nights, establishes a nine_year period forthe subsequent cycles, and considers thts alecislon a firac step towardg thenecessary lightening of lhe heavy burden of reportlng onligations placed uponthe States parties to that Covenanti
Supports the reguest addressed by the Comnission on Eunan Rights tothe secretary-ceneral, in its resolution I;85l4s, l6l concerning the piovisionof practical assisEance Eo states, under the programme of advisory servlces in

-the.field of hunan rights, in the preparation of their reports under unitedNations eonventions,

CoFnends the United Nations Institute for Training and Research forhaving organized in the Caribbean region, at the sugges.ion of the Centre forHuman Rights and with lts close 
"o-oi.r"iion, a training course on thepreparation and subrnission of reports under internatronar conventions on hunanrights, and expresses the hope this other courses of that type nay beorganized in Africa and Asia,

- 
Believes that new tinely steps are needed in order Co ascertainrurther the n|ost relevant causes of the present situation regaraling lhenon-subnission of reports and to devise ieasible types of action intentted !oremove the difficulties being encountered,
To this end requests the sec reta ry-Gene rar to send to arr statespartres to the five United Nacions conventions on hunan rigbts having atr February 1986 more than lno overdue reports, a note verbare inviting them to

:f:":::, if tl':y so. wish, rhe reasons ror ttreii arifficulries tn cornplyingltrEn the reporting obrigations on the conventions under which their reportsare overdue and their int.eres!, if any, in technical advice and assistlncewlth a view to better fulfilling tneii'repoiiing oorigatfonsl
Inyites the supervisory bodies of all conventions currently in forceto give Particular attention, wiifrin tne usual consideration of the actiontaken by the General Assenbly on lheir annual reporEs, to the report of thesec retary-cene ral on reporting obligations and-io tne present resolution,

._- ]O:, Rego{mends to the next meeting of th€ St,ates parties to thernEernational Convention on the Elinination of A11 Forms of RacialDiscrimination to consider suggesting to the Conrnittee on the Elimination of

I2/ Ibid.7 paras. t3 and 14.



A/40/983
English
Page 16

Rac ia1 DiscriminaEion the atloPllon, as a general rule' of the practice already
being followed by the cornnittee of considerlng tvfo successive reports in one
single text t

11. Requests the secretary-Gene ral to subntt to Ehe General Assembly at
its forty-first sesslon 

" 
,.pori containing updated infornation on the general

sltuatioir of overdue ,.port"l .n """"t"t.nl 
oi the operatlonal and- financial

fuIipllcatlons of Increaglng tialnlnq activities in this fieltl and the results
of the requests addressed to hln in paragraPh I abovet

:r2. DecideE to consider at its forty-first session the convening' in
1987, ;i aEffimeettng of the chalrmen of the supervisory bodles ' -including
the Comnittee on the Ellmination of Dlscriflrlnation against Wonen and, if
alreaaty establlshetl' the comtnittee again€t Eorture' in order to consider
jointly the report of the secreEary-General requested in paragraph II abovet

13. Fully concurs rrlth the consideraEions and suggestlona of lhe
sec retary-General on Ehe questloo of consolidating Ehe guidelines of the
supervisory Mlea entrust"a n ttn conslderation of Ehe reporgs of the states
parEies on the inpletrenlatlon of the conventions on hunan rightsi

14. Takes noEe with appreclation of the cofllpitatlon of the. general
guialelines elaborated by the various supervisory todies and of the lisb of
irticles tlealing ltith r;lated rights unaler the five convenEions ' both 

of hicb
are very helPful for states parties in the preParation of thelr rePortst

15. Deciales to incluile in the grovisional agenda of its forty-flrst
session a separate iten 'Reportlng obligations of States Parties to the Unite'l
Nations conventions on hunan rights".




