








































UlIIITED
NATIONS

General Aggembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/40/e63
11, November 1985
ENGLISTT
ORIGMAL: FRENCII

Fortleth session
Agenda iten 93

IMPOR:TANCE OF THE UNIVERSAL REAI,IZATION OF THE RIGHT OF PEOPLES TO
SELF-DETERITIINATION AND OF THE SPEEDY GRAIITING OF INDEPENDENCE TO
coLoNrALcoUNrRrEs"*?J.1"^tf t"J?irrll"REF'FEcTTVEGUARANTEBAND

Report of the Third Com,mittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Paul-D6sir6 KAaORE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTIOX

1. At lts 3rd plenary meetingr on 20 September 1985, the General Assembly, on the
recormendation of the General Cornnittee, decided to include ln the agenda of its
fortieth EesEion the itern entitled "Importance of the universal realization of the
right of peoples to self-deternination and of the speedy granting of independence
to colonial countries and peoples for the effective guarantee and observance of
human rights: r3port of the Secretary-General" and to allocate it to the fhird
Committee.

2. The fhird Committee considered this itern joint,ly with items 88 and 94-at its
3rd to lsth, 30th and 3lst neetings, on ? to 11' 14 to 1? October and 4 and
5 November 1985. An account of the discussion of the Comnittee is contained in the
relevant sunmary records lL/C.3/40/SR.3-15r 30 and 31).

3. The Cormittee had before it the following documentation:

(a) Importance of the universal realization of Ehe righE of peoples to
self-deterninatlon and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial countries
and peoples for the effective guarantee and observance of human rights: report, of
the Secretary-General (A/40/465 and Add.l and 2) I

(b) Letter dated 13 tttay 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of Madagascar
to the United Nations addressed, to the Secretary-General $'/aO/3081 t

85-31929 0294P (E)



A/40 /863
English
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 2t l4ay 1985 from the Permanent Representative of Democratic
Kampuchea to the united Nations addressed to the secretary-General
(^/40/33L-s/L72091 t

(d) Letter dated 19 Septernber 1985 from the permanent Representative of papua
New Guinea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
lA/40/672-S/L7 488) ,

(e) tetter dated 23 September 1985 from the Permanent Representative of
Democratic Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/40/678-S/I74e2l t

(f) Letter dated 14 october 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of
Democratic Kanpuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/40/7so-s/L756s') .

4. At the 3rd meeting of the Conmittee, on 7 October, the Deputy Director of the
Centre for Human Rights made an introductory statement.

II CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution VC.3,/40lL.5
5. At the 30th meeting, on 4 November, the representative of pakistan introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.3/40/L.5) entitled "Universal realization of the right of
peoples to self-determination,,, sponsored by Brunei lam, Chile, the Comoroe,
Costa Rica, Djibouti, Ecuador, Jordan, Kuwait , panl*irrr-
Papua New Guinea,\ew Gui_near.the 

philippines, eatar, Samoa, Slu ,the Sudan and Thailand.

5. At the same meeting, the Conmittee adopted drafE resolution A/C.3/40/L.s
without a vote (see para. L2, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolution A/C.3,/40,/L-9

7. At the 30th neeting, on 4 November, the representative of Nigeria, on belralf
of the states Member of the united Nations that are nembers of Efiffiican Groupl
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/40/L.91 entitled nlmportance of the univerial
realization of the right of peoples to self-determination and of the speedy
granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples for the effective
guarantee and observance of human rights,r.

8. At the 25th meeting, on 30 October, the representative of Morocco had
indicated that, with regard to draft resolution A/c.3/40/L.g, despite efforts of
negotiation within the African Group, no agreement had been reached. Therefore,
Morocco would with regret dissociate itself from the African Group, and its
delegation would ask for a separate vote on paragraph 26 dealing with the guestion
of Western sahara in order to oppose it, since it refers to resolution 39/40 which
Morocco neither accepted nor recognized.



td40/863
English
Page 3

9. At the 30th meeting, the representatlve of Nigeria regretted the posltion
taken by the delegation of Morocco and sald that reference to resoluElon 39/40 was
aimed at drawing attention to the efforEs made by the General Assernbly to reach a
just and lasting solution to the guestion of l{estern Sahara.

10. At the same meeting, the representative of $!9g!3. revised the draft
resolution as follows:

(a) Inserted a new, Iast, preanbular Paragraph reading:

" at the deplorable conseguences of the
lsraeli invasion of f,eUanon and recalling all the relevant resolutions of
the securlty council, in particular resolutions 508 (1982) of
5 June 1982, 509 (1982) of 5 June L982, 520 (1982) of 17 Septernber 1982
and 52I (1982) of 19 Septenber 1982r'r

(b) In operative paragraph 10, lnserted after trthe United Democratic Fronti
the words "NationaL Forum, trade unions"

(c) At the end of operative paragraph 10, inserted after rrNelson Mandelai the
words "and Zephania t'tothoPeng'

11. At the same meeting, the Committee voted on the draft resolution' as orally
revised, as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 26 wae adopted by a recorded vote of 74 to 4, with
39 abstentions. The voting nas as followsr y

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Barbadog, Benln, BoIivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundir Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republlcr
cape verde, chad, congo, cuba, cyprus, czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yenen, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, EgyPt, Ethiopia, Fiji'
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea-Bissaur Haiti,
Hungary, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Kenya, Lao Peoplers
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Madagascar, !{alawi, l{alaysia,
I.taldives, Mallr Mexlco, l{ongolla; Mozambigue, NePaI, Nen Zealand,
Nicaraguar Niger, Nigeriar Perur Poland, Romania, Rttanda' Sao
Tome and Principe, SenegalT Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republlc, Union of Soviet Socialist Republlcs, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

V Subseguently, the representatlve of tlalaysia indicated that the vote of
tris dElegation on operative paragraph 26 should have been recorded as abstainingl
instead of in favour. The representatlve of the Bahamas indicated thatr had her
detegation been present,, it would have voted in favour of paragraph 26.



A/40/863
Engllsh
Page 4

Against: El Salvador, Eguatorial Guinea, Morocco, Zaire.

Abstaining: Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Belgium, Burna, Caneroon,
Canada, Central African Repub1ic, China, Colonbia, Denmark,
Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Guatemala, Iceland, Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, ilamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Luxernbourg, Netherlands, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Phllippines, Portugalr Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Spain, Surlname,
Thailand, Turkeyr Unlted Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

(b) The draft resolution as a whole, as orally revised, was adopted by a
recorded vote of I05 to 17, with 9 abstensions (see para.12, draft resolutton
II). The voting was as follows? U

In favourl Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Beninr
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist nepublic,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djiboutl, Ecuador, Egypt,
Eguatorial Guinear Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Gambia, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-gissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Hungary, India, Indonesiar Iran (Islamic Republic of), Irag,
Janaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Denocratic Republic,
Lebanon, tesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, tt{adagascar, trlalaysia,
!{aldives, MaIi, Flexico, Mongolia, l{orocco, Mozambiguer Nicaraguar
Niger, Nigeria, Onan, Pakistan, Peru, fhilippines, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Rrranda, Sao Tome and principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Slngapore, Somalia, Sri tanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republ.ics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, YugoslavLa, Zaire, Zarnbia,
Zimbabwe.

Againstt Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denrnark, Finland, France, Gernany,
Federal Republic of, trceland, Israel, Italy, Luxernbourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern lreland, United States of America.

Abstaining: Austria, El sarvador, Greece, Guatemala, rreland, Japan, Malawi,
Portugal, Spain.

U Subseguently, the representative of the Dominican Republic, who had not
participated in the voting, indicated that her delegation had intended to vote in
favour of the draft resolution.



v4o/863
Engllsh
Page 5

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMI'IITIEE

L2. The Thlrd Conmittee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
folloring draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESOLTJTION I

Universal realization of t'he right, of peoples to
self-determination

The General Assembly,

Reaffirning the i.mportance, for th: effective guaraneee and observance of
nurnanTflfrtsrE the universal realization of the right of peoples t'o
self-deternination enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and enbodied
in the International covenants on Hunan Rights, ! ^" 

well as in the
Declaration on the Grant,ing of Independence to Coloniat Countries aid PeoPles
contained in Generat AssernbLy resol-ution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

I{elconing the progressive exercise of the right to self-determinatign. bV
peoptEffiEE-cotoniaf, foreign or alien occupaEion and thetr emergence into
lovlreign statehood and independence,

Deeply concerned at the continuation of acts or threats of foreign

'rrrt@andoccupationEhatarethreateningto9uPpress,orhavealready suppressed, the right to self-determination of an increaslng nurnber of
sovereign PeoPles and nations'

Expressing grave coqcern that, as a conseguence of the persistenCe of
Eucr, ffifrtllions of people have been and are being uprooted from their
homes as refugees and displaced persons, and emphaslzing the urgent need for
concerted international action to allevlate their conditions,

Recalllng the relevant resolutions regarding the violation of the right
of peoptes to Eelf-determinaLion and other hunan rights as a result' of forelgn
rnifitaiy intervention, aggression and occupation, adopted by the Commission on

v Resolution 22OO A (xxl), annex.



A/40/863
English
Page 6

Hunan Rights at itE thirty-stxtttl !1/ thlrty-seventh, !/ thirty-eighth, /thirty-nini.h, !/ fortieth !/ and forty-ftrst y.seseione,

Reiterating its resolutiona 35/35 B of 14 Novenber 1980, 36/lO of
28 October 1981, 37/42 of 3 Decenber 1982, 38/L6 of 22 Novenber 1983 and 39/LB
of 23 November 1994,

laking noge of the retrnrt of the Secretary-Generalr !1Q.,/
1. ngg-E-tlgtns that Che unlvereal reallzation of the right of all

peoples, iETffifi'g-those under colonlal, forelgn and alien domination, to
eelf-deterninaEion is a fundamental condition for the effective guarantee and
observance of human rights and for the preservation and pronrotion of such
rightsl

2. P to acte of foreign military
lnterventi , "in"" 

these have resulted in the
suppression of the right of peoples to self-determinatlon and other human
rights in certain parts of ttre worldt

3.c@thoseStateerea1nnsib1etoceageirnnediatelytheir
rnilitary i;E:GiIA and occupat,ion of forelgn countrles and territories and
all actE of repression, discrimination, exploltatlon and maltreatment,
particularly the brutal and lnhumn nethods reportedly enployed for the
execution of these acts against the peoples concernedl

4. Deplores the plight of the nillions of refugees and displaced
persons who have been uprooted by the aforenentloned acts and reaffirms their
right to return to their hornes voluntarlly in safety and honourl

!/ See qfficial Records of the Econonlc and Social Council, 1980,
Supplement No,3 (E/L98O/L3 and Corr.l), chap. XXVI, sect. A.

y rbid., 1981, supprement No. 5 (E/]:ggr/25 and corr.l), chap. xxvrrr,
sect. A.

y -I!,iq,., 1982, Supplenent No. 2 lE/LggZ/L2 and Corr.I), chap. XXVI, sect. A.

Y lbid., 1983, Supplenent No. 3 (E/Lgg3/L3 and Corr.I), chap. XXVII,gect. A.

y rbid., 1984, suppLement No. 4 lB/Lg84/L4 and corr.l), chap. rr, sect. A.

2/ Ibid., 1.985, Supplemenr No. 2 (E/I}85/22-E/CN.4/LI85/661, chap. rI.

19/ A/40/465 and Add.l and 2.



A/40/863
English
Page 7

5. Reguests the Connission on Human Rights to continue to give special
attention to the violation of human rights, especially the right to
self-determination, resulting from foreign military intervention, aggression
or @cupationt

6. Reguests the Secretary-General to report on this issue to the
General. asselnOfy at its forty-first session under the iten entitled
trImp,ortance of the universal realization of the right of peoples to
self-determination and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial
countries and peoples for the effective guarantee and observance of human
r ights" .

DRAFT RESOLUIION II

Importance of the universal realization of the right of peoples
@tion and of the speedy granting of indepePdencetee

and observaq@

@,
Reaffirming its faith in Ehe importance

Declaration on the Granting of Independence
contained in its resoLution 1514 (xV) of 14

of the implementation of the
to Colonial Countries and PeoPIes
December 1960,

Reaffirning the inportance of the universal realization of the right of
peopfEGEGffiaetermination, national sovereignty and territorial integrity
and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and peoples
as imperatives for the ful} enjoyment of all human rights,

Reaffirning the obligation of all l4ember states to comply with the
pri.nciptes oe tne Charter of the United Nations and the resolutions of the
Unlted Nations regarding the exercise of Ehe right to self-determination by
PeoPles under colonial and foreign domination,

Recalling its resolution 2649 (XXV) of 30 November 1970 and all relevant
reEolutions on this guestion,

Recalling also its resolution I5I4 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and all
relevant-iEsoluffis concerning the inplernentation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

Recalling further its resoLution 3I03 (xXvIIIl of L2 December L973,
3314 (xxlxT oT fA December 19?4 and 38/L37 of t9 December 1983, as well as
Security Council resolutions 405 (Lg77l of 14 April L977, 4L9 (L9771 of
24 Novernbet l977, 496 (198f) of 15 December 1981 and 507 (1982) of
28 May Lg82, ln which the United Nations condemned the recruiting and the use
of nercenaries, in particular against developing countries and national
Liberation movements,



^/40/863English
Page 8

Recalling further ita resolutione on the guestlon of Namibia, ln
particular resolutlon ES-8,/2 of L4 September I98I, and Security CounciL
resolutions 532 (1983) of 31 May 1983, 539 (19S3) of 28 October 1983 and
566 (19S5) of 19 June 1985,

Recalling the Paris Declaratlon on Narnlbia and the progranme of Action on
Namibia, adopted by the Internatlonal Conference ln Support of the Struggle of
the Namibian people for Independence, !/

Bearing in mlnd the outcome of the fnternational Conference on the
Alliance between South Africa and Igrael, held at Vienna fron 11 to
13 July L983, L2/

l{elcoming the holding at Tunis from ? to 9 AuguEt 1984 of the Conference
of Arab Solidarity with the Struggle for Liberation in Southern Afrlcao !!

Recalling resolutions CIt{,/Res.1002 (XLII) on South Africa and
CM,/Res.1003 (XLII) on Nanibia adopted by the Council of trtlnlstere of the
organization of African Unity at its forty-second ordinary session, held at
Addis Ababa from 10 to l7 July 1985, 14/

Reaffirming that, the system of apartheid imposed on the South Afrlcan
peopfE6i?Elffies a violation of tne funaanental rights of that people, a
crime against hurnanity and a constanE threat to international peace and
secur ity,

Gravely concerned at the continuation of the illegal occupation of
Namibia by South Africa and the continued violations of the human rights of
the people in the Territory and of the other peoples stlll under colonlal
domination and alien subjugation,

Fxpressing its profound indignaEion at and its preoccupation with the
brutal repression that followed the funlnsidion-of ttre eo-caltect--new-
constitution" and the state of energency by the apaqEheid r6gine of South
Africa in defiance of world public opinion,

Reaffirming its resolution 39/2 of 28 September 1984 and recalling
Security Council resolut,ion 554 (1984) of 17 August L984, which rejected the
so-called "new constitutionr as null and void, and Security Council,
resolution 569 (1985) of 14 August 1985,

n/ See Report of the Int,ernational Conference in Support of the Struqqle of
the Naniliar People lqr Independence, PariE, 25-29 aprtl 1983 (A,/CONF.L2i/Ill-;

LU See A/38/311-S,/15883, annex.

ly see a,fi9/450-s/r6726.

!3/ A/40/666, annex rrr pp. 99-103.
/...



A/40/863
Engllsh
Page 9

Degplv cgncer-ned at the continued terrorlst acts of aggression conmittedby t'he Pretoria rfutme agalnst independent Afrlcan States in the region,

- -Degplv.,lndignant at the continued occupatlon of part of the territory ofAngola by the troops of the racist rfulrne of south Afrlca and the persistent,hostlle and unprovoked acts of aggression and suetalned armed invasions
commltted by that rfuime tn violation of the sovereignty, airspace andterrltorial inEegrity of Angola, in particular the airnea invasion of Angolacarried out on 28 September 19g5,

FggaUing security council resolucions 52? (1982) of 15 December 1982 and535 (f9831 of 29 June 1983 on tesotho, and Security Council resolutions
568 (198s1 of 2L June 1985 and 572 (1985) of 30 seiternoer 1985 on Botswana,

Reaffirming the national unity and territorial integrity of the Conoros,

_ Rec-alling the Political Declaration adopted by the First conference of
lleade of state and Governnent of the organization of Afrlcan Unity and the
League of Arab states, held at cairo from z to 9 lrtarch Lg?7, E/

. RFgal}lng furEher its relevant resolutions on the guestion of paLestine,ln part,lcurar resolutlons 3236 (xxrx) and 3237 (xxlx) of 22 November 11974,
36/L20 of 10 Decenber 1981, Es-7/6 of L9 August 1982, 37/86 of
10 December 1982, 38/58 of L3 December 1983 and 3g/4g D of II Decernber I9g4,

. Fecglling the Geneva Declaratlon on Palestine and the progranne of Actiontor t'he Achievement of Palestinian Rights, adopted by the rnteinational
Conference on the euestion of palestine, !!r/

-cofretdeling that the denial of the inalienable rights of the palestinlanpeople to eelf-deternination, sovereignty, independence and return toPalestlne and the repeated acts of aggression uy rsrael against the people ofthe region constltute a seri.ous threat to lnternational peace and security,

. D-eepll ghgcked and alarmed at the deplorable conseguences of the rsraeliinvasion of Lebanon and rec-aUing all the relevant resolutions of the securitycouncil, I'n particular resolutions 508 (19g2) of 5 ilune,lgg2, 509 (1gg2) of6 June L982. 520 (1982) of tz seprember t-982 and 52r (r9s2) of
19 Septenber 1982,

1. Calls gpon all Stat,es to inrplement fully and faithfully all theresolutionfloi-EFe rlnlted Nations regarding the exercise of the right toself-deternination and independence by peoples under coLonial and foreigndonlnattonl

!:/ A/32/6L, annex r.

!s/ rt of the International Conference on the Question of
funiEea uarions

No. 8.83.I.21), chap. I.
publication, Sales



A/40/86?
English
Page l0

2. Reaffirns the tegitimacy of the struggle of peoples for their
independence, Cerritorial integrity, national unity and tiberation from
cotonialdornination,.@'andforeignoccupationbya11avai1ablemeans'
including armed struggle;

3. Reaffirrns the inalienable right of the Narnibian people, the
palestinian peopfand all peoples under foreign and colonial donination to

".ii-a"t"rrnination, 
national independence, territorial integrity, national

unity and govereignty without foreign int'erferencet

4. Strongly condemns those Governments that do not recognize the right
toself-deffidependenceofaIIpeop1esstiI1underco1onial
domination and alien subjugation, notably the peoples of Africa and the
Palestinian PeoPleS

5. Calls for the full and immediate irnplementation of the declarations
and programmes of action on Namibia and on Palestine adopted by the
international conferences on those guestions;

6. Reaffirns its vigorous condemnation of the continued illegal
occupation of Nanibia by South Africai

7. Condemns the racist r6gime of South Africa for its installation of a
so-called "i"terim adninistrationi in $lindhoek and declares that action to be
illegal, nul1 and void;

g. Further Condemns the policy of "bantustanizationn and_reiterates its
supportro@eop1eofSouthAfricainitsjustand1egitimate
struggle against the racist minority r6girne of Pretoriat

9. qeaffirns its rejection of the so-called nnew constitutionr as null
and void affiEl$rates that peace in South Africa can only be guaranteed 9y_'ihe establishmcnt of majority rule through the full and free exercise of adult
suffrage by all the people in a united and undivided South Africat

IO. Strongly condeqns the wanton killing of peaceful and defencelesE
demonstrators ai6-G[E-on striker as well as the arbitrary arrests of the
leaders and activists of the United Democrat,ic Front National Forum' trade
unions and other mass organizations, and demands their imnediate and
unconditional release, in particular that of Nelson MandeLa and
Zephania MothoPengl

11. Strongly condemns South Africa for the imposition of the state of
emergency unaer its repugnant Internal security Act and calls for the
immediate lifting of the state of emergency' as well as the repeal of the
Internal Security Acti

L2. Condemns South Africa for its increasing oppression of the t'lanibian
people, eol:G-massi.ve militarization of Nanibia and for its armed attacks
iauncne6 against the States in the region in order to destabilize them
politicalry an to sabotage and destroy their econoniest



A/40/863
English
page Il

13. strongly condemns. the establishment and use of armed terrorist9roupsuvffiaviewtopittinglb"'against,thenationa1
liberation movements and destabilizlng the rigitimale covernments of southernAfricat

14' strongly congemns the repeated acts of aggression and the continuedoccupationffi"'iaii"i"-;;-;;*;ndstheimnediateand
unconditional withdrawal of the south African troops from Angoran territory,

15' Ellonglv cond,emns the persistent, hostire and unprovoked acts ofaggression-liFsuiTaineallmed invasion committed by the racist r69ine ofsouth Africa in violation of the sovereignty, airspace and territorial_integrity of Angola, in particuLar tne aimei'invasion oe engoia carried out on28 September 1985;

16' stronglY regfgilms its solidarity witir tne independent Africancountriesffitionmovementsthatarevict1nsofmurderousacts
of aggression and destabirization by the racist r6gime of pretoria, and callsupon the international community to render ir,.r"i"J-;";;"i;;;I'"nu supporr rothese countries in or'iler to enable them to strengthen their defence capacity,defend their sovereignty and territoriaL integrity and peacefully rebuiLd anddevelop;

L7 ' Reaffirns that the practice of using mercenaries against sovereignstates and national liberation movements con"iitutes a crinlnal act and callsupon the Governnents of alr countries to enact legislation declaring the
l.ecruitmeltr financing and training of nercenarieJ in trreir-i"iiit"ries andthe transit of mercenaries through their territories to be punishable offencesand prohibiting their nationals from serving as mercenaries, and to report, onsuch legislation to the Secretary-Generall

18' g!!gqq+y condenns the continued violations of the human rights ofthepeopleffinia1dornination"nd;i;;,,-;'il;n;;jln,tt,"
continuation of the illegaL occupation of Nanibia, south atiicars attempts todismember its Territory, the perpetuat,ion of the racist minority rfuime insouthern Africa and the denial to the Palestinian peopre of thelr inalienablenational rights;

19' Further strongly condemns the racist r6gine of pretoria for its actsofdestabiandeconomicb1oc.kadeagainst'Lesothoand
strongLy urges the international conmunity to extend naxinum assistance toLesotho to enable it to fulfiL its internationat nunaniriii""lirigations
towards refugees and to use its influence on the racist r6gime to desist fromits terrorist acts against Lesothoi

20'. gtrgngly.condemn: the unprovoked and unwarrant.ed miritary attack onthe capital' of Botswana and demands that the racist r6gime pav-iurr anaadeguate compensation to Botswana for the loss of life and i.i.g. to property'
21. Denounces the collusion between Israel and south Africa andexPresses supporl for the Declaration of the rnternationar conference on theAlliance between South Africa and Israel;



^/40/863English
Page 12

, 22. Strongly condenns the policy of .those litestern 
states' Israel and

otherstaueffi,econorn1c,mt1itary,nuc1ear,strate9ic,cu1tura1
and sports relationE with the racist minority rfuirne of south Africa encourage
ania iaime to perslst in its suppression of- the aspirations of 

peoples of

self-determination and independencel

23. Again demands the imrnediate applicatlon of the mandatory arms
embargo agalnst south Africa' intrnsed onaet securlty council resoLution
41g (Lg77l of 4 November 19?i, by all countries and rnore partlcularly by those
countries that maintaln rnilltary-and nuclear co-operation with 

the racist
Pretoria,fut'.andcontlnuetoeupp1y1twlthre1ated@'

.limplenentatlonoftheprovisionsoftheParis24' calls-for- the ful 
ca and the special Declaration onDeclaratlonJn-Sanctions against South Africa and the s99c'

Narnibia adopted by the International conference on sanctions 
against

south efrlcl, ry-n.ra under the ausplces of the United Nations and 
the

Organizatlon of African UnitYl

25.DenandsonceaaalqtheirnmediatefunPlementationofitg
resolution ES-8/2 on Namibiai

26. Reaffirns aII relevant resolutlons adopted by the organization of
o,,'"]iunffir'.unrt"aNatlongontheguestionof9|esternSahara,
including Ce-neral Assernbly resolution 39/40 of, 5 Decenber 1984' and calls upon
the current chairnan of the organizatlon of African ulifv and 

the

secretary-General of the united Nations to continue their efforts to find 
a

just and lasting solution to this mattert

2T.Urgesallstates,specialiledagencies,competentorganizationsof
the united Nations aystem and other international organizations to extend
their "oppoii 

to the-Namibian people through its sole and legitimate .,1
representative, the South t{est etrica eeopie's Organizationr in its 

struggl'e

to gain its right to self-deternination and independence in accordance with
the charter of the unlted Natlonsl

28. Notes the contacts between the Governnent of the comoros and the
Government-5?Tr.nce in the eearch for a just solution to the 

problem of the
integration of Che Comorlan lsland of -!'tayotte into the Comoros' 

in accordance
with the resorutions of the organizatlon of African unlty and the 

united

Natlons on this guestlonl

29. calls for a substantial increase in all forns of assistance given by
arr srate"ffiaJ-n.ti"i" organs, speclaliz{ ?gtn"les and non-governmental
organizations to the victims of racism, racial dlscrirnination ancl aParg,bgid
through ttreir national liberatton rpvenents recognized by the Organization 

of
African Unltyl

vparislzo-ffi .Loz /el, sect' x'
/...



Pt/40/863
English
Page 13

30. Demands the immediate release of women and children detained in
Narnibia anF3EilEf,' Af r ica I

fundamentaL rights of the Palestinian people, as well as the expansionistactivities of rsrael in the Midd1e East, which constitute an obsl."i. l"-trt"
achievement of self-determination and independence by the palestinian people
and a threat to peace and stability in tfrq regio;; '

32. Demands- the imnediate and unconditional release of all persons
detained o?-GFiGoned as a result of rheir 

".roiniJ-i"r-"Iir-i}errninattonand independence, full respect for their fundamenial individual rights and
compliance with article 5 of the Universal Declaration of Hunan Rights, lr[1
under which no one sharr be subjected to E";a;;;-;;-;; ;;";i]-inr,u*"n or
degrading treatment,

33' tlrges all states, specialized agencies, competent organizations ofthe united Nations system and other internatiotr"i orginizationJ to extendtheir support to the Palestinian people through its sole and legitirnate
representative, the palestine Liberation organizat,ion, ln its siruggle toregain its right to self-determination and independence ln accordance with theCharter;

. 34' ElPresses its appreciation for the rnaterial and other forns ofassistance that peoples unaeiGotonTal rule continue to receive from
Governments' organizations of the united Nations systen and intergovernmental
organizations, and calls for a substantiaL increase tn this assistance,

35. 
.urges all states, speciarized agencies and other competentorganizations of the United Nations systern to do their utrpst io ensure thefull inplementation of the Declaration on the Granting of rndependen."-to 

-

Colonial Countries and Peoples and to intensify their efforts Lo supportpeoples under colonial, foreign and racist domination in their Just strugglefor self-determination and independence;
36' - ReguesFs the Secretary-General to give maxirnum publicity to theDecraration on the Granting of rndependence to coloniat ciuntries and peoples

and to give the widest Srossible publicity to the struggle of oppressed peoplesfor the achievement of their serf-determination ana niitonar inaepenaence inato report periodically to the General Assembry on his activities;
37. Decides to consider this item again at its forty-first session onthe basis 6FE[ireporrs that ;";r;;;;t;;-;;s;;izarions of rhe u;i;; ;"rion,

system and intergovernnental and non-governmental organizations have beenreguested to submit concerning the strengthening of assistance to colonialterritories and peoples.

18/ Resolution 2L7 A (III)


