








































UNITED
t{ATtoils

@) 
Generrl AreemblY Dlstr.

GENBRAI,

A/ 40 /89O
15 Noveober 1.98 5
ENGLISI'
ORIGINAIJ: SPANISII

Forlleth session
Agebda itel[ 75

REPORT OF TIIE SPECIAIJ @MI{ITTEE TCI INVESTIGATE ISRAELI
PRACTICES AFFECTING THE HUUAN RIGITTS OF TIIE POPUI,ATION

OA THts OCCUPIED TENRITORIES

Report of the Special PoIitical Conmittee

Rapporteur: Ur. Raimundo GONZALEZ (Chile)

I. INTRODUCTION
l. The item entilled "Report of the special commitEee to rnvesligate rsraeri
Practices Affecliog the llunan Rights of tbe population of tbe Occupied
Terrltories: reports of the secre ta ry-Gene rar r' {as included in the provislonal
agenda of the fortieth session of the ceneral Assembly in accordance rith Assenbly
resolution 39/95 D of 14 Decenber l9g4-

2. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 september 19g5, tbe ceneral Asseobly, on the
reconnendation of the General conmitlee, decided to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Special. political Conmittee.
3. The Special Political Committee considered th€ item at its l6th to ZAnd, 23rd
and 27th neetings, hel.d between 29 October and g November (see A,/SpCl 4O/SR.L6-ZZ.
23 and 27).

4. The Committee bad before it the foltoeing reports:
(a) Note by the Secreta ry-Ge ne ral transmitttng the report of the special

committee to rnvestigate rsraeli practices Aftecting lhe lfunan Rigbts of lhe
Populati.on of the Occupied Territories lA/40/7021 ,

(b) Report of ttte secretary-Gen€rar submitted in pursuance of resolution
39/e5 A (A/40/6861 ,

(c) aeporl ot the sec re ta ry-cene ral. submitted in puEsuance of resorutron
J9/95 D (A/ 40/ 5751 ,

85-3295L 4507P (E)



i/ 40/890
Engl lsh
Page 2

(.1)

39/95 E

(e)
39/95 F

(f)
39./95 c

submiltett in pursuance of resolutlon

submitted in pursuance of resolution

Eubnittecl in pursuance of resolution

(9) Report ot the Secretary-Gene ral submitted in purauance ot resolution
39/95 E (A/4O/583).

5. The Conni ttee also bad betore it ltdo letters dated 9 July (A/40,/420 and
S/L7332, and 29 July 1985 (A/40,/5f? and S,ul?371) respecrively, from the Fernanent
Represenlative ot Jordan to Ehe UniLed Nations addresaed to tbe Secretary-General.

5. At the 15th neeEing, on 29 October, the representali\re of Sri Lanka lntroduced
the report. of the SPecial Connittee to InveEtigate Israeli Practices Affecting the
Euoan nights of lhe Fopulation of the Occupied Territories lA/40/7O^1 .

II. CI}NSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

7. In the the course of its aleliberations, the Speclal Pollticat Comnitlee
consldered seven draft resolutions, as set forth bet-ot,.

A. Draft resolution A,/SPC./40,/IJ.8
8. At the 23rd neeting, on 5 Novenber, the representaEive of Ehe Sudan introduced
a draft resolution (A/SPC/40/L.8\, sponsored by Atqhanistsn, Alqeria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Cuba, Dernocratic Yenen, Diibouti, Eqyp!, India, Indonesia, Iraq,

Nicar
r the 9gg!!r EheTunisia, the Uniled Arab EmirateE and Yenen.

9. At the 27th deeting, on g Novehb€ r, tbe Connittee adopted draft resolution
A/SPC/4O/L.8 by a recorded vote of 77 to 2, {it.h 29 abstenlions (aee para. 24,
draft resolut.ion A). the eoting l|as as folloes, L/

!/ The representatives of Argentina, BoIiuia, Botseana, Ethtopi.a,
Guinea-Bigsau, Lebanon, Somalia and Venezuela indicated that, had their detegalions
b€en present, tbey @uld have voted in favour ot the draft resolution.
Subseguentlyf at the 30th neeling, on 13 November, the representatlve of Gtrana
indicated tbat. bad hls delegation b€en preaent at the voting, it could have voted
in favour of the dratt resolution.

Report of the Secretary-Gene ra I
lA/40/sAU ,

Report of the Secreta ry-Gene ral
1A/ 40/ 649 and Add. 1) t

Report ot the Secre ta ry-ceneral
(^/40/5421 ,



In tavour !

Aga ins t:

Absta 1n inq :

A/40/89O
tsngliBh
Page 3

Afghanlstan, Albania, Algeria, Bahrai'n' Bangladesh, Benln'
Bhulan, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina faaor
Burundi, Byelorugsian Soviet. Socialist RePubIic, CaPe l'er'le '
central African Republic. chad, china. congo, cuba, Cyprua,
Czecboslovakia, Democratic Yemen. Djiboutl, Ecuador ' EgyPt'
Equalorial Guinea' Gabon, Gernan Denocratic RePublic, Gulnea,
Guyana, tlungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Iglanic RePublic of) '
Irag, Jordan, Kenya, Nuuait, t€sotho, Libyan AEab Janahiriya,
lLadagascar' Malaysia, Maldivea' Mali, l'tauritania' Mexico'
Mongolia, ti{orocco, I'lozanbique, Nicaragua' Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Feru, Poland, Qatar, Romanla, R{anda, saudi Arabia'
Sri Lanka, Sudan, suriname, Syrlan Arab 8ePublic, To9o, Tunisia,
Turkey' Uganata, Ukrainian sovlet socialist RePublic, union of
soviet soclalist R€publics, United Alab Eni'raceE, United RePublic
of Tanzanla, viet Nan, Yenen, YugoBlavia, zanbia, zidbabre '

Israel, gnited Stales of, America'

Australia, Austria, Barbados' Belgiun, canada ' Dennark' 
Fiji'

Finland, France, Germany' Federal Bepublic of' Greece, Iceland,
treland, rtaly, Ivory coast (c6te drrvoire), Japan' t'lberla'
Luxenbourg, NePal' Netherlands, Nee Zealand, Norray ' Panama,
Portugal, spain' sitaziland, s{eden, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Norbhern Ireland' Zaire.

a. Draft resolut i9.n A/sPC/ o/L'g

10. At the 23rd meeting, on 5 November, the
a draft resolution 1A/SPC/4O/L.91 ' sPonsored

representalive of Pak is tan introduced
by Afqbanistan. Banglaalesh, Cuba.

India, Indones
Elg and
11. At the 27th neeling, on I
A/9PC/4o/L.9 aa follo0s:

(a) operative paraqraph
2 abalentiona' The votlng eas

t,*

November, the Conmittee voted on draft regolution

l eas adopted by a recorded vote of Il7 to l, eith
as f olloss: 2,/

* On bettalf of the Statea Menbere of lhe Uniteal Nalions !ha! are menbers of
the grouP of AEab States.

A subsequenlly ' at the 3oth neeting, 
on 13 November, the repreaentative of

Ghana indicated that, had hls deleqation been present at the vo!i'ng' it rould have
voted in favour of lhe oPeEative paragraph.



A/ 40/s90
Enql ish
Paqe 4

In favour:

!s.e.iE!.:

Absla i.ni nq :

Afghaniatan, Albania, Algeria, Arfenlina, Australia,
Auatria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Botseana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalao, Bul.garia,
Burkina 8a5o. Buroa, Burundi. Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic' Canada. Cape verde, Central African Republic,
Chaal, Chile, China, ColorBbia r Congor Cuba, Cyprus,
czechoalovakia. Denocratic yeoen, Dennark, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, Eguatorial culnea, Fijl, Flnland, France,
Gabon, German Democralic Republic, Gernany, Federal Republic
ot. Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, fndia,
Indoneaia, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland. Ila1y,
;Iapan, Jordan, Kenya, Kueait, Lebanon, I€aotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Janahiri.ya, Luxenbourg, !.{adagascar, titalaysia,
Itlaldives, Mal1, Uauritania, lilex ico, Mongolia, I'lorocco,
trlozaobique, Nepal, Netherlands, Nes Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeri.a, llorway. Onan. Pakistan, Panaloa, Peru,
Ptrilippines, poland, poriugal, Q€tar, Ronania, Reanda, saudi
Arabia, Singapore, Spaln, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sraziland, Sreden, Syrian Arab Repubtic, Thailand, To9o,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunlaia, Turkey, Irganata, Ukrainian
Soviet S€ialist Republic, Union of soviet Socialist
Republic8, Uniled Ar€b BDiraEea, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Norlhern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of Anerlca, Uruguay, rrenezuela, Viet Nan,
Yenen. Yugoslavia, Zaobia, z inbabse.

Israe l.

Ivory Coast (C6te d,Ivoire), Zatre,

(b) The dratt resolulion as a shole eaa adopted by a recorded vote of 1L4 !o
1, trith 5 €b€lentions (see para. 24. dratt reaolution B), The voting cae as
follou6:3,/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albaoia. Algeria. ArgenEina, Australia, Austria,
Eahrain. Bang!.adesh, Barbados, BeIgium, Benln, Bhutan, Bolseana.
Brazil, BruBei DarusEalan, Bulqaria, Burkina Faso, Burna,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape
verde, Cenlra!. African BepubLic, Chad, Cblle, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democralic yemen, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, 8gypt, Equatorial cuinea, Fiji, FinLand,

y T|ne representativea of Bolivia, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau and Sonalla
indicaled tbat, bad their deregations been present, they would have voted in favour
of the atraft reEoluti.on. Subsequently, at the 3oth meeting, on 13 November, the
tepresentallve of Ghana indicated that, had tlis delegation been presen! at tbe
votlng, it uould haue voted in favour of the draft reaolution.



A/ 40 / 590
Eng lish
PaEe 5

France' Gabon, German Denocratic Republic, Gerr0any, Federal
Republic of, Greece r Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, Indla,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy,
itapan, ;Iordan, Nenya. Xuwait, Lebanon, Legotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahirlya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, tlalaysia, Maldives, Mali,
tilauritania, !4exico, Mongolia, l.{orocco, Mozanbique, Nepal,
tletherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua. Niger, Noreay, Oman,
paklstan, panama, peru, philippines, poland, porEugal, eatar,
Romania, Roanda, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, surinarne, ssaziland, Sweden, syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trlnidad and Tobago, Tuntsia, Turkey, lrganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialis! Republic, Union of Soviet Sociatis!
RePublics, uniLed Arab Enirates, united Kinqdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, united nepublic of Tanzania. uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nan, temen, yugoslavia, Zanbia, Zimbabi.e.

Alainst: f6rael.

Abstaininq: Ivory coast (c6te d,Ivoire), Liberia, ualaei, United staEes of
N$e r ica. zaire.

C. Draf! resolut ion A,/SFC,/40IL.10

L2. At the 23rd meeting, on 5 November, the represenlative of paklstan introduced
a draft resolution (A/spC/4o/L.L0), sponsored by Affhanistan. Banqladesh, cuba,

it.* Nlca raqua, Pakislan
and Senegal.

13. At the 27rh
A/SPC/40/rr.t0 w
draft reeolut ion

In favour:

meetingl on 8 Novenber. the Comnittee adopled draft reaolution
a recorded vote of lI8 to 1, eith 2 abslentions (see para. 24,
C). The vottng oas as follo(.sr 3,/

Afghanistan, Albanir, Algeria, Argentlna, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, BarbadoE, BelEium, Benin, Bhutan, Botsrrana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso. Burna.
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Seialist Republic, Canada, Cape
veEde' Central Atrican Republic, Clrad, Chile, China, @lonbia.
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus. Czechoslovakia, Dersocratic venen. Dennark,
DJiboutl, Ecuador, EEypt, Equatorial cui.nea, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, Gernan Dernocratic Republic, Gernany, FederaL
Republic of, Greece, Gulnea, Guyana, Hungary, fc€land, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Iglamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy,
Ivory Coast (C6te drlvoire), Japan, .tordan, (enya, Ku{ai!,
Lebanon, Legotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Luxenbourg,
!{adagascar, Malaysia, Ualdives. Mali, !'tauri[ania, Mexico,
MongoLia, Morocco, tlozambique, Nepal, Netherlaods, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Noffay, Oman, Pakistan, Panana, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Irorluga1, Qatar, Rornania, Rranda, Saudi
Arabia, singapore, spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, suriname. SeaBiland.



A/40/89O
Eogl. ish
Page 5

Aqa j.nst:

seeden, syrian Arab Republic, fhailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago. Tunisia, Turkey, tjganda, Ukrainian soviet socialist
Republic' Union of soviet socialist Republics. United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britaid and Northern lreland,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay' venezuela, viet Nan. Yenen'
Yugoslavia. Za i re, Zanbia, Zinbabere.

Israel.

Abstaining: Itlalarri, United States ot Aoerica.

D. Draf t resolution A,/SPC,/40,/L' Il

14, At the 23rd meeting, on 5 Novenb€r. the representative of Bangladesh
inlroduced a draft resoluEion (A/9PC/4O/L.LL), sponeored by Afghanistan'
Banqladesh, Cuba, Egypt, India, Indonesia, Ku{ait,* Madagascar, Malayaia, Mall,
Nicaraqua, Pakistan, Qatar and Senegal.

15. on 5 Novenbe r, tfle secre ta ry-ci€ne ral, in accordance i{ith rul-e I53 of the rules
of procedure of the General Assenbly, subnitted a sEatelEnt |A/SPC/4O/L.L5) on the
Progralmre budget inplications of Ehe draft resolution.

16. Al lbe 27fh meeling. on I tlovember 
' 

the comnittee voted on draft resolution
A/SPC/40/L.lL as tollords:

(a) operative paragraph 6 i,{as adopted by a recorded vote of ?9 to 18, eith 23
abstentions. The vctinq was as follonss 2/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangl.adesh. Benin,
Bhutan' Botseana. Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria' Burkina Faso'
Burundi, gyelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cape Verde,
central African Republic, Chad, china, congo, cuba, CyPrus,
Czechosl-ovak i,a , Denocrat.ic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Gabon, @rnan D€mocratic Republic, Guinea, Guyana, tlungary'
Indi.a, Indonesia. Iran (Islamic Repubtic of), fraq, Jordan'
Kenya, Kueait. Lebanon. Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jarahiriya,
MadaEascar, Malaysia, Ualdives, Mali, Mauritania, !.{exicol
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, NiEer, Nigeria,
Onan, Pakistan, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Romania. Reanda. Saudi
Arabia, singapore, sri Lanka, sudan. syrian Arab Republic.
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey. Irganda, Ukrainian
sovie! Socj.alist Republic, Union ot Soviet socialist RePublics,
United Arab Emi.rates, United Republic ot Tanzania. viet Nan,
Yenen' Yugoslavla, zambia, zimbabee.

Australia' BeIgiun, canada, Denmark' Finland, France, Gernany,
Federal Republi.c ot, IceLand, Ireland, Israel' ftaly, Japan,
Luxembourg, Nelberlands, NelJ Zealand, Nor{ay. United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Norlhern freland, United States of America'

A9a inst !



A/q0/89O
Eng I ish
Paqe 7

Abstaininq: Argentina, Austria, Barbado8, Brazil, Burma, Chile, Colombia,
Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Greece, Ivory CoasE (C6te drlvoire),
Liberia, !.{alasi, Panana, Ptrilippines, For!u9a1, Spain, Suriname'
Swaziland, Seeden, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zaire.

(b) Operalive paragraph 21 sas adopted by a recorded vote of I1? to l, etth
abstentions. The voting eas as folLorrsr 2/

In favour: Atghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, AusEria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgiun, Benin, Bhutan, Botssana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna.
Burundi, Byelorusgian Soviet SociaList RepubLic, Canada, Cape
verde, central African Republic, chad, chlle, chlna' coloobia,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus. Czecboslovakia, Denocratic yemen, Dennark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, B?uatorial cuinea, FiJi, Finland,
France, Gabon, Gernan Denocratic Repub1ic, Germany, Federal
Republic of, creece, Guinea, cuyana, tlungary, Iceland, Indla'
rndonesia, rran (rslamlc Republic of), rraq, rreranal, rtaly,
JaPan, Jordan, Kenya, Ku{ait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Llberia' Libyan
Arab ilanahiriya, Luxembourg, ltadagascar, Ualaol, !,talaygia,
Ualdives, l.{ati, Mauritania. uerico, litongolia, l,lorocco,
Mozanbique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeri.a, lilor$ay, onan, Pakistan, Panana, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, gortugal, Qatar, Ronania, Rsanda, Saudi Arabia.
singapore, spaln, sri Lanka, sudan, surinane, ssaziland' s{eden,
Syrian Arab RepubLic, Thatland, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, IEanda, ukrainian soviet socialist Republic'
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern lreland, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nan, yeoen, yugostavia,
zanbia, zirnbabse.

Israel.ggginE!:

Abstaining: Ivory Coas! (C6te drlvoire), United States of Anerica, Zaire.

(c) The draft resolution as a whole t,as adopEed by a recorded vote of 90
to 3, nith 27 abslentions (see para. 24, dratt resolution D), The voting l.as as
tollous:3/

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argenti.na. Bahraln, Bangladesh,
Benin. Bhutan, Botswana, Bra?il, Brunel Darussalam, Bulgaria'
Burkina Faso, Burna. Burundi, Byel-orussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cape verde, Central African Republic, Chad, China,
Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czecboslovakia, DemGratic yenen.
DJiboufi, Ecuador, Egypt, Gabon, German D€mocratic nepublic,
creece, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, rndia, rndonesia, rran (rslanic
Republic of) ' Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuoai!, Lebanon, I€sotho'Libyan Arab Janahiriya, l,ladagascar, Malaysia, Maldj.ves, !.{ali,
l.!auritania, tlexico, l.iorocco, litozanbique, Nepa1, Nicaragua, Ni9er,

In tavour:



A/40/89o
Engl lsh
Page 8

Nigeria, oman, Pakistan' Panana. Peru. Philippine6, Foland,
Qatar, Romania, Rsanda, saudi Arabia, singapore, spain'
Sri Lanka, sudan, surinane, syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, togo'
Tri.niataat and Tobago, Tunisia' Tlrrkey ' Uganda' ukrainian 

sovieE
Socialist Republic, unton of soviet Socialist Republics' United
Arab Enirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay' Itenezuela'
viet Nan, Yenen, Yugoslavia, zanbla, zinbabee.

Agalnst: Israel, Mongolia, !,/ Unlted states of America'

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Barbados ' Belgiul0, 
canada, Dennark,

Equatorial Guinea' FiJi' Finland, France, Gernany ' rederalRepublic ot, Iceland, rreland, Italy. Ivory coast (c6te
drlvoire), Japan, Liberia, tuxenbourg ' ualael' 

*"f,b"tl"ttd"' N"*
zealand, Norsay' Port.ugal, Ssaziland, sweden, Unlted xingdoo ot
Great Britain and Northern lreland, zaire'

E. Dratt re€olution A/sPCl4olL. 12lRev. I

L7. At the 23rd oeeting, on 5 tlovenber, the rePreaentatlve of Bangladesh
introduced a draft resolution lA/9rc/4o/L.L2), sponsored by

h, Cuba India it* Mal i
Nlcaragua. Pakist€n, QaLar and seneqal, and then inlroduced
on bebalf o! the sponsots lA/5E4./4o/L.12,/nev.1).

revisions to the text

18. At the 27th meeting' on 8 Noveober, the Committee voted on dratt reGolutlon
A/SPC/ 40/L.L2,/Rev.1 as follons:

(a) operative paragraph ! eas adopted by a recorded vote of 98 to 2, uith 22
abgtentionE. Tbe votinE l|aa aa folloeE: 2,/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Bsrbadoa, B€nin, Bhutan, Botssana, Brazil, Brunet
Daruasalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundi, Byeloruaaian
Soviet Socialist Repub1ic, Cape tbrde, Central Afrlcan RePublic'
Chad. chile, china, cotonbia. Congo, cuba, CyPrus'
czechoslovakia, Democratic Yerrn, Dj ibouti, Ecuador' Egypt'
Eguatoriar Guinea, Finland, Gabon, Gernan DemocraEic Repubric'
Greece' Gulnea, Guyana, Hunqary, India. Indonesla, Iran (Islanlc
RePublic of). Iraq, Jordan. Renya, Kusait, Lebanon' IJesotho,
Libyan Arab Ja[ahiriya' tladagaacar. Malaysia' ualdives'- Mali,
Uauritania, Itlexico, l,lonEolia, uorocco' Mozatubique, NePal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Pana[a ' Peru,PbiliPpines, Poland, Portuqal. Qatar, Ronania, R$anda ' saudi
Arabia, Singapore, Solonon Islands' Spain. Sri Lanka, Sudan,

!/ subsequently, the rePresentative ot Mongolia indicated that her
delegation had intended to vo[e in favour of the draft reaotution'



ae.e.l!!.g:

A/ 40/89O
Eng L ish
Page 9

sceden, syrian Arab RePublic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobaqo, Tunisia, Turkey, Ibaoala, Ukraioian Soviet Soclalist
Republic, Union of soviet soclalist RePublics, united Arab
EmiraEes, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
vie! Nan, Ienen, tugoslavia' zanbia, zinbabJe'

Israel, United states ot Anerica.

&g!gb1!9: Australla, Belgium, Canada, Denmark ' Fiji' 
France, Cjern:rny'

Federal Republic of' Icelanal, Ireland, Italy, Ivory CoaEE (C6te
drlvoire), JaPan, Liberia, Luxembourg. Malaei, Netherlands'
Ner Zealand' Norrray, Surlnane' Suaziland, United Kingdorn of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland' Zaire'

(b) The draft resoLution as a ehole rraa adoPted by a recorded vote of 106 to
l, sith 14 abstentions (see para. 24' resolution Br. The votinE eas as folloss! 3/

Elry: Afqttanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia' Austria'
Bahrain, Banqladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Botasana' Brazt!''
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Fa3o, Burna, Burundi''
Byelorussian Soviet socialist RePublic, cape verde' CentraL
Af rl'can BePublic. Chad, Chile, China. Colombia ' Congo, Cuba,
cyprua' Czechoslovakia, Democralic Yemen, Djibouti' Ecuador'
EqyPt' Eguatorial Guinea, Fiji' Finland, France, Gabon' German
Democratic RePublic, Greece' Guinea, Guyana, Hunqary' Iceland'
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Italy, irapan, Jordan, Kenya, Ku$ai!, Lebanon, Lesotho ' Libyan
Arab Janahiriya' uadagascar, Malaysia, ualdivesr Ma1i,
Mauritania, Mexico, ltongol'ia' !'lorocco, Mozanbigue. Nepal'
Net, zealand. Nicaraqua. Niger, Nigeria, ornan' Pakistan, Panana.
t'eru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Ronania, R{anda '
saudi Arabia, sinqapote, spain, sri Lanka, sudan' Surioame,
S{eden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand. Togo, Trlnidad an'l
?obago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian soviet socialist
Repubtic, Union of soviet socia!'ist Republtcs' United Arab
Emirates, United RePublic ot Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela,
Viet Nan, Yenen, Yugoslavia, zanbia, Zinbabue'

!!.gE!: Israel.

AbstaininE: Belgiun, canada, Dennark, Germany' Federal Republic of, Ivoly
Coast (C6te drlvoire), Liberia, Luxembourg, Ftalaei ' Netherlands,
Nor$ay ' Sraziland' 

tjnited Kingdom of Greal Britain and Norlhern
Ireland, United States of Nnerica, Zaire'



A/40/ geo
tsng I ish
Page 10

F. Draft resolutioo A,/SpCl4o/L.13

19. A! the 23rd meelinq, on 5 lbveobet, the representative of Banglade€h
introduced a draf! reaolution lA/9rc/$/L,L3) sponsored by Afghanistan, Banqtaatesh,
Cuba, Egvpt' India, Indoneaia, Xuirait,r Uadaqa
Pakistan, Qatar and Seneqal.

20, At the 2?th meeting, on I Noeenb€r, ttle ConmitEee adopted dratt resolution
A/SPC/4O/L.L3 by a recorded vote of lI4 to 1, {ith 6 abatenliona (aee para. 24,
draf! resolutloh F). The votlng oaa aa tolloess 3/

In f avour ! Atghanigtan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, BangLadesh. Ba rbados, Belgiun. Benin, Bttutan, Bolst|ana,
Brazll, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Cape
lrerde ' Oentral African Republlc, Chad, Chile, China, colombia'Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Caechoslovakia, Denocratic Yenen, Denmark,
DJibouli, Ecuador, Eqypt, Equatorial cuinea, Fiji, Finland,
France, Galron, Gernan Denocrati.c Republic, cermany, Federal
RePublic ot, Greece, Guinea, cuyana, Hungary, Iceland, fndia,
Indonesia, Iran (Iel.aDic Republic of!, Iraq, Ireland, Italy,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kueai!, L€banon, I€sotho, Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, Luxenbourg, lladagascar, lialaysia, ualdives, i,tali,
!,lauritania, Uexico, Mongolia, ttorocco, Uozambique, Nepal,
Neth€rlanda, Neu zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Onan' Pakiatan, Panana, peru, philippines, poland, portugal,
Qatar, Ronanla, Reanda, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, SurlnaBe, Seeden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,

Ukrainian Soviet Socialiat Republic, Union ot Soviet Socialist
Republ.ics, Uniteal Arab E&irales, United Kingdon of creat Britain
and Norlhern lreland, Uniled Republic of Tanzania, uruguay,
venezuela, viet Nan, yenen, yugoalavia, zambia? zinbabse.

fsrael.@3.:
Abstaining! Ivory Coast (C6te drlvoire), tiberia. Malaei, Swazilanal, United

States of Annerica, Zaire,

G. Draf t resolution A/SPC/40/L.I4

21. AC lhe 23rd meeting, on 5 Sbvenber, the
introduced a draf! reaotution (A/SPC/40/L.L4)

representalive
, sponaored by

of Bang ladesh
Afghanistan,

it.* gia, Mal i
raqua senegaI.

22. Al lhe 27th neetinE, on I Novenber, the Connlttee voted on draft resolution
A/SPC/4O/L.I4 as f ollorrs:



A/40/sgo
Eng l istl
Page ll

(a) Operative para3raph 2 t,as adopted by a recorded vote of 84 to 2'
sith 34 abgtentions. Bhe voting was as tolloes: A,/

In tavour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, ArgenEina, Bahrain'
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botsnana, Brazi}, Brunei
Darussalan, Bulgaria. Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian
soviet socialist Republi.c, Cape verde, Central African
Republic, Chad, China, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czecboslovakia,
Democratic yemen, DJibouti, Ecuador, Egyp!, cabon, cernan
Denocratic Republtc, Gulnea, Guyana. ttungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (fslanic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, (enya,
I(usait, I€banon, Le6otho, Libyan Arab Janahiriya,
Madagascar, MaLaysia, Maldives, !l,ali, t{auritania, Mexico,
tt{ongolia, Ii,lorocco, Mozambique, Nepal. Ni.caragua, Nigerr
Nigeria, Onan. Pakistan, peru, poland, eatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia. Singapore, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrlan
Arab Eepublic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrai.nian soviet Socialist Republic. Union
of Soviet Socialist nepublics, United Arab Emirates, Uniled
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay. ltenezuela, Viet Nan, YerDen,
Yugoalavia, Zanbia, Zinbabee.

Against: Israel, Uniled States of America,

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Ba rbados, Belgiun, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, Dennark, Equatorial cuinea, Fiji, Finland, France'
Gernanyf Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Ivory Coast (C6le drlvoire), Japan, Li.beria,
Luxenbourg. Malasi, Net.herlands, Nes Zealand, Nor{ay,
Panana, Philippines, Portugal, spain, Surinar0er seaziland,
SwedeD, United Kingdom of Creat Britain and Northern
Ireland, Za i re.

(b) The draft resolution as a wbole uas adopted by a recorded vote ot 92 to
2, rjith 26 abstentions (see para. 24, dratE resolution c). The voting uas as
follors: 3/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh' Benln, Bhutan. Elolswana, Brazil. Brunei Darussalan,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet Socialist
Republlc, Cape \terde. CenEraI Atrican Republic, Cbad. China'
colonbia, congo, cuba, cyprus, czechoslovakia, Dertrocratic yemen,
Djlbouti' Ecuador. EgyPt, Equatorial' Guinea' Gabon, German
Denocratic Republic, Greece, cuinea, cuyana, Hungary, India.
Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq, .tordan. KenPa'
Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,

L Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, :Mauritania, Mexico, Mongo1ia, !!,orocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger. Nigeria, Onan, pakistan,
Peru' Phil.ippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia'
Singapore, Spain, Sri lJanka. Sudan. Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,

a



A/40/S9O
English
Page 12

Uganda, Ukrainian So\riet SocialisC Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, Unlted Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Narn, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
zanbia, z inbabrre,

!g:!E!.! f srael, Uni ted States of Aner ica .

Abstainlng: Australia, Barbados, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Derunark, Fiji.
Finland, France, cernany, Federal Republlc of, Iceland, Ireland,
Italy, Ivory coast (CAte d'Ivolse), Japan, Llberiar Lut(embourg,
ualawl, Netherlands, New zealand, Nofleay, Panama, Portugalt
Swazlland, United Klngdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Zaire.

23. statenents in explanation of tote fotlorrlng the vote were nade by the
representatlves of Greece, Austria, united States of America, canada, Swedent
Llbyan Arab Janahiriya, Argentina, Mexico, Lebanon, Iran, fslanic Republic of,
Spain, Venezuela, cuinea-Bissau, Bolivia, Botsvrana, Slomalia and Ethiopia.

III. RECOUMENDATIONS OF TITE SPECIAI. POLITICAL COMMITTEE

24. The Special Political Conrnibtee recom0ends to the General Assenbly the
adoption of the folloelng resolutiona r

t of the ttee

Che Occupied Terrltorles

The GeneraL Assenbly,

Recalling its resolutions 38/79 A of 15 Decenber 1983 and 39/95 A ot
14 Decernber 1984,

Taking nobe of Che report of the International Conmittee of the Red Cross
of 13 Decenber L983, l/

Taking note of the reporC of the Secretary-General. of
30 september L9A5. 9/

see A/38/735.

Al{0/686.

v
v



L/40/890
English
Page 13

?aking note also of the report of the Special Comnittee to fnvestigate
fsraell Practices Affecting the lfuman Rights of the population of the Occupied
Territories, /

1. Calls upon Israel to release all Arabs arbitrarily detained ancl/or
itnprisoned a6 a result of their st.ruggle for self-deterninatlon and for the
llberat{on of their territor ies I

2. Note€ the initial release of z iyad Abu Eain, anong others, from
prison on 20 May 1985t

3. Deplores the Israeli subsequent arbitrary detention of
Ziyad Abu Eain and otherst

4. Detnanda that the covernment of Israel, Che occupying por,rer, rescind
lts action against Ziyad Abu Eain and oehers and release then innediaEety,

5. Requests the secretary-General to report to the General Assembly as
soon as Possible and noi laeer Chan the beginning of its forty-fitst session
on the inplenentation of the present resolution.

The General Asgernbly,

Recalling security Counci.l resolution 465 (1980) of I March 1980, ln
whlch, inter alla, the Council affirned that the Geneva Convention relative to
the Protection of Civilian persons in Tine of t{ar, of 12 August 1949, 9rl is
aPPlicable to the Arab territories occupied by fsrael slnce 1967, lncludlng
Jerusaleru,

Recalllng also its resolutions 3092 A (XXVIII) of 7 Decenber 1973,
3240 B (xxlx) of 29 Novenbe t 1974. 3525 B (xxx) of 15 Decembe r 1975, 3L/I06 B
of 16 Decemb€r 1976, 32/9L A of 13 Deceflbe r L977t 33,/Il3 A of 18 Decenber
L978, 34/90 B of 12 Decenber L9?9. 35/L22 A of 11 Decenber 1980, 361147 A of
16 December I98L, 37/88 A of IO Decenber L982. 3A/79 B of 15 Decenber 1983 and
39/95 B of 1{ December 1984,

Considering that the pronotion of respect for the obligations arising
fron the Charter of the Unlted Nations and other instrunents and rulea of
international lar is anong the baslc purposes and principLes of the Unlted
Natlons,

Bearlng in rnind the provisions of the ceneva Convention,

^/40/7 
02.

United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, No. 973, p. 287.

v
v



. A/40/890
English
Page 14

Noting that Israel and the Arab States r.rhose territorles have been
occupied by Israel since June 1967 are Parties to that Conventlon,

Taking into account that states parties to che Convention undertake, in
accordance with article 1 thereof, not only to respecl but also to ensure
respect for the Convention ln all circurnstances,

1. Reaffiruts Lhat the Geneva Convention relaEive to the Protection of
civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, is aPPlicable to the
Palestini;in and other Arab territories @cuPied by Israel since 196?'
including Jerusalernt

2. Condenns onc€ again the failure of Israel, the occuPing Poner. to
acknolrledge the applicability of that Conventlon to the eerritories iE has
occupied since 1967r including Jerusalent

3. strongty demands that Israel acknoltledge and comply rdith the
provisions of that convention in the Palesllnlan and other Arab territories it
has occupied since 1957, including Jerusalent

4. grgently calls upon all States Part.ies to that Convention to exert
all efforts in order to ensure respect for and comPliance with its provisions
in the Palestinian and other fu:ab territories occuPied by Israel since l-957'
including Jerusalemt

5, Requesls the Secretary-Gene rat to report to the GeneraL Assernbly at
its forty-first session on the irnpLenentation of the present resolution.

c

The General AssernblY,

Recalling security council resolution 465 (1980) of I March 1980,

Recalling also its resolutions 32/5 of 28 october L977, 33/LI3 B of
18 Decenber L9'15, 34/90 c of t2 December L979' 35/L22 B of tl December 1980,
36/L47 B of 16 Decenber 1981' 37/88 B of 10 Decenbe r 1982, 38/79 e of
15 Decenber 1983 and 39/95 C of 14 Decenber 1984,

Expressing grave anxiety and concern at the presenc serious situation in
the occupied Palestinian and other Arab territories' includ ing .ferusalem' as a
result of the continued Israeli occupation and the measures and actions taken
by Israel, the occupying Power, designed to change the legal status'
geographical nature and demograPhic conposition of those Eerritories,

Confirrning that the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of
Civilian Persons in Time of war' of 12 August L949' 9J/ is apPlicable to all
Arab territories occupied since June 1967' including Jerusalern,



^/ 
40 /890

Engtish
Page 15

1. DeEernines that all such measures and actions taken by Iarael in ttte
Patestinlan and other Arab territoriee occupied since l-957' including
Jerusalem, are in vlolation of the relevant provlsions of the Geneva
Convention relative to the Protectlon of Civil-ian Persons in Time of war, of
12 August 1949, and constitute a serious obstacle to the efforts to achieve a
conprehensive, just and lasting peace in the Mlddle East and therefore have no
legal valid i tyt

2. strongly deplores the persistence of Israel in carrying out such
neasures, in particutar the establlshnent of settlenents in tbe Palestinian
and other occupied Arab territories, including Jerusalent

3. Denands that Israel conPly strictly with its international
of internationaL law and theobligations in accordance with Ehe principles

provisions of the Geneva conventiont

4. Denands once more that fsrael' the occupying Power, desist forthwith
fron taking any action which trould result in changing the legal status,
geographical nature or demographic composi tion of the Palestinlan and other
Arab territories occupied since 1967, including Jerusalent

5. urgently calls upon all stsates parties to the Geneva Convention to
respecE and to exert all efforts in order to ensure respect for and cotnpliance
with its provisions in all Arab territories occuPied by Israel since 1967'
including Jerusalent

6. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assenbly at
its forty-first session on the lmplenentation of the present resolulion.

The General Assenbly,

Guided by the purposes and principtes of the charter of che United
Nations and by lhe Pr inciples and provisions of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights, 9/

Bearing in nind the provisions of the Geneva convention relative to the
Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949, 9-/ as well
as of other relevant convent ions and regulations,

Recalling all its resolutions on the subject, in parlicular, resolutions
32/9L B and c of 13 December 1977. 33/Ll3 c of 18 December 1978, 34,290 A of
12 Decenber 1979, 35/L22 c of 1l Decernber L980 | 36/L47 c of 16 December 1981'
37/88 c of I0 Decembe t L982, 38/79 D of 15 Decenber 1983 and 39/95 D of
14 December 1984,

2/ Resolution 217 A (III),



A/ 40/89O
Engl ish
Page 16

Recalting also the relevant resoluEions adopted by the Security Council,
by lhe Coflnission on Human Rights, in particular its resolutions 1983,/1 of
15 February L983, L984/L of 20 February 1984, I995,/I A and B of
19 February 1985, and L9g5/2 of 19 February l9g5r and by other united Nations
organs concerned and by sp€cialized agencies,

Having considered the report of the Special Connittee to Investigate
Israeli Practices Affectlng the lluman Rights of the population of the Occupied
Territories, dated 4 October I985r which contains, jigggjl!:!1,
se lf-incr iminat ing public staEenents rnade by officials of Israel, the
occuPying Power,

Taking note of the letter dated 29 July l9g5 frorn the permanent
Representative of ,fordan addressed to the Secretary-ceneral, 1,1!,/ concerningthe closing dorin of the Ronan Cathollc Uedical Facility Hospice in Jerusalen,

1. Conunends the Special Conunlttee to Investigate fsraeli pracEices
Affecting the llunan Rights of Ehe popul,ation of the Occupied Territories for
its efforts in performing the tasks assigned to it by the ceneral Assenbly and
for its lhoroughness and impartiallty,

2. Deplores the continued refusal by Israel to allov, the Special
Committee access to the occupied lerritoriest

3. Denands that Israel allow the Special Corunittee access to the
occupied terr itor iest

4. Reaffirns the fact that occupation itself constitutes a grave
violation of the hunan rights of the civilian popuLation of the occupied Arab
terr itor ies,

5. Condenns the continued and p€rsistent violation by Israel of the
Geneva Convention rel-ative to the protect.ion of Civilian persons in Tlne of
War, of 12 August 1949, and other applicable international instrunents, and
condemns in particular those violatlons which the Convention desiqnates as
"grave breaches" thereof ,

6. Declqres once more that fsraelrs grave breaches of Cha! Convention
are war crliEl-iiE--Ii--I??ront to hunanity,

7. Reaffirrns, in accordance h'ith the Convent ion, that the Israell
nilitary occupation of the palestinian and other Arab territories is of a
t.emporary nature, thus giving no right whatsoever to t.he occupying power over
the territorial integrity of the occupied territoriest

8. Strongly condemns the follolring Israeli policies and practices:

L0/ 
^/40/5I7-s/r737L.



A/40/89o
Engl i sh
Page l7

(a) Annexalion of parts of the occupied territories, including .terusalen,

(b) Inposition of Israeli laws, jurisdiction and adninistratioh on the
syrian Golan Heights, which has resulted ln the effective annexation of the
Syrian Golan Heights t

(c) I11e9at inposition of levy of heavy and d isproport ionate taxes and
dues t

(d) Establishnent of new Israeli settletnents and exPansion of the
existing settlenents on private and Public Arab lands, and transfer of an
alien populat ion ther etot

(e) Eviction, deportatlon, exPulsion, displacement and transfer of Arab
inhabitants of the occuPled territories and denial of their right to returnt

(f) conflscation and expropriation of private and public Arab Property
in the occupied territories and all other transactions for the acquisition of
land involving the Israeli authorities' lnstitutions or nationals on the one
hand and the inhabitants or institutions of the occuPied territorles on the
other,

(9) Excavation and transformation of the landscaPe and the historical,
cultural and rel-igious sites, especially at .terusalent

(h) Piuaginq of archaeologlcal and cultural propertyt

(i) Destruction and denolition of Arab housest

(j) collective punishment' mass arrests, adtninistrative detention and
ill-treatment of the Arab populationt

(k) Ill-treatnent and torture of Persons under detentiont

(1) rnlerference with religlous freedoms and practices as well as fanily
r ights and customs,

(n) Interference vrith the
economic and health developlent
and other Arab ter r itor les t

(n) Interference nith the freedom of movement of indivi.duals within the
occupled Palestinian and other Arab territoriest

(o) Iltegal exploitation of lhe natural wealth' resources and population
of the occupied territories,

9, Condemns also the fsraeli repression against and closing of the
educational institutions in the accupied Syrian Golan Eeights' Particularly
the prohibition of Syrian textbooks, Syrian educational systen' the
deprivation of syrian students fron pursuing lheir higher education in syrian

system of education anal with the social and
of the population in the occuPied Palestinian



A/40/89O
English
Page 18

universities, the denla1 of the right to return to Syrian students receiving
their higher education in Syria, forcing Hebrew on Syrian students, the
imPosition of courses that pronote hatred, prejudice and religious intolerance
and the dismissal of teachers, all in clear vlol-ation of the ceneva Conventiont

I0. strongly condenns the arning of Israell settlers ln the occupied
territories to connit acts of violence against Arab civilians and the
perPetration of acCs of violence by these arned settlers against individuals,
causing injury and dealh and wide-scale damage to Arab propertyt

ll. Reaffirns that all neasures taken by Israel to change the physlcal
character, demographic cotrux)sition, lnstltutional structure or legal status of
the occupied terrilories, or any part thereof, including Jerusalen, are nuII
and void, and that fsrael's policy of settling parts of its population and new
inrnigrants in the occupied terrltories constitutes a flagrant violation of the
Ceneva Convention and of the relevant resolutions of the United Nationst

12. Denands that Israel desist. forthirith fron the policies and practices
referred t-fffiragraphs 8, 9 and Io abovet

13. Calls upon Israel, the occupyihg power, to take innediate steps for
the return of atl displaced Arab and Palestinian inhabltants to their homes or
forner places of residence in the territories occupied by fsrael since 1967,
in inPlenentation of Security Council resolution 237 (L967) of 14 June 1957t

14. Urges the international organizations and the specialized agencies,
in particular the International fabour organieatlon, to examine the conditions
of Arab workers in the occupied palestinian and other Arab territories,
including Jerusalenl

15. Reiterates its call upon all States, in particular those States
parties to the ceneva Convention, in accordance with article I of that
convention, and upon international organizatione and the specialized agencies
not to recognize any changes carried out by Israel in the occupied territories
and to avoid actions, including those in the field of aid. nhich might be uaed
by fsrael in ies pursuit of the [bllcles of annexation and colonizatlon or anyof the other policies and practices referred to in the present resolutiont

16. Requests the Special Connittee, pending early ternination of fsraeli
occupation, to continue to investigate Israeli policies and practices in the
Arab territories occupied by Israel since 1.967, to consult, as appropriate,
ttith the International Conrnittee of the Red Cross in order to ensure the
safeguarding of the welfare and human rights of the population of the occupied
territories and to report to the Secretary-General as soon as possible and
whenever the need arises thereaftert

17. Requests th€ Special Cornmittee to eontinue to investigate the
treatnent of civilians in detention in Ehe Arab territories occupied by Israel
since 1962 r



A/40/890
English
Paqe 19

I8, Condenns Israelrs refusal to pernlt persons from the occupied
terr itor iel-T6-E!ftar as wicnesses befoie the bpecial connittee and to
ParticiPate ln conferences and meetings held outslde the occupied territoriest

19. Requests the Secretary-General t
(a) To provide aII necessary facilities to the speciat conunlttee,

including those required for its visits to the occupied territories, rith a
view to investigating the Israeli policies and practices referred to in the
present resolut ion t

(b) To continue to rnake available additional staff as may be necessary
to assist the Special Cofltnittee in the perfornance of its taskst

(c) To ensure the widest circulatlon of the reporEs of the special
Conmittee and of infornation regarding its activities and findings, by all
means available through lhe Departrnent of public fnformation of the
secretariat and, where necessary, to reprint those reports of Lhe Special
Comrittee that are no longer availablel

(d) To report to the General Assernbly at its forty-first session on the
tasks entrusted to hin in the present paragrapht

20. Requegts the Security Council to ensure fsraells respect for and
conPliance with a1l the provisions of the ceneva Convention relative to the
Protection of Civitian persons in Tine of l{ar, of 12 August 1949, in the
Palestinian and oCher Arab territories occupled since 1967, including
ilerusalen, and to lnitiate rneasures to haLt fsraeli policies and practlces in
those ter r i tor ies t

2I. Cal.Ls upon fsraeL, the occupying poner, to allor{ the reopening of
the Ronan Cathollc Medical FaciLity Hospice in Jerusalem in order to continue
to provide needed health and nedical services to the Arab population in the
cityt

22. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of lts forty-firs!
session the j.ten entitled trReport of the Special Connitlee !o Investigate
Israeli Practices Affecting the ltunan Rights of Che population of the Occupied
Terr itor ies'r .

F

The: General Assenbly,

Recalling Security Council resolueions 468 (f9go) of I May 1990,
459 (1980) of 20 May 1980 and 484 (f980) of 19 Decenber 1980,

Recalling also its resolutions 36/L4j D of 16 Decenber LgBLr 37/Bg D of
I0 Decenb€r L982,38/79 E of 15 December I9g3 and 39/95 E of 14 Dec€mber 1984,



A/40/890
English
Page 20

Taking note of the report of the secretary-General of 14 August 1985, ILl

Deeply concerned at the expulsion by che Israeli nilitary occuPation
authorlties of the Mayor of Ealhul, the Mayor of Hebron who has since died'
the sharia iludge of Eebron and other Palestinians durlng 1985r

Alarned by the decision of the Israeti mllltary occupati.on authorities on
26 October 1985 to expel four Palestinian leaders,

Recalling the ceneva convention relatlve to the Protectlon of Clvilian
Persons in Tine of war, of 12 August L949,9_/ ln parlicular article l and the
first paragraph of article 49, whlch read as followst

"Article I

'The High Contractlng Parties undertake to respect and to ensure
respect for the present Convention in all circumstances.'

"Article 49

'rndividual or nass forcibte transfers, as well as deportations of
Protected Erersons from occupied terrltory to the Eerritory of the
occupying Poner or to that of any other country, occuPied or not, are
prohibitedr regardless of their notive ...,,,

Reaffirnlng the aPpLicability of the Geneva convention to the Paleatlnian
and other Arab territorles occupied by Israel since 1967r lnclutling Jerusalen,

l. Strongly condernns Israelr the occupying Power, for ita Per6l€tent
refusal to conpty with the relevant Security Council and General A6senbly
resolutions t

2. Demands tbat the Governnent of Israel, the occupying Power, reaclnd
the illegal neasures tak€n by the IEraeli nilitary occupatlon authorities in
exPelling the Uayor of tlalhul, the Sharia Judge of Eebron and other
Palestinlans expe!-led during 1985, and that it factlitate the iwnediate return
of the expelled Palestinlans so that they can, inter alia, resune the
functions for lrh lch they eere elected and appolntedl

3. Calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, to rescind its illegal
decision taken on 25 October 1985 and refraln from deporcing the four
Palestinian leaders t

4. Further calls upon Israel, the occupying Power, co cease forthwith
the expulslon of PaleBttnians and to abide scrupulously by the provisions of

&/ v40/54r.



A/40/890
English
Page 21

the G€neva convention rerative to the protection of crvirian persons in Ti$eof War, of 12 August. 1949,

5. Regggsts the Secretary-ceneral to report to the ceneral Assenbly as
soon as posslble and not later than the beginning of lts forty_first seEsionon the inplementatlon of the present resolution.

F

The ceneral Assenbly,

_ Deeply concerned that the Arab territories occupied slnce 1967 have beenunder continued lEraeli nilitary occupation,
Recalling security Council reEolution 492 (tg8l) of l? December lgglr

_ _ . Recalling also itE resolutlon} 36/226 B of 17 Decenber l98l, Es-g,/l of5 February L982, 37/88 E of IO Decenber Igg2. 3g/7g F of 15 D€cenber l9e3 anat39/95 P of l4 Decenber 1984,

-- _ 
lqvir-rg conBidereq the report of the secretary-ceneraL ofI8 Sepbember 1985, L2/

- - Eecalling ie" lre.ri*" resotutions, tn particular resolutions 3414 (xxx)of .5 Decemb€r 1975,3L/GL of 9 December 1976,3Z/ZO of 25 Novenbe r ]:977 r33/28 and 33/29 of 7 Decenber Lg7g, 34/70 of 6 December 1979 and 3S/LZ2 E ofIl Decenber 1980, ln which it, inter alia, callett upon Israel to put an end toits occupation of che Arab terrGFies and to withdraw from alr those
terr itor ies,

Reaffirming once more th€ ilLegality of Israel,s decision of
14 Decenber 1981 to impose its laws, Jurisdiction and administration in the
Syrian Golan Beights, whlch has resulted in the effective annexation of thaeterr itory,

- 
Reifflrnlng that the acquisltion of territory by force is inadrniesible

under the charter of the united Natrons and that alr territories thus occuprealby Israel nust be returned.
Recalling the Geneva Conventlon relative to the protection of Civilran

PerEonE in Tlme of war, of 12 August 1949, y
l. Stronqly condanns Israel, the occupying porrer, for lts refuaal to

comPly trith the relevant resolutions of the General As'ernbry and the gecurity
Council, partlcularly Council resolution 492 (1981), in flhich the Council,inter alia, decided that the fsraeti deci.ion to inpose its laes, iurlsdlction

U t/co/stg.



A/40/89O
English
Page 22

and adminlstration in the occupied Syrian Golan Helghts nas null and vold and
rrithout internatlonal legal efiect anal denanded that lErael, the occuPylng
Povrer, ahould rescind forthslth its alecislont

2.corrdennsthepersistenceoflgrae}lnchangingthephyElcal
character, dernographic colEpsltionr institutional structure and legal status
of the occuPied Syrlan Arab @lan Beightst

3. Deternines that all legislatlve and adnlnistrative measures and
aceions taken or to-be taken by igrael, the occuPying ?ower ' 

that purPort to
alter the character anal legal itatus of the syrian colan Eelghts _are null and
voitl and constitute a flaglant vlolation of international lait and of the
Geneva convention relativ; to the Protectlon of CtviLian Persons in Time of
lfar I of 12 August 1949, anal have no legal effectt

4. strongly condenns Israel for lts atternPts and neasures to lnPoEe
forcibly rsraeli "il-i"."=nip 

and tEraell identity card€ on the syrian citizens
in the occupieat syrian Arab @1an Heights and calls uPon it to desist from lts
rePreEslve neasures agat'nst the PoPulation of the gyrlan Arab Golan Heightst

5. ca118 once again upon erEb€r states not to recognlze any of the
teg i slat tvE-El-iTrnliffiEfiE-ft aaures a nd act lons r e f er red to above t

6. Requests the secretary-Genela1 to submlt to the G€neral Assenbly at
its forty-first session a repori on the inPleoentatlon of the present
resolut ion.

G

The General Asaenbly t

Bearing in mind the Geneva convention relatlve to Ehe Protection of
civirlli-EEiEong- tn tlne of waE, of 12 August L949, 9J

Deeply concerned at the continued harassment by rsrael' the.occuPying
powerl-IEEEI-EEiGEional lnstltutlons in the occuPied Parestinian
terrltor iea,

Recalling ita resolutiona 38/79 G of 15 fiecenber i'983 and 39/95 G of
14 Elecenber 198 4,

Taking note of the report of the secretary-General of 14 August 1985' !f/

Taking note of the relevant decisione adoPted by the United Nations
ea,r.aEi6i?i-l,sci"ntif icandculturalorganizatlonExecutivecomlittee
concesning the educatlonat ancl cultural sltuation in the occuPied terrltoriesr

t. Hllllgg the aPplicability of the Geneva Conventton relatlve 
to the

protection-6I-Elilrl"tt p"i"on" in Tlne of war' of 12 August 1949' to the
Palestinlan and other Arab territories occupled by Israel elnce 1957t
including iter.rsalemt



A/40/s90
English
Page 23

- -2. _ qondgnns l6raeli pollctes and practices againet palestlnian atudentsanfl facultles in schoors, unlversities and other educational instltutions inthe occupied Palestinlan territorles, especlatly the tpLlcy of openlng flre ondefenceless studente, causing 
".ny 

ar"u.iti."i-'

-Condemns 
the sy€tenatlc Israell canlElgn of represslon against analcroslng of univer'itie6 afd other educatronal and vocationar in'titution' inthe occupled palestinlan territorie6, re6trictlng and inpeding the acadenicactivitles of Parestinlan unlversiEiee by subjecltng the seleition of courses,

textbooks and educational prograrEneg, the adnission of Etudencs and the
aPPointnent of faculty nenbers to the control and supervision of the rnilitary
occupation authoritles, in clear contraventlon of the Geneva Convention,

-.-nl 
Demanqs that lErael, the occupylng lrower, cotq)ly with the provisions

of chat Convention, regclnd all actiona and n€aaures against aII eclucatlonalinstltutions, en€ure the freedon of those inatitutions anar refrain forth$ithfron hlndering the effectlve operatlon of the univereities anal other
educatlonal inatltution€,

5. RElrgstE the Secretary-ceneral to repore to the ceneral Aesenbly as
soon as [togslble and not later than the beginnlng of its forty-flrEt session
on the lnplenentation of the present resolutton.


