








































UNITEO
NATIONS

@
General Aerrmbly DisLr.

GENERAL

A/ 40 /945
27 November 1985
ENGLISH
ORIGINALs F RENCH

Fortieth session
Agehda i t.em 60

PROHIBITION OF THE DEVELOPMEN? AND MANUFACTURE OT'NEW TYPES OF
WEAPONS OP !'ASS DESTRUCTION AND NEId SYSTEMS OF SUCH WEAPONS

Report_of the Flrst conml ttee

Rapporteur 3 lrr. Yannis SOULIOTIS (Greece)

I. INTFODUCTION

L. The item entitled nProhlbition of the deueloprlent and nanufaclure of new types
of eeapons of nass destruction and new sygtems of such weapons: report of the
Conference on Disarnamentr t,as lncluded in the provisional agenda of the fortieeh
session in accordance with General Assenbly resolution 39/62 of 12 Decenber 1984.

2. At it6 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1985, the Cieneral Asaenbly, on Che
reconnendation of the General Conmittee, decided to include lhe iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Fir6t ComrnitEee.

3, At its 2nal meeting, on 9 October, Che First Committee decidetl to hold a
general debate on the dlsarnanent itens allocated co it, nanely, itens 48 to 69 and
lt.en I45, follorred by sEatements on sp€cifi.c dlsarrnarlent. agenda items and
continuation of general debate, aa necessary. Tbe deliberaeions on those icens
cook place betHeen the 3rd and the 32nd neetings, frorn 14 October to I Novenber
(see A/c.l/40/Pv.3-32) .

4, In connection rdith iten 50, Che f.irsC Cor rittee had before it the following
documenEE i

(a) Report of Ehe Conference on Disarnanentt l/

y official
No. 27 (A/40/27 and Corr.l)

8s-34651 0310P (E)



A/40 /9 45
EngliBh
Paqe 2

(b) I-€tter dated 30 January l9g5 from the representativea of lrgentlna,
Greece. India, Uexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania to ite UniteaNatlona addressed !o the secreta ry-cenera r, transnitting the Delhi Decraration
adopted and lssued at New Delhi on 2g January l9g5 by the Head6 of State or
Governrnent of Argentina, Greece, India, uexico, Sweden and the uniced Repubtlc of
Tanzanla (A/40 /lLa-S/L69ZLI ,

(c) Letter dated 15 February I9g5 from the Chargd d,affaires a.i. of the
Permanenc l'llesion of the German Denocratic Republic to the Unitett Nations addresaedto the Secr etary-Genera I \A/40/130-S/169 58 ) I

(d) L€tter dated 19 septenber l9g5 fron the permanent Repreaentative of papua
Ner'r 6u16a. to the unlted Nations addressed to the secreta ry-cenera I, transmittingthe conmunioud adopted at Che Sixte€nth South paclfic Forun, held at Rarotonga,
Cook rslands, on S and 5 August tggs (A/40 /672_s /L7 4ABl ,

(e) Lett:er dated 30 October lggS from th€ represeneatiues of Argentina,
Greece' rndia, Mexico, srreden and the united ttepublic of Tanzania to the unitedNations addressed to the sectetary-Genera r, tra;snittrng the joint message dated
24 octoher 1985 addressed to the Preslttent of the united states of grnerlca and theGeneral secretary of tbe centrar conrnittee of the communist party of the soviet
Union by the lteads of State or Governrnent of Argentina, creece, india, uexlco,
sneden and the Unired Republlc of Tanzania (A/40 /gzS_S/L.r 596l ,

(f) Letcer dated 25 October l9B5 from the permanent Representative ofBulgaria co the united Nations addressed to the secretary-cenera l, tranEnttttng the
DeclaraCion issued on 23 October l9g5 at Sofia by the polieical Consultative
Committee of Che Warsair Treaty Organi 2at!6n (A/C.I/40/71 .

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION 
^/C.L/4O/L.33

On November,

ia, the tlc
D_emoclat lc Republ ic, ttte

7
ss

Benin , the
' the Democrat ic

lrl 1a
et Socia c)

u t.l onUnion of soviet SociallEt Repubtics andEunron oMovlet socialiSt llepubl icsv:.tivr.r_ur_ -p(,wreF pocrarraE lnepubl i,cs and viet Nan subnit.ted a draftentttled iprohihition of ttre beve topnrent-fit man-manufactur€ of new ty ofrI Ene seve roplient and manufactur€ of new tl4)ea of seaponsnass destruction and netr ayacemg of 6uch r'eapons. (A/C.l/40/L.331 . The draftresolution was lntroduced by the representative of the Byelorussian SovietSocialist Rep[blic at the 35th meeting, on 13 November.
6. At its 42nd neetlng, on 19 Novenber, the Corulittee adopted draft r€solution
l/C.L/aa/1.33 by a recorded vote of 106 to l, eith 23 abstentions (see para. ?).
The voting lras as folloess



fn favour:

@!.'
Absta ining:

A,t4O/945
Engli6h
Page 3

Afgbanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentlna, Austria, Bahanas,
B€hrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bollvla, Bolgwana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burklna Faso, Burrna, Burundl,
Byelorussian Soviet .sociallst Republlc, Cameroon, Central Afrlcan
Reputlic, Chile, Colonbia, Comoroa, Congo, Cuba, Cypru8,
Czechoslovakia, Dernocratic yemen, Djibouti, Doninican Republtc,
Bcuador, Egypt' Ethiopla, Fiji, Finland, Gdbon, Gernan Democratic
Republic. Ghana, cuinea, Guyana, HaiEi, Honduras, Ilungary, rndia,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic ttepubllc of), frao, Jordan, Renya,
Rueait, Lao Peoplers Denocratlc Republic, f,ebanon, Lea$tho,
Llbyan Arab Janabiriya, Madagascar, i{alaysia, trla!.diees, tlral1,
Malta, li,taurltania, Mexico, Mongolia, t,lorocco, llozsnbloue, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nlgerla, Oran, Pakistan, Panana, Papua New
cuinea, peru, pttilipplnes, poland, eatar, Ronania, Reanda, saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sonalia, Sri Ianka, Sudan' Surlnane,
Swaziland, Sweden, syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, To{to, Trinidad
and Tobago. Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainlan Soeiet Socialiat RePublic,
Union of Sovlet Socialiat RepublicE, Unlted Arab Eniratea, Unlted
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela, viet Nam, yenen,
Yugoslavia, za i re. Zarnbia, Zirflbabwe.

United States of America.

Australia, Belgiun, Canada, Chad, Chlna, Dennark, Prance,
G€rmany, Federal Republlc of, Greece, Iceland, lreland, fsrael,
Italy, Ivory Coast (c6te d'Ivoire), Japan, Luxenbourg,
Net.herlands, Ne$ zealand, Norway, portugal, spaln, Turkey, united
tringdon of Great Brltain and Norttrern lreland.

III. RECOUMENDATION OF THE PIRS? COI,IIIIITTSE

7. Ttre First Conrnlttee recomends to the General Assernbly the adoption of lhe
follot ing draft resolution:

Prohibltioo of the developnent and manufacture of net' Eypes of
weapons of nas6 degtruction and nen svslerns of such u€apon6

Tbe ceneral Assembly,

Recalling ita resolucions 34?9 (XxX) of ll December L975, 3l/74 oE
10 December L976. 32/84 A of 12 Decemtrer L977, 33/66 B of 14 Decenber 1978,
34/79 of ll Decernber L979, 35/149 of 12 D€cenber l9eo, 36/89 ot.
9 December L98L t 37/77 A of 9 Decenber 1982, 3A/!82 of 20 Decetnber 1983 and
39/62 of L2 Decernber 1984 concerning the prohlbielon of ne$ types of weapons
of nass destruction,



A/40 /94s
EngIish
Page 4

Bearing in mind the provisions of paragraph 39 of the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the c€neral Asgembly, 2/ accordltg to whlch
ouaLitative and ouantitatiee diaarnarnent rneasures are both lmportant for
haltlng tbe arns race and efforts to that end mu6t include negotiations on che
Linitation and cesaation of the oualltative lnprovernent of arnaments,
e€pecially weapons of nass destruction. and the development of new rneans of
uar fare,

Recalling the decision contained in paragraph ZZ of the Final Document Eo
the effect that, in order to belp to prevent a oualltatiue arng race and so
thar scientific and technolo,gical achievements night ultlnately be used solely
for peaceful purposes, effective measures should be taken to preeent tbe
emergence of new types of lteapona of nas6 destruction ba6ed on neld scientific
prlnclples and achievementa, and that efforts aiming at the piohl.bition of
such nev, !!Fe€ and neu systerng of eeapons of mass destruction sbould De
appropriately pursued,

Expressing once again its firm belief, in the light of the decisions
adopted aC the tenth special session, in Cbe lmportance of concluding an
agreement or agreements to prevent. the uee of scientific and technoloqlcal
progress for the .development of neP types of oeapons of nass destruclion and
new systems of such weaponB,

Noting that in the c6urse of its session ln lgg5 the Conference on
Disarnament considered the ltem entitled '!Nep typea of reapons of nass
destruction and new aystens of such xeapons: fadiological rreapons",

Coneinced that all uays and means should be ui-ilired to prevent the
development and manufaccure of new types of eeapons of mrss destruction and
nen systems of such weapons,

Taking into con€ldefaCion the section of the report of tbe Conference on
Di.sarnament relatlng to thi6 duest.lon, 3/

1. Reaffirms the necessity of prohibiting tbe development and
manufacture of net, Cypeg of weapong of rnass destruction and new systems of
such weapons t

2. Requests the Conferenc€ on Disarmament, in the llght of its existing
priorities, to keep conatantLy under control, with the assigtance of a
periodically convened group of experts, the ouestions of the prohlbltion of
the development and rlanufaceure of nen typ€6 of ueapons of nass destruclion
and new systens of such weapong with a vlew to making, ehen neees8ary,

! Resolution S-L0/2.

^y 9f llgia\Records of rbe ceneral Assembty, Fortierh Session, Supplemenruo. ez tl,z lo2 and t05-109.



A/10/945
Eng t 18h
Prge 5

reconrnenda tlons on undertaklng apecific negotlrtlona or th€ ldentifiedl typet
of guch weapons,

3. Calls upon aII States to conCrlbute, lmpdiately folloeing the
identiflcallon of any new type of ueapon of maas deatruction, to lhe
col$nencemenc of negotiationa on itB prohlbltion nith the slnultaneoua
introduction of a.noratorium on its practical develoFtrentt

4. Once agaln urges all States to refrrln fron any actloo that could
adeersely affect. tbe efforts ained at the prevention of the energerlce of n€x
types of r.reapons of mass destructlon and ner systens of such seaponet

5. Calls again upon aLl sEatee to undertake effort8 to en6ure that
ultinaeely ecientific and technologlcal achleeenents may bc uaed solely for
peaceful purposes,

5. Requests tbe Secretary-Genera I to tranaDit to the Conference on
Diaarnanent all documenta relaElng to the conBideratlon of this lten by tbe
General Assenbl.y at its fortteth sesslont

7. RecuestE che Conference on Disarmanen! to subnit a r€port on the
resuLts achleved to the General Aasenbly for considerttion at its forty-flrst
geggion,

8. Decides to include in the proulsiooal agenda of itB forty-flrst
session tbe iCen entltled nProhllrltion of the develoFnent and n€nufacture of
ner' typea of ereapona of inaEE desCructlon and nee systems of €uch eerponsr
report of the Confereoce on Di€armament'.


