








































UiIITED
NATIOilS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/ 40/84?
4 November

ORIGINAL:

1985

ENGLISH

Fortieth session
Agenda item l2l

PATTERN OF CONFERENCES

Report of the Fifth CommiEtee
Rapporteur: Irtr. FaIk MELTKE (German Democratic Republic)

I. INTRODUCTION
r' At its 3rd prenary neetingr on 20 september 1985, the Generar Assembly decidedto include in the agenda of its fortieth session, and to allocate to the FifthCommit,tee, the item ent,itledl

'rPattern of conferences: repor! of t,he committee on conterences,,.
2. The Fifth Committee considered this itam at its 9th, I0th, l4.th, I5th, I7th,22nd and 24th neetings, on 8, 9, 15, L7, 2l and 3l october and r Novenbbr 19g5.comments and observations made in the course of the discussion of the item andrepries to gueries raised are retlected in the rerevant summary records(A/c.s/40/sR.9, 10, 14, 15, L.t, 22 and 241 .
3' For iEs consideration ot the item, tbe committee had betore it the report ofthe Committee on Conferences. L/

L/ Otficial Records ot
No. 32 (A/4o/32t.

85-30770 4597P (E)

the General Assembl Fortieth Session



A/ 40/847
Eng 1 ish
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

4. At the 24th meeting, on I November, the representalive of the UniEed States ot
Anerica proposed the deletion of paragraph 4 (f) of the draft resolution submitted
UV ttre Cormittee on Conterences in paragraph l of its report. The proposal oas
rejected, by a recorded voEe ot 81 to 2, ,rith 23 abstentions. The voting oas as
follows:

In tavour ! Israel, United states of America.

Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Beninr
Botsrrana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burmat
Burundi, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colonbia, Congo, Cuba,
Democratic Yemen, Dennark, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland'
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, tlonduras, fceland, India'
Indonesia, Iran (Istamic RePublic of)' Iraq, Ivory Coast'
Jamaica, Japan, ilordan, Kenya, Kutlait, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, Madagascar' Malaysia, Maldives, I'lali, llauritania,
MexiCO, Moroc6o, Nigeriar.N6rway, Oman' Pakistan, Panamar Peru,
Philippines, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
singapore, sri Lanka, sudan, srraziland, sneden, Thailand' To9o,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates,
united Republic of Tanzanla, uruguay, venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Australia, Aus!ria, Belgiurn, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republicr Canada, Czecboslovakia' France, German
Detnocratic Republic, Gernany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, New Zealand' Papua New
Guinea, Poland, Port.ugal, Spain, Ukrainian bufiet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

Aga inst:

Abstaining:

The representatives of Algeria, Belgiurn (for the l0 States menbers of the European
EConomic Conrnunity), Auslria, Nigeria, Cuba, Cameroon, Japanr, Sweden, Canadar Neu
Zealand and Finland spoke in explanation of vote.

5. At the sane meeting, the representative of lhe Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics proposed that the scheduled venue of item 35 in the draft calendar ot
conferences and meelings of lhe Uniled Nations for 1985, contained in annex II to
the report, of the Committee on Conferences, should read "To be determined" instead
of ,rNairobir'. The proposal was rejected, by a recorded vote of 72 Eo 3l' with I
absEention. The voting was as folloss:

In favour: AusEralia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet
socialist Republic, canada, czechoslovakia, Denmark, Finland,
Francer German Democratic Repubticr Germany, Federal Republic
of, Greece, Hungary, fcelandr Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan'
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norwayr Poland, Portuga}, Romania'
spain, sweden, ukrainian soviet socialist Republic, union of
Soviet Socialist Republicsr United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern lreland, United States of America'



A/40/847
English
Page 3

Againsts Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbadoe, Benin,
Botswana, Brazil, tsrunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Cameroon, Chiler China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Denocratic Yemen,
Ecuador, Egypl, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Hondurasr fndia, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Irag,
Ivory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kueait, Liberia, lladagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, t{ali, Mauritania, lrlexlco, t{orocco, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, papua New Guinea, peru, philippines,
Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
sudan, srraziland, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkeyr United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, yemen, yugosl.avia, Zaire, Zambia.

Abstaininq: Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.*

The representatives of NiEeria and Algeria spoke in explanation of vote.
6. At the same nieting, the representative of the United states of Anericaproposedthattheproposedvenueofitem5?inth"dnc"s
for 1986, contained in annex II to the report of the Conmittee on Conferences,
should read "santiago" instead of rrMexico Cityn. The proposal eas rejected, by a'
recorded vote of 83 to 7, oith 15 abstentions. The vot.ing was as follors:

rn favour: Australia, Canada, Germany, Federal Republ.ic of, Israel,
Portugal, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Irel.andr
United States of America.

Againstl Algeria, Angola, Arglntina, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Benin, BoEswana, Brazil, Erunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republicr Cameroon, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Denocratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gernan Denocratic
Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras,

' Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Is1arnic Republic ot), Irag,
rvory Coast, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwaitr Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, &ladagascar, t!,alaysia, Maldives, Mali, tlauritania,
llexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Oman, pakistanr panama, papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, poland, eatar, Romaniar Saudi Arabia,
senegal., singapore, sri Lanka, sudan, swazirand, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkeyr Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republicr Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, yemen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia

Abstaininq: Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Francer Greece, rceland, rrelanil,
Italyr Japan, Netherlands, Nee zealand, Norsay, Rnanda, Spain,
Sweden.

* Subseguently, the delegation of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya notified the
Secretariat that it had intended to vote against the proposal.



A/40/847
Engl ish
Page 4

The delegations of Cuba, fndonesia, Austria, France, Liberia, Belgium, the
Netherlands, Italy and New Zebland spoke in explanation of vote.

?. At Ehe same meeting, the Chairman informed lhe Comnittee of an error in
item 45 in tbe draft calendar of conferences for 198?, contained in annex II of the
report of the Committee on Conferences. The proposed venue of lhe Committee on
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights should be Geneva rather than New York.

8. The draft resolution submitled by the Conrmittee on Conferences in paragraph I
of its report was t,hen adopted without a vote.

9. The delegations of the United States of America, the Union of Soviet Socialise
Republics, Nigeria, Sweden, Israel and Kenya spoke in explanation of their posilion.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIFAH q)MMITTEE

10. The Fifth Committee recomnpnds for adoption by lhe General Assembly the
folloring draft resolution:

Pattern of conferences

the General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 1202 (xII) of 13 Decenber 195?, l85l (XVII) of
19 December L962, 1987 (XVIII) ot 17 December 1963, 2116 (XX) of
2l December 1955, 2239 (XXI) of 20 Decenber 1965, 236L (XXII) of
19 December 1957, 2478 (xxIII) of 21 December 1968, 2609 (XXIV) of
15 December 1969, 2693 (XXv) of 11 December 1970, 2834 (XXVI) of
17 December 1971, 2960 (xXvII) of 13 Decenber 1972, 3350 (XXIX) and
3351 (xxlx) of 18 December L974, 349I (XXX) of 15 December 1975, 3L/L40,
section I, of 17 Decernber L976, 38/32 C of 25 November 1983 and 39/68 C of
l3 December 1984,

I

Having considered the report of the ConmitEee on Conferences, 2/

1. Takes note rrith appreciation of the report of the Comnittee on
Conferences;

2. Approves the draft calendar of conferences and meet.ings of the
United Nations for the bienniun 1985-1987 as submitted by lhe Comnittee on
Conferences, 1/

2/ Official Records of the General AsseTbly, Fortieth Session' pupplenent
No. 32 1s1ag/321.

1/ Ibid., annex II.



A/40/847
Eng 1 ish
Page 5

3. Authorizes the Comnittee on Conferences to make any adjustments in
lhe calendar of conferences and meetings for the biennium 1985-1987 that may
becone necessary as a result of action and decisions taken by the General
Assenbly at its fortieth session;

4. Reaftirms the general principle that, in draning up the schedule of
conferences and meetings, United Nations bodies shall plan to neet al their
respective established headquarters, oith the following exceptionss

(a) The regular sessions of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Development Progranrne shall be held alternately at United Nations Headquarters
and at, the UniEed Nalions Otfice at Genevai

(b) The sessions of the fnternational Law Comnission shall be held at
lhe United Nations Office at Genevai

(c) The sessions of the United Nations Comnission on International Trade
Iae may be held, subJect. to the provision in section II, paragraph 6, of
General Assembly resoluti.on 2205 (XXI) of 1? December 1966, alEernately at
United Nations Headquarters and at the United Nations Office at Viennat

(d) The second regular session of the
held at the United Nations Office at Geneva
falls al least six weeks before the opening
General Assembly;

Economic and Social Council may be
provided that the closing date
of the regular session of the

(e) The functional comnissions of the Economic and Social Council shall
meet a! their established headquarlers unless anolher place is designated bY
the Council to achieve a more rationaL pattern of lhe nork programme, taking
into account any recomrrendation of the commission concerned and in
consultation sith the Secretary-General;

(f) The regular sessions of the Economic and Social Connission for Asia
and'the Pacific, the Econonic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean,
the Economic Commission for Africa and the Economic and Social Comnission for
western Asia, as weII as meet,ings of their subsidiary bodies, may be held away
from their headguarters when the'commission concerned so decides, subject, in
the case of regular sessions of the comnissions, to the approval of the
Economic and Social Council and of the General Assernblyl

(S) The International Civil Service Comnission sball hold ils
annual session at United Nations Headguarters and, if rnore than one
reguired in any one year, nnay accepl an invitation from one of its
parliciPating organizations to hold its other session or sessions at
headguarters of that particuLar organizalion;

(h) The sessions of the Legal Sub-Comnittee of the Committee on the
Peaceful Uses of OuBer Space shall be held alternately at United Nations
Ileadguarters and the United Nations Office at Genevai

regular
session is

the



A/40/847
Engl istr
Page 6

(i) ,The Conference .on Disarmarnent sha1l meet at the UniEed Nations
Office at Genevai

5. Decides that United Nations bodies may hotd sessions aoay from their
establisheA treaaquart,ers when a @vern$ent issuing an invitation for a session
to be treld within its territory has agreed to defray, after consultation with
the Secretary-General as to tbeir nature and possible exEent, lhe actual
additional costs directly or indirectly involved;

6. Reaffirms its instruclion to all its subsidiary organs to complete
their reports for the following session of the General Assembly not later than
1 September and to report any activity atter lhe adoption of such reports'
where necessary, to the Assembly in addenda to the reports of lhe organs
conce rned i

7. Decides thal no subsidiary organ of the General Assembly may meet at
United Nations Headquarters during a regular session of the Assembly unless
explicitly authorized by the Assembly;

8. Requests the Secretary-General to cont,inue to provide interpretation
services for informal meetings on an ad hoc basis in accordance with
established practice;

9. Authorizes tbe Secretary-General to apply maximum overprogramming of
meetings whenever possible to achieve beEter ulilization of conference
resources i

10. Requests lhe Committee on Conferences and the Secretary-General to
take accounl of the following principles in drawing up the dratt, calendar of
conferences and meetingsl

(a) Tbe biennial calendar ot conferences and meetings approveal by tbe
General Assenbly shall govern the rneetings programrre during the period
concerned;

(b) A11 United Nalions meetings shall be carried out within the
resources allocated by lhe General Assembly for that purposei

(c) Between sessions of the General Assembly, departures from the
calendar may, in special or unusual circumstances, be approved by the
Committee on Conferences provided that changes affecting the subsequent year
of the biennium shall be approved by the Assernblyt

(d) Subsidiary organs ot the General Assembly shall not, qithout, the
approval of the Assembly, creaEe new standing bodies or ad hoc sessional or
intersessional bodies that require additiona] resources, and other principal
organs of the United Nat,ions should nake similar decisions wilh regard to
their respective subsidiary bodies, if lhey have not already done so;



A /40/847
English
Page 7

(e) An adeguaEe interval of time, to be det,ermined by the body
concerned, shall be allowed bettueen sessions of lhe same bodies to perrnit
t{enber States to derive maxinum benefit from the activities and to provide
sufficienl tine for the preparation ot tutrrre activities;

(f) United Nalions bodies shall meel at t,heir respective established
headquarters, subject to lhe exceptions to Ehis principle approved by the
General Assembly;

' (9) The implications of the capacity ot lhe documentation services of
the Secretariat to process and issue in time the docunrentation required for
the sessions of arl schedured organs should be taken into accounti

(h) tlo more than one special conferenc" ot tt" United Nations shall be
convened at the same t,ime i

(i) In any given year, no more than five special conterences should be
convened, unless t,he General Assembly specifically decides otberwisei

11. Reguest.s the Secretary-General to ensure the mos! rational and
etfective use of all United Nations conference centres and facilities;

12: Reguests the Conrrnittee on Conferences !o continue it.s periodic
examinaEion of the rules governing conference planningt

II

1. Urges all United Nations bodies to
that their requests for conference-servicing
to their requirements;

increase their etforts to ensure
resources correspond acctrrately

2. Further urges those bodies to plan their oork well in advance in
order to rnake full use.of the conference-servicing resources allocated to them
and so lhat any unused conference-servicing resources can be reassigned to
ensure their most effeclive utilization;

3. Requests subsidiary organs of t,he General Assembly to include in
their report.s to the Assembly a stalement on lhe progress made in response to
lhe relevant provisions ot Assembly resolrrtion 39168 B on the rational and
eff icient utilizalion of conference-servicing resourcesi

4. Urges intergovernnental bodies reporEing lo the Second Committee of
the General Assembly that have not yet adjusted their rneeting cycles to
conform to that Committeers biennial programme of uork to do so as soon as
possible;

5. RegueSts the Secretary-C;eneral to
freguency of planning missions for meetings
Headquarters and, in particular, those sent
conference facilities already exist;

review the composition and
and conferences held away from
Eo cities where United Nations



A/40/847
Engl ish
Page 8

5. Further requests the Secretary-General to report to the Comnittee on
Conferences at its substantive session of 1986 on lhe results of that revieo
concerning planning missions sent in 1985 and, as far as possible, in 1986;

III

I. Decides that the Comnittee on Conferences should revies the guest,ion
of the provision of summary records at its substantive session in 1985;

2. Further decides that lhe present experimental arrangements tor
summary records, established by the General Assembly in itE resolution 37/L4 C
of 15 November 1982, should remain in effect until the Assembly, upon the
recornnendation of the Committee on Conferences, takes further action.


