








































UNITED
NATIONS

A
GeneralAssembly

DisLr.
GENERAL

A/4O/LO24*
17 Decernber
ENGLTSH
ORIGINALI

198s

SPANISH

Fortieth sess ion
Agenda i tern /8

85-38409 4690P (E)

Qt,ESTIONS REI,ATING TO INFORMATION

Report of the Special political Conmittee

Rapporteur! Mr. Rainundo GONZALEZ (Chile)

I. IMRODUCT]ON

I. The item ent. i tled:

"Questions rel-at inq to infornation:

"(a) Report of the Cornnittee on Information?

"(b) Report of the Sec reta ry-cene ra1 ,

"(c) Report of the Dj.rector-ceneral of tbe Unit.ed Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organizat ion,'

was included in tbe provisi.onal- agenda of the fortieth session of the ceneral
Assenbly in accordance with Assembly resolution 39/gg A of t4 Decenber 1984.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 Septenber 1985, the ceneral Assembly, on lhe
recoNnendation of the ceneral connittee, decided to i.nclude the itern in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Speciat poLiticat Conmittee.

3. The special Political cornmittee considered the it.em at its agth to 39th, and
45th to 46th neetings. held between 12 and 20 November and on 4 and 5 Decenber 1985
(see A/SPC/40/SR.29-39, 45 and 46).

4. The Conmittee had before it the followinq docurnents:

Reissued for Cechnical reasons.



A/40/LO24
English
Page 2

(a) Report of the Comnittee on Infornation @/a0/2Ll t L/
(b) Report of the secretary-cene ral lA/40/6L7\ t

(c) RePort of the Director-General of the United Natlons Educational,
Scientlflc and cultural organization (A/40/6671,

(d) RePort of the sec retary-Gene ral on che restructuring of the Rad io and
vtsual services Division (A/40/84L).

5. The coflnittee had also before it a letter dated l0 April 1985 fron the
representatives of Argentina, India, ItaIy and Nigeria addressed to the
secretary-Gen eta]- (A/4o/272) and another letter dated 20 May 1985 from the
Permanent Representative of Cuba to the United Nations addressed to the
secretary-GenetaI lA/ 40 /3231 .

6. At its 2nd neeting, on I october, the conrnittee Qeclded to establish an
open-ended rrorking group on questions relating to infornation, under the
chairnanship of Mr. Krram Kouassl, vice-Chairnan of the Connittee.

7. At its 29th neetlng, on 12 Novenber ' the conmittee 
herrd incroductory

statements by the under-secretary-General for Public fnfornatlon of the
secretariat, the chairnan of the comnittee on Information, and the Director of the
Division of Free Fton of Informacion and Comlunication Policies of UNESCO.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DIAFT RESOIJUTIONS

8. At the 45th neeting, on 4 December, the repreaentatlve of 4g9'9.lq!1e., on
behalf of the States Menbers of the United Nations that are rnenbers Of the Group
of 77, introduced two draft resolutions, A and B, contalned ln document
A/ SPC/ 40 /r.. 29lRev. l.

9. At the 46th neeting, on 5 Decenber, the represenlatlve of Igjl9g]ggl1, on
behatf of the sponsors ' rnade a further statem€nt introduclng 

the draft
resolutions. The representative of Algeria also spok€.

10. Before the Cor nittee proceeded to take a decision on draft resolution€ A and
B, Etatements in explanat ion of vote were made by the rePresentatlves of Norray, on
behalf of the Nordic countries. Uruquay and Luxembourg, on behalf of the seates
menbers of the European Economlc Community, as well as sPaln and Portuqal.

11. At the sane meeting, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution A ln docunent
A/9PC/ 40/L.29lRev. I by a recorded voce of 96 to 18. with 5 abstencions (see
para. 14' draft resolution A). The voting was as followsr 2/

U official Records of the ceneral Assembly, Fortieth seasion, suPplenent
No. 2t- (A,/40l2r).

?/ See footnote 2 on p. 3.
/...



A/40/LO24
English
Page 3

fn favour: Afghanistan, Atgeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benj.n, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botalrana
BraziI, Brunei Darussal-am, Burkina Faso, Burma, Surunai,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chi1e, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, cuba, Clprus, CzechosJ-ovak i a, Democratic yenen,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial cuinea, Ethiopia,
Gabon, cerrnan Democrat ic Republic, chana, cuatemala. cuinea,
Honduras. Hungary, India, Indonesia, fran (Istanic Republic
of), fvory Coast (C6te dtlvoire), Jama j.ca, Jordan, xenya,
Kuwait' Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
l,ladagascar, Ualaysia, Iitaldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
l.longolia. Morocco, Mozanbique, Nepat, Nigeria, Onan,
Pahistan, Panama, peru, philippines, poland, eatar, Rornania,
Rlranda, Saudi Arabia, Senegat, Singapore. Sonalia,
sri Lanka, sudan, swaziland, syrian Arab RepubLic, Thail-and,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Ukrainian soviet
socialist Republic, Union of soviet socialist Republics,
United Arab Etnirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
venezuel-a, Viet Narn, yenen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia,
Zinbabwe.

Against: Australia, Be19iun, Canada, Denrnark, Finland, France.
germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg. Netherlands, Norway, portugal, Sweden. United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States
of Amer ica.

Abstainingr Austria, creece, Ireland. New zealand, spain, Turkey.

12. At the sane neeting, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution B in docunen!
A/SPC/ 40/L.29lRev. 1 by a recorded vote of 96 to 15, with 9 abstentions (see
para. 14, draft resolution B). The voting was as follows: 2,/

In favour! Afghanistan, Algeria. Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana.
Brazil, Brunei Darussalan. Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundi,
Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, Caneroon, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colonbia, Congo, Costa
Ricai.Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Dernocrat ic Yemen,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Eglpt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, chana, Guatemala, cuinea,

U After the voCe the repregentative of A.Ibania stated that his
delegation had decided not to participate in the voting on the two draft
resolutions. and the reptesentative of Niger said tbat, had he been present,
his deLegation would have voted in favour of both draft resolutions.



A/40/LO24
English
Page 4

Honduras, Hungary' India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Ivory coast (c6te d'rvoire), Janaica, Jordan' Kenya'
Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia. Libyan Arab Jamabiriya'
Madagascar' alaysia, Maldives, Ma1i, Mauritania' Mexico'
Mongolia' Morocco' Mozanbique, Nepal, Nigeria, onan,
Pakistan, Panama' Peru' PhiLippines' Poland' Oatar' Romania'
Rvranda, saudi Arabi.a, Senegal, Singapore, somalia'
Sr1 r,anka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic' Thailand'
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist RepulrL ic, Union 5f Soviet socjalist Repubtics'
United Arab Enirales, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay'
venezueLa, viet Nam, Yenen. Yugosl5ei1, zairer zambia'
Z inbabwe .

!3g.i$: BeIgium. canada, Denmark, Finland, Gernany' Federal Republic
of.Icetand.Israel,Japan,Luxembourq'Netherlands'Norltay'
Portugal, Svreden. United I(ingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United SEates of Anerica'

Abstaining: Austrdlia. Austria' France, Greece, Ireland, ltaly, New
zealand, spain. Tur key.

13. statenents in explanation of vote after the vote were nade by che
representatives of Argentina' Australia, Austria. Canada, Ecuador, Japan' Mexico'
Turkey, lhe united Arab Emir3tes and the uni.ted states of Anerica'

III. RECOMI\,IENDATIONS OF THE SPECIAL POLITICAL COMMITTEE

14. The Special Political corunittee recommends to Ehe General Assembly the
adoption of the following draft resolutions:

Ouest ions relating to information

A

The General Assenbly,

Recalling its resolutions 3535 (xxx) of t7 Decenber L975, 3l/L39 of
lg oecetnuer fg16, 33/LL5 A to c of 18 December L9'18, 34/I8L and 341182 of
l8 December Lg7g, 35/2OI of 16 Decenb€r 1980' 36/f49 B of 16 December l98I'
3'1/94 B of 10 Decembet Lg82, 38/82 B of 1"5 Decenber 1983 and 39/98 A ot
14 December 1984, on questions relating Co infornation'

Recallinq article 19 5f the Universal Declaration of Human Rights' f.'/
wnicfr proviaes that everyone has the right to freedon of opinion and

3/ Resolution 2I7 A (III).



^/40 
/ro24

EngI i sh
Page 5

expression and that this right includes freedon to hold opinions htithout
interference and to seek, receive and inpart infornation and ideas through any
media and regardless of frontiers, and article 29. which stipulaEes that these
rights and freedons nay in no case be exercised contrary to the purposes and
principLes of the united Nations,

Recalling also articles 19 and 20 of the fnternational Covenant on Civi.l
and Polit ical Rights, 4/

Recalling the relevant provisions of the Declarations of the sixth and
seventh sunmit Conferences of Non-Al igned Countries held at Havana in L979 5/
and New Delhi in 1983, 9/ as well as final docunents of Ehe Conference of the
Ministers of Infornation of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Jakarta i,n 1984 !/
and relevant provisions of lhe Declaration of the Conference of Ministers for
Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries held at Luanda in 1985, 8/ in which
the j.tnportance of the eslablishment of a new world infornation and
conununication order lras stressed anew,

Recalling its resoluti.ons 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of l May 1974,
containing the Declaration and the Prograrnme of Action on the Establishnent of
a New International Econonic order, 32gl (xxlx) of 12 Decembe r 1974,
containing the Charter of Economic Rj.ghts and Duties of States, and
3362 (S-vII) of 15 septenber 1975 on developrnent and international econonic
co-ope ration,

Recalling the Declaration on Fundamental. principles concerning the
Contribution of the Mass Media to strengthening Peace and International
Understanding, to Promot i.on of Hunan Rights and to Countering RaciaLisrn.
Apartheid and Incilement to War, 9/ as well as the refevant resolutions on
infornation and nass corunun icat. iois adopted by the ceneraL Conference of lhe
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-tural Organization at its
nineteenth, teentieth, tdenty-first. twenty-second and twenty-chird sessions,

!/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

See A/34/542, annex, sect, Ir paras. 280-299.

A/38/L32-S/L56 7 5 and Corr.l and 2, annex, sect. I, para. 173.

A/39 /139-S/L64 3 0, annex.

y See A/40/854-S/V6fO and Corr.t,

2/ United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization. Records
of lhe General Conference, Twent j.eth Session, vol. 1, Resolutj-ons, pp. I00-104.

J/

v
!/



A/r0/r024
English
Page 5

Recall"ing the relevant provisions of the Final Act of lhe Conference on
securTrfiia--Eo-operatlon in Europe, signed at Helsinki on I August 19?5, and
those oi the concluding Document of the meeting of represenLatives of che
participating Sgates of the conference on security and co-operation in Europe'
held at Madrld fron 1l Novenber 1980 to 9 septenber 1983'

Recalling also the
Preparat ion of societ ies

relevant provisions of the DeclaraEion on the
for Life in Peace, 10,/

conscious of Ehe need for all countries, tshe United Nations system as a
whole and all ochers concerned, to collaborate in the establishment of a new
rror ld infornation and communication order based, inter alia' on the free
circulation and vtider and b€lter balanced dissenination of inforna!ion'
guaranteeing diversity of sources of infornation and free access to
lnfornation, and, in particular, the urqent need co change the dependenE
staeus of the develoPing countries in the field of infornation and
conmunicat.ion, as the principle of sovereign equality among nations extends
also !o thi6 fielal, and inte;ded also to strengthen peace and international
understanding, enabling all Persons to participate effectively in political'
econonlc, soclal and cultural Iife and promoting understandlng and friendshlP
arnong al-l nations and human rights,

Not.ing the ongoing efforts of the United Nations Educacional, scientific
ana dfli?if Organization to contribute to the clarification' elaboracion and
aPPlication of the concept of a new world information and conmunicat lon order
and recalling consensus resolutions 4/Ig, 3-L and 3.1 adopted by the General
Conference of the united Nat ions Educational' Scienti€ic and cultural
Organization at its twenly-first, tvrenty-second and twenty-third sessions'

Reaffirnrinq that the establishnent of a new world information and
comuilE-a t i on order is linkeat to the new international econonic order and is
an integral Part of the international developrnen! process, and that public
infornati.on plays the imPortant role in promoling understanding of and support
for international co-operat.ion for developrnent '

Elrphasizinq the role that public infornation plays in promoting supporf
for uiIiEiEEl aisarmanent and increasing awareness of the rerationship between
disarmament and developrent among as broad a public as Possible'

Reaffirming the primary role which the General Assenbly is to play in

"l.boiflli-g, 
co*rdinating and harmonizing united Nations policies and

activities in the fietd of information' and recognizing the central and
lnportant role of the united Nations Educatlonal, scientific and cultural
Organization in the field of infornation and comrnunicat ion, and that the

lql Resolut ion 33/7 3.



United Nations systen as a vrhole and aII oehers
organization adeguate support and assistance in
comnunication.

^/40/Lo24Engt ish
Page 7

concerned give lhat
Che field of infornatlon and

Recognizing the importance of the co-ordination and co-operat ion betreen
the Deparcment of Pubric rnfornation of the secretariat, the united Nations
Deveroprnent Progranme' the united Nations Educational, scientific and curturar
Organization and the fnternational programre for the DeveloDnent of
connunicat ion in the pronot ion of lhe estabrishment of a new world infornat ion
and conmunication orde! .

_ Furry aware and cognizanc of the inportan! contribution which Ehe rnasa
media rdorldvride can nake in enhancing and strengthening peace, deepening
inlernat ional understanding, promoti;9 just ice, eguality, national,
independence, developnbnt, the exercise of hunan rights anal the estabrishrnent
of a nekr torld information and corununlcation order,

Noting lrith satisfaction that du!ing the observance of the fortieth
anniversary of the Unieed Nations, the lasting values of the purposes and
principles of the Charter of the Uniteal Nations were reconfirned as a
reflection of the high hopes which peoples of the lrorlal continue to repose in
the United Nations as the nost appropriate framework fo nultllateral
co-operat ion and the pursuit of shared objectives,

_ Notinq also rrieh satisfaction the adoption of the resolution on theUnited Nations world Conference for Che fnternational youth year,

Emphasizing its full support for the International progranune for the
Developnent of Comnunication, which constitutes an lnportant contribueion in
the deveropment of the infrastructures of cornnunication in the developing
countries,

Conscious that Che transfer of technology in t.he field of infornation and
comnunication to developing countries is vital for the acceleration of efforts
toltards the establi'hnent of a new worrd information and comrnunication order
based on justice, freedon and equi.ty,

Expressing its satisfaction with the successful co-ordination and
co-operation displayed by the Department of public Infornation wiCh the
Non-Al-igned Neers Agencies pool, as well as with news agencies of other
developing and developed countries, and convinced that such efforts have
conlributed significantty to progress towards a new world information and
colrnunication order,

Taking note of the inplenenCation by the Departnent of public Information
of those parts of the Declaration and programme of Action relevant go
information of the International Conference in Support of the Struggle of the



L/40/IO24
English
Page 8

Narnibian People for Independence heldt in Paris in April 1983' Il'l as well as
those parts relevan! to infortnation of the Declaration and Progranme of Accion
of the extraoratinary plenary neettnqs of the United Naeions Council for
Namibia held at Vienna in fiAS, fZ,z-in order to develoP and further strengthen
the dissemination of infornat ion-regard ing lhe struggle for independence- of
the people of Nanibia, with a view io t.."hinq the broades! Possible Public by
*euni oi more systematic and better co-ordinated information'

Taking noce also of the inplementation by the Departnent of Public
Infornation of lhose parts of che Progranme of Action for the Achievement of
Palestinian Rights relevant to information, in accordance with General
Assembly resoluti.on 39/49 c of lI Decenber 1984'

Expressing its satisfaction with the report and the work of the connittee
on tnfort0ation as reflected and presented to the General Assembly at its
for t ieth session ' 

p/

Taking note with sat isfaction
questions relating to informat ion '

Taking note rrith satisfaction of the report of the Director-General of
the united Nations Baucat-I6iElElent if ic and cultural organization ' t5'l

1. Approves the report of the Comnittee on Information and the
recorulendations contained in paragraph 139 of that report and annexed to Ehe
present resolution, as adoPted, and affirms the requests and appeals
reproduced the(ein, as weli as the provisions of General Assenbly resolution
39198 A' and urges their full implenentat ion t

2. Reaffirrns the mandate given to the
ceneral Assembly in its resolution 34/L82r

]Ll see t of the I nt ernat ional
Namibi ence

of the report of the sec retary-Gene ral on
L4/

Committee on Infornatlon bY the

t of the Str
1983 (VCONP.

3. Reduescs the Committee on Information' keeping in rnind its nandate'
the essent-iEl-TEEks of which are to continue to examine the policies and
activities of the Department of Public Infornation of the secretariat' to

part three.

P/ see A/ 4o/375-s/L7262.

13,2 Official
No. 21 (A/40l2r),

!!/ 
^/4D/6r7.

Ls/ 
^/40/667.



A/40/L024
EngIish
Page 9

continue to prornote the establishnent of a new, more just and effective world
inforrnat ion and connunicalion order and to continue tc seek the co-operation
and active particlpation of all organizations of the United Nations system,
Particularly the Uniled Nations Educational. Scientific and Cultural
Organization and the Internat.ional Teleconmunicat ion Union, nhile taking all
Poesible steps to avoj.d any overlapping of activities on this subjectt

4. Reaffirns its strong support for the United Nations Educalionalr
Scientific and Cultural Organizat.ion, irs constitution and the ideals
reflected therein, its activi.ties and for it6 efforts to further enhance ils
caPabllities with a view to promoting the establishnent of a new world
informatlon order t

5. Reiterates its appeal to Mernbe r States, to the information and
conununication rnedia. both public and private as well as to non-gove rnnental
Organizations. to disseminate more widely objective and better balanced
infornalion about the activities of the United Nations, and, inter alia, allout
the efforts of the developing countries towards their economic, social and
culeural progress and about the efforts of the international community to
achieve international social justice and economic developrnent, international
!t€ ace and secur j.ty, the pronotion of disarmament and the progressive
elinination of lneernational inequities and tensionst and the pronotion of
hunan righes and fundarnental freedons and the right of peoples to
se lf-deterninat ion t such dissernination being aimed at achieving a rnore
conprehensive and reallstic inage of the activities and polential of the
United Nat ions systen in all its purposes and endeavoursi

6. Calls upon the Department of Public Information Eo continue to give
as a naeter of high priority full support in pronoting and pubLicizing the
noble goals and acconpl ishrnents of the United Nations, as lhe mos! appropriate
forun for nultilateral co-operatioh and for pooling efforts of States to
contrlbute to the quest for a climate of rnutua! Erust, political dialogue and
negotiat.ed solutions to the outstanding problenst

7. Urges the Department of Public Infornation to give Ehe wj.dest
Possible dissenination of information pertaining to the acule vrorld econonic
problems. particularly to the critical econonic situation in Africa, the
severe econonic difficulties of the least developed countries and the external
debt of developing countries, as \,rel] as to the adverse effect of the
inlernationaL economic environment on Chese countries, taking into account the
views expressed durlng tbe fortieth session on these issuesi

8. Urqes the Departnent of public Infornation to serengthen its
co-operation wieh the Non-Aligned News Agencies Fool and, in particular. to
ensure that its daily dlspalches are received by the United Nations Office at
Geneva and United Nations Headquarters in New York,

9. Urges the Departnent of public Information to take all necessary
neasures to ensure an appropriate informalion of the guidelines for further
planning and suitable follow-up in the field of youth;



A/40/L024
Engl ish
Page 10

I0. @ the DePartment of Public Information to adequaeely disseminale
in its progranmes and inforrnation activities the po€itive results of the world
Conference to Revie$ and Appraise the Achievements of the United Nations
Decade for t{omen: Equality, Developnent and Peace' hetd at Nalrobi fron 15 to
26 July L985. !9/ aimed at the elimlnation of discrimination and Pronotion of
the role of wonen rrorldwidet

lI. Requests the Departrnent of Public fnfornation to conEinue its
follorr-up progrannes in furtber implenentation of those parls relevant to
Public infornat ion of the Paris Declaration on Nanibia and the Progranme of
Action on Namibia, aalopted by the International Conference in support of the
struggLe of the Namibian People for Independence, lV as vtell as of the vienna
Declaration and Prograftne of Actlon on Namibia, and to report thereon to the
Conmittee on Inforrnation at its substantive session in 1986r

L2. Requests the Departnent of Public Infornaeion to cover adequately
Policies and practices uhich violate the principLes of international law
relative to belligerent occupation, in Particular the Geneva Conventlon
relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of
12 August Lg4g, L7-/ wherever they occur, especlally those policies and
practices which frustrate the altainmen! and exercise of the inalienable ard
nacional legicinate righcs of the Palestinian PeoPIe in accordance $ith the
relevant resolutions of tbe united Nations and to rePort tbereon to bhe
collultittee on Informalion at its substantlve session in 1986;

13. Urges the DePartnent of Public Infornat ion and the nass nedia
worldwide, pursuant to General Assenbly resolutions 34/La2 and 35/2OL. to
intenslfy their activiEies of dissenination of information with regard to the
policies and Practices of apartheid, taking due account of recent neasures and
official censorship inposed upon the local and international nedia related to
all aspecEa of this issuet

14. Reiterates the reconnendation contaj.ned in lts resolu!ion 35/201
that additional resources for the Departtnent of Public Information should be
commensurate as appropriate uith the increase in the activi.ties of the Unlted
Nations which the DePartnen! covers for the purpose of Public information. and
that the sec retary-GeneraL should provide such resources to the DePartnenE to
this end where neededi

15. Requests the Departnen! of Public Informat ion to contribute more
effectively' through its training prograftnes, to the developnent of hutnan,
nanagerial and lechnical resources of the mass media fron developlng countriest

LV see A,/coNF.U5l28.
lZ/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, p. 257.



A/40/L024
Englieh
Page l'1

16. Reaffirns the importance of the rapidly increasing role of the
United Nations public information programnes in fostering public understanding
and support of United Nations activities and reguests the Department of public
Information to consider the reconnendations contained in the report of the
Joint Inspection Unit on publications policy and practice in che United
Nations systen f,]y and to report to the Co nittee on Infornation at lts
substantive session in 1986;

L7. Requests the Sec retary-cene ra1 to report to the Cornmittee on
Information, at its substantj.ve session in 1986, on lhe imptenentation of al.I
the recommendations contained in the Connitteers report and annexed to the
present resolution i

18. Also requests the Secretary-ceneral to report to the General
Assenbly at its forty-first session on the inplementation of the pre6ent
resolution and, in particular, on the implenentat ion of all t.he
reconnendations contained ln the annex to the present resolutiont

19. Takes note of the Sec retary-Gene ral I s report on the restructuring of
the Radio and Visual Services Division of the Departrnent of public
Information, L9/ ana requests that additionaL information be subnitted to the
Comnittee on Information at its substantlve session in 19861

20. Requests the ConrniEtee on Information to report to the Genefal
Assenbly at. its forty-first sessiont

2I. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-flrst
session the itern entitled "Quest.ions reLa!ing to informationn,

!91 A/3e/23s.
19/ A/40 /84L,



A/40/r024
Engl i sh
Page 12

ANNEX

Recomnendations of the comnittee on rnformation

t. The recomnendat ions of the Conmittee on Infornation approved by the
General Assembly in resolution 3g/gg A of 14 December 1984, as wetl as all
provisions of the resolution, should be reiterated' taking into account the
views expressed by delegations at che plenary neeting of the thirty-ninth
session of the ceneral Assenbly on 14 December 1984. Those reconnendations
should be inplemented in fuIl, and the sec retary-Gene ral should be requested
!o report to the Conmittee on Information at ifs substantive session in 1986
on neasures taken for the inPlenentation of those reconmendations and
provisions pend ing inplenentat ion.

2. The mandate of the Corunittee on Infornation should be renewed as set
forth in General Assembly resolution 34/182 ot 18 Decenber l9?9 and reaffirned
in Assembly resolutions 35/2OL of 16 December 1980' 361149 B of
16 Decernber 198r. 37 94 B of lo December Lg82, 38/82 B of 15 December 1983 and
39/98 A of 14 December 1984.

Pronot ion of lhe establishnent of a new, more ust and nore
ffective wor Id 10n n ed

to st and internat I under and
on the free c tion and w and beEte r ba

d nat of inforrnat ion

3. All countries, lhe United Nations system as a !.hole, and all others
concerned. should collaborate in the establishment of a new world inforrnat ion
and comnunication order based, int.er atia, on the free circutation and wider
and better baLanced dissemination of infortnation, guaranteeing the diversity
of sources of informacion and free access to infornation and. in particular.
the urgent need Eo change the dependent status of the developing countries in
the field of information and conmunication. as the principle of sovereign
equaLity among nations extends also to this field. and intended also to
strengthen peace and international understanding, enabling all persons to
participate effectively in political, economic, social and culcural life' and
promoting understanding and friendship amonq all nations and human righfs'

4. The ongoing efforts of the united Nations Educational, Scientific and
culturaL organization to contri.bute !o the ctarification, elaboratin and
application of the concept of a new world infornation and corununication order
should be noted. In this regard' consensus resolucions 4/I9 a^d 3'I adopted
on 2? Novenber 1980 and 25 Novembe r 1983, respectively, by lhe General
Conference of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization at its Clrenty-first and twenly-second sessions should be recalled.

5. Under the current international clinale of politicaL conflicts and
econonic disorders, the Corunittee on Information, futly aware and cognizant of



A/40/LO24
English
Page 13

the !.nportant contribution which the mass media world-wide can nake in
enhancing and strengthening peace, deepening international understanding,
pronoting justice, equality, na!ional independence, development, the exercise
of human righes and the establishment of a neir lrorld information and
cornmunication order, reconrnends that. the ceneral Assenbly address appeals to
the following:

(a) The international nedia, in order to obt.ain their support for the
efforts of the international conmunity tosards global developnenE and, in
Part.icular, for the efforts of the devetoping countries to achieve econonic,
social and cuLtural progress i

(b) The United Nations system as a vrhole to co-operate in a concerted
manner, lhrough its infornation services, in promoting the developrnent
activities of the United Nalions and, in particutar, the improvenent of the
conditions of the lives of the peoples of the developing countries.
Such appeals should be aimed at achieving a more conprehensive and realistic
inaqe of the activities and potential of the United Nations systen, in all its
Purposes and endeavours, as laid dowr in lhe Charter of the United Nations.
6. Article 19 of the Universal Decl-aration of Human Riqhts, l,/ which
provides that everyone bas the right to freedon of opinion and expression and
thal this ri-qht incLudes freedon to hold opinions without interference and to
seek, receive and impart infornation and ideas through any rned ia and
regardless of frontiers, and article 29, which stipulates !ha! these righls
and freedons nay in no case be exercised contrary to the purposes and
prlnciples of the United Nations should be recalled.

7. Aware of the existence of structural inbalance in the international
distributi.on of news affecting lhe Ewo-way flor.r of nelrs, lhe Connittee on
fnfornation reconrnends that urgent attention should be given to the
elimination of exist.ing inegualities and all other obstacles in the free flow
and wider and better balanced di.ssenination 6f infornation, ideas and
knowledge by, inler alia, diversifying the sources of infornation as a step
tohtards free and more balanced information and the pronotlon of the
establishrnent. ol a new world infornation and corununication order.

8. Ttte Cornmittee on Infornation reconnends that the need to be stressed to
ensute and promote the access of the developing countries to coruflunication
technology, including comnunication satellites, modern electronlc infornation
Systerns' informatics and other aduanced informatj.on and cofimunication
facilities vrith a view to inproving their ovm infornation and comnunication
systems corresponding to the specific conditi.ons prevailing in each country.

9. The Conunj.ttee on Infornation, l,rhiIe expressing satisfaction lrith the
successful co-ordination and co-operation displayed by the Departnent of
Public Infornation vrith the pool of Non-A1igned Ne\a's Agencies, as {ell as vrilh
regional ne.,rs agencies of developing countries, reconmends that the Departnent
of Public Infornation continue to strengthen this co-operation as it



A/40/ro24
English
Paqe 14

constitutes a concrete steP tovtards a more just and equltable sorld flow of
lnformation, thus contributing to the estabilshnent of a ner world informatlon
and communicat ion order.

10. The Departnent of Public rnfornat ion should be urged to monltor, as
appropriate, inportant rneetings of the Movement of Non-A1lgned Countrles. as
weII as of regional intergovernnental organizations devoted to infornation and
conmunication quescions, in Particular the fourth conference of the Pool of
Non-Aligned News Agencies to be held at llavana in 1986.

11. with regard to its co-operation wiEh the Pool of Non-Aligned News
Agenc ies as eell as with the regional news agencies in developlng counEries,
the Departnent of Public Information should co-oPerate with the United Nations
Educational, scientific and cultural organlzation in assisting chat
organization. within existing resources' ln the following activitles:

(a) PreParation and irnplernentaE lon of a plan of integrated comnunicat lon
network and regionat data and conununication centresi

(b) Provision of facilities for neetings on data and comnunicat ion
exchange of the public information bodies of the non-aligned countries.

L2. The Unit.ed Nations systen as a whole, as well as the develoPed countries,
should be urged to co-operate in a concerted nanner wich tshe developlng
countries towards strengthening the infornation and conununication
infrastructures of the latter countries, in accordance itith the priorities
attached to such areas by the developing countries, with a vieH to enabling
then to develop their own inforrnaEion and communicatlon poticieg freely and
independently and in t.he light of cheir history, social values and cultural
traditiong. In this regard, full support €or the International Programe for
the Development of Conmunication, whlch constitutes an inPortant step in the
developnent of these infrast r uclures, should a.l-ways be enPhasized.

13. The United Nations systen should constanlly pronote the creation of a
ctimate of confidence in relations amonq States' as a meang of easing tension
and facilitating the establishnent of a new world information and
coNnunication orde r .

14. Reaffirming the primary role that the General Assenbly is Eo Play in
elaborating, co-ordinating and harmonizing United Nations policieg and
activities in the field of infornat ion and recognizinq lhe central and
important ro]'e of the United Nations Educaeional, Scientlfic and Cultura-
organization in the field of information and comrnunicat ion, the Connlttee on
Infornation recomnends that the United Nations systen as a whole and all
others concerned should be urged to give that organization adequate suPPort
and assistance in the field of informatlon and cormunication. ?he DePartnenE
of Public rnfornation, in particular, should co-operate rnore regularly l{lth
lhe United Nations Educational' Scientific and Cultural Organization,
esPecially at the working level. with a view to maximizing the dontributions
of the Departnent to the efforts of that organization in prornotinq Che



A/40/t024
English
Page 15

egtablishrnent of a new rrorld informatlon and conununication order and todisseainatlng aE rlately aE possible information on the activlties of thatorganizalion in this rispect.
15. fhe conrolldated study contained in the report of thesecretary-cen era]. 2g/t on the cont.riuutLons, 

-efiects 
and level€ ofco-ord lnat ion betwee-en the united Nat ions oevetiprnent progranme, tbe unit.edNations Educatronar, screntific ana coiluiai -6i9"r,i"rtion, the rnternationarProgramne for the Developnent of comnunicat ion and the rnternationallelecomnunlcation Union ln support of tne jevefopment of infornatlon andcol*unicat 10n lnfrastructures ln the developing countries should be no.ear.

16. Recalllng it€ recomendation, as endorsed by the ceneral Assenbly in itsreaolution 39/99 A. the conmittee on fnformai ion reconmends that thesecretary-ceneral should. b€ requested t" .*p"Jit. tlre convening, jolntly withthe united Natlons Educat ional, scientific -"iJ-curtur"r organization, of around table on a new world infornation and co[tnunicati.on order.
17' The united Nations system, partlcularry the united Nations Educational,scientiftc and culturat organizailon, 

"t"uiO "ii at 
providing atl possiblesuPPort and assigcance to the developing countries, within exist.ing resourqes,with regard to their interests and needs ln the fteld of information and toaction6-already adopted rrithin the unfieA-uailons systen. including, inpart icular t

(a) Assislance to developing countries in training journalists andtechriical personner and rn setting up appropriate educational institutions andresearch facilities,
(b) cranting of favourable conditions to provide accegs Co developingcountries to such coflununication technology as i's requisite for t.heestablishnent of a natlonal infornation .na 

"oarunia"tion 
syseen andcorreEpondent with the specific situation of Che country concerned,

(c) Creatlon of eond 1t ions that wiU gradualLy enable the develaplngcountrieB to produce the connunication tecrrn"i"gv suited to their natronalneeds, as well as the nece8sary programne nateriaL, specifically for radio andtelevlsion broadcastlng, uy usin! their own resources,
(d) Assistance ln establishing teleconnunicat ion links at subregional,regional and inter reg lonal ,levels, especiaffy 

-arnong 
developing countries, freefrom cond itions of any kind.

l8' Alr the infornat ion activlties of the Departnent of public rnfornationshould be 
-guialed by and carried out in conforitty with the prlnciples of thecharter of the unired Nat ions and rhe ."pi;;li;;'for a new world infornarion

zgt A/^c.L98/96.



^/ 
40/r024

English
Page 16

and conmunicat ion oraler, as well as conform to the consensus reached 
anonq

states in resolutions 4/lg, 4/21 and 4/22 atlopted on 27 october 
1980 by the

ceneral conference "f 
th;-;"iE;; *"tiont Educational' scien!ific and curtural

organization a! its t$tenty-first session and resolution 3'l 
in Malor

Programme rlr aalopteal on 
'25 

tlovernbe r 1983 by the General conference at its
twenty-second session'

19. The sec retary-Gene ral should be requested to ensure thats the activities
of the Department of Public Infornation' as the focal Point of 

the public

inforrnation tasks of the United Nations, should be strengthened' keeping 
in

vievr the princiPles of the aharter of the United Nations and aLong 
the lines

establisheal in the pertinent resolutions of the General Assenbly and the
recornmendat i.ons of the Corunittee on Information' to ensure a nore 

coherent

coverage of and a netter fnowfedge about the United Nations and its vrork '
especial-l-y in its priority .,.u"i such as those-stated in section 

lrr'
parasraph r. of Assenbt; 

-;.;;i;; 
i"t 35/2o:I' includins international Peace and

secur ity, disarmament, peace-keePing and peace-making opera!ions'
decolonization, the promotion of hulnan rights' the struggle against apartheid
and racial discrirninatror, 

-.."n"ti., sociil and developnent issues' the
;;l.;;^ai"" of wonen in the scruggle for peace and developnent ' 

the

establishnent of the new int."t"iionur econonic order and of 
a new world

inforrnationandconmunicationorder.EheworkoftheUnitedNationscouncil
for Narnibj.a and programmes on women an'l youth'

20. The relevant Provisions of the Einal Act of the Conference 
on Securlty

and co-operation in rurJp.,-"iqn"J at Helsinki on 1 August 1975' 
and those of

lhe concluding Docunent of the rneeting of representaeives of the Participating
states of the conference on securicy and co-operalion in Europe' held 

at

l.{adrid fron II tqovenoer lgaO to S s-eptember l-983' should be recalled'

21, The finaf docurnents of the Conference of Miniscers of rnfornation 
of

Non-Aligned countries' held at Jakarta fron 26 to 30 January 1984' 7 should
be recatled.

22. The Departnent of Public rnformation shoufd be requested to continue 
its

co-oPeraeion with the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries as erell 
as with

int ergovernnent al organizations and regional organizations with a view 
to the

pro*oiion of a nevr world lnformation and cornmunication order'

23. The conference of Ministers of rnfornation of the organization of 
African

Unityr hel-d at Aaldis eo"Ua i,t March 1985, which expressed its conviction 
in

the importance of a new world infornalion and cornmunicat ion order' should 
be

noted.

24. rn the 1i9ht of Ehe grave econonic situation prevailing in Africa' 
the

sec retary-Gene ral should be requested to ensure th;t the Departnent 
of Public

rnfornation does its utflr'ost in bringing to the attention of the incernational
comnunity the real dinensions of the piigtrt of the African 

peopte and the

Erenendous efforts "r 
iii"-liii..n tou-nr'it"' wilh a view to increasing its

contribution !o alleviate this human lragedy'



A/40/L024
English
Page 17

25. The relevant resolution on the question relat.ing to inforr ation of the
Fourth fslamic Sumnit Conference, held a! Casablanca fron 16 to
19 January L9A4, 2I/ should be recalled.

Cont.inuation of examination of United Nations

relat cicularly dur
decades and of the rat ives

econonic

26. fn connect ion with the forthconing celebration of the fortieth
anniversary of the creation of the Unieed Nations, the Department of public
fnfornation should be urged t'o give appropriate support to the preparatory
Cor nittee for the Fort.ieth Anniversary of the United Nations in pronoting and
publicizlng the noble goals and acconplishments of the United Nations as a
rnajor forum for pooling efforts of States to contribute to the solution of
viEal r.rorld problems.

27- The connittee on rnfornation again seresses t.hat the Departrnent of public
Informalion should naintain editorial independence and accuracy j.n all
nateriar produced by the Departnent and shouLd promote to the greatest extent
Possible an informed understanding of the vrork and purposes of the United
Nations arnong the peoples of the r,rorrd. The Deparlment shoul.d ensure that its
outPut contains objective and equitable information about issues before the
Organizatlon, reflecting divergent opinions where they occur.

28. The Departrnent of Public Inforrnation should continue to ensure that Che
daily dispatches of the pool of Non-A]igneat Ne\.rs Agencies that il receives are
apProprialely utili?ed in the performance of the public infornation Easks of
the Unlted Nat ions !

(a) with a view to further promotion and developnent of functional and
nutually beneficiat co-operation between the DepartmenE and the pool, the
existing arrangements in the Department for the conduct of this co-operation
should be establj.shed on a more regular basis;

(b) In view of the successful joint coverage by the pool of inportant
conferenceg and other events within the United Nations systen, this practice
should be continued and further strengthened,

(c) The Department should consid€r tbe possibitiCy of utilizing the
dispatches received fron the pool to establish a data base on the infornation
and cormunication facilities in the non-aligned countries.

?L/ A/39 /L3L-9/I6414 and Corr.1, annex rr, resolurion 15l4-p(IS).



A/40/L024
English
Page L8

29. rn connection with ils annual training proqranme for journall8ts and
broadcasters from developlng countrieE, the DePartnent of Public Information
should cont inue to allocate the last rreek of the programne for a visit by bhen
to one of the developing countries that expreases readiness to recelve them
for the purpose of acqualnting thenselves with the ways in nhlch infornation
on the united Nations is received and uttli.zeal.

30. the sec retary-General shoul-d be requested once again to nake avallable to
the coflmittee on Infornation, at the earllegt, a comprehenslve report on the
outcone of the activities of the Internat ionaL Teleconununlcat ion Unlon with
regard to the world Comunications Year.

31. The exchange of infornat ion between the connittee on Information atd the
Conmission on ?ransnational Corporations ln matters pertainlng to the nandate
of the Conmittee should again be encouraged.

32. The assessnent contained in the report of the Secretary-General relsting
to the acquisitlon by the united Natlons of its ortn conmunicat ion6
satellite !=\/ in confornity with recomnendation 36 made by the Cor rittee to
the General Assernbly at its thirty-sevenEh session !!r/ should be noted, ard it
troutd be appropriace co re-examine the acquisition of such a satellite should
c ircurnstances permrt.

33. The attention of lhe pertinent organs of lhe General Agsenbly and of the
United Nations system as a whole should be drawn to tbe flndlngs of the
International T€lecomnunicat ion Unibn set forth in lt.6 repor!, 2!/ edpeclalLy
as concerns the problen of lhe geostatlonary orbiE reflected, !!g!j!Ll, ln
paragraphs 33 ard 49 of tha! report, t.aking into account the needs of Ehe
developing countr ies.

34. The comnittee on fnfornat ion reconmends the rejection of the use of the
mass nedia, especiatly radio broadcast ing, to disseminate falge or distorted
reports as an instrunen! of hostile propaganda against the soverelgnty of
other states. In this sense' it stresses Ehat the nedia should contrtbute to
the fostering of peace, mutuaL respect, non-inter ference and
self-deterninat ion.

35, with regard to the improvenent of cor runlcation infragt ruc Cures, the
committee on Information draws attention to the success attainetl by the
AFABSAT, BRASILSAT, INSAT-IB, I{ORELOS ard PAIAPA satellite systens, designed

ry A/rc.Leg/s5.
23/ See Official Records of

suDDlernent No. 21

4/ A/N.198/73.

Cor r, , sect. IV.



v10/7021
BngIt!h
Page 19

to Promote national and_regional integratlon. fn that connection. lt enaloraeathe executlon of aatellite projects sich as CONDOR by tbe Andean lroup ofcountries. The United Nations ahd the speciaLized alenclea, fn pirticufarthose in the financlal sector, should support such activlttes ar*l lniti,etive6.
36. fhe Department of public Infornation should co_operate closely uith theunited Nations Educat lonal, scientiflc ard Cul.turar orEanlzation ard the tfooLof Non-Aligned Ners Agencies to organlz" . *orf."frop, $ithln extBtingreBources, in 1995 for faniliarizatlon of news agenclea of developingcountries with modern technology of rel,evance to nefls agencled and fot thestanilardlzat ion of teachlng methods ar*l syllabuses and to produce traihlngnanuars in varlous languages for the traiiing centres of the pool and shoulatreport to the comnittee on rnfornaEion at tti .ubstantive €e.€ion rn 1gg6 0nprogress nade to thls effect.
37' rn order to enhance anafeness and underatantting of the lofty objectlvesof the Unlt.ed Nations, the Departrnent of publlc Information shou ld erdeaveurto prornote teaching in the educat ionar in€titutions of Menber states aboot thestructure, prlnciples and alms of the organtzatlon in conforrnlty ,iirr-it.relevant resolutions of the cenerar asseiurf 

"na 
an. Econonrc ard soctarCouncil. fn order to lnplenent. this reconmindation, the Departnent shouldcont inue to organize, on a yearly baElg, a fello$shtp progrannne for educators.

38' The Department of pubric rnfornatron shoulat be regueated, rn accordancettith the relevant onited Nations resor.ut ioi;, 
-lo 

concrnue to cover adeguaterythe rsraeli policies and practicea whrch vioiate and affect the hunan rightsof the populat ions in Arab_territories occupied slnce June 19571 includtngJerusalen and the colan Eeights, especially those policle8 and practices whichinPede the attainnent arNd exerci'e 
"r ur. in"ii.nabre nationar rtghts of tbePalestinian people and to report thereon to Che Conmlttee on fnformation atrEa suostant.ive sesslon in 19g6.

39. The secretary-General should be requested once agaln to nalntain thefunctions of the Middle East. and lrabi.c-Unlt as the producer of Arabictelevisl.on and radio programnes, to gtrengchen and expard thi6 uoit to enableit to function in an effective rnanner and to ieport to the Conmlttee onInfornation at lls substantive session in 1986 in the neaeures taken ininplenentation of this reconnendat ion.
40.. In view of the lnportance of gnited Natlons broadcast ing for the Europeanregion, further steps should be taken to maincain anar enhance the functions ofthe European Unlt in the Raalio Service, within exisEing resources.
41' Taking into account the needs of nunerous radro producers and journrliscsthat use French as a worklng language, andl tire iore of the rblue notesr in thepreparation of radio programmes of the United Nations, the CoftDittee onrnfornat ion requests th€ secretary-ceneral to instruct the Raatio and viEualservices Divislon of the Department of public Informarlon to produce a alallyedition, in French, of the messages concerning the activitlee of the unlteatNat ions .



A/ 40 /to24
English
Page 20

42. ahe DePartlEnt of Publlc InformaEion slEul't be requested anes to 
use the

official languages of th;-;;;e;;r 
- 
essenbry adequately in lts docunents and

audio-visual dmunentation and to arrange accorttingly for an apProPrlate.
number of sraff ln o.a., u.iii. to intoirn the public about lhe activities 

of

the Uniteat Nations. rt should also nake available to the French Languaqe
Production Section of tfre press and Publicatlons Divlslon of the 

DePartnent'

withln existtng resources' the neans that rill allow lt Eo distrlbute
consisrent prees release"'ii 

-"riii.t.nt 
quantity to saEisfy the needs of the

;;;;;;"" journalists and atelegations tha; use French as a {orking language'

43. unlteil Nations lnformaEion centre6 shoul'l continue to assigt Press 
and

lnformatlon nedia in tn"i, ,."paatlve countries in accordance wlth the 
toandate

given by the General e"""tufy 
^and, tqter alta' Promote the establishnent of a

i.r t-.ia infornation anil coununlcatton order'

44. whlle the co-operation betueen the DePartment of Public tnformation 
and

the united Nations Deve lo'Pnent Ptogranne in the field should be Pronoted 
to

in" .t*f.o^ ertent, it i" tf* irnpircant to bear in rnind the intrinsic
functions of united Nat lons infortlatlon centres as tlistlnct fron chose of the
united Nations aeveropneil";;;1;it; ' The lnfornation centres 

should

realouble their efforEa ii puufi.l"" t'he actlvities ard achievements of
operatlonal activities i"t-Jt*itet""nt' includinq those of the 

united Nations

Developrnent PrograME, taking int; account the Prloritiea determined by 
tshe

General Assembly.

45. The report of the sec retary-Gene ral cotrcerninq neasures to imProve 
the

effectiveness of uniteat Nacion3 lnfortnation centres 3:./ should 
be further

noted and the sec retary-General should be encouraged to inPlement the
proposals nade by him therein, wlthln existlng resources'

45, The Unlted Nattons infornation cenEres should inlensify direct and,

"y"t"^.ti" 
coflrnun lcat ion-"t"i"iS" uith local lnfornation and educationar

conmunittes in a nutually oeneficlal way, in accordance nlth lhe prlorities 
of

the ceneral Assernbl'y "J'a"f.f"s 
into ac-count the areas of Particular interest

to host countrleg.

47. rn accordance rith General A6senbLy resolutlon 39/98 A' by which the
Assenbly acceded to the request of the Governnent of Benin for the 

opening of

a United Nations informatl;n centre at Cotonou ' the sec 
re tary-General should

be requested to contlnu; negotiations wlth lhe authorities 
in Benin for the

rapid oPening of the centre, cithin exlatinq resources' and to 
(eport thereon

to the comniltee on rnt'ornation at its substantlve Eession in 1986'

25/ A/N.r98/75.



A/40/L024
Englisb
page 2l

48. Taking into account the reguest of the Government of porand for the
opening of a United Nat ions infornation centre at Warsalr, the
sec re tary-ceneral should be requested to continue to take appropriate stepsfor the establishment of the centre, within existing resources, and to reportthereon to the coffnicree on rnforrnation at its substantive session in 19g6.
49' The Departnent of public rnfornation should disseminate information
concerning the decisions of the united Nations dearing with acts of terrorisnin all its forns. rn this regard. all the rerevant united Nations resoluErons
and the statenent made by the Sec re tary-cene ra I in san Francisco on
26 June 1985 should be recalled.

50. The Department of pubtic Information should focus on and give wider
coverage to the economic, social and development activities of the united
Nat ions system ained at achieving u *or" 

"orpr"hensive irnage of the activrtresand potential of the united Nations system, laking into account the prioritiesset by the ceneral Assenbly, particurarry in the light of the forthclrningfortieth anniversary of the United Nations.
5.1' Note should be taken of the assessment contained in the report of the
sec retary-Gen eral ly of the experimental dairy short-wave radio broadcasts
from Headquarters pend ing the subnission to the corunittee on rnfornation oftbe final report on the results of the experinent.
52' The secretary-cenera I shourd continue his efforts to deverop a syslen formonieoring and evaluating the effectiveness of the acti.vities of lhe
Departnent of Public tnformation, par!icularly in the priority areas
deterrnined by the ceneral Assenbl-y.

53. Future reports of lhe Department of public rnformat.ion to the comnilteeon Infornation and to the General Assenbly, in particular on new program,nes oron the expansion of existing progranmes, should contain:
(a) More adequare infornation on the output of the Departnent in respecrof each topj.c included in its work programne, rrhich forns lhe basis of its

prcg ranne budge t t

(b) The costs of the activities undertaken in respect of each topici
(c) More adequate information on target audiences. end_use of the

Departmentrs products, and analysis of feedback data received by the
Department i

(d) The Departnentrs evaluation of
prog rarnnes and act ivit ies,

the effectiveness of it6 di.f ferent

26/ 
^/Ac.198/88,



^/ 
40/LO24

Engli.sh
Paqe 22

(e) A staternent detailing the priorily level that the sec re tary-General
has attached to current or future activiCies of lhe Department in docuftents
dealing with such act ivit ies.

54. The Department of Public Infornation should imProve, withln existing
resources. its data-collection Procedures with regard to the actual use made
by redisseninators of naterials ttistribut.ed by lhe DePartnent and its
infornacion centres anal aubmit a report to the conunittee on Infornation at its
substantive gession in 1986 on progress nade in this area.

55. The steps taken by the Department of Public Infornation in redressing the
lmbalance in it€ staff should be noted. T'he Departnent shoutd continue to
lntensify its efforts to that end and the secretary-General should be
requested to take urgent steps to increase the rePresentation of
under representeal aleveloPing countries and of other under represented groups of
councries, especially at the senior I'evels, ln conformity $ith the relevant
provisions of the Charter of the united Nations, and to subnit a rePort to the
connittee on fnfornat ion at its substantive session in 1986.

56- Member states sttould be called upon once again Eo tnake voluntary
cont.ributions to lhe United Nations Trust Fund for Economic and social
InformaCion.

57, fhe assessnent contained in the report of the Sec retary-Genera 1 on the
present system of charging Nember states and the nedia for video taPes, audio
tapes and news photoqraPhs of irnporlant United Nations eeenEs 4!/ should be
noted, and the Departnent of Public Infornation should report to the Corunittee
on rn fornat ion at its substantive gession in 1985 on that subject with a view
to reducing appropriately the final cost of these materials and spreading
overt iine charges legitinately incurred in an equitable way so as to enable fhe
nedia in the trtember states, Particularly in the developing countries, to give
lrider publicity to the airns and activities of the United Nations.

58. The interirn report of the secre tary-General entitled nThe Deparlment of
Public Infornation as the Focal point for the ForrnulaEion and imPlementat ion
of Informalion Activities of the United Nationsr' 28l should be noted and the
sec re tary-General should be requested t'o sutmit his final report in the light
of the ongoing consuttations within the secretariat on the role of the
Departnent $tith respect to all information activities of Ehe United Nations.
The coNnittee on Information once again reconmends that tbe proliferation of
information units in the Secretariat independent of the DePartnent be
discouraqed.

ry
4"/

A/Ac.r98/e1 .

A/I.C,L98/82.



A/40/r024
English
Page 23

59' The Connittee on rnfornatron takes note of the report on the review of thedistribution of taped rad-io prog ramm." 
-pr"Jr.Ji 

by the Departnent of pubricrnformation in New york 29l ana reque"a"- ii"-i"p"rtnent !o take steps to improvetheir distributron and t-report ti trt. c"iiitiee at its substantive session rn1986 on the inprementation of ttre recornmeiJ"iion" 
"ona"rned 

in that report.
60. ?he operations of the Non_covernnenEal Liaison services (ceneva and New york)as voluntarlly funded inter-agency projects reacning specific target audiences inthe industriari,ed countries on internationai Jevetoprnent issues should becontinued on a stable financial u""i" trr.ougi lrr" unia.u Nations participation inehese services. As wit
r inanciar p".i i. ip"ri"" l-?,.*##,*tr*;#" i: :;ff l: t :l3:,F i:;rlji j:l:biennium' Furthermore, the sec retar!-c"i..ui'JIro" rd be requested to urge arrspecialized asencies ro nake tons_teim contriuution= ;; ;;;-;;;;;.ii9"ii.r,"""services, th€reby stressing tt"i, int"r_"g.nJi-.nu.u"t".,
6I. The Joint United Nations Inforrnation Committee, as the essential instrumentfor inter-agencv co-ordinati.on and 

""-";r;;i;; in the field or puui .c 
-inrormat 

ion,should be further strengthened ana giveimoi" i""pon"ibility for the publicinfornat ion activlties of the entirJ unit"J-N"iions system.
62' The quarity, usefulness and coverage of the daily press rerease and the weekrynees sumnary issued by the Departnent oi puUl i. 

- 

frrfornat ion in a'l workingranguages shourd be further enhanced una irfi"u.a in view of the inportant publlcinformation lasks that they can perforn. ;;;;i;." provided at the press section ofthe Department both for the.medla and the a.iigici"n" should be inproved. TheDepartment should continue to co-operate croseiy $ith anat provi.ale assistance to theunited Narions correspondent" lsso"iiti;":---''
63. The Department of public Information should improve, within existing
-resources, the tirnely distribution of its materials to subscribers aid uniteaNaCions information centres, particularly the UN chronicle, in atl 

'anguages, 
anajor source of information on the unir"i 

""ii6"s 
to its recipients.

,_n.- The_ report on Che progranme and activities of the Joint UniEed NationsInfornation Com[ittee should be noted, particuiarfy in regard to Devetopment Forunas the onlv inrer-asencv publicatron 
"r'cn. unii"a' ".I 

r..;-"i"il. .i;=fi""*fra"on developnen! issues' and the secr etary-Gene rui =noura. while continuing hisefforts to secure a sound ana inaepenJe.a -i" 
"i "- 

t". the periodicar, nake sucharrangenents as necessary, through the reguLar budgeE, to ensure i!s continuedpubrication' The resources of the united-'aciois systen shourd be pooled in
::lT:: -".f _ ?tutl"T.n! , 

t!: 
!r. :nd _pevilopmen r Business and any arrenpr in the uniredNaE lons systen to duplicate cne t, r,. troti-fr?o.red by these pubr icat ions shourd beavoided. Arr speciali.zed agencies 

"no "tt., 
-organiz 

at ions of the uniteat Nationssystem should be urqed to contribute to the finJncing of this system_a,idePublication, thereby recognizing its inter_aSenJy cnur..t...

22/ A/^c.reg/9e.



A/40/L024
English
Page 24

d5. The sec retary-General should continue to ensure that Deyglop{n9+t Fofurn retaina
lrs ediroriat poticy of inteltectual inaepenaencel irru =-e"661TiE-EElFFiSff-c 

at ion

!o continue co serve as a forld-wide forun in which diverse oPinlons on issues
related to econonic and social develoPrnent can be freely exPressed'

65, The secretary-General should be encouraged to continue and intenslfy hl3
efforts !o exPlore alr posstbilities of securing the adequate resources 

for che
continuation of the world Nelrspaper Supplenen! project'

67. Ttte worlal Disarnanent Carnpaign should give full consideracion to the 
role of

the nass rnedia as the nost effeCtive rray to Pronote in world publlc opinlon a
climate of understanding, confidence and co-oFeration conducive to peace and
disarmamentr the enhancenenE of human right€ and developnent' within the world
Disarnament canPaign and Disarmament week, the DeParttne;t of PubI ic . rnformat 

ion

should fulfil the role assigned to il by the General Assembly by utilizins its
expertise and resources ii-i"uri. inforiration to ensure lts maxinum effectiveness'

68. The Departftent of Public rnfornation should be reguested to implenent fully'

"iirrln 
.*i"iing resources, the provislons of Generar AJsenbly resolution 3a/a2 

R

relating to the work progranne of the caribbean unit and lhe sec retary-Genera I
should b€ requested to report to the comnittee on Information a! its subslantive
session i.n 1986 on the ,nei=u.es taken in inplenentat ion of this reconnendation'

69. The conclusions and reconnendations adoptetl by the extraordinary.session 
of

the speci"al Comnittee on the siluation rrith regard to lhe Implenencat lon of the
DecLaration on the Granting of Inttepenalence to colonlal Countrles and Peoples, held
a! Tunis fron 13 to !7 May 1985' to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of lhe
DeclaraLion should be noled. In this regard, the Secretary-General should be
requested to incensify his efforts, ,ilhin existinq resourceE' in order to alert
wortd public opini.on agains! the itlegal occupatio; of Namibia and the tblicies 

of
apartheia of tbe south African r6girne and to continue to disserninate as widely as
possible infornation relating to ihe struggle of the oppresseal Peoples of South
Afr ica and Namibia.

70. In view of the concerns expressed by sevefal deLegations regardlng the
possible irnplicalions on producilvity arrd effectiveness of the propoged
restructuring of the nadi; and visual services Division ani taking into account lhe
necessity of strengthening the Professional staff, the connittee on Inforrnation
recommends that che sec retary-Genera I be requeated to subrnil a nritEen report on
lhe subject to the ceneral e-ssembly at its fortieth sesaion. Pending Presentatlon
of the report and a decision thereon' action on the proPosed restructurlng sbould
be postponed.

of
10
I4

B

The General Assenbly '

Recallinq its resolutions 34lI81 and 34/L82 of IS December L979' 3S/2OL
L6 Decenber t980, 361149 a ot io December LgS]- ' 37/94 

A an't B of
December Lg82. 38/82 A of 15 December 1983 and 39/98 A and B of
Decenber L984 '



A/40/L024
English
Page 25

T?linn nga" of the ongoing efforts of the United Nations Educationat,.'clentlfrc and curturar organization to contribute to the crarification,elaboration and appricatron of a new worrd information and connunication orderaM recalllng conEensus resolutions A/Lg, 3.f and 3.1 adopteal by the ceneral iConference of the Unlted Nations Educational, Scientific and CulturalOrganlzation at lls tnenty-first, trrenty-second and Ct^renty_third sessions,

_ Fgcallinq the relevant provisions of the Declarations of the Sixlh andseventh Sunnit Conferences of Non-Aligned Countries held at. Havana in LgTg yand New.Delhi in 1983 g/ as well ae the flnal docurnent of the Conference ofEne Mrnlsterg of Infornation of Non_Aligned Countries hetd at Jakarta in1954.. 7/ and che Conference of Foreign effairs uinisters of the Non_Al.ignedCountries, held at Luanda in 19g5, i; 
"nicn iie inportance of th€establishment of a new world infornacion and comnuni.cation order was stressedanew,

_ Recalllng the relevant resolutions adopted by the Assenbly of Heads ofState and Governnent of the Organization of African Unity at its eighteenthordinary session, h€ld at 
'"iroul 

in r9gr, rs7 ""u 
the conference of AfrrcanIt{inisters of rnfornacion at it. third ordin#y session, held at Addis Ababa in1985 and the conference of African Ministers if rnrormation at its firstextraordinary session, held at Cairo in Novenber 19g5, especialty thoseencouraging regional co-operation in the fiera of infornallon ani promotingthe establishnent of a new Hor1d infornation and conununlcation order,

_ _ . 
Recalling article 19 of the Universal D€ctaration of ltuman Rights. l,/whlch provides that everyone has the r j.ght to freedom of opinion andexPres6ion and that this rigbt includes freedon to hotd opinions withoutinterference and to seek, recelve and irnpart infornation and ideas chrough anymedia and regardless of frontiers, 

"na 
aiticfe is, *lri"n stipulates that theseright.s and ff,eedons nay in no case be exercised contrary to the purposes andprinciples of the Unir;d Nations,

- f9calling 
the rerevant provlsions of the pi.nar Act of the conference onSecurity and Co-operation in Europe, slgned at Helsinki on I August L975, a natthos:9f the Concluding Docunent of the meeting of representatives of theParticipating states of the conference on secuiiey and co-operation in Eulope,beld at Madrid fron ll Novenber I9g0 to 9 September 1983,

-_.-- 
Recallilq,ilso resolutions 4,,219 and 4/21 adopted by the ceneraluonrerence of the United Nations Educational, Sclentific and Culturalorganlzation at lts ti{enty-fi rst session, held at Belgrade in 1980, resolutlon2,/03 adopted by the Generar conference a! its fourth extraordinary session,

he ld ln Paris in ]-982.

Recalling also resolut ions
I985 of the General Conference

4/L9 of october 1980, 3.t of 1983 and 3.I of
of the United Nations Educational. Scientific

:g/ See A/36/534, annex rr.



A/40/to24
Engl i sh
Page 26

and Cul-tural organization. anal in this context' exPressing anew the wish 
that

the united Nations eoo."tio"ui, scientific and cultural organization
contributes to the clarification, elaboration and apPtication of the concept
of a new world lnfornation and conmunication order'

Recalling the Declaration on Fundanental Principles concerning the
contribution of the Mass Media to strengthening Peace and International
Understanding' to the Prornotion of Hutnan Rights an'l to countering Racialism'
Apartheid and rncitement to war. adoptecl on 28 November t9?g by the 

General

conference of the united Nations Educational. scientific and cultural
organiz ac ion '

Recall-ing also lhe
Preparation of Soc iet ie s

relevant provisions of Ehe Declaration on the
for Life in Peace' !g/

considering Ehat lnternational co-operation in the field of comrnunicat ion
developnent should take piu". "n 

the basis of equaltty' justice' nutual
advantage and the princlples of internationat law' to- renedy ":i::]i: --^
imbalances by strengthening and intensifying the developnent of hurnan 

ano

naterial resources' .o.turri."a ion networks and infrastructures' particularly
in developing countries and thus encourage a wider and better balanced
d issem inat ion.

Emphasizing its full suPPort for the rnternational Proqramme for the
Developnent of connun ical ioi'or tn. unite'l Nations Educational' scientific 

and

cultural Orqanization, which constitutes an essential instrument for the
developrnent of human ana rniteriat resource€ and communication infrastrucEures
in the developing countries. and the establishnent of a new world informat 

ion

and conununication order '

conscious that diverse solutions to information and conmunication
probr#-tr" ,.;I;J-;.;;;"" poritit"r, econornlc ' cultural 

and 6ocia1

probl-ems differ fron one country to another.

Recognizing the central role of, and the progress acconplished by' 
the

United Nations Educational, scientific and cultural organization in the.field
of infornati.on and cornmuiication within its nandate' as well as the United
fl.t lon" systern as a whole anat all others concerned should give that
organization adequate ";;*; 

uiJ t""i"ttn"e in the fleld of infornation an'l
comnunicat ion.

1. rar-(es note t':!h sagisfectierr ?:.:!: ll3"llrif,11"":;:::::lr::'il"L"
of t.he United Nations Educational, scientrrrc an
i;ni;;";;;;;;.';;-;; iiiernationar Prosramne ror tbe Deveropnent of
;ffifi::;;;. ;; ;. .".t.'tttt" relatins to the establishrnent of a new 

gorrd
! r -.-r !..,- lfi,;ffi;;;;" ;lu"."t^i"ii.. ton order and on the social ' econonic and culturar

imDact of the new communication lechnologiesi 3l'/

1!/ see A/40/667, annex, sect. II.



A/40/Lo24
Engl i sh
Paqe 27

2. Appeals to the nass nedia all over the worrd co explore all possibleavenues for nore equitabre internationar co_oferation rn the fiertt ofinformation and corununication and to ,e"poia-in a positive way to theexceptional opportunities now availabr-e to then in Ehe fieltt of internat ionar.relations, in order to op€n nee vistas of progress of the world conrnunity,

--,-^?:,--ul!.rlini,= 
rhe lmporeance of efforts nade to inplenent thePrlnclples set forth in the Declaration on fund.r"ntrl principles concerningthe Contribucion of the Mass.Media to strenqiiening peace and Internationalunderstanding, to the promot-ion 

"r nur"i-iiiial "rru 
ao countering Raciar-isrr.Apartheid and rncitement Eo war, adopteJ oi'iJ-norr..o"r I97B by rhe ceneratconference of the united Nations eaucatioiaf,-Scientific and culturatOrganizationr

4. Reilerates its appeal to all uenber States and all organizations ofthe un itea-FEIIEiE-lEEEilTiIErn.. i"i-i, 
-'so". 

fr,r.n.., and non_eovernmenrarorganizations and professionar organizati"n" ii the fierd of conmunication toexert every effort to rnake better t<nown tirrouqh arr. means at their disposalthe-issues.underrying che need for che aeveroiient of comnunicatlon capacitiesin developing councries as a step towards the eaEabrishnent of a ner., worr.dinfornat ion and sorununicat ion orrterl
t: 

.9onsigers that Ehe International programne for the Developnent ofconmunication of che unitear Nations ra"."ir"i"i, scientific and culluralorsanization represenrs a 
. 
signi f icant 

-;;;; -;;;;;u" 
rhe devetopmenr ofconditions for the establishrnent 

"f " ";;-r;;i; infornation and connunica!ionorder and welcornes the decisions adopted Uy lii rnt.rgovernmental council ofthe Prograflune at irs fifth ana s ixth' ses"iin"l-h" ia in paris in 1984 and 1985,

_,-.,^l: . 
!e!eF lvi !h._sat isfac ! ion the co-operat ion exlsting between the unltedNarlons, the united Nations educational, scientific and cuitural organlzationand arr other organizations of the united ttat iois systen, particularry theInternational Te leconunun icat ion Union, tt. rooJ'.rra Agriculture Organizationof the United Nat ions and the uni.r" reif 

-;o"t"i-urrron, 
whose projects have beenaPproved by the r nte roovernmental counci. of the rnternational prograrnrne forche Developnent of coimunicat ion of tf,. unir"J-'i"tions Educational, scientificand Cultural Organlzation,

7. Expresses its iP1edged..ffiij:l.::*:'":T;:",:i::.:iI:':iu."'
::"Sr:Tr" for the Development of Conrnunicat ion of the United NationsEducational, Scientific and Cultural organizafion;

+++91=-tt=ggrst" to l,rembe r srates and organizar ions andbodies of tr,e untGa-IEITEE-GlEe, .; ;;ii ;;-;;;";';";";;;ii;;_';
::::::i.::::_::?^l:n:n""".nnentat orsanizations and concerned public an.r
l:l:::",-::::.prises ro respond co lhe appeat" "r-ii"'iiii;;;;#;:;:r":;y:::::-:.::lt "a"""ii".iili'"r"i.ill":il";:r:;,:1"":;::::I;::"::"ii: ::.
::T:l::":::l..fl iu.l1n,n.".t.i rii"."iJ;";#;;':,;:i";il,"::=;:il":: ;:,.training resources, equj.prnent, technologies and staff,



A/ 40/Lo24
English
Page 28

9. Appeals to l{enber states to resPond posilively and effectively to
resolution 4/22 cortcet nLng ti. ,uaoation of telecomrnunicat ion tariffs for 

news

exchanges' atlopted by the General conference of, the United Nations
Educational, scientific antl cultural organization at its tvtenty-first session'
and to take Ehe necessary steps to irnplenent the resolution'

10. Notes with satisfaction that' a second round table on a new world
infornation and comflunication order will be organized jointly by the United
Nations and Ehe united N;tions Educa!ionat, scientific and cultural
organization at Copenhagen in April 1986;

ll. Reaffirms its strong support for the united Nations Educational'
scientific and cultural oigu"i""ti"n' its constitution' the ideals reflected
i.n it, its activities and ior jts efforts to further enhance its capabilities
with a view to Promot ing the establishnent of a new world information and
conmunication order t

L2. Encourages the D i rector -Gene ral to continue the chronological survey
of the docurnents dealing with a new vrorld i'nfornation and comnunicalion order
and an analysis of the development of this concept' and to keep the Cofltittee
informed on developndnts of this concepti

13. Encourages the Uniteal Nations Educational' Scientific and Cultural
organization to continue uia int.i"irv iEs stu'ties' pro{trannes and activi!ies

"iir, u 
rri.", to identifying new technologicar trends in information.

comnunication, telematics and informatics and assess their 
gocio-econornic and

cultural inpact on the develoPment of peoples, and in this context requests
the United Nations nducalionai' sciencific and cultural organization Eo
provide whenever necessary periodic studies relevant to these topics;

14' Invi'tes Ehe Di rector -Gene ral of the Unlted Nations Educalional'
scientific and cultural organization !o continue his efforls in the
information and conmunication f ieltt and to subnit to the General Assenbly' at
its forty-first sesslon, a cletail.ed report on tshe aPplication 9f :ht-- ..
rnternalional Progranme for the uevelopment of connunication of the united
Nations Educational, scientific and Cultural organization and the activities
relating to Ehe establishnent of a new world infornation and communrcatlon
order as well as on the soclal' economic and cultural- effects of the
accelerated development of collullunication technologies'


