








































UilITED
NATrOtt|S

Gencral Agssmbly
Dis tr .
GENERATJ

A/ 40/930
26 Nove[ber 1985
EI{GT.ISH
ORIGINA&I FRENCH

Fortieth session
Agenda item 56

CONCLUSION OF EFFECTIVE INTTRNAIIONAIJ ARR.A}IGEIIENTS TO ASSI'RE
NON-MrcLEAR.TIEAPON STATtsS AGAINST 1ITE USE OR TBREAT OF USE

OF NIJCI,EAR T{EAPONS

Report of tbe First ConEittee

Rappor teur r ur. Yannis SOUIJIOIIS (Greece)

I. INERODUCTION

l. The itefir entitled "Concluslon of effective inbernational arrangenents co
assure non-nuc lea r -weapon stateS against the use or threat of use of nuclear
weaponss report of the Conference on Disarmament" was included in the provisiona I
agenat€ of the fortieth session in accordance erith ceneral Assenbly resolution 39/58
of l2 December 1984.

2, At its 3rtl plena ry meeting, on 20 september 1985, the General Assenbly' on
the recof,aenda tion of the General Conmittee' ttecided to incluale the item in ils
agenda and to allocate it to th€ FlrBt Colnttri ttee.

3. At its znd meeting, on 9 ocEober' the First Comnittee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmanent itetns allocated to it, nanely, itens 48 to 69 and
itets 145' folloued by statenents on speciflc alisarnarent agenda items and
continuation of general debate, as necessary. The dellberations on those itels
took place be cween Ehe 3rd and the 32nd neetings, from 14 october to I Novenber
(s,ee A/c. L/ Ao/Pv. 3-32) .

4. In connection nith item 55, che First conniltee had befcre it the folloeing
docunentgr

(a) RePort of bhe Conference on Disarnanentt y

y offlcial Records of the ceneral Assenblv, Forlieth session, supplenent
No. 27 lV40/ 27 antl Corr.l) ,

85-34,126 '1623P (E)



A/40/93O
English
Page 2

(b) tetter dated 19 September 1995 from the perrnanent Representatlve of
Papua New Gulnea to the unlted Nations addressed to the secretary-ceneral,
transnltting the co@unlqu€ adopted at the Sixteenth South paciflc Forutn, held at
Sarotonga, Cook fslanda, on 5 and O Au9u6t LggS lA/40 /672-5,/17 4gB ) .

II. CONSIDER,ATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.L/40/L.LL
5.-- oh I Novenber, paklstan submltted a draft reeolution, entitled rconcluaion ofeffectlve lnternatlo-al arrangen€nta to rgaure non-nuclear{reapon states agarnEt
the use or threat of uge of nucLear weapona, (A/C.L/40/LJU, ,f, ictr nae introduced
by lts r€presentatlve at the 30th neeting, on 7 Novenber.
6. At lts alst neeting, on 18 Novetnb€r, the Flr6t Codrittee aalopted draft
resolution A/C.L/10/L.LL by a recorded vote of 122 to none, rrlth 5 abEtentions (see
para. 7). The voting was as follons r !r/

In favour r Afghanietan, Algerla, Angola, Australla, Auatria, Bahraln,
Bangladesh, Belgiultr, Benin, Boltvia, Botat ana, Brunei
Daruggalan, Bulgarla, Burkina faso, Burma, Burundi,
ByeloruEslah So\riet SociallEt Lepublic, Caneroon, canada,
central Afrlcan Republlc, chad, Chile, cbina, coloinbla,
Conoro6, ConEo, Cuba, C!n)rus, Czecho6}ovakla, Dernocrat ic' KaDpuchea r Denocratic yemen, Denmark, D,oninican Republlc,
Ecuador, EgFt, Ethtopia, Flnland. France, cabon, Gerrnan
Denocratic Republlc, cernany, Federal Bepubl ic of, chana,
Gr€ece, Gulneap Guyana, Ealtil f,onduras, llungary, Iceland,
rndonesia, rran (rslanic Republic of), rrag, rreland,
Iarael, Italy, Ivory Coast (C6te drlvoire), .tanaica, Japan,
Jordan, trenya, Lao people's Denocratic Republic, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahir iya, IJuxenbourg, Madagascar, l,talaysia,
l{aldives, t{all, Malta, t{auritania, Mexico, liongolia,
Morocco, Uozanbique, Nepal, N€therlands, Nes zealand,
Nicaragua, Nlger, Nigerla, Noruay, Oman, pakistan, panana,
Papua Ner cuinea, peru, philipplnea, poland, portugal,
Qatar, nonania, R9anda, Sanoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
slngapore, Sonaliar Spatn, Sri l€nka, gudan, Surinaner
suaulland, sweden, syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinldad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, gganda, Ukralnian
sovlet socialigt Republlc, onion of sovlet socialist
Republlc6, Unlted Kingdortr of creat BrlEain and North€rn
Ireland, united Republlc of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela,
viet NaD, Yenen, yugoalavia, Zalre, zanbla, zinbabne.

Againstr None.

Abstainlngr Argentina, Bahanaa, Brazil, India, Itni teat StateE of Anerica.

U lhe delegationa of the Bahamas,
hrlrates subseguently indtcated that theydraft regolution.

Djiboutt, Kunait and the Unlted Arab
had intended to vote in favour of the



A/40/930
Eng 1i sh
Page 3

III. RECOIIIUENDATION OA TUE FIRST @I.IIUTIEE

7. The First Connlttee recontnends to the General Assenbly the .doption of th€
folloning draft resolutionr

conclusion of effective internaEiona I arrangementg to
asgure non-nuc lea r -rlea pon Stateg againgt the use or

threat of use of nucl,ear lreapons

The General Asse0bly,

Bearlnq in nind the need to ally the legltinate concern of the gtates of
the norld vrith regard to ensuring lasting sicurity for their PeoPIe€'

Convinced that nuclear eeapons pose the greatest threat to nankind and to
the survival of clvillzation,

Deeply concerned at the continuing escalation of the arDg race, in
Particular the nuclear-anns race, anat the possibility of the use or threat of
use of nuclear rreapons,

Convinced that nuclea r dlsarmanent and the conplete ellnination of
nuclear rreapons are essenlial to remove the alanger of nuclear nar,

Taking into account the prlnci.ple of the non-use of force or threat of
force enshrined in ihe Charter of the United Natlons,

DeePly concerned about the possibility of the use or threat of use of
nuclear seaPong,

Recognizinq tha t the lndependence, territorial lntegrity anal sovereignty
of non-nuc lea r-ueapon states need to be safeguarded against the us€ or threat
of use of force, including the uge or threat of use of nuclear seapons,

congiderinq that, until nuclear disarnaneng is achieved on a universal
basis, it is imperative for the international connuni ty to deve lop effective
neasures to ensure the security of non-nuclea r-seaPon States againsC tbe use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons fron any guarter,

Recoqnizinq that effective nEasures to assure the non-nuc lea r -eeapon
States against the use or tttreal of use of nuclear seapona can constitute a
pogltlve contribution to the prevenlion of the spread of nuclear rreaPons,

Recalling ils resolutions 3251 c (XXIX) of 9 Decenber 1974 and 31,/189 C
of 2I Decernber 1976,



A/40/93O
English
Page 4

Bearlng ln olnd paragraph 59 of the Final Docunent of the Tenth Speclal
Session of the General Assenbly, g/ ln whtch it urged ehe nuclear-Heapon
States to pursue efforts to conclude, as appropriate, effective arrangements
to assure non-nuclear-neapon SEates agalnst the use or threat of use of
nuclear weapons,

Desirous of pronotlng the lrqrlenentation of the relevant provisions of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session,

Recalling ltE resolutlo,ns j3/72 B of t4 Decenber L979, 34/95 of
l1 Decenber 1979, 35/L55 of 12 Decenber 1980, 36/95 ot 9 Decenber L98f, 37/81
of 9 Decenber L982, 38/6A of 15 Decenber 1983 and 3g/Sg of 12 Decenber 1984,

Further recalling paragraph 12 of the Declaration of the I980s as the
second Disarrnament Decade, contained in the annex to it6 resolution 35,/46 of
3 Decenb€r 1980, whlch state6, int€r alia, that all efforts should be exerted
by the Connlttee on Dlsarnanentl-uilentty to negotiate rrith a view to
reaching agreenent on effective Gternatlonal arrangements to assure
non-nuclear-rreapon States against the use or threat of u6e of nuclear treapons,

Notlng the in-depth negotiations undertaken ln the Conference on
Disarnanent and itg Ad Hoc Conmlttee on Bffecltve International Arrangenents
to Aasure Non-Nuclear-Weapon States against the Use or Threat of U€e of
Nuclear l{eapons, !/ vLrh a view to reaching agreenent on thls iten,

Noting Che proposals submitted under that item in the Conference on
Disarmanent, including the drafts of an international convention,

Taking note of the declsion of the Seventh Conference of Eeads of State
or Covernment of Non-Allgned Countries, held at New Delhi fron Z to
12 March L993, g/ as well as the relevant recotmendatlons of the organization
of the Islanic Conference relterated in the final conununlqud of the Fifteenth
Islanic Conference of Foreign Minlstersr held at Sanaa from 18 to
22 Decenber L984, U calllng upon the Conference on Dlsarmament to reach an
urgent agreenent on an international convention to assure non-nuclear-Heapon
States agalnst the use or threat of uEe of nuclear neapong,

y Resotution S-LO/Z.
y lhe Comlittee on Disarnanent nas rede€lgnated the Conference on

Disarnament as fron 7 February 1984.

y Oftt"i"t n*".a" "tV:- iL lA/40/27 and Corr.l), sect. IrI.F.
V See A/38/IT2-S/L56'15 and Corr,l and 2, annex, sect. t, para. 30.

U see A/4O/I73-S,/1?03 3, annex V.



A/40/930
EngltBh
Page 5

Further notlng the EupPort expresaed ln the Confer€nce on Dlsarmaoent and
In the ceneral Assenbly for the €laboratlon of an internatioial conventlon to
asaure non-nuclear-rreapon stateB agalngt the use or threat of use of nuclear
neapons, aE htell as the dlff,lcultles polnted out in evolving a coflrbn approach
accePtable to all,

1. Reaffirms the urgant need to reach agreenent on effectlve
lnternatlonal arrangements to aasure non-nuclearlreapon seates againat the uae
of threat of use of nucLear weapons,

2. Notes with satlsfaction thab in the Conference on Disarrnenent there
is no objectlon, in principle, to the idea of an inteEnatlonal conventlon to
aagure non-nuclear-weapon State6 agalnst the use or thrert of use of nuclear
reapona' although the difficulties ae regarde evolving a cotdron approrch
acceptable to all have alao been pointed outt

3. App€als to all states, esp€clally the nuclear-weapon Stetea, to
denonstrate the polltlcal nlll- necegaary to reach agreetoent on a coEron
approach and, in particular, on a comron fornula shich could be incluiled in an
lnternatlonal lnstrunent ot a legally bindtng characte

4. RecolEtrends that further intenslve efforts should bc devot€d to the
search for guch a comlon approach or cotu|C'n forrnula and that the varlous
aLternative approaches, including in particuhr those considered in the
conference on Digarnanent, should b€ furth€r e:.plored ln order to overcone the
dlfflcultleet

5. Recomend6 that ths Conference on Dlsrrnament thould actively
cgnllnue negotiations rith'a vielr to reachlng early rgreenent and concluding
effective international arrangenents to aaaure non-nuclear{taaPon Statea
agalnst th€ use or threat of use ot nuclear weaPons ' 

taking lnto account the
nidespread support for the concluslon of an lnternational convention and
givlng conaideration to any other propoaals deslgned to aecure the aatne
objective t

6. Decides to include ln the protrlalonal agenda of lts forty-flrgt
aesElon the lten entltled 'Conclusion of, ef,fectlve international arrangenents
to agaure non-nuclear-weapon Statea against the use or threat of uae of
nuclear neapons".


