








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Aseembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/40/94L
29 November 19 85
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: PRENCH

Portieth session
Agenda item 50

CESSATION OF ALL 1EST EXPI.OSIONS OF NUCI,EAR WEAPONS

Reporl of the Firs! Conmiueee

Rapporteurs Mr. yannis SOULfOTIS (creece)

I. INTRODUCTION
t, The iten entitled ,,Cessation of all test explosions
report of the Conference on Disarnanent,. was included inthe fortieth session in accordance rdith ceneral Assemblyt2 Decenber 1984.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting. on 20 septernber I9g5, the General Assembly, on the:ecommendation of the ceneral conmittee. decided to incrude the iten in its agendaind to allocate it Co the First Connittee.

l. At its 2nd neeting, on 9 october, the First conrni.ttee decided to hold a
leneral debate on tbe disarnament items ar-rocated to it, namery, itens 4g to 69 and.tem 145, followed by statenents on specific disarnanent agenda itens and:ontinuation of the general debaee, as necessary. The deLiberations on those itens:ook place between the 3rd and tbe 32nd neetings, fron 14 October to 3 Novenber'see A/C.I/AO/PV.3-32) .

. rn connection with item 50, the First corunittee ha.i before i.t the folrovrinq
ocumenEs:

of nuclear weapons:
the provisional agenda of
resolution 39/52 ot

(b)

(a) Reporl of the Conference on Disarnanenti l-/

LeCter dated 30 January 1985 from Che represenlatives of Argentina,

^y .-,%raf Assenbly, Fortieth session, supplenento. 21 (A/40/27 and Corr.I)

5-35019 0313P (E) 
/ ...



A/ 40 /94r
English
Page 2

Greece, Indi.a, Mexico' sneden and Ehe Unite'l Republic of Tanzania Lo the United
Nalions addressed to the secretary-ceneral. transmitting the Delbi Declaration
adopted and issued at Nelt Delhi on 28 January 1985 by tbe Heads of state or
covernment of Argentina' Greece, India' Mexico' swedln and the Unlted Republic 

of
Tanzania @/ a0 /l]-4-s/1692L\ t

(c) tetter dated I lr{ay 1985 fron the Pernanent RePresentative of Indonesi'a to
the United Nations addressed to the Secr etary-cen eral ' 

transnitting the text of the
Declaration of the corulemorative Meeting in Observance of the Thirtieth Anniversary
of the Asian-Afr i.can conference' beLd at Bandung' Indonesia' on 24 and
25 April I98s lL/ 40/27 6-S117138 ) t

(d) Letter dated 19 September 1985 fron the Permanent RePresentative of Papua
New Guinea to the united Nations addressed to the secr etary-Gener a I ' transmitting
the connunique aalopteal at the Sixteenth South Pacific rorurn' held at Rarotonqa '
cook Islands, on 5 and 6 August L9e5 @/ 40 /67 2-s/17 4881 t

(e) Letter dated 30 October 1985 fron the representatives of Argentina'
Greece, rndia. Mexico, Sweden and the United nePublic of Tanzania to the United
Nations addressed to the secretary-Gereral. transmitting the joint nessage dated
24octoberlgs5addressedtothePresidentoflheunitetlstatesofAmericaandthe
General Secretary of Che central Conmittee of the Comnunist ParEy of the soviet
Union by the Heads of state or Governnents of Argentina' Greece' India' Mexico'
Svteden and the United RePublic of Tanzania (A/40/A25-3/17596\ |

(f) tetter dated 12 Novenber 1985 frorn the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republica to the United Nations addressed to the
secr eta ry-Gener al (A/40188I -s/L7 629) i

(g) Letter dated I8 November 1985 fron the Pernanent Representalive of the
Union of Soviet Sociatist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secr etary -GeneraI (A/40l900).

II. CONSIDEMTION OF PROPOSATS

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/40ll'35 aod Rev'l

5. on 7 Novernber 1985, a, l'(ex stan, Per u
Lanka. Seeden and re]ggiq subnitted a dtrft t"."l"ci"t entitled "Cessation
all test e-ptosions of ttuclear weapons" (A/c.L/40/L'351
introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 32nd
read as follovrs:

"The General- Assembly '

"Bearing in nind that lhe complete cessation of nuc lea r -r''eapon tesCs'
which has been exanined for more than twenly-five years and on which Ehe
General Assembly has adopted nearly fifty resolutions, is a basic objective
the United Nations in the sphere of disarmament' to the attainment of which
has repeatedly assigned the highest priority,

1

. The draft resolution was
meeting, on 8 November. and

ir



A/ 40 /9 4l
Engli sh
paqe 3

._ -."slressinq tbat on eigbt alifferent occasions rt has condenned such testssrn the scrongest terma and that, since 197d, ii frr. =t.c.a its conviction thatthe continuance of nucl.ear-weapon te8ting wtll lntenslfy the arna race, thusincreasing the danger of nucleir war,

_^-.^"R:t:rlattnS the.assertlon nade ln several previous resolutions thar,wnatever may be the differences on the gueation of verificaCion, there rs novalid. reagon for delaying the conclusion of an agreenenE on a conprehengivetest ban,

.- . . "Regalllnq that since I9?2 the tben S ecr etary_General of the UnitedNations deiLared that all ttr. t*frnf".i 
"nJ-r.i"ntir:.c aspects of the probl.emhave been so furly expr.ored that onry . p"iiai"rr decision is now necessary inorder to achieve final agreement, that rrhen the exist.ing neans of veriflcatlonare taken into account it is atifficult to orrJer"t.nd further delay inachieving agreement on an underground_test U"i, ..a that the potential- riaksof continuing underground nucrear-weapon c.ii.'r-rro far outweigb any possibr.erisks fron ending such testa,

_-^..]l="tl.:nn="t"" that the curfent Secr etary_cenerat, addEessing a plenaryneeting of the cenerat Assenbly on 12 Decenber L9g4, afler appealiiq fo, 
"renewed effort torrarde a comprehensive test_ban treaty, emphasized that nosingle multilateral agreenent could have a greater ef,fect on limiting thefurther refinernent of nuclear weapona and tiac a conprehensive test-ban treatyis the litmus test of the real wlllingness to-pursue nuclear disarnanent,

^ ^-^^ 
"*5+++nT:_gc!g!!rr that rhe rhree nuclear_weapon srares h,hich act asqeposrtaries of the 1953 Treaty Banning Nuclear weapon Tests in theAtmosphere, in Outer Space and under water undertook in article L of thatTreaty to concl-ude a treaty reaultinE in tfre peinanent banning of atlnuclear-test exploslons, including .if crro". 'i*pfo"ion. underground, and thatsuch an undertakinq cras reiterat; tn 1968 in-li" p...rore to the Trealy onthe Non-pror-i feracion of NucLear weapons, .il"i" vr of ehich further er.bodiestheir.solemn and legally binding comnitnenE fo i"a" etfective neasuresrerating !o cessation of the nucrear-"r-" i""" lt un ...ry date and to nucleardisarmament,

..^.. ]Pllln=,r rlld rhat rhe sane three nuclear_weapon States, in tbe reporrtney submitted on 30 July lggo to the Conmittee on Disarmament after fouryears of trilateral neootiations, stated, iii., .ri., that cbey were Inindfulof the great value for alr. r".ri"o-inii-lntt#[toi.ion of a].1 nucrear-weapontesl explosions in all environnents rrLU hav;, as well as ,conscious of theinportant responsibiritv placed rp"" iiL--ii-f,iid solurions to the r€rnainingprobl-ernsr, adding furthlrmore to be rdetermined to exert. their best effort.a
l1! "*:":utV will and persistence to bring the negotj.ations to an early andsuccessfur concrusionr sv eJ' Eqr.t

"Noting that the Third Review conference of the parties to the Tfeaty onthe Non-prol ifera tion of Nuclear ,{eapons, i.n its finaf DeclaraClon approved inseptenber 1985, called on th€ nuclear-rreapon states parrres to the Treaty toresune trilateral negotiations in l9g5 and on.ir tn" nuclear-weapons states



N40/94r
English
Page 4

to participate in the urqent negoti'ation and conclusion of a conPrehensive
nuclear-test ban treaty i" . ..it., of the highest priority in the 

conference

on Disarmament,

rBearinq in mind that the nultilateral negotiation of auch a treaty in
the conference on Disatn;nt must cover all the t'arious interrelated 

problems

which it eill be n"""t""ry-lo solve in order that the Conference nay transmit
a complete tlraft lreaty to Ehe General Assenbly '

'r. Reiterates once again iYs. gravg ggncgln Ehat nucrear-weapon 
testing

continues unabated, agai;;T-8f,;-{=E;s of the ovErwhelminq rnajority 
of Member

States t

that a lreaty to achieve ttre Prohibltion of
il"t"t ro" .il tin. i3 a natter of the

"2. Reaffirns lts convictigr.'l
a1!, nuclear-test expLosions by all
hlghest pr ior lty t

Reaffirms aLso it9 conYictio{t tT: :::h 
a treatv ttould constitute a

contrlbution of lhe utIIPst inportance to the cessation of che 
nuclear-arms

race and an indispensable elelrent for the success of the Tteaty on 
the

Non-pror i feration of ,nu"i""i 
-w""p"is, 

since it is only through the fulfilment
oi the oofigations under the Treaty tbat its three depositary Powers 

may

expect all other partree io-c"ropiv' lirtewise wlth their respective 
obligations'

-4. urges once nore the three depositary Poeers of the Treaty Banning
Nuclear weapon Bests t. =an.'itt*"ilt;;' i; ouier space and under 

water-and of

the Treaty on the Non-Prol i ferat lon of Nuclear vleapons to abide strictly 
by

their undertakings to seek to achieve the early discontinuance 
of all test

explosions of nuclear neapons for atl time and to expedite negotiations 
to

chis endt

'5' Appeals to all States nember s of the Conference on Disarmament' 
in

parlicular !o the three aeposftaty Power a of the t!'o Treaties mentioned 
in the

previous Paragraph' ao p.oaot" the establishnent by the conference. 
at lhe

beginning of lts !985 .i""iii-"e an ad hog conmittee to carry out 
the

nultilateral negotiation of a treaty on the complete cessation of nuclear-lest
explosionsi

adhocconnitteetoestablishtnonorklnggroupst'tlichhtillAeal'
i66ti'r.ly, with the follor'ring interrelated questions:

nworking GrouP I

"vlorking GrouP Ir

- Structure and scoPe of the TreaEY

- conpliance and ver if icati'on t

weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in outer space and under water and Ehe 
Treaty

on the Non-prol i feration Li wu.t"., weapons, by virtue of their 
speciar

r esponsibi I ities under ttrose too Treaties and as a Drovisional measure' 
to

bring Eo a halt eithout delay all nuclear-test explosions' either 
chrough a



v 40/94r
Eng Iish
Page 5

trllaterally agreed moratoriurn or through three unilateral noratoria, for
which thelt sould then proceed to negotiate the establishment of appropriate
means of ver lf icat ion t

'r8. Decidea to incLude in Che provisional agenda of lts forty-first
session an item entitled rcessatlon of all nuclear-test explosion€a. report of
the Conference on Disarnament |. i

6. On 20 Novenber, Austria, Ecuador, FinLand, Indonesla. Ireland, kenva, Mexico,
Paki.stan, Peru, Sri Lanka, Sweden and Yuqoslavia submlthed a reelsed draft
resolution (A/C.L/40/L.35/ReV.1), contalning the folloning changes:

(a) OperaCive paragraph I naa revised to read as follordsr

'Reiterates once ag that nuclear-weapon tests have
not yet 6topped, in spite of the eishes of the overehelming majority of uember
Statesn t

(b) Operative paragraph 3 was levised to read as follons:

"Reaffirms aleo its conviction that 6uch a treaty sould consEitute a
contribution of the utnost importance to the cessatlon of the nuclear arms
race and that the colunencement of negotiatlons on guch a treaty is an
indispensable element of the obligations of States partles to the ?realy on
the Non-Prol i ferat ion of Nuclear Weapons under Areicle VI of that Treaty".

7. At its 45th neeting, on 2l November, the Cornrnittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/40/L.35lRev,I by a recorded vote of L]-l to 2, with 25 abstentions (see
para. 10, draf! resolution A). The voting was as follous:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahanas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhut.an, Bolivia, Botssana, Brunei
DarusEalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Buiundi, Byelorussian
soviet SociaList Republic, Cameroon, Central Afrlcan Republlc,
Chad, Chile, Colonbia, Cornoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Kampuchea, Denocrati.c yenen, DJlbouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji. Finland,
Gabon, cernan Denocratic Republic, Ghana, creece, Guatenala,
Guinea, Guyana, Ilaiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Isl-anic Republic of) , frag, Ireland, fvory Coast (C6te
drfvoire), Janaica, Jordan, Kenya, KuHait, I"ao peoplers
Democrat.ic Republic, lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
l.lalaysia, Maldives, t.lali, l,taLta, l,l,auritania, llexico, l,lcngoli.a,
Mor@co, Mozanbique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeri.a, onan,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, oatar,
Rornania, Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Sonalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Seazlland, Sw€den, Syrian Arab Repub:.ic, ThaiLand, To,!to, Trinidad
and ttf,bago, Tunlsia, Uganda, ukrainian soeiet socialist Republlc'
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emlrates, Unired
Republic of fanzania, Uruguay, Veneruela, VieC Nan, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, zaire, z imbabrre.



Elglgigg: Anligua and Barbuda, Australia, BeIglum, Braril, Canada, China'
Denmark, France, cerrnany, Federal Republic of, Grenada, Iceland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxenbourg, Netherlanda, Ns Zealand,
Norway, Papua New cuinea, Portugal, sanoa, Solollpn Islands,
Spain, Turkey, Zanbia.

B. Draft resolutlon A/C.1,/4oll..49

8. on 7 Novenber 1985, Indonesia, Kenva, Mexico. P€ru, srl Lanka and lggoslgvlg
submitted a draft resolution entitled 'Cessation of all tegt explosions of nuclear
weapons'r (A/C.L/4O/L.49), which rras later alao sponsored by Ecuador. The draft
resol-ution eas introduced by the representative of tlexico at tbe 32nd neeting, on
8 Novernber .

A/40/94r
Eng l isb
Page 6

AgainsC:

9. At its 45th
Nc.L/Ao/L.ae by
draft resolut ion

In favour:

United Kingdom of creat Brltain and Norehern lreland, United
States of Amer ica.

meeting' on 21 November, the Cormittee adopted draft resolution
a recorded vote of I08 fo 3, wlth 26 abstentions (see para. 10,
B). Tbe votlng r|as as follocs:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, BotsHana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalan'
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundl, Byelorussian soviet
socialist Republic, Caneroon, Central Afr{can Republic' Chad,
Chile, Colonbia, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprua, Czechoslovakia'
Denocratic Xampuchea, DernocraEic Yemen, Dj ibouti, f,)ominlcan
RepDblic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Gerftan
Denocratic Republic, chana, Greece, cuatenala, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indon€sia, Iran (Islanic
Republic of), rrag, rvory coast (c6te d'Ivoire), Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People'B Denocratlc Republlc, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jarnahiriya, l'ladagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, !'tali, ltalta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozanbigue, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panana, Papua Nert
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru. Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Ronania,
Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadlnes, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, sonalla, sri Lanka, Sudan' Surinane, s$aziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia'
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialiat Republic, Union of Soviet
socialist Republica. united Arab Emirates, unlted Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela, viet Nan, Yemen, Yugoslavia' zaire,
Zinbabwe.

France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United StaEes of Amer ica.

Against!



M40 /9 4r
Eng Ii sh
Page 7

Abstaining: Antlgua and Barbuda, Argentlna, AustraLia, Au6tri.a, Belgrum,
Canada, Dennark, Finland, Gernany, Federal Republic of, Grenada,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxenbourg, Netherlands,
Ne\r Zealand, Norway, pof,tugal, Samoa, Solonon Islands, Spain,
Seeden, Turkey, zanbia.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COIIIIIITTEE
10. The First Comnittee recoftoends to the ceneral Assenbly the adoption of the
follo'rrinq draf t lesolution:

Ceaaation of aII test. explosions of nuclear ldeapona

A

The General Assenbly,

Beari.ng ln rnlnal that the conplete cessation of nuclear-weapon te6ts,
tbich has been examlned for more than trrenty-five years and on which the
General Assembly has adopeed nearly fifty resolulions, is a basic objective of
the Unlted Nations ln the sphere of disarrnament, to the altainnent of which lt
has repeatedly assigned the highest priority,

Stressing that on eight different occasions it has coodenned such tests
ln the strongest terns and that, aince 1974, it ias stated its conviction that
the continuance of nuclearireapon testing wilL lntensify the arns race, thus
lncreasing the danger of nuclear rar,

Reiterating tbe asserCion nade in several previous resolutions lbat,
ithatever nay be the differences oh the quesEion of verlfication, tbere is no
valid reason for delaying the conclusion of an agreenent on a conprehensive
test ban,

Recalllng Chat as early as l-972 the Secr etary-cener al of the Uniled
Naeions decLared that all the technical and scientlfic aspects of the problem
have been so fully explored tha! onLy a political decision is now necessary in
order to acbieve flnal agreement, that when the existing neans of verification
are Caken into account. it is difficult to understand further delay ln
achievlng agreenen! on an underground-test ban, and that the potentlal risks
of continuing underground nuclear-weapon tesLs would far outvreigh any possible
risks from ending sucb tests,

Recall,ing also_ that the current Secr etary-ceneral, addessing a plenary
neeting of Ehe ceneral- Assenbly on 12 Decenber 1984, after appealing for a
renewed effort tonards a comprehensive test-ban treaty, enphasized that no
single multllateral agreenent could have a greater effect on liniting the
further refinenent of nuclear weapons and that a conprehensive test-ban treaty
is the litnus lest of the real willingness to pursue nuclear disarnanent,



^/ 
40 /9 4L

Engli6h
Page 8

Taking into account that che three nuclear-weapon staEes which act as
depositaries of the 1963 Tr eaty Banning Nuclear weapon Tests in the
Atmosphere' in Outer Space and under Water 3./ undertook in article I of that
Treaty to conclude a treaty reeultlng in the permanent banning of all
nuclear-test explosions, including all those explosions underground, and that
such an undertaking $as relterated in 1968 in the preanble to the Treaty on
lhe Non-Proli ferat ion of Nuclear !{eapons, E/ arEicle vI of which further
embodies their 3ol enn and legally bindlng connltment to take effecgive
measures relatinq to cessation of Ehe nuclear-arms race aL an early date and
to nuclear dlsarnanent,

Bearing in nind that th€ same ghree nuclear-weapon States' in the report
they submitted on 30 JuIy 1980 to the Corunittee on Disarnan€nt, after four
years of trilateraL negotiations, 6tated, inter alia, that they l'ere rmlnalful
of the great value for all mankind tha! the prohibigion of all nuclear-rreapon
test explosions in all environnents ltitl havetr as well as iconscious of the
inportant responslbllity Placed upon tben to flnd solutions to the renalning
problemsn, adding furthermore that tshey were "detelmlned to exert thelr beat
efforts and necessary will and persistence co bring the negotiations to an
early and successful concLusionn, y

Notinq that the Third Revien conference of bbe ParEies to the Treaty on
the Non-Prol- i feration of Nuclear WeaPons, in its Final Declaration !r/ approved
in September 1985, called upon the nucleat-weapon States parties to the Treaty
lo resune Erilateral negotiations in 1985 and called upon all the
nuclear-lreapons States to participate i.n the urgent negotiation and conclusion
of a comprehenslve nuclear-tesE ban treaty as a nabter of lhe highest priorlty
in the Conference on Disarmanent,

Bearing in tnind that the nultilaterat negotiacion of such a treaty in the
Conference on Di.sarmament must cover all the various interrelated problems
which it will be necessary to solve in order thae the conference may lransmlt
a conplete draft treaty to the General Assembly,

I. Reiterates once again its grave concern that nuclear-neapon tests
have not Ver stoppea, in lpiiJof the wishes of the overwhelrrlng majority of
Member States t

2. Reaffirms i.ts conviction that a treaEy to achieve the Prohibition of
all nuclear-test explosions by alL slaEes for all tine is a matter of the
highest pr ior ity I

Uniled Nations, Treaty series, vol. 480, No.

Resolution 2373 (XXII), annex,

see CDlI3g/Append ixlvol. II, document CD/L3O.

see A/C.L/AO/9 ' annex I.

u
v
4/

lr

6949, p. 43.



A/40/94L
Engtish
Paqe 9

3. Reaf f irn€ also$_convicgion that such a treaty sould consEitute acontrtbuti6i-rcf thETEfriet inportance to the cessation of the nucrear arms
race and that the comnencenent of negoliations on such a treaty is an
indispensable elenent. of the obligations of States parties to the Treaty on
the Non-Prol iferatlon of Nuclear l{eapons under article vr of that lreatyr

Urges once more the three depositary porrers of the Trealy Bannlng
Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atnosphere, in Outer Space and under Water and of
the Treaty on the Non-prollferacion of Nuclear weaponG to abide strictly bytheir undertakingB to seek to achieve the earry discontinuance of alr test
explosions of nuclear weapona for all tlne and co expedlEe negotiations tothis endl

Appeals to alr states nenbers of the conference on Dlsarmamen!, inparticular to the three depositary powers of the Treaty Banning Nucrear rrleapon
Tests in the Atnosphere, in Outer Space and under Water and of the Treaty on
the Non-Pror i fera t ion of Nucrear t{eapons, !o pronote the estabrishr.nt $ theconference at the beginning of tts 19g6 session of an ad hoc committee to
carry out the multilaeeral negotiation of a treaty on llE-comprete cessationof nuclear-test explosions;

6. Recor''.ends to the conference on Disarmanent that it instruct such an.d tro" .oriiGE-.stablish trdo working groups ehich will deal,
respectively, nith the folloeing ineerrelated guestions:

(a) Working Group I - Structure and scope of the Treaty,
(b) Working croup II - Conpliance and verificationi
7. Calls upon the States depositaries of the Treaty Banning Nuclear

weapon Tests in the Atmosphere' in outer space and under waler and the TreaEv
on the Non-Prol i feration of Nuclear Weapons, by vi.rtue of their special
responsibilities under those tlro Treaties and as a provisionar measure, Eo
bring to a halt without delay atl nuclear-test explosionsr either through atrilaterally agreed $oratorium or througb three unilacerar noratori.a, forphlch they nould then proceed to negotiate the establishrnent of appropriate
neans of ver lf ication 3

.8. Degides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty_firstsession the it.en entitled "Cessation of all nuclear-test explosions,,.
B

The General Assenbly ,

_ .Bearing in nind the deternination, procl_ai.ned since 1963 in the TreacyBanning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Aenosphere, in OuEer Space and under
Wabet. y to seek to achieve the discontinuance of all test explosions of
nuclear weapons for all time and to continue negotiations to tbis end,



A/40/94r
Bnglish
Page 10

Bearing algo in nind that ln 1968 the Treaty on the Non-Prolifer ation of
ttuct"l!-frEl$iEl rec.tt.a such determlnation and lncluded in its article VI
an undertakinq by each of ltE partles to pursue negotiations in good faith on
effective measufeg relating to cessation of the nuclear-arns race at any early
date,

Recallinq tbat in its resolution 2028 (xX) of 19 Novernber 1965,
un.tti6oEl-y .pproved ' lE had etreEsed 

that one of the basic principLes on
whlch the treaty to prevent the prollferation of nuclear-seapons should be
based was that. such treaty, whlch $as then to be negotiated, should enbody an
acceptable balance of mutual r espons ibilitles and obligatlona of the nucl-ear
and non-nucleaf lrowers,

Recalling also that the Ehird Revleu Conference of tbe Parties to the
Treaty on the Non-Prol lferation of Nuclear Weapons, in its Final
Declaration !r/ approvetl by consensus on 21 september 1985, exPressed its tleeP
regret that - conprehensive multllateral nuclear test ban treaty had not been
concluded so far and called for urgent negotiations and conclusion of such a
treaty as a natter of the highest priorlty,

Noting that arti.cle II of the Treaty Banning Nuclear vleapon Tests in the
atrnosilEEl in outer sltace and under wat€r provides a procedure for the
consialeration and evenlual aitoptlon of anendnents to ehe Treaty by a
Conference of its PaE ties,

Reconrnends that States parties to the Treaty Banning Nucl'ear Weapon Tests
ln the Atnosphere, in outer space and under water carry out urgent
consult.ations anong themselves as to the advi8ability and most appropriate
neEhod of taking advantage of the provlstons of, tts articl-e II for the
conversion of the partial nuclear test ban trealy into a Comprehensive nuclear
tesl ban treaty.


