








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Asoembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/40/8'77/Add.1
5 December 1985
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fortieth session
Aqenda item 65

REVIEW OT THE IMPLEMEIITATION OF THE RECOMIiIENDATIONS
AND DECISIONS ADOPTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEIVIBLY AT

ITS TENIH SPECIAL SESSION

Report of the First Comrnittee (Part II)

Rapporteur: I4r. Yannis SOULIOTIS (Greece)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. Part I of the report of the First Committee on item 65 (A/40/877) dealt with a
draft resolution entitled "Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations"i Part II deals with
all other proposals subrnitted under item 55.

2. In connection with item 65, in addition to the documents listed in part I' the
First Committee had before it the following documents:

(a) Letter dated 5 November 1985 from the Permanent Representative of Angola
to the United Nations acldressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the Final
political Declaration and the Economic Declaration adopted by the Conference of
Foreign Ministers of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Luanda from 4 to
7 September 1985 (A/40/854-S/I76L0 and Corr.l)t

(b) Letter dated 18 November 1985 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Sociatist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/4O/900 and Corr.l) ;

(c) Letter dated 18 November 1985 from the Permanent Representative of Brazil
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C-L/40/I0) i

(d) Letter dated 4 December 1985 from the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Uganda to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/C.I/40 /L4') .

85-36077 4645P (E)



A/40/877 /Add. I
English
Page 2

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draf t resolution A,/C.1,/40,/L.6

3. On 29 October, the German Democratic Republic submitted a draft resolution
entitled 'rObliqations of States to contribute to effective disarmament
neqotiations" (A/C.l/40/L.61 , which uras introduced by its representative at the
29th meeting, on 6 November. The draft resolution read as follows:

"The*Qeneral Assembly,

"Having reviewed the implementation of the reconmendations and decisions
of the General Assemblv adopted at its tenth special session, the first
special session devoted to disarmament,

"Bggg]fjlg its relevant resolutions on this subject,

"Deplor.ing that no tangible progress has been achieved in tbe
implementation of these resolutions and alarmed at the growinq threat of
nuclear war, which can lead to the destruction of civilization on earth,

"geariqq in mi,nd the fundamental importance of disarmament for the
accomplishment of the principal purpose of the United Nations, 1.e.
maintaining international- peace and security and settlirq international
disputes by peaceful means,

"Convinged that the active participation of Member States in effective
disarmament negotiations is imperative for discharqing their responsibility to
contribute to tbe maintenance of international peace and security, and tbat
atl States have the right and duty to contribute to efforts in the field of
d is3rmament,

"Stressing the importance of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assenhrlv, whi.ch was unanimously and categorically
reaffirmed by all t!4ember States at the twelfth special session, as the
comprehensive and long-term basis for efforts tohrards halting and reversinq
the arms race,

"Beli-evi.ng that the preservation of the existing bilateral, r€gional and
qlobal system of arms tirnitation and disarmament aqreements as well as the
strict observance of such aqreements are important elements of disarmament
efforts at all leve1,s,

"Str,essing the commitment of States, which they fiave undertaken under
terms of international law in various existing international instruments, to
conduct negotiations which would lead to early agreements on disarmament
measures, in particular on nuclear disarmament, and which serve the overall
objective of general and complete disarmament,



A/40/877 /Add.
Eng li sh
Page 3

"NQtinq with gre-at cQncern tfrat no real progress in disarmament
neqotiations has been achieved for several years, which has rendered the
current international situation even more dangerous and insecure, and that
negotiations on disarmament issues are laqging far behind the rapi.d
technological development in the field of armaments and the relentless growth
of military arsenals, particularly nuclear arsenals,

"consideriqg that it is more than ever imperative in the present
circr.ffiTo give a new impetus to negotiations in good faith on
disarmarnent, in particular nuclear disarmament, at all levels and to achievegenuine proqress in the immediate future, and that all states shouLd refrain
from any actions wtrich have or may have negative effects on the outcome of
disarmament negotiat ions,

"Fxprqssing its concern about attempts at using disarmament negotiations
as a cloak for the arms race as nell as attempts at striving for rnilitary
superiority, trhich constitute a serious obstacle for such negotiations,

"0rlelcom-ing the neqotiations between the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and the United states of America on the range of issues related to
space and nuclear weapons, both strateqic and medium-range, ained at solving
in practice the task of averting an arms race in outer space and of
terminatinq it on earth,

"3!grs of the necessity to proceed to honest, business-like and
constructive multilateral negotiations in good falth aimed at the achievement
of early results, in particular at the prevention of nuclear ,lar, the
cessation of tfre nuclear arms race and at nuclear disarmament,

"1. Expresses its qrave concern over the acceleration and
intensification of the arns race, paiticularly the nucLear-arms race, andplans to spread it to outer space, as well as the continued, very serious
deterioration of relations in the world;

"2. Expresses its conviction that it is the foremost obligation of allStates, in particular the nuclear-weapon States and the other militarilysignificant States, to Iive uP to their commitment undertaken in international
instruments and to the recommendations and decisions of the General Assemtrlyat its tenth special session and to conduct serious negotiations on the basis
of eouality' reciprocity and undiminished securitv to halt and reverse the
arms racei

"3. calls upon states to undertake genuine negotiations in a
constructive and accommodating spirit and taking into account the interest ofthe entire international community in order to halt the arms race,
particularLy the nuclear-arms race, and to achieve disarmament,.

"4. Calls upo{r the Conference on Disarmament to concentrate its roork onthe substantive and priority items on its agenda, to proceed to negotiationson the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmarnent, on the



A/40/877 /Add. I
Eng 1i skr
Page 4

prevention of nuclear hrar as well as the prevention of an arms race in outer
space without further delay and to elaborate drafts of treaties on a
nuclear-weapon-test ban and on a conplete and effective prohiftition of the
development, production and stockpilinq of all chemical weaPons and on their
d est r uc tion I

'5. Calls upon States engaged in disarmament negotiations outside the
Unitect Nations framework to intensify their efforts with a view to achieving
concrete results without delay, and to implement such results immediatelv so
as to create favourable conditions for further progressi

"6. Underlines the need for preserving the existing system of bilateral,
reqional and qlobal disarmament aqreenents;

"7. Invites all States enqaged in disarmament and/ot arms limitation and
reduction negotiations outside the United Nations framework to keep the
General Assenbly and the Conference on Disarmament approPriately informed of
such negotiations without prejudice to their Proqressi

"8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the item entitled rlmplementation of the recommendations and decisions
of the tenth special sessiont."

4. At the resuest of the sponsor, no action was taken on draft resolution
A/C.r/40/L.5.

B. Draf t resolution A/C.1,/4OlL.7

5. On 30 October, ggE, the,German Qeqocratiq Republic and IlggEIJ submitted a
draft resolution entitled "Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear
rdar" (A/C.I/AO/L.71 , whicfr was later also sponsored by Bg$anla. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of the Gerrnan Dernocratic Republic
at the 34th meeting, on 12 Novenber.

6. At its 44th meeting, on 20 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.\/4O/L.7 by a recorded vote of 98 to 19, with I abstentions (see para. 59,
draft resolution A). The voting lras as follows: L/

l/ The delegation of Swaziland subsequentlv indicated that it had intended
to vote in favour of the draft resolutlon.



In favour:

A/40/877/Add.1
English
Page 5

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Arqentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, qrunei Darussalam,
BuIgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad,
Comoros, Conqo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czecboslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Diibouti, Ecuador, Egvpt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German
Denoeratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Hungarv,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Irao, freland,
Ivory Coast (C6te drfvoire), Jordan, Kenya, Kulrait, Lao Peoplers
Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
llalaysia, ltlaldives, Mali, Maur itania, Ivlexico, ttlongolia, [4orocco,
Mozambioue, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panana, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of .Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmarkr' France, Gernany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New ZeaLand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
Aner ica.

Against:

Abstaining: Austria, Brazil, ChiIe, China, Colombia, Doninican Republic,
Guatemala, Paraguay.

C. Draf t resolution A,/C.l/4OlL.8

7. On 31 October, Australia, Belqiun, Canada, Denmark, Gerrnanv, Federal Republic
of, Italvr Japan, the Netherlands, Nqw Zealand, Norwav, Portugal, Tqrkev and the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland submitted a draft resolution
entitled I'Bilateral nuclear and space arms neqotiations" (A/C.I/40/L.8), which was
later also sponsored by Rwanda and E!ggffg!$. The draft, resolution hras introduced
by the representative of the United Kingdom at the 30th meeting, on 7 November.

8. On 20 Novenber, Afqentioar Egqador and ggligg submitted an amendment to the
draft resolution (A/C.I/40/L.801 , by which operative paragraptr 2, which read:

"!Ig.gg the Governments of
without pre-conditions towards
enable the negotiations to make

would read as follows:

"9IgSg the Governments of
to0rards the achievement of that
to make substantial progress'r.

the two States concerned to work actively and
the achievement of that objective in order to
substantial progress",

the two States
objective in

concerned to work
order to enable the

actively
negoti ations



A/40/877 /Add.1
Eng I isft
Page 6

9. At its 47th meeting, on 22 Novenber,
A/C.L/4O/L.80 bY a recorded vote of 61 to
as follows:

the Committee adoPted amendrnent
24, with 23 abstentions. The votinq was

In fevour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burmar Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, congo, cuba, cyprus, czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, German Democratic Republic'
Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic
Republic of), Iras' Ireland, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic'
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, ltadagascar, tvlalaysia,
Mexico, ltongolia, Morocco, Nicaraqua, Nigeria, Panama, Pertl'
Philippines, Poland, Romania, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Tunisia, uganda, ukrainian soviet socialist Republic'
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic of Tanzania'
uruguay, venezuela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, zaitet zambia, zimbabwe.

Australia, BeIgium, Canada, Dennark, Fiji, France, Germany,
Federal Republlc of, Iceland, Israel, Ita1y, JaPan, Luxembourg'
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Norway, Portuqal, Rwanda, Samoat
Spain, Swaziland, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Aqainst:

Abstaininq: Bahamas, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhut,an, Burkina Faso, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Gabon' Ghana,
Jamaica, Mauritania, Nepal, Pakistan, Papua New Guinear Paraguay'
Senegal, Singapore, Sonalia' Sudan.

10. At the same meeting, ttre Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.I/40/L'8, as
amendeal, by a recorded vote of 7l to none, witb 5l abstentions (see para' 59, draft
resolution B). The voting was as follows:

In favours Australia, Austria, Belgiun, Bolivia, Brunei Darussalam, Burundi,
Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China'
Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Kampuchea, Denmark, Djibouti,
Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany'
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, ItalY, Ivory Coast (C6te drlvoire) I
Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Luxembourg, l'talaysia, ltlaldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Morocco, NepaI, NetherlandS, New Zealand'
Niger, Niseria, Norway, Papua New Guinea' Paraquay, Philippines,
Portugal, Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal, Sinqapore, Spain, Swaziland'
Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobaqo, Tunisia, Turkey,
united Kingdom of Great Britain and Norttrern Ireland, united
Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay' Zaire,
Zambia.

None.Against:



A/40/877/Add. I
Engtish
Page 7

Abstaininq: Afghanistan, Argeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Bvelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo, Cuba, Clrprus,
czechoslovakia, Denocratic yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Hungarv, fndia, Indonesia, Iran (fslamic
Repubric of), rraq, Lao peoplers Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madaqascar, Mexico, ltongolia, Nicaragua,
Pakistan, panama, peru, poland, Romania, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Uqanda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Repubtics, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, yugoslavia, Zinbaboe.

D. rye!_t qesolutioo A/C.t/40/L.13 and Rev.l

lf. On 5 November, the Gqrman Delrocratic Republic submitted a draft resol.ution
entitled rrNuclear eeapons in all aspects'r (A/C.L/4O/L.13), ohich was introduced by
its representative at the 34th meetinq, on 12 Novenber.

L2. On 12 NQvernber, Afqhanistan, Anqola, Bulgaria, the Byglorusqian Soviet Soyiet
Socialist Rqplt$lic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the gerrnan Demogratic Republic. ltuDgary,
the Lao Peoplerr Oenlaaratlc Repu the Ugrainian*
Soviet Socialist Republic, the qnioq of Sgviet _qocialist Repubtlcs and Viet Nam
submitted a revised draft resolution (A/C. I/40/L. l3lRev. l) , which was introduced by
the representative of the German Denocratic Republic at the 35th meeting, on
13 November, and contained a new fourteenth preambular paragraph, reading:

"IEhi!g-!g!g of the Final Document adopted at the Eighth Conference of
Foreign Ministers of Non-Aligned Countries held at Luanda in September 1985
nbich states, inter alia, the urqent need to initiate nultilateral
neqotiations in the Conference on Disarmament on the cessation of the
nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament'.

13, At its 43rd meeting, on 20 November, the Cornmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/40/L.].3/Rev.l bv a recorded vote of 99 to 19, with 10 abstentions (see
para. 59, draft resolution C). The voting rras as follows:

. In favour; Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Botsoana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, German Democrattc Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islarnic
Republic of), Irao, Ivory Coast (Cdte drlvoire), Janaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwaitr Lao Peoplers Democratic Republ.ic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar, Maldives, uali,
luexico, Mongolia, !{orocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar,



A/40/877/Add.1
Eng lish
Paqe 8

Again-gt:

Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
sudan, suriname, swaziland, syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, To9o,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uqanda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Social'ist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay' Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Ieeland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxenbourg,
Netberlands, Neo Zealand, Norway, Portuqal, Spain, Turkev, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
Amer ica.

Abstaining: Bahamas, Bolivia, Central African Republic' Chad, freland,
[talaysia, Niger, Papua Nen Guinea, Roanda, Sweden'

E. Draft resolution A/9.1/40lL.19

14. On 5 November, Alqeria, Arqentina, Banqladesh, Ecuador, Indonesiar Mexicor
Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Uququav and Igggglgglg submitted a draft resolution
entitle@ociammeofoisarlnalrrerrc(^/c.|/40/L.19),whichwaslater
also sponsored by Ronaniq and gg9g. The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of Mexico at the 3lst meeting, on 7 November.

15. At its 37th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/4}/L.19 without a vote (see para. 59, draft resolution D).

F. Draft resolu!ign A/C.I/401i,.20

16. On 5 November, Afohanistan, Anqola, Bulqaria. the Bvelorussian Sovie!
Sociatist Republ.ic, Cubi, Ciechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republ.iq.r the leg

zambique, the
Eion entitled "Disarmament leeek"

@o/L.2o|.Thedraftresolution!,asintroducedbytherepresentativeof
Mongolia at the 34th neeting, on 12 November.

L7. At its 39th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/40/t.20 by a recorded vote of Il0 to none, with 22 abstentions (see Para.59,
draft resolution E). The votinq leas as follows:

In favour; Afghani6tan, Alqeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria' Bahrain'
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Conqo' Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Demoeratic Yemen, Diibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuarlor, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gatron, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hunqary, India,



}esi!:g:
AbstaiDing 3

A/40/877/Add.1
Eng li sh
Page 9

Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq, Ivory Coast (C6te
drlvoire), Janaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao people's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, tiberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, lladagascar, Malaysia, MaIdives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, llexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, pakistan, panama, papua Nere
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, R!,randa, Sao
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabiar Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Sur:inane, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

None.

Australiar Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italyl tuxembourg,
lilalawi, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, paraguay, portugal,
Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Unitecl States of America.

G. Draf t resolution A/C.I/40,/L.23 and Rev.I

I8. On 6 November, Cvprus submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prevention of
nuclear war[ (A/C.1/40/L.23), which read as follows:

"@,
rCoDsiQering that nuclear weapons, in their development, have become so

vastly destructive to. the atnosphere that any country using them would,
because of the effects of the winds, suffer their devastating consesuences no
less,

"3ggIj.39-l!-g,i!9, that eminent international scientists have establishe<t
definitively tbat nuclear ueapons cannot be used without inevitably causing
self-destruction to the user country itself,

"I. Condemns and.outlaws nuclear rdeapons and prohirrits their future
development or production;

"2. Calls upon the nuclear Poners to desist from any development or
production of nuclear weapons and to abandon all possibility of the use or
threat of use of such neapons.n

19. On 7 November, Cvprus submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.I/40/L.23/Rev.1), nbich was introduced by its representative at the 35th
meetinq, on 12 November. The revised draft resolution read as follotrs:



A/40/877/Add.l
Eng I ish
Page l0

"@,
xConqiderinq that nuclear eeapons, in their development, have become so

vastly destructive to the atmosphere that any country using them pould,
because of the effects of the winds, suffer their devastating conseguences no
less,

".ESg,Ij.gg_jLgiS that eminent international scientists have established
definitively that nuclear weapons cannot be used without inevitably causing
self-destruction to the user country itself,

tr1. Condemns and outlaws nuclear weaponsi

"2. Prohibits their future developnent or production;

'3. Calls upon the nuclear Poners to (a) desist from further development
or production of nuclear ueapons and (b) abandon all concept of the use or
threat of use of such $eaponsi

'4. Reconnends that the Secretary-General report thereon to the General
Assembly at its forty-first session.o

20. At the resuest of the sponsor, no action gas taken on draft resolution
A7g. 1 / A0 /L. 23,/Rev. 1.

H. Draf t Qecision A,/C.l/4OlL.28

2L. On 6 November, Cuba, Ecuador, Eqvpt, tUexico, Sri Lanka, Sweden and Yugoslqvia
submitted a draft decision entitled "Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies"
(A/C.\/4O/L.28), which was later also sponsored by Carneroon and Niqeri-q. The draft
decision was introduced by the representative of Sweden at the 32nd meeting, on
8 November.

22. At its 3?th meeting, on 14 November, the Connittee adopted draft decision
A/C.L/40/I.28 without a vote (see para. 60).

I. Draft resolution A/C.1/4OlL.41

23. On 7 November, the q.g!gng-g- the Byelqruss_ian-soviet Socialist Rqpubli-c'
Cameroon, the Ggrman Deqgqfat-ic Republic, Greece, Iran (Islamic Republic of) '
Mexieor- USrgSSgr_3g$Elgg and Spain submitted a draft resolution entitled "Report#
of the Disarmament Commissiono (A/C.I/4O/L.41), which was later also sponsored by
Ecuador and 3gg3!i3.

24. At its 37th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/4O/L.41 without a vote (see para. 59, draft resolution F).



A/40/877/Add.1
Eng Iish
Page lt

J. Draft resolution A/C.l/4OlL.43

25. On 7 November, Banqladesh, India, Mexico, pakistanr Sweden and IgggglEgig
submittedadraftresotuiiffiffectsofnuclear'ar,irrctuoinq
nuclear wintern (A/C.L/40/L.43), which was later also sponsored by Ecuador. The
draft resolution nas introduced by the representatiee of trtexico at the
32nd meeting, on 8 Novenber.

26. In connection with the draft resolution, tbe Secretary-General submitted a
statement on the progranme budget implications (A/C.I/4O/L.781.

27. At tbe 44th meeting, on 20 November, the represenCative of Mexico oral.ly
revised the draft resolution, changing the first line of tbe third preanbular
paragraph, which had read:

"Ig!!!g that the conclusions of those studies confirm that nuclear winter
and ...t,

to read

"Igllgg that t.he conclusions of sorne of those studies confirm that
nuclear ninter and ...".

28. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.L/40/L.43, as
orally revised, bV a recorded vote of 118 to 1, with t0 abstentions (see para. 59,
draft resolution G). The voting rras as follows: 2/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, BoLivia, Botswana,
BraziI, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo,
Cutra, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Karnpuchea, Democratic
Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egyptr
Ethtopia, Eiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Gbana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland,
India, Indonesiar Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iras, Ireland,
Ivory Coast (C6te drlvoire), Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kureait, Lao
Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Janahiriyar
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, lltali, ualta, Mauritania, t{exico,
t4ongolia, l{orocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Net, Zealand, Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Ronania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,

The delegations
intended to vote

of
in

2/
had

Nicaragua and Snaziland subseouently indicated that
favour of the draft resolution.they



A/40/877/Add. I
Eng lisn
Page 12

Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailandr Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Eunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics'
United Arab Emirates, United RePublic of Tanzania, Uruquay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaite, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aqainst: United States of America.

Abstaininq: Belgium, Cameroon, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern lreland.

K. Draft resolution A/C.1/40lL.47

29. On 7 November, Afqhanlstan, Anqola, Bulqaria, the Bvelorussian Soviet-
Socialist Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, the German
Democratic Republic, Hungarv, the tao People's Democratic Republic, Monqolia'
Mozambisue. PoIand. Romanla, the Svrian Arab Republic, the Ukrainian Soviet

-

Socialist Republic and l{ig!_Ig!g submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prohibition
of the nuclear neutron neapon" (A/C.L/40/L.471, ohich was introduced by the
representative of the German Democratic Republic at the 34th neeting, on
12 November.

30. At its 43rd meeting, on 20 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.I/4O/L.47 by a recorded vote ot 62 to 11, with 56 abstentions (see para. 59,
draft resolution H). The voting nas as folows:

In favourS Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Benin, Botshrana, Bulgaria,
Burkina 8aso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Chad, Congor. Cuba, Cyprus, Czecboslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Ethiopia, fiji, Finland, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea, Hungarvr India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic RePublic
of), Irao, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democfatic
Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Mali'
Mexico, Mongol.ia, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Panama, Peru,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Swaziland, Syrian Aratr
Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Sovi.et Socialist Republics' United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen'
Yugoslavia, Zaite, Zambia, Zimbabne.

Againqt: Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Portugal, Turkey, United Klnqdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaininq: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahanas, Bangladesh, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burma, Central African
Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Kampuchea,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Gabon,



' A/40/877/AilA-|.

l#'ii
Greece, Guatemala, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland,
Ivory Coast (C6te drf voire) , Jamaica, Luxembourg, !,lalaysia,
l4aldives, mauritania, luorocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Niger, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Rwanda, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Surinarne, Sweden, Uruguay, Venezuela.

L. Draft resolution A/C.l/40ll,.48

31. On 7 November, Afghanistan, Anqola, the
Democratic Yemen, the German Democratic Republie, Guyana. Hunqarv, Indonesia, the
Lao Peoplers Denocratic Republic, Monqolia, Mozambique, Poland, the Svrian Arab
Republic, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and Viet Nam submitted a draft
resolution entitled I'International co-operation for disarmament' (A/C.l/4O/L.481 ,
nhich nas introduced by the representative of Czechoslovakia at the 35th meeting,
on 13 November.

32. At its 38th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/40/t.48 bV a recorded vote of 91 to 19, with 14 abstentions (see para.59'
draft resolution I). The voting was as followss y

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan,
BoIivia, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba'
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana Honduras, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ivory Coast (C6te
dtlvoire), Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democratic
Republic, tebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya' t'ladagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, ttlaldives, Mali, llauritania, llexico, Mongolia,
ltozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome
and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somal.ia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay' Venezuela, Viet
Nan, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aqainst: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Francep Gernany, Federal
Republic of,, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
Amer ica.

The delegation of Botswana subsequently indicated that it had intended to
favour of the draft resolution.

2/
invote



A/40/877/Add. I
Eng I ish
Page 14

Abstaininqs Austria, Bahamas, Brazil, Central African Republic, Chad' Chile'
Colombia, Finland, Greece, Ireland, Mor@co, Niger, Paraguay'
Sneden.

u. Draf t resolqtioo A/C.l119lL.5L

33. On 7 November, fggg antt Jordan submitted a draft resolution entitlednlmplementation of tfrelecommendaEons and decisions of the tenth special sessiono
(A/C.\/4}/L.5I), nhich was introduced by the representative of Iraq at the 35th
meeting, on 12 November

34. At its 38th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.I/4O/L.5I bV a recorded vote of III to none, nith 17 abstentions (see para- 59,
draft resolltion J). The voting eas as folloos.'

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist RePublic,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad' Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Demcratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon,
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea, Guyana'
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland ' 

TtaQ' Ireland, Israel, Ivory Coast
(C6te drlvoire), Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya' Kuwait, Lao
Peoplers Denocratic Republlc, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, Madagascar, Malari, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Dlalta'
ltauritania, llexico, Mongolia, Illorocco, l4ozambioue, Nicaragua,
Niger, Norway, Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru' Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Roanda, Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, SYrian Arab Republic, To9o, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela' Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaite' zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aqainst: None.

Abstaininq! Austria, Belqium, Canada, Ethiopia, Germany, Federal Republic of,
India, Iran (Islamic Republic of) ' Italy' 

Luxembourg, Nepal'
Netherlands, New zealand' Nigeria, Pakistan, Sweden, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Unlted States of
Amer ica.



A/40/877/Add. I
En9 Ii sh
Paqe 15

N. Draft regolution A/C.1/40lL.52 and Rev.l

35. On 7 November, France and the United Kinqdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland submitted a draft resolution entitled lUnit,ed Nations disarmament studiesrl
(A/C.I/40/L.52), which was introduced by the representative of the United Kingdom
at the 34th meeting, on 12 Novenber. The operative part of the draft resolution
read as follows:

'rThe Ggneral Assemblv,

tr1. Reaffirms the value of United Nations studies, prepared with
approPriate assistance from governmental or consultant experts, as a useful
means by which inportant issues in the field of arms limitation and
disarmarnent can be addressed in a comprehensive and detailed manneri

't2. Invites Member states to communicate to the Secretary-General, by
I April 1985, their views and proposals on how the work of the United Nations
in the field of disarmament studies can be further improved, including the
selection of subiects for study and the manner in which thev are carried outi

"3. 4equests the Secretary-General to transmit the replies of Member
States to the General Assembly at its forty-first session, and to the Advisory
Board on Disarmament Studies;

't4. Further requests the Secretary-General to invite the Advisory Board
on Disarmament Studies to prepare a comprehensive report on these matters for
submission to the Generar Assembly at its forty-first session;

o5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session an item entitled 'united Nations disarmament studiesr.r'

36. On 14 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(e/C.I/40/L.52/Rev.l), containing the foltowing changes:

(a) In operative paragraph 2, a semi-colon was inserted after the word
"improved" and the rest of the paragraph was deleted;

(b) In operative paragraph 4, the words "fortv-first" were replaced by
tt f orty-second'r .

37. At its 42nd meeting, on 19 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.I/40/L.52/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 59, draft resolution K) .

O. Draf t resolut ion A/C. l,/40lL. 55

38. On 7 November, Alqeriar Arqerltina, Bangladesb, Camergonr Indiar Indonesiar
Niqeria, Pakistan, Romania, Tunisia and yuqeqlavia submitted a draft resolution
entitled rrReview and appraisal of the implementation of the Declaration of the
1980s as tbe Second Disarmament Decade" (A/C.I/40/L.551. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Nigeria at the 34th meeting, on 12 November.



A/40/877/Add. I
Eng lish
Page 16

39. At the 37th meeting, on
revised the draft resolution

"!!ggg the Conference on Disarmament
negotiations with a view to elaboratinq a
nuclear-weapon-test ban',

to read:

14 November, the rePresentative of Nigeria orally
as follows:

(a) The third Preambular paragraph was revised co read3

''WthathaIf-waythrou9htheDecade,ttsgoalsarefar
from being acnieveA and no substantial progress has been made even on items of
highest Priority" i

(b) A new ninth preambular paragraph was added, reading:

,,ggfgggilg ttre bilateral negotiations between the Union of Soviet
SocialG! nepuOfics and the United States of America in accordance with the
joint communiqu6 issued by the two Governments on 8 January 1985".

40. At the same meeting, the Cornrnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.L/40/L.55, as
orally revised, without a vote (see para. 59, draft resolution L).

P. Draft resolution A/C.l/40ll.57

4I. On 7 November, Alqeria, Arqentina, Banqladesh, Brazil, Burna' Colonbia, Cuba,
Ecuador, Eqvpt, Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Iran (Is1arnic Republic of,), M?daa.4?cirr
f.le , Sr i f,anfa, tne
\gg and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution entitled "Report of the Conference
on Disarrnamentt'li/C.l/4O/L.57), ohich was later also sponsored by BoIlYia,
Mor@co, Peru and gEgjilg.gg. The draft resolution uas introduced by the
representative of Yugoslavia at the 35th meeting, on 12 Novenber.

42. At the 38th rneeting, on 14 November, ILg]i!9 proposed an oral arnendment to
operative paragraph 5 of the draft resolution, by which the nords
"nuclear-weapon-lest banl would be replaced by the eords trconplete cessation of
nuclear-test exPlosions".

43. At the 40th meeting, on 18 November, the representative of Yugoslavia, on
behalf of the sponsors of the draft resolution, orally revised operatlve
paragraph 5 of the draft resolution, ohich had read:

to undertake, wtt,hout further delayr
draft treaty on a

"9IgSg the Conference on Disarmament to undertake, without furtber delay,
negotiations with a view to elaborating a draft treaty on a nuclear-test ban"

44. At the sarne meeting, the representative of lreland, in vieo of the above
revision, withdrew the proposed amendment to operative paragraph 5.



A/40/877/Add. I
Eng lish
Page 17

45. At that meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/40/L.57, as
orally revised, by a recorded vote of ll5 to 2, with 17 abstentions (see para.59,
draft resolution trt). The voting rras as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Banqladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central Afrigan
Repub1ic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Indiar-.
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Repulrlic of), Iraq, Ireland, Ivory Coast
(C6te drlvoire), Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao peoplers
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
!4adagascar, Malaysia, t{aldives, t4ali, Malta, l{auritania,
lilauritius, lllexico, Mongolia, Ivlorocco, llozambioue, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swazil.and, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Ernirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nan, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaite, Zanbia, Zimbaboe.

France, United States of America.

Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Federal RepuFrlic
of, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, tuxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norvtay, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Nort,hern Ireland.

O. Draf t resolution A/C.1,/40,/L.58 and Rev. I

46. on 7 November, Alqeria, the gahamas, .gangladesh, Butma, colombia, euba,
Ecuador, Eqvpt, Ethiopia, Ghanar India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of)r
l{aclagascar, Niqeria, Pakistan, Peru, Romania, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Tunisia,
Venezuela, Viet Nam and Yuqoslavia submitted a draft resolution entitled
"Implementation of the recommendations and decisions of the tenth special session"
(A/C.l/40/L.58), which was later also sponsored by Bolivia. The draft resolution
was introduced by the representative of Yugoslavia at Lhe 36th meeting, on
13 November, and read as follows:

"The General Assernbly,

"Haglnq re-viewed the implementation of the reconmendations and decisions
adopted bv tbe General Assembly at its tenth special session, the first
special session devoted to disarmament, as well as the Concluding Document of
the Twelfth Special Session of the ceneral Assembly, the second special
session devoted to disarmament,

Aqa inst:

Abstaininq:



A/40/877/Add.l
Eng I ish
Page 18

"Eggg.lfj3g its resolutions s-L0/2 of 30 June 1978, 34/83 C ot
11 December 1979 , 35/46 of 3 December 1980, 35/152 E of 12 December 1980,
36/gZ tu of 9 December 1981, 37/78 F of 9 December 1982, 38,/183 H of
20 December 1983, 39/148 O of 17 December 1984 and its decision S-12l24 ot
l0 JuIy 1982,

',@thatnoconcreteresu1tsre9ardin9theimpl.ementation
of the recommendations and decisions of the tenth special session have been
realized in the course of more than seven years since that session, that in
the meantime the arms race, particularly in its nuclear aspect, has gained in
intensity, that there has been further deployment of nuclear weapons in some
parts of the r,rorld, that annual global military expenditures are estimated to
have reached the staggering figure of 1 thousand billion doIlars" that nankind
is faced with a real danger of spreading the arms race into outer space, that
urgent measures to prevent nuclear war and for disarmament have not been
adopted and that continued colonial domination and foreign occupation, open
threats, pressures and military intervention against independent States and
violations of the fundanental principles of the Charter of the United Nations
have taken place, posing the most serious threat to international peace and
secur ity,

".99!yi!SS9 that the renewed escalation of the nuclear-arns race, in botlt
the quantitative and qualitative dimensions, as well as reliance on nuclear
deterrence and on the use of nuclear rreapons, has heightened the risk of the
outbreak of nuclear war and led to greater insecurity and instaoility in
international relat ions,

''Wthatinternationa1peaceandsecuritycanonIybe
ensured through general and complete disarmament under effective int.ernat,ional
control and that one of the most urgent tasks is to halt and reverse the arns
race and to undertake concrete measures of disarmament, particularly nuclear
disarmament, and that, in this respect, the nuclear-weapon States and other
militarily significant States have the primary responsibility,

" that no real progress in disarmament
negotiations has been achieved in the course of several years which has
rendered the current international situation even nore dangerous and insecuret

'gggilggg that the launching of negotiations betlreen the United States of
America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics would produce agreements
on preventing an arms race in outer space and on significant reductions in
their strategic and interrnediate-range nuclear-vreapon systems, as well as that
these negotiations would lead to a relaxation of tension in their mutual
relations and in the world at large,

"9gggi.9glj.!g that bilateral negotiations should not in any way diminish
the urgent need to initiate and pursue multilateral negotiations in the
Conference on Disarmament on the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and
nuclear disarmament and on the prevent.ion of an arms race in outer space,



A/40/877/Add. r
Eng 1i sh
Page 19

"€lISSEigg that it is more than ever imperatiee in the present
circumstances to give a new impetus to negotiations on disarmament, in
particular nuclear disarmament, at all levels and to achieve genuine progress
in the immediate future,

rrReaffirminq that the United Nations has a central role and primary
responsibility in the sphere of disarnrament,

".!!ggsEilg that the Final Document of the Tenth special session of the
General Assembly, which was unanimously and categorically reatfirmed by aIl
Member States at the tweltth special session as the comprehensive basis for
efforts tooards halting and reversing the arms race, retains all its validity
and that the objectives and measures contained therein still represent one of
the most inportant and urgent goals to be achieve<l,

tr. Expresses its grave concern over the acceleration and
intensification of the arms race, particularly the nuclear-arms race, which
threaten international peace and security and increase the danqer of nuclear
rrar;

"2. Calls upon all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States and other
militarily siqnificant States, to take urqent measures in order to promote
international security on the basis of disarmament, to halt and reverse the
arms race and to launch a process of genuine disarmament;

'3. rnvites all states, particularly nuclear-weapon states and
especially those among them which possess the nost important nuclear arsenals,
to take urgent measures with a view to inplementing the recommendations and
decisions contained in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, as well as to fulfilling the priority tasks set forth in the
Programme of Action contained in section rrr of the F.inal Documenti

u4. calls upon great powers to pursue their negotiations in a
constructive and accommodating spirit and taking into account the interest of
the entire international community in order to halt the arms race,
particularly the nucrear-arms race, and to achieve disarmamenti

'5. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to urgently proceed to
negotiations on Ehe cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament
and on the prevention of nuclear rrar, to intensify negotiations on the
prevention of an arms race in outer space and to elaborate drafts of treaties
on a nuclear-weaPon-test ban and on a complete and effective prohibition of
the development' Production and stockpiling of all chemical weapons and on
their destructioni

tr6. Calls upon the Disarmarnent Commission to intensify its work in
accordance with its mandate and to continue irnproving its work with a view to
making concrete recornmendations on specific items on its agenda;

't7. Invites all States engaged in disarmament and arms 1imitation
negotiations outside ttre framereork of the united Nations to keep the General



A/40/e77/Add. r
Eng Iish
Page 20

Assembly and the Conference on Dlsarmament informed on the status and,/or
results of such negotiations, in conformity with the relevant provisions of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session;

'8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the item entitled 'Implementation of t,he recommendations and decisions
of the tenth special sessionr.tr

the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Bgli:ia.-Bugmg-Colombia-

" 
tft

Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic gf ) , l,tadaqascar, Niqeria' Pakistan,, Pe{9'
nonania, Sri tanfa, the Sudaq, Tunisia, Ve4ezuela, Viet Nam and lggggJggiE
subnitted a revised draft resolution (A/C.l/40/L.58lRev.1) , which was later also
sponsored by Poland. The revised draft resolution was introduced by the
represenEative of Yugoslavia at the 43rd meeting, on 2O Novenber, and contained the
following changes:

(a) A neu sixth preambular paragraph was added, reading:

".9gli.g:Li!g that the preservation of the existinq bilateral, reqional
and global system of arms limitation and disarmament agreements as weII
as the strict observance of such agreements by their Parties are
important elements of disarmament efforts at all levelsn i

(b) In the original seventh preambular paragraph, noo the eighth preambular
paragraph, the oords rrthe results of" were inserted before the words "these
negotiations" I

(c) In the original ninth preambular paragraph, now the tenth preambular
paragraph, tbe following text was added at the end of the paragraph:

"... and that all States should refrain fron any actions which have or
may have negative effects on the outcome of disarmament negotiations" I

(d) Operative paragraph 5 oas revised to read:

"9elfg-gpgg the Conference on Disarmament to proceed urgently to
negotiations on the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear
disarmament and on tbe prevention of nuclear uar, to undertake and

- intensify negotiations on tbe prevention of an arms race in outer space
and to elaborate drafts of treaties on a nuclear-weapon-test ban and on a
complete and effective prohibition of the development, production and
stockpiling of aII chemical weapons and on their destruction".

48. At its 44th meeting, on 20 November, the Conmittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.I/4O/L.58/Rev.1 by a recorded vote of 113 to 13, with 6 abstentions (see
para. 59, draft resolution N). The votinq ritas as follows: !/

!/ The detegation of Swaziland subseouently indicated that it had intended
to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

47. On 19 November, Alger



fn favour:

A/ 40 /877 /Add .r
Engl ish
Page 21

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Aust.ria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, BraziI,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, cameroon, central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comorosi Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Karnpuchea, Democratic yemen,
Dennark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Eqypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Repub1ic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, fndia,
fndonesiar Iran (Islamic Republic of) r lrao, Irelandr Ivory Coast
(C6te d'fvoire), Jordan, Kenyar Kuwait, Lao peoplers Democratic
Republicr Lebanon, Lesotho, Lifiyan Arah Janabiriya, Maclaqascar,
Malaysia, MaIdives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambiaue, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistanr Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
SomaIia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrjan Arab
Republic, Thailand, Toqo, Trinidad and Tobaqo, Tunisia, Uqanda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbafiwe.

Belgiumr Canadar Germany, Federal Republic of, fceland, fsrael,
Italyr Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portuqal, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern freland, United States of
Aner ica.

Aga inst:

Abstaining: Australia, Franc€, Japanr New Zealand, Rwanda, Spain.

R. Draft resolution A/C.L/40/L.52 and Rev.l

49. On 7 November, Australia, Belgium, Cameroon, Canada, Costa Rica, Germany,
Federal Reputrlic of, ftaly, Japan, Turkey and the United Kingdom of creat Britain
and Northern rreland subnitted a draft resolution entitled "verification in all its
aspectsrr (A/C.I/40/L.5!), whicb was later also sponsored by Ner.r Zealand. The draft
resolution r^ras introduced by the representative of Canada at t,he 34th meeting, on
12 Novenber, and read as follows:

"The General Asse* ,

"Conscious of the urgent need to reach agreements on arms limitation and
Oisarrnlfrffi lneasures capable of contributing to the naintenance of peace and
secur i ty,

"Convinced tbat, if such agreements are to be effective, they must be
fair and balanced, their subst,ance must be clear and conpliance with them must
be evident,



A/4O/877 /Add. r
English
Page 22

"Reaffittitg. its conviction, as expressed in the Final Document adopted
by consensus at its first special session devoted to disarmament, that in
order to facilit,at.e the conclusion and effective implementation of disarmament
agreements and to ereate confidence, States should accept appropriate
provisions for verification in such agreements,

"&eiterating its view that:

" (a) Disarmanent and arms limitation agreements should provide for
adequate measures of verification satisfactory to all parties concerned in
order to creat.e the necessary confidence and ensure that they are being
observed by all partiest

" (b) The form and modalities of the verification to be provided for in
any specific agreement depend upon and should be det,ermined by the purposes,
scope and nature of the agreement,

" (c) Agreements should provide for the participation of parties directly
or through the United Nations system in the verification process;

u (d) Where appropriate, a combination of several methods of verification
as welI as other compliance procedures should be employed,

"Recalling also that:

" (a) In the context of international disarmanent negotiations, the
problem of verification should be further examined and adeouate methods and
procedures in tbis field be consideredi

" (b) Every effort should be made to develop appropriate methods and
procedures that are non-discriminatory and that dcl not unduly interfere with
the internal affairs of other States or jeopardize their economic and social
development,

"Believinq that verification techniques and principles should be
aene1of,F1fr6- objective means of determining compliance r.rith agreements,

"1. Calls upon Member States to increase their effort,s towards achieving
balanced, verifiable and effective arns linitation and disarmament agreementsi

"2. fnvites all Member States, bearing in mind the Final Document of the
first special session devoted to disarmanent, to comnunicate to the
Secretary-General, not later than l5 April 1986, their views and suggestions
on verification principles, procedures and technioues to promote the inclusion
of adeouate verification in arms linitation and disarmament agreernents, and on
the role of the United Nations in the field of verification;

"3. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare and subnit to the General
Assembly at its forty-first session a report containing the views and
suggestions of Member States;



A/40 /877 /Add 't
Eng I ish
Page 23

u4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session tnffi-entitled 'Verif ication in all its aspectsr."

50. On 20 Novemtrer, the sponsors subnitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.l/40/L.62/Rev.1), containing the following changesr

(a) The second preambular paragraph was revised to read:

"Convinced that, if such measures are to be effective, they must be
tair aiE-iiffied, acceptable to all parties, their substance must be
cl-ear and compliance $rith then must be evidentnt

(b) Tbe sixth preanbular paragraph was revised to readt

"EfjjIijg that verification technioues should be developed as an
objective neans of determining compliance with agreernents and
appropriat.ely taken into account in the course of disarmanent
negotiationst'1

(c) Operative paragraph I was revised to read:

'..@.MemberStatestoincreaset'heireffortstowards
acnieving agreelnents on balanced, rnutually acceptable, verifiable and
effective arns limitation and disarmament measures'1t

(d) In operative paragraph 4, the following text was added at the end of the
paragraph:

"... under the iten entitled rReview of the implementation of the
reconunendations and decisions adopted by the General Assembly at its
t,enth special session: implementation of the recommendations and
decisions of the tenth special session'."

51. At its 47th meeting, on 22 November, the Comnittee adopt,ed draft resolution
A/C.I/40/L.62/Rev.1 without a vote (see para. 59, draft resolution O).

S. Draft resolution A/C.1,/4OlL.64

52. On 7 November, Argentina, Bangladesb, fndia, Indonesia, Mexicor Romania and
Sweden submitted a draft resolution entitled "Cessation of the nuclear-arms race
and nuclear disarmamentr' (A/C.L/40/L.54) r which was later also sponsored by the
German Democratic Republic, Greece, Oman and the United Republic of Tanzania. The
draft, resolution was introduced by the representative of Argentina at the
35th meet,ing, on 13 November.

53. At its 43rd meeting, on 20 Novenber, the Committee adopt,ed draft resolution
A/C.L/40/L.64 by a recorded vote of 112 to 16, with 5 abstentions (see para. 59,
draft resolution P). The voting rras as follows:



A/40 /877 /Add . I
English
Page 24

fn favourl Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesb, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byerorussian
soviet socialist Repunlic, cameroon, cent.ral African Republicr
Chad, Chile, Chinar Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Djibout,i, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador' Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabonr German Democratic
Republic, Gbana, Greecer Guatemala, Guinea, Guyanar Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, India, rndonesia, Iran (Islanic Repufilic of),
Iraq, Irelandr fvory Coast (C6te drfvoire), Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, tao peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambioue,
Nepal' Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Ornan, pakistan, panama, papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, peru, philippines, poland, eatar, Romania,
Rwandar Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Sonalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
socialist Republic, union of soviet socialist Republics, united
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, yugoslavia, ZaLre, Zamtria, Zimbabwe.

Australia, Belgiun, Canada, Francel Germany, Federal Republic of,
Icelandr fsraelr ftaly, Luxemfrourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway' Portugal, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern freland, United stat,es of America.

Bahamas, Denmark, Japan, Spainr Togo.

Aqa inst:

Abstaininq:

T. Draft resolution A/C.1,/4OlL.55 and Rev.l

54. On 7 November, Alqeria, Argentina, Banqladesh, Brazil, Colombia, the Congo,
Ecu?dor' Egypt, the German D.*o.!"ti" n prnli",
llristat, tt. suaa",
"Prevention of nuclear war'r (A/C.I/40/L.6tL h'hich was later also sponsored by
Morocco, Onan, Fgmania and Viet Nam. 'The draft resolution lvas introduced by the
represent,ative of Argentina at the 35th meeting, on 13 Novenber.

55. On 20 Novemberr Algeriar Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cameroon, Colombia,
the Congo, Ecuadorr ggypt, tne Cermin
!le"icg, ryorocco,, tri .qeria, Oman, a, anAYugos1aviasubmittedareviseddraftresolutionra/c.r/ao,z@sa
new thirteenth preambular paragraph which reads

"Talig-.rote of the report of the Secretary-Genera1'l



^/40/877 
/Add -r

Engl i sb
Page 25

55. At its 46th meeting, on 21 November, the Conmittee adoPted draft resolution
A/e.l/40/L.65lRev.l by a recorded vote of 110 to l, with 15 atrstentions (see
para. 59, draft resoLution Q). The voting was as followsr y

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Arqentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil'
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burrna, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist. Republic, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colonbia, Comoros, Congo, Cuba,
cyprus, czechoslovakia, Denocratic Kampuchea, Democratic Y€h€ltr
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Eqypt, Ethiopia' Fiji,
Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghanar Greece,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, fndonesia, fran
(Islamic Repuolic of) t Tra(r, lvory coast (c6te drlvoire), Jordant
Kenya, Kuwaitr Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lelranonr
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives'
Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambiouer Nepal, New
zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, oman, Pakist.an, Panama, Papua
New 6uinsa, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Pol.and, Ronania, Rwanda,
Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, uganda, IJkrainian soviet socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Repunlic of Tanzania, Uruguay' Venezuela, viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia' Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Irelandr
United states of Anerica.

Aga in st:

Absta ining: Belg iun,
Ireland,
Portugal,

Canada, Dennark, Germany, Federal Republic of, fceland,
fsraelr Italy, Japanr Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway'
Spain, Turkey.

Draft resolution A/C.l /40/L-1 4U.

57. On 7 November, da, Denmark, Germany, Federal rrl ic of , f talY, Ja
of Great Britain and NorthernNorway, Portugal, Turkeyr and the United Kingdom of G,:9at BEitaiP and NorE?erP -,

resoluti6n-'ipre.renti.rn of nuclear nar, includinq
E-*ated matters: prevention of $rar in the nuclear age' (A/c.l/40/L.741. The
draft resolution rras introduced by the representative of the Federal Republie of
Germany at the 39th neeting, on 15 November, and read as follows:

"@,
''.@gthedeterminationofthepeop1esoftheworIdtosave

succeeETng-ffiErations from the scourge of war and' to this end, to strengthen
their resolve to maintain international peace and security,

Tbe delegation of freland subseouentty indicated that it had intended to
favour of the draft resolution.

v
invote



A/40/877 /Add. I
Englistl
eage 26

"xlph"giging. tne speclal slgnlfleanqe Ehe egqmttsent af sgete8 Menbers of
the united Nations Ea fhe F!fllntenangs 9f ln$ernatlonal pesqe and securtgy
takes on in the fortieth yeFr Af the grgenlaaglon'S ?XtsEenee,

'rNoting with grave conqern fhe trltpl{peg*png ar a tran!*nulng arns huildup,particffirf! in its nucl.ear aspect, and elprqsolng lta profound-co4vlctlon
that the preventlon of nuclear rrarr lndeed all h'er, gena[na the mogt aeute and
urgent task of the present dayr

"Convincqg that ths sqccegqfut fulfilmenF of ghfq ggglq geoulreg alt
sgates-E616-fiietr usnagr r,o avold eaniltcg"inO .q respl;; ori"pugii' '-'
pqacefullyr so as to ensurQ that war tg ne tonger vlewed as an lnsurumenB for
sqttling internatlonal dlspqtgq Ar-td qhet ghe uFg and the Ehreat of fareg efe
eliminated from internaElonpl llfe as prevlded fEr ln ghB eherr€r ef Ehe
United Nations,

"Further convlnced that the prevent,lon 9f war, and partlcularly nuclear
'q','ffitate8resPectt'hegqveretgnEY,eoua1ltyl1niependencea4d territorial tntegrtty cf art ogher gttgeFr ani ripatllng trre eernnlgment by
al.l Member stares under Eha cherger ef the ttntta6 p6qfons qg pefraln ln the*r
int.ernational relaLlons fren ghe threag gr upe af ferga,

_ 
nRgcalling, none the leFF the lnherent rtght 9f gtages lndlviduatly er

collecrivety ro defend lhenFelves a€a{nsg arned atinslfr f,geognlFlng Ehe yltat
inportance of prevent.[ng armed qonf]tgt ln eny forn andt recqgnlrlng further
tqat States may legtgtmately gat(g nelpprea neeegggfy Be restralnl og ln othef
wqrds deter, the lqt*latlen af, or pensleEenee ln aif Ftlgakr

',Reirer?rirlg rhe vtEal inBereag of the peeple€ af ghe '||orld tndisarmanent, b,ut alsc regggntzlng the lnporganee of eOnf*denge-hutld{r,tg
mqasures for the e-FgabllshtngnE of Fpre co-oFqraklue rela!1on8hlpF between
Sqates, the prevenBlon of ggnfllcg,s, ln partleulaf by legsentng Ehepqssir'ility of surpr{se.attack, and the facl}ttatlon of further dlearrnanrenB
measures, and noting in that regard the large nurnber of proposals for
additional confidence-buildinq measures currently considered in a Iarqe numtrer
of nultilateral foruns,

"Stressing the necessity of fruilding on the important steps that have
already been taken to reduce the risk of war, most notably on the verifiable
arms control agreements that have already been concluded, and stressing the
importance of compliance with existing arms control connitments, so as to
encourage the conclusion of further and nore far-reaching agreements,

I'Recalling paragraphs 47 to 50 and 56 to 58 of the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, devoted to disarmament,
regarding the necessity for, and the process of, nuclear disarmamenEr

"Ulderlining. the primary responsibility of nuclear-hreapon States, in
particular those with the largest nuclear arsenals, for ttre prevention of a
war involving the use of nuclear lreapons and for nuclear disarmarnent, but also
bearing in nind the collective responsibility of all States to work towards
these ends,

/ro.



A/40 /877 /Add.L
English
Paqe 27

"Egl:!gi-gg that - notwiLhstanding the vital contribution of concrete
disarmament measures - the goals of securing peace and preventing nuclear war
and any armed conflict can most effectively be served by fully recognizing and
respecting the dignity of man, basic freedoms and the right of national
se lf-detern in at ion ,

rrNoting h'ith deep concern that, in spite of their inportant cont.ribution
to the prevention of war, arns cont.rol negotiations tend to proceed at a pace
which is clearly inadeouate to the seriousness of the threat and the urgency
of the problern,

"1. Reaffirms that reducing and rernoving the threat of nuclear war is
the most acute and urgent task of the present day and that eliminating the
threat of all armed conflict remains the ultimate qoal of the international
conrnunity;

"2. Urges aII States, in conforrnity with their obligations under the
Cbarter of the United Nations, to refrain in their international relations
from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political
independence of any State, and further urges them never to use any of their
weapons, except in the exercise of their inherent right of individual or
collective self-defence i

'3. Calls upon all States to maintain, as a priority objective of their
policies, tbe removal of the danger of war at any level of hostility, thereby
precluding the use of nuclear neaponsi

"4. Urges all States to exercise restraint in tlreir relations with
others, to act in sucb a manner as to prevent tbe development of situations
which could cause dangerous exacerbation of tfreir relations, to avoid military
confrontations and to preeent the outbreak of war i

"5. Emphasizes the importance of concluding agreements on militarily
significant and verifiable reductions of armarnent and forces, includinq
nuclear armaments, taking into account the relative importance of the existing
arsenals of the nuclear-weapon States and other States concerned, and of
achieving stable military balance, qlobally and regionallyr at the lowest
possible levels;

'6. Welcomes warrnly in this connection the initiation of the bilat.eral
negotiations between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics;

"7. Urges all States to hrork for concrete and verifiable results in arms
control negotiations, especially those aimed at the elimination of whole
categories of weapons and of weapons that have destabilizing effects, as well
as those that enhance the prospects for the reduction of.current arnaments tc)
lower levels consistent with strictly defensive needs;



A/40 /877 /Add .1
English
Page 28

'8. Urges all States to promote, to the best of their ability, the
objective of ttre prevention of war, through, inter alia, more openness and an
enhancement of mutual knowledge about, military activities, an expanded
excbange of information and views on rnilitary matters and other
confidence-building measures, with a view to enhancing both confidence and
stabi I ity t

"9. Underlines the importance of regional efforts at peace-keeping and
conflict resolution among States, given that such efforts aimed at buildinq
confidence, promotion of co-operative relations and finding local solutions to
local disputes among the States of the regions concerned can play a vital role
in enhancing the objectives of peace and security, disarmament and development
in Ehe regionl

'r10. Stresses the necessity of preventing military conflict which nay
take place by accident, miscalculation or communications failure' by taking
steps to maintain, or where necessary improve, communications between
Governments, particularly in areas of tensioni

"ll. Calls upon all States to prevent the proliferation of nuclear
lreapons because such proliferat,ion would seriously increase the danger of
nuclear war, and to exert all endeavours to solve outstanding regional issues
which may involve the risk of such proliferation;

"12. Rejects military doctrines and policies which explicitly or
inplicitly aim at the achievement of military superiority in the place of
balance, stability and undiminished security for alI States;

tr13. Declares its view that a nuclear brar cannot be won and that a
conventional war may involve the risk of escalation to nuclear war,

'r14. Takes note of the report of tbe Conference on Disarnament on its
1985 session concerning the consideration of the agenda item entitled
rPrevention of nuclear r.rar, including all related mattersr, and reouests t.he
Conference to continue its substantive consideration of this issuet

''l5.@thesecretary.Genera1forhavingpreparedareportonthe
prevention of nuclear hrar (A/40/498) and expresses the hope that this report
will facilitate mutually acceptable solutions to this vital probleml

"16. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session an item entitled 'Prevention of nuclear war, including all related
matters | . tl

58. At the request of the sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolut.ion
A/C.r/40/L.74.



A/40 /877 /Add . I
Engli.sh
Page 29

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

59. The First Commitcee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

Review of tbe inplementation of the recommendations
and decisions adopted bv the General Assembly at

its t€nth special session

A

Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear hrar

The General Assembl.y,

Alarmed by tlre threat to the survival of mankind posed by the existence
of nuclear neapons and the continuing arns race, in particular in the nuclear
field,

Recalling that, in accordance with the Final Document of t,he Tenth
Special Seseion of the General Assembly, the first special session devoted to
disarmanent, effective measures of nuclear disarmarnent and the prevention of
nuclear war have the highest priority, g/

Recalling also that this commitment was reaffirmed by the General
Assembly at its twelfth special session, the second special session devoted to
disarmament r

Bearing in mind its relevant resolut.ions on this suhject,

Reaffirminq that the most effective guarantee against. the danger of
nuclear war and the use of nuclear weapons is nuclear disarmament and tbe
complete elimination of nuclear ereapons,

Recalling that, in paragraph 58 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session, !/ it is st.ated that all States should actively participate
in efforts to bring about conditions in international relations among States
in which a code of peaceful conduct of nations in international affairs could
be agreed upon and which would preclude the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapona,

9/ Resolution S-L0/2, para . 47.

Z/ Resolut,ion S-L0/2.



A/40 /877 /Add . t
Engl i sh
Page 30

Reaffirming also that the nuclear-weapon States have the prinary
responsibility for nuclear disarnament and for undertaking Ineasures ained at
prevent,ing the outbreak of nuclear war, inter alia, fry estalrlishing
corresponding norms regulating relations between them'

Comnenorating tbe fortieth anniversary of the end of the Second World
War, the most destruct,ive and bloody war in the history of nankind, and also
comnemorating the fortieth anniversary of the founding of the United Nations,

Reaffirming its conviction that removing the threat of a world war - a
nuclear erar - is the most acut,e and urgent, task of the present time,

Convinced that the renunciat,ion of the first use of nuclear weapons is a
most, inportant and urgent measure for the prevention of nuclear !rar, and
taking note of the broad, positive international reaction to the concept of
non-first use of nuclear hreapons,

l. Considers that the solemn declarations by two nuclear-lteapon States
made or reiterated at the twelfth special session of the General Assembly'
concerning their respective obligations not to be the first to use nuclear
hreapons, offer an important avenue to decrease the danger of nuclear hrari

2. Expresses the hope that those nuclear-rrreapon States tbat have not
yet done so would consider making similar declarations witb respect to not
being the first to use nuclear !'reaponsi

3. Requests the Conference on Disarmanent to consider under its
relevant, agenda item, inter alia, the elaboration of an international
instrument of a legally binding charact.er taying down the obligation not to be
the first to use nuclear weaponst

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the item entitled 'rNon-use of nuclear ereapons and prevention of
nuclear ldar ".

B

Bilateral nuclear-arms and space arms negotiations

Tbe General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 38/L83 P of 20 December 1983 and 39/148 B of
17 December 1984,

Welcoming warmly the resumption on L2 March 1985 of tbe bilateral
negotiations at Geneva between the Union of Soviet, Socialist Republics and the
United States of America,



A/40/877 /Add.1
Enqtish
Paqe 3l

Noting that in their joint communioud of 8 January 1985 the two
Governnents agreed that the subject of these negotiations is a conplex of
ouestions concerning space and nuclear arms, both st,rategic and intermediate
range, with all these questions considered and resolved in their
inter relationship '

Noting that the agreed objective of these negotiations is to h,ork out
effective agreements ained at preventing an arms race in space and terminating
it on Eart,h, at limiting and reducing nuclear arms and at, strengthening
strategic stability'

Noting also that Ehe two sides believe that ultimat,ely these
negotiations, just as efforts in general to linit and reduce arms, should lead
to the complete eliminat,ion of nuclear hreapons everywhere,

Notinq further that both the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the
United States of America have expressed their readiness to keep the other
States Members of the United Nations duly informed of progress in their
bilat,eral negot,iations, in accordance with paragraph 1I4 of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, /

Convinced that, through negotiations pursued in a spirit of flexibility
and wit.h full account taken of the security interests of all- States, it is
possible to reach agreement,

Firmly convinced that an early agreement in these negotiations, in
accordance with the principle of undininished security at the lowest possible
level of armaments, nould be of crucial inportance for the strengthening of
international peace and security,

1. Calls upon the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
and the Government of the United Stat.es of America to spare no effort in
seeking the attainment of their agreed objective in the negotiations, in
accordance with the security interests of all States and the universal desire
for progress tobrards disarmamentt

2. Urges the Governments of the t.$ro States concerned to work activelv
towards the achievement of that. objective in order to enable the negotiations
to make substantial progressi

3. Expresses its firmest possible encouragemenL and support for these
negotiations and their successful conclusion.

c

Nuclear weapons in all aspects

The General Assembly,

Recalling that, at its twelfth special session, the second special session
devoted to disarmament, it expressed its profound preoccupation over the

/...



A/40/877 /Add.1
English
Page 32

danger of war, in particular nuclear rar, tfte prevention of which remains the
nost acute and urgent task of the present day, U

Re?ffirqing that nuclear weapons pose the most serious threat to mankind
and its survival and that it is therefore essential to proceed with nuclear
disarmament and the complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

Reaff,irminq also that all nuclear-weapon States, in particular those
which possess the nost. import.ant nuclear arsenals, bear a special
responsibility for t,he fulfilment of the task of achieving the goals of
nuclear d isarmarnent,

Stressing aqain that existing arsenals of nuclear weapons alone are more
than sufficient to destroy all life on Earth, and bearing in nind the
devastating results which nuclear war would have on belligerent.s and
non-belligerents alike,

necalliqg that at its tenth special session, the first special session
devoted to disarmament, it, decided that effective measures of nuclear
disarmanent and the prevention of nuclear war had the highest priority and
that it r.tas essential to halt and reuerse the nuclear-arms race in all its
aspect.s in order to avert the danqer of war involving nuclear weapons, 5/

Stressinq tftat any expectation of winning a nuclear war is senseless and
that, such a r,tar would inevitably lead to tbe destruction of nations, to
enormous devastation and to catastropic consequences for civilization and life
itself on Earth,

Convinced of the necessity of rejecting any military doctrine and concept
that might. lead to unleashing nuclear rdar and might impede measures to halt
the nuclear-arms race,

Stressing the urgent need for a halt to the nuclear-arms race as a step
on the road to nuclear disarmament,

Stressing again that priority in disarmament negotiations should be given
to nuclear neapons, and referring to paragraphs 49 and 54 of the Final
Docunent of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 7/

Recallinq its relevant resolutions on this subject,

Welconing the negotiations between the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and the United States of America on the range of issues related to
space and nuclear weapons, both strategic and mediun-range, aimed at solving
in practice the task of averting an arms race in outer space and terninating
it on Earth,

V Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
, agenda items 9 to 13, document A/S-L2/32, para. 62.

/...



A/40/877 /Add.L
English
Paqe 33

Noting the belief expressed by the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
and the United Stat,es of America that ultimately their negotiations, just as
effort,s in general to limit and reduce arms, should lead to the complete
elimination of nuclear arms everywhere,

Welcoming the Delhi Declaration issued on 28 January 1985 by the Heads of
State or Government of Argentina, Greece, fndia, Mexico, Sweden and the United
Republic of TanzanLa, y as well as the positive response this Declaratlon has
met with in many States,

Taking note of the Final Political Declaration adopted at the eighth
Conference of Foreign Ministers of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Luanda from
4Eo7Septemberl985,inwhichisstressed,@,theurgentneedto
initiate multilateral negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament on the
cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmanent, 10/

Takinq note also of the relevant deliberations of the Disarnanent
Commission in 1985 with regard to item 4 of its agenda, as contained in its
report, LL/

Noting that the Conference on Disarmanent, at
the ouestion of the cessation of the nuclear-arms
disarmanenE, W including the estafrlishment of an
negot,iations on that question,

its 1985 session, discussed
race and nuclear
ad hoc eommittee for

2/

!9_/

y/
No.42

p/

Regretting, however, that the Conference on Disarnament
reach agreement on the establisbment of an ad hoc committee

was unable to
for tbe purpose of

undertaking multilateral negot.iat,ions on the question of the cessation of the
nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament'

Considering that efforts will cont,inue to be made in order to enabl-e tbe
Conference on Disarmament to fulfil its negotiating role with regard to Che
cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmamentr dnd that for tbis
purpose all members of the Conference on Disarmament sbould display a
constructive approacb to sucft negotiations, bearing in mind the high prlorlty
they trave accorded to this question in the Final Docurnent of the Tenth Spegial

lSession,

Convinced that the Conference on Disarnament is the most suitable forun
for the preparation and conduct of multilateral negotiations on nuclear
d isarmament,

A/ 4 0/II4-S /L592L, annex.

See A/40/854-3/17610, annex I, para. 38.

9fficial. Records of the General Assembly, Fortieth Session, Supplement
(A/40/421 

' 
para.27.

rbid., Supplement No. 27 (A/40/27 and Corr.l), sect. III.B.



A/40/877 /Add.1
Eng I ish
Page 34

1. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to proceed without delay to
negotiations on the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament
and especially to begin the elaboration of practical measures for the
cessation of the nuclear-arms race and for nuclear disarnament in accordance
wit'h paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, including a nucLear-disarmament progranne, and to establish
for this purpose an ad hoc committeel

2. Decides to include in the provisional aqenda of its forty-first
session the item entitled "Cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear
disarnament:. report of the Conference on Disarmamentr.

D

Comprehensive programme of disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling that in paragraph 109 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of tbe General Assenbly, 7/ the first special session devoted
to disarmament' the Assembly called for th1 elaboration of a comprehensive
progranme of disarmament encompassing all measures thought to be advisable in
order to ensure that the goal of general and complete disarmament under
effective int.ernational control becomes a reality in a world in which
international peace and security prevail and in which the new international
economic order is strengthened and consolidated,

Recalling also its resolution 38/L83 K of 20 December 1983, in which it
urged the Conference on Disarmament, as soon as it considered that the
circumstances !,{ere propitious for that purpose, to renew its work on the
elaboration of the comprehensive prograrme of disarnament previously
reouested, to submit to the General Assembly at its thirty-ninth session a
proqress report on the matter and to subnit to the Assembly, not later tban at
its forty-first session, a conplete draft of such a programme,

Recallinq further its resolution 3g/L48 I of 17 December 1984, in which
it urged that all efforts be made so that the Conference on Disarmament night
resune its work on the elaboration of the conprehensive progranme of
disarmarnent early in its 1985 session with a view to submit.ting to the General
Assembly at its forty-first. session a complete draft of such a programme,

Having examined the report of the Ad Hoc Comnittee on the Conprehensive
Progranne of Disarmament concerning its work during the 1985 session of the
Conference on Disarmament' l3l which is an integral part of the report of the
Conference,

E/
No. 27 (A/40/27 and Corr.l), para. lll



^lt!/877 
/4dd.r

Fnglisrr
Fage 35

1. Noteq that, in its report the gl;m QonnlEBee on lhe Conprehenqlve
Programme of Disarnament, st,ated that durlng the 1985 sesatonr desPice
lnEensive ef,forts, only modest progresp waq €ehlFvgdt

2, Urges ihe Ccnfeqence on Disarnanent to rFsume the wQrF gn the
elaboratloi-iFU,e canprehenSlye progrqnme Of CisaFnaqrent et the peginninq of
its 1996 sesslon with the firm lnEenti,on af goncludiqg thgg task 9nd
submitt,ing to qhe General Asserpbly aB ltg fort)l-fifEt €esslop q -complete qraft
of the progranme I

3. Pgg.if."F ro lnclude oe Lhe provlstonal agenda sf iEp fprBy-first
gession ttre icen entf,tled 'fconpqehenElve pFggrenlt.le af digatmenentr reporq of
Ehe Confereneg en Dlsarnamenlr r

a

The General Assenb1yr

-

Gravely concerned over tbe escalatlng arme r?F€r espeelally the
nucleEi-armE race, *nlcrr represents a eerious threFt to the very exfstencq of
mankind,

Stressing che vltal imporgance of
,ar, 6ffi" nuclear-arms roce and
paintenange 9f world peacet

elinlnattrpg the EhFeet Qf a nucleary
hrlngtng ahapi dtsafnelnent for the l

Enphasizlng anew the urqent, need for and the lmPortance of wide and
9ontiffiofworldpun1ieopinionlnsupportofha1tin9and
;EversiFg Ehe arns raeqf eqpeel4lly the nuelear'erms racgr lp qll lts aspscts'

g$g$f af the wprld-rride rnass antl-war and antl-nucle6g nav?n:nt, l
Recognizing the import,ant role of the mass media ln nobilizing world

punlic opinion in support of disarmament,

Noting with satisfaction the broad and active support fry Governnents and
internationat ana nationlt organizations of the decision taken by the General
Assembly at its tenth special session, the first special session devoted to
disarmament, regarding the proclamation of the week starting 24 Octoberr the
day of the foundation of the United Nations, as a week devoted to fostering
the objectives of disarnament, La/

!!/ Resolution S-I0/2, para. 102.

/,,,



A/40 /e77 /Add.L
Engl ish
Page 36

Fecalling the recommendations concerninq the world Disarmanent campaign
contained in annex v to the Concluding Docunent of Lhe Trrelfth Special Sessionof the General Assembly, l5rl the second special session devoted to
disarmament, in particular the recommendation that the Disarmament week should
continue to be widely observed, !5./

Recalling also it,s resolutions 33/7I D of 14 December Ig7g, 34/93 r ofl1 December 1979, 37/78 D of 9 December L992, 3g/Ig3 L of 20 December l9g3 and
39/L48 J of 17 December 1984,

1. Takes note ,ith satisfaction of the report of the
Secretary-'"""u,."undertakenbygovernmentaland
non-governmental 0rganizations in holding Disarmanent weekl

2. Expresses its apprec to all States and international and
national go-oernmental and non-governmental organizations for their energetic
supPort of and active participation in Disarnament Week, in particular in
holding the 1985 Disarrnament lfeek in close connection with the celebrations of
the fortieLh anniversary of tbe end of the Second World War and of the
foundation of the United Nations and the International youth yearl

3- Expresses serious concern over the continued escalation of the arms
race, especially the nuclear-arms race, and the imminent danger of its
extension into outer space which gravely jeopardizes international peace and
security and increases the danger of outbreak of a nuclear war;

4. Stresses tbe inportant role of the mass media in acouainting the
world public with the ains of Disarmament week and measures undertaken within
its frameworki

5. Recommends to all States that they observe Disarnament Week
in close connection with the celebrat,ion of the fnternational year of

6- rnvites all states, in carrying out appropriate neasures at
local level on the occasion of Disarmanent !{eek, to take into account
elements of the model programme for Disarmament week, prepared by the
Secretary-General, Lg /

in 1986
Peace i

the
the

E/
@'

Official Records of the General Assenbl Twelfth ial Session,
agenda it,ems 9 to 13, documenr A/s-I2/32.

!S-/ Ibid., annex v, para. L2.

y/ A/4o/552 and Corr.1.

y/ A/34/436.



A/40/877 /Add.L
English
Page 37

7. fnvites the relevant specialized agencies and the fnternational
Atomic Energy Agency to intensify activities, within their areas of
competence, to disseminate information on the consequences of tbe arms race,
especially the nuclear-arns race, and requests them to inform the
Secretary-General accordingly;

8. Also invites internat.ional non-governmenla1 organizations to take an
active parETil-ffiGiment week and to inform the Secretary-ceneral of the
activities undertakeni

9. Further invites the Secretary-General to use the United Nations maag
media as widely as possibLe to promote better understanding among the world
public of disarmament problems and the objectives of Disarmament !{eekr

10. Reguests Governments to continue, in accordance with General
Assembly resolution 33/7L D' to inform the Secretary-General of activities
undertaken to promot,e the objectives of Disarmament Weekl

ll. Reouests the Secretary-General, in accordance with paragr:aph 4 of
resolution 33/'71 D, to submit to the General Assembly at its forty-first
session a report on the irnplementation of the provisions of the present
resol ution.

F

Report of the Disarmament Commission

The General Assembly'

Having considered the report of the Disarmament Commission, 19/

Emphasizinq again the importance of an effective follow-up to the
relevant recomnendations and decisions contained in the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 7/ the first special sessiop
devoted to disarnanent,

Taking into account, the relevant sections of the Concluding Document of
the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, l5rl the second speclal
session devoted to disarnament,

Considering the role that the Disarmanent Commission has been ealled upon
to play and the contribution that it should make in examining and subnittlng
recommendations on various problems in the field of disarmament and in the
promotion of the implementation of the relevant decisions of the tenth special
session,

P/ Official Records of the General Assenblv, Fortigth Session, Supplenrent



A/40/877 /Add.r
English
Page 38

Desirous of strengthening the effecLiveness of the Disarmanent Connission
. as the deliberative body in the field of disarrnament,

Recalling its resolut,ions 33/7L H of 14 December Lglg, 34/93 H of
1l December 1979, 35/L52 F of 12 Decenber 1980, 36/92 B of 9 December 1981,
37/78 H of 9 December L982, 38/183 E of 20 December 1983 and 39,/148 R of
17 lrecember 1984,

1. Takes note of the report of the Disarmament Commissionl

2. Notes that the Disarmament Conmission has yet to conclude its
consideration of some items on its agenda;

3. Requests the Disarmanent Commission to continue its work in
accordance with its mandat.e, as set forth in paragraph 118 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, the first
special session devoted to disarmament, and with paragraph 3 of resolution
37/78 Hr and to that end to make every effort to achieve specific
recommendations, at its 1986 substantive session, on the out,standing items on
its agenda, taking into account the relevant resolutions of the General
Assembly as well as the results of its 1985 substantive session,

4. Requests the Disarmament Commission to meet for a period not
exceeding four weeks during 1995 and to subnit a substantive report,
containing specific reconmendations on the items inscribed on its agenda, to
the General Assembly at. its forty-first sessionl

5. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Disarmament
Commission-ffiEbrt of the Conference on Disarmament, 2o,/ togetner lrith all
the official records of the fortieth session of the ceneral Assgmbly relating
to disarmament matters, and to render all assistance that the Commission may
reouire for implementing the present resolution;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the item entitled rrReport of the Disarmament Conmission".

G

Climatic effects of nuclear war, including nuclear winter

The General. Assembly,

Recalling that in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assemb1y, l/ Lts first special session devoted to disarmamentr after
referring specifically to "the threat to the very survival of mankindn posed

4/ Officlal Records of the General Assembly, Fortieth Session, Supplement
No. 27 (A/40/271.



A/40/877 /Add 'r
English
Page 39

by the existence of nuclear lreapons, it declared, in paragraph 18, that
removing the threat of a world hrar - a nuclear lrar - is the most acute and
urgent task of the present day,

Having examined the report of tbe Secretary-General 2\/ transmitting the
compilation, recluested in resolution 39/L48 F of 17 December 1984, of
appropriate excerpts of all national and international scientific studies on
the climatic effects of nuclear war, including nuclear winter, published so'
far,

Not,ing that the conclusions of some of those studies confirm that nuclear
winter and other climatic effects of nuclear r,rar pose an unprecedented pe-ril
to all nations, even those far removed from the nuclear explosions, whicb
would add immeasurably to the previously known dangers of nuclear hrar, without
excluding the possibility of all the Earth being transformed into a darkened,
frozen planet, where conditions would be conducive to mass extinction,

Noting also that from those conclusions and fron various sections of the
studies thenselves it clearly follor,rs that international efforts to carry out
further systematic research are necessary,

I. eciation to the secretary-General for the
excerpts of scientific studies on the climatic effects of

nuclear war,
rnade in its

includ ing
resolution

nuclear winter, prepared in accordance with the recuest
39 /I48 Ft

2. Reouests the Secretary-General, with t,he assistance of a group of
consultant experts chosen by hirn, bearing in mind the advisability of wide
geographical representation and of their sualifications in a broad range of
scientific fields, to carry out a study on the climatic and potential physical
effects of nuclear war, including nuclear r.rinter, which will examine,
inter alia, its socio-economic consecruences and would take into account the
Secretary-Generalrs report and the source docunents from which the compilation
was prepared, together with any other relevant scientific studiesi

3. Also re!ryest,s the Secretary-General to transmit the study to the
General.
1987;

4.
session
erinter:

Assembly in due time for consideration at its forty-second session, in

Decides to include in Ehe provisional aqenda of its forty-second
an item entitled: I'Climatic effects of nuclear war, including nuclear
report of the Secretary-General".

L/ A/40/44e.



A/10/877 /Add.r
English
Page 40

H

Prohibition of the nuclear neutron hreapon

The General Assemblv,

Recalling paragraph 50 of the Final Docunent of the Tenth Special Session
of the Ceneral Assemtrly, Z/ in which it is stated that the achievement of
nuclear disarmanent will reouire urgent negotiation of agreements, jl.!gIjlji3',
forthecessationofthequalitativeimprovementanddeve1opmentof-
nuclear-weapon systems, which is especially emphasized in paragraph 50 (a) of
that Docunent,

Recarling also that in paragraph 50 of the Final Document
underlined that in the course of negotiations consideration can
mutual and agreed limitation or prohibition, withouE prejudice
of any State, of any types of nuclear armaments,

Stressing thaE the development and production of the nuclear neut,ron
weapon is a dangerous consecruence of the continuing qualitative arms race in
the field of nuclear !'teapons, especially through the qualitative improvement
and development of new nuclear warheads by enhancing specific characteristics
of nuclear eeapons,

Reaffirming its relevant resolutions on the prohibition of the nuclear
neutron rdeapon,

Sharing the world-wide concern expressed by Member States, as well as by
non-governmental organizations, about the continued and expanded production
and introduction of the nuclear neutron weapon in military arsenals, which
escalates the nuclear-arms race and siqnificantly lowers the threshold of
nuclear war,

Aware of the inhuman effects of that weapon, which constitutes a grave
threat, particularly to the unprotected civilian population,

Not'ing the consideration by the Conference on Disarmament at its t9B5
seesion of issues connected with the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and
nuclear disarmameDtr as well as the prohibition of the nuclear neutron
neapon, &/

Regretting that the Conference on Disarmament was prevented fron reaching
agreement on the cornmencement of negotiations on the cessation of the
nuclear-arns race and nuclear disarmament, including the prohibition of the
nuclear neutron peapon in an appropriate organizationar framework,

1. Reaffirns its request to the Conference on Disarmament to start
without'aeffiinanappropriateorganizationaIfranework,
with a view to concluding a convention on the prohibition of the development,
production, stockpiling, deployment and use of nuclear neutron ereapons as an
organic element of negotiations, as envisaged in paragraph 50 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly;

it is also
be given to

to the security



^/ 
40 /877 /Add . I

Engl-ish
Page 4I

2. Reguests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmanent all documents relating to the consideration of this guestion by
the General Assembly at its fortieth sessioni

3. . Reguests the Conference on Disarmament to subnit a report on this
guestion to the General Assembly at its forty-first session?

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the iten entitled [Prohibition of the nuclear neutron weapon".

I

International co-operation for disarmament

The General Assemblyr

Stressing again the urgent need for an active and sustained effort to
expedite the implementation of the recommendations and decisions unanimously
adopted at its Tenth Special Session, the first special session devoted to
disarmament, as contained in the Final Document of that session U and
confirmed in the Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the
General Assenbly, W the second special session devoted to disarmament,

Recalling the Declaration on International Co-operation for Disarmament
of 1I December L979 &/ and General Assembly resol-utions 36/92 D of
9 December 1981, 37/78 B of 9 December LggZ, 38/IB3 F of 20 December 1983 and
39/L48 M of 17 December 1984,

Stressing the vital importance of eliminating the danger of a nuclear
war, halting the arms race and attaining disarmament, particularly in the
nuclear field, fot the preservation of peace and the strengthening of
international security,

Deeply concerned over the continued nuclear-arms race, the initiation of
a quantitatlvely and qualitatively more dangerous round of that race and the
danger of the extension of the arms race to outer space, which has an
immediate negative impact on the development of the international situation
and international relations and which will destabitize the situation and lead
to a multiple increase of the danger of a nuclear conflict,

Bearing in mind the vital interest of all States in the adoption of
concrete effective disarmament measures which would release considerable
financial and material resources to be used for the economic and social
development of all States, in particular developing countries,

?/ Resolution 34/88.



vro/877/^dd.L
English
Page 42

Considering the increased activity of peace and anti-war movements in the
struggle for peace, against the arms race and for disarmament,

Convinced of the need to strengthen constructive international
co-operation based on the political goodwill of States for successful
negotiations on disarmament, in accordance with the Fina1 Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly,

Enphasizing the duty of States to co-operate for the preservation of
internat,ional peace and security, as set forth in the Charter of the United
Nations and confirrned in the Declaration on Principles of International l,aw
concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with
the Charter of the United Nations, of 24 October L970, Q/ Ehe obligation to
co-operate actively and constructively for the attainment of the aims of
disarmament being an indispensable part of that duty,

Stressing that, within the framesork of international co-operation for
the attainment of the aims of disarmanent, it is necessary to avert nuclear
war by means of preventing an arms race in outer space and halting it on
Earth, and limiting and reducing nuclear armaments up to complete elirnination
of nuclear weapons everywhere on the basis of the principle of egual security,

Underlining the need to halt both gualitative improvement and
guantitative buildup of nuclear weapons so as to take the first step towards
their radical reduction,

Believing that the two nuclear-neapon States which possess the most
irnportant nuclear arsenals should take the lead and show a good example in
curbing the arns race and preventing its spread to outer space,

Stressing the topicality of the
28 January L985 by the Heads of State
fndia, Mexico, Sweden and tbe United

Stressing that proposals, relativeLy
same time effectiver €rDd agreements aimed
of use of force, be it on a world-wide or
coneiderably to that end,

Delhi Declaration issued on
or Government of Argentina, Greece,

Republic of Tanzani^ 2/

simple in their execution and at the
at elininating the use or the threat
regional scale, would contribute

- Bearing in rnind that the United Nations bears prirnary responsibility and
plays a central role in unifying efforts to maintain and to develop active
co-operation anong StaEes in order to resolve the issues of disarmament'

I. Calls upon all States, in implementing the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assemblyr to make active use of the
prlnciples and ideas contained in the DeclaraEion on fnternational
Co-operation for Disarmament by actively participating in disarmanent

2/ Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.



A/4A/877 /Add'L
Engtish
Page 43

negotiations' with a view to achieving concrete results, and by conducting
them on the basis of the principles of reciprocityr eguality, undiminished
security and the non-use of force in international relations, and to refrain
at the same time from developing new channels of the arms racet

2. Stresses the importance of strengthening the effectiveness of the
united lgatfffifulfilring its responsibirity for maintaining internationar
peace and security in accordance with the Charber of the United Nationst -

3. Ernphasizes the necessity of refraining from war propadanda, in
particular from propaganda of a nuclear rdar - global or limited - and from the
elabora[ion and dissemination of any doctrines and concepts endangering
international peace and justifying the unleashing of nuclear war, which ldad
to deterioration of the international situation and to further intensification
of the arms race and which are detrimental to the generally recognized
necessity of international co-operation for disarmamenti

4. Declares that the use of force in international relations as well as
in attempG-E6G;;vent the fult implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, U constitutes a
phenomenon incompatible with the ideas of international co-operation for
disarmament;

5. Expresses the firm conviction that for effective international
co-operation for the attainment of the aims of disarnament it is inevitable
that the policy of states, primariry of those which dispose of nuclear
lreapons, be directed to averting a nuclear wart

6. Demands that the arms race not be extended into other spheres of
human act,ivity, such as outer space, that should be used for peaceful
purposes, exclusively for the benefit of mankind;

7. Appeals to States which are members of military groupings to
promote, on the basis of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Assembly and in the spirit of international co-operation for
disarmament, the gradual mutual limitation of military activities of these
groupings, thus creating conditions for their dissolutioni

8. Calls upon all Member States to continue to cultivate and
disseminatElffinarly in connection with the world Disarmanent
Campaign, 25/ Launched by the General Assembly at its twelfth special session,
the ideas of international co-operation for disarmament, in particular through
their educational systems, mass media and cultural policies;

4/ Resolution 1514 (xV).

E/ Official Records of the General Assenbly, Twelfth Special Session,
g!!€, agenda items 9 to 13, documenb A/S-L2/32, annex V.



A/40/877 /Add.r
English
Page 44

9. Calls upon the united Nations Educational, scientific and Cultural
Organizati6n to continue to consider, in order further to rncbilize worldpublic opinion on behalf of disarmament, measures aimed at strengthening the
ideas of international co-operation for disarmament through research,
education, information, communication and culturel

10. Calls upon the Governments of all States to contributesubstantiaffifiIl3 observing the principre of undiminished security, to
halting and reversing the arms race, particularly in the nuclear field, and
thus to reducing the danger of nuclear rrar

J

Inplementation of the recommendations and decisions
of the tenth special session

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resorution 39/L4g L of 17 December r9g4,
Noting with concern that the problem identified in the above-mentioned

resolution has not been alleviated,

Firmly convinced that all states have a vital interest in the success of
disarmanent negotiations,

^ -Bearing in mind paragraph 28 of the Final Document of the Tenth SpecialSession of the General Assembly, 7/ in which it affirmed that ',a11 States havethe duty to contribute to the eff&ts in the field of disarmament'and thattrall States have the right to participate in disarmanent negotiationsn,
Recalling furthel its resolution 3g,/lg3 F of 2O December 19g3, in which

it".ffiernmentsofalIStatestocontributesubstantial1y,
inter alia, to halting and reversing the arms race, particularly in the
nuclear field, and thus to reducing the danger of nuclear irar,

l. Re:!e!q!eq once more the right of all States not members of the
Conferenc"ffiparticipateintheworkoftheplenarysessions
of Ehe Conference on substantive guestions;

2. UrSg States members of the Conference on Disarmament not to misuse
the rules FlFoceaure of the Conference so as to prevent states not members
from participating in the work of the Conference.



A/40/e77 /Add.L
English
Page 45

K

United Nations disarmament studies

The General Assembly,

Recalling that, in the Final Docunent of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, the Assembly stated, inter alia, that:

"Taking further steps in the field of disarmament and other measures
aimed at promoting international peace and security would be facilitated
by carrying out studies by the Secretary-ceneral in this field with
appropriate assistance from governmental or consultant experts", W
Recalling also the relevant parts of the United Nations study on the

institutional arrangements relating to the process of disarmament, U
Aware that a number of United Nations studies have been concluded

saEisfactorily in the field of disarmament, and that the reports on them
presented to the General Assernbly have contributed significantly to the
clarification of certain issues,

Noting that, even where diverse views have been reflected, the final
reports elaborated by United Nations expert groups so far have stimulated
wider-ranging discussions on a variety of issues,

Noting lhe recent non-conpletion of final reports on t$ro studies, despite
renewal of the mandate in both cases by the General Assembly,

Noting the discussions that have taken place in the Secretary-Generalrs
Advisory Board- on Disarmament Studies , Lg/

Believing that a thorough appraisal of the subject, including the methods
of work to be adopted by United Nations expert groups, could enhance the value
and relevance of United Nations studies in the field of disarmament,

t. Reaffiqrryl the value of United Nations studies, prepared with
appropriatilffince from governmental or consultant, experts, as a useful
means by which important issues in the field of arms limitation and
disarmament can be addressed in a comprehensive and detailed manneri

g/ Resolution S-L0/2, para. 96.

?/ A/36/392, annex.

W See e/40/744, paras. 3-G.



A/40/877 /Add.1
English
Page 45

2. Invites Menber States to communicate to the Secretary-General, by
I April 1985, their views and proposals on how the work of the United Nations
in the field of disarmament studies can be further improvedl

3. Reguests the Secretary-General to transmit the replies of Member
States to the General Assembly at its forty-first session and to Ehe Advisory
Board on Disarmament Studies;

4. AIso requests the Secretary-General to invite the Advisory Board on
DisarmarnenT Stuaies Co prepare a comprehensive report on these matters for
submission to the General Assembly at its forty-second session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of iEs forty-first
session an-fl6Tntitled "United Nations disarmament studiesn.

L

Review and appraisal of the implementation of the Declaration
of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament Decade

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 35/46 of 3 Decernber 1980, by which it adopted
the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament Decade'

Recalling also its resolution 39/L48 Q of 17 December 1984, by which it
decided to review and appraise at its fortieth session, in 1985, the
Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament Decade,

Noting with concern that half-way through the Decade its goals are far
from being achieved and that no substantial progress has been made even on
items of highest priority,

Alarmed at the continued escalation of the arms race, particularty the
nuclear arms racet

Also alarmed at the recent findings of the possible conseguences of a
nuclear war under present circumstances, as documented by competent scientists,

- Deeply concerned at the continued dissipation of ever-increasing human
and naterial resources on the arms race,

Taking note of the views of l4ember States and suggestions made by them on
the implementation of the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Disarmament
Decade,

Noting with satisfaction the portion of the report of the Disarmament
Commission on the item entitled "Review and appraisal of the implementation of



A/40/877 /Add.I
English
Page 47

the Declaration of the I980s as the Second Disarmament Decade: preliminary
assessment and suggestions to ensure progressr, U

Welcoming the bilateral negotiations between the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and the United States of Anerica in accordance with the
joint communigu6 issued by the two Governments on 8 January 1985r

1. Decides to adopt the relevant portion of the report of Ehe
Disarmament CommissLon t 29/

2. Reguests the Conference on Disarmanent to accelerate the
implernentation of the activities elaborated in the Declaration of the 1980s as
the Second Disarmament Decade, as enumerated in Ehe report of the Disarmament
Conunission'

3. Calls upon all States, particularly the nuclear-weapon States:

(a) To reaffirn their comnitment Co the Declaration of the 1980s as the
Second Disarmament Decadet

(b) To reaffirm their commitment to the attainment of the ultimate
objective of general and complete disarmament under effective international
control 3

(c) To adopt concrete and practical measures for preventing the outbreak
of war, in particular nuclear wart

(d) To take appropriate steps to halt and reverse the nuclear arms race
with a view to improving the international clirnate and enhancing the efficacy
of disarrnament negotiationst

(e) To exert greater efforts in the implementation of the !{orld
Disarmanent CamPaign;

4. Reguests the Secretary-GeneraL to report annually to the General
Assembly on the implenentation of the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second
Disarmament Decade.

U Off icial Records of the General Assembly, Fort.ieth Sgssion, ,Supplement
No. 42 lA/40/421 ' 

para. 32 and annex VII.



A/ 40 /877 /Add. I
English
Page 48

!l

Report of the Conference on Disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolut,ions 34/83 B of 11 December L979, 35/152 J of
12 Decernber 1980, 36/92 F of 9 December 198I, 37/78 G of 9 December L982,
38/183 I of 20 December 1983 and 39/L48 N of 17 Decenber 1984,

RecaLling aLso the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assemb1y, !/ tt,e first special session devoted to disarmanent, and the
Concluding Docunent of the Twelfth Special Session of the General
Assembly , E/ the second special session devoted to disarnament,

Having consideqed the report of the Conference on Disarmament, W
Convinced that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single multilateral

negotiating body on disarmament, should play the central role in substantive
negotiations on priority guestions of disarmament and on the ilnplenentation of
the Programme of Action set forth in section IIf of the Flna1 Document of the
Tenth Special Session,

Reaffirming that the establishment of ad hoc conmittees offers the best
available machinery for the conduct of multilaEeral negotiations on itens of
the agenda of the Conference on Disarmament and contributes to Che
strengthening of the negotiating role of the Confe!€DC€r

Expressing its gatisfaction at the establishment within the Conference on
Disarmament of an g|-@ Corunittee on the prevention of an arms race in outer
space,

Iteploring the fact that, despite the repeated reguests of the General
Assembly and the expressed wish of the great najority of members of the
Conference on Disarmament, tbe establishment of an ad hoc comnittee on the
cessation of the nuclear-arms race and on nuclear disarmament was once again
prevented during the 1985 session of the Conference,

Deploring also the fact that the Conference on Disarmament has not been
enabled to set up ad hoc committees under itern I of its agenda, entitled
nNuclear-test bantr, and on the prevention of nuclear vtar'

Noting that some progress has been made in the negotiations on the
elaboraLion of a draft convention on the prohibition of the development,
production and stockpiling of all chemical weapons and on their destruction,

W Official Records of the General Assenbly, Fortieth 9ession, SuPpl_ement
No. 27 (A/40/27 and Corr.l).



A/40/877 /Add.I
English
eage 49

l. Expresses its deep concern and disappointment that the Conference on
Disarmament has not been enabled, this year tittrer, to reach concrete
agreements on any disarmanent issues to which the United Nations has assigned
greatest priority and urgency and which have been under consideration for a
number of yearsi

2. Calls g!!1! the Conference on Disarmament to intensify it,s work, to
further itETliEate more earnestly through negotiations and to adopt concrete
measures on the specific priority issues of disarmament on its agenda, in
particular those relating to nuclear disarmament;

3. Once ag[-ggg the Conference on Disarmament, to continue or to
undertake,@session,substantivenegotiationsonthepriority
guestions of disarmament on its agenda, in accordance with the provisions of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly and
other reLevant resolutions of the Assenbly on those guestions;

4. Calls upon the Conference on Disarnament to prcvide the existing
ad hoc committees, including the Ad Hoc Committee on the prevention of an arms
race in outer space, with appropriate negotiating mandates and to establishi
as a matter of urgency, the ad hoc committees under iten I of its agenda,
entitled trNuclear-test bantr, on the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and
nuclear disarnament and on the prevention of nuclear wari

5. Urges the Conference on Disarmament to undertake, without further
delay, negotiations with a view to elaborating a draft treaty on a
nuclear-test ban;

6. Also urges the Conference on Disarmament to further int,ensify its
work on the.etraboration of a draft convention on the prohibition of the
develoPment, production and stockpiling of all chemical weapons and on their
dest.ructionl

7. Once again call.s upon the Conference on Disarmament to organize its
work in suffi.y as to concentrate most of its attention and time on
substantive negotiations on priority issues of disarmamenti

8. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to subnit a report on its
work to the General Assenbly at its forty-first sessioni

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session thG;-entitred 'rReport of the conference on Disarmament,'.



^/40/877 
/Add.1

English
Page 50

N

Irnplementation of the recomnendations and decisions
of the tenth sPecial session

The General Assenblyr

Having reviewed the implenentation of the reconmendations and decisions
aaoptea Uy tfre eeneral Assembly at its tenth special session, U Elre first
special session devoted to di.sarmament, as well as the Concluding Document of
the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assenbly , E/ the second special
session devoted to disarmament'

Recalling its resolutions S-IO/2 of 30 June 1978 ' 34/83 C of
ll December L979,35/46 of 3 Decenber 1980,35/L52 E of 12 December 1980,
36/92 M of 9 December 1981, 37/78 F of 9 December L982' 38,/183 H of
20 Decenber 1983, 3g/L48 O of 17 December 1984 and its decision S-I2/24 of
10 JuIy L982,

Deeply concerned that no concrete resuLts regarding the irnplementation of
ttre recomnrenaations and decisions of the tenEh special session have been
realized in the course of more than seven years since that session, that in
the neantime the arms race, particularly in its nuclear aspect, has gained in
intensity, that there has been further deployment of nuclear lreapons in some
parts of the world, that annual global rnilitary expenditures are estimated to
have reached the staggering figure of $Ir000 billion, that nankind is faced
with a real danger of spreading the arms race into outer space' that urgent
measures to prevent nuclear war and for disarmament have not been adopted and
that continued colonial domination and foreign occupation, open threats'
pressures and military intervention against independent States and violations
of the fundamental principles of the Charter of the United Nations have taken
place, posing the most serious threat to international peace and security'

convinced that the renewed escalation of the nuclear-arms race, in both
the gui;fitative and the gualitative dimensions, as well as reliance on
nuclear deterrence and on the use of nuclear steapons, has heightened the risk
of the outbreak of nuclear war and led to greater insecurity and instabiLity
in international relations,

Further convincejl that international peace and security can only be
ensured tnrougn general and complete disarmament under effective international
control and that one of the most urgent tasks is to halt and reverse the arms
race and to undertake concrete measures of disarmament, particularly nuclear
disarmament,, and that, in this respect, the nuclear-htealxrn States and other
militarily significant States have the primary responsibility,

eelievilg that the preservation of the existing bilateral, regional and
global system of arms linitation and disarmament agreements and the strict
observance of such agreenents by tbeir parties are inportant elements of
disarmament efforts at all levels,



A/40/877 /Add.r
English
eage 5l

Noting with great concern that no real progress in disarmament
negotiat,ions hag baen achieved in the course of several years, which has
rendered the current internaEional situation even more dangerous and insecure,

Expressing the desire that the launching of negotiations between the
United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics would
produce agreements on preventing an arms race in outer space and on
significant reductions in their strategic and int,ermediate-range
nuclear-weapon systems, as well as that the results of these negotiations
would lead to a relaxation of tension in their mutual relations and in the
world at large,

Considering that bilateral negotiations should not in any way diminf'sh.
the urgent need to initiate and pursue nultilateral negotiations in the
Conference on Disarmament on the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and
nucl-ear disarnament and on the prevention of an arms race in outer space,

S!.ressing that it is more than ever imperative in the present
circumstances to give a new impetus to negotiations on disarmamentr in
particular nuclear disarmament, at all levels and to achieve genuine progress
in the inmediate future and that all States should refrain from any actions
which have or nay have negative effects on the outcome of disarmament,
negotiations,

Reaffirming that the United Nations has a central role and primary
responsibitity in the sphere of disarmament,

Stressing that the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly' which was unanimously and categorically reaffirmed by all
Member States at the twelfth special session as the comprehensive basis for
efforts towards halting and reversing the arms race, retains all its validity
and that the objectives and measures contained therein still represent one of
the most inportant and urgent goals to be achieved,

t. Expresses its grave concern over the acceleration and
intensification of the arms race, particularly the nuclear-arms race, which
threaten international peace and security and increase the danger of nuclear
lrar i

2. Calls upon all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States and other
nilitarily significant States, to take urgent measures in order to prorote
international security on the basis of disarmament, to halt and reverse the
arms race and to launch a process of genuine disarmamenti

3. Invites all States, particularly nuclear-weapon States and
especially those among them which possess the nost important nuclear arsenals,
to take urgent measures with a view to imptementing the recommendations and
decisions contained in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, as well as to fulfilling the priority tasks set forth in the
Programme of Act,ion contained in section IfI of the Final Documenti



^/40/877 
/Add. l

English
Page 52

4- calls upon great powers to pursue their negotiations in a
constructive and accomnpdating spirit and taking into account the interest of
the entire international comnunity in order to halt the arms race,
particularly the nuclear-arms race, and to acbieve disarmamentt

5. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to proceed urgently to
negotiatioi'Jii-EiFcessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament
and on the prevention of nuclear war, to undertake and intensify negotiations
on the prevention of an arms race in outer space and to elaborate drafts of
treaties on a nuclear-weapon-lest ban and on a complete and effective
prohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of aLl chemical
weapons and on their destruction;

5. Calls upon the Disarmament Commission to intensify its work in
accordance with its nandate and to continue improving its work with a view to
naking concrete recommendations on specific items on its agendal

7. Invites all States engaged in disarmament and arms lirnitation
negotiations outside the framework of the United Nations to keep the General
Assembly and the Conference on Disarmament inforned on the status and/ot
results of such negotiaEions, in conformity with the relevant provisions of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Sessionl

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the item entitled "Implementat,ion of the recommendations and decisions
of the tenth special session',.

o

Verification in all its aspects

The General Assembly'

Conscious of the urgent need to reach agreements on arms limitatlon and
disarmament measures capable of contributing to the maintenance of peace and
security,

Convinced that, if such measures are to be effective, they rnust be fair
and balanced, acceptable to all parties, their substance must be clear and
compliance with them must be evident,

Reaffirming its conviction, as expressed in paragraph 91 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the ceneral Assenbly, !/ adopted by
consensus at its first special session devoted to disarmdil€ntr that in order
to facilitate the conclusion and effective implementation of disarnamenE
agreements and to create confidence, states should accept appropriate
provisions for verification in such agreements,

Reiterat,ing its view that:
(a) Disarmament and arms limit,ation agreements should provide for

adeguat,e measures of verification satisfactory to all parties concerned in



^/40/877 
/Add.L

English
Page 53

order to create the necessary confidence and to ensure that they are being
observed by atl parties,

(b) The form and modalities of the verification to be provided for in
any specific agreement depend upon and ehould be determined by the purposes'
scope and nature of the agreement,

(c) Agreements should provide for the participation of parties directly
or through the United Nations system ln the verification process,

(d) I,{here appropriate, a combination of several methods of verif ication
as well as other compliance procedures should be employed,

Recalling that:

(a) In the context of international disarmanent negotiations, the
problem of verification should be further examined and adeguate methods and
procedures in this field should be considered,

(b) Every effort should be made to develop appropriate rnethods and
procedures that are non-discriminatory and that do not unduly interfere with
the internal affairs of other States or jeopardize their economic and social
development,

Believing that verification techniques should be developed as an
objective means of determining compliance with agreements and appropriately
taken into account in the course of disarmament negotiations,

1. Calls upon Member States to increase their efforts towards achieving
agreements on balanced, mutually acceptable, verifiable and effective arns
limitation and disarmament neasurest

2. rnvites aII Menber States, bearing in mind the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, lhe first special session
devoted to disarrnament, to communicate to the Secretary-General, not later
than 15 ApriI 1985, their views and suggestions on verification principles,
procedures and technigues to promote the inclusion of adeguate verification in
arms limitation and disarmament agreements and on the role of the United
Nations in the field of verification;

3. Reguests the Secretary-General to prepare and submit to the General
Assembly at its forty-first session a report containing the views and
suggestions of Member Statesi

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its fort,y-first
session 

"ttGTntitled "Verification in all its 
aspects" under Ehe item

entitled "Review of the implementation of the recommendat,ions and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special session: implementation
of the recommendations and decisions of the tenth special session".



A/40/877 /Add.1
English
Page 54

P

Cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament

The General Assemblyr

Recalling that, in paragraph II of the Final Docunent of Ehe Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, !/ the first speeial session devoted
to disarmament, the Assenbly stated that the nuclear-arms race, far fron
contributing to the strengthening of the security of all States' on the
cont,rary weakens lt and increases the danger of the outbreak of a nuclear war
and that existing arsenal-s of nuclear vreapons are more than sufficient to
destroy all life on earth,

Rgralling also that, in paragraph 47 of the Final Document the Assembly
expreiJea tfre Ueliet tnat nuclear weapons pose the greatest danger to mankind
and to the survival of civilizatlon, that it is essential to halt and reverse
the nuclear-arms race in all its aspects in order eo avert the danger of war
involving nuclear weapons, and that the ultirnate goal in this context is the
complete elirnination of nuclear wealx)ns,

Noting that, in the Political Declaration adopted at the Seventh
Conference of Heads of State or Governnent of Non-Aligned Countries, held at
New Delhi from 7 to 12 March 1983, it was declared that the renewed escalation
of the nuclear-arms race, as well as reliance on doctrines of nuclear
deterrence, had heightened the risk of the outbreak of nuclear war and led to
greater insecurity and instabi}ity in international relations, and that it was
also stated that nuclear ceapons were more than weapons of war, that such
weapons were instruments of mass annihilation, 3V

Noting further that, in the Final Political Declaration adopted at the
eighth Conference of Foreign lt{lnisters of Non-Aligned Countries, held at
Luanda from 4 to 7 September 1985, it was stated that doctrines of nuclear
deterrence, far from contributing to the maintenance of internaEional peace
and securityr 1ay at the root of the continuing escalation in quantitative and
gualitative developnent of nuclear weapons, U

Believing that all nations have a vital interest in negotiations on
nuclear disarmanent becauae the existence of nuclear weapona in the arsenals
of a handful of States directLy and fundanentally jeopardizes the vital
security interests of both nuclear and non-nuclear-weapon States alike,

u
y/

see A/38/L32-S/L5575 and Corr.l and 2, sect.

See A/40/854-S/L7610, annex I, para. 33.

I, para. 28.



A/40/877/Add.I
English
Page 55

Considering that it is necessary to halt all testing, production and
deployment of nuclear'lreapons and their delivery syslems as a first step in
the process which should lead to the achievement, of substantial reductions in
nuclear forces, and welcoming in this context the Joint Declaration issued on
22 May 1984 by the Heads of State or Government of Argentina, Greece, India,
Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of TanzanLa, U which was reaffirmedin the Delhi Declaration issued on 28 January L985, 9/

Convinced of the imperative need to take constructive action towards
halting and reversing the nuclear-arms race,

1. Notes the initiatinn of bilateral negotiations on nuclear and space
arms and affirms that such negotiations in no lray dininish the urgent need to
initiate multilateral negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament on the
cessaLion of the nuclear-arms race and nucl-ear disarmamenti

2. Believes that efforts should be intensifi.ed with a view to
initiatingr Ers a matter of the highest priority, multilateral negotiations in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, the first special session
devoted to disarmamentl

3.
committee
the Final
it could
measures

Again reguests the Conference on Disarmament to egtablish an ad hoc
at, the beginning of its 1986 session to elaborate on paragraph 50 of
Document and to submit recommendations to the Conference as to how

best initiate nultilateral negotiations of agreements, with adeguate
of verification, in appropriate stages for:

(a) Cessation of the gualitative improvement and development of
nuclear-weapon systems ;

(b) Cessation of the production of all types of nuclear weapons and
their means of delivery, and of the production of fissionable material for
weapons purposesi

(c) Substantial reduction in the existing nuclear weapons with a view
their ultimate eliminationi

4. Regugsts the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-first session on its consideration of this subjectl

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of it,s forty-first
session tneTlffi1ntit],ed "Cessation of the nuclear-arrns race and nuclear
disarmament".

E/ A/39 /277 -3/i.6587, annex.



^/ 
40 /877 /Add. I

English
Page 56

0

PrevenLion of nuclear war

The General Assembly'

Alarmed by the threat to the survival of mankind posed by the existence
of nuclear vreapons and the continuing nuclear-arms race,

Deeply concerned by an increased danger of nuclear war as a resul-t of the
intensification of the nuclear-arms race and the serious deterioration of the
international situation,

Consciogs that removal of the threat of nuclear lrar is the most acute and
urgent task of the present day,

Reiterating that it is the shared responsibility of a1l Member States to
save succeeding generations fron the scourge of another world war, which would
inevitably be a nuclear war,

Recalling the provisions of paragraphs 47 to 50 and 56 to 58 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, !/ tne first
special session devoted to disarmament, regarding the procedures designed to
secure the avoidance of nuclear war,

Recalling also that at the Seventh Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at New Delhi from 7 to
12 March 1983, it was stated that nuclear weapons are more than weapons of
vrar, they are instruments of mass annihilation, 31,/ anit that at the eighth
Conference of Ministers of ForeiEn Affairs of Non-Aligned Countries' held at
Luanda from 4 to ? September 1985, it was stated that measures for the
prevention of nuclear vrar and for nuclear disarmament must take into account
the security interests of nuclear-weapon and non-nuclear-weapon States alike
and ensure that the survival of mankind is not endangered, U

Recalling further its resolutions 36/8I B of 9 December 1981' 37/78 t of
9 December 1982 and 381183 G of 20 Decenber 1983 and, in particular, its
resolution 39/L48 P of t7 December 1984, in which it expressed its conviction
that, in view of the urgency of this matter and the inadeguacy or
insufficiency of existing measures, it is necessary to devise suitable steps
to expedite effective action for the prevention of nuclear vtar, and again
reguested the Conference on Disarmanent to undertake, as a matter of the
highest priority, negotiations with a view to achieving agreement on
appropriate and practical measures for the prevention of nuclear war,

Having conPidered the report of the Conference on Disarmament on its 1985
session, W

Noting with grave concern thal the Conference on Disarmament ltas once
againlnabfe lo start negotiations on the guestion during its 1985 session,



A/40/877/^dd.r
English
Page 57

Taking into account the deliberations on this iEem at its fortieth
sess ion,

Convinced
risk of nuclear
to all peoples

AIso convinced that
important to be left to

Taking note of the

the prevention of nuclear vrar is a problem too
the nuclear-weapon States alone,

report of the Secretary-General, 34,/

that the prevention of nuclear war and the reduction of the
rdar are matters of the highest priority and of vital interest

of the world,

1. Ngtes with regret that, despite the fact that the Conference on'
Disarmamenffieguestionofthepreventionofnuc1earwarfor
several years, it has been unable even to establish a subsidiary body to
consider appropriate and practical measures to prevent itl

2. Reiterates its conviction that, in view of the urgency of this
matter and the inadeguacy or insufficiency of existinlt measures, it is
necessary to devise suitable steps to expedite effective action for the
prevention of nucLear vrari

3. Again requests the Conference on Disarmament to undertake, as a
matter of the highest prlority, negotiations with a view to achieving
agreement on appropriat,e and practical measures for the prevention of nuclear
war and to estioliSn for that -purpose an ad hoc connittee on the subject at
the beginning of its l-986 session;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the item entitled rrPrevention of nuclear war".

***

DRAFT DECISION

60. The I'irst Comnittee recommends to the General AssernbJ-y the adoption of the
following draft decision:

" (a) The General Assembly decides that, in order to give timely
consideration to the recommendations of the Advisory Committee on
Administrative and Budgetary Questions regarding the proposed annual budget

y/ 
^/40/4e8.



A/40/877 /Add. 1
English
Page 58

the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, W tln.e Advisory Board
on Disarmament Studies should be authorized to hold its second session of 1986
during the early weeks of the forty-first regular session of the Assembly, in
the light of the reguest of the Advisory Board in paragraph 38 of the report
of the Secretary-General on the work of the Advisory Board, 36/

" (b) The General Assenbly reguests the Connittee on Conferences at 1ts
1986 substantive session to consider the pattern of future meetings of the
Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies."

E/ see A/4o/7 /Add.e.
y/ A/4o/744.


