








































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAssembly DisEr.
GENERAL

^/40/91425 Novernber 198 5
ENGLTSH
ORTGINAL: !'RENCI!

Fortieth session
Agenda ilem 94

ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF RACIAL DISCRIMINATION

Report of the Third Comnittee

Rapporteur: Mr. paul-Ddsir6 KABoM (Burkina Faso)

I. IMRODUCTION
1. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 Septenber 1985, the ceneral Assembly. on the
recommendation of the ceneral Conniltee, decided to inctude in the agenda of its
fortieth session the iten entitledr

"Elimination of all forns of racial discrimination:
rr(a) Report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racia1 Discrinlnationt

" (b) Status of the International Convention on the Elimination of A1l Forms of
Racial Discrininationr report of the Secr etary-cene ral ,

"(c) Scatus of the International Convention on the Suppression and Punishment
of the Crime of Apartheidr report of the Secr etary-Gene ral "

and to allocate iC to the Third Conmittee.

2. The Third Corunietee considered the iten jointly nith iterns 88 and 93 at its
3rd to l5th, 30th, 3lst, 37th and 46th neetlngs, on 7 to ll, 14 to 17 october and
4, 5, 11 and 19 Novenber 1985. An account of the discussion of the Cornmitbee is
contained in the relevant sunmary records (A/C.3/4O/5R.3-15, 30, 31, 37 and 46).

3. The Cornmittee had before it the follovrinq documentation:

(a) Report of the corunittee on the Elinination of Racial Discrinination,
submitted in accordance with article 9 of the fnternational Convention on the

8s-34232 4620P (El



A/40/914
English
Page 2

Elinination of All Forms of Racial Discrinination (ceneral Assembly resolution
2106 A (XX), annex) 6/A0/M) t l/

(b) Status of the fnternational Convention on the Suppression and Punishnent
of the Cr j.me of Apartheid! report of the Secr e lary-cene ral (A/40/6061 1

(c) Status of the International Convention on the Etimination of A11 Forns of
Racial Discrimination: report of the Secretary-cenera I (A/4O/60'1),

(d) Letter dated l0.fanuary 1985 frorn the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Israel !o the United Nations addressed to the
Secr etary-cen er aI (A/40/77l,,

(e) Note verbale daCed II March 1985 fron the Chargd d,affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Yenen to the United Nations addressed to the
secretary-General, transnitting the final cornmuniqu6 of and resolutions adopted at
the Fifeenth fslanic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Sanaa fron 18 to
22 Decenber 1984 (A/ 40 /I7 3-S,zIZ03 3 ) I

(f) tetter dated I May 1985 from the Pernanent Representative of Indonesia to
the United Nations addressed to the secre tary-ceneral I transnitting a copy of the
Declaration of the Conmemorative Meeting in Observance of the Thirtieth Annrversary
of the Asian-African Conference, held at Bandung, fndonesia, on 24 and
25 April IgSs (A/40 /27 6-s/Ij L3B) t

(9) Letter dated 17 June 1985 frorn the Pernanent Representative of rsrael to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-cenera I (A/ 40 /398-S/L7 Z92l r

(h) LeCter dated 15 October 1985 from the Permanent Representative of Yenen
to the United Nations addressed to the secr e tary-ceneral , transmitting the
comrnunigu6 of the co-ordination neeting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the
Organization of the Islamic conference, held in New york on 9 October 1985
(A/40/7 58-s/I7570) t

(i) LetLer dated 22 October 1985 from the Pernanent Representative of Burkina
Faso to the United Nations addressed Co the secr e tary-ceneral lA/40/787-S/L7585'r.

4. At the 3rd neeting, on 7 October. the Deputy Director of Che Centre fox Hunan
Rights made an introductorv statenent.

y Official Recordq of the ceneral A"s"mbly, Forti.th S"s.i
No. 18 (A/40l18).



^/40/9r4English
Page 3

II. CONSIDERAfION OF DRATT RISOLI'TIONS

A. Draft resoluti.on A/C.3/4 0/L.4

5. At the 30th neeting, on 4 Novenber, the representatlve of Belglun lntroducetl a
draft resolut !o^ (A/c.3/40/L.4) entltLed 'Statu6 of the Internatlonal conventlon on
the Elinination of All Forns of Racial Discr inination' , aponsored by A1geria,
Arqent

as well as
subsequently jo by Nicaragua.

6. At the sane meeting, the representative of Uruguay lntroduced anendments to
the draft resolution (VC.3/40/L.8') sponsored by Colonbia, Costa Rlca, Dennark,
Ecuador, Pinland, France, Iceland, Italy, the Netherlanda, Norray, Perur Senegal,
Sweden and Uruguay, which read as follons!

'I. Add a new preanbular paragrapht

8*pressing ibd satlsfaction with the entry lnto force on
3 Decenber 1982 of the cornpetence of the conmitt€e on the Elinination of
Racial Discrlnlnatlon to accept and to exarnine cormunlcations fron
persons or groups of persons under artlcte 14 of the International
Convention, as well as for the fact that since that date nore States
Parties have made the decleration under that articler

Add a nen operative patagtaph 5t

5. Calls upon States Parties to the convention to consider the
possibility of tnaklng the declaration provided for in article 14 of the
Conventiont

"3. Renunber existing paragraph 5 accordingly.'

7. At the same neeting, the Com0ittee took th€ folLorfing action on draft
resolution A/C.3/40/L.4 ahd the amendments thereto contained in A/C.3/10/L.82

(a) The anendments uere adogt€d by a recorded vote ot 79 to l, with
41 abstentions. The votinE was as follolas ! y

U Subsequently, the representative of Qatar stated Ehat his delegaelon had
not particlpated ln the voting but that, 6vin9 to a technical error' the nachine
had reglstered tlis deleEation as havlng voteat in favour. llhe representative of
Bahrain stated that, as a result of a technlcal errorr her delegation had been
shordn as voting against when in fact it had abstained. The representative of
Guinea stated that, owing to nechanlcal fallure, her delegation'a vote in favour of
the drafe resolution had not beeh racord€d.



A/40/9L4
English
Page 4

In favour:

Aga inst t

Abstaininqr

Afghanistan, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
BarbadoE, Belgiurn, Bolivlar Botswana, Brazl]., Brunei Darussalam,
Burna, Canada, Central African Republic, Chaat, Chlle, colonbia,
Congo, Cyprus, Dennark, Domlnican Republic, Ecuador, Eglrpt,
EI salvador, Eguatorlal 6uinea, Finland, France, cabon, carnbia,
Germany, Federal RepubLlc ofr Ghanar creece, Guinea-Bissau,
Haiti' Eonduras, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jamahlrlya, Luxenbourg, Ualawl, Ualdives, Iilali, Morocco,
ltozanbique, Nepal, Netherlands, Nelr zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, llornay, paraguay, peru, portugal, eatar, Sao Tome andPrinclpe, saudi Arabia, Senegal, sonalla, spain, sri tanka,
Sudan, Surinane, Srraziland, Sweden, Togo, trlnldad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Unlted Kingdom of creat Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of Arner ica, Uruguay,
venezuela. zaire, zanbia, z tnbabre.
Bahra in,

Algeria' Angol-a, Bahanas, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Eurundi, Eyelorussian Soviet Sociallst Republic, Carneroon, Cape
verde, China, Cuba, czechoglovakia, Denocratlc yenen, Fiji,
German Denocratic Republic, cuatemala, Hungary, India, Iran
(Islarnic Republic of), Iraq, Janaica, Japan, ,Jordan, Kenya, IJao
PeopLe r s Denocratic Republic, trladagascar, Malaysia, !.lexico,
llongolia, pakistan, philipplnes, poland, Romanla, Rrranda, syrlan
Arab RepublicT Thailand, Ukrainian soviet socialist Republic,
Union of sorriet socialist Republics, viet Nan, yugoslavia.

(b) Draft resolutfon A/C.3/4O/L,4, as amended, was adopted without a vote(see para. 15, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolution VC.3/40lL,6
8. At the 30th meeting, the
introduced a draft resolution
Convention on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crine of ", sponsoredby Afghanistan Faso

representative of the cerman Den@ratic
(A/C.3/40/L.61 entitled 'status of the

tic

Republic
fnternational

.the cernan +nocratic nepublGlTiila-FiiE-
ia, the

viee Nan ana zarnbii as relfTl@-iiii ttre
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republ lc,
Syrian Arab Republ ic.

on the draft resolution a5 followsr9. At the same neeting, the Connittee voted

!.) The third preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of IO8 to10, nith 15 abstentions, rhe votinf wis as foDlws:



^/40/9L4English
Page 5

In favourr Afghanistan ' Algeria, Angola' Antigua and 
Barbuda' Argentina,

Bahamasr Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botsnana'
Brazil, Brunei Darussalarn, Bulgaria' Burkina Faso' Burma,
Burundir Byelorussian Sovlet Socialist Republic r cameroon, Cap€
verder Chad, chile, china' colonbla, Conoros, Congo' Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Rarnpuchea, Denocratic Yetnen,
Djibouti, Doninlcan RePublic, Ecuador, EgyPt, El Salvadorr
Equator ial Guinea, Ethiopla, Fijir Gabonr Ganbia' Gernan
Denocratic Republ-ic, Ghana r Guatenala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissaut
Guyana ' Haiti, Bonduras' Eungary, India, fndonesiar 

Iran (Islatnic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica. Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Denocratlc Republic. Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya'
Hadagascar' Malaysia, Maldives, ltali, Mexico, Mongolia, l'lorocco '
Mozanbique, Nepal,. Nicaragua, Nigerr Nlgeria, Onan, Pakistan,
Perur philippines, Po1and, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, sao Tone and
Principe, saudi Arabla' senegal, somalia, sri Lanka, Sudan,
suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo'
Tr inidad and Tobago' Tunisiar Ukrainlan sovieb socialiEt

. RePublic, Union of SovieC Socialist RePubllcs, United Arab
Enirates, Uniteil RePublic of Tanzania' uruguay, venezuela, viet
Nanr Yemen, YugosLavia, zairer zanbia, zinbabwe.

Againsts Belgium, France, cermany, FederaL Republic of, Israel, Italy,
. Luxembourg., Netherlands, Portugal, United Kingdon of Great
Britain and Northern lreland, United States of America.

Abstainingr Australia' Austria, Canada, Central African Republlc, Costa Rica,
Denmark, Finland, Greece' Iceland, Ireland, JaPan' New Zealand,
Norway, Spain, Svreden.

(b) operative Paragraph 5 rdas adopted by a recorded vote of I04 to 11, with
15 abstentions. The voting was as follovrs'.

In favour! Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola ' Antigua and Barbuda, 
Argentina'

' Bahamas, Bahrain' Bangladesh ' Barbados ' Benin. 
Bolivia, Bots$ana,

.BrazlL, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundir Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic ' caneroon ' 

caPe
. verde, Chad, Chile, china, colonbia, conoros ' congo' coEta 

Rica,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovak ia, Democratic Yenen ' Djibouti'.. Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, Ganbia, Cernan Denocratic
Republic, Ghana, cuatemala, Guinea' Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, HaiLi,
Hondurasr Ilungaryr rndia, Indonesla, rran (Islamic Republic of),
lraq' Jordan' Kenya, Kuwait' Lao People's Denocratic RePublic '
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, l'tadagascar, Mal-aysia,
Maldives' uali, Mexico, Mongolia, Moxocco' Mozambique, Nepal,
Nicaragua' Niger, Nigeria, Ornan ' Pakistan' 

Peru' Poland, Qatar,
Ronania' sao Tone and Principe' saudi Arabia, Seneqal, Somalia,
sri Lanka, sudan, suriname, syrian Arab Republic, To9o, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey' Ukrainian soviet sociallst RePublic '
Union of soviet socialist Republics' United Arab Enirates, United
RePublic of Tanzania' Uruguay, venezuelar viet Nam, Yenen,
Yugoslavia' zaire, zanbia' z inbabwe.



Belgiuln, France, Gernany, pederal Republic of. Ireland, fsrael,
ftaly, Luxenbourg, Netherlands, portugal, Unlted Kingdon of Creat
Britain and Northern freland, United states of Aner ica.

Abstaining! Australia, Austria, Canada, Central African Republic, Dennark,
Finland, creece, Iceland, Janaica, Japan, New zeal-and, Norray,philippines, Rwanda, Spain. Sk eden.

(c) Operative paragraph I wae adopted by a recorded vote of l0? to 11, with
12 abetentions. The votlng was as follows:

fn favour r Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin; Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna,
Burundi, Byelorussian Sovlet Socialist Republic, Caneroon, Cape
verde, Central African Repub1ic, chaat, Chile, china, Colonbia,
Comoroa, Congo, @sta Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Denocratlc Yetaen, Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Eglrpt,
EL Salvador, Equatorlal Guinea, Ethiopla, Fiji, cabon, canbia,
Gernan Denocratic Repubtic, chana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Eaitl, Honduras, Eungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), fraq, Janaica, Jordan,
Kenya, trunalt, Lao l€oplers Denocratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahlriya, ttadagascar, ualaysia, Maldivea,
Uali, Uexico, ltongolia, llorocco, Mozanbigue, Nepal, Nlcaragua,
Niger, Nigerla, onan, pakistan, peru, philippines, poland, eatar,
Romanla, sao Tome and princip€, Saudl Arabia, senegal, Sonalia,sri Lanka, sudan, surinane, swaziland, syrian Arab Republic,
Togo, ?rinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Iftralnlan Soviet
Sociallst Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Unlted
Arab Enirates, Unlted Republic of Tanzanla, Uruguay, Venezuela,viet Nam, Yenen, yugosLavia, Zairel zanria, Zinbabwe.
Belglun, France, Gernany, trederal Republic of, Ireland, fgrael,ftaly, Luxembourg, Netherlands, portugal, United tringdon of creatBritain and Northern freland, united States of enerlca.

Abstalnings Australia, Austria, Canada, Dennark, Finland, Greece, Iceland,
Japan, Neir zealand, Non ay, spain, Sweden.

(d) Draft reso!-ut ion A/c-3/4o/L'6 as a whole was adopted by a recorded voteof lI]. to I, r{ith 23 abatentiona (see para. 15, dtraft resolution If). The voting
was as follows r g/

A/40/9L4
English
Page 6

Against r

Againstr

y Subsequently,
nechanical failure, its
the draft resolut ion.

the delegation of Colombla indicated that, orring to
vote had not been recorded and it had voted in favour of



fn favour r

Agalnstr

@l4.:

^/10/9r4English
Page 7

Afghanistan ' Albania, Algerla, 
Angola ' 

Antigua and Barbuda'
Argentina, Bahatnas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbadog, Benin,
Bolivia, Botswana ' Brazil, Brunei 

Daruasalam. Bulgarlat Burkina
Fasor Burna' Burundti, Byeloruasian Sortiet Socialist RePublic,
Caneroon., Cape verde. central Afr ican RePublic, Chad, Chile,
China, Conoros, congo, Cosba Rica' Cuba, CyPrug, Czechoslovakla'
Democratic Nalqruchea, D,enocr at ic Yernen, Djibouti. Dorninican
Republic' Ecuador, Eg!'Pt, Et salvador, Equatorial Guinea'
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon r Ganbia, Gernan Denocratlc RePubllc, Ghana,
Guatenala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Faiti, Fonduras,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic RePublic of), Iraq,
Janaica' Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait' Lao PeoPLe's Denocratic Republict
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab ,tanahiriya, Madagascar, ltalaygia'
ualalives, tlalir Mexlco, Mongolia, Ilorocco r l'lozambiquer NePal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigerla, oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philipplnes,
Poland, Qatar, Ronania, Rwanda, sao Tome and Principel Saudl i
Arabia, Senegal, SingaPore r sofialia, sri Lanka, Sudan, surinarne'
syrian Arab Republic, Thalland, To9o, Trinldad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey' Ukrainian soviet Socia!.ist RePublic, union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, united Arab Emirate€, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nanr Yenen t Yugoslavia'
zairer zan oiaT Z imbabwe.

united states of Aner ica.

Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Dennarkr Finland, France,
Germany, Federal RePublic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland' Israel'
Italy, .taPan, Luxenltourq r Malawl, Netherlands, New zealandt
Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, United fingdon of Great Britain
and Nor thern Ire1and.

lO. At the 3oth meeting ' the rePresentative 
of Yugoslavia introduced a 'lraftresolution (A/C.3/4O/L.L4) entitled "RePort of the cormittee on the Ellnination of

Racial Discr inination', sPonsored by Angola ' Bangladesh, cape 
verde'.chila, crlba'

Madagascar, Yenen, Yugosllvia and zamb and
@ of the diaft resolution read as follov's:

"The General Assembly,

"1. Takes note of the report of the
Itacial Discrlmination on its thirty-first

n2. Takes note also of the part of
Non-self-Governing Terr itor les and other
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 Decenber 1960

Connittee on the Elinination
and thirty-second sesslons t

the report relating to Trust
Territories to rrh ich General
applies r

oE

and
AssenblY

Draft resolut ion A/c.3/4O/L.f1



A/40/9L4
English
Page I

"3. Expresses its concern that the Comnittee is continually unable to
carry out its respons ibil i t ies nith regard to the Territories mentioned in
Paragraph 2 of this resolution, drares the attention of the relevant united
Nations bodies to the opinion and reconnendations of the cornnittee on this
natter, and urges once again the adninistering pover s to co-operate with these
bodies by providing all the necessary information in order to enable the
Conmlttee to fulfil its obligabions under article lS of the International
Convention on the Elimination of AII I'orns of Racial Discrininationr

"4, Afflrns that the conslderation by the Comrittee on the Elimination
of Raciar Discrinination of the irprenentation of the rnternalional convention
on the Elinination of A1I Forrns of Racial Discrinination on any territories
referred to in reports of SEates parties subttritted in accordance with
article 9 of the conventlon or mentloning lhose territories ln reports of the
Conunittee, should in no way be conatrued as prejudging the legal status of
such territories, particularly those under foreign occupation,

"5. Consi.ders thaf the Connittee on the Elirnination of Racial
Discrimination should declare inadrnissibre the information states parties nay
incrude in their periodical reports concerning territories to rhich resolution
l5l4 (xv) of the ceneral Assenbly applies in violation of article 15 of the
fnternational Convention on the Elinination of Al1 Forns of Racial
Discrininationt

_- .- ]6. strongty congenns the policy of apartheid in south Africa andNalnrbla as a crine against hutnanlty and urges al1 Member States to adopt
effective political, econonic and other measures in conforrnity with the
relevant resolutions of the General Assenbly, Security Council and other
United Nations bodies, in order to support the legitinate struggle of the
oPpressed peopre of south Africa and Nanibia for their national liberation and
hutnan dignity, and to secure the elirnlnation of the racist apartheiat systen,

"7. connends the Coflunittee on the Elininacion of Racia1 Dlscrirnination
for its contlnuous endeavours towards the elinination of a1l forms of
discrirnination based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin, in
Particular for the elinination of apartheid in south Africa and Namibia, and
welcomes the resolution on apartheid aaopCea by the Conmittee at its
thlrty-second sessionI

'8. Notes with appreciation the Comnittee r s continued participation in
the activities wilhin the programe of Action for the second Decade to conbat
Racisn and Racial Discrimination,

"9. Welcones the efforts of the CorunitCee aimed at the elirninaeion of
all forms of discrimination against national or ethnic minorities, persons
belonging to such minorities and indigenous populations, wherevEr such "discrimination exists, and the at.tainment of full enjolment of their human
rights through the irnplenentaeion of the principle and provisions of the
Convent ion t



A/4O/9L4
English
Page 9

rI0. weleomes further the efforts of the Coruftittee ained at the
elfunination of all forrns -of discrimination againsc nigrant ttorkers and thelr

'L4. Reicerates lts invitation to the states Parties to the Convention to
provide tnffi rsith its general guldelines, with
informalion on the ilrylemenEation of the Provlsions of the convention'

fanilies' the pror0otlon of their rlghts on a non-d lscr ininatory basis an'l the
achievement of their fult equality, including the freedon to maintain their
cultural character i st ics t

"1f. gllElPgn Metnber Statea to aatoPt effective legistative,
soclo-econornic and other necessary n"."utls in order to ensure the Preventlon
or ellnination of discrinination based oo riC€r colourr deacent or national or
ethnic or igint

nI2. Further callg upon the states parties to the Convention to protect
fully by aE"pEIng-;; G;;;ETeg islat ive and other measures, in conformity ttith
the convention, the rights of national or ethnic ninorities and persons
belonging to such nlnorities. as well as the r ight of lndigenous PoPulationst

n13. ComFnds States parties to the Convention on neasurea taken to
ensule' within their Juriediction, the availability of appropriate recourse
procedures for the victlms of racial iliscr ininat ion r

includling the information on the denograPhic composition of their poPulation
and on their relaEions wilh the racist r69ime of south Africat

'I5. Appeals to the states Parties to take futly into consideration thelr
obl igation-under the conventlon to subnit their reports in due tiner

116. comflends the connlttee for its effores tordards a further
univer sal ization and a nore consistent irplenentation of the International
convent lon on the Elinination of AIl Fortns of Racial Dlscrimination, and
welcoltEs its General Recomtnendation vII relating to the lnPlenentation of
article 4 of the convention,

"l?. Requests the secretary-General of che united Nations to take
necessary steps tn order to ensure wlder publicity of the rtor k of the
Comlittee, whlcb woul.d facilitate its task to carry out eftectively lts
functions under the Convention, and to inforn the General- Assetnbl-y at ies
forty-first session of the action taken in that directlon"

11. At the same rneet ing r the rePresentative of Yugoslavla orally revised the tlraft
resolution as follovrs:

(a) In operative paragraph 3' the words 'the adninistering Powers" were
repl.aced by tau ailministering Powerstrt

(b) In operative paragraPh 5' the eords "in violation of" were deleted and
replaced by nunless such infornation is in accordance withr'



^/ 
40 /eLA

Engl ish
Page 10

12. At the 46th neetlng, on 19 Novenber, the representaEive of flglglg
introduced a revlged draft resolut Lon ll/C.3/40/L.Ll/8ev.Ll sponEored by Anqola,
Bangladesh, Cape Verde, China, Cuba, Gulnea-Blssau, Maataga6car, Niqeria, paki6tan,
Yenen ' Yugoslavia, Zambla and Zimbabse. Subaequently, the representative ofPaklBtan lndicated that her alelegatlon had nlthdratrn its slronsorahlp of the revised
draft regolution.

13. At the sane neetingl the ChairRan of the Com0lttee, ln responae to a requeEt
by the delegation of liorocco, called upon the representative of the office of Legal
Affairs to reply to questions raised by that delegation with regard to operative
paragraph { of the revlsed draft resolution. the representatlve of the Office of
Legal Affaira replied as follors r

'I have been asked ln effect to connent on the signlficance of the
poesible adoption by the General Assenbly of paragraph ,l of the draft
resolution contalneal in docunent A/C.3/4O /L.LllRev.l. By paragraph 4, the
Assenbly trould erpress its viee that the Comlittee on the Elfininatlon of
Rac ial Discrinination

r... shoulit not take into consideration lnformation on tirritorles Co
t{hich General A6setnbl.}, resolution 1514 (XI/) applies unless such
infornation is co aunicated by the cor{retent United Nations boalies ln
conformlty rrith article 15 of the Conventiont,.

'The Comtrlttee on the Blinlnation of Racial Dlscrimination is not a
.subsidiary organ of the General As€enbly but an autonomou s treaty body
established unaler a Convention to lrtlich not all states menbers of the United
Nations are parties. As the @nmittee i6 a body lndependent of the ttnited
Natlons, paragraph 4 of the resolution, if adopted, rrould constltute a
reconmendation to the Comnittee and not a bintting instructlon.

'Furthermore, tbe right to give authoritative interpretatlons of the
Convention and the trDwers of the Coflunittee rests not wlth the General Assenbly
butl in the first instance, wlth the ConnitEee on the Elinination of Racial
Dlgcrininatlon itself, as the body responsible for raonltoring conpliance nith
the Convention, and, ultimately, rf,ith the Stateg partie€. ft follons that, if
Paragraph { is adopted, it rlll be for the Comiltee on the Elimination of
Racial DiscriDlnatlon to deternine the extent to which lt can be glven effect
conslstent wlth that Colunittee rs understandlng of 1t6 obligations and those of
the Statea parties under Ehe Convention, including articles 3 and 9.'

14. At the sane neeting, the eonmittee voted on the revised draft resolution as
fol-Iows r

(a) ftrrative paragraph 4 was aalopted by a recordeil vote of 82 to 9, trlth
36 absLentions. The voting was as follons:

In faeourt AfghaniEtan, Albanla, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Bots$ana, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burklna Fa6o, Burundl, Byelorussian So\riet Socialist Republic,



A/40/9L4
English
Page 11

Caneroon, caPe verde, china, congo, cubar cyprus, czechoslovakiat
Democratic Yenen ' Doninican RePublicr Ecuador ' El 

salvadort
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia' Fijir Gabon, Ghana, Gutnea-Bissau,
Hungary, rndia, rran (Islatnic Republic of), Jordan' Kenya,
Kuwait, tao PeoPIers Denocratic RePubl{c, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberlal Libyan Arab Jamahir iya, Madagascar, Malta, Mexico,
Mongolia, ltozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pakistan,
Panana, Papua Neit Guinear Paraguayr Peru, Philippineg, Polandr
Oatarr Romania, Rwanda, saudl Arablar Sierra Leone, Sonalia,
Sri Lanka, syrian Arab Republicl Togo' Trinidad and Tobago'
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian soviet Soclalist RePublic, Unlon of
sorriet soclalist Republics, Unlted Arab Emiratea, gnited RePublic
of Tanzania, uruguay, venezuelar Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslaviat
Zanbia, z inbablre.

@.!,r Belgiun, France, Germany, Federal Republlc of , Italy ' 
IJuxenbourg,

Netherlands, Portugal' united Kingdom of Great Britaln and
Northern Ireland' United States of Amer ica.

Abstainingr Antlgua and Barbuda, Australia, Austrla, Bahanras, Barbados 'Burna' canada, central African RePublic, Chad, Chile' Colonbla,
Dennark, EgyPt, Finland, Gat0bia, Greece, Guatenala. Guyana,
Honduras, Iceland, rreland, rvory coast (C6te d'rvolre), Jamalca,
Japan, Malaysia, Morocco, New zealand, Nornay' Senegal, Spain,
Sudan, Surinaner Snaziland, srreden r Turkey' zaire'

(b) oPeratlve Paragraph 5 was adopted by a recorded vote of u6 to I' with
21 abstentions. Ttle voting rras as folloi{s s

In fa\tour r Afghanlstan, Albania, Algeria, Angola' Antigua and Barbuda'
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Banglade€h, Barbados, Benin' Bhutan,
Boliviar Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burklna
Faso, Burrna, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviec socialist Republlc,
Cameroon, Cape verde, Central African Republlc, Chad, Chile,
china, colombia, congo, Cuba, clPrus, czechoslovakia, Denocratic
Karpuchea, Democratic Yerren, Djibouti' Domlnican Republic,
Ecuador ' Egypt, EI salvador' Equator lal Guinea, 

Ethiopia, FiJl,
Gabon, Ganbia, German Denocratic Republic, Ghana, GuaEernala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Ifondurasr Hungary' India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islanic RePublic of), Iraq' Ivory Coast (C6te
drlvoire)r Jarnaica, JaPan, ;Iordan, Kenya ' Kultait, Lao PeoPle 

r g

Democratic Republic' Lebanon, I€sothor Liberia' Libyan Arab
Janahir iya, Madagascar, Malaysia, MaId ives ' Mali, ltalta' Mexlco,ltongolia, Morocco, Mozanbique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria' onan,
PakisLan, Panana, PaPua New Guinear Peru, PhiliPpines' Po1and'
Qatar, Rornania, Rwanda, saudi Arabla' senegal, sierEa Leone,
singapore, sonalia, sri Lankar Sudan, Suriname, syrian Arab
Republ lc, Thailand' Togo' Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet socialist Republic, union of soviet
Socialist Republics' United Arab Enirates, United Republic of
TanzanLa, uruguay, venezuela, vieU Nan, Yenen, Yugoslavia, zaire,
Zanbia. z inbabwe.



A/40/9L4
English
Page 12

Against! United states of Anerica.
Abstainingt Australla, Auatria, Belgiun, Canada, Denmark, !.inlandl FEithc€r

Gernany, Federal Repubtic of, Greece, Iceland, freland, Ilaly,
Luxerobourg, Netherlands, New zealand, Norrray, portugal, spaln,
swaziland, Sreden I Unlted flngdon of Great Britain and Northern
IreIand.

(c) In operative paragrapb 13, the words iincluding information on the
de-mographic conposition of their populaclon and thelr relations ulth the racist
r€gine of South Afrlcai eere adoptea by a recorded vote of 110 to none, with
24 abstentions. The voting was as followsr

rn favour r Afghani€tan, Albania, Algerial Angola, Antlgua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Australla, Bahanas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bo1ivla, Botswana, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
socialist Republlc, Caneroon, Canada, cape verde, Central
African Republic, Chaat, Chile, China, colonbia, Congo, Cuba,
Clrprus, Czechoslovakla, Democratlc yemen, Dorninlcan

Againstr

Republlc, Ecuador, Egypt, El salvador, Eguatorial cuinea,
Bthiopia, Fiji, cerman Denocratic Repubtic, chana,
cuatenala, Gulnea-Bissau, tfonduras, Hungary, fndia,
Indonesla, fran (fslantc Republic of), fraq, fvory coast
(Cdte drfvoire), Jordan, Kenya, Kuvralt, Lao teoplers
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, lladagaacar, Ma1aysia, ltaldives, alta, Mexico,
Mongolia, Uorocco, ltozanblque, Nepal, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Onan, pakislan, panarna, papua New
Guinea, Paraguay, peru, philipplnes, potand, gitar, Romanla,
lwan9:, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,somalia, sri Lanka, sudan, surinane, srrazi land, Syrian Arab
Republlc, Thal1and, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukralnian soviet socialist Republic, union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, Unitedl
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen,
Yugoslavla, Zaire, Zanbia, Zlrnbabwe.

None.

Abstaini.ngl Austria, Belgiurtr, Burma, Den$ark, Finland, France, Gabon,
c€rnany, pederal Republic of, Greece, Guyana, Iceland,
Ireland, ftaly, ,tarnatca, Japan, Luxernbourg, Mali,
Netherlands, Norway, portugal, Spain, srreden r United Kingdonof creat Brltain and Northern lreland, United States of
Anerica.



A/40/9r1
Engl ish
Page 13

(d) The revised draft resolut Lon lNC.3/4O/L.14,/Rev.I! a€ a whoLe was aaloPted
by a recorded vote of 129 to I, with I abstentions ]y (see para. l5r draft
resolution III). The voting was as follonsr

In favour t Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antlgua and Batbuda,
Argentlna, Australla, Austria, Bahanas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Benln' Bhutan, Bolivia, Botanana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina naso, Burma ' Durunfli.,Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Caneroon, Canada,
cape verde, central Afr ican Republic, Chad, chile' china,
colombla, Congo, cuba, Cyllrua, czechoslovakla, Democratic
Katq)uchea, Dellocratic Yenen, Dedrark, Dj iboutl r Doninican
Republic, Ecuador, Eg!'pt, El Salvador, Equator ial Guinea,
Ethtopia, Fiji, Finland, cabon, Ganbla, Gernan Denocratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatenala, Gulnear Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Honduras, Eungaryr lceland, Indiar Indonesla, fran
(Islamic Republic of), Irag, Ireland, Ivory Coast (C6te
d'Ivoire), Janaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kunaitr Lao
Peoplets Denocratlc Republlc, Lebanon, Lesotho, Li.beria,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, l,lalaysiar MaLdives'
MaIi, Malta, Mexico, uongolla, llorocco, [ozafubique, NePal,
New zealand, Nicaragua, Nlgeria, Norway, Onan, Pakistan,
Panana, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Perur PhlliPPlnest
Polandr Qatar, Rornania, saudi Arabia, Senegal, sierra Leone,
singapore, somalia, Spain, SrI tanka, Budan, Suriname,
Swazlland, Sweden, syrian Arab Republic, Thalland, Togo,
Tr inidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey. Uganda, Ukrainian
Sovlet Soclalist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Enirates, United RePubllc of
Tanzaniar Uruguayr venezuela, Viet Nan, Yenen, Yugoslavia,
zaire, zambia, z inbablre.

United States of Aner ica.Aqa insti

Abstaining! Belgiun, France, cermany, Federal Republic of, Italy,
Luxembourgr Netherlands, Portugal, United Klngdon of Great
Britain and Northern freland.

!/ Subseguently,
had intended to vote in

the representative of RHanda indicated that her delegation
favour of the draft resolution.



^/40 
/914

Engl ish
Page 14

III. RECOIIIMENDATIONS OF lUA TBIRD CO.IUITTBE

15. The Third cofiIllttee recormenda to the ceneral Assenbly the aaloptlon of the
following draft reaolut ions r

DRAFT RBSOLUfIOI I

The General AssenblY,

Recalling lta resolutions 3057 (XXrnIIl of 2 No\renber 1973, 3135 (x)ffIII)
of 14 Decembe r L9'13, 3225 (xxlx, of 6 Novenber 1974' 3381 (xxx) of
10 Novenber L975, 3L/79 of 13 Decenbe r L9761 32/LL of 7 Notrer$er 1977, 33/LOL
of 15 Decerober 1978' 34/26 of 15 Novenber L979. 35/38 of 25 November 1980r
36/Ll of 28 octob€r L98I. 37/45 of 3 December 1982' 38,/18 of 22 November 1983
and 39/20 of 23 November 1984,

Expressing its satisfaction with the entry lnto force, on
3 Decenber 1982, of the conpetence of the coor$ittee on the Elimlnatlon of
Racial Discrininatlon, undler article l{ of the International Convention on tbe
Ellmination of A11 Forrns of Rrcial Discr illinatton, ! 6 accePt and to exanlne
comunicat lons fron persons or groupa of perEons, anil rrlth the fact that €ince
that dale more states parties have nade the declaratlon Provided for in tbat
ar ticIe,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General of ghe status of
the fnternational Convention on the Elinination of AII Forns of Racial
Dlscrininationr !1

2. Expresses its saeisfaction at the nunber of States thaE have
ratified the convention or acceded theretot

3. ReaffirEs once agaln its convlctlon that ratiflcation of or
accession to the Convention on a unlnersal basis and lnPlenentation of its
provisions are necessary for the realizatlon of the objectivee of the Sdcond
Decade to conbat Racisn and Racial Discrininationl f.,/

4. Reguests those gtate6 that have not yet becone parties to the
Convention to ratify it or accede theretot

y Resolution 2105 A (XX), annex.

9./ 
^/40/607.

U See resolution 38/L4.



A/40 /9L4
English
Page 15

5. Calls upon States parties to the Convention to consider Eheposslbllity of making the declaration provided for in article 14 of the
Convention t

6. R€queats the Secretary-General to continue to sutxnlt to the ceneral
Assenbly annual re[ror ts concerning the status of the convention, in accordancerith Assenbly resolutionn 2106 A (XX) of 2l Decenber 1965.

DRAFT RESOI,UTION II

see E/6t.4/L985/27 .

The ceneral Assenbly,

Rqcatling its resolutlon 3068 (xxvIII) of 30 Novenber 1923, by ehich iE
adoPted and opened for signature and ratiflcation the rnternatlonal convention
on th€ Suppreaaion and punl6hr0ent of the Critne of Apartheid, and its
subsequent resolutlons on the status of the conventlSil-

Reaffirming its conviction that qpartheid constitutes a totaL negation of
the purposeJ -ndlr tnElfles--i-tte cni?Gi-6E-the unite.r Narions, a srossviolation of hunan rights and a crlne against hunanlty, ser iously threatening
international peace anil security,

Taking note of the flnding of the croup of Tbree of the Comtlssion on
Human Righhs that the crine of apartheid ls a forn of the crine of genocide, 9./

..strgngly cold€mning south Africa,s contlnued policy of apartheiat and irscontlnued illegal occupation of Nanlbia, as well as its recent acts of
aggression against Angola and other Afrlcan Stat.es,

Alarned by the aggravatlon of the situation in South Africa, ln
IErticular the further eacalation of ruthless represslon by the fascist-llke
apartheid r€girne, incl-ud ing the use of the armed forces agalnst the oppos ing
People anal the inposi tron of virtua] nartiar-Iale condritions intended to
facilitate the brutal oppreselon of the black populatlon,

Condetnning the continued collaboration of certain States and
transnatlonal corporations wlth the racist r69ine of South Africa in thepolitical, econonl.c, military and other fields as an encouragenent to theintensificatlon of its odlous poticy of aparlheidl,

v



^/ 
40 /9L4

English
Page 16

Firnly convlnced that the legltimate struggle of the oPpressed PeoPIes in
souttrern etrtca agraiist apartheid, racisn and colonial'isn and for the
effective inplernentationi?-[fref r lnallenable right to self-deterninat ion and
lnalepenalence denands nore than ever a}l necessary suPpor t by the international
cormuni ty ancl, in Partlcular, further action by the gecurity Council in
accordance wlth chaPter WI of the charter of the Unite'l Nations'

Undlerllni.ng that ratificatlon of and accesslon to the Convention on a
universal basis and the it4tlenentatlon of its provislons without delay are
necessary for ibs effectiveness, and therefore wlll contribute to the
eradication of the crlne of apartheid'

l. TakeE note of the rePort of the Secretary-General on the status of
the International convention on tha Suppresslon and Punishment of the cr irne of

2. connends those States Parties to the convention that have submitted
their reports under artlcle wf thereoft

3. APpeals once again to those states that have not yet done so to
ratify or t" a"cA;-to the Convention without further de1ay, in particular
those Stateg that have jurisdlictlon oveE transnati.onal corporations operating
in South Africa and Nanlbia antl rrlthout rdhose co-oPeratlon such oPeratlons
cannot be haltedr

4. Takes note Hith appreciation of the rePort of the GrouP of Three of
the comnission on ltunan Rirf,ffi"bllshett in accordance wlth article rx of
the Convent lon, and, in particular r of the conclusions and reconnendations
contained in that rePortt 8/

Apartheidr 9/

5. Draws the attention of all States to the oPinion expressed by the
croup of rfrree in iG-r"FTt that article III of the Convention could appLy to
the actlons of transnatlonal corporations oPerating in south Africat

6. Reouests the comrission on Human Rights to intenslfy, in
co-operat i6i-illh the SPecial Cotmittee against Apartheid, lts efforgs to
complle Per iodically the Progreasive 1i5t of individuals, orEanizahrons'
inslltutions and representatives of states deemed responsible for crimes
enunerated in article rr of the Convention, as weII as chose against whon or
which legal proceedings bave been undertakent

7. Recuedts the secretary-General to atlstribute the above-mentioned
list to 

"fGIat.t 
partie6 to the Conventlon and all Member states and to

bring such facts to the attention of tlte public by all means of nass
connunicat ion t

9/ A/40/606.



A/40/9L4
Engllsh
Page l7

^ 8. - Requests the Secretary-General to invite the States parties to theConvention, specialized agenciea and non-governnental organizatlons to provide
the conmisslon on lruman Rights with relevant information concernlng the Elt)e'of the crine of apartheid, as described in article It of the Convention,
conunitted by transnational corporationg operating in South Africa,

- .9: APPeals to all states, United Nations organs, specializeal agenciesand internationar and nationar non-governnentar organizations to 6tep up theiractivlties ln enhancing pubric arrareness by denouncing the erlmes cornmittea bythe racist r6girne of south Africa,
I0. Requests the Secretary-cene ral to lntensify hi6 efforts, through

apPropriate channels, to dissenihage infornation on the convention and its
imPrementation lrith a vi6!r to promotlng further ratification of or accesslonto the Convention t

- 
11. I€gues.lE the Secretary-ceneral to include in hls next annual report

under General Assenbry resolution 3380 (xxx) of 10 November r97s a speciar
section concerning the inplementation of the Convention.

DR,AFT RESOLUTION III

The ceneEal AssembLy,

_Recalling its resolutions 3g/2L of 23 November 1984 on the report of lheComnittee on the Elimination of Racial Dlscrinination and 4O/ of l9B5
on the staeus of the rnternati.onar convention on the Erininat6n offfi-rmsof Racial Diserimination, ]!./ as well as its other relevant resolulions on lhe
itnFlementation of the programne of Action for the Second Decade to Combet
Racisn and Racial Discrinination, ly

Eaving considered the report of the connittee on the Elininaelon of
Racial Discrirnination on the work of its thirty-flrst and thirty_second
sessions, fEl submitted under article 9, paragiaph 2, of the Conventi.on,

Emphasi?inq the need for Menber states to inten€lfy, at national andlnternatlonal levels, the struggle against acts or practic., of racialdiscrimination and the vestiges or nanifestations of racist ideoloqies
tvherever they exist,

!q/ Resolution 2106 A (xx), annex.
lV Resolution 38/14, annex.

|2/ oftic
No. 18 (A,/40l18).



A/10/9L4
English
Page l8

Bearing in mind that the convention ls belng implenented -in-different
econonic, social andl= .rftrr.f condltions Prevaillng in individual states
par tles,

tillnalful of the obligatton of all stales partles to cotqtty fully nith the
provisions of the convention,

Arrare of the inPor tance of the contrlbution of the comflittee to the
inplementatlon or tie progt*" of Action for the second Decade to co[bat
Rac igrn and Rac lar Discrlmination and to the ellmination of all fornB of
discrlnination based on race' colour' descent or natlonal or ethnic origint

Taking note of Ehe decislons adoPted and reconmendat lons made by the
conmittee at it6 thirty-flrsc andl thlrty-second sessionar

the cordnittee on the ELlnination of
its thirty-firat and thirty-seeond

1. Takes note of the report of
Racial Discrimlnation on the rror k of
sessions t

2. Also takes note of Ehe Part of lhe report relattng to Trust and
Non-self-Governing Terri€otf"" ".i 

other Territories to $hich eeneral Assenbly
resolution 1514 ()ff) of 14 Decenber 1960 applie€t !y

3. Draws the attention of the relevant united Nations bodles to the
opinlon at aGffien6-at r"ns ot the comriittee relating to. the Territories,
nentioned in paragraph 2 above' calls upon those bodles to ensure thaE the
coftnittee is supPliedl rrith all relevant lnformation on the Territorlea and
urges all atlninistering pot"t" i"-."-oPerate with those bod ies by providing
ati ttre necessary infoirnation in order to enable the cotmittee to discharge
fully its ,""1ron" iUi litles untler arElcle t5 of the rnternational Conve tion 

on

the ;lltnlnation of A11 Forns of Racial Discrinination,

4. congiders that the cornnittee Bhould not take lnto con€idetation
infornat ioi-6i-EEiiitor ies to nhich ceneral Assembly resolutlon 1514 {X\t)
applles unlesa strch infornation is colu[unicale'l by the c€nPetent United
t'tii tons bodies in confotmity with article 15 of the conventiont

5. strongLy condemhs the [Dlicy of aoarttreid ln south Africa an'l
Namibia as a crine againEFhunan-lty ana urges;If-Member states to adoPt
effective Politicalr econqtic and other neasures in cbnfornity nith the
relevant resolutionB of the General Assembly, the Secur ity Council and other
Uniteal Nations bodieB ' 

in order to suPtFrt the legitirrate stiuggle.of:the
oppreased Peoples ot souih grrt"" una- ictstlbia for their natlonal llb€tatlon
andhunantlignityandtosecuretheelininationoftheracistaparthejilsysten'

6. contends the comtrlttee for its contlnuous endeavours togardls the
elimination of all forms of discrinination based on race' colour ' 

do6cent or

13/ Ibid., sect. v.



A/40 /9L4
English
Page 19

national or eghnlc orioin, in particular the elininalion of apartheid in southAfrica and Namibia. ani weLcomls cne aecision on apartne:.o adopted by theConunittee at its thirty_second se8sion, !!/ 
-

..- 
,:. 

.llgtes yitl.t appreciation the Conunitteers cont.lnued participation inthe activities within the rrograrnme of Action for the second Decade to conbatRacisn and Racial Discr iminat. ion;
wglqones the efforts of the Conmittee almeal at the elirninatlon ofall forns of discrimination against national oi 

"anni. 
rninorit.ies, personsbelonging to such ninorities ana inaijeious poiutations, wherever suchdiscrimination exists. and the attai;ent of tie full enjoyment of their hunanrights through the inplenentat ion of the principles and provisions of theConventiont

^1.:_.3--,_Welgongg 
Eurther the efforts of the Cornnittee aimed at theer'lnrnatron of a1r forms of drscrinination againsE nrgrant workers and theiffamilies' the pronotion of their rigtrts on 

"'non-o 
i"", irinatory basis and theachievernent of their full eguatity, including Ehe freedon to naintain ther.rcultural character ist ics,

^^^.^t9:_ !"11r 
uryn. Member States to adopt. effecrlve legislarive,socro-econonic and other necessary neasures in order to ensure the preventi.onor elinination of discrinination Lased on ,r..,-.otour, descent or national orethnic or igin,

.,,.,',,tt:.. 
Fgrttrg{ cells gpon lhe states parties to the convention to proEeccrurly, by the adoption of the relevant legislative anal other neasures, inconformi ty with the convention, the righti oi iutionur or ethnic ninoritiesand persons belonging to auch minorities, as welt as the righls of .indigenouspopulat ions t

^__.- -tt. .!lT!"i9"_ 
Che States parties to the Conveneion on measures taken toensure' h,ithin their jurisdiction, the availabilrty of appropriate recourseProcedures for the vi.ctins of racial d iscr iminat r.on;

-_- ,1?... 
ReltergFg.s ics invitation to the states parties to the convention EoProvrde the Connittee, in accordance with its generat guidelines, with

in_f:tl1a1"l on the inplenentatj.on of ttre proviiion" or rhe Convention,lncluding inforrnation on the dernogr-pt i. c",np""iLion ot their populat ion andon their relarions with the racisl r3qine 
"ii"rtn Africa;

. _. f4: Appeals to the States parties to takeobligat.ion under the Convention to subnit their
fully into considerat ion their
reports in due tine?

I{,/ Ibid,, sect. VIf, parr B, decision I (xxxlli.



L/40/9L4
Engl ish
Page 20

15. Corunends the Conmittee for its efforts torr'ards a further
universal iz at ion and a more consistent implenentation of the Convention and
r.relcomes its General Recorunendation vII relating to the inplementacion of
arlicle 4 of the Conventiont I5,/

16. Requests the secretar y-Genera I to take the necessary steps co ensure
wicler pufticity of the lrork of the conmittee, which would facilitate its task
to implenent effectively its functions under the Convent ion, and to inforn che
General Assenbly at its forty-first session of the action taken in that
d ir ec t lon.

L2/ Ibid. , decision 2 (XxXII).


