








































UilITED
NATIONS

@) 
Gcncnl A*anrblY Distr.

GENERAL

^/40/93L26 November 1985
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fortleth session
Agenda iten 59

IMPI/EI,IENTATION OF THE DECIARATION ON THE DENUCI,EARI ZATTON OF ATRICA

R€port of- the Fi.rst con|nltte€

@g!g!r Mr. Yannis SOULIOTIS (creece)

I. INTRODT'CTION

1. The i.ten entitled:

" Implementat.ion of the DecLaration on the Denuclear i za Cion of Africa:

"(a) Report of the Disarnament Conmissiont

"(bl Repor t o€ lhe Secr etary -Gener al tr

nas included in the provislonal agenda of the fortietb session in accordance wlCh
General Assenbly re€olutlons 39,/61 A and B of 12 Decenber 1984.

2. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 September 1985, lhe cenerat Assembly, on the
reconnendalion of th€ General. Comnittee, decided to include the iten in its agenda
and to al.locate it to the First Connittee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 9 October, the First Connittee decided Lo hotd a
general debate on the dlsarnan€nt items al-locaCed Co lt, namely, items 48 to 69 and
item 145, follorded by sEaeenents on specific dj.sarrnament agenda items and
continuatloo of general debate, as necessary. The deliberations on Cbose items
took place between the 3rd and the 32nd neetings. frorn t4 October to 8 Novenber
(see A/c.I/40 /Pv. 3-32) .

4. In connection $ith iten 59, the First Connittee had before it bhe following
documents:

8s-34 587 0308P (E)



A/40 /93r
Eng l lsh
Page 2

(a) Report of the Disarnanent Comnissioni 1,/

(b) Report of the Secretary-Genera I on the nuclear capabi.Lity of soulh Africa
(A/40/5!0 ) |

(c) Letter dated 19 September 1985 fron the Pernaneat RepreEentatlve of Papua
Nery Guinea to the Unieed Nations addreased to the Secr etary-General, transnltting
the connruniqu6 adopted by bhe sixteenth South Pacific Forun. held in Rarotonga,
cook Island6' on 5 and 6 August L985 lA/ 40 / 672-s/L7 4S8l ',

(d) Letter dated t4 October 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of Togo to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General ' transmitting tbe documententitled "Declaralion and Progranne of Actions ailopted at Che l.linisterial Reg ional
Conference on Secullty, Disarnanent and DeveloPment in Afric., held at Lon6 frotrl 13
to t6 Auguat. L983 lL/40/76l-sl17s73).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Dtaft re6olutlon VC.1/40lL.38

5. on 7 Novenber t985, Iilauritlus, on behalf of states Menbers of the United
Nations tlrat are nenbers of the African Group, subnlcted a draft resotutlon
entitled " rrrplementat ion of the Declaration' (A/C.I/40/L.381 . The draft resolution
lras introduced by the representative of Maurigiua at the 35th neeling. on
12 Novenber.

6. At its 41st neeting on le Novenber, the conmitlee adopted draft resolutioo
A/C.L/40/\.38 by a recorded vote of 130 to none, nith 5 abstentlons (see para. 9,
draft resolution A). The voting eas as follorrs! a/

In favour: Afgbanlstan' Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentlna, Austtalia,
Auscria, Bahanas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benln, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Braz11, Brunel Datussala!!, Bulgaria, Burklna Faso,
Burma, Burundi, ByeLorusaian soviet Sociallgt Republic, caneloon,
canada, central African Republic, chad. chi.Ie, china' colombia,
Conoros, congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic
Kampuchea, Democratic Yenen. Dennark, Djiboutl, Dominican
Republtc, Ecuador, Egypt' Ethiopia, Ftjl' Finland' Gabon' German
Denocracic Republic, Gernany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guinea, Guyana, Haili' Honduras, Hungary, rceland, rndia,
Indonesia, Iran (fslarnic Republic of), Irag, Ireland, Italy,

y Official R€corda of the General Assembly, Fortieth Sesslon, Supplemen!
No. 42 (A/40 / 421 .

Z/ The delegaeion of z irnbabue subseguently indicatetl that it had intenaleil to
vot.e in favour of the draft resoLution.



A/40/e3L
Eng lish
Page 3

Ivory CoaEt (C6t.e dttvoire), Janaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kutalt, Lao Peoplers Denocrat ic Republic, Lebanon, Lssotho,
Llbyan Arab Janahiriya, Luxenbourg, li[adagascar, Malaygia,
!,laldlveg. MaIi, !,talta, Mauritania, lr{auEltlus, Mexico, Mongolia,
l{orocco, l.lozanbigue, Nepal, Netherlands, Nen Aealand, Nlcaragua,
Nlger, Nigeria, Noreay, Onan, pakiatan, pana[ra, papua Ner, cuinea,

. Paraguay, Peru, Phllippines, poland, portugal., eatar, Rornanla,
Reanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spaln,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinane, Sraziland, Speden, Syri.an Arab
Republic, Togo, ?rinlalad and Tobago, Tunlsia, lurkey, uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Sovlet Soclallst
Republics, United Arab Emiratea, United Republic of Tanzania
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Narn, yenen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zarnbia.

Againat: None,

Abstainings Bel-giun, France, rsrael, united Kingilon of Great Britain and
Northern lreland, united States of Anerlca.

B. Draft reqglution A/C.L/40/L.40
7. On 7 November 1985, Mauritiu3, on behalf of ttre States tie{obers of the United
Nations that ar€ members of the African croup, subnltted a draft reaolution
entitled trNuclear capability of Soutb Africa' (A/C.l/40/L.4Ol . The draft
resoLutlon tas introduced by the repreaentative of l,lauritiue at th€ 35th neetlng,
on 12 Novenber.

8. At its 4lst meecing, on Ig November, the Connlttee adopted draft resolution
ly'C.L/AO/L.4O by a lecorded vote of tI? to 4, with 12 abst.entlons (see para. 9,
draft regolution B). The goting nas as follovs: :r/

In favour3 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, AusCria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangtadesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
BraziI, Brunei Darusaalan, Bulgaria, Burkina faso, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Soclal-lst Republic, Caneroon,
Central African Republ lc, Chad, Chile, China, Colonbia, Comoros,
Congo, Cuba, CypruE, cu echosLovakia, Denocratic Kafipuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Donlnican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Geroan Denocratlc
Republic, Ghana, creece, cuinea, cuyana, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, India, fndonesia, Iran (Islanlc Republ1c of), Irag,
freland, Ivory Coast (c6te drfvoire), Janaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kunait, Lao Peopl-et s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahirl,ya, Madagascar, Malaysia, tlaldives, l.lall,

. y The delegations of Zaire aod Zlnbabwe subseguently indicated that they
had lntended to vote in favour of the draft resolulion.



A/40 /93L
English
Page 4

Againsc:

Absta lning :

ttlalta, Mauritania, Uauritius, l,texico, l,longol j.a, Morocco,
I'bzanbigue, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norwey. Oman'
Pakistan, Panarna, papua Ner Guinea, peru, philippines, poland,
Qatar, Ronania, R$anda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Slngapore,
Sonalia, spain, Sri Lanka, sudan, suriname, swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thail-and, ?ogo, Trlnidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian soviet socialist Republic,
Union of Sovlet Sociallst Reprrblics, Unlled Arab Eniratea, United
R€public of Tanzania, Uruguay, Veneruela, Vie! Nam. Yenen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia.

France, Israel, Unlted Kingdor0 of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland. Uni.t.ed States of Americ6.

Austlalia, Belgiun, Canada, Germany, Federal Republic of, Haiti,
Italy, Japan, Luxenbourg, Netherlands, Nes zealand, Portugal,
Zaire.

III. RBCOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COM!,IITTEE

9, The Flrst Connlttee recommenda to the Ceneral Assenbly the adoption of the
folloei.ng draft resoluE ions:

Denuclear i za t ion of Africa

A

Inpleneneat ion of the Declaration

The ceneral Assembly.

Bearing in nind the Declaration on the Denuclear iu a Eion of Africa 3-l
adopted by lhe Assenbly of Heads of State and Government of the Orgaoization
of African Unily at its first ordinary sesslon, held at Cairo from 17 to
2l July 1974.

Recalling its resolution 1652 (XVI) of 24 Novenber 1961, its earliest on
the subject, as well as i.ts resol.utions 2033 (XX) of 3 Decenber L965, 3L/69 oE
10 Decenber L976, 32/SL of 12 Decenbe E L977, 33/63 of 14 December l9?8,
34/76 A of lI Dec€nber L979, 35/L46 B of 12 December 1980, 36,/86 B of
9 December L98L, 37/74 A of 9 December 1982, 38ll8l A of 20 Decenber L983 and
39/6L L of 12 Decenber 1984, in which it called upon all States to consider
and respect the continent of Africa and lts aurrounding areas as a
nuclear -treapon-fr ee zone,

al vla
agenda iEen 105, docunent

Annexes,



A/4O/53r.
English
Page 5

Recalling tha! in its resolulion 33/63 lt uigorously condemned any overt
or covert attenpt by South Africa Co introduce nuclear neapona into the
conCinent of Afrlca and dernanded that .SouCh Africa refrain forthwit.h from
conducting any nuclear explosion.in th€ contlnent of Africa or elsewhere,

Takinq note of the report of tbe United Natlons fnstituEe for Disarmanent
Reeearch entit.led "South Africa's nuclear capabilityn 5/ underlaken ln
co-operaeion with the Departrnent of Disarnament Affairs of tbe Secretariat and
ln consultation lrith the Organization of African Unity, as rreLl as the report
of the Dlsarnamen! Conmiss ion, fu/

Expressing regret. that, despite lhe threat South Africars nuclear
capabil.lty constitutes to lnternational peece and security, and in particular
to the realization of the objective of Ehe Declaration on the Denuclea ri za t lon
of AfriCa, the Digarnanent Comrnission has, once again, in 1985, falled lo
reach a conaensus on thia inFortant ltem on lts agenda,

l. Strongly renews it6 call upon all Seates to consider and respect the
continent of Africa and its surrounding areag as a nuclear -yeapon-free zonet

2. R€affirm6 that the inplementation of the Declaration on the
Denucleari zat ion of Afrlca adopted by the Heads of State and Governrnent of the
Organizdtion of African Unity would be an inportant neasure to prerene Ehe
proliferatlon of nuclear neapons and to promote International peace and
secu r itY t

3. Expresses once again ics grave alarm at fuuth Africars possession
and continued developnenC of nuclear-weapon capabilityt

4. Condenns South Africais contlnued pursuit of a nuclear capabllity
and all forrns of nuclear collaboratlon by any State, corporation, in8tieution
or individual with the raclst r69ime that enable it to frustrate lhe objectine
of the Declaration i.rhich seekg to keep Africa free from nucLear weaponsi

5. calls upon a1l statee, corporationg, institutl.ons and individuals to
desist fron fureber collaboraCion flith the racist rdgine that. nay enable ie !o
fruatraEe the objectlve of the Declara!ion on Ehe Denucleari zat ion of Africa;

6. penands once ag:iq thac the raclsc rdgime of south Africa refrain
fron manuflffilffiGE] deploylng, rransporEing, storing, using or
threat.ening to use nuclear rreapons t

7. Appeals to all StaCes that have the means to do so, to noniEor South
Africars research on, and developnent and production of nuclear weapons, and
to Publlcize any infornation in thae regard,

2/ A/39 /470 .

V Official Records of the ceneral Assefiblv, Fortieth Session, Supplement
w l^/40/42) -

/...



A/40 /93L
Eng 1i sir
Page 6

8. Demands olqqe agatn that South Africa subrnit forthvri th all its
nuclear lnGGEiiliE- gacilities to inspection by rhe fnternational Atonic
Energy Agencyt

9. Requests the Secretary-Genera I to render all necessary assistance
that the Organization of Afric€n Unity nay seek torrards the implenentation of
its solenn Declaration on the Denuclear i zs t ion of Africa,

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the itern entitled rfnplementation of the Declaration on the
Denuclearization of Afr ica '.

B

Nuclear capabillty of SouCh Africa

The C€nera I Assemhly,

Recalling ita resolutions 34/76 B of ll Decenber 19,19, 3S/L46 A of
12 Decenber L98O, 36/86 A of 9 December 1981, 37/j4 B of 9 Decenber 1982,
38,/l8l B of 20 December 1983 and l9/6L B of lZ Decenbe r L994,

Bearinq in mind the Declaration on the Denuclea r i zat ion of Africa adopted
by the Assernbly of Heads Of State and Governnent of the Organization of
African Uniey at its first ordinary session, held at Cairo from lZ to
21 July 1964,

Recalling that, in the Final Docunent of the Tenth SpeciaL session of the
General Assernbly, it noted that the accunulatlon of arnaments and the
acouisition of armament technology by the racist r6gine, as well as its
possible acquisitlon of nuclear weapons, presented an increasingLlr dangerous
and cballenging obstacle to the world cornnunlty, faced with che urgent need !o
disarm. 1/

Recalling also that, in ita resolution 33/63 of 14 Decenber lg7e, it
vigorously condenned any oeert or Covert ateernpt by South Africa to introduce
nuclear weapons into the continent of Africa and dernanded that .south Africa
refrain fortheiEb frot$ conducting any nuclear explosion in che continent or
e lsewhere ,

Noting resolution GC(XXVIII) /RES/423 on South Africars nuclear
capabilities, adopled on 2? Septenber 1994 by lhe ceneral Conference of the
fneernational Atomic Energy Agency durlng it8 tnenty-eightb regular session,

U Resolution S-LO /2.



A/40/93r
Eng li sh
Page 7

_ Taf(ing note of che report of the uniced Nations rnstitute for DiaarmamentResearch, entitled ,'souEh Africa's nuclear capatilityn, !.,/ undertaken lnco-operation with the tepartnent for Disarnament Affaire and in consurtationltith the Organization of African Unlty,
Expressing regret tha! d€spite the threat Sctu[h Afrlcars nuclearcapabiliey consticutes to international pe.ce and securley and, in partlcular,to the realization of the obJecBiee of Ehe Decraration on the Denuclearizationof Africa, lhe Disarnaneht Comrnission bas, once again, in 19g5, failed to

reach a consensus on this important. item on its agenda,
Gravely concerned that South Africa, in flagrant ulolation of theprlnciples of international rae and the relevanc provlsiona of the charter ofthe United Nations, has continued itg acta of aggresgion and subversion

against the peoples of the independent Slatea of southern Africa,
Strongly condemnlng the continued military occupation by South African

troops of parts of the territory of Angola in violation of its nationalsoeereignty, independence and lerritorral integrity, and urging the innediate
and unconditional withdrapal of SouCtr African troops from Angolan soil,

Expgessing its grave d i€appointnent that, despite repeated appeals by the
rnternatronal community, certain western states and rsrael tlave contlnued Eo
corlaborate i.ri ch the racist rdglne of south Africa in the military .nd nucrear
fields and tbat aone of che sane weatern stalea have, by a ready recourse to
the use of lhe veto, condistenlly frustrated every effort in the Security
Council to deal decisively with the cuestion of South Africa,

Recalling ils decision taken at the tenth sp€cial session tha! the
Securlty Council should take appropriate, effective steps to preuen! Ehefrustracion of lhe implementation of the declsloo of Che Organization of
African Uhity for the denucle ar i aatior of AErica, L/

Stressing the neeil to preserve peace and security in Africa by ensuring
lhat the continent is a n uclea r -seapon-free zone,

parcicular
repregsive

l' Condemns the massive bu lld-up of South Africa's nilitary machine, in
nuclear-weapon capability for
as an inslrunent of blackmailt

its frenzied acouisltion of
and aggressive purposes and

_ 2. Expresses lt.s full support for tbe African States faced with thedanger of south Africa's nuclear capabillty,

A/39 /470.

Resolution S-10/2, para. 63 (c).

v
q/



A/40 /93r
English
Page I

3. Reaffirms tbat the racist 169ine's acauisltion of nucleer-lteapon
capability cbnstieutes a eery grave danger to internalional peace and security
and' in parlicular, jeoparatizes the securlty of African States and increases
the danger of the proliferation of nuclear !'eaponst

4. condemns-all forns of nuclear collaboration by any scate,
corpor.rioil-EElTtugion or individual eitb the racist r69ime of South Africa,
in particular the decision by 6one Menber States to grane licenceg to several
corporations ln their territorie6 co provide eaulpment, technical and
maint.enance services for nuclear installations in soutb Africat

5. Demands tha! South Africa and all other foreign lnterests Put an
imnediate EiE-6tle exploration and expLoitation of uraniun regources in
Nanibiat

6. calls upon all States, corporatlons, instlcutions or lndividu€ls to
terminate gortrr*ittr arr forms of nilitary and nuclear collaboratlon r'itb the
racist rdgine t

7- Reouestg the Disarmanent ComJ0isslo'n !o consider ag a rnatter of
priority during its sesEion in 1986 South Africars nuclear capabllity' tak ing
into account, inter alia, the findings of the rePort of the uniced NationE
rnsti.tute for Disarnaneng Researctt on souch Africa's nuclear caPabillty,

8. Reouests the security council, for the purpoges of dicarnanent and
to fulfil its rrtttgationB and resPonsibility, to take enforcenent neasures to
prevent any racisE rSgine frorn acouiring arns or artns technoloqyt

9: Fureher reouescs tshe security Council to conclude expeditlously its
consideration of che recornnenda! ions of its @mnltt€e established lry
resolution 42L (Lg77l concerning the ouestion of south Afrlca, p,/ uith a vieo
!o blocking che existing loopholes in the arns embargo, ao as to render lt
nore effectiqe and prohibttlng, in particular, all forms of co-operatlon and
collaboration with the racist r6glne of south Africa in ttre nuclear fieldt

lO. Denands once aqain that Soutb Africa submit forehwith all ita
nuclear instaltaCi.ons and-Tacilities to inspection by Ehe fnternatlonal. Atolric
Energy Agency t

1I. Reduests the Secr eta ry-Genera I !o folloe very closely South Africa's
evolution in the nuclear field and to report thereon to the General Assenbly
at i!6 forty-firsE session.

ficial!9/ see
u

Records of the
docunent


