








































UNITED
NATIONS

Generel Aucmbly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/4O/r'oL
6 Decemlrer

ORfcfNAL I

198 5

ENGLISH

Fortieth sesa ion
Agenda item 134

REPORT OF 1TIE SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON ENHANC ING THE EF'FECTTVENESS OF
THE PRINCIPLE OF NON-USE OF FORCE IN INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS

Report of the sixth cornnittee
Rapporteur: Mr, Molefi PHOLO (I€sotho)

I. INTRODUCTION
l. The iten entitled "Report of tbe Special Connittee on Enhancing theEffecliveness of the Principle of trton-use of Force in rnternational Relati.ons" wasincluded in the provisional agenda of the fortieth session of the ceneral Assentlypurauant !o paragraph l0 of Assembly resolutlon 3g/at of 13 December 19g4.
2. At Its.3rd plenary rneeting, on 20 sepc€nber 1995. the ceneral Assembly, on therecommendation of the ceneral commrttee, decided to include th€ rten in its agendaand to allocate it to the Sixtb Conmlttee.
3. rn connect.ion nith tbe item, Ehe sixth connictee had before it the forloeing
docunents !

(a) Repor t of the special comni.tee on Enhancing tbe Effectiveness 0f thePrinciple of Non-Use of Force in fnternational nelatiJnsr l/
(b) Report of tbe Secretary-cenera I (A/40/4521 .

4. The Comnittee also had before it the follor.rlng conmunicationsr
(a) tetter dated d Aprir l9g5 frorn the charqd draffaires a.i. of the

Premanent Miseion of the Libyan Araf) Janahiriya to the United Nalions addresse(, tothe Secreta ry-cenera 1 (A/ 40 /224-3/17 0}|-l t

,uoorY... '
8s-35686 0321P (E)



A/ 40 /LOoI
Eng l ish
Page 2

(b) Letter date 25 April 1985 fron the Pernanent R€Presentative of Monqolia
to the UniEed Nations addressed to lbe secreta ry-Genera I (A/40/2691 1

(c)Letterdated20MaylgssfronthePernanentRepresentativeofcuba!ottle
uniged Nations addressed to the secreca ry-Genera I (A/40/3231 ?

30 uay 1985 fron the Pernanent RePreseneative of the rslamic
United Nalions addressed to the secreta ry-Genera I

(d) Letler dated
Republic of fran lo the
(A/4O/346t.

5. The sixtb Comnittee considered the item at its 8tb to l2th neetings' held fron
? to l0 October, and at it€ 44th and 50th neetings. on 21 Novenber and 2 Decemher '
The sunmary records of those meetings lA/c.6/40/sR.8-L2' 44 and 50 conEain the
vielrs of representatives who spoke on the item'

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.6/4O/L.L4

6. At tbe 44tb neeting, on 21 November, Ebe representative of Monqo!'ia introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.6/40/L.14) sponsored by Afghanistan' Angola' Benin' kia,Bulqaria, tbe orusg iet Social is
Dernocrat ic Yenen, Ecuador, Eg t, Etbiopjlq the at

rhe ulgt'tit Rtput'l it, Lgotho'
a'"r, .rarner,i riva, Mrdaoascar. Mali, Monoolia, llo?ambique, Nic4ragua,

lan
!he
joined by Caneroon.

7. The Committee had b€fore it a staternen! submitted by Ebe secreEa ry-Genera 1
(A/c.6/4o/L.25) on cbe programte budget inplications of lhe draf! resolution'

8. At its 50th meeting, on 2 Decemb€r, Che Commictee adopted draft resolution
A/c.6/4o/L.I4byarecordeduoteofgoto15.r'ithllabstenlions(seepara.l0).
The voting was as follons3 2,/

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argeneina, Bahrain, Bangladesh'
aenin, Bolivia, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burna, Burundi'
Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, cameroon, cenlral African
Republic, Chad, China' Colonbia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba' Cyprus'
Czecboslovakia, Dernocratic yenen, Djibouti, Doninican RepubLic.
Ecuador, Esypt' Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Finland' Gabon'
Gerrnan Denocratic Republic, Greece' Guyana, Hungary, rndia'
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) ' Irad' ,fordan, 

Kenya'
Rutdait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Le6otho, Liberia'
Libyan Arab Janahiriya, f'ladaqascar, l'talaysia, Maldives, MaIi'

of Burkina Faso stated that, had his deleqation been
would have voted in favour of the draft resolution'

In favour:

Z/ rhe
present. du r ing

representat ive
the voting, it



Aga inst:

A/40/L0oI
Enqt i sh
Page 3

Mexico, Mongolia. Morocco, Mozambioue, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, oman, paki6tan, panama, peru, phllippines, poland,
Qatar, Ronania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sri tanka, Sudan,
Sr.'aziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thalland, Togo, Trinidad and
Totrago, Tunlsia. Uganda, Ukrainian Soviee Socialist Repulrlic,
Unj.on of Sovlet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, Unlted
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yemen,
Yugoslavia, Za i re, zanbia,

Belgiun, Canada, Denmark, France, fceland, fsrael, ItaIy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, portugal, Saint vincent and the
Grenadines, United Kingdom of creat. Britain and Northern freland,
United States of Aner ica.

Abstaining! Australia. Austria, Bra"il, Chile, cernany, pederal Republic of.
Treland, fvory Coast (C6te drfvoire), New zealand, Spain, slreden,
Tur key.

9. Statements in explanation of vote before the vote were nade bv the
represenlatives of the fslamic Republic of lran, Spain and Brazil.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE SIXTH COMMI?TtsE
r0. ?be sixEh conrnittee recorunends to the c,eneral Assemblv the adoption of Ehe
following draft resolut ion:

The General Assernblv,

Recalling ita resolution 3I/g of I November 1976, in lrhich it invited
Member States to examine further the draft World Treaty on the Non-Use of
Force in rnlernational Relations 3/ as uell as otber proposals made during the
conaideration of tbls i ten,

Recalling also its resolutlon 32/LSO ot 19 Decemb€r 1977, by
established the Special Comnittee on E:nhancing the Effectiveness
Principle of Non-Use of Force in Internat.ional. Relations,

which it
of tbe

Recallinq, in part.icular, its resolut.ions 33/96 of 16 DecenbeE 197a.
34/L3 ot 9 Novenber 1979, 3S/SO of 4 Decenber LggO, 36/3L of 13 Novenber 1981,

3/ Of f ic ial aof al Assenbl
SuDplenent No. 4l (A/34/4r a Corr.l), annex.



A/4o/I00L
Eng I ish
Page 4

!/ rbid, ,

2/ rbid. .

Y rbid.,

u rbid, ,
para. 372.

l1/Los ot 15 December 1982, 38/133 of 19 Decenber 1983 and 39 /8L of
13 December 1984, in rhich ir decided tha! the special conmittee should
continue its work,

Taking note of the staEenents nade by the Chairnen of Ehe SPeclaI
conrnittee at its sessions in 1983, 4/ 1984, V and l-985, 6/ based on the
infornal vrorklng paper presented by the Chairnan of the Special Cornnittee
its session Ln 1982, U

Having considered the report of che Speclal Cornmitcee on the x'or k of the
session it held in 1985r g,/

Taking into accounE that the Special Committee has not cornpl eted the
mandate entrusted to it.

Reaffirninq the need for effeceiveness in the universal application of
the princlple of non-use of force in international relations and for
assistance by the United Nations in this endeavour,

Takinq into account tbe suggestions of States ltrade during the
consideraEion of the report of tbe Special Comnittee on the preparation a! the
present stage of a declaration on Ehe non-use of force in international
relat ion s,

1. Takes note
Effectiveness of lbe

2. Decides tbat tbe special comniltee shall continue lts r''or k ltith the
goal of araftinq a lrorld treaty on the non-use of force in internalional
relations and. at Ehe earliest posslble date, as an lnternediate stage, a
declaration on lhe non-use of force in international relations' as t'ell as Ehe
peaceful settlement of disputes or such other reconmendations as the CornmitEee
deens appropr iale t

3. fnvites lhe Special Comnittee, in drafting tbe declaration, to take
into consideration che reaulls of $rork done in preparatlon of the eorklng

of the report of the Special Conmittee on Enttancing the
Principle of Non-Use of Force ln InternaCional Relation6t

Thirty-eigbth session, supplement, No. 41 (A/38/4Il ' para. 59.

Thirty-ninth session, supplenent No. 4l lA/39/411 . para. 51.

Fortieth Session, SupplenenE No. 4l (A/40/ALl ' annex.

Thirty-seventh Session, Supplenent No. 4l (A/37 /41 and Corr'l),

FortieEh seasion, supplenent No. 4f (A/40l41).9/ rbid. ,



A/40/LOOL
Enql i sh
Paqe 5

Paper containing the main elenents of the prlnciple of non-use of force in
international relations, as lrell aa the suggestlons su ritled to it and tbe
efforts undertaken at its previous sesaionst

4. fnvltes Governmenlg to cormunicate their commentg or EuqgesEions on
the ouestion considered by Ehe Special Conrnittee,

5. Reoue6ts the Special Committee to be mindful of tbe importence of
reaching general agreenent wh€never it has significance for the outcome of ies
work,

6. Decides thal Che Special Connittee shall accepE the participation of
observers of Member States, including participation in the meetlnqa of its
working groupt

7.
framerrork

Reaueqls the Special Conrni ttee to concentraEe lts work in, the
of its working groupt

8. Reouests th€ Secre Ea ry-ceneral to provide the Special Comftlttee wlth
the necessary facllities and servicesl

9. fnvites Cbe Special Corurittee to subnlt a reporc on its work to the
ceneral Assembly at its forty-first sessionr contalninq, !!E!_gL!g., tne
concrete resulea achieved through tbe dlscussion of the elenents referred to
in paragraph 3 above t

10. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
sesslon the iten entitled nReport of the Special ComniEtee on Enhanclng the
Effectiveness of the Princlple of Non-Use of Force in fnternatlonal Relationsi.


