








































UNITED
NATtOI{S

General Assembly
DiEtr.
GENERAI,

A/10/976
5 December 198 5
ENGLISH
ORIGINALT FRENCH

lrortieth session
Agenda iten 68

GEMRAL AND CO!.4PIETE DISARMAMEM

Report of the First CorTunietee

Rapporteur: Mr. Yannis SOULIO4IS (creece)

I . INfRODUC1rION

1. ?he iCem entitled:

"ceneral and conplete disarmament 3

"(a) Further neasures in the field of disarnarnent for the prevention of an
arns race on lhe sea-bed, the ocean floor and the subsoil thereoft
report of the Conference on Disarrnanentt

i(b) study on the naval arns race: report of the secre tary-General i

'r (c) Study on concepts of securiCys report of the Secr etary-Gene ral t
tr(d) study of the queEtion of nuclear -weapon- free zones in all its aspects:

report of the Secretary-Genera 1l
rr(e) study on conventional disarnanent: report of the secrelary-ceneral t

"(f) uililary research and developnent! reporc of the secr etary-Genera I t

"(g) Review of the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmanent:
retrrrt of the Disarmament Cotunissioni

"(h) Prohibltion of the production of fissionable naterial for weapons
purposes: report of the Conference on Disarnanenli

85-36276 4648P (S)



A/40/976
English
Page 2

"(i) curbing the naval armg race: llnication and reduction of naval armanenta
and extension of confidence-buildlng neasures to seas and oceans: report
of the Disarrnanent Cormrisaiont

'(j) prohibiEion of the develop$ent, production, stockpiling and use of
radiological eeapons: report of the Conference on DisarnamenE"

was included in the provisional agenda of the fortleth session in accordance with
ceneral Assenbly resolutiong 38/188 B, c and H of 20 Decenber l9B3 and 39 /lS]- B. C,
D, F, G, H, I and J of 17 Decenber 1984.
2. At its 3rd pl.enary neetlng, on 20 septenber 19g5, the ceneral AasernbLy, on the
recomnendation of the ceneral Assenbly, decided to lnclude the iten in lts agenda
and to allocate it to the FifEh Conmittee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 9 October, the First Cornnittee decided to hold a
general debate on the dlsarnament items allocated to it, nanely, itens 48 to 69 and
iten 145' follorred by atatenents on Epeclfic disarnarnent agenda itens and
continuation of general debate, as necessary. The deliberations on those itena
took plaee betneen the 3rd and the 32nd neetings, from 14 October to 8 Novenber
(Bee A/C.I/ 40 /pv. 3-32),

4. rn connection rrlth item 69. the Fir6t conrnittee had before it the followinq
docunents !

Conference on Disarnanentt I/

Disarrnanent Comrission, ?./

the Sec retary-cene raI on the study of the question of
zones in all lts aspeccE lA/40/379) |

the Secretary-General on the study on conventional disarmament

the(a) Report of

(b) ReporC of
(c) Report. of

nuclear -vreapon-free

(d) Repor t of
(A/40/486 and Add.l)

(e) Report
nilitary use of

(f) Report
$/ao/s35') |

(s) Report
tA/40/s53'.t I

the

of Che Secretary-General on the conprehensive study on the
research and develolxnent (A/40,2533) ;

of lhe Secretary-Gene ral on the study on the naval arms race

of the Secretary-G€neral on the study on eoncepts of securlty

!/ offici Records of General
No. 27 (A// and Cor r.1) .

Z/ Ibi.d.' supplenent No. 42 (A/to/4}J.



A/40/e76
Engl i sh
Paqe 3

(h) Letcer dated 21 Decenber 1984 fron lhe Permanent Representative of Ehe
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern freland to Che United Nations
addressed to the secretary-General. trananiEting lhe text of the conmuniqud issued
by the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of the North Atlantic Council at Brussels on
1{ Decemb€r L984 lA/40/57\,

(i) Letter dated 30 January 1985 from the representatives of Argentina'
creece, India, Mexico, si{eden and the united Republlc of Tanzania co the United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the Delht Declaralion
adopted and lssued at New Delhi on 28 January 1985 by the Heads of State or
Governnent of Argentina, creece, India, Mexico, S\reden and the United Republic of
Tanzania (A/ 4O/IL4-s/l692Ll I

(j) Letter daCed 11 February 1985 from the pernanent Representative of
Mongolia to the United Nations addressed to ehe secretary-General (A/4O/L251 ,

(k) Letter dated 15 February 1985 from the Char96 d'affaires a.i, of the
Permanent Mission of lhe cernan Denocratic Republic eo the United Nations addressed
to the Sec retary-General (A/ 40 /L3O-S/L69581 t

(1) Letter dated I April 1985 fron th€ Perrnanent Represencalive of Romania to
tbe United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Genera 1 lA/4O/2281 ,

(rn) IJetLer dated 1 May 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of Indonesia to
the United Nations addressed to the Secreta ry-cene ral . transnitting the text of the
Declaration of the Connemorat ive Meeting in Observance of the ?hirtieth Anniversary
of the Asian-African conference, held at Bandung, Indonesia, on 24 and
25 April L985 (A/4O/27 6-sl17l38 ) I

(n) Letter dated 6 May 1985 fron che charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the Pernanenc
lr.lission of PoLand to the United Nations addressed to the secretary-Gene ral 'transmittlng the text of the communiqu6 adopted at Ehe Surunit Meeting of the
Ieaders of Parties and State ParEies to the Warsav, Treaty' held at warsaw, on
26 April 1985 (^/40/292-s/L7I64t,

(o) Letter dated 10 May 1985 fron the Perrnanent Representative of MongoLia to
the United Nations addressed to the Secre Eary-Genera I (A/40/304) i

(p) Letter dated ? June 1985 from the Permanent Representative of Romania to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-cenera I (A/40/362) 1

(g) Letter daled 24 June 1985 fron the Deputy Permanent Representative of
China to the united Nations addressed to the secrelary-General (A/4o/4LLl i

(r) Letter dated 4 July 1985 fron the Acti.ng Pernanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet social-ist Republics to the UniEed Nations addressed to the
Sec retary-cen era]- (A/4O/t601 ,

(s) Letter dated 19 SepCenber 1985 from the Pernanent Representative of Papua
New Guinea to the Unlted Nations addressed to the secretary-Gene ra 1 transnitting



^/40/976English
Page 4

the comrnuniqud adopted at the Sixteenth south Pacific Forum' held at Rarotonga,
Cook Islands' on 5 and 6 August L985 (A/4O/672'S/L7 458, ,

(t) Letter dated 14 October 1985 fron the Permanent RePresentative of Togo to
the United Nations addressed to the Secre tary-Genera l, transmitting the docunent
entitleal "Declaratlon and Programme of Action", adopted at the Mlnlsteriat Regional
Conference on Secur j.ty, Disarnament and Development in Africa, held at Lom€ r Togo,
fron 13 to 15 August 1985 (A/ 4O/7 6L-s/L757 3) t

(u) Letter dated 28
Afghanistan to the united
(^/ 40 /82L-s/L7s94l ?

Occober 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of
Nations addressed to che Sec retary-Gene ral

(v) Letter dated 30 october 1985 fron the representatives of Argentina,
creece' India, Mexico, sweden and the Uniteat RePublic of Tanzania to the United
Nations addressed to the secretary-Gene ral, transnitti.ng the jolnt nessage dated
24 october 1985 addresseat to the PresidenE of the united states of Nrer lca and the
General Secretary of the Centrat Comnittee of the Comnunist Party of Che Soviet
Union by the Heads of State or Goverdnent of Argentina' Greece, India' Mexico'
sweden and the united Republic of Tanzania (A/4o /925-s/175961 ,

(w) Letter alated 5 November 1985 from the Pernanent RepresenCative of Angola
to the United Nations addressed to the Sec retary-Gene ral, transmitting the Final
Irolitical Declaralion and the Econonic Declaration adopted by the conference of
Foreign Ministers of the Non-Allgned Countries' held at Luanda from 4 to
7 september L985 (A/4o/854-sl1,7 610 and corr.I) t

(x) Letter dated 6 Novernbe r 1985 frotn the Permanent Representative of
Afghanistan to the United Nations addressed to the sec retary-Gene ra I
(^/40/s59-s/L76r3t,

(y) Letter dated 21 October 1985 from the Representative of china on the
FirsE Conmitree addressed to the chairnan of the First cornmittee (A/C.L/4O/6),

(zl LetLer daled 25 october 1985 fron the Pernanent RepresenEative of
Bulgaria !o the Uniteat Nations addressed to the Secretary-General . transnitting Ehe
Declaration issued on 23 october 1985 at sofia by the Political consultative
connittee of the warsaw Treagy organization (A/c.l/40/7't,

(aa) Letter dated 7 Novenbe r 1985 fron the representative of Mexico on the
First Conuni. ttee addressed to the Chairnan of the First Cormittee ' lransnittlng 

the
texts of the fj.nal Declaration adopEed on 21 septernber 1985 by the Third Revieu
Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Prol i feration of Nuclear WeaPons
and lhe Declaration by the Group of Non-Aligned and Neutral states subnitted to the
conference together with tno draft resolutions appended thereto (A/c.l/40/91 ,

(bb) Letter dated 4 December 1985 from the Charg6 draffaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Uganda to the Unieed Nations addressed to the
sec reta r y-ceneral (A/C.L/40/L4't.



A/40/976
Engl ish
Page 5

5. On 22 October, peru
disarmanent on a ,.gi6ii1

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

submieted a draft resolution entitled
scaled (A/C.I/40/L.Z), uhich read as

tConventional
follows I

"The ceneral Assenbly,

"Reaffirminq the determination to save succeeding generacions from thescourge of war that is expressed in the preambie to the charter of the unitedNat ions ,

"leca4ilg the Final Docunent of it6 tenth special session, in vhich itstates,-inter ?liia, that the nuclear and conventi.onal arms builat_up Ehreatensto stall the efforts aimed at reaching tf,. qori" of developnent, to become anobstacle on the road of achieving the new iiteinationat econonic order and tohinder the solution of other vital problems facing mankind,

-^^_. 
"+e?++bg_lg!thef rhat in the Final Document or irs renrh specialsessron it desf6166, inter aria' that priorities in disarnament negotiatl.nsshouLd be: nucrear 

"-euoon" 
v olher weapons of nass destruction. incrudrngchenical weapons t conventional ,"."ponrl in.fuainq any which may be deened tobe excessively injurious or to have indiscrininate effectsr and reduc'ion ofarned forcesl and that nothing srrouta preciuJ""ia"a." fron conductingnegotiatlons on aII priority items .orr"u.r.niiy,

"RecogniFing that unirateral measures to rinlt or reduce armanent.s canmake a contribution to the attainment 
"f Ji..rr"..nt,

__ _ 'fRegallinq its resolution 31/IOO F on reglonal disarmanent, adopted on13 Decenber 1982, in which it stresses, lntei-uiir, the inportance of theregional neasures already adopteal, ," w.ifii# efforts of a regional natureundertaken in the f ield of nuclearcna 
"onu.ntiona] d isarmanent,

,s2., 
"ff##*:*;:f;;i"J":$lH:1". 

i:j:;,i.::., 5 D€cernbe r le I 3 and

.'I. Urges Governnents, where the regional situation so pernits, toconsider and adopt appropr iale measures ai the regional level, under strictand effective international control, with a view ro strengthening peace andsecurity aC a lower level of forces through the limitation and reduction ofarmed forces and conventionar weapons I caling into account the need of statesuo Protect-their security. bearing in rnind tie innerent righc of self_defenceenshrined in the charter of the u;ited w"il"i" Jrra ,iar,out prejudice to the
l:i:"ip}: of.equal rights and of the se lf-dete rninat ion of peoples, inconformity rdith Lhe charter, and taking inEo account the need to ensurebalance j.n each phase and to avoid frJiiii"s fiJ-securrty of any statei



A/40/976
English
Page 6

"2. ExPresses ita nost firm suPport for recent unilateral inltiatives'
adoptett by sotne Governnents' wtr ictr are intende'l to limlt conventlonal
armanents and reduce nilitary expenditures and which contribute to the
creation of an atnosph.r. i"i-uriure to the rea!-lzation of conventional
disarnanent on a regional scalet

Reaffirns that nilitarily signiflcant States' especially
nuclear-weapon sEates, have the pri..ti resPonsibllity for hatting and -
reversing Ebe arms race, in recognition of lhe Priority aasigned to nuclear
disarnament lritbin the context oi general and cotnplete dlsarnamentt

AIso urges countries lthich are supPliers of conventiona!' vteaPons to
co-operate with reglonal effor ts t

'5' Requests the secretary-General to provide interested Governments'
upon request, nith such technicat services and assistance as may be useful in
measures of convenlional disarrnanent on a regional gcale and also requesls hin
to subnit a report on the situation $ith regard to this natter to the General
Assembly at its forty-firsE sessionl

"6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session an iten entitled rconventional alisarnament on a regional scale:
report of the sec retary-General ' . "

6. On 4 Novernbe r, Bolivi. ile
tted a revised dr resolution

the folloning changes 3
PakisEan, ParaguaY' Peru and
(A/C.L/4o/L.2/Rev. l), which

(c) rn the first
prearnbul,ar Parag raPh '

Ronania
contained

(a) A new second preanbular ParagraPh flas added' reading:

"Again recognizing the urgent need for the harmonizing of polltical wills
in order to prornote initiatives aimed at reducing exPenditure on arnaments so
that t.he resources thus released can be devoted to the social and econonic
developnent of a1I Peoples. " t

(b) The first line of the original second Preambular paragraPh' now third
preanbular paragraph, was revised to read ae follows:

"Recalling the Final Docurnent of the tenth sPeclal session of the General
AssenbIy, " t

line of the original thiral preanbular Paragraph' now fourth
the word "itsn was replaced by the $ord 

nthe"t

(d) operative paragraph I was revised to read as followsr

"urges Governnents ' where lhe regional 
siluation so Pernits' co considef,

anO aaopt appropriate neasures at the regionaL level with a viev' to
strengthening peace and securicy at a lower leve1 of forces through the
linitation and reduction of arned forces and conventional weapons ' under



A/40/976

"t;"tt;n
gtrlct and effective internatlonal control, taking into account the need ofStates to protect Cheir.securltyr bearing in ninO the lnherent right ofself-defence enshrined in the Charter of-the Unlted Natlons and rrithoutprejudice to the principle of equal rtghts and of the self_ttetertninat ion ofpeoples, in confornity rrith the Charter, anat taklng into account the need toensure balance in each phase and to avoid inpairin! the €ecurity of anyState t n ,
(e) A nen operative paragraph 3 was added, reading as followsl

.-,-=lllu".":? most _erq)hatlcally the recent reglonat and subregionalrnlrlatlves directed towards the concrusion of agreenents to linit arnamentsand reduce rnilitary expend iturea, r,

. (f) ?he orlginal operative paragraph 3, now operative paragraph 4, wasrevlsed to read as follows:

-. "ReaffirTs the prirnary responslbility of che nilitarily significantstaees, especially the nuclear-weapon staies, for haltlng and reversing thearns race' and the priority assigned to nuclear disarmanent in the context ofthe advances lowardB general and corplete dlsarnamentr",
(S) A new operative paragraph 5 was added, reading as follows:

. "BequestE all states to facilitate proltress toi{arars regionar disarmarnentby strictly honouring their conmitnent t" ..fi.in from lhe threat or use offorce and to contribute to the creation of an atnosphere faeourable to therealization of conventional dlsarnanent on a regional acaler,,,
(h) The subsequent paragraphs were renunbered accordingly.

.,
On 1l Novenbe r,

Bica, Ecuador, ttre rvo-if6TFiGlF:-fii Pak ip::+ *re. s uaa rr, Jna-+a.n;lToq;,T and Yugoslavia subnltted a revised
was later algo sponsored by the
resolution was introduced by the

on 11 November, and concained the

draft resolut ionffi
Central African Republlc. The revised draft
representative of peru at the 33rd neeting,folloring changes:

(a' In ope rat ive
concetned,' were added

(b) fn operat ive
rere deleted,

paragraph I, the rrords ianal
after the word "permits" in

on the ihitiative of the States
the first linet

paragraph 8, the words "report of the sec re tary_cene ral,,

9.,^ -1! 1ts 38th neeting, on 14 Novenber, the Comrnietee adopreat draft resotucionA/C.L/ 4.0/L.2/Rev.2 by a recorded vote of 107 to none, with 8 abstenEions (seePara. 48, draft resolution A). The uoting t{as as follorrs:



A/ 40 /976
English
Page 8

In favour: Argentina, Ausbralia, Austria, Bahanas'-Bangl:l:"n' 
Belgium'

Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, "ti"*"tt' 
Brazill Brunei Darussalan'

iris;li"l 
"".rna, 

eurundi, avelorussian t::-t:: -:o" 
t"t t "'

Republic, carneroon, 
""n.i.l' ""pt 

verde' central-Af r lcan

Republlc, chad, chire, chiia, Lolonbia' congo'-costa 
Rica'

"v'nat", 

- 
i"."noslovak ia, oenocratic Karnpuchea' Denmark'

Dorninican RePublic, Ecuador, riji' Finland'-France' 
Gabon'

cerman Democracic nepuuriil 
'etiitr|v 

' Federal 
Republlc of'

Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary' Iceland'
Indonesia,Iran(Islamicnepuuficof)'Ireland'-Israelt
i'fi;;-i;;.;-A;..1 icot. a'ivoire) ' ramaica' raPan' 

Kenva'

r,esotho, r,uxenbourg, "J.;t;;;;; 
Malawi' Malavaia' Mardives'

l{ali, Malta' r'rauritania, fiaotilit"' Mexico' Mongolla' Nepal'
Netherlands, NeH zealand, Nicaragua' Niger' Norway'
Pakistan, Panama' Papua Nett Guinea' Paraguay' Peru'
Pbilippines, PoLanal, eotlug"f ' Romania' ^Reanda' -sanoa' 

sao

Tor0e and Principe, senegal. singapore' sPain' srl Lanka'
sudan, surinam., st.ririii, ;;Jt;' rhailantl ' -roqo ' 

rrinidad
anal Tobago, Turkey, uganda, ukrainian sovie! soclalist
;;;t;i;; unlon o? so,'i"i so"ltrist Republics' unlted
Kingdom of Great gritari and Northern lrel'and' united
Rep;btlc of Tanzanla' uniletl states of America' uruguay'
va"""o.f., Yugoslavla, zaire, zanbia' z imbabwe '

Against: None.

Abstalningr Angola ' 
Cuba, Egypt, Ghana'.India'

Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahl r rya '

B.

g. on 25 octobe! ' Fin]-and 
subnitted a 

'traft 
resolution' entsilled "study of the

question of nuclear-vfetp""ltttt' '"t"" 
in 

"U 
its aspecls" $/c'L/4o/L'3\ '

10. On 15 Novelnber ' Finland 
submitted a revised draft resolution

(A/c.L/Ao /L.3/Rev. I) ' inT-nitn 
operative paragraph 1' which had read:

"Takesnoteofthereportofthesecr€tary-Generalandregretstha!the
GrouP of Governnental Experls on Nu€ lear -weip""-t'tt" zones 

nas unable to reach

agre-enent on the study as a wholet"

was revised to read as follows:

"Takes nole of the reporE of the sec retarv-Gene ral 
and regrets tha! the

Group of Goverrunental e*p"'t" on Nuclear-wetpoit-r't"t 
zones was unable to

corplete the studyt " -

11. At its 41st meetlng' on l8 November ' lhe 
coNnittee adopted drafE resolulion

A/c.I/ 4o/L '3/nev.1 wi.trrJut a vote 
(see para' 48' draft resolution B)'

Lao PeoPler s Democrat ic
viet Nan.



A/40/97 6
EngI i sh
Page 9

C. Draft resolution VC.1/40lL.14
12. on 5 November, Dennark subrnitted a draft resolution entitled "Study on

itsconventional dj.sarnamenti IVC.L/40/L.L4), which eras introduced by
representaCive at the 35th neeting, on 12 Novernber.

13. At the 38th neetlng, on 14 Novenber, Denmark orally revised operative
paragraph 1 of the draft resolutlon, which had read:

oReconrnends that Che broad international cornnunity, bot.h outside and
wi ttr in-IIE-tn-lIEa Nations, should focus additionaL efforts on rhe need to
consider effective measures of conventlonal disarnanen!, naking the wideat use
of the conclusions and recontnenda! ions of the studyrn

Co read as follows:

"lPPgals Co all lilembe r States to make the vridest use of the study and lE6
conclusions and recommendat ions t ' .

14. At the sane neeting, the Corunittee adopted draft resolut lon A/C.L/AO/L.14, as
orally revised, without a vote (see para. 48, draft resolution C).

D. Draft resolution A/C. L/4oll,.27

15. On 6 Novemb€r, Australia, Czechoslouakla and Sr.reden submitted a draft
resolution entitled nProhibition of the developnent, production. stockplllng and
use of radiological weaponen |A/C.L/AI/ L. 27 ) , which was later also sponsored by
Japan.

16. At its 37th rneet ing, on 14 November, the comnirtee adopted draft resolucion
A/C.L/40/L.27 without a vole (see para. 48, draft resolution D).

E. Draft resolution A/C.l/40,/L.29

L7. On 6 Novernber, Alqeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, the Bahanas, China'
Colombla' Ecuador, Pinland, the phll-lppines, Ronania, Sweden, Uganda, venezuela and
Yugoslavia subnitted a draft resolution, enCitled ncomprehensive study of concePts
of secur ityrf (A/C,L/4O/L.29), which was later also sponsored by Bolivia and
Morocco. The draft resolut.ion was introduced bv the representative of Sweden at
the 32nd neetihg, on I Novenbe r.

18. At lts 37th neeting, on 14 Novenber, the committee adopted draft resolutlon
A/C.L/4O/L.29 without a vole (see para. 48, draft resolutlon E).



A/ 40 /97 6
Engllsh
Page 10

F. Draft resolution A/C.I/40lL.36

19. On 7 Novenber, Australia Austr ia Chlna, Fintand, France, Gabon ' Indonesialceland, Mexico, the Netherlands Peru sri Lanka, sweden and Yugoslavia submitted
a araig resolutlon entltled "study on the naval arms race" (Vc.L/40/l'.36), whicha qtrcrE rEl'(Jt.uLrerr DLuuy utr \.rft.L/=vf
was lntroduced by the representative of sweden at the 35th meeting, on 13 Novenber.

20. At its 40th neeting, on 18 November, lhe Coffnittee adopged draft resolulion
A/C.L/10/L.36 by a recorded vote of 131 to 1, wich 3 absEentions (see para. 48,
draft resolution F). The voting was as follows: 3,/

In favour! Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina' Australia' Austria.
Bahanas ' Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, 

Benin, Bhutan' Bolivia'
Botgwana, BraziI, Brunei Darussalan, Butgarla, Burkina Fa6o,
Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada,
Central African Republicl Chad, Chile, china, colombia' Conoros'
Congo' Cuba, cyprus' Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Derunark, Djibouti, Doninican Republic, Ecuador,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France' Gabon, Gerrnan Democratic
RePubIic, Gerrnany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guaternala,
Guinea. Guyana, BaiEi, Honduras' Hungary, rceland' rndonesia'
Iran (Is1aTnic Repubtic of), Iraq, Ireland' Italy, Ivory Coast
(c6te drlvolre), Jarna ica, .tapan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, IJao
Peopl€rs Dernocracic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Janahiriya, Luxembourg ' Madagascar, Malaysia, 

Matdives, MaIi,
Malta, Mauritania, Maurltius, llexico,, Mongolia, Morocco'
tlozanbLque, Nepal, Netherlands, New zealand' Nicaragua, Niger.
Nigeria, Norway, Onan, Pakistan, Panana, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru. Philippines, Poland. Portugal, Qatar' Romania,
Rwanda, sarnoa, saudi Arabia, senegal, singapore, sonalia, spain'
sri Lanka, sudan, suriname, svraziland, sweden, syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
uganda, Ukralnian Soviet socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
gociallst Republics, Uniced Arab Enirates' united Ningdon of
Great Erltain and Northern lreland' United Repubtic of Tanzania'
Uruguay. Venezuela, Viet Nan, Yemen, Yugo6lavia' Zaire, Zanbia,
z inbablre .

AgainEtt Uniteal States of America.

Abstainingr Egypt, India, rs rael.

y subsequenEly, the delegacioh of Egypt indicated bhat it had intended to
vote in favour of the drafc resolution.



A/40/97 6
English
Page ll

G. Draft resolution VC.1/40lL.37
2L. On 7 Novernber, Australia, Aust r ia, the Bahanas, Bangladesh, Cameroon, Canada,

nd Phi
a draft resoLu on, entitled nprohibition of ttre proa on of fissionable nater lalfor

:::f":^tlf:e€" IAlc. r,/40 /L.3-i) , r'hich was larer also sponsored by samoa.The draft reaolution was introduced by the representativ. 
"r cr."a"-.t-it"36th rneeting, on 13 November.

1?: la,its 43rd neeting, on 20 November, the Commir.tee adopted draf! resolutionA/C.L/40/L.37 by a recorded vote of l2Z to none, rdith 7 abstentions (see para. 48,draft resolution G). The voting was as follows:
In favour:

Against:

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, Bahanas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botserana,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundir
Byelorussian soviet Socialist Republic, Caneroon, Canada, CentralAfrican Republic, Chad, chile, Colonbia, congo, cuba, cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denocrat ic Karnpuchea, Oerirocritic yenen, Derutark,DJibouti, Dominican Republlc, Ecuador, Egypt, Efhiopia, I,iji,!lnrand, cabon, German Denocratic Republic, Gerrnany, Federal
RePublic of, Ghana, Greece, cuatenala, Guinea, cuyana, Haiti,
Honduras, tlungary, fceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic
of), Iraq' Ireland, fsrael, ftaIy, fvory Coast (C6!e d,ivoire),
Janaica, Japan, iJordan, Kenya, Kuvrait, r,ao peoplers Denocrat ic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Janahlriya, Luxenbourg,
lladagascar, Iitalaysia, MaIdivea, Mali, Ualta, Mauri.tania, Mexico,
Mongolia, [.tor@co, Mozarnbigue, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Nonray, oman, pakistan, panana, papua
Ne!, cuinea, paraguay, peru, philippines, poland, portugal, Qatar,Ronania, Rwanda, Sanoa, saudi Arabia, Senegal. Singapore,
Somalia, Spaln. Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinane, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrlan Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinialad and Tobago,Tunisia, ?urkey, uganda, Ukrainian soviet socialist nepublic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, Unitedl Arab Emirates, UnitedRepublic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela, Viet Nan, yenen,yugoslavia. zaire, zambia, z inbabwe.
None.

Abstaining: Argentina, BraziI, china, Francer India, United Kingdom of GreatBritain and Norchern Ireland, united states of America.

",t



^/ 
40/916

English
Page 12

H. Draft resolut ion A/C.L/4O/L.44

23. on 7 November, Af hanistan, Angolq! Bulqaria the Byelorussian 
Sovig!

socialist Repub1ic ia, Ethi the ic
EGEEE, Ironsol ia, polqna,-nornilia, the ukle
rc submitted a draftUnion of soviet qociallsl.- .- - --- -- .,.

resotution ent ltled
and the

ffi.aai.'n.ilraferesolutionwa5.introd':::.::
;:Til.ff;1i""="i=rn. union oi soviet sociatist Republics at the 35th neet ing r
on 13 November.

24. At its 43ril meeting' on 20 November, the Connittee adoPced draft reEolution
VC.L/40/I'.44 by a recorded vote of lOI to 17, with 8 abstentions 

(see para' 48'
draft resolution tl). The voting was as followa! 4/

In favour:

Agains!:

Abstaining:

Belgiun, canada,
Iceland, Is rae l,
Portugal' sPain,
Northern I r e land,

Australia, China 'Thailand.

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola' Argentina, Auscria' Bahrain'
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutai, gollvia, BoE6wana ' BraziI' 

Brunei

Darussalam, Bulgaria' eurkina Faso, Burna' Burundi' Byeloruasian
s;l.t so"i"risl nePubric, cameroon, central African RePublic'
cbaal' chile, coronbia, coigo, cuba, cyprus' Czechoslovakia'
Dernocratic Yemen, Djibouti, poninican Republic' Ecuador ' Eqypt'
EthioPia, riji, Finland' German DemocraEic RePublic ' Ghana'
Greec-e, Guatenala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti' Sungary' India'
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic nepultic-of) . ]'taq' Ireland' Ivory Coast
(c6te al'Ivoire), Jordan, reiya, xuwait, Lao Peoplers Denocrat ic
Republic, Lebanon, L,esotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya' Madagascar '
l.tali, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozarnbique, Nepal' Nicaragua' Niger'
Nigeria, oman, PakisEan, Panama, Papua New Guinea' Peru'
phitippines, Poland, QaEar' Ronania, Rwanda. saudi Arabia'
senegal, singapore, sonalia, sri Lanka, sudan' surinane'
swaziland, sweaen, syrian Arab Repubric' Togo, Trinidad ard
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, ufiainian soviet socialist Republic'
Union of soviet sociatist Republics, uniee'l Arab EmirateE' United
Republic of ranzania, uruguay' Venezuela, viet Nam' Yenen'
Yugoslavia, Zaire ' zanbia, Z 

imbabwe.

Denmark, France' Germany, Federal RePublic of'
Italy, Japan. Luxembourg ' Netherlands, 

Nonday'.

rutfiy, unitea xingaon of Great Britain and
united states of Amer ica.

Gabon ' Malaysia, 
Maldives, Malta' New Zealandr

!/
vote in

Subsequently, the
favour of the d raft

delegation of Gabon indicated that
resolution.

it. had intended to



A/ 40/97 6
English
Page 13

I. Draft resolution A/C.t/40lL.46 and Rev.l

_25. _On ] Tov:mber, Bglqiria.,, penocratic yenen, the cerman Denocratic Republlc, the
submitted a draft resolut ion entitled "curbing-Ehe naval arrns race: lim=itation and
reduction of naval arnanents and extension of confidence-bu i ld ing neasures to seas
and oceans' |A/C.L/4O/L.46), which was later also sponsored Uy ttre Libyan Arab
alinahiriya. fhe draft resolution was lntroduced by the representatFve of gulgaria
at the 33rd [eetlng, on 11 .November.

26. On 12 November, the sponsors subnitted a revised draft resolution
lA/c.L/4O/L.46lRev.I), in rrhlch operatlve paragraph 5 whlch had read:

'RegSgsts the Disarnanent Cormission Co continue the consideralion of
this question in an appropriate subsidlary body, taking due account of the
proposars nade and the vlews expressed on the subject-natter contained in the
rePlies of l'lernber states to the secretary-Gene ral, in the verbatin records of
the Diaarmarnent @ffrission, in the oorklng papers and the united Nations study
on this question, as nelr as of future initlatives with a vlew to sublitting
ite recortrtrendations to the ceneral Assenbry at its forty-firat segsiont"

raa reeised to read as follorrs:

'Requ_g.g!C the Disarmanent Conmission Co continue the consideration ofthiE question as a nabter of priority in an appropriate subsidiary body,
taking due account of the proposals rnade and the views expressed on the
subject-matter contained in the replies of Menber StaEes to the
sec retary-General,, in the verbatin records of the Disarmanent comnission, in
the Horkinq papers and the United Nations study on tbis question, as well as
of fucure lnitiat.ives erith a view to submitting ics recornrnendat ions to the
General Assenbly at lts forty-first sessionr",

27. At its 40th neeting, on 18 November, the conmittee adopted draft. resolutlon
A/c.L/40 /L.46lRev.l by a recorded voce of 56 to 19. with 56 abstenrions (see
Para. 48, draft resolution I). the voting was as follors:

In favourr Afghanlstan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Benin, BoLivlal
Botsnana, BraziI, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Den@rat ic yenen, Ethiopia, Gerrnan Democratic Republic, chana,
Guinea, cuyana, Hungary, rndonesia, rran ( rslarnic Republic of),
Iraq, .tordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao peoplers Dem@ratic Republic,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar, MaIi, Malta, Mexico,
liongolla, ltozanbique, Nicaragua, Nigeria, poland, eatar, Romania,
Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Uganda, Okralnian Soviet Soclalist
Republic, Union of Soviee Socialist Republics, Unlted Arab
Eflirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nan,
Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zambia. z imbabwe.



A/ 40/97 5
Engl ish
Page 14

28. On 7 Novenber, Poland, Romania and the Ukrainian soviet Socialist -Re!'ublic
sutmitted a draft resolution entitleal "Further neasures in the field of disarnament
for the prevention of an arms race on the sea-bed' the ocean floor and the subsoil
thereof' aA/C.L/4o/L.53) ' which read as followsl

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
RePublic of' Iceland, Israel' Ita1y, Japan, Luxembourg '
Netherlands, New zealanal, Nor$ray, Portugal, sPain' Turkey, United
Kingalom of Great Britain and Northern lreland, United slates of
Amer 1ca.

Abstaining: Auatria, Bahanas, Bangladesh, Bhutan. Brunei Darussalan, Burna'
Central African Republlc, Chad, Chile, china' colombia' Comoros '
Dernocratic KanPuchea, fijibouti, Doninican Republic, Ecuador,
lrqypt, Fiji' Finlantl, Gabon, Greece, Guatenala, Hai'ti, Honduras'
India, Iretand, rvory Coast (c6te d'Ivoire), Jarnaica, Malaysia'
Maldives, Mor@co, Nepal, Niger, Onan, Pakistan' Panama' Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, PhiLippines, Rwanda, sanoa, Saudi
Arabia, senegal, singapore, sonalia, Srl Lanka, sudan, suriname'
swaziland, sweden, Thailand, Togo. lrinidad and Tobago' Uruguay'
zaire.

J. Draft resolut i'on A/C.|/ O/L.53, Rev.l and Rev.2

rThe General Assenbly '
iRecalling its resolution 3sl188 B of 20 December 1983, i.n which it has

reiterated its expressed hope for the vridest possible adherence co the Treaty
on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and Other weaPons of
Mass Destruction on the sea-Bed and lhe Ocean Floor and in the subsoil
Thereof' called again upon all states to refrain fron any action lthich might
leaal to the extension of the arns race to the sea-bed and ocean floor, and
also requested the Conference on Disarmanent to proceed promPtly with
consi.deration of further tneasures in che field or disarma'nenc for the
pre"ention of an arms race on the sea-bed' lhe ocean floor and in the subsoil
thereof.

iTakinq note of the rePort of bhe Conference on Disarnament on its
cong laEiElion- of further measures in the field of disarmanent for the
prevention of an armg race on the sea-bed, the ocean floor and in the subsoil
thereof' !//

y official Records of the General Assenbly, Fortiech session, suPplenent
No. 27 (A/4O/ 27 and Corr.I), paras. I12 and Ll3.



A/40 /97 6
Engl i sh
Page 15

_. "1. Requests the Conference on Diaarnament, in consultation with t.hestates parties Co the Treaty, taklng into account exlstlng proposals and anyrelevant technoLogical developnents, to continue it.s consideration of furthermeasures in the fierd of drsarnanent for the preventl0n of an arm6 race on thesea-bed, the ocean floor and in the subsoil thereof and to report to theGeneral Assenbly thereon at its forty-third session,

,t12. Dgcides to include in the provisional, agenda of its forty_thirdsession an ltern entitred r Furthe.o.irur." in the fierd of disarmanent for the
Prevention of an arns race on Ehe sea-bed, the ocean floor and in the subsoilthereof | , n

29. On 12 November, Cangroon, poland, Ronania
Republic submirted a E-eviseO- alE?IE6IIEi-
contained the ,follot{ing changes 3

and the Ukrainian Soviee Socialist
(A/c.l/40/L.53lRev. I), wh ich

added, reading as follows:
(a' A new third preambular paragraph vras

trNotrng that the Third united Nations conference on the Law of the seahad concluded and lhe Convention on the Law of the Sea was opened forsignature on l0 Decembe r Lgg2,",
(b) A new fourth preambular paragraph was added reading as follows:

'Bnphisizing the ihterest of all stat.es, includlng specifically the..terest of developing States, in the progle.s of the exploration and use ofthe sea-bed and the ocean floor and its ,."our".s for p€aceful purposes,n,

. (c) rn operative paragraph 1, second line, the words non ehe prohibition ofthe Enpracement of Nuclear weapons and other weapons of r.rass Destructlon on thesea-bed and the ocean Floor and in the subsoil Thereof.. eere inserted after the$ord "Treatyx.
30. On 18 Novenber, camerogn, Canada, poland, Romania and the UkraiLian Soirietsociaiisr Repubric suEfrrtted "ffi ."i"ii"r-lA/C.L/AO/L,33/Rev.2l, contalning the following changes3
. (a) fn operative paragraphin the penultinate line and the

(b) Operative paragraph 2 was deleted.

11: ft its 40th meeting. on 18 Novenber, the corurittee adopted draft resolution
VC.L/4O/L.53,/ReV.2 r{ithout a voee (see para. 4g, alraft resolution ,r).

l, a fuII stop was placed after the word nthereof"
rest of the paragraph was deleted,



^/40/976Engllsh
Page 16

32. On ? November ' Au
a1

G/c.f/40/L.56), which was later also
{as introduced by the representatlve
Northern Ireland at the 36th neeting'

33. At its 42nil tneeting' on 19 Novenb€r ' the coflnittee 
adopted draft resolution

A/c.L/40/r'.56 uy. recotiei"uJt- or-'e to 13' with ie "u"t"ntions 
(see para' 48'

lt"ii' t""orraion r). The voting *as as folrovrs:

*ffi##"::i',:l:.Hiffi

In favour:

sgs!:

Era land, Ila

on on ffiatters'
The draft resolut ion

of Great Britain and

K. Draft resotution A/C ' I/4 0/L ' 56

"OUjective i

Argentina, Auslralia, Austria' Bahanast Bangladesh' 
Belgium'

Bhutan, Bolivia, uoa"*"ttt, 
- 
giune i Darussalan'' Burundi'

caneroon I canada, centrai'lfrican Republic' chad' 
cbite'

coronbia, comoros' o"*""i"tit-ittt'e;;;t? : Denmark' 
Dj ibouti r

Doninican RePublic' ".o"do', 
EgyPt' Fiji' Finland' France'

cabon, Germany, Federar "tp"uril- 
of' Greece' Guinea' Guyana'

Haiti, Honduras, tcelanal irrl"rr""it' rreland'..rsrael' 
rtaly'

io"r"'*""a (c6Ee al'rvoire) ' Jamaica' 
JaPan' K.enya '

Luxenbourg, Malaysia, "uiai""", 
Mali' Mafta' t''tauritania'

rl"f.r, t.itt"rlands, New zealand' Niger' Nigerla' 
Norway'

Pakistan' Panana, PaPua Nen Guinea' Paraguay' Peru'

PhilipPines. Portugal, xolntnit ' Rwanda I 
samoa' senegal'

;;;;;il;;;-;".a1ia, spain, sri Lanka' sudan' suriname'
Swaziland,sweden,Thailand'Togo'Trinidad.andTobago'
Turkey' uganda, uniteo rlneion lf-ereat Britain 

and Northern

rreland. uniced states oi"i^tti""' uruguay' venezuela'
i.^"i, ioq"=ravia, zalre, zambia' z imbabwe '

Afghanistan, Bulgaria' Byelorussian soviet socialist
Republic ' cuba' 

czechosi;;;kit ' German 
Denocratic Republic'

Hungary, r,ao PeoPle's ;il;;t; Republic' Mongolia' 
Poland'

Ukrainian soviet socialisc nepuuric' Unlon of soviet
socialist RePublics, viet Natr'

Abstalning3 Algeria, Benin, Brazir' Burkina Faso' Burma' "!i"":-9ll?l'=:sjj''i:'::' 6itt"l 
' 
on"t" 

' 
' t"iit ' iran 

(rslarn-ic Reoublic of ) ' Lesotlro'
Mexico, Ni.;;;s;;; iiudi arabia' unitei nepublic or ranzania'

L. Draft resolution A/C'1l4oll'56 and Rev'I

34. on ? Novenb€r, France, Icel?ng' .Ng9waY.l!1-!n."..!l*#f##ft*T#e34 . On ? Novenb€ r ri"i..-'*iiffi*r--fTfrlt"rmn -rnasubmitted a draft resolul --'.;^;^- -r-^ cr.rrnsored bv:!::*H:'l [:::':il:i"Ai';.,:);;);'i'r,-"ii"t'.I":-1":::-::::,::?l:"::"1:disarmament agreenents" (A/c'L/su/t"oo ' 7 wrrrerr - 'le unitedDenmark. The ilraf! ..""i;;i;;'was intioduced by the representative ot 
tr

^- 1r N^oainher. and read as follows!

sponsored bY
of the United

NorwaY .
K ingdom

on 13 Novenber '

!iH:"*, il:';;;';.';l-gsra meetins' on lr Novenber' and read as



I

i.

t.

A/40/97 6
Engllsh
Page 17

uThe General Assenbly,

"Coqscious of the responsibility of all Member StaCes for preserving
respect for rights and obligations arising fron treaties and other sources ofinternational law,

. . "Convleced that observance of Lhe Charter of the United Nations, relevanttreaties and other sources of international law is essential for the
strengthening of international secur ity,

. _ "Mindfgl in particular of the fundanental importance of fullrmplenentat ion and strict observance of agreements on arms linltation anddisarnament if individual nations and the international comnunity are toderive enhanced security from then,
"Strgssing that any violation of such agreements not onLy adverselyaffects the securicy of states parlies but cin arso create seiurity risis forother states relying on the constralnts and comtltnents stipulated in those

agreenents,

.. 
ns-tressing further that any weakening of confidence in such agreenents

diminishes their contribueion to global or regionar stabirity and io further
disarmanent and arns linitation efforgs, and undermines the credibility andeffectiveness of the incernational legal systen,

IBelieving that contl)liance with arms linitatlon and disarnament
agreenents by states parties is, therefore, a natter of interest and concernto che lnternational conrnunity, and noting the role that the United Nations
could play in that regard,

Urges all States parties to arms limitation and disarnanent
agreements to inplenent and conply with the entirety of the provisions
subscribed tot

lnprlcations of non-conpliance or unresolved guestions concerning conpliancet{ith those obl,igations for international secuiity and stabitityf as well asfor the prospects for further progress in the fi;ld of disarmament,
"3: Appeals to all Menber States to support eftorls aimeal at theresolution of non-conpr.iance questions, with i vlew tovrards encouraging strictobservance of the provisions subscribed to and maintaining or restoring theintegrity of arms limitation or disarmament agreernents,

- "4. Requests the Sec r elary-Gene ra I to provide Menber States withassistance bhat nay be necessary in this regard,n
35. On 15 Novernbe r, Fra l'r

su tted a revised drafL
following revlsions r

!:"I?nqi N"lll y and the unitealcEtEE-6?-ffiEEiresolueion (A/c,L/ 40 /L.66,rnev,jL w5lEt-coii a the



(bl rn operat ive paragraph 2, second line' the words 'or unresolved 
questions

concerning cottrPl iancetr were deleted'

36. At its 42nat meeting, on 19 Novenber ' the 
coNrittee adopted draf! resolution

A/c.L/ 4o/L.66/Rev ' I by a recorded vote of 99 to none' 
with 23 abstentlons (see

para. 48' draft resolution t). The voLing was as €ollows t 6/

A/ 40/97 6
Engl ish
Page 18

(a) In the firsl Preanbular Paragraph' first line'
wa€ replaced by the htords nabiding concernnt

In favour:

Aqa inst!

Abstainlnq:

Argentina, Australia' Austria' Bahamas ' Bangladesh' 
Betgium'

BhuEan, Bolivia, BoEs$rana ' Brazil' 
Brunel Darussalarn'

sufguri., Burundi, eyelorussian soviet Socialist Republic'
Camlroon, Canadar central African Republic' Chad' Chile'
China, colonbia, comoros; congo, c""tttoslovakia ' 

Democratic

i.tpr.ft"", Derunark, Djibouti, Doninican nepublic ' Fiji'
Finlanal, France, Gabon, Gernan Dernocratic RePublic' 

Germany'

Federal Republic of' Greece. Guyana, llaiti'-Honduras'
Hungary, rcerand, rt.n ri=i"rnit repuuttc of) ' 

rraq' rreland'
rsraef, Italy, Ivory Coast (c6te 'l'Ivoire) '. 

Jamaica' Japan'

Kenya, Lao People's pemocratic Republic' Lebanon ' Lesocho'
iu*'.^Lorg, ltalaysia, ltaidives, M;li, Malta' Mauritania'
lrongof it, 

-toroccl, 
nepal, Netherlands ' . 

New zealand' Niger'
Nornay, Pakistan' Panama' Papua New Guinea' Paraquay' Peru'
Phili-ppines, Poland, Portugal, Ronania ' Rwanda ' 

sanoa '
senegal, singapore' sonalla, sPain' sudan' -surlname'
swaziland, sweaen, Thalland, Togo ' Trinidad 

and Tobago'

Tunisia' Turkey, Ukralnian soviet sociaList Republlc' union
of soviet sociarist *"puoil"", united Arab Enirates' unlted
xingao. of Greac Britain and Northern lreland' Unieed
n"poUtia of Tanzania, united slates of Anerica' uruquay'
venezuela. zaire, ?amb j'a.

None.

Afghanistan, Algeria, Benin, Burkina Faso'.Burna' Cuba'
cyprus, Ecuador, ugyp., 

-ibun", 
Guinea' rndia' rndonesia'

rqeiico, Mozanbique, Nicaragua, Nigeria' saudi Arabia'
Sri Lanka, ugania, viet Nan' Yugoslavia' zinbabwe'

the l'ord " responsibi IitY"

and oman indicated that
and the delegation ofV subsequently' the deleqa!ions 

of Bahrain' Jordan
they h-ad intendJa to vote in fav6ur of the draft resolution
che Congo inalicateal Ehat it had intended to abstain'



A/40 /97 5
English
Page 19

M. Draft resotution A/C.l/40lL.67
7 November, Aust{ali?, Austria, the Bahanas, Bangladesh, Belgiun, Bulqarla,

Cane Czechoslovakia k, Ecuador EthioDia
Fin land, the cerman at ic lic of, cr

saro3l senegal, sr uhe suaan, sw list
Republics, the Unired K

37. On
Burkina

fipgbrtc9, the.united xinsgon of creac grirain and Norrheri-fIEIEiEl-TIJ uniterr
ir?!99 gr..alngr ica, venezuera, yugosta,rffi resofuEf6i-LdEes (Jr t{nerrca, venezuela. yuooslavi: ""a I:!

Aga inst:

entitled rrThird Revielr ConferencE oi- tIE partlEl- to the Treaty on the
Non-prol ife rat ion of Nuclear Weaponsn (A/C.L/4O/L.6|), which was later also
sPonsored by Mongolia and siraziland. The alraft. resorution was introduced by the
representative of Egypt at the 36Ch meeting, on 13 November.
38. At its 42nd neeting, on 19 November, Che CommitEee adopled draft resolution
A/C.L/40/L.67 by a recorded vote of ll9 to none, with 1I abstentions (see para. 4g,draft resoluEion M). The voting was as follows3

In favourt Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Belgiun, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivi.a, Botswana,
Brunei Darussalan, Bu1garia, Burkina !,aso, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet SociaList Republic, Cameroon, Canada,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile. Crlonbia, Conoros,
Congo, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Denocratic Yenen, Denmark, Djibouti, Doninican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt. Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, cabon, cernan
DenocraCic Republic, cernany. Federal RepubLic of, chana,
Greece, Guinea, cuyana, Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Repubtic of), fraq, Ireland, Italy,
fvory Coast (C6te drlvoire), JaTnaica, Japan, .-rordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao Peopl.ers Democrat ic Republic, Lebanon. Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, f,tauritania. Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozanbique, Nepa1, NeEherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway. Oman, panama, papua Ne!,f Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, phitippines, poland, portugal. eatar,
Rornania, Rwanda, Sanoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, S$eden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukraini.an Soviet SocialisE.
Republic, Union of Soviet soci.af ist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Unieed States of AIIlerica, Uruguay, Venezuela, viet
Nan, Yenen, yugoslavia, zaire, zimbabwe,
None.

Abstaining: Argentina, Brazi:-, Burna. Cubar France, fndia, Israel,
Niger, Spain, United Republic of Tanzania, zanbia.



A/40/976
Engli sh
Page 20

N. Draft resolution A,/c.I/40/L.?o/Rev-I and Rev'2

39. on ? Novetnber, Australia, caneroon and glgqce suttnitted a draft resolution
entitleal ,,Disarnarnent and the naintenance of inte;at.ional Peace and security"
(A/C.I/4O/| .70) , t{hich vras !.ater also sponsoreal by Eolivia, Fiji -and @' The
draft resolution was introduced by the ie{resentative of Australia at the 35th
neeting' on 12 November and read as follodsr

"The General Assenbly,

"Recognizing the occasion of the fortieth anniversary of the foundinq of
the united Nations,

"so1emnly reaffirning lhe conmon recogniEion of Member states of the
unique-IifrIance oi itr--ni red Nations and its Charter through rrhich they are
all corf,nitted to rPractice tolerance and live togecher in peace' and 

rto unic€
our strength Eo naintain international peace and securityr '

"Further determined to irnplernent the provisions of the charter to. ensure
tne maJiEi6EE-6E-liEnation;1 Peace and securitv' in particular uember
statesr common conmilnents to 'settle international disPutes by Peaciful
meansr and to refraln in their rinternational relations fron the threat or u6e
of torce against tbe territorial integrity or Polilical independence of any
State ' ,

oAffirming the critical relatlonship described in the charter betueen the
naintenance of international Peace and security and tEhe Principles governlng
disarrnament and the regulation of arnamentsr,

"Reaffirming that Ehe promotion of fundanental human rights' the equal
righls of nations large and small and the Promotion of social progress and
better standards of life in larger freedom remain irreducible goals of the
United Nat ions,

race directly threatens the right of
and 'econonic and sociaL advancenent 

I 
r

iEnphasizing lhe continued imPortance of the proviEions of the Flnal
Document agreed at the Tenth specia:- session of the General Assembly wh ich
$ere adopt.ed by consensus,

"Noting thab disarmanent and arms control is necessarily a malter for
negociation and carefully etorked out agreenents which take account of all the
concerns of all participating Governments,

"Noting further that the security of al-l scates is dependent on the
prese rGffii-6f-lliEi t iry which is fiiely to be upset by measures tthich favour
one side against the other antl that Che objective of States sbould be
undininished security at the lowest possi'ble level of armanents and nilitary
forces.

nDeeply concerned that the arms
people to rbetler standards of life'



A/ 40 /97 6
Enqlish
Page 21

'Takinq into account the existence of negotiations in nultilateral,
reg ional. and bilateral fora,

"Convinced of the need for all States to work to achieve general and
colplete disarmament including the conclusion of arms control and disarnament
agreements wherever feasible,

iFurther convinced that adequate verification is an essential ingredient
if confidence i6 to be placed in arns control or disarnament rl€dSuf€sr

ItMindful of the provisions of paragraph 24 of the Final Document,

lg!:Iares the urgent need for effective neasures to ensure the
achievemenf-6?-TiE following obj ecr ives:

" (a) Cessati.on of existing arned confl-icts and rnilitary threats of all
kinds,

i(b) Avoidance of war and in particular nuctear war,
n(c) Cessation of the arns race in all its nanifestations:

"(i) fn nuclear weapons, other I'eapons of nass destrucEion as wel! as
conventional weapons i

r'(ii) In qualiEative as well as quantitative rernsi

"(iii) On the regional as welt as global scalei
o(d) Prevention of an arns race in space,

"(e) Deep reductions in nuclear arsenals uttimately leading to the
complete elimination of nuclear weapons under effective, legally binding and
verifiable ar rangernenCs i

t(f) The preeention of proliferation of nuclear i.reapons or oEher nuclear
explosive devlces;

"(g) Elinination of chenj.cal weapons and effective, Le9a11y binding and
verifiable neasures aqainst the development, production, slockpiling and use
of blological or chenical weapons,

"(h) Reduction ln arrns of all types by all states to levels consistent
with their right of self-defence as recognized by Article 5I of the Chartei

"(i) The exercise of responsibility by exporters of weapons and
suppression of the clandestine or illegal traffic in weaponsi

"(j) APplication of the physical and intellectual resources of hunankind
tor peaceful purposes i



A/ 40/97 6
EngI ish
Page 22

'2. calls upon all states to conduct their relations and to refrain fron
the use or threat of force in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of
the United Nat ions t

'3. Calls upon all states to undertake measures specifically designed to
build confidence in order to contribute co the creation of favourable
conditions for the adoption of additionat d isarnanent measures and to furlher
relaxation of international tensiont

calls upon all States faithfulty to conPly flith existing
nultilaEeral, regtional and bllateral d isartnarnent and arms control agreetnents
to which they are a party, to becone parEies to those exisEing rnulcilateral
and applicable regional disarmanent and arns conErol agreements to which they
are not already a party and to negotiate in good faith for the conclusion of
additional treatles and conventions, rnultilateral, regional or bil-ateral as
appropr iate t

'5. Also calls upon all staces, particularly those $ith major nllitary
arsenals, to redouble their effores to achieve meaningful disarnarnent and arns
controL neasures. "

40. on 19 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolutlon
(A/C.L/40 /L.7 O/Rev.1) ' which contained the following revisions!

(a) The seventh preambular paragraph $as revised !o read!

"Recognizinq once again the validity and reaffirming the conrnitnent of
Menbe r states to the Final Document of the Tenth sPecial segsion of the
General Assernbly 'r t

(b) rn oPerative paragraph 4' the woral "control" in the second and fourth
lines was replaced by the word "Iinitation",

(c) operative paragraph 5 was revised to read as folloss:

"ALso calls upon all scates, inclutling lhose with significant milltary
arsenal-s as well as those which have special respons iblli t ies as recognized by
consensus in the FinaL Docunent of the Tenth Speclal Sesslon of Ehe General
Assenbly, to exercise their responsibilities regarding disarnanent and arns
limitation in good faith and according to the provisions of the Final
Document, in order to facilitate the achievenent of neaningful disarmarnent and
arms linitation neasures. rl

41. on 21 November, the sponsors submltted a further revised draft resolution
(A/c.l/4O/L.7ilRev.2), which contained the following changes:

(a) In the second prearnbular paragraph, Ehe rords 'as well as rco ensure that
armed force shatl not be used, save in the connon lnterestr" r.rere added at the end
of the paragraph t



A/40 /976
English
Page 23

(b) The sevenEh prearnbular paragraph was revised to read:

"Recognizing once again the validity of, and reaffirning the connltnent
of Member States to, the Final D@unent of the Tenth Special Sessl.on of the
General Assenbly, r' t

(c) The ninth preanbular paragraph was replaced by the followlng text:

"Reaffirninq the statenent contained in the Final Docunent that genuine
and lasting peace can only be created through the effective implementat ion of
the security systen provided for in the Cbarter of the Unit.ed Nations and tbe
speedy and substantial reduction of arns and armed forces, leading ultimateLy
to general and complete disarnamenC under effective international controlr"t
(d) In operative paragraph I, the following changes were made:
(i) The first sentence of the paragraph lras revised to read as follows:

nDeclares the urgent need for effect.ive neasures to ensure
achievement of the princlples and priorities for d isarmanent as agreed
upon by consensus at the tenth special session of the General Assembly,
to be supported by the following objectives:'ti

(ii) The orlginal subparagraph (b) became subparagraph (a). and the originat
subparagfaph (al becane subparagraph (b) t

(e) Operative paragraph 4 was revised to read as follows:

'Calls upon all States faithfulty to coftply with and implernent all
provisions of nultilateral, regional and biLateral disarmanent and arns
Iinitaeion agreements to which they are a party and to negotiate in good faith
for the concLusion of addicional treaties and convent ions, nultilateral,
regional or bilateral as appropriate, taking into account the need for sErict
observance of an acceptable balance of nutual responslbilities and obllgations
for nuclear and non-nuclear-weapon Statesttr.

42. At its 47th meet.ing, on 22 November, the Coflurittee adopteal draft resolution
A/C.I/40/L.70lRev.2 by a recorded vote of 80 to none. lrith SO abstentions (see
para, 48, draft resolution N). The voting vras as follows!

In favour3 Australia, Austria, Bahanas, Belgium, Bolivia, BoCswana, Brunei
Darussalan, Burundi, caneroon, canada, central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Democratic Kanpuchea,
Derunark, D:iibouti, Doninican Republic, Ethiopia, Fiji, plnland,
cabon, Gernany, Federal Republic of, chana, Greece, Guinea,
cuyana, Honduras, Iceland, rran (rslanic Republic of), Iraq,



A/ 40/975
Eng1i sh
Page 24

Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory coast (c6te drlvoire), Japan'
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, MaIayBia, Maldives' Mali' Malta'
Mauritania, llor€co, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlandst New
Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, oman' Papua Nevt Gui'nea'
Paraguay, Portugat, Rlranda ' samoa' 

senegal, singaPore'
sPain, surinane, srrazitand' siteden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago' Turkey' Uganda, United K ingdottl of Great Britaln
and Northern Ireland, United RePubIlc of Tanzania' Uruguay'
Zaire ' zarnbia.

Ag!ag!: None.
Ab6!ainingt Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola' ArqenEina, Bahrain,

Banglaalesh' Benin' Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso' Burna'
Byelorussian soviet socialist RePublic, congo, Cuba, cyPrus'
Czechoslovakia, Democratic yenen, Ecuadot, E.iYPE' France'
Gernan Denocrat ic RePublicr Hungary, India, Indonesia'
Jamaica, Lao PeoPlers Denocratic RePubllc, Madaqascart
Mexico, Mongolia, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Panama, Peru' Poland '
Oatar, Rornania, saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka' Sudan' syrian Arab
RePublic, Tunisia, ukrainian sovlet socialist Republic'
Uni.on of soviet socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates'
United States of tuaerica, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yenen,
Yugoslavia' z inbabwe.

o. Draft resolution A/C.I/40,/L.?1 and Rev. I

43. on 7 Novernber, Auslralia, Fiji, freland. Papua Nevt Guinea and- sgmoa
suttttitted a draft resolution entitled "Notification of nuclear te6B5-
(A/c.I/4o/L.7L), which rdas later also sponsored by Ecuador' New.zealend and
Sweden. The atraft resolution vras introduced by the representative of
Eill?if ia at the 35th meeting, on 12 November, and read as fol-lows:

"The General Assembly 7

"Not j.ng lhe repeated calls by the General Assembly for the urgent
conclusion of a treaty to ban all nuclear explosions in aLl environments
for all t ime,

"Expressing its firn conviction that pending the conclusion 9f. I .
conpreaensive test-ban Ereaty the Peoples of the world have the right to
a full and open account from the states concerned of all nuclear
exploslons conducted bY then,

"Convinced that such a fuII and open account ing by all the States
concerned would contribute to the improvenent of independent monitoring
capabitities anal thereby facililate the early conclusion of a verifiable
conprehensive test-ban treaty,



A/40/976
English
Page 25

Sec retary-General of the United Nations within 72 hours of each nuclear
explosion:

"(a) The date and tine of the explosioni
i (b) The exact location of the explosj.on in terns of geographlc

co-ordinates and depth t

" (c) The geological characteristics of the site of the explosionl
r(d) The estinaeed yield of the explosion,

" (e) The purpose of the explosiont

Requests lhe secretary-Gene ral to subnit co Ehe General
Assenbly each year a register of the inforrnat ion provided on nuclear
explosions during Ehe preceding twelve nonths."

44. On 19 Novenber, Australia, Fiji, Ireland, Ne$ Zealand, Papua Neir Gui.neaf
samoa and sireden submitted a revised draft resolutLon (A/C.L/40/L.7llRev.l) '6IEi co ntf,IiEE-t he fouowing changes:

(a) The chird preanbular paragraph was revised to read:

"Convinced that such a full and open accountlng by al-l the states
conducting nuclear explosions would supplement and contribuce to the
improvement of independent nonitoring capabilitles and thereby facilitate
the early conclusion of a verifiable conpreherisive test-ban treaty,',

(b) In operat lve paragraph I, the following changes vrere nade:

(i) In the first sentence of the paragraph' the words "one weekfi
replaced ,'7 2 hours', t

(ii) Subparagraph (c) was revised to read as foflows:

"(c) The geological characteristlcs, including the basic physical
proPerties of the rock, of hhe site of the exPlosioni"

(c) operative paragraph 2 was revised to read as follows3

'SgSueslg the sec retary-Gene ra1 to nake this information inmediately
available to all States and to subrnit to the General Assembly each year a
register of the lnformation provided on nuclear e:(plosions during the
preceding ti{elve nonths. n

45. At the request of the sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolution
A/c.|/40/L.7LlRev. 1.



{6. On
Verde,

A/40/976
English
Page 26

P. Draft re€olution A/c, L/40,/L.7 2

7 Novenber, Australia, the Bahanas, Belgium, Burundi, Carneroon, Cape

the Dorni
the Central African Republic, Chad, Colonbia, Cornoros. the Congo, Costa
he Doninican Republic, Ecuador, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji. cabon,

Federal
Slerra e, the

Sudan, Surinane, Thailand, Togo, Zaire and Zambia subniteed a draft
entitled nReview of tbe role of the Uni.ted Nations in the field of
d isarnament" (A/C.l/4O/L.72), which was tater also sponSored by Canada,
Dlibouti, Janaica, Japan, Onan, Sanoa and Trinidad and Tobago. The draft
reaolution nas introduced by the representaElve of Cameroon at the
36th meeting, on 13 Novenber.

47. At its 37th neeting, on 14 Novenber, the Conmitt.ee adopted draft
resolution A/C.L/40/L.72 without a vote (see para. 48, draft resolution O).

resolut ion



Al40/976
Engl i sh
Fage 27

III. RECOMMENDA1IONS OF THE FIRST COT4MITTEE

48. The First connittee reconmends to the General Assernbly the adoption of the
foUowing draft resolutions !

General and complete d isarnanene

Convencional disarnaftent on a reqional scale

The General Assembly'

Reaffirning the determlnation to save succeed ing generations fron the
scourge of war lhat is expreased in the Preanble to the charter of che United
Nat ions ,

Again recognizing the urgent need for the harmonizing of poli!ical wllls
in order co promote iniliatives ained at reducing expenditure on artnatnents so
that the resources thus released can be devoted to the social and economic
developnent of all peoples,

Recalling the Final Document of Ehe Tenth Special Sessi.on of lhe General
Assenbly' ?,/ Ln which it states, inter alia' that the nuclear and conventional
arms build-up threatens to stall the efforts ained at reaching the goals of
develognent, to become an obstacle on the road of achieving the new
incernational economic order and to hinder the solution of ochet vital
problerns facing nankind,

Recalling further that in the Final- DocunenE of the Tenth Special Session
of the General AssenbLy it declared, i.nter a1ia, thaL priorities in
disarnament negotiations sbouLd be: nuclear tfeaponst other weapons of mass
destructlon, including chemical weaponsi conventional weapong, including any
which may be deened to be excessively injurious or to have indiscriminate
effectst and reduction of arned forcesi and that nothing should Preclude
Stales fron conducting negotiations on a1I priority itens concurrently,

Recognj.zinq that unilateral measures co linit or reduce arrnamenEs can
nake a conlribution to the attainnent of disar:Tranent,

Recallinq its resolution 37/IOO F of 13 December 1982 on regional
disarmarnent, in which it stresses, inter alia. the importance of the regional
neasures already adopted. as well as of efforts of a regional^ nature
undertaken in the field of nuclear and conventional disarnanent'

Resolut ion S-IO/2.



A/ 40/976
English
Page 28

Recalling likewise its resolutions 3S/73 J of 15 Decernber 1983 and
f9/63 F of 12 Decenber 1984 on regional disarnanent,

l. Urges covernnents, where the regional situation so permits and on
che initiative of the states concerned, to consider and adoPt approPriate
measures at the regional level with a viev, to strengtheni.ng peace and securlcy
at a Iower level of forces through the linitalion and reduction of armed
forces and conventional ryeapons, under strict and effective international
control, taking into accounc the need of states to protect their security'
bearing in nind Ehe inherent right of self-defence enshrined in the Charter of
the united Nat.ions and without prejudice to the principle of egual rights and
of the self -deterrninat lon of p€oples, in confornity nith the Charter, and
taking into account the need to ensure balance in each phase and to avoid
itnpairing the security of any Statet

2. Expresses its most firn support for recent unilateral measures,
adopted by sorne coverrunents, which are lntended to llrnit conventional
arnarnents and reduce military expenditures and which conEribute to the
creation of an atnosphere favourable to the realization of conventlonal
disarnanent on a regional sca1e1

3. Endorses nost enphaticatly the recent regional and subregional-
init.ia!ives directed towards the conclusion of agreenents to llrnit armamentg
and reduce military expend itures,

4. Reaffirms the prinary responsibilicy of the nilitarily signiflcant
states, especially the nuclear-weapon states, for halting and reversing the
arns race' and the prioricy assigned to nuclear disarnanent in the context of
the advances towards general and conplete disarnament,

5. Requests a.ll States to facilltate progress lo ards regional
disarnamen! by strictly honour ing their conmiCment Eo refrain from the threat
or use of force and to contfibute to the creation of an atrosPhere favourable
to lhe realization of conventional disarrnanent on a regional scalet

6. Also urges countries which are suppl,lers of conventional vreapong to
co-operate with regional ef for ts ?

7. Requests the Sec retary-cenera I to provide lnterested Governrnents t
upon request, with such technical services and assistance as rnay be useful ln
measures of conventional di.sarmanent on a regional scale and also requests hin
to subni.t a report on the situation with regard to this matter to the General
Assernbly at its forty-first sessionl

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session an item entitled "Conventional disarnarnent on a regional scaletr.



^/40 
/9't 6

English
Page 29

Study of the question of nuclear-weapon-free zones
in all its aspects

The General As sembly,

Recalling its resolutio^ 37/99 F of 13 December 1982. in r.rhich it alecided
that a study should be undertaken to review and supplement the Conprehensive
sCudy of lhe question of nuc lear-weapon-free zones in all its aspects q/ in
the light of infornation and experience accunulated since 1975,

RecaLlinq also that it requested the Secretary-ceneral, with the
assistance of an ad hoc aroup of qualified governnental experts. to carry out
the study and to subnit it to the ceneral Assenbly at its thj.rty-ninth session,

Recalling further its resolution 39/I5L B of 17 Decenber 1984, in rrhich
it took note of the report of the Secreeary-Genera I 9/ to lhe effect that the
Group of Governnental Experts on Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zones had not been able
to conclude the study vrithin the tine available and requested therefore the
Secretary-Genera I to continue the study and go submi! the report to lhe
General Assenbly at its fortieCh session,

Reaffirning its resolutions 3472 A (XXX) of ll December 1975 and 3L/70 of
10 December 1976, in which lt expressed its conviclion that the establishment
of nuclear -weapon-free zones couLd conEribute to the security of nembers of
such zones, to the prevention of proliferation of nuclear weapons and to the
goals of general and conplete disarnarnent,

Having recelved the report of the sec re Eary-cene ral , 10,/ to which is
annexed a letter from the Chairnan of the croup of Governrnental Experts on
Nuclear-Weapon-Free zones,

APpreclating the efforts nade by the croup of covernnental Experts,

I. Takes note of the report of the Secr e tary-Gene ral and regrets that
the Group of Governmental Experts on Nuclear -Weapon-Fr ee Zones lras unable to
conPlete the studyi

2. Conveys ils thanks to the Sec reta ry-cene ral, the Di r ec tor-Gene ral of
the lnternational Alonic Energy Agency and the Secretary-Gene ral of the Agency
for !h€ Prohibit.ion of Nuclear Weapons in Latin Anerica for the assistance
they have given for the preparation of the study.

United Nat.ions publication, Sales No. 8.75.I.7.

A/39 /400.

A/10/379.

v
v

IgJ



A/40/976
English
Page 30

Study on conventional d isarrnarnent

The General Assenbly,

Recalling its resolution 39/L5L C of 17 Deceftber L984, in which the
Secre Eary-Gene ral was requested to prepare a report for the General Assembly
at its fortieth session containing the views of Member States receilred
regarding the seudy on aII aspects of lhe conventional arns race and on
disarmanent relating to conventional weapons and arrned forces,

Further recallinq paragraph 8I and other relevant paragraphs of the Fina}
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the ceneral Assernbly, lI/ the first
special session devoted to disarmanenE, stressing the inporeance also of
convent ional disarmament neasures ,

Taking note of the report of lhe Sec retary-Gene rat on the work of the
Organizat.ion 12l in which it is stated tha! nvrhile the fear of nuclear rreapons
is pervasive because of their potentially global devaslating effect, it is
convenlional weapons thaE every day clain countless Lives", and further thaE
nthe conventional arns race, moreover, squanders precious econonic resources',

Bearing in nind the irunense drain on human, economic and technological
resources caused by the conventional arms race,

Further notinq the link between disarnanent and develop[ent and the
forthconing International Conference on the Relationship between Disarnanent
and Developnent '

Having exanined the report of the Sec relary-Gene ral coneaining tbe views
received fron Member States regarding the study,

1. APpeals to all i,ternbe r states to make the i,rides! use of the study and
its conclusi.ons and recolunendat ions t

2. Invites Menber States that have not yet informed the
Secre tary-Gene ral of their views regarding the study Co do so no later than
31 May 1986;

3. Requests the Sec retary-cene ral to prepare a report for the ceneral
Assenbly at its forty-fj,rs! session contalning further views of Member states
received regarding lhe study t

lV Resolution 5-10/2.

12,/ Official Records of the ceneral Assembly, ForEieth Session, Supplement
No. I (A,/40,/1).



4.
session

3. Recognizes that lhe work
Radiological 9leapons in 1985 nade a
the issues entruseed to itt

A/40/97 6
English
Page 3l

acconplished by the Ad Hoc Corunittee on
further contribution to lhe solution of

Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
an itern entitled "conventional disarnanent".

D

Prohibition of the developmentr production, stockpiling and
use of radiological weapons

The General Assenbly,

Recalling its resoluEion 39/L5I J of 1? December 1984'

l. ?akes note of that Part of the report of the conference on
Dlsarnarnent on its 1985 session that deaLs with the question of radiological
weapons, in particular the report of the Ad lloc CommiEtee on Radiological
Weapons r 13l

2. Notes also the.recorunendation of lhe Conference on Disarnanent that
Che Ad tloc Cornmitt;e on Radiological weapons shoutd be re-established al the
beginning of its 1986 session and that the annex to the report of the Ad Hoc
Conmittee should be considered as a basis for furEher workl

4. Requests the Conference on Disarnament to conlinue its negotiations
on the subject nith a view to a pronpc conclusion of its r'rork, taking into
account all proposals presented to the Conference to this end, the result of
which should be subnitted to the General AssembLy at its forty-first sesslont

5. Also requests that the secre tary-Gene ra I transrnit to the Conference
on Disarnament all relevant documents relating to the discussion of all
aspects of the issue by the General Assenbly at its fortieth sessioni

6. Dec ides to include in the provisional agenda of its forLy-first
seEslon the item entitled "Prohibition of the deve loprnent, production,
stockpiling and use of radioloqical i{eapons"

D

Comprehensive scudy of concepts of security

The General Assembfy,

Recalling ics resolution 38/L88 H of 20 December 1983, by which ii
requested the Sec re tary-Genera 1 to carry out, with the assistance of qualified
governnental experts, a cornprehensive study of concepts of securiey,

E/ suppleftent No, 27 (A/40/27 and Corr.1). paras' 102-109.



A/40/976
Engl ish
Page 32

Ifaving exarnined the report of the sec retary-Gene ral containing the
study, fL,/

l. Notes the corprehensive study on concepts of security contained in
the report of the Secrecary-General l I4,/

2. ExPresaes its appreclation to the secre lary-General and to the Group
of Experts who assisted hirn ln preparation of lhe studyt

3. connends the study and its conclusions to the actenlion of all
Menbe r SEates t

4. Invites all Menber states to inform the Secre lary-General ' no laEer
Ehan 30 Aprll 1986, of thelr vlews regarding lhe study,

5. Requesta che sec retary-Genera 1 to rnake the necessary arrangdnents
for the reproduction of the study as a United Nations publication and to give
it the widest possible distributiont

6. Requests the secretary-General to prePare for the General Assembly
at iEE forty-first session a report containing the views of llember States
received regarding the study.

Study on the naval arns race

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recqlling its resolution 38/188 G of 20 Decernber 1983' by {hich it
requested the Secretary-Gene ral, with the assistance of qualified govern'nentaL
exPerts ' to carry out a conprehensive study on the naval 

arms race'

Reaffirninq ies concern about the naval buildup and the developnent of
naval arms systens,

Having exanined the report of the secretary-Gene ral containing the
study, !1/

I. Notes with satisfacllon the study on che naval arns race contained
in the report. of Ehe Sec retary-Gene ral t !!,/

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Secre lary-General and Eo the Group
ofGovernmeryacornprehens1ves!udyontheNavalArns
Race, Naval Forces and Naval Arms Systerns, lhat assisted hirn in preparatlon of
the study,

!t/ A/40/s53, annex.

!!/ A/4o/s35, annex.



A/40/976
English
page 33

3. Conmends the study and its conclusions to the attention of all
Menber Slates t

4. Requests the Secretary-Gene ra1 to nake the necessary arrangenentE
for the reproduction of the study as a united Nations publlcation and to glve
it the widest possible distribution,

5. Invites aII Menbe r States to i.nforrn lhe Secretary-Genera I, no later
than 5 April 1985, of their views concerning the scudyt

6. Requests the Sec retary-Gene ral to prepare for the Disarmanent
Connission at its subseantive session in May 1986 a compilation of Ehe viens
received fron Mernber states regarding this issue;

7. Requests t.he Disarnaftent Commission to consider, at its forthcoming
session in 1986r the issues contained in the study on the naval arns race,
both its substantive content and its conclusions, taking into account all
other relevant presenc and future proposals, r.rith a view to facitiCating the
identification of possible rneasures in the field of naval arrns reductions and
disarmanent, pursued within the franework of progress towards general and
conplete disarnament, as well as confidence-bui Id ing neasures in this field,
and to report on its deliberations and reconnendations to the Generat Assembly
at its forty-first session I

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session an item entitled nNaval arma$ents and disarmanent".

The General Assenbly,

Recalling its resolutions 33./9I H of 16 Decenber 1979, 34197 D of
lt December 1979, 351156 H of 12 December L990, 36/97 c of 9 Decenber 1981,
37/99 E of 13 Decembe r L982, 38,/188 E of 20 December I9B3 and 39 /LSL H of
I7 December 1984, in h'hich it requested the Committee on Disarnanent \i.,/, at
an appropriate stage of the inplementation of the progranne of Action EeL
forth in seceion III of the Final Docunent of the Teneh Special Session of the
General Assenbly, W_/ the first special session devoted to disarmarnent, and of
i.ts eork on the item entitled lNuclear r.reapons in all aspects", to consider
urgent.ly the question of adequately verified cessation and prohibition of the
production of fissionable material for nuclear ireapons and other nuclear
explosive devices and to keep the Assembly i.nforrned of the progress of lhat
consideration,

ly The Comnittee on Disarmarnent rras redesignated the Conference on
Disarnanent as from 7 February 1984.

Iz ceneral Assembly resolution S-IO/2.

Prohibi. t ion



A/ 40/916
EngI ish
Page 34

Noting that the agenda of the conference on Disarmarnent for 1985 inctuded
the ieem e;titled ,,Nuclear weapons in all aspects" I8l and that the programne
of work of the conference for botn parts of its session held in 1985 contained
the item entitl-ed ''cessacion of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear
alisarmament". L8l

Recalling the proPosals and statements nade i.n the conference on
Disarrnanent on those items,

considering that the cessation of productj.on of fissionable tnaterial for
weapons purposes and the progressive conversion and transfer of stocks to
peaceful uses would be a significant step tovralds halting and reversing the
nuclear-arns race,

Considering that the prohibition of the production of fisgionable
naterial for nuclear weapons and oEher explosive devices also wou ld b€ an
imPortant neasure in facilitating che prevention of the proliferatlon of
nuclear weapons and explosive devtces'

Requests the
work on the itern
consideration of
of the production
nuclear explosive
pragress of that

Convinced that
among States, ease
war,

Conference on Disarnarnent ' at an approptiate 
stage of its

ent.itled "Nuclear vJeapons in all asPects", to pursue lts
the quescion of adequately verified cessation and prohibition
of fissionable naterial for nuclear weapona and other
devices and Eo keeP the General Assenbly inforned of the

consideration.

Nuclear-rreapon f reeze

The General AssemblY.

Expressing its deep alarn over the continuation and intenslficalion of
the nuctear-arms race, which seriously increases the threat of nuclear war'

Taking into account the great responsibility of nuclear-weapon states for
the preservation of rrniversal peace and the prevention of nuclear war'

Recalling iEs previous resolutions calling for a nuclear-neapon freeze
both in quantitative and in qualitative terrns.

Recalling also that on several occasions it has expressed the firn
conviction that at present the conditions are nost propitious for such a
freeze,

a nuclear-weaPon freeze would raise the level of trust
incernational tension and diminish the threat of nuclear

If./ see official Records of the General Assenbly, Fortieth session.
Supplenent No. 27 lA/4O/27 and Corr'l), para. 1"0'



Convinced also that conptiance with the obtigations of the

A/40/976
EngI i sh
Page 35

freeze cou ld
addit ional
prevrous

b€ verified by national technical neans as lre1l as chrough sorne
verificatlon measures based on co-operation, taking into account
nuclear-arns linit.ation negot iat ions ,

Noting the wide support for the decl-arations of the Heads of State or
Governmen! of slx countries issued on 22 May r9g4 L9/ and 28 January L9gs, 20/

which contained an appeal to the nuclear-weapons states-to hart testing, productGn
and deploynent of nuclear w€apons and their neans of delifery,

Deeply regrett.ing tha! some nuclear powers have not. responded positively
to its relevant appeals or to app€als and proposals by other Staees nade
repeatedly during the last three years,

l. Reaffirns its appeal to all nuclear-weapon States to freeze, from a
sPecific date, their nuclear arsenals on a global scale and under appropriate
verification as a first seep to their reduciion with Che view to their
conplete el iminationt

2. Urges once again the Union of Soviet Socialist Republj.cs and the
united states of Anerica, which possess the largest nuclear arsenals, co
fteeze, in the first place and sinultaneously, their nuclear weapons on a
bilateral basis by way of exanple !o lhe other nuclear-weapon Statest

3. Slrongly believes that all
subsequently and as soon as possible

che other nuclear-weapon StaEes should
freeze their nuclear r.reapons.

T

Curbing the naval arns race: limitation and reduction of naval
armaments and

Recalling its resolutions 3BllB8 E of Z0 December 1983 and 39/L5L I of
17 Decenbe r 1984,

Convinced that alt channels of lhe arms race, in parlicular Che nuclear
arns race' should be effectively covered by the efforts to halt and reverse it,

Disturbed by the groering threa! to peace, international security and
global sLabi.lity posed by the coneinuing escalation of the naval arms race,

Alarned by the even rnore frequent use of naval fleets or other naval
fonnations for demonstraCions or use of force and as an instrument to exert
pressure against sovereign States, especially developing State€, to interfere

!2_/

20/

A/39/27'1-s/16 587 , annex,

A/ 40 /LI4-5/I6 9 21, annex.

and oceans



A/40/97 6
English
Page 36

in their internal affairs, to conni! acts of arned aggression and intervention
and lo preserve the rennanCs of the colonial systen,

Aware that the growing presence of naval fleets and the int€nsification
of the navat activities of sorne states in c-onflict areaa or far frorn chelr onn
shores increase tensions ln these areas and could adversely affect tbe
security of the inlernatlonal sea lanes in Chese areas, the freedom of
navigation anat the exploitation of rnaritime resources,

Firnly convinced that the uodertaking of urgent sleps to curb nllitary
confrontat ion at sea lrould be a signiflcan! contributlon to preventing Hart
especially nuclear war. and to strengthening peace and international security'

Aware of the
effective measures
naval arnaments and

numerous initiatives and concrete propogals Eo undertake
ained at liniting naval activitiesr limiling and reducing
extending conf idence-bu i ld ing measures to seas and oceangr

Convinced that such measures shoulal be worked ou! and inptenented with
due regard to Ehe principle of not harning the legiEinate security interests
of any state conce rned,

stressinq once again the imPorcance of relevanc measures of a regional

"h..uiIEIl-EiE[-EE-EIE- 
i-*pLementit ion of the Declaration of the Indian ocean

as a Zone of Peace 2! "ra 
the transfornation of the Mediterranean into a zone

of peace' security and co-operation'

Reaffirning once again that seas and oceans, being of vital imPorEance to
nankind, shoultl be used EiElusively for peaceful Purposes ln accordance l{ith
the r6gine established by the 1982 convent ion on the Law of Eille Seat 4f/

Taking note of the report of the sec retary-Gene ral and oEher
aocurnEifti]JT-Eubnitt.ed in pursuance of resolutions 38/188 F and 39'1151 L
which contali the replies of Menbe r states, including a major naval Poeer ' on
the noalalit.ies for negotiations, as well as various speclfic ideas and neH
proposals for joint measures on curbing the naval arns race and naval
act ivit ies ,

Noting \.tith satisfaction that the prevailing view expressed. in-these
replies strongly favours an early commencenent of negoliatlons alneo aE
curbing the naval arns race and naval activities. strengthening confidence and
security at sea and reducing naval arnanents'

2Il Resolut.ion 2832 (x)$I)

24 offlcial Records of
sea, vol. XVII (United Nations
L/CONF .62/L22.

the Third UniEeal Nations Conference on the Law of the
publication, Sales No. 8.84.v.3) , docunent

A/CN.I0/70 and Add ' l-5.4-/ A/39/4L9 and corr. 1t



A/ 40/97 6
BngI i sh
Page 37

Taklng note of the United Nations study, carried out with the assistance
of a group of qualified governmental exFF'rLs, 24/

Considering that the discussion on the subject that has taken place at
the 1985 substantive session of the Disarnament Connission constitutes a
valuable initial step in the comrnon search for ways and neans which could
ensure proper conditions for more detailed and thorough consideration of the
lssue of curbing the naval arns race, wi.th a vlew to holdlng appropriale
negot lat ions ,

1. Appeals once again to aII l4enbe r StaEes, in particular Eo
nucl-ear-rreapon Stateg and other najor naval Poners, to refrain fro|n enlarging
their naval presence ard activities in areas of conflict or tension, or far
fron t.hei r own shores,

2. Reaffirms once again j.ts recogniCion of the urgent need to start
negotiations with the particlpation of the najor naval Povrers, in particular
the nuclear-weapon StaCes, and other interesCed States on the linitation of
naval acCivities, the linitation and xeduccion of naval arnaments and the
extension of confidence-bu ild ing neasures to seas and oceans, especially to
areas with the buslest international sea lanes or to reqions vJhere the
probability of conflict situations is high;

3. InylteE l{enber States, particularly the rnajor naval Powers'
including ffrE-ililear-weapon states, to conside.r the possibitity of holding
direct consultations, bil-ateral and/or nultilateral, with a view to preparinq
the opening at an early date of such negoCiations,

4. Also ilrvites Menber Statea, especially those that have no! yet done
so, to connunicate to the Secretary-General not later than April 1985 their
eiews concerning the nodalities for holding the mul!ilat.eral negotiations
referred to above, including the possibilities for lrold ing then at the
Conference on Disarrnament. at Geneva;

5. Requests the Disarmanene Comnission to continue the consideration of
this question as a matter of priority in an appropriate subsidiary body,
taking due accounc of the proposals made and the views expressed on the
subject-natter contalned in lhe replies of Membe r States !o the
Secretary-General, in the verbatin records of the Disarmarnent Conmission, in
t.he working papers and the United Nati.ons study on this question, as well as
of future init.iatives with a view to subnitting its reconmendations to the
General Assenbly at its forty-firs! sessiont

5, Decides to include ln t.he provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the itern enEitled rrcurbing the naval arns rac€: limitation and
reductlon of naval armarnenes and extension of conf idence-bu i ld ing measures to
seas and @eans".

4/ A/4O/535, annex.



v 10/97 6
EngI ish
Page 38

Purther measures in the field of d the
of an arms race on thu ""t-b.d, 

the oc.an flffi
subsoil the reof

The General Assernbly.

Recalling its resolution 38/188 B of 20 December 1983. in which it
reiterated its e*pressed hope for the widest Possible adherence !o Lhe Treaty
on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear weapons and Other WeaPons of
Mass Destruction on che sea-eed and che ocean Floor and in the subqoil
Thereof, 25,/ called again upon all states bo refrain frorn any accion which
rnight lead co the extension of lhe arns race to the sea-bed and ocean floor'
and also requested the Conference on Disarnament to proceed promPtly with
considerali.on of further measures in the field of disarmament for the
prevention of an arms race on the sea-bed, the ocean floor and in the aubsoil
thereof,

Taking note of the report of lhe Conference on Disarnament on its
consideration of further measures in the field of disarmament for the
prevention of an arrns race on the sea-bed, the ocean floor and in the subsoil
Lhereof. 2V

Noting that the Third United Nations Conference on the La!' of Ehe Sea had
concluded and that Ehe convention on the Law of the Sea !1/ was opened for
signature on 10 Decenber 1982.

Enphasizing the interest of alt slates' including specifically the
int.tEEf-I?-EEiltoping states, in the progress of the exploralion and use of
the sea-bed and the ocean floor and its resources for peaceful purposes,

Requests the conference on Disarnament, in consultaeion wich che states
parbies to the Treaty on the Prohibilion of lhe EnPlacement of Nuclear Weapons
and olher weapons of Mass Destruction on Lhe sea-Bed and the ocean Floor and
in the subsoil Thereof, laking into account existinq proposa}s and any
relevant technologica] developrnents, to continue its consideration of further
measures in the field of disarrnament for the prevention of an arns race on the
sea-bed, the ocean floor and i.n the subsoil thereof.

4/ Resolution 2560 (xxv).

4il Official Records of the ceneral Assembly, I'ortieth session. Suppletnent
No. 21 lA/40/27 and Corr.l)r paras. 1I2 and lI3.



A/40/976
English
Page 39

x

Obj ect ive information on military maCters

The ceneral 4ssenbly,

Noting that nisperceptions of the military capabilities and the
intentions of potential adversaries, which could be caused, inter a1la, by a
lack of objective infornation, could induce States to undertake armaments
progranmes leading to the acceleration of the arns race, j.n particular the
nuclear-arns race, and to heightened international censlons,

Recallinq paragraph 105 of the Final- Document of the fenth SpeciaL
session of the ceneraL Assembly, 27/ which encourages Menber States Uo ensure
a better flow of infornatlon wilh regard to the various aspects of
disarmamen!, to avoid dissenination of false and tendentious information
concerning arnanents and to concentrate on the danger of escalation of the
arms race anc on the need for general and complete disarnament under effective
international control,

Recognizing that the adoptlon of practical, confidence-bu i ld ing neasures
on a global, reglonal or subreglonal level would greatly contribute to a
reductlon in international tension,

Aware that obj ective informat ton on lhe military capabilities, in
particular of nuclear-weapon StaCes and other nititarily significan! States,
could contribute to bhe building of confidence anong States and to Che
conclusion of concrete disarnament agreenents, and, thereby, hetp to halt and
reverse the arns race,

Recalling its resolutions 31/99 G of 13 Decenber 1982 and 38/l8g C of
20 Decenber 1983.

Aware of the existence, under the auspices of the United Nations, of an
international systen for lhe standardized reporting of mititary expenditures,
and that annual reports on nilitary expenditures are now being received from
an increasing nunber of States,

1. Expresses its convictlon Eha! a b€tter flow of object.ive infornation
on military capabilities could help retieve international tension and
contribute to fhe bullding of confidence anong States on a global, regional or
subregional level and to the conclusion of concrete disarrnanent agreementst

2/ Resolution S-IO/2.



A/40/976
Bnglish
Page 40

2. urqes all states, ln particular nuclear-weapon states and other
nilitarily significan! states, to consider irnplenenting additional neaEures
based on the principles of olrenness and transparency such as, for example, the
inlernalional systen for the scandardized reporrlng of military expenditures
with the ain of facilitating the availability of objective infornation on, as
well as objective assessnent of, nilitary capabiliCiest

3' Ihvltes all Menbe r States to comrnunicate to the Secretary-General
before 30 April 1986 the neasures chey have .adopted to concribute to greater
openness in nilitary malters in general and in Particular to inprove the flow
of objective infornation on military capabilitiest

4. Requests the sec retary-Gene ral to reporc to the General Assembly ac
its forty-firsE ses6ion on the inplenentation of the provislons of the present
resolut ion,

5. Decides to include in the
session the item entitled I'Obiect.ive

provisional agenda of its forty-first
infornatlon on military matters".

I.

Conpliance with arms linitation and disarmanent agreements

The General Assenbly,

Conscious of the abiding concern of all Membe r staces for preserving
resPect for riqhls and obli.gations arising fron greaEies and other sources of
internatlonal las,

Convinced that observance of the Charter of the United Nabions, relevant
treaties and other sources of international la\.t is essentlal for the
strengthening of international secur i cy,

Mindful ln particular of lhe fundamental inPorEance of full
inplernentation and strict observance of agreenents on arns limiLa!ion and
disarmanen! if individual nattons and the international cornmunity are to
derive enhanced security from then,

Stressing Chat any violatlon of such agreenents noe only adversely
affects the security of States partles but can also create securlty risks for
other states relying on the constraints and cornmitnents stipulated in ghose
agreements,

stressing further that any weakening of confidence in such agreements
dirninishes their concribution to global or regional stability and to further
disarmamen! ard arns limltation effort.s and undernines the credibitity and
effectivenesa of t.he internalional 1e9a1 systeft,



291 see Retlew Conference of lhe Partles to the Treatv on Ehe
Non-Prol iferat ion of Nuclear vleapons, Final Docurnent, Par! r (NPr/CotlE.ll/zz/T.',t
(Geneva. I980) , para. 32.

A/ 40/976
EngI lsh
Page 41

Believtnq that cornpliance with arns linitation and disarnament agreements
by stE[es parties is, therefore, a matter of lnterest and concern to the
international corwnunity, and noting the role that the united Nations could
play in that regard,

l. Urges all states parEi.es to arms llmitation ard disarnanent
agreements co lmplement and conply witb the entlrety of the Provisions
subscribed to,

2. calls upon all uember states to give serious consideratlon to the
lnplications of non-cotq)liance with those obllgationE fot lnternatlonal
securily and stabitity' as well ae for the prosPects for furcher Progress in
the fleld of disarnamentt

3, Appeals !o all uember states to support effortE a funed at Ehe
reEolution of non-conpliance quegtlons, itlth a vlew tonard encouraglng strlct
observance of the provisions subscribed to anal mdintalnlng or restoring the
integrity of arms tinitation or disarnament agreenentst

4. Requests the Sec reeary-Genera I lo Provide Menbe r statee lfith
asslEtance that nay be necessary in this regard.

The General Assembly,

necalting its resolutio^ J8/74 of 15 Decenbe r 1983' in which, inger. alla,
it noEEa t-trat in the Pinal Document of the se6"ond Review Conference of the
Partleg to the treaty on the Non-Prol iferat lon of Nuclear lteaPons, held at
ceneva from 11 August to ? septenber 1980' the Conference had proposed to the
Depositary Governnents t.hat a third conference to revlew the operation of the
Treaty be convened in I9g5 w arfi that there aPpeared to be a consensug among
the parties tbal the Thlrd Revlew conference shou!'d be h€Id at Geneva ln
August/septembe r of chac Year,

Recalling tha! States Parties to the Treaty rnet at Ceneva from 27 August
to 2f Setaemb;r 1985 to review Ehe oPeration of the Treaty wlth a eietr to
assuring that the purposes of the Preamble and the provislons of the Treaty
were being realized,

Notes with satlsfaction that on 21 SePtenber 1985, the Thirtl Review
Conference of ttre Fiities to lhe treagy on the 1lon-Prol i ferat lon of Nuclear
l{eapons ado,pted by consensus a Final Docunent.



^/ 
40/976

English
Page 42

N

The General Assenbly,

Recognlzlng the occaglon of the fortleth anniversary of the founding of
the United Natlons,

solennly reaffirning the coffi0on recognition of Menber states of the
unigue lmportance of the United Nations and the charter of the uniEed Natlons
through whlch they are all comnitted nto practice tolerance and Llve together
in peace" and "to unite our strength to mainEain international peace and
security", as rrell as iEo ensure 'Jhat arned force shall not be used, save in
the comnon interesti t

Further deternlned to lmplenen! the provisions of the Charter of the
United Nations to ensure the naintenance of international peace and security,
in particular the comon connitnents of Member StaEes to nsettle internat lonal
disputes by peaceful neansi and to "refraio in t.helr international relations
fron the threa! or use of force against the territorial integrity or polltical
independence of any Statei,

affirming the critical relationship described ln the Charter bet$een the
maintenance of internationel peace and security and the principles governing
disarmanent and the regulatlon of arnamenta,

Reaffirning ehat the pronotion of fundamental human rights, the equal
rights of nationg large and snall and the promotion of social progreas and
betEer slandards of life in larger freedom rernain irreduclble goa15 of the
United Nat ions ,

Deeply concerned that the arn6 race directly threatens the rlght of
people to "better sEandards of life" and 'economic and sociaL advancenent',

Recognizing once again the validity of, ard reaffirrnlng the conroitment of
Menber States Co' the Final Docunent of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, 29,/

Noting that disarnanent and arns limitati,on is neceasar ily a matter fot
negoliation and carefully uorked oue agreenents lrhich take account of all the
concerns of all part.i.cipating covernnents,

?g/ Resolution S-10/2.



A/40/976
Eng1i6h
Page 43

Reafflrninq the statement contained ln the Flnal Docurnent that genulne
ard lasting peace can only be created through the effective iqtlenentation of
the security systen provided for in the charter of the unlted Natl'ons and th€
speedy and substantial reduction of arms and armed forces, lead lng ultfuiately
to generat and cot plete disarnanent under effective lnternrtlonal control,

Taking into account che existence of negotiatlons in nultl!.ateral,
regional and bllateral forurns,

Convinced of Che need for all States to soik to achleve general ard
of arms llnltatlon andconE lete digarnanent including the concluslon

d isarnanent agreements lrherever feaslble,

Further convinced that adeguate verificatlon.is an essential ingredlent
if confidence is to be placed in arms llnltation or disarna,lent neaBurea,

Mindful of the provisions of paragraph 24 of the Final Docutnent, 3!'/
1. Declares the urgent need for effectlve fieaaurea to enauae

achlevement of the principles and prioritlea for diElrnanent aa agreed upon by
consensus at the tenth special session of the General Asaenbly' to be
supported by the following objectives:

(at Avoidance of rar ard in particular nuclear $art

(b) Cessation of existing arned conflicts ard nllltary threats of all
kinds I

{c) Cessatlon of the arns race in all iEB nanifeatations:

(i) In nuclear Heapons, other weapons of nasa destruction as well as
c.onrr€nt lonal ireapons t

(ii) In qualitative as rrell as quantttalive terrDs,

{iii) On the regional as well as global scale,

(d) Prevention of an arms race in sPacet

(e) Deep reductions in nuclear arsenals ulgfunatgl,y
colplete elimlnation of nuclear weapons under effectlve,
verif iable arrangenenlst

(f) The prevention of
exPlosive devices I

Leading to the
legally birdlng and

proliferation of nuclear rgealxtns or other nuclear

(9) Ellnlnatlon of chemical weapons and effectlve, legally binding and
verifiable neaaures against the developnent, Productlonr stockpiling and use
of biologlcal or chernicaL weapona t



^/ 
40 /97 6

English
Page 44

(h) Reduc t.ion in arms of atl types by all States to level€ consistent
trith their right of selfdefence as recognized by Artlcle 51 of the Charter of
the Unitsed Nat ions I

(i) The exercise of responsibility by exporters of seaponE and
suppression of the clandestine or illegal trafflc in weaponsl

(j) Application of the physical and lntellectual resources of humankind
for peaceful purposes t

2. calls upon all stateg to conatuc t their relations and to refrain fron
the use or threat of force in accordance with the provislons of ehe Charter of
the United Nat ions t

3. calls upon aII stat.es to undertake rneasures speclfically designed to
build confidenql in oraer to cont.ribute to the creatlon of favourable
cond itions for Ehe adoption of additional disarnanent neasures and to further
relaxation of internationaL tensiont

4. calls upon all states faithfully to cottPly uirh alrl lmPlenent a1l
provisions of multilateral, regionaL and bilateral dlsarnanent and arrns
Llnitation agreernents to which they are a party and to negotiate in good falth
for the conclusion of additional treaties and conventions, muItilateral,
regional or bilateral as approprlate, taking inEo account the need for strtct
observance of an acceptable balance of nutual respons ibll it ies and obligations
for nuclear and non-nuclear lreapon Statest

5. AIso calls upon all states' includlng those with significant
military arsenals as rrell as those which have special respons ibi I it ies as
recognlzed by consensus in the Final Document of the Tenth sPeclal Session of
the General Assenbly, to exercise thelr responsibi li t les regarding dlsarmament
and arns limitation in good faith and according to the Provisions of the Final
Document, in order Co facilitate the achievenent of neaningful disarmament and
arns linitation fi€asures.

.l

Review of the role of the United Nations in the
field of d isarnanent

The General Assenbly,

Recalling its resoluti.on 39,/151 c of 17 December 1984'

Bearing in mind that the prirnary purpose of the United Nations is to
naintain international peace and securlty,

Reaffirning its conviction Ehat genuine and lasEing Peace can only be
created through the effective impl€nentation of the security systen provided
for in the charter of the United Nations and tlre speedy and substantial



reduction of arns and arned forces, by
exallple, Ieadlng ultinately to general
ef fec!ive lnternational- control,

A/40/97 6
Engl ish
Page 45

international agreement and mutual
and colplete d isartnament under

Reaffirnlnq further that the Unieed Nations, in accordance eith its
charter, has a central roLe and primary responsibility in the sphere of
disarmanent,

Regretting that, e6pecially in recent years, no substantive progress has
been nade in the field of disarmanent,

Recognizing the need for the unlted Nations, in discharging its central
role and prinary responsibility in the sphere of disarmanent' to Play a more
active role ih the field of disarrnanenc in accordance with its pr irnary purpose
under the charger Eo naintain international peace and security'

Taking into account the report of the Dlsarmanent Comniss Lon, !!r/
l. Requesta the Disarnament connission lo continue its consideration of

the role of the United NaElons in the field of disarrnanent, as a matter of
priority ac its next subsEantive session in 1985, with a view co the
eLaboratlon of concrete reconmendat i.ons and proposals, as appropriate, taking

Membe r States as welllnto account, inter alia, the views and suggeatlons of
a6 the aforernentioned d€unents on the Eubject,

2. Reque€ts furbher the Disarnament Comrnission to submit its report
the subject, including findings, recommendat ions and proposals, as
appropriate, to the General Assembly aE lts forty-first sessioni

3. Declates to include in the provlsional agenda of its forty-first
sesslon an ltem entiEted nReview of the role of the Unlted Nations in the
field of disarmamenbr report of the DisarnamenE Commission".

30/ Official Records of the ceneral Assenbly, Fortieth Session. Supplement
No. 42 (A/40/42), para. 30.


