








































UNITED
NATIONS

Gencrel Ancmbly
Distr.
GENERAI.

A/40/906
19 Novenber 1985

ORIGINAI,! ENGLISII

For!ieth session
Agenda iten 18

IMPIJEITIENTATION OF rHE DECIARAAION ON
10 COTONIAI, @UNTRI ES

TCE GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE
AND PEOPIJES

Report of the Fourth Coonittee

@.9!gggr tlr. stef ano STEgAfItII ( Italy)

r. IrclRoDtrcTron
t. At lts 3rd plenary neetlng, on 20 septenb.r 1985, the cjeneral AsseEbly' on the
recodaehdation of the General cotlmi !tee, dectded to include lo the agenda ot ita
fortieth session the iteo entitleds

ifnple[entation of the Declaration on the Grantlng of Ind€pendence to Colonial
Countrles and 9eoplesl

'(a| Report ot the Sp€cial Connlttee on the gituation elth regard to ttle
InpleEntat lon of the D€claration on the Grantlng of IndePenden€e to
Colonial Countriee and t4eoPles,

"(b) Report of ttre secrctary-Gencral' .

At the sane neeting, the Assenbly alec ided to refer to the Fourth Conmittee those
chapters of the report of the special conEittee relatinq to ePeclfic Terlltories.

2. The chapters of tbe gpecial coonitteeis rePort concerning the Territorles
rhich rere not covered by other agenda itens reldted to tbe folloflng specif ic
Terr i toriea:

8 5-33'130 4610p tE)



A/40/906
Engl ish
Page 2

Ter r itory

l{estern Sahara
Gibraltar
Tokelau

Pi tca i rn
St. Eelena
Anerican Sanoa
Guan

Trust Territory of the pacific Islands
Bernuda

Eritish Virgin Islands
Cayman Islands
Mont ser ra t
Turks and Ca icoa Islands
Ang ui lla
United States Virg in f8lands

Relevant chapter of the report of
the Special ConrBi t tee I/

A/40/23 (Part vII), chap. x
A/4O/23 (Part vII), chap. XII
A/4O/23 (Part vII), chap. XrIr
\/40/23 (Part VII), cbap. XIV
A/40/23 (Part vII), chap. xv
A/40/23 (Part vII) ' chap. XvI
A/40/23 (Part VII), chap. XVII
A/4O/23 (Part VII), chap. XVIIr
A/4O/23 (Part vII), cbap. XIX
A/40/23 (Part vII), chap. Xx
4/40/23 (Parr VIrl, chap. xl(r
l/40/23 (Part vII), chap. xxrl
A/4O/23 (Part VII), chap. XXIII
A/4O/23 (Part vIIl , chap, xxlx
L/4O/23 (Part VII), chap. XXV

3, At its 2nd rleeting, on 23 Septenhr, the pourth Comnittee atec laleal to hold a
general debate covering agenda items l.g, lO9, lll and and LZ, LLZ and ll3, on the
understanding that indivldual proposars on natters covered by tho6e itens eould be
considered separately. Tbe comnittee held the general debate on those itens at lts
12th and l5th to l9tb neetlngs, beteeen 3l October and Z titovenb€ r.
4. The Fourth Comnittee conaidered iten tg at it€ llth to 2lst m€etlngsr beteeen
30 October and 12 tilicvenbe r (see A/C,{/40,/SB,Il-21).
5. At the l-Ith neeting, on 30 october, the Rapporteur ot the speci.al connittee on
the situation eith regard to the rnpleFntation of the Declaration on the cranEingof rndependence to colonial countrles and Feopres nade a statenent in chich he gave
an account of the t'elevant activiliea of the Special Conlli ttee during 1.985 and dre*
the Fourth Connittee's attention to the cbapteEs of the report of the Special
Connittee referred to i.n paragraph Z above, aontaining, inter alia, the retated
draft decisions and draft resorutiona subrDittear b,y ttre coulnittee tor trre
consideration of the Fourth cormittee, as rell as the relevant documentation of the
SPecial Conrnittee (A,/AC.109/SOL and Corr.l, gO2-gO?, 8Oe and Corr.I, 809-8L5,
8r6lRev.l' 817-820, s23, a27 and corr.l, g2g. 932 anat 834 anal A,/Ac. tog,/L. r 55B anat
L.1551) .

!/ To b€ incorporated tn Official necords of the General Assenblv, portieth
Sesaion, Supplerent No. 23 tA/4O/231 .



A/ 40/906
EngIlsh
Page 3

6. The Fourttt conrni t tee had before it the report of the secretary-Gener 
al on the

question of vlestern sahara (A/40/692 and Corr'1), subnitted in accordance eith
ceneral Assenbly reEolution 39140 of 5 Decenbe r 1984'

7. In aatdition, the Fourth connittee hatl before it the follouing coonunications
addressed to tbe Sec reta ry-Gene ral:

(a) Letter dated 30 January L985 fron the Char96 d'affaires a'i' of the
Pernanent Mission of sPain to the gnited Nation6 IA/4O/LL3"

(b) Letter dated 6 February 1985 froD the Irernanent Repreaentative of Ehe
United Kingdom of Great Britain and uorthern Ireland to the Unite'l Nations
lA/ 40 /L?Lt ,

(c) Note verbale dated ll uarch 1985 fron the Charg€ d'affalres a'i' of the
Pernanent Mission of Yemen to the united Nationa lA/4O/173-S/17o3!'\ '

(d) I€tter dated r July 1985 froo the A'cting Peroanent Representatives of
spain and the Uniteal Klngdon ot Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the 

gnited

Nation3 lA/ 40/ 429* \ t

(e) Letter dated 2 Auqust 1985 fron the Pernanent RePresentative of !'lorocco
tbe united Nations (A/40/5291 '

8. The Fourth conmittee granted the fol'locing requests for hearing in connection
eith its consideration of tbe iten:

lteeting at {hich reque9t
petitioner for hearlng cas grantea

l,[r, Glenn Alcalay, National Connittee for 3rd neetinq
Radia!ion victins (A/c.' 4/40/21

Mr. Ronald Franquez Teehan, Guao Landosne rs 
r 3rd neeting

Association l\/c. 4/ 40/31

Mr.Mobanedsalemouldsaleck,FrentePopular3rdmeeting
Para 1a Liberaci6n de saguia el-Ilanra 

y

be nio de oro (Frente PoLIsARIo) l^/c'4/4o/4''

senator Jeton Anjain' on behatf of the peoPle of 4th 
neeting

Rongelap Atoll ( A,/C. 4,/ 40 / 2/ Md . Ll

Ms. tsIizabeth Bounds, uicronesia Coal'ition 4th neeting
lA/c.4/40/2/}dd-zt

* Reissued for tectrnical reasong.



A/40/9o6
EngLlsh
Page 4

petitioner

senator Ted S. Nelson, on behalf of the Old peoples
Square I€vel and Justice Organlzatlon of ponape
(A/c.4/40/2/ed;d.3) '

Ur. G1enn peterE€n, Baruch College, Depar tment of
sociology and Anthropot aSy lA/C. 4 / 40 / Z/Add. 4l

urs. llope crlstobal, on behalf of the Organization
of People for rndlgenous Rights (VC.4 /40/3/Add.L',
Miss Teresa K. Snlth, Ifestern Sahara Campalgn for
Euman Rights and Hunanltarian Relief, USA
(A/c.4/ 40/4/Add.L't

Mr. BiIl Fellce, International l€ague for the Rights
and Llberation of peoplea (A/C,4/40/1/!d/d.Z,
Mr. ,t. Ronan Bedor, citizen of the Republlc of
PaLa|d (A/c. 4/4\/2/Id,d.5l

Iils. susan Quass, united uethodlst church
(^/c.4/40/2/rdd.6l

Its. Sue Rabbitt Roff, Uinority Rlghts croup
(A/c.4/40 /4/Ada.3',)

Ms. Sue Rabbitt Roff, ltinority Rights croup(A/c.4/40/2/ldd,7l

Meetlng at ebich request
for hear lng was granted

{th neetlng

4th neeting

4th neetlng

4th neetlng

4th meeting

sth neetlng

5th nreeting

8th neeting

Ilth neeting

IIth neeting

llth neeting

Ilth rneeting

lLth neeting

ttr. Biadlllah uotlaned Cheikh, on behal_f of aleputiea
of saguia el-Har ra lVC.1/4O/4/Nd.4)
Mr . Itlotraned Taguiouah Uaalalnine, on behatf of
representatlves of R{o de Oro (A,/C.4 /4O/4/Add.5l
Mr. Breika zeiouali, on behalf of the elected
representative€ of the c.omrunities and the parents
of persons abducted and illegal.ly helil in ligerlan
terr itory (VC. 4/ 40/ 4/Add. 6l
Ur. Ahned Rachid, Irlouvenent des originalres du Sabara
(AOSARIO) and ttouvenent de Rdsistance des Hcrnmes
Bleus (roaEroBl (A/c.4/40/4/Md.7,)

9. The Fourth Cormlttee heard atatenents of the petttioners as followstMr. Alcalay, Senator AnJaln, !lr. petersen, llr. Bedorl Ms. Ouas€, !,ta. Roff andUr. Ieehan (on behalf of the Organizatlon of people for fndigenous Rights) at the



A/ 40/906
EngI ish
Paqe 5

llth mettnq, on 30 octoberi lilr, Frttz cruz (on behalf of the Old Feoples square
Level and itustice Organizatlon of gonap€) and llr. Teehan (on behalf of tlre Guatl
Landorners I Asaociation) at the l2th aeeting, on 3l october. ttr. Teehan rePlieal to
questions put to htrD by the repreeentatives of the lalanic Republtc of lran, Cuba'
Bulgarla, Angola, viet Nan and the syrian Arab Republlc at the l2th neetlng and by
the rePresentativea ot the Ukrainian Soviet Sociallgt Republic and the Unlon of
soviet soctalist Republica at the l3th neetlng on the sane day. Also at the
l3tb meetlng' Ur. Alcalay replled to questlons put to hin by the representativeE of
the Ukratnian soviet Socialist Republic, the Byelorugatan goviet Socialist
RePubllc, Cuba, ttte union ot Sovtet gociaLlst Republlc.s and the Islamic RePublic of
Iran and l{r. PeterEen Eeplled to a question put to hlE bt/ the rePre6entatlve of the
Union of Soviet Socialiat Republics. Mise gnith, !lr. Uansour ODar (Frente
POLISARIO), l,ir. Gana Fofange (on behau of the Mlnority Rights GrouP), !,1r. zerouall
anil lttr. Ctreikh naale Etateoente at the tAth neeting, on I Novenber, itr. Raclrld and
Itlr. uaalainine, at ttre 15th neeting, on 4 lbvenber. Further statenents rere nade
by Mr. OnaE at the 19th neeting, on ? NoveDbe r and by l.lr. Cbeikh at tbe
20th Eetlng, on I lbvenb€ r. us. Bounda and Mr. Fellce did not aPpear before the
Corrnittee.

II. CONSIDERATION OF PNOPOSAI,S

10. The Fourth Cooolttee adopted IO draft reaolutlonE' 3 draft conEenauses and
I draft aLecisi.on fo!.lof,lng itB conslderation of propoaals relating to the folloelng
l5 Terr itor ies!

Tokelau
Pitcairn
St. Belena
Aner lcan Sama
9r.. -

llontBerrat
Turks and Caicoa Islands
Anguill-a
United States virgin Islands
lfrust Territory of the Paclfic Islands
GlbraLtat
llestern Sahara

B€ rnuda
Britiah Virgin Islands
callEan Ialanda

An account of the Conoitteera conEideration ot the proposals is given in
paragraPtrs 12 to 30.

I1. At the 20tb oeeting, on 8 Novenber, the chairoan drer atlention to a state ent
subeltted try the Secretary-General 1 /C.4/4O/L,, in accordance eitb rule 153 of
the rules ot pr@edure of the General Asse[bLy, concerning ttre progranne budget
lnpl.lcations relatlng to the proposals on Tokelau, st, Eelena, Anertcan sanoa'
Guam, Bernuda. the Brltiah VlrEin l6lanalE, the Caynan Islands, tttontserrat, the
Turks and Calcos Islands, Angullla and tbe Uniteat States Vlrgln Islanats. At the
2l9t neeting, on 12 Novenber. the Secretary of the ConDlttee Dade a stateDent
concerning the prqlran& budget inpltcatlons relating to the proposal's on Weatern
Sahara.



A/40/906
Engl ish
Page 6

L2. At lts 20ttr oeeting, on I lbvenber,
objection, proposaLs on ttre questione of

(a) The draft consensus concerning
chapter XIII of the report of the Special
pata. 29, draft conaensus f),

(b) The draft conaensu€ coocerning
ctrapter XIV of the report of the Special
para, 29, draft @naenaus II).

A. Cokelau and Pl tca i rn

the Fourtb Connittee adopted, without
Tokelau and Pitcairn as follows:

Tokelau contalnd in paragraPh 13 ot
Comnittee lA/4O/23 (Part vII)) (see

Pitcairn contained in paragraph l0 of
Cosnittee lA/40/23 (Part vII)) (see

13, At its 20tb
draft decision on
chapter XV of the
tolLorrs:. 2/

{a) At the

B. St. Eelena

neeting , on I lloveDber, the Fourth Conmittee took action on the
the question ot St. Eelena contained in paragraph Il of
rePort of the Special Connittee (A/4O/23 (part VII)), as

requeat of the Unlted Ktngdon of creat Britain and Northern
Ireland, a separate vote eas laken on the flfth sentence of lhe dratt decision,
ehlch read: rThe Assenbly notea elth concern the presence of mllitary facilities
on the dependency of Aacension IsLand anal, ln that regard, recalls all the relevant
United Nations regolutiona and <l,ecisions concerning nilitary bases and
inatallatione in col.onial and Non-Self-covernlng Terrltories,,. The fifth sentence
of the draft decision 

"aa 
retained by a recorded vote of 77 Eo 27, .,ith 2?

abstentiona. The voting tras aE follo?a3 3/

In favour: Afghanlstan, Albanla, Algerla, Angols, Argentina. Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bolivla, Botseana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina
Easo, BuEundi, Eyeloruasian Sovlet Socialist Republic, China,
Colonbia, @ngo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Deoocrati.c yenen,
Donlnican Republlc, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gernan Democratic
Bepublic, crenada, culnea, Guinea-Bissau, cuyana, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (fslaEic nepublic of), fraq, ilordan, Kenya,
Kurrait, t€o Peoplers D,eeocratic Republic, I€banon, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, lGdagascar, U€laysia, l,!exico, Mongolia, !,torocco,
ltozanblque, Nicaragua, Nigeria, pakistan, Panana, Paraguay, Peru,
Poland, Qatar, Rooania, R{anda, Saudi Arsbia, Si.erra Ieon€,
sri Lanka, Sudan, SurinaDe, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia,

Z/ The representative of the United Kingabn
frel.and nade a statenent ln explanation of vote.

y Subseguent to the voting, tbe delegation
Secretariat that it had intended to abstaln in the

of Great Britain and Northern

ot Spain inforned the
vote .



AgalnEt:

A/ 40/906
English
Page 7

Uganda, Ukrainian Sovtet socialist RePublic, union of soviet
Soctalist Republics, gnited Arab Emiratea, united Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela, Viet Nan, Yenen, YugosLavia, zaire'
Zanbla, Zinbabre.

Ant ig ua and Batbuda, Auatralia, Auetria, Bahamas' Belgiun,
canada, Dennark, I'inLanal, Erance, G€rmany ' Federal 

RePubllc of,
Greece ' Iceland, IreLand' Israel, Italy, JaPan, 

Luxenbourg '
t{aIagi. Netberlands, Nefl zealand, Noroay, Portuqal, sanoa,
Seeden, Turkey' Unlted t(inqdon of Great Britain and NorEhern
Ireland, Unlted stateB of Anerica.

Abetaining: Barbados. Brunei Daruasalam, Burna, Caneroon. CaPe Verde, Central
African Republic, chad, c@oros, Equatorial Guinea' Gabon ' Ghana '
Guatemala, Haiti' Honaluras, Ivory Coast, Janaica' Lesotho'
Liberia, Nepal, Niger, onEn, Iaapua Nes Guinea, Philippines'
SingaPore, Seasiland' Tbailand, lrlnidaat and Tobago.

(b) Ttre alraft alecision, as a uhoLe, r,as adopted by a recorded vote of 112
to 3' ttlth 25 abetentions (Eee para. 30). 3,/ The votlnq eas as tolloits 3 E/

IL&g! Af thsnlstan, Albania ' Algeria, Angola , Antigua 
and Barbuda '

Argentina, Bahanaa, Babrain, Bangladeah, Barbados, Benin,
Bollvia, Botseana, Brasil, Brunei llarussalami Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burna, Burundi, Byelorusgian soviet sdialist Republic'
Caneroon, cape lrerde, China' Colonbia, Co'noros, congo, cuba'
Cltprus, Czechosloiak ia, Denocratic tramPuchea ' Democratic Yenen,
Doninican RePublic, Ecuador, EgyPt, EthtoPia, Gabon, Ge rxoan
Deoocratic Republic, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Gui,nea-Bissau, Guydna, Balti, tlonduras, Hunqary ' rndia'Indonesia, Iran (Ialanic RePubllc of), Iraq, Ivory Coast,
Janaica, Jordan, Kenya, trueait, I€o PeoPle's Denocratic RePubllc'
Lebanon, Leaotho, Llberia, Libyan Arab Janabiriya, li{adaqascar,

' tla1ar,i, !,lalaysla, a'talatives, Ma1i, qauritania, l'te:r ico, tr{onqolia '
Mor@co, t4ozaDbique, NePaI, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, oman,
Pakistan' Panana, Papua Ner Guirpa, Paraquay' Peru, PhillPpine€'
Polanit, Qatar, Rotrania, Reanda ' sao Tose 

and Principe, saudi
Arabia' Slerra Leone, SingaPore, sonalia' sri Lanka' sudan'
Surinane, Seaziland, syrian AEab Sepublic, Tha iland, To9o'

y Subsequently, the delegation of Iceland infor!0ed the secretariat that it
had intended to abstaln in the vote. The alelegation of Djibouti indicated that'
had it been present at the tine of the votlng, it sould have voted tn favour of th€
draft deciEion.

2/ The rePresentative of the Unlted Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland na& a 6tatelDent in explanatlon of vote.



A/40/906
Engl ish
Page 8

Againat:

Trlnldad and Tobago, tunisia, uganala, Ukrainian soviet socialist
Republic, Onion of Soviet Sociall6t Republica, United Arab
Enlratea, Unlted Republtc of tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela,
Vlet Nan, Yenen, Yugoglavia, Zaire, Uenbia, Z tnbab.e,

Iceland, Untted Klngdon of Great Britain and Northern lreland,
Onited St.tea of ADerlca.

rylglgijgr Augtralla, Auatria, Belgiun, Canada, Central Af;tcan Republic,
Chad, D,ennark, Equatorlal cuinea. Pinland, Srance, GerrBany,
Federal Republlc of, crecce, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Luxenburg r Netherlands, Nct, Zealand, tlorray, Portugal, Sanoa 'Spain, Sreibn, Turkey.

14. At its 20th neeting, on I Novcnber, the Fourth ConDittee aalopted, uithout
obJection. propoEals on the nlne Territortes referred to above, as follo$s:

(a) The draft resolutlon concernlng ADerican Sa[oa contained in paragraph I0
of cbapter XVI of the report ot the Special CooEtttee lA/tO/?3 (part VII)) (s€e
para. 28, dratt resolution Il ,

(b) The atraft reEolution concernlng Gu.E contalned in
chapter XVII of the report of tbe Special Connittee lA/1O/23
para. 28, draft resolution II),

(c) The draft r€solution concerning Bermuda contaihed
chapter XIX of tbe report of the Spectal CooElttee lA/40/23
para. 28, draft reaolution III),

ParaqraPh 10 of
(Part vII)) (see

in pbragraph lI of
(Part vII) l (8ee

(d) lhe draft resotut ion concernlng itre grtttEn virgln tslanals contained in
paragraph l0 of chapter XX of tbe report of the Special Coonittee lA/40/23
(Part VII)) (aee para. 28, ihaft resolut lon tV,,

(el Tbe draft reEolut ion concernlng the Cayman ldlands contained in
paragraptr l0 of chapter Xl(I of the repoEt of the Special Coonlttee lA/4O/23
(Part VII)) (see para. 28, alraft resolution 14t

(f) The draft reaolut lon concerning t ontaerrat contained in paragraph lI of
chapter XXII of tlle repoEt of the Special Con|[ittee lA/4O/23 (part VII)) (see
para. 28, draft rdsolut ion VI),

{9, The draft resolutloh concernlhg the T'urks and calcos Islands contained ln
paEsgraPh lO of chapt€r XXIII of ttte report of the Speciat Coftotttee lA/4O/23
(Part VIII) (aec para. 28, draft rcsolution VfI),



A/ 40/906
Eng Iish
Page 9

(h) The draft resolution concerning Anguilla contained in paragraph 10 of
chapter XXIV of the report ot the Speciat Connittee (A/lO/23 (part VII)) (see
para. 28, draft resolution VfII) t

(i) The draft resolution concerning the United States Virgin Ialands
contalned in paragraph ll of chapter xXV of the report of the Special Connittee
lA/4O/23 (part vII) ) (see para. 28, draft resolut i.on Ixl .

D. Trust Territory of the Paciflc Islands
15. At the 20th meeting, on g Novenber, the chairnan stated that, on the basis of
his consultation teitb the Cbairman of the SDecial Conntttee as rrell as {ith a
numb€r of delegations concerned, he nould 

"Lggest 
that the Fourth Committee decicle

not to take at that stage any action on the draft regolution subnitted by the
special conoittee (A/40/23 (part vII), chap. xvIII, para. 12). The Fourrh
Connittee decided, eithout objection, to adopt the Chairnanrs suggestion,

E. cibralt ar

16, On 11 [bvember, a dratt consensu€r concerning cibraltar (A/C.4/4O/L.71 !'as
circulated.

L7, At its 21st meeting, on 12 Novenber, the Fourth Connittee adopted draft
consensus A/C.4/4O/L.7 t ithout objection (see para. 29, draft consensus III) .

F. t{es tern Sabara

18. At the llth neeting,
resolut lon A/c. 4/ 4o/L. 2.
Burundi, Cape Verde, the
the Lao Peoplers Denocra

on 30 october,
sdcmitted by Af

the chairnan dres attention to draf t
hanigtan

Sao I lea,
a

' the
qqited Republtc of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Viet Nan, Yuqoslavia and Zanbla,

rdhich read as f oll.oes:

euestion of Western Sahara

The General Assenbly.

Having considered in depth the question of !{es!ern Sahara,
Recallinq the inalienable right ot aII peoples to self-dete rninat ion and

lndependence, ln accordance {ith the princlples set forth in the Charter of
the United Nations and in ceneral Assenbly resolution I5l4 (xv) of
14 December 1950 containing th€ Declaration on the Granting of rndependence to
Colonial Countrles and People€,



A/40/906
Engl ish
Page l0

necallinq 1ta resolution 39/40 ot 5 Decenber 1984 on the guestlon of
l{estern Sahara,

Having considered tbe relevant chapter of the report ot the Special
Conmittee on the Situation with regard to the Inplenentation of tbe
Declaration on the 

-Granting of Inalependence !o CoLonial Countries and
Peoples, 6/

Takinq note of the report of th€ Secre ta ry-Gene ral on tbe question of
Itlestern Sahara, Z/

Recalling resolution AHG/ReB.l0{ (XIX) on $lestern Sahara, g/ adopted by
the. Assenbly of Eeads of State.and covernnent of tbe Organization of Afrtcan
Unity at its ntneteenth ordinsry aesal.on, beld at Aaldis Ababa fron 6 to
12 June L983,

I. Reaffirns that the gueEtion of i{estern Sahara is a quertion of
decolonization xhich remalns to be conpleted on the basie of the e:rercise by
the People of ltestern Sahara ot their inalienabLe right to s€l f-deterninat ion
anal independence i

2. Redffirns also that tlre solut ion of the question ot l{estern Sahara
lies in the inpLeoentation of resolution Atlc/Res.lo4 (XIX) of the Assenbly of
Ileads of State and covernnent of the Organization of African Unity, ehich
establishes flays and neatE for a just and definitive aolution to the Vleatern
Sahara conflict t

3.. Agaln reguesta, to that enat, the teo parties to the conflict, ttre
Kingdom of Morocco and the Frente Fopular para la Liberaci6n de saguia
el-Ilamra y de Rio de Oro, to undertake direct negotlatlons t'ith a vier to
bringing about a cease-fl.re to create the neceasary conditionB for a peaceful
and fair referendu[ for eelf-dete rninat ion of the people of !{estern Sahara, a
referendun uithout any adnlnlEtratlve or nllitary conetralnts, under the
auspices of the Organization of African Unlty and the Unlted Natlona,

4. welcones the efforts of the current Chairman of the Organization of
African Unity and the Secre ta ry-Gene ral of the United Nationa to prooots a
just and definillve solution of the question of i{estern Saharat

5. Invites the current Chairnan of the Organization of African Unlty
and the Secreta ry-General of the United Nations to exert every effort to
persuade the teo parties to the conflict, the Xinqdon of l,lorocco and the

a/40/23. (Part vII), chap. x.

A/40/592 and Corr .1.

For the teft, see reaolution 38/40, para. 1.

9/

u
9./



A/40/906
EngI ish
Page lI

. Frente POLISARIO, to negotiate, in confornity uith resolution
AHG/Res.l04 (xlx) of the Organization ot African Unity and the present
resolution. tbe tern6 of a cease-fire an(i the modalities for organizing the
said referendum,

6' Reaffirns ttte determination of the United Nation3 to co-operate
fully tdlth the Organization of African Unity with a vier. to implementing the
relevant decisions of that Organization, in particular resolution
AHG/Res.I04 (XIX) t

7. Requests tbe Special Comnittee on the Situation eith regard to tbe
Inplenentation of the Declaratlon on the cranting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples to continue to consider the'situation in Western Sahara
aa a natter of priority and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its
forty-first sea6 i.on;

8. Invites the Secretary-Gene ral of the Organization of African Unity
to keeP the Secretary-Crneral of the United Nations informed of the progresa
acbleved in the inplenentation of the decisions of the Organization of African
Unity relating to lleatern Sahara,

9. Invites the Secreta ry-Gene ral to follon tbe situation in Western
Sahara closely, uittr a vies to the inplenentalion of the present resolution,
and to rePort Ehereql to the ceneral Asgembly at its forty-first session,

19. At the 14th neeting, on 1 urvembe r, the Chairnan dree attention to draft
resolution A/c.4/4o/L.4, subnirted by the @
9qgatorial Guinea, Gabon, cuatenala, l.lorocco, Paraguay and 3g!!9, Bubsequently
loined by El Salvador. Tbe dratt resolut ion read as follows:

question of weslerh sahara

The G€neral Asaenb1y,

llaving conaidered the question of Westein Sahara,

Recallinq the inalienable right of all peoples !o sel f-dete rnina t i.on and
i.ndependence in accordance sith General Asgembly resolut ion l5l4 (Xv) of
14 Decenber 1950, containing the Declaration on the crantinq of Indep€ndence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and rith resolution 1541 (XV) ot
15 Decembe r 1960,

Bearing in mind its reaolut ion 2625 (xxv) of 24 October l9?0, containing
the Declaratlon on Principles of fnternational I€n concerning Friendly
Relations and Co-operation anong States in accordance lrith the Charter of the
Uniteal Nat ions.

Recalling tbe relevant reaolutions and decisiona of the United Nations
and the Organization of African Unity,



A/40/906
Eng L ish
Page 12

Bearing in mlnd lta resolution 39lg ot I NoveBbe r 1994, on co-operation
b€tseen the United Nations and the Organizatlon of African Unity,

Taking note of the report ot lhe Secre tary-Gene ra I on the questlon ot
l{estern Sahara, of .30 Septenber f985, 9/

Asare of the urgen! need to put an end to tbe tbreat phich hangs over
peace' security and stability in north-rest Afrtca and to promote a peaceful,just and tinal settlement of the questlon of ttestern Sahara,

Recallinq tbe undertaking by the Kingdor! of Morocco
results of a referenduB on aelf-deteroinat ion orqanized
tbe t nited Nat ions,

to reapect tulLy the
under the auspicea of

l. DecideE that a free and denocratic referendun shall b€ orqanlzed,
beginning in January 1986, ln order to enabl.e the auttrentic populatlona of
I{estern sahara fully to exercise thelr inalienable right to sel f-dete rn inat ion,

2. Requests the Secretary-General. to take tbe appropriate steps to
orEanize this referendu$, taking tnto accoun t the decisions of the
InPlerEntation Connittee of the Orqanlzation of African Unity and United
Nations practice in thiE field,

3, Accordingly requests the Secretary-General to undertake, in.
co-operalion nlth the current Chairman and the Secretary-Genef,a} of the
organization of Af ri.can unity, tbe neceasary consultations olth the parties
concerned eith a vier. to the holdlrE of thia referenduni

4. Requests the Secre targ-Gene ral to submit to the Genera!. AsseDbly, at
Its forty-first session, a report on the iDplenentation of this resolution.

20. At the lgth meetinE, on 7 Novenber, the Chairman dres attention to revised
draft resolutlon A/C.4/4i/r,.2/Rev.L, ehose sponsors no's included Botseana, Burkina
Faso, CyPrus, Democratic.y
Malaei, i{ali, Saint Lucia. senegal, sierra Leone and
2L. At the sane neeting, the Chalruan dree attention to the folloslng andndnents
subnitted to draft reEolution A/C.4/4O/L.42

(a) Aoendnents submitted by t{ozanblque lA/C.4/4O/L.el, uhicb read as follo{s:
(i) 'At the end of the third preaRbular paragraph, add the follosing:

rand' in particular, the principle of equal rlghts and
aelf-dete rninat ion of peoples.'

9/ A/40/692 and Corr. L



A/40/906
Engli.sh
Page 13

(ii) "At tbe end of the fourth preanbular paragraph. add the follor{ing:
rand, in particular, resolution AtIG/Res.l04 (xlx) of the
Organization of African tnity and resolutions 38/4O an.d 39/4O
adopted by the ceneral Assembly of the United Nations. to

(b) Amendment by Burkina Faso |A/C.4/4O/L.91, ohich read as fotloea:

"At the end of operative paragrapb l. add the follosing:

'and independence, purauant to General Assembly reEolution I5l4 (XV), and
on the basis of the peace plan d€cided by the Organization of Aff,ican
Unity. as contained in lesolution AHG/Res.l04 (XIX) of that organization
and endorsed by the United Nations in ceneral Assenbly resolut ions 38,/40
and 39140. r "

(c) Anendments by lGdagascar |A/C.4/40/L.LO), which read €s folloss:
(i) "In operative paragraph 2, first line, after I Secretary-cenera I ' 'add: 'of ttre United Nations and the current Chairman of the

Organization of African Unity r. "
(ii) rIn operative paragraph 2, tbird line, after rorganization of

African Unity', add: ras claritied and aupplenented by resolution
AgG/Res.l04 (XIxl of the Organization of African Unity,.r

(d) Anendnents by Alqeria (A/C.4/4|/L.LL), ehich Eead as follows:
nfn operative paragraph 3. third line;

(i) After rparties concernedr, add:

'as identified by resolution AttG,/Bes.I04 (XIx) of the Organization
of Atrican Unity and resolutions 38/40 and 19/40 ot the General
Assenbly of the United Nations, nanely, the Kingdon ot Morocco and
the Frente POLISARIO;'

(ii) After reith a viee tor, the paragraph should read:
rprevaiLing upon then to negotiate ttle conditions of a cease-fire
and all the necessary arrangements eith a view to the holding ot
this referendum t | "

22- At the 21st neeting, on 12 November, the repEesentative of the Centrat African
Republic introduced dratt reBolut lon L/C.4/40/L.4 on behalf of the sponaors.
23. At the sane meeting, the repre8entative of Burkina Faso introduced ttraft
resolution A/C.4/AO/L.z/Rev.l on behalf of the sponsors.



L/40/906
Eng I ish
Page L4

24. At the sane neeting, the repreaentatlvee of Uozanbique, Burkina Faso,
Madagascar and Algeria introduced anendDenta contained ln docunenta A/C.4/AO/L.9,
L'9, L.10 and L.11, respectively, to alraft resolut ion A/C.4/40/L.4.
25. The Fourth Connittee adopted draft resolut ion A/C.4/4O/L.Z/Rev.I by a recorded
vote ot 9l to 5, eith 43 abstentions (see para. 2gr draft regolution x). lO,/ Tbe
votlng eas as f olloes: 11,/

In favour: Afghanietan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Australia, Auatrla, Bahaloas, Barbados, Belire. Benin,
Btrutan, Bolivia, Botscana, Brazll, Butgarta, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Byelorusslan Soviet Socialist Republlc, Caneroon, Cape
verde, Colombia, Cohgo, Costa Rlca, Cuba, Clp3us, csechoslovakia,
Denocralic Yeeen, Doninican Bepublic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland. canbta, GerBan Denocratic Republic, chana, creece,
Guinea-Biasau, cuyana, Eaiti, Hungary, India, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Janalca, 8enya, Lao people,€ Denocratic Republic,
Lesotho, tladagascar, llalasl, MaIl, Uaurltanla, Uauritius, Me*i.co,
UongoLia, tlozaDblque, Nee Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua tlee Guinea, Feru, poland, Ruanda, Saint
Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao tone anal principe.
Senegal, Seychellea, Sierra l€one, Spain, Sudan, Surlnane.
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trl latad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
s€ialist Republics, Onited Republlc of Tanzania, Uruguay,
venezuela, viet Nan, yugoslavla, Zanbia, ZirDbatpe.

Aqains!: Central, Afrlcan nepublic, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, Guatemaia,
l.lorocco, Zalre,

Abstaining; Bangladesh, Belgiulr, Brunei Darussalan, Burma, Canada, Chaal,
Chile, Conoros, Derubrk, El Salvador, France, Germany, Federal
Republic ot, Grenada, Guinea, Sonduras, Iceland, Indonesia,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Ivory coaat. Japan, Jordan, tabanon,
Luxenbourg, Ualaysia, tr{aldives. Nepa1, Netherlands, Norrray,
Paraguay, Phill.ppines, portugal, Sanoa, Saudi Arabla, Singapore,
Solooon Ialande, SoEalia, Sri Lanka, Thai.land, Turkey, tiniteal
Kingdom of Great Brital.n and N,orthern Ireland, United Statea of
Ame r ica,

1Ol Subsequent to the voting, the repreaentative of Vanuatu stateat tttat had
hls delegation been present at the tiG o! the voting, it would have voted in
favour of the alraft resolution.

rV statenents iD expranation of vote on draft proposars and/or the notion by
Irtorocco referred to in paragraph 26 of ttre present cbapter eere made by the
representatives of the fol.loring tGnbe E States: Algeria, Australia, Austria,
Bolivia, Burundi, China, Costa Rica, Finland. France, Gabon, Morocco, New zealand,
Pakistan, Spain, Sudan, Seeden, Turkey, Unlted States of Aneri.ca and Aaire.



A/40/906
Engl ish
Page 15

26. Folloning the votlng on draft resolution A/C.4/4O/L.Z/Rev.1, the
representative of lrlorocco, under rule uG of the rules of procedure of the ceneral
Assenbly, proposed that the debate be adjourned on anendments NC.4/40/L.S to
A/C.4/40/L.IL. The Fourth Committee rejectett the mot ion by Morocco by a recorded
vote of 54 to 27, wlth 45 abstentions. The voting was as followsr 12,/

fn favour r Antigua and Barbuda, Central African Republic, Chile, Comoros,
Costa Rica, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, cabon, Grenadat
Guatemala, cuinea, tfonduraa, Iraq, Jordan, llorocco, Onan,
Pakistan' Paraguay, Saint vincent and the crenadlnes, samoa.
Sauall Arabia, Sonalia, Spain, Turkey, UniEed States of America,
Uruguay, Zaire.

Againstr Afghanistanl Albania, ALgeria, Angola, Bqrbados, Belize, Benin.
Bhutan, Bollvia, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian
soviet selaligt Republic, Cameroon, Congo, Cuba, Cyprue.
Czechoslovakia, Ilenocratic Yemen, Ethiopiar Ganblar Ghana r
cuinea-Bissau, Guyana, rndia,. rran (Islanic Republlc of), Kenya,
I€o Peopler6 Denocratic Republic, Lesotho, !,tadagascar, Malawi,
l'tali, Mexico, Mongolla, Mozanbique, Nlcaragua, Nigerla, panama,
Rnanda, Sao Tone and Principe, Senegal, Seychelles, Suriname,
Syrlan Arab Repub1ic, Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Ukralnian
Soviet Soclallst Republlc, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Unlted Republic of Tanzanla, vanuatu, viet Nan, yugoslavia,
zambla, zlmbabtde.

Abatainingr Argentina, Auatrali.a, Austria, Baharflas, Bangladesh. Belgium,
Brazll, Burna, Canadar Chadr Colonbia, Dennark. Doninican
Republic, Ecuador, Piji, Finlandr France, cernany, Federal
Republlc of, Greece, Haltir lceland, Indonesia, Ireland, fsrael,
ftaly, Ivory Coast, Japan, Irebanon, Luxembourg, Malaysla, Nepal,
Netherlands, Nei, Zealand, Niger, Norreay, Fapua New Guinea, peru,
Portugal, Saint Lucia, Sri Lanka, gudan, Svreden. Thailand, United
K lngdom of Great Eritain and Northern freland, Venezuela.

27. The representatlve of !4orocco, on behalf of the sponsors, informed the
Conmlttee that draft reaolution VC.4/4O/L.4 was withdrawn.

III. RECOI'IiGNDATIONS OF THB FOURTTI COMMITTEE

28. The lburth @nmiteee recormgnds to the ceneral Assenbly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions t

L2/ See footnote lI.



A/40/906
Engl lsh
Page 16

DNAM RESOLUTION I

Queation of Nner ican Sanoa

Having considered the quegtion of Anerlcan Sanoa,

_ .E?ving exanlned the relevant chapters of the report of the Speclalsomnlttee on the Situation with regard to the Inplenentatlon of the
Declaration on the crantlng of Inalependence to Colonlal Countries and
Peoples, !!,/

- 
Recglling its resolution I5I4 (XVl of 14 December 1960, containlng the

Declaratlon on the crantlng of Independence to Colonlal Countrles and peoples,
and all other resoLutions and decielons of the Oniteat Nations relating to
Ater lcan samoa, including in partlcular its resolution 3g/3L of
5 December 1984,

Taking into account the statement of the representative of the
adninistering power relatlng to American Sanoa, 14/

Conscious of the need to promote progress towards Ehe full inplementation
of the Declaration ln regpect of Arnerlcan Sarpa,

N9ting wilh appreciation the continued participation of the admtnlstering
Power in the rror k of the Special Co,mllttee 1n regard to American Sarnoa,

Notin wilh a

thereby. enabling it to conduct a more inforrned and neaningful examination of
the situation in the Terrltory,

.Notlng that the flrst five-year economic development plan for theTerritory, irnplemenLed by the Develognent planning Oifice ;f the covernnent of
Nnerican Sanoa, explred at the end of 1984,

Ah'are of the speclal clrcumstances of the geographical location and
economic conditions of the Terrltory and bearlng in mlnd the necessity of
dlversifylng and strengthening further lts econony as a matter of priority In
order to promote econonic stability,

- Rec?lling the diBpatch in I98l of a united Nationa Visiting ission tothe Territory,

Mindful thaC United Nations vislting mlssions provlate an effectlve rneans
of ascertaining the situation in the small Territories and expressing its

!3./ e/qO/ZZ (part rr), chap. rr, A/40/23 (part rlr), chap. rv, and A/40/23
(Part VII) , chap. XVI.

!!/ see A/c.4/40/sR.L7.



^/4o/906English
Page 17

satisfaction at che wlulngneEs of lhe administering Power to recetve visitlng
nissions in the Territories under its adninigtration,

1. Approves the chapter of.the report ot the Special Conunittee on the
Situation with Eegard to the lfiplenentation of the Declaratlon on the Grantlng
of Independence to Colonial @untries and Peopleg relating to Arner ican
sarnoa, !5/

2. Reaffirm€ the lnalienable rlght of the people of Amerlcan Samoa to
self-deternination and lnatep€ndence ln confornlty wlth the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to colonlal countrles and PeoPIee contained in
ceneral Assenbly resolution 1514 (xv) t

3. Reiterateg the view that such factorE as territorlal sizer
geograptricit tocattonr size of polulatlon anal linlted natural resources shoul-d
in no way delay the speetly exercige by the people of the ?erritory of their
inalienable right to self-determination and independence in confornity with
the Declaration contalned in cenelal Assembly resolution 1514 (xv), which
fully applles to A[erican Sanoa t

4. calls utton the coverrurtent of the united states of llrnerlca r as the
adninist€r ing Power, to take aII necessary gteps, taking into account the
rlght6' intereBts and wishes of the people of Anerican sanoa as expressed
freely ln conditions leading to real selfteterFination. to expedite the
process of decolonization of the TeErttory in accordance with the relevant
provisions of the Charter of the United Natlons and the Declaration and
reafflrma the inportance of fosEering an ayrareness anong Ehe People of
Anerican Saftba of the possibillties open to bben in the exercise of their
right to self-deterninat ion and independence t

5. Takes note of the elections hell on 6 November 1984 and of the fact
that the newly elected covernor has stated h16 intention to recommend
legislation establlshlng clearly the power€ and duties of the various
governnent departnent8 in order to avoid conflicts of.authority and to ensute
sufficient budgetary control t

5. Reafflrne the responslbility of the adninistering Power ' 
under the

charter, to pronote the econornic and eoclal develoFnent of the Terrltory and
calls upon the adninl€tering Po$er to intensify ttE efforts to strengthen and
diversify the econofiy of Aner lcan Samoa and to nake lt nore vlable in order to
reduce its heavy econonic and financial dependence on the Itnlted states and to
create etq)loyment opportunities for the people of the Territoryt

7. Expresses the hope that the developnent planning Process initiated
by the first five-year develolment plan be continued and urges the
admlnisterlng Poner, in co-operation wlth the lerritorial Government' to
strengthen and extend the reBponsibilltieg of the Develolment Planning Offlcet

!2/ A/40/23 (Part vII), chap. !(Vr.



A/4O/9O6
English
Page 18

- ?. urges the adninisterlng power to continue to facllitate clo6erelations and co-operation betseen the people€ of the Terrlco.y .nd th"nelghbour ing isrand comaunltles and uetween the territoriar Gonernment antt theregionar institutions in order to enhance further the econonic antt sociarwelfare of the people of Amerlcan samoa,

_ 9. Urges the adrninistering power, in co_operation rlth the terrltorlalGoverrunent' to safeguard the lnallenabre right of the people of the Territoryto the enjoyrnent of their naturar .""ou."""-by taking effective neasures toensure thelr right to ofln and dispose of tho€e reaources and to establish andmaintain control of their future development wlth a view to creatingconditions for a balanced and viable ecinolnyl

-- -,to: 
corsrders that the possibirtty of s€nttlng a further vrsiting nissiooto American Sanoa should be kept undler ieviewr

_..-^-]1: F.eguests the Special Colunittee to continue the exanination of tht6question at its next_sessl.on, includling the dlspatch of a further visitingmission !o Anerican Sanoa, in consultafion with the adninlstering power,taklng into account, in partrcurar, the wishes of the peopre of the Territory,and to report thereon to the cenerar aEsemliy at its forty-first session.

DNAFT RESOI,T'TION II

Ouegtlon of cuan
The ceneral Assenbly,

Having considered the question of cuam,

^-__.Fiving 
exarnined the relevant chapters of the report of the gpeclalcomnittee on the Situation wlth ,"g"ri to etre inpfenentatlon of theDeclaration on the cranting of rndipenrt"n".--lo-Lroniar countries andPeoples, 16l

- _ 
Rec?lling it€ resolution 1514 (t(v) of 14 Decenber 1960, contalning theDeclaration on the cranting of rndependr"n." io-Ltonial countrres and peopres,and all other resolutions and aecieione 

"t 
tfr" unia"a Nations relating tocuarn, incruding in particular its resorution 39)zz ot s oecemuei is8a,

Having heard the statefient of the representatiue of the aatministeringPower relating to Guan, I7,/

L6/ x/qo/zz (part rr)_,_chap. rtr A/40/23 (part rrr), chap. Nt A/4a/23(Part Iv) r chap. vrr and A/40/23 (part vir), cnap. XVrr.
LU see A/c.4/40/sR.L7.



A/40/906
Engtish
Page 19

Noting vrlth appreciation the continued active participation of the
adnlnistering Porder in the work of the Special Conmittee in reqard to Guarn'
thereby enabling lt to conduct a nore inforned and neaningful examination of
the situation in the Territory nith a view to accelerating the process of
decolonization toieards the full and speedy lnplenentation of the Declaration,

Recalling that a cuan Comnission on Self-Deberminat ion was appointetl in
February 1984 to ddat wlth the status question in a manner acceptable to the
people of the Ter r i Eory,

Taking note of the statenent by the represenEative of the atlminlaterlng
Power that the Department of Defense had authorlzed the release of sdtre
2'000 hectares of lantt previously under its contlol,

Noting the great potential offered for diversifying and develoPlng the
economy of the Terricory, for example, comerclal fishing and agriculture,

Taking note of the steps taken by the terrieorial coverrunent' wlth the
support of the administering Poner, to develop and pronote the language and
cul-ture of the Chafiorro people, who are indigenous people of the Territory'

Altare of the speclal circumstances of lhe geographical location and
econotuic condltions of the Territory and bearing in rnlnd the necessity of
diversifying and strengthening further its econotry as a matter of prlority in
order to pronote econonic stabllityr l

Recalllng the dlspatch in 19?9 of a United Nations visiting nisslon to
the Terr itory,

Mlndful that United Nations visiting miselone provitle an effective neane
of ascertalning the situation in the snatl Territories and expressing lts
satisfaction at the willlngness of the ailmlnlstering Power to receive visiting
nissions in the Territories under lts adnlniatratlon,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the special Comnittee on the
Sltuation with regard to the Inplenentatlon of the Declaration on the Grantihg
of Independence to Colonial Countrles and peoples relating to cuant fg../

2. Reaffirns the inalienable right of the people of Guam to
self-determinat ion and independence in conforrnlty nlth the Declaratlon on tbe
Granting of Independence to @lonial countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assenbly resolutlon I5I4 ()(v) r

3. Reaffirns its convlctlon that such factors as terrltorial size'
geographical location, size of population and limlted natural resources should
in no nay delay the lnplenentat ion of the Declaration, r{hlch fully applies to
Guant

w e/qo/zl (Parr vrr), chaP. x\rrr.



A/40/906
Engllsh
Page 20

4. Reaffirms the importance of foster inlt an awareness anong the people
of cuam of the possibilities open to then with regard to their right to
self-deterninat ion and calls upon the admlnistering povrer, in co-operation
with the territorial Governnent, to expedite the process of decolonization
strictly in accordance wlth the expressed vrlshe€ of the people of the
Ter r itorYt

5. Takes note of the statement by the representative 9f the
admlnist-erlng Poeer that the Guan Comnission on Self-DeEermination, which was
aPpointed ln February 1984 to deal Hith the status question in a nanner
acceptable to the people of the Terrltory for subnission to the Congress of
the United States of Aruer ica for approvalz hopes to hold a tocal referendun
before the end of 1985r

6. Takes note of the statenent of the representative of the United
states affirning that his coverdtrent respects the wish of the cuananlana to
control their own destiny both politically and econonicall-y t

7. Reaffirns l!!q strong conviction that the presence of military bases
and instal@nstltute a najor obstacle to the
irplenentation of. the Declaration and that it is the responsibility of the
administering porrer to ensure that the exiseence of such bases and
installations does not hlnder the population of the Territory fron exercising
its right to self-deterninat ion and independence ln confornity rrith the
purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nationst

8. Urges the adnlnlatering poirer to continue to lake all necessary
tneasures not to involve the Territory ln any offensive acts or interference
against any other states and to cooply fully rrith the purposes and principles
of the charter, the Declaration and the resolutlons and ilecisions of the
General Assenbly relating to nilitary activities and arrangements by colonial
Powers ln Territories under their adnlnistratlont

9. Reafflrms the regponsibility of the adninistering power, under the
Charter, for the econonic and social developnent of cuam andr in this
connection, calts upon the adninlstering power to Cake aIl necessary ateps to
strengthen and diversify the econony of the Territory, with a vieir to reducing
the Territory,s econonic dependence on the administering powery

10. Reiterates that one obstacle to economlc developnent, particularly
ln the agriculEural sector, stems from the fact that large tracts of land are
held by the federal authorities and calls upon the administering power, ln
co*operation with the loca1 authorities, to continue the transfer of land to
the people of the Territory,

' ll. ltotes that a settlement vras reached in L984 betneen representatives
of forner Guamanian landowners and the administering poner under i{h ich the
forner will receive $39.5 ntUton in corE ensation for land taken over by the
United States covernment from 1944 to 1963, it being the right of individual
claimants not to particlpate j.n this settlenent and continue to press their
own claims t



^/40 
/e06

Engllsh
Page 21

L2. RelterateE its calt upon the adnlnistering Povter to supPor t neasures
by the territorial Government aimed at renoving constraints to growth in the
area€ of agrlculture and cottunerclal flshing and to ensure thelr develo[rDent to
the fullest extent t

13. @ the adrnlnistering Power, ln co-oPeratlon nlth tbe territorial
Government, to continue to take effective nEaaures to safeguard and guarantee
the right of the peopLe of cuam to their natural resources and to establish
and naintain control over their future develolment and requests the
administering Power to take all necessary stePa to protect the ProPerty rtghts
of the people of the Territoryt

14. Reaffirns tbe ifiPortance of further effort6 by the terrltorial
Goverrunent, iith the auPport of the adrnlnisterlng Power, to develop and
pronote the language and culture of the Chamor ro PeoPler who are the
indigenous people of the Terrltoryt

15. Considers that the possibility of sending a further visiting misslon
to Guan at an appropriate tine should be kePt under revleirt

16. Requests the sPecial coMllttee to continue the exanlnation of thls
questlon at its nexE session, inclutling the posslble dispatch of a further
visiting nission to Guan at an appropriate tine and in consultation rrith the
attninistering Porer, and to report thereon to the General Assenbly at ltg
forty-first sesslon.

DR.AET NESOLUTION III

Question of Bermuda

The ceneral Assenbly,

. Eaying considered the question of Bernudat

Eaving exanlned the relevant chaPters of the report of the SPecial
Conmittee on the Sltuation with regard to the Ilq)Iementation of the
Declaratlon on the Granting of IndePendence to @lonial Countries and
Peoples, fLl

Recalling its resolution 15f4 ()nr) of 14 Decenber 1960. contalnlng the
Declaration orl the Granting of IndePendence to coLonial @untries and I€oPIes,
ard aU other reaolutlons and alecisions of the united Nations relating to
Bermuda, including ln partlcular its resolutlon 39/33 of 5 Decenber 198{,

Noting the stated posltlon of the adrnlnisber ing Power that it will' fully
resp€ct the wighea of the peoPle of Bernuda in deternlning the future
constitutional status of the ferritory,

L9./ A/4o/23 (Part II), chap. nr A4o/23 (Part III), chaP. lvt A/40/23
(Part IV), chaps. V and vlr ana A/4O/23 (Part vII), chaP. xlx.



A/40/906
English
Page 22

Conscious of the need to ensure the ful} and speedy inplementat ion of the
Declaration in respect of the Territory,

welcoming the continued co-operation of the admlnlstering power in the
r.ror k of the Speciat Comnittee ln regard to Bernuda, lrhich contributes to
inforned consideration of conditions in the Terrttory, irith a vlew to
accelerating the process of decolonization for the purpose of the full
implenentat ion of the DecLaration,

Ar,rare of the special circumstances of the geographlcat location and
econornic conditions of the Territory and bearing in mind Ehe necessity of
diversifying and strengthenlng further i.ts econony as a rnatter of priority in
order to pronote economic stability,

Mlndful that United Natlons visiting raissions provide an effective means
of ascertaining the sltuation in the snall ferritories and expressing its
satisfaction at the willingness of che adnlnistering power to recelve visiting
nissions in the Territories under its adninistratlon,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Connittee on the
situation with regard to the IrE lenentation of the Declaration on the cranting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and peoples relating to Bernuda, Zg/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Bermuda to
se If-deterrninat ion and independence ln confornity wilh the Declaration on the
Granting of fndep€ndence to Colonlal Countries and peoples, contained in
General Assenbly resolution 1514 (XV) r

3. Reiterates the vien that such factors as territorial sizel
geographical location, size of population and linited natural regources should
in no way delay the speedy exercise by the people of the Territory of their
inarienable right co se lf-determinat ion and independence in confornity nlth
the Declaration contained in ceneral Assenbly resolution f514 (tff), which
fuuy applies to Bermuda,

4. Urges the United Kingdon of creat Brltain and Northern Ireland, as
the administering Power, taking into account the rights, interests and wlshes
of the people of Bernuda expressed freely in conditions leading to real
self-determination, to continue to take all necessary steps to ensure the full
and speedy inplenentation of ceneral Assembly resolutlon t5l4 ()(v) I

5, Reiterates that it is the obligation of the adnlnlsterlng Fower to
create such conditions in the Terrttory as wlII enabLe the people of Bernuda
to exercise freely and without interference their inalienable right to
self-deterninat ion and independence in acc.ordance with ceneral Assenbty
resolution 1514 (Xv) and, in that connection, reaffirns the importance of
fostering an aeareness among the people of Bermuda of the possibilitleg open
to then in the exercise of that rightt

29/ A/40/23 (par! vrr), chap. xrx.



A/40 /e06
English
Page 23

6. Reaffirms that, in accordance with the relevant provlsions of the
Charter of the United Nations and the Declaration contalned in ceneral
Assenbly resolutlon 1514 (XV), lt ie ultimately for the people of Bernuda
themselves to determlne their own future po.Litical 6tatust

7. Reafflrns lts strong conviction that the presence of military bases
and lnstallatlons in the Territory could constitute a najor obstacle to the
ilPlenentation of the Declaration dnd that lt is the responslbillty of the
aalninlstering Power to ensure that the exlstence of such bases and
installations doeE not hinder the population of.the Territory from exercising
its right to self-deternlnat ion arui! indepenttence in confornlty r{ith the
purposes and principles of the Chartert

8. Urges the aalministering pot er to continue to take all necessary
neasurea not to involve the Territory in any offensive acts or inCerference
directed against other States anal to conply fu1ly with the purposes anat
princiPles of the Charter, the Declaration and the resolutions and decisions
of the General Assembly relating to military activtties ard arrangernents by
colonial Ponera in Territories under their adninisErationt

9. Urges once again the administering poner, in co-operation with the
territorial GoverNrent, to continue to take all effective neasures Eo
guarantee the right of the people of Bernuda to oen and dispose of their
natural resources and to establish and naintain control over their future
develoPnent with a view to creating conditions for a balanced and viable
e@nomyt

10. l{blcone€ the role belng played in the Territory by the United
Nations Developnent progranu e, Epecifically in progranunes of agriculture,
foregtry and fisherles, and urges the speclallzeil agencies antt aII other
organlzations of the United Natlons system to continue to pay sp€cial
attention to the developtlent needs of Bernuda,

. Il. Urges the adninistering Fower to continue, in co-operation with the
territorial Go\rernment, the asEistance necessary for the enploynent of the
local population in the civil service, particularly at senior Ievels,

L2. Emphasizes the dlesirabllity of sending a visiting nission to the
Territory at the earliest possible opfrortunltyt

13. Reque6ts the Special Corunittee to continue the examination of this
quesCion at its next aesEion, includlng the possible dispatch of a viglCing
mlsslon to Bermuda at an appropr late time and in consultatlon with the
adninistering Power 1 and to report thereon to th€ General Assernbly aE its
forty-first session.



A/4O/9O6
Engl ish
Page 24

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

ouestion of the British Virgin Islands

The General Assenbly,

Having considered the questlon of the Britlsh Virgin Islanals,
Having examined the relevant chapters of the repoEt of the special

Committee on the Situat.ion wlth regard to the Inplenentation of the
Declaralion on the Grantlng of fndependence Eo @lonial Countrles and
Peoples,3y

Recalling its resolutton 1514 (x\t) of 14 Decenber 1960, containing the
Declaration on the cranting of rndependence to colonlal countries and peoples,
and all other resolutions and deciEions of the unlteal Naliona relating to the
British Virgin fslands, including in particular its reeolution 3g/3L of
5 December 1984,

Noting the stated position of the adrninistering power that it r{iU fuUy
respect the wishep of the people of the British Virgin lalands in deterrnining
the future polltlcal statua of the TerrlEory,

_ _ Colgcioys of the need to ensure the full and speedy inplementation of theDeclaration in reepect of the Terrltory,

_ t'loting with .appreciatlon the contlnued actlve partlcipation of theadninistering power ln Che nork of the Special CoEnittee in regarat to theBrltish virgin rslands' thereby enabling it to conduct a nore inforned and
meaningful exanlnation of the situation in the Territory, with a view to
accelerating the procesE of decolonization for the purpose of the full
inplementation of the Declaration,

Rgaffirning the responslblllty of the adninlgtering poh,er to pronote the
econonic and social develognent of the Territory,

Noting with concern that during the period under review the lnternatronar
economic crisis caused tourisn and its Eupportive services, the mainstay ofthe econony, to 610*, down and. taking note that construction activities
increased, and that the Eerritorial Goverdnent, in its continued efforts to
broaden the base of tbe econony, lras re-exarninlng its industr ial izat ion
Pr og r anme ,

Aeare of the special clrcunstances of the geographical location and
economic condltions of the Territory and bearing in mind the necessity of
diversifying and sbrengthenlng further its econorny as a natter of priority in
order to pronote econornlc sEability,

?L/ A/4O/23 (parr rI), chap. r\ A/40/23 (part rlr), chap. rtt r A/40/23(Part rV), chap. V, and A/40/23 (part VII), chap. XX.



A/40/906
Engllsh
Page 25

lgelcoming the contrlbutlon to the develo;nent of th€ tbrritory by the
unlted Nations Developrnent prograrnne, the Unlted Natlons pund for populat lon
Activities, the United Nations Childrenis Fund and the Uiited Nations
fndustrlal DeveLopment Organizatlon and other specialized rgencies and
organizations of the United Natlons systen nhlch operate tr the Territory and
noting the continued partiqipation of the Territory ln th€ Car ibbean Group for
Co-oPeration in Economlc Developlent, ag rell ag ln regioial organizatlona,
inctuding ln particular the car ibbean Developnent Bank,

welconlng also che participaElon of the Terrltory as an as6ociate nenber
in the lrork of the United Nations Educational, sclenEifi€ rnd cultural
Organization, the Economlc Commlssion for Latin Anerica erd the Caribb€an and
its subsidlary body, the caribbean Development and Co-op€retion Connittee, as
well as ln various other international and regional organiletions,

Recalling the tlispatch in 1976 of a United Nations virltlng nlBslon to
the lerritory,

Mindful that United Nationa visiElng missions provlc. en effective means
of ascertalning the Eituation ln the snall Territories andl crpresslng its
satisfactlon at the willingness of the adninlstering pores to recelve viElting
misslons in the Terrltories under lts adtnini str ation,

L. Approves the chapter of the report of Che speclrl Comtittee on the
Sltuation with regard to the Inplenentation of the Declarrtlon on the Granting
of Independence to Coloniat Countries and peoplea relatlit to the British
virgin Islands, ?3.,/

2. Reaffirrns the lnalienabte rlght of the people of the Britlsh virgin
Islands to selfdeterninatlon and indep€ndence ln confor[lty nith the
Declaraeion on the crantlng of Inatependence to Colonial S||ntries and peoples,
contained in ceneral Assembly reaolution 1514 (fff) t

. 3. Reiterates the view that such factora as territorial sizer
geographical locatlon, size of population and llnited natErel resources should
ln no nay delay the speedy exercise by the peop.Le of thc ?.rrttory of their
inaLienable right to self-deterrnlnation and independencc h confornlty with
the Declaration contained ln General Assembty resolution M4 (Xtr), strich
fully appllee to the Brltish Virgin Ialandst

4. Reiterates that lt is the responstbluty of th. &ited RlnEdon of
Great Britain and Northern freland, as the adninistering porer, to create euch
conditlons in th€ Terrltory as will enable the people of ttE British Virgin
Islands to exercige freely and withouE interference their lnalienable rlght to
self-determinat lon and independence in accordance with caD.ral Assenbly
resolutlon 1514 (xv! r ds n€ll as all other relevant resolutions of the
Assenbly t

zzl A/40/23 (Part Vrr), chaP. xx.



A/40/9o6
Engl ish
Page 26

5. Reaffirns that it ls ultimately for the people of the British Virgin
Islands thernselves to detertRlne their future political status in accordance
nith the relevant provisions of the Charber of lhe United Nations and the
Declaration, and, in that connectlon, reaffirns the inportance of fostering an
avtareness anong the people of the Territory of the possibilities open to then
in the exercise of thelr rlghb to self-deternlnationt

6. Notes the continuing cornmitnent of the terrltorial Governnent to the
goal of economlc diversification, particularly in the areas of agriculture,
flsheries and snall industrles, and reiterates its call upon the adminlstering

. Porder, in co-oPeralion with the territorial Goverrunent, to intensify its
efforts in lhis regard t

7. Urges the adninistering Power, in co-operation wiLh the territorial
covernment, to safeguard the inalienable right of the people of the British
Vlrgin Islands lo tbe enjoyment of their natural reaources by taking effective
neasures to ensure their right to onn and dispose of tbose resources and to
establish and rnaintain control of thelr future developmentt

L Urges the specialized agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system to intensify neasures to accelerate progreas in the social and
econonic life of the Territoryt

9. Reiterates lts call upon the admlnistering power to facilitate the
further ParticiPation of the Briti6h Virgin fslands 1n various international
and regional. organizations and in other organiza!ions of the United Nations
sYsEemt

10. Considera that the possibility of sending a further visiting mission
to the British Virqin Islands at an appropriate time should be kept under
reviewt

Il. Requests the Special Comnittee to continue the examination of this
question aC lts iext sesslon, including Che possible dispatch of a vislting
nission to the British virgin Islands at an appropriate time and in
consultation with the administering Power, and to report thereon to the
ceneral Assenbly at its forty-first session.

DNAF? RESOLUTION V

Question of the Caynan Islands

The ceneral Assernbly,

Having considered the guestion of the Caynan fslands,

naving examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special
Conmlttee on the Situation wlth regard to the fmplenentatlon of the



A/40/9o6
Engllsh
Page 27

Declaration on the Granting of fndependence to Colonial Counerieg and
Peoples, ?y

Recalung lts resolutlon 15f4 (Xv) of 14 Decernber 1960, contalning the
D€claration on the cranting of fndependence to Colonlal Countries and People6 'and all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the
Calman fslands, including in partieular lts resolution 39/35 of
5 Decenber 198 4,

Noting the stated pogition of the adninlsterlng Poner that it wtll futly
resPect the nlshes of the people of the Caynan fslands in aleterrnlnlnq the
future politlcal status of the Territory,

Conscious of the need to engure the fult and speedy lnplementation of the
DecLaration ln respect of the Territory,

Noting that although the nain gectors of the econorry of the Cal'nan
Islands, sPecifically tourisn, lnternational flnance and real eEtate,
continued to gustain some degree of growth during tbe period under revl.ent
they have been negatively affected by the iror ld economic crisis,

Aware of the speclal circutnstances of the geographical location and
econonlc conditions of the Territory and beartng fn mlnd the necessity of
diversifying and str€ngthening further lts econony as a matter of prlority ln
order to pronote econonic stabtlity'

Noting rdith appreciation the continued c.ontributlon of the United Natlons
DeveloFnent Progra[une to the ilevelopnent of the Terrltory,

Recalling the dispatch in 1977 of a Unlted Nations visitlng mission to
the Terrieory'

Mintlful that United Nations vislting mlsslons provide an effectlve means
of ascertaining the situatton in the 6na11 Territories and expressing itg
satisfaction at the willingness of the adninistering power to receive visitlng
missions in the Territories under its admlnlstrationt

l. Approv€s the chapter of the report of the Speclal Conmittee on the
situation with regard to the Irylenentatlon of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to @lonial Countries and peopleE relating to the Cayman
Islandsr 3gl

?3it A/40/23 (part rr), chap. rrt A/4o/23 (parr rrr), chap. rtr t A/40/23
(Part Iv), chap. Vt and A/40/23 (Part VII), chap. XXr.

2!/ A/10/23 (Parr vrrl , chaP. xxr.



A/40/905
Engl ish
Page 28

2. Reaffirm€ the inallenable right of the people of the Cayman Islands
to self-determination and independence in confornity with the Declaration on
the cranting of Independence to @lonial countrles and peoples, contained in
ceneral Assembly resolution 1514 (xv) t

3. Reiterates the view that such factors as territorial size,
geographical locatlon, size of population and llmited natural resources should
in no way delay the speedy exerclse by the people of the Terrltory of their
inalienable right to selfdetermination and independence in confornity with
the Declaratlon contained in ceneral Assembly resolutlon l5t4 (XV), nhlch
fully applies to the Calman Islandst

4. Notes with appreciatlon the parttcipation of the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern lreland, as the adninlatering power, in the $rork of
the special Cormittee in regard to the cayman fslands, thereby enabling it to
conduct a nore lnforned and neaningfuL examlnatlon of the situation in tshe
Territory' wlth a view to accelerating the process of decolonlzation for the
purpose of the full irE)lementatlon of the Declarationt

5. Reiterates that it is the respon€ibility of the adnini8tering power
to create such corxlitions in the Calman Islandg as wlII enable the people of
the Territory to exercise freery and without lnterference their inalienable
riqht to selfdeterminatlon and independence in accordance with General
Assembly resolution 1514 (!(V) r as well as all other relevant resol-utlons of
the AssembLyt

6. Reaffirns that it is ultimately for the people of the cayman l6lands
lbenselves to deternlne their future political status in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the ctarter of Ehe unlted Nations and the Declaration
and, in that connection, reaffirns the inportance of foseering ah aHarenesa
anong the people of the Terrieory of the posslbilities open to them in the
exercise of their right co self-determinat ion and independencet

7. Reaffirms the responsibility of the administerlng povrer to pronote
the e@nonic and soclal developnent of the Territory and urges it, in
co-operation wlth the territorlal covernnent, to render continuing support, to
the fullest extent posslble, to the developlent of programmes of economic
diversification which will benefit che people of the Territory,

8. Takes note of the statement. of the adminieterlng power to the effect
that, despite the poor quality of the soil in the Terrltory, a study conduc ted
by the territoriar covernnent in 1984 r€vealed sorne possibirlties in the field
of poultry, agricultural and pastoral farningl

9. Urges the administering Fower, ln co-operation vrith the territorial
Governnent, to safeguard the inallenable right of the people of the Territory
to the enjoyment of their natural regources by taking effectlve rneasures to
ensure their right to onn and dispose of those resources and to establish anat
maintaln control of their future developlentt



A/ 40/906
EnElish
Page 29

10. ca1la ulbn the specialized agencies and other organlzatlons of the
United Nations systen, as rdell a€ regional inEtitutlons such as the Caribbean
Developnent Bank. to continue to take all necesgary Beaaurea to accelerate
progress ln the soclal and econonlc llfe of the caynan Islanalst

11. Notes with appreciatlon the continued.contrlbution of the United
Nations Develoglent Progranoe to the develop0ent of the Territoryt

L2. considers that the posslbility of genaling a further viaiting misslon
to the caynan Islands at an appropriate tine shou!.d be kept under revlerl

13. Reque€ts the special conmlEtee to contlnue the exalinatlon of this
question at lts next sesEionr tncludlng the possible dispatch of a visltlng
rnission to the Calrtnan Islands at an approPrlate tine and in consultation rith
the adrninlstering Power, and to report thereon to the General AsBenbly at ltg
forty-first sesaLon.

DNAIT RESOII'TION VI

ouestion of ltontFer rat

The General Assenbly '
gavlng consldered the question of llontserrat,

Having exanined the relevant chaPters of the rePort of the speclal
conmittee on the situation with regard to the ltrylenentatioo of the
Declaratlon on the Granting of Independence to Colonial countrles and
Peoples, Zg/

Recalring its resolutlon l5I4 ()$) of 14 Decenber 1960r contalnlng the
Declaratlon on the Granting of Independence to @lonial Countrlea and Peoples,
and al,l other resolutions and decisions of the Unlted Natlona relatlng to
Montserrat, including in particular its resolutlon ?9/?6 of 5 Decenber 1984,

Noting the stated posltlon of the aalnlnister ing Power that it wlll
resPect the wishes of the people of Montserrat ln deterninlng the future
Frolitical Gtatus of the Terrltory,

Notinq the vlew of the cotrernnent of ttlontserrat that lndependence nas
inevitable and desirable 26/ and, ln that connection, that the terrltorial

22/ A/4O/23 (Part II)' chap. rrr A/4O/2f (Part III), ctrap. l\l t U40/23
(Part IV), chap. V, and A/4O/23 (Part VII) ' chap. XXII.
' 25/ A/rc.L09/L.$22, para. 5 (s).



A/40/906
Engltsh
Page 30

Government would prepare progrannes of tolitical educatlon by which to
increase the peoplera awareneas of the beneflts of independenc.e, zfJ/

Notinq wlth concern that dur lng the perlod under revlew the internat.ional
econornic crlsis contlnued to have an adverae effect on the territorial
econoflry, and to result in zero growth in the gro6s donestic product and a
reduction ln the rate of grorth of erqrloFtrent and incones, 28,/

welconinq the fact that an lncreasing nunber of people from the Territory
are being etq)loyed tn th€ civil service, particularly at the higher echeloh,
including the appointnent of a natlonal as chief edical officer, and noting
the reconmendations for aalary lncrease€ made by the Salaries commission on
publlc service ealarleE anil conditlon€,

welconing also the contribution to the developnent of the Territory by
the United Natlons Develolment Programe and the United Nations Childrenrs
Fund and other apecialized agencles and organizati.ons of the Unlted NatlonE
system operating in the Territory, and notlng the contlnued participatlon of
the Territory ln the Car ibbean croup for Co-operation in Economlc D€velopnent,
as rrell as ln regional organizations, auch as the Caribbean Cotnnunity and its
associated inst itut ions, lncluding the Car lbbean Development Bank,

@ of the special circuDgtances of the geographlcal Location and
econonic condltions of the Terrltory anil bear ing in nlnd the necegslty of
aliverEifying and atrengtbening further its economy as a matter of priority in
order to pronote econoDic stability,

Recalling the dispatch in 1975 and l9B2 of United Nationa visitlng
missions to the Ter ritory'

Minclful that vislting miasions provide an effective nean€ of ascertainlng
the sltuatlon ln the stnall Territorles ard e*pressing its salisfaction at the,-"
wllllngness of the adnlnisterlng poner to receive visiting missions ln the
Territories under it8 adminiatration,

t. Approtres the chapter of the report of the Speclal Comittee on the
Situation with regard to the lqrlenentation of the DecLaration on the crantlng
of IndeEendence to Colonial Countrles and peoples relating to Montserratr ?g/

2. Reaffirns the lnallenable right of the people of ltontserrat to
Eelf-deternlnat ion and intlependence in conforntty wlth tbe Declaratlon on the
cranting of Independence to @lonial Countries and peoples, containeat ln
General Assenbly reEolution 15111 (X\r) r

?f/ Statement of the Unlted tringdom of creat Britain and Northern fretand.
28/ see l'/Ic.LO9/8O4. para. 36.

22J/ A/4o/23 (Part wI), chap. XXII.



^/40/eo6Engl i sh
Page 3l

3. Relterates the vlen that such factors as territorial sizet
geographical locatlon, slze of populatlon anat tlnlteat natural resources should
in no way delay the speedy exercise by the people of the Terrltory of their
inallenable right to gelf-deterninat ion and independence in confornity rith
the Declaration contained in Geneial Assernbly resolutlon 1514 (XV), whlch
fully applles to Montser rat t

4. Notes rrith appreclation the contlnued participation of the united
Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern Ireland, as the administerlng lbwer, in
the work of the special Comnlttee in regard to Montserrat, thereby enabling lt
to conduct a more informed and reaningful er(aminatlon of the situation in the
Territory with a vlew to accelerating the procegs of decolonlzation for the
Purpose of the fuU hplementation of the Declarationt

5. Relterate€ that it is the resEonsibtlity of the administering Power
to create 6uch conditlons in Montserrat as will enable its people to exercise
freely and nithout lnterference, from a well-inforrned standpoint as to the
available options, their inalienable r ight to self-deterninatlon and
lndependence in accordance with ceneral Assenbly resolution 15:.4 ()$), as well
as aII other relevant resolutlons of the Assenblyt

6. . Reaffirns that it is ultimately for the people of Montserrat
thenselves to determine their future political status ln accordance with the
relevant provislons of the Charter of the United Natlons and the Declaration
and reiterales its call upon the aalninistering Fower. in co-operation rrith the
territorial Go\rernment, to launch progranmes to fo6ter an awareneas among the
people of Montserrat of the poseibilities available to then in the exercise of
Ehelr right to self-determinat lon and independencel

7. Reafflr$s the responslbiliEy of the administer ing Power to pronote
the econonic and soclal alevelopment of lrtontserrat and, in co-operation nith
the Eerritorial Goverdrent, to continue to strengthen the econony and to
increase its assistance to progrannes of diversificalion ln oraler to promote
the econonic and financlal vlabllity of the Territoryt

8. Urges the administering Poner to take tha necessary neaEures in
co-olEration ltith the terrltorial covernment to restore sustained and balanced
grovEh to the econony of Ehe llerritory and to intenEify its assistance in the
develoFnent of all EectorB thereof, ehich will beneflt the people of tbe
Territoryl

9. AlEo urge3 the adminlstering power, in co-operatlon with the
territorial Governnent, to take effective neasures to safeguard. guarantee and
ensure the rightE of the people of llontserrat to own and dispose of their
natural resources and to estabLish anal malntain control of thelr future
developnent,

10. UrgeE the adminlstering Po$er to continu€, ln co-operatlon with the
territorial Goverrulent, the assistance necessary for the enplo]rnent of the
local population in the civil service, particularLy at senior levelst



v40/906
Engl ish
Page 32

lL. CaII6 ulron the Unlted Nation6 syrtetr of organizat ions, as rrelL as
donor Goverrunenta and reglonal organizationg 1 to intensify bheir efforts to
accelerate progress in the econonlc and Eocial llfe of Ehe Terrltory,

, L2- considers that the pos8lbility of senaling a further visiting nissionto Montserrat at an appropriate the shou&l be kept under reviewl
13. Requesta the Speclal Cormittee to contlnue the exanination of this

question at it8 next sesslon, inctuding the possible alispatch of a further
vlelting misaion to uontserrat at an appropriaEe tine and in consurtation with
the adninlsterlng power 

' and to report chereon to the ceneral Aasenbly at irsforty-flrst seseion.

DRAFT RESOIJUTION 1rII

The General Assenbly,

Havlng c-onE {dered tbe question of the Turke and caicos fslandls,

_ .Iaving examlneal the relevant chapterg of Ehe report of the SpecialComnittee on the Situation with regard to the Inplenentation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Indepelrdence to Colonlal countrles and
Peoples, !g/

- Rec?Utng its resolution f5f4 (xV) of 14 Decenber 1960, containing theDeclaratlon on the crantrng of hdependence to @ronrar countrie' and peoples,
and all other resolutions and decisione of the united Nations reratrng to the
Turks and Calcos Is1ands, ineluding in particular lts resolution 39/37 of
5 Decetnber 1984,

Noting the stated positron of the admrnistering power that it rrill fuuy
respect the rishes of the people of the Turks and Calcos Islands in
dleternlning the future constltutionar 

'tatua 
of the Territory, and bearing innlnd the inpor tance of fostering an awareness anong the people of theTerritory of the posEibilities open to then,

_ - CongciogE of the need to enaure the full and apeedy inplementatlon of theDeclaration in respect of the Territoryf

_ Noling hrlth appreciatlon the partlcipation of the adnihiEtering power inthe work of the Sfeclal Conmittee, thereby enabllng it to c,onduct a nore
informed and neaningful exanination of thl situation ln the Territory,

)! t/10/zl (part rr)r chap. rrr A/Lo/23 (parr rrr), chap. rvr A/4o/23
(Part Iv), chap6. v and vrr and A/40/23 (part vrl), chab. xxrri.



^/40/906English
Page 33

Aware of the speclal circunstances of Ehe geographlcat locatlon and
econonic conditions of bhe Territory and bearlng ln nrind the neceEsity of
divergifylng and strengthening further lts econony as a natter of priority in
order to pronote econonic stabitity and to develop a wlder econonic base for
the Terr itory,

Noting the Etatenent of the administering Power that an experlmental farm
has been set up on Nor th caicos to study agrlcultural techniques,

!{elconing the c<intinulng contribution of the Unlteal Nat ions Development
Progra:rme to the developuent of the Territory,

Recalling the dispatch ln 1980 of tr{o United Natlons visiting mlaslons to
the Ter r i tory,

Mindful that United Natlons vlsitlng missions provide an effective neana
of ascertainlng the situation in the small Terrltorles, and exPressing lts
satisfaction at the rrillingness of the aalnlnisterlng Polter to receive vtsiting
nissions in the Terriuories under lts adt0lni stration t

I. Approves the chapter of the rePort of the special comlittee on the
situation with regard to the lrrylenentation of the Declalation on the Grantlng
of Independence to colonial countries and Peoples relating to the Turks and
Caicos Islands, 31./

2. Reaffirns the lnalienable rlght of the people of the Turks and
Caicos Islands to self-determination and independence ln conforrnlty ltith the
Declaration on the cranting of Inalependence to Colonial Countries and PeoPles,
contained ln ceneral Assenbly resolution I5I4 (: t! t

3. Reiterates the view that such factors as territorial slze,
geographical Ioci€fon, size of population and llnlted natural resources should
in no way delay the speedy exercise by the people of ihe Territory of their
inalienable right to self-determlnallon and lndlelterdence {n confornity with
the Declaration contained in GeneraL Assenbly reBolutlon 1514 (Xrt) ' 

which
fully applies to lhe Turks and caicoE Islandst

4. Reiterate€ that lt ls the obllgatlon of the United Klngdon of Great
Britain and Northern lreland, as the adminlster lng lrower, to create such
conditlons in the Terrltory as will enable the people of the Turks and calcog
Islands to exercise freely and rdithout interference their inalienable rlght to
se lf-determj.nat ion and independence ln accordance with General Agsenbly
resolulion f514 (:v), as weII as other relevant reaolution€ of the Assenblyt

5. Reaffirns that ic is the responsibillty of the adnlnistering Poner
under the Charter of the Unlted Natlons to develop its dependent Territories
economically and socially and urges the administering Power, ln con6ultation

1L/ A/40/23 (parE vrr), chap. xxrrr.



^/40/906EngLlsh
Page 34

lrith lhe territorial Government, to Eake the necessary neasures to pronote the
economic and social develoFnent of the Turks and Caic"oa fslands and, in
Particular, to intenslfy and expa.nd its progranme of assistance in order to
accelerate the develoFtrent of the econonic anal s@iar lnfragtructure of the
Terr itoryt

5. &q)haaizes that greater attention should be pald to rt lvers if lcat ion
of the econony, whlch wlll benefit the people of the Territory,

7. Recalls that it iE the responstbillty of the adninisterlng povrer, in
accordance with the lrishes of the people, to aafeguard, guarantee and ensure
the inalienable right of the people to the enjoynent of their natural
resources by taking effective nteasurea to guarantee their right to or,n and
dispose of those natural reaources and to establlsh and maintaln contror of
their future develotrment,

8. Tahes note of the statement of the adninistering power to the effect
that the nllltary facility ln the Turka and caicoE rslands was closed in r9g4r
that tbe territoriaL Gqrernrnent now has corylete control over the dlsposlcion
of the land vacated by the base and that the tand is now belng used for
various activitieE which are beneflcial to the economy and the people of the
Terr ibory,

9. Urges the specializeat agencies anat other organizations of the Uniteal
Nations systern, as well as such regional institution€ as the Caribbean
Developnent Bank, to sontinue to pay speclal attention to the developmenb
needs of the Turks and Caicos Islandst

.10. lequests the adnlnistering power, in conaultation with the
terrltorial Governnentr to continue to provide the assistance necessary for
the training of qualifled local personnel in the skills essential to the
development of varlous sectorg of the eaonorny anat the society of the Territory,

11. Conaiders that the possibility of sending a further vlsltlng mission
to the rlrrka and Caicoa fsLands at an appropriate tlne should be kept under
rev iew I

12. Requests the speciat connittee to continue the exaninatlon of this
question at it5 next session, including the possible dispatch of a further
visitlng rnission to the Turks anil caicoe rsranals at an appropriate tlne and ln
congultation lrlth the adnlnisterlng power. and to report thereon to the
General Assenbly at lts forty-ffrst seesion.

DRAF? RESOLUTION VIII

euestlon of Anguilla

The ceneral 
, 
Assenb1y,

Yaving considered the question of AnguiUa,



^/40/905English
Page 35

Having exanined the relevant chapterB of the report of the special
Coll|llttee on the Situation nith regard to the tlqrl€nentation of the
Declaration on the cranting of Independence tb Colonial Countrles and
Peoples, 3al

Recalling lts resoLutlon 1514 (tff) of l{ Decernber 1960, containing the
Declaration on the crantlng of Independence to @lonlal Countries and l€cples,
and all other resolutions and declsions of th€ UniEed Nations relating to
Anguilla' lncludihg ln particular its resolutlon 39/39 of 5 December 1984,

Notlng the stateal poslbion of the aalninisterlng power that it nill
re6Pect the wishes of the people of Angulua ln determining the future
Politlcal status of the Terrltory,

Conscious of the need to ensure the fuII anat speedy inplenentatlon of the
Declaration in respect of the Terrltory,

Noting nlth appreciation the continued participation of the adninistering
Porder in the r'ork of the Special Connnietee in regard to Anguilla, thereby
enabllng it to corduct a more informed and neanlngful exaninat ion of the
situation in the Territory, wiEh a vien to acceleratlng the process of
decolonization for the pur[ro6e of the fuu lnplenentation of the Declaration,

Reaffirning the responsibillty of the adninlBterlng Poner to promote the
econonic and social deve lopnent of the Territory,

Taklng note that dur lng the period under reviee the econoDy of AngulUa
remalned buoyant I

tloting thatr as a result of a corqrrehenstve review of the civll service
and Police force undertaken during 1984, their saLarles and allowances Bere
lncreased,

Welcomlng the contributlon to the develop!flent of the Territory by the
United Natlons Develolment Programe, sp€cializeil agencies and other
organizations of the United Natlona syaten operating in Anguilla and notlng
the separabe iLlustratlve indicative planning figure established for Anguilla
by the United Nations Developnent Progranne for the perlod 1982-1985,

Reiteiating the vievr that the particlpation of Terrltorles as associate
netnbers ln organlzations of the United Nations syaten 16 a part of the overall
Strategy of acceleratlng the decolonlzation proces€,

Aware of Che special circumstances of the geographical location and
economie conditionE of the Territory and bearlng in mlnd the necessity of
diversifyi.ng anat strengthening further its econony as a natter of prlority ln
order to pro[ote ec-ononic stability,

!/ a/10/Zl (Part II), chap. rrr A/4o/23 (part rrr), chap. wr and A/&/23
(Part VII) , chap. XXIV.



A/40/906
Engl lsh
Page 36

R€cauinq the dispatch in 1984 of a United Nation€ vieiting nission to
the Territory,

Mindful that Unlted Nations visiting nissions provide an effective neans
of aecertalning the situatlon in the snall lterritoriea, and expressing its
satlafaction at the willlngnesa of the administering Power to receive visiting
missions ln the Terrltorles urder its adninieEration,

1. Appro\res the €hapter of the report of Che Special CoruniEtee on the
Situation with regard to the frylenentation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countriea and peoples relating to Anguillat 31/

2. Reaffirna the lnallenable right of the ireople of Anguilla to
self-deternination anil independence in confornity with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to @lonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
GeneraL Assenbly reEolution 1514 (X\t) t

3. Reiterates the view that 6uch factors as terrltorial size'
geograPhlcal locatlon, size of populat ion and llnlted natural resources should
in no uay delay the speitly exercise by the people of the Terrltory of their
lnalienable rlght to self deterninat ion and independence tn confornity nith
the teclaration contained in G€neral Assenbly resolution 1514 {lffl ' 

nhlch
fully rpplies to Angu llla,

4. Reiterates that tt ia the responsibility of the adninistering Po$er
to create such cerdltlons In Anguilla as eill enable its people to exercise
freely anil without interference, fron a well-inforned stardpoint as to the
available oSrtions, thelr lnallenable rlght to aelf-deter!0lnation and
intlepeddence in accordance nith ceneral Assembly resolution 1514 (rff), as well
aa all other relEvant r€aolutions of the tlssemblyt

5. Reaffirna that it is ultlmately for the people of Anguilla
themeelves to deternine their future pollctcal statuE in accordance rith the
relevanb provlEions.of the Charter of the United Nations ard the Declaration
and, in that connection I reafflrne the iq)ortance of fosterlng an arrareness
anong the people of the Terrltory of the possibilities open to then in the
exerciae of their right to self-deternination and lndependencel

6. Ca1l9 ulton the admlnlEtering Power to continue, in co-operation with
the territorlll Government, to atrengthen the econony and to increase its
asslgtance to progra teE of divess if icat ion I

7. Notes that, although the territory was no longer ln need of a grant
fron the adnlnistellng Power to balance its recurrent budget for 1984, the
Governnent of the Unlted Kingdon agreed to provide a Bpecial grant to clear
the deflcit accuEulated beteeen 1927 and l983t

12/ A/4o/23 (part vII), chap. xxrv.



A/40/e06
EngLish
Page 37

8. .Urges the adnlnistering porrer to take effective neasures, inco-operati.on with the territorial covernnent, to safeguard, guarantee andensure the rights of the people of Anguilla to orrn and dlspose of theirnatural resources and to establish and naintain control over their futuredevelotrnnentt

. .?. lrrges the adninistering power to contlnue, in co-operation rrith theterritorlal Goverrunent, the assistance necessary for the incieased enplolnoentof the rocal populat ion in the civil servlce, llrti.curarLy at senlor levels,
LO. Rgiterates its request to the attministering power, ih the ltght ofthe observations, conclusions and reconmendations of the United Nationsvisiting niselon to Anguilla, Lggl, 3!/ to contlntre to enlist the assisEanceof the speciai.ized agencies and othe-organizat.ions of the united Natlons

system, as well as other regionar and internatronal bodies, rn the devel.trmentand strengthening of the econony of Angullla,

.rr. qalls upon the adninistering power to continue to faciritate thepartrclpati.on of Anguirla in the Econonic comnission for Latin Amerlca and th€caribbean and rts subsidiary boaty, che carrbbean Devel.Iment and co-operationConmittee, and in other organizations of the tnlted Nations system, incluttingthe Caribbean croup for Co-operation in Econonic Developnent,

. _ 12.__conslders that the possibility of sending a further visltlng nissionto Anguilla at an appropriate time should be kept unaler review,
L3. Requests the special comnittee to continue the examination of thisquestion at its next sessionl incruding the possibre dispatch of a furthervisiting nission to Anguilra at an appiopriaie tine and in consurtation rrrththe administering Fower, and co report thereon to the Generar Assembly at itsforty-flrst session.

DR.AET RESOI,UTION IX

ouestion of the United States Virgln IsLands
The General Assenbly,

Having considered the guestion of the United States virgln Ialands,

_ .Yiving examined the rel-evant chapters of the report of the SpecialComnittee on the Situation with ,"g".- to the Implementat ion of the
Declaratlon on the Grant.ing of fndependence to Colonial @untries and
neoptes , !!/

4-/ t/rc.tos//299, sect. w.
19 a/So/ZZ (part rr), chap, rr,(Part Iv), chaps. v and vr, and A/40/23

A/4O/23 (Part III), chap. Irt:, A/4O/23
(Part VII), chap. XXV.



M40/e06
&rgliEh
Page 38

Recalling its resolution I51{' (Jff) of 14 Decenber 1960, contalning the
DecLaration on the Granting of Independlence to @Ionial Countries and PeoPles,
and all other resolutions and decl6lon6 of the United Nations relating to the
united states Virgin Islandls, including ln particular itE tesolution 39,/38 of
5 Decenber 1984,

Noting nlth appreciation the continued active partlcipation of the
adninistering Poner and the representatlve of the territorial Government in
the work of the Special cormittee in regard to the United States virgin
fslands, thereby enabling it to conduct a lBore inforned and Neanlngful
examinaLion of the sltuation in the Territory, with a vlew to acceLerating the
Process of decol.onization for the purpose of the full lrrylenentation of the
Declaration,

Taking lnto account the stat€nent of the representative of the
adninistering Fower that the Territory of the gnited states virgin rslands
enjoys a large neasure of self-gover tent Ehrough its elected representat ives,
narnely, the Governor r nemberg of the Leglstature and the Territory's
non-vot ing delegate to the United States Hou6e of Representat ives, and noting
the recent general elections in the Territoryt

Noting rrith concern that the econony of the terrltory ras' as described
by the covernor, iternporarlly depressed", particularly in the tourist,
construction and industrlal sectors, as well as in the delivery of government
serviceg ' and noting that the Territoryrs industrial deneloplent progranmettould suffer a setback as a reault of the announced plan of Martin Marieeta
AIumIna, Inc. for the clogure of its aluminiun plant in the Territory in 1985,

Wdlconing the continued participation of the united states virgin
Islands, as an agsociated nenber, in the work of the Econornlc Cotnmission for
Latin Anerlca and the Caribbean ard its Bubsidiary bodies, inclualing the
Caribbean Group for Co-operation in Bconomic Develolment, and noting the
ParticlPation of a representatlve of the Terrltory as a nenber of the
deLegation of the adnlnistering Poeer at annual neetings of the Caribbean
Group for Co-operati.on in Econonic Developnent since 1982,

Noting witb satlsfaction the statenent of the ad$inlstering Poner that lt
endorsed the policy that representative€ of the Territory should participate
in foruns whet'e the Territory was the subject of dlscussion,

Ardare of the special circunstances of the geographical location and
econornic conditions of the Territory and bearing in mlnd the necesGity of
diversifying and strengthenlng furtlrer it6 econony as a natEer of priority in
order to promote econonic stabilityr

Recalling the dispatch ln 1977 of a United Natlons visiting mission to
the Terr itory,



A/40/906
English
Pag€ 39

- l,Ii.ndful that Unlted Nations visiting mlssions provide an effective meansof ascerlaining the situatlon in the small Territories, and expressing its
satisfaction at the vrillingness of the administering porder to receive vislting
misslons in the Territories under its adninlstratlon,

. l: Approve s the chapter of the report of the Sp€cial Connittee on thesituation wlth regard to the Implenentatlon of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colontal Countries and peoples relatlng to the Uniteal
States Virgln fslands, ry

2. Reafflrms the Lnalienable right of the people of the United States
virgin IsLands to self-decerninatlon and independenct ln conforrntty wlth the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countriea and peoples,
contalned in ceneral AssembLy reaolution 1514 (XV) r

3. Reiterates the view that such factors as territorial size,
geographical location, size of population and linited natural resources should
in no way delay the speedy exercise by the peopte of the Territory of thelf
inalienable right to self-deternlnat ion and independence in confornlty wlth
the Declaration contalned in ceneral Assernbly resolution 15L4 (xV), vrhich
fully applies to the United States Virgin fslandst

4. Reiterates that it is the responsibility of the adninistering power
to create such conditions ln the United States Virgin Islands a6 will enable
bhe people of the Territory to exercise freely and without interference their
inalienable right to selfdeterninatlon and lndependence in oonformlty rith
General Assenbl-y resolutlon 151-4 (fff), as well as atl other relevant
resolutions of the A66emblyt

5. Reaffirns that it is ultirnately for th€ people of the United Stateg
virgin fslands thensel-ves to determine thelr future political status in
accordance nith the relevant provisions of the charter of the unieed Nations
and the Declaration and, in that connection, reaffirns the impor tance of
fostering an awareness anong the peopJ-e of the Territory of the possibilities
oPen to then in the exerclse of their right to selfdeternination t

6. Notes that the Select Connittee, established by the Senate in l9g3
co ascertain the vlews of the people of the Territory on their future status
and to nake recomnendations in that regard to the Legislature, conducted
public hearings from March to August l9g4 and subrnitted its report to the
Sixteenth LegislaCure in January 19g5,

7. AIso notes thab the l,egislature endorsed the report, which included,
inter ar i all-IEEffienda t io n that a referendum on the status issue shoular be
held on 4 November 1986, ln conjunction wlth the next general election for
people of the Uniteal States Virgin fslands to choo€e between a variety of
status optlons including independence, statehood, free aasociation,
incorporated territory, status quo or a conpact of federal- relations,

15./ t/+0/Zs (part vrr), chap. xxv.



A/40/906
EngI ish
Page 40

8. Purthcs notes that the teglslature decided to appoint a new
conrnittee to contlnue the process of publlc hearlngsr ln order to ensure that
the lreople of tb United states Vlrgin fBlands were fully arrar e of the
iq)llcations of th€ varloua 6tatu6 opeionE by the tine of the referendurnr

9. urges tle- adninisberlng Poner, ln co-op€ration rrith the terrltorial
Goverruaent, to rtrengthen the economy of the Territory by taking additional
neasures of diverelfication ln aU fteldE and dleveloping an adequate
infrastrrrcture rith a vier to reduclng the econonic dependence of the
terrltory on th€ rdninisterlng Poser t

10. Reaffirre the responslbll-ity of the adninisEering Power under the
charter to prffit. the econouic and soclal dleveloFent of the United States
Virgin Islande t

11. Urgcr the adlrninlsEering Potrer, ln co-operation rrith the Government
of the united States Virgln fsland6, to safeguard the lnalienable right of the
people of the Tctrltory to the enjoynent of their natural re€ources by taking
effective meaaurcs to guarantee their right to own and dispose of those
resources and to catablish and maintain control of thelr future developmenEt

12. Urqes tbc adnlnisterlng Po'lrer to seek in the caribbean GrouP for
Co-op€ratioq ln Eeonomic Developlent a stacus for the territorlal Government
sinilar to that ef other dependent Terrltoriea within the Groupt

13. Calls qpon the adninistering Poner to facilitate further the
participation of the United States Virgin Islantlg ln various regional
lntergovernnental bodles and organlzatlons, particularly in their central
organs. and in other organizatlons of the Unlted Nations systent

14. UrEes the adninistering Porrer to continue to take all heceissary
. neasures to co4rly fully with the purlbses and principle6 of the Charter, the

Declaration and the relevant resolutiona and decieions of the General Assembly
relating to milltrry activities and arrangenents by colonial Power s in
Territories urCcr their adninlatratlont

15. ConsldlerB that the pos€iblllty of sending a further visitirig nission
to the Uniteal st t€E Virgin Islandg at an appropriate time should be kept
under revievr '

16. lteouest$ the Speclal Corullttee to continue the examination of this
question at lts h.xt sessl.on' inclutllng the posgible dispatch of a further
visitlng mission to the Uniteal gtates Virgin lElands at an appropriate tlme
and in consultatlon rlth the adninigtering Power, and to report thereon to the
General Assenbly at ita forty-flrst session.



DRAFT RESOLI'8ION X

Quese lon of l{eatern Sahara

The General Assenbl9,

Faving coneidered in atepth the quest lon of Westcrn Sahara,

. - Recallinq the inalienable rtght of all people6 to selfdeterDination endlndePendence, ln ac@rdance t,ith the principles set f,orth in the Charter of,
the United Nationa and ln ceneEal Aseenbly resolutlon lgl4 {X\t) of
L4 Decenber 1960, contalning the Decrrratlon on the crantlng of rndependence
to Colonlal Countries and peoples,

Recalling its resolution 39/40 of 5 Decenb€r lggl on the question of
llestern Sahara,

Having consldered the relevant chapter of the report of the Sp€clal
Comlttee on the Sltuation nlth regard to the lqrlementatlon of the
Declaration on the Grantlng of Indelrendence to Colonlal @untrle8 andl
PeaE les, 37

taking note of the report of the Secretary-ceneral on the questlon of
lfestern Sahara, lq/

Recalung resolution AAG/Res.lo4 (XIx) on Western gah.ra. 39/ adopted bythe Assembly of EeadE of State and GoverDnent of the Organication of African
unr,ty at its ntneteenth ordinary aesslon, heLl at Addls Abeba froo 6 to
12 June 198 3,

1. neaftlrne that the quest lon of $eatern Sahara ls a queatlon of
alecolonlzatlon uhich rena lns to be corqrleted on the basts of the exer€ise by
the P€ople of tfestern Sahara of their lnaliensble right to self-deterninat lon
and inalependencet

?. Reaffirq8 also that the aol,utlon of, the guestloh of, tfe8tern Sahara
ries in urffiGiiiGEon of resolurton AHG/Res.1d4 (xrx) of the ,tssedly of
Eeads of, State ard Go\rernment oi the Organiration of African Unlty, rrhlch
eatabllshes yays anal rEana for a Juet antl deflnltlve aolutlon to the t{batern
Sahara conflictt

?lJ V40/23 (part vrr), chap. x.
W A/40/692 and @rr.I.
32/ Eot the text, see resolution 38,/,10, para. I.

A/$no6
Bngl i 8h
Page tll,



A/40/906
English
Page 42

3. Again requesta, to that etrd, the tro partles to the conflict, the
Kingdom of Morocco and the Frent€ PoFrler para h Llberacl6n de Sagula
el-Hamra y de Rfo de oro, to und€ttaks dlrect oegotlattons, ln the shortest
possible tlne, niEh a viee to brlnglng about a cease-flre to create the
necessary conat ltions for a peaceful and falr referendun for aelf-deterninat ion
of the people of l{eatern Sahara, a referendul rlthout any admlnlstratlve or
nilitary congtraints, under th€ aueplcee of the Orgenkatlon of African Uni ty
and Ehe United Nationa t

4. We1con€s the efforts of th€ current Chalrnan of the organizatlon of
Afrlcan unity and the Secretary-Geaeral of the Unlted tratlona to prdrote a
just ard definltlve aolut ion of the quastlon of tfeEEern sahara,

5. Invltee the curr€nt Chalruan of the Orgenlaation of Afrlcan Unlty
and the Secretary-General oE thc ltnitod lfat ions to ex€rt eyery effort to
persuade the tno parti€s to the confllct, thc f,lagdd of Uoreco ard the
Frente POLISARIO, to negotiate, in the shortest poeelble tlne, in confornlty
trith resolutlon Acc/nes.lo4 (XIXI of the Organlzatlon of African Unlty and the
preaent resolution, the terDa of a cease-flre and the nodalitles for
organizing the Bald referendurt

6. Beafflrtpg the deternination o! the gnt t€d Natlona to co-operate
fully with the Organization of Afrlcan Unlty elth a vieH to irq*enentlng the
relevant declsione of that Organlzatlon, ln partlcular resolutton
AHG/Re8.104 (XIX),

7. Requests the Speclal @tmlttca on the Sltuatlon rrlth regard to the
Irfiplenentatlon of the Declaratlon on the Grantlng of fndependlence to @Ionial
countrlea and Peoples to contlnue to conaider tha sltuation in Western Sahara
as a natter of priority and to r€por.t thereon to tb€ G€neral Aa8enbly at its
forty-first eession t

8. Invites the Secretary-General of the Organization of Afr lcan ttni ty
to keep the Secretary-GeneraL of th€ Unlted Nations infornetl of the progress
achieved in the inPlenentation of th€ aleclslons of the organlration of Afrlcan
unity relating to l{eatern gaharat

9. Invltes the Secratary-General to follor the sltuation ln tfestern
sahara closely, rdlth a vlen to the lqrleoentatlon of the present resolutlon,
and to report thereon to th6 ceneral ,fsseebly at lte forty-flrst sesEion.

29. The Fourth CoDDlttee also rec@rends to the General A€senbly the adoptlon of
the follorring draft con€ensuse€r



A/40/906
English
Pase 43

DRAFT CONSENSUS I

Question of Tokelau

?he General Assembly, having examined the reLevant chapters of the report
of the Special Coomittee on the Situation r+itb regard to the Irplenentation of
bhe Declaration on the cranting of Inalependence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples 4O_/ arldl havlng heard the state ent of the repreaentative of New
Zealand with regard to Tokelau, ll!/ notes with appreciatlon the wilLlngness ofthe adninistering Power to maintain iCs close co-operation wlth the United
Nations in the exercise of its responsibility towards Tokelau. The Assenbly
reaffirns the inalienabLe right of the people of Tokelau to self-dleterninat ion
and independence ln confornity with the Declaration on the cranting of
fndependence to Colonial @untries and peoples, contalned in Asserbly
re€olution 1514 (x\tl of 14 Decenber 1960, and reafflrrns further that it is the
resPonslbility of the adninlgtering porrer to keep the peopte of Tokelau fully
inforned of that right. fn this regard, the Assenbly notes that the people of
the Territory have expressed the view that, for the time being, they do not
wish bo review the nature of the existing relationship between Tokelau and
Neu Zealand but lhat they desire to be glven sone latltude and some alegree of
autonony in decision-naking. The Assenbr-y nelcones the assurances of the
administering Power Chat 1t wiu continue to b€ guided solely by the wishes of
the People of Tokelau as to the future status of the Terrltory and that it is
conunitted to respondlng positiveLy to the expreesed desires of the people of
Tokelau. The AssenbLy calls upon the administering poeer to continue its
progralune fosterlng arrareness anong the peopte of Tokelau of the posslbi!-ltles
open to then in the exercise of their rlght to selfdetermination and within
the context of its efforta to ensure the prea€rvation of the identity anc
culCural heritage. of the people of Tohelau. The Assenbly ls of the opinion
that the adninistering PoHer shouLd cont inue to inforn the Tokelauan people of
the consideration of their Territory by the United Nations. The Assembly
recognizes that the political and econonic developnent of TokeLau ls an
inportant elenent in the process of self-deternination. fn this connectlon r
the.Assenbly notea irith satisfaction that the ceneral IgIg (council) of
Tokelau is assurning greater authorlty in locaL potltlcal, economic and
financial affairs. the Assembly notes with satlgfactlon that the ceneral Fono
has established two additional conmitteeE to deal wtth heal-th and
agriculture. The AsEenbly notes further the continuing efforts of the
adninistering Power to promote the econonic developrent of the Territory and
the neasures it. ha5 taken to safeguard and guarantee the rights of the people
of Tokelau to all their natural- resources and the benefits derived therefrom.
In this regard, the Assembty also notes that the Tokelau public servlce, nith
suPPort fron the adrainistering posrer, is currently investigatlng ways of
inproving Tokelaurs copra groiring and narketing schemes. In particular, the
Assenbly notes with satisfaction the neasures being taken to lessen the

40/ A/40/23 (part rr), chap. rrr A/40/23 (part rrr), chap. rvr and A/40/23
(Part vII! , chap. xIrI.

3y see A/c.4/40/sR.Ls.



A/40/906
En911sh
Page 44

Territoryrs lEolation, nane!.y, the upgrading of teleconnunlcat ions facilities
and the study to determine the feaslbi.Lity of constructing landing str ips for
alrcraft on each of the three atolrs and the efforta to facilitate regular air
transport to the Territory. Ttle Assenbly ls of the opinion that the
adninister ing power should cont inue to expand its plograruIle of budgeEary
support and develolment aid to the Terrltory. The Asse[bty notes with
appreciatlon the continuing efforts of the adninistering power to nake
improvenents in the fields of public health, public irorks and education. The
Assenbry reiterates its erpreseion of appreciation to the atEcializecl agencies
and other organizatlons of the Unit€d Natlons systen, as well as to the
regional organlzations. for their assiatance to Tokelau anat calls upon then to
continue providing assistance to the Territory. Mindful that united Natlons
visiting missions provitle an effecttve neans of ascertalning the situation in
the small Territorles, the A€senbly welcomee lhe invitation fron the
admlnistering power, New Zealand, and fron the people of the Territory, to
send a visiting niasion during 1985 and notes the rel-ated decislon of the
special @mlttee. U f]tle A€senbly requests the Special corutittee to
continue to exa[ine the question at it€ next session and to report thereon to
the AssenbLy at its forty-firat sesgion.

DRAFT CONSBNSUS II

Questlon of pitcairn

The ceneral Assenbly, havtng exanined the relevant chapterE of the reporrof the special comlttee on the sltuation irith regard to the rmplementation of
the Declaratlon on the cranting of rndependence to coronlal countries and
Peoples, !!/ takes note of the statenent of the representative of the United
Kingdo of creat Brltain and Northern Ireland !!/ affirming that hisGovernnent I s policy rras one of respect for the-very indiviaruar rifestyle that
the people of the Territory had freely chosen and ihat it perceived iis role
as the administering power aa doing what lt could to preserve, pronote andprotect it. lPhe Assembly requests the Special Commlttee to continue to
exanine the questlon at its next session and to report thereon to the Assembry
at its forty-first sesslon.

DR.AET COIiISENSUS III

ouestion of Glbraltar
The ceneral AEsenbly, notlng that the ciovernments of Spain and of the

United Kingdon of Great Britaln and Northern freland agreed at Brusgels on

!3,/ Mqo/ZZ (part vII), chap. xrrl, IEra. 10.
lZt V4O/23 (Part rI), chap. rrr and A/40/23 (part vrr), chap. xrv.
!!/ See A/c.4/4o/sR.!s.



A/40/906
English
Page 45

27 November 1984 on a statement !l/ whereby they decided co apply, before15 February 1985, the l,isbon Declira tlon 3g1/ of I0 April I9g0 in all lts
Parts, noting that thls involved, slmulLaneously, the provi8ion of equality
and reciprocity of rights for spaniards in cibrittar and cibraltarians ir.
SPain, the esbabliahtent of the free novenent of persons, vehicles and goods
betrreen cibraltar and the nelghbouring territory and the establiEhment of anegotiatlng process, and noting that, as regaras this last polnt, the Brussels
statement stated the followingr r?he establishlent of a ne;otiating process
almed at overconlng all the differences between then over cibrartar and atpronoting co-operation on a nuCually beneflcial basis on economic, cultural-,touristic, aviation, mllitary and envlronrnental matters. Both sides acceptthat the issues of sovereignty *irr be discussed in that process. lrhe British
Government rdill fully rnaintain its corunitment to honour the wishes of thepeople of cibraltar as set out in the preanble of the.1969 Constltutionrl
welcones the fact that on 5 February l9g5 equality and reciprocity of rights
were established for spaniards in cibraltar anat cibraltarlans in spain,
together with the free movement of personsl vehictes and goods betueen
Gibraltar and the nelghbourlng territory, ielcomes the fact that the two
Governnents initiated, ln ceneva on 5 February 1995, the negotiatlng process
Provided for in the Brussers statenent and foieseen in the consensus ipproved
by the Assenbly on 14 December L9731 !!,/ and urges both covernnenta tocontinue the above-nenE ionect negotiatl6ns with the object of reaching a
rasting sorution to the problem of cibrartar in the tight of the reltvant
resolutions of the Assenbly and in the spirit of Che Charter of the Unltett
Natlons.

30. The Fourth cormnittee reconnends to the cenerar Assenbly the adoption of thefollowing draft dec islonr

DRAFT DECISION

guestlon of St. Eelena
The ceneral Assenbly, having examlned the relevant chapters of Ehe report

of the special connictee on the situation wlth regard Eo th; rr@lementation of
the Decraration on the Granting of rndependence to colonial countries and

!2./ e/lg/llzr dnn€x.

!!r/ See A/rc.109/603 and corr.l, para. 13.
47/ Ofticial Re"otdi of tt_,.= kn...l A ion,suppfem-ent s.



A/40/906
English
Page 46

Peoples ~ and having heard the statement of the representative of the United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 121 as the administering POwer,
reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of St. Helena to
self-determination and independence in conformity with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960. The Assembly notes the
commitment of the Government of the united Kingdom to respect the wishes of
the people of the Territory in relation to their future political status and,
in that regard, urges the administering Power, in consultation with the
Legislative Council and other representatives of the people of St. Helena, to
continue to take all necessary steps to ensure the speedy implementation of
the Declaration in respect of this Territory and in that connection reaffirms
the importance of promoting an·awareness among the people of St. Helena of the
possibilities open to them in the exercise of their right to
self-determination. The Assembly expresses the hope that the administering
POwer will continue to implement infrastructure and community development
projects aimed at improving the general welfare of the community and to
encourage local initiative and enterprise, particularly in the areas of
fisheries development, forestry, handicrafts and agriculture. The Assembly
reaffirmed that continued development assistance from the administering POwer,
together with any assistance that the international community might be able to
provide, constitutes an important means of developing the economic potential
of the Territory and of enhancing the capacity of its people to realize fully
the goals set forth in the relevant provisions of the Charter of the United
Nations. The Assembly notes with concern the presence of military facilities
on the dependency of Ascension Island and, in that regard, recalls all the
relevant United Nations resolutions and decisions concerning military bases
and installations in colonial and Non-Self-Governing Territories. Noting the
positive attitude of the administering power with respect to the question of
receiving United Nations visiting missions in the Territories under its
administration, the Assembly considers that the possibility of dispatching
such a mission to St. Helena at an appropriate time should be kept under
review. The Assembly requests the Special committee to continue to examine
the question at its·next session, including the possible dispatch of a
visiting mission to St. Helena, at an appropriate time and in consultation
with the administering POwer, and to report thereon to the Assembly at its
forty-first session.

~ A/40/23 (Part 11), chap. III A/40/23 (Part Ill), chap. IVl and A/40/23
(part VII), chap. XV.

~ See A/C.4/40/SR.19.


