








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/ 40/Lo07
9 December 1985
ENGL]SH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fortieth ses sion
Agenda iten 12

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Third Corunittee
RapporLeur! Mr. paul-D6si16 KABORE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

l. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 September 1985, the ceneral Assenbly, on the
recomnendation of the ceneral Coruni.ttee. decided to include in Ehe agenda of its
fortieth session the item entitled "Reporg of the Economic and Social CouncilH and
to allocate to Ehe Third Comnittee chapters I, II, III (sects. A to D, F and I).
IV (sects. A and c), V, VI (sec!s. A, C, D and F), VII, VIII and rx (sects. A Co C,
-E; ano !J. I/

2. The Third Comnittee decided to consider under agenda ilern 105 (Office of the
United Nations High Connissioner for Refugees) the chapters of the report of the
Economic and Social Council pertaining to specific cases of provision of assistance
to refugees.2/

3' The corunittee also decided to cansider under agenda iten 106 (International
canpaign against traffic in drugs), the relevant part of the report of the Economic
and Social Counci.l pertaining to the guestion of narcotic drugs, 3,/

L/ To be issued as Official Records of the ceneral Assembly, Fortieti'r
Session, Supplement No, 3 (A/4O/3/Rev.Il .

U For the report of the Third Connitlee on item 105, see L/4O/934.
y Eor the report of the Third Committee on iten 106, see A/4O/984.

85-36979 4660P (E)



^/4A/r007EngLish
Page 2

4. The chapters of the report of lhe Economic and social council pertaininq to
agenda itens 88 (Inplementation of the Prograrune of Action for the Second Decade to
combat Rac i.snn and Racial Discrimination) , 92 (united Nations Decade for wonen 3
Equality. Devetopment and Peace), 100 (Elirnination of all forms of discrinination
against wonen) and 104 (lnternational covenants on Human Rights) were considered
separately by the corulittee under those items. 4,/

5. The Third conmittee considered the iten at its 54th to 72nd meetings, on
26 November to 9 December t9B5' An account of the Cofiunibleers discussion is
contained in the relevant summarv records (A/c-3/4o/5R.54-72) '

6. At its 2nd neeting' on 23 Septenber, the cotnmittee decided that, pursuant to
General AssembLy resolution 3g/LO2 ot 14 SePtember 1984, the working Group on the
Drafting of an fnternational convention on the Protection of the Rights of A1l
l4igrant workers and Their Families wouLd meet during the fortieth session'

1. At the same meeLing, the conrnittee al-so decided that' pursuant to General
Assembly resolution 39/103 of 14 september 1984, the working Group on che
elaboration of the draft declaration on the human rights of individuals who are not
ciiizens of the country in which they live \tould rneet at the forEieth session'

8. In connection with item 12. the commietee had before it the followinq
docunentat ion r

{a) Report of the Econornic and social council (A/40/3), 1/

(c) Report of t.he sec retary-Gene r a I on the question of the international
Legal protection of the hurnan rights of individuals who are not cieizens of the
country in irhich they live (A/40/638 and Add.l-3) t

(d) Report of the sec r etary-Gene ra1 on the unibed Nations voluntary fund for
ind igenous populations (A/40/9381 i

(e) Note by the Sec r etary-cene ra1 on the protection of hurnan rights in Chile
lA/ 40 /64'1 and Corr.l) i

(f) Note by the Sec retar y-Gene r al on the situation of human rights in
E1 salvador (A/ 40 /8I8) i

(b) Report of the Secretary-GeneraI
Fascist and neo-Fascist activities and all
and pract j.ces based on racial intolerance,
and Add. 1-3 ) r

4/ For l-hP rPnnrfs of
A/ 40/86r, A/ 40 /LO08. A/40/927

the Thlrd comnittee on items A8,92, 100 and 104, see
and L/40/983 , resPectively.

on neasures to be taken against Nazi,
other forms of totalitarian ideologies
hatred and terror lA/40/ 232-E/1985/40

1/ see footnote 1.



A/40/IOO7
English
Page 3

(s) Note by the secretary-cene ral on the situation of hunan rights in
Afghaniscan @/ ao/8431 t

(h) Note by the Sec retary-cene ral on the situation of human rights in
Guatenala aA/40/8651 |

(i) Note by the secretary-cene ral on the siluation of hunan rights in the
Islamic Republic of Iran (A/40/8741 i

(j) Report of the open-endeal i{orking croup on the Etaboration of an
International Convention on the Protection of the Rlghts of AII lfigrant Workers and
Their Fanllies (A/C.3/40/L),

(k) RePort of the open-ended working croup on the Draftlng of an
International Convention on the Protection of lhe Right6 of All Migrant Workers and
t'heir I'anili€ s (A/c.3/40/61 t

(f) Note by the Secretary-cene ral on violations of hunan rights in southern
Africa (A/c.3 / A0 /7 | t

(ft) Report of the open-ended Working croup on lhe elaboration of the draft
declaration on the human rights of individuals who are not cilizens of the country
in which they tive (A/C.3/40/LZ| r

(n) Letter dated 10 January 1985 from the Charg6 draffaires a.l. of the
Perrnanent Mission of Israel to the United Nations addressed Co the
Secretary-cenet aI (A/40/77 | ,

(o) tetter dated 15 January 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of
Dernocratic Kanpuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-ceneral
@/ao/89-s/L68991 ,

(p) Letter dated 4 Mar.ch 1985 from the Permanent Representatlve of the United
States of Arnerica to the United Nations addressed to the Secre tary-Gene ral
lA/40/]-601 r

(S) Note verbale dated 1I March 1985 fron the Char96 d'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Yernen !o the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmittlng the Cexts of the Final Comrnuniqu6 and of
resolutions adopted at the Fifteenth Islanic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held
at Sanaa, Yemen Arab Republic, from 18 to 22 Decenber L985 (A/ 40 /T73-S/17 033) t

(r) IJetter daled 20 March 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of the
Gernan Denocratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the sec retary-cenera I
6/a0//20LJ t

(s) Letter dated I trlay 1985 fron the Pernanent Representative of Indonesia to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-ceneral lA/ 40/ 27 6-s/l7L38l t

(t) tetter daCed 13 May 1985 fron the permanent. Representative of Madagascar
to the Unlted Nations addressed Co the Secr etary-Genera I lA/40/3O81 i



A/ 40/1007
English
Page 4

(u) Letter dated 17 May 1985 fron the perrnanent Representative of
Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Sec retary-ceneral
(A/ 40 /320-E/L985 /82tl'

(v) Letter dated 28 May 1985 fron the pernanent Representative of
Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/ 40 /342-E/L98 5,/rl9 ) t

(w) Iretter dated l-7 June 1985 fron the Pernanent Representative of Israel to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/ 40/ 195-S/172921 |

(x) Letter dated 3 ,tuly 1985 fron the pernanent Representative of Costa Rlca
to t.he United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General lA/4O /458-E/L985/13 5 ) I

(y) Letter dat.ed 9 ,July 1985 fron the representatives of Australia, Belgium,
Canada, Denmark, France, cerrnany, Federal Republic of, Ireland, Italy, L,uxembourg,
th€ Netherlands, Nen zealand, Nornay, portugal, srreden, the United (ingdon of creat
Britain and Northern Ireland and the United states of Anerlca to the United Nations
addressed to the secretary-Gene ral aA/AO/ 4'g-E/Iggs/Lq3l ,

lz) Letter dated 20 August 1985 from the pernanent Representative of Bgypb to
the United Natlons addre€sed to lhe Secreta ry-ceneral (t/40/569l t

(aa) Letter dated 23 August 1985 from the Charg5 d'affal.res a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the Libyan Arab ilaftahlriya to the Unlted Nations addregsed Eo
the Secretary-ceneral (A/ 40/57 81t

(bb) Letter dated 29 Novembe r 1985 from the permanent Representative of
Afghanistan to the Unlted Nations addressed !o the Secretary-ceneral
(A/ 40 /958-s/t7660', t

(cc) Letter dated 6 Novembe r 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of Israet
to the Unieed Nations addressed to the Secretary-cene ral lA/C.3/40/9lt

(dd) Letter dated 4 Decenber fron the Pernanent Repre6enlative of the Islanic
Republic of Iran to the Unlted Nations addressed to Che Secretary-cene ral
(A/c.3/40/L3t,

(ee) Letter dated 5 December l-985 from the pernanent RepresentaCive of
Afghanistan to the United Natlons addressed to the Secretary-cene ral (A/C.3/4O/L41 .

9. At the 54th meeting, on 26 Novenber, the Assistant secretary-ceneral for Human
Rights made an introductory statement. At the sane neeting, statenents t,ere nade
by the Special Representative of the Corunisaion on Human RlghCs on the situation of
hunan rights in El Salvador, the Special Rapporteur of the Conmission on ltunan
Rights on the situation of human rights ln cuatemala and the representat lve of the
Office of the Unlted NaEions Disaster Relief Co-ordinator on energency assistance
to returnees and displaced persons in Chad.



A/40/roo7
Engl ish
Page 5

10. At the 55th meeting, on 27 Novenber. the special Rapporteurs of the Comnission
on lluman Rights on the situation of hurnan rights in Chile and the Islamic RePublic
of lran nade statenents.

11. At Che 59th meeting, on 2 Decenber, and at the 65th rneeting, on 5 Decemhr,
the sPecial Rapporteur of the Corurlission on Hunan Rights on the situation of hunan
rights in Afghanistan made a staeenent.

12. At the 59th meetlng, on 2 December, the reporc of the open-ended working Group
on the Drafting of an International convention on lhe Protection of the Right6 of
All Migrant leorkers and Their Families (A/C.3/40/6', was introduced.

13. At the 69th neeting, on 5 December, the chairman of the open-ended t{orking
Group on the elaborations of the draft declaration on lhe hurnan rlghts of
lndividuals who are not citizens of the country in which they live lA/C.3/4O/L2l
made an introductory statement.

rI. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/c.3/40lL.50

14. At the 55th meeting, on 2? Novenber, the representalive of the Bahanas
introduced a draft resolution lA/C.3/4o/L.50) entitled nstrategy and policies for
drug controlnr sponsored by the Bahanas, Bolivia, Malaysia' Morocco and srreden, as
well as by Costa Rica and Senegal.

15. At it6 55th meeting, on 27 Novenber, the Conrnittee adopted draft resolution
Me.3/4O/L.50 hrithout a vole (see para. 78, draf! resolutlon I).

B. Drafe resolution A/C.3/4 0/L.70

15. At the 59th rneeting, on 2 December, the representative of Mexico introduced a
draft resolut ion (A/C.3/40/L.?0) entsiEled nMeasures !o improve the situation and
ensure the human rights and dignity of all nigrant workersn' sponsored by Algelia,

Colombia, Ecuador Finland
Italy, Mall. Mexico, Iqorocco, Nicaragua, Norh'ay, Pakistan, Portugal, Rwanda'
Senegal, Spain, Sr.reden, Turkey and Yuqostavia, as rrell as by Tunisia.

17. A statenent subnitted by the secretary-cene ral on the progranme budqet
inplications of the draft resolution h,as contained in docunent A/C.3/40/L.'14.

I8. At its 60th meeting, on 2 Decenber, the Connittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/40/L.7O wlthout a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution II).



A/40/L007
Bngl ish
Page 6

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/40lL.32

19. The conmittee had before it the draft resolution recomrended by che Economic
and Social Council in its resolution 1985/38 of 30 May 1985, enlitled "United
Nations volunEary Fund for Indigenous PopulaEions". The text of the draft
resolutlon is contained in document A/c.t/4O/L.32.

20. At its TOth meeting, on 6 Decenber, Ehe Committee adoPted draft resolution
A/C.3/40/L.32 nithout a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution III).

D. Draft resolution Vc.3/40lL.54
2L. At the 69th neeting, on 5 December, the representative of zaire introduced a
draft resolutlon lVC.3/4O/L.54) entitled trAssistance to refugees in Sonalia',
sponsored by esh, Bar

ch
Denocrat of

tca t. Liberia
Arab J i. Maur tbe

ornan, Pak the l Arabla
the sudan, swaz Iand, syrian Arab Republic

Tunisla the united Arab
Bnirates' th€ United stabes of Amer ica, Yernen, Yugos!.avia, re and zanbia, as
well as by Brunei Darussalam, Cameroon, Iran (Islamic Republic of) ' Iraq, the Ig9lICoast (C6te drlvoire), Lebanon, the Eig and Sierra Leone.

22. At its TOth neeting, on S Decernber, the Committee adopted draft resoluEion
A/C.3/4O/L.64 rrithout a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution Iv).

E. Drafe resolution A,/C.3/40,/L.66

23. At the 69th neeting, on 5 December. the representative of zaire introduced a
draft resolut ion (AC.3/4o/L.65) entitled "Assistance to displaced persons in
Ethiopia", sponsored by nistan ta rna

Burk
ch Colonb

@ii@- the
Ganbia, German Denocrat

rs Democrat lc
lia, Morocco the@

ra Leone

ch

24. At its 70th rneeting, on
A/C.3/40/L.66 without a vote

5 Decernber, the
(aee para. 78,

Conunietee adopted draft resolut ion
draft resolution v).

St aziland' the
Ukrainian Soviet



F. Draft resolution A/C.3/40lL.67
25. At the 69th meetlng, on 5 Decemb€r, the representative of zaire introduced a
draft reaoluti,on (L/C.3/4O/L.67) entitled 'Hunanitarian assistance to refugees in
Djiboutin, sponsored by Algeria, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin,

Faso, Bu verde, the central Afr ican
Cbad the
the tsor Ethiopia

the Ganbia ederal of
Gu Hondur sla IT the Ivorv Coast

Jordan Kuwai t. Lebanon Lesotho, f,iber ia
the

A/40/roo7
English
Page 7

theMorocco, Nepal, the
tar Arabia Sierra Leone, S e.

smalia, Sr i Lanka , the Sudan, Swaziland, the Syrian Arab Republic, Ttra iland, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisla, Turkey, Usanda, the gg|!9LBLEslEEel. rhe EiLeq
RePublic of Tanzania, the United States of America, yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia and zimbabwe, as well as Brunei Darussalam and Iran (Islanic Republic of).

26. At it6 70th neeting, on 6 Decembe r, the Committee adopted draft resolution
VC.3/4O/L.67 r{ithout a voee (see para. 78, drafE resolution vI).

G. Draft resolut ion A/C.3/4O/L.72/Rev .L

27. At the 69th neeting, on 6 Decenber, Che representative of Zaire inCroduced a
revised draft resolut ion (A/C.3/4O/L.-12/ReV .L) entitted ,,situation of refugees in
the Sudan", sponsored by Algeria, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Botswana, Brunei

Burkina Faso Caneroon Verde, the al Afr
ic, Chad e Conoros s, Democratic Yemen

, Ghana, Greece

Coast d'Ivoire Jamaica Jordan
!4!so!ho, Llber the Mal i
tlauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Nepal, the Netherlands, Niger, Nigeria, Onan,
Pakistan, the Philippines, Qatar, Ronania, Rrranda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, S ia, sri the Sudan, Swaziland, the Syrian Arab

the United Arab

28. At its 70th meeting, on 6 Decernber, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A./C.3/ 40/f..72,/Rev.I without a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution VfI).

H. Draft resolut.ion A/C.3/40lL.78

29. At lhe 69th meeting, on 6 December, the representat.lve of zaire int.roduced a
draft resolut ion |A/C.3/40/L.78) entitled "Emergency assistance to returneea and
displaced persons in Chad, sponsored by Algeria, Burkina Faso, Caneroon, Cape
Verde, Che Central Afrtcan Republic, Chad, Chite, China, Conoros, Djibouti, Egypt,

nd
Enirates, the United (inqdom of creat Britain and Northern lre1and, the United
States of America, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia and 4!gE&.



A/40/LOO?
English
Page I

France, tbe Gabon, the canbia Feder
Indonesia, Itaty, the I MaIi, the

lands ia, Pakistan the sudan '
and zaire' as well as by the Congo.

30. At ics 70th neeting' on 6 December ' the Connittee adopted 
draft resolution

UC.3/4O/L.78 without a vote (see para. ?8' draft resolution VIII)'

r. Draft resolution A,/c.3/40,/L. glRev.1

3I. At rbe 69th neeting, on 5 Decenber, lhe rePresentative of Belgiun introduced a
revised draft resolut ion (A/C.3/40/L.48,/Rev.1) entitled rQuestlon of hunan rlghts
and fundanental freedons in Afghanistan", sponsored by Antigua and Barbuala'
Belgium, Canada' Costa Rica, Denmark, !'rance, Gernany, I'ederal Republic 9f,
IiCiand, Italy, Japan, Luxembourq, lhe Netherlands, Norway ' Portugal, 

saint Lucia,
Singalrcre, Spain, Sweden anl the Uniced Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, as weII as Greece and samoa.

32. At the 70th meeting, on 6 December, the representative of the syrian Arab
Regrblic proposed, under rule 74 (II5) of the rules of procedure, chat no action be
taken on draft resolut ions A/C.3/40/L.48,/Rev.1 art A/c.3/40/L.75 (see para. 43
belon). After a procedural debate, the chairman ruled that the proposal of the
Syrian Arab Republic was receivable under rule 115 (?4) of the iules of Procedure.
t|he representative of France challenged the rullng of the chalrman. urder rule 113
of the ruLes of procedure, the Comnitcee overruled the ruling of the Cbairndn by a
recorded vote of 60 to 37, with t5 abstenliona. The voting was as follotts! 9/

In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria' Belgiun, Bolivia, Brunel
DarussaLam, Canada, Central African RePubLic' Chad' chiIe,

Against:

colonbia, Costa Rica, Dem@ratic Kanpuchea, Denmark, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador ' El salvador, Fiji, 

Fi.nland, France, Germany'
FederaL Republic of, creece, Guatenala, Iceland' Indonesia,
Ire1and, Israel, rtaly, Ivory coast (C6be drlvoire), Janaica,
Japan, Luxenbourg, Malaysla, Mexico, NeEherlands, Nen zealard,
Norway, Pakistan' Panama, Papua New Guinea' Paraguay, Peru,
Phllippines, Porcugal, Ronania, Rr.anda, sanoa, senegal, sierra
Leone, si.ngapore, spain, Sweden, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and
Tobago' Turkey, united Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, united States of America, Uruguayr venezuela.

Afghanlstan, Angola, Bhutan, Boeswana, Brazll, Bulgaria'
Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, Cuba, Cyprus,
czechoslovakia, Democrat ic Yernen, Ethiopia' Gernan Denocratic
R€public, Ghana, Hungary, India, Iran (Islamic RePublic of), Lao
Peoplers Democratic Republlc, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, MauriEania,

V subsequently, the delegation of Romania ind icated that its vote should
have been recorded as againsc, inscead of in favour.



A/40/]-oo7
English
Page 9

Itlongolia, Mozanbique, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Poland, Qatar, SainE
Vlncent and the Grenadines, Syrian Arab Republicl Ukralnlan
soviet socialist Republic, Union of sovlet sociatist Republics,
United Arab Eniraees, UnlCed Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam,
Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zanbia, Z irnbabwe.

Abstainingr Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundi,
Caneroon, Egypt, crenada, cuinea, Iraq, Xenya, Ittali, Nepal'
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Uganda,

33. At the sarne meeting, the Cominittee adopted draft resolution
VC.3/4O/L.48lRev.1 by a recorded vote of 75 Eo 23. with 33 abstentions (see
parr. 78, draft resotution IX). The voting was as follons3

In favour ! Albanla, Antlgua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgi.un, Botswana, Brazll, Brunei
Darussalam, Canada, Chad, Chile, China, Colonbia, Costa Rica,
Dem@ratic Kanpuchea, Derunark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Egypt, Et Salvador, Fiji, France, cabon, cambia, cermany, Federal
Republic of, Greece, crenada, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Isr€el,
Italy, fvory Coast (C6te drlvolre), Janalca, .tapan, Jordan,
Xenya, Lesotho, Luxernbourg, Malaysia, Mexlco, Morocco,
Netherlands, New zealand, Niger, Nornay, Onan, Pakisean, Panana,
Papua Net, cuinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Rwanda,
Saint Vincent anal the crenadines, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra teone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Sweden, Thailand,
To9o, Turkey' United Xingdon of Great Britain and NorlheEn
Ireland, Uniled Seates of &[erica, Uruguay, Venezuela.

Againstt Afghanistan, Angola, Benin, Bulgaria, Byelorussj.an Soviet
S6lal1st Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic yemen,
Ethio,pla, German Denocrat ic Republic, Hungary, India, Lao
Feoplers DenocraEic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mongolia,
Nicaragua, Poland, Romania, Syrian Arab Republ-lc, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Unlon of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Republic of Tanzania, viet Nan.

Abstalningr Algeria, Bahamas, Bahraln, Bhutan, Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundir
Caneroon, Central African Republic, Congo, Clprus, Ecuador,
Pinland, Ghana, Guinea, Iraq, Kuwait, Madagascar, Maldives, Mali,
uauritania, Nepal, Nigerla, sri tanka, suriname, Seaziland,
lrlnidaal and lobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Yugoslavia, zalre, Zanbia,
Zinbabwe.

J. Draft resolution A/C.3/40,/L.79

34. At the 69th neeting, on 6 December, Che representative of Botsi'rana introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.3/4O/L.79) entitl-ed "Assistance to student refugees in
southern Africai, spongored by Algerla, Anqo]s, the @
Faao, Burundi, Caneroon, China, Conoros, the Congo, Djibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia,



^/ 
r0/L0o7

EngI lBh
Page l0

the canlcia a, the
LeEotho

the Iand
uganda, the teal Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslavia, zai re and , as well as
Guinea, Liberia. the Phllipplnes, Rwanda, Sierra lJeone and Z lnbabwe.

35. At itE 7I6t neeting. on 5 December, the committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3!4O/L.79 wlthout a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution x).

K. Draft resolution VC.3/40,/L'54
35. At the 66th meeting, on 5 Decenber, the representative of !ler( lco ihtroduced
draft resolutfon (NC.3/40/L,54) entitled rsituat.ion of hunan righta and
furdatnental freedons ln EI salvadorn, sponaored by Algeria, Costa Rica, t'rance,
Mexlco, Spaln, Sweden, venezuela and Yugosl-avia, as rrel1 as Dennark, Greece,
llorocco, the Netherlands and Norvrav.

37. At the TIst neeting, on.6 Decenber, the representative of Mexico revised
operative paragraph 8 by replacing the words "to receiven Uy chEG-ras 'to
collaborate in the reception ofn between the h'ord istaces" and nrefugeesi.

38. At the sane
a recorded vote
follorfs:

In favouf 3

meeting, the Conmittee voted on dlraft resolut lon NC.3/40/L.54 by
of 92 to 4, with 40 absten! ions. ttre result of the voting tas as

Afghanistan, ALbania, Algerla, Angola, Ancigua ard Barbuala'
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgiun, Benln,
Botswana, Brazill Bu1garia, Burkina Faso, Byelorussian soviet
socialist Republic, Canada, Colornbia, costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslolrakia, Dem@ratic Yemen, De [ark, Dominican Republic,
Eglpt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, canbia, cerman Denocratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, chana, creece, Guinea,
Guyana, Hungaryr Iceland, India, Iraqt Ireland, Italy' Jamaicat
ilapan' Kenya, Kunait, Lao Peoplers Denocratic Republic, LesoCho,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, l,lali, Mauritania, Mexicor
Mongolla, Morocco, Mozambique, Netherlands, Netr zealand,
Nicaraguar Nigeria, Norr.ray, Panarna, Papua New cuinea' Peru,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, Sanoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Seychelles, Spainl Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of creat Britain and NorEhern lreland,
United Republic of Tanzania, gruguay, venezuela, viet Nan,
Yugoslavia, Zanbia, z imbabwe.

Bangladesh, Chile, Indonesia, Paraguay.Aqainsts



A/ 40 /LO07
Eng118h
Page 11

Abstaining: Baharnas, Bhutan, Brunei Darussalam, Burrna, Burundi, Caneroon,
Cent.ral African Republic, Chad, Chlna, Congo, Democratic
Kanpuchea, Ecuador, EI Salvador, Fiji, cabon, Grenada, Guatenala,
Eonduras, rvory coast (c6te d,Ivolre), Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia,
Maldives, Nepal, Nigitr, onan, Pakistan, Philippinee, Ronanla,
saint vincent and the crenadines, S ingapore, Sonalia, sri Lanka,
Surinarne, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, United state6 of
America, yemen, Zaire.

39. At the sane rneeting, the representatiee of the United States of Anerica
Proposed that the draft. regolution be reconEidered under rule 123 of the rules of
procedure. Having obtained the required two-thirats najorlty, tbe Connittee decideil
by a recorded vote of 59 to 22, with 17 abstentions in favour of the propo6al to
reconsider the draft resolution. fhe result of the vot lng rras as follows3

In favour: Algeria, Anttgua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austrla,
Bangladesh, Barbadog, Belgium, Benin, BraziI, Canadar Chlle,
Colonbia, Costa Rica, Democratic Rarq)uchea, Denmark, tomlnlcan
Republic, Ecuador, El salvador, Ethiopia, Flji, Finland' France.
Gernany, Federal Republic of. Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Ilonduras, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Ivory Coast (C6te d'Ivoire) t
Jamaica, Japan, Luxembourg, Malaysia, I.tex ico, Morocco,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nornay, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Portugalr Saint vincent antl the crenadines,
Sanoa, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swedenr Turkey,
Uganda, United Kingdon of creat Britain and Notthern lreland,
United States of Arnerica, Venezuela.

Afghanistan, Angola. Bulgaria, Byelorusslan Soviet sociali6t
RePublic, central African Republic, cuba, czechoslovahlar
Denocratlc Yenen, Gernan Denocratic Republic, Hungary, Lao
Peoplers Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania,
Mongolia, Mozanbique, Nicaragual Poland, Seychelles, Ukralnian
Soviet socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republlcs'
Unlted Republ{c of Tanzania, viet Nan.

Aga inst s

Abstaining! Bhutan. Burna, Egypt, Canbla, Ghana, India, Iraq, Lebanon, Nepal,
Nigeria, Rotnania, Surinarne, Thailantl, Uruguay, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
zanbia.

40. At the sane
recorded vote of

In favour:

neeting, the Connittee adopted draft resolut ion A/C.3/40/L.54 by a
92 to 3, with 38 abatentions (see para. 78. draft resolution xI).

Afghanistan, Albania, Atgeria, Angola, Ant igua ard Barbuda,
Argentina, Augtralla, Austria, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Botswana, BraziI, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Byelorussian soviet
Sociallst Republic, Canada, Colonbla, Congo, CoBta Rlca, Cuba'
cl4)rus, Czechoslovakia, Dem@ratic Yemen, Denmark, Doninican
Republic, Fgypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, carnbia, cerman
Democrabic Republic, cermany, Federal Republic of, chana, Greece,



A/40/L007
Engllsh
Page 12

Guinea, cuyana, Hungary, Icetar*!, India, Iraq, Irelandr ltaly,
Janaicar Japanr xenya, Kuwai!, Lao Peoplers Democratic RePubllct
Lesotho' Llbyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, ltall' Maurltania'
lilexico, llongolia, llorocco, Mozanbique, NetheElands, New zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Papua New cuinea, Perut
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, sanoa, saudi Arabla, Senega!. r
Seychelles, Spain, Sudan, Swaziland, Sneden, Syrian Arab
Republic, ?o9o, Tunlsia, Uganda, Ukrainian Sovlet socialist
Repub1ic, Union of Soviet S€1ali6t Republic€, United Arab
Ernlrates, united Kingdon of creac Britain and Northern lreland,
Unlted Republlc of Tanzaniar Uruguay, Venezuela, viet Nan,
Yugoslavia, z lnbabne.

Againstr Chilercuatenala, Indonesia.

ry!!!!4i!9: Baharnas , Bhutan, Brunel DarussaLan, Burna , Burund i r Caneroon,
Central Afrlcan Republic, Chad, China, Democratic Karuruchea,
Ecuador, FiJt, cabon, Grenada, tlonduras, Ivory Coast (CAte
drlvoire), Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, l.lald ive6, Nepal. Nlger,
Ornan, Pakistan, Philippines, Rdnanla, Salnt Vincent and the
Grenadines, Slngapore, sonalia, Sri Lanka, surinane, Thallatd,
Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, United States of Anericar Yernen.
Zaire, Zanbla.



L. Draft resolution A/C. 3/40lL. sglRev. 2

41. At the 69tb meetlng, on 6 Decenb€r, the repreaentatlve of Sweden introduced a
reviaed draft resolution (A/C.3/40/L.sg/F(ev.2t entit.ted "situation of hunan Eighrs
and fundanental freedons in cuatemalan', aporu;oreal btr Austria, Canaala, Denmark,
France, Greece, freland, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain and Elg.
42. At its Tlst neeting, on 6 Decenber, the Connittee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3 /4O/L.59,/Rev. 2 brtr a recorded vote of 85 to 6, with 40 abstentiona (see
para. 78, draft resolution xII). The voting was as follorrsl

In favour:

^/40 
/L0o7

anglish
Page 13

Albania, Algeria, Angol-a, AnLigua and Barbuda, Argentlna.
Australia, Austrta, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgiun, Benin, Botgnana,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Byelorussian Soviet Soclalist
Republic, Canada, Colombia, congo, costa Rica, cuba, Cyprus,
Czecboslovakia, DernocraCic Yemen, Denmark, Dominican Republlc t
Ethiopia, Finland, France, canbia, German Denocratic Republlc,
GerrEny, Federal Republic of, Ghana, creece, Guyana, nrngary,
Iceland' India, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Janaica, Japan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao Peoplers DemocraEic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Janahlriya, Luxembourg, l,lali, Uauritania, Uexico, Uongolia,
Mo?anbique, Netherlands, Nen Zealand, Nlcaragua, Nigeria; Noruay,
PaPua Nen Gulnea, Polanal, Portugal, Qatar, Rsanda, Sanoa, Saudi
Arabia, senegal, spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrlan Arab Republlc'
Togo, Tunisia, uganda, ukrainian soviet soclalist Republlc, union
of Soviet Soclalist Republics, United Arab Erirates' United
Kingdon of creat Britain and Northern lreland, united Republic of
Tanzania' uruguayr venezuela, viet Nam, Yugoslavia' zanbia,
Z irTlbabwe .

Chile' El Salvador, cuatemala, Indoneaia, uorocco, Pakistan.

Bahamas, Bhutan, Brunel Darussalam, Bur$a, Burundi, Cameroon,
Central African Republ-lc, chad, china, Democratlc Kampuchea,
Ecuador ' Egt/t,t, Fiji, cabon, crenada, Honduras, Ivory Coast 

(C6te
drlvoire), Jordan, Lebanon, Malaysia, ualdives, Nepal, Niger,
or8an, Panama, Peru., Philippines, Romanla, saint vincent anal the
Grenadines, Singapore, Sornalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinarne,
Thailand, Trlnidad and Tobago, Turkey, United States of America,
Yenen. zai re.

Agains t :

Abstaininq !

!,1. Draft resolution A/C.3,/40lL.75

43. At the 69th meeting, on 6 D€cember, the representative of the Netherlantls
introduceat a draft resolution IA/C,3/40/L.jS) entiEled "situat.ion of hunan rlghts
in the Islamic Republic of Iran"r sponsored by Antiqua and Barbuda, Australia,
P.lgirr, c...d., crr antt the united
Kingdon of Great Britain and tlorthern Ireland, as nell as by @ggig and Sanoa.



A/40/LO07
English
Page 14

44. At the sane neeting, the representative of pakisEan noved Ehat no action be
taken on drafC resolution A/C.3/40/t.75. The motion was rejected by a recorded
vote of 55 to 28, l{itt! 29 abstentions. The voting \das as follows:

In favour !

Ase.iE!.:

AbsCaining:

45. At its Ttst

^/c.3/4o/L.75 
by

draft resolution

In favour:

Afghanislan, Albania, Angola, Bahrainr Bangladesh, Benin, Brunei
Darussalam, Cuba, Democratic Yenen, Ethj.opia, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Janabiriya,
MaLaysia, Mauritania, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nlcaragua, Pakistan,
Poland, Qatar, Ronania, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic'
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania.

Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austtla, Bahamas,
Barbaalos, Belgiufir, Bolivia, Brazil, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chile, Colonbia, Costa Rica, Denmark, Dor'nlnican
Republic 

' El salvador, Fiji, Finland, France, Germany, FederalRepublic of. creece, crenada, Ilonduras, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland'
Israel, Italy, Jvory coast (c6te drlvoire), Jamaica, .tapan,
Jordan, Kenya, Lesotho, Luxenbourg, Mexico, Morocco, Netherlands,
New zealand, Norway, panana, paraguay, peru, portugal, Rwanda,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, sanoa, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America, Venezuela, yemen.

Bhutan, Bolsnana, Burkina Faso, Burma, Chad, China, Clrprus,
Ecuador, Eq!'pt, Gabon, chana, cuinea, India, Mali, Nepal, Niger,
Onan, Philippines, Senegal, Somalia, Suda.n, surinane, Thailand,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, yugoslavia, Zanbia,
zinbabwe.

neeting, on 6 Decenber, the Connittee adopted draft resolution
a recorded voCe of 53 ta 22, with 4I abstentions (see para. 78,
XIII). The result of the voting vras as follovrs r

Anligua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Barbados,
Belgiurn, Botsr.rana, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Chile, Colonbia, Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Fiji, Finland, France, cermany,
Federal Republic of, creeee, crenada, Honduras, Ice1and, Iraq,
Ireland, Israel, ftaly, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Lesotho,
Luxenbou rg, Mexico, Netherlands, New zealand, Norway, Panarna,
Papua New Guinea, paraguay, peru, portugal, Rwanda, saint vincent
and the Grenadines, SatFa, Spain, Sweden, togo, Uganda, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdorn of creat Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America, Venezuela.

Albania, Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Cuba, Democratlc
Yemen, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) , Kuwai!, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malaysia, Nicaragua, pakistan. eatar, Romania, Saudi
Arabia' sudan, syrian Arab RepubLic, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of ?anzania, yenen.

Against !



A/40 /to07
English
Page 15

Abstalnings Baharnas, Bhutan, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, caneroon, Central Afrlcan Republic, chad, china, congo,
Cyprus, Ecuador, Egl/I)t, Ethiopia, cabon, chana, India, Ivory
Coast (C6te d,Ivoire), Japan, Malalives, Mauritania, Nepal, Nlger,
Nigeria, Ctnan, philippines, poland, Senegal, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Suriname, Swazilandl Thailanil, Trlniitaal and Tobago,
Tunisia, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zarnbia, Zlmbablre.

N. Draft resolutlon A/C.3/40,/L.26

15.. At the 69th neeting, on 6 December, the representative of the Byerorussiansoviet s*ialist lGpublic introduced a draft resoluti.on (A/c.3/40/L.76) entigred
"statua of the convention on the prevention and punlshdEnt of the cfine of
Genociden' sponsored bry the Byelorussian soviet sociarist Repubric and poland, as
well as Mongolla.

17.: fa its 71st neet.ing, on 6 December, the Comnittee adopteat draft resolutionA/C.3/40/L,76 nithout a vote (see para. ?8, draft resolution XIV).

o. Draft resolution A/C.3/40lL.7?
48._ At bhe 69th meeting, dn 6 December, the representative of De nark introduceddraft resolut ion (A/C.g/ 40,/L. 7? l entitledt "Sumnary or arbitrary executions r ,sponsored by Denna r k
p^itli:=.l.t*t carnbia, creece, rcerand=Forv

tne@
**g#* g and Ehe uniced K-inqdorn ofGreat Britain and nortlrern Ireland.
4?..-o. the ?tsr ^"".r*]l-l-*.ber, the representari.ve or @I.!, on behatfof the sponsors, revised operative paragraph z or trre draft resolution, taking intoaccount an oral proposal made by the representative of the Uniteil Kingdon, asfollows:

(a) To lnsert the $ords "by the appropriale authorities" betreeen the wordsnto be takenn and the irords nwhen a aealn occurs in custody" and
(b) To delete the rcrds "andl impartial investigationn.

50.-_At. the sane n€eting, the Commlttee aatopted draft resolut lon A/C.3/4O/L.77, aaorally revised, without a rrote (see para. 78, draft resolution xv).

P. . Draft resolutlon A/C.3/40lL.80
51. At the 69th neeting, on 6 Decenber, the representatlve of Morocco introduced
alraft. 

. 
resoturi on (A/c.g/Ao/L.80) enrirled "oecliration on the nGliTignt" oflndividuals who are not natlonals of bhe country in which they live". -



A/ r0 /t007
English
Page 16

52. At the same meeting' the representative of Morocco rnade the following
statenent:

"r should also like to state, as chal rnan-RaPporteur ' that 
the rnembers of

theGrouPconsiderthatlhea.|optionofthis.lraftdeclarationHillinnoway
PreJudic-e the rights that night be granted under any internalional 

instrument

which the General Assenbly oi any in!"rnational organization might consi'le!
andl adlopt in future, and 1n particular the draft International convention on
theProtectionoftheRightsofAlllitigran!t{orkergantltheirFanillesbeing
elaborated by the workin! eroop establishett under ceneral Assembly resolution
34/L72."

53. At the Tlst neeting' on 6 December, the representative of gglocco orally
revised paragraPh 1 of article 5 of the Declaration !o a'ltt the words "and 

subject

to Ehe relevant lnternational obligations of the state in {hich they are Pregentr
betr'eenlhewords"donesticla!,danilthev'ords.,inparticular''.

54. At the same neeting, the Committee adoPted draft resolut Lor. A/C.3/4O/L'80' as
orally revised, wichout a vote (see para' 78, draft resolutlon XVI)'

55. At the 66bh meeting' on 5 Decernb€r, the rePresentative of Mexico introduced 
a

aiafc resotut ion lA/c.3/40/L.8r) entitLed ',siruation of hunan rights and
fundamental freedoms in chile", sponsored by Algeriar Australia, cubgt pennark'
France, Greece, Italv, l,u:(enbou rq, Mexico' the
spaln, sneden and 89994}9.
56. At its Ttst meetlng' on 6 Decenber ' ttte Conrnittee 

adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/4O/L.SLbyarecordedvoteofS2tog,with3Sabstentions(aeepara'78'
ilraft resolution :(vII). The voting was as follows: 7,/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania' Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda '
nrgentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Barbados, BeLgiun, Benin.
Botsvrana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi' Byelorussian Soviet
socialist Republic, canada, congo, costa Rlca, cuba' cyprus'
czechoslovakia, Democraf,ic Yenen, flenmark, Ilominlcan RePublic t
EthloPia' Finland, x'rance, Gambia, German Democratic Republic '
cermany, Federal Republic of' Ghana' Greece, Guinea' Guyana'
ttungari, Iceland, India, Irelantl' rtaly' Jarnaica, Kenya, Kuwaitr
Lao PeoPIers Dernocratic Republic, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
-lamahiriya, Luxenbourg, Malatives, MaIi, ltaur itania' Mexico'
mongolia, Mozambique, Netherlands, New zealand ' Nicaragua'
Norway, Polanal, Portugal, Qatar, Ronania, Rvtanala ' Samoa, 

senegal,
spain; sri r,anka, sweden, iogo,'tunista, Uganda, ukrainian soviet
s;ciaiisc RePublic, Union of soviet socialist RePublics, Unitetl
Arab Emirates' Uniteal Kingalon of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uniteal Republlc of Tanzania' uruguay' venezuela, vi'et
Nam, Yugoslavia, zanbia, zirnbabwe '

Draft resol-ut Lon 
^/C.3/40/L,AL



Aoainsti Chile, El Salvador, Guatenala, fndonesia, Morocco, pakistan,
Paraguay, Thailand, United States of Amerlca.

Abstaininq3 Bahanas, Brazil, Brulei Darussalan, Burna, caneroon, @ntralAfrican Republic, Chad, China, colonbia, Denocratic Kanpuchea,
Ecuador, Egypt, Gabon, Grenada, Honduras, Ivory coast (a6tetl'Ivoire), Japan, Jordan, Ittalaysia, Nepal. Niger, Nigeria, ornan,
Panana, Papua Ne$ cuinea, peru, philippines, saint Vincent andthe crenadines, sauali Arabia, Singapore, somalia, sudan,
suriname, Swaziland, Trinidad and Tobago, ?urkey, yernen, zaire.

A/ 40 /L007
English
Page 17

R. Draft resotutlon A/C.3/40,/L.02

the representative of Austria introduced a
"fiunan rights in the administration of

57. 
- AC the 69th neeting, on 6 Decenbe r,draft resolut ion (A/C.3/4q/L. I2) entitled

Justicei, sponsored by Argentina, Austr

Ehe

@sta Rica
Samoa spain Srreden and

the Syrian Arab
whlch read as

l8: At the 71st meeting, on 6 December, the representative of the Departrnent ofrnternatlonal Bconomic and sociar Affairs of thi secretariat made a siatemenrregalding the programne buttget itnprications of the draft resolubion.

-??:, 
ol the sane meeting, the committee adopted draft resolut rol, A/c.3/40/L.82\rltlrout. a vote (see para. 79, draft resolution XvfII).

' s. Draft resolutlon A/C.3/40lL.83^ev,I

90'. 1! the 69th meeting' on 6 Decenber, the representative of the ukrainian sovietSocialist Republic introduced a alraft resotutio-n (A/C.3/40/L.g3./Rev. 1) enritledi Inadmi ssiblll ty of exploitation or alistortion of hunan rtghts lssues for
:::::::::T:.1n tb6,internat affairs of states", sponsored by Aneola,

at
Republic. the
follows r

U At Ehe 72nd meeting,
Chat its vote should have been

on 9 Decernber, the alelegalion of Burundi iildicateal
recorded as an abstentlon, instead of in favour,

and

" rn.__e"..."1 t"*^UU,

- 'RegaUing its resolutions 2131 (xx) of Zl Decenber 1965, containing theDeclaratlon on the Inadmisslbility of Intervention in the Donestic Affairs ofstates and the protect,lon of lheii Independence and sovereign ty, 2625 (xxv) of
24 October 1970 contatning the Dectaration on principles of Iniernational Iau



A/40/L007
Engllsh
Page l8

concerning Friendly Relations and co-oPeration among states in accordance wilh
lhe ctlarter of the unitett Nations and 36/103 of 9 December 1981 containing tbe
Declaration on the Inadrnissi bi lity of Intervention and Interference in the
Internal Affalrs of States, ained at crealing conditions for independ€nt and
free developnent of aI]- counEries and PeoPles,

rrNotinq that the international conrnun lty should accord or continue to
accord-priority to the gearch for solutions to the massive and flagranE
violatlon of hunan rights of Peoples and Persons as defined in its
resolution 32/L30 of 16 December 1977,

"Reaffirrning that, ln accordance with th.) ch-rter of the United Natlons.
no Stace has the right to intervene directly or lndirectly for any reason
whatsoever in the internal and external affairs of any state,

nBearing in mind that, in a@ordance with the PrinciPles proclained by
the crrEiIET] recognition of the inherent dignlty and of the equat and
lnalienable rights of aI1 members of the hurnan fanily is the foundation of
freedom, justice and Peace in the world,

nReaffirminq the obligatlon of states under the Charter to Pronote
universal respecE for and observance of human rights and freedons' in
accordance with the provlsions of the Universal Declaration of Hunan
Rights, g,/ the International Covenant on Economic, Social and cultural
Rights t and the InEernational covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 2,/

"considering that futt obsetvance of Ehe pr inclple of non-inte rvent ion
and noi]IilEi?EiEnce in lhe internal affairs of states ls of the grealest
inporEance for the promotion of hurnan righls and freedons and for the
fulfilment of the purposes and Princlples of the Charter,

"Being concerned by the persistent policy and practice of certain
covernnrents of the eiPloitation or distortion of human rights issues for the
purposes of interference in the internal affailg of States, and also for
unrelated political- end '

Reaffirms the duty of states !o refrain from the exPloitation or
dlstorlion of human rights issues as a neans of interference in the internal
affairs of states t

"2. CaIIs upon Governments to refrain from the exPloitatlon or
distortion-6Fl,.rntan righEs issues for interference in internal affairs of
States t

v Resolution 2I7 A (III).
Resolution 2200 A (xxl) r dhh€x'v



A/ 40/L007
Eng l ish
Page 19

'3. Condemns defanatory canpaign, villfication and hostile proPaganda by
ttre aparthFid r6gines of south Africa and Israel for the purpose of
prolongation of their illegitinate occupation and brutal oppression of Che
indigenous Eopulation and for interfering in the lnternal affairs of the
neighbouring States t

"4. Invltes Governnents !o conmunicate their viens on Ehe neasures
necessary to prevent the distortlon and exploitation of hunan rights issues so
that they not be usetl for the purposes contrary to the principles of
international law concernlng friendly relations and co-operation among Statest

"5. Requests the Sec reta ry-ceneral to gubnit a report to the General
Assenbly at its forty-first sessionl including the information subnitted in
accordance r'ith paragraph 4 of the present resolution,n

61. At the same meetlng, the represeneative of Pakistan introduced anendnents
|A/C.3/4O/L.9O) to the draft resolution, which read as follows !

"1. Tille: delete all the words after the word rlssuesr ln the second
Iine,

Insert a new lhird prearnbular paragraph to read as follows:
rReafflrninq the fundanental principle of the charter of the United

Nations that aLl States have the duty no! to threaten or use force
agalnst the Bovereignty, political independence or territorial integrity
of other States, I

"3, In the first line of
word rReaffirminqr add the word

the new fourth preambular paragraph, after the
I furtlrer | ,

"4. Re ord the first and second lines of the new seventh preambular
paragraph as foLlows r

'Considering that fuU observance of the prlnciples of respect for
sovereignty, political independence, territorial integrity of States,
non-use of force and non-interference in the internal affairs of States
are of the greatest imPortancer.

'rThe rest. of sentence renains unchanqed.

preambular paragraph I

I Concerned at the one-sided approach Co the hunan rights questions,
\.rhich increasingly ignores the need bo accord priority to the mas6 and
flagrant viotations of hunan rights of peoples and persons affected by
situations such as those resulting fron apartheid, all forns of racial
discrlrnination, colonialisrn, foreign doninalion and occupation,
aggression and threats agalnst national sovereignty, national unlty and
Cerritorial inCegrity, as rrelL as the refusal. to recognize the
fundanental righLs of peoples to sel f-dete rnination, I



A/40 /L0O7
Engl-i6h
Page 20

Anend the last preanbular paragraph as follous:
I concerned also at the evidence of exploitation ot distortion

hu$an rights issues, '

"7. RePlace operative paragraph I ith Ehe following two operative
ParagraPhs:

r1. Reaffirns that human rights violagions are a matter of concern
to the United Nationsrl

'2. Reaffirns also that in approaching hunan rights questlons lhe
countries should continue to accord priority to lhe search for solutions
to the nass and flagran! violations of hunan ri.ghts of peoples and
persons affected by situations such as those resuLting fron g!@5]r
all forns of racial d iscr ininati.on, colonialism, forelgn tlsnination and
occuPation' aggression and threats agalnst national sovereignty, national
unily and territorial integrily, as well as the refusal to recognize the
fundanenCal rigbt6 of peoples to self-dete rrnination I I

'r8. Renumber paragraph .2 and revise it to reaal as follotrs:
r3. Caltl ug GovernnEnts !o refrain from the exploitation or

distort ion-6F-hunan rights issues I

"9. Renumber the retnaining paragraphs accordingly."

62.Atthe7lstneeting,on5Decemb€r,therePresentaciveofthe@
Socialist Republlc oral-ly introduced a draft decision to read:

"The General Assemblv decides to postpone consideration to its
forty-first session of the draft resolution conlained in document
A/C.3/ 40/L.g3lRev. I and arnendnents thereto contained !^ t/C.3/40/L.90."

53. At the same neeting, the Comnittee adopted the draft decislon wlthout a vote
(see para. 79, draft decision I),

T. Draft resolution A/C.3,/4olf,.84

54. At the 59th neeting, on 6 Decembe r, the representative of France inbroduced a
draft resolut ion (A,/C.3/4OI/L.94) entitLed ',euestion of enforced or involuntary
di saPPearances'r, sponsored by Austria, Canada. Colombia, Costa Rica. France, the
Gambia, Gqrnany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Italt, Meiict uorocco, ttre
Netherlands, Portugal, Rwanda, senegal, spain, Sweden and the United Kingdon of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as well a6 Argentina, Bolivia and Luxenbourg.

65, At its 71st neecing, on 6 Decenbe r, the Conmittee adopted the draft resolution
without a vote (see para, ?9, draft resolution xlx).

of



A/ 40 /L0O7
English
Page 2l

U. Draft lesolut ion A/C.3/40/L,85
65. At the 69th neeting, on 6 Decenber, the representative of the G€rnan
Denocratic Repubuc introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/40/L.IS! entltleatilleasures to be taken against Nazi, Fascist and neo-Fascist activities and aII
other forns of totalitarlan ideologles and practlces based on racial intolerance,
hatretl and.terror., sponsored by Aiqhanlstan, Anqola, Bulqaria. the

Soc ia, Ge
the

and

67. At the sane neeting, the
qnq Northern Ireland, also on
lA/C.3/40/L,e9) to rhe drafr

Delete the words rincluding nazlsnr,
conforfirity lrith the sixteenth preambular
resolut.ion 39/IL4.t'

68. At the sa$e meeting, the representative of the
introductory part of paragraph 4 of the alEndnents

"Replace the seventh preambular paragraph
of the seventh preanbular paragraph of General
follows : "

representative of the Unlted Kinqdom of creat Britaln
behalf of the Netherlands, introduced anendnents

resolution. The arnendments read ag follows:
Insert the fourth preanbular paragraph after the exlsting sixth

preanbular paragraph,

'2. Insert the eighth prearnbular paragraph before the existing seventh
Preambular paragraph.

"3. Renunber che first eight preanbular paragraphs accordingly.
"4. Replace the seventh preambular paragraph (as renumbered) rith tbetext of ceneral Assernbly resolution 39/ll4 as follor{s:

'Enphasizing lhat aU totalitarian or other ldeologles and
practices, including Nazi, FascisE and neo-Fascist, based on raclal or
ethnic exclusiveness or intolerance, hatred, terror or systexnatic denial
of human rights and fundarnental freedoms, or which have sucb
consequences, nay jeopardize lvorld peace and constitute obstacles Co
friendly relations between States and to the realization of hunan rights
and fundamental freedons. I

'5. Replace the ninth prearnbular paragraph wlth the text of the eighth
Preanbular paragraph of @neral Assembl-y resolution 39/lL4 by deleting the
nords rand have set up legal regulations which are suited to prevent Lhe
actlvities of Nazi, Fascist and neo-Fascist groups and organlzations, and
subscltuting the $ords rwhich are the basis of a denocratic society anat the
best bulHark against totatitarian ideologies and practices.l

Tpelfth preambqlar paragraph, third Iine

fascism and neo-facisn' in
paragraph of ceneral Assenbly

United Kingdom revised the
to read:

(as renunbered) \rith the text
Assenbly resolution 391114 as



^/40/LOo?English
Page 22

59'Atthesanemeeting,therePregentativeofthe@
orally revised draft resolutlon A/C.3/40/L.85 as follor.rs!

(a) fn the ninth preambular paragraPh nnhlch are lhe basis of a democratlc
society and the beat bubtark against totalitarian ldeologles and Practices' was
inserted betseen tlre sords ihuman beings" and nand have set up legal regulations"

(b) The nords "including naaism, fagcisn and neo-fascisn" at tbe end of the
tse:.fth preanbular paragraph were deleted.

70. At the 7l9t meeting' on 6 December, the representative of the 9gIIg
D€noc ratic [Gpub1ic further orally revised Ehe draft resolution, taking into
account EorE of tbe arEndrEnts contained in docurnent \/c.3/40/L.89, as follows:

(a) Tbe fourth preanbulaE paragraph beginnlng $ith the Hords nuindful that
the fortleth anniversary' vras pLaced after the E eventeenth preanbular Paragraph,

(b) tlte eighth preanbular paragraph was rePlaced by the following:

'Enphaslzlnq that all totalibarian. or other itleologies and practlces,
including Nazl, Fascist and neo-Fascisb, based on raclal or ethnic
excluslveness or intolerance, hatred, terror or sysEenatic tlenial of hunan
rights and fundarnental freedons, or which have such consequencea ' nayjeopardize rrorld peace and constltute ob€tacles to friendly relations b€tween
States anat to the realizaEion of hunan rights and fundanental freedonsr.

?1. Ab its Tlst rneeting, on 6 Decenber, the representative of the United Kinqdom
on behaLf of the slronsors withdren the amendnenta c'ontained in docunent
A/C.1/40/L.89.

72. At the same neeting, the coffnittee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/AO/L.85' as
orally revised, by a recorded vote of 95 to 2, wlth 24 abstentlons (see para. 78,
ilraft resolution XX), The voting was as follows:

In favou r: Afghanistan, Algerla, Angola, Argentina' Austriar Bahrain,
Bangladeshr Benln, Bolivia, Eotseana, Brazilr Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burna, Burundi, Byelorusslan soviet socialist RePublict
caneroon, Central African Republic, Chad' chile, Chlna,
Colombia, congo, coata Rica, cubar clrprus ' czechoslovakia,
D€lnoc ratic yenen, Djibouti, Doninican Republlc, Ecuador, Egypt,
El salvador ' Ethiopia' Flji, 

Finland ' Gabon, 
Ganbla, Gernan

Denocratic Republic, Ghana, Gulnea, Guyana, Hungary, lndon€sia,
fran (Islardc Republic of), Ivory @ast (C6te drfvoire),
Jordan, Kenya, Kunait, Lao Peoplers Denocratlc RePublic,
Lebanon, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar r Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, llorocco, l.lozambique, NePal, Nicaragua, Nigert
Nigeria, Pakistanr Panarna, Peru, Philippines, Poland, gatar,
Ronania, R anda, saudi Arabiar senegal, Srl Lanka, Sudan'
Surinarne, Swaziland, Sweden, syrian Arab RePublic, Thallanat,
To{to, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunlsla, Turkey, uganda, ukralnian
soviet socialist Republic, Union of SovieC socialist RePublics '
uhibeal Arab EniraEes, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
venezuela, viet Nan, Yemen, Yugoslavia, zalre, zambia, zinbabwe.



A/40/L007
BngLlsh
Page 23

Againsts Israel, United States of Nnerica.
Abstainlngr Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Bahamas, Barbados, Belgiun,

canada, Denmark, France, cernany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Grenada, Iceland, Ireland, Italyi Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
Nen Zealand, ltorway, Onan, papua Ne$ cuinea, portugal, Spaln,
Unlted Kingdon of Great Bri.taln and Northern lrel-and.

V. Draft reso:.ution A,/C.3,/40lL.85
73. At the 69th neeting, on G D,ecenber, che representative of canada introduced a
draft resolutlon lA/C.3/49/t.85) entitled ,,Hunan righcs and mass exoduses',
aponsored W Australia, Canada, Colonbla, costa Rica, Gernany, Federal Republic of,
atapan and the Sudan, as trell as Bangladesh, Jordan, pakistan and Rwanita.
74. At the 71st neeting, on 6 December, the representative of Ctnatta orally
revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) Footnote I was re$orded to read .,8/CN.4/1503*'it

(b) The penultinate preanbular paragraph was deletedt
(c) The rcrds nincluding the designatlon of special representatives on

hunanitarian lssues on an ad hoc basisn in operative paragraph 3 were deleteal,
(d) The $ords "as mentloned in the secreta ry-Gene ral I s report on the work of

the Organizatlon at the thirty-nlnth sessioni were inserted at the end of operative
paragraph 4.

75. At the same neeting, the Connittee adopted the revised draft resolutionyithout a vote (see para. 78, draft resolution xxl).

x. Draft decision proposed bv the Chairman

76. At the 70th neeting, on 6 Decenber, the Chairnan orally proposed the aaloption
of a draft decision, whlch read as follows:

"The General Assenbly considers lhat the neeting of the Working croup of
GovernnEntal Experts on the Right to DevelopnenE, scheduled to be held in
January 1986, should be postponed to a laeer dater so as to enable the
CoNnmission on Hunan Rights, a! its forey-gecond session, to provide the
Working croup with appropriate guidance for its future work, in the ltght of
the relevant dlscussions and decisions of the fortieth sesslon of the General
Assembly. '

77. At che same neetlng, the conmlttee adopteal the atraft decision withour a vore
(aee para. 79, draft declsion II).



A/ro/roo1
Bnglish
Page 24

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE IBIRD COUI,IITTEE

78. The Third Corunittee recornnends to the General As8enbly for adoption the
following draft resolutions :

DRAFT RESOI,UTION I

strategv and policles for drug conbrol

The General Assembly,

Recalling its reBolution 32/L21 of 16 Decemb€ t 1977. by which it
requested the Commigslon on Narcotic Drugs to stualy the possibility of
launching a nnaningful prograrune of international drug abuse control strategy
and pollc ies,

Recallinq also its resolution 361168 of 16 Decernber 1981, by tfhich it
adopted the Internatlonal Drug Abuse control strateqy and baslc five-year
progranne of action !V proPosea hry the Cmmission on Narcotic Drugs in its
resolution I (xXIx) of U february 198L, as nell as its resolution 38/98 of
16 Decenbe r 1983, by irhich it dec ltled that beg inning with its eighth sPecial
sessLon, lhe cornmission on Narcotic Drugs, neeting in plenary tluring its
eegsions and in the presence of all interested observers, wouldl c€nstitute the
task force envisaged ln cjeneral Assetobly resoluEion 35/168 to revielt, nonitor
and co-ordinate the inpLernentation of the drug abuae control sttategy and the
programnE of action,

IgEllg resolution 2 (lHxI) of 20 rebruary 1985 of the @nnission on
Narcotic Drugs and Economic and social council decision 1985,/130,

ApProvea the Programrc of action for 1986, the fifth year of the Uniteal
Nations baalc five-year ProgramnE of the internatlonal drug control strategy,
revlewed by the comtnlssion on NaEcotic Drugs at its thirty-first session. !y

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

lleasures to inprove Ehe situation and ensure the
hunan rights and dignlty of aU mlgrant rrorkers

@Ir,
Reafflrrninq once more the permanen! validity of the princiPles and

sttndards ernbod ied in the baslc in8trunents regarding the international

L9/
No. 4 (E,/19

l/ See A/40/773, annex.



A/4O/LOO7
English
Page 25

protection of hurnan rights, in particular in the Universal Declaration of
8u[an Rights, Ly the International Covenants on Hurnan Rights, L3/ theInternational Convention on the Etinlnatlon of A1l porns of nacial
Disctlminatlon !l/ and the Convention on the Elinination of A11 Forms of
Dlscrlrnination against Wonen, l5l

Bearing ln nind the principles and standarcls estabLisheal within the
franreirork of the Interhational Labour Organisation and the Unitett Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organlzatlon, and the importance of the
task carried out in connection uith migrant workers and their fanilies in
other specialized agencies and ln various organs of the Uniteit Nacions,

Reiterat.inq that, in spite of the exlstence of an already established
ttody of princlples and standards, there is a need to make further efforts ro
inProve the sltuation and ensure the hurnan rights and dignity of all rnigrant
workers and their fanilies,

Recalling its resolution 34/L72 of 17 Decenbe r !979. by which it ilec icled
to establish a working group open to all Menbe r States to elaborate an
international convention on the protectlon of the rights of atl migrant
workers and their fanl lies,

Recalling also its reeolutions 35ll98 of 15 Decernber 1980, 36/L5O of
16 Decenbe r LgA]-. 37 /L70 of 17 Decenbe r 1982, 3g/96 of 16 December l9B3 and
39 /L02 of 14 December 1984, by which it renered the mandate of the working
Group on the Drafting of an International Convention on the protection of the
Rights of AII Migrant Workers and Their Farnllles and requested it to crontinue
its uork t

Ilavlng examined the progress nade by the working croup during its fifth
intersessional neeting, held frorn 3 to 14 itune 1995, 16/ as well as the report
of lhe Working croup during the current session of the ceneral Assembly, !zduring rhich the nbrking croup continued wieh the second reading of the draft
of the Convention,

v/
p/
L!/
15/

!s/
y/

Resolution 217 A (III).

Resolutlon 2200 A (XXl), annex.

Resolullon 2f05 A (XX), ?Dn€X.

Resolution 34118 0.

^/c.3/40/L.
vc.3/40/6.



^/40/Lo01English
Page 25

L8/
!g-!' (E'lr

l. Takes nobe with satisfaction of the reports of the working GrouP on
the orafttnq of an fnternational O tion on the Procection of the Rights of
AU Migrant workers and ?heir Famllies, in particular of the progress made by
the Group on lhe drafting, in second readlng of the Draft convention,

2. Decides that, in order to enable it to conPlete itB task as soon as
Possible, ttre florttng Group shall again hold an inter-sessional meeting of
two $eeks I duration in New York, imtnediately after the first regular session
of 1986 of the Bconomic and soclal Councill

3. Invites the Secretary-Gene ral to transmit to Gover nents the reports
of the working Group so as to enable lhe tnenbers of the Group to contlnue the
draftlng, ln second reading, of the Draft Convengion during the
inter-sesslonal neeting to be hell in the spring of 1985, as welL as to
transnlt the results obtainetl at that neeEing to hhe General Assenbly for
consideration during its forty-first session;

4. Also invites the Sec retary-Gene ral to transnit the above-mentioned
d@unrents to ttte co*petent organs of the United Nations and to lnternational
organizations concerned, for thelr lnfornationt 3o as to enable them to
continue their co-operation with the nbrking Groupt

5. Decides that the working Group shall neet durlng the forty-first
sesslon of tiie Ceneral Assenbly' preferably at the beginning of the segsion'
to @ntlnue the second reading of the draft inlernablonal convention on the
ProEection of the rlghts of all migrant rdorkers and their fanilies.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Unlted Nations Voluntarv Fund for Indigenous Populationg

The ceneral Assembly,

Taking note of Econonic and social council resolution L982/34 of
Z r'fay tS82, by tthich the council authorized the sub-Corutlssion on Prevention
of DiscrininaEion and Protection of Minorities to establish annually a working
group on lndigenous populations,

Taking note of Comnisslon on Human Rights resolutton r984l32 of
12 March 1984, 18/

Convinced that the establishnent of a voluntary Erust fund for intligenous
populations would constitut€ a significant developnent for the future
promotlon and protection of the human rights of indigenous poPulations t



Decides to eEtablish a voluntary trust

A/40/L007
English
Page 27

fund in accordance with the
follorring cr i te ria;

(a) T'lxe name of the fund shall be the United Nations VolunEarv Fund for
Indigenous Populations,

(b) Ttle Purpose of the Funal shall be to assist (epresenlatlves of
indigenous connunitles and organizations to partictpate in the aleliberationE
of the worklng Group on Indigenous populatione by provicting then elth
financiaL assistance, fundeal by meahs of voluntary conbrlbutions from
Governnenta, non-gove rnmental organizations and other private or publlc
enli ties t

(c) The only type of activity to be supported by the Fund is that
tlescribed in subparagraph (b) above t

(d) The only beneflclaries of assistance from lhe Fund shall be
rePresentatlves of indigenous peoples I organizatlons and conmunitless

(i) I{ho are so considered btr the Board of TrusteeE of the Unlted Natlons
voluntary Fund for Indigenous populatlons descrlbed in
subparagraph (e) belowl

(fi) Who would not, in the opinion of th€ Board, be able to attend lhe
sessions of the Working croup without the aggistance provided by the
Fund ,

(iii) Who would be able to contribute to a deeper knowledge on tbe part of
.the working Group of lhe problems affecting indigenous populatlons
and who would secure a broad geographical representatlon,

(e! Ehe Suntl shall be administereal in a@ordance wilh the Einancial
Regulations and Rules of the Unileal Nations and obher relevant provlsions set
forth in the annex to the note by the secretary-ceneral, l!./ wlth the adviceof a Board of Trustees composed of flve persons with relevant experience on
issues affecting indigenous populations, who will serve In thelr personal
capacity, the nenbers of the Board of Trustees shall be appointed by the
Sec reta ry-General for a three-year term renelrable in consullation wlth the
current Challnan of the Sub{omsissionr at leaat one tnernbe r of the Board shall
be a representative of a widely-recognized organizatlon of indigenous people.

g/ E/C\r, 4/Sob.2/L983/2O.



A/ 40/LOO?
English
Page 28

DRAFT RBSOI,UTION IV

Asaistance to fefugees in Sonalia

The ceneral Assenbly '
RecalLing lts resolutionB 35./180 of 15 Decenber 1980, 361153 of

16 December I98f, 37/L74 of 17 D€cembe r !.982, 38/88 of 16 December l'983 and
39 /LO4 of 14 Novenber 1984 on the question of assistance to refugees in
somalla,

I{aving considered the report of the United Nations High Cornnissioner for
raefugees on assistance to refugees in Sonalla 4/ tn particular section Iv of
that report,

Taking nobe of the report of the Secretary-Gene ral on assistance to
refugees in Af r ica , 4/

Deeply conceEned that the refugee problen ln Sornalla haa not yet been
resolved,

Arrare of the atlditional burden inposed by lhe nen influx of refugees anil
the consequent urgent need for additional international asslstance,

Aware of continuing and serlous Bhortfa!.ls in the provision of food
assiaLance' which have resulted in ,ilangerous ration restrictlons, epidemics
related to nalnutrition, other shortages and extreme hardship in refugee canps
in sonalia '

Recognlzing from the recommendations contalned in the reports of the F19h
Conmissioner that there rernalns an urgent need for increaaed assigtance in lhe
provision of food, water and rnedicines, ln the areas of transport antl
logistics, shelter and donestic items, constructlon, bhe strengthening of
health and educatlonal facillties, and the expansion of the nunber of
self-help schenes, snall-scale farning and settlenent projects necesaary for
the pronotion of self-reliance anong the refugees,

Anare of the continued consequences of the social and econonic burden
Placed on the covernment and people of SonaLia as a result of the contlnued
Presence of refugees and nen refugee flows and the conseguent inPact on
national developnent and the infrastructure of the country,

1. Takes note of the report of the Uniteal Nations High @nnissionet for
Refugees,

4/ 
^/40/586,

2L1 A/40/425.



A/40/1007
anglish
Page 29

2. Expresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General and the OnLtedNations aig-[-corun-imne r for Refugees for their continued effort6 to noblllzeinternaEional assistance on behalf of the refugees ln Sonalia,

._ ^_]:.. 
Tikes note with satlafactlon of the assistance rendered to refugeeErn sonarla by various Menbe r States, the Office of the United NationE ttigh@tnrnlssioner for Refugees, the lqorld Food prograntne, the Uniteat Natlonschlldrenrs Funal and other concerned intergove;nrEntal and nonjovernnEntalorgani zations,

1. Appeals to Menbe r states, international organizaEions anat voluntaryagencies to render naximum anil tlnely naterlal, financlal and technicalassistance to the covernnent of somalia in its efforts to provicle allnecessary assistance to the refugees,

.:. . 9urt.her appeals to the donor consunity to give urgent and faeourableconsloeratron to the developrBnt-related refugee projects gubtlltted to thesecond rnternational conferince on Assistance-to iefugees in Africa by theSomati GovernflEnt and bo fuUi1 the pledges undertaken at or after thatConference,

_ 6. Requests the Etgh connissloner, in consultatlon rrith thesecretary-ceneral, to apprise che Econonic anal sociar councll, at its secondregular session of 1906, of the refugee situation in Somalia,

_ 7. Further requegts the High Conmissioner, ln consultatlon wlth therec retary-cenerar, to submlt a report to the General Assenbry at itsforty-first session on the progress achieved in the inplenenlation of Ehepresent reFolution.

DRAFT RESOLIIIION V

The General Assenbly,

Recalling lts resolutions lS,zSt of 5 Decenbe r 19g0, 36116I of
16 

_December L9A]-, g7 /L7S of 17 Decenbe r Lgg2, jg/9l of 16 December 1983 anat
39 /L05 of 14 Decenb€r 198{ andt Econornic and iocial council resorutlon. Lgilo/5aof 24 iruly 1980 and t982/2 of 27 April t982,

_ RecaUing a+so the report of the Secretary-ceneral, prepared pursuant toEcononlc antl Sociat Council resolutlon I98O/8 ;f 28 April L9gg, ZZ,/

Zy A/35/360 and corr,I.



A/40/L007
English
Page 30

Taking note of the report o€ the secretary-Gene ral on assistance to
displaced persons tn Ethiopla, :3./

Havlng consldereal the report of the Unlted Nations High Connissioner for
nef ugees, 2!.,/

Recognizinq the increasing nunber of voluntary returnees and refugees in
EthloPia,

f,teeply concerned at the plight of displaced Eersons and voluntary
returnees ln the country, which has b€€n aggravated by the devasEating effecb
of the prolonged drought,

@ of the heavy burtten placed on the Governnent of EthioPia in caring
for atisplaced persorut anat vlctims of natural disasters, as t'ell' as for
returnees and refugees,

I. Conrnends the efforts tnade so far by various organs of the Unlted
Nations and the specializd agencles in nobilizing humanleari.an assistance to
assist the efforts of the covernnent of Ethiopiat

2. Appeals to Member states and Eo lngernational organizations and
vohrntary agencies to render max irnul naterial, financlal and technical
assistance to the @vernrEnt of Ethiopia ln its efforts to Provide relief and
rehabilitation to ilisplaced persons, voluntary returneea and refugees in
EthioPia t

3. Requesta the United Nations ltigh Conmissioner for Refugees to
intensify his efforts in rnobillzing hunanitarian assiBtance for the relief,
rehabilltation and resettlenent of voluntary returnees, refugees aod disPlaced
persons in EthioPia,

4. Requests the secreEary-ceneral, in co-operatlon with the High
@nnissloner, to apprise the Econonic and soclal Council aE lts Eecond regular
session of L986, of the implementation of the present resolution anal to relrort
ehereon to the ceneral AssenbLv ac it.s fortv-first session.

21/

4/
No. 12 (

A/40/587.

off
40 /r2l .

Records of the



A/40/tO07
Eng 1t sh
Page 31

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Huftanitarian assigtance to refugees in Diibouti

the Government
neans, to cope

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resotutlons 35482 of 15 Decenber l9BO, 3Gl15G of
lf ,?T".FI L98I, 37/L76 of l7 Decenbe r Lgsz, 3g/sg of. t6 Decenbe r t9g3 andsrlLut ot I4 Decenbe r lg84 on humanitari.an assistance to refugees in Djtboutll

-,-. Ia:+q lreard the statemnt nade on Il November 1985 by the Unlteal Nationsdrgn connissioner for Refugees, 25,/

"irn :::":.:::i:.::":n:"":::::.::.i:""Dj lboutl, 4,/
-- _.tPprggiatinq.the deterrnined and sustained effort naate byof Djibout.i, despite its nodest econonic reBources anal linitedwlth the pressing needls of the refugees,

- 
Aware of the social and econornic burdlen placed on the GovernlEnt andpeople of DJ ibouti as a result of the presencl of ,.fog.es and of the

consequent impact on the develop[Ent and infragtruct.ure of the country,

. 
DeePIy concer+ed about the continuing plight of the refugees anttqrspraceal frersons ln the countryr which has been aggravated by the devastaEingeffects of the prolonged droughl,

-,__ 
N!!in{t will appleciaEion the steps taken by the covernment of DJ iboutl incrose co-operation rrieh the l{igh Commlssioner to inplerEnt adeguate,aPPropriate and lasting solucions in respect of the refugees tn Djibouti,

^--._llsg 
ngtsinq.nith appreciation the concern and unremitting efforts of theuEllce of the United Nat.ions lligl Cornniseloner for Refugees, ihe Unitea

Nat-lona DeveloptEnt programte, the Uniteat Natlons Childrenrs Fund, the WorldHealth Organization, the wor ltt Food progranne, the pood and Agricultureorganlzation of the united Nations, the inte rgovernnental and nonS.verntnentalorganlzations and the voruncary agencies whici trave worked crosery eith theGovernnent of Djibouti in the relief and rehabilitation progranflE of therefugees in that country,

2!/
Cnmlttee,

39/ see of
Supplenenc No. t2 (A/4O/LZI.- and A/40



^/ 
10 /Loo?

English
Page 32

1. Takes note nith appreciation of the reports of bhe United Natlons
Itigh commissioner for nerrgffin hu..nitar ian assistance to ref ugees in
Djibouti and apPreciates his efforts to keep their situatiori under constant
review t

2. welcones the steps taken by the @vernnent of -Djibouti:-l:^:i?::^
c.-operatlo:-n "rilh 

the High Commissioner, to imPlenent adequate, aPProprrare
ind iasting solutions in respect of the refugees in Djiboutit

3. Requests the High Conmissioner !o nobilize the n€cessary re€ources
to iroplemeiGETng soluiions in resPect of the ref ugees ln D j ibouti t

4. glf the gigh Comrnissioner to continue to take the necessary
measures to ensure that adequate, aPproPriate and lastlng solulions are
iq)lenenteil to asslst the refugeed in Djibouti, in co-operation v'lth !'lember
States, inte rgovernmental and non-gove rnmental organizations and the volunbary
agencies concerned, with a vievt to lpbilizing the necessary assistance to
eiable tbe Government of Dj ibouti to coPe effectively with the refugee--
problen' which has oeen pa-rticularly aglravated by the <tebllitating effects of
the prol,onged droughtt

5. APpreciates the assisEance provided thus far by Menrbe r stateg' the
.pec t.r i ".a--i!iJld 

intergove rnrpntal and non-gove rnnental organizations and
viluntary agencies to the relief and rehabilitation Programnes for the
refugees anal disPlaceal persons in DJiboutit

6. Calls upon all Menbe r states' the orqanizations of the United
Natlons systemJfre specialized agencles, inte rgovernnental and
non-gou.rn .ntal organizations and volunlary agencies to continue Eo support
tbe efforts constantty being made by the @vernlrEnt of Djibouti to cope slth
the current n€eds of the refugees and the other victi'ms of drought in that
countrYt

7. Requests the High Conmissioner, in close co-operation with the
secretary-Generil, to report to the General Assenbly at it8 forty-first
session on the inPlementatlon of the present resolution'

DR,AFT RESOLUTION VII

situation of refugees in the sudan

The General AssernblY t

Recalling lts resolutions
16 Decembe r 198L, 37 /L73 ot L7
39,/108 of 14 December 1984 on

35,/I8t of 15 Decenber f980' 361158 of
Decenb,e r L982, 38/90 of 16 December 1983

the situation of refugees in the Sudan'
and



A/40/Loo7
English
Page 33

.^... !|?g+ ggns.lgered the reports of the united Nations High conmissioner forxeEugees on the situat.ion of refugees in the Soaan, Z.l /

^_,- T!r!"i"tinn 
the neasures whlch the @vernnent of the sualan is taking inorder to provide shelter, food, education, and health and other hunanitarianservices to the grosing number of refugees in the Sudan,

.. Recggnizing the heavy burden praced on the covernment of the sudan andthe sacrifices it ls naking in caring for the refugeea and the need forsubstantlally lncreased internalionai 
"""irirni. ro enabre it to continue itsefforCs to providi assistance to the refugees,

.,^--, ExPrggsi 
ng itg apereciation for the assistance rendered to the sudan by

Ti!:.. States and lntergove rnnental and nonjovernnental organlzations insupport of th€ refugee prog(alune,

.. - 
Recggni ?ing the neeal to viee refugee-related developnent project3 withlnthe local and national developrnent plansl
1. Tak.es note of the report of the Unlted Nati.ons High Connissioner forRefugees on the inplerentation of resolulion 3g/:.Og, E/

, ,?- !"T.S" the neasures that the covernrnent of rhe Sudlan is taking uoproviale rnaterial and hunanltarian assistance to refugees in spite of thedrought and the seriols economic situation it faces,

^_,1:. 
Expresses its appreciatlon to the Secretary_ceneral, the Highcoftulssioner, donor countr ies ina intergovernmental and non_governnentalorganizations for their efforts to assilt ,. i.irg"";-r"-ini-iril"i

!lj/ see
supplenent No. 12 oJaottu

_ - ,n. 
Expresses.graue concern at the shrinking resources avallable forEefugee Programnes in the sudan and the serious consequences of this situationon the countryrs ability to @ntinue to act as hosE and proviale assistance totbe increasing numbera of refugees;

---^..1 _ S-!g._ 
the secretary-cene ral, in view of the lncreasing andmasslv€ presence of the refugees, shrinklng financial resources, diought andthe serlous economic situation tn cne couiiry,--lo 

"na, 
in co-operation andco-ordlination witb the Elgh Comnissioner and- relevant speclalized agencies, ahlgh-level inter-agency mission to assesa lt.-i..u= and nagnituale ofassistance required to refugee progranmes in tne Suaan, as well as the inpactof the refugees on the econony anal vital public aervices, t'ith a view to

?reParing a conprehensive programlE of assistance to be submitted to theinternatlonal corununityl

2U vqq/seg.



A/ 40 /L007
EngIleh
Page 34

6. Requests the Secretary-General to fiPbilize the necessary financial
and materiil assGtance for the full ir0plenenCat ion of the Projects subnitted
by the Government of the Sudan to the second International Conference on
Assistance to Refugees in Africa, 2g-/ neta at Geneva from 9 to U July I984t

7. Appeals to Menber states, the aPproPriate organs, organizagions and
boalies of tite flnicea Nations, i'ntergovelnmental and non-governmenlal
organizations of the internaEional financlal insti.tutions to Provitle the
@vernment of Ehe suttan nith the necessary resources for the i Plercntation of
alevelopment assistance projects in reglons affected by the Presence of
refugees t

8. Requests the Bigh Cornrnl ss i one r to c-ontinue co-ordinali'on with the

"ppropriutiEiffiIizect 
agencies in order to consolidate and enaure the

c6ntinuation of essential services to the refugees in their settlenents,

9. Requests further the Sec reta ry-General to report to the General
Assetnbly aiTEEEFt i tst sesslon. through the Economic and social council'
on the inplenEntation of the present resolution'

DRAITT RESOLUTION VIII

E[erqencv assistance to returnees and disPlaced
persons in Chad

The General Assembly '
Recalling its resolution 39,/106 of 14 Decenbe r 1984,

Taking note of the report of the united Natlons Disaster Relief
Co-orEfIEEor datetl 25 Novenbe r 1985 on the situation of returnees in Chadr

Deeplv concerned by Lhe Persistence of the drought' which i8 compounding
the already precarior:s food antl health situation in Chad,

Conscious that the large nunber of voluntary returnees and displaced
p. tsoiFas a r.sul! of the ear andl the droughE in chad poses a serious Problen
of integrating Ehem into society,

Considering that' in a(ldltlon !o belng a land-lockett country and one of
tne rEi?E-aGroped countrles' chad ls Placed in a particularly difficult
situation by reason of the war and the drought,

29 t/ see A,/@NF.I25l1, Para. 33.



A/40/L007
English
Page 35

Bearing in mind the nany aPpeals nade by lhe GovernrEnt of chad' in
particular that naale on 9 October 1985 to the ceneral Assenbly at lts current
session, and by hunanitarian organizationB regartting the gravity of the food
and bealth situatlon in Chadr

Recalllng the urgent appeal nade by the ceneral Assenbly durlng its
thirty-ninth session for international energency assistance to the voluntary
returnees and displaceil persons in Chad afflicted by natural disa€ters,

I. Endorses lhe aPpeals naale by the @vernnent of Chaal and by
hunanitarian organizatlons concernlng emergency assistance to the voluntary
returnees and aliEplaced persons in chadt

2. Reiterates lts appeaL to all states and intergovernmental and
non3overnnental organizations to suPport by generous contributions the
efforts being made by the covernnent of c}lad to assist and resettle the
voluntary returnees and disPlacetl personBt

3. Takea note with approvat of the action undertaken by the various
botlies of the Uniteal Natlons system and the specialized agencies with a view
to nobilizlng emergency hutnanltarian assistance to the voluntary returnees and
alisplaced persons in Chacl,

4. Agaln requests the United Nations ltigh Comnissioner for Refugees and
the united NationE Disaster Relief Co-ordinator to tpbllize emergency
hunanitarian assistance to the voluntary returnees and alisplaced persons in
Chad I

5. Requests the Secreta ry-Gene ral 
' 

in co-oPeration eith the United
Nations Disaster Relief Co-ordlnator and the united Nations High cornnissioner
for Refugees, to report Eo the GeneraL Assenbly at its forty-first session on
the inplexnentation of the Present resolution.

DRAFT RESOIJUTION IX

.@.E.t1-.@Els,,
Guided by the principles embodied in the Ctrarter of lhe united Natlons'

the Universal Declaration of llurnan Rlghts, f9/ the International @venants on
Ituman Rights 3f,/ and the hurnanitarian rules set out in Ehe Geneva Conventions
of 12 August L949 ' 

32/

19/

L/
32/

Resolution 217 A ( III) .

Resolutioh 2200 A (xxl) ' annex'

Uniteal NaEions, E3!L..]9gisq, vol. 75, Nos.970-973.



A/4O/r0O7
English
Page 35

Aware of ite responsibitity to promote ard encourage respect for hunan
rtghts ana fundanental freedons for all and resolved to remain vigllant wlth
regard to violations of human rights wherever bhey occur t

Enphasizlng the obligation of all Governrnents to reaPect and Protect
human rlghts ard Eo fulfil the respona ibi lit ies they have assurRed under
varioug international lnstrunents,

Recalling conmlssion on Human Rights resolution 1984/55 of 15 March 1984r
by which the Corunission expressed its concern and anxlety at the continuing
presence of forelgn forces in Afghanistan, as well as Econonic anal soclal
council resolution L984/37 of 24 May 1984, by rrhich the chairman 6f the
Conmlssion on Human Rightg was requested Eo appoint a Special Rapporteur Co
examine the situat.ion of hurnan righEs in Afghanistan.

Recalling Corarnission on Human Rights resolution 1985/38 of 13 March i985,
by trhich the comlission expressed its profound concern at the grave and
na6sive human rights violations in Afghanistan and urged the authorities in
that country to put a stop to these vioLationE, ln particular the llitary
repression being conducted againat the clvilian population of Afghanistan'

Recalling alio Econonic and Social Councll decision 1985/147 of
30 l4ay 1985. by which the council decided to extend the nar*tabe of the speclal
Rapporteur and requesled hin to report to the ceneral Assenbly al its forcleth
session and to tbe Cornmission on lluman Rights at its forty-secord session on
the hunan rights situation in Afghanistan, incLuding the hunan and material
losses resulting from the bonbardments of the civilian populatlon,

Recalling further sub-Comnlssion on Prevention of Discrimination and lhe
Protection of Minorities resolutlon 1985/35, by nhich Ehe Sub{omnisslon
requested the connission on tluman Rights to ask the special RaPPorteur to look
in parlicular into the fate of woroen and children as a consequence of Ehe
conflict in Afghanistan '

Ilaving carefully exanined the interin report of the Special Rapporleur on
the question of hunan rights and fundamencal freedorns in Afghanistan, 11/
rrhich reveals continuing grave ard massive violations of fundamental hurnan
rights in that country'

Recognizing that a situation of armed conflict continues to exist in
Afghanistan, leaving large numbers of victins without protection or assistance,

Deplorinq the contlnuing refusal of the Afghan authoritiea to co-operate
rdit h t.he Special Rapporteur '

)!!/ A/40/843, annex.



u10/r.007
English
Page 37

1. Corunende the special Rapporteur for his report on the question of
hurnan rlghEFiE-?undanental freedons in Afghanlstan,

. 9xpresses it.a profound concern that, as revealed in bhe flrdings ofcne speclar napporteur, disregaril for hurnan rights is more widespread, theconfrict continues to engerder hunan rights vror.ations on a largi seaie and,as a re€urt' not only the liveg of inttividuals but the existence of uholegroups Of persons and tribes are endangered;
3- 

- 
ExPr-essgs lts deep concern that the Afghan authorities, with heavysupport fron foreign troops, ire actinq with greit severity against their

opponents and suspected opponents without any respect for the internatlonal
hulan rights obligatlons rrhich they have assined;

. .-!. Bxpfesgea also its ateep concern at the severe consequences for thecrvlllan populatlon of irdiscrininate bombardnents and nilitary operationsprinarily targeted on the villages ani the agiicufturaf structure,

-._ _?:-.,stlaTes 
the conviction of the Special Rapporteur that the duratloD oftne confrict increases the Seriousness of the gross anal systenatic violationsof burnan righta already existlng in the countril

6. 
_ExPrgssgs its profounil distress ard alarn, in particular, at thewrdespread vlolations of the right to life, liberty and security of person,including the connonplace practice of torture and surnrnary executions of the

r69lme's opponents, as well as increasing evidence of a poticy of religious
intolerance I

. Not.es Hith great concern that such widespread violations of humanrlghts that have already caused nilLions of people to flee their hones andcountry are stil-t giving rise to Large frons of refugees ard dispraced peraon6,

- 8: Calls upon the parties to the conflict to apply fulty the principl,eEano rules of international hunanitarian law and to aalmit inCernational
hunanitarlan organlzations, in particur.ar the rnternat.ional @nnittee of ttle
Red cross, anat to facllitate their operations for the alleviation of thesuffering of the peopte in afghanistint

. Urges the authorities in Afghanistan to co-operate srith the
Cotlrllisslon. on Human Rights anC its Special Rapporteur, in parEicular byarro$lng htn to visit Afghanistanl

. Eeguests the Secretary-ceneral to give all necegsary assistance to.the SPeclaJ. Rapporteur t

_ 
Dectge.s to kgep under consideration, aturing iEs forty-first aesston,the question of human rights and fundamental freedoms in Afghanistan, in orderto examine thls question anew ln the r-ight of adatitional elenents proviared bythe Comrission on Hunan Rights anat the icononic and Social Council.



^/40 
/LO07

EngIlsh
Page 38

DRAFP . RESOI,INION X

Assiatance to student refugees in southern Africa

@3srq.,
Recalling ics resolution 39/L09 of 14 Decenber 1984, in nhich it,

intef alia, requested the secretary-Genera !, in co-oPeration nitsh the united
llations High coMlissloner for Refugees, to continue to organize anal imPlenent
an effective progranrne of educational a nat other approprlate assislance for
student refugees from Nanlbia alrd south Africa who have been granted asylun ln
Botswana, I€sotho, Sraziland and zanbiat

Havlng considered the reporc of Che Htgh Conmissioner on the assistance
progranne to student refugees fron south Africa and Narnibia, fgl

Noting wlth apprec iat ion that sone of the projects recoNnelrded in the
report on assistance to student refugees in Bouthern Africa have been
successfully conpleted,

Notlng vlch concern that the contlnuation of discrimlnatory anal
represllve pollcies aPPl.ied in south Afrlca and Nanibia cause a conlinued and
increasing influx of student refugees into Botserana, Lesottro, Swaziland ard
zambia.

Conscious of che burden placed on the linited financial, material and
adnlnistrative resources of the hosE countries by the lncteasing nunber of
student refugees,

Appreciatinq the efforts of the host countries to deal with their student
refugee populatlons, with the assistance of the international conununity,

l. Takes note .ri tsl!-ss! ig&s!!eg of the report of the united Nations
nignconmi@

2. Expresses its appreclat ion to the Governnents of Botswana, lesotho,
s{aziland and zanbia for granting asylun and rnaking €ducational and other
facilit.ies available to the student refugees, in spite of the pressure whlch
the continuing influx of those refugees exerts on facilit.ies in their
countr ies t

3. AIso expresses its appreciat ion to the Governnents of Botswana,
Lesotho, Srraziland and Zanbia Eor the co-operation rthlch they have extended to
the High Comnissloner cn matters concerning the welfare of these refugeesl

gt A/40/5e0.



A/40/LOO7
English
Page 39

.1. . Notes uiqh appreciation the financlal anat naterial support provlded
19r. the Etudent refugees by Hernb€r State€, the Office of the United NatronsBlgh Comnissioner for Refugees, other bodies of the United Nations system andintergovernmental ard non-governmental organlzations,

^ - 
. Eeqgegts the High Comaissl,oner, ln co-operation rrith thesecretary-Generar, to continue to organize and inprement an effective

Progra''ole of educational ard other appropriate aa'istance for 
'tudent 

refugeesfrorn Narnlbla and south Afrlca who tave G.r, granteat asylum in Botswana,l,esotho, Swazlland and Zanbla,

9. . -utn." aII Member Statea ard intergovernrnental ard non-goverrulentalorganiEatlons to continue contributing geneiously to the assietance proqratmefor Etudent refugeea, through ftnanc ill -support of the regular prograrMes oftbe Elgh Comniaeioner and of the projects ina p.ogr"*res, Lncluding unfurded
ProjectE' which were subnltted to the second licernational conference onAsglstance to Refugees ln Africa, !!/ hefd at ceneva fron 9 to 1l iluly 1984,

7. Also lrrges all Member states ard all intergovernmental andnon-governmental organlzation€ to assist the countries of asylun naterralry
and otherrrise to enable then to coneinue to discharge their humanitarlanobllgations toeards refugees,

8. 
lppeafg to the offlce of the united Nationg Eigh Cornnissloner forRefugeea, the United NatlonE Development programne and all other conpetentunited NationB bodles, as well as oiher inte;naElonal anal non-goverrutrentalolganlzationar to contlnue providling humanitarlan and derrelotrment assistance60 as to facllitate anil expeatite thi settlement, of student refugees frorn southAfrica who have been granted asylum in eotseani, IJesotho, swazlland and zanbia,
Calls upgn agencles anil programnes of the United Nations sygten tocontlnue co-operat ing with the secretary-ceneral and the righ corunissioner rnthe furPlementat lon of humanitarian p.ogi.*"" of assistance for the student

refugees in southern Afr ica,

- 
10. Eeoues!,s the nigh Comnissioner, in co-operation with theSecretary-General, to contlnue to keep the matter urder review, to apprise theEcononlc antl social council, at its slcondl regular session of 19g6, of the

current,.status of the prograrmes and to report to the General AssembLy at itstorty-first €esslon on tbe lrnplernentat lon of the pr"sent resolution.

E/ A/&rE.L25/L.



A/40/L0o7
English
Page 40

DRAFT RESOI,UIION XI

situation of huftan rights and fundamental freedons
in El salvador

The General Assefilbly,

Guided by the prlnciples of lhe Charter of the unlted Nations' the
Unive?lll-Seclaraelon of Human Rights, the International Covbnant on Civil and
Po1itlcal Rights anal by the humaniearian rules se! out in the Geneva
conventions of 12 August 1949 and Mditional Protocols I and If lhereto,

Aware that the Governments of aII Menber states have an obligation to
prorot. attd protect human rights and fundamental freedoms and to carry out the
respons ibi Ii t les they harre urdertaken under various international human rights
instruroents,

Recalling that' in its resolutions 35/L92 of 15 Decenber 1980, 36/L55 of
ro oeGiSEI-IIaL, 37/L85 of l7 Decenbe r 1982. 38,/1ol of 15 December 1983 and
39 /LLg of 14 Decenber 198{, it exPressed deep concern at the situation of
hurnan rights in El salvador '

Bearinq in mind Comnission on Euman Rights resolutlons 32 (XXXVII) of
11 March 1i81, in which the comnission decided to aPpoint a Special
Representative to investigate the situation of hunan righEs in 8I salvador t
Lg82/28 of 1l uarch L982, L983/29 of I March 1983' 1984/52 of 14 uarch 1984
ard 1985,/35 of 13 March 1985, whereby the Comnission extended the rnandate of
the Special Representative for another year and requested him to reportt
inter al-ia, to the GeneraL Assembly'

Not inq that the special Representative of the conrnission on Hunan Rights
points out in his report that' in the process of the democraElc normalizatlon
of the country, the quest ion of respect for hurnan righEs is an lnPortant Part
of the current Policy of the RePublic of El salvador ' 

but chat nevertheLess a
situation of generalized lrarlike violence continues to exist' chat the number
of atlacks on life and the economic structure remains a cause for concern, and
that the nunbe r of political prisoners ard abductions has increased,

DeepLy concerned that in E1 salvador, in additlon to the continulng armed
confl-ict, the scarcely initiated dialogue between the Government and th€
Frente Faraburdo Marti Para la Liberaci6n Nacional - Frente Democratico
Revolucionario has been inCerrupted,

considering that. while the arned conflict not of an lnternational
character continues. the Governnent and the insurgent forces are obliged to
appty the rninirnum stardards of prot.ection of human rights and of humane



^/ 
40 /LOO?

EngIish
Page 4l

treatnent set out in artlcle 3 comrrpn to the Geneva Conventions of12 August L949, &/ as well as Additional protocol ff thereto, to which theRepubllc of EI Salvador is party,
lEtE that the politicar solirtion to the sarvaclorian conflict can be cutthort if external forces do not assist the resunption of the dialogue butlnstead contribute in. any way to the intensificatlon or prolongation of chewar,

-. Re_cognizlng the value of dlalogue as the b€st way to achieve genulnenational reconcitiation and lhe inportant fact that different sectors of thecountry favour an overarr negotiated poriticar sorution which wouril put an endto-the auffering of the Salvadorian people antt stem the growing tide ofrefugees anal lnternally displacett p.i"on",

- I. Com[Ends the Special Representative of the Conmlssion on HuoanRighcs for his report on the situatlon of hunan rights in El salvador,

. Becognizes with lnterest and enphasizes that it ls important thatthe Special Rapporteur should inaticate in his provisional report that the
Goeernment of El salvador is continuing its pof ic}, of attempting to inprovethe condition of human rights,

3. Expresgeaf nevertheless, it6 deep concern at the fact that serious
and numerous vlorations of hurnan rigta;;o;Er;G to cake prace in Er sarvador
owi'ng above all to non-fulfiLnent oi the humanitarian rules of war and
therefore requests the GovernflEnh of EL salvador and the lnsurgent forces to
adopt neasures conduc ive to the hunanizatlon of the conflict by observing
scruPulously the ceneva Conventlons of 1949 and the Adalttlonal protocols ofl9?7 anal alEo recqtnends that the special Represeneative should, for t.heduration of the armed confllct, 

"onlinu. to 
-obse 

rve and to inform this
Assenbly and the Commission of the extent to which the contendlng parties are
regPecting those rules, partlcularly as regards respect and hunanitarlantreatnent for i.he civilian populat lon, prl-oners of war, those wounded incmbat' health personnel and nilitary hospitals of either party,

n: RgaFfirns once again the right of the Salvadlorian people freely to
oeterturne thelr political, econonic and social future without interferencefrom outside, through a genui.ne denocratic pro".=", in wtrictr 

"ii "..i".; "ethe population partlcipate freely and effeclivelyr

.. l: Bequests all States to refrain from intervening tn the internalaltuation in El salvador and, instead of helping in any way to prolong andlntensify the war, to encourage the continualion of the dialogue until a JuB!and lastlng peace is achievedr

lV United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, Nos. 920_9?3.



A/ 40 /Loo?
Bnglish
Page 42

6. Deepty regrats the interruptlon of the dialogue initiated in
October fgaa betrreet[; coverntnent of El Salvador and the Frente Farabundo
!,tar ti para Ia Llberacl6n Nacional - Frente Denocrat ico Revolucionario and
therefore calls uPon theae partleE to renew thelr talks so that by rneans of
slncere. generous atd oPen tllalogue they acbieve a negotlated comPrehensive
polttical solution nhlch irlll Put an end to the arned conflict and contribute
to the inst itut lonal lzat ion and strengthenlng of the denocratlc systen ba€ed
on the full exerclse by all salvadorians of Ehelr clvil anal political rights
ard econonlc, social anal cultural rights,

7. CalLs upon the Governnent anal the oppositlon forces, as agreed in
the rneehingt at l,a lalna. to establish as soon as possible aPProPriate
rnechanisme to study the Plans and proposals aubnittetl by both partles and to
include all sectors of natlonal llfe in the search for Peacet

8. vlewg wlth concern that' a9 a consequence of the prolonged arned
confllct, the nurber of refugees ard internally displaced pergons Ytho are
already a consiilerable part of the salvadorian population, continues to
Lncrease anil requesta all states to receive the refugees ard to supPort the
autononoJs organizations resPonsible for looking after inEernally displaced
persons in EI salvador t

g. Again reiterates its appeal to the Government of El saleador ard to
tr,eopposl@11yt'iththehumanitarianorganiza!ions
aledlcat€d to allevlatlng the €ufferlng of the civilian poPulation, ltherever
theEe organizations operate in the country and to Permit the International
Conmittee of Ehe Red Crogs to contlnue to evacuate tho€e lounded ard maineal by
r,ar to there they can recelve needed nedical attentiont

10. Deeply aleplores the fact that the capacity of the Jualicial systen in
nt Salvadoi-t6-inGit igate, proaecute and punlsh violations of hunan rights
continues to be patently unsatisfactory and therefore urges the cofl{tetent
authoritiea to continue and strengthen the Proceas of reform of Ehe
salvador ian Judtcial systenr, in order to punish sPeedily arxt effectively those
responsible for the eerious hurnan rlghts violatlons Phich have been committed
and are still belng conmitted in that countryt

11. @glE, the contlnuation and deepenlng of the reforms necesaary
in El salvaitor, includlng effective aPPllcation of agrarlan reforn' for Ehe
soluCion of the econonlc and social problems irhich are the basic cause of the
lnternal confJ,lct in lhat countryt

12. qlla-gg. the coflPetent authorlties in El salvador to introduce
changes in ttre laws ana other neasures that are inconPatible with the
provisions contained in the inlernat ional instruments binding on the
cover nent of El salvador ln re6pect of hunan rlghtst

13. Renews its appeal to the Governnent of EI Salvaalor, as well as to
ottrer parties concerned, to continue to co-operate with the special
Representative of the Conmission on Hutnan Rlghtst



A/40/1007
Engl lEh
Page 43

*r^ _14.--lFid!g'_ to keep under congideration, durlng its forty-flrst seEsion,Ene sltuafion of hunan rights and furdanental freedorns in pl sllvador, inorder to exanlne thls situation anee in the ltght of adtlilional elernentg
Provided by the connission on Eunan Rights anil the Econonic and sociar councilin the hope that lhere wllt be lrnproveient.



A/ 40 /!0o7
English
Page 44

DRAPI RESOLUTION XII

The General Asser|bly,

Reiteratlng that the Gonernnenls of all Menber states have an obligatlon
to pr66[E anaEotect hunan r ights and fundanenEa]- f reedonE '

Recalling its resolutions 3?,/184 of 17 Decenlcer 1982, 38,/100 of
16 oecenber 1983 antt 39/L2O oE 14 Decenber 1984,

Not lnq comnission on Hunan Rights resolutions L9S4/53 of 14 t{arch 1984
ana TEEETJE of 13 March 1985, in which the Conmission expressed itg 'leepcorrcern at the continuing serious alrat syctematic violations of hunan rights in
cuatetnala and at restrl"ii,r" ..""ureg that limit the freedomE of the rural anfl
ind igenous populat ions,

Mindful of resolution 1985/50 of the sub{onnission on the Preventlon of
oiscrl;-lnatlonandProtection,of Minorltiesr

welconing the general elections held on 3 Novetnber 1985, for President,
vice-president and rePresentatives to the National @ngress and of
municipalities, wich the PartlclPation of various poLitical Parties,

Noting wlth satisfaction the set of Provisions to safeguard hunan rigbts
ana tEftarnentat freeaoms contained in the nen Constitution, whlch, 19hen fully
corq)lied with by the new Governrnent and all others concerned' could lead to a
significant irnprovement in the situation of human rightE ln Guatemala,

Alarned at lhe continuation of politically notivate'l violence'
parti;iffirIy killings ard kialnapplnqs, as rrell as enforced and involuntary
it".pp..."n-."s and ihe lack of effective measures by the authorities in
investlgating such practices,

Recognizing that the internal arned confllct of a non-internat ional
char"iffif,fEfi-.ontinues to exist in cuabemala stens from economic, social
and political factors of a structural nature,

Expressing its concern with the witlespread sufferings caused by disregard
tor t[E prin"iptes of lnternational hunanitarian lag appllcable to that
conflict,

vfelconing the co-operation of the Governnent of Guaternala wlth che
Special RapPorEeur as ueLl as the invltation made by the Government to several
lnternationai buman rights organizations to assess the sihuation of hunan
rights and fundarnental freedorns,



A/40/roo7
English
Page 45

- 1. Welcones the efforts of the Special Rapporteur to fulfil his manatateand takes note of his interin report on the situat.ion of hunan rights in
Guatemala' ff/ subrnitted in accordance with cornnission on Hunan Rights
resolution L9gS/36 of 13 [arch 1985,

- 2. Expresses the hope that the recent elections will be the first step1n a process l.eading to conplete and effectlve enjoymene of hurnan rights by
the people of Guatemala,

3. Notes with satjlEfgellen that a new covernneng and Congress are to
tat<e officE-6irr-ra=iiliv re86r rolrowins . ".""ii-'i"uia-ii .i"'pi""ra"i.r"relestions on 8 December 1985, and that a new Constitution, which provides
inggr alia for the establishfient of a national cornrnission of hurnan rights as
well as a coonissioner for human rights, is to take effect on the same date in
ilanuary 1986t

4. Reltelates its isgp conceE at the continuing grave and widespread
vloIationsffia,Particular1ythevio1encea9ainst
non-conbatants, the rridespread repression, kiltings, including extrajudicial
executions, the practice of torture, disappearances and secret detention, as
well as at practices such as the atisplacemen! of rural and indigenous
Populations, their confinenent in developrnent cenures and forced participation
in civilian patrols organized ard controlled by the arrned forcesl

5. Strongly urqes the coverrunent of Guatenala to take all rneasures
necessary to halt the violations of hunan rights and fundanental freedons,
Partlcularly enforced and involuntary disappearances, as well as to take
effectlve neasures within the franework of the constitution to ensure that alr
its authorities and agencies, civilian as eell as military, fully respect the
human rights ard fundarnenbal freedons of all Guatemalans, such as trade
unionists, catechists and the predoninantly inillgenous rural and peasant
fropulat ion,

.6. Requests again the Government of cuatemala to investigate andclarlfy the fate of those irho have disappeared and vrhose whereaboucs contlnueto be unknown, and to lnclude in such invest lgation the publishing of the ful-ldetails of the TripartiCe Conrnission I s reportl

_.7.. Further urges the Governnent of cuaeemala to establish the necessaryconditions to ensure the irdependence of the Judicial systen and to enabre thejudiciary to uphold the rule of law, including the righ! of habeas corpus, and
to prosecute and punish speedil-y and effectlvely those, inctua-Iil-iEiG?6 of
the mllitary and security forcesr who are responsible for viotations of human
r lqhts;

8. Calls upon the Cover nent of Guatemala to allow indepenalent and
inpartlal bodies to function in the country to nonitor and lnvescigate alleged
human rights violations as well as to resp€ct and proLect human rlghts
defenders such as the Mutual Support croupi

1J-/ vqo/aes.



A/40/r0o7
English
Page 45

9. caLls upon the Government of Guaternala to guarantee ta the rural' ard
ind igenousEEiGfio-n the freedom to choose their place of reSidence and the
freedorn from forced ParticiPation in civil Patrols,

t0. cails upon all Parties to the conflict to apply fully the princlples
and rules of intern;tional hunanltarlan law and reiterates lEs aPPeaI to the
GoverrulentofGuatenalatoad'nitthelnternatlonalcornmitteeoftheRedcrogs,
anl subsequently to facilltate lts oPerations for the alleviation of the
suffering of the People ln Guatenalat

11. calls upon alt Governnents to refrain fron intervening in any way ln
the internal sltuatlon ln Guatemala, rhich coultl steP uP the internal arned
conflict and the violation of hunan rightsl

L2. Dee-plv deplores the continuing gross violatlons of hunan rlghts
arising 116T tt.E-Eo,)r-rGt, which are largely alue to bhe failure of the
nilitary and security forces to conduct their activities ttith the n€cessary
respect for Protecting the hunan rights of all GuatenalanSt

13, Invites the Governnent of Guatemala and other partles c'oncerned to
continue c6:6-perat irrg with the special Rapporteur of the connlssion on fluman
Rights t

14. Invites the Commission on Hurnan Rlghts Eo Etudy carefully the. report
of the speclal Rapporteur, as weII as other information perbalning to the
human rlghts situation in Guatemala, ancl to consider further ateps for
securlngeffectivetespectforhumanrlghtsan.|fun.lanentalfreedongforall
in that country includllngi lf so requested by the Government of Guatenala' the
provision of aPproPriate technlcal assiStance ulder a prc4tranne of advlsory
services in tshe field of human rlghts,

t5.Deci.lestocontinueit6exaninationofthesituationofhunanrights
ana fundanEiEEl-Treedons in cuaternala at its forty-first session.

DNAFT RESOI,UTION XII I

The General AsaenblY,

Guialed by the prlnclPles enbotliett in lhe Charter of the United Nation6'
the Universal Declaration of Eunan Rights and the International Covenants on
Hunan Rights '

Reaffirtning that all Menber states bave an obligation to Pronote and
prot.-r-f,Gii-light8 anat fundar0ental freedons and to fulfil the obllgations
ihey have uydertaken under the various international instrumenta ln thls field.

Recalling Comrission on Human Rights resolui-lorts L982/27 of
tr uaEtr=-IlE',2l and 1983,/34 0f I March 1983,



A/40/Loo?
Engllsh
Page 4?

, -. BeFr_ilg .ln.mind comlssion on Hunan Rights resolution 1994,/54 ofI 14 !{arch 1984, ln which the Conmlsslon expressed deep concern at theconeinuing serious violatrons of hunan rlthts and fundarnental freedons rn theIslanic Republic of Iran and requested thi appointrnent of a specialRepresentative on the situation of hunan rigtrls in that countiy,
Recalling ln partlcular conmission on ltunan Rlghts resolution I9g5/39 of13 !,larch 1985, by which it decided to extend the nandate of the specialRePresentative for one year and reguested hin to present an interin report tothe^Generar Assenbry at it.s fortieih session on the situation of hurnan rrghtsrn the Islanic Republic of fran, inclucting the situatlon of ninority groupssuch as the Bahari€, and a final repor t t; the comnission at it6 foity-secona

sess ion,

l,lildful of resolution ]-ggs/L7 of 29 Auqust 1985 of the sub{onnlsaion onPrevention of Discrirnination anat protection of trtinorities, in rrhich theSub{omtisslon expressed its alarm at the contlnuing reports of grosseiolations of hunan rights and fundanental freedons in the tslanic Republlc ofIran,

. Regrettinq that the coverrunent of the rsranic Republic of rran has atirrnot extended its furl co-operation to the coftnission on Eunan Rights anat it'Special Representatlve, in particular, by not allowing ttre speciit
Representalive to visit the country,

, Tgkinq- ir_rtg. accoult the speciflc and detailed allegations of grave ardextenslve violations of hunan rights to rrhich the Special Represeniativerefers in his interi!! report and to which the covernr0ent of the tslanicRepublic of fran ha6 not responded,

- Enqorsing the conclusion of the speclar Representative that continuedmonltoring of the hunan rights situatlon in the Islamic Republic of Iran iscalled for,

l. ?akes note with appreclati.on of the interim
Representative and the general oblervations contained

report of the Sp€c ial
therelnr 38,/

2. - Expresses its deep concern over the speclfi.c and detalledarregatl.ns of vlolatrons of hurnan rights rn the rsrarnic Republic of rran totthich the speciat Representat ive refers in his interin repo;t, and, inparticurar, those related co the right to rife, such as sunnary anar arbitraryexecutionai Che right to freedon fron torture or cruel, inhuman or degrailtngtreatnent or punishnent., the right to liberty and security ot person iJ tofreedon fron arbitrary arrest or detention, ihe right to I fatr trial, theright to freedon of thought, consclence and religion and to freedon ofexPression, and the right of religious ninoritles to profesE and practisetheir own religiont

4/ A/40/874.



A/40/L007
Bnglish
Page 48

3. Endoraes the conclusion of the sPecial RePresentative that' on the
basls of inrormation available to hi$, specific and detailetl allegations
concerning grave violations of hunan righls cannot be disnissed, anil urgently
appeals to the Governnent of the Islarnic RePublic of Iran to respond
satisfactor ily to these allegat ions t

4.urqestheGovernmentofthelslanicRePublicoflranrasastate
PartytothelnternationalcovenantoncivilanttPoliticalRights'toregpect
and ensure to au intlividuals rrichin its territory alrd subjecb to its
Jurisiliction, Che rights recognlzed in that covenanti

5. Requests the conmission on Eunan Rights to study carefully the flnal
rePort of the sPecial Representative, aa well as other information pertainlng
to the situation of hunan rights in the Islanic Republic of Iran, and to
consider further steps for slcuring effectlve resPect for human rights and
fundamental fr€edons for aI1 ln that countryt

6' Urges the Goverrunent of the Islanic RePublic of lran to extend lts
fuU co-opEilE-ion to the special Reptesenlative of the connlssion' ard in
particular to Pernit the sPeclal RePresentative to vislt that countryt

7. Requests the sec retary-General to glve all necessary assistance to
t.he SPeclal RePresentative of the @mfli3siont

8. Decides to cont inue ita examinatlon of the situation of hunan rlghts
. in the Islanlc Republic of lran, Inclutling the situation of ninority grouPs

such as the Baha'ls, tluring its forty-first session in order to examine thls
situation anew in the fighi of atfditional elements Provldett by the comnlEaion
on Bunan Rights ard the Economic and Social Council'

DRAFT RESOI,T}TI ON Xrv

The General Assenbly,

Recalling its resolution 260 A (III) of 9 Decenber 1948, by rhlch it
appro;a-;nd p-roPosed for signature anil ratification or accession the
convention on the Preventlon anat Punlshnent of the crine of Genoc l'le '

Minclful of the fact that the year 1986 narks the thirty-fifth anniversary
of tne entry into force of the above-ment ioned conventiont

Reaffirming its conviction that genocide ls a crtme urder international
law, contrary to the spirit ard ains of the United Nations,

Expressing its conviction that it{Utlenentation of the provisions of the
Convention by aii Stat""-i" necessary for the preventlon ard puniaht0ent of the
crime of genocider

status of the Convenc ion on the P!e!g!! jig!-!gl



A/40/L007
English
Page 49

_ B€aring in nind that
anal fasclsn in the Second

the fortieth annlversary of lhe victory over nazian
world war is being conunemoraled in 1985,

1.

I lberate

J.
rat ified
Genoc ide

stronglv cordemns once again the crime of genocide,
*.iffitqg the necessity of international co-operatlon in order tomankind from such an odious scourge,

reciation of the fact that many States have
Convention on the prevention and punishnent of the Cfine of

acceded theretot

^ 
n:. Ufges those States that have not yet become parties to theConvention to ratify it or accede tbereto without further delay,

lnvlLes the Secretary-cene ral to subnit to the ceneral Assenbly atit.s forty-firat sesslon a report on tbe staCus of the Convention,
Requests the Commission on Human Rights to consider at itsforty-second session the question or promotiij irre rurr inpreinentation of theabove-ment ioned convent ion anal to subrnit lts ;onsiderations and proposals onthis question, Ehrough the gc.onomic anal social Council, to the GeneralAEsembly at lts forty-first session.

DNAFT RESOLUTION XV

sumnary or arbitrary executions
The General Assernbly,

_, . . R..illrtnq. the provisions of the Universal Declaration of HurnanRlghts' !!/ which states that every hunan being has the right to life, rrbertyand security of person,

- _Elyilrg reqara to the provisions of the International Covenant on Civiland Political Rightsr lql which states that every human being has the inherentright to rife, that trrE right sharl be protectei by law antt rhat no one sharrbe arbitrarily deprived of his life,

-.lecalugg lts resorutlo.. 34/L75 of !7 Deceftbe r L97g, in which itreaffirned that tnass and flagrant violations oi tu*"n rights are of €pecialconcern to the united Nations and urged the connission oi Hu,nan nigl,i!-io t.r..tiftely anr effective action in existing and future cases of nass and flagrantviolations of human r ights,

Resolut ion 217 A (III).

See resoluEio^ 2200 A (XXI), annex.

the
or

12/

p/



A/40/r0o7
Engl i sh
Page 50

Recalling furEher its resolution 36/22 of 9 Novenber 198f in nhich it
condemned the Practlce of sufiftary or arbitrary executions' ard it8 resolutlons
37/LA2 of l? Decenber LgSz, 38/96 of 16 December lgg3 and 39'l1L0 of
14 Decenber 1984'

Deeply alarmed at Ehe continued occurrence on a large scale of summary or
aruitili!-EiGllEis, lncludins extra-legal executions'

Recalling resolution :,ig82/L3 of 7 SePtenlcer 1982 of the sub-com$ission on
prevenrion of Discrininafr.. iiti Protectiin of Minorities, !!/ rn which the
sub{omnission recommended that effective neasures should be adopted to
prevent the occurrence of surmnary or arbltrary executions'

welcominq Economic anal social council resoLutlon L984/50 of 24 l4ay 1984
containing safeguards gu"rurrteeing protectlon of the rights of those facing
the death penarty' wtrictr iesolutlin *"s endorsed by the seventh United Nations
congress on the Prevention of Crlrne antt the Treatnent of offenders' aa 

well as
the ongoing Itor k on sumnary or arbitrary executton6 within the Connittee on
Cr ime Preventlon and Controlt

Convinced of the need for approprlate action bo combat ard evencually
.ri.rffitn" p;;.ai;" of "rrt*."!- 

ot arbitrary executions ' 
$hich represents a

flagrant. violalion of the most funclarnental human right' the rlght to life'

I. strongly condemns the large number of summary or arbitrary
executions ' inclualing 

.*frt.-i.g"i-.i".ut ion", which conti'nue to take Place in
varioug Pares of the vrorldt

brought to an endt

3. we lcornes Economic and social council resolutlon L982/35 of
7 May 1982, in which ttt"'C"ui"if aeciaea to apPoint for one year a sPecial
Rapporteur to exanine the quest lons related to aummary or arbitrary executiong t

4. Also welcomes Economic and Social Councll resolution L985/40 ot
30 May 1985' in which the councll tlec ide't to conlinue the nandate of the
special RaPporteur, Mr. s. A. wako, for a further year and requested- che
Commission on lluman Rights to consider the questlon of summary or arbierary
executions as a natter of high Priority at its forty-second session'

5. ]lIE arr Governnents antl al-I others concerned to co-operate 
with

and assist the speciar Rapporteur in the iqrlenentation of his mandatet

6. Requests the sPecial RaPPorceur ' in carrying 
out his tnandate' to

respontl effectively to i"ioi."ti"i' th"t "ot"" 
uetoie trin' in Particular {hen

suflunary or arbitrary execution is imninent or threatened' or when such an
execution has recently occurredt

2. Denarxds that the practice of sunnary or arbitrary executions be

see E,/cN.4/19 83/ 4-E/61-4/srb.2/Lg82/a3 and corr'l' chaP' xxl' sect' A'!]/



A/40/LOo?
Engllsh
Page 5I

7. Requeahs further the speclal Rapporteur to conslder ln his next
report possible neasures to be taken by the appropriate authofltles when a
death occurs ln custody, lnctudtng adequate autopEyt

8. Conslders that the Special Rappor teur, in carrying out hi6 nardate,
ehould continue bo Eeek and receive information fron Gover nents, United
Nations bodies, specialized agenciee, regional intergovernnental organlzationg
and non-governnental organizatlons in consultative status wlth the Economlc
and social Counc iI-,

9. Requests the gecretary-ceneral to provlde aLl necesaary agsistance
to the Speclal Rapporteur 60 that he nay effectirrely carry out hi6 nandate,

10. Again reauestg the Secretary-ceneral to continue to use his best
endeavours in cases where the minimum standaral of legaL safeguards provideil
for in articles 6, t4 anit t5 of the rnternational covenant on civil and
Political Rights 39/ appear not to be respecled,

11. Requests the conrnisslon on Hurnan Rights at its forty-aecond se6slon.
on the baEis of tbe report of the Special Rapporteur to be prepared ln
confornity rdith Economic ard social council resolutions L9S2/33. 19S3/36,
L984/35 and 1985,/40r to nake recommendatlons concerning appropriate action to
combat ard eventually eliminate the abhorrent practice of sunmary or arbitrary
executions.

DRATT RESOLUTION XVI

The ceneral Assembly,

Having considered the question of the human rlghts of lndivldualE who are
not nationals of the country in which they live,

Decides to adopt the Declaration on the human rlghts of lndividuals who
are not natlonals of the country in which they live, which is annexed to the
pregent resolut{on.

ANNEX

The ceneral Assembly,

Considerlng that the Charter of lhe United Nations encourages the
profiot.ion of universal respect for and observance of the hunan rlghts and
fundamental freedolla of all human belngs, rithout aliEtinction as to race, sex,
language or rel ig ion t



A/40/r007
English
Page 52

Considering that the Universal Declaration of Human Righls 3?/ proclains
that alL human beings are born free and equal- in dignity and righls and that
everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedorns se! forth in the
Declaralion, without distinction of any kindl such as race, colour, sex,
language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin,
property' birth or other status,

Considerinq that the Universal Declaration of Hunan Rights proclaims
further that everyone has the right. to recognition ever!4'rhere as a perEon
b€fore the Law, that all are equal before the lat{, are entitled vrithout any
discrininaCion to equal protection of the lal{, and that all are entitled to
equal protection against any dlscrimination in violation of Ehe aforementioned
Declaration and against any inciternent to such discrininallon,

Beinq aware that Che Stateg partles to the fnternational Covenants on
Eurnan Rights !! now in force urdertake to guarantee that the rightss
enunciated in these Covenants will be exercised without discrimination of any
kind as to race, colour, sex, Ianguage, religion, trDlitical or other opinion,
national or social origin, property, birth or other st.atus,

Conscious that, with improving coflununlcatlons and the develotrment of
peaceful and frierdly relat ions anong countries, individuals increasingly llve
in countries of which they are oot naEionals,

Reaffirming the purposes anC principles of the Charter of fhe United
Nations,

Recognizing that the proteclion of human rights anal fundarnental freedoms
provided for in international instruments should a16o be ensured for
indivi.duals !,rho are not nationals of the country in which tbey live,

Proclaims this Declaration on the Human Rights of Iridividuals nho are not
NationaLs of the Country in nhich they Live:

ArLicle I

For the purposes of this Declaration, the tern "aLieni shall apply, nith
due regard to qualifications nade in subsequent articles, to any irdividual
lrho is not a national of the State in Hhich he or she is present.

Article 2

t. Nothing in t.his Declaration shall b€ interpreCed as legilinizing any
alienrs i11e9al entry into and presence in a State. nor shall any provision be
interpret.ed as restricting Ehe right of any State to promulgate laws and

33.,/ Resolution 217 A (III).

jlf/ Resolution 2200 A (xxl) r dDn€X.



^/40/]'007EngtiBh
Page 53

regulations concernlng the entry of aliens and the terms and conditlons of
their stay or to establish differences beEireen nationals ani aliens. [owever,
6uch lans and regulationa shall not be incolpatlble with the internatlonal
lega1 obligations of that Stater.lncluding those in the field of human rights.

2. Ehi6 Declaration shall not preJudice the enjoynent of the rlgbtg
accorded by dmestlc law and of the rights whlch under international law a
State is obLiged to accord to aliens, even where the pEesent Declaratlon doeE
not re€ognlze such rights or recognizes then to a lesser extent.

Article 3

Every sbate 6hall make public its nat ional legislatlon or regulations
affectlng aliens.

Article 4

Aliens shall observe the laws of tbe State in which they reslde or are
present and regard rlth respect the cugtons anil traditions of the people of
that State.

Articte 5
I. Aliens shall enjoy in accordance with domestic law and subJect to

the relevant international obllgationg of Ehe state in which they are present
in particular the follonlng rights:

(a) The right to life ard security of persont no alien shall be
subjected to arbitrary arrest or detention, no allen shall be aleprived of hls
liberty except on auch grourds and in accordance with 6uch procedurea as are
establlshed by lawt

(b) The right to protectlon against arbitrary or unlawful interference
lrith privacy, fanily, hone or cor responatence t

(c) The rlght to be equal before the courts, tribunals ard all other
organs and authoritleE adminiEtering justice and, when necessary, to free
assistance of an interpreter in crininaL proceedings anal, when prescribed by
law, other proceedlngat

(d) llhe right to choose a spouse, to marry, to fourd a family,
(e) The right co. freedon of thought, opinion, conscience and religion,

the rlght to nanifest oners re).igion or beliefs subject only to such
linitations aE are prescribed by law and are necessary to protect publicgafetyr order' health or morals or the furdanental rights and freettonE of
othera t



v4o/Loo?
Engl lsh
Page 54

(f) The rlght to retain their own language, culture and tradition,

(S) The right to transfer abroad earningsr savings or other personal
flEnetary assels, Eubject to domestic currency regulat lons.

2. subject to such restrictions as are Prescrlbeit by law and v'hich are
necessary in a denocratlc society to Protect national secur{ty, public aafety'
publlc oider (orttre Public), public health or morals or Ehe rights and
ireedoms of others, and ehich are consistent with the other rlghts recogniied
in Ehe reLevanE international instrumenEs and those set forth in the PresenE
Declaratlon, allens shall enjoy the following rights:

(a) the riqht to leave the countrYt

(b) The right Eo freedom of exPressiont

(c) The right Eo Peaceful assernblyl

(d) ?he right to own Property alone as well as in associat ion with
others, gubject. to donescic 1ar|'

3. subject to the provlslons referred to in paragraph 2' aliens
laefully ln the territory of a seate shall enJoy the right to liberty of
novenent ard freedorn tO Choose their residence within the borders of the State.

4. SubJect to national leglslation and tlue authorization' the spouse
and nlnor or dependent children of an alien lawfully residing in the territory
of a State shall be adnittetl to acconpany, Join and stay nith the alien'

Article 6

No alien shatl be subjected to torture or io cruel, inhuman or degrading
treatnent or F:nlshment and, in part.icular, no alien shall be subjected
vrithout his free consent to medical or scientific exper inentat ion.

Article 7

An allen lawfully in the territory of a state tuay be exPelleal therefrom
only in pursuance of a decision reached ln accordance with lan and shall,
except where conpel.ling reasons of natlonal security otherwise require, be
alloweal to subnit the reasons agalnst his expulsion and to have his case
reviewed by, and be represented for the purpose before, the corq)etent
authority or a person or persons sPeclally designated by Ehe comPetent
authorlty. Individual or collective exPulsion of sucb allens on grounds of
race, colour, retigion, culture' descent or national or ethnic origin is
prohibited.



^/40/L007Engllsh
Page 55

Article 8
l. Aliens lawfully residing in the terrltory of a state Ehetl also

enJoy, ln accordance irith the nacional larr6, the foll-olrlng rights, subject tothelr obligatlons referred to ln aEticle 4:
(a) The right to safe anal healthy r.orking conditlons, to fair eages and

equal renuneration for work of equal value without dlstinctlon of any klnd, inpartlcular, nomen belng guaranteed conditions of work not inferlor to those
enjoyed blr nen, with equal pay for equal worky

!U fhe righC Eo join trade unions and other organizatlons orassociatlons of thelr choice and to lrarticipate in their activitl€s. No
restrlctiona rnay be placed on the exercise of this right other than those
Prescribedl b1' law antl whlch are necessary ln a democratlc Eociety ln the
interesEs of national security or public order or for the protectlon of the
rights and freeiloms of others,

(c) The rlght to health protection, nedical care, social security,
soclar aervice, education, rest and leisure, provideil that they furfir the
requirenents under the rerevanE regulations for participation in<t that undu€
strain is not placeal on the resources of the State.

2. With a vie$ to protecting the rights of aliens carrying on laeful
paid activities in the country in rhich they flnd thenselves, 6uch righta nay
be specified by Ehe covernments concernear in nultilateral or birateral
conventions.

Article 9
No alien 6haU be arbltrarily deprived of his lawfutly acquired asaets.

Artlcle 10
Any allen shall be free at any time to cormunicate with the conaulate or

diPlomatic nlssion of the state of which he is a national or, ln thetr
absence, eith bhe consulate or atrpronatic mlssion of any other state entruated
ttith the protectlon of the interests of the state of which he is a natlonal in
the State nhere he resides.

DRAFT RESOI"UTION XVII

Situatlon of hunran rights and fundatrnEal
freedons in Chlle

The ceneral Assenbly,

A{are of lts responsibility to promote and encourage respect for hut6n
rights and fundanental freedoms for all, and deternineal to remain vlgll.ant
with regard to violations of hunan rights rherever they @cur,



A/40/r0o7
English
Page 56

Noting
human r igbts
is a party,

the obtigation of Ehe Chilean authorities to respect and Protect
in accordance with the international i'nstrunents to v'hich chile

Itavlng in nind that the concern of the international conmunity at the
situation of tttrnran rights in Chile was exPressed by the General Assembly in
its resolutions 3219 (xxlx) of 6 Novenbe r 1974, 3448 (xxx) of 9 Decenbe r 1975,
31./L24 of 15 Decemb€r L976, 32/LLg of 16 Decembe E 1977, 33/L75 ot
20 December lg7a, 34/L7g of I? Decernbe r 1979, 35/188 of 15 Decenbe r 1980,
36/157 oE 16 Decenber 1981, 37/183 of I? Decenbe t L982, 38/Lo2 of
16 Decembe r 1983 antt 3g/L2L of 14 Decembe r 1984, as well as ln its resolution
33/L?3 of 20 December 1978 on disappeared persons,

Recallinq the resolutlons of the comnisslon on lluman Rights, ln
particutar resolulion 1985/47 of L4 llarch 1985 in which che Comnission
deci.cled, inter alia, to extend Ehe mandate of the sPecial RapPorteur for-a
year and to cotsider the question as a matter of high priorlty in view of the
increase ln serlous violaeions of human rights in chile,

@nsitterinq that lhe SPecial Rapporteur proPoses to sublTrlt to the
comrniEEion on numan Rights at its forty-gecond gession a definitive rePort on
the sltuation of hurnan rlghts in Chite,

considering also the public and notorious character of many of the deeds
wt, tctr-i6illit'rte serious and systenatic violations of hunan right's and
fundamental freedorns in chile,

Deploring once again the fact that the rePeahed appeals of the General
lsse,nUly, ttre Cottrrni s s ion on Human Rights and other international orqans !o
re-establish hunan rights antl fundamental freedons have b,een ignore'l by the
Chilean author ities '

@nsidering further, lnter alial the recent reports, resolutions antl
conclusions of the tturnan nigttts Comtnittee, Ehe Sub-ConnisAion on Prevention of
Discrinination and Protection of r{inorities and the International lrabur
organisation, as well as the Chilean llunan Rlghts Connittee and the
vicaria de Ia solidaridad of the catholic Church in Chile,

Recoqnizinq the inportance of the fact that the chilean auchorities have
announied tsheir intention to pertnit the entry into chlle of the sPecial
Rapporteur in che exerclse of his nandate to investigate the situatlon of
human rights in that country,

I. Takes note of the prelimi.nary rePort of the speclal RaPporteur on
the sicuation of human rights in Chile, submitted in accordance ''ith
resolution L985/47 of the Conmission on Human Rightst jly

!!/ A/40/647 anal corr.1.



A/40 /I0o7
Engllsh
Page 57

---.,?: 
g!q- e tq.t. .-press." i at the euppression in Chile of thetradltional denocratic regif 

"iOE,- "nE-Tf" 
institurions anal their replaceoenrby a Constitution rrhich aloes not reflect the will of the people freelyerpressed and whose provisions consialerably reduce the enJoynent and exerciseof hunan rights and fundanentar fieedons through the institutionarization andconsolidation of states of emergency and the 

"ileneion of the 
jurisaliction of

:l:_,Tflf:.:"-lrlbunals, all of ;hich amounrs ro an inregrared systerl negaringsrvrr anal political righCs and freedoms,

of.acts of social protest which has caused a conslderable nunber of ieatns anar.nJurres and mass and individual arrests, at the intinialatton of national
human rightg organizations, at the frequent reports of torture andill-treatftent, and at the treacherous crirnes i-n which lhe police forces arejudicially lnplicatedt

.___^-O: 
Rgite ra t-es, _lt.s alarn at the fact tha!, ln general, the arbitrary orrnproper actions of lhe State police and security agencies continue to go

unpunished t

5. Reiterates its concern at the ineffectiveness of the remedies of
negggg, corpus ol of e4Ero and of protection, oning to the fact that the
fuorcrary, notplthstanding soNTle positive actiona in this field, dloes noh
ll::y:-:::l:tse its powers of investigarion, monitoring and supervision inEnl3 respect, and performs i.tE functlons under severe reEtrictions whichundernlne itg indepenalence t

- 
6. once again carrs urgently on the the chilean authorities to resrore

:l-"-:.:qTt human rights Ln accordance with the obtigations they have assunedunder variotrs internicional instruments, and to re-estabtish the principle ofLegarity' denocratlc institutions and the effectlve enjoyment and exercise ofhuman rights and fundanental freedoms, and in particular:
(a) Fo put an end not only to the seate of seige, as was done inJune 1985, but also to the r€gime of exception and especially the practlce ofdeclaring "constitutional stateq of energlnclrn under whlch serious andcontlnuing violations of human rights arJ .oi,.itt"a I
(b) To investigate and ctarify rrithout ilelay the fate of p€rsons rrhonere arrested for political, reasons and later disappeared, to assist andlnform their fanilles of the results of such investigation and to bring totrial and punish those responslble for thelr disappearance,

. (c) To respect the rlght to life and the right to pttyslcal and noralintegrity by puttlng an end to the practice of lorto.. and other cruel,
i:$tel or degradlng treatficnt or punishnent anat to put an ir0nediate end torntrmrdation and persecution as weII as to kidnappings, arbitrary or abusivedetention and imprisonnent in secret places,

3. BxPresses its indignation at the perslstence of serious and
::"::yti: viorarionG oi hiilfiElTts in c}rire, in parrrcutar the suppresslon



A/ 10 /L0o7
Engl13h
Page 58

(if) To respect the right of nationals to llve in and freely enter and
leave their country, without arbitrary reacrictions or conditions' anil to
cease the practlceg of releqaci6n (asslgnnent to forced reaidence) and forced
exlle t

(e) To reatore the full enJoymenb and exerclee of Iabour rights'
including the rlght to organize trade unlon6, the right to collectlve
bargaining and the right to sbrlke, and to Put an end to the supPression of
the activltles of trade unlon leaders and their organizations and comPly with
the provlsions of the international agreenents of the International Labour
organisatlon to ehich Chlle has subscribedl

(f) To respect and, where necessary, restore econonic r aocial and
cultural rights, in partlcular the rlghts intentled to Preserve the cultural
ldentity and irnprove the econonic and social status of the indigenous
populations, lncluding the rlght to their lantlt

7. eElsle, on hhe basis of the provlsional report of the special
napporteor-ffi-of other data at its alisposal, that lE is necessary to continue
to nonltor the human rights situation in Chllel

8. Declarea its convictlon that an unrestricted' ln situ investigation
of the hunan iights situation in chlle requires that the special RaPPorteur,
in fulf llmnt of hls nantlate, should have access to all the infornation and
data nhich could be provtcled by those Persons anal bodies that are interested
in the fate of huEan rights ln chilet

9. Reouests the chilean authorlties to co-operate rnore fully with the
speclal napporueur anil to subnit their comlEnts on hls report to the
Connigglon on Hutan Rights at i'ts forly-second aessionl

I0. Invltes the conrnission on Bunan Rights at its forty-seconil sesslon
to proceed to an indepttr consideracion of the rePort of the speci'al
IlapForteur an{l, taklng account of aU the relevant informatlon at its
ill-s-posal, to adopt the nogt aPProPriate neasures for the effective restoracion
of human rlghts anit fundalEntaL freedons in chiLe, including the tnaintenance
of the SPecial RaPporteur, and reguests the @nr0lssion to rePort to the
General essenuly a! lts forty-first session, bhrough the Econonic and social
counc l1 .

DRMT RCSOIJUTION XVIII

sunan rishts in the adminiq!!q!!q4,9.11-l!g!!99

lhe General Assenbly,

convinced of the need for further co-ordinated and concerted action in
pro.offi-Gf"ct for hurnan rights in the adninistration of justice'



^/40/L007English
Page 59

,,_,,, ouid"g by the principles embod led in articl.es 3, 5, 9, 10 and ll of theunrversal Declaratlon of Nurnan Rights, .1!grl as ee11 as the rel€vant provisionsof the rnternationar covenant on civit lia potittcar. Rights, 4ol in partrcular
":E::1._6, which explicitty states that rrc one shatt be arbitrarlly rtegrivetlof his life,

^. _. Pearing 
in nind its resotutions 2858 (xxVI) of 20 Deceobe r l9?l and5144 (xXvJII) of 14 December 1973 on hunan rights in the adrnlnlstratlon ofj ust ice,

^_ 
RT?lUnq Econonic and social Council resolurions Lgg4/47 anaf l984l50 of

25 
_uay 1984, in which, inter aLla, the Council approved the proceilures for theeffective inplernentatloi-EE-Tf,ETtandard uinimurn zures for t.he Treatnent ofPrisoners !..,/ and the safeguards guaranteeing protection of the rlghts ofthose facing the death penalty,

Bgarlllg ln. mind also the provisions of the convention against rorture anduEner cruel, fnhuman or Degrading TreaerEnt or punishrEnt, 4g/
golsidering the id,ork in progress with regard to the alraft Body ofPrinciples for Che Protection of All. persons under Any Forn of DetenEion orInpr isonment,

.. Begalling its resorution 39lus of 14 Decenber 1984 on human rtghts r.ntfre_ adninistration of justice, in which, inter atia, iC requestJ tfr!-'ieventtrunited Nations congress on the prevention-6Fcrine anat the Treatnent ofoffenders to give urgent attention to the matter of devising r"y" 
"na 

raeans toensure nore effective application of existing standarda and to ieport thereonto the ceneral Assenbly at its fortieth session.

. , 
Aclnowledqing the important $ork acconpliEhed by the seventh Congress, inparcicular in reration to the formuration a-nd application of united Nitionsstandards and norms in the attrninistratron or iuiirce under iten z of itsagenda, 49/

l. Deplores the continue. use of cruel, inhuman or degrading Ereatnentor punishmencr prohibited under internationar raw, and strongry condenna lhepractice of sunnary or arbitrary executlonsl

:!5/ Resotution 212 A (rrr).
45,,/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
47J/ r"ir'E

, sales tto. 195b. rv-jl-annex r.A.
g/
4e./

Resolution 39/46, annex.

See A,/CONF.12t/22, paras. 153_1g3.



^/40/L007English
Page 60

2. vle lcones the Basic PrinciPles on the IndePendence of the Judiciary,
onurrirnou"ly .dotr t"d by the Seventh Unitetl Nations Congress on the Prevention
of Crine anal the treatnent of offenders, S/ ana invites Governnents to
respect thern and co take them into account within the frartreHolk of their
natlonal legislation and practice,

3. Encourages the sub{onnission on Prevention of Discrimination and
the Protection of l,tinortties, in giving furgher consideration to the issue of
the indlependence and funpartlality of the judiciary, jurors an'l assessors and
the lndepenilence of lar4;ers, which ls currently on its agenda, to take into
account ihe sasic lrinciples aaloPteal by lhe seventh congress in naking final
recommendations at its thirty-ninth session,

4. Takes note r'rith appreciation of the !{odel Agreement on the Transfer
of ror.ignffis for the Treatnenc of Foreign
Prisoneri, 5I/ also aaloPted unanirnously by the seventh congress, and invites
Member states to cake the Iitodel AgreerEnt into accoun! in establishing breaty
relations with other Menber states or in revising existing treaty relations,

5. ALso takes note with appreciation of the recomnendations nade by the
seventh co@re effective application of
existing stindards, in particular the standard Hinimun Rules for the Treahent
of Pris;ners' the code of conduct for Law Enforcement Officials 52/ and
safeguards guaranteeing the rights of thoae facing the death penaltyt

6. calls upon lrtembe r scates to sPare no effort in providing for
adequate necfranisrns, procedures and resourceg so as to ensure the
j.mplementation of these recommendalions ' both in law and 

in Praccicet

7. Requests the sec retary-Gene ra1 to assist Membe r States, at their
requesb, ii-Eplementing these recomnendatlons and to rePort thereon to the
conmittee on crime Prevention and concroli

L Requests the Economic and Social Council, through Ehe CoN[lttee on
crime prevention and control, !o give sPecial attention to effective waya and
rneans of implemenLing existing standards, to pay due attention to nes
developnents in this area and to keep these matters under constant revler"

9. Invites the specialized agencies and other organizations of lhe
Uniteal Nations systen' as weII as inte rgovernmental and non-governmental
organizations concerned, to conEinue to co-oPerate r"ith the secretary-G€ne ral
in these endeavours by Providling assistance, as may be apPropriate, and by
subnitting proposals for relevant action bo the Comnlttee on Crime Preventlon
and control t

y/
:}J
c,t I

IEljl., chap. r, sect D.2.

$yl. , sece. o. t.

Resolution 34/169, annex '



DRAFT RESOLUTION XIX

Question of enforced or involuntary disappearances
The ceneral Assenbly,

-. 
Recalling its resolution 33/L.13 of ZO Decenber I97g concerning

disappeared persons, and its resolution 39,/Ul of 14 Decenber l9g4 on thequestion of enforced or involuntary cl isappearances,

_ PeetrIy concerned about the persistence, ln cerEain cases, of the practiceot enforced or involuntary disappearances,
Expressing it.E profound enotion at the angutsh and sorrow of the fanilies

concerned, who shoulal knon the fate of their relatives,
Convinced of the inportance of implementing the provisions of ils

resolution 33/L73 and of the other united Nations resorutions on the questionof enforced and i.nvoluntary disappearances, with a vier., to fintting solutions
for cases of disappearances and helping to elininate such practices,

Bearing in mind Corunisslon on Human Rights
U March 1985f in vrhich the Cornnission decided
of the mantlate of the working Group on Enforced
Disappearances, and Economic and Soclal Council
30 tr{ay 1985, in which the CounciL approved the

10. Decides to consider
righCs in tbe adminlstration

4. Appeals to all covernments concerned !o
anal the Comnission on Human Rights with the full
their strictly humanitarian objectives anal their
discretion,

5. Encourages the Gc,vernments concerned
attention the rrish of the Working croup, when
visit their counlry, thus enabLing lhe working
even more effeclively;

^/40 
/ro07

English
Page 61

at its forty-first session Che guestion of human
of justlce.

resolution L985/2O of
to extend for one year the tern
and Inuoluntary
dec j.slon L985/L42 oE

Cornnisslon' s decision,

provide the working croup
co-operation tf,arranled by
'rorking rnet.hods based on

Eo consider rrilh speciaL
such a wish is expressed, to
Group to fuLfil its mandate

I. Expresses its appreciation to lhe worklng croup on Enforced and
rnuol-untary Disappearances for the humanitarian work it has done and to those
Governments that have co-operated with itt

_ 2. Welcornes the decision of the Comnission on Human Rights to extendfor one year the term of the mandate of the working Group, as \.reII as to
consider at its forty-second session the possibility of excending to two years
the tern of the mandate of the Working Groupt

Also.$elcomes the provisions nade by lhe Coi!f,tisslon on Human Rightsin ics re'olutlon 1985/20 to enable the working Group to furfil its mandarewith even greater efficiency I



^/10/L007English
Page 5?

6. Crlls upon the Comni ssion on Human Rlghts to contlnue to 6tudy this
questlon aat mat-a; of priority anat to take any sgep it nay tleem necessary to
the pursuit of the taEk of the working GrouP flhen it conslders che rePorl to
be subnitted by the GrouP at its forty-Eecond sessiont

7. Renews its request to the secretary-General to continue to Proviile
the working GrouP with all neceEsary assistance.

DRAFT RESOU'TION XX

The General Assenbly ,

Recalllng that the.unlted Nations energed from the struggle lgainst
nazisr!, fascisnr aggresglon and foreign occuPation antl that the PeoPIes
expressed their resolve ln the Charter of the Unlted Nations to save future
generations fron the €tcourge of warr

Reaf,flrmlnq the PurPoses and PrinciPles laid do$n in the charter, which
are afifit--lntalnlng lnternatlonal p€ace anal aecurlty, dleveloplng friendly
relatlons anong nations based on reatrtect for the Prlnciple of equal rights anil
the aelf-tleEernination of peoptes andl achleving internationaL co-operation in
ProDottng and encouraglng resPect for human rightE and funtlahental freedons
f,or aII,

Recauinq that I and 9 May 1985 narked the days of the fortieth
annto.rsarlt of victory over nazist! and fascism in the second Worlil War and of
that struggle against them,

Bearlng in nind the suffering, destruction and death of millions of
victins o?lggtression, foreign o@uPation' nazlsn and fascisn,

Recalllng also the close relatlonship betrreen all EotaliEarian lateologies
atta piIEIIEEE-E]]E on raclal or ethnic exclualvene€s or intolerance ' 

hatred
andt terror antt systeflabic denlal of hunan rights and fundanental freedomsr

FirttrLv convinced that the be8t bulwark against nazlsm and racial
dlscrl;IEE[o; is Ehe €stablishf,ent and malntenance of den@ratic
lnstitutlona, that the extstence of genuine Political, social an't econornlc
denocracy is an effective vaccine and an equally effectlve antidote againat
the fornatlon or developlEnt of Nazl noverlents anat tbat a Political system,
utrlch ls basid on freedon and effective ParticlPation by the peoPle in the
conduct of publlc affairs and under which econonic and social conditions are
such as to enaure a decent standard of living for the iropulat ion nak€s it
lnpoEsible for fagclsmr nazisn or other ideologies based on racism and racial
diecrlmlnatlon, hatred or terror to succeed,



A/40/Loo7
EnglIBh
Page 53

-__. Enpha-sizinq that aII totaliEarian or other ialeologies and practiceg,rncluding Nazi, FascisE and neo_Fascist, based on racial or echnicexclusiveness or lneolerance, hatred, terror or systenatic denlaL of hunanrights and fundamental freedons, 
", ,t i"tr-i""I such consequences, nayJeopardize worrd peace and con'tit'te oustacles to friendly relations betreenstates and to rhe reatizarion of h;""n 

-;i;;;;-lncr 
fundanentat freedons,

^-.^.% the fact tbat nany states havee6Eabrlshed Eystens based on thi-fi;lrent tugniry and the equal andlnalienabte rightg of all hunan u"irsr, ,ti.i'lre tte basis of a denocraticsociety and the b€st burwark 
"g"in.l 

" lot.i; t;.;"r rateorogies andl practices and
l1T ":a up legal regulations which are suiteat to prevent lhe aclivities ofNazi, Fasclat and neo-Fascist groups aia orgaiizations,

. Notir.rq that, nerertheless, ln the contenporary uorlat there continue toexist various forms of totalrtarlan ioeorogie-s ana practices which entarrcontenpt fo' the lndividual or denial or tfie intrinsic dignity anar equarlty ofalr.hunan_beings, of eguality of opportuniiy ii civir, politicar, economic,social and cultural spheres, and oi social ]ustice,

_ 
DeePIy alarqett at the existence of groups and organizations phichpropagate totalitarian ideoLogies anct practi.ces, including 

'azi, 
eascist andneo-Fascist ones, which viol"aie rruman riglts 

"nO 
funa"r.nial freedons, inpartlcular the rights to self-deterrnination, to fit", llberty and security ofperson and to freedon fron 

- 
discr lminat 10n, and which thereby- threaten thepurPoses and prrncrp'res laid dolrn in the charter of the unrled Nations,

- 
conggious of the neear to counter the spread of totalitarian iteologiesand practices based on the systenatlc denlai oi nur"n rlghts and fundarcntalfreedoms, racial intolerance, hatred and terror,

- slresslnq that totaritarian r6girnes based on rac'al or ethnicexclusiveness or intolerance, hatreal or terror or systenatic denial of hunanrights and fundarental freedons por"o" ci.-puipl"e ot ensurlng theirdomination and therr econonic ani soctai pri"ii"g"" aE Ehe expense of otherpeoples or racial or ethnic groups, which they .rpp.."" and exploit,

. ngaffirrning that the prosecution and punlshnent of war crines and crinesagainst peace and bunanity, as laid aornr ti i"i.""r Assetrbly resolutions 3 (r)of 13 February Ig45 anal 95 (I) of 1I o"""rU"i-rilo, constieute a universarconmitnEnt of al1 states,
uindfur of the prrncipres of internatlonar co-operation in the detection,arrest, extraditlon and pulrishnent of persons guilqr of *ar crirnes 

-aii -cr 
lnesagainst huranity, set forEh in cenerat' ls""riri-."*rut ion 3074 (xxvrrr) of3 Decenber I97 3,

- - -Recalling its Eesolutions 233I IXXII) of IB Decenber 1907, 2438 (XXIrr)of 19 December 1968, 2545 (xxrv) 
"t 

ir o"".in.r-rSeg, 2?13 (xXV) of
-tl .!::"tF. Le7o, 2s3s (xxvr) or re oecembei-iitt, ts,/zs or 15 Decenber t9?e,35/200 of 15 Decenber LggO, 36/L6Z 

"e 
fO o"..iOr, ,rrr., J7/:I7g of17 December L992, 3g/gg of 16 Decernbe r fgeg-aiJ-fsZll4 of 14 Decenber 1984,



A/ 40 /LO07
Engltsh
Fage 54

Recalting further the Declaration on social Progress and tlevelopnrent' the
Ireclaration on the Elinlnation of ALl Forns of Racial Dlacrinination' 

the

Declaration on the Granting of IndePenalence Eo @lonial @untries and PeoPLeE
andl the Declaration on the Elinination of AII Forns of rnto!'erance and of
Discrinination Based on Religion or Beliefr

untlerllninq the imPortance of the Universal Declaration of Euman
Rights, 53/ the International covenants on Eu!0an Rlghts' !/ - the .International
convention on the Elininatlon of AlI FornE of Raclal Discaimlnation' l!/ the
convention on Ehe Prevention anil Punishment of tbe crlne of Genoci'le ' ful tbe-
Conventlon on the t'lon-APpltcability of Statutory Lisitatton to war crines 

and

Cri res againsa 
"or.iity-,'gy 

the l;ternational Convention on the SupPression
and Punishnent oE the 

-ct 
ril ot lpartheid 59 attd other relevant lnternatlonal

lnstrunents,

urnaltul that Ehe fortieth anniversary of the end of the second worltl war
served ho nobillze efforts of the $orLt co Nnity ln its struggle against
those ideologies anal Practices,

Reaffirning that itleotogies and Practlces descrlbe'l above are
inconpatible with the purposes and principles of the Charter of the unitedl
Nations and the above-mentioned lnternational instrunentE'

vle$inq eith deep concern th1! lhe proltonent8 of Fascist 
itteologies have'

ln a numbe r ot counGlffinsif ied their activities and are lncreasingly
. co-ordinating thers on an international 6care'

Expressinq its concern that Fascist antl Nazl and other totalitarlan
ia.orffi"iit'"'it.a,intera1ia,bYrepre5siveracist
r&3ines practising gross and flagrant uiotaTi6ifif hunan rights and
systenatic tlenial oi human rlghts antl fundanentaL freedons'

l. Agaln condenns and expresses iti deternlnatlon to resigt all
botalitarian or orher ideologies and practiGJGffiiig Nazi, Sasclst 

and

neo-Fascis! ideologiesr based on racial or ethnic exclusiveness or
lntolerance, hatred and terror, which deprive people of basic hunan tights 

and

funalanental freedons and of equallty of oPportunityt

5!/ Resolution 217 A (III).

gl.,/ raesolution 2200 A (xxl), annex.

!y Resolutlon 2l-06 A (xx), annex.

!!,/ Resolution 260 A (III) '

!Z/ Resotution 2391 (xxIII).

58/ Resolution 3068 (XXVIII) '



L/40/L007
Engl ish
Page 65

,_ , .?.. . Urqes alI States to draw attention to the threats to denocraticlnstitutions by the above-nentioned ideorogies and practices and to con'rdertaking neasures, in accordance with their iational constitutional systens andt ith the provisions of the Uni.versal Declaration of Hunan Rights anal thefnternational Covenants on hunan rights, to proninfe or otherwise deteractivities of groups or organizations oi wtroiver is practising thoseialeologies,

.l: .Invites lrternbe r States to adopt, in accordance with their nationalconsticutionar systens anar with trre prouisions of the universar n""i"i"tion orEuloan Right.s and the International corr"n"ni='-on human rights, as a natter oEhigh-priorlty, neasures declaring pr"i"ii.ui" uy t", 
"n" 

dissenination of ideasbased on racial superiority or hatiea ana oi 
"r.. 

p.op"ganrta, including Nazi,Fasclst and neo-Fascist ideoLogie6,

4._. callg upon al1 states, in accordance wlth the basic pri.ncipres ofinternationar raw, to refrain from practices ained at the vioration of basichuman rights and which threaten peaie and int.ii"tion.f security,

^^.^-:._ 
welcongg that on I May 1985 the Econonic and Social Councit helal asorenn comnenorative cerenony, pursuant to ceneral Assenbly resolution 3g/LL4,nbose purpose was to underline the continuing i.r"u"n". of the ctarter of theunited Nations, the inportance of internatioial co-operation towards peace,security and devel.Dn*nt and the pronotion of hurnan rights and fundanencalfreedorns and in pariicular the rundaraentai ,ig;i to tife, Iiberty and securityof person,

6. Gives exoression to the respect fett by todayrs generation for theviceims orf,ifr-TiiTiiGgle of peopres asainsr nazism and fascism in rhesecond world war and foi estabtishing th- united Nations in order to save
i?ill"d fron the scourge of war and io reaffirn faith in fundamencat hunanrights and in the dignity and worth of the human person,

_. _7: Appeals to aII States that have not yet done so to beconre parties tothe rnternationar c.ovenants on hurnan righ's, tire conventi.on on the preventionand Punishnent of the crine of cenociael cne fniernational conventlon on theElimination of All Forns of Racial uisciiminaiion, the convention on theNon-Applicabi li ty of statutory Linitatrons to war crines and crimes againsuHumanity and the rnternational convention on th; suppression and punishnent ofthe CrinE of Apartheid,
8. Reiterates itsre* as r,,t..so,,",;G;GTff*t::":$"::i'::i5:;.::il:ili"::n::;::l:il":"."

lnitiate or intensify neasures against the itteologies and practices descrlbetlin paragraph 1 above I

-Requegts 
the secre tary-Gene rar to ensure chat the Departnenc ofPublic rnforrnation of the. secretariat pays due attention co the dissemrnationof information exposing the iateologies- una pi."ir.."s described in paragraph Iabove t



^/40/L007English
Page 66

10. tnvites all states to subnit to bhe secretary-General their corunents
ard lnformat:lon on the lnPlenEntallon of Ehe Present resolutiont

Il. R€quests the sec retary-Gene ral to subnit a report' Ehrough Ehe
Econonrlc and soclal councilr ho the General Assenbly at its forty-first
session ln the llght of the ttiscussion Ehat nill take Place in the -comnission
on Eunan Rights and on the basis of coflrcnts Provitted by States antl
lnternational organizations.

DRAFT FASOIIITION XXI

Iluman rightE and mass exo'luses

The ceneral AssenblY'

ulndfut of ita general humanltarian mandate under the charter of the
United Nabiona to Pronote and encourage resPect for hunan rights and
fundamental freedoms t

DeePly tlisturbetl by the continuing scale anal magnituite of exoduses of
rerugEEE-IiT-ErEftace,,enr6 of t opularion tn many regiona of the uorld and at
the huttatt suffering of nilllons of refugees and displaced personsr

conscious of the fact that hunan rights violations are one of the
.urt tF-re ana .otprex factors causing nass exoduseg of refugeesr as indicatetl
in the stualy of the Speclal Rapporteur on thls sublect' g9''l

Consitlering efforts shich have tben made to addresa thls subject nithin
tne unitea uations, in Particular by the connission on llunlan Rlghts'

Aware of the recommendatlons concernlng mass exoduses nade by the
comniiiTSn on Hunan Rights to lt6 sub-comr$ission antl to special Ra[4'orteurs
when stualying vtolations of hunan rights in any part of the lrorltl,

Deeplv preoccupietl by the lncreasingly heavy burden being imPos:d '
par t iEGEEn aevefoping countries vrith lirnited resources of thelr own,
and upon the international cornrnunlty as a whole, by these sudden nass exoduses
andl displacenents of populat ion '

stressing the need to improve lnternational co-operation aimefl at the
prevention of nett nassive flows of refugees in parallel with the Provision of
adequate solutions to actual refugee situations,

takinq note of the rePort of the Group of Governrnental Experts on
tnt.rffin-ar co-operatlon to Avert Nerr Flons of Refugees, 99'/

E9l

60./

B/cr{.4/L5O3.

See A,/40,/38 5.



L/40/L00'l
Engl ish
Page 67

_ Notinq aqain the report of the Sec reta ry-Gene r al on hunan rights and nassexoduses r 6l/

Recalling its resolutions 351196 of 15 December I980. 3j /LB6 of17 December L982, 38/LO3 of 16 December 19g3 and jg/LL.l of L4 December 1984
and Connission on lluman Rights resolutions 30 (XXXVI) of ll March 1980,
29 (xxxvll) of tl March L'BI, Lgg2/32 of t1 March Lgg2, LgB3/35 of
8 March 1983 and L9g5/4O of 13 March 1985,

I . t{e Icomes
prcblem ot-^l!il"e
aspects, includ ing

the steps laken so far by the United Nations to exanine Ehe
outflows of refugees and dispLaced persons in all iLs
its root causes;

2' Invites Goverrunents and international organizations to itensify
their co-operation and assistance in worrd-wide efforts to address the serrous
Problem of rnass exoduses of refugees and disgtaced personsi

3. welcones the special interest n'hich the Sec r etary-Gene r al has taken
rn this question, and reiterates its request to the Secre lary-Gene ral to
follow closely developments in the area of human rights and mass exoduses;

4. Encourages the efforts being undertaken by the Sec reta ry-Gene r al eo
enable the united Nati.ons to anticipate and reacc nore adequately anil spee,iiry
to cases requiring humanitarian assistance as nentioned in the report of the
sec retary-Gene r al on t.he work of the organization to the ceneral Assembly at
the thirty-ninth sessiont 62/

5. Invites the Connission on Human Rights to keep the question of human
rights and nass exoduses under review wit.h the objective of making appropriaLe
r,:connendat ions concerning the further neasures to be taken on this subjecc;

6, Decides to review the question of hurnan rights and nass exoduses at
its f orty-Ei rl-t session.

19- The Third conmi.ttee also recomnends to the ceneral Assembly for adoption the
following draft dec i s ions:

DRAPT DECISION I

The ceneral Assenbly decides to postpone to its forty-first session
consideration of the draft resolution contained in Cocunent
A/C.3/4O/L.83/Rev.I and amendments thereto contained in A/C.3/4O/L.90.

6r/ A/38/538.

_ -5-?/ Official RSc_qJds of rhe ceneral Assernbly, ThirCy_ninth Session.supplem..,t



A/40/roo1
Engl ish
Page 68

DRAFT DECISION 11

The General Assembty connsiders that the neeting of the working Group of
c'overnmental Elrperts on the Right to Development, scheduled to be held in
January 1986, should be postponed to a later date, so as to enable the
Conunission on Ilunan Rights at its torty-s6q6nd session lo provide the Working
croup 1.rith appropr iate guidance for lt€ future vJork, in the light of the
relevant discussions and decisions taken d\rring the fortieth session of the
General Assernbly.


