








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/40/946
3 Decenbe r 1985
ENG1,ISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fortieth session
Agenda item 61

1.

REVIEW AND IMPLEIIIEMATION OF ?HE CONCLUDING DOCUII'EM OF'THE
TWELFTH SPECIAL SESSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBTY

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr, Yannis SOULIOTIS (Greece)

]. INTRODUCTION

The item ent i. tled:

"Review and inplenentation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfch
Special session of the General Asseftb1y3

"(a) Worl"d Disarmament Carnpaign: report of lhe sec retary-Gene ral i
n(b) Uniteal Nations prograrure of fellowships on disarmarnent: report of

the Sec retary-Gene ral t

"(c) rnplenentat ion of ceneral Assenlly resolution 39/63 c on a
nucLeax-arns free ze t

" (d) consideration of guidelines for conf idence-bu i ld ing neasurest

I'reeze on nuclear weaPons i

Convenlion on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear weapons r report
of the Conference on Disarmatnenti

Third special session of the General Assembly devoted to disarmamentt

Disarmanent and international security: report of the
Sec relarv-Gene ral n

(s)

(h)

was included in the provisional agenda of
ceneral Assembl,y resoLutions 39/63 A to E

85-3s6r2 4634P (E)

fortieth session in accordance with
c to x of 12 Decenber 1984.

the
and



A/40/946
Engl ish
Page 2

2. At ils 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 Septenber 1985, lhe ceneral AssernbLy, on the
reconmendation of the ceneral Connnittee, decided to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to Che First Committee.

3. At its 2nd neeting, on 9 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmanent ieens allocated to it, nanely, items 48 to 69 and
item 145' followed by statements on specific disarnanent agenda itens and
continuation of general debate, as necessary. The deliberations on those itens
took place between the 3rd and the 32nd neetingsr from 14 October Co I Novenber
(see A/C. I/ 40 /pV, 3-32) .

4. In connection r.rith item 61, the First Cormittee had before it the following
documents I

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmanent, y

(b) Report of the secretary-ceneral on the world Disarnament Canpaign
(A/40/443 and Add.L and Add.I/Corr.t) t

(c) Repore of lhe Secr etary-cene ral on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Studies (A/40/7 441 t

(d) Report of the Sec retary-cene ral on Uhe Unieed Naeions programme of
fellowships on disarmanenE (A/40/816, i

(e) Letter dated 30 January 1985 from the representatives of Argentina,
Greece' India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-ceneral, transnitting the Delhi
Declaration adopted and issued at Neht Delhi, on 28 January 1985 by the
Heads of State or covernment of Argentina, creece, India, Mexico, Sweden
and the United Republic of Tanzania (A/ 4O/Ll4-s/I6921\ i

(f) Letter daled 1l February 1985 from the pernanent Representative of
I'{ongolia te the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/40/r25\ r

(S) Letter dated 15 February 1985 from the Charg6 d,affaires a.i. of the
Pernanent Mission of the c€rnan Denocratic Republic to the United Nations
addressed to the Sec retary-cene ral (A/40 /l3O-S/L695gl i

(h) Letter dated I May 1985 frorn the Permanent Representative of Indonesia to
the Uniled Nations addressed to the Sec retary-Gene ral, transnitting the
text cf the Declaration of the CoNnemorative Meeting in Observance of the
Th.irtieth Anniversary of the Asian-African Conference, held at Bandung on
24 and 25 April 1985 (A/ 40/27 6-S/t'7I381 ]

!/ Official Records of the qenerat Assembly, Fortieth Session, Supplenent
}{o. ZZ tal



(i)

(j)

(k)

(1)

A/4O/946
Engllsh
Page 3

LetLer dated 14 OctobeE 1985 from the Perrnanent Representatlve of To9o to
the United Nations addreased to the Secretary-cene raI, transtnitting the
docunent entitled rDeclaration and Programne of Actioni adoPted at the
Ministerial Regional Conference on Security, Disarnament and Developnent
ln Africa, held at Lond from 13 to 16 August 1985 lA/ 40 /7 6L-S/L75731 ,

Letter dated 30 October 1985 fron the repreaentatives of Argentina'
creece, Inalla' Mexlco, Sweden and the United Republlc of Tanzanla to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-cene ra1, transnitting the joint
message dated 24 Octob€r 1985 addressed to the President of the united
SCates of America and Ehe ceneral Secretary of the Central Conmittee of
the conmunist Party of the soviet Union by the Heads of staEe or
Gove.rnment of Argentina, creece, fndia, Mexico, Sweden and the United
Republic of Tanzanla on 24 October L985 (A/ 4O/825-S/L75961 ,

Letter dated 5 November 1985 frorn the Pernanent Representat ive of Lngola
to the gnlted Natlons addressed to the secretary-Gene ral, transnitting
th€ Fina1 Political Declaration and the Econolnic Declaratlon adopted by
the conference of Foreign Ministers of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at
Luanda fron 4 t'o 7 Septernber 1985 (A/ 4O/854-S/L7 610 and Corr.l) t

Letter daled 25 October 1985 fron the Pernanent Represehtative of
BulEaria to the rhlted Natlons addr.ssed to the Sec retary-ceneral,
transmitting the Declaration issued
Political consultative Corffirittee of
(A/c.r/40/7, i

o?t 23 Oceober 1985 at Sofia by the
the warsaw Treaty organization

(n) Letter dated 4 December 1985 fron the Charg6 d'affaires a.i. of the
permanent Mission of uganda to Ehe United Nations addressed to the
Sec retary-cener d,L (A/c.L/AO/Lll .

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.L/AO/L.9 and Rev.I

5. On 1 November 1985, C!'pru6 subfiritted a draft resoluEion entitleal "Disarmament
and internflional securityn $/C.L/40/L.9), which waa introduced by its
representrtive at the 28th neeting, on 5 November. The draft resolution read as
follovrs:

"The General Assembly,

rDeeply concerned with Che contlnuing escalation of the arms race,
partieularly in nuclear weapons,

"Considering that resolution 39/63 K of 12 December 1984 calts upon the.
security Council to corply vrith Articl-e 26 of the charter and to hold a
session of the Council for the consideration of the escalatins arms race wilh
a view to brlnging it to a halt,



M40/946
Engli sb
Page 4

"Having regard to the existlng reality that the Security Councll has not
as yet complled Hith the aforesaid re€olution nor given any consideraCion to
the guestion of the escalating arms race, contrary to the provisions of Ehe
Charter,

'1. Calls on Cbe Securlty Council, and particularly its permanent
members, to conform eith the reguirenents of tbe aforesaid resolutlon 39/63 K
and proceed to due neasures for the regulatlon of armaments in accordance with
the Charter t

R€gueste the S€cr etary-General to report thereon to the cenera!.
Assembly at its forty-flrst sea6ion,"

6. On I8 Novernber, Cyprus submitted a reviaed draft resolution
(A/c.L/4O/L.9/Rev.I), containing the followlng changes:

(a) Tbe second preanbular paragraph sas revised as follofls:

"Conaideri.ng that resolut.ion 39/63 I( of 12 Dec ember 1984 calls upon the
Security Council to give consideration to the egcalating arns race -
particularly the nuclear-arns race - t ith a viet{ to initiating due procedures,
in accordance witb Article 26 of the Charter of the United Nations, for
bringinq lt to a halt,"l

(b) The third preanbular paragraph eas revlsed as follous:

"Havlng regard to the existlng reality that the Security Council has not
yet given any consideratlon to th€ guestion of the escalating arns race, as
prooided for in the aforesaid reaol.ution,',
(c) Operative paragraph 1 was revised as folloes:

"1. Calls on the Security CounclL, and particularly lts permanent
rnenbers, to lnltiate due procedures in confornity nith the provisions of tbe
aforesaid resoluliont r.

7. At its 42nd neeting, on t9 November, the conmlttee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/4O/L.9/ReV.1 by a recofded vote of 1.08 to 1, vtLth 22 abstentions (see
para. 26, draft resolution A). The votlng was as followss

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Babrain,
Bangladesb, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia. Botsrrana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burklna Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
soviet soclallst Republic, Caneroon, Central African Republic,
chad, Chlle, China, col.ombie, conoros, congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, DettFcratic Kampuchea, Denocratic Yenen, Djiboutl,
Doni.nican Republlc, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, cerman
DemocraCic Republlc, chana, creece, Guinea, cuyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (rSlanic Republic of),
Irag, Ivory Coast (C6t.e dtlvoire), Ja!0aica. ,tordan, Kenya,



A/ 40 /946
Eng Ii6h
Page 5

Fusait, Lao Peoplerg Denocratic Republic' Lebanon, Lesotho'
libyan Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar, llalaysia, !'laldlees, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, tlozanbigue, Nepal'
Nicaraqua, Niger, Nigerla, Oman' Pakistan, Panana, Papua Nelt
Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland' Qatar, Roman ia,
Ritanda, saudi Arabia, senegal, Singapore, somalla, sri Lanka,
Sudao, Suriname, Sltazll-and' Syrian Arab Reprrblic, Thailand' Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, uganda, ukrainian soviet socialists
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republica, united Arab
Ernirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam. Yemen, Yugoslavia, zaire, Zimbabee-

Against: Unlted States of Anerica.

&j1!1!}!g: Austral-ia, Austria, Belgiun, Canada, Dennark, Finland, France.
Gernany, Federal Republic of, rceland' Ireland, Israel, rtaly'
JaPan ' Luxenbourg, Malta' Netherlands, 

Nest Zealand, Nornay,
Portugal-, Spaln, Sueden, United Kingdorn of Great Brltain and
Northern Ir eland,

B. praft resolution A/C.1/4 0/L.1?

8. on 5 Novenbe! 1985, Banqladesh, Egvpt, Indonesia, Mexico, Pakistan, sri Lanka'
EEgen and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution entitled "llorld Diearmament
Canpaign' lltc.VSO/L.tt), which ltas later also sponsored by Rornan ia and @' The
draft resoLution eas introduced by the representative of Mexico at the
3lst neeting, on 7 November.

9. At its 39th meeting, on 15 November, the Connittee adopted draft resoltjtion
UC.\/40/L.L7 by a recorded vote of 125 to none, vrith 1l abstentions (see para' 26'
draft resolution B). The voting r.ras as follons:

rn favour: Afghanistan, Atgeria' Angota, Argentina, Auatralia' Austria'
Bahrain' Bangl-adesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botssana, Brazil-,
Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burklna Fago, Burna, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Carneroon, Canada, Central
African ReptJblic ' chad, chile, china, coronbia. 

comoros ' congo'
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoglovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Denocratic
Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador' Eqypt,
Ethiopia, I'iJ1' Finland' Gabon' Gernan Democratic Republic'
Ghana, Greece, Guinea' Guyana, Honduras, Bungary, Iceland' India'
rndonesia, rran (rslamic Repubric of), rraq, rreland, rvory coast
(c6te drrvoire), Jamaica, Japan' Jordan' Kenya. Kuwait, Lao
Peoplers Dernocratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotbo, Libyan Arab
Jamahirlya, l,tadagascar, Malawi, Malaysia. Maldives, l4ati, !{alta,
Maurj.tanla, Maurlttus, Mexlco' Mongolia, Morocco, Mozanbigue'
Nepal. Nelt zealand, Nicaragua, Nlger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea. Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland' Portugal, Qatar, Ronania, Rwanda, Sanoa, Sao Tone an'l



A/40/916
Eng I ish
Page 6

Aga inEt:

Princlpe, Saudi Arabla, Senegal, Singapore, Sonalta, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinane, Swa8lland, Sweden, Syrlan Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trlnidad and Tobago, Tunisia, uganda,
ukrainian Sovlet socialist ReFrbIIc, Union of Soviet Sociallst
Republlce 

' Unlted Arab Emlrate6, United Republic of Tanzanla,uruguay, Venezuela, Viat Nan, yenen, yugoslavia, zaire, Zambl.a,
Zinbabue.

Non e.

Ab8taiqinqs Belgiul[, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel, ftaly,
Liberia, Luxenbourg, Netherlands, Turkey, United Kingdom of creat
Britain and NortheEn rreland, united states of Anerica.

C. Draf t resolution VC.I/40,/L.18
10. On 5 Novenber 1995, Indonesla, Mexlco, pakistan, peru, SHeden anil !5gggg1submittetl a draft resolution entitled "nucfeii-iirnJ tieeze" (Vc, i,zao,zl. f ei,whfchr'aa later algo sponsored by Ecuador and Ronanla. Th€ draft resolution rras
lntroduced by the representative of Maxlco it ttre 3tst meetlng, on 7 Novenber.
11. At its 43rd meeting, on 20 Novenber, the Com0ittee adopted draft resolution
UC.L/AO/L.\8 by a fecorded vote of 113 to Ll, rrith 6 abstentions (see para. 26,
draft resolution C). The voting rras aa follows:

fn favour: Afghanistan, ALgeria, Angola, Argentlna, Australia, Au6tria,
Bahrain, Bangladeah, Benin, Bhulan, BoLivia, Bots$ana, Brazll,
Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundl,
Byelorussian Soviet Sociallst Republic, Caneroon, Central Afrlcan
Republic, Chaa, ChiLe, Colonbia, Congo, cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Dernocratic yeroen, Denmark, DJlboutt, Donlnican
Republlc, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ftji, Fint-and, cabon, cernan
Denocratlc Republic, Ghana, Greece, cuatemala, Guinea, cuyana,
Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (rslarnic
Republic ofl , rrag, Ireland, rvory coa6E (c6te d,rvoire),
Jamaica, ilordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Denocratic RepubLicf
Lesotbo' Libyan Irab Jarnahiriya, Madagascar, ualaysia, Maldives,
MaIi' MaLta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, l,lozanbique,
Nepal, Neu zealand, Nicaragua, Niqer, Nigeria, Norway, onan,
paklgtan, panama, papua New Guinea, paraguay, peru, poland,
Qatar, Rornanla, &randa, Saudi Arabia. Senegal, Singapore,
Somalia, Srl Lanka, Sudan, Surlname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, To9o. Trlnldad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukralnian Soviet Sociallst Republlc, Union of Soviet
socialist Republ,ics, unlted Arab Emj.rates, united Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Ven€zuela, viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia, zaire,
zanbia. z inbabwe.



FJ 40 /9 46
Eng lish
Page 7

Belgium, Canada, France, Gernany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
ttaly, Japan, Portugal, Turkey, Unlted Kingdon of Greac Britain
and Northern lre1and, United State€ of Anerica,

Against:

Abstaining: Bahamas, China, Iceland, Luxenbourg, Netherlands, Spaln.

D. Draft reeolution VC,l/40ll.21
12. on 6 Novenber 1985, Elglb, tbe elorusslan so'rtet Soc lal i st

lc ian Souiet Soc
Republic and Vlet Nam subtitEed a
Campaign: actiona and activlties'

draft resolutlon
(^/c.r/40/L.zL't .
Bulgarla at the

entitled "World Disarrnanent
The draft resolution r,as

33rd neetingr onintroduced by the representative of
lI November 1985.

L3. At its 39th
A/c.L/40/L.2I -by
draft resolutlon

In fa"our r

@.!.:
Abata ining r

meeting, on L5 Novenber, the Collrnittee adopted draft resolution
a recorded vote of 99 to none, with 33 alstentlons (see para. 26,
D). The ooting lfas as follodsr

Afghanistan, Algeria, AnEola, Argentina, Australia, Bahraln,
Bangl.adlesh, Benln, Bbutan, Bolivia, Botsrana, Brunei Darussalan,
Bulgarla, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Caneroon, Central African Republic, Chad, China,
Conoroa, Congo, Cuba, Cypru6, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yemen,
Djibouti' Domlnican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopla, Fiji,
Gabon, Gernan Democratlc Republic, chana, Guinea, Guyana,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesta, Iran (Islanic Republlc of),
Iraq, lv6sy Coagt (c6ce drliroire), Jordan, Kenya. Kueait, Lao
People'B Democf,aiic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Janahiri.ya, Madagascar, f.,talaysia, ltaldives, MaIl, Malta,
titaur ltlue, ilexico, l4ongolia, !,torocco, Mozanbigue, Nepal,
Nicaragua, NigeF, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panana, Papua New Guinea'
Peru, Pbllippines, Poland, Qatar, Ronania, samoa, sao Tome and
Principe, s6udi Arabia, senegal, Sonalia, sri Lanka, sudan,
surinane, swariland, syrian Arab RepubLic, Thailand, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Sociatlst Republie,
Union of Soeiet Socialist Republica, United Arab Enlrates, United
Republic of Tanrania, Venezuela, Viet Nan, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
zaire, zanbia, ?trnbabwe.

Non e,

Austrta, Belgiun, Brazil, Burrsa, Canadar Chlle, Col-onbia,
Denlnark, Finland, France, Gernany, Federal Reprblic of, Greece,
Icelanal' Ir€land, Israel, Italy, Janaica, ,fapan, Luxembourg,
ualalri, Netherlands, New zealand, Norlray, Paraguay, Portugal'
Rnanda, spain, swedenr To9o, Turkey, United Kingdon of creat
Brltain and Northern lreland, United States of America, Uruguay.



v40/946
English
Page I

E. Draft resolution A,/C.1/40,/L.25

a draft reaolution entitled nFreeze on
eas tntroducd by its representative at the

14. On 5 November 1985, Indla submitted
nuclear weaponan 6/C.L/40/L.25), shich
33rd meeting, on 1l November.

15. At its 43rd meeting, on 20 November, the CorEtrlttee attopted dsaft tesolution
A/C.L/40/L.?5 by a recorded vote of 110 to 12, wlth I abstentions (see para. 26,
draft regolution E). The voting $a€ as follons!

In favour: Afghanistan, Algerla, Angola, Argencina, Auatria, Bahrain,
Banqladesh, Benin, Bhutan, BoIlvia, Botsuana, Braz11, Brunei
Darusaalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faao, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Caneroon, Central Afrlcan Republic,
chad, chile, co!.onbia, congo, cuba, cyPru6, czechoalovakia,
Den@ratic Yenen, Denmarh, Djlboutl, Dominican Republlc, Bcuador,
Eqypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Flnland, Gabon, Gernan Democratic
Repubtic, Ghana, Greece, cuatenala, Gulnear Guyana, Eaitl,
Honqurae, Itungary, tndia' Indonesta' Iran (Islanlc Rep)blic of),
rrag, Ireland, Ivory Coast (c6te d'leoirel , Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwalt, Lao Peoplers Democratic RePublic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Ittadagascar ' !,talaygia, !4aldives ' Mali,!4alta, Mauritania, uexico, uongolia' !,bzanbigue, Nepa!,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, onan, Pakistan' Panana' Papua New
Guinea' Paraguay, Peru, PhlliPpines, Poland, Qatar, Itoman ia,
Rrdanda, Sauali Arabia, Senegal, Slngapore, Sonalla, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, S$aziland, Srreden. Syrian Arab Reptrblic,
Thalland, Togo, frinldad and Tobaqo, Tuniaia, Uganda, Ukrainlan
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Social-ist ReFrbLics,
UniLed Arab Emirates. Uniled Republic of Tantania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nan. Yenen, Yugos!-avia, Zaire, Zanbia, zlrnbablre.

Belgiun, Canada, France, Gernany, Federal. Republic of, Israel,
Italy, Luxenbourg, Netherland6, Portugal' ?urkey' United Klngdon
of Great Britain and Northern lreland, Unlted States of Anerica.

Agains!:

Abstaininq: Australia, Bahamas, Chine, Iceland, Japan, Nen zealand' Norway,
Spa in,

F. Draft resolution A/C.l/4olL.26

16. On 6 November 1985, A!.geria. Argentina, the @,
Ecuador, Egltpt, Ethiopia, Indla, Indonesia, Madagascar, Nigeria, Ronania, viet Nar'n
and 3@,ig aubnitted a draft resolutlon €ntltled 'conventlon on th€ Prohibition
of the Use of Nuclear Weaponsi (A/C.L/4O/L.261 . The draft resolution naa
introduced by the representative of fndia at the 33rd neeting, on l1 November '



A/40/946
Engli sh
Page 9

17. At lts 44th neetlng, on 20 Novenber, the Comnlttee adopted draft reso!.ution
A/C.I/40/L.26 by a recorded vote of 106 to 17, with 5 abstentlons (see para. ?6,
draft resolution F). The voting t'as as follonsr a/

In favours Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahanas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Blrutan, Bolivia, Botslrana, Brazil, Brunei
Darusealan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faao, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Soclalist Republlc, Cameroon, Central African ReFrbllc,
Chad, Chile, china, Colonbia, Conoro6, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Kanpuchea, Denocralic yemen, Djlboutl,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, FiJi, [,inland,
Gabon, German Democratic R€public. Ghana, Guatenala, Gulnea,
Guyana, Itungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamlc Republic of),
Iraq, 1!r6sy coast (C6te d,fvoire), Jordan, Kenya, Kusalt, Lao
Peoplera Denocratic Republic, Lesotho, Llbyan Arab Janabirtya,
l,Ladagascar, Malaysiar Maldives, Uali, i.lal.ta, Maur ltania, Mexico,
Mongolia. lilcrocco, l,lozanbique, Nepa!, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Oman, Paklstan, Panana, Papua New Gulnea, Paraguay, Peru, Poland,
Qatar, Ronania, R4anda, Saudi Arabla, Senegal, Singapore.
Sonalia. Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Se€den, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunlsia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Sociallst
Republlce, United Arab Emiratea. United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuel-a, Vl.et Narn, yemen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia,
U imbabre.

Againat: Auatralia, Belgium, Canada, Denrnark, France, cermany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Itely, Luxenbourg, Netherlandg, Ner
zealand, Nornay, portugal, Spain, Turkey. United Ningdom of Great
Britain and Nortbern Ireland, United States of Anerica.

Abstainlng! Austrla. Greece, Ireland, Israel, Japan.

G. Dragt resolulion A,/C.l/40/L.39
t8. On 7 Novenber 1985, Mauritius, on behalf of the Group of African States,
subnit.Eed a draft resolutlon entitled "Unit€d Natlons Reglonal Centre for Peace and
Dlsarmament in Afr{ca" (A/C.L/4O/L.39), r,rhich eas introduc€d by its representative
at Che 35th meetlng, on 12 November.

19. At its 39tb meecing, on 15 Novenber, the Comnittee adopted draft resolution
VC.L/40/L.39 rrithout a vote (see para. 25, draf! resotucion c),

U The del-egatlon of Slraziland subsequently indicated tha! it had intended
to voee in fauour of tbe draft resolution.



N40/e46
English
Page 10

20. On 7 Novenber 1985, the Bahana€
Indonesia a, MaIi

H.

, the

Senegal, sonalii, runiaia, uganila, venezueLa and 4iE Eubnitted a dr resolutlon
entitled 'United rlitions Progranne of Fello{rshipa on Dlsarmanent' lA/c.l/40/L-51, '
which rae later also sponaored by @ an'l Zi!0babr€'
The draft resolution t,as lnlroduced by the representatlve of Nlgerla at the
34th neetlng, on 12 Novenber, and read as follor€r

rThe ceneraL Aasenbly

"-RecailinS. its declsion, contained in paragraph 108 of the Final Docunent
of the Tenth special session of the Genesal Assenbly, to establish a Progrlntne
of fellowshipg on disarnanent, as eell as its dectslong contained ln the
Conclualing Document of the T?elfth SPeclal Ses6lon of the General A6s€nbly, 3,/
in whicb it, inter alia, declded to contl.nue the pro,granme and to locrease thc
number of fe[owEhipa fron tnenty to lsenty-flve as faoNn 1983,

'-RecaU inS. alao its resolution 39/63 B of 12 December 1984,

frNoting sith satisfaction tbat the prograFlle has already tralned
one hundred and fifty-five public officialg fron elghty-eight countrles' nost
of shom are nor in positlons of responslbllity in the fleld of diearmltnent
eithln their Governnents or pernanent nissions to the Unlted Nations, or
representlng their Governnents at international diaartarnent neetlnga,

rRecognl,zing that the progranne of stualies and activttlee as outltned in
the r e$?E6FT66 secretary-cen er al \1 on the f ellowshlP progtame hag
continued to expand and intenslfy,

"Taktn, account of the fact that in recent years developi'ng countrtes
have sbor+n increased intereat in diBarnatmnt items, ehlch has been reflected
in the inltlatlves taken by then,

"Considering that the forrns of assisEance avallable to Member State€,
particularly developing countriea, under the united Nations progrefim€ of
felloorships on disarmanent can be further expanded by rray of advlaory serglces
and training progralmes arranged foE particlpants ln varloua countries on
reguest, in vie* of the increaaing and speclfic needs of Menb€r States,

y official Record€ of the ceneral Assenblv, TTelfth special s€3slon,
Abnexes, agenda ltens 9 to 13' docunent A/S-L2/32.

y A/40/sL6.



N40/946
English
Page ll

't. fake€ note with sat.isfaction of the report of the secretary-General
and the vlew that the expanslon of tbe fellonship programtne has brought elth
lt blgher respons lbil ities, lncludlng ptannlng, implementation, co-ordinatlon,
serglclng, foLlou-up sork and superviston of all actlvitiee relating to the
progr aflie t

Further takes note of the eieu of the S€cr etary-General on the
poas 111 I t tffiFffiiEiEin?E ser v lc es t

'3. Ejllgg, to expand the forms of aeslsbance availabLe to Menber statee
unaler the United Nations psogra re of fellorrships on dlsarnanent to include
tralning prograNnes and advisory aervices ln the field of dlsarnanent and
aecurity, all the progrannes to be consolidaEed under the Departunent for
Diaarfianent AffaLrE, to be headed at the alirector level, bearlng ln nind the
savlngs thaE can be nade nlthln the existlng overall budqetary approprlatlona
for the United Natlons progr.mne of fellorrship6 on disarnanenEt such advlaory
Sbrvices should lnclude the organization of tralning courses at the reglonal
ot aub-reglonal leuel, ln co-operation with the Governnents concerned for the
benefit of government officlals nhose dutle€ lnvolve the inplenentalion of
arna llnitatlon and dlsarmaflrent neasures, as well as ebe promotion of
di,sarnament effortg,

'4. Further decldes that tbe secr etary-ceneral should rnake provigion for
advleory eiffi-EiE f lerd of drsarmament on the basls of reguests
recelved from Governuenta and,/or governmental organizations in accordance eith
the folloeing poL ic ies:

"(t) lrbe klnd of service to be rendered to covernnents and,/or
governn€ntal organlzations shall be det.ernined btt the Government
and/or organlzatlons concerned in consultalion nilh the
Secretary-General t

r(1i) The anount of servlce and tbe conditions under shich i! ts to be
rendeEed EhalL be deciated by the secretary-Gener al. $ith due regard
to the needs of states, ln partlcuLar the developlng countrlesr and
in conformlty ltith the principle that lhe reguesting Gonerntoents
and,/or governnenlal organizations shall be expected to assune
responsiblllty for a conslderable part -of the expenses connecEed
with tbe gervices rendered, either by making a contribution ln cash,
or by Provldlng suPPorllng staff servicea and Paytnent of local' costs
for the purpose of carrying out the progranrnet

i(tlt) the aervlce sball be applicable to any aubject in the field of
dlaarnanent,

'5. Expresses its appreciatlon to the Governments of Bulgaria, the
Federal Republlc of Gernany, Japan, Srreden and the United States of Anerlca
for invlting fellows to their counlries tn 1985 to study selected .ctivltles
ln the flelal of dlsarnament, thereby contribuging to the fulfilnent of lhe
overall. objectleee of the programmet



A/ 40 /9 46
Eng I i. sh
Page 12

"6. Requests the Secr etart-ceneral to report to the General AEsenbly at
its forty-flrat sesslon on the operatione of Ehe fellonship program0e and on
the implenentatlon of the provislons of the present resolution and to develop
]|Fdalities for irnplenentatlon of the training prograrnmes and advisory
servlces.'

2L. On 19 November, the sponsors subnitted a revised draft resolution
lA/C.l/4o/L.54lRev. 1) , in rhich operative paragraph 3 t'as revised to read as
follo!|s !

under the gnited Natlons disarnament fellowship prograffle to include trainlng
Ptogfarntnes and advisory sereices ln the field of disarmaoent and Eecuri.ty, all
lhe programnes to be consolldated under tbe Deparlment for Dlsarmanent
Affairs, at the appropriate level, bearing in rnind the savings that can be
made {ithin the existlng overall budgetary appropriations for the Unitd
NaEions programme of fellorrships on dlsarnamentt such advisory serelces should
lnclude the organizatlon of training couraeg at the r€gional or sub-reqional
Level, tn co-operatlon with the Goeernrnents and/or int ergovernmental
organizations concerned for the benefl! of governnent offlcials rrhose dutleE
involve lhe irnplenenLation of arms limltation and disarmament neasureg, aa
well as the pronotion of disarnanene effortat".

22. In connection eith the revised drafE resolution, the Secr etary-General -
subnitted a statenent on Ehe programle budget inpllcaClons (A/C.L/40/L.79'|.

23. At its 44th neeting. oo 20 Novenber, Ehe Coflnittee adopted draft resolution
Vc.L/1O/L.54lRev.l by a recorded vote of 127 to I (Bee para. 26, drafr
resolution H). The voting was as follons: 5/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentlna, Australia, Austrla,
Bahanas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Boteeana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burklna Faso, Burna,
Burundi, Byeloruasian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Chad. Chtle, China, Colonbia, Conoros, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic Yemen, Dennaak, Djlbouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Flnland,
Erance, Gabon, Gernan DerEcratlc Republic, Gernany, Federal
Republ-ic of, Ghana, creece, cuatenala, cuinea' Guyana, Raiti'
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Ivory Coast (C6te drlvoire), Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuttait, Lao Peoplers Denocratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Luxenbourg, Madagascar, tilalay8la,
Maldives, l,laLi, l.{al.ta, Mauritanla, Mexico, Mongolla, llorocco,

y The tlelegationa of Bolivla, the Central African Republtc, Denocratic
Ranpuchea, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Niger, Pakistan and St aziland subseguently
indlcated that they had intended to vote ln favour of the draft resolution.



Against,:

Al40/946
Engllsb
Page 13

lbzambique, Nepat, Netherlands, Ne$ zealand, Nlcaragua, Nlgeria,
Norway, Oman, Panana, papua Ne!, Gulnea, paraguay, peru,
Phllippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Ronania, Rrranda, Sanoa,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal,, Singapore, Solonpn fslands, Sonalia,
Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, uganda,
Ukrainlan sovlet Socialist Republlc, unlon of sovlet socialist
Republics, United Arab EniraEes, United Klngdon of Great Brltain
and Northern Irelantl, United Republic of Tanzanla, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia, Zinbaboe.

Unlted States of Amer lca.

I. Draft resolut iLon A/C.L/4O/L.59

On 7 Novembes 1985, Algeria, Arqentina, the Bahanas, Bangladesh, Colonbia,
Indla, f

N1 Sri Venezue
and submltted a draft resolulion entltled nconvening of the tbird
special session of the ceneral Assenbly devoted to diaarnarnenE" (NC.L/4O/L.59).
tdhich was later alao Bponsored by Botivia and Caneroon. The draft resolutlon was
lntroduc€d by the representalive of Yugoslavia at the 35th neeEing, on 12 November.

25. At its 37th neeting, on 14 November, tbe Coflnittee adopted draft resolution
NC.L/4O/I'.59 trithout a vote (Bee pata. 26, draft resotution I).

24.
Cuba

Nam=,et



u40/e46
Engli sh
Page 14

III. RECOIIO,IENDATION OP THB FIRST COT,IMITTEE

26. The First cornnittee r ecorsDends to the General Assembly the atloption of the
follouing draft resolutions:

Revien and lTlplenentation of the Concludinq Document of lhe
Trrelfch special sesslon of the General A€ssnbly

A

DI SARII.IA!,IENT AND INTERNATIONAL SECURITY

The General Assernbly,

DeePly concerned over the continuing escalation of the arms race'
particularly in nuclear weapons,

Considering tbat resolution 39/6, f of 12 Decenber 1984 callB upon the
Security Councll to give consideratioR to the escalating arns race -
parllcularly the nuclear-arms race - t,lth a vien to lnlttatlng due procedurea,
in accordance nith Article 26 of the Charter of the United Natlons, for
bringinq it. to a halt,

Havlng regard to the exi8ting reality that the Security Council has not
yet given any consideration to the guestion of the egcalallng arns race, as
provided for in the aforesaid resolution,

1. Calls upon the Security Council, and particul-arIy its permanent
nembers, to initiate due procedurea in conformity with the provlslons of the
aforesa id resol-ution,

2. Reguests the Secr etary-cener al to report thereon to the General
Assenbly at its forty-first session.

E

WORLD DISARUAMENT CAI{PAIGN

The General Assembly,

Recalling that ln paragraph 15 of the Final Document of the Tenth Speclal
Session of the ceneral Assenbly, !./ the first speclal sesaion devoted to
disarmanent, it declared that lt uas eagenti.al that not only covernments but
also the peoples of the world recogni?e and underEtand the dangers in lhe
present situation and atressed the inportance of nobllizing porld publlc
opinion on bebalf of dlEarmament,

V Resolution S-LO/z.



A/40/916
Eng Iish
Page 15

Recalllng also its resolutfons 35/L52 I of 12 December L980. 36/92 C of
9 Decenber 1981, 371100 I of 13 Decenber L982, 38/73 D of 15 Decenber 1983 and
39/63 D of 12 D€cember L984, as well as the reports of the secretary-ceneral
of l7 Septenber l98lr 7/ 11 June L982, y 3 Novenber 1952, Z/
30 Auguat f983 p/ and 4 October f985, lV

Ilaving exaroined the report of the Sec r etary-ceneral of 4 October 1985 on
the lmplenentation of the progranne of activitles of the World Disarnanent
Canpalgn by the United Nationa systen during 1985 and the activities
contenplated for 1986, as well as its nain financlal aspects,

llavlng examined also the part of the report of the S ecr etary-General of
1.5 October 1985 dealing with the actlvities of tbe Advigory Board on
Dlsarnament Studies relatlng to the irnplenentation of the World Disarnament
canpaign, 12,/ as well as the Final Act of the 1985 united Natlons Pledging
Conference for the Canpaign, E,/ heLd on 31 Oclober 1985,

I. Conunendg the nanner in Hhich, as described in the above-neneioned
repores, the World Dlsarnarnent Campaign haa been geared by the
Secr etary-ceneral in order to guarantee "the wj.dest posaible dissenination of
information and uninpeded access for all sectors of the public to a broad
range of lnfornatlon and opinions on guestions of arms linitaeion and
disarnanent and the dangers relallng to all aapects of the arms race and nar,
in particular nuclear vratn, L/

2. Recalls that, as was also agreed by consensus in the concludlng
Docunent of the Trrelftb Speclal Sesslon of tbe cenerat Assembly, dhe second
special session devoted to disarmanent, it is likeeise an essenlial reguisite
for the unieersality of tbe vforld Disarmament campalgn that it receive dthe
co-operation and participation of all States"t 14l

u FJ36/458.

9/ ^/s-L2/27.
2/ A/37/54s.

P/ A/38/34e.

!/ A/4o/443.

!2/ A/4o/744' sect. rr. B.

!3/ A/coNF.r3l/1.
y/ se€ offlciaL Records of lhe ceneral Assernbly, Twelfth special Session,

l ., agenda itens 9 to l-3, document A/s.L2/32 , annex v. para. 4 .



A/40/946
English
Page 16

3. Endoraes once nore the statenent nade by the Secr eEary-ceneral on
the occasii-n-ZJ t-i.Giffin ited Nalions pledging confeEence for the world
Disarmament Canpaign l5l to the effect that auch co-operation inplies that
adeguate funds be made avaiLable and that conseguently the criterion of
universality also appLies to pledges, aince a campaign without i{or ld-rride
parCicipation and funding wi].l have difflculty ln reflectlng this prlnciple in
its implenentation i

4. Reiteratelllalsglg! that most of the Stat.es that have the largest
nilitary eif-enaitures nave noE io far nade any financial contrlbution to the
World Disarnament Canpaign;

5, Decides that at its forty-first session there should be a fourth
United Nalions Pledglng Conference for the gforld Disarmament Canpaign, and
expresses the hope that on that occaaion al.l those li{enber States that have not
yet announced any voluntary contribution may do aot

5. Reiterates its recommendalion that the voluntary contributlons nade
by Menber States to the worLd Disarnanent Campalgn Voluntary Trust I'und shoDld
not be earnarked for spectfic activities inasmuch as it is rnost deslrable that
bhe Secretary-General enjoy full freedom to take tbe decisions he deerns fit
nithin the franework of the Canpaign prevlously approved by tbe General
Assenbly and in exercise of the pot,ers vested in him in connection wiEh the
Canpaigni

7. Notes eith appreciation that the Secr etary-General has given
pernanent character to hig instructions to the United Nations lnformatlon
centres and regional corRnissions to glve wide publicity Co the World
Disarnament Carnpa lgn and, nhenever neceaaary, to adapt, as far as possible,
United Nations infornaelon rrateriala to local languagest

8. Requesls the Secretary-General to subml! to the General Assenbly at
its fortt-first. seasion a report covering botb the inpLenentation of the
progralone of acti.vilies of the World Disarnament Canpaign by the United
Nations systen during 1985 and the progranne of actlvities contenplated by the
systen for 198 7;

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the iten entitled 'twort d Disarnarnent Canpaignt.

E/ See A/CONF.l27,/SR. r.



A/40/946
Engli sh
Page 17

Nuclear-arrns freeze

The ceneral Assernbly,

Recal-l-ing that in the Final Document of tbe ?enth Special Session of the
General Assenbly, q/ Che first special session devoted to diSarmament, adopted
in 19?8 and unaninously and categorically reaffirmed in 1982 during the
t$elftb spealal session of the ceneral Assenbly, 3,/ the second special segsLon
devoted to disarmament, the Agsembly expressed deep concern over the threat to
the very guJnlval of mankind posed by the existence of nuclear weapons and the
continui,ng arns race,

Recal-Ilqg also that, on those occasions, it pointed out that exi.sting
arsenals of nuclear weapons are more than sufficlent to destroy all life on
earth and stressed that nanklnd is therefore confronted lrith a choice: halt
the armE race and proceed to disarroament, or face annihilation,

Noting that at the Seventh Conference of Headg of State or Governnent of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at New Delhi in !,larch 1983 and at the Eighth
Conference of Foreign lllnisters of Non-Allgned Countries held at Luanda,
People's Republlc of Angola, in September 1985, it lras declared that the
reneeed escalation ln the nuclear-arrns race, both in its quantitative and
qualltative dimensions. as weII as rellance on doctrlnes of nuclear
deterrence, has height.ened the risk of tbe outbreak of nuclear sar and led to
great.er i.nsecurity and instability in international reLations, ]91

Bearing in mlnd that in tbeir Joint DeclaraCion, issued on 22 l&ay L984.
the Heads of State or Governnenc of six States l{enbers of the United Nati.ons,
conlng fron five differenE coneinents, urged the nuclear-eeapon States oas a
neceasary flrst step,.. to halt all testing, production and deployment of
nuclear neapons and their delivery systems,, L7/ and tbat in the Delhi
DeclaEation of 28 January 1985 they reit.erated: 'A halt to the nuclear arms
race is aC the present rnonenC imperative. Only thus can it be ensured that
nuclear arsenals do not gro!,r whil-e negoeiations proceed.", L8/

Belieelng that lt ls a natter of the utnost urgency to stop any further
increaae in the aw€some arsenals of the two najor nuclear-weapon States, which
already have ample retaliaeory power and a frlghtening overkill capacity,

Y/ gee A/3A/L32-S/L5675 and Corr.l. and 2, annex, sect. I, para. 28r and
V4O/854-S/I7610 and corr.l, sect. Iv.

A/39 /277-S/L6587, anner{. For the prinCed text, seeSeeL7,/
the S

Official Records

p See A/4O /IL4-S/L69 21, annex.

ilThirte-ninth Year
, docunent S,/16587, annex.



u40 /946
EngliEh
P.ge 18

welcoolng the Etart of negothtiona betseen the Unlon of soviet soclallat
Republlcs and the United St.te8 of Anerlca on a conplex of quertlonE
concernlag epace and nuclear arms - lroth strateglc and lnternedlate-range -
rrlth all these queatione conslder€d and reeolved in their inter r elatlondhlp,

Condlderinq that a nuclerr-artra freeae. rhile not an end tn ltaelfr noul.d
constltute the nost effectlve flrat etep to pr event the contlnued increa€e and
qualltattve inproyenent of e:.lstlng nuclear peaponfy durlng the perlod rhen
the negotlatlons take place,

FirmLy convlnced tlrat at plesent the condltlona are nosE propltlous for
such a freeze, eince the Unlon of Soviet Soclaliet Republlcs and the Unlted
Stated of Afterlca are nof eguivalent in nuclear nilitary poner and it a€erns
svlal€nt that there exlata betssen th€[r an overall rough parlty'

Conacloua that the application of the sy3teras of survei,Ilance,
verlftcatlon and contEol alleady agreed upon ln soae preeioua caaes rould be
aufflcient to pronide a reasonable guarantee of fatthful compllance ulth ehe
undertaklngs derived frm the freeze,

@neinced that i,t sulil be to the benef i.t of all other Statee pos€easlng
nuclear seapons to follor the exanple of th€ teo mjor nuclear-neapon States,

l. Urges once mre the gnl.on of Soeiet Socialist Republic6 and the
United Stateg of Anertca, as the tuo najor nucLear-weapon States, to proclain,
either thlough einultaheous unllateral declarationa or through a joint
declaratlonr an ldledlate nuclear-rrna freese, rhich rould be a firEt gteP
todards the comprehenElve progranme of dlsarnament and eho8e structure and
{rcope rould be the follouing:

It vould enbracer

A coaprehenslve test ban of nuclear reapons and of thelr alelivery
vehiclest

(iil ltre conplete ceEEation of Ehe ranufacture of nuclear weapon€ and of
thelr dellv€ry vehtcl,eat

(iii) A ban on all furtber deploi'nent of nuclear eeapons and of thelr
dellvcry YGb lcI€! t

(tv) Ihe conplete cesBatlon of the productlon of fissionable material for
reapons purposes,

(b) lt rould b€ subject to appropriate neasures and procedures of
eerlficattonr such as those that hatre already been agreed by the partles in

(a)

(i)



vlo/916
Engliah
Page t9

the caae of the SAIJT I ]g/ and SAL! II W tteaELea, and thoae agreed upon inprtnciple by then aluring the pr€prratort tr ilatcral negotiatlong on thc
coDprehenaive Cest ban held at cenevat

(c) It uould be of an inltlal flv+year duratton. subJect to
Prolongation rhen other nuclear-reapon SEates Join in auch a freezer a9 thc
General Asaenbly urgea then to dot

2. Reguesta the abov€-nentloned two najor nuclear-weapon States to
6ubnit a jolnt report oE trro separate reports to lhe General Ass€fibly, prio!
to the op€ning of its forty-first sssston, on the lnplementatlon of tb€
present resolutlont

3. Decides to lnclude ln the provlsional agenda of itE forty-firat
sesslon an lten entitled ilnplementatlon of General A€sembly resolutlon 40,/_
on a nuclear-arms freeae".

D

World Disarmarnent Canpal.gn: actions and rctivitiee

The General AsEenbly,

Asare of th€ groeing publlc concern at the dangers of tbe arnE tace,
partlcuLarly the nuclear-armg race, rnd lts n€gattve soclal and econo[ic
con€equenceg,

Noting etth aatisfactlon the succeasful inplenentation of the World
Disarnanent Campalgn, and it6 posi.tlve lnpact on the nobllizatlon on a large
scale of world publlc opinion on behalf of peace and disarnament,

Recallins lt€ resolutione 36/92,t of 9 Dec enber 1981, 3?/100 B of
13 Dccenber 1982.38/73 F of 15 Decenber 1983 anal t9/6j A of 12 D€cdrb€r 1984,

welconing the voluntary contributlons made to the Wortd Dlsarmanent
CanPalgn Voluntary Trust Fund to carry out the objectiees of the Canpaign,

Takinq Into account the report of the SecreEary-cenelal on the progreas
and lnpleEentaElon of th€ progranme of activlties of the World Disarnatrent
canrpaiqn, ll,/

9/ "Interin AgreenenC betneen the United Statea of Amerlca and the gnion of
Sovlet Socialist Republlcs on certain mea8ures wlth respect to the llnltatlon of
strabeglc offenEive arns' (United NaClons, Treaty _Serles, vol. 944, No. 13il{5,p. 3).

4/ iTreaty betreen the Unit€d States of Anerica and the Unlon of Soviet
Socialist Republlcs on the Linitatlon of Strategic Offensive Arns" (see
cDls3/Appendlx Irrlvol. l, d€unent cD/28).



A/40 /946
Englisb
Page 20

Convinced that the United NaCion€ syatem, Member States' with respect for
their sover€ign rights, and other bodies, in parEicular non-governrnencal
organizations, all haee their role co play in achieving the objectives of the
world Di sarmanrent canpa ign,

Taking into accoubt the great number of varioua activities carried out
rrithin the franerork of the worl-d Dlaarnanent campaign, lncluding actions for
collecting si.gnaturea in Eupport of meaaures to prevenc nuclear war, to curb
the arns race and for dlsarnamene,

1. Reaffirns the ugefulne€s of further carrying out actlona and
actlvities that are an important manife€tatlon of the wiII of worLd publi'c
opinion and contribute effecEively to che achievenent of the objectives of the
World Disarnament Canpaign and thus to the creatlon of a favourable cllnate
for naking progress in the field of disarmament with a viee to achieving the
goal of general and corupleEe diEarnament und€r effectlve internatlonal controlt

2. glgg covernments of all state6, especially the nuclear-weapor-
states and oEher mllitarily significant states, in formulating thelr policlee
i-n the field of diEarmament, to Eake into account the nain denands of the naEs
peace and disarnament novenentg, in particuLar' $ith regard to the prevention
of nuclear war and curbing the nuclear-arms race,

3. Reafflrns the inportance of carrying out the World Disarnanent
Campaign in accordance wlth the prioriti.es ln the field of diaarmanent
established in the Final Docunent of the Tenth Special sesaion of the General
Assenbly, 6/ the first speclal sesslon devoted to disarmanent' taking into
account that the adoption of effective measures for nuclear disarrnanent and
lhe prevention of nuclear t.ar has the highest priorityt

4. Reconnends that, in carrying out the world Disarnanent canPalgn' due
regard should be given to the proclanatlon by the ceneral Assembty of 1985 ag
the International Year of Peace, as well a6 to other lnPortant dates and
anniveraarles related to international peace and securlty, uith a ules to
intensifylng the actions and activl.ties in support of effective rneasures to
prevent nuclear r.ar, to curb tbe arms race and for disarmanent,

5. Invitea once agaln Member states to ce-operate with the United
Nations to ensure a better flobr of accurate lnfornation erith regard to the
varioua aspecea of disarnanent, as $e11 as actions and actlvities of the norLd
public i.n sut4)ort of peace and disarnamen!, and co avoid dissenination of
false and tendentlous inforrnaeiont

6. Reguests the Secr etary-General, ln lfiplementing the progranne of
accivities of the world Disarnan€nt Canpaign, to give wider publiclty to tshe
eork of Ehe General Assenbly in the field of disarmanent, paying due
attention, in particular, to the proposals of Menber states and the action
taken ther eon i



v40/946
Eng 1l sh
Page 21

7. Also leguests the Secr etary-General to report annually to the
General Assenbly on the inplen€ntation of the provisions of the present
reeolution.

Freeze on nucl-ear neapons

The General Assernbly ,

Recalling ita resoLutiong 32,/l0O A of t3 Decenber fgg2. 3A/7! B of
1,5 Decenber 1983 and 39/63 c of 12 Decenber l9g4 entitled "Freeze on nuclear
weapons " ,

Conrlnced that tn this nuclear age laeting world peace can be based only
on the attainnent of the goal of general and complete dtsarmanent under
ef f ective internacional concrol,

Further convinced that the highest priority objectives in hhe fleld of
disarrnanent have to be nuclear diEarmanent and the elininatlon of arr weatrrcng
of nass deslructlon,

Recognizing the urgent need to halt the arna race, particularly in
nucl-ear weapons,

Recognizing further the urgent need for a negotiated reduction of
nuclear<reapon stockpiles leading to their conplete eliminallon,

Noting eith deep concern that nuclear-eeapon States have not so far taken
any action in regponse to the call nade in resolutions 37 /LOO A, 39,/73 B and
39 /63 c,

I. Once again calls upon all nuclear-neapon States to agree !o a freeze
on nuclear wea[bns, which rrould, lnter alia, provide for a simultaneous total
stsoPpage of any further production of nuclear eeapons and a complete cut-off
in the production of fissionable naterial for eeapons purposest

2. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-firat
seasion the iten entltled trFreeze on nuclear reapons".

F

ConvenCton on the prohibition of the Uae of Nucl€ar Weapons

The ceneral Assenbly,

Alarmed by the threat to the survi.val of mankind and to the
life-sustalning system posed by nuclear weapons and by their use inhereht in
concepts of deterrence,



A/ 40 /9 46
English
Page 22

conscious of an increaaed danger of nuclear rar as a resul! of the
tntenslfication of the huclear-arma race and the serious deterioralion of the
international sl!uation,

Convinced that nuclea! dlsarmanent is €ssential for the prevention of
nuclear ear and for the strengthening of international Peace and security,

Furtber convlnced that a prohibition of the use or threat of use of
nuclear eeapons xould be a step towards the conpLete elimlnatlon of nuclear
weapons leading to general and complete disarnament under strict and effective
international con!rol,

Recatling lts declaratlon, co{rtalned in the Final Docunent of Che Tenth
specia!- session of the General Assenbly, g/ the first apeclal session devoteal
to disarnament, that all States shoul-d actively participate in efforts to
bring about conditions in lnternational relationE anong stateg in which a code
of peaceful conduct of nations in lncernatlonal affairs coulal be agred upon
and that lrou Id preclude the use or threat of use of nuclear iteapons,

Reaffirming the declaration that the use of nuclear ueapons woul-d be a
violation of the charter of the United Natlons and a crime against hunanlty,
contained in ila resolut.iona 1653 (xVI) of 24 Novenber 1961, 33/71 B of
14 Decenber L978, 34/83 c of lI December L979, 35/L52 D of 12 December 1980
a d 36/92 I of 9 Decenber 1981,

Noting with regret that the Conference on Dlsarnament, durlng lts session
in 1985, was not able to undertake negotlatlons l'ith a vier to achieving
agreement on an lnternational convention prohibiti.ng the use or threat of uae
of nuclear fleapons under any clrcunstanceE, taklng ag a basis the text annexed
to General Assernbly resolution 39/63 H of 12 Decenber 1984,

l. Reiterates ita regueat to the Conference on DisarmanenE to cottrInenc e
negotlations, aB a matt.er of priority, in order to achieve agreeruent on an
inEernational convenlion prohibiting the use or threat of u€e of nuclear
weapons under any circumstances, takinq as a basis the draft Convention on Ebe
Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear weapons annexed to the present resolutiont

2. Further reguests the Conference on Disarmanent to report to Che
General Assembly at its forty-firsE session on the results of those
negotlations.

ANNEX

Draft conventlon on the Prohibiti.on of the Use of
Nuclear weapona

The SEates ParEies to this Convention,

Alarned by the threat to ehe very survival of nankind posed by the
existence of nuclear lreapons,



v40 /946
English
Paqe 23

convlnced lhat any use of nuclear vreapons con6titutea a violation of the
charter of the unlted Natlons and a crine aqainst hurnanity,

Convinced that tbis Conventlon ttould be a Btep toHards Ehe corjrplete
disarmanentelinination of nuclear weapons leading to general and complete

under €trict and effectlve internalionaL control,

Determined to continue negoti.alions for the achievenent of thig goal,

Have agreed as follotra:

Article I

The scates Partles to this @nventlon aolennly undertake
threaten to uge nuclear lreapons under anv circunstances.

not to use or

Article 2 l

This convention shal,I be of unlimited dura!ion.

Article 3

1. This Convention shall be open to all States for slgnature. Any
state that doe6 not sign the convention before its entry lnto force in
accordance eith paragraph 3 of this article nay accede to it at any tine.

2. Th13 convention shalL be subject to ratification by signatory
states. Instrunenta of ratificalion or accesEion shatl be deposited with Lhe
Secr etary-ceneral of the United Nations.

3. ThIs ConvenEion shall enter inLo force on the deposit of instrurnents
of ratlflcation by teirenty-five Governments, includlng the Governn€nts of the
five nuclear-weapons Slates, in accordance with Paragraph 2 of this article.

4. For states whose inalruments of ratification or accessi'on are
deposited after the entry into force of this Convention, it shall enter into
force on the date of the deposlt of their inetrunents of ratification or
accession.

5. The deposltary shalL promplly inform all signatory and acceding
states of the date of each aignature, the date of deposit of each instrunenl
of ratification or accession and the date of the entry into force of tbis
Convenlion. as !,e1l as of the receipt of other notices.

6, Thj.s convenlion shalL be registered bt the alePositary in accordance
wlth Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nalions.



^/40/946EngLish
Paqe 24

Article 4

This Convention, of whicb the Arabic, Chinese, English, French, Russian
and spanish cexta are egualLy auchentic. shall- be deposited with the
Secr etary-ceneral of the United Nations, wtro shall send duly certified copies
thereof to the Goeer nment of the slgnatory and accedlng States-

In eritnesa tdbereof, the undersigned bei.nq duly authorized thereCo by
their respective Governments, have signed this Convention, opened for
signature at _ on the _ day of _ one thousand nine hundred and _.

G

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmanent
in Afr ica

The General Assenbl-y,

Recalllng its resolution 39/63 J of 12 Decenber L984 in rhlch it
reguested ltre Secr etary-General to provide assigtance to such Menber States in
the regions concerned as may reguest lt eith a vies to establisbing regional
and instituEional arrangement.a for lhe inplenentatlon of the world DisarmamenC
Campaign. on the basia of existing resources and of voluntary contribuCions
that l,tember States nay fiake to that end,

Bearing in mind resolution AHG/Res.I38 (xxl) adopted by the Assenbly of
Eeads of Seate or Governnent of the Organization of African UniCy a! lts
twenty-first ordinary session, held a! Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, from I8 to
20 July L985,2L/ in which lhe African leaders reguested the secretary-General
of tbe United NaEions to cake the necessary neasures to establish a regional
office in Africa to promote the objectives of peace, digarnanent and
developnent in the r eg ion,

Reaffirning its resolutlons 37lI00 F of 13 Decenber L982 ' 38/73 J of15 Decenber 1983 and 39/53 E of L2 Decenber 1984 on regional disarnament,

Taking into account the Lom6 Declaration and Programme of Action adopted
a! the Miniaterial Regional Conference on Security, Disarnament and
DeveLopment in Africa, held at Lon6. Togo, frorn 13 to 16 August 1985 under the
auspices of the Organization of African u^iLy. 2:A

4/ See A/40/666, annex I.

4/ A/ 40 /76r-s/L7 573 .



v40/e46
Engl isb
Page 25

Taking into account the report of the Secr etary-ceneral entitled "Unitetl
Nations regional cenCre for peace and disarnament in Africa", ?3/

1. Decides to establistt as at I January 1986, within the frameerork of
the secretariac, tbe unlced Nations Reglonal centre for peace and Disarmafient
in Africa on the basis of exleting resources and of voluntary contrlbutions
that Member States nay make to that endl

2. Decides further that the Centre shall. provide, upon request,
substantive support for lnitiatives and ocher efforts of Member states of che
African region towards tbe realization of measures of peace, arns llnitalion
and disarnanent in the region, in co-operation with the OrganizaCion of
African Unity, as nell as co-ordinate the lmplenentation of regj.onal
actlvities in Af!ica under the World Disarnament Canpaigni

3. RequesCa the Secr etary-General to take the necessary adninistragive
neasures to ensure the establishnent and functioning of the Centre,

4. Invites l,tenber SEates to make voluntary contributions to tbe Cencrei
5. Requests tbe Secr etary-General to report to the ceneral Assenbly ac

its forty-first session on Ehe implementation of the present resoluti.on.

H

Ubited NaCions progranme of feLlowships on disarmanent
The General Assenbly,

Recall-ing its decision, contained in paragraph l0g of the Final Docunenr
of Che Tebth Special Session of the ceneral Assenbly, q/ to establish a
progranme of fellosships on disarmarnent, as werr as its decisions contained in
the Concluding Document of the Tgelfth Special Session of the ceneral
Assembly, y ln sbicb it, inter alia, decided to conlinue the progranme and to
increaae the nunber of fellowships from trrenty to twenty-five as from 1993,

Recalling also its resolution 39/63 B of 12 December 1994,
Noting with satisfaction that Ehe programne has already trained public

off icial.s from countries, nost of \dhom are now in positj.ons of responslbility
in the field of disarrnament within their Governments or permanent nissions to
the United Natlons, or representing their @vernnenCs at i.nternational
disarnament neetingg,

Recognizing that the prograrune of studies and activities as outlined in
the reporC of lhe Secretary-General 4/ on the fellowship prograrufle has
continued to expand and intensify,

4,!/ A/40/443lAdd.l .



v40/946
Eng lish
Page 26

Taking account of the fact that in recent years developing countries have
shonn increased interest in disarnamenc ite s, which has been reflected in the
initiatives taken by them,

considering that the forns of assistance available to llember States,
partiEll-arly aeveloplng countrles, under the united Natlons progranme of
feltor.rships on disarnament can be further expand€d by way of advisory selvices
and training progralmes arranged for partlcipants in var ioua countries on
reguest, in view of the increasing and specific needs of Metnber State6'

]. Takes note wlth satlsfaction of che report of the Secr etary-Gener al
and the viefl that the expansion of the fe!.lonship programme has brought vtith
it higher re8pons ibi I ities, includinq planning, implementation, co-ordinatlon,
servicing, folloe-up sork and supervlslon of all activitiee relating to the
Pr()9fal0nei

2. Further takes note of the vies of lhe sec r etary-Generai on the
possibitities for additlonal servicest

3. Decides to expand the forms of assistance available bo Member states
under the unitea nacions progranne of feuotdshiPs on disaf,nament to include
training progranmes and adviaory services in the field of disarmament and
securlty, all the pf,ogrannes to be consolidated under the Departnent for
Disarmanent Affairs, at the appropriaEe level, bearing in nind the savlngs
that can be nade lrithin the exiBling overall budgetary appropriations for the
United Nations progralune of fellowships on disarmamentt such advisory services
should include the organization of training courses at the regional or
sub-regional level, in co-operacion vrith the Governmenca and/or
intergovernnencal organizations concerned for the beneflt of govegnm€nt
officials whose duties involve the inplementation of arns llmitation and
disarnanent measuEes, as we!-l as the prornotion of disarnament effortsi

4. I'urther decides that the Sec r etary-General should nake provision for
advisory servlces in the f ie.td of disarmanent on tle bagis of reguests
received fron Governments and/or governnental organizatlons in accordance with
the following policies:

(a) The kind of service co be rendered to Governnents and/or
governnental organizatl.ons shall be dehernined by the Governments and/or
organizations concerned in consultation lrith Che Secr etary-Gener alt

(b) The a|Ilount of Service and the conditions under nhich it i8 to be
rendered shall be d€cided by the Secr eeary-General., with alue regard to the
needs of Statea, in particular the tteveloping countries, and in confornity
eith the principle that the requestlng cov€rnnents and/or governmental
organizations 6hall be expected to asaune responsibility for a considerable
part of the extr)enses connected lrith the servlces rendered, either by naking
contribDtion in cash, or by providing supporting staff services and paynent
local costs for the purpose of carrying out the progrannei

of



A/ 40/946
EngL i sh
Page 27

(c) The service shall be applicable to any subject in the field of
disarmamentt

5. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments of Bulgaria, the
Federal Republic of cermany. Japan, Sweden and the United States of America
for inviting fellows to their countries in l9B5 to study serected activities
in the field of disarnanene, thereby contributinq to the futfilment of the
overall objectives of the programrnei

6. Requests the Secr etary -Gener aI to report to the General Assenbly a!
its forty-first session on the operations of the fellowship progranne and on
the inplenentation of the provisions of the presenL resolution and to develop
nodalitieS for inplementation of the training programnes and advisory services.

I

Convening of the third special session of lbe General
Assenbly devoted to disarrnanent

The General Assembly I

Bearing in mind the deci.sion adopted at its t{elfth special session, the
second special session devoted to disarmament, concerning the convening of the
thi.rd sp€cial session devoted to disarrnament, Z4/

Recalling its resolutiot 38/73 I of 15 Decenber 1983 in which it decided
that the third special session devoted to disarmanent should be held not Iater
than 1988.

Recalling also its resolution 39/63 | of 12 December 1984.

Desiring to contribute to the furthering and broadeninq of positive
processes initiated through the laying down of the foundations of an
international- disarmament strategy at its tenth special session, the first
special sessi.on devoted to disarnanent,

Decides to set, at its forty-first session. the date of the third special
session to the General Assembly devoted to disarnanent and to establish tne
Preparatory Committee for the third sEecial sessron.

24/ Official Records of the cenqtal Assenbly, Teelfth Special Session,
Annexes, .ge , annex V.


