








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/ 40/ 879
13 November 1985
ENGTISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fortieth session
Aqenda item 91

NATIONAL EXPERIENCS IN ACHIEVING FAR-REACHING SOCIAL AND
ECONOMIC CI{ANGES FOR THE PURPOSE OF SOCIAL PROGRESS

Beport of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Paul-D6sir6 KABoRE (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

l. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 september 1985, the General Assembly' 
on the

recommendation of the General committee, decided to include in the aqenda of i'ts
fortieth session the item entitled "Natlonal experience in achieving far-reaching
social and economic changes for the purpose of social progress: reports of the
secretary-General" and to allocate it to the Third committee'

z. The Third committee considered this itern jointly with items 89, 90, 95, 96, 97

and 98 at its 16th to 23rd, 30th and 37th meetings on 18, 2L, 22, 24' and
28 October and 4 and 11 November. An account of the discussion of the Committee 

is
contained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/40/SR.15-23, 30 and 37)'

3. The comrnittee had before it the followinq documentation:

(a)ReportoftheEconomlcandSocialCounci},chapterV,SectionB
(^/40/31i L/

(b) Nati.onal exPerience in achievinq tar-reaching social and economic changes
for the purpose of social progress: report of the secretary-General
@/4a/65-E/L985/7 and Add.I) ;

Official Records of lhe Generaf Aqse$bl!/ To be issued as
Session, SuPp1ement No. 3

85-32381 O296P (E)

(A/4O/3/Rev. 1) .
Fort ieth



A/40/ 87 e
English
Page 2

(c) NationaL experience in promoting the co-operative movement: report ofthe secretary-Generat @/a0/7 A-n/L985/t0) i
(d) Letter dated 19 september 1985 from the Permanent Representative of papuaNew Guinea to the united Nati.ons addressed to the secretary-Generar(A/40/672-s/r7488t.

4' At the 16th rneeting, on 18 october, the under-secretary-General for Econonicand soeial Affairsr the Assistant secretary-General for social Development andHumanitarian Affairs and the Director of the General Analysis anat policies Divisionof the Department of rnternational Economic and sociar Affairs maate introductorystatements.

II. CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.3/40/L.L6
5' At the 30th meeti.nq, on 4 November, the representative of Monqolia introcluceda draft resolution (A,/c.3/40/L-L6l entitled "National experience in achievingfar-reaching social and economic changes for the purpose of social progress,,,sponsored bv Afghanistan, Anoola, Benin,. Burkina Faso, the Byerorussian soviet

,
""no utEE-*..-E well as Madaqascar an. f4oza$bique.
6' At its 37th meeting, on l1 November, the committee adopted draft resolutionA/w'5/'tu/tJ'rb by a recorded vote of 120 to 1, with 15 abstentions (see para.7).Tbe voting was as follows;

fn favour; Afghanistan, Albania, Al-geria, Angola, Argentina, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Banqladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,Burundi, Byelorussian soviet sociari.st Repubric, cape Verde,Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democrat'c yemen, Denmark, Dlibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, E1 Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji,Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, Gernan Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Greece, Guatenala, Guinea, Guinea_Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,Honduras, Hunqary, fceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (fslamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Ivory Coast (C6te d,fvoire) ,Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kueait, tao peoplers DemocraticRepubric, Lebanon, tesotho, tibyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,l4alaysia, !,laldives, Mali, I"la1ta, Mexico, Monqolia, !4orocco,
f"lozambique, Nepa1, Nicaraqua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, pakistan,
Panama, Papua Net., Guinea, peru, philippines, poland, portugar.,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, sao Tome and principe, saudi Arabia,senegal, somafia, spain, sri Lanka, sudan, suriname, swazir.and,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad andTobago, Tunisia, Turkey, uganda, ukrainian soviet socialistRepublic, union of soviet socialist Republics, united ArabEmirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,Viet Nam, yemen, yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

United States of America.Aqa in st:*



A/40/87e
Engl i sh
page 3

Abstaining: Australia, Belgium, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic'
Equatorial Guinea, Germany, Federal Republic of, Grenada, fsraelt
Italy, Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlandsr New Zealandr United
Kingdorn of Great Britain and Northern freland.

1II. RECOITIMENDATION OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

7. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
followinq draft resolution:

National experience in achieving far-reaching social and
economic changes for tbe purpose of social progress

The General Assembly,

Guided by the desire to promote a higher standard of life' full
enplolrrnent and conditions for economic and social progress and development,

Bearing in mind the Declaration on Socia1 Progress and Development, 2/

Mindful of the provisions of the Declaration and the Programme of Action
on the gstablistrment of a Ner,r International Economic Order, 3/ as well as tbe
Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of States, !

Noting Economic and Social Council resolutions 1581 A (L) of 2I May 1971'
t|6j (irr) of I June 1972 and 1746 (LIV) of 16 May 1973 concerning the
importance of fundamental structural socio-economic changes for the
strengthening of national independence and the achievement of the ultimate
goals of social progress,

Recalling its resolutions 3273 (XXIX) of 10 December L974, 3L/38 ot
30 Novemb"t tgZe , 36/Lg of 9 November 1981 and 38/25 of 22 November 1983, in
whicfr it reaffirmed the irnportance for every State to exercise its inalienable
right to carry out fundannental social and economic changes for the purpose of
social progress and the necessity of studying national experience in this
field,

Desirous of securing a speedy and complete removal of all obstacles to
the economilana social progress of peoples, especially colonialism'
neo-colonialisn, racism, racial discrimination, aparthei4, military' political
and economic intervention and pressure, foreign aggression and occupation or
alien domination, as well as all forms of inequality and exploitation of
peoples '

U Resolution

1/ Resolutions

!/ Resolution

2542 (XXIV), annex.

3201 (s-VI) and 3202 (s-VI).

3281 (XXrX).



A/ 40 /87 9
Engl ish
Page 4

convinced that peaceful coexistence and co-operation among states, aswell as effective neasures in the field of disarmament, create favourableinternational- conditions for the socio-economic developrnent of all countries,in particular developing countrie.s,

Considering that the exchange of national experience in achievingrar-r6EEf,-I[ sociar and economic changes for the purpose of social progresswould contribute to the implernentation of the rnternationar Developmentstrategy for the Third united Nations Development Decade, 5/
ReaffirminE the sovereign an<1 inalienabl-e right of atl peoples freely todetermine their political status and freely to pursue their economic, sociarand cultural development,

l' Tarelnote of the report of the secretary-General on nationalexperienceln acrtie"ing far-reaching social and economic changes for thepurpose of social progress; G/

2' Calls upon all states to give special attention in ttreir nationaldevelopment printi-o progranrnes to the social aspects of development with aview to increasing the werl-being of the population on the basis of its fullparticipation in the process of developrnent-"no a fair distribution of thebenefits therefrom;

3' Requests the secretary-General to proceed with the implementation ofEconornic uiE- so"iul council resolution 1gg 5/32 of 2g May rgg5, paying specialattention to paragraphs 3 and 5 thereof;

4' Fu{![er. regueqts the secretary-General to make arrangements forho1dinginffi9iona1seminarcaIledforinparagraph3ofGenera1
Assembly resolution 38/25, within the resources allotted to the prograrnme forsectoral and regional advisory services;

5' D"crde: to include in the provisi.onal agenda of its forty-secondsession tnE-item entitled "National experience in achieving far-reachingsocial and econornic cbanges for the puipose of social progress,,.

2/ Resolution 35/5G, annex.

A/40/65-E/I985/7 and Add. I.9/


