








































UNITED ']
NATtOItS

Gcncral Aeeembly Distr.
GENBRAL

A/40/929
25 Noeenber 1985
ENGIJISII
ORIGINAL: FRBNCH

Fortleth gesslon
Agenda lten 55

CONCLUSION OF AN INTERNATIONAI, CTNVENTION ON TEE
OF TIIE SECURITY OF NON-NTrcLEAR-WEAPON STATES AGAINST THE USE

OR TIIREAT OF USE OF NT'CI,EAR WEAPONS

Report of the First Conniltee

Rappor t.eur t ltr. yannis SOULIOIIS (creecel

I . IMRODTrcTION
I. The iten ent.itled nConclusion of an lnternatlonal convention on the
atr€ngthening of the gecurlty of non-nuclear -lreapon Statee against the use or
threat of use of nucrear reapons: report of the conference on Dlsardarnent" eas
inclualed ln the provlelonal agenda of the fortieth session in accordance with
General Aeaembly reaoLutioa 39/57 oE L2 December 1984.

2. At lts 3rd plenary neetlng, on 20 September 1985, the General Ass enbly on the
recou endatlon of tbe ceneraL connittee, decided to lnclude the i.ten in its aqenda
and to allocate iC to the First Connitlee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 9 October, the First Connlttee decldeal to trotdt a
general debate on the dlsarnanent it€na allocated to it, nanely, iterfls 49 to 69 and
iten 145, folloeed by Statenents on speclflc disarrnament agenda lterns and
continuation of general atebate, a6 necessary. The deliberatlons on those iteme
took place betneen the 3rd and lbe 32nd rneetlngs, fron 14 October to g Novenber
(aee |JC.I/ 40 /Pv.3-32) .

4- rn connection wtth iten 55, the Firat comnittee had before it the followinq
docunenta:

85-34593 0307P (E)



A/ 10 /929
EngI18h
P.ge 2

(a) Report of the Conference oo Diaarmane tt y

(b) Note verbale dated lI llarch 1985 from the cbarg6 d'affaires a.1- of the
Pernanent tiisslon of Yenen to the Unlt€d Nations adalressed to the
sccretary-Geheral, tran€nltting tbs Flnal cottmun tqu 6, resolutions and repo?ts of
the Rifteenth Islanlc conference of Foseign Ulnl€t€r.8, held at sanaa, te!0en Arab
R.pub1lc, from 25 to 29 Fr.biul Aeal I{50 H (4. D. La to ZZ Dec€mber 1984)
(A/40/L73-s/I7o33l r

(c) tetter tlated 19 Septanb€r 1985 from tlre Per anenE Rcpresentatlve of Plpua
NeU G.rlnea to the United Natlons eddr€ss€d to the Secr etary-Genetal ' transnlttlngthe cormunlgu5 ailopted by the Slxteenth South Paclfic Forun, held at Rlrotbnga,
cooh ralanda, on 5 and 5 Augost 1985 (A/ 40/ 672-5,/17488) t

(d) tJetter dated 25 Octob€r 1985 from the Pernsnent RepreEentehlve of
Bulgerla to the Unlted Nations address.ed to the Secretary-General, tranenlttlng the
Dcclaration laEued on 23 october 1985 at sofia by the Pollticll consultatlve
Corunlttce of the l{rraaw Tt€sty Orgenizetlon (VC.l/10/7).

II. CONSTDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLT}TION A/C,L/40/L.!1

5. On 7 Nov€mber 1985, theq.erorus8ransoviet
social , the lrnion

non-nuclear-seapon Strtes againat the use or threat of uEe of nuclea! reatrx,ns'
(A/C.L/40/L.34\, The dtraft resotution r.a lntroalucd by the repreBentative of
Bulgarla at the 33rd neetlng, on 1l tlovenber.

6. At lts 4lst neeting, on 18 tlovernbe!, the Codtittee adoPted alraft resolutton
A/C.L.IO/L.34 by a recordcd vot€ of 83 to 19, ntth 17 abstentlons (B€e para. ?).
The votlng uas a6 folloors: a/

A officlaL of tbe Gener
Nc!g]- lv10/ 27 and corr-l

y The del€gatlons of Djiboutl' Kuealt end the United Alab Enlrates
subseguently lndtcateit that they had intended to vote in favour of thc draft
reaolution.



.ILElgt

v10/929
Engllstr
Pag€ 3

Afghanietan. Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Banglad.sh, B€nln'
Boliela, Bots?ana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byeloruaalan
Sotrlet Soclalist Republlc, Caneroon, Central Afrlcan Republtc,
chile, congo' cuba, c)rprus, czechoslovlkia, Denociatic Yenen.
Donlnlcan Republtc, Ecuador, Eg['pt, Etbiopl!, Finland, Gabon,
Gernan Denocratlc Republic, chlna, Guinea, Guyana, thtti,
Bungary, Indoneaia, Iran (Islamic Republlc of), Irag, JosAen,
Kenya, Lao Peoplers Denocratlc Republic, Leeotho, Libyan Asab
Jaroahlrlya, !,l,ada9aacar, UaLdives, ali, Ualta, llex ico, l,longol la,
Morocco, llozanbigue, Nepal, Nlcaragua, Nlg€r, Nlgerla, Ooan,
PaklBtan, Panama, Papua Nes Gulnea, Peru, Poland, Qatlr, Roma$h,
Rwanda, Saudl Arabl.a, Senegal, Sonalia, Srl Lanka, Sudan,
Sutinane, Spazllanil, Syrian Arab Republlc, lt|allanal, To9o,
Tunlaia' Uganda, Uhralnian Soviet Soctall6t Republic, Union of
Sovlet soclallst RepubllcE, Unlted Rep{rblic of Tanzanla'
Veneauela, Viet Nan, yenen, yugoslavia, uaire, zanbia, zirobabre.

Australla, Belglum, Canada, Dennart, France, cernany. Federal
Republlc of, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxenbourg,
Netherlands, Neu Zealand, Noreay, Portugal, Spai.n, Turkey, Unlted
Klnqdon of creat Brltaln and Northern lrelantl, United States of
Nterlca.

g!4r

Abatainlngr Argentina, Auatrla, Bahanae, Brazll, Burma, Chad, Cbloa,
Coloobla, Greece, Honduras, India, Ireland, fvory Coast (CAte
drlvoire), Janalca, lrlalaysia, Swedenr Uruguay.

III. NECOUUENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First Comi,ttee r ecomrenda to the ceneral Assernbly the aaloption of tbe
fol,loeing draft resol.ution!

Concluaion of an internat,ional convention on the stiengtbening of
the use or

thr

The General Assembly,

Coovinced of the need to take effective neasures for the ebrengthenlng of
th€ securlty of States and pronpted by the deslre shared by al!- natloos to
ellminate sar and prevent nuclear conflagration,

Taklng into account Ctre principle of non-use of force or threat of force
enshtined ln the Charter of the unlted Natlons and reafflrned ln a nu$ber of
Unlted Nations declaratlons and reaoLutlons,

Considerlng that, until nuclear disarnament is achieved on a unlvereal
baslE' it is inperative for the internaClonal connun ity to develop etfectlve



A/ 40 /929
Eng Iish
Page 4

neasures io ensure ttre aecurity of non-nuclear-eeapon States agalnst the use
or threat of use of nuclear reapons fron any guarter,

Recognlztnq that effeceive neasures to aasure non-nuclear-neapon StateE
agaln8t the use or threat of use of nuclear $eapons can conatitute a pogillve
contributlon to the preventlon of tbe spread of such neapons,

Noting ritb gatigfaction the determination of non-nuclear -seapon States
in garious parEs of the world to prevent nuclear rreapong from being intfoduced
into their lerritories and to ensure the compl,ete absence of guch seapons in
their reepective reglons, lncluding Chrough the establishnent of
nuclear-weapon-free zones on the basls of arrangenents freely €rlleed at at0ong
Che States of the reglon concerned, and being anxious !o encourag€ and
contribute to the attai.nnent of this objectlve,

Concerned at the contlnuing escalatlon of the arns race, in particular
the nucleaE-arms racF having entered a gualltatlvely n€{ stage, and the
po€sibllity of the dse or threat of use of nuclear reapon{r and the alanger of
nuclear r'ar,

Desirous of pronoting the hplefientatlon of paragraph 59 of the Final
D@unent of the Tenth Speclal Sesslon of the Gen€ral Ass€mbly, 3/ the first
special segslon devoted to dl.earmanent, tn which it urged the nuclear-neapon
States to purau€ efforts to conclude, as approprlate, effecElve arrangenents
to assure non-nuclear-neapon State€ against Ehe uae or threat of uEe of
nuclear weapongt

Recallinq its nunerous resolutions on thla gubject aa eell as the
releeant part. of the apeclal report of the ComtrlCtee on Di.earnanent, ]Ll
Bubmltted to the cenelal Asaenbly at its tuelfth special sesstbn, the second
speclal session devoted !o dlEarnanent,

Elllqg that the Conference on Dtsar$anent coneldered tn 1985 the iten
entitled nEffective lnternational arrangementg lo aggure non-nuclear -rreapon
States agains! the use or threat of uae of nuclear treapons', and the rork done
by ltE Ad Hoc Conmittee on thl.a ltem, aa leflected in the report of che
Conference on Diaarnament, 5/

Noting fureher that thts conaideratlon revealed that an overrrhelnlng
nunber of delegations, includlng those of the nuclear-neapon Stateg, stressed
the tnportance of that ltem and their readlness to engage in a substantlve
dialogue on the Issu e,

y Resolueion S-LO/2.

y off Records of
supplement No. 2 (A/s-L2/2'), sect. III.C.

y Ibid., Fortieth sessi.on, supplenent No. 27 (A/40 /27 and Corr.l),
s€ct. III.P.



A/40/929
EngIish
page 5

Recalllng the proposals submltted on thls eubJect to the C€neral A€E€nbIy
anal in the conference on Disernanent, lncrudlng the draft5 of an incernational
conventlon, and the nidespread internatlonal aupport for the conclusion of
guch a convention,

further recalling that the i,dea of interin arrangenentE as a firat sbep
torrarde the conclugion of such a conv€ntlon has arso been considered ln the
Confetence on Disarnanent,

Welconing once again the solenn declafati.ons mad€ by sone nuclear-reapon
States concerning non-ftrst use of nuclear weapons, and convlnced thae, if all
nucl€ar-rreapon States eefe to assume obligaliona not to be the flrst to uae
nucle€r eeapona, that eould be tantanbunt ln practlce to bannlng the uae of
nuclear neapons agalnEt all statea, lncluding all non-nucl.ear-ireapon states,

Considerinq that tbe non-nuclear -eeapon Stat€a having no nuclear wealxrng
on their Eerrltori.es, have every rlght to receive rell.able internatlooal l€gal
guaranteeg agalnat the use or threat of use of nuclear weapon€,

Belng ar,are tbat unconalitional guarantees bJ alL nuclear-rreapon Stateg
not to u€e or threaten to uae nuclear weapong under any ci.rcumstances against
the non-nucrear{reapon state€ havlng no nuclear reapons on their terrltorlea
€hould constltuEe an integral elenent of a nandatory gyaten of norrns
regulating the relationa betneen the nuclear-weapon Stabes, t hlch bear the
prlnary responEibility for preventing a nuclear ear, thue sparing nanklnd from
les devastating consegu encea,

1. Reaffirms gnce_.again, the urgent need to reach agreement on effecttve
internatlon-ii-Erri'EFnts to assure non-nuclear+reapon states againat the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons and to find a co uron approach acceptable
to a1l, nhich could be included in an lnternational lnstEurnent of a l€gaUy
bindlng cbaracter t

2. Conalders that lhe Conference on Dl€arnament should continue to
erplore rays and neans to overcoDe the difflcultles encountered ln carrylng
out n€gotlalionE on thia questlon,

3. Regueats the Conference on Diaarnament to continue actlve
conEideratlon on tbls aubject, incl.udlng through r e-establ ishment of the
Ad Hoc Connlttee on the respective agenda ltem as soon as practlcable, aE its
1986 sesElon, elth a vien to concludlng an internat,lonal lnstrunent of a
legalLy blndlng charact.er to assure oon-nuclear-t eapon States against the uEe
or threat of use of nuclear eeapongt

4. Deci.des to include ln the provisional ag enda of its forty-first
sesaton the iten entltled 'concLusion of effecttve lnt€rnrtlonal arrangenenta
on Cbe strengthenlng of tbe aecurlty of non-nuclear-eeapon Statea agalnst the
uge or Lhreat of u€e of nuclear ceapons..


