








































UNITED
NATIONS

GeneralAssembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/ 40/989 /Add .3
15 Decenber 198 5
ENGLISH
oRIGINAL: ENGLISH,/SPANISH

Fortieth session
Aqenda iten 84 (cl

DEVELOPMENT AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION :
TRADE AND DEVELOPMENT

Report of the Second Conni.ttee (Part IV)

Rapporteur: Mr. Jorge LAGO-SILVA (cuba)

I, INTRODUCTION

I. Tbe Second Conmittee held a substantive debate on iten 84 (see A/4O/989,
pala. 2\. Action to be taken on sub-item (c) r"ra s considered at the 31st, 368h,
4lst, 45th. 46th and 48th to 5lst neetinqs, on 12, 18, 2l and 27 Novenber, and 3.
5, 9, ll and 13 Decenber. An account of the Conrni.ttee's discussion is contained in
the relevant surnnary records (A/C.2/ AO/gR,3l , 36. 47,45. 46 and 48-5f).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resol!t!io s A/C.2/4O/L.38/!9v,1

2. At the 36th rneeti.ng, on l8 November, the represencative of Nepal inlroduced a
draft resolution (A/C.2/40/L.38) entitled nSpecific action related to the
parti.cular needs and problems of land-locked developinq countries", on behalf cf
Atqhanistan, Bangladesh, Bollvia. BoEswana. Burkina Fosa, Burundi. the Central
African Republic, the Lao People's Denocrat i.c Republic, Monqolia, Nepal, ParaquaY
and 3gg[!1, subsequently joined by Roanda, vrhich read aE follot{s:

8s-37993 0369P (E)



A/ 4O /9A9 /A<rd.3
Enqlish
Paqe 2

'rThe General Assemblv,

"Reiterqting the specific actions related to the particular needs of the
land-locked developing countries stated in resolutions 63 (III) of
19 Mav 1972, I/ 98 (IV) of 3l May 1976' 2/ 123 (V) of 3 June 7979 3/ and
137 (VI) of 2 July 1983 4/ of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development, and Trade and Development Board resolution 319 (XXXI) of
27 September 1985' 5,/

"RecaIling the provisions of its resolutions 3I/I5'1 ot 2l December 1976'
32/791 ot 19 December 1977. 33/l5O of 20 Decenber 1978, 34/198 of
19 December 1979, 35/58 of 5 December l-9AO, 36/175 of 17 Decenber 1981 and
39/2O9 ot 18 December 1984 and other resolutions of the United Natrons
relatinq to the particular needs and problens of land-locked developing
countr ies,

"Bearing in mind various other resolutions adoPted by the General
Assernblv, itllJiaieJ orqans and the specialized agencies. enphasizing sPeciaf
and urqent measures in fa\tour of tand-lockgd developing counlries,

"Recallinq the rel-evant provisions of the International Developnent
Strategv for the Third unj.ted Nations Deeelopment Decade, 6/

"Recallinq the united Nations convention on the Lav.l of the Sea' 7/
adopted on 10 Decenber 1982,

l/ See Proceedinqs of the qlited Nations Conference on Trade and
Developnent. Third Session, vol. I. Report a4d Annexes (United Nations pubLication,
SaIes No. E,73.II.D.4), anne:r I,A.

2/ Ihid., Fourlh Session, vol. I. Report and Annexes (United Nations
publication, Sales No. E.76.II.D.10 and corriqendum), part one, sect. A.

3/ Ibid., Fiftb Session, vol. I, Repor! and Annexes (United Nations
publication. Sales No. E.79.II.D.l4), part one, sect. A.

!/ Ibid., Sixth Session, vol. I, Report and Annexes (United Nat j.ons
publication, SaIes No. 8.83.II.D.6) , part one, secl. A.

!/ See A,/40,/I5 (vol. II) , sect. I.

6/ See resolution 35,/56. anne,r.

'7/ Offi.cial Records ot the ?hird Uni.ted Nations Conference on the Law of the
!91, vol. xvlr (united Nati-ons publication, sales No. E.84.V.3). document'
A/CoNF.62/t22.



Al40/989/AAd.3
English
Paoe 3

^_. ..]!!!rf!o=tn 
.tlu rhe reporr of the 4d It@ croup of Experts ro study vtaysand Means of Inproving Tr ansi t_ transpor t-Ti?i?str uctur es and Servicea forIJand-locked Developinq Countr ies, g,/

. "Rgcognizinq that the lack of territorial access to the sea, aggravatedb!, renoteness and isolation frorn ,"orld narkets, anal the prohlbitive tran'rt.transport and trans-shlpnent co6ts impose gerious constrainls 0n thesocio-econornic development of land_locked develAplng countrtgs,

, - "Nqtilq.witfr concern that the neasures taken thus far in favour ofrano-locr(ed developing countries and che assistance given fall far short oftheir need s.

-. 
"1. +e?fftrms the right of access of land_locked countries to and tromthe sea and fraedon of transit through the territory of transit SEates by aIImeans of transport, in accordance uiih article 125 of the United NationsConvention on the Lae of the Sea,

. -"2: _ Appeals to all States, international organizations and financialinst.itutions to implement. as a natter of urgency and prj.ority, the specificactions related to the particular needs and iroblems of land-l.cked deveropingcountries enviaaqed in resolutione 63 (III), 98 (IV) . I23 (Vl and 137 (vI) ofthe united Nations conference on Trade and Developnent, in the rnternationarDeveropnent strategy for the Tbird unitear Nations Devetopment Decade. in thesubstantral Nen progranrne of Action tor the l9g0s for the Least DevelopedCountries !/ and in other relevant reeolutions of the United Nationsi

]3. CS9SC ell concerned countries, as t,ell as internationaLorganizatlons, to provide land-locked developj.ng countrles Hith appropriatefinancial and technicar assistance in the to;m of qrants or concessionar r.oansfor the congtruction and inprouenent of their transport and transitinfrastructures and faciliClesi

ilggg-g}:g the. international comnunity and multilateral andbilateral financial inatrtutions to intensify 
"trort" ln ralsing the net fro$of resources to all land-locked developing countrtes to help offset theadqerse etfecta of their disadvantageous geoqraptrical situation on theirecononic deveropnent efforts, in keeping crith t;e oqerarl development needs ofeach land-locked developlnq country i

9./ of f iq ial R 6 of the
Session, Annexes, aSenda item 6.

2/ ed
part one, sec!. A.

{United Nat ions publication. Sales No. E.



'5. Invites transit countries and the laod-locked developing countries
to co-operate effectively in harnqnizing transport planning and in prorotinq
other lotnt ventureg in the field of transpor! at the reqional, subregional
and bilateral level s i

"5. Furtber inuiles the internationaL coftmunity to give financial'
technicat and other !iii6, t go interested transit and land-locked developing
countries in che construction of, alternative routes to tbe seai

-7. connends the united Nations DeveloPnent Programme, the.United
Nations conference on Trade and Developnent and olher United Nations aqencies
for their eork anal the assistance they trave provided to the land-l'ocked
developing countries and invites then to continue Eo take approPr iate and
eftective measures to respond Co the specific needs of those countriesi

"8' Reqolrlmends continued and intensified activities relatlng to the
conducting of necesJary studies and the irnplenentation of special actions and
specific measures to, tf," lend-locked develoPing countries' includinq those in
the area of econonic co-operatlon amonq developing countries' as well as those
that haee been envisaged in the Progranne of $ork of lhe United Natlons
conference on Trade and Development, the regional connissions and other
prograrnnes and activities at the regional and subregional level'si

"9' once aqain requests t'lember States to transnit to the
sec r etary-Eenerir oi-ffiT;lfed Nations conference on Trade and Development
their views aDd connents on the report of the al-glg Group of Experts to study
$lays and Means of Inproving Tr ansi t-tr ansport Infrastructures and Services for
Land-locked Developinq Countr ies i

"10. nelconeq the report of the S ec r etary-General of the United Nations
conference on Trade and Developnent on progress in the implenentatlon of
specific action reLated to the particular needs and probleme of land-Iocked
developing countries, !q,/ submitted pursuant to resolution 39/2O9' 

and

reouests him to prepare another such report for subrnisston to the General
Assembly a! its forty-first session'"

3. At the 46th meeting, on 3 Decenber, the Connittee bad before it a revised
draft resolu!ion (A/c.2/4O/L.38/Rev. l).

4. ur. soenad i Brotodiningrat (rndonesia), vice-chairman of the comnittee' made a
statenent in vrhich he inforned tbe Conmittee of the outcone ot the infornal
consultations held on the draft resolution.

5. The Connittee then Proceeded to vole on reviged draft resolulion
A/c.2/ Ao/L.3qlRav. I as follotts:

A/40 / 989 /Add.3
Eng I ish
Page 4

r0/ A/4o/8t5 -



A/40/989/Add.3
English
Page 5

(a) By a recorded uote of 106 to none, lrieh ZG abstentlons, operativeparagraph I $as retained. The voting eas as follows:
fn favour:

Aq a lnst:

Absta i ni nq I

In favour:

Afqhanistan, Algeria. Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,Bahrain, Bangladesh. Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botsbana, Brazil.Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, ByelorussianSoviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cape Verde. central AfricanRepublic, Chad, chile. China. Colonbia. Costa Rica, Cuta. Cyprus,Czechoslovakia, Den@ratic yeman, Doninican Repubtic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Eouatorial culnea, Ethiopia, Fjnland. Fiance. cuatenala.Guinea, Guyana. Haiti, Honduras, Hungary, Icel.anal, Indonesia,Iraq. lreland, ItaIy, Ivory Coast (C6te d'feoire), Janaica.Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao people's Denocratic Republic, Lesotho.Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Madagascar, t{alaei, Malaysia, ttaldives.Mali, tltalta, Mexico. uongolia, Morocco, trtozanbioue, Wepal,Netherlands, Nelr zealand, Nicaragua, Niqer, Noreay. panana, papua
Nerr.Guineai peru, philippines, polano, eoriugal, eatar, R$anda,Saudi Arabia, Singapore. Sonalia, Spain, Sri Lanka. Sudan,Surinane, Snaziland, Sweden. syrian Arab Republic, Thaitand,Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisla, Ukrainian Soviet SocialistRepublic, Unlon of Soviet Socialist Republics, United ArabEmirates. United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela,viet Nam, Yernen, yuqoslavia, Zaire, zarnbia, zirnoanwe.
None.

Bahanas, Belgium, Burma, Comoros, Dennark, Germany, FederalRepublic of, Ghana, creece, crenada, culnea-Bissau, Indla, fran(Islamic Reputrlic of), fsrael, Japan. Liberia. Luxenbourg,
l4aurieania, Niqeria, pakistan, Romania, Saint Vincent aoat theGrenadines. Senegal, Toqo, Turkev, United Kingdon of GreatBritain and Northern Ireland, United stales oi Arnerica.

(b) Reuised draft resolutio A/c.Z/4o/L.38lRev.l, as a xhole, r|a6 aatopted bya recorded eote of 135 to none, l,ith l abstention (see para. 7I. draftresolution I). The eoting Has as folloh,s:

Afghanistan, Alqeria, Angola, Argentina. Australia. Austria,
Bahanas, Bahrain, Bang.Iadesh. Barbados, BeL9i.un, Benin, Bolieia,Botsnana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria. Burklna Faso,Burna, Burundi, Bvelorussian Soviet Sociattst Republlc, Caneroon,
Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Chlna.
colombia; comoros, costa Ri.ca, cuba, cyprus, czechostovakia,
Democratic yenen, Dennark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador.Egypt, EquatoEial Guinea, Ethi.opia, Fiji. Finland. France, cerrnanDenocratic Republic, cernany, Federal Republic ot. chana. Greece,
-Guatemala, cuinea, cuinea-Bissau, Cuyana. Haiti, Honduras.Hungary, rceland, India, Indonesia, iran (Islamic Republic of),Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Ital.y, fvory Coast (C6te drlvoire),
Jamaica, Japan. Jordan, l(enya. Kupait, Lao people,s Dernocrat ic



A/ 40 /989 /Add.3
English
Page 6

Aaainst:

Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho. Llberia, Libyan Arab Janahlriya'
Luxembourg, Madagaacar' tltalael, ualaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta'
uauritania, l4exico' !4ongolia, Uorocco, ltlozambique' NePal,
Netherlands. Ne$ Zealand, Nlcaragua, Nlger, Nigeria' Noreay'
Oman. Pakistan, Panana, Papua Ner| Guinea' 9eru, PhilipPlnes,
Poland, Portugat, Qatar, Ronanla' RHanda. Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines. Sauali Arabia, seneqal, Sterra Leone. Singapore.
sonalia, spain' sri Lanka, sudan, suriname, seaziLand' sweden'
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago'
Tunisia' Turkey, Ukr€inian soviet Socialist RePublic. Union of
Soviet srcialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingddr
of Great Britain and Northern lreland' Unl3ed Republic of
Tanzania, Uruquay' Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yenen' yugoslavia, zaire.
Zanbia, z inbabee'

None ,

l@9,: United states of Anerica.

6. After the adoption of the revised draft resolution, Btatenents rere nade by
the r epr esentat l tres of china, the united states of Ar0erica' the Islanic Repur,Iic of
Iran, Liberia, Peru, Mozanbique, Brazil, Turkey, t'taurltania' Senegal, tbe Federal
Reputlic of Gernany (also on behalf of the united Klnqdon of Great Britain and
Norttrern Irelandl , India, Ghana and Algeria.

B. Draft resolut ion A,/C.2,/4 0,/I, ' 79

1. At the 46th neeting, on 3 December, the Conmittee had before it a draft
resolu!ion (A/c.2/40/L.7g) entitled ,rlntdrnational code of conduct on the Transfer
of Technology", subnitted by the Chairnan of the Connittee, ur' Oner Birido
(sudan) , on the basis of infornal consultacions.

8, At the sane neetrng, the committee aatopted draft resolution A/c.2/4O/L.79 (see
para. 71, draft resolution II),

g. After the adoption of tbe draft resolution statenents oere nade by the
representatives of lhe United States of Arnerica, the Unite'l Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland (also on behalf of the Federal RePublic of Germany and
Japan) . Dennark (also on behalf of Si{eden), Canada' Australia and Austrla'

C. Draft resolution A,/C.2,/4 0/L. 83

10. At the 45tb neeting' on 2? November, the represeneatiee of Igg€lggig' on
behalf of the Statee Menbers of the United Nations lhat are menherB of the Group
of 7?. intro.luced a draft reaolutlon lA/C.2/LO/L.831 entltled "Econonic neasures as
a means of political and economic coercion against developinq countriesr"



A/40/9A9/Aad.3
Enq lish
Page 7

11. At the 45th neetlng, on 3 December. the Vi.ce-Chairnan of the Conmittee rnade a
staEenentr in ehich he informed the Conmittee of the resul.t of the infornsl
consultations held on the draf! resolution.

12. At the sane
recorded vote of
resolutlon III) ,

I@1:

!L/ tle
present at the
r esolut ion.

Aoai.nsti

Abqtaining, Austria, Finland, Greece. Ivory coast (c6te d,Ivoire) , spain,
Sueden,

13. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements rrere nade by the
rePresentatives of Luxenbourg (on behaLf of the States Menbers of the European
Cornmunity) 1 Sweden, Turkey, yugoslavia (on behalf of tbe States Menbers of the
United Nations rrhich are nenbers of the Group of 77) and Austria.

neeting, the Conmittee adopted draft resolutiotr A/C.2/40/L.83 by a
l14 to 19, cith 6 abstentlons (see para. 71, draft
Tbe votlnq was as follons; l-1,/

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, ArqenClna, Bahamas,
Babrain, Banqladesh, Barbados, Benin. Bolivia, Botseana. Brazil,
Brunej, Darussalan, Bulqaria, Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic. Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chlle, China, Colombia, Cdroros'
costa Rica. cuba, cyprus, czechoslovakia, Denocratic yenen,
Djlbouti. Dominican Republic, Ecuador. Egypt, Equatorial Gulnea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, cernan Democra!ic Republic, Ghana, cuatenala,
Guinea. Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Itaiti, Honduras, Hungary, India,
Indonesia. Iran (Islanic Republic of), Iraq. Janaica. Jordan,
Kenya, KuwaiC, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Llberla. Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Malaei, Malaysia,
llaldives, IqaIi, Malta. Mauritania, Mexico, Monqol.ia, Morocco,
Mozanbique, Nepal.. Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, pakistan,
Panana, Papua Nex culnea, Peru, Philipplnes, Poland, QaCar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saint Chrlstopher and Nevis, Saint Vincent and
the Grenadines, Sao Toroe and Principe, Saudi Arabia, SenegaI,
Sierra Leone. Singapore. Sonalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan. Surinane,
Srraziland, Syrian Arab Republic. Tbailanal, To9o, Trlnidad and
Tobago, Tunisia. Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republ j.c. Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Enirates, Uniteal Republlc
of Tanzania, Uruguay. venezuela, Viet Nan, Yernen, Yugoslavia,
Zalre, Zambia, Z inbabwe.

Australia, Belgiun. Canada, Dennark, France, Gernany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel. Italy. Japan, Luxenbourg,
Netherlandg, Ne$ zealand, Norreay. portuqal, Turkey. United
Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. United States of
Aner ica.

representati.ve of Madagascar stated that, had his delegatlon been
tine of tbe voting, it eould have voted in favour of Ehe draft



A/40/989/Add.3
Eng llsh
Page I

D. Draft. r esoluE lorr A/C.2/4O/l'.9

14. By its decision 39/422 of I8 December 1984, the General Assenbly decided to
refer to lte fortieth session for conaideration a draft reaolution (A/c.2/39/L.SOl
entitled nPreferentiaL Trade Area for EasEern and Southern African states".

15. At the 48th tneeting, on 5 Decenber, ur..soenadi Brotodiningrat (Indonesial ,
Vlce-Chairtuan of the Comtnlttee, tnade a statenent in shich be read out the oral
anendnents shich had been agreed upon as a result of tnfornal consultations on the
drlft resolution. The anendnents eere as follous:

(al In the last Preanbular paragraph, the l.ord rrrapial' before the wold
'progresa' !|as deleted;

(b) In operative paragraph l, the eord "3SCEE' uas replaced by the oord
'Invites" t

(c) In operative paraqraph 2, the eord "3Eg!Sg!S' eas replaced fr-v the oord
'I!:l!gg't and the sords ito conti.nuen rere inserted before the rords nto makeii

(all In operatiee paragraph 3, the eord 'a11" before the sords rineernatlonal
financial institutiongd Has deletedt and

(e) In operatiue paraqraph 4, the eords "asBistance to' eere replaced by the
uords "co-operation eithi.

16. At the sane neetinqr the CorDrlittee adopteat the draft resolution contalned ln
docu6ent A/C.2/40/L.9 (aee para. 71, draft reaolutlon IV).

E, DrafE resolut ion A,/C.2/401L.77

17. At the 48th meeting, on 5 Decenber, tbe Connittee had betore it a draft
resolution (A/C,2/40/L.77) entitled 'runited Nations Conference on Condittons for
Registratlon of shipE", Eubmitteil by the Chairnan of the Connittee, ur. Oner Blrido
(Sudan), on the basia of informal consultations.

18. A strternent by Che secr etary-Gener al on the progranme budg et lnPlications of
draft reaolutLo A/C.2/4\/L.77 eas circulated in docunent A/C.2/4O/I'.98.

19. At the sane meeting, the Connittee adopted draft teaolution.A/C.2/4O/L.77 {8ee
para. 71, dratt resolution V).

20. After the adoptlon of the draft reaolution, gtatenents eere nade by the
representatiees of the united States of Anerica and the United Klngdsl of Great
Br it. in and Northern Ireland.



A/40/989/Ad.r.3
E n9 11sh
Page 9

F

21. At the 45th meertnq,..?" 2l_I?"glb"r, the represenrative of Nicaraguaintroduced a draft resoiurion (A/c.2/40/L.;;i ."traa"u .Trade entargo againstNicaragua', on behalf or arqeria. uexrco, 
-Nicar-;qua 

anal gg, uhich read as folloos:
"The ceneral Asae4bly.

-, - , 'Recal.Iing the relevant principles set forth rn the charter of the UnltedNations,

- "R.$j:gi!g the fundamental laws that goeern retations among the Statesof the international connunlty,

'+gcallinq the uidespread concern expressed by the internatlonalconmunity about the trade enbargo inposed uguii"t Nicaragua,

- "Sgg:igSrilg thar the inrernationar conmuniry ts unaninous tncontributing to the econonic and sociar proqr""" of the countries of the areaand to the reinforcing of the proces, 
"f 

'*"i"ri" 
integration of the area, lnorder to contribute to the quest for a negotiateal political solution to ther e9 ional crisis,

_^^_,:?iillu ""!"?r""o by rhe fact rhar the rrade enDa.rgo Jeopardizas rheposslbilities of free trade and the prlnciple ii non_oi.cr inination thatshoul.d preeail anong countr res,
"1. Deploles the recent trade ernbarqo and other neaaures inposed agalnatNicaragua and requests that those ,.u"oi." bJ irnrneefatefy reuokedi
"2.-.Invites all states to pronote and take concrete actions otco-operation ln the economic. and technofogfcai Jpn.r"" ln order-to help reducethe negative effects of the trade ..lrr9o 

- 

"iJ 
-oi'n". 

."""ur"" adopeed againstNicaraqua, and contribute.to the a"orroai" and social developnenC ot Nicaraguaand to reglonal econonic integratton;

"Recgllllg SecuriEy Councit resolution 562 (f9g5) ,
"Regallinq alao ceneral Asaembly resolution 2G25 (XXv) of 24 October 1970,

:H"i."::^:f ,i::.. :1 .i r.ray. ress, ;;i;n 
-;;;; il;^:;.:#J.:il ff::;'fi:u,"

"Peeply concerned by
I

the unilateral trade enbargo and other meaaureg

::3, l.,::li:T:-t:::-:,'u-:ir"t, .a"",""ir,"";;;.T;. ;iiffi""lTr:.:ff:ffi ,specifically irs trade, and conseouenrry irs u.".i"p*Iiili.ii,



A/40/989/Add.3
Eng I tBh
Page l0

"3. Sg!:gglg the Secr etary-Gener al to rePort to the General Assembly at
lts tortv-ftrst session on the inplenentation of the present resolution'"

22. The repfesentative of the unitetl states of Anerlca nade a statenent.

2!. At the 45th meettng, on 3 Decenber, !,tr - Soenadl Brotodiningrat (Inatonesia),
Vlce-Chalrman of the Connittee, made a srtatenent in ehich he informed the Connittee
of tbe resutt of the infornal c6nsultatlons held on draft resolution A/c.2/4O/I'.89.

24. At the same neeting, the representatlve of the united states of Anerlca
lntroduced amendmenta to draft resolution A/c.2/4O/L.8t, contained in docunent
A/c.2/4|/t'-g5, and orally revised operative Paragraph 5 thereof by replacinq the
9ord3 rehich expressly permitB trade neasures a party con6lders neceasary for the
protection of lts esaential securit!, interestsi by the $ord6 "in accordance elth
tnternational aqreenents and relevant prtnciPles of lnternatlonal las6' lPhe
anendnents, as orally reviged, read as folloes:

In the first preambular paragraph, insert the uords rpurposes andr
betoeen che eords 'relevant' and rprinciPle8'

r'2. In the second preanbular Paragraph. replace the eord rlaesr by the eord
rpr inc iples'

"3, I!ES!! the followinq ner preanbular paragraPh beteeen the second and
third preanbular PaE aqraPhs:

'Reaffirninq the permanent valialitlt of the princiPles and standards
ernnoO lea tn tne Universal Declaration of Hunan Rights,l

'r4. At the end of the fourth preanbular paragraph, add the folloeingi

'and especiallv the aluty not to intereene in matters elthin the doBestic
Jur isdiction of any state.

"5. Insert. the follouing new preanbuler paraqraphs betireen the fourth and
f ifth preambular ParagraPhs:

'Reaffirninq that each country has the sovereign rlght to choose it6
oon trading policies and Partners,

tRecqllinq article 2I ot the General Agreenent on Tarift6 and Trade,
in accoiiflEf trith international aqreenents and relevant PrinciPle6 of
lnternational lau,'

rRecaLlinq also General Aseenbly resolution 39/4 ot 26 October 1984,
tn *trictr tfte lssembly encouraged the efforts of the Contadora Group and
appealed urgently to all interested States in and outside the reglon to
co-operate fully with the GrouP through a frank and constructiue
dialogue, so as to achieve solutions to the differences anong then,l



A/40/989/AdA.3
Eng li sh
Page ll

( ii) replace tbe eord I byr nith the word . thatr i and ( iii) llPlgE the eords
'and irhichr eith the nord rcould'

"7. Inaert the folloeing ner prearDbular paragraph beteeen the fifth and sixth
Preanbular paragraphs:

rDeeplv concerned that the recent declaration tn that countEy, on
15 October 1985, guspending basic cieil llberties, eilL not contrlbute to
econonic and social developnent, lnternational co-operation and the goala
of national reconcili.ation embodied in the Contadora process, '
In tbe silrth preanbular paragraph, replage the phraae rtrade embargo

inposed agalnst Nicaraguar bV the phrase tsituatlon ln Central America, rnd in
Nicaraqua in particular, r

&gg5l! the folloeing nee preanbular paragraph beteeen the sixth and
seventb preanbular paragraphs:

rReaffirminq tbe right of Nicaragua and the rest of the states in
lhe reqion to develop their international relations according to thelr
peoplesr interests,,

"10. Replace tbe eighth preanbular paragraph by the folLoeing:
rDeeplv conqerned that trade enbargoes inconaistent elth established

Principles of international lau pould jeopardize the prlnclples of free
trade and non-d i scr lninat ion that should prevail among nationa,'

"11. rn operatlve paragraph l, (i) replace the eord rDeploresr by the eorde
rReqrets that' and (11) replace t.he phrase 'and requesCa that said neaaure6 be
innediately revokedi by the phrase rsere considered necessary, and reouests
that the need for such measures be kept under constant review, sith a vieu to
their eventual revocation;,

"12. BSE-lggg operative paragraph 2 bry the folloeing!

Invites all States to promote and take.concrete actlons of
co-operation in the econonic and technolog lcal spheres in Central Anerica
to help reduce the negatiee effects of the current problems, and to
contribute to econonic and social development and to regional econoniic
integrat ion. I

"13. Delete operative paraqrapb 3,,,

25. Statenents sere made by the representatives of Nicaragua, Honduraa, the
Islanic Republic of Iran and Cuba.



^/40/9e9 
/Add.3

Bng I tsh
Page 12

26. The Eepresentative of Nicaraqua, on behalf of the aponsors' then proposed
or.lly aub-aoendnents to the anendnents by the united states of Anerica, contained
ln docunent A/C.z/AO/L.95, as orally revised (subaequently lssued in docunent
A/C.2/4O/!'.1021 . The oral suFanendnents eere as follot{s:

'r. 4E!gEg!J9:.1
neptace the eord rReaffirminor by the eord 'Recallino', 6nd ilglglg the

phraae ,-he pernsnenr otififfi-li-Che princlptes ;nd standards enbodieal inr.

'2. Anendnent No. 4

neplace the eord 'especiallyr by the eorda rin particular the Principle
corre.iifilil and lald at the end of the paragraph the eords tln accordance trith
ttre Charter of the United Nations. as well as the prlnciPle that no Sttte nay
use or encourage the use of economic. political or any other tyPe of neaBure
to coerce another State tn order to obtain fron it the subordination of the
exercise of ltB aoverergn rights and to secure fron it advantage5 of any kind'

13. Anendnent No. 5

In tbe first nee paragraPh' replace the eords 'tradinq policleg and
partnersr by the rords rdeuelopnent policies and strategiesr'

Refornulate the second paragraph to read aa folloest

'Recalltnq all relevant articles of the General Agre€nent on Tarlffs
ana traOe, as well as the Treaty of FriendshiP, Connerce and Navigatlon
betueen t.he United States and the Republlc of Nicaraqua'.

Refornulate the third paragraph to read as folloss:
rRecallinq also General Assembly resolulion 19/4 of 25 october 1984'

in snictr tne essenbly encouraged the efforts of the contadora GrouP and
all interested States, in particular those with ties to and interests in
the region. to reapect fully the Purposes and Prlnciples of the Contadora
Act on Peace snd Co-operation in Central America'.

Anendnent No. 6

In amendnent (iil), delete the oord rcould' and add an rsr to the eord
'affect' ,

'5. Anendnent No, 7

Refornulate to read as follows:
rDeeplv cgnqgrned that said neasures trill not contribute

econonic and sociat develoPnent of Njcaraqua and to Che goals
objectives of the Contadora processr.

Eo the
and



^/40/959/Add.3Enqlish
page 13

Amendment No. I

- Replace the uords rand in Nicaragua in partlcularr by the soralsraggravated by the trade embafgo agai;st Nlcaragu6r.
n7. Arnendment No. 9

Reformulate to r eaal as follous!

..^ _llTlftilt"g rhe sovereisnry and lnaltenabre rtsht of Ntcaraqua an.rEne rest of the states ln the region to freely decldi on thelr ownpolitlcal, economr'c and sociar systern to devel.p their internationalrelations according to thelr peopleg' lnterests free fron outgtdeinterference, subversion, direct or lndrrect coercion or Ehreats of anykind, .
Amendnent No. lO

Refornulate to read as follors:

- _ 
rDeeply concerned that said brade enbargo jeopardires the prlnclpleaof free trade and non-discr lmina! ion that stroufa pievail armng nationsr.

.9. Amendnent No. 12

Ihsert the Phrase r, ln partlcular, I between the uords rcentral Amer tca Iand the words rto hel-p reducer, and replace the phrase ,of Ehe currentprobrens I by the phrase .of the trade Lrobargo and other measurea inposearagainst Nlcaraguar."

27' The representative of the unrleat Kingdom of creat Brltaln and Northern rrelandtbved th€ adjournment of the neetinq ror it least 48 houra, under rul,e lL8 of theruleg of procedure.

24. Forloelng a statement by the repreEentative of cuba and a clariflcatlonprovidled by the chairrnan, the rnolion proposed by the unlted Kingdom of creaEBritain and Northern freland to adJourn the roeeiing for at least 4g hours l{aacarried by 73 votes to 31, nlth 20 abstentlons.
29: At the 48th meetlng, on 5 Decenber, the Connitcee had before it revlsed
Eub-anendnentE proposed by Nicaragua, on behalf of tbe sponsors(A/c'2/40/L-l!2/Rev. r.) to trE-li6i?enca propoeed by the united srate. of Amerrca,contained in d@unent Vc.2/40/t'.95, aE oiatiy reeised. Tbe revised sub-amendnents
r ead as follorirs:

Anendment No. 3

-"--_:.lll:"_,the 
t org 'Rga{f trnig' by rhe ,roril ,Reca}linq,, and delece chepnrase 'the permanent varidlty of tbe principles EiE-stanaardE embodiett inr.



A/e0/989/^4d.3
English
Page 14

Anendment No. 4

Replace the word tespeciallyr by the wortls 'in partlcular tbe prlnclple
concernlngi, and add aE the end of the paraqraPh the words rin accordance with
the charter of the United Nationsr.

Amendnen! No. 5

In tbe flrst new Paragraph, replace the $ords rtrading policies and
partnerar by the eords 'development Polictes and str€teglesr'

Reforrnulate the second paragraph to read as folLows!

t@I!!Ig all relevant arllcl€s of the General Agreement on ?ariffs
and Trader.

Reformulate the third paragraph to read as follots:

rRecaLling also General Assembly reeolutlon 39/4 of 25 october 1984'
tn wtr tEE-Tfre assenbly encouraged the efforts of the contadora Group and
all interested States' ln Particular thoEe with ties to and interests ln
the region, to tespect fully the purposes and prlnciples of the contadora
Act on Peace and Co-operation in CentraL Americar'

"4. Amendnent No. 5

In arnendment (iii) ' deleee the word 'could"

Amendment No. 7

Refornulate to read as follows:
tDeePIy concerned that said measures will not contribute to the

ecottotiE-fia 
"oEiit-E&eloprnent 

of Nicaragua and co che goals and
objectives of the Contadora process'

16. Amendnent No' I

Replace the lrords 'and in Nicaragua in Particular' by the t{ords
raggravated by the brade embargo against Nicaraguar'

Amendrnent No. 9

Refornulate !o read as follotrs:

'Reaffirming the soverelgnly and inalienable righ! of Nicaragua and
the rest of lhe States in the region to freely decide on their own
poliEical, econonic and soclal systen to devel-op thelr intefnational
lelaglons according to their peoplesr interests free from outside .
inlerference, subversion, direct or indirect coercion ot threats of.any
kind t.

I



a40/9s9/Add.3
Eng Ilsh
Page 15

'8. Amendnent No. 10

ReformulaCe to read aE follorrs:
rDeeply concerned that said trade enbargo jeopardizes the prlnclpleE

of free trade and non-discr ininatlon that should prevail arnong natlons'.

In anendment (i), delete the vrortl rthafr, delete atnendment (it).
rr10. Arnendment No. 12

Insert the rrords r, in particular,r betseen the rrortlE rCentral Anerlcat
and the words rto help reducer, and repl.ace the eords rof the current
problens I by the vrords rof the trade enbargo and oeher measures ll0posed
agalnst Nicaragua ' . "

30. The Connlttee also had before it a revised draft resolution
(NC.2/4o/L.89/Rev. l) , submltted on behalf of the sponsors listed in para. 

-,
incorporating the amendments made to draft resolutLon A/C.2/40/t.89 by lhe United
States of Anerica (see NC.2/4O/L.95, as orally revised, para. 24r. aa sub-amended
by the sponsora (see A/C.2/ 4O/r,.L02/Re1f.L, para. 29).

31. The representative of the United Sbates of America made a statenent in chich
he proposed oral anendnents to the revised draft resoluEion A/C.2/ 40/ L.89,/Rev. L
(subseguentl-y issued ln document NC.2/40/L.LL5), as followg:

nl. At the end of the third preanbular paragraph, add the vrords 'especla!.ly
the prlnciple that the wiU of the people expressed in per iodic and genuine
eleclions shalL be the basig of the authority of covernmenC, I

tt2. fnEert the followlng nel, prearnbular paragraph between the fourth and
f ifth preambular paragraphs:

rRecalllng also ceneral Aasenbly resolution 39/204 of
I7 December 1984 on assigtance to Nicaragua, ln vrhich the Assenbly urg€d
all Goverhnents to continue contributing to the reconstructlon and
developnent of Nlcaraguar'

"3. In the sixlh preanbular paragraph, delete the nords 'policies andr, and
at the end of the paragraph, add the norda rbilateral. arrangements, and
Erading policies and iiartners, in accordance wittr inEernatlonal agreements and
the relevant principles of international law, I

n4. At the end of the seventh preanbular paragraph, add the qrords 'espectally
article 21, nhich exPressly permica trade measures a party considers necesEary
for the protection of ita egsential security lnterests,r



v40 /e89 /Add.!
Bngl lsh
Page 15

'5. RePlace the eighth preanbular paragraph by the follorring hhree paragraphs:
rRecalllnq also ceneral AEsernbly resolution 39/4 of 26 October 1984,'
rurglnq all states, in partlcular those erith ties to and interests

in the regi.on, to reapect fully the purposes and prlnciples of the
Contadora Act on peace and Co-operation in Central Anerica, I

rAppeallnq to all incerested States, in and outside the region, to
co-operate fully rrith the Contadora Group through a frank and
conat.ructlve dlalogue, ao as to achieve solutions to ttle differences
betneen then,.

"5. fn the nlnth preambular paragraph, insert the eord rcouldt before the
rrords I adversely affect I

In the tenth preanbular paragraph, replace the words rsald neasures r by
the rrords Ineaaures such aa the recent declaraCion of 15 October 1985,
suspendlng civil li.berttea,. and at the end of the paragraph add the rrords rln
particular, tbe goal. of nati.onal reconclllatlon, I

In the eleventh preambular paragraph, replace the uords .aggrauateal by
the trade €mbargo aqalnst NlcaEagua, by the eordE ,and in Nl,caragua, in
particular I

In the fourteenth operaElve paragraph, replace lhe trorda ,sald trade
enbargo Jeopardlzegr b,y the $ord6 rtrade enbargoes inconsigtent elth the
established agreenents and releeant princlples of inEernatlonal law jeopardizet

"10. In operatlve paragraph 1, (a) lnsert the rrord rthatr after the toratrRegretart (b) insert the $orda rrere consldered necessaryr aft.er the wotd
'Nicaraguat; and (c) replace the eords I inmediately revokedr by the oordsrkept under constanE revieif uith a view to their eventual ! evocation t

ill. End operative paragraph 2 rith the eorda rcentral Arnericat I

'I2. Replace e:(isting operaEive paragrapb 3 by the following:

receive tf eatment approprlate
tbe economlc situatton r eturns

,3.
lo
to

Reconrnenda that
the speclal needs
norrnal l | '

Nlcaragua continue Eo
of the country unti I

32. Tbe replesentatlve of the Unlted Statea of Anerica then proposed that a
seParate voCe be taken on each of the anendnents.
33. lhe repreaentative of Nlcaragua nade a statemenE in vrhich he proposed that no
actlon be taken on the oral amendnents introduced by the United States of Amerlca
antl that a decislon be lakon tmoediately on revised draft resolutlon
Vc.2/40/L.89/Rev. l.



A/40/98e/Aaa.3
EngIlsb
Page 17

34' Fotlofling atatenents by the representative' of saint Lucla (who proposeat thatno action be taken on either of tbe anendnents or the revised draft reaolutl.nA/C.2/4O/L.99,/Rey. 1) , the Union of Sovlet Socialist Republics, Den@ratic yenen,fndia, Cuba, Uexico, th€ Unlted StaCea of enerica, pakistan and Canada, as rrell as
I stat:m:nt by the repreEentatlve of the office of Legal Affarrs, the coruri tteeproceeded to eote on the flbt ron proposed uy rgic"."su., that no action be taken onthe orar arnendment' introduced uy ti.t" unit-"a-'il"t." of Arnerica. fhe motron ,,aacarf i'ed by a recorded vote of 50 to 40, rittr ii-aostentiona. The voting eaE asfollons3

In favourr Afqhanlstan, Albanta, Angola, Argentina, Benin, Bollvia,
Botswana, Brazll, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian SogletSociallst Republic, Caneroon, China, Colombla, Congo, Cuba,
czechoslouak ia, Denocratic yemen. Bth iopia, cerrnan -Denocratlc
Republic, Ghana, culnea_Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iran (IElamic
Republlc of), Kenya, Lao peoplers oenocratic nlpubllc, LtbyanArab Janahirlya, Madagascar, Mali, lttexlco, uongolla, uozanbigue,
Nlcaragua, Nigerla, panama, peru, fioland. Ronania, Siraztland,Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Soclaliat
Republlc, Unlon of soviet Socialist Republics, unlted Repubtlc ofTanzanla, Uruguay, venezuela, viec Nan, zanbia, zinbabse.
Auatralia, Bahar0as, Barbados, Belgium, Canada, Central AfricanRepubllc, Chad, Chile, Conoros, Dennark, Finlanit, France, canbla,
Ger$ant, Federal Repubtlc of, Greec€, Grenada, Iceland, Ireland,Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Luxembourg, NetherlandE, Ner
Z-ealand, Nonay, Onan, paraguay, portugal, Saint Lucia, Salntvincent and the Grenadines, Sanoa, singapcrre, Solonon lEtanda,spaln' Thailand, Trinidad and qobago, luikey, united Ringdon ofGreat Britain and Northern freland, United states of Anerlcr.

Abstalnlngs Austria, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Brunei Darussalam, Burki.na FaEo,
Burma, Cyprus, Dorninlcan Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, cabon,
Guaeenala, India, Indonesia, frag, fvory Coasi- (C6te d,Ivoire),Liberia, Malaysia, Malta, Nepal, Ni.ger, pakistan, papua Neo
culnear. philippines, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, senegaL, iomalta,Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, yugos:.avia, Zaire.

35. The repr€sentattve of Saint Lucia then nade a staternent, in whtch he proposadthat no actlon be taken on tbe revised ctraft resolut ion A/c.2/4O/L.g9lRev.I.
35' - Follo{rlng atatenencE by the representatlves of Nrcaragua, the unlon of sovietsoclalist Republics, Indla; the unil"d st"c." oi arn..i..", saint. Lucla, Norsay, theBaharnag, Papua Nery Gurnea, Mexi.co, the soronon rslands and Honduras, as rrerr as bythe rePresentative of the office of Legal Affarrs, the committee proceedett to voteon the notion presented by the represant"ti.r" of salnt r.ucia, that no acclon betaken on reelsed draft resolut ion A/c.2/4O/t.S9rznev.1. The noelon rraa rejected bya recorded vote of 73 to 25. with 22 abstentions. The voting t'as as follous:

Against t



v4o/9e9 /Add.3
Engl iah
Page 18

Aqalnet:

38. The Comllttee Ehen adoPteal
recorded vote of 84 to 4, with
lttre voElng nas as fo11os9: IY

revised draft resolut Lon A/c -2/ 40/ L.89/Rev ' I by a
3? abEtentlons (see para. ?1, tlraft resolution vI) '

In favour: Barbados, Belglun, Canada, CenLraI African Republlc' chad' Chil€'
Gatnbia ' cerrn 

iy, Federal RePublic of' Grenada ' ilonduras' 
Israel'

Ivory Coast (C6ie iftfvolre), Jarnalca, ilaPan' Paraguay' Portugal'
saint Lucia, Saint vlncent antl the Grenadines' Sanoa ' Slngapore'
SoloIoon Islands, Sonalia, Turkey, Unlted Kingdorn of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Statea of Amerlca'

Afghanlstan, Albanla, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia'
Bahamas, Benln, Bollvla, Botatdanar Brazil' Bulgaria' Burkina
FaEo' Burundi, Byelorusaian soviet socialIst Republlc, cameroon '
cape verde, chin;, cotonbia ' congo, 

cuba' cyPrusf czechoslovak ia '
Derrccratic Yenen, Demark, Dominlcan Repub1ic, Ethiopia' Fin1an'l'
France, Gernan Denocratic Republic, Ghana, Greece' Gulnea-Bissau'
Cuian", gungary, Icel'and, India, Iran ( Islamic - Republ ic of) '
Irelanal' Kenya, I€o Peoplera Democratic RePubtlc ' Lesotho'
Llberia, tJibyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madaqagcar t lttali ' Malta' 

Mexico'

lbngolia, l,lozanblque, New Zealandr Nicaragua, Nigeria' Norltay '
Panima, Peru, Poland' Rornania, spaln, sri Lanka, surinane' syrian
Arab RePublic, Uganda' Ukralnian So!'iet sociallst Repubtic' unlon
of Sovilt soclalist Republics, Unltetl Arab Emirates' Uniced
Republlc of Tanaania, Uruguay, venezuela, vlet Narn' Yugoslavia'
zambla, zimbabwe.

Abstainlng! Austria, Banglaalesh' Bhutan, Brunei Darussalam' Burma' Ecuador'
Bqypt, Gabon; Guatenala, Indonesla' Irag' Italy' Luxembourg '
l€Iaysia, Nepal, Netherlands, Niger, Paklstan' PhlllpPines'
Lrranda, Sautll Arabla, senegal' svtaziland' sneden ' Thailand'
Tr lnldatl and Tobago, zalre.

f7. statements before the aaloption of the tevised drafts resoluEion
Nc.2/40/L.8glRev.1 were rnaae Ly the representative6 of the Unlted states of
America, Dennark, Norgay, Papua Nefl Guinea, rrag, canada ' cuba' 

rndia' Afghanistan'
iurqarLi (also on berrali of the Byelorusslan soviet soclarlst Republic '
Czechoslovakla, the Gernan pemocratic Republic' Eungary, Mongolia ' 

polanil' the
Ukralnlan Sovlet Sociattst Republic and the Union of Sovie! Sociallst RePublics),
Gre€ce, SlngaPore, sol'orFn Islands, Barbados and rsrael'

n,/ Af the 49th meeting, on 9 Decenber, the rePresentatlve of sao Tome and
Prlncipe statetl that' bad his atelegation been Present at the time of tbe voting' it
soultt have voted in farour of Ehe revlseal draft resolution'



fn favour t

@e!,!
Abstalninq 3

A/40/989/Add.3
Eng11 sh
Page 19

AfghanlEtan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentlna, Australia,
Austtia, Benln, Bollvia, Botgwana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burklna
Faso, Burma, Burundl, Byelorussi.an Sovlet Socialist Republlc,
caneroon, Cape Verde, China, Coldtbia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
C?echoalorakia, Democratic lenen, Dennark, Donlnican Republic,
Egypc, Bthtopta, Finland, France, cerman Derbcratic Republic,
Ghana, Gre€ce, Guinea, Gulnea-Blasau r Guyana, Haiti, Hungary,
fceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Ialarnic Republlc of), fraq,
Renya, Lao Peoplera DemocraEtc Republic, Lesotho, Llberia, Lib!'an
Arab Janahlriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mextco,
l,bngolia, New zealand, Nlcaragua, Ntgerta, Nor$ay, paktstan,
Panana, Papua Nefl Guinea, peru, poland, Ibnania, Spaln,
Srl Lanka, Surinane, Sffaziland, Srreden, Syrian Arab Republlc,
Tunlsi.a, Uganda, Ukralnian Soviet Soclali6t Republlc, Unlon of
sovlet sociallst Republicsr Unlted Arab Enirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vlet Narn, yugoslavla, Zalre,
Zanbia, Zlrnbabue.

Ganbia, Grenada, Israel. Unlted State€ of Anerica.
Barbados, BeIglun, Brunei Darusaalam, Canada, Central Afrlcan
Republlc, Chad, Chile, Ecuador, cabon, cernany, Federal. Repubtic
of, GuaEenalar Ireland, Italy, Ivory coast (c6te d,Ivoi.re),
Janaica' Japan, Kusait, Luxembourg, Nepal, Netherlands, Niger,
orrlan, Philippinea, Portugal, Rsanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadinea, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Stngapore, Solonon
fslanda. Sonal-ia, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Turhey,
Unitetl Klngdon of creat Britain and Northern lreland.

39. staEernenta after the adoption of the revlsed draft resolutlon eere nade by the
repreaentablves of France, Egypt, Che phllipplnes, Trlnidad and TobEgo, the Federal
Rspublic of cernany, the Libyan Arab Janahiriya, the United Xlngdom of creat
Brltaln and Northern Ireland, Australia, Augtria and Nicaragua.



A/40/989/Add.3
Eng liah
Page 20

G, Draft resolution A/C.2/40lL.84

40. At the 45th neetinq, on 27 Novenber, the reDresentative of IlgglEgig, on
behalf ot the states ttenber6 of the United Nations that are nenbers of the Group
of ??, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.2/l,/t'.84) entitled "RePort of the Trade
and DeveloPnent Board" .

"The General Assenbly,

nRecallinq tts resolutions 1995 (XIx) of 30 Decenber 1964 on the
estanfiifiiEifJf the united Nations conference on Trade and Developnent as an
organ of the General Assenbly, as anended. W lzOL (s-vl) and 3202 (s-rtl) of
I uay l9?4, containing the Declaratlon and the Progranme of Action on the
Establisbnent of a Nes International Econonic Oraler, 3281 (XXIX) ot
12 December 1974, contalning the Charter of Economic Rtghts and Duties of
states. 3362 (s-vrl) of 16 Septenber l9?5 on development and international
econoftic co-operatlon and 35146 of 5 Decenber 1980' the annex to v'hich
contains the International Developnent Strategy for the Third United Nations
Developnent Decade,

nminalful of the forthconinq seventh aession of the Conference' which nill
t"re pfiFfi- l9B? and irhich constitutes a najor oPportunity fo( progresa in
key lssues of lnternational economic co-operation for develoPmenc'

iNottnq that the Traate and Developnent Report, 198? -lgl -h:" 
.:t,:_

constrGlfiE contr iout i oi-I6-Ifr6-Ex am inat i on by the Trade and Developnent
Board. at lCs thirty-first se6sion, of the eorld econornic situation and tts
future prospects,

" l. g.3g!9lg of the report of the Trade and Development Board on the
gork of its thirCieth. fourteenth special and thirty-first sessionsi l5l

n2. Requests the united Nations conference on Trade and Deqelopnent to
continue attd-accelerate its inportant contribution and the role it has been
playing in tbe revitalitation and strengtheninq of international econonic
croperation for developtnenti

n3. calls upon all Governnents to
preparations for the seventh session of
and Developftent. "

cdrlnence intensive and thorough
the Uniteal Nations Conference on Trade

E/
L4/

see resolutions 2904 (xxvrl), 3I/Z A and B, ar^a 34/3.

United Natlons publicatlon, Sales No. 8.85'II'D'15'

r5,/
No, 15 (A/40



A/40/9E9/Aad.3
EngliEh
Page 2I

4l' At the 49th neeting, on 9 Decenber, ur. soemadi Brotodlningrat (rnalonesia),
vice-chairnan of the conmittee, msde a state&ent in $hlch he presented tne
tol.lo,elng oral amendments, nhich had been agreed upon as a result of informal
consultat ions:

(a) In the second preanbular paragraph. the gords iehich sllltr before the
eords itake place' t|ere replaced bV the nord ntoi, and the eords nof international
econon lc co-operatlon for developnenti xere replaced by the eords "in the flelal of
international trade and relrt;d areas of international econonic ceoperation for
developnent'r i

(b) In operatlve paragraph 2, the r{ord "accelerate" $as replaced by the rordtrinten€lfy'. and the irords ninternatlonal trade and related areaa ofr uere inaerted
before the uords 'lnternational econoni,c co-operation for developnentn i

(c) In operatlee paragraph 3, the eorda and the relevant international
orqanizaEions' sere lnserted after the eord "Governnentsn.
42. The coflmittee then adopced draft resol.ut ion A/c.z/ 4o/rJ. B/t, as orally revlsed
(3e€ para. 71, alraft resolution VII).

H. Draft resolurions A,/C. ?lqQfi,.4g eol A/C.Z/40/L.tI7
43. At the 41st neeting, on 2l November, the repreaentative of zalre introduced
draft r eaolue ton (A/C.2/49/L.49) entitled "particular problens facing Zaire Dith
regard to transport, transit and access to foreign marketsr, on behal.f of EEjulgA
Pufunql,.Cape lterde, the Central African Republic, Ctrad, Ecuactor, Equatorlal
9ul_nea, 9abon, , Guinea-gissau, uadagascar, I.lauritania, uorogco, Rrranda, Se4lrgal,
-tlllg and Zanbia, aubsequentty jolned by C
Uqanda. The draft reaolution read as follous:

"The General Assenbly,

ff Reterring to its resolution 321160 of 19 Decembe r 1977, in uhich it
recalled Econonic and Social Council re6olution 209? (LXIII) of 29 July 1977
and prGlained che period 1978-1988 the Transport and conmunications Decade in
Afr ica.

'3gjg:$g_glES to ir6 resolurion8 341193 of 19 Decenbe t 1979, gS/Sg ot
5 Decenber 1980, 361139 of 16 Decenber 1981, 37/295 ot 20 Decenber 1982 and
38/143 of 19 December 1983 on partlcular problefts facing Zalre with regard to
transport, transit and access to foreign narkets, and approeing the
organizatlon in 1985 of a second round-table rneetinc otth donor countries and
financing instituCione for Zaire's projects in theae three fieldg,

"Recalling re€olutlon ll0 (V) of 3 June 1979, ]!./ of rhe United Natlong
Conference on Trade and Developnent,

!5,/ See Proceedinas of the United Nations Conference on Trade ald
Deyel@nent, Flfth ses3ton, vol. I, Reporc and Annexes (United NiEions puultcatlonr
Sal.ee No. 8.79.II.D.14). part one, sect. A.



\/40/959/Add.3
English
Page e2

"Recallina also Econonic and social council decision 249 (LxIII) of
zs lufy fs?? and;;atutton 1981/68 of 24 Juty 1981, as neII as resolution
293 (xIII) of 26 Februarv 197? adopteat by the Conference of tlinisters of the
Economic Conmission for Africa, l7

I'Havinq consldered the rePort of the secr etary-Gene r a I on the outcome of
the first rounal-tabl;;eec i ]rg on the financiog of the transport projects of,
zaire, held at Kinahasa on 28 and 29 June f983. fg/

"l' BgSIS:IE the secr etary-General to take the necessary stePs 
to

arrange toftiET6loing of the second round-table neeting scheduled for that
purpose i

"2. AIso requests the secretary-General to submit to the General
Asaenbly at lta forty-first sesslon a rePort on the implenentation of the
pregent r esolut ion, "

44. At tbe soth neeting' on Il Decenber, the Comnittee had before lt a draft
resolution lA/C.Z/4O/L.LL?), submlttea! by ur. Soemadi Brotodinlngrat (Indonesia) '
vice-chalrnan of the conmittee, on the basis of informal consultati.ons heLd on
draft resoLutLon A/c.2/4Q/L - 49.

45. At the same ne€ting. the Connittee adoPted draft resolut ioa A/c'2/40/L'Il'1
(3ee para. 71, dratt resolution vlrI).

46. In the ltqht of the aaloption of draft lesolution A/c'2/40/L'lL?' draft
resolution A/C.2/4O/L.49 uas witbdEawn by its sPonsors'

47. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of zaire nade a
statenent,

I. Dratt resolution A/C.2/4oll,.31 ano Rev' I

48. At the 31st meeting, on 12 Novenber, the representatlve of Ilggliglg' on
behalt of the states Menbers of the united Nation6 that are nembers of the GrouP
of 7?, introduced a 

'lraft 
resolution (A/c'2/4o/L'3L) entitled "Reverse transfer of

t€chnoloq'/n, ehich read as follows:

nThe General Assenbly,

nRecallinqitsresolutions32ol(s-vl)and3202(s-vl)ofllray1974t
3281 (xxlxt of 12 Decembe t L974, 3352 (s-vlr) of 16 september 1975' 35/56 ot
5 December 1980 anal the refevant resolutions on the reverse transfer of
technologY,

!/ see ofticial Recorals of the Econonlc and-gqeial Coq!|cil, slxtv-third
sesEion, supplement t'to. 7, vol. I (E/594I\ ' 

part III'

L8/ A/38/264-E/ r9A3 / 90/ 
^dd,L.



A/40/949/Add.3
Eng llsh
Page 23

."cgnt1pui0q tg believe that since the outflou of ouaLified personnel fronoeveloping to developed countries seriously hanpera the development of theforner. there is an urgent need to fornulate naiionar and internationalpolicies to avoid the 0braln dralnt' and to obviate lts adverse eff,ects,

"Convinced that the search for durable solutronE to the problen of thereverae transfer of technology requires the full participation of all partiesconcerned,

_ "1. qales note of the report of the Inter_Agency croup on ReverseTransfer of Technoloqy covering meetings held at Geneva on 24 and25,June L985, Lg/

_ "2. ?al(es note also o! the outcome of the Third Meetlng of covernrnental-Ettperts on the Reverse Transfer of Technology, helat at Geneua fron 25 Augustto 4 Septenber 1985; 20/

- 
"3. Requests the Secretary-General of tbe Untteaf Nations Conference onTrade and Development !o convene a meettng of governrnental experts not laterthan the first ouarter of 1997, to consider and fornulate an integraCedprogramme of actlon on the reuerse trangfer of technology and to reconmend thenodalities for lts inplenentation. taking into account the rrork done so far bygovernnental expert neetings and other rel-evant ,naterial and the vier.s ot alL

Partie6 concerned i

Requests the Secretary-General of the United
Trade and Development to continue to study the problem
of technology and to prepare, in co-operaiion witn tne
Otfice and other relevant organizations, lhe necessary
integrated progranme of action on the reverse transfer
subnitted to the neeting of governnental experts to beineo account, inter alia, the $rork accomplished by tne
qoverDnental experts and the conments and vier.s of all

- 
"t: Reouests the Trade and Development Board to tnclude,

to the General Assenbly at its forty-second sesgion, a sectionof the meeting of governmental experts on the reverse transfer
to be beld in 1987t

"6. Reouests the S ec r et.ary-General to convene
fnter-Agency Group on Reverse Transfer of Technologyresults of these neetinqg to the General Assemblv at

Nations Conference on
of the reverse transfer
fnternational Labour
docunentation on an
of technology to be
held in ]987, tak ing
first three neetings of
ParCies concer ned i

tn its report
on the outcome
of tec hnology

further rneetings of the
and to report on the
its forty-second session.'

79/ A/40/798, annex.

!!/ see A/40/15 (vol. II). annex III.



51 , The representative of the United
he redueEted tliat a recorded vote be

A/40/989/Add.3
Eng I ish
Page 24

49. At lhe 50th neeting. on Il Deceober, the connittee had before it a reviaed
draft resotut ion (A/C.2/ 4O/L.3llRev. 1 (6ee also A/C.2/4O/L '3llRev' I/cor r ' ll ) '
subnitted by the sponsors listed in Paraqraph 48.

50. Mr. soenad i Brotodtningrat (Indonesia), vice-Chairnan of the ConRittee' made
a stateinent in phich he inforned the comnittee of the outcome of the inforaral
consultations held on the alraft resolution'

States of Anerica nade a statenent in nhich
taken on the revised draft re6ol'ution'

lgelrg!'

52. Scatenents were rnade by the representatlves of tbe union of sovlet socialist
Republics and Yugoslavia (on bebalf of statea llembers of the Group of 771 '

53. At the same meeting, the Committee adoPted revised draft resolution
(A/c.2 / 40/L.31lRev. ll bY a recorded vote of 12? to I (see para' 7l' draft
resolution Ix) . Tbe votinq was as follows:

Illg!g!!: Afqhanistan, Alqeria' Angola' Argentina. 
AusEralia' Austria'

Babama6. Bahrain, Banqladesh' Barbados, Belgluo' Benlnr Bolivla'
Botseana' Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria' Burkina Faso'
Burma, Burundi, Byelorusslan soviet socialist Republlc' cameroon'
canada, Central African Republic, Chite, China' Colonbia'
Conoros, Congo' Costa Bi.ca, Cuba' Czechoslovakia' Denocr at ic
Yer0en, Dennark, Djibouti, Doninlcan RePublic' Ecuador ' 

Egypt'
EthroPia, Finland' France. Gatton, German Derndrat ic RePubllc'
Gernany, Federat Republic of, Ghana, Greece' Guinea'
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras' Itungary' Iceland' Indla'
Indonesia,Iran(IslanicRepublicof),Ireland'Italy'Ivory
Coast (CAte drlvoire) ' 

Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya' (unait' Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberiar Libyan Arab
Janahir iya, Lu:rernbourg, l4adagascar' lilalaui, ualaysia' Iitaldives'
Malta, Mauritanla' Mexrco' Mongolia, !4orocco' trozanbique' Nepal'
Netherlands, Neo zealand, Nicaraqua, Niger, Nigeria' NorPay'
onan, Pakistan, Panana, Papua Ne$ Guinea, Peru' Phllippines'
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Ronania' RPanda, Sao Tome and PrinciPe'
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sinqapore' Sonalia' SPain'
sri Lanka, sudan' surinane, swaziland, s$eden, sYrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago' Tunlsia' Turkey'
Ukrainian Soviet socialist RePublic. Union of SovieC Socialist
Republics. United Arab EIDirates. United King'lorn of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland. united RePublic of Tanzania. Uruguay,
venezuela. Viet Nan, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zaire. Zanbia'

United States ot Aner ic a,

54. Statenents after the vote were made by the representatives of Bulgaria 
(also

on behalf of the Byelorussian soviet socialist RePublic, czechoslovakla, the German
DemocraticRepublic,Hunqarv'l4ongolia,Poland,lheUkrainiansovietRepublican'l
the Union of Soviet Sociifist Republics) , the United Kingdon of GreaE Britain and
Northern lreland, Yuqoslavia (on behalf of the states !'lember6 of the Group of 77)
and Canada.



a,/40/989/^da.3
Eng li sh
Paqe 25

J.

55. At the 46th neeting, on 3 December, the representative of yugoslaqla, onbeharf of the states Menbers 0f the united llations that are nenbers of the eroupof 77' introduced a draft resolution (A/c.2/40/L.92) entitleat ftunited NatronsConference to Reviee Al1 Aspects of the Set of Multilaterally Agreed EoultablePrincipl.es and Rules for the Control ot Restrictive Bustness practi.ces., ihich readas follows:

"The Ceneral Asqernblv.

-__ -"Havinq 
gonFidereC the repor! ot the United Nations Conference co ReviesAlr Aspects of lhe set of ltlu rt ilater at ly Agreed Equitable principles anat Rulesfor the control 0f Restrictite Business practices, together elth the proposals

made by regional groups, 21,/

"Decides to reconvene the Conference at Geneva in lhe autunn of 19g6, fora period df trlo peeks, to conplete the review of all aspects of the Set ofnultilaterally Agreed Equitable principles and Rul.es for the controt ofRestrictive Business practices p./ ana to nake reconmEndations for itsinprovenent and furtber development. ,,

55' A statenent by the s ecr etary-ceneral 0n the programme budqet i-mplicatrons ofdraft reaolution A/C.2/LO/L.92 l,as circul.ared in document A/C.2/40/L.tOS-
57. At the 51st meeting, on 13 Decenber, the Comnrttee had before it a draftresorution (A/c.z/Ao/L-12?), surrnitced by Mr. soenadi Broto.riningrat (rndonesia),
Vice-Cbairman of the Connittee, on the basis of tnfornal consultations beld ondraft resolut ion A/C.2/40/L.92.

58' The connittee was inforrned that the progranne budget inprications contained indocunent A/C.2/40/L.LO5 dial not apply to draft resolution A/C.Z/4O/L.L27,
59. The Committee then adopted draft resolut ion A/C.2/40/L. 127 (see para. 71,draft resol.ution X) .

60. In the lighC of tbe adoption of draft resol.ution A/C.2/4O/L.L2Z, draftresolution A/c.2/40/L.92 rttas withdrawn by its sponsors,

*,
contained in docunent A/C.2/40lL. l2g

61. At tbe 49th meeting, on 9 Decenber, the representative
a draft resolution (A/C.2/4O/L.fI4l entitled IInternationalAustralia, Canada and Ner! Zealand, $hich read as follovrs:

3,V see A/C.2/40/r2, annex.

!/ Unitea Nations pubtication, sales No. E.Bl,Ir.D.5, sect. fV.

of Australia introduced
trade", on behalf of



A/40/989/Add.3
Eng I ish
Page 26

"ttrqes all
trade bar r ier s

62. Statenents r|ere made by the representatives of India and canada'

'rThe General Assembty,

'welcodinq the tlecision of the Contractinq Parties to the General
agr.e.Eifri-iJ.lf f s and Trade to establi'sh a Preparatory conmittee. 

to. 
.

deterni.ne the obJectrees, 6ubject-matter, nodalitles for and participation 
in

the nep round of rnultilateral trade negotiations'

countries to oppose proteclionigt Pressures' to dismanlle
and to strenqthen lhe open nultilateral tradinq sysEen"'

53, At the 51st neeting, on 13 December ' 
the Coftmittee had

draft reaolut ion A/C.z/|O/L.114 submitted by l!99gl3g!g' on
Members of the United Nations that are rnembers of the Group
document A/C.2/4o/L.128. whlch read as follo,s:

before it amendmenEs to
behalf of the states
of ?7, contained in

In the preanbular paragraph, rePlace the $ord 
rt{elcomlnqr. oV :l:.:::u"

rTakinq noter and add Ehe toffopinq at the end of tne paragrapn: 
rtaking into

accounttheelenentsoflg82ninisterialprogranneandthevie|sexpressedin
the group of senior officialsr

Replace the oPerative Paragrapb by the fol'loelng text:

'1. Reaffirns that the Prlnciple of preferential 
and more

favourable treattnent to developinq coot'tti"" should be effectively
fulfllled on a non-reciprocal baslsi

gg9!g developed countries to implement' elthin a specified
time-frane, the coflnltments undertaken by them on standstill and rollback
ot Protectionisn at the 1982 ministerial rneeting of GATT and 

at Ehe sixth
session of the United Nations Conf,erence on Trade and Developmenti

Recomnenals that appropr iate and urgent rneasures Should be taken
to achieve-liElter stauirity in exchange rates' Particularly for
currencies *iaety used in international trade, ehose misalignment hag
increased the uncertainty in the rorld econony' rnagnifying financial
risks ln the trade sectoi and encouraqing nerr protectionisc trendsi

'4.Uroesa]'soanendtothecontinulngviolationbydeve]'oped
countries of the rules, norns and princiPles of Ehe international tradtnq
system. incluatlng the use of subsidies, the proliferation ot
protectlonise measures and trading arrangenents outside of' and
inconsistent with GATT i

Stresses in this reqard the need !o reach a conprehensiee
agreenent on safeguard t"t.uri", on the basis of GATT PrinciPles' 

trhich

ensures the tenporary nature of safequard actions and the setting-up ot
clear tine-limits of pna"ing out such existing rneasures inconsistent 

vrith

GATT Drovisions. r "



A/40/9A9/Add.3
Eng li sh
Page 27

64.. At the sane mee.ing, the representatlve of Canada nade a Btatement in ebich ber{ithdree draft resolDt ton A/C.Z/40/L. l14 on behalf of tbe aponsors.
65' The representative of yuqoslavia, on behalf of the states Members of che Groupof 77, consequently wi thdr err-rEl-ai?idnents to draft resorut ion A/c.2/4o/r,.r14,contained in docunent A/C.2/4O/L. L2B.

L. praft resolution A/C.2/4oll,. gl

66- At the 45th meetinq,-on 27 Noeenber, the representative of yuqoslaviaintroduced, on behalf of the states uernbers or tL. unlt"a Nations that are nenbersof the Group of 77. a draft resolutlon lA/C.Z/40/L.81) entitled rconrnoil i t ies,, ,ehich read as f ol.loirs:

"The General Assembly,

. "-*T.!!tno ita resotutions 3201 (S_VI) and 3202 (s_Vr) of I l,lay 1974,containing the Declaration and the Programme of Acti.on on the Establlshment ofa New International Econonic Order. fZef lXXfXy of 12 Decembe t Ig74,contalning t.he Chart.er of Econonic Rights and Duties of States, 3362 (S_VII)of 16 septenber 1975 0n development and incernational econonic co-operatron,
and 35/56 of 5 December r.98o, the anner to shich contains the rnternatlonal
Deoelopment Strategy for the Third Uniteat Natlons Development Decade,

, -.-_]*i:?=,tl!1 "1?" resolurions 93 (rv) of 30 May rs76, 23/ tA4 (v) ofr .rune 1979 !/ ana 155 (w) and 156 (vr) of 2 ruty L983,-!!/ concerning theInleqrated prograrnme for Conmodities, and 153 (VI) of Z ,fuii' f gg: p,/ on thecommon Fund for comnodities, adopted by the united Nations conference on Tradeand Developnent at its fourth, fifth and sixth sessions.

^ 
nR_elterating tts deep concern at the sl,oe pace of progress to brrng thecommon Fund for connodities into operation, oeing to the rack of ratiflcationof the Agreement eseablishing tbe fund, !ff particularly by scme najorconmod it!, exporcing or importing countriG, as rrell as those accouniinq for aslgnificant share of the capital ot the Fu;al,

23/ see
Deyglopnent, Fourtn sesGJon,-v6ll-f
pubt rcat ron, Sales No. E.76.II.D.lO

24/ Ibid.. Fifth Session, vot.
publlcat ion, Sales No. E,79.II.D.I4)

. _ 25/ Ihid., sixth Session, vol.
PuDl lcat ion, Sales No. E.g3.II.D.G),

Report and Annexes (United Nations
and corrigendum) , part one. sect. A.

I, Report and Annexes (Unlted Nations
, part one, sect. A.

I, _Report and Annexes (United Nations
part one, sect. A.

26l United Nations purrlication, Sates No. E.gt.II.D.s.



A/40/9A9/Add.3
Engl ish
Page 28

"Excr ess lng - Qeep concern at tbe present state of sorld trade in
co*.oaliiEeafrEf,T-EEfrEier ized baeicallv bv market instabilltv and nerket
structurasdetrlnenEaltothelnterestsofdevelopingcountrles,excessiveand
continuing deterioration in pricee, the virtual non-par t ic iPation of tbe
aevelopin! countries in the processing, 'tiEtribution 

and marketing of thelr
conmodities and the e*isting serious problens confronting tbe international
comnod ity agreenents .o"n "l 

tne suqai, tln and cocoa agreements' thus Placing
comnoal ity traale ln a cycle of seeere and unpredictable fluctuations to the
detrinent of both producera and consunerE,

"Notinq elth serious concern the adeerse social and econonic impact 
of

depressetl prices on corotEiilflfrucer s ' ln 
particular tbose in the developinq

countr ies'

nRecoqnlzinq the major resPonsibility of developed countries lflth regard
to comnod ity trade Iiberalization'

"Enphaslzinq that signif icant imProvement in international connodity
trade can only be etfecte; by urgent and concerted international actlon based
on the nutuallty of lnterest betneen producers and consunerg' in accordance
uith the objectives of the Inteqrated Progranne for ConnoditieE'

iuinatful of the aPproaching seventh session of the united Nations
conference on Trade and DeveloP;ent' which UiIl lre hel'l in 1987 aDd rhich
constitutes a nalor opportunity for progress in key lssues of internatlohal
econonic co-operation for developoent,

"1. Stresses the need for urqent action to address the deterloratinq
situation iFfiEl-..t.loplnq countries in the f ield of commoditiesi

"2. Reaftirms tne inportance of the Colonon Fund for Connodities' and
urges Seates lhat have not yet done so to sign and ratify the Agreenent
esiablishinq the Fund oitho;t any further delay so that the Connon Fund can
becone oPerational, thus contrib;tinq to the fult lBplenentation of the
Inteqrated Progranne for Connod ities i

"3. Calls uDon deeeloped countries to refrain trd$ instiEuting nes
barriers to tbe importation of comnodities or strenqthening exietlnq onee and
to take syseematic action for the elinination of all exlsting barriers and
subsidies so as to Perttit freer access to their narkecs of connoditles' in
prinary forna as r|ell aa semi-processed and processed forns' thug' inter alia'
reducing the costs to consuners of end-productsi

'4. Also calls upon producinq and consuninq countrles' Particularly
those particiPating rn 6ternational conmodity agreements' t{hich face
particular constraints on thelr effectiee oPeration to neet as soon as
possible. in accoralance eith their eEtablished procedurest to ieork out both
short-tern and medlultF-term solutiona to che Problems affecting conno'lity
narkets, inclutlinq neasures to restore prices to levels renunerative to
produceis and equitable to consumers, which 8ould ultinately facilitate the
irplementation of the Integrateat Programne for Connodicresi



^/4O/989/Add.3Eng lish
Page 29

'5. ApBeals to produclnq and consuning countries to undertake neasures
deslgned to promote effective international co-operation in comnodity trade,
in accordance r.ith the objectives and principleG of the Integrated Progranne
for Conmodities. inter alia, through their participation in international
comnod ity aqreementsi

"6. Calls upon States to enhance international co-operation leading to
the greater particlpatlon of the developing countries in the processlng,
diatribution and narketing of connodit ies i

27 June L985 g./ on conpensatory financing of export earnlngs shortfalls, and
urge6 Slates to pursue its inplenentationi

Reguestg the Secr etary-Gener a I of the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development, ln co-operation eitb relevant organs of the united
Natlong systen, to contlnue to exanine long-tern trends and prospects for
prinary connodities eith a vie$ to recomnending policy neasures to facllitate
anal support efforts undertaken by producer developinq countries to naxinize
the contribution ot conmod ity trade to their developnent on a long-tern basisi

"9. Alao requests the Secr etary-Gene r aI of the Uni.ted Nations Conference
on Trade and Developnent to contlnue to nonitor closely movemenCe in
tnternational commod ity trade and the progress in tbe implenentalion of the
present resolutlon and to report thereon to the General Assembly at its
forty-first sess i on. "

67. For action on draft resolution A/c.2/AO/L.AL, see A/C.2/40/989/Add.L4
(para. 27).

ttt. DrafC r esolut iqn A/C.2/4oll,.8

68. By i.ts decision 39/432 of 18 Decenber 1984, the General Assenbly decided to
refer to its fortieth session for consideration a draft resolutlon entitl-ed
rProtectionism and structural adJuEtmenttr (see A/C.2/AO/L.81 .

69. At its 49th meeting, on 9 Decenber, on the proposal of the Chairman, the
Commlttee decialed to r econmend tbat the General Assenbly should refer to lts
forty-first session for consideration tbe text of the dlaft resolution contained in
document A/C.Z/4O/L.8 (see para. 72, draft decision I).

N. Draft dec ision

70. At the 52nd meetinq, on 16 Decenber, on the propo6al of the Chairman' the
Coonlttee decided to recomnend that the General Assembly take note of the report of
the Secr etary-Gener aI on the Seatus of the Aqreenent Escablisbing the Conhon Fund
for Connoditiee" (A/4O/7171 (see para. 72, dr afb declBion II).

4/ see
SupDlement No. 15



A/ 40/9A9/Add.3
Eng l ish
Page 30

III . RECOMMENDATIONS OF TIIE SE@ND COT'MITTEE

71. The second commitlee recomnends to the General Assembly the adoPtion of the
folloeing draft r esolut i on 3:

DR,AFT RESOLUTION I

X/ see A/40l15 (vol. rr) , sect. r.

33l see resolutlon 35/56' annex.

The General Assembly,

Reiteratinq the specific actions related to the particular needs of the
tano-f;rea aeoeloplng counlries slated in reBolutions 53 (rII) of
19 May 1972, ?g/ 98 (Iv) of 31 May L976, 2/ 123 (v) of 3 ilune L979 30/ and
137 (vI) ot z-uly f983 1Il of tbe Uniteal Nations conf,erence on Trade and
Developrnent' and Trade and Development Board resolution 319 (XXXI) of
27 september I985t 32/

Reqallinq the provisions of its resolutlons 311157 of 2l Decembex 1975'
32/7gI of fg Decenber L97'1 . 33/L5O of 20 December 1978, 34/L9A ot
19 December 1979, 35/58 of 5 Decenber f98o, 36/175 of 17 Decenber 1981 and
3g/2Tg ot 18 December 1984 anal other resolutiona of the Unlted Nationg
relatlng to the particular needs and problens of land-Iocked developing
countr ies.

Bearinq in nind varicus other resolutions adopted by the General
lssembly, its refited orqans and tbe sPecialized agencies that emPhasize
special and urgent measures in favour of land-locked developing countries'

Eecallinq the relevant provisions of the International DevelopneaE
strateqy ior the Third United Nations Development Decade, 33/

!r/ see ProceeEings of thg United Nations qonference on.Tradq and
o"o.l.rlp..nt, r i (united Nations Publication'
Sales No. E.73.II.D.4) . annex I.A'

29/ lbld., Fourth Session, vol. I, Report and Annexes (United.Natlons
purrr i;tio;-ates tto, e.?6.II.D.1.0 antl corrigendun), part one, sect' A'

3ly Ibid., Fi.f th Sessj.on, vol.. I, Report and Ann9xes (Uniced Nations
publication' Sales No. E.79.II.D.t4), Part one, sect. A'

:y Ibid. ' Sixth Session' vol. I, 
Repolt and Annexes (United Natlons

publication' Sales No. E.83'II.D.5), Part one, sect. A.



A/4O/959/Add.3
Eng lish
Page 3l

Recbllinq lhe United_Nations Conventlon on t.he Lae of Che Sea, y/adopted on 1.0 December 1982,

_-, . !ei4n++ ntgl the report of rbe A.l Hoc Group or Experts to srudy waysand 
-Means 

of Improeing Trans i t-tranapo.I-iffi" 
"1. 

uctur es and services forLand-locked Developlng Couhtries, 35,/

- . 
Recqgnizinq that ttle lack of territorial access to the sea,remoteness and igolation from world narkets, and the prohlbltivetransport and trans-shipnent costs inpoae serious constralnts onsocio-economic developnent of land_locked Oeveloping countries,

--^ -l: 
Regffi{ms the riqht of access of land_Iocked countries to and fromthe sea and freedom of transit through the territofy of transit states bv allneans of transport' rn accordance with articie 125 0f the united NationsConvention on the Law of the Sea;

,, -,?'.. 
Appeals to arl states, inEernational orqanlzations and financialinstitutions to inplement,.as a matter of u.f"n"y ana! prtorityr the specificactions rerated to the partlcular needs ,ni pi"ir".r of land-r.ocked deveropi.ngcountrles envisaged in resolutions 63 (III),'Sg trVl , 123 (V) and 132 (VIl ofthe united Nations conference on Trade and Deveropnent, in the rnternatl.narDevelopnent stracegy for the Third unitear Natiois Developnent Decade, in thesubstantial Nee progranne of Action tor the lggos for the Least DevelopedCountries 36/ ana in other relevan! resolutions of the Uniteal Nationsi

3. 
. .Urqeg all concerned countries, as well as j.nternationalorganlzatione, to pr ovide 

- 
land_ toc ked d;r;i";i;; countries $ith approprlatefinanciar and technical a€sistance in tt" toii-'if grants or concesslonal roansfor the constructi,on. rnalnlenance ,rrO t^prouaa"na o, anaia transport andtransit infrastructures and facilities;

"., ^^1: . 
gI.E-ll so the internationaJ. conmunity anat nultilateral andDrrateral financial lnstitueions to intensiff.iao.ar in raising the net fro*of resources to all land-locked ctevelopinq .ounl.i"" to help oftset the

(Unlted Nat ions publication, sares tro. E.Calv5 docunent

aggravated by
transit,
the

^----N9tlng. 
witrr ggncern that the measures taken thus far have not adequateryaddressed.the problens of land_lockea aevelopfig countrles,

ds2!./ r
Sea, vol. XVI I
A/@NF.62/L22.

E/
53ssrcn, innetes,Ee"d;f t.r-,o_oc_rriE;

25./
l-!{ Sgptember I9]ll (united Na publ lc at ion,



A/4O/98e/Add.3
Eng l ish
Paqe 32

adverse etfects of their disadvantageous geographical aituatlon on their
econonlc developnent efforts, in Fe;pinq eith the overall develoPnent needs of
each land-Locked developinq country t

5. Invitea transit countries and the land-locked developinq couotries
to .o-op.rG-iEiect ively in harnonlzing transport plannlng and in proootlnq
other joint ventureg rn the field of cransport at the regional, subregional
and bilateral leuel s i

6, Furtler inqileq the international comnunity to give flhancial'
technical and other suppEr t to interested translt and land-Iocked deseloPinq
countries in the conatruction of alternative routea to the seat

T.connendstheunitedNatlon8DevelopmentProgramDe'theUnited
NationaconferenceonTradeandDeveloPnentandotherUnitedNati'onaagencies
for their uork and the assistance they have pronided to the lan'l-locked
developing countries and ineites then to continue to take approprlate and
effective neasureB to resPond to the speciflc needs of those countriesi

8. Reconnends concinued and intenslfied activlties relatlng to the
conducEing of necessary studies and the inPlenentation of special actions and
specific neasurea for the land-lockett developing countries, including those in
the area of economic co-operatlon anonq develoPinq countries' as $ell as those
that have been envi.sagecl in Ehe progranne of work of the United Nations
Conference on Trade and Developnent, the reqional comnisslons and other
proqramoes and activities at the regional and subregional levelsi

9. Onqe aqain feqqestB ltember States to transtrit to the
secr etarv-Gener a I of tn"GIEeo Nations conference on Trade and Development
tbeir vie$s and comments on the report of the EL@ Group of Experta to Study
oays and Means of Inprovinq Tr ansi t- tr ansport Infrastructureg and Servlceg for
Land-Ircked Developinq Couner ies i

lo. r,ilelcomes the report of the secr etary-Gene r al of the united Nations
Conference on trade and Developnent on progreas in the implementation of
specific action related to the particular needs and problemE of lan'l-locked
dlvelopinq countries, 3?,/ Eubnitted pursuant to resolution 39/2O9' and
reguests hin to prepare another such repore for suhligsion to the General
Assenblv aC i,!s forty-second session.

13-/ a'/ 40 / 8L5.



A/40/989/Add.3
English
Page 33

DR,AET RESOLUTION II

The ceneral Assenbly,

Recallino its resolution 3g,/L53 of 19 December 1983,

-- ,-l!!inl,n"ai of the-alecision adopted by the united Nations conf,erence onan rnternational code of conduct 
". 

irr"-rri."i;r ot Technology at its sixtbsession, !p,/ in whicn it requested the eeneral Asaenbly to take the measuresnecessary for furrher ,::r:i, inc ruo tiq -inl- ii="rnr" reconvenins ofneg.tiations on an internattona] code 
"t "".L*a on the transfer of technol.gy,

._.^-_t:^, &g.E that progress haa been nade i.n tne negotlations on anlnternatl.nal code of, conduct 
"n tn" ir"i*i"J"ot t*r,nor.ogy but tha! there arestill inportant problema ourstanding i

.^-.^ :i_ _ - 
tlaan"t not"" that at tbe sixth session of the United Nations

;,T::::":":",:l"tl:.1::.tonar code "r c""i,.l-Jn the rransrer or rechnoroey,
r es?ect or rhe 1 seues ",l:ff ll|il "H;;"lll,*..' "r"".i:t:, ::.":Sai "'..., 

-i,

:::::l::l* Practices' ano ln crripie'-i]-"i'.ioit.able rae and settlenent or
3. Belleues that 

-fu: 
he: nork, continulng the genuine efforts nade Dyarr partles concerned' is required to search for possiote solutl.ns to the

:S:.#.:::.i::;"" r. order to complete ""..".Jirrr" rhe nesotiarion" on .

--_-^n:_- Inviles 
the secretary-ceneral of the United Nation6 Conference ontrade and Developnent and-the presiaent 

"i iiJ i""r.r"nce to consult, asappropriate, r'ith reg ional 
.groups ,"u i"".r"rlrri=, ararn, into account theneed for balanced seoeraphical ;.p;;";;;;;;, ";;." a view co iaentiryinfappropriate solutions to rhe issues 

""4";;;;;;r-in the code of, conducti

Confer ence
s..^ gitt*"i:l"l+"5 the Secretary-cener al of the unired Nations

;ff:;fi:.":.::i:: ::",*":l::::: 1i-'"e"'. L the cenerar Assembly ar ts;Ifl;:il": :;ff:":":'"*:^::T:"::"i.a.- i" tn"1"n;,i;;;;;;"-;:;l.l::u";"';;;;::;:il":"'::":""f ,.":::::_:: :11:, .. ln"[-"IJ"i";;';il;";'::;i; ll il"on an international code of conduct o' tr,. trri"i:.';;';".ili,:ifi".

fff see TD/€/DExg r/As.



A/40/989/Add.3
Eng I ish
Page 34

DRATT RESOI,UTION III

Recallinq the relevant principles set forth in the Charler of 
tbe United

Natlons.

Becallinq also its resolutions 2625 (xxv) of 24 october 
1970' containlng

the Declaration on principles of Incernational Lae concerning 
!'riendLy

Relations and Co-operation anonq States in accordance rrith the Charter 
of lhe

united Nacions. 32ol ts-vit ana-:zo2 (s-vr) of I Itlay l'9?4' containinq 
the

Declaration and the Prograftne of Action on the Establishnent of a 
Nee

International Bcononic oii.t, t"a 3281 (xxlx) ot 12 December 
1974' containing

the Charter of Econonic Rights and Duties of states'

Reaff,irnlno arcicle 32 of the charter of Economic Rigtlts 
and Duties of

states, which declares that no state nay use or encourage the 
use ot economic '

political or any other type of tneasure to coerce another state in 
order to

obtain fron ia an" to*ri'iiation of the exercise of its sovereign 
rights'

Bearim in nind tbe general PrlnciPles governirq lnternational 
trade and

trade policies tor oeveroii.ii-t"nt"in"i ln its resolutlon 1995 
(xrx) of

30 Decenber 1964, resorution f52 (vI) of 2 July 1983 of the united 
Nations

Conf,erence on ?rade unu o"o.fopt"nt 3gl entitled "Rejection of coercive
economic measureg', u.ru ii.-piin"iplG ana rules of the General 

Agreenent on

Taritfs and Trade .no p"i"qt.prt Z iiiil ot the Ministerial Declaration 
adopted

on 29 Novenber 1982 by the Contracting Parties of the General 
Agreemenc on

tarifts and Trade at their thirty-eighth session' 40/

Rearfirminq its resolutio^s 3S/Lg7 of 20 December 1983 an'l 
39/2lO of

l8 December 1984.

lqkina note of lhe report of the Sec r etary-Gener a I 
on the adoption and

effects Of economic neasures taken bry develoPed countries 
for coercive

purposes, includlng an.ir- i,np".a on international economic relations' !!/ 
and

considerinq that furthe; wori should be undertaken in order 
to implement

resolutions !a/L97 and 39 /2]^o.

12./ see eroceedrnqe cf t.h3 unired Npt iots: conf er 
elle 

:9n :Tl?9?:lld^.
o"o"lo"*"nt. si*tn sq""r@united Nations 

publicatron'

Gies No. E.83,II.D.6), part one, sect' A'

99/ See General Agreenenc on Tariffs and 
Trade' Basic Instrunents ano

s"r".t"c oo"o."r,t=, suopiJi.ii lro. zg (sales No' GATT/'t83-1) ' docunent 
L/5424'

EJiffiffiIEiE toPino cou"tr i"s

9t A/4o/s96.



A/40/9A9/Add.3
Englisb
Page 35

^_^_^9{3gdy="gn".f 
tt"a tbat the use of coercive measures adversely affects theecononies and developnent efforcs of aevefofing countrles and that, in sonecases, those measures h

rnternarionar ;;;;;;;"":::;::::f:: 
creatins a nesative rmpact on

1. Deptores the fact that sone developed countries continue to applyand, ln some cases. have increasea cte scopi-aia nagnitude of econontcmeasures that have the purpose of exerting, alirectly or indirectly, coercionon tbe sovereign decisions of deveroping 
"oonti."" subject to those measureai

_ 
,: . Reaff+rms that deveroped countries should refrarn from threateningor applying trade restrictions, blockaa"r, 

".i"iqo"s and other econonlcsanctions' incornpat i ble $ith the provisions oi-in" cn"rt"r of the unitedNations and in qiolation of undortatings contracted, nultilateral.ly andbilaterally, agalns! deueloping countries ."-.-io.. of potitical and econom tccoercion wbich aftects their econonic. pofiii""i anal soci.al developnenti
3. Requests the s ecr etary_General to pEepare a comprehensive, in_depthreport on the economic lr

deveroped "";.;;i;;-;;,.:::::ff"Tff;::::, 
t1.:ifi:;"lr:r:Tfi:.:.:;' o'

internalional econonic relations, niit 
" "iar-t" appralsi.ng the econoniceffects of such neasures on the developnent and development prospects ofaffected deuelopinq countries and with 
" 

;i.;'-;" assisting in concreteinternatronal acrion asainsi ttrose 
^;;";.;;;-.;; to subnit that report to rheGeneral Assembly at its forty_first se=sioii -"-

.--^^l:- -t-1i!' 
reluests the secr etary-cener aL, in preparlng the cornprahensivern-depth reporl, to request further comnents frorn Governnents and inputs fromcompetent organizations of the unitear Natl.ns 

"fr."r, particularly the unitealNalions conference on Trade and Developnent, -tia regional conDissions andthose speciarized agencies that bave rLceirrea inrornation on the applicationof economic coercive measures against developlng countriesi
5. 

. . 
Appeals to covernnanta and to the pertinent Lnternationalorganizations to provide the necessary rrt"ri"ii"r to the secr etary-cener ar,as requested in paragraph 4 above.

DRAIT RESOLU?ION IV

_ -Recallinq its resoLutions 3362 (S_VII) of 16 septenber 1975 ondeeelopnent and international economic .o'_"p.i.tion anar 361180 of17 December 1981, in ehich the international comiunity was lnviteh to applyspecial measures for tbe social and econonic developnent of Africa in the1980s,



A/40/989/Add.3
English
Page 35

!3/

!!
A/s-Ll/L4, annex I.

Recaltitlq also its resolution 37/l3g of l? December 1982' in which it'
inter a1ia, called uPon donor Governments and organs' orqanizaEiona 

and bodies

of the United Nalions systen to provide substantial resources for pronotinq
the accelerated develoPment of African countries and Ehe etfective
inplemenEation of the rJagos Plan of Action for the Implementation of the
titonrovia strategy for the Economic Developnent of Africa 42/ and the Final 

Act

ot Lagos. 9/

ApPreciatinq in ghrs reqard the establlsbnent of the Preferential Trade
Area for Eastern anal southern African Seates in December 198I'

!g!i!g the Proqress nade in the reduc€ion of taritfs 
anong member States

to stinulate grolrth and developnent in the area, in the launchlng of clearance
and paynents arrangenents antl in the neasures taken to intenstfy co-operation
anong member states in the aqricultural, induscrial' educational' cultural 

and

other sectors. wi.th a vieP to creatinq an econonlc connunity of the eastern
and southern African States by the year 1992'

l. Invites donor Governrnents to Provide substantial financial and
lechnical asslstance Eo the Preferential Trade Area for Eastern and 

southern

African states to accelerate ils development into an econotnic community t

2. lnvltes also the united Nations Deuelopment Progranme to continue 
to

nake resources available to the Preferential Trade Area fron its regional
indicatise planning figures on an urgent basis;

3. Calls upon lnternational financiaL institutlons' particularly 
the

tlorld Bank, the International Developnent Association' the International' 
Fund

for Aqricultural DeveloPment and the African DeveloPnent Bank, to provide
innediate assistance to lhe Preferential Trade Areai

4. rovites the organs. organizations and bodies of tshe United Nations
system to take lnto account in thelr work prograRnes co-oPeration 

tdith lhe
Preter enEial Trade Areai

5. SESgSg!-g the secr etarv-Gene r a 1 to report to Ehe 
General Assenrbly at

its forty-first session on the inpleneneation of the Present reaolution'

Ig!q. , annex rr'



A/40/989/Add.3
Eng llsh
Page 37

DR,AFT RESOLUTION V

Reqlstratien 9f Sh ips
The General Assenbly,

-^ -. 
Recallinq lts resolutlon] 37 /2Og of Z0 Decenbet LggZ, 3g/ZL3 A ofl8 December l9B4 and 3s/2!3 B "r rZ npiir-igai]'

^ - 
Recoqniziqq the very 

- 
substant ial progresa achieeed by the Uniteat NatlonsConference on Conditlons for Registration'ot Snips during the t.hird part ofits €ession beld from 8 to-19-,I;fy fs'i,'-i.-pl;ircular ,rlth respect to tnecrucial issues before the Conference,

. Becoonizinq that there ts a need to resune the conference for a furtherper toal of three eeeks in order to enable it to conplete j.ts pork,
Endorses resolution 3 of 1.9 July l9g5 of tbe United Nalionsconference on conditlons for Regiatration'oi'iiips; g1Z

.Decides to reconvene the Conference for the fourth par! of itssesgion at Geneva for a period of three ,"eeks fron Z0 ,ranuary to7 February lgOG,

- Beougsts the sec r etary-cener al ot the United Nations conference onTrade and Developnent to nake all tbe n.a""."rf arranqenents for holtting thefourth par! of the session of the Conference; '

^- _-i:^ -++E:le!urSlg 
the s ecr etary-ceneral of rhe united Nations conferenceon lraoe and Development to report on the outcome ot the Conference to theGeneral Asseftbly at its forty-firat session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI

Trade embarao aqainat N icar aq ua

that govern relations arnong the

The General Assembly,

- .."1",rlt,lo the relevant purposes and principres set forth in the charrerof the United Nat lons,

^. 
ReaffiFninq the fundanental principles

States of the international cornmunity,

I m/ps/qNp/I9, annex rl .



A/40/959/^dd.3
Eng llsh
Page 38

Recalling the Universal Declaration of llunan Rights, l!9/

Recalling security CounciL resolucion 562 (f985) of L0 May 1985'

Recalling also General Assenbly resolution 2625 (xxv) of 24 october 1970'
in particufat ttt. principle concerning the duty not to lntervene in tnatters
wifLin the domestic juristliction of any state, in accordance ltith the Charter
of the United Nalions,

Reaffirming that each country has the sovereign right to choose its own
development policies and strateg les,

R€calllng all relevanE articles of the General Agreement on Taf,iffs and
T!ade '

Recalling also General Assenbly resolution 39/4 of 26 october 1984, in
rhich the Assenbly encouraged the efforts of the Conta'lora Group and all
intelested States, in partlcular those wlth ties to and interesls in the
region, !o resPect fully the purposea and PrinciPles of the contadora Act on
Peice and co-oieration in central America of 7 septembet ]-994, 46/

concerned that the unilatelat trade embargo and othes fteasures imposed on
n ica rifr-6i-T May 1985, t{hich have been extended and broadened as fron
I Novenber 1985, adveraely affect the econony of the country, specifically lts
trade, and consequently lts developnent plans,

Deeply concerned that saiat neaaures wilL not contribute to the economlc
and sGl;I-A;;eropment of Nicaragua and to the goaLs and objectives of the
Contadora Process,

Recalliog the widespread concern expr essed by the inbernational cornrnunity
about-the sit,,ation ln central America. aqgravated by the trade enbargo
agalnst Nicaragua,

consiaterlng thac che lnLernational cormunlty ls unanimous in contributinq
to tnE-EEi;iIE-and social progres{, of lhe counrrles of the area and to the
reinforcing of the process of econonic lntegraEion of the area' in order to
contribute to the guest for a negotiateal pol-itical solution to the regional
cr isis,

Reaffirmlnq the sovereignty and inalienable right of Nicaragua an'l the
,."e 6!-TEEElt.s in the region to decide freely on their own political,
econonic and social systems, to develop ttreit lnCernational relations
according to thelr peoplets lnterests, free fron outside i'ncerference'
subverslon. direct or indirect coercion or tbreaLs of any kind,

45l Resolution 217 A (Irr)

46,/ official Records of the security council,..Th
for Ju1y, luquet and september 1984, docunent s/L6775'

irt
annex.



P\/40/989/Ada.3
EngliEh
page 39

._^- pgePlv cgncerngl tha!.saiat trade embargo JeopardlzeB the princtples oftree trade and non-d iscr inination that shouid lrevail among n"tlonsr-

,,.^-_1: Bgqrets the recent trade enbargo and oEher neasures inpoeted againstNrcaragua and reguests that those measures be imnediaCeLy revokedr
2' -rnvltes arl states to prorbte and tak€ concrete actlons ofco-operation in the economic and lechnol0grcal sph€res in central America, inParcicurar to her.p reduce the negatige efiectg of the trade enbargo and otherneasures lmposed agarnst Nlcaragua and to contflbute to economic and sociar.devel,opment and !o regional econonic integraEion,

Iqests the Secr etary-General to report to the ceneral Assernbly atits fortt-first sesaion on the inplenentation of th" pr.""nt resoluCion,

The General Asssnbly,

Recalling its resolutions 1995 (xIX) of 30 December 1964 on theeecablishnent of the united NaEions conference on Trade and Devel.pment a5 anorgan of the ceneral Assenblyr-as ar0end€d, gl 32OL (S_VI) and 32OZ (S_VI) of
] y.l-19J4, containing the Declaratlon and -ure prograrnne of Action on theEgtabli€hment of a Ne$ fnternational Economic Order, 32gl (XXIX) of12 Decenber l9?4, containing the Charter of Econontc Rights and Duties ofstates, 3362 (s-vrr) of 16 septenber 1975 0n deveropment and lnternationar
econornic co-operation and 35,/56 of 5 Decenber 1980, the annex to rrhichcontaios the rnternational Deveropment strategy for the Third unrted NationsDevelopnen! Decade,

- 
Mindlll of the forthconing seventh sesslon of the conference, to takeplace in I98? and nhich constitutes a najor opportunity for progresa in keyissues in the flerd of internationar trade and rerated areas of internationat

econonLc co-operatlon for developnent,

^^--.H+g,.Tl-.1: F{ade. 
ang. pevetopnenr Report, r98s 4Ol has nade aconstructive contr touc@E

Board, at ltB thirty-firgt session, of tbe worlat economLcfuture proapects,

DRAFT RESOLUTION VII

See resotutlons 2904 (xxVII), 3I,/2 A
United Natiohs pubtication, Sales No.

and DeveloprnenE
Bituatlon and iCa

g/
!9/

and B, and 34,/3.

E.85.II. D. 15.

I



A/10 /989 /Add.3
English
Page 40

the report of the Trade and Developnent Board on the
fourteenth sP€cial and thirty-first aessionst j!9/

2. Reguests the Unitett Nations Confereoce on Trade and Developmen! to
contlnue .iiffi" iry its lmportant contribucion antl lhe role it has been
pfayinq in the revitalization and strengthening of internatlonal trade and
reLated areas of internallonal econonic co-operation for developnenL;

3. Calls upon aII Governnents and the relevant international
organizati.ons to cot0mence intensive and thorough preparations for the seventh
seision of the unicett Nations conference on Trade and Development'

1. gle note of
$ork of its thirtieth,

Par t icular
t ransi

off ic ial Records of
40/Ls). vo13. I

DRAHI RESOLUTION VIII

zaire t{lth ard to tr
to fore narkebs

Tbe General Assenbly ,

Referring to its resolutioh 32,/150 of 19 Decenber !977 ' ln uhich lt
recalled Economic anal social Council resolutlon 2097 (LXIII) of ?9 JuIt 1977
andproclaimedtheperlodlg?8-lgsEtbeTransportandcornnunicalionsDeiadein
Afr ica,

Referring also to its resolutions 34lL93 of 19 Decembet L979 ' 35/59 
of

5 Dec ember 1980, 361139 of 16 December 198I, !7/205 of 20 Decernber 1982 and
38/L43 of 19 Decenber 1983 on particular Problems facinq zaire !'lth regar'l to
transport, transit and access to foreign markets' an'l approving the
organizati.on in 1985 of a second round-tab1e rneeting rith donor countries and
financing institutions for zaire's projects in these three fields'

Recalling resolution 110 (v) of 3 June LgTg t9/ of the unlted Nations
conference on Trade and Development,

Recalling also Econonic antl sociat Council decision 249 (IXIII) of
25 .tuly 1977 and resolution LggL/68 of 24 July 1981' as well as resolution
293 (xiII) of 26 February 19?7 aclopted by the conference of Ministers of the
Econonic conmission for Africa' 5V

!2_/
No. 15 (

e
tt

l!/ see Proceedings of the uniteil Natiols - confere4ce. gn -Tla99 ?+d_..
o.,r.r6-o*.na, r d Nations Publication'
Eltes No. E.79.II.D.14). part one, sect' A.

)L/ See

I



A/40/989/Add.3
Englisb
Page 4l

" __ .B:!:!q+l++Ind 
the report of the secretary-ceneral on the outcome of therlrst round-table rneeting,on tbe financinq of dle rransport projects of zalte,held at Kinshasa on 2A and 29 ,rune Lgf8, b/

-_-- l: 
Reguesta the S ecr etary-General to take the necess,ary steps to ensurethat the progranme subnitted to the flrst round-table neeting on the frnanclngof- the transport projects,of Zatre, held in fSg:, as upatated, is againsubmitted to donors and financial instttutions befofe the forty-tlist sessionof the General Assenbly, through a second round_table meetlng or any otherappropr iate nechanisn,

2. Also requests the Secr etary_General to subrnlt to the General
lssenulv atrTl-E&$fi r s g session a report on che implenentarion of thepfesent resolution.

Recalling
3281 (xxrxl of
5 Decernber lggo
technology ,

DRAFT RESOLIJTION IX

Reverge transfer of technology
The General AasenbLy,

its resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202
12 December 1974. 3362 (s_vII) of 16
and lhe relevant resolutions on the

(s-vl) of I r.{ay 1974,
September L9'15. 35/56 of
reverse transfer of

,^.-^,::S+-g--tg._b"!-."" that since rhe outflo9 of skillear personnet fromoeveroping counlries seriousl,y hanpers their development, there is an urgentneed ro formulare national 
"na intern.ti"i.r p"ii"il.-;;'r;;;;'.;" ;;";;;dralnn and to obviace ics adverse effects.

Conyinceq that the search for durable solutions to the problem of therenerse transfer of technology reguires the full participaCion of all partlesconcerned,

."_--^l:- +:!::: nolg of rhe report of rhe rnrer_Asency croup'jiransler of Technology covering neetings helal at ceneva on 2425 June I985t 53/

-..-^-3: - 
riFes--note afso of the outcone of lhe Third MeetingExperrs on the Reverse Transfer of Technology, held at cenevato 4 Septenber 1,995; 54l

on Reverse
and

of Governnental
from 25 August

52/ A/38 /264lAdd, l_E/1983 /so/Ldd.r.

!1/ A/4O/798, annex.

2!/ See A/40/LS (vol. rr), annex rrr.



v40/989 /Add.3
Eng 1l stl
Page 42

3. Requesta the secretary-Gener aI of the Uniged Nations conference on
Trade and Development to conven-e a meeting of goeernmental experts to 

review

hhe current slfuation eith respect to all aspects of the international
nlgrat'lonofskil'le.tPersonnelfrontleveloPingcountrieg'thegovernnental
"*i.tc" 

shoutd focus, in their 3cud9, scale and effect of such flonts' taking
into account the concerns of all parties, uith a vierr to proposing bo 

the

conference and, aE appropriate, oiher international organizations' further
uork thab they nay carry out to mltlgate adverse conEecluences og this
phenonenon, especially as i! affect8 the developing countries' also- taklng
into account, as appropriate, the work done thus far by governmental expert
groups and any other relevant matertal,

4. Also reguests the Secr etary-Gener al of the United Nations Confetence
on Trade "iE 

o.vefopt*nt to Prepare studles Providings

(a) A revies of the eniating sltuatlon with respect to the lnternatlonaL
nigratlon of skilled Personnel from cteveloping countries based on Ehe 

most

rJently avallable and generally acceptable statistlcai

(b) A conprehensive bibtiography of current literature in this fiel'lt

5. Reconnends that the secr ebary-GeneraL of the united Nationa
conference on Trade and Developnent shouttl lnvite aII lnterested unlced
Natlons organs and bodies anil Lth." "Pp"oPtiate 

lnEernational organlzatlons to
partlcipate in tlre Preparatlon of the Etudies anil ln the $orh of the rneetlng
of governnental e.Pert8,

6. Requesta the Secretary-Gener al of the united Nalions Conference on
Trade and Developnent to report on the outcome of the meeting eo the General
Aesembty at its forty-geconi session, through che Trade and Develolxnent Boardt

7. R€quests Ehe Secretary-General to convene further neetlnga of 
the

Inter-Agency Group on Reverae riansfer of Technology and to report on the
results of those aaaatng" io ti. ce"ertl Assembly at lts forty-second sesslon'

DRAFT RESOI.UTION X

to Revi
ePr

of lhe Set ofAl1
and es

PT ce5

The General AssemblY

Ilaving considered the report of tbe UniEed Nations Conference to Review
AIl AEpects of the set of t'lulillaterally Agreed rbuitable Princ 'lples and 

Rules

forthecontrolofReatrictiveBusinessPractices,togetberwiththeprqrposale'
rnade by regional grouPs' 55/

9y See A/C.2/4O/12, annex.



^/40 
/989 /Add.3

English
Page 43

Invites the Secr etary-ceneral of the United Naeions Conference on Trade
and Developnent and the president of Che Conference to undertake
consultations, as appropriate, with regional groups and covernments on the
reconvening of tbe conference at ceneva and to report thereon to the ceneral-
Assenbly at the earliest opportunity.

72. The second committee also reconmends to the ceneral Assemblv the adoDtion of
the follording draEt dec is ions:

DRAFT DECISION I

Protectionisn and structural adj ustment

The General Assenbly decides Co refer to its forty-first session for
considerat.lon the draft resolution entitled "protectionisrn and structural
adjuslnent". 56l

DRAFT DECISION II

Stalus of the

The ceneral Assenbly
Sec r etary-Gener al on the
for Commoditie".2!/

decides to take note of
status of the Agr eement

the repore of the
EstabLishing the Common ! und

29/ A/c.2/40/L.8.
5U A/4o /1L1 .

Agreement Establi shi ng
Fund for Cornnodities




