








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Aseembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/4O/964
3 December 19 85
ENGTISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Fortieth sess i on
Agenda item 57

PREVENTION OF AN ARI!,IS RACE IN OUTER SPACE

Report of the First conrnittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Yannis SOULIOTIS (Greece)

INTRODUCTTONI,

1. The item entitled "Preventj.on of an arms race in outer space: report of the
conference on Disarmanent" eas included in the provisional aqenda of the fortleth
session i.n accordance with General Assemblv resol.ution 39/59 ot 12 Decenber 1984.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 septerntter 1985, tbe General Assenbly, on tbe
reconmendation of the General Comnittee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocale it to the First Comniltee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 9 October' the Firs! Cotnmittee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmanent itens allocated to it, nanely, items 48 to 69 and
item 145, followed by statenents on specific disarmament agenda itens and
continuation of qeneral debate, as necessary. The deliberations on those items
took place beteeen the 3rd and the 32nd neetings, from 14 October to I November
lsee A/C.I/40/ Pv.3-32) .

4. In connection !,ith iten 57, the First Conrnittee had before it the follovring
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarnanenti I/

(b) Letter dated 30 January 1985 fron lhe rePresentacives of Arqentina.
Greece, India, Menico, Sweden and lhe Unj,ted Republic of Tanzania to the United

!/ official Record
No. 21 (A/ 40 / 27 and

85-35648 0 317P (El

Corr.



A/40/964
Eng L i. sh
Page 2

Nations addressed to the Secretary-Generalr transnitLing the Delhi Declaration
adopted and issued at Nelt Delhi on 28 January 1985 by tbe Heads of State or
Governnenc of Argentina, Greece. India, l4exico, Srreden and the United Republic of
Tanzania lA/40 /If4-s/l692Il i

(c) Letter dated 1l February 1985 from the Permanent Representatiue of
t4ongola to lhe united Nations addressed to the secr eta ry-Genera 1 (A/40/1251 '

(d) Letter dated 15 Febluarv 1985 from che Cbarg6 d'affaires a'i' of the
Permanent Mission of the German Denocratic Republic to lbe United Nations addressed
to tbe secretary-cene r a 1 (A/4 0,/130-s/ 169 58 ) t

(e) Letter dated I May 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of Indonesia to
lhe united Nati.ons addressed to the secretary-General, transnitting the text of the
Declaration of the Comnenorative !,reetinq in Observance of the Thirtieth Anniversary
of the Asian-African conference' held a! Bandung. Indonesia. on 24 and
2s ApriI 1985 (A/40/276-sl17r38) ;

(f) Letter dated l7 Juhe 1985 from che Charg6 d'affaires a'i. of the
PerlDanent Mission of the united Kinqdom of Grea! Britain and Northern Ireland to
the united Nations addressed to the s ec r etary-General, transnitting the text of the
conmuniqu6 issued by the f4inisters for Foreign Affair6 of the North Atlantic
Council at Lisbon on 7 June 1985 (A,/401388) t

(s) Letter dated 19 september 1985 from the PernanenC RePresentative of Papua
New Guinea to the United Nations addressed to the S ecr etary-Genera I, transnitting
the communiqu6 adopted at the Sixteenth South Pacific Forun, held at Rarotonga,
cook Islands. on 5 and 6 August I9e5 @/ 40/ 672-s/L7 4881 t

(h) r,etter dated 28 October 1985 from the Pernanent Representative of
Afghanistan to the United Nations addressed to the secr etary-Gener a I
(A/40/ 82L-s/ l'1594't t

(i) Letter dated 30 October 1985 from the representatives of Arqentina,
Greece, India, Mexico, sideden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the Uniced
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General' transnitting the joint rnessage dated
24 October 1985 addressed to the President of the United States of America and lhe
General Secretarv of tbe Central Conmittee of the Connunist Party of the Soviet
Union by the Heads of State or Governnent of Arqentina, Greece, India, Me:aico'
sr.eden and the Unlted Repubtic of Tanzania (A/ 40/ 825-s/ L7 596\ i

(j) Letter daled 6 Novenber 1985 fron tbe Perrnanent Representative of
Afghanistan to the united Nations addressed to the S ecr etary-Gener a I
(A/40/8sg-s/r7613\,

{k) Letter dated 5 Novenber 1985 f rorn the Pernanent Representative of Angola
co lhe Uniled Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmittinq the Final
Political Declaration and the Economic Dectaration adopted by the Conference of
Foreiqn Ministers of the Non-Aliqned Countries, beld at Luanda from 4 to
7 septernber 1985 (A,/40,/854-5//176L0 and Corr.1) i



A/40/964
Engli sh
Page 3

(1) I€tter dated 12 Novemlter 1985 from the Permahent RepresenEative of che
Union of Soviet SocialiEt Republice to the Unieed Nations addressed to the
Secreta ry-cen eral (A/40 /888-S/L7 6291 ,

(n) Letter dated 18 November 1985 from Ehe pernanent Representacive of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
secre tary-ceneraf (A/4O/900 and Corr.l),

(n) Letter dated 25 October 1985 froo Ehe permanent Repres€ntalive of
Bulgaria Co the Uniled Nations addressed to the Secreta ry-Genera l, transmitting the
Declaration issued on 23 Oc totrer 1985 at Sofia bv the political Consultative
Connittee lA/C.I/ 40 /71 .

rI. CONS IDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft reeolutlon A/C.I,/40,/L.4

5. on 25 october, china subnit.ted a draft resolution encitled "prevention of an
arms race in outer spaceo (A/C.I/4O/L.41 , rrhich r.ras introduced by its
representative at the 30th meetinq, on 7 November. The drafe resolution read as
follows:

"The ceneral Assembly,

"Reaffirming thae lhe peaceful exploration and use of outer space
includlng the l4oon and oCher celestial bodies, as a conunon aspiration of al}
countries of the world. shall be carried out for Ehe benefit and in Che
interests of all countries and shall be the province of all nankind'

.Recalling the principles and objectives of the Trealy on Principles
Governinq the Activities of Stales in tbe Exploration and Use of Outer Space'
including the Moon and Other Ce]estial Bodies and in particular articles IIf
and Iv thereof,

"Further recalllng paragraph 80 of Che Fina1 Document. of its tenth
special session and its relevant resolutiona since 1981,

"Especially bearlng in nind its resolution 39/59 adopted on
12 Decenber L984,

nConvinced tbat the developrnenE pf outeF qpace weapon syseeme entails a
oualitaLive escalation of the alreedy serious arns Face and further aggravates
the norld s i luat ion,

'rFully taking noCe of the urqent dernand of the international comnunity
thac irnmediate and effective rneasures be taken !o preuenc an arms race in
outer space.

"Believing that tbe tno countries elth the largest space capafrililies
bear a special responslbllity for the prevention of an arns race ln ouler
space,



A/40/964
Eng lish
Page 4

,,Tal! i nq note of
this question,

'gglsomilg the establishrnent of
the Conference on Di6arnanent durlm

"7. Requests the Conference on
consideration of this subJect to the
sess ton i

conslderation by the Conference on Digarnament ofthe

an 3g-I99
its 198 5

coffrlttee on thla ouestion by
seagion,

"1. Calls upon all States, especially those eith nalor epace
caoabilities. to contribute actively to the realization of the objective of
peaceful uaes of outer space and to adopE pronpt and effective neaEures to
prevent an arns race in outer gpacei

"2. Reouests the Conference on Dlsarmanent, the single nultilateral
disarnament neqotlatinq bc|dy, to speed up the consideration of the ouestion of
preeentinq an arms race in outer space in all itg aspects as a matter of
pri.ority and urqency, taking into account all the relevant draft resolutions
and proDosals i

"3. Req_uests the Conference on Disarnament to initiate negoti.at ions
uithout delay for concluding an agreenent, or agreenents, aa appropriate. on
the prohibltion and destruction of all outer space eeapon syscemsi

"4. Calls upon all. SCatea possessinq outer space capabillties to refraln
fron developing, testing and deploying outer space peapons, so as Co create
propitious conditions for negotiationsi

"5. Urqes the United States of, Anerica and lhe Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics !o conduct serious bilateral negotiations on tbe prevention of an
arms race in out.er gpace and to keep the Conference on Di6armaneng properly
inforned of the proqress of these negotiati.onsi

"6. Requeqts the Secr etary-Genera I to transnit to the Conference on
Disarmament all the d@unents relating to the consideration of this item by
the ceneral Assenbly at its fortleth sessioni

Disarnanent to subnit its report on tts
General Assembly at its forty-first

'8. Decides to include in the provisional. agenda of ils forty-first
sesaion an item entitled rPrevention of an arna race in outer spacer."

6. At the request of the sponaor, n6 action !.as taken on draft resolution
A/C.r/4O/L-4.

B. Draft resolution A/C.l/40ll.22 and Rev.l

7. On 6 Novenber,
the Nelberlands, Noroav and the Uniled Rinqdom of Great Britain and Northern
llglend suhnitted a draft reBolution entitled Fprevention of an arns race in outer
space,f (A/C. I/AO/L.221 . The draft resolucion eas introduced by the representative
of Italy at the 34t.h neeting, on 12 November, and read as follords:



A/40/964
Enq li sh
Page 5

"The General Assembly,

"Recallinq its relevant resoLutions and the applicable provisions of the
Flnal Docunent of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 2/

trReaffirninq that the exploratlon and use of outer space shall be carried
out for the benefit and in the lnterest of all countries, irrespectj.ee of
thelr deqree of econonic or scientific development,

'Recallinq that the States parties to the Treaty on principles coverning
the Actielties oi States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including
the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, 3,/ have undertaken, in artlcle III, to
carry on activitie! in the exploratioi anct use of outer space, including the
Itoon and other celestial bodies. in accordance with international lair, and the
Charter of the United Nations, in the intereat of maintaining international
peace and securlty and of pronotirq inlernational co-operation and
underatanding,

"E!q!g.$Sj!g the paranount lmportance of strict compliance eith existing
lnternational arns control and disarnament aqreenents relevant to outer space,

'4gIg of the fundamentaL contributlon that space actiqities can nake to
lnternational security and atrateglc stability, to the goal of atrerting the
danger of par and to the lnplenentation of disarrnament agreenents,

'Conlrinced that further etforts should be nade in the search for
effective and verifiable aqreements on the inCerrelated suestions of
preuenting an arns race in ouCer gpace and terninating it on Eareh, of
linlting and reducing nuclear arrns and of strenqtheninq strategic Btability,

"Aoare of the crucial rol.e that pertains to the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and the United Statea of Anerica in the pursuance of these goals,

"i,lotinq the nork so far undertaken in the Conference on Disarnanent and
its 4d Hoc Committee to consider all issues relevaht to the prevention of an
arns race in outer space and convinced that those issues can be dealt wtth in
a manner consistent $ith and complenentarv to the onqoinq bilaleral
negot i at ions,

"1. Recalls the obligation of all States, in accordance lrieh the Charter
of the United Nations, to refrain fron the threat or use of force;

Explesseq its great satislaction at the agreement reached in 1985 in
the Conference on Disarnameht, Che single nultilateral neqotlating forum. on
the establishment of an AlLHgg Connittee on iten 5 of its aaenda. entitledrPrevention of an arns race in outer space'i

Resolution S-IO/2.

Resolut.ion 2222 (XXI) r anner..

u



A/40/954
English
Paqe 6

r'3. Notes furthelmore that the lg_Egg Connittee inltiateal exanination of
issues relevant to the preventlon of an arms race in outer space, taking into
account all exiBtinq agreeBents and proposatsi

'4. Deems lt necessarv, as recogniued by the Ad Hoc Comnittee. that all
efforts should be nade to assure that substantive oork on Ebe agenda item
encitled 'Prevebtion of an arm8 race in outer space' rrlll continue at the next
sesaion of the Confer ence i

'r5, ErFhasizes the qreat reEponsibllity toeards nankind as a wbole tdhlch
falls on the najor space and nuclear Poeera in the search for effective and
verifiable agreenenta on the preventioh of an arms race in outer space and itg
ternination on Earth t

"5. 9lelcones the fact that the Union of Soviet Socialiat Republics and
the Unlted States of Anerlca have initlated bilateral necotialions on both
strategic and interned late-r anq e, Bpace and nuclear arns, l,lth all these
ouestions to be re8olved in thelr lnterrelationshiPi

"7. Explesses its satiafactlon at the agreed objecti.ee of these
negotiatlons, that is, to rork out effective agreenents aimed at presentinq an
arms race in space and terninating it on Earth, at liniting and reducing
nuclear arms and at atrengthenlng strategic stabilityi

"8. Emphasiz€s the necesaity of preventing the erosi.on of relevant
existing treatlesi

"9. Callq upon the Union of Sovlet Socialist Republics and the United
States of America to spare no effort to reach early agreement in coofornity
ttith the agreed objectire of the negotiaEionsi

"I0. 9gfls-lEgg all states to encourage an early anal successful outcoDe
of these negot iat ions i

" 11. 3gS!E the Conf erence on Disarnanent to report on its
consideration of this subject to the ceneral Assenbly at its forty-first
segsi on i

i12. Decides to resume consideration of lhis issue at its forty-flrst
session under tbe itear entitled rPrevenEion of an arms race in outer spacer."

8. On 20 Novernber, the sponsors submltted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.L/4O/L.z2lRev. l), containinq the folloeinq revislons:

(aI A net, second preambul.ar paragraph ras added reading:

"Recoqnizinq Ehe connon interest of all nankind in Ehe progress of the
exploration and use of outer space for peaceful purposes."i

(b) In the oriqinal second preambular paragraph, noe ttrird preambular
paragraph, the r,rords "and shall be the province of al] nankind," tere added at the
end of the paragraphi



A/40/964
Bng li sh
Page 7

(c) the orlginal fifth preambular oaragraph' noo sixth preambular paragraph'
eag revised !o read ag follo0sa

"3!9!9 of tbe fundamental coneributton that space aclivitles can nal(e
both to tbe econornic and social Proqress ot nankind, and to ineernational
truat, inpleoentatlon of armE control aqreenentE, peace and stability,"t

(d) In the orlglnal slxth preambular paragraph' nor sefenth preambular
paragraph, the eords "of liniting and reducinq nuclear arms and of strenqtheninq
strategic stabilityn at the end of the paragraph eere deletedt

(e) The original eighth preanbular ParagraPh. now nlnth preambular Paragraph'
0as revlsed to read as follotts:

'Notinq the rork so far undertaken in the Conference on Disarnament and
fts a-;;-Cornittee to consider all issues releeant to the prevention of an
arms race ln outer space and convinced that such a nultilateral process and
bilateral negotlations are both conPlenentary and essential,.i

(f) At the end of operative paragraph l, the !|ord 'rohich apPlies in all
environnents including outer spacer' eere addedi

(g) A neo operatiee paragraph 2 t as added aa folloes:

'Reiterate8 that the Conference on Dlsarnament, as the single
nultlltteral neqotiating forun, bas a prinary role in the question of
Prev€ntinq an arns race in outer spacei"

and the subsecuent Paraqraphs rrere renulbered accordinql'yi

(h) In the original operative paragraph 2' nou oPerative paraqraph 3' the
rord nggln after tlre $ords nEEEggSgjLgg" ras deleted-

9. At tbe resuest of tbe sponsors, no action uas taken on draf! resolution
A/c. L/40/L.22,/Rev. I.

c.

tO. On ? Novenber, Poland sutnitted a draft resolution entitled "Expert study ot
the rrar lous consesuences;f the nilltarization of outer sPacet' (A/c'l/A0/L'451 '
ghich r,a8 introduced by its representative at the 34th neeEing, on 12 Novenber '
The draft resolution read as folloes:

I'The General Assembrv,

"Gravely concerned at the iflPending danger posed to all nankind by the
real prospect of extending the arns race into outer space.

see also the report of the First Connittee on agenda iten 145 (A/40/9651 '

t..)



A/4O/964
English
Page 8

"Reqffirrninq that outer space is the connon heritaqe of nankind and it3
peaceful exploration and use shall be the province of all nankind,

"Recallinq that tbe States partles to the Treaty on PrinciPles Gooernlnq
the Activities of States in the Exploratlon and Use of Outer SPace. inclutllng
the Moon and otber Celeseial Bodiea, haee undertaken, in article Iv, not to
place in orbit around the earth any objects carrying nuclear ceaPona or any
other kinds of weapons of nass destruction, inBtall such $eapona on celestial
bodies or station sucb reapons in outer space in any other manner,

nDeternined to prevent the militarization of outer space'

"4!glg of the varioua proposals subnitted to that end by Menb€r states to
the General Assenbly in recent years,

nRecallinq its resolutions 36/97 C antl 36/99 of 9 Decenber 198I,
37/83 of 9 Decenber L982. 37 /99 D of 13 December 1982, 38/70
of 15 Decernber 1983 and 39/59 of 12 Decenber 1984,

uTakinq noCe of paragraph 99 of the report of the Conference on
Disarnament, 4,/ containinq the report of itE Ad Hoc Comnittee on the agenda
iten entitled 'Prevention of an arng race ln outer gpacel

"1. leogf,qlg the S ec r etary-Genera I to prepare a comprehensive study of
the var iouffiiuences of the nilitarization of ouEer space;

"2. ReconneOds that the stualy be prepared on the basis of accesslble
naterial. with the asslstance of eninent consultant exPerte of various
naCionalities appointed by Che Secretary-General, taking into account thq
vi.eps expressed and the suggestions nade durinq tbe di8cus6ion of this subject
at the fort.iet.h session of the General Assenblyi

'3. caltli upon Goeernnents ar}d internacional scienEific instltutions and
organizatlons to co-operate uitb ehe Secr etary-Gener a 1 in the preparatlon of
Ehe study;

"4. Requests that the study be transnitted to the Conference on
Disarnament, the Security CounciL and the General Aesonbly by 1 .Iuly 1987' and
to the Governments of Menber States in line to permlt its consideration at the
forty-second session of the General Assemblyi

n5. Recommends thaC ttenber States give Cbe study trlde distribution in
their respective languages, through various media of connunication, so aB to
acquaint public opinlon with its contents,"

!/ Official Records of the General Assenblv, Fortlqth Session, Supple$ent
W @/4O/ 2 7 and corr.l).



A/40/e64
English
Page 9

Il. On 14 Noventber, !9b9 subnitted a revlsed draf t regolut.ion
(A/C.L/40/L.45lRev,1), containing the following revisions:

(a) In the first preambular paragraph, the word "real" in the f i.rst line oas
deleted t

(b) operative paragraph 2 was revised to read as follows:
I'Reconnends that the study be prepared on Che basis of accessitrle

naterial, eith tb€ asslstance of eminent consultant experts of various
nati.onallties appointed by tbe Secreta ry-cenera 1 , and in co-operalion nith the
United Nations fnsticute for Disarmament Research, taking ln account lhe eiews
expressed and the suggest.ions made during tbe discussion of this subJect at
the fortieth session of the General Assenbly.."

(c) operalive paraqraph 5 was revlsed co read as follons!

Decides to include in the provisional agenda of it6 forty-second sessi.on
an iten entitled: I Conseouences of the nilitarizalion of outer space: rePort
of the Secretary-cenera 1r . '

12. on 20 Novernber, the secretary-cene ra I , in accordance uilh rule 153 of the
rules of procedure of the General Assembly, subrnitted a slatement (A/C.l/4o/L.8Ll
on the programne budgeE inplicatlons of lhe revised draft resolution.

13. At the reduest of the sponsor. no action nas taken on draft reaolution
A/C.L/40/L.4slRev.1.

D. Draft resolution A/C.l/4oll,.68 and Rev.1

14. on 7 November, Alqeria, Bangladesh, Brazil, Carneroon, Egvpt, Ethiopia, Ghana,
India, fndoneaia, Malaysia, Mexico, Pakislan, tionania, sri Lanka, ttre sudan and
Yuiioslavia sufrmitted a draft resolution enCit:.ed "Prevention of an arrns race in
outef space' (A/C-I/4O/L.68), trhich was later also sponsored by Venezuela and
zimbabwe. Tbe draf! resolucion rras inEroduced by tbe repreaentative of Egypt at
the 35th neeting, on 12 Novenber, and read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"fnspired by the great prospects opening up tefore mankind as a result of
man16 entry into outer space,

"Iecognizinq the conmon interest of al1 nankind in the exploration and
use of outer gpace for peaceful purposes,

"Reafflrtning that the exploralion and use of outer space, including the
l'loon and other celeatial bodi.es, shall be carried out for the benefit and in
the interest of all countries, irrespective of thelr degree of econornic or
scientific development, and shall. be the province of a1l nankind,



A/40/964
Enqlish
Paqe 10

"Reaffirming further the elll of all States that the exploration and use
of outer space, i.ncluding the Uoon and other celegtial bodles, shall be for
peaceful purposes.

"Recallinq that the States parties to the Treaty on principles coverning
the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including
the l4oon and Other Celeatlal Boalies, haee undertaken, in article IfI . !6 q6asy
on activiti.es ln tbe exploration and use of outeE space, including the tltoon
and other celestial bodies, in accordance slth lnternational law and the
Cbarter of the Unlted Nations, ln the intereat of naintaining international
peace and securi.ty and pronoting international co-operation and understanding,

"Reafti.rminq, in particular. article IV of tbe above-mentioned Treaty,
nhlch stipulates that States partieE to the Treaty undertake not to place in
orble around the Earth any oblects carrying nuclear Heapons or any other kinds
of eeapons of mass destructlon, inatall such seapona on celestial bodies or
station such seapons in outer space tn any other oanner,

nReaffirminq a16o paragraph 80 of the Final Docunent of the Tenth Speclal
Session of the ceneral Assenbly, the first special session devoted to
di.sarnanent. in ehich it ls stated that, ln order to prevent an arrn6 race in
oueer apace, further neaaureg shoulat be taken and appropriate lnternational
neqotiations helal in accordance slth the gpirit of the Treaty,

"Recallinq its resolutions 36/97 C anA 35/99 of 9 Decenber 198I, as rrell
as resolutione 37/83 of 9 Decenber 19A2, 37/99 D of 13 Decenber LggZ, 3g/70 of
15 Decenber 1983 and 39/59 ot 12 December 1984,

"Gravelv concerned at the danger posed to all mank ind by an arns race in
outer space and ln particular bg the inpendlng threat of exacerbating the
current state of inaecurlt!, by developBents that could further undermine
internatj.onal peace and secur lty and Eetard the pursuit of general and
complete d isarmanent,

iMlndful of the sidespread interest expressed by !4enber States in the
course of the negotiations on and follot'ing the adoption of the
above-nentioned Treaty in ensuring that tbe expl.oration and use of outer space
should be for peaceful purposes, and taklng note of prbposals subrnitted to the
General Assenbly at lts tenth special session devoted to disarnament, and at
ils regular sesgions and to ttle Confgrence on Disarnament,

"Notinq the grave concern erpressed by the Second United Nalions
Conference on the Exploration and peaceful Uses of Outer Space over the
extension of an arrns race into outer space and the recoonendations made to the
conpetent organs of the United Na!ions, in partlcular, the General Assembly,
and also to the Conmittee on Disar&anent,

Dconvinced that further neasures are needed for the prevention of an arns
race in ouler space,



A/40/964
Enqlish
Paqe lI

"@,g.i3.LCa, that, in tbe context of multilateral negotiations for
preventing an arns race in outer space, bilateral negotiations between the
Union of sotiet sociali.st Republics and the United States of &0erica coul't
make a significant contribution to 6uch an objectlue, in accordance trith
paragrapb 2? of the Final Document of the ?enth Spectal Sesslon,

"Notinq wlth satisfaction that bilateral negottatlonB betgeen the Union
of Soviet socialist Republics and the United states of Anerica have begun in
1985, on a cornplex of questions concernlng space and nuclear arms' both
strategic ard intermediate range. and In thelr lnterrelatlonship' with the
declared objective of r.orking out effectiee aqreements ained, :!g!ggLla, at
preventing an arms race ln outer apace,

"Anxious tha! concreee results should energe fron these negotiationa as
soon as possible, as was urged in resolut.ion 39/59,

nTaktnq note of the rePort of the Conference on Disarnanant,

"tlelco4inq the establishnent of an Ag-lgg Comnlttee durlng the
1985 gession of the conference on Disarmament' in the exerciae ot the
negotiatinq responsibilities of this Bole negotlatirtg boaly on disarnament, to
exanine, as a first step at this atage, igsues relevant to the Prevention of
an arns race in out.er aPace,

'Expresqinq concern tbaE consensus had not yet been reached in the
Conference on Dlsarnament on concrete proposalg for re-establishing the Ad Hoc
Conmittee on this duestlon during the 1986 gesslon of the Conference on
Disarnament ln accordance with resolutiot 39/59 of 12 December 1984'

Recalls the obligation of all States to refraln fron the threat or
use of force in their sp€ce actlvifies;

n2. Reaffirmg that general and coNnplete dlsarnanent under effective
internalional control rrarrants that outer Epace shall be used exclusively for
peaceful purposes and that it sball no! becone an arena for an arms racei

'r3. Enphasizes that further measures $ith apPropr iate and effective
pro,risions for verilication to prevent an arn8 race in outer space shouLd be
adopted by the international cotnnunityi

Calle lrpon a1l StateB, in partlcular those Pith nalor space
capabilities, to contribute actively to the objectlve of the peaceful use of
outer space and to take immediate neasures to Prevent an arma race in outer
space in che interest of maintalning international peace and security and
promoting intern-tional co-operation and understandinqi

'r5. Reiterates that the Conference on Disarnament, as the sinqle
multilateral dj.sarnanent negotiating torun. has the Prinary role in the
negotiation of a nultilateral agreement or agreenents, as apPropriate' on the
prevention of an arms race in all its aspects in outer SPacei



A/ 40 /e64
Eng 1i sh
Page 12

"6- Reouests ttle Conference on Disarnarnent to consider as a matter of
priority the ouestion of preventing an arns race in outer spacet

"7. A160 requeats the Conference on DisarmanenE to inCensify its
con s id 

"ra 
tIEi-EJGTe st i. on of the prevencion of an arns race in ouler space

in all its aspects, taking inlo account 811 relevant proposals including those
presented in the Ad Hoc CommiEtee of it6 1985 session and at the fortieth
session of the United Nations General Assenbly,

Further reouests the Conference on Dlsarnament to re-establlsh an
Ad Hoc comrnittee with an adeouate nandate at the beginnlng of its session in
1986 to undertake negotiations for the conclusion of an agreemenc or
agreemenEs, as appropriate, to prevent an arms race in all it.s aspects in
outer space t

"9. Urqes the UnioD of Sovlet Socialist Republics and the Uniled Slates
of Anerica seriously to puraue thelr bllateral negotiations ln a consErucEive
spirit ained at reaching early aqreetnenc for preventing an arrns race in outer
space. and to advise the Conference on Disarmanent regularly of the progress
of their bilateral sessions so as to facilltate its workt

tr10. calls on all scates especially those nith major space capabilities'
to refrain fron developing, tegting or deploying eeapons and weapons systems
in oucer apace, pending the negotialion and concluaion of an aqreenent or
agreenents on the pre?ention of an armg race in outer spacet

nll. Recuests the Conference on Disarnanent to report on its
consideracion of this subject to
sess ion I

tbe ceneral Assembly a! iEB forty-firet

" 12. Reouests the Secretarv-Genera I to transnit to che conference on
congideraeion of this subject by theDisarmanen! all docurnenEs relatlng to ttre

ceneral Assenbl-y at lts fortiettr session,

"I3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forcy-first
session the iten enliCled 'prevention of an arms race in outer spacer.rl

15. on 21 November, Alqeria, Bangladish. Brazil, cameroon,- china, Egypt. Ethiopia'
Ghana, rndia, Indonesla, Ireland, Malaysia, Mexico, Pakiscan. Romania, sri tanka,
the Sudan, venezuela, Yogoslavla and Zinbabt,e submitCed a revised draft resolution
(A/C.L/40/68/Rev.1), nhich rras later al.so sponsored by the Gernan Denocratic
Republic and seeden. Tbe reuised draft resolution contained Ehe followinq
revi s ions:

(a) In gbe ninth preanbular paragraph, fourth line, a comma was inserted
after the uord 'securi!y", the rdord "and" r,as deleeed and after the nord
"disarmanent'r the words nand risk creating obstacles to the development of
international co-operacion in the peaceful uses of outer spacen nere addedi



A/40 /964
Enql i 6h
Paqe 13

(b) In the seventlr Preambular paraqraph' third llne' the nord "multilaterald
l'as inaerted after the word nsole"t

(c) Ttre eighEeenth preambular paragrapb t,aa revlsed to read:

'4i!9.9!.1. tbat consensua had not yet been reached ln che conference on
OiSarnanren! on concrete proPosals for re-egtabllshlng the Ad Hoc Conuniltee on
tbis questlon durinq tbe 1986 sesslon of the conference ot| Disarmanent,ot

(d) A neer operati.ve paragraPh 5 was added, readlng!

"Reouests the secreta ry-@neral to invlte Menber states to submit their
views 6i-EFe possibility of enhancing ineernatlonal co-operatlon in Che field
of preventing an arms race in oucer space and th€ p€aceful uses of outer
space ' lncluding the desirabiLity 

of establishlng relevant nlachinery for that
purPose, and to aulnnit a report to the Generat Asaenbly at its forty-first
session t n

and the subs€ouent paraqraphE stere renunbered accordinglyt

(e) The original operatiee patagraph I' now operattve paraqraph 9' l.,as
revised to read as follorrs:

rFurther reduests the Conference on Disarnanent Eo re-establish an Ad ltoc
Connitffiffi-lli'fOeq-'rate rnandate at the beglnning of its seasion of 1986,
eith a view to undertaking negoElations for tl't€ conclusion of an agreement or
agreenents, as appropriate, !o prevent an arns race in all its aspects in
other space t tr t

(f) In the orlginal operatlve paragraph 9, no{ oPerat ive paragraph 10, ln the
second ltne, the $ord iseriously" t'as deleted and cbe word "intensivelyn was
inserted after the t.tord "pursuetr and, in the fourth line, the word "regularlytr was
replaced by the irord nperiodicallynt

(s) ltre orlginal operative Paragr.ph 10, nos operacive Paragraph ll' was
revlsed to read:

'calls on all states, especially those with rnaJor sPtce capabilities, to
r.f.aii-T-tneir activigies reLating to outer space, fron actions contrary co
the obGervance of the relevant existlng treatiea or to the objectitte of
preventing an arns race in ouler spacetn,

(h) A nevr operative paragraph 12 xas added, readlng:

ifnvites the Member States to Eransnit to tbe sec reta ry-Genera I ' not
lacer i6;;-f-Apr i I 1985, their sierts on tbe scoPe and content of lhe I;NIDTR
(Uniteal Nations InEtitute for Dlsarnanent Itesea rch ) study 5,/ being undertaken
on disarnanenc prohleng relating to outer space and the congesuences of

v A/40/725, paras. 47-54.



A/4O /964
Eng 1i sh
Page 14

exCending tbe arns race i.nto outer space, and reouests the Secretary-General
to cohvey tbe above-nencioned views of the Memter states to the Advi8ory Board
on Disarmament Studies for considerat.ion in order to enable it, in tts
capacity of Board of Trustees of tNIDIR, to glve ttre Institute 6uch posEible
guidance r.'ith respect to the elatloration of its study bs it rnay derive fron
those vier.rs t "

and ghe subsequent paragraphs lrere renumbered accordingly.

16. At its 47th meet.ing, on 22 November, the conmittee uoted on draft resoluElon
A/C.I/L.68/Rev.I as fol lons:

(a) Operaclve paragraph 5 was adopted by a recorded vote of lO5 to l, with 2l
abstentions. The voting r,as as follon€r

In favour ! Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Auatria, Bahamas,
Bahrain. Bangladesh. Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia; Botst'ana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Fa6o, Burma, Burundl,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Reputrtic, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, Conoro6, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic yemen, Doninican Republic, Bcuador.
ESypt. EEhiopia. Finland, cabon, German Denocratic Republic,
Ghana' Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Eondurag, Hungary, fndia,
Indonesia, fran (Islarnic Republic of), fraq, Ireland, fvory Coast
(C6te drlvoire), .lamaica. Jordan, Kenya, Kurrait, Lao peoplers
DemocraEic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Janahiriya,
Madaga scar, [.la1aysIa, Ua ld iees, tita tl, Ma1ta, Maurltan la, ti,lexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambioue. Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
onan, Pakistan, Panarna, papua Ner' Guinea, peru, phitlpplnes,
Poland, Oatar, Romania, Saudl Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Suaziland, Seeden, Syrlan Arat)
Repufrlic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuni6ia, uganda.
Ukrainian Souiet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Enirates, United Republic of Tanzani.a,
Uruguay, venezuela, vlet Nan, yernen, yugoslavia, zalre, zanbla,
Z lnbabwe .

United Slates of Aner ica.

Australia, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Denmark, France, Gerrnany,
Federal Repufrl ic of, Iceland, fsrael, Italy. Japan, Luxernbourg,
Netherlands, New zealand, Noreay, paraguay, portugal, sanoa,
Spain, Turkey, United Kingdon of creat Brltain and Northern
Ireland.

(b) operative paragraph 9 was adopted by a recorded vote of ltg to 1, with ll
abstentions. Ttte voting was as follolrs:

AfghanisEan, Algeria, Angota, Argentina, Australia, Au6tria,
Babanas, Bahrain, Banqladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botgwana,
Brazil. Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialise Republic, Carneroon,

Aga inst:

Atrs ta ining !

fn favour a



A/40/964
Enq li eh
Paqe 15

Canada, Central Atrlcan Republtc, Chad, Chile, Chin., Colonbia,
Conoroa, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denocratic yenen,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominlcan Republic, Bcuador, Ecypt, Ethiopla,
Pill, Finland, Gabon, cernan DenocraEic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Gulnea, cuyana, Eonduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesla,
Iran (Islanic Republic of) , Iraq, Ireland, Ivory Coast (CAte
dtlvoire), Janalca, Jord€n, Kenya, Kueait, Lao peoplers
Deneratic Republic, Lebanob, Lesotho, Llbyan Arab Janahiriya,
Madaqascar, tltalaysla, Uaidives, triali, l,talta, Mauritania, ttexico,
f,longolla, ltorcco, !4ozanblque, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norsay, Oman, pakistan, panana, papua Nee cuinea,
Paragqay, Peru, pbilippines, poland, Oatar, Ronania, samoa, saudi
Arabla, Senegal, Silgapore, Spaln, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surlnane,
Sraziland, Sreden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailanal, Togo. Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Unlon of Soeiet Soclalist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzenia, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vlet Nam, yemen.
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia, Z inbaboe.

AgEiEg: United States of Aner ica.
Abstaininq.. Belgium, France, cermany, Federal Republic of, Israel, Italy,

Japan, IJu:enbourg, Netherlands, portugal, Turkey, United Klngdon
of Great Brltain and Northern Ireland.

(c) Draft resolutlon A/C. | /4t/68lRev. l, a6 a wbole, was adopted by a recorded
of l3l to none, elth ! abstention (see para. l7). The voting i,as as follous..

Elgg: Afghani3tan, Alqerla, Angola, Argentina, Australia. Austria,
BahamaB, Babrain, Bangladesh, Belgiun, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botawana, Brazil, Brunel Darussalan, BuIgarta, Burkina Faso,
Burna, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet Sociatist Republic. Caneroon,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colonbia,
Comoros, Congo. Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratlc
Kanprrchea, Democratic yemen, Denraark, Djiboutl, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, caDon,
Gernan Democratic RepubLic, cernany, Federal Repufrlic of, Gbana,
Greece, cuj.nea. cuyana. Honduras. Ilungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (fslanic Republic of), Irao, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Ivory Coast (C6te d.Ivoire), Janaica, Japan, Jordan,
Kenya, Kusait, Lao Peoplers Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Iresotho, Libyan Arab,Janahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
titalaysia, tnaldives, t4a1i. Malta, Mauritania, Uexico, Uonqolia,
I'totocco, Mozambloue, Nepal, Netherlands, Net, Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigerla, Noreay, Onan, pakistan, panana, papua Net. Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, philippines, poland, portugal, eatar, Romania,
Reanda. Sarba, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinarne, Srraziland, Seeden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, To9o, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunlsia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialis! Republic, Uni.on of Soviet



A/4O/964
Bng li sb
Page 16

socialist Republics, Unlted Arab EnlrateE, United Klnqatcn of
Grert Britain .nd Northern Ireland, Unit€d Republic of tanrania,
Uruquay, venetuela, vlet Nat!' tenen, Yugoslavia' zaire' zanbla,
zinblbre.

Aqalnsts None.

lEgggg$g3 unlteal Stetea of, Anerlca.

III. RE@ IIENDATIOT OF IHE FIRSI @U ITTEE

l?. The Flret Connittee r ecoooenda to the General Assetlbly the adoption ot the
follor.ing draft resol.ution:

Preventlon of .n artra roce in outer Epace

The Genelal Asaenblv,

Inspired by the great Progpecta oPenlng up before mankind as a result of
nanrs entry into outer 3pace,

Recoqnizlnq the cdt'ron lnterest of all nankind in the explorat.ion and use
of outer gpace for peaceful purpose€'

Reaffi,rninq that the explorltlon rnd uae of outer sPace, tncludinq the
Moon and other celestlal bo.llee, 3ha11 be carried out for the beneflt and in
the i.nterest of all countrles, lrreepectlve of tbelr ategree of economic or
Bcientif i.c developnent, ar*t atrall be the proeince of all anklnd,

neaffirnlnq tllther thc alll of all states that th€ exPloration and use
of outer space, lncludlng the uoon and other celestial boalies, ahall be for
peaceful purpoges,

RecalLing that the states partiea to the Treaty on Prlnclplea Governlnq
the Activities of SEates in the Explorttion anal Use of Outer Space, includlng
the uoon and Other Celestlat Bodie€, ff have undertaken, tn article III , to
carry on activitiea in the exploratlon rnd uEe of outer gPace, including the
Moon and other celestlal bodies, ln rccordance eith international larr .nd the
Charter of the United Natlons, ln the lntereat of nalntaining international
peace and security and pronoting lnternational co-operation and understanding.

SgggEllgflg, ln partlcular, articlc Iv of the above-mentioned Treaty,
ehtch stlpul.rtaa that Stltes partiea to Che Treaty undertake not to place tn
orbit around the Earth any obJects crrrylng nuclear eeapons or any other klnds

9-/ Resolution 2222 (xXIl , annex.



A/ 40/964
En4lish
Page 17

of rreapons of nass destruction, install such eeapons on celestial bodies or
station such seapons i,n outer apace in any other nanner.

Reaffirninq also paragraPh 80 of the F16al Deutent of the Tenth special
Session of the General Assernbly, 1/ the firse speclal sesslon devoted to
disarnanent, ln rhich lt ts stated that, in order to prevent an arns race in
outer space. turther neasures should be taken and appropr lace internatlonal
negotlations held ln accordance t.lth the gpirit of the Treaty,

Recalling its resolutlo^ 36/97 C and 35/99 of 9 December 1981, as eelL as
resolutions 37/A3 ot 9 Decenber I9A2, 37/99 D of 13 Decernber L982. 3a/7O ot
15 December 1983 and 39/59 of 12 Decenber 1984,

Gravelv cQncerned at the danger posed to all nankind by an arfts race in
outer space and i.n particular by the i|Ipending threat of exacerbating the
current st6te of insecurity b']' developments that could further undernine
internati.onal peace and siicur lty, retard the pursuit of general and conplete
diEarnament, and risk creaCing obatacles to tbe development of international
co-operation in Ehe peaceful uses of outer space,

Mindful of the uidespread lnterest et pressed by Menber States in the
course of, the negotiations on and folloeing the adoption of lhe
above-nentioned Treaty in en6uring that the exploration and use of outer space
should be for peaceful purposes, and taking note of proposalE subnitted to tbe
General Assenbly at its tenth speciat sesston devoted to disarnanene, and at
its regular sessions and to the Conference on Disarmament,

Notinq the grave concern expressed by the Second United Nations
Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful Uses of Outer Space over the
extension of an arns race into outer space and the recoffnendations made to Ehe
cornpetent organs of the United Nations, in particular the General Asaeinbly,
and also to the Comnittee on Disarrnanent, g,/

Convinced that further neasures are needed for the prevention of an arns
race in outer space,

Recoqnlzinq that, in the context of nuLtilateral negotiatlons for
preventing an arng race in outer space, bilateral negotiations betnean lhe
Union of Soriet Socialist Republics and the United states of Anerica could
'make a slghificant contribution to such an objective, in accordance with
Paragraph 27 ot t-'he Einal Docunent of the Tenth Special Session, 7,/

' Z/ Resolut i.on s-Lo/2.

9,/ see
Peaceful tlse of Outer Space. vienha. 9-21 Auqus! 1982 (A/CONF.101/10 and corr.
and 2) r paras, 13' 14 and 426, The cornmittee on Disarmanent $aa redesignated the
Conference on Diaarmanent as frotn 7 February 1984.



A/4O/964
Eng l ish
Page 18

Notinq eith aatisfaction that bilateral. negoeiations between the Union of
Soviet socialist Republic8 and the United staCes of Anerlca have begun in
1,985, on a cornplex of queBtions concerninq space and nucl,ear arns, both
strategic and internediate range, anat in their inter f, elationsh ip, uith the
declared objective of eorking out effective agreenents ained, inter alia, at
preventing an arDa race in oueer space,

Anrlous that concrete results ahould energe fron these negotiatlons ag
soon as possible, as eag urged in its resolutlon 39/59,

Taking note of the report of the Conference on Disarnament, 9/

vlelconino the establlshnent of an 4-!gg conmittee on the prevention of
an arm6 race in outer space during the 1985 sesslon of the Conference on
D1Barnament. in the exercise of the negotlating reaponsibilities of this sole
nultilateral negotiating body on dlaarmament, to exanine, aa a first step at
thls stager igguea relevant to Ehe prevention of an arns race in outer space,

uindful that consenEus had not yet been reached in the Conference on
Disarnament on concrete proposals for re-establishing the ad h@ connittee on
this oueation durlng the 1986 session of the Conference on'DisarRanent,

I, Recalla the obligation of all States to retrain fron the threat or
use of force in thelr space activitiesi

2. Reafflrtpe that general and conplete disarmanent under effective
lnternati.onal. control earranta that outer space shall be used exclusi.vely for
peaceful purpoges and that .lt shalt not becone an arena for an arns racei

3. EnphaEiteq that further neasures $ith appropr iate and effective
provisions for verification to prevent an arms race in outer space should be
adopted by tbe lnternational conmunityi

4. Calls upon alI States, in particular Ehose with major apace
capabili.ties, to contribute actively to the objective of the peaceful use of
outer space and to take inmediate neasures to prevent an arns race in outer
space ln the intereat of naintainlng international peace and security arld
pronoting international co-operatlon and underscandingi

5. Requests the Secr etary-General to invlte Member States to subnit
their viees on thg posslbtlity of enhancing international co-operation in the
field of preeenting an arna race in outer space and the peaceful uses of outer
space, including the deslrability of establishing relevant nachinery for lhat
purpose. and to subnit a report to the ceneral Assenbly at its forty-first
sesaion;

2/ ort
No- 27 (A/ 40/ 27 and Corr.l) , sect. III



A/ 40/964
Eng Ii sh
Paqe 19

6. Reiterates that the conference on Disarnanent' as the single
nultilateral disarmament neqotiating forum. has the prinaEy role in the
negotiation of a nultilateral agreement or agreements, as appropriate, on the
prevention ot an arns race in outer space in all its aspectsi

7. Requests the Conference on Disarrnament to considel as a natter of
priority tbe question of preventing an arms race in outer spacei

L Also requests the Conference on Disarnament to intensify its
consideration of the question of the prevention of an arns race in outer space
in all its aspects. takinq i,nto accoun! all relevant proposals including those
presented in the Ad Hoc Commlttee on the Prevention of an Arns Race in Outer
space at its 1985 iilsion and at the forcieth session of the General Assembly;

9. Further requesls the Conference on Disarmament to re-establi.sh an
ad hoc committee uith an adequate mandate at the beginninq of its session in
1986, with a viel. t.o undertaking neqotiations for Ehe conclusion of an
agreenent or agreements, as appropriate, to prevent an artns race in outer
space in all its aspects;

IO. lSSg the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United Slates
of Ameri,ca to pursue intensivelv their bilaleral neqotiations in a
constructive spirit ained at reaching early agreement for preventing an arns
race in outer space' and to advise lhe Conference on Disarmament periodically
of the progress of their bilateral sessions so as to f,acilitate its oorki

11. Calls on all states, especi.ally those Pith major sPace caPabilities'
to retrain in their activities relating to outer space, from actions conErary
to the observance of the relevant existing treaties or to the objective of
preventi.ng an arms race in outer spacei

12. Invites Menber States to transmit to lhe Secr etary-Gene r aI. not
later than 1 april 1986, their vie$s on the scope and content of lhe study of
the United NaEions Institute for Disarmament Research ]q/ beino undertaken on
disarmanent problens relating to outer space and the conseguences of exEendinq
the arms race into outer space' and reouests the Secretary-General to convey
the viees of the Menber States to tbe Arlvisory Board on Disarnarlent Studies
for consideration in order to enable it, in its capacity of Board of Trustees
of the Institute. !o give the Instieute such possible guidance with respect to
the elaboration of its study as it nay derive from those vie$si

13. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to report on its
consideration of this subject to the General Assernbly at its forty-iirst
sessi.oni

!./ A/40/725. paras, 47-s4.



A/40/964
Eng L ish
Page 20

14. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on
Disarrnarnent all docunents relating to the consi.deration of this subject by the
General Assenbly at its fortieth sessioni

15. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-first
session the item entitled "Pravention of an arns race in outer spacerr.


