








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Ageembly Dis tr.
GENERAL

A/40/959 /Add.7
12 December I98 5
ENGTISH
oRIGINAL: ENGLISH,/SpANISIt

Forlieth session
Agenda it.en 84 (9)

DEVELOPMENT AND INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION:
ITUMAN SETTLEMENTS

Report of the Second Cornnj-ttee (Part VIII)

BePpljlglt Mr. Jorge IAGO-SII (Cuba)

I. INTRODUCTION

t. The Second Connittee held a substanlive debate on iten 84 (see A/40/989.
Para. 2). Action to be taken on sub-item (g) was considered at the 22nd, 24th,
29Ch, 30th, 43rd and 47th neelings, on 1. 5, 8, 11 and 25 November ' 

and on
4 Decenber. An account of the Committee's discussion is contained in the relevant
sururary records (A/e.2/40/5R,22, 24, 29, 30, 43 and 47).

II. CONS IDERATTON OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/c.2/40lL. 13

2. At the 22nd neeting' on 1Novenber' the representative of Democratic Yemen
introduced a draft resolution (A/e.2/40/L.I3) entitled "l,i.ving conditi.ons of the
Palescinian people in lhe occupied Patestinian territories", sponsored by
Bangladesh, Dernocratic Yemen, Madagascar' Morocco and Tunisia.

3. A stat.ement by the Secreta ry-cene ral on the prograrnne budget impLications of
drafc resolution A/c.2/40/L.13 was circulaled in document A/c.2/4o/L.26.

4. At the 30th neeting, on Ll November, Ms, Inga Eriksson (Sweden) ' Vice-chairnanof the Comrnittee I read out the following revisions. as agreed upon in infornal
consultations, to operative paragraph 6 of the draft resolution:

(a) In subparagraph (a), the word "five-day", before the word "setninar", was
deleted t

85-37638 4668P (E)



A/ 40/989/Add.1
EngI ish
Page 2

In favour:

Against:

9. Statenenes after the vote were made by the representatives of the Union of
Soviet Socialist RePublics (also on behalf of Bulgaria' the Byelorussian Soviet

(b) rn subparagraph (clr the word "twenty", before the word "exPerts" was
deleted.

5. The representative of Luxembourg made a statement' on behalf of the states
members of the European Co nunity, in which he proposed an amendment to the draft
lesolution, which would include at the end of operative ParagraPh 5 (a).the words
", including a comPlehensive general housing progranne, as recomnended in
resolution A/g of fO May 1985 of the comnission on Hunan settlenentst"'

6. The amendment proposed by the representacive of Luxenbourg' on behalf of the
states members of the luropean cottonity, was accepted by the rePresentative of
Denocratic Yenen. on behalf of the co-sponsors of the draft resolution'

7, statemenls before the vote vtere ftade by the representatives of Israel and lraq'

8, At the same rneeting, the conrnittee adopted draft resolut Lon A/C'2/4O/L'13' as
orarly revisedT by a recorded vote of l-33 to 2, (see para' 17, draft resoluton I)'
The voting was as follows:

AfghanisEan' Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia'
Austria, Bahanas, sahrain, Bangladesh, Barbadost Belgiun' Benin'
Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria' Burkina
Faso, Burrna' Burundir Byelorussian soviec socialist Republic '
caneroon, canada, cape verde, Central African RePublic, Chad '
China, Colonbia ' comoros, CubaT 

Cl'Prus ' Czechoslovak 
ia '

Denocratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark' Djibouli'
Dorninican Republic, Ecuador, Eg!'pE, Equatorial Guinea, EehioPia'
Fiji' Fintantl, France, Ganbia, Gernan Democlatic Republic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guinea'
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India'
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) , Iraq, freland' Ilaly'
rvory coast (c6te d'rvoire) ' Janaica, 

Japan. Jordan, Kenya'
Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Democragic Republic' Lebanon' Lesotho'
Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya, Luxembourg, Madaqascar, Malai''i '
Malaysia, Maldives' !,ta1 i, Malta. Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia'
Morocco, Mozambique ' NePaI, Netherlands' 

New zealand' Nicaragua,
Niger. Nigeria, Norvtay, Oman, Panarna, Papua New Guinea' Peru'
Philippines' Ptland r Portugal' Qatar' Romanla, R{anda, saint
vincent and the Grenadines, sao Tome and PrinciPe' saudi Arabia'
senegal. Singapore, somalia, spain, sri Lanka' sudan, Suriname'
swaziland, Sweden, syrian Arab Republic, Thailandl, Togo ' Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey' Uganda, ukrainian soviet Socialist
Republic' union of soviet socialist Republics' united Arab
Emirates, Uniteal Kingdon of Great Britain and Northern lreland,
United RePublic of Tanzania, Uruguay, venezuela' viet Nan' Yetnen'
Yugoslavia, zaire ' zambia.

Israel, united sEates of Anerica.



^/40/989/Id.d.7English
Page 3

socialist Republic, Czecboslovakia, the G€rnan Denocracic Republlc, Ilungary,
Mongolia, Poland and the ukrainian soviet sociarist Repubric), the united states ofAnerica, Luxenbourg (on beharf of the states nenbers of the European connunity) andAusEralia. The observer for the parestine Liberation organrzation also made a
statement.

B. Draft resotutlons A/C.Z/|O/L.24, L.25 anal L.43
l0'- At the 24th meetingr on 5 Novenber, the representative of Janaica introduced adraft resolut fon G/C.2/4O/L.A4) entltled ,'ttumai settlenents", sponsored by
% the Netherlands, the phitippines, sri Gnka an<rzambra, subsequently joined by ttre carnbia, rndia and ea!ana-:a. Th...-. draft resolutlonread as follows 3

rA

rrThe General Assembly,

"RgcaUinq lts resolutions 32OI (g-VI) and 32OA (S-W) of I May 1974,
containing the Declaration and the progranme of Action on the Establishment ofa New International Economic Order, 32gl (xxlx) of 12 Decenbe r Lg].4,
containing the Charter of Econonic Rights anal Duties of Staees, and
3362 (s-vrr) of 16 september 1975 on developnent. and international econonic
co-operation,

"n ..4!-lg__.tso its resolutions 3Z/L62
in8titutional arrangenents for international
human settlements and 34/LL6 ot 14 December
settlements activitles,

. "-Conscious of Che very subsCantial gap between the re.sources availabletnrough voLunEary conEributlons to the united Nations centre for lrunan
Settlernents (Habitat) and the needa of tteveloping countries requesting
assistance from the Centre.

"Having considered the report of the Comrnission on Hunan Settlenents on
the work of its eighth session, /

"I. Takes note of the repor! of Che Comnission on Human Settlenents onthe lrork of its eighth segsioni

- ."2. 
Takes noce with appreciatlon of lhe progress rrhich the @nmlssion

and its secretariat, the United tqatfons centre for Hutnan settlenencs(Habitat), have continued to nake in providing guidance and assistance !o

!/ officiat

of 19 December 1977 on
co-operation in the fleld of

1979 on the strengthenlng of hunan

No. I (A/40l8 and Corr.I)



A/40/989/Add.7
English
Page 4

Governments in their efforts to plovide adequaLe shelter and services to their
people, particularly the Poor and disadvantagedi

"3. CaIIs upon all Governnents to accord the requisite Priorily in their
development anit developnent asslstance Programnes to hunan setblernents
accivitl.es as a proved rneans of pronoling econonic and social develoPment, as
well as to the fair tllstributlon of the benefits of such development to all
segnents of the populat ion t

Calls upon nultilateral financial institutions to adopt a nore
flexible strategi in lenating for hunan settlenents Projects and to ucilize
existing regional and naEional financial institutions as the structures
through which current and adtlltional resources for housing and hunan
settlenents developnent are channe lled,

"5. corunends those Governments and others that have nade voluntary
financial contributions to the unlted Nations Habitat and llunan settlements
Foundation, Particularly those that have done so on a regular basis' and
appeals to Chose that have not contributed to do so at the earliest
oppor tuni ty.

nBlennial cycle of seasions of the conmlssion on Hunan settlements

"The GeneraL Assenbly,

iRecalling its resolution 32/L62 of 19 Decembe r L977, by which it
provitled for the establishnent of the Coni[ission on Hunan Settlenents and
specified the duration of the tern of office of nenbers of the comnission'

nRecalling also its decision 38/429 of 19 Decenber 1983 on the
rationalization of the work of lhe second Conmlttee and its resolution
39/I7O B of 17 Decenber 19841 in whlch it requireil the Connission to consialer
ailopting a biennial cycle of sessions,

nNoting with satisfaction Conrnlssion on Human settlements resolution 8,/1
of I0 May 1985 on a biennial cycle of sessions for the conmission, 3/

"Having considered the recomnendation of the Comnisslon that the duration
of the term of office of the nenbers of the conmission should be changed fron
three to four years in recognition of the change to a bienhial cycle of
sessions,

nI. welcomes the decision of the @nnission that, beginning in 1987, itE
sessions eilt, on an experirnental basis, be held only in odd-nunbered years, :./

U &i!.. r annex I, resolution 8/I, para. 5.
y f!!1., resolution 8/1, para. 1.



A/40/989/!d,d.7
Engllsh
Page 5

shorter
to the
ceneral
1987r

Endorses the decision of the Coffnission to hold a special session of
duration in 1988 devoted exclusively to ensuring effective follot -up

"3. Decides that, beginning with lhe terns of office conmencing on
1 January 1987, rnembership in the comrnl ss ion on Hunan settlements lrill be for
a tern of four years instead of three.

"World Sabitat Day

"The ceneral Assenbly,

"Recalling Babitats United Nations Conference on Human Settlenents, held
at Vancouver, Canada, in 1976, r{hich narked the fornal beginning of lhe
concerted efforts of the internatlonal conmunity to protnoce human settlenents
development on a sustaj.ned and i nst itutionali zed basis,

"Noting wlth satisfaction the actions baken by covernnenes antt by the
Secretary-General to inplenent the reconmendations of the Conference,

"Also notlnq with satisfaction the accomplishnents in this context of the
Commissi.on on llunan Settleflrents and lhe United Nations Centre for Hunan
Settlenents (Habitat),

"convinced of the need to provide an annual occasion for the
internatlonal conmunity to focus lts attention on the plight of the millions
of people lhroughout the vJorld who do not have adequate shelter,

tDeciales, in conuneforation of the tenth anniversary in 19g6 of Habitat:
united Nacions conference on rluman settlenents, to designate the first Monalay
of October of every year as tworld Habitat Dayr.

Internalional Year of shelter for the ltoneless !11 v}.ict,, pursuant toAssenbly resolution 37 /ZzL oE 20 December 1992, wiLl be observed in

29th neeting, on I November, the representative of lhe Netherlands
a draff resolution (A/C.2/4O/t .25) entitled "Co-ordination of hunan
progranrnes within the United Nations systern", sponsored by Jamaica,

Netherlands and sri Lanka, subseguently joined by the cambia. Thi draft
read as foLlows:

i.1. At the
introduced
sett.lements
Kenva, the
resolution

"The ceneral Assembly,

"Reca1ling its resolution 39/l7O B of l? Decemb€r 19g4, in lrhich it
nelcomed the intention of the secretary-cener ar to revlew in the near future
the existing arrangements regarding che participation of the United Nations
Centre for Hurnan Settlements (Habitat) in the work of the Mninistratlve

3./ -I_1,, resolutton 8/L, pa!a. 2.



^/ 
40 /989 /elj'd.'1

Engl ish
Page 6

comnittee on co-ordination in the light of the centrera nqlaate ana
respons ibili t ies and the relevant General Assenbly resol-titions and requested
the sec retary-General to rePort to it at its fortietsh session on the
inplernentation of its resolutions on this que3tlon' taking lnto account the
pertinent conments of the Committee for Programne and Co-ordination a! its
t$enty-fourth session. !r/

"Noting the view of the commisslon on Eunan settlenents, exPressed in its
resoLution 8/L3 of I May 1985, that only full and equal nembership in the
Administrative cor nitcee on co-ordination will enable the centre to discharge
properly ica rnandater .as contained in Generat Assenbly resolution 32/162 oE'
19 Decenb€r L977. 9/

iHaving considered the rePort of the Sec retary-Gene ral concerning the
co-ordination of hurnan settlelEnts Programmes within lhe Unlted Nations
system, prepared in response to General Assenbly resolution 39/L7O. Ll

welcomes the efforts of the secretary-General to enhance and
optinize the existing arrangements for co-ordination in the field of human
settlenents nithin the Uniteal Natlons systent

"2. concurs with the view expreesed in resolutlon 8/L3 of the conmission
on Hunan settlenents that only ful1 and equal nenbership in the Adtrinistrative
Coflmittee on Co-ordination wiLl enable the united Nations Centre for Fuman
settlenents (Habitat) to alischarge P(oPerly its mandale' as contained in
G€neral Assembly resolution 32/L62 ot 19 December l-9771

"3. Reduests the secretary-General, in the light of the foregoing, to
hold further consuttationE vrith the nenbers of the Adrninistratlve @nnittee on
Co-ordination, bearing in mind the requirenents of General Assenbly
resolutions 35/77 C of 5 December I98O and 37 /223 C of 20 Decenbe r 1982, as
well as considerations regarding the foll.ow-up of the cross-organl zational
Prograflme analysis in human settlernents by the ComnitEee for Progranne and
Co-ordination at iEs t$enty-sixth sesslon' and to rePort to the General
Assenbly at its forty-first session on the results of those consultations.'

12. At the 43ral tneetlng, on 25 llovember ' the Connittee 
haal before it a draft

resoLution (A/C.2/40/L.43) entitled "Human settlementsn' submitted by
Mr. Soemaati Brotodiningrat, Vice-Chairnan of the Comnittee, as a result of inforrnal
consultations held on draft resolut Lons A/C.2/4O/L.24 and 

^/c.2/40/L-25.

y official Records of the General Assenblv, Thirty-ninth session'
Supplenent No. 38 (A/39/38) ' chap. v, sect. 

A.

q lbid., Forti.eth session' supplenent No. 8 (A/10/8 and corr-l), annex r'

u \/40/68e.



A/40/989/ed,4.7
English
page 7

13. At the sane neeting, the CoEunittee adopted draft. resolut ion A/C.Z/40/L.43 (see
para. 1.7, draft resolutlon II)..

14. In the 119ht of the adoptlon of draft resolurion A/C.2/40/L.43, draft
resolutions A/C.z/40/L.24 anA L/C.2/40/L,25 rere Hithdra$n by their sponsors.
15. statements riere made by the representatives of the union of soviet soclaList
RePublics, l.lorway (also on behalf of Dennark, Finland, Iceland and Sneden), the
Uniteal Klngalon of creat Britain and Northern freland, fndia, Canada and sri tanka.

C. Draft resolulion A/C.2/40lL,78
16. At the 47th neeting, on 4 Decenber, the Connittee had before it a draft
resolution (L/C.2/40/L.79) entitled "Co-operatlon betneen lhe Unieed Natlons Centre
for Hunan Settlenents (Habitat) and the United Nations Environnent progranrmeo,
subnltted by the Chairnan of the @rnnittee, Mr. Om6r Birido (Sudan), on the basis
of informal consultations, For action on draft resolution A/C.Z/4O/L.7B, see
document A/4O/999/Add.6 on sub-item 84 (f), entitled "Envlronnentn, (paras. 18-20),

RECOUMANDATIONS OF TIIE SECOND COMMITTEE

17. The second Connittee recomnends to the Ceneral Assembly the adoption of the
follo$ing draft resolutions r

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Living conditlons of the Palestinian people in the occupied
Palestinian terr itories

The General Assenbly,

Recalllng the Vancouver Declaration on Hunan Settlemenes, L976, g/ anA
the relevant recomrEndations for national actr.on 9/ adopled by Habitat:
United Nations Conference on lluman Seltl€nents,

Recalling also its resolutlon 39/L69 of l7 Decenber 1984.

Taking note of Comnlssion on Hunan Settlenents resolution 8/3 of
I0 May 1985, !q.,/

g/ Report of Habilatt United Naeions Conference on Hunan Sebtlements,
Vancguver, 3l Mav-l-1 June 1975 (United Nations publlcatlon, Sales !'lo. 8.76.IV.7 and
corrigendun) , chap. f.

9/ Tbtd. ' chaP. 
II.

!9/ See Offlclal Records of the ceneral Assenbly, Fortieth Sesslon,
supplen€nt tlo. I (A/4O/8 and @rr.1), annex f .



^/ 
40/e89 /Add.7

English
Page I

Gravely alarned by the contlnuatio,n of the Israeli settlement policies'
which have been declared null and vold and a major obslacle to peace,

Recognizing the need to idenfify priority development projects needed for
inproving the living conalitions of the Palestinian people in the occupiec
Palestinian !erritories,

1. Takes note irith concern of the report of the Secretary-Gene ral on
the living conditions of ehe Palestinian PeoPle in the occupied Palescinian
territories, !t/

2. Takes nole also of the statenent nade on 25 October 1985 by the
observer of the Palestine Liberation organizationt 12,/

3. Rejects the Israeli plans and actlons lntended to change the
demographic composition of the occupied Palestinian territoriear particularly
the increase and expansion of the Israeli settlenents, and other plans and
actions creating conditlons leadlng to the displacenent and exodus of
Palestinians fron the occupied Palestinian territorlest

4. Expresses its alarn at the deterioration, as a result of the Israeli
occupation, in the Uving conditions of the Palestinian people in the
Palestinian terri.tories occupied since 19671

5. Affirms that the Israell occupation is contradictory to bhe baslc
requirenenls for the social and econonic develoPment of the Palestinian People
in the occupied Palestinian terrltoriest

5. Requests the Secretary-General t

(a) To organize, by April 1987, a eeninar on priority developflrent
projects needed for improving the living conditl.ons of the Paleseinian people
in the occupieal Palestinian terrltories, lncluding a comprehensive general
housing programne, as recomnended in resolulion g/3 of LO llay 1985 of the
Commission on Hunan Settlenents t

(b) To make the necessary preparations
the participation of the Palestine Liberation

(c) To invite experts to present papers

for the seminar, providing for
organization,

to the seninar,

(d) To invite aLso relevant inte rgovernnental and non-governmenlal
organizations I

L/ ^/40/173-E/L985/99.
W otficiaL

@mtittee, 14
of



Report of the Corunlssion on Human Settlements
The ceneral Assenbly,

_ f!"lrl g its re8otutions 3201 (s-w) and 3zo2 (s-Vr) of I May 1924,containing the Declaration and the progranne of Action on the Establishment ofa Nee International Economtc Orderl 328I (XXIX) of 12 Decenbe r Lgll,
containing the Charter of Bcononic Rights anal Duties of States, and
3362 (S-VII) of 16 September I9?5 on development and internatlonal econonic
co-ope ration,

. .Recalling also its resolutions 3Z/L6Z of 19 December 1977 oninstitutional arrangetEnts for internat.ional co-operation in the fleld of
human settlenents and 341116 0f 14 Decenbe r lg79 0n the strengthening of hunansettLenents activltles,

- Conscious of the very substantial gap betrreen the resources availablethiough voluntary contributlons to the united Nations Centre for ttunansettlenents (Babitat) and the needs of developlng countries requesbing
assistance from the centre,

Havinq considered the report of the Comrnission on Human Settlenents on
che vork of its eighth session, I3,/

r. Takes note of the report of the conmissron on lrunan settlements onthe eork of lts eighth sessiont

ano rrs secretariat, the unlted Nations centre for lIunan settlements(Habltat) r have continued to nake in provicring guidance and assistance tc
Governments ln their efforts to provltte adequate sheLter and services to their
People, particularLy the poor anil il isaclvantaged I

13./

L/ 40 / 989 /Add . 7
English
Page 9

(e) To report to the ceneral A6senbly at its forty-first session,
through the Econonic and SociaL @uncil, oi.r th" p..pr.ations for the seminan

(f) lb report to the ceneral Assernbly at ibs forty-second session,
through the Econonic anil Social @uncil, o-n the seninar.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Eutnan settletrrents

No. e (4,/40,/8 and Corr.l).



A/40/989/Ada.7
Engllsh
Page 10

3. calls utlon all Governments to accord the reguielte llioritY in their
developnent and develoPnent assistance programt0es ho human aettlements
activilies as a proved meana of Pronoting econornic and social develoPnent' aa
well as to the fair distsribution of the beneflts of such develoPmenc to all
segnents of the populat ion t

4. Takes note of resolutlon 8/LZ of I May 1985 of the @nnisgion on
aurna.r s.ttffiET-r,re.ts 4/ and, in that conbexE' urges the international comnunity'
includlng nultitatEial instltutlons and aqencies, to consider, as aPproPr iaEe,
nore flexible sbrategies in lencling for human settlements Projects and
pr09rarmes,

5. Commends those Gover rents and others that have nade voluntary
financlal contributions co the United Nations Habitat and Hunan settlenents
Foundation, particularly those that have done 9o on a regular basis' and
aPPeals to those that have not contributed to do so at the earliest
opportunity t

6. Decides, in accordance with resolution 8/4 of I May 1985 of the
conrnission on Human settlenEnts, !1,/ to designate the first Monilay of october
of every year as nworld HAaITAT Day'.

The General Assembly,

Recalllng lts resolution 32/L62 of 19 Decenb€ t ]-977. by which it provided
for the establishnent of the conmisglon on Euman settlenents and speclfied the
duratlon of the terrn of office of membe rs of the Connisslon'

Recalling a15o lts tleclsion 38/429 of 19 December 1983 on the
rationalization of the i{ork of the Second Comrnittee and its resolutlon
3g/:-7} B of 17 Decenb€! 1984' ln which lt require'l the @nnission to consider
adopting a biennial cycle of ses31on3,

Noting with sacisfaction cmnrigslon on Euman sethlemenls regolution 8/l
on a @s for the connisslon, l1l

Baving considered the recommendation of the Connission that the duration
of the tern of offlce of the rnenbe rs of the coruuiEslon shoulat be changed from
lhree to four yeaEs in recognition of the change !o a biennial cycle of
sessions,

4/
E/

Ibid. , annex I,

E!9., annex r,

6ect. I, A.

resolution 8/1, Para. 5.



A/40/989/Add.7
English
Page 11

l. weLcones the decision of the Conmission that, beginning in 1987, its
sessions nill, on an experimental basis, be held only in odd-nunbered
yea rs t

shorter
to the
General
1987r

Endorses the decision of the Commission to hold a special session of

y/

duration ln 1988 devoled exclusively to ensuring effective follow-up
fnternational- Year of Shetter for the Iloneless 1/ which, pursuant to
Assenbly resolution 3'7 /22I of 20 December l9821*wilf be observed in

I
a

3. Decldes that, beginning with the terns of office comrnencing on
January I98?, membership in the Conmission on Human Settlements will be for
term of four years instead of three.

Havinq considered the report of the Secreta ry-ceneral concerning the
consideration of human settlement.s programmes within the United Nations
sYsten, L8,/

Taking note of the vies expressed in resolution B/L3 of 8 !4ay 1985 of the
Commj.ssion on lluman Settlenents on co-ordination, L4/

Requests the Secreta ry-G€neral to ensure effective participation of the
United NaCions Centre for Euman Settlenents (Habitat) in Ehe work of the
Administrative Conunittee on Co-ordination and its subsidiary nachinery
relevant to its nandate, as contained in General AssembLy resolucion 32/L62 af
19 Decenber 1977 and taking inCo account ceneral Assenbty resolutions 32lL97
of 20 Decenbe E L977, 35/77 C of 5 Decenber t9B0 and 37 /223 e of
20 Decembe r 1982, and to keep the natter under review for congideration by the
Economic and Social Council a! lts secontl regular session in 198? on the
inPlenentation of the present resolution, taking into consideration the
foltow-up of the cross-organizational progranne analysis in human settlements
by the Corunittee on programme and Co-ordination.

L6/

L7-/

u./

Ibid. , para.

@'r Para '
A,/40/689.

I.




