








































UNITED
NATIONS

General Aseembly

GENERAL

A/40/LoOO
6 December f 985

ORIGfNAL: ENGI,fSH

INTRODUCTION

I. Tbe iten entilled "Draft Code of Offences against the Peace and Security of
Mankindr report of the Sec r etary-Cene ra 1rr was lncluded in the provisiona]. agenda
of the fortieth sessj.on of the ceneral Assernbly pursuant to paragraph 3 of General
Assembty resolution 39/80.of t3 December 1984.

2. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 Septernber 1985, the ceneral Assembly. on the
recorunendation of the GeneraL Cornmittee. decided to include the iten in its agenda
and to allocate it to the Sixth Cornrn ittee.

3. fn connection with the item. the Sixth Connittee had before it the report of
the International Law Conunission on the work of its thirty-seventh session 1/
(paras. I1-101) and the report of the Sec r etary-cene ra f (A/40/45I and Add.1-3)
subnitted pursuant to paragraph 2 of resolution 39/80, containing comnents and
observations submitted by Member States under the sarne paragraph.

Fortieth session
Agenda item 133

DRAFT CODE OF OFFENCES AGAINST THE PEACE AND SECURITY
OF MANKIND

Repor! of the Sixth Corunittee

Rapporleur: Molefi PHOI-O (Lesotho)

I.

The Conunittee also bad before it the following docunentsi

(a) Letters dated 2L May and 2t October 1985 from the permanent
Representative of Democratic Xampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-ceneral (A/4 0/3 31-S/I7 2O9 and e/40/786-5/t7584\',

-V 
official Records of the ceneral Asse.b@

No. 10 (A/40/r0).

85-36692 46srP (E)



A/40/rooo
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 20 November 1985 fron the Permanent Representative of Oman
to the united Nations addressed to the Secr etary-General lA/ 40 /9LL-S/L1 644) '

5. The Sixth Conmittee considered the item at its 23rd to 36th and 50th neetinqs'
held between 28 october and 12 November and on 2 December 1985' The sunnary
records of those meetings (A/C.6/40/5R.23-36 and 50) contain the views of
representatives vrho spoke during the consideration of the iten'

II' CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.6/40/L.L5

6. At the 44th neeting' on 21 November 1985' the representative of Egypt
introduced a draft resolution lA/C.6/40/L.L5) sponsored by Algeria' Angola. Ber.rin.
Bolivia, Ehe congo, cuba, EgyPt, Equatorial. Gu-ipg?r Gqbon, :!: -grry+:+1=**F6F.'EIiE, x"r,@ t. lpei""s. . poFlg' -Qeta!.' BgalgS'
Senegal. Sierra Leone, the sudan, Tha
zambia. later joined bY Cvprus.

1. At its 50th rneeting. on 2 December, the corunittee adopted draft resolution
A/c.6/4o/L.fi by a recorded vote of 98 to 6, h'ith I abstentions' The voEing was as
as folloh,s:2,/

In favour 3

Aga inst:

Abslainj.ng:

? / ,taha r anrasan I'a t ives1/
their deLegation been Pr esent
tbe draft resolut ion.

Tuni s ia et Narn, zaire and

of Burkina Faso and Denosratic Yenen stated that' had
during the voting, they would have voted in favour of

T

Afghanistan, Algeria' Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria'
Bahrain, Bangladesh' Benin' Bolivia. Brazil' Brunei Darussalam'
Bul-garia, Burundi, Byelorussian soviet Sociafist Republic,
Caneroon, cenlral African Republic' Chadr China, Colonbia' Congo'
Costa Rica' Cuba, cyPrus, czechoslovakiaT Denocratic Kampuchea'
Dennark' Djibouti, Ecuador' Egypt' Equatorial Guinea, EthioPia'
Finland, cabon, German Denocratic Republic, Greece' Guyana '
Hungary, Iceland, India' Indonesia, Iran (Islanic Republic of) '
Iraq, Ireland, Ivory Coast (C6te d'Ivoire), Jordan' Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao Peoplers Denocra!ic Republic, Lesotho' Liberia'
Libyan Arab Jarnahiriya, Madagascar. Malaysia, Maldives, I"lali,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Ne\"' zealand'
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Noreay, onan, Pakistan, Panana' Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Oatar' Ronania, R$,anda, Saudi Arabia'
Senegal, Sri Lanka, Sudan. swaziland' Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia' Uganda'
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic' Union of Soviet Socialist
Republ j.cs. United Arab Enirates, United RePublic of Tanzania'
Uruguay' venezuela, Viet Nan. Yenenr Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia'

ChiLe, France, Gernany, Federal Repubtic of' Israel, United
Kingdon of Great Britain and Norchern lreland, United States of
Aner ica.

Belglumr Canada. Italy' Japan, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain'
Tur key.



A/40/r000
Engl i.sh
Page 3

8. Statenents in explanation of vote before the vote were made by the
represenCatives of the United Kingdon, portugal, the United States, France, Israel,
Australia' Norway (on behalf of the five Nordic countries) , Iretand, Turkey, Italy
and Chile. Statements in expJ-anation of vote after the vote were nade by the
representatives of Spain and the Federal Republic of cernany.

III. RECOr',$,IENDATION OF THE SIXTH COI,,IMITTEE

9. The Sixth Connittee reconrnends Eo the ceneral Assemblv the adoption of the
folloning draft resolution!

Drafg Code of Offences against the peace and Security
of Mankind

The General Assernbly,

Mindful of Article l-3, paragraph I q, of the Charter of the United
Nations, which provides that the ceneral Assenbly shall initiate studies and
make reconmendations for the purpose of encouraging the progressive
develognent of international law and its codification,

Recatling its resolution t7? (rr) of 2l Novembe r 1947. by which it
directed the International Lalr Conunission to prepare a draft code of offences
against the peace and security of nankind,

I{aving considered the draft Code of Offences against the Peace and
Security of Mankind prepared by the International La!, Corunission and subnitted
to the ceneral Assembly i,n 1954, !/

Recalling its belief that the elaboration of a code of offences againsc
Ehe peace and security of mankind could contribute to strengthening
international peace and security and thus to promoting and inplenenting the
purposes and principles set forth in the Charter of the United Nations,

Recalling also its resolution 36,/106 of l0 December 1981, in which i!
inviled the International Law Comrnission to resune its work with a view to
elaborating the draft Code and to exanine it 'rith the required priority inorder to review it, taking into account the results achieved by the process of
the progressive development of international lalr.

Bearing in mind that the rnternational Law commission should fulfil its
task on the basis of earlv elaboration of draft articles thereof,

2/ Offici.al Records of the ceneral Assenbly, Nineh Session, Supplenent No. 9
(A/2693','.



A/40/r0o0
English
Page 4

Having considered chapter II of the report of lhe rnternational Law
connission on the work of its thircy-seventh session' 4/ in particular
paragraph 43 of the report' containing the outline proPosed by the special
Rapporteur to the future code, and paragraphs 99, I00 and 10I of the report'
containing the conclusions of ils discussionsf

Taking note of the report of the secreta ry-Gene ral on the topic' !'/

Taking into account the vie\^ts expressed during the debate on ttlis item at
the current ses sion,

Recognizing the imPortance and the urgency of the subject'

l. rnvites the rnternational Law connission to continue its h'ork on the
elaboration of the dratt Code of offences against the Peace and Security of
Mankind by elaboratrng an introduction as r',ell as a list of the offences'
taking into account the progress nade at its chirty-seventh session' as well
as the views expressed Ouring ttte fortieth session of the General Assemblyt

2. Requests the secretary-Gene ral to seek the views of Menber states
and inte rgovernmental organizat-ions regarding the outline proposed by the
special Rapporteur to tni future Code contained in paragraph 43 of-the report
of the Ineernational Law connission on the work of its thircy-seventn
session' 4/ along vrith lhe conclusions contained in paragraphs 99t 100 and I01
of the said rePor t t

3. Further requests the Secretary-Gene ra1 to include the views received
fron Iitenber stales and l-Irtergove rnmental organizations in accordance with
paragraph 2 above ,., u ,"porl to be presented to the General Assembly at its
forty-fj.rst sesslon with a view to adopting. at Ehe appropriate time' the
necessary decision thereon i

4. Decides to include in the provisional aqenda tl i:= I:1!1-:1:t'
session the item entitled "Draft code of offences against the Peace anq
security of Mankind"' to be considered in conjunction with the examination of
Che report of the International Law Comnission'

rbid . , Fortieth session, Supplenent No. 10 (A/40/L0', 'A/

t/ A/4O/451 and Add. l-3 .


