








































UNITED
NATlOl,lS

General Aseembly Distr.
GENERAL

A/ 4O/885
l5 Novernber 19 85

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Fortieth sesslon
Agenda items lll and 12

IMPLEI4EN?ATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE
TO COLONIAL COUNTRES AND PEOPLES BY THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND
THE INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ASSOCIATED ITITH TTTE UNITED NATIONS

RIPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Fourth Conrnittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Stefano STEFANINI (Italy)

I. INTRODUCTION

l. At its 3rd plenary rneeting, on 20 Septenber 1985, the General Assembly' on the
reconmendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the aqenda of its
fortieEh session the followinq items:

"I11. Inplementation of lbe Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
colonial Countries and Peoples by the special.ized agencies and the
international institutions associated with the united Nacions!

"(a) Report of the Special Cornnietee on the Situation eith reqard to the
Inplementaton of the Declarati.on on the Grantlng of Independence to
Coloni-al Countr ies and Peoplesi

" (b) Report of the secretary-Genera1.'

"12. Report of the Economic and social Council."

At the same neeting. the Assernbly decided to allocate to the Fourth Comnittee
agenda iten lll, together ltith chapters I and VI (sect. E) of tbe report of the
Econonic and Social council, which relate to the item (A/4o/31 - l/

!/ The final report Idlll be issued as Otficial Records of the General
A;senbly. Fortieth session. supplement No. 3 (A/4o/3/Rev-ll .

85-32740 I515p (E)



A/40 /845
English
Paqe 2

2. At it.s 2nd meeting, on 23 September, the Fourtb Connittee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda i.tems 18, I09, l1l and 12, lI2 and Il3, on the
understandinq that individual proposals on naCters covered by those iterns would be
considered separately. The Conmittee beld the generaf debate on these itens at its
12th and 15th to lgth meetings, beCueen 31 October and Z Novenber.

3. The Fourth Connittee considered itens lll and 12 at its llth, l2th and l5th to
20th meetings, betl,een 30 October and I Novenber (see A/C.4/40lSR.lf, lZ and 15-20) -

4. At the lltb neetinq, on 30 October. the Rapporteur of the Special Connittee on
the Situation with regard to the Inplementation of the Declaration on the crantinq
of Independence to Colonial Countries and peoples Dade a statement in lrhich he gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Conrnittee during 1985 and drerd
attention to chapter VII of the report of that Comnittee relating to i,tem 111
(L/40/23 (part v)) 2/ containing. inter alia, the related draft resolution
subrnitted by that Cornnittee for the consideration of the Fourth Committee.

5. During its consideralion of the iten, the F6urth Comnittee had before it the
report of the Secr etary-General subDitted in pursuance of paragraph 26 of General
Assenbly resolution 39/43 ot 5 December 1984 (A,/40,/3Ig and Add.l).

6. On 7 November, Israel submitted an anendment (A/C.4/40/L.I3) to the draft
resolution contained in chapter VII, paragrapb IG, of docunent A/4O/23 (part V), by
which, in the eiqhth preambular paragraph. the erords ',and Israeln irould be deleted,

7. At the 20th meeting. on g November, Ehe representative of Israel introduced
the amendnent referred to in paragrapi 6 (A/C.4/4O/L.L3I .

8. At the same neeting, the Fourth Comnittee voted on the draft proDosals as
fol lous:

(a) The anendnent by Israel uas reJected by a recorded vote ot 77 to 40,
with 26 abstenCions. tr/ The voting was as tollops: ly

Z/ To be incorporat.ed in Official Records of lhe ceneral Assemblv. Fortieth
..qe'ssLo-.!r _qupplenenC No. 23 (A/40/231 .

!/ subseouentl.v, the de!.eqaCion of Djibouti
had it been present at the time of the voting, it
anendnent.

!/ Statements in expl.anation of vote h,ere nade by the representatives of the
follot{,ing !4ember.States: AustraLia. Canada, Chile, Colonbia, France, Greece,
Honduras, fran (Islanic Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Onan,
Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Sueden (on behalf also of Denrnark, Finland,
Iceland and Norl.ay), United Arab Ernirates, United Kingdon of creat Britain and
Northern IreIand, United States of Anerica and Uruquag.

informed the Secretariat that.
rrould have voted aqainst the



In favour t

A/4O/885
8n9l i sh
Page 3

Australla, Austria, gelgiun, Canada, Chile, Colonbla, De rark,
FiJi. Flnland, France, cernany, Federat Republic of, Greece,
Guatenala, Ilonduras, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Liberia, Luxenbourg, dala$i, Nepat, Netberlanda, lilee Zealand,
Noreay, Papua Nee cuinea. paraguay, portugal, Salnt Christopher
and Nevis, Salnt Lucia, Saint Vincent and the crenadines, Sanoa,
Slngapore. Solmon Iglands, Spain, Sea"lland, Sweden, United
Kingdoro of Great Britaln and Northern freland, United States of
Amer ica.

AfghaniBtan, Albania, Algeria, Angol.a, Babrain, Banqladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Botseana, Brunei Daruaaalan, Bulgarla, Burklna
Frao, Burundi, Byelorussian Soeiet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Central Afrlcan Republic, Chlna, Cc||roroB, Conqo, Cuba,
Czechoglovakia, Denocrat ic yenen, Bgypt, Ethiopia, Ganbia, German
Democratic Republic, chana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Hungary, India, Indon€sia, Iran (Islanic Republic of), Ir.q,
Jordan, I(ut'ait, Lao People,s Denocrat.ic Republic, Lebanon,
t esotho, Libyan Arab itanahir iya, a,tadagascar, Irtalaysia, ltaldives,
Ital l, !,taur it.ni!, ltongolla, ltorocco. ai,tozanbique, Nicar.gua,
Niger, Nigerla, Oman, Pakistan, Poland, Qatar, Rranda, Saudl
Arabla, Sierra Leone, So[alia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Republlc, ?ogo, Trinidad and Toblqo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainlan Soviet Socialiat Republic, gnion of Soviet Sodlalist
Republlce, United Arab Enirate€, United Republlc of Tanzania,
Vlet Nan, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zanbia, Zlmbabre.

Antigur and Barbuda, Argentina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazll, Burna,
Cbad. Cyprus, Dorninican Republic, Ecuador, Eauatortal Guinea,
Gabon, Grenada, Haltl. Ivory Coaat, Ja alca, Fenyr, tterlco,
Panana, Peru, Philippines, Surlnane, Thailand, Uruguay.
Venezuela, Za ir e.

Aqa inst:

Abataininq!

(b) The draft resolution contained in docuoent A/4O/23 (part v), chapter VII,
paraqraph 15, ae a ehole. r.aa adopted blr a recorded vote ot Il9 to 3, rlth ZS
abgteneions (aee para. 9). 9/ The votlng traa aa folloDg: g/

2/ The delegatlon6 of cyprus and Kenya inforned the secretariat Ehat their
delegations had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution. The delegatlon
of Djibouti inforrned the secretariat that, bad it been present at the tine ot the
voting, it eould have voted in favour of the atraft resolution.

y statenents ln explanation of vote eere nade by the representativeB of the
follorlng Uember Staees: Auatralia, Canada, Cbile, Colonbia, I'rance, Greece,
Honduras, Iran (Islarhic Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, Onan,
Saudl Arabia, Sj.erra Leone, Sinqapore, Seeden (on behalf also of Dennark, Flnlan.l,
fceland and Noruay). United Arab Enlrates. Untted Kingdon of creat Britain and
Nortbern Ireland, Unlted States of turer ica and Uruguay.



A/40/855
Eng lish
Page 4

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antlgua and Barbuda,
Argentlna, BahaDas, Bahraln, Blnglade6h, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Boll,via. BotEeana, Brasil, Brunel Darussalan, Bulgaria. Burkina
Faao, BuEna, Burundl, gyeloruasian Sovlet Soclalist RePublic'
Carneroon, Cape Verde. Central AfEican Republic, Chaal, ChiIe,
China, Cotombia, Conoroa, Cot|go, Cuba, czechoslovakla, Denocratlc
Kanpuclrea, De$eratic YEEen, Doninican RePublic, Ecuador, Eqypt,
Equatorial Gulnea, Ethlopta, Gabon, Ganbia, German DemocraEic
Republlc. Ghlna, Greece, Grenada, Guatenala, Guinea,
Gutnea-g16Eau, Guyana, tlaitl, Eonduras, Hungary, India,
Indonesla, Iran (IslaEic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kusait, Lao Peoplers Denocratlc Republic, Lebanon' Llberla,
Llbyan Arab JanlhirLya, $ldagascar. uaLaysia, ualdives, uali,
lle!.tco, Hongolia, tlor@co, Itot.nbldue, NepaI, Nlcaragua, N19er,
Nigerla, ftian, Pakl3tan, Panrna, Papua Neu Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippinea, Poland, Qatar, Rofr.ni!, Rsanda, Saint
Christopher and Nevle. Saint Lucia, Salnt Vincent and the
Grenadinea, sano!. sao Tqre and Prlncipe, Saudl Arabia, sierra
Leone, SilEapore, Solmon ltlandg, Sooalla, Srl Lanka, Sudanl
surinane, Slrsalland, Slrrlan AEab Republlc, Thalland, Togo,
Trlnidad and Tobago, Tunleia, Turkey, Uqanda, Ukrainian Soviet
Soclal.lst Republlc, Union of sovtet Socialist RePublica, United
Arab EBirates, Unlted Republic of Tanz.nia, Uruguay, venezuela,
Vlet Nan, Yenen, Yugoslavia, zaire, zanbia, zlnbabne.

Isreel, United Klngddo of Great Britlin and Northern Ireland'
United states of An€r ica.

Aga inst 3

Abstainl.nq: Auetralla, Austria, Belgiun, Canada, Cyprus, Denmark, Piji,
Fln1and, France, Gernany, Federal Republic of, Iceland' Ireland,
Italy, Ivory Coast, Japan, Kenya, LeBotho, l,uxenbourg, !'talaei,
Netherlands, Nee Zeal.and, Norxty, Portuqal, Spain, Srdeden.

RECOI{!,TENDAIION OF tHE FOORTts @IIIiIITEE

9. The Fourth Cd[ni.ttee recmnenda to the General Assenbly the aatoptton of the
follorlng draft r esolut ion:

The General Assenbly,

Ilaving eraolned the tten entltled ilnplenentatlon of the Decl.ration on
the Grantlng of Independence to colonlal Countries and PeoPles by the
speclalized agencles and the internattonal lnstitutiona associated nith th€
United Nations" ,

InpleneDlatlon of the Declatrtlon on the G!antlnq of Independence



A/40/8Ss
Bng Ii sh
Page 5

necallinq the Declaration on the Grantlng of Irdepcndence to Colonial
Countries rnd Peoples, contalned ln lts resolutlon 1514 (XV) of
14 December 1950, a nal the Plan of Actlon for the Full Iloplenentation of the
Declaration. contalned i.n the ann_er to its resolutlon 35/118 of
11 Decenber 1980, as rell ag all other relevant reaolutions aalopteal by the
General Assenbly on tbis Eubject, inclualing in parttcular resolution 39/43 ot
5 Decenber 19 84,

Ilavinq exaolned the reportg subnitted on the lten by the
secretary-Gener aL. 7/ the Econonlc and soclal Council 8/ anal the SPecial-
Conmittee on the Situation sith regard to the Inplenentatlon of the
Declaratlon on the Grantlng ot Inatepenalence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples,9/

Recallinq also its resolutlons Es-8/2 of 14 septenber l98l and 39,/50
of l2 Decenber 1984 on the questlon ot NamLbia,

Takinq into account the relevant prontslons of che Parls Declaration on
Nanibia and the Pf,ograrune of, Actlon on Nanibia, l0l aalopted at the
Internatlonal Conference ln Support of the Struggle of the Naalbian People for
Independence, and the Decllrrtion .nd Progr anne of Actlon aalopteal by the
Onited Nationa council for Nanibla at lts e:.traordinary plenary neetlnqs held
at Vienna fron 3 to ? June 1985, lll

Bearinq in nlnd the reletrane F,rovislons of the Polltical Declaratlon
adopted by the Seeenth Conference of Head6 of State or Governnent of
Non-Allgoed Countries, helal at Nee Delhi fron 7 to 12 !.t8rch f983, !,/ the
Flnal Docunent of the E:rtraordlnlry nlnlsterial !,teetin9 of the Co-ordinating
Bureau of Non-Allgned Countrlea on the questlon of Nafilbia, held at Nes Delhi
fron 19 to 2I Aprll f985, U/ and other docunents of the Crordlnating Bureau,

7/ A/40/3LS anal A.td.1.

A/4O/3. chaps. I and VI.

A/AC. 109/L. r558.

9/

v

Palt three.

!/
L2/

E/

A/4O/375-s/17?62, annex.

A/38/L32-S/ 1567 5

A/ro/3o7 -8/L7r84

and Corr.l and 2, anne*, sect. I'

Corr. l, annex.and



A/40 /885
English
Page 6

3gggg ttrat the strugqle of the pe@le of Naribia for ael f-dete rmlnat lon
and lDalependence ia in its cruclal stage and haa sharpLy lntensif ieat as a
conaesuedce of the etepped-up aggression o€ the illegar colonlallst r69ime of
Pretoria agalnst the people of the Trrrltory and the increased general aupport
rendered to that regine uy certaln grestern countriss, and the so-callea! poltcy
of constructlve engagenent, coupleal eith efforts to deprive the NaDibian
people of their hard-eon vlctorres ln the llberation struggle, arat that it ls
therefore tncuobent upon the entire international conmunlty decisively to
lntensify concerted action ln aupport of the people of Naetbi6 and their sole
anal authentic representatlve, the soueh $eat Africa peoplers organization, for
the attalnnent of thelr goal,

- Con€erned that the pollcy of "constructive engagenent" ri.th the apartheldr6glne of South Afrlca, linkeat pith the econornic and ,lilitary collaboratlon
malntained by scrDe nestern countrles and Israel elth pretorlr, has only
encouraged ald strenqtbened the racl3t r€giDe ln its contlnued lllegal
occupation and nasaive ollttarizatlon 6nd erploltatlon of Nanibia in vlolation
of the relevant reaolutions and aleclslons of the United Nationa,

Gratrelv concerned at th,.. contlnueat iDperiallst and neo-colonlalist
support for south Africais oppreaEive and aggressive pollcies in Na$ibia andeith re€pect to tndependent States in eouthern Africa, in particular the
front-line statea, as ere8pl if ied by the dlscuaElons .nd reaolutlons of the
Security Counci l.

conscioua of t.he uorseninq of the situatlon in southern Africa because of
south Afrlcars raciet pollctes of oppresgion, aggresslon and ecupation uhlch
conatltute a clear threat to soEld peace and security,

Deeplv consclous of the contlnuing critlcal need of the Nanlbian people
and their national liberation oovement, the South nest Afrlca people.a
org.nization, anal of the peoples ot other colonial rerritoriea for concrete
aaslstance froo the apeciallzed agenclea and other organi,r€tions ot the unlted
Natlon6 systen tn their struggte for liberation froo coronlal rule and in
thelr efforts to rchieve and consolidate their national lndependence,

Deeplv concerned that, alebough there hag been progresa in the extenslon
of assi'stance to refugees froo Nlnibia, the action taken hltherto by the
organizations concerned in proviaung assi,atance to the people of the terrltory
through their natlooal. liberatlon t"orrgrent, the south ne6c Africa peopLera
organization, stlll reDal.ns Lnadequrte to neet the urgent and grorlng needa ot
the Narlblan people,

Reaftlrmino the rcsponElbllity of the specialized agenclea and other
organlzatlons of the unlted Natlons systen to take all the necesaary nea8ures,
elthin thetr respective apberee of ccmpetence, to enaure the foll and speealy
inplenentatlon of the Declsrrtlon on the crantlnq of rr*lependence to colonlar
countries and Peoples and other relevant resorutlo''s of the united Natlons,particularly those relseifq to the provision of noral and naterlal asstEtlnce,
on a priority basia, to the peoples of the colonlal terrltorles and thelr
national Ilberaeion $ovenents,



A/40/885
Engl,i sh
Page 7

Expres3im its flrn belief that cloEer contacta and consultatlonE betceen
the specialized agenciea and other organizationE of the united Nlt ion6 sy8teo
on the one harld and the Organiratlon of African Unity and the South $est
Africa Peoplers Organizatloh on the other nlll help those agenciea and
orqanlzation3 to overcone procedural. and othar dlfflculties $htch have tnpeded
or delayed the ilplenentation Of adte asslstanCe progrannes,

Recallim itB reEolutlon 39/50 C of 12 DeceDber 1984 reoueeting all
sPecialized agencie6 and other organizatlona and conferencea of the United
Natlons system to grant full neDbership to the Uniteal Nations Council for
Nanibia as the legal Adrlnistering Authorlty for Nanibia,

Erpregglnq itE appreclation to the General Secretariat of the
Organizatlon of African Unlty for the continued ceoperatlon and agalgtarEe
ertended by tt to the speclalized agencles and other organizatlons of the
united Naeions system in connectlon $ith the inpreoentatlon of the relevant
resolutlone of tbe Unlteal Natlons,

Expressinq its apprecialio! qlBo to the GoverntDent.s of the tront-llne
Statea for the steadfast aupport e:.tended to the people of Nanibia and thetr
national liberation novenent, tbe South nest Africa peoplers Organization, ln
Eheir just anal legltinate 6tru9g!.e for the attainnent of freedon and
indePendence despite increaaed arned athacks by the forces of the raclst
r6glme of South Africr, and arare of the parttcular needb of thoae Govsrn|trents
for asslstance in that connectlon,

Connend inq the continued aubgtantial contr lbution of the Unlteal Nationg
Educational, Sclentiflc and Cultural Orglnizatlon to the inplenentation of the
Declaratlon on the Grantlng of Independence to Colonial Countries and peoplea
and the effective support it provides to the llberatton novemenE8 in educrtlng
the populationa of colonlal Territories concerning self-determlnatlon and
tndependence,

' Notinq the Eupport glven ty the specialised agenclea and other
organiaatlons of the Unlteat Natlona syster0 to the ioplerentatlon of the
Nationbood progranne for Nanibia, in accordance eith ceneral Assenbl,v
resolution 32/9 A of 4 Novenber. 1977,

Deplorlnq the continued links rith and assistance rendered to South
Africa b,!, certaln speciali.zed agencies in the flnancial, economic, technical
and other fields in contraventlon of the relevant resolutions of the Unlted
Nation8, thus enhanclng neo-colonlallst practtceE ln the systen of
lnCernatlonal r elae ions,

Gravelv concerned at the continued collabgratlon beteeen the
International l4onetary Fund and the Government of South Afrtca tn dlsregard of
relevant General Assenbly resolutiong, in particular reaolution 37/2 ot
2l October 1982,



A/40/885
En9l. ish
Page I

l4i.ndf uI of the ifperatiee need to keep under continuoug reeiee tbe
actieitles of the specialized agencies and other organlzations of the United
Nations system in tbe iEpletuentation of the l'arious Ubited Nations decisioos
relat irtg to decoloni, zation,

Bearinq in nind the ifiportance ot the activities of non-gover nnenEa I
organizations ained at putting an end to the asslstance ehlch is still being
rendered to South Afrlca by sqne Bpecialized agencies and taklnq into account
the consultatlons held by the Speclal Conmlttee t,lth non-governnental
organizati,ons and Che relevant conclugiona and recoomendationg on the senlnars
held by the Speci.al Cortrnittee rith non-governmental. organizations at
Port Moresby and navana, I4,/

1. Approues Ehe chapter of the ieport of the Special Cofifilttee on the
situation $ith regald to the lr@lenentati.on of the Declaration on the Grantlng
of Independence !o Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the suestior\ L5/

2. Reaffirns that the speciatized agencies and other organizations and
institutions of the United Natlons systen should conEinue to be guideal by the
relevant resolutlons of the United Natlons in their efforts to contribute,
wlthin tfreir sphere of compet.ence, to the futl and speedy implenentation of
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, contained in General Assenbly resolution 1514 (xV) t

3. Reatfirms also that the recognition by the €eneral Assenbly. the
Security Council and other Uniteat Nations organs of the legltinacy of the
struqgle of colonial peopleB to ererclse their right to se I f-determination and
independence entails, as a corollary, tbe extenaion by the specialized
agencies and olher organlzation8 of the Uni.teal NEtions systen of all the
necessary noral and nateriaL assistance to those peoples and their national-
I iberation movementsi

4. Expresses it6 appreciation to those specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system whicb baee contlnued to co-operaCe
i.n varying degrees Uith the United Nations and the Organiuation ot African
Unity in tbe irwlenentation of the Declaration and other relevant resolutlong
ot tbe United Nations, and urges all the specialiaed agencies and other
orqanizations of the United Natlons aysten to accelerate the full and speedy
implenentation of the relevanC provisions of those resolutionsi

5, Expresses its concern that the asglstance extended thus far by
certain speciali.red agencies and other orqanizations of the United Nations
system Co the colonial peoples. particularly the people of Nanibia and thelr
nat.ional Iiberation movement. the south $est Africa peoplers organlzation. ig
far fron adequate in retatlon to the actual needs of the peopleg concernedi

!!/ A/4O/23 (part II), chap. II, annex I.

E/ A/4O/23 (Part v) , chap. vII.



A/40/885
Engllsh
Paoe 9

5. Resuests all. specialized agencies and other organizations and bodi.esot the unlted Nation' systen, in accordance wi.th the relevant resolutions of
the Generar Asgenbly and the security councir, to take all neceasary measuresto r{ithbold fron the raciat r69ine of south Africa any form of co-operation
and assistance ln the financial. economic. technical and other f i,elds and to
discontinue all support to that r69ine until the people of Namibia have
exercised fully their inalienable right to se lf-determination, freedotn andnatlonal independence in a united Nanibia and until the inhulnan svstem ot
apartheid baa been totally eradtcatedi

?. ReiteraCes its eoneiction that the specialized ag€ncies and other
organizations and bodies of the united Natlons Evsten should refrain from
taking any action hrhich nlght lnply recognition of, or support for, the
Ieqitlmacy of the donlnation of the Territory of Namibia by t.he racist r6gine
ot South Afr lca t

8. Reerets that the norld Bank and also the rnternationar !4onetary Fun.r
continue to nalntain links sith the racist r6{rine of pretorla, as exenplified
by the continued partlcipation of South Africa ln the work of both agencies,
and e:rpresses the viee that the teo agencies should put an end to atl linkg
rrl th the racisC 169lnei

9. Stronql.y condenns the pergiaten! collaboration beteeen the
International I'toneEary FuDd and €outh Atrlca ln disregard of, repeated
resolut.i.ons to lhe contrary by the ceneral Assenbly, and calls upon the
International Monetary Fund to put an end to such collaboraCion and not to
grant ahy nee loans to the racist r6glme in South Afrlca,

10. Uroes once aqain the eltecutlve head6 ot the lior Id Bank and the
International Monetary Fund to draw the particular attenClon ot their
governlng boali es to t.he prasent resolution rrittr a elen to fornulating specrfic
progrannes beneficial to the peoples of the coronial Terrltori.ee, particularry
Nanibla,

1I. Requests the specialized aqencieE and other organi.zations of the
Unlted Nationg syatem to render or continue to render, as a matter of urgency,all possible noral and naterial assistance to tbe colonlal peoples struglttng
for liberation frm colonial rule, bearing in ,nind that such asslstance should
not only meet their imediate needs but also create conditions for deveLopnent
after tbey have exercised their rlgbt to se I f-determinat ion and independencei

L2. Requests once aqain the speclalized agencies and other organlzations
of the United Nations systen to continue to provide all noral and lnaterial
assigtance to the neely Lndependent and energing states so as to enable chem
to achieve genulne econonic independencei

13. RelterateE it3 reconnendation that the specialized agencies and
other organlzat.ions of the uniced Nations system shourd initlate or broaden
contacts and co-operation $j.th the colonial peoples and their national
liberatlon novernents, directly or, Dhere appropriate, through the Organiration



A/4O/885
English
Page l0

of Afrlcan Unity, and revier and introduce qreater flexibility in their
Procedurea eith reapect to the fornulation and preparation of assistance
proqratunes and proiects ao aa to be able to extenal Ehe necessary assistance
eitbout delay to help Ehe colonial peopleg and thelr natlonal liberation
novenents in their struggle to exerclae thelr lnalienable rlght to
ae lf-deternination and independence ln accordance rrlth General Assembly
resolutlon t5l4 (XV) t

14. Reconnends that a €eparate tten on assistance to national liberatlon
novenents recognlzed by the Organlaatlon of Afrlcrn UniCy should be lncluded
in tbe aqenda of future high-Ievel neetingE beteeen the General Secretarlat of,
the Organlaation of Afrlcan Ontty and the aecretariats of the United Natlong
and other organlzatlons of the United Nation€ sy6teo, eith a ele$ to
Etrength€ni!4 further the existing neaaurea of co-ordination of action to
ensure the best uae of available resources for assiatance eo the peoples of
the colonial Ter r ltor ies t

15. urqes the ap€clallzed agencleg and other organirations of the United
Natione system that have not already done ao to lnclude in tbe agenda of the
regular oeetlnga of their governlng bodleE a separate item on the progresg
they have nade in the irpleEentatlon of the Declaration and the other relevant
resolutiona ot the Unlted Nationst

16. Urqes the specialized agencies and other organizations and
instltutlons of the United Nation3 aysten to extend, as a matter of priority,
substantlal naterial asalslance to the Governoents of the front-line States ln
order to enable t.hen to Bupport nore effectteely the atruggle of the people of
NatDibia for freedo{B and independence and to resist the eiolation of their
territorlal lntecrity by the arned torce€ of the racist r6Kline of south
Afrlca, directly or, aa in Angola and ltoaanbioue, through puppet traitor
qroups in the Eervlce of Pretoriai

17. Notes eith satiBfaction the arrangeoents nade by several apecialized
agencies and other organizrtionB of the Unlteat Nationa aystern Hhich enable
representativea of the national liberation novenents recogntzed by Che
Organlzatlon of African Unity to particlpate fully as observers ln tlre
preeedlnqs relating to natters concernlnq their respective countriea, and
calls upon thoae agencieg and organizations that have not yet done so to
folloe thts eianple and to nake the necessary arrangenents uithout delayi

18. Urqee the epeclallzed agencles and othe! organization€ and
institutions of the Untted Nations system to asaigt in accelerating progreaa
in all aectorE of thq national life of colonial Territories, particularly in
the develoFnent of thbir econontesi

19. Requeats the specializeat agencles to ablde by Security Council
resolution 566 (1985) of 19 June 1989, ln ehich the Council condenned the
racigt r69lne of South Afrlca for ita installatlon of a ao-called interin
goeernnent ln Nanibla and declareat that action to be illegal and null and voidi



A/40/885
Eng Li sh
Paoe ll

20' 
IsgggE-ggg that al.l covernments shoul.d intensify their efforrs inthe speciali.zed agencies and other organizations of the united Nations sysEemof wbich t.hey are menbers to ensure the full and effective inplenentation ofthe Declaration and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations and, intbat connection. shouLd accord priority to the questlon ot providingasslstance on an emerqency basts to the peoples of the colonlal Territoriesand their national liberation novements;

.. -rl -Reiterat.es its proposal, under article III of the Agreenent. beEweenthe United Nations and the International Monetary Fund, 16/ for the urgentinclusion in the agenda of the Board ot covernors of the Fund of an itendealing ldith the relationship beteeen the Fund and South Africa and furtherreiterates ils proposal that, ln pursuance of article II of the Agreenent, therelevant orqans of the United Nations should part.icipate in any neeting of theBoard of Governors called by the Fund for the purpose of allscussing the i,ten,and urqes the Fund to discuss its relationship wrth souttr Africa at its annualrneetj.nq, in cornpliance r,ith the above-nen! ioned Agreernent, and Co report tothe S ecr e tary-cenera I of the United Nations on the actj.on takeni
22. Drar.rs the attention of the specialized agencies and other

organlzations of the united Nations system to the pran of Action for the Fulrrmplementation of the Decraration on the cranting of rndependence to coloniarCountries and Peoples. contained in the annex to General Assenbly resolution35l1f8, in particul.ar to those provisions calling upon Ehe agencies andorqanizations to render all possible noral and naterial assistance to the
Peoples of lhe coloniar rerri,tories and to their national riberation mouenents;

23. Urqes lhe executive heads ot the specialized agencies and otherorgani'zations of the united Nations systeft, having reqard to the provisions ofparaqraphs 13 and 22 above, to tormulate, $itb the active co_operation of t.heOrganization of African Unity uhere appropriate. and to subnit, as a matter ofprrotity, to their gouernlng and leqisLative organs concreLe proposals for thefulr implenentation of' the rereeant united Nations decisions, ln particur.arspecific progranmes of assistance to tbe peoptes of the colonial Territorregand Cheir national liberation movenentsi

24. Resuests the Secretary-General to continue Co assist the specialized
agencies and otber organizations of the united Natlons systen i,n eorkinq outappropriate neasures for imprementing the relevant resolutions of the u;itedNations and to prepare for submission to the relevant bodies, tdith theassistance of those agencies and organizations, a report. on the action takensince tbe circulation of his previous report rn inplenentation of the relevantresolutions, includj.ng tha present resolueioni

@'qv@No. E/F.6I.x.l), p. 6I.
l5l see

catlon. Sales



A/40/ 885
Eng L i st)
Page 12

25. Reouests the Economic and Social council to conlinue !o consider, in
consultation eith the Speclal Conni.ttee on Ehe Situation with regard to lhe
Implenentation of the Declaratlon on the Granting of Tndependence to colonial
Countries and Peoples, appropriate measures for co-ordination of the policies
and activities of the speciatized agencies and other orqanizations of, the
United Nations systen in implementing the relevant resolutions of, the General
Assenbly t

26. Requests the specialized agencies to f,eport periodically to the
S ecr etaEy-Genera I of the United Natlons on their imPlenentation of the Present
r esolut ion i

27. Requests the Special Conrnittee to continue to exanine this question
and to report thereon to the Generat Assembty at it.s forty-flrst session.


