








































UNITED
NATIONS

@)
General Arrcmbly DisEr.

GENERAL

\/40/989/Aad.6
13 Decenber I98 5
EI{GLISII
ORTGINAL: ENGLISH/SPANISH

Fortieth session
Agenda iten 84 (f)

DEVELOPII{E}{T AND IMERNATIONAL ECONOMIC CO-OFERATION:
ENVIRONMEM

Report of the Second Connittee (part VIf)

Rapporteur: Mr. Jorge LAGO-SIwA (Cuba)

I. INTRODUCTION

1, The Second Conunittee held a substantive debate on item 84 (see A/40/989,
Para. 2). AcCion to be taken on sub-it€n (f) was considered at the 22nd, 30th,
34th, 36th, 43rd, 47th, 49th and 50Ch meetings, on I, II, 13, t8 and 25 Novenber
and 4, 9 and 1I Decernber 1985. An account of the Cornnittee's discussion rs
contained ln the relevant sutnrnary records (A/C.Z/40/5R.22, 30. 34? 36,43,47,49
and 50).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.2/40 /L.l6

2. At the 22nd meeting, on 1 Novenber, the representative of the Libyan Arab
.lamahiriya introduced a draft resorution (A/c.2/40/L.r6) entitred "Remnants of war"
sponsored by Afghanistan, Angola, Bahrain, Banglad€sh, Benin, the Conoros,
Denocratic Y bouti the

Malta, Maur i a
Arab the sudan, the syrian

Arab Republic, Tunisla, the Unl Emirat iet
the Lao People I s

3. At the 30th neeting, Ms. Inga Eriksson, vice-Chairman of the Connittee, rnade
statement in which she i.nforned the Conmittee of the outcone of inforrnal
consultations held on the draft resolution.

subsequently joined by Cuba, Equatorial cuinea, the Ganbi
Dernocratic Republic, Lebanon, Mali, Somalit ar.d surinane.

85-37833 4673P (E)



A/40/9e9 /Add.6
EngI ish
Page 2

4. The representative of venezuela made a statenent, in vrhich he ProPosed an
anendment to operative paragtraph 2 of the tlraft resolutlon to insert the word
"developing" between the words raffected" and 'countrlesr.

5. Following a scatement by the representative of the Libyan Arab ilanahiriya, the
representative of venezuela withdrew his proposed anendment.

6. The representative of Egypt made a statement.

7. The representative of Ecuador made a statement, in whicli he reintroduced the
anendment proposed by the representative of venezuela.

8. Following statements by the representatives of Paklstan anil lrag, the
representative of Ecuador withdrew his proposed amendnent.

9. The representative of Argentina made a sbatenentr in ehich he reintroduced the
amendment proposed by the representatives of Venezuela and Ebuador.

lO. Following statements by the represenbatives of lraq, Argentina, AngoLa'
Denocratic Yemen and Pakistan, the representative of the Libyan Arab Janahlrtya, on
behaLf of the sponsors, accepted the anendment proposed by Argentina'

I1. The representative of Italy maale a statement, in $hich he requesEed a recorded
vote on the draft resolution.

12. The Conmittee then adopted draft resolut lon A/C.2/4O/L.16' as orally anended,
by a recorded vote of 1o4 to none, with 22 abstentions (see Para. 31, draft
resolution I), The voting vras as follows: U, U

In favour! Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina' Bahamas,
Bahrain, Banglatlesh, Barbados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burna, Burundir
Byelorussian soviet socialist Republic, Cameroon, central
African Repubtic, chad, chlna, colonbla, cuba' qtPrus,
Czechostovak ia, Denocratic Rampuchea, Democratic Yemen'
Doninican RePubllc, Ecuador, EgltPt ' Equatorial Guinea,Ethiopia, Fiji, Garnbia, Gernan Democratic Repub1lc, chana,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau' Guyana' Honduras, Indiar Indonesia, Iran
(Islanic Republic of)' Iraq, Ivory coast (c6te ilrlvoire),
Janaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, I,ao PeoPle's Denocratic
RePubtic, Lebanon' Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Janahiriya,

!1 The representatives of Benln, Djibouti, Hungary, Renya and PaPua Ne$
Guinea, statetl that' had their delegations been Present at the tittE of the voting,
they wouJ-d have voted in favour of the draft resolutlon.

?/ The representative of Iceland stateal that, had his delegation been
present at the tine of the voting on the draft resolulion, lt would have abstained.



A/40/9ee/Add.6
English
Page 3

I:gaggsc?r, Malawi, Mataysia, Maldives, Mali, Marra,
:::::::.r]1.,-.yexico-. .uonsolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,Nlcaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, pakistan, pana-na, palaguay,
Peru, Phllipplnes, poland 7 eatar, Ronanir, s""Jl Arabia,senegal, sonalia, sri Lanka, sudan, surinane. swaziLand. syrianArab RePublic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago. Tunisia,Turkey, uganda, Ukrainian soviet sociatirt n"piiit", Union ofsoviet.sociatist Republics, United Arab Erniraies, UnitedRepublic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yenen,Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zanbia.
None.

Abstainingr AustraLia, Austria, Belgium, canada, Dennark, Finland. France,Gernany, Federal Republlc of, creece, Ireland, fsrael. ftaly,Japan, tuxenbourg, Netherlands, Nera, zealand, Norway. portugal,Spaln, 
-Sweden, 

United Kingaton of Great eritain and-ttortn.rnfreland, UniCed States of Anerica.
13. Statements after tbe vote were made by the representatives of the UnitedKingdon of creat Britain and Northern rreflnj"iafso on behalf of Italy and theFederal Republic of celnany), the united statei of America, the union of sovietsocialist Republics, the Islanic Republic of iian, chad, srreden, Malta, rndia,Morocco and the Llbyan Arab ,tanahiriya,

Aqa inst:

14. At the 36th
draft resolut ion
Deser t ification n,

B.

Til!i:q:^:l l8 November, the representarive of Niser|A/C.2/40/L.35) entitled ',ptan ;f lction to Cornbat
introduced a

aponsored by Burkina Faso, caPF vgrde,.chad, France, the canbia.
i:l#-1 the x9!.!grlang_9:_ xigEl_Panana, seneqal anE ttre-e unite

Comoro6, Ecuador ana f,ib6?Ti
subsequently joined Uy ttre

?he draft resolution read as follows:

32/L72 of 19 December Lg.t|, by vrhich ir
Combat Desertif ication, frl

"The ceneral Assembly,

"Recalling its resolut ion
approved the plan of Action to

3/ Report of the united Nat ionB
29 August-g septenber l9t7l .7 4/36',t .

ifi



^/ 
40 /989 / Add . 6

English
Page 4

"Recalling also its resolutions 33,/89 of 15 Decenbet L978,34/L84 of
18 December Lg7g,36/LgL of 17 Decenber 198L, 37/270 of 20 Decenber 1982 and
38/l6J ot 19 Decernber 1983, ilealing wifh the imPlernentation and financing of
the Plan of Action to combat Desert if icat ion '

sRecatling further the Declaration on the Critlcal Economic situation in
Itrica, aaoptea Uy ttre ceneral Assenbly in its resolution 39/29 ot
3 Decenbe r 1984,

'rNoting, rith disnay and grave concern, the continulng spread and
intensification of desertificaiion in ileveloping countries, especialty in
Africa, and the grave hunan suffering. economic losses and social dlsruption
causeal by this phenotnenon '

"Having considered the report of the Governing Counci!. of the United
ItacioniEnvironment Prograrntne on the inplementation of the PIan of Action Eo
cornbat DeserEiflcation and decision 13/30 A of 23 May 1985 of the Governing
council on the Plan of Actionr 4,/

"Having also considered the report of the Secretary-General on financing
the Plan of Action to combat Desert if icat ion ' !,/

"1. Takes note of decision L3l30 A of 23 May 1985 of the Governing
council of the united Nations Environmen! Progranmet

nz. shares the concern of the Governing Council over the slow
implementation of the Plan of Action to Combat Desert if icationi

organizations of the United Nations and all
intensify their efforts in conbatlng

"3. Urges Governments,
inte rgoverrullental bodies to
desertification and to accord the highest
the Plan of Actlon and decision L3l30 A of

prioricy to actions reeommended
the Governing counc il;

1n

playing in-the ant i-deJert if icatlon efforts, and calls uPon Governrnents and
organizations of the united Nations and intergovernmental bodies co explore
all opportunities of involvlng them nore in this effortt

"5. urges the donor countries, and all other6 in.a Positlon to.do so' to
increase their assistance to countries concerned in inFlenencing their
national and regional proqral nes airned at desertification controll

t/ see official Records of the General Assernbly, Forli€th session,
Supptenent No. 25 (A/4O/251 , annex.

y A/40/644.



A/40/989/Idd.6
English
Page 5

Director o?-i[e-uni tea Nations Envirorunent prograrnme to conault nlth the
principal international organizaeions nhlch are funding desertification
cont.rol activitiea in order to ascertain how the proqranne can facilitate
fundlng activities, and to recomend measures to enhance co-oDeration in this
field I

"7. Urges Governnents of countries affected by deserttficatlon to accord
suatained priority to rned i un-te rrn and long-tern strategies and progranmes for
conbating desertiflcation and to ensure that these are smoothly integrated
rith their national. develoFnent plans and regional co-operative progralolea to
curb the spread of environnental degradationt

"8. Notes the nea6ures approved by the coverning Councll of the United
Nations Enviro! ent Programe to enhance the nork of the Inter-Agency Working
Group on Deaertificatlon and calls upon all nembers of the Working croup to
intensify their Joint efforts for the effective inplementat ton of the plan of
Action to Conbat Desert if icacion t

"9. Requesta the Governing Council of the United Nations Environrnent
Programne to report to the General Assernbly, at its forty-second session,
through the Econonic and Social Council, on the progress nade in irnplenenting
the PIan of Action to Combat Desert ification t

"10. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-ceneral on flnanclng the
PIan of Action to Conbat De€ert if ication t

"LL. Note6 the dearlh of reactions and replles on the measures for
providing additional resources needed for financing the plan of Action to
Conbat Desertification recomrnended in the three reports prepared by hiqh-Ievel
financial experts convened by the Executive Director in accordance with
General Assembly resoLution 32/I7Z of 19 December L977, V

"12. considers that the expert studies deserve further consideration and
reguests the Executive Director of the unlted Nations Environnent progranme to
keep their reconmendations under reviewt

"13. Invites the Executive Director of the United Nalions Environnent
Progra te to refer the three expert studies to the Consultatlve Group on
Desertification Control for technical evaluation,

"14. Requests the SecreEary-ceneral , ln co-operation with the ExecuEive
Director of the united Nat ions Environnent programne, to reporc to the ceneral
Assenbly at its forty-second session, through the Econonic and soclal Council,
on the implementatLon of the present resolution.

v tJNEP/c{=6/9 /Add.L, A/3s/396 and A/36/L4L.



A/r0/989/^dd.6
Engl lsh
Page 5

Nat ions
r eg ion,

rB

'The General A63enbIY,

rRecalling it6 resolutlons 361190 of !'7 Decenber 1981' 37 /2i6 oE
20 Decenber 1982, 38/L64 of 19 Decenber 1983, and 39,'/L68 of 17 Decenber 1984'

iNotlng decision 13,/30 B of 23 uay 1985 of the @verning council of the
untted-nations Envlronnent Prograni€ o; the lrrylenenbation' in the
Sudaho-Sahelian region, of the Plan of Action to Cotnbat De3ert if icat ion ' 7

rNotlnq also Economic anal social council regolutions L984/65 of
ZO luf@I?F€ne inPlen€ntation, ln the sudano-sahelian region' of the PIan
of Actlon to cofibat Desertiflcation andl 1984/?2 of 27 Ju ly 1984 on ehvironnent
and developnent ln Afr ica '

'Coneidering the report of the Executlve Director of the United Nations
Environtnent Programe on the iroPlernentation, ln the sudano-sahelian region' of
the Plan of Action to Conbat Desertiflcation, !.,/

'Conslderlng a16o the report of the secretary-General on the critical
situation of food and aqrlculture ln Africa, f984-1985, 9/

Takea note of tbe rePort of the Executlve Director of the unite'l
en;T;;,dn-;;-Progranne oh the inpletnentat ion ' in the sudano-sahelianof the Plan of Actlon to conbat Deser t lf ication t

l|2. Notea rrith concern

'(a) Tte danage wroughE by tlrought on the countries of Africa south of
the Sahara,

'(b) That insufflclent financial resources continue to be a serl'oug
constraint in conbat ing deaert lf icationt

"(c) That the struggle agalnst tlesert if icat ion requires financial and
hunan reaources beyond the neahs of lhe affected c'ountrlest

U see offic ia1 Records of the
SuDDlenent No. 25

v
!/

rrNEP/cc.l3l7lAdd. r.

A/40 /r29-E/r9s5 /8O.

t lech lon,



A/40/9e9/Add.6
Engl i Bh
Page 7

sudano-sahelian Office has made in the face of these obstaclea in assisting,
on behalf of the Unlted Natlons Envlronment programne, the Governrnents of the
region in conbating desertification, under a joint venture between the United
Nations Environment Prograflne and the United Nations Develotment programnet

"4. Endorses the itecision to add the United Republic of Tanzania to the
list of count.ries to be a€sisted by the United Nations Sudano-sahelian Offlce
in their efforts to implement the plan of Action to Conbat. Desertification,

|.5. Corsnends the Executive Director of the United Nations Environnent
Progranne and the Adninistrator of tbe United Natlons Developnent programr0e
for the effective and co-ordinated nanner in rrh ich they bave contlnued to
develop the Joint venture through the UniCed irlat ions Sudano-SaheIlan Office,

"6. Recomaends the Governlng Councit of the United Nations Envirodrrent
Programme and the Governlng Council of the United Nat ions Developn€nt
Progranme to continue and increase their suppor! for the United Nations
Sudano-Sahel-ian Office in order to enable it to real)ond rnore adequately to the
pressing needs of the counEries of the Sudano-Sahelian and adjacen! regions,

. "7. Expresses its gratiEude to the covernnents, specialized agencies,inte rgovernmental organizations and all organizations that have contributed !o
the inplenentatlon in the Sudano-SaheJ.ian region of the plan of Action to
Conbat Desertif icationt

"8, Draws the attention of the int.ernat ional conmunity to the need !o
increase lhe efforts to Inplement, ln the Sudano-sahelian region, the plan of
Action to Combat Desertification and urges lt to contribute to this
implenentatlon through appropriate means, including the united Nations Trusc
Fund for sudano-Sabelian Activities as well as to respond favourably to
requests for assistance fron the Governnent.g of tbe region;

n9. Reconnends the Governing council of the united Nations Environment
Prograrule to nake the arrangements necessary ac each session for subnitting to
the Generar Assenbly' through the Econornic and sociar council, a report on the
ilPlementation, in the sudano-sahelian region, of the plan of Aclion to conbat
Desertification. n

15. At the 43rd meeting, on 2s November, the conmittee had before i! a drart
resolutlon (A/c.2/4O/L.66), submitted by the vice-Chairnan of the Comnittee,
Mr. soemadi Brotodiningrat (Indonesiat, on the basis of informal consultations held
on draft resolution !r/C.2/40/L.35.
16. At the same neeting, the Comlittee aalopted draft resolut ion A/C.2/40/L,66 (see
para. 31, draft reEolution II)

L7. In the light of the adoption of draft resolution A/C.2/4\/L.66. diafc
resolution A/C.2/40/L.35 was withdrawn by its sponsors.



L/40/959/Add.6
Engllsh
Page 8

C. Draft resolution A/C.2/4oll.78

18. At the 47th meeting, on 4 Decenber, the corunlttee had before it a 'lraftreaolubion (A/c.2/40/t'.78) entitled "co-operat ion between tbe united Nationa centre
for Human Settlements (Habitat) and the United Naeions Environment Progra |lei (€ee
also document A/4O/gBg/Add.7, para. 16, on aub-iten 84 (9) ' entitled 'Human
settlementsi), submiCted Uy the Cnairnan of the Connittee, Mr. Omdr 8lrldo (Sudan),
on the ba€is of infornal conaultations.

19. The representative of the Bualget Divlslon nade a Etatenent '

20. At the same meeting, the corTunittee adlopted draft resolut iolr A/C.2/40/l'.78 (aee
para. 3l' draft resolution III).

D.

2L. At the 34th neeting, on 13 Novenber ' the rePresentatlve 
of Norway introduced a

draft resolut ion (A/C.2/|O/L.37) entitled "International Co-operation in the field
of the environmentn, on behalf of Arqentina, Australia, Canadar Denrnark, Finland'
rcelanal. rnd ia, Indonesia, Kenya, Nepai, Netherlands , Nontay, senegal an'l @9q'
The draft resolutlon read as follows:

"The ceneral Assenbly,

'Recognizing the international dimension of environtnental problems ' therole of errrrlromnental faccors in the broader econonic and social context, and
the inportance of taking envirorunental considerations fully into account in
the irPlementation of the International Develolnent strategy for the Third
United Nat ions Developnent Decade'

nEaving considered the rePort of the Governing Council of the United
tlations pnviromnent progralme on the work of its thirteenth session, y

"Considering the report of the Executive Director of the UniEed Natlons
rnvtronment piogranune on internatlonal conventions and protocols ln the fleld
of the environrnent, !!.,/

"Noting wlth deep concern that the drought and desertification seriously
ar ree tfilTlifi6Til: i-EE-l-IEiican counEries in partlcular - are exacerbated
by the continued erosion of the natural resource base for their developtnent,

"Reaffirninq the inPortance of the lnter relationsh ips beti"een reEources'
environment, people and development, and the need to take these
interrelaEionsh ips into account in develoFnent policies and strategies'

Draf! resolut ions A/C.2/4O/L.3? and L.37lRev.I

f9// UNEP/GC.13/10 -



n2. l{elcones the decision of the Governing Council of the United Nations
Bnvironnent Programne to change to a blennial cycle of Eessions on an
experimental basis ard in this regard cakes note of Ehe establishnent of the
open-ended Conunlttee of Pernanent RePresentalives to facilitate this processi

n3. Inviteg the Governing council of the united Natlons Envirorunent
progranune,-whEi-Jevlewing the experlment rrith biennialization of its htork
Progranne, to consider changes that may be necea€ary in the functioning of the
Council, includlng the tern of nembershipl

'4. welcomes Bectton III of Governing council declslon 13lI' and
aleclsion 13lIO, by whlch the Governinq council seE in train the stepB tottards
the preParation of the systen-wlde medium-lerr0 envlronnent Programme for the
period 1990-1995 and invited the Aatmlnlstralive Connittee on co-ordination lo
revies and further develop the rnethodotoqy in the light of Ehe exPerience
gained in the systetn-nide raedium-term environtnent Programne for the period
198{-I989 r

"5. Notes t{itsh appreciat ion the Progress nade by the world Comnission on
Envirorurcnt ana Oivefoprnent in ctre preParation of its report to the General
Assenblyr and recognizes that the rePort of the Connlsslon wi.ll be a useful
input to the nork of the Intergoverrfiental Inter-sessional PreParatory
Comnittee on the Environmental PersPective to the year 2000 and Beyond,

A/40/e89/Aaa'6
Engl i sh
Page 9

'Mlndful of the sovereign rights of States over their forests'
.Noting algo the activities of the Unieed Nat lons and other internatlonal

orgtnl"ttiotts 
"ttd 

the various lnternational iniclative6 being taken for the
better nanagernent ard protectlon of the world's forescs'

rRecalling its reEolution 38116l of 19 December 1983 on the process of
preparatlon of the Environrnental Perspective to the Year 2000 and Beyond,

Takea note of the report of the Governing Council of the United
Nations enillAh;;IProgranne on the flork of its thirteenth session and
endorses the deciaions contained therein, as adoPtedt

'5. l4eE 49!9 of the Progress on international conventions and
protocols in tne fie:-a of the environnent in the last year, notably the
adoPtlon of the Vlenna Convention for che Protection of the Ozone Layer and of
an international protocol to the l9?9 convention on Long-ranqe Transboundary
Air Pollutionr on Eulphur ernissions and fluxest

Considers that measures to deal l,ith Ehe erosion of the natural
resource base in counerieE affecteal by drought and tlesert l ficat ion should have
as one of their najor alns the sustainable exPloitat ion and increased
productivity of that nalural resource basel

"8. I{elcones the inPortance attached by the Governlng council of the
United Natlons Environment Prog ranrne to regional approaches and Prograanes
relating to international co-oPerat ion in the fleld of the environment, and in
this context stresses the relevance of sPecific regional planninq identlfied
by the reg ions thenselvest



^/40/989/Add.6English
Page l0

"9. Notes wilh appreciation that a conference of Aftican ninisters on
the envi rofrdf-fE-io be convened in cairo in Decemb€r 1985i

'10. Urges the Executive Director of the Unlted Nations Environnent
Progranne to co-ordinate further the activitles of the Progranne wiEh those of
other organizations of the United Nations system, to co-operate vrith the
organizers of the various internatlonal initiatives regardlng the future of
the forests, and to report thereon to the Governing Councill

"1I. Reaffirms Ehe need to strengthen the role of tbe United Nations
Environment Progranme in assisting developing countries of different regions
in deali.ng nith their serious environnental problens, and urges the Executive
Director of the Programrne, in consultation xlth Governnents and the
international organizacions concerned, to continue his efforts to ensure the
provision of additional resources to that endt

"12. Expresses lts appreciation to the Goverfllents that continue to
contribute to the Fund of the United Nat ions Environnent progranne,
particuLarly those that have increased their contrlbution, and urges those
Governments that have not yet paid their pledged contrlbutlons to the Fund for
1985 or rnade pledges for 1986 to do so ln the near future.n

22. At the 50th meetlng, on ll Decenb€r, the Comnittee had before it amendments to
draft resolution A/C.2/40/L.37 (A/C.2/4O/L.93 and L.94), €ubnitted by the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics.

23. The Conmittee also had before it a reviaed draft resolution
(A/C.z/ 40 /L.37 /Rev. t) , submitted in che narne of the spongors listed in
paragraph 21, subsequently joined by the @ and the carnbia,

?4. The Secretary of the Conmittee nade a gtatenent in which he informed the
Connittee of a further revislon which had been agreed upon as a result of infornal
consultations, namely to replace Ehe words 'information and experience" in thesixth preanbular paragraph by lhe words "experlence and knovrledge"

25. The representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics made a
statetnent, in shich he withdrew the amendnents contained in docunents A/C.2/39/L.93
and L.94, in t.he light of their incorporation lnto revi€ed draft resolution
A/c.2/4O /L.3U Rev. 1 .

26. statements were made by the represenEatives of poland, France (who reguested a
separaEe recorded vote on the seventh preambular paragraph as well as a recorded
vote on the revised draft resolution, as a whole) and China.

27. Statements before the vote on the seventh preanbular paragraph vtere nade by
the representatives of France and the Union of So\riet Socialise Republiss, and a
statement before the vote on the draft resolution as a vrhole was made by the
rePresentative of Egyp!.



28. fhe

(a)
Para9raph

A/40/9A9/r,Ad.6
Engl ish
Page 1I

Comnittee voted on revl€ed alraft resolut lon A/C.2/40/L.37lRev.l as follorys:

By a recordled vote of 102 to 7, rith lA abstentioos, preanbular
7 waE retained. The voting I'as aa followsr

fn favourr Afghanistan, Algerla, Angol,a, Argentina, Australia, Au6tria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benln, Bhutan, BoLiei.a, Botswana,
Brunei Darussalan, Bulgarla, Burkina Fago, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorusslan Sovlet Sociallst Republlc, Caneroon, Canada, Cape
Verde, Colonbia, Cornoroa, Congo, @sta Rica, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Delbcratic Aernen, Doninican Republic. Ecuadot,
EqyPt, Ethiopia, Flnland, canbia, cerman Denocratlc Republic,
Ghana, Gr€ece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, llungary, Iceland 'India, fndonesia, Iran ( IsLanic Repubtic of), Ireland, Janalca,
Jordan, Kenya, Kunait, Iao people.6 Denocratic Republlc, Lesotho,
Liberla' Libyan Arab Jamahlriya, Madagascar, Malani, ualaysia,
Ualdives, Malta, llexico, tibngolia, Mozanbigue, Nepal,
Netherlands, New zealand, Nlcaragua, Niger, Nigerla, Norray,
Pakistan, Panana, Papua New Guinea, peru, Philippines, Poland,
Qatar, Ronania, Rwanda, Sao Tdte and prlnclpe, Senegal,
Singapore, Sonalia, Srl lanka, Sudan, Surinarne, Swaziland,
Sweden r Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Trinldaal and Tobago.
Tunisla' Ukrainian Sovlet SociaList Republlc, Unton of Soviet
soclalist Republics, Unlted AEab Emirates, united Republlc of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, yenen, yugoslavia, Zambia.

Agalnsts Belglum, France. Germany, Federal Repubtic of, tsrael, tfortugal,
United Kingdon of Great Brilaln and Northern freland, United
States of Amer ica.

Abstainingr Barbados, Brazil, Central African Republic, chile, China, cabon,
Haiti, Iionduras, Italy, Ivory Coast (COte d'Ivoire), Japan,
Luxedbourg, Saudl Arabia, Sierra Leone, Spain, Togo, furkey,
Zalre.

(b) Revlsed draft resolut ion A/C.2/LO/L.37^ev.l, as a rrhole, as orally
revised, traa adopted by a recorded vole of 126 to none, with ? abstentions (see
para. 31, draft resolution IV). The result of the voting rras as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentlna, Australia, Austria,
BahasaB, Bahraln. Bangladesh, Barbados, Belglurn. Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bbtsnana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalan, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundir Byelorussian Soviet Soclalist Republic,
caneroon, Canada, Cape verate, Central African Republic, Chile,
China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Czechoslovakla, Democratlc Kampuchea, frenocratic Yenen,
Dentnark, Djibouti, Doninican Republlc, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Finland, Garnbla. cerman Democratlc Republic, chana,
Greece, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, cuyana, Haiti, Honduras,
Sungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),



A/40/e89/Add.6
Engl ish
Page 12

Ireland' Italy, Ivory Coast (C6te d'Ivoire) ' 
Jamaica' JaPan'

Jordan, Kenya, Kunait, IJao t'eoPler s Democratic RePublic' Lesotho'
Liberia, r,ibyan Arab Janahiriya, Luxernbourg, lladagascar' l{alawi '
i{alaysia, l,laldives, Malta, ltauritaniar Mexico, -l4ongolla' ll'orocco '
uoaambigue, Nepal, Netheriands, t{ew zealand' Nicaragua' Niger'
Nlgeriar lilorway, Oman, Pakistan' Panama t Papua Nen Guinea' Peru'
pnittppines, Foland, Qatar, Ronania, Rgan'la, sao Tome and
principe, saudl Arabia' Senegal' sierra Leone, singaPore'
sornalil, spain, sri Lanka, sudan, surinane, swazlland' si'eden'
syrian traL l(epub1ic, Ttrailantl, Togo, Trinidatl and Tobago'
tirnisia, .Turkey, ukralnian soviet s@ialist Republlc ' 

union of
soviet socialist RePub!.ics, Uniteat Arab Emlrates, Unlted RePublic
of Tanzania, uruguayr venezuela ' Viet Nam, 

Yement Yugoslavia '
zaire, zambia.

None.

Franc€, Gabon, Gerflurny r Federal RePublic of, Israelr Portugal '
United Kingttom of Great Britan antt Northern lreland' Unlbed
states of Amer ica.

29. Stat.emente after tbe aaloPtlon of the draft resolution were nade by the
representatives of the unitetl States of Arnerlca, the united Kingdon of Great
Britain and Northern lreland, SPain, the Pederal RePublic of Gernany ' China' 

JaPan'

Bulgaria (also on behau of tbe- Byelorusslan Soviet socialist RePublic'
Czechoslovakia, the cerman Oernocrltlc RePubllc ' 

Hungary, Mongolia, Polan'l' the
Ukrainian Sovlet Socialist Republic and the Union of Soviet Soclali't Republics) '
Israel, Perur Norway and Canada.

Draft decision

30. At the 50th meeling' on II Decenber, on the ProPosal of the Chairman' the
Comnittee dec i.aleal to reconmend that the General Assenbly take note of the note by
the Secretari at (A/C.2/4O/L.II) drawtng the @mnittee'6 attention to the followinlt
reporEs (see Para. 32' draft decision):

RePortoftheExecutiveDlrectoroftheUnltedNationsEnvironmentProgramme
on the inPrenentatlon of the PIan of Action to conbat Desertification in the
Sudano-Sahellan region (UNEP/@.L3/7 /Add ' !.) I

Agqiseg:

Abstai ning r

Report of the Executive Director of the Unlted Nations Envlronnent Proqranne
on international conventions and Protocols in the fleltl of tbe envi'ronmen!
(UNEP/GC.13,/10).

Report of the Execulive Director
on shared natural resources and
IuNEP /Gc . L3 /9 / Add . I ) t

of the United Nations Environnent Progranme
legal aspects of offshore nining and driUing



A/40/98e/AAa.6
Engl ish
Page L3

I I I . RECOIIIMEIIDATTONS OF TITE SB@ND @MTiIITTEE
3r- The second comrnlttee reconnendE to che General Assenbly the ailoption of the
foUowing draf t resoluClons:

DRAF! RESOLUTION I

Rennants of vrar

The G€neral Assenbly,

Recalllng its resolutions 3435 (xxxl of 9 Decenber L975, )5/7L of
5 December 1980, 361188 of l7 December 198I. 37 /ZL5 of 20 Decenbe r I9BA,
3A/L62 of 19 Decenber 1983 and Z9 /L67 of l? December l9O4 concerning the
problem of rennants of Har,

Recalllng also declsions 80 (IV) of 9 Aprll 1976, W lot (v) of
25 Inay.r977. LZ1 9/5 of 25 May 198f f3,/ and 10,/8 of 28 uay 1982 14l of rhe
@verning Council of the Untted Natlons Envlronment progranme,

Recalling further resolutlon 32 adopted by the Ftfth Oonference of Heads
of State or covernnent of Non-Aligned @untries, held at Colonbo fron lG to
19 Auguot L976, W and resolutlol 26/LL-p adopted by the Eleventh lgtanic
C.onference of Foreign Miniseers, held at Islanabad fron lZ to 22 May LggO, L6/

Convinced
should be borne

that the responsibility for the removal of the remnants of war
by the counlries that planted then.

lA/3L/251 r drn€x r.

Recodnizing that the presence of the naterial remnants of rrar, including
nines, ln the territories of developing countrlee seriously inp€ates their
developnent efforts and causes loss of life and property,

fJ/ see of
Supplenent No. 25

!Z/ lbid., Thirty-second Session, supplement No. 25 (A,/32/ZS|, annex L
13l Ibid., Thlrtv-sixth Sesslon, SulDlement No. 25 (A/36/25 and Corr.l),

annex I.

! 1,/ Ibld., Thlrty-sevenrh Sesslon, Supptenent No. 25 (A/g7/251, part rwo,
annex.

I5l See A/3L/I97, annex IV, sect. B.

llil see A/35/ 4L9-s/14129, annex r,



A/40/9es/^dd.6
Engl ish
Paqe t4

1. Takes note
rennants of $arl L7/

of the repor! of the secreta ry-Gene ral on the problern of

tation and

2, Requests the sec retary-Gene ral r in co-oPeration vtittl the Executive
Director oE-It. tlnit.d NaEions Environnent Progranne, to continue his efforts
with the counErles responsible for planting ttle mines and lhe affected
developing countries in order to ensure the inPlementation of lhe reLevant
resolutions i

3. Requests the Secretary-Gene ral to submit a iletailed and
comprehensive report on the irnplernentat ion of the Present reaolution to the
ceneral AssembLy at its forty-second session.

DRAFI RESOI,UTION 11

Plan of Action !o Combat Desertification

A

to Combat Desertif ication

The General Assembly

Recal.ling its resolution 32/172 of 19 Decernb€ r 1977, by which it aPprovedl
rhe PI;;;f Action !o Combat Deserllfication, L8./

Recalling also its resolutions 33189 of 15 Decenber 1978' 34/Lg4 of
18 December Lglg. 36/!gL of l? December 198I, 37 /22o oE 20 December 1982 and
ie/tdl ot 19 December 1983, dearing with the implernentation and flnanclng of
lhe Plan of Action to Conbat Desertification,

Recalling further the Declaration on the critical Econonlc Situation in
ee ,l"i-la;EEE ttt. General Assembly in its resolulion 39/29 of
3 Decenber 1984,

Noling with disnay and grave concern the-continuing spread and
irrte 1El?fEEE ion ot desertiftcatfon fn developing countries, especiaLly in
Africa, and the grave human suffering, economi.c losseE and social disruptlon
causeal by this Phenomenon,

L'7 j/ 
^/ 

40 / 650 .

18/ United Nations Conference on Deser!ification, Nairobi,
zg lugust-gleptember 1977 (A/CoNF.74,/36), chap' r'



A/40 /ege /Md.6
Eng 11sh
Page 15

. Ilaving consldered the report of the covernlng Council of the UnitedNations Environment progranme on tbe inplenentation of Ehe plan of Actlonto Conbat Desertlfication and declslon L3/30 A of 23 lrtay l9g5 of the
Governing Council on the plan of Actlon, !1,/

E?vinq also considered the report of the Secretary-General on
rrnanclng the plan of Action to Conbat Desertlf icati oA t W

l. Takes note. of decision L3l30 A of 23 May tggg of the coverningCouncil of the United Nations Environment programme,

. 2. Shares the concern of bhe Governing Council over the lrlowinplenentation of the plan of Action to Combat Oese rtif icat ion,
3. Urges Governments, organizatlons of the United NaLions and all

intergovernmental bodies to intensify thelr efforCs in conbating
desertificalion and to accord the highest priority to actions reconnended inthe Plan of Actlon and decision I3l30 A of the coverning Council,

- .4. Notes the signlficant role that non{overnnental organizations arepraylng in the anti-dese rt if icat ion efforts, and caLls upon Goverffnents and
organizations of the Unlted Nations and inte rgove rnmental bodies to exploreall opportunities of involving lherr nore in ttrts effort,

5. Urges the incernational conmunity to increase its assistance to the
councries concerned with a view to the imprenentation of their national- and
regional programmes aimed at desertlfication control,

5. Endorses the Governing Councilrs invitation to the Executive
Director of the Unlted Nations Environnent programtne to consult with the
Principal incernationar organizations which are funding atesertif icat ion
control activities in order to ascertain how the prograr lle can facilitate
funding activities, and to reconunend neasures to enhance co-operation in thlsfield I

7. Urges @vernnenEs of countries affected by desertiflcation Co accord
sustained priority to nedium-eerm and long-term strategies and programnes for
conbating desertification and to ensure that these are snoothry integrateat
nith their natlonal development prans and regional co-operative progiamnes to
curb the spread of environnental degradation,

8. Notes the neasures approved by the covernlng Council of the United
Nations Environment progranme to enhance the hrork of the rnter-Agency working
Group on Desertlfication and call6 upon all menbers of the working croup to
intenslfy thetr joint efforts for the effective irnprementation of the pran of
Action to Cornbat Desertif ication I

!2/ see of
supplenent No. 25 (A/40/2sl ,

4/ A/40/644.

annex.



A/40/9e9/Add.6
English
Page 16

9. Requests the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment
Prog ranune to report to tn"-i"i"i"i assembty, at its forty-second sesEion'
through the Economic anal social Council, on the progress nade in irnPlementlng
the Plan of Action to Combat Dese rtlfication t

LO. Takes note of the rePort of the sec retary-Gene ral on financlng the
Plan of gction to Conbat Dese r tlf ication t

11. !g!E the clearth of reactions and replies on the neasures 
for

provitling adalitional resources needed for financing the Plan of,Action to
Comba! Desertification recornmended in the thtee rePorts Prepared b'y hIgh-level
financial experts convened by the !I ecutive Director in accordance wr'rn
ceneral Assenbly resolution 1z/tlz ot 19 Decenber L9771 2I/

L2. considers that the expert studles deserve further consideratlon and
requests tbe Bxecutive oiiector-ot the united Nations Environment Progra$rc to
take due accounE or tnen uiiter his responslbility with resPect to Ehe_.
i.pf.*.ntution of the Ptan of Action to conbat Dese rtif ication ' as nell 

as

wiitrin tne franework of the nandate of the consultative Group on
Desertif ication control,

13. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the G€neraL Aasenbly at
its forty-secona session, throuln tne Ficonomic and social Councll' 

on the

inplemenlation of the presen! resolution.

The General Assenbly '
Recalling its resolutions 36lL90 of 17 December 1981' 37 /2L6 of

20 December Lggz, 38/L64 of 19 Decenber 1983, and 391168 of 1? December 1984'

Noting alecision I3l30 B of 23 May 1985 of the Governing Councll of the
unitetl Nations Environment Programne on the iflPlenentatlont ln the
sudano-sahelian region, of the Plan of Action to Cdtrbat Dese rtif icat ion t 9

Noting also Econonic antl Soclal Council reaolutions 1984/65 of
25 Juty 1984 on the inPtementation' in the Sudano-sahelian region' of the Plan
of Action to conbat Desertification antl lgs4l?z of 27 July 1984 on environnent
and deve lo6rment in Africa,

considerinq the report of the Executive Director of the United Natlons
Environnent PrograNre on the inpl-enentatLon t ln the sudano-satlel ian region' 

of
the Plan of Action !o Conbat Desertlf icati on, 4/

4/
u/

uNEP/Gc, 6/9/Add.L. L/35/396 ana A/36 /LAL'

UNEP/GC.13r7lAdd. r.



A/40/989/Add.6
Engl ish
Page 17

.. ggnsidgriing also the report of the secreta ry-cener al on the criticalsltuatlon of food and agriculture in Afrlca, Lggl_Lgg5, 22/
Takes note of the report of the Executive Director of the unitedlNations Environment prograrotre on the inprementaEion, ln the sudano-sahertan

region, of tbe plan of Action to Conbat Deserti fication I
2. Notes r{lth concern:
(a) The damage rrrought by drought on the countries of Africa south ofthe Saharat

(b) That insufficient financial resourqes contj.nue to be a seriousconstraint ln combating desertificat.ion;

. (c) That the struggle against dese r t. if ication requires financial and
hurnan reEources beyond the neans of the affected countries,

3. Noies with satisfaction the progress that the Unileal Nations
sudano-sahelian Office has made in the face of these obstacles in assisting,on behaLf of the united Nations Environnent progranrne, the covernments of tberegion in cornbating deser tif icat ron, under a joint venture between the unrtedNations Environnent progranune and the united Nations Deveropment progranme,

4. Endorses the decision to add the United Republic of Tanzania to thelist of coGffito be assisted by the united Nations sudano-saherian officeln their efforts to inplerent tbe plan of Action to Conbat Desertification,
5. Connends the E(ecutive Director of the Unltett Nations Environnent

Programne and the Administrator of the unlted Nations f,ievel-opment prograntnefor the effective and co-ordinated nanne r in [hich they have continued to
develop the jolnt venture through the uniteal Nations sudano-saherian offrce;

5. Recomnends the Governing Council of the United Nations Environment
Prograrnne and the Governing Council of the United Nations Developrnent
Programle to contlnue and increase lhelr supporc for the United NaEi.ons
sudano-saherian offlce in order to enabre ii to respond nore adequately to thepresslng needs of the countries of the sudano-sahelian and adjacent ,.!ion=1

7. Expresgeg its gratitude to the covernments, specializeal agencies,rntergovernnentar organizations and alr organizations that have cont.ributed tothe inplenentation in the Sudano-Sahelian iegion of the plan of Acti.on to
combat Desertif ication,

. 8. Pralrs the attention of the inlernational community to the need Eolncrease the efforts tso inplenent, in the sudano-Sahelian regibn, the plan ofActlon to Combat Deaertlfication and urges it to contribute to Cbis

23./ A/40/329-E/L985/80.



A/ 40 / 989 /^dd . 6
English
Page 18

imPlenentacion through aPProPrlate means ' - 
includ inq lhe Unitsed Nations Trust

Fund for suaano-sarreiian'ictivitres aE well as to iespond favourably 
co

requesta for asslstance fron tbe Governments of the region'

9. Recornsends the @verning @uncil -of 
the Uniteil Nations ElrvironnenE

Programre to nake the arrangenrents neceasary' ln ,con fornity.::tl-T"t 
ttl

Assenbly resolutlon 3g/2]t7 oE 18 Decenbe r tige' tot subnitting 
to the General

Assernbly ' 
through itt.- ic"t-^ic antl social council' a rePort on the

imPlenentatlorr, in 
-ai.-ioJ"io-s"n"fftn 

region' of the Plan of Action to conbaE
Desertlf icatlon.

DR.AFT RESOI.UTION III

Recalling tts resolutlone 32/L62 of 19 Decenber 1977 and !5/77 R 
of

5 Decenbe r 198 0,

Itaving consicleretl resolution 8,/14 ailoptett by the coflunis::""-:i TT3:
s€ttlements on May $8, bl and decision I3l12 adopted by 

the @vernr'ng

Council of the United Wati-o-ns Environment Programme on 23 May L9S5' 
25'/

Deci.legtoClisconcinuetbeannualneetingsoftheExecutiveDireccorof
tn. uffia n";.;;-a;;;" for Hutnan settlenents (Habitat) and the bureau- 

or

:H ::*::"1::':l'"fr::':"trrenEnts ',irh rhe r"."oliu. 
Director or the unite'r

Nations Environnent ptogiit*" 
-""a 

the bureau of its Governing council'

DRAIT RESOLUTION IV

in the fielat of

The General AssemblY,

Recogniztnq ttre inEernational dinension of environrnental problems' the
role of environnental factors tn the broader economic and social context' 

and

the irnportance of taklng en"ironmental considerations fully into account 
in

the inpleroentatlon of the lnternational Development strategy for the 
Third

Uniteal Nations Develolroent Decade,

2!,/ See offi.cial of
supplenent No. 8 (A,/40

b/ see YIjs
o /21t ,supplement No. 25 (

Cor r. r) , innex I, sect.



- Havlng considered the report of the covernj.ng @uncilNations Envirorment prograrnne on the work of ita lhirteenth

^/ 
40/e89 /Pda.5

EngIish
Page 19

of the United
sessLon, 26/

- Havinq considered also the report of the E: ecutive Director of the UnitedNations Envlronrnent progranne on international conventions and proeocols in
the field of the environrent, 27/

_ Ngting sith deep concern that the harnful consequences of the alrought analdesertification seriously affecting many countries, in particular, African
counEries are exacerbated by the continueal erosion of Che resource base for
the development of those countries,

Reaffirming the importance of the inte rr elat ionsh ips between resources,
environment, people and developmene, and the need to lake those
inter relatlonsh ips into account in developnent policles and strategies,

- Stressinq the inportance of an international exchange of experlence andknorrledge concerning the protection of Che enviro nent,
Noting the activity of the United Nations Environnent programme on Ehe

subject rArms race and the environment',, as mandated in its prograrnme of work,
as adopted by the General Assenbly, the lbonomic and Social Council and the
cioverning Council of the united Nations Environnent progranme,

Mindful of the sovereign rights of States over their natural resources,
including their forests,

Noti.ng algo the activities of che United Nations and other internati.onat
organizations, as Hell as the internationar i.nitiatives being taken that are
directeal tovrards the inportant objective of rational managemenE, protection
and rehabilitation of the world,s forests.

Rec+Uing its resolution 3g116l of 19 Decenber l9g3 on the process of
preparation of the Envirorunental perspective to the year 2000 ancl Beyond r

1. Takes note of the report of the coverning Council of the United
Nations Brvironnent programrE on lhe vrork of its thirteenth sessic;r and
endorses the declsions contained therein, as adopted,

2. Welcoflles the decision of the coverning Council of the Uniteal Nations
env i ronrnenEffiinne to change to a biennial cicle of sessions on an
exPerimental basis and in this regard takes noee of the establj.shnent of the
oPen-ended conmlttee of permanent Representatives to faciliLate this process,

39l Official Recojds of the ceneral Assembl Iement
No. 25 (

27j/ TJNEP/@,.L3/LO .

For t ieh



A/40/989/Ad'd.6
Engllsh
Page 20

3. Inrtltes the Governlng @uncll of the United Nations Envlronnent
Programe, rhen reviewing the experinent with blenniallzation of lts work
programne, to coneider changes that nay ln consequence be necessary ln the
functionlng of the council, including the term of menbershiPt

4. welcones sectlon III of Governing Council decision I3/1, and
decision l3l10' blt rrhlch the Governing c'uncil set in traln the steps towards
the preParatiott of the eystem-nltle nedium-terrn environnent progranme for the
period 1990-1995 and invlted the Mminlatrative commlttee on co-ordlnatlon to
review and further tleveloP the netbodotogy in the ltght of tbe exPer ience
gaineal in the Eystem-$ide nediun-tern enviro Ent Programne for tbe perio'l
1984-1989 t

5. Takes note of the rErk done by the special cdsslssion on-the
Environnental e"r"p-e.tioe to the Year 2000 and Beyond, rhich has adopteil the
name world @mnission on Environment anal DeveloFlent, and by t'he
Inle rgove rnnrental Inter-aesstonal PreParatory cot nittee on the Bnvlronnental
Perspictive to the Year 2000 andl Beyonal in the Preparation of thelr rePorts'
and recalls Ehe relatlonshlp b€tween the oomnlsEion anat the connittee ' as Eet
out in ceneral Assenbly resolutlon 38461t

6. Takes note of the pEogress on international conventions and
protocols iffifa of ttre envtrorment durtng 1985, lncluding the adoPtion
of the vienna convention for the Protection of the ozone lJayer anal of an
international protocol to the 1979 Convention on long-range Transboundary Aft
Pollution, on sulPhur enlasions and fluxes, anal the organlzatlon of the first
conference of the parbles to tbe Conventlon on the congervation of nigratory
species of r{i ld anlnalst

7. Conaiders that measurea to deat nlth Che eroslon of the natural
resource base ln countrles affected by drought and desertification should have
as one of their rnaJor aina the sustainable exploitation and increased
productivity of that natural regource baset

8. welcmes the inPortance atEached by the Governing council of the
united xacions gnvironmnb ProgramrE to reElonal apProaches and Progranme6
relating Eo i.nternatlohal co-oPeration in the fleld of the envlronment, and in
Ehis context stressea the relevance of gPeciflc reglonal planning ldentified
by the regiona thernaelve6 t

9. Notes uith appreclaEion che convening of a conference of Afrlcan
mlnisters otr tne efiirdil;ff-airo ln Decenber 1985r

10. calla ulron the Executive Dlrector of the unlted NatlonE Pnvlronnent
Programme to Jo-orainate further the activlties of the ProgramlF wlbh those of
other organizatlons of the Unitetl Nations system, to co-oPerate aPProPriately
nith the organizers of the inEernational initiatives on the fulure of the
foresEs, and to reporE Chereon to the @verning Council,



A/40/989/Add.6
English
Page 2I

I1. Reaffirms the need to sCrengthen the co-ordinating role of the
United Natlons Environment progranme and the need for additlonal resources ro
assist developing countries in dealing with serious environnental problens.
and urges the Execut.ive Director of the progranme, in consultat ion r{ith
Governnents and the international organizations concerned, Eo accelerate and
intensify his efforts in that fieldt

12. Expresses its appreciation to the Governments that continue to
contribute to the Fund of the United Nations Environment programne,
particularly those that have increased their contributions, and urges those
Governnents that have not yet paid their pledged contributions to the Fund for
1985 or nade pledges for 1986 to do so in the near future.

***

32. The Second Conmittee also recomrnends to the
the following draft decision:

General Assembly the adoptlon of

Note by the Secretariat on the envirorunent

The General Assembly decides to take nole of the noee by the Secretatiat 2A/
drawing lhe Committeets attentlon to Che following reports:

(a) Report of the Executive Director of Che Uniled Nations Environrnen!
Progranme on the implenentation of the plan of Actlon to Combat
Desertification in the Sudano-Sahelian regionl 29/

(b) Report of the Execucive Director of tbe United Nat ions Environnent
Programme on shared naCural resources and legal- aspects of offshore
nining and drillingr !9/

(c) Report of the Executive Director of the Unlted Natlons Envlronment
Progranme on international conventlons and protocols ln the field of the
environment. 3I/

4/
p/
19/

!/

A/c.2/40/L.LL.

UNEP./GC.I3l7/Add. 1.

IrNEP/GC . 13l9/Add. I .

[,NEP/GC. r3ll0.




