








































Ultl|TED
NATIOilS

General Arrenbly
Distr.
GENERAI,

^/ 
40/933

3 Decenber 1985
ENGLISE
ORIGIT,IAL! T'RENCH

FoEtieth sess ion
Ag€nda iten 64

ISRABIJI NT,CI,EAR ARIT.IAMENT

Report of the First Conrnittee

Rapporteur: Mr. Yannis SOULIOTIS (creece)

I. IMRODUCTION
I. T:te iteD entit.led ,,Israeli nuclear armanent: report of the United Nati.ons
Inslitute for Disarrnament Researchr waa included ln the provisional agenda of the
fortieth session in accordance wlth ceneral Assenbly resolution 3g/L47 of.
17 December L984.

2. At its 3rd plenary neeting, on 20 Septenber L995, Cbe ceneral Assenbly, on the
recorunendation of the General commitLee, decided to includ€ the iten in its adenda
and Eo allocate it to the First. Committee.

3. At its 2nd neeting, on 9 OcLober, the First Connittee decided to hold a
generar debate on the disarmanent iterns allocated to it, natnely, itens 4g to 69 and
ite|l 145, followed by stagenents on specific disarmanent agenda items and
continuatlon of the general debate. as necessary. The deLiberations on Ehose ltens
took place betneen the 3rd and the 32nd neetings, fron 1.4 October to I Novenber
lBee A/c.l/4'/ptr.3-3A ) .

4. rn connection with iten 64, the First conrnittee had before it the folroeing
documents:

(a) Note by the Secr etary-ceneral, transmltting the report of the United
Natlons rnstitute for Disarnanent Research entilled nrsraell nuclear arnanent,,
@/44/5201 r

(b) Note verbale atated ll March 1985 fron the Charg6 at'affaires a.L. of the
Perrnanent Mission of yenen to the United Natlons addressed to the
Secr eeary-Gener aI, transrnitting the texts of the Final Communiqu6 reports and

85-35630 4636P (E)



vlo /e33
English
Page 2

resolutions adopted by the Fifteenth rslanlc conference of Foreign uinisters, held
in Sanaa, Yenen, from 25 to 29 R.biul AraI I4O5 C (A.D. lg-22 December I9B{)
(^/40/L73-s/L7O33!. .

II. CONSIOENATION OF DNAE! NESO',I}TIOI.I A/C.L/40/L.63
5. On 7 NoveGber 1985,
Yenen, trag, Jordan, Kueait, Lebanon,
f{!ur itln ta, .}lorocco Unlteil ArEml-ratas enal Y€nen submltted a drili reeolutlon-entitled *rsraeti nuclear arfianentt
IA/C.L/4O/L.6!), ehlch eas lacer alao Eponsored by Djiboutl and sauiti Arable. The
draft re€olution rras lntroduceal by the lepresentative of rraq at- thE-5Elf,';;ettng,
on 13 November .

6. At i,t8 41st neating, on 18 November, the Cmtrtttee voteat on drafe resoLution
UC.L/40/L.63 as foll.oes:

(a) Ofreratlve parlgraplt il sra adopted by a recorded vote of g5 to 23, slth 19
ab€tenttonr. The votlng sas as follossr

In favour r Afghanistan, Albanla, Algerta, Angola, Bahraln, BangladeEh,
Benin, Bhutan, Ebtsurna. Brunei DarusaalaD, Bulgaria, Butkina
Frao, Burutidi, Byelorus€ian soviet soci.allst Repubtlc, Caneroon,
Centrrl Afrlcan ReFrblic, Chad, Chinr, @moros, @ngo, cuba,
Cypru€, Czechoglovakla, D€|tDcratlc yenen, Djlboutl, E!rypt,
Ethiopla. Gabon, Geirnan D€nocratic Repubtlc, Ghana, Greece,
Gulne6, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesla, Iran (Islar0ic R€publlc
of), Itaq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, I€o Peoplers DenocraEtc
Repub:.ic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Llbyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
l,lalayala, MaLdlv€s, Mali, f,blta, Mauritania, ttexlco, Mongolia,
l,lorocco, Moranblgue, Nlcaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onan, paklstan,
Peru' Poland, Qatar, nornanla, Rranda, Saudl Arabla, Senegal,
SomlLla, Srl L.nke, Sudan, Syrlan Arab Republtcr To9o, lunlsia,
lurkey, Irgand., Irkralnl.en sovlet Socialist Republlc, Unlon of
sovlet sociallBt Republlcs, Unlted ltrab Enirates, Unlted Republlc
of ?anzania, Venezuel!, Viet Nan, Yenen, Yugoslavia, Zanbla,
Zinb!bl'e.

Austrllla, Auatrir, Bahanas, Belglun, Canada, Dennark, Ftnland,
Frtnce, Gernany, Pederal F.eFJbllc of, Iceland, Irebnd, fErael,
Italy, Jepan. Lur€mbourg, Netherland€, Nen Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Spaln, Seeden, United Klngdom of creat Brltain and
Northern Ireland, Unlted stateE of America.

Arg€ntlna, Bollvla, BraElI, Chile, Colonbla, Doninican Republic,
Ecuador, FiJi, A.ltt, Ilonduraa, tvory Coast (C6te drlvolre),
Jrmalca, llalawl, Nepal, palrattra, papua New culnea, paraguay,
Uruguay, Zaire.

Againstr

Abstelningr



DJ 40 /931
English
Page 3

tb) operative paragraph 5 ras ailopted by a recoraled eoie of 86 to 23' stlb 19
abstentione. Th€ vottng ras as follora: !

In favour t Afghaniatan, ALbanla, Algeria, Angola, Argcntina, Behanas'
Bahraln, Bangladegtr, Benin, Bhuten, Botaraaa, Brun€i Drrusselant
Bulgarla, Burklna Faao. Burundl, Byeloruaslao Sovlet socialist
Republlc, cameroon, Central African Rspubllc, chail. chloa,
conoros ' Congo, cuba, cypru€. Cseclroslovakia r Detrccratlc Yenen,DJibouti, Bgypt, Ethtopla, Gabon, cermln Demcratlc. RePubllc,
Ghana, Guinea, cuyana, Haltl, Eungary, Indla, Indonesia' Itan
(IElamlc Republic of), Irag. .tordan, Kenya, Kuralt, Lao peopler a
Denocratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liblran Arab Janahlrlya,
Iitadagascar, Malaysla, Maldivea, I'hli, Ualta, llaurltanla,
!,bngolla, l,lorocco. lrlcz a!0blgu e, Ntcaragua, Nlger, Nlgerlsr Ordor
Paklgtao, Peru, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Ryandr, Saudl luabta,
senegal, Sonalla, Srl Lanka, sudan, Syrlrn Arab R.poblic, Togo,
Tunlela, Turkey, lrganda, Ukralnlan SovieE Sociali8t Republlc,
union of Sovlet Sociallst Republlcs, unlted Arab Emlrates, unlted
Republlc of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nan, Icnen, lugoalavia,
zanbia, zlnbab0e.

Australla, Austrla, Delglum, Canada, Dennark, Finland, Francet
Gerftany, Federal Reprbllc of. Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Lu:.enbourg, ttalawl, Notherlanals, tl€s Zraland, Norray,
PoEEugal,, spaln, se€den, untted Klngdon of Great Britaln and
Northern Ireland, Uniteil States of Anerica.

Agalnstr

Abstalnlngr Bolivla, Brarll, Chlle, Colombla, Do,nlnlcan Republl,c, Ecuador,
Fijl, Greece, Ilonduraa, Ivory Coast (CAte drfvolre), Janalca,
Me:rico' Nepal, PanarDa, Papua Ner. cuinea, Paraguay ' Philtppines,Uruguay, Za ir e.

(c) Th€ draft reaolution as a shole sa8 adopted by a qecorded vote of 92 to
2, rlth 40 abEtenttons (see para. ? belos). The votlng raE aa folloear

In favour: Afghaniatan, Albania, Algerta, rMgola, Argentlna' Bahraln,
Banglaalesh, Benlnr. Bhutan, BotEsana r Brazil, Brunel llarugsalan,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundir Btelorussian soviet Soctal,l€t
Republlc, Clneroon, central Afrlcan Rcpubllc, Chad' China'
Corrcros., Congo, Cuba, Cifpru8, CzechoElovakla, D€mocratic
Kampuchea, Denocratlc Ye$en. DJiboutl, Egypt, Bthlopl., Gabon,
German Denocratic Republlc, Ghana, ereece, Gulnea, Guyana,
Eungary, India, Inalonegla, Iran (IaLsnlc Republic of), Iraq.
Jordan, Kenya,

y The dlelegation of gaiti subseguently lndlcated that lt had lntended to
lbstaln on operative paragraph 5.



A/40 /933
Engl isb
Page 4

Kuwait, Lao peoplets Derrccratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesottro,
Llbyan Arab Janahiriya, !{adagascar, Ualaygia, }taldives, Mall,
Malta, Mauritanla, Uaurttlus, llexico, Mongolia, t{orocco,
!{ozarnblgue. Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Ooan, pakistan, peru,
Philipplnes, poland, eatar, Ronania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sonalia, Srl Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, TElnidad and Tobago, ?unlsla, Turkey, Uganda,
Uklatnlan Sovlee Sociallst Republi.c, ttnion of Sovlet Soclallst
Republlce, United Arab Enirates. United Republic of Tanaania,
venezuela, viet Nan, yenen, yugoalavia, zanbia, zinbabwe,

Against: Israel, United States of Anerlca.
Abstainings Au6tralia, Au€trla, Babanaa, Belgiun, Bollvia, Burna, Canada,

Chile, Colonbia, Denmark, Domlnican Republic, Bcuador, Fiji,
Finland, France, cernany, FederaL Republic of, Haiti, ffonduras,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Ivory coast (c6te drlvoirel , ilarnaica,
Japan, Luxenbourg, ualawi, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, panana, papua N€*, Guinea, paraguay, portugal, Spain.
Seaziland. Sweden, Unlted Kingdom of creat Britaln and Northern
Ireland, Uruguay, Zaire.

III. RECOI&,TENDATIOI.I OF TIIE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The First connit.tee reconnends to the General Assenbly the adoptlon of the
following draft r esolut ion..

Israeli nuclear arnanent
The ceneJal Assenbly,

Bearing in nind its previous reEorutions on rsraell nuclear arnanent, the
lateat of which is 39/147 oE I? Decenber 1994,

Recalling resolution 39/54 of 12 Dec enber
called upon aLl countries of the Middle East,

1984r in which, lnter alia, lt
pending the establlshment of a

nuclear-weapon-fr ee zone In the Middle East, to agree to place all tbeir
nuclear activlties under fnternational Atonic Energy Agency safeguarals,

R€calLing further Security CounclL resolution 4g? (f9g1) of 19 ilune t9B1
in whlch, inter alla, the Councll called uppn larael urgently to place its
nuclear facilities under Ioternational Alonic Energy Agency safeguards,

Noting irith grave concern Israelrs perslstent refusal to connit itself
not to nranufacture or acguire nuclear rreapons, desplte r epeated calLs by the
General Assernbly ' the s€curity council and the rnternational Atomlc EnergyAgency and to place its nuctear facillties under Agency safeguards,



v{0/933
BngIlah
Page 5

3. Request€ once nore the security councll to takc urgent and effsctle€
neasur€e to ensure that lErael coopl ie8 t,ltb thr Sccurlty @uncilresolution 487 (lgsl) and places arl its nucrear facilrtles unater
International Atornlc Energy Agency safeguarats,

_ 1: Relterates lts sequest to the Security Council to Invegtigaterarael's nuclear actlvitres anat the corlaboratton of other states, partres anallnstltutlona ln theEe actlvitles,

_. 5:. Calls upon all Statea and organlzattons that have not tet alon€ ao todlscontloue co-operatlng elth anar glving asslatance to rarael rn the nucr,aarfield I

6. Reaffirns ita condemtation of the contlnuing nucleas collaborattcln
betneen Israel and South Afrlcat

. 7:. Regq e6t8 the Secretary-ceneral to folloc clo6ely lEracll nuclearactivlties and to report thereon aa approprhte to the General Assembly.

+yar€ of the qrave con€egu€nces that endang er tnternatlonal peace andsecurity as a resul! of Iaraelr€ deyeloFlent and acquleltlon of nucLear
reapona and Israel.rs collaboration rrith South Africa to devclop nuclear
reapon€ and their delivery syatena,

1. Takes notg of Ehe report of Ehe United Nrttona Institute forDisarrnanenFi;;m of 9 Augu;r L9O5t 2/
2.. Rei_tera9ea its conalqmatlon of fsraelra refugal to renounce anyposse€Elon of nucLear seaponEt

u A/40/52O.


