







































UNITED
NATIONS

A
General Awhbly

Dietr.
GENERAL

A / 4 1 / 0 3 9
18 November 1986
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Forty-firat  s e s s i o n
Agenda item 59

CHEMICAL AND BACTERIOLOGICAL fBIOLOGICAL)  WEAPONS

Report of the First Committee

Rappotteurt  M r . Doulaye Corentin KI (Burkina Faso)

I . INTRODDCTION

1, The i tem entitled "Chemical and hactacioloqical (hioloqical)  weapons2 r e p o r t
of the Conference on Disarmament” was included in  the provisional aqenda of the
forty-first session in  accordance with General Assembly resolutions 40/92 A, B
and C of 12 December 1985.

2 , A t  itR 3 rd  p l e n a r y  m e e t i n q ,  o n  2 0  S e p t e m h c r  1 9 8 6 , the Ck?neral  Assembly, on the
recommendat ion of the General Committee, decided to include the  i t em in  i t s  aqenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3 . A t  i t s  2nd  m e e t i n q ,  o n  8 O c t o b e r , the First Committee decided to hold a
qenetal debate on the diaatmament itema allocated to it, fol lowed b y  s t a t e m e n t s  o n
specific disarmament agenda i tems and cont inuat ion of the qeneral debate, as
necessary. The deliberations on those i tems,  namely, items 46 to 65 and itern 144,
took place from the 3rd to the 32nd meetinqs, f ram 13 October  to 4 November (see
A/C.1/41/PV.3-32).

4 . In connection with item 59, t h e  First Commi t tee  had before it  t h e  fo l lowinq
documents:

(a )  Report of  t h e  Conference on  Diearmament) L/

Y Official  Records of the General Asaemhly,  Forty-first Session, Supplement
N o .  2 7  (A/41/27).

8 6 - 3 0 8 9 7  0439P (E) / ,..



A/41/839
Enql ieh
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 10 January 1986 from the Permanent Representative- of
Bulgaria and Romania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
( A / 4 1 / 8 7 )  1

(c) Letter dated 21 ,Tanuary  1986 from the Permanetlt Representative of the
(Jnion of Soviet Socialist Republics addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/97)  I

(d) Letter dated 3 February 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
Mongolia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/131))

(e) Letter dated 21 February 1986 from the Acting Permanent Representative of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to t; e United Nations addressed to the
SeCKetaCy-General  ( A / 4 1 / 1 7 5 )  #

(f) Letter dated 3 March 1986 from the Acting Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics  to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General  (A /41 /185 )  1

(q) Letter dated 18 March 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
Democcatir.  Kampuchea to the United NationR  addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/41/225-S/17927) I

(h) Letter dated 21 March 1986 from the Permanent Representative of China to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/230-5/17937 and Corr.l)!

(i) Let ter  dated  28 M a r c h  1 9 8 6  f rom t h e  P e r m a n e n t  Representative  of
Democratic Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-&,ieral
(A/41/235-S/17945) 1

(j) Letter dated 28 April 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
kmocratic Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/41/313-S/18039)1

(k) Letter dated 15 May 1986 from the Permanent Representative of India to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmittinq  the final
documents of the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinatinq Bu,eau of the Movement  of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at New Delhi from 16 to 19 April 1986 (A/41/341-S/18065
and Corr.1)  1

(1) Letter dated 1 May 1986 from the Permanent Hepresentative  of the German
Democratic Republic to the United Nations addresaed to the Secretary-General
( A / 4 1 / 3 5 6 )  I

(m) Letter dated 30 May 1986 from the Charqh d’affaires  a-i. of the Permanent
Mission of the Union of Soviet Socialist  RepuhlicR to the United Nations addreesed
to the Secretary-General. (A/41/389)1

(n) Letter dated 11 June 1986 from the Charq;  d’affaires a-i. of the
Permanent Mission of Hunqary to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmittlnq the  tex t  of t h e  communiqu&  of  the meetinq of  t h e

/ F . .



A / 4 1 / % 3 9
Enqliplh
Paqe 3

Political Consultative Committee of the States parties tn the Warsaw Treaty, held
at Budapest on 10 and 11 June 1986, and the appeal hy the States members of the
Warsaw Treaty Ocqanization to the States members of NATO and to all European
countries for a programme for the reduction of armed forcea  and conventional
a r m a m e n t s  i n  E u r o p e  ( A / 4 1 / 4 1 1 - S / 1 8 1 4 7  and Core.1 and 2)1

(0) Letter dated 8 September 1986 from the Charqe d’affairee a.1. of the
Permanent Mission of Afghanistan to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretarv-General (A/41/589-S/18329)1

(p) Letter dated 8 September 1986 from the Chacqe d’affairea a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Afghanistan to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/590-S/18330)j

(a) Letter dated 10 September 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/594-S/18333)1

(r) Letter dated 30 September 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
Z i m b a b w e  t o :e United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmlttinq the
f i n a l  documr lf the Eiqhth Conference of Heads of State or Government of
Non-Al i qned Co<> I Lr ies , held at Harare  from 1 to  6  September 1986 (A/41/697-S/18392))

(R) Note verhale dated 9 October 1986 from the Permanent Mi55ion of Zimbabwe
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmittinq the final
communiqu&  of the Meetinq of Ministers and Heads of Deleqation  of the Non-Aligned
Countries to the Forty-First Session of the United Nations  General Assembly,  held
on 2 Octohec 1986 in New York (A/41/703-S/18395)1

(t) Letter dated 23 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Romania
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, t r a n s m i t t i n q  t h e  t e x t  o f
t h e  communiad  of t h e  m e e t i n q  of the  Commi t tee  of Forciqn Ministers of  Stat@R
parties to the Warsaw Treaty (A/41/744).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSAL:;

A. Eaf t resolution A/C. 1/41/L. 9 and Rev. 1

Rvolnrunnian  Sov iet  Socialiet ReDUhliC. Chi le ,  Ch
5. On 28 October  1986, Argentina, Auetral&,  Austria, Belgium, BulqariaL  the
_ .___ __- .____ _ ~__ lina , CUhA,  Czcchoslovak  ia,
Ethiopia, Finland, the German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Hungary, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Japan, Kenya, New Zealand, Norway,  Poland,
Spain, Sweden, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic_, the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
submitted a draft- resolution entitled “Second Review Conference of the Partiefl  tc
the Convent ion on the Prohibition of the Development, Prodllction  and Stockpi  1 inq
Bacterioloqical  (Bioloqical)  and loxin Weapons and on Their  Destrllction”
(A/C.l/41/L.9). The draft  resolution was introduced  hy  thP teprf=gentntiv*  of
Auutria  at the 24th mectinq,  on 29 October.

/.. .



A/41/839
English
Page 4

6. On 6 November, a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/41&9/Rev.l)  was submitted
by Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bhutan, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Chile, China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Ethiopia, Finland&  the German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic Of,
Greece, Hungary, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kenya,
Mongolia, Netharlands, New Zealand, Norway, Peru, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Ukrainian
Soviet Sacialist  Fkepublicc  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United
Kingdom of Great Britain .and Northern Ireland and the United States of America,
which were subsecuently joined by India. In the revised draft resolution,
paragraphs 2 and 3 of the originaldraft, which read:

"2. Notes that the Conference decided to hold at Geneva, from
31 March to 15 April 1987, an ad hoc meeting of scientific and technical
experts from States Parties, to finalire  the modalities for the exchange of
information and data agreed to in the Final DeclarationI

"3. Reauests the Secretary-General to render the necessary assistance
and to provide such services as may be recuired for the ad hoc meeting and its
preparation;*,

were replaced with a new paragraph 2# which read as follows:

"2. Recuests the Secretary-General to render the necessary assistance
and to provide such services as may be required for the implementation of
relevant parts of the Final Declarationr".

7. During its consideration of draft resolution A/C.l/41/L.9/Rev.l,  the Committee
had before it a note by the Secretariat concerning the responsibilities entrusted
tc the Secretary-General under the draft resolution (A/C.1/41/9).

8. At its 40th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adoPted  draft resolution
A/C.l/41/L.J/Rev.l  without a vote (see para. 17, draft resolution A).

B. Draft resolution A/C.l/Ql/L.12

9. On 28 October 1986, Afghanistan, Angola, Bulgaria, the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary,
Ebnqolia,  Poland, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution entitled .Prohibit
of chemical and bacteriological weapons" (A/C.1/41/L.12). The draft resolution

ion
was

introduced by the representative of the German Democratic Republic at the
29th neeting,  on 3 November.

/ . . .



A/41/039
English
Page 5

10. At its 37th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.12  by a recorded vote of 83 to 12, with 31 abstentions (see para. 17,
draft resolution B). The voting was as follows: 2/

In favour8 Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad,
Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemenr
Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of) , Iran,  Jordan, Kenya, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives , Mali,  Mexico, Mongolia,
Wozambiuue,  Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Ciman,  Pakistan,
Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sudan,
Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago,  Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics , United Arab Rmirates,  United
Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againstt Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaininql  Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbados, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burma, Canada, Chile, China, Comoros, C&te d'Ivoire,
DOnmark,  Djibouti, Rcuador, Finland, Haiti, Iceland, India,
Ireland, Israel, Japan, Malawi, Xorocco,  New Zealand, Norway,
Paraguay, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Uruguay.

c. Draft resolution A/C.l/41/L.30

11. On 30 Dctober 1986, France submitted a draft resolution entitled "Chemical and
bacteriological (biological) weapons” (A/C.1/41/1..38),  which read as followst

"The General Assembly,

"Reaffirminq the urgent need for strict observance by all States of the
principles and objectives of the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Use in
War of Asphyxiating, Poisonous or Other Gases , and of Bacteriological Methods
of Warfcre, signed at Geneva on 17 June 1925, and of the desirability of

21 The delegations of Kuwait and Zaire subseauently indicated that they had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution; the delegations of Gabon and
Greece subsequectly indicated that they had intended to abstain.

/.*.



A/41  1839
English
Paqc 6

adherence t)y a l l  StataH tn t h e  C o n v e n t i o n  o n  t h e  Prohibit ion of  t h e
Development, Production and Stockp!.ling  of Bactet ioPogica1 (Bioloqical) and
Toxin Weapons and on Their Destruct ion,  siqned in London, ~KMJC~W  and
Washington, on 10 April 1372,

“Noting with concern the findings of a miftsicln of incuiry commissioned  by
the Secretary-General in March 1986 that chemical weaporm have been used, BR
well aa the indications of their potential rapid emsrqence in  an increasing
number of national arsenal 4,

“Expressing grave concern at the increasinq  risk that chemical weapons
may be resorted to atrain in armed conflists,

“Notinq  efiotts t o  R t r e n q t h e n  relevant international  prohibit ions,
includinq  efforts to develop appropriate fact-findinq  mechaninma,

“Becalling ItR resolution 39/65  A of 12 December 2984 on chemical and
hatter  iolqical  (h~oloqical)  weapana,

“Reaffirming its concern to avnid the Revere damage that the wide-ocale
use of chemical and hacterioloqical weapons would entail,

m1. Reaffirme  the need for Rtrict  observance of axiRtinq  international
obliqationa  reqardinq prohibitions on chemical  and bioloqical weaponA  and
condemna a l l  actinna t h a t  contravene  t h o e e  ohliqationR#

“2. ExpresReR  wave c o n c e r n  a t  t h e  risk: of’ the use of chemical weapons
hecaminq  widaaprc  ac’  and therehy undermining t’le authority of the prohibition
on their use proclaimed in the Geneva Protocol of 17 June 1925 for the
Prohibition of ‘-he URP in War of Aspryxiatinq,  Poisonous or Other GaReR,  anci
of Batter ioloqical  Methodn  of Warfare , and of the prohibitiona emhou’ed  in rhe
ptoviRionR  of  the  C o n v e n t i o n  of 10 Apri l  1972 on t h e  Prohibition  of  the
Development, Production and Stockpil  inq of Bacterioloqical  (Bioloqical)  and
Toxin WeaponR  and on Their DeRtruction)

“3. RaafcirmR ita c o n v i c t i o n  t h a t  t h e  goal o f  t h e  complete  and  effective
prohit,ition of the. development, production and Rtockpilinq of chamicSrl
weapona, and of their destruction, throuqh the concluRion  of a convention
currently hainq neqotiated  within the framework of the Conference on
Diearmament , IWRt remain a priority i n  multi lateral  diRarmamcnt  a n d  armR
control  neqotiationRt

-4. Calle u p o n  a l l  StateR, pcndinq Iha conclusion of euch a
CompcehonRivo  b a n ,  to Cn-OpPratP  I efcortw to  p r e v e n t ,  di rect ly  or
indirectly, the IJR~ c>C chemical wf+pons#

“5. EmphaR?zeR  the Contribution that c-n ~JC?  made , pendinq the o~‘.t.c~~~+ of
the effoets heinq  undertaken  in the context of the onqoinq ncqotiationR  k) 1
c h e m i c a l  wr*aponR w i t h i n  t”he ConTerence o n  DiRarmament,  h y  co-ordinated
national meaRurF?R  deRiqnf?d  tcJ monitor the export of chemicalR that eRpecinlly
lend themRe  lvpn to URP in the production of such weaponR1

/ . . .



A/41/839
English
Page 7

"6. Note8 that a number of Member States, including States belonging to
diffetent economic and social systems, have already adopted national measure8
to monitor transfers of chemicals that especially lend themselves to use in
the production of chemical warfare agents, and that they have made the content
of these measures publicly knownr

“7. Encourages the institution of co-operation between the principal
chemical-producing States aimed at drawing up and publishing itemized lists Of
Products that especially lend themselves to use in the production of chemical
warfare agents;

"8. Requests the States concerned to transmit to the Secretary-General
the list of substances of which the transfer is made subject to nronitoring,
and requests the Secretary-General to convey this information to the
Conference on Disarmament so that account may be taken of it, as necessary, in
the ongoing negotiations.@'

12. At the request of the sponsor, no decision was taken on draft resolution
A/C.l/Ql/L.38.

D. Draft resolution A/C.l/4l/L.55

13. On 30 October 1986, a draft resolution entitled 'Chemical and bacteriological
~bfologicall  weapona"  [A/C.l/41/L.55) was submitted by Australia, Belgium, Canada,
Colombia, Costa Rica, C&e d'Svoire,  Denmark, Eouador, Germany, Fcderal Republic
of, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Japan, Kenya, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Samoa*  Sierra Leone, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, the United States of Ametica, Uruguay and Z&ire,,
later joined by the Philippines. The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of the United States of America at the 26th meeting, on 30 October.

14. At its 37th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.55  by a recorded vote of 108 to none, with 18 abstentions (see para. 17,
draft resolution Cl. The voting was as follows: z/

In favour8 Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Bdtswanar  Brunei Batussalam, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian  Soviet Sacialist Republic, Camermn, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, C&e
d'xvoire,  Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France, Gabon, German
DemoCtatic  Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia.
Iran, Islamic Republic of, Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxemboutgr

2.1 The delegations of Cman and Zaire subsequently indicated that they had
intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ . . .



A/41/0  39
English
Page 8

Malawi, Malaysia, Maldivue,  Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico,
Mongol ia, Morocco, Nepal, Nether lands, New Zealand, N?qer ,
Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Lecne, Sinqapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, lbQo,  Trihldad  and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uqanda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Irela-Id, United Republic of Tanzania, United
States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aqainat a None.

Abstaining: A l g e r i a ,  A n g o l a ,  !Wqentina,  Bahamau, B r a z i l ,  B u r k i n a  Fano,
Cuba, Cyprus, Ethiopia, Guinea-Bissau, India, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Nicaragua, Viet Nam, Yuqo!%lavia.

E. Draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.56

Conqo,

1s. Oh 30 October 1986, a draft resolution entitled “Chemical and bacterioloqical
(biological) weapons” (A/C.1/41/1,.56)  was submitted by Arqentina, Australia,
Belgium, Canada, Denmark, the German Democratic Republic, Germany#  Federal Republic
of, Greece, Indonesia, Japan, Kenya, Mongolia, the Netherlands, Norway, Pola_nd,
!3painr Sweden, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern  Ireland, Uruguay and Viet Nam, later jo=d by Irelend  and- -
I t a l y . The draft resolution wan introduced by the reprenentative  of Poland at the
35th meeting, on 6 November.

16. At its 37th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft rvsolut  it,;.
A/C.1/4l/L.56  without a vote (see para. 17, draft resolution D) .

I I I . RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

17. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

/ . . .



A/41/839
Etqlieh
Page 9

Chemical and batter ioloqical (b,iologlcal)  weapane

A

Second Review Conference of the Parties to tha Conventton
on the Prohibition nf the Development, Production and
Stockpi.ling  of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin

Weapons and on Their Destruction

The General Aaeembly,

Recalling- i,ca reeolution 2826 (XXVI) of 16 December 1971, in which it
commended the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production and
Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Woapona  and on Tlwir
Destruction  and expreaaed the hope for the wideat porsible  adhoconce to the
Convent ion,

Recallinq its resolution  39/65 D of 12 December 1984, in which it noted
that, at the request tif a msjority of States partieu to the Convention, a
ni?cond  Review Conference of the Partien  to the Convention srsuld be held in
1986,

Recallinq that the States  parties to the Convention mat at Geneva from 8
to 26 September 1986 to review the operation of the Convention with a view to
acrsuring that the purposes  of the preamble and the provision6 of the
Convention, including the provision8  concerning neqotiatione on chemical
weapons, were being realized,

Noting with fsatiefactinn  that, at the time of the Second Review
Conference of the Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development , Prcxluction  and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and
Toxin Weapons  and on Their Destruction, there were more than a hundred Staten
patticu  to the Convention, including all the permanent members -If the Security
C o u n c i l ,

1. Notee with appreciation that on 26 September 1986, the Second Review
Conference of the Parties to the Convention on the Prohibition of the
Development, Product ion and Stockpf 1 fnq of Batter  iological  (Biological) and
Toxin Weapons and on Their LN?struction  adopted by conseneua a Final
Declarationr

2. Requests the Secretary-General to render the necesrary assistance
and to provide euch  servicee aR may be required for the implementation of
relevant parts of the Final Declaration8

3. Calls upon all signatory  Staten that have not ratified or ac!ceded  to
the Convention to do 80 without delay and also cable upon thoee Staten that
have not yet eiqnad the Convention to join the State6 parties thereto at an
early date, thus  contcihutinq  to the achievement of universal adherence to the
Cnnven t ion and to international confidence.

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 8 3 9
Snglirh
P a g e  1 0

Prohibition of chemical and bacteriological weapon6

The General Assembly,

B

Recalling  paragraph 75 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session
o f  the General Aeaembly, the first rp@cial  aermion devoted to diearmament, 4J
which states that the complete and effective prohibition of the development,
production and stockpiling of all chemical weapon8 and their destruction
roprerentm  one of the moat urgent meaaurem of disarmament,

Convinced of the urgency of the earlieet  conclulrion  of a convention on
the prohibition of the development, production and etockpiling of all chemical
ueapnrr and on their destruction, which would significantly  contribute to
goners1 and complete disarmament under effective international control,

Emphaeizing the need for
the field of chemical induretl

the extenaion of international co-operation in
‘0 for peaceful purpoaex,

Dearinq in mind that the conclualan of a convention on the prohibition of
the development, production and etockpilinq of all chemical weapons and on
their destruction  would contribute to the achievement of this goal,

Streeeinq  the continuinq  importance of the Protocol for the Prohibition
of the Use in Wa.: of Asphyxiating, Poisonous  or Other Gases, and Of
Bacteriological Methods of Warfare, I/ signed at Geneva on 17 June 1925,

Determined,  for the eake of all mankind, to exclude completely the
possibility of the use of chemical weapons, through the earliest conclusion
and implementation of a convention on the prohibition of the development,
production and stockpiling of all type8 of chemical weapone and on their
destruction, thereby complementinq the obligation6 assumed  under the Geneva
Protocol of 17 June 1925,

Appreciating the work of the Conference on Diearmament during its eeeeion
in 1986 regarding the prohibition of chemical weapons  and the proqrecJe
achieved In neqotiatione,

Deeming it desirable for States to refrain from taking any action that
could delay or further compl.icate negotiations and to display a constructive
approach to such negotiation8 and the political will to reach an early
agreement on the chemical weapons convention,

Y Resolution S-10/2.

Y League of Nrtione,  Treaty Series!,  vol. XCIV (1929),  No. 2138, p. 65.

/ . . .



A/41/839
znglimh
P&go 11

Emphaeizinp  the need to atop a further increaea  of atsenala  of chemical
weapona and to refrain from the deployment of such weaptms  on the territariem
c>f other countriee, se well a8 the necessity tu withdraw chemic \l weapnm
Rtationed  abroad within the national boundaries  of State@ to which they b!lOng,

Expreseing profound concern at dgcialone on the production of new tW8
of chemical weapone, aa well am at their intended  deployment,

Welcominq the agreement between the Union of Soviet Sociallet  Republics
and the United Statee of America to acceId,rate  the effects to conclude an
effective and vvriflable  international convention on the ganeral and complete
prohibition of chemical weapona and the deetruction  of exilrting  atockpil.es  of
euch  weapons,

Taking note of propooals  and initiatives on the creation of
chemical-weapon-free zone6 in various regions aimed at fscilitatinq  the
complete prohibition of chemical weapona  and at contributing to the
achievement of atable regional and International security,

Welcominq the Final Declaration of tho Second Review Conference on the
Convention on Ihe Prohihltion  of the Development, Production and Stockpiling
of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapon8 and on Their Destruction
which etreeeee the urgency of a chemical weapons ban,

1. Reaffirms the necessity for the apeedieet  elaboration and conclumion--m
of a convention on the prohibition of the development, prcductian  and
etockpiliqg  of all chemical weapons and on their deetructionr

2. Urgce the Conference on Disarmament to intensify the negotiatione in
order to submit a draft convention on the complete ban on chemical weapons to
i t s  forty-second  eeseiono

3. Reaffirms Its call to all. Staten to conduct Reriou.:  negotiations In
qood faith and to refrain from any action that could impede negotiatione  on
the prohibitron of chemical weapons and specifically ftcm the production of
new type8 of chemical weapons, aa well aB from deployjng  chemical weapon8 on
the territory of other States)

4. Appeal8 to all States to facilitate in every possible way the
conclu8ion  of such a convention)

5. Calla upon all Statce that have not yet done so to bectnne  parttea  to
the Protocxfor  the Prohibition of the Use in War of Asphyxiating, PoPaonoulr
or Other GaH’eB, and of Elactetlological  Methods of Warfare, 5/ elgned at Geneva
on 17 June 1925.

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 0 3 9
English
Page 12

C

Chemical and bacteriological (biological) weapon6

The General Assembly,

Recalling, itn resolution 40/92 C of 12 December 1905,

Reaffirming  the urgent neceeeity of strict observance by all Stateel of
the principles and objectives of the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Uee
in War of Aaphyxlating, Poieonoue  or Other Gases,  and of Bacteriological
Methods of Warfare, signed at Geneva on 17 June 1925, 5/ and of the adherence
hy all States  to the Canventlon  on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapone
and on Their Destruction, signed In London, Moscow and Washington, on
10 April 1972, 6J

Reiterating concern over report8  that chemical weapons have been used,
over indication8  of their emergence in an increasing number of national
arsenals, a8 well ae over the growing risk that they may be used again,

Noting lnterr~~atlonal effort8 to etrengthen relevant International
prohibitiona,  including effotts to develop appropriate fact-finding mechanisms,

Recalling its rerolution 40/94  L of 12 December  1985, in which,
inter alia, it pointed out the fundamental imports;lce  of full Implementation
and strict obeervance  of agreements on arms limitation and ~laarmament,

Reaffirminq  ite dedication to protecting mankind from chemical and
blolcglcLl  warfare,

1. Call8 for cornpllance  with exi;iting internatlonal obligation8
regarding prohlbltlone  on chemical and blologlcal  weapons and condemne  all
actlone  that contravene thoee obligatione#

2 . Strongly endorses the ongoing effort8  to ensure the moat effective
prohibitions possible on chemical and biological weapons1

3 . Urges the Conference on Disarmament to puraue vigorously and
accelerate its negotiation8 on a multilateral convention on the complete and
effective prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and use of
chemical weapons and on their deetructlon)

4 . Calls upon all Ptatee, pending the elaboration of euch a convention,
to co-operate in efforts to prevent the u8e of chemical weapons and in efforts
to estahlfah  facts In cases of reporte of euch use, and to be guided  in their
national policies by the need to curb the epread of chemical weapnna.

Y General Aesembly  reeolution 2826 (XXVI), annex.

/ . . .



A/41/839
Englirrh
Page 13

D

Chemical and bacterlological  (biological) weapon8

The General Aeeembly,

bcalllnq  lte previous reeolutlone  relating to the complete and effective
prohjbitlon  of the development, production and Rtockplling of all chemical
weapons and to their destruction,

Reaffirminq  the urgent neceHelty  of strict observance by all State8 of
the principles and objectives of the Protocol for the Prohibition of the Uee
in War of Aephyxlatlng, Poieonaue  OK Qther Gaaea,  and of Bactec lological
Methods of Warfare, 1/ eigned at Geneva on 17 June 1925, and of the adherence
by all Statea to the Convention on the Prohibition of the Development,
Production and Stockplling of Becterlological (Biological) and Toxin WeaPonR
and on Their Destruction, y signed in London, Moscow  and Washington on
10 April 1972,

Taking note of the Final Document of the Second Revlew Conference of the
Parties to the Convention on t.he Prohlhition of the Development, Production
and Stockpiling of Bacteriological (Biological) and Toxin Weapon6  and on Their
Destruction, I/ adopted by conaen8ua on 26 September 1986, and In particular
of article IX of It8 part two (Final Declaration),

Having considered the report of the Conference on Disarmament,  1/ which
incorporates, inter alla, the report of its! Ad Hoc Committee on Chemical- -
Weapone, a/ and noting that following the precedents set in 1984 and 1985,
consultatlone are cant ‘nulnq dur lnq the Inter-seaalonal per lod, thus
increaeing  the time devoted to negotiations,

Convinced of the neceaaity that all efforts be exerted for the
continuation and eucceesful conclusion of negotiations on the prohibition of
the development, production, stockpiling, and UA~ of all chemical weapons and
on their destruction,

1. Takes note of the work of the Conference on DiRarmament during Its
oeseion in 1986 regarding the ptohihition  of chemical weapon6  and, in
particubac, apprecIateA the work of it8 Ad Hoc Committee on Chemical Weapons
on that aueRtion  and the proqvese recorded in its report)

2. Expresaee  again none the its regret and concern that
notwithstanding the progreee made ir j86 a conventic>n  on the complete and
effective prohih,tion  of the development, production, stockpiling and uRe of
all chemical weapon8  and on their destruction h&R not yet been elaboratedr

Y Document BWC/CONF.I1/13/11.

!Y Official RecordR  of the General ARRamhly,  Forty-first  SesRion,  Supplement
No. 27 (A/41/27) l

/ . . .



A/41/839
Engllah
Page 14

3. Urges again the Conference on Disarmament, a6 a matter of hiqh
priority, to intensify, during its aeseion in 1987, the negotiations en euch a
convention and to reinforce further itn efforts, int.ec alia, by increa8inq the
time during the year that it devotea to eush negotiations, taking into account
all exiating proposals and future initiatives, with a view to the final
elaboration of a convention at the earliest possible date, and to re-establieh
its Ad Hoc Committee on Chemical Weapon8 for this purpolse  with the 1986
mandate,

4. F&quests  the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General
Aa8embly  at its fortv-second seesion on the reaultn of it8 negotiationa.


