







































Qcaneral Assembly
.

Pietr.
G E N E R A L

A/41/902
26 November 199G
ENGLISH
ORIGINALa FAENcli

Forty-first eeesion
Aqenda item 66

QUESTION OF ANTARCTICA

Report of the Firet  Committee

Eapporteur; Mr. Douleye Corentin Kf (Burkina Faeo)

I. I NTRODUCT  ION

1. The item entitled the “Question of Antarctica* was included in the provisional
acenda  of the forty-first eeseion  in accordance with General Assembly  reaolutione
40/156  A and B of 16 December 1985.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting,  on 20 September 1986, the General Aeeembly, on the
recommendation  of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its aqende
and to allocate it to the First  Committee.

The First Committee conrripered  the item at its  49th to Slat meetings, on 19
3id 19 November 1986 (tsee  A/C.1/41/PV.49-51).

4. In connection with item 66, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Letter dated 1 May 1986  from the Permanent Representative of the German
Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
tranomittina the documents of the Eleventh Conqress of the Socialist Unity Party of
Germany (SED) , which was held at Berlin from 17 to 21 April 1996 (A/41/356) I

(b) Letter dated 15 May 1996 from the Permanent Repreoentetive of India to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, tranemittina the final
document8  of the Ministerial Meetinq of the Co-ordinetinq  Bureau of the Non-Aliened
Countriee, held at New Delhi from 16 to 19 April 1986 (A/41/341-8/18065 and Corr.1)  t

(c) Letter dated 30 September 1986 from the Permanent Repreeentetive  of
Zimbabwe tn the United Nation6  addressed to the Secretary-General, transmittinq  a

86-32592  0476P  (E) / . . .



A/41/902
English
Page 2

Copy of the final document of the Eiqhth Summit Conference of Heads of State or
E;overnment  of the Eon-Aligned Countries, held at Fiarare, Zimbabwe from 1 to
6 September 1986 (A/41/697-5/18392):

(d) Note verbale dated 9 October 1986 from the Permanent Mission of Zimbabwe
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmittinq  the final
communiqu6  of the Meeting of Ministers and Beads of Delegation of the Non-Aligned
Countries to the forty-first session of the General Assembly, held on
2 October 1986 in New York (A/41/703-5/18395);

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the question of Antarctica (A/41/688
and Add.l)l

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on the question of Antarctica (A/41/722*)1

(q) Letter dated 16 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Belgium
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the final
report of the Thirteenth Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting, held at Brussels
from 7 to 18 October 1985 (A/C.1/41/6);

(h) Letter dated 13 November 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
Australia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting a
statement made by the Chairman of the ninth session of the Special Consultative
Meeting on Antarctic Mineral Resources at the conclusion of the Meetinq's work on
12 November 1986 (A/C.l/Ql/ll).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A . Draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.86

5. On 18 Rovember, Antigua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Burkina Faso, the Congo,
Ghana, Indonesia, Malaysia, @ali, Oman, Pakistan, Rwanda, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, and
Zimbabwe submitted a draft resolution entitled "Question of Antarctica* -
(A/C.1/41/L.86), which was introduced by the representative of Malaysia at the
51st meeting, on 19 November.

6. At the same meetinq, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C!.l/Ql/L.86  (see
para. 11, draft resolution Al by a roll-call vote of 76 to none, with
9 abstentions. I/ The voting was as follows:

11 The following 38 delegations announced that they were not participatinq
in the vote: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Denmark,
Ecuador, Finland, France, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Greece, Guatemala, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Poland, Spain, Sweden,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay
and viet Nam.

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 9 0 2
Enq 1 ish
PaqG  3

In favourr Alqeria, Anqola, Antique  and Barbuda, Bahamas, L)ahrain,
Banqladesh, Benin ,  Bhutan ,  Bolivia, Botswana ,  Brune i  Daruasalam,
Burkina Paso, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic o
Chad, Comoro8  , Conqo,  Cypr u61,  Democratic Kampuchea, Pj  ibout f ,
Eqvpt , Eth iopia , Gabon, Ghana  , Guinea, Guyana, Ha it i , Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic R e p u b l i c  o f ) , Eraa,  C&e  d’Ivoire,  Jordan ,  Kenya,
Kuwait ,  Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique ,
Nepal, Nicer,  Niqeria, Oman,  Pakistan, Panama, Philippinea,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arab ia ,  Senega l ,  S ie r ra  Leone ,
Sinqapore,  Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sur iname ,  Thailand, ‘RWo,
Trinidad and Tobeqo, Tunisia, Uqanda, United Arab Emirateo,
United Repb’?l  ic of Tanzania, Yemen ,  Yuqoslavia, Rafre, Zambia.

Asainstr None.

Abataininq: Austr ia ,  Canada, China, Ireland, Luxembourq,  Peru, Poland,
Turkey, Venezuela.

U. Draft rosolut ion A/C, 1/41/L. 87

7 . On 18  November ,  Antigua al~d Barbuda, Banqlodesh, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina
Faso, the Congo, Ghana, Indones ia ,  Malaysia, Mali, Oman,  Pakistan, Rwanda,
KLanka, the Sudan and Zimbabwe submit ted a draft rti;leolution entitled “Queetion
of Antarctica’ (A/C.1/41/L.87),  which was introduced by the reuresentative of
Malaysia at the Slst meet ing ,  on  19 Novembe:.

8. At the same  meet inq, the Committee adopted ,*. “t resolution A/C. 1/41/L. 87 (see
para.  11 ,  draf t  resolutlo;r 6) by a rol l-cal l  vote of  76 to none,  with
10 abstent ions .  2/ The votins was as follows;

21 The ic%:  lowing  38 delegations  announced that they were not participatinq
in the voter ALohunistan,  Araentina.  Australia, Belqium, Brazil,  Bulqar ia,
By~Lorussian  Soviet  Socialist Republic,  Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark  , . Ecuador, Finland, France, German Democretlc  Republ ic,
Germany,  Federal  Republic  of ,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Hunoary,  India ,  Israel ,  Staly,
Japan, Lao People’e Democratic Republic, Netherlands, New Lealand, Nicararlua,
Norway, Poland, ;ipa  in ,  Sweden, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic,  Union of Soviet
Socialist Republ ics,  United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America and Uruquav.

/ . . .



A/41/902
Enq 1 ish
Paqe  4

Tn  tavour: Albania, Alqer  ia, Anqola ,  Antlqua  and Barbuds,  Bahrain,
Bsnqlrdesh, Benin, Bhutan ,  Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei DatuasbialJ,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon,  Central African Reuublic,
Chad, Comoros, Conqo, Cyprus, Democratic Kampuchea, Djibouti ,
EWpt, Ethiopia, Gabon,  Ghana,  Guinea, Guyana,  Haiti, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic R e p u b l i c  of) ,  Traq,  C&e  d@Ivoire,  Jordan ,  Kenva,
Kuwait, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madaqascar, Malavsia,
MaldiVe8, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, MOzamhique~
Nepal, Niqar, Niqeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Philippines,
Qatnr, Romsnis,  Rwanda,  Saudi Arabia, Seneqal , Sierra Leone fi
Sinaapore,  Somalia, St1  Lanka, Sudan, Sur iname ,  Thaile.ld,  Tooo,
Trinidad and Tobaqo, Tunisia, Uqanda, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanzania,  Yemen ,  yuqoslavia,  Zaire, Zambia.

tAgainst N o n e .

Abstaining; Austr is, Bahamas,  Canada, China, Treland, Luxembouro,  Pr:ru,
Ebrtuoal,  Turkey, Venezuela.

C . Draft resolution A / C .  1/4l/L.68

9. On 18 November, Algeria, Anqola, Antiqua and Barbuda, Bangladesh, Benin,
Etawana,  B u r u n d i ,  C a m e r o o n ,  C a p e  V e r d e ,  t h e  C e n t r a l  A f r i c a n, Burkina Faso
Republic, Chad, the Comoros, the &te d’Tvoire,  D j i b o u t i ,  Eqypt, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, the Gambia, Ghana,  Guinea ,  Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Lesotho,
Liberia, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  M a d a q a s c a r ,  Malawi,  Malaysia ,Mali,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, the Niger, Niqeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Rwanda, Sso Tome and Pr inciq ,  S e y c h e l l e s ,  S i e r r a  Leone,  S o m a l i a ,pe!, Sene al
Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Swaziland, Togo, Tunisia, Uqanda, the
Tanzania* Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe submitted a draft reeolution entitled
“Quest ion of  Antarct ica” (A/C.1/41/L.88). The draft  resolut ion was introduced by
the representative of Malaysiu at t h e  51st meetins,  on 19 November 1986.

IO. At t h e  s a m e  m e e t i n q ,  t h e  Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/41/L.88,  as
oral ly revised,  (see para. 11,  draf t  resolut ion C) b y  a  rol l-cal l  vote of  99 to 1,
with 5 abstentions. 3/ T h e  votina w a s  as fol.lowst

Y The followinq 21 deleqations stated that  they were  not participatinq  i n
the  vo te : Australia, Belqium, Chile, Denmark, Finlaild, France, Germany, Federal
Republic  of ,  Greece,  Guatemala, Israel ,  I taly,  C&e  d*Ivoire,  Japan ,  Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norwav,  Spain, Sweden, United Kinqdan of Great Britain and .lorthern
Ireland, United States of America and Uruquey.

/‘.  . .



A/41/902
EPIq1ish
Parse  5

In fwour8 Afqhsniatan, Albania,  A l g e r i a ,  AnqoSr, Antiqua  a n d  Barbudar
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Banqladeeh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalm,  Bulqarie,  Burkina 8180,
Surme,  Burundi, Bvelorussian  Soviet Socialiet  Republic, Cameroon,
Control African Republic, Chad, Chino, Colombia, cooDoro8,  Qnqo,
Coota  Rice, Cuba, Cyprue, Czechoelovakie, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen,  Djibouti, Ecuador ,  Eqypt,  Ethiopia, Gabon,
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Quyena, Haiti,
Hunqary , I n d i a ,  Indonesia, Iran tIelamic  Republic of), I r a q ,
Jordan, Kenya,  Kuwait, Lao People18  Democratic Republic, Liberia,
Libyen Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldivee,  Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Moesmbique,  Nepal, Nicaraqus,
Niqer , Niger is, Omen, Rakistan,  Panama, Fwu, Philippinee,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Letme,  Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Thailand,
Toqo,  Trinidad a n d  Tobaqo,  Tunieia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, U n i o n  of Soviet Socialist Repub l ics ,  United
Rrab Emiratee,  United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yuqoslavia, Zaire, Zambia l

Ago h3t t Canada.

Abstaining: Austria, Ireland, Luxembourca,  Portuqal, Turkey.

ITT. RECOMMEGNDATIONS  OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

I. 1 , The Yirst  Committee recommends to the General Aeeembly the adoption of the
followinq  reeolutionst

QUESTION OF ANTARCTICA

A

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 38/77 of 15 December 1983, 39/152 of
17 December 1984 and 40/156  A of 16 December 1985,

Having cons idered  the item entitled wguestion  of Antarctica”,

Welcominu  the  increesina  international  awareness  of and interest in
Antarctica,

Bearing  in mind  the Antarctic Treaty Q/ and the significance of the
system it has developed,

!.I United  Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 402, M.  5778, p. 72.
/ . . .



A/41/902
Bnql  iah
paqe  6

Taking into accoullt  the debate on this item at it5 forty-first seesion,  s/

Convinced of the advantaaes  of a better knowldqc  of Antarctica,

Lf f itminq  the cwnv  ict ion that, in the interest of all mankind,  Antarct ica
ehould continue for ever to be ueed exclusively for peaceful purposes and that
it should not become the scene or object of international discord,

Recallinq  the relevant paraqraphe  of the Political DecI.aration adopted at
the Eiqhth Confere .ce of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aliqned
Countrfea,  held at Harare from 1 to 6 September 1986, a/ and the reeolutlon on
Antarct ica adopted by the  Counci l  o f  Min isters  of the Organizat ion of African
Unity at it5 forty-second  ordinary se5sion,  held at Add15  Ababa from 10 to
17 July 1965, 1/ as well es the decfsidn  of the Council of Miniatere  of the
Losque  of Arab States, held at Tunis on 17 and 18 September 1~116,

Conscious  o f  t+ siqnif icance of Anta::ctica  to  the  intelnational-
community, in  termr inter alk,  of international peace and security, economy,
environment, acientlfic  research and meteoroloqy,

Recoqnizinq,  therefore, the interest of mankind as  a whole in Antarctica,

Taking into account the provi.,-ions of the 1982 United Nation5 Convention
on the Lsw  of the Sea, &/

Noting with appreciation the expandad  study on the auestion  of Antarctica
rubmitted by the Secretarv-General, z/

i n c r e a s e dNot inp the flow of information from the Antarctic Treaty
Consul ta t ive  Parties, expresses concern at the continuinq  non-availability of
iniormation  to the Secretary-General on certain issues effectinq the queatiorr
of Antarctica,

I/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-first Session ,  F i r s t
mmittee,  4 9 t h  t o  51st mecttinqs.

$1 A/41/697-S/18392.

Y ~/40/666,  annex TI, resolution CM/Res.988  (X1,11).

!i’ of ficia 1 Records of the Third United Nat ions Conterence  on the hw of the
Sea, vol. XVII  (United Nations p u b l i c a t i o n ,  S a l e s  N o .  E.84.V.3),  document
A/OONF.  62/l 22.

Y ~/41/722.

/ . . .



A/41/902
Enq 1 ieh
Faqe  7

1. Requeate  the Antactic  Tceaty Consultative Parties to keep the
Seccetacy-GaneceP  fuffy  informed on all aopects  Of the question of Antarotioe
so that the United Nations could function as thn central tepcmitocy  of  all
suoh  infotmationj

2. Requeete  the Secretary-QeneceE  to  continue to follow all aepeote Of
the question of Antarctica and  to provide a11  updated report thereon to the
QenecaP  Assembly at its forty-second aessionr

3. Deoides  to include in the provisional agenda at its forty-SWOnd
session tho item entitled aQuostion  of Antarctica”.

The Genera 1 Aeeembly ,

Reca l l ing  i t s  resolutiona  38/99 o f  15 Docenlber 1983, 39/152 of
19 December 1984 and 40/156  B ofi  16 December 1985,

Naving  considered the item entitled @@Question  of Antarctica”,

Recalling the relevant paragraphs of the Political Declaration adopted by
the Eighth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Hecece  from 1 to 6 September 1986, 6J and the resolution on
Antarctica adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Organization of African
Unity at its forty-second ordinary session, held at Addis  Ababa from 10 to
17 July 1985, 7J as well as the decision of the Council of Ministers of the
Laaque  of Arab States held at Tunis on 19 and 18 September 1986,

Recoqnizing  that the management, exploration and use of Antarctica should
be oonduoted  in accordance with the purposes and principles of the Charter of
the United Nations and in the interest of maintaining international peace snd
security and of promoting international co-oDecation  for the benefit of
mankind as a whole,

Aware that neqotiations  ace in pcoqcess  among the Antarctic Treaty
Consultative Parties, with the non-Consultative Parties as observers, to which
other States ace not privy, with a view to establishing a regime  regarding
Antarctica minerals,

1. Reaffirm8 that any sxpl~itetion  of the resources of Antarctica
should ensure  the maintenanc,?  of international peace  and security in
Antarctics, the protection of its environment, the non-appcopc iation and
conservation of its resources irnd  the international management and equitable
sharing of the benefits of such @Jtploitationt

2. Calls upon the Antarctic Treaty Cot,sultative  PertSee  to impose a
moratorium on the negotiations to establish a minerals regime  ctlltil  such time
as all members of the international community can participate fully in such
negotiationsr

/ . . .



A/41/902
Bnql  iah
Paqe  8

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda  of its fortv-second
seaaion  the item entitled “Queetion  of Antarctica”.

C

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 40/156  C of 16 December 1985,

Having considerad the item entitled “Question of Antarctica’,

Noting with reqret  that the racist apartheid r&aime  of South Africa,
which has been suspended from participation in the General Assembly af  the
United Nations, has cont inued to  par t ic ipate  in the meetinqs  of the
Consultative Parties to the Antarctic Treaty, 2/

Recalling  the resolution adopted by the Council of Ministers of the
Orqanization  of African Unity at its forty-eecond ordinary session,  held at
Addis Ababa from 10 to 17 July 1985, z/

Recalling also the relevant paraoraphs  of the Political Declaration
adopted at the Eiqhth Conference of Heads of State or Government of
Non-Aliqned Countries, held at Harare from 1 to 6 September 1986, L/

Recalling further that the Antarctic Trerty is, by its terms, intended to
further the purposes and principles embodied in the Charter of the rlnited
Nations,

Noting further that the policy of apartheid practised  by the racist
minority r6qime  of South Afr!ca, which has been universal Iv  condemned,
conetitutee 8 threat to reqlonal  and international peace and security,

1. _Viewe with concern the continuinq  participation of the apartheid
cdqime of South Africa in the tneetinga  of the Coneultative Parties to the
Antarctic Treaty,

2. Appeals once again to the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties to
take uroent measures to exclude the racist aoartheid  r&ime of South Africa
from participation in the meetinqs of the Consultative Parties at the earliest
poeeible  date 1

3. Invites the States  parties  to the Antarctic Treaty to inform the
Secretarv-General on the tctions taken reqardinq the provisions of the present
resolution8

4. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report in this reqard to
the General Assembly at its forty-second session;

5. Decides to include in the provisional aqenda of its forty-second
se:;sion  the i t e m  entitled “Quest ion  of Antarct ica”.


