







































UNITED
NATIONS

Generel  Assembly
Dis t r .
GENERAL

A/41/747
23 October 1986

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-f irs t  session
Agenda items 106 and 12

IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE
TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES BY THE SPECIALIZED AGENCIES AND

INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS

REPORT OF THE ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteurr  Mr, Nihat AKYOL (Turkey)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1986, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided  to  inc lude  in  the agenda of  i ts
For t ie th  sess ion the  fo l lowing i tems:

“106, Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specializcd agencies and the
in ternat ional  ins t i tu t ions  associa ted  wi th  the  Uni ted  Nations!

“(a) Report of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples1

“(b)  Report  of  the Secretary-General .”

“12. Report of the Secretary-General .‘I

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate to the Fourth Committee
agenda item 106, toge the r  w i th  chap t e r s  I ,  VI  ( s ec t . D) and IX of the report of the
Economic and Social Council, which relate to the item (A/41/3). lJ

1,’ Official  Records of  the General  Assemblv,  For ty-f i rs t  Sess ion,  Supplement
No. 3 (A/41/3).

86-26902 4703P (E) / . . .



A/41/747
English
Page 2

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 24 September, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general  debate covering agenda items 19, 104, 106 and 12, 107 and 108, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would be
considered separate ly . The Committee held the general debate on these items at its
11th to 17th meetings, between 13 and 21 October,

3. The Fourth Committee considered items 106 and 12 at i ts 9th and 11th to 18th
meetings, between 8 and 22 October (see A/C.4/41/SR.9 and 11-18).

4. At the 9th meeting, on 8 October, the Rapper teur of the Special Committee on
the  Si tuat ion wi th  regard  to  the  Implementa t ion of the  Declara t ion  on the  Grant ing
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which I e gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 1986 and drew
attention to  chapter  VI  of  the  repor t  of  that  Commit tee  re la t ing to  i tem 106
(A/41 /23  (Pa r t  IV)  and  (Pa r t  IV)/Corr.l)  2/ con t a in ing ,  i n t e r  a l i a ,  the  r e l a t ed
draf t  resolut ion submit ted  by that  Commit tee  for  the  considera t ion of  the  Four th
Committee.

!I , During i t s  considera t ion of  the  i tem, the Fourth Committee had before it  the
report  of  the  Secretary-General  submit ted in  pursuance of  paragraph 24 of  General
Assembly reaolution 40/53  of 2 December 1985 (A/41/407 and Add.1).

6. At its 8th meeting, on 7 October, the Fourth Committee granted a reauest for
hea r ing  t o  or, Wil l iam C.  Goodfel low,  Center  for  Internat ional  Pol icy. At the  9 th
meeting, on 8 October, Mr. Jim Morrell made a statement on behalf of the Center.

7. At its 18th meeting, on 22 October, the Fourth Committee took action on the
draf t  resolut ion conta ined in  paragraph 18 of  chapter  VI  of  the  repor t  of  the
Special  Commit tee  (A/41/23 (Par t  IV)  and (Par t  IV)/Corr.l)  ,  as  fol lowsr  2/

(a)  At  the reauest  of Israel ,  a  separate  vote  was taken on the words “and
Israelt’ in  the  e ighth  preambular  paragraph.  The words  “and Israel”  in  the  e ighth
preambular paragraph were retained by a recorded vote of 72 to 49, with 24
a b s t e n t i o n s . The voting was as follows: A/

21 To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
For ty-f i rs t  Sess ion,  Supplement  No. 23 (A/41/23) .

Y Statements  in  explanat ion of  vote  were  made by the  representa t ives  of  the
following Member States: Cameroon, Canada, Colombia, Denmark (on behalf also of
Fin land, Iceland,  Norway and Sweden) ,  Fi j i ,  France,  Greece,  Guatemala,  I re land,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands, New Zealand, Oman, Syrian Arab Republic, United
Kingdom of Great Pritain and Northern Ireland, Uruguay and Zaire.

41 Subseauently, the delegatton of the Dominican Republic informed the
Sec re t a r i a t  t ha t  i t  h ad  i n t ended  t o  ca s t  a  nega t i ve  vo t e .

/ . . .



A/41/743
Engl inh
Page 3

In favour 8 Afghanistan, Albania, Alger ia, Angola, Bahrain, Bangladeehr
Benin, Botswana,  Brunei Darua8alam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Byeloruaaian  Soviet Socialiat Republic, C&pe Verde,
China , Congo, Cuba, Czechorlovrkia, Dmocratic  Yemen, Djibouti,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Gambia, German Mnocratic Republic, Ghana,
Guinea, Guinea-Biarau,  Hungary, Xndia, Indo: . !a, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic  Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagarcar,
Malaysia, Maldivea, Mali, Mauritania, Yongolia,  Moroccor
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Onran,  Pakistan, ?oland, Qatar, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Somalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab miratee , United Republic of Tanzania,
Vanuatu, Wet Nam, Yemen, Yugorlavia , Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againatr Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Austria,  Bahamas, Barbados,
Belgium, Belize, Bolivia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Colombia I
Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire,  Denmark, 41 Salvador, Fiji, Finland,
France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala,
Haiti I Honduran, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Luxembourg, Nepal, Netherlands,  New Zealand, Norway, Papua
New Guinea, Portugal, Saint Christopher and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadinea, Samoa,  Solomon Islands, Spain,
Swaziland, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Statea of America, Zaire.

Abstr in inq: Argentina, Bhutan, Brazil, Burma , Central African Republic,
Cyprue, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Gabon, Guyana, Lesotho,
Liberia, Mexico,  Panama, Peru, Philippines, Singapore, Suriname,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uruguay, Venezuela.

(b) The draft resolution, as a whole, was adopted by a recorded vote of 122
to 4, with 23 abstentions (see para. 8). The voting was as followsa

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Ant iqua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas,  Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin,
Fhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Uarussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina FaBO,  Burma, Burundi, Byeloruseian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoelovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti , Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
IraQ, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liber is, Libyan Arab Jamahir iya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius,  Mexico,
Mongol ia, Morocco, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Niger ia, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,

/ . . .



A/41/747
En91 iBh
Page  4

Against a

AbeCsininqt-.

Qatar, timania,  Rwanda, Saint Christopher and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Sao mme and Principe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Sacialiet Republic,
Union of Soviet SoCialiclt  Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia , 2s ire , Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Costa Rica, Israel,  Witad  Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland,  United Statea of  Anarica.

Australia, Austria, B8lgium, Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, c8te d’Ivoire, Iknmark, El Salvador, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain, Sweden.

RECOMMENDAT ION

8. The Fourth Committee recommends
following draft reeolutiont

OF THE POURTH  COMMITTEE

to the General Asardmbly  the adoption of the

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Counttier and Peoples by the specialized agencies and
the international institution8 asrociated with the United Nations

The General Aa8emblY,

Having examined the item entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the
epecialized  agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nationa”,

Recallinq  th; Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, contained in General  Aseembly  resolution 1514 (XV1 Of
14 December 1960, and the Plan of Action for the Full Implementation of the
Declaration, contained in the annex to Assemhly resolution 35/118  Of
11 December 1980, and resolution 40/56 of 2 hcember 1985 on the twenty-fifth
snniverasry  of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, as well 68 rll other relevant resolutions adopted by
the Assembly on this BUbjeCt, including in particular resolution 40/53  of
2 December 1985,

/ . . .



A/41/7 47
Engl ieh
Page 5

Havir.g examined the reportr submitted on the item by the
Secretary-General, r/ the Economic and Social Council v and the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countrise and
Peoplee,  L/

Recalling  also lta resolutions ES-a/2  of 14 September 1981 and 40/97  of
13 Becembcr 1985 on the question of Wnibia,

Taking into account the relevant provision8 of the Declaration and the
Programme of Action adopted at the International Conference for the Immediate
Independence of Namibia, held at Vienna from 7 to 11 July 1986, 8-/ and the
Declaration adopted by the World Conference ovl Sanctiona against Racist South
Africa, held in Par is from 16 to 20 June 1986, z/

Bearing In mind the relevant provision6  of the Final Political
Declaration and the Final EconrJmlc  Dcclaratlon adopted by the Conference of
Foreign Mlnietere  of the Non-Aligned Countries held at Luanda from 4 to
7 September 1985, 10/ the final documents  of the Minieterial  Meeting of the
Co-ordinating Bureau of the Movement of Bon-Aligned Countries,  held at
New Delhi from 16 to 19 April 1986, llJ and the resolution on the question of
Nomlbla adopted by the Council of Minieters  of the Organization  of African
Unity at ite forty-third ordinary ecaaion,  held at Addis Ababa from
25 February to 4 March 1986 I

Aware that the struggle of the people of Namibia for self-determination
and independence is in its crucial stage and h8B sharply intensified IS a
Consequence of the stepped-VP  aggression of the Illegal colonialist rdgime  of
Pretor la against the people of the Terr ltory and the increased support

Y A/41/407 and Add.1.

fr/ Official ReCOrdB of the General Assembly, Forty-first Session, Supplement
No. 3 (A/41/3), chaps. I, VI and IX.

11 A/41/23 (Part IV) and (Part IV)/Corr.l,  chap. VI.

!? See Report of the International Conference for the Immediate Independence
of Namibia, Vienna, 7-11 July 1986 (United Natlona publication, Sales No. E.86.1.16
and addendum), part three. See also A/41/479-S/10234,  annex.

Y See Report of the World Conference on Sanctions against Racist South
Africa, Paris, 16-20 June 1986 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.86.1.23),
para. 95. See also A/41/434-S/18185  and Corr.1.

lo/ A/40/854-5/17610 and Corr .l, annexes I and II.-

z/ A/41/341-S/18065 and Corr. 1, annexes I and IX.

/ . . .



A/41/747
English
Page 6

rendered to that rdgimc by bte allier, coupled with efforts to depr ive the
Namibian people of their hard-won victories in the liberation struggle, and
that it is therefore incumbent upon the entire international community
decisively to intensify concerted action in support of the people of Namibia
and thr?ir  sole and authentic representative, the South West Africa People’s
Organization, for the attainment of their goal,

Concerned that the policy of “con6tructive  engagement” with the apartheid
r6gime  of South Africa, as well a6 economic and military collaboration
maintained by sane Western countrise and Israel with Pretoria, has only
encouraged and strengthened the racist rCqime  In its continued illegal
occupation and massive militarization  and exploitation of Namibia in violation
of the relevant resolutions and decision8 of the United Nations,

Gravely concerned at the continued imperialist and neo-colonialist
support for South Africa’s oppressive and aggrcesive  policies in Namibia and
with respect to independent States in southern Afr ica, in particular the
front-line Sta tea, aa exemplified by the discussions and resolution8 of the
Secur i ty Counci 1,

Conscious of the woreening of the situation in southern Africa because of
South Africa’s racist policice  of oppression , aggression and occupation which
constitute a clear threat to world peace and security, and condemning the
continuing breach by South Africa of the obligation8 assumed by it under the
Charter of the United Nations and its persistent non-compliance with the
relevant resolutions and decisions of the United Nations,

Deeply conscious of the continuing critical need of the Namibian people
and their national liberation movement, the South West Africa People’s
Organization, and of the peoples of other colonial Territories for concrete
assistance from the specialized agencies and other organizations  of the United
Nations system in their struggle for liberation from colonial rule and in
their efforts to achieve and consolidate their national independence,

Ueeply concerned that, although there has been progress in the extension
of assistance to refugee8 from Namibia, the actions taken hitherto by the
organizationa  concerned in providing assistance  to the people of the Territory
through their national liberation movement, the South West Africa People’s
Organization, still remain inadequate to meet the urgent and qzowing  needs of
the Namibian people,

Reaffirming the responsibility of the specialized  agencies and other
organizatione of the United Nations system to take all the necessary measureBy
within their respective spheres of competence, to ensure the fuli and speedy
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and People8 and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations,
particularly thoee relating to the provision of moral and material assistance,
on a priority basis, to the peoples of the colonial Territories and their
national liberation movements,

/ . . .



A/41/747
English
Page 7

EXPEesSing  its firm belief that olo8er contacts and consultations between
the specialized agencies and other organisations of the United Nations system
on the one hand and the Organisation of African Unity and the South West
Africa  People’s Orqanfzation on the other will help the above agencies and
organizations to overcome procedural and other difficulties which have impeded
or delayed the implementation of 8ae assistance  programmes,

Recalling its resolution 40/97 C of 13 December 1985 requesting all
Specialized  agencies and other organizations and conferences of the United
Nation8 System to grant full membership to the United Nation8 COUnCil  for
Namibia as the legal Administering Authority for Namibia,

Expressing its appreciation to the General Secretariat of the
OrganizatiOn  of African Unity for the continued co-operation and assistance
extended by it to the specialized agencies and other organizations of the
United Nations system in connection with the implementation of the relevant
resolutions of the United Nations,

Expressing its appreciation also to the Governments of the front-line
States for the steadfast support extended to the people of Namibia and their
national liberation movement, the South West Africa People’s Organization, in
their just and legitimate struggle for the attainment of freedom and
independence despite increased armed attack8 by the forces of the racist
t&gime  of South Africa, and aware of the particular needs of those Governments
for assistance in that connection,

Commendinq  the continued substantial contribution of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization to the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
and the effective support it provides to the liberation movements in educating
the populations of colonial Territories concerning self-determination and
independence,

Noting the support given by the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system to the implementation of the
Nationhood Programme for Namibia, in accordance with its resolution 32/9 A of
4 November 1977,

Deploring the continued links with and assistance rendered to South
Africa by certain specialized agencies in the financial, economic, technical
and other fields in contravention of the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations, thus enhancing neo-colonialist practices in the system Of
international relations,

Gravely concerned at the continued collaboration between the
International Monetary Fund  and the Government of South Africa in disregard of
relevant General Assembly resolutions, in particular resolution 37/2 of
21 October 1982,

/. . .



A/41/747
English
Page 8

Bearing in mind the importance of the activities of non-governmental
organiratione  aimed at putting an end to the aesistance  that is still being
rendered to South Africa by sane specialized agencies,

Mindful of the imperative need  to keep under continuous review the
activities of the epecialized  agencies and other organisations of the United
Nationa  system in the implementation of the various United Nations decisions
relating to decolonization,

Bearing in mind that 1986 marks the twentieth anniversary ( i the
termlzn by it of the Mandate of !3mth Afriza  over Namibia,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee OF the
Situation with regard to the Implementaticn  of the Declaration on the Grar.ting
Of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the questionr  _12/

2. Reaffirms that the specialised agencies and other organizat ions and
institutions of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the
relevant resolutions of the United Nations in their efforts to contribute,
within their sphere of compcttnce, to the full and speedy implementatior of
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) t

3. Reaffjrms  also that the recogni.tion by the General Assembly, the
Security Council and other United Nations organs of the legitimacy of the
ertruggle  of colonial peoples to exercise their right to self-determination and
independence entails, as a corollary, the extension by the specialized
agencies and other organizaticmb  of the Unlctd Nstione system of all the
neceaeary moral and material assistance to those peoples and their national
liberation movements)

4. EXpreSSt6 its appreciation to those specialized agencies and other
organizatione  of the United Nations system that have continued to co-operate
in varying degrees with th? Unite<  Nations and the Orgnnization  of African
Unity in the implementation of the Declaration and other relevant  resolutions
of the United Nations, and urges all the specialized agencie and other
orgonizations of the United Nations system to accelera e the full and speedy
implementation of the reltvant provisions of those rtsolutionsl

5. Exprtests its concern that the assistance txttnded thus far by
certain specialized agtncits and other organizations  of the United Nations
system to the colonial peoples, par titularly the people of Namibia and ‘.heir
naticnal  libtration movement, the South West Africa People’s Organizat ion, is
far from adequate in rtiqtion to tht actual needs of the peoples concerned;

l2J A/41/2.3 (Part XV) and (Part IV)/Corr.l,  chap. VI.

/..I



A/41/747
Engl iah
Page 9

6. Requests all 8ptciaIized  agencies and other organizationa rnd bodice
of the United Nations eystem, in accorcbnce  with the relevant resolutiona of
the General Uscmbly  and tne Security Council, to take all necessary meaUUre~
to withhola from the racist rCgime of South Africa any form of co-oparatiOn
and assistance in the flnrrncial,  economic, technical and &her fields and to
discontinue all support  to that rigime  until the people of Namibia have
exercised  fully their inalienable right to self-determinati~,  freedom and
national rndzpendtnce in a united Namibia and until the inhuman systam of
apartheid has been totally tradicatedl_I-

7. Reiterate8  its conviction that the specialized  agencies and other
orqanizatfons and bodies  of the United Nation8 system should  refrain from
taking a.~y action which might imply racognition of, or support  for, the
legitimacy of the domination of the Territory of Namibia by the racist riigime
of South Africa1

8. t hRegrets that e World Bank continues to a ir.ta in ctr ta in f insncial
and :echnical links with the raciot  rigime of Prttoria, and expeaaea  the view
that those links should bt diecontinued

9. Strongly deplores that the International Monttary Fund has been
assisting the raciet  r&gime of South Aft ica, and expreeses  tha view that the
Fund should put bn errd tc uch a8jiatance  to the racist r/gimtg

10. Stro. gly condemns the collaboration bttween the Inttrnational
Monetary Fund and South Africa in dieregard of rcptated resolution;. to the
ccntrary  by the General Aestmbly, and calla upon the Fund to put an end to
SUCI: col14boration,  a~ the Assembly is strongly convinced  that the apartheid
System implies a serious instability in the South African economy, including
iis balance of payments, and thus that the International Monetary Fund
according to its tules should not, as long as apartheid and the illtgal
occupation  of Namibia by South Africa continue to exist, extend any credits to
South Africa;

11. w9 once again the executive head8 of the Wor Id Bank and tht
International Getary Fund to draw the partixxlar  attention of their
qovrrning bodies to the prtetnt reaolution with a viau to formulating specific
programmes beneficidi  to the peoples oE the cclonial Territor its, particularl;r
Namibia J

12. Recuests  the specializcd  agencita and other organizatlons  ?Tf t.nt-_I_
United Nations system to render or continue to render, as a matter of urgency,
all possible moral and material aeeiatance  to the ,wlonial  peoples struggling
for liberation from colonial rule, bearing in mind that such assistance should
not only meet their lzzntdiatt  needs but also crtatt conditions for dtvelopment
after they have exercised their right to self-determinat:on  and independtncer

13. Requentu onct  again the aptcial  ized agencies and other organizationa
of the United Nations system to continue to providt all moral end material
assintsnce to the newly irddcpendent  and emerging Statto  so as to tnablt .thtm
to Ach i eve qenu ine economic independence 1

/ . . .



R/41,‘747
Engl i sh
-age 10

14. Reiterates its recommendation that the specialized agr .lciea and
other organizatione of the United Nation8 system should initiate or broaden
contacts and m-operation with the colonial peoples and their national
liberation movements, directly or, where appropriate, through the Organization
of African Unity, and review and introduce greater flexibility in their
procedures with respect to the formulation and preparation of assistance
programmes and project& so ata to be able to extend the necessary aasiRtance
wit!iout  delay to help the colonial peoples and their national liberation
movements in their struggl e to exercise their inal ienable right to
self-determination anal independence in accordance with General Assembly
reeolution 1514 (KU) I

15. &ecommends  that a separate item on asa+etance  to national liberation
movemente  recognixz by the Organization of African Unity should be included
in the agenda of future high-level meetings between the General Secretariat of
the Organization of African Unity and the secretariats of the United Nations
and other organizations  of the United Nations system, with a view to
strengthening further the existing meaaureo of co-ordination of action to
ensure the best use of available resources for assistance to the peoples of
the colonial Territor tee;

16. Urges the specialized agencies and other organisations of the United
Nations system that have not already done so ts include in the agenda of the
regular meetings of their governing bodies a separate item on the progress
they have made in the j,mplementation of the Declaration and the other relevant
resolutions of the United Nattonsj

17. Urges the specialized agencies and other orqanizations and
inetitutions of the United Nations system t7 extend, as a matter of priority,
substantial material assistance to the Gover.,ments  of the front-line States in
order to enable them to support mo-e effectively the struggle of the people of
Namibia for freedom and independence and to resist the violation of their
territorial integrity by the armed forces of the racist rkgime of South
Africa,  directly or, as in Angola and Mozambique, through puppet groups in the
service of Pretoria;

18. Notes with satisfaction the arrangements made by several specialized
agencies and other organizatione of the United Nations system that enable
representatives of the national liberation movements  recognized by the
Organization of African Unity to participate fully as observers in the
proceedings relating to matters concerning their respective countries, and
callfi upon those agencies and organiza  t ions that have not yet done 80 to
follow this example and to make  the necessary arrangements  without delay)

19. Ew the specialized R enciP:j  and other orqanization6 8’10
institutions of the United Nation:. system to assist in acceJeratiug  r.,%dress
in all sectors  of the national  Jife of  colonial  Territories,  prtiCUlat  ly in
the development of their economies;

/ . . .



A/41/747
Engl iah
Page 11

20. Draws the  par t icular  a t tent ion of  the  specia l ized agencies  and other
organizationeof  the United Nations system to Security Council resolution
566 (1985) of 19 June 1985, in which the Council condemned the racist  r&in’@
Of South Af r i ca  fo r  i t s  i n s t a l l a t i on  o f  a  so -ca l l ed  in te r im g o v e r n m e n t  i n
Namibia and declared that action to be i l legal and null and vo!.d!

21. Recommends that all  Governments should intenaify their efforts in
the  apecia l ized  agenc;ea and othar  organizat ions  of  the  Uni ted Nat ions  aystem
of which they are memtera to ensure the full and effective implementation of
the  Declaratiori  and other  re levant  resolut ions  of  the  Uni ted  Nat ion8 and,  in
that connection, should accord priority to the auestion of providing
ass is tance on an emergency beais to  the  peoples  of  the  colonia l  Territories
and their national liberation movements1

22. Rei  tera tea i ta proposal , under article III af the Agreement between
the United Nations and the International Monetary Fund, l3/ for the urgent
inclusion in the agenda of the Board of Governors of the Fund of an item
dealing with the relationship between the Fund and South Africa and further
r e i t e r a t e s  ita p r o p o s a l  t h a t , in  pursuance of  ar t ic le  I I  of  the  Agreement ,  the
relevant organn of the United Nations ehould  participate in any meeting of the
Board of Governors called by the Fund for the purpose of discussing the item,
and urges  the Fund to  d iscuss  i t s  re la t ionship  with South Africa at  i ts  annual
meeting, in compliance with the above-mentioned Agreement, and to report to
the  Secretary-General  of  the  Uni ted Nat ions  on the  act ion takent

23. Draws the attention of the specialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system to the Plan of Action for the Full
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples, contained in the annex to General Assembly resolution
35/118,  in  par t icular  to  those  provis ions  ca l l ing  upon the agencies and
organizations to render all possible moral and material assistance to the
peoples  of  the  colonia l  Terr i tor ies  and to  the i r  na t ional  l ibera t ion  movements!

24. Urges the executive heads of the specialized agencies and other
orqanizations of the United Nations system, having regard to  the  provis ions  of
paragraphs 14 and 23 above, to formulate, w i t h  t h e  a c t i v e  c o - o p e r a t i o n  o f  t h e
Organization  of  Afr ican Uni ty  where  appropria te ,  and to  submit ,  as  a  mat ter  of
p r i o r i t y , to  thei r  governing and legis la t ive  organs  concrete  proposals  for  the
fu l l  implementa t ion of  the  re levant  Uni ted  Nations dtcisions,  in  par t icular
specif ic  programmes of  assistance to  the  peoples  of  the  colonia l  Terr i tor ies
and their national liberation movements;

25. Requests  the  Secretary-General  to continue tu ass is t  the  specia l ized
agencies and other organizations of the United Nations system in working out

z/ See Agreements II< #ween  the United  Nat ions  and the  Gpecialized  Agencies
and the  Internat ional  Atomic Energy Agency (Uni ted  Nat ions  publ ica t ion,  Sales  -
No .  E/F.61.X.l),  p .  6 1 .

/ . 1 .



A/41/147
Engl iah
Page 12

approp r i a t e  measu re s  fo r  implementing  t h e  r e l e v a n t  r e s o l u t i o n s  o f  t h e  U n i t e d
Nat ions  and to  prepare  for  aubmisaion  to  the  re levant  bodies,  with  the
ass is tance  of  those  agencies  and organizat  iona, a  repor t  on  the  ac t ion taken
since  t h e  c i r c u l a t i o n  o f  h i s  p r e v i o u s  r e p o r t  i n  i m p l e m e n t a t i o n  o f  t h e  r e l e v a n t
resolu t  ions ,  inc luding the  present  resolu t ion  1

26. Requests the Economic and Social Council  to continue to consider,  in
consul ta t ion  wi th  the  Specia l  Commit tee  on  the  Si tua t ion  wi th  regard  to  the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples ,  appropria:e  measu re s  f o r  co -o rd ina t i on  o f  t he  po l i c i e s
and act iv i t ies  of  the  specia l ized agencies  and other  organise  tione  of  the
Uni ted Nat ions  sys tem in  imp,lementing  the  re levant  reeoltitions  of  the General
AsGemblyj

27. R e a u e s t s  t h e  s p e c i a l i z e d  a g e n c i e s  t o  r e p o r t  p e r i o d i c a l l y  t o  t h e
Secretary-General  of  the  Uni ted  Nat ion8 on thei r  implementat ion of  the  present
r eaolut  ion 1

28. Requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the question
and to  repor t  thereon to  the  General  Assembly a t  i t s  for ty-second sess ion.

-w--m


