







































A.
General  Awembly

Distr.
GXNERAL

A/41/840
26 November 1986
KNGLISX
ORIGINAL: FRRNCR

Forty-first session
Agenda item 60

GENERAL AND COMPLETE DISARMAMENT

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Doulaye Corentin RI (Burkina Faso)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

"General and complete disarmament:

-(a) Contribution of the specialized agencies and other organisations and
programmes of the United Nations system to the cause of arms limitation
and disarmament: report of the Secretary-General;

"(b) Conventional disarmament on a regional scale: report of the
Secretary-Generali

"(c) Conventional disarmament: report of the Secretary-General;

"(d) Prohibition of the development, production, stooirpiling and use of
radiological weapons: report of the Conference on Disarmament;

*(e) Study on concepts of security: report of the Secretary-General;

"(f) Naval armaments and disarmament: report of the Disarmament Commission:

"(g) Prohibition of the production of fissionable material for weapons
purposes: report of the Conference on Disarmament;

"(h) Curbing the naval arms race% limitation and reduction of naval aemaments
and extension Of confidence-building measures to seas and oceans: report
of the Disarmament Commission;

86-32513 0459P (E)



A/41/840
English
Page 2

"(i) Objective information on military matters: report of the
Secretary-General;

"(j) Review of the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament:
report of the Disarmament Commission*

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-first session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 39/151 E of 17 December 1984, dnd 40/94 A, C to
G, I, R and 0 of 12 December 1985.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1986, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, followed by statements on
specific disarmament agenda items and a continuation of the general debate, as
necessary . The deliberations on those items, namely, items 46 to 65 and item 144,
took place between the 3rd and the 32nd meetings, from 13 October to
4 November (see A/C. 1/41/PV.3-32).

4. In connection with item 60, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament1 g

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commission; z/

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on objective  information on military
matters (A/41/466 and Add.1);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the study on concepts of security
(A/41/471 and Add. 1) ;

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the contribution of the specialized
agencies and other organizations and programmes of the united Nations system to the
cause of arms limitation and disarmament (A/41/491);

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on conventional disarmament (A/41/501 and
Add.1 and 2);

(g) Report of the Secretary-General on conventional disarmament on a regional
scale (A/41/57%;

Y Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-first Session, Supplement
No. 27 W4V27)  l

Y Ibid., supplement No. 42 (~/41/42)-

/.,.



~/41/840
English
Page 3

(h) Letter dated 20 December 1985 from the Permanent Representative of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the communiqu6 issued
by the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the North Atlantic Council at Brussels on
13 December 1985 (A/41/58) ;

(i) Letter dated 10 January 1986 from the Permanent Representatives of
Bulgaria and Romania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/41/87) i

(j) Letter dated 21 January 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/97) ;

(k) Letter dated 30 January 1986 from the representatives of Sweden and the
United Republic of Tanzania to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the Delhi Statement adopted on
19 January 1986 by the Independent Commission on Disarmament and Security Issues
(A/41/124-5/17777) ;

(1) Letter dated 3 February 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
Mongolia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/131);

(m) Letter dated 21 February 1986 from the Acting Permanent Representative of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
SeCr etar y-General (A/41/17 5) ;

(n) Letter dated 3 March 1986 from the Acting Permanent Representative of the
union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Seer etary-Gener al (A/41/185) 2

(0) Letter dated 11 March 1986 from the representatives of Argentina, Greece,
India, Mexico, Sweden and the united Republic of Tanzania addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the joint message dated
28 February 1986 addressed to the President of the United States of America and the
General secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet
Union by the Heads of State or Government of Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico and
Sweden, and the First President of the United Republic of Tanzania
(A/41/210-S/17910  and Corr .l) ;

(p) Letter dated 21 March 1986 from the Permanent Representative of China to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/230-5/17937 and COrr  .l) ;

(9) Letter dated 9 April 1986 from the Acting Permanent Representative of
Bulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
text of the address of the member States of the Warsaw Treaty Organisation to ths
European States, the United States of America and Canada on the issue of
establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones in Europe (AP41/273)  i

/ . . .



A/41/840
English
Page 4

(r) Letter dated 5 May 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Morocco to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the texts of
the final communique and of the resolutions adopted by the Sixteenth Islamic
Conference of Foreign Ministers, held at Fez, Morocco from 25 to 29 Rabi Ul Thani,
1406H (6 to 10 January 1986) (A/41/326-s/18049);

4s) Letter dated 15 May 1986 from the Permanent Representative of India t0
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the final
documents of the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of Non-Aligned
Countr ies, held at New Delhi from 16 to 19 April 1986 (A/41/341-S/18065 and Corr.1);

(t) Letter dated 21 May 1986 from the Chargd d'affaires a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of Japan to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the declaration and statement issued at the Tokyo Economic Summit,
held from 4 to 6 May 1986 by the Heads of State of seven major industrial nations
and the representatives of the European Community (A/41/354);

(u) Letter dated 6 June 1986 from the Charge d'affaires a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed
to the Seer etary-Gener al (A/41/403) ;

(v) Letter dated 9 June 1986 from the representatives of Bolivia and Peru to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/408) ;

(w) Letter dated 11 June 1986 from +he Charge d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Hungary to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the communiqu& on the meeting of the
Political Consultative Committee of the Warsaw Treaty member States, held at
Budapest on 10 and 11 June 1986, as well as the appeal by the States members of the
Warsaw Treaty Organization to the States members of the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization and to all European countries for a programme of the reduction of
armed forces and conventional armaments in Europe (A/41/411-S/18147 and COrr.1
and 2);

(x1 Letter dated 23 June 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Bulgaria
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/425);

(y) Note verbale dated 13 June 1986 from the Permanent Mission of Mexico to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the resolutions
adopted by the 75th Inter-Parliamentary Conference, held at Mexico City from 7 to
12 April 1986 (A/41/435) i

(z) Letter dated 5 August 1986 from the Charg6 d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/505) ;

(aa) Letter dated 14 August 1986 from the Permanent Representatives Of
Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the
Mexico Declaration  adopted by the Heads Of State or Government of Argentina,

/ . . .



A/41/840
English
Page 5

Greece , India, Mexico and Sweden and the Firet President of the United Republic of
Tanzania at Xxtapa on 7 August 1986 and copies of the letters they addressed on the
same date to the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communiet  Party
of the Soviet Union and the Preeident of the United States of America
(A/41/518-S/18277)  ;

(bb) Letter dated 25 Auguet  1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/541-S/18295)  ;

(cc) Letter dated 10 September 1986 3om the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics to the Waited  Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/594-S/18333)  f

(dd) Letter dated 30 September 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
Zimbabwe to the United Nntions addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
final documents of the Eighth Conference of Heads of State or Government of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Harare  from 1. to 6 September 1986 (A/41/697-5/18392) ;

(eel Note verbale dated 9 October 1986 from the Permanent Mission of Zimbabwe
to the United Nattons  addreeaed to the Secretary-General, tranemittiny the final
communiqu&  of the Meeting of Ministera and Heads of Delegation of the Non-Aligried
Countries to the forty-first cession of the General Af%eembly,  held on
2 October 19d6 in New York (A/41/703-S/18395)  f

(ff) Letter dated 14 October 1986 fr .n the Deputy Head of the delegation Of
the union of Soviet Socialist Republics tv the forty-first bession of the General
Anaembly addreesed to the Secretary-General (A/41/709-5/18401) ;

(gg) Letter dated 15 October 1986 from the Deputy Head of the delegation of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the forty-first session of the General
Assembly addressed to the Secretary-General  (A/41/714-5/18403) 1

(hh) Letter dated 23 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
Romania to the united Nation6 addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting  the
text of the communique of the meeting of the Committee of Foreign .4ffaire  Ministers
of the States parties to the Warsaw Treaty, held at Bucharest c.1 14 and
15 October 1986 (A/41/744) ;

(ii) Letter dated 23 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
Romania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/745) ;

(jj) Letter dated 23 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/759-S/18422) ;

(kk) Letter dated 4 November 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/794-S/18445) ;

/ . . .



A/41/840
English
Page 6

(11) Letter dated 20 Novt er 1986 from the Permanent. Representative of
Romania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A,‘41/866) ;

(mm) Letter dated 21. November 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet  Socialist Republics to the united Nations addressed to the
Secre tary-Gensra l  ( A / 4 1 / 8 7 3 )  j

(nn) Let::er  dated 30 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Sweden
to the Unitec?  N¶t.ions  and the representative of Mexico to the First Committee
addr eased  to the Sect etar y-Gener alo transmitting the document entitled What is ta
be done? Recommr?ndatione  of the Palme  Commissisn”,  adopted on 26 October 1986 by
the Palme  Commission  on Disarmament and Security Issues (A/C.1/41/8);

(00) Letter t\ated  25 November 1986 from the First Deputy Foreign Minister and
Permanent Ropresentrtive of Bulgar la to tile United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (&/C.l/41/13).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A . Draft resolution ~/C.1/41/~.2

5 . On 23 October, Czechoslovakia submitted a draft resolution, entitled
“Compliance with arms limitaticn and disarmament agreements” (A/C.1/41/L.2),  which
*as later also sponsored by the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, the German
Democratic Republic, Poland, the Ukrainian Sovtet Socialist Republic and the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics. The draft resolution read as fol!.owsr

“The General As,sembly,

“Conscious of the great importance of arms limitation and disarmament
agreements for the strengthening of international peace and security,

“Streosinq  that at the present critical juncture, when the goal of
concluding new agreements mater ially reducing the military threat is
especially urgent and real pr.?spects  are opening up for achieving agreement on
the reduction and elimination of nuclear weapons and prevention of the arms
race in outer space, there is an increasingly urgent necessity of
strengthening the legal basis of the arms race limitation and disarmament
process and, above all, of strict compliance of States with the existing
treaties and agreements in this arear

“Mindful of the central role and primary responsibility of the United
Nations in the sphere of disarmament and of its obligation to facilitate and
encourage all disarmament measures,

‘Stressing in this connection that strict compliance with arms limitation
and disarmament agreements and obligations of States parties arising thereof
in accordance with international law is of critical importance,

/ . . .



A/4 l/040
English
Page 7

@@Convinced  that the strict compliance with arms limitation and
disarmament agreements which are so necessary in the nuclear and space age is
an essential element of trust,

“Recognising that fundamental approaches to disarmament should include,
titer alla, full confidence in the reliability of compliance,

“1. Urges all States parties to arms limitation and disarmament
agreements to implement and comply with the entirety of the provisions
subscribed to, in accordance with the procedures envisaged by the respective
agreements)

“2. Appeals to all States parties to arms limitation and disarmament
agreemer, ta, whether multilateral, regional or bilateral, to safeguard their
integrity as irreplaceable instruments for the strengthening of international
peace and security, stability and confidence-building and, accordingly, to
refrain from any actions which would lead to undermining or circumventing such
agreements;

n3. bAppeals to all Mem er State3 to support effor ta aimed at
strengthening the status of arms limitation and disarmimant  agreements and
emur  ing their full implementation and str ict observant  ?I

” 4 ” Calls oil Member States to duly respect the resolutions on
disarmament issues, par titularly those adcpted IY~  consensus, and especially
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, A/
the first special session devoted to disarmament;

@@5. Requests the Secretary-General to provide Member States with
assistance that may be necessary in this regard.”

6 . At the 37th meeting, on 10 Ncvember, the representative of Czechoslovakia
introduced the draft resolution and orally revised it, deleting operative
paragraph 4.

7 . At the request of the sponsors , no action was taken on draft resolution
~/C.1/41/L.2.

B. Draft resolution A/C. 1/41/L.7

9 . On 27 October, Australia, Cuba, Hungary, Japan and Sweden submitted a draft
resolution, entitled “Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and
use of radiological weapons” (A/C.1/41/L.7),  which was introduce-l by the
representative of Cuba at the 33rd meeting, on 5 November,

5. At its 37th meeting, on 10 November, the  Commit tee  adopted  draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.7 without a vote (see pcra. 45, draft resolution A).

21 Resolution S-10/2.
/ . . .



A/41/040
English
Page 8

C. Draft reeolution A/C.l/Ql/L.lO

10. On 28 October, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, New Zealand, Norway, Turkey, and the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland submitted a draft resolution, entitled
“Objective information on military mattere” (~/C.l/Il/L.lo)  , which was later also
rponaored  by Botswana and Samoa. The draft reeolution was introduced by the
rOpre5entatiVe  of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland at the
28th r rteting , on 31 October.

11. At its 41st  meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.10  by a recorded vote of 88 to none, with 30 abstentions (see para. 419,
draft  reeolution 8). The voting was as follow5:

In favour I Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belgium,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Dar usealam, Burundi , Cameroon ,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Comoros,
C&e d’Ivoire, Democratic Kampuchea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guin?a, Guyana, Iceland, Indonesia,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Luxembourg, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritius, Nepal, Nether land5, New Zealand, Niger, Niger ia,
Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Tr inidad and Tobago, Turkey,
Uganda, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoelavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aqainstr

Abstaininqr Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Benin, Brazil, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Byeloruesian Soviet Socialist Republic,
China, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Ethiopia,
German Democratic Republic, Hunyary, India, Iran (Islamic
Republic of) , Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Mexico, Mongolia,
Nicaragua, Oman, Poland, “krainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic of Tanzania,
Viet Nam.

D. Draft resolution .\/C.1/41/L.17, Rev.1 and 2

12. On 29 October, Denmark eubmitted  a draft resolution, entitled “Conventional
diearmament” (A/C.l/41/L.  17) , which was introduced by its representative at the
31et meeting, on 4 November.

13. On 10 November, Denmark submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.l/4l/L.17/Rev.l) , which contained the following changes:

/ . . .



A/41/040
English
Page 9

(a) The second preambular paragraph, which read:

“Recalling its resolution 40/94 A of 12 December 1985, concerning
conventional diearmament on a regional scale”,

was deleted)

(b) In operative paragraph 1, the words “an analysis” were replaced by the
words “a compilation”.

14. On 12 November, Denmark eubmitted a further revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/4l/L.17/Rev.2), in which the words “on the basis of the recommendations and
conclusionsW in operative paragraph 2 were replaced by the words “fully taking into
account the recommendations and conclusions”.

15. At it8 44th meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.17/Rev.2  without a vote (see para. 45, draft resolution C).

E. Draft resolution A/C.l/ll/L.22

16. On 29 October, Cuba and Czechoslovakia submitted a draft resolution, entitled
“Contribution of thezcia1izc.j agencies and other organizations  and programmes of
the United Nations system  to the cause of arms limitation and disarmament”
(A/C. 1/41/L. 22) t which was later also sponsored by the German Democratic Republic.
The draft resolution was introduced hy the representative of Czechoslovakia a-0
36th meet.ing  , on 6 November.

17. At itB 42nd meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
~/C.1/41/L.2? by a recorded vote of 95 to 15, with 18 abstentions (see para. 49,
draft resolution D). The voting was as follows:

In favour t Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Darueealam,  Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian  Soviet Socialiet
Republic, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Colombia,
Comoro8,  Congo, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoelovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Maur itiue, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sar 3i Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

/ . . .



A/41/840
Engl i sh
Page 10

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Iceland, Israel, Japan, Luxembourg, Nether lands, New Zealand,
Norway, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Abstainis: Austria, Brazil, Chile, China, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Ireland,
Italy, Liberia, Malawi, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Portugal,
Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Uruguay.

F. Draft resolution ~/C.l/4l/L.27 and Rev.1

1 8 . On 29 October, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland submitted a &aft resolution, entitled
“Confidence-building and conventional disarmament* (A/C.1/41/L.27) , which was later
BlSO sponsored by Greece. The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of France at the 25th meeting, on 29 October, and read as follows:

“The General Assembly,

“Recalling that the establishment of a stable balance of conventional
forces at lower levels has been recognized as an objective of great importance,

“Notinq that since 1945 there have been numerous armed conflicts or wars,
which have been fought with conventional weapons and have left millions of
casualties,

“Bearing in mind the inherent right of individual and collective
self-defence as set forth in the Charter of the United Nations,

“Convinced that military forces should not exceed levels r:acessary  for
all States to protect their security,

“Conscious of the need for a broad and comprehensive approach to security
taking into account the specificity of regional environment,

“Considering that the limitation and gradual reduction of armed forces
and conventional weapons should be pursued in order to achieve a stable
balance at a lower level of armaments*

“Stressing that Peace must also be ensured by the creation of a climate
of confidence in international relations and by the adoption of measures that
promote transparency in the field of military activities,

q l* Believes that the strengthening of stability and security through
increased opennees and the establishment of a verifiable, comprehensive and
stable balance of conventional forces at a lower level is an appropriate
approach to conventional arms control;

/ . . .



AjJ4l,/848
English
Page 11

“2. Notes that the regional approach to conventional disarmament is
fully compatible with the principle of universality established by the United
Nations and that measures designed to achieve regional disarmament have a
Useful role to play in reducing regional tensions and strengthening security;

“3. Welcomes the concrete, militar fly signif icant* politically binding
and verifiable measures adopted on 19 September within the framework of the
Conference on Security and C-operation in Europe process at the Stockholm
Conference on Confidence- and Security-building Measures and Disarmament in
Europe cover ing the whole of Europe, designed to reduce the dangers of armed
Conflict and of misunderstanding or miscalculation of military activities;

“4. Considers that, by their scope and their nature as well as by their
full implementation, these measures will be an imlprtant contribution to the
strengthening of confidence and security throughout Europe;

“5. Believes that increased confidence can improve the basis for
effective, adequate and effectively verifiable measures of conventional
disarmament aimed at enhancing the security of all States;

“ 6 . Urges all States to work for the achievement of a reduction in the
level of confrontation by confidence and security-building measures which
contribute to reduce the danger of surprise attacks, diminish the possibility
of misunderstanding or political intimidation through the use of military
strength and reduce misinterpretations that could worsen crises and eventually
lead to conflict.”

19. On 17 November, France, Poland and Sweden submitted a revised draft
resolution, entitled “Confidence-building and security-building measures and
conventional disarmament* (A/C.l/4l/L.27/Rev.l). The revised draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of France at the 48th meeting, on
18 November, and contained a number of changes in the preambular and operative
par agr aphs.

20. At the same meeting, France orally revised draft resolution
A/C.i/41/L.27/R@v.l  as follows:

(a) In the eleventh preambular paragraph, the word “stable’ before the word
“balance” was deleted;

(b) Operative paragraph 2, which had read:

*2. Notes that the regional approach to conventional disarmament is
compatible with the wider objective of general and complete disarmament and
that, given the interest and support of all States concerned, measures
designed to achieve regional disarmament can play a useful role in reducing
regional tensions and strengthening security”

was revised to read:

/ . . .



A/41/0 30
English
Page 12

“2. Notes that conventional disarmament is part of the wider objective
of general and complete disarmament and that measures designed to achievl
regional disarmament with the concurrence of all States concerned can play a
useful role in reducing tersions and strengthening security.”

21. Also at the 48th meeting, Peru or ally proposed an amendment to draft
r e s o l u t i o n  A/C.;/41/L.27/Rev.l,  cxling for the addition of the following paragraph
as the thir tetrnth preambular paragraph:

“Bearing in mind the principles of the Final Document adopted at the
tenth special session of the General Assembly”.

The amendment was accepted by the sponsor8 of the draft resolution.

22. At  the  s&me m e e t i n g , the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.27/Rev.l, as orally revised and amended, by a recorded vote of 98 to
none, with 22 abstentions (see para. 49, draft resolution E). The voting watt as
follows: I/

In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Belgium,
Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Centr  11
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros,
C&e d’Ivoire, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Denmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon,
Gorman Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyalla, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),  Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
b.Ixembourg,  Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger,
Niger ia, Norway, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand,
Toqo,  Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist  Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

Againstr NOM!.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Benin, Bolivia, Dotswana,  Brazil,
Congo, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, India, Iraq, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Nicaragua, Sudan, Syrian Arab I
Republic, Uganda, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen,
2 imbahwe.

iv The delegation Of Oman subsequently indicated that it had intended  to
vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ . . .



h/41/840
English
Page 13

G. Draft resolution A/C. l/ll/L.20 and Rev. 1

23. On 30 October, China submitted a draft resolution, ent.itled  WNuclear
disarmament” (A/C.1\41/L.28),  which warn introduced by its representative at the
30th meeting, on 3 November.

24. O n  10 NoverPb)Ur, China rubmitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C. 1/41/L.Z~,.‘Rev.  1) , in which operative paragraph 3, which had read:

“3. Appeal.8 to other nuclear-weapon States to participate in the process
of nuclear disarmament when the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the
United Statelr of America have drastically reduced their nuclear weapons”

was deleted and the remaining paragraphs were renumbered accordingly.

25. At its 40th meetinq, on 11 November 19d6, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/41/L.28/Rev.l  without a vote (see para. 49, draft
resolution F) .

H. Draft  resolution A/C.1/41/L.29

26. On 30 October, China submitted a draft resolution, entitled “Conventional
disarmament” (A/C.1/41/L.29), which wa6  introduced by its representative at the
31st meeting, on 4 November 1986.

27. At its 44th meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.29  by a recorded vote of 125 to none, with 2 abstentions (see para. 49,
draft resolution G). The voting was as follows:

In favour : Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalem, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelor ussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
China,  Colombia, Comoros, Congo, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Cypr US, Czechoslovakia, Democr at ic Kampuchea, Demcrcr  at ic
Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland,
Fr ante, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liber ia, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldl.ves,  Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru,  Philippines, Poland, Poi tigal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, ingapore, Somalia, Spain,

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 0 4 0
English
Page 14

Sri Lanka, Sudan, Sur Sname, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, United States
of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againatt NOn9.

Abstaining, India, Iraq.

I . Draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.31

28. On 3ll October, Sweden submitted a draft resolution, entitled “Comprehensive
study on the military ue >f research and development” (A/.1/41/L. 31) , which wa6
ir ;roduced b y  it8 repres :ative at the 38th meeting, on 10 November.

29. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C. 1/41/L. 31 by a
recorded vote of 116 to 1, with 17 abBtentiOnI3  (see para. 49, draft resolution HI.
The voting was as follows; I/

In favour: Algeris# Argentina, Australia, Austr la, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon,
Canada, Central African Republic!, Chad, Chile, China, Colombiir,
Comoroa,  COngO, C&e d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Denmar  k, Dj ibout I, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Finland, Gabon, Ghana, Greece, Gua emala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Malarves, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritiue, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Niger ia, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, POrt,ugal,  Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syt Ian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
United Arab Emiratee, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against1 United States of America.

Y The delegation of Malawi subsequently indicated that it had intended to
vote in favour of the drlf t resolution.

/ . . .



A/41/04Q
Angliah
Page 15

Abrtaininq:  Afghanistan,  Angola, Elulgar ia, Byelorurrian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cuba, Czechorlovakia,  France, Oorman Democratic!
Republic, Germany , Federal Republic of, Hungary, Lao People’8
Democratic Republia,  Mongolia, Poland, Ukrainian Soviet Socialirt
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialirt Rapublicr,  United Kingdom Of
Great  Rr itain and Northern Ireland, Viqt Elam.

J. Draft rerolution A/C.l/Il/L.IO  and Rev.1

30. On 30 October, Iraq submitted  a draft resolution, entitled “Prohibition of the
development, production, stockpiling and uee of radioLogioa1 weapona”
(A/C.l/Il/L.QO)  , which vaa introduced by ite representative at the 33rd meeting, on
5 November.

31. On 6 Ncvember,  Iraq rubmitted a revfeed draft resolution
(A/C.l/4l/L.4O/Rev.l), which contained the following changer:

(a) In the third preamtular paragraph, which had readr

“Recalling aleo that Additional Protocol I of 1977 to the Geneva
Conventiona of 1949 prohibit6 attacks on nuclear: electricity generating
etatione while nuclear installationa under International Atomic Energy Agency
eafeguarbe are not covered by such prohibition”,

a comma  wae placed after the word Wstationmm  and the reet of the paragraph warn
deleted)

(b) A new fifth preambular paragraph was added, readings

“Firmly convinced that the Israeli  attack againet the aafeguarded
nuclear facilities in Iraq constitute8  an unprecedented danger to
international peace and recur ity”$

(c) Operative paragraph 1, which had read:

“1. Considers that the Israeli attack againet ,the eafeguarded
nuclear facilities in Iraq constitutes an unprecedented danger which could
have initiated radiological warfarenr

was deleted and the remaining paragraph8 were renumbered accordingly.

32 . At its 30th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C. 1/41/L. QO/Rev.  1 ae follows:

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 0 4 0
Engliah
Page Y6

(a) Operative paragraph 1 was adopted by a recorded vote of 75 to 4, with 44
abatent iona. The voting was aa follows; y

In favour: Afghaniatan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Benin,
Bottawana, Brazil, Brunei Daruaaalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Byeloruosian Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Comoroa,
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoeiovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti,
Egypt, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bisaau, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Ir8?
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Gordan,  Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Leaotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakiatan, Poland,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Tuniaia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Rfipublica,  United Arab Emirates, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againatt Central African Republic, Francs, Israel, United States of
Amer ica.

Aba:tainingr Australia, Austr fa, Bahamas, Barbados,  Belgium, Bolivia, Burma,
Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, Colombia, C8te d’fvoire,  Denmark,
Ecuador, Finland, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Guatemala, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Liber is, Luxembourg I
Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Samoa, Sierra Leone, Spain,
Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Nort’lern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela.

Ib) The draft resolution as d whole was adopted by a recorded vote of 90 to
3, with 35 abstentions (see para. 49, draft resolution I). The voting was a.8
follows: j/

In favour: Afghanistan, Alqer is, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burundi, Byelorus6ian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroan,
Central African Republic, Chad, China, Comoros, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoelovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
D j ibout I, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Biscau, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Xraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democx  atic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab
Jamahir iya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Malls Malta,

z/ The delegations of the Central African Republic and Iceland subsequently
indicated that they had intended to abst.ain  in the vote on operative paragraph 1.

/ . . .



A/41/040
English
Page 17

Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morooco,  Moeambique, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Nigec o Niger is, Oman, Pakirtan,  Panama, Peru,
Philippine8, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Suds?, auriname,
Sweden, Syr fan Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Tut key, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Sociali8t  Republice, United Arab Emirates, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoelavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against t France, Ierael, United States of America.

Abstaining: Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Barbadoa, Belgium, Bolivia, Burma,
Canada, Chile, Colombia, C&e d’fvoire,  Denmark, Finland, Gabon,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Liberia, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Paraguay, Portugal, Samoa, Spain, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, Wited Republic nf Tanzania,
Uruguay,  Venezuela ,  Zaire.

K. Draft resolution A/C. 1/41/L.43 and Rev. 1

33 . On 30 October, Canada, Colombia, Coeta Rica, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland&
Italy, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal,Spain and the United States Of America
submitted a draft resolution, entitled WCompliance  with arm6 limitation and
diear,mament  agreements” (A/C.l/ll/L.43) , which was later also sponsored by Germany,
Federal Republic of and Japan. The draft resolution was intrtiuced.by  the
representative of the United States at the 26th meeting, on 30 October 1986.

34. On 13 November, Canada, Colombia, Costa Rica, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, France,
the German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland,
It.aly, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain and the United Statee of
America submitted a revised draft reeolution  (A/C.1/41/L.43/Rev.  1) , which contained
the following changes:

(a) A new seventh preambular par agr: aph was added, readrng:

nRecogni8ing in this context that, inter alla, full confidence in
com?liance  with existing aqreqmants  can enhance the negotiations of arm8
limitation and disarmament agreements”;

(b) In operative paragraph 1, the words “Call8 upon” were replaced by the
word nUrgee”;

(c) In operative paragraph 2, the word “Urge8” was replaced by the word8
nCal18 upon”.

35. At the 45th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted dr aft r eeolution
A/C.l/41/1~.43/Rev.l  without a vote (see para. 49, draft resolution J).

/ . . .



A/41/040
English
Page 10

L. Draft reeolutton A/C.1/41/L.44

36. On 30 October, Poland submitted a draft resolution, entitled
*Confidence-building and conventional d5sarmament  in Europe” (A/C. 1/41/L. 44) , which
read a8 follows:

“The General Assembly,

“&callinq the obligation of States to refrain, in their mutual relations
as well as in their international relations in general, from the threat or use
of force, military force in part icu!.ar  ,

“Conscious of the need for a broad and comprehensive approach to- -
international security, taking into account the specificity of regional
environment,

“Mindful of the positive role that the process of the Conference on
Security and Co-operation in Europe has for consolidating peace on that
continent and in the whole world,

“Noting theparti cular significance of the determination of States
participants of the Conference on Seciu’ity and Co-operation in Europe to
continue building confidence, to lessen military confrontation and to enhance
security to all as well as to achieve proaqress  in disarmament,

“Considerinq that the limitation and reduction of armed forces and
conventional weapons - parallel to that of weapons of mass destruction - 9
should td pursued in order to achieve these aims,

“Convinced that efforts aimed at lowering  military confrontation,
limiting military activities and furthering disarmament are in the common
interest of all States,

“Notinq  tnat the agreed aim of the Stockholm Conference was to undertake
in stages new ef feet ive and concrete actions designed to make progress in
strengthening confidence and security and in achieving disarmament,

“1. Welcomes the concrete, militar Ply signif icant, politically  binding
and verifiable measures in the whole of Europe from the Atlantic +o the Urals,
agreed upon on 19 September 1986 within the framework of the process of the
Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe , of the Stockholm Conference
on Confidence- and Security-building hqasures  and Disarmament in Europe,
designed to reduce the dangers of armed  conflict and of misundersta;..!‘ng  or
miocalculation of military activities;

“2. Considers that full implemef?tation  of these measures will contribute
to strengthening of confidence and security throughout Europe;

n3. Highly appreciates the agreement reached in Stock,holm  as a valuable
example for finding solutions to important  problems of a military nature given

/ . . .



A/41/040
Englirh
Page  19

the political will and respect of the principle of equal security of all
States concerned1

@4. Expreeree  the hope that following the adoption of confidence- and
security-building measurea  in Stockholm, further etepr will soon be agreed
upon within the process of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in
Europe, Aimed at confidence-building as well as lowering the level of military
concentration and the reduction of armed forces and conventional armaments in
Europe.”

37 . At the request of the sponsor, no action was taken on draft rerolution
A/C.1/41/L.44.

M. Draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.45

38. On 30 October, Australia, Austria, China, Finland, France, Iceland, Indoneria,
Mexico,  the Netherlands, Peru, Sri Lanka, Sweden and Yugoslavia submitted a draft
remolution, entitled “Naval armament8 and disarmament”, which was introduced by the
representative of Sweden at the 37th meeting, on 10 November.

39 . At ite 30th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.45  by a recorded vote of 133 to 1, with 1 abetention (see para. 49,
draft resolution K) . The voting wa6 as followst 1/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algel in, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Auetr ia,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgar la, But kina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, C8te  d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yeme  1, Detnmark,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran (Ialsmic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liber la, Libyan Arab
Jamahir iya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Maur itani*, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Niger la, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sr I Lanka, Sudan, Sur iname, Sweden, Syr Ian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

/ . . .



h/41/840
English
Page 28

Against: United States of America.

Abstaininq: India.

N. Draft resolution A/C.l/41/L.58

40. On 30 October, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh, Cameroon, Canada,
Denmark, Finland, Greece, Indonesia, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Romania, Sweden and Uruguay submitted a draft resolution, entitled "Prohibition of
the production of fissionable material for weapons purposes" (A/C.2/41/L.58),  which
was later sponsored by Ireland, the Philippines and Samoa. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Canada at the 33zeting, on 5 November.

41. At its 40th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/~.58  by a recorded vote of 129 to 1, with 6 abstentions (see para. 49,
draft resolution L). The voting was as follows:

In favour : Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Comoros,
Congo, C&e d'Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, MC)rOcCO, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

A g a i n s t :France.

Abstaining: Argentina, Brazil, China, India, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

/ . . .



A/41/040
English
Pago 21

0. Draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.66  and Rev. 1

42. On 30 October, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Cameroon, Chile, Colombia, Cotta
Rica, C&e d@Ivoire,  the Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Guyana, Jamatca,
Pakfstan,  Parbguay,  Peru, Romania, Thailand, Togo, Uruguay and
submitted a draft resolution, entitled “Conventional disarmament on a regional
sea le W , which was introduced by the representative of Peru at the 34th
meeting, on 5 November.

43. On 10 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/41/L.66/Rev.l) , which was later aleo sponsored by Liber la. In the
revised draft resolution a new second operative paragraph was added, reading:

“2. Reiterates the primary responsibility of the militarily
signif icant States, especially the nuclear-weapon States, for halting and
reversing the arms race, and the priority aseigned to nuclear diearmament
in the context of the advance8 towards general and complete diearmament.”

The remaining paragraphs were renumbered accordingly.

44 . At its 44th meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C.1/41/L.bb/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 114 to none, with
6 abstentions (see pars. 49, draft resolution M). The voting wa8 as follower

In favour r Alger is, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahama8,  Bangladeeh,
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darusaalam,  Bulgar is, Bur kirra Fa80, Burma, Burundi, Byeloruerian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoro8,  Congo,
C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cypr\’  3, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Kampuchea, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland, France,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Lebanon, LerJotho,  Liberia,
Luxembourg. Madagascar, flalaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Niger is, Norway,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Wanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sr i Lanka, Sudan, Sur iname, Sweden, Thailand,
Togo, Triridad and Tobago, Tuni.sia,  Turkey, Uganda, Ukrain,lan
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union or Soviet Socialist  Eap:blics,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against : None.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Angola, Ethiopia, Ghana, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Viet Nam.

/ . . .



A/41/ 849
English
Page 22

P. Draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.61

45 . On 30 October, Australia, Cameroon, Fiji, Finland, Iceland, New Zealand, Papua
New Guinea, Samoa and Sweden submitted a draft resolutiony<ntitled  “Notification
of nuclear testen (A/C. 1/41/L.67)  , which wa3 later also sponsored by kustr ia and
Ireland. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Auetr alla at
the 34th meeting, on 5 Novembe’.  .

46 . At its 4 3rd meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.67  by a recorded vote of 107 to 1, with 23 abstentions (see pare. 49,
draft resolution N). The voting was as follows: I/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botsw&na,  Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Comoros, Congo,
Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon Germany, Federal Repub!.ic
of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea Guyana, Iceland, Xndonesicl,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica,
JaGan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
L@banon, l,esotho,  Liberia, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
M a l t a , Mauritius, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,  Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, CC.. Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Saudi
Ar J:,ia, Senega 1, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sur iname,  Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
TUK  key, Uganda, United Ar lb Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia.

Against: France.

Abstaininq: Angola, Brazil, Bulgaria, Byelorussian soviet Socialist  Republic,
China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, German Democratic
Republic, Hungary, India, Iraq, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Mexico, Mongolia, Nicaragua, Poland, Sudan, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republica,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
S%a tes of Amer ica.

Y Subsequently, the delegation of the Central African Republic Indicated
that it had ii, ended t- vote in favour of the drclft resolution and the delegations
of the Syr 4 30 Arab Republic and Zimbabwe that they had intended to abstain.

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 0 4 0
English
Page 23

I;! * Draft resolution A/C.1/4l/L.70

47. On 30 October, Antipa and Barbuda, Australia, Auetria, Belgium, Belizec- -
Bolivia, Botswana, Bu,cundi,  Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, the Central AfricanI.- .,”
Republic, Chad, Colombia, the Comorosc  the Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d’l[voire, the
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Equator ial Guinea, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic
of, Ghana,  Greece, Guineu,  Guinea-Biseau, Guyana, Haiti, Italy, Jamaica, KenyaLI.-
Liberia, Madagascarc&?,?ysia,  Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Panama, Papua
New Guineac  the PhilipQ..es, Rwanda,Sain her and Nevis, Saint Lucia,
Samoa, sao Tome and Prim ipe, Sierra Leone!!SiJgapose, Somalia,a- the Sudan,
Suriname, Thailand, Tog~?~ Trinidad and Tobago, Uganda, Uruguay, Vanuatu and Zambia
submitted a draft resolution entitled “$eview of the role of tire United Nations in
the field of disarmament” (A/C.1/41/L.70), which ~8s later also sponsored by the
BahaIIL?.s,  Barbados, Fiji, Japan, Portugal, and Saint Vincent and the Grenadines.-,
The draft resolution was-introducsd  by the representative of Carrezoon  at the
35th meeting, on 6 Novernt,er  .

48. At its 37th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted dr aft resolution
A/c.1,‘41/L.70  without a vote (see para. 49, draft resolution 0).

II.1. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

49. The First Committee recommends to the General Assetily  the adoption of the
following draft resolutions.

GENERAL AND COMPLETE DISARMAMENT

A

Prohibition of the developmerrtmL  production, stockpili’  1 and
use of radioloci  ical weaponc

The General Assembly,

Recallinq  i t s resolution 40/94 D of 12 December 1985,

1. Takes note of the part of the i’epor t of the Conference un
Disarmament on its 1986 session that deals with the question of radioloqical
wffapons, in particular t.he report of the Ad Hoc CommitLee  on Radiological
Weapons; s/

2. Takes note also of the recommendation of the Conterence on
Disarmament t.hat the Ad Hoc CcOmmittee  on Radioloqical  Weapon!; should be
re-established at the beqinnlnq of ite 1987 session;

e/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-first Session,
Supplement No. -2 7  (~/41/27),  para. 102.

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 0 4 0
Englibh
page 24

3 . Recognizes  that the WOKk done by the Ad Hoc Committee in 1986 was
useful in terms of the mandate entrusted to it)

4 . Requertr the Conference on Disarmament to continue its negotiations
on the subject with a view to a prompt conclusion of I!*8 work, taking into
account all proposals presented to the Conference to this end, the result of
which should be submitted to the General Assembly at its forty-second session!

5. Also requests that the Secretary-General transmit to the Conference
on Dimarmament all relevant documents relating to the discussion of all
aspects of the irsue by the General Assembly at its forty-first session;

6 . Decides to include in the provisional agenda of q.ts forty-second
reasion the item entitled “Prohibition of the development, production,
stockpiling and uee of radiological weapon8”.

B

Objective information on military mAttera

The Gener al Assembly,

Recall+.  paragraph 105 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Seesion of the General As8embly, x/ which encourages Member States to ensure a
better flow of information with regard to the various aspect6  of disarmament
to avoid dissemination of false and tendentiour information concerning
armament6 and to concentrate on the danger of eecalation of the arms race and
on the need for general and complete disarmament under effective InteLnational
control,

Recognising that the adoptiorl  of concrete, confidence-’ uilding measures
on a global, regional or subregional level would greatly contribute to a
reduction in international tension,

Emphasizing  that the need for such measure8 at the regionLII and
subregion, a? levels is of special importance,

Believing that the adoption of such measures would contribute to greater- -
openness and transparency, thus helping to prevent misperceptions of the
military capabiliti~e  and the intentions of potential adversaries, which could
induce States to undertake armaments programmes leading to the acceleration of
the arms race, in par titular the nuclear-arms race, and to heightened
international tensions,

Believipq that objective information on the military capabilities, in
par t icrllar of  nuclear -weapon States and other militarily significant States,
could contribute to the building of confidence among States and to the

---

Y Resolution S-10/2.

/ D . .



A/41/040
Englirh
Page 25

conclusion of concrete disarmament agreomentr, and thereby help to halt and
reverae the arms race,

Recalling its rerolutione 37/99 G of 13 December 1982, 39/188 C o f
20 December 1983, and 40/94 K of 12 December 1995,

Aware of the exietence, under the auepicee  of. the United Nationr, of an
interanal  eyatem for the rtandardized reporting of military expenditurea,
and that annual reports on military expenditures are now being received from
an increasing number of States,

1. Reaffirms itrr conviction that a better flow of objective information
on military capabilities could help relieve international tension and
contribute to the building of confidence among States on a global, regional or
subregional level and to the conclusion of concrete diearmament agreements;

2. Urges those global, regional and subregional organizatione that have
already expreeeed support for the principle of practical and concrete
confidence-building meaaurea of a military nature on a global, regional or
aubregional level to intenrify their efforts with a view to adopting such
mea8urea  at  the  earliest poesible datet

3. Urge8 all Stater, in par titular nuclear-weapon States and other
militarily signif icant States, to conaider  implementing additional measures
baaed  on the principleo of opennese and transparency such as. for example, the
international eyrtem for the atandardized  reporting of military expenditures,
with the aim of fqcilitating the availability of objective information on, as
well as objective aereeement of, military capabilities;

4. Expreeeee ito thanks to the Secretary-General for his report, IO/’
prepared in conformity with resolution 40/94 K;

5. Inviters  all Member States to communicat-  to the Secretary-General
before 30 April 1987 the measures  they have adopted to contribute to greater
openr?ess  in military matter6 in general and in particular to improve the flow
of objective information on military capabilittee;

6. Requeeta the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
ite forty-eecond seseion on the implementation of the provisions of the
pr eeent r eeolut ion8

7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eecond
session an item entitled “Objective information on military matters”.

lOJ A/41/466 and Add.1.

/ . . .



A/41/840
English
Page 26

‘ c

Conventional disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recallin its resolution 40/94 C of 12 December 1985, in which the
Secretary-General was requested to prepare a report for the General Assembly
at its forty-first session containing further views of Member States received
regarding the study on all aspects of the conventional arms rs?e and on
disarmament relating to conventional weapons and armed forces, llJ

Recalling the many statement8 made at its fortieth session in which
growing concern was expressed by Member States regarding the conventional arms
race and in which the importance also of conventional disarmament measures was
L eiterated,

Recalling also the consideration by the Disarmament Commission at its
eighth seesion of I ta agenda I tern 4 (b) cancer ning nuclear and convent iona 1
disarmament and the wide support expressed by Member States for greater
attention to be given to conventional disarmament, G/

Having examined the +ort of the Secretary-General containing further
views received from Member States regarding the Study on Conventional
l3JDisarmament,

1. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare for the Disarmament
commission at its substantive session in May 1987 a compilatic?  of the views
received from Member States regarding the Study on Conventional Disarmamentl

2. Requests the Disarmament Commission to consider, at its forthcoming
session in 1987, the question of conventional disarmament, fully taking into
account the recommendations and conclusions contained in the Study, as well as
all other relevant pceeent and future proposals, with a viaw to facilitatinq
the identification of possible maaeuren in the field of conventional arms
reductions and disarmament, and to report on its deliberations to the Gcmneral
Assembly at its forty-second session;

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-second
session an item entitled “Conventional disarmament”.

II/ The study was issued under the title Study on Conventional Disarmament
(United Nations publication, Sales. No. E.85.IX.l).

12/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-first Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/41/42) l

13/ A/41/501  and Add.1 and 2.-

/ . . .



A/41/040
English
Page 27

D

Contribution of the specialised agencies and-other orqaniaationa
and programmer of the United Nations ryrtem to the cause of arm8

limitation and disarmament

The General Assembly,

ReCallinq  it8 resolutions 38/18t3  J of 20 December 1983  and 39/151 E of
17 December 1984,

Reaffirming that the United Nations, in accordance with its Charter, hata
a central role and primary rerponrlbility in the ephere of diearmament  and
should, accordingly, atop up ite activity in thie field,

Convinced that all avenues should  be effectively utilized for promoting
the cause of disarmament in all lto aspects,

Reaffirming further that the epecialized agencies and other organisations
and programmes of the United Nations eyetem have a valuable contr ibutjon to
make in this regard, while taking duly into account the relationrhip  between
disarmament and their respective areas of competence,

Taking note of var ious activitiee conducted by the United Nation6
agencies in pureuance  of resolution 39/151 E a8 reflected in the report of the
Secretary-General on thie matter, 14/-

1. Reaffirm8  it8 invitation to the specialized agencies and other
organizationR  and programmes of the United Nations eystem to continue, within
their areas of competence, the activities aimed at promoting the cause of arms
limitation and disarmaments

2. Requests the Seer etary-Gener al, in his capacity as Chairman of the
Administral.ive  Committee on Co-ordination, to continue to co-ordinate such
actlvitiee and to eubmit an updated report thereon to the General Assembly at
its forty-third eeseic 1;

3. Decides to include in the provieional  agenda of ite forty-third
eeeeion the item entitled “Contribution of the specialized agencies and other
organizations  and programmes of the United Nationo Bysterrl  to the cause of arms
limitation and disarmament”.

14/ A/41/491.

/ . . .



A/41/040
English
Page 28

E

Confidence-building and aecur  ity-building measure8
and conventional diearmament

The General Assembly,

Determined to achieve progrese  in disarmament,

Recalling the obligation for the States to refrain in their international
relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or
political independence of any State, or in any manner inconsistent with the
purposes of the United Nations, and recalling the inherent right of individual
or collective self-defence if an armed attack occurs, afi set forth in the
Charter of the United Nations,

Reaffirming the achievement of increased security and stability in Europe
through a balance at lower levels of armed forces and conventional weapons ;1s
an objective of great importance,

Reaffirming the importance of continued efforts to build confidence, to
lessen military confrontation and to enhance security for all,

Str essinq that confidence- and secut  ity-building measures designed to
reduce the dangers  of armed conflict and of misunderstanding or miscalculation
of military activities will contribute to these objectives,

Ylndful of the positive role that the process of the Conference on
Secur  ity and Co-operation in Europe has for consolidating secur  ity and
co-operation on that continent and in the whole world,

Noting the agreed aim of the Stockholm Conference on Confidence- and
Security-building Measures and Disarmament in Europe to undertake in stal;eB
new effective and Concrete aCtiOnS  designed to make progress in strengthening
confidence and security and in achieving disarmament,

Convinced that military forces should not exceed levels necessary for ~11
states to protect their security,

ConEicious of the need for a broad and comprehensive approach to GeCUK i ty ,
taking into account the Mpecificity of regional environment,

Convinced that efforts aimed at lessening military confrontation an<]
furthering disarmament are in the common intcreet  of all States,

Consider inq that the limitation and gradual reduction of armed  forces ;Ind
conventional weapons should be pursued, aiming, in Europe, at a balance ,It a
lower level of armaments, within the frametiork  of I’ CogK ess towards goner J L ;3nti
complete disarmament, under strict international control,

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 8 4 0
Engliah
Page 29

Affirming further that agreement on and implementation of
confidence-building measures could significantly contr rbute to promoting
openness in the  f ie ld  of  mil i tary act ivit ies ,  to  the creation of  a  c l imate of
confidence in international relations and to prepac ing for progress in
disarmament,

Searing in mind the pr inciplea of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, z/

1. Believes that there is need for strengthening stability and security
at a lower level of forces by the verifiable limitation and reduction of armed
forces  and of conventional weapons within the framework of progress towards
gcner al and complete disarmament, and by an increased openness in this context;

2. Notes that conventional disarmament is part of the wider objective
of gcneralandcomplete  disarmament and that measures designed to achieve
regional disarmament with the concurrence of all States concerned can play a
useful role in reducing tensions and strengthening security;

3. Believes also that increased confidence can improve the basis for
e f f e c t i ve , adequate and effectively ver if Aable measure6 of conventional
disarmament, aimed at enhancing the security of all States, and that the
implementation of such disarmament measures can, in turn, result in increased
confidence;

4. We homes the concr e te , mi l i tar i ly  s iqn i f  icant,  po l i t i ca l ly  b ind ing
and verifiable measures adopted on 19 September 1986 within the framework of
the process of the Conference on Security and Co-operation in Europe at the
Stockholm Conference on Confidence- and Security-builJlng  Measures and
Disarmament in Europe covering the whole of Europe, designed to reduce the
dangers of armed conflict and of misunderstanding or miscalculation of
mil i tary act ivit ies ;

5. Considers that, by their scope
full implementation, these measures will
stteng thening of confidence and security
internat ional peace and secur ity;

and their nature as well as by their
be an impo- tant  contr ibution to the
throughout Europe, thereby promoting

6, Highly appreciates the agreement reached in Stockholm as a valuable
example of finding solutions to important problems of a military nature;

7. Expresses the hope that after the adoption of confidence- and
security-building measures in Stockholm, steps will be agreed upon in order to
make further progtess  in strengthening confidence and security and in
achieving disarmament in Europe;

a . Invites  al l  States,  with ful l  account  to  be  taken of  speci f ic
I eg ional condi t ions, to consider the achievement of lessening confrontation by
conf  idence- and security-building measures, which contribute to reducing the
danger of surprise attacks, diminishing the possibility of misunderstanding or

/ . . .



A#J41/840
English
Page 30

political pressure through the use of military strength and reducing
misinterpretations that could worsen crises and eventually lead to conflict.

F

The General Assemb~yl

Nuclear disarmament

Reaffirminq the determination to save succeeding generations from the
scourge of war expressed in the Preamble to the Charter of the United Nations,

Convinced that the most acute and urgent :aak of the present day is to
remove the threat of a world war - a nuclear war I

Recalling and r eaf f irminq the
disarmament set forth in the Final
the General Assembly, 9J the fir St
in particular, the provisions that
and the prevention of nuclear war have the highest priority”, contained in
paragraph 20, and that “in the task of achieving the goals of nuclear
disarmament, all the nuclear-weapon States, in particular those among them
which possess the lnost important nuclear arsenals, bear a special
responsibilityn, contained in paragraph 40,

statements and provisions on nuclear
Document of the Tenth Special Session of
special session devoted to disarmament, and
‘effective measures of nuclear disarmament

Bearing in mind that the ultimate goal of nuclear disarmament is the
complete elimination of nuclear Yaapons,

Notinq that the leaders of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and
the United States of America agreed in their joint statement issued at Geneva
on 21 November 1985 that “a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be
foughtn  g/ and the common de&ire  they expressed in the same statement calling
for early progress in areas where there is common ground, including the
principle of 50 per cent reductions in the nuclear arms of the Soviet Union
and the United States appcoprietely applied,

~100 noting that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the united
States of America have held further bilateral negotiations on various issues
of diear mament ,

Further notinq that the Conference on Disarmament has not played its due
role in the field of nuclear disarmament,

Bearing in mind that the Gclernments  and people of various countries
expect that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of
America ~111 reach agreement on halting the nuclear-arms race and reducing
nuclear weapons, so as to start the process of nuclear disarmament,

15/ S e e  A / 4 0 / 1 0 7 0 ,  annex.

/ . . .



~/41/840
English
Page 31

1. Expresses its deep concern that negotiations on nuclear disarmament
should yield concrete results at the earliest possible time;

2. Urges the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the uaited States
Of America, which possess the most  important nuclear arsenals, to discharge
their special responsibility for nuclear disarmament, to take the lead in
halting the nuclear-arms race and to negotiate in earnest with a view to
reaching early agreement on the drastic reduction of their nuclear weapons;

3. Reiteratss its belief that bilateral and multilateral efforts for
nuclear disarmament should complement and facilitate each other;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-second
session an item entitled “Nuclear  disarmament”.

G

Conventional disarmament

The General Assembly,

Reaifitminq the determination to save succeeding generations from the
scourge of war expressed in the Preamble to the Charter of the United Nations,

Recallinq the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly, y the first special session devoted to disarmament, and
particularly its paragraph 81, which provides that together with negotiations
on nuclear disarmament measures, the limitation and gradual reduction of armed
force6 and conventional weapons should be resolutely pursued within the
framework of progress towards general and complete disarmament, and which
stresees that States with the largest military arsenals have a special
responsibility in pursuing the process of conventional armaments reductions,

Also recallinq that the same document declares, inter alla, that
prior ities in disarmament negotiations shall be: nuclear weapons; other
weapons of mass destruction, including chemical weapons; conventional weapons,
including any which may be deemed to be excessively injur fous OK to have
indiscriminate effects; and reduction of armed forces, and that it stresses
that nothing should preclude States from conducting negotiations on all
priority items concurrently,

Further recallinq that the same document states that effective measures
of nuclear disarmamenL and the prevention of nuclear war have the highest
priority, and that real progress in the field of nuclear disarmament could
create an atmosphere conducive to progress in conventional disarmament on a
wor Id-wide basis,

Aware of the dangers to world peace and security originating from wars
and conflicts fought with conventional weapons , as well as their possible
escalation into a nuclear war in regions with a high concentration of
conventional and nuclear weapons,



A/44840
Bnglilah
Page 32

Also aware that with the advance in science and technology, conventional
weapons tend to become increasingly lethal and destructive,

Believing that resources releaaed through disarmament,  including
conventional disarmament, can be used for the social ana economic development
of people of all countries, par titular ly the developing countr fee,

Bearing in mind its resolution 36/97 A of 9 December 1981 and the Study
on Conventional Disarmament l6J conducted in accordance with that resolution,

Bearing in mind also the effort a made to promote conventional disarmament
and the related proposals and suggeJi.tions, as well as the initiatives taken by
var ious countr ies in this regard,

1. Reaffirms the importance of the efforts aimed at resolutely pursuing
the limitation and gradual reduction of armed forces and conventional weapons
within the framework of progress towards general and complete disarmament;

2 . Believes that the military forces of all countries should not be
used other than for the purpose of self-defence)

3 . Urges  the countries with the largest military arsenals, which bear a
special responsibility in pursuing the process of conventional armaments
reductions, and the member States of the two major military alliances, to
continue negotiations on conventional disarmament in earnest, with a view to
reaching early agreement on the limitation and gradual and balanced reduction
of armed forces and conventional weapons under effective international control
in their respective regions;

4 . Encourages all States, while taking into account the need to protect
security and maintain necessary defensive capabilities, to intensify their
efforts and take, either on their own or in a regional context, apropr late
steps to prom&e  progress in conventional disarmament and enhance peace and
secur I ty j

5 . Requests the Disarmament Commission to conbider,  at its substantive
session in 1987, issues related to conventional disarmamentt

6 . Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-second
session an item entitled “Conventional disarmament”.

16/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.85.IX.l.

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 0 4 0
English
Page 33

Comprehensive study  on the military use of research
and development

The General Asse??bly,

Recallin resolution 37/99 J of 13 December 1982, by which it requested
the Secretary-General, with the assistance of qualif fed governmental experts,
to carry out a comprehensive study on the military use of research and
development, with a view to preventing a qualitative arm8 race and to ensuring
that scientific and technological achievement8 might ultimately be used solely
for peaceful purposes,

Recalling also resolution 39/151 F by which it took note of the progress
report of the Secretary-General l7/ and requested the Secretary-General. to
continue the study and to submit the final report to the General Assembly at
it8 fortieth cession,

Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General 18/ containing a
letter tram the Chairman of the Group of Experts on Military-6esearch and
Development informing the Secretary-General, inter alla, that the Group of
Governmental Expert8 had continued the efforts to reach agreement on its draft
report but that, although the area of dieagreement was narrow, it had not been
possible to reach agreement on the draft report as a whole;

2 . Request8 the Secretary-General to presen’ available material with an
indication where consensu8  could not be reached.

I

Prohibition of the development, PKOdUCtiOn,  stockpilinq
and u8e of radiological weapon8

The General Aeeembly,

Recallinq i t8 resoluttons 37/99 C of 13 December 1982, 38/180 D of
20 December 1983, 39/151 J of 17 December 1984 and 40/94 D of 12 December 1985
on,  inter alia, the conclusion of an agreement prohibiting military attacks
against nuclear facilitiee,

Gravely concerned that military attacks against nuclear facilities,
though carried out with conventional weapons, could be tantamount to the use
of radiological weapons,

17/ A / 3 9 / 5 2 5 .- -

la/ A / 4 0 / 5 3 3 .-

/.. .



A/41/840
Engl ish
Page 34

Recalling also that Addit,ional Protocol I of 1977 to the Geneva
COnVentiOn  of 12 August 1949  prohibits attacks on nuclear electricity
g e n e r a t i n g  s ta t i ons ,  19/-

Deeply concerned that the destruction of nuclear installations by
convuntional  weapons-causes the release into the environment of hugti  amoL;qts
of dangerous radioactive material, which results in ser ious k adioacti ve
contaminr,tion,

Firmly convinced that the Israeli attack against the safeguarded nuclear
faci l i t ies  in Iraq constitutes a . unprecedented danger to international peace
and secur i ty ,

Recalling further International Atomic Energy Agency resolution
GCXXVII/HES/409  of 1983, which urges all member States to support actions in
international forums to reach an international agreement that prohibits armed
attacks against nuclear installations devoted to peaceful purposesI

1. Reaffirms that military attwks  of any kind against nuclear
facilities are tantamount to the use of radiological weapons due to the
dangerous radioactive forces that such attacks cause to be released;

2. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to reach, as early as- -
possib le ,  an agreement wohibiting  mil itary at tacks  against  nuclear faci l i t ies ;

3. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its fcrty-second  session on the progress made 4.n the implementation of the
present resol. tion.

Compliance with arms limitation and disarmament agreements

The Genera 1 Assembly,

Recalling its resol\:tion  40/94 L of 12 December 1985,

Conscious of the abiding concern of all Member States Ear preserving
KeSpeCt  for rights and obligations arising from treaties and other soul l*e~ c\f
international law,

E/ P r o t o c o l  A d d i t i o n a l  t o  t h e  G e n e v a  C o n v e n t i o n s  of 12 Augl!st  1949,  and
relatiny  to the protection of victims of international armed conflicts (Protocol I)
adopted by the Diplunatic Conference on Reaffirmat ion and Development of
International Humanitarian Law Applicable in Armed Conflicts on 8 June 197 I (tiec
A / 3 2 / 1 4 4 ,  a n n e x  I ) .

/
, I a.



~/41/840
EnglLeh
Page 35

C13noi  iIced that Observance of t.he Charter of the United Nations, relevant
treaties and other sources of internation law is essential for the
strengthening of international secur ity,

Mindful in par titular of the fundamental impot tance of full
implementation and s:rict  observance of agreements on arms limitation and
lisa:mament  if individual nations and the international community are to
derive enhanced security from them,

Stresriinq that ariy violation of such agreements not only adversely
affects the security of States par t ies but can also create security K  isks for
other States relying on the constraints and commitments stipulated in those
agreelnents,

Stressing furthe? that any weakening of confidence in such agreements
diminishes their  contribution to  global  or  regior$al ability and to further
disarmament and arms limitation efforts and underminr. the c red ib i l i ty  and
effectPenes of the international legal system,

Recognizinq  in this  cantext  that ,  inter  alia, full  confidence in
compliance with existing agreements can enhance the negotiations of arms
limitation and disarmament a~teemsnts,

Believina  thr complir?\ f with arms limitation and disarmament agreements
by  S ta tes  p a r t i e s  i s , therefore, a matter of interest and concern to the

international community, and noting the role that the United Nations ,ould
play in that regard,

Convinced that resolution of non-compliance questions that have arisen
Jith  Gard agreements on arm8 1im;tations  and disarmament would contribute
to better relations among States and the strengthening of worla peace and
necur i ty ,

1. Urges all sl.atee parties to arms limitation and disarmament
agreements to implement and comply with the entirety of the provisions of such
aqr eemen t s i

2. Calls upon al I Member States to give serious consideration to the
implication6 of non-compliance with those obligations for international
secur i ty and stability, as \~rll as for the prospects for further progress ir,
the field of disarmament;

3. Further calls upon all Member States to sup;%rt  efforts aimed at the
reeolution  of non-compliance questions, with a view to encouraging strict
observance by all parties of the provisions of alms limitation and disarmament
agreement.6 and r;raintaininq or restoring the integrity of such agreements;

4. Requests  the Secretary-General to provide Member States with
assistance that may be necessary in this regard.

/ a . .



A/41oMQ
Englirh
Pago 36

K

Naval armamentr and diearmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 38/186 G of 20 December 1983, by which it
requerted  the  Secretary -Genera l , with the aeairtance  of qualified governmental
expertll, to carry out a comprehensive study on the naval arms race,

Recrrllinq aluo it* resolution 49/94 F of 12 December 1985 by which it
requested the Disarmament Commission to consider the LSSUQJ contained in the
study on the naval arms race, 2J both its substantive content and its
conclusions, taking into account all other relevant present and future
pr opoealr  , with a view to facilitating the identification of  possible measures
in the field of naval arms reductions and disarmament, pursued \!ithin the
framework of progress towards general and complete disarmament, as well as
confidence-building measures in this field,

Havinq examined the report of the Chairman of the Disarmament Commisf3ion
on the subetantive consideration of the question of the ncval arms race and
disarmament  2l-J during its 1986 session , which met with the approval of all
delegationa  participating in the substantive r:onaultations and which, in their
view, could form the basic of further deliberations  on the subject,

1. Notes with satisfaction the report on the substantive consideration
of the question of the naval arms race and disarmament by the Chairman of the
Disarmament Commieeionl

2. Requ(:s~-s the Dlaarmament Commit~ei~~r  to continue, at its forthcoming
session in 1987, the substantive consideration of the question and to report
on ite deliberations and recommenaations  to the General Aeeembly -C its
forty-second aeeeion;

3. Alao requests the Disarmament Commission to insc ibe on its agenda
for it8 1987 session  a< item entitled  “Naval armaments and diearmament”;

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-oecond
session the itea entitled “Naval armaments and disarmametrt”.

20/ A/40/535, annex. The stuciy da8 Jubsequently  issued with the tr 8 ‘C The
Naval Arms Race (United Kationu  publication, Sales No. E.86.1X.3).

2.J A/C%. lo,‘8 3 ,

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 0 4 0
English
Page 37

Prohibition of the production of fissionable material
for weapons purpooefi

The General Assembly,

Recalling Its resolutions 33/91 H of 16 December. 1978, 34/87 D of
11 December 1979, 35/15C H of 12 December 1980, 36/97 G of 9 December 1981,
37/99 E of 13 December 1982, 38/198 E of 20 December 1983, 39/151  Ii of
17 December 1984 End 40/94 G of 12 December 1985, in which it requested the
Conference on Disarmament, at an appropriate stage of the implementation of
the Programme of Action set forth in section III of the F’inal Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, z/ the  f i r s t  spec ia l  s ess i on
devoted to disarmament, and of its work on the item entitled “Nuclear weapons
i n  a l l  aspects@@, to consider urgently the question of adequately verified
cessation and prohibit ion of  the productien  of  f iss ionable  mater ia l  for
nuclear weapons and other nuclear explosive devices and to keep the Assembly
informed of the progress of that consideration,

Noting that the agenda of the Conference on Disarmament for 1986 included
the item entitled “NUCleX weapons in all aspects” and that the programme of
work of the Conference for both parts of its session held in 1986 contained
the item entitled “Cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear
d:sarmamenL*‘,  22/-

hecdlling  the proposals and statements made in the Conference on
Disarmament on those items, 23/- -

Considering that the cessation of production of fissionabie material for
weapons purposes and th\a prcgressive conversion and transfer of stocks to
peacefill  uses would be a significant step towards halting and reversing the
nuclear-arms race,

Consider ing that the prohIbition of the production of fissionable
material for nuclear weapons and other explosive devices also would;  be an
important measure in facilitating the prevention of the proliferatiorl  of
nuclear weapons  and explosive devices,

Hequests the Conference on Disarmament, at an apprvpr iate stage of ittj
work on the item entitled “Nuclear weapons in all aspects”, to pursue its
consideration of the question  of. adequately verified cessation and prohibition
of the production  of fissionable material for nuclear weapons and other
nuclear explosive devices ihnd to keep the General Aswmbly  informed of the
progret;s of: that  consideration.

2J S e e  Official Hecot of the General Assembly, Forty-first Session,-_
-

- -
rpplement No. 27 (A/41/27), sect. I (‘.

23/ I b i d . ,  r;r~t.  1TI tj.-I -...--
/ . . .



A/41/040
Englirah
Page 38

M

Conventional disarmament on a reqional scale- - w-

The General Assembly,

Recalling  ite resolution 40/94 A of 12 December 1995, by which,
inter alia, it urged Governments , where the regional situation 80 permitted
and on the initiative of the States concerned, to consider and adopt
appropriate measures at the regional level with a view to strengthening peace
and Becur ity at a lmer level of forces through the limitation and reduction
oE armad forces and conventional woapans, under strict and effective
international  control , taking into account the need of States to protect their
security, bearing in mind the inherent right of self-defence enshrined in the
Charter of the United Nati@ns  and without prejudice to the pr inciple of equal
r ighte and of the self-determination  of peoples, !n conformity with the
Charter, and taking into account the need to ensure balance in each phase and
to avoid impairing the recur ity of any State,

Taking into account the report of the Secretary-General, 2Q/

1. Reaffirms once again it,a resolution 40/94 A of 12 December 1985
relating to conventional disarmament on a regional scale;

2. Reiterates the primary responsibility of the militarily signif icant
States, especially the nuclear-weapon States, for halting and reversing the
arm race, and the priority assigned  to nuclear disarmament in the context oE
the advances towards general and complete disarmament1

3. Expresses its firm support for all regional endeavours, as well as
u n i l a t e r a l  meaeures, directed to strengthening a climate of mutual confidence
that will make possible regional agreements on arms limitation in the future;

4. Requests the Secretary-General to continue to make avai,lable to the
interested Governments, upon their request, such technical services and
assistance as may be useful in measures of conventional disarmament on a
regional  scale ;

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-second
session an item entitled “Conventional disarmament on a regional  Bcale”.

24/ A/41/579.-

/ . . .



A/41/840
Englieh
Page 39

N

Noti f icat ion of  nuclear  tests- -

The General Assembly,

Notin the repeated calls by the General Assembly for the urgent
ConcluElion of a treaty to ban all nuclear explosions in all environments for
all time,

EXpr es&?2 itR conviction that, pending the conclusion of a comprehensive
nuclear-teat-ban treaty, the States concerned should provide all other States
with information on all nuclear explosions conducted by them,

Convinced that the provision of such data by all States conducting
nuclear explosions would supplement and contribute to the improvement of
indcxpendent  monitoring capabil i t ies  and thereby  faci l i tate the  early
conclusion of a verifiable comprehensive nuclear-test-bdn  treaty,

1. Calls upon each of the States concerned to pro\  ide to the
Secretary-General of the United Nations within one week of each nuclear
explosion:

(a) The date and time of the explosion8

(b) The exact  locat ion of  the explosion in terms of  geographic
co-ordinates and depth;

(c) The geological  character  istics, including the basic physical
propert ies  o f  the  rock , of  the s i te  o f  the  exploSionl

(d) The estimated yield of the explosion;

2 . Requests the Secretary-General to make this information i.rnmediately
available to all States and to submit to the General Assembly each year a
register of the information provided on nuclear explosions during the
preceding twelve months.

0

Review of the role of the United Nations in the field
of diBar mament

The General Assembly,

Recallinq its  resolutions 39/151  G of  17 December  1984 and do/94 0 o f
12 December 1985,

Bearing in mind that the primary purpose of the United Nations is to
maintain internatIonal  peace and security,

/ . . .



A/41/040
English
Page 40

Reaffirming its conviction that genuine and lasting peace can be created
only through the effective implementation of the security system provided for
in the Charter of the tlnited Nations and the speedy and substantial reduction
of arms and armed forces, by international agreement and mutual example,
leading ultimately to general and complete disarmament under effective
internationai  control ,

Reaffirming further that the United Nations, in accordance with its
Charter , has a central role and primary responsibility in the sphere of
disarmament,

Recognising the need for the United Nations, in discharging its  central
role and primary responsibility in the sphere of dlsarmament,  to play a more
active role in the field of disarmament in accordance with its primary purpose
under the Charter to maintain international peace and security,

Taking into account the report of the Disarmament Commission, l2/-

1. Requests the Disarmament Commission to continue its consideration Of
the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament as 3 matter of
prior ity at i ts next substal  j Eve  session, in 1987, with a view to the
elaboration of concrete recommendations and proposals, as appropr Late,
regarding the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament, taking
into account ,  inter  al ia , the views and suggestions of Member States as well
as the aforementioned documents on the subject;

2. Requests further the Disarmament Commission to s!*bmit  its report on
t h e  s u b j e c t , including f indings, recommendations and proposals, a6
appropr iate, to the General Assembly at its forty-second session;

3. Decides to include in the provisional. agenda of its forty-second- - -
session the i tem entitled “Review of the role of the United Nations in the
field of disarmament: report of the Disarmament Commission”.


