







































UNITED
NATIONS A
- ---.-,--_-  -.._ --- _-__

Qeneral Aarembly Dimtr.
GENERAL

A/41/925
1 Decomboc  1986
ENGLISH
ORIGINALI  ENGLISH/SPANISH

Forty - f i te t  session
Agenda item 101

ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES AND WAYS AND MEANS WITHIN THE UNITED
NATIONS SYSTEM FOR  IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVE ENJOYHGNT OF

HUMAN RIGHTS AND FUNDAMENTAL FREE-

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteurr Mr. Feancia  Et ic AGUILAR-HECHT  (Guatemala)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. At it8 3rd plenary meeting , on 20 Septctmbet  1986, the General Aesombly,  on the
recommendation6 of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of itt=i
forty-first rmrtsoinn the item entitled *Alternative apptoschas and uaya and means
within the United  Natione system for imncovinq the effective enjoyment of human
riqhtR and fundsmental fcsedomsz reports of the Secretary-General* and to allocate
it to the Third Committee.

2. The Tk.!rd Committee coneidered the item at its 3Gth to 30th, 43td, 45th, 50th,
60th and 6lrit meetings on 5, 6 , 1 2 . 13, 19 and 28 Novambot. An account o f the
diAcueRion  of the Committee ia contained in the relevant clummary  recorda
(A/Cw3/4P/SR.36-38,  4 3 , 45, 50, 60 and 61).

3. The Committee had before it tho followlnq documentation:

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Council for the year 1986, chapter VI
aectinn  A IA/41/3!$  lJ

(b)  National institutions f r the protectlon and promotion of human elqhtnr
report  of  the Secretary-General  {A/41/464)  t

I/ Official Records of the General Aaaeubly,  Forty-first  Seanion, Supplement,
No. 3 (A/41/3)  m

86-32876 0494P  (E) / . . .



A/41/925
Enql ish
Page 2

(C) Letter dated 31 December  1985  from the Permanent Representative  of
Afqhaniatan  to the United Nations addressed  to the Secretary-General
(A/41/70-s/17708) 1

(d) Letter dated 12 September 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Lhe
United Kingdom of Groat Britain and Northern Ireland to the United Nations
addroeoed  to the Socrotary-General  (A/41/607))

(e) Letter dated 10 October 1986 Xcom the Permanent Representative  cf
Democratic Kampuchea to the United Nat innn addreaaed  to the Secretary-General
(A/41/701-S/18394) I

(f) Notos by the Secrotaciat  auhmittinq  the auestion of a draft declaration
on the riqht to development (A/C.3/41/t.l  and Corr.1) an well as the relevant
documenta  (A/C. 3/41/L. 5 and L. 34) , which were deferred from the fortieth session of
the Genorel  Aeaembly.

4 . At the 36th meetiny, on 5 November, the Under-Secretary-General for Political
and General Assembly Affairs made an introductory statement (Roe A/C.3/41/SR.36).

I I . CONSIDERATION Of” DRAFT  PROPOSALS

A. Draft rerolution A/C.3/41/L.4  and Cotr,l and amendments
contained in documenta  A/C.3/41/L.S  and ~.34

5 . At its 61mt  meeting, on 28 November, the Committee considered the draft
remolution  entitled *Light to development” and amendments thereto, which had been
deferred from the fortieth seasion  of the General Aeaemhly and circulated in notee
by the Secretariat  (A/C.3/4l/L.4  and Cort.1, L.5 and L.34).

6 . At the same meeting, thaJ representative of Yugoslavia, on the barirr i)f
informal consultations, o r a l l y  revined d r a f t  reflolution A/C.3/41/L.I  ae followti;

The words “subject to relevant provieionf!  of both International Covenant8 on
Human Rights” were inserted between the wordn “the riqht of peoples to
exercise’ and the words “their full and complete soveraiqnty”  in tho aevanth
pteambular paragraph! and also between tha wordn “which includea,’ and the
words *‘.ha exercise of  their  inal ienable riqlrt” in article I, paraqraph 2.

7 . The representative of Iraa made n atatement in explanation of vote before the
vote (see A/C.3/41/SR.61)  .

8. The Committee adopted draft reeolution A/C.3/4l/L.4 and Cort.1,  as orally
tevieed, by a recorded vote of 133 to l, with 9 ahetentiona  (aee para.  34, draft
rseolutton  I ) . The voting wa8 a8 Pollowa:

In favour t Afqhanistan, Alqer 4 r , Anqola, Arqent ina, AuRtra  lia, Auatr ia,
Bahamaa,  Bahrain,  Banqladenh,  Barhadoe,  Belqium, Benin,  Bolivia,
Botnwafia,  B r a z i l , Brunei DarlJeaalam, Bulqarin,  Burkina Pano,

/ . . .



A/41/925
English
Page 3

Burma, Burundi, Byelorussisn Soviet Socialimt bpuhlic,  Cameroonr
Canada,  Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comorom,  Congo, C8te d’lvoice, Cuba, Cyprus,
Caechoelovak ia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democretic  Yemen, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic,  Ecuador, Egypt o El Salvador I Bauator ial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, France, Gahon, Gambia, German Democratic
Republic,  Ghana, Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea, Guinea-Blarau,
(Wana, Hondurae, Hungary, India, Indonsaia, Iran (Ilrlamic
Republic  of), Iraa, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’e Democratic Republic, L,ebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamabitiya,  Luxrmhoutg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaymia,  Mnldivea,  Mali, Malta ,  Mauritania, Mexico,  Mongolia,
Morocco, M?zamhiaue, Nepal, Nether landr , New Zealand, Nicaragufi  ,
Niger, Nigeria,  Oman, Pakistan,  Panama, Papua Now Guinea,
Pacaquay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadine@,  Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic,  Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, ‘lbnidia,  Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of S(bvlet Socialist  Republics,  United
Arah Emirates, United Republic  of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoelavia,  Zaire, Zambia, Zlmbahwe.

Againnt a United States of Amar  ica.

Ahetaininq: IMnmark, Finland, Germany, Federal Republic of, Icrland,  Israel,
Japan, Norway, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

9. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made hy the
rcpceeentativee  of Australia, France, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of
Germany, Japan, Auetcia, Ireland, the United State6 of America, the United  Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Canada, Belgiurcl  and Ser.sgal  (see
A/c‘. 3/41/SR.  61) .

10. At the flame meetinq, the KepteRentative  of Pakistan introduced a Jepacate
draft ptopsai hy orally reviffinq  the amendmente  contained in A/C.3/41/L.S,  af?
fOllC)WRf

(a) At the beginning of the draft deciRir>n, t.0 ineert the word8 “The Cid!neral
AsRcrmhly  declaree that t “t

(h) At .  the end of PnKaqKaph  1, to add t h e  wordar

“in accordance with the LMclaration  and the Programme of Action on the New
International Economic Order, the? International Development Strategy for the
Third Untted Nationn Development Decade and the Charter on the Economic Riqhte
and Duties of Statetl”.

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enql imh
Page 4

11. The draft decision contained in A/C.3/41/L.S,  as orally revised, was adopted
by a recorded vote of 118 to 11, with 14 abrtentione  (eee para.  35, draft
decieion)  . Th0 voting  warn a.y fol lows:

In favour8 Afqhanlatan,  Algeria ,  Anqola, Argr?ntina, Bahrain,  Bangladesh,
Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Famo, Burma, Burundi, Byeloruseian  Sovl.et  Soclaliet
Republic, Cameron,  Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoror  , Congo, C8te d’Ivaire,  Cuba, Cyprus,
Croahoalovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti,
K&mini&an Republic o Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eauator ial
Guinea,  Ethiopia ,  F i j i ,  Gabon, Gambia,  German Lbmoctatic
Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Gulnea-Bieaau , Guyana, Haiti ,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) ,
Iran, Jamaica,  Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s  Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Imnotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldivem, Mall, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia,  Morocco, Mozambiaue,  Nepal, New Zealand, Nicacaqua,
Nicer,  Niqeria, Qnan, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippiner, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadim!e, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Sinqapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
mbaqo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republ.ic, Union of Soviet Socialiet Republice, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against; *hiurn, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlandrr,  Portugal, United Kingdom  of Great
t ttain and Northern Ireland, United States cf America.

Abstaininq:  Auetralia,  Austria, Bahamas, Barbadoa, Denmark, Finland, Greece,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Malawi, Norway, Spain, Sweden.

12. After the adoption of the draft decision , statements were made by the
representative8 of Australia, France, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of
Germany, Japan, Auetr ia, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
Canada and Belgium (ace  A/C.3/41/SR.61)  .

B. Draft rasolutlon A/C.3/4l/L.  39

13. At the 43td meetinq, on 12 November, the representative of India, on behalf of

and Northern Ireland,

Australia, India, rraq, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway and Sri Lanka, introduced a
d r a f t  reeolution (A/C.3/41/L.39)  e n t i t l e d “National inStitUtiOnR  fOK the pKOteCtiOn
and pro.notion  of lruman r iqhts”.

14. At the 45th meetinq,  on 13 November, the Commlttee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/41/L.39  without a vote (eee para. 34,  draft  resolution II ) .

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enql i ah
Paqe 5

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/41/L.40/Rev.l

15. At the 43rd meetinq, on 12 November, the representative of Australia, on
behalf of Australia, Barbadoa, Bolivia, Canada, Colombia, Coata Rics, Cyprus,
Ecuador, FinJand,-,- the Gambia, India, Ireland, Mexico, Morocco, the Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, the ghilippinee,  Genaqal  and Yugoslavia, introduced a revised
draft  resolution (A/C.3/41/L.4O/Rev.l)  entit led “Development of public information
activitiefi  in the field of human rights”.

16. At the 4Sth meetinq,  on 13 November. the Committee adopted revised draft
resolution A/C.3/41/L.40/Rev.l  without a vote (Ree para. 34, draft resolution III).

D. Draft resolution A/C.?/Bl/L.41  and Rev.1

17. At the 43rd meeting, on 12 November, the repreiqentative  of Cuba, on hehalf of
Alrpria, Angola, Argentina, Benin, Bolivia, Bratil, Burkina Faso,  Colombiac  the
Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopi.1,  Madaqaacar, Mexico, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Rozania,  the Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, the United
Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia and Ziahahwe, introduced I draft
reeolu’tion (A/C.3/41/L.41)  entitled “Alternative approaches and ways and means
within the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human
riqhts and fundamental freedoms”.

13. At the 50th meetinq, 0~1 19 Novembf ;, the representative of Cuba, on behalf of
the sponsors, introduced revised draft resolution A/C.3/41/L.41/Rev.lr  in which:

(a) The sixth preambular paraqraph which read:

“Taking into account the fact that in its resolution 1985/43  of
14 March 1985 the Commission on Huinan Riqhte  expressed its Conce  n at the
deterioration in the conditions of life in some rraqions of the world and at
the adverse effects thereof on full enjoyment of human riqhts in those same
regions, and cspeci&lly  at the very qrave economic aituatinn  suffered hy the
African continent, a~ well an at the terrible effect6  cause1 hy the heavy
burden which external indebtedness means for the peoplefi  nf Latl,r rImericap
Asia  and Africa”

wau  revised to read:

“Taking into account resolution 1935/43  of 14 March 1985 of the
Commission on Human Riqhts”

(b) The twenty-eocond preamhular peraqrnph which reads

“Considering that, althouqh the developinq  countries hear primary
raeponeihillty  for their own develnpment, their  cffol  tR wi l l  h e  insuff icient
unless systematic and appropriato ashistanca  ia provided to them through
increased financial resource8  and juRt, pauitnhle  economi.-  and commercial
policieu are adopted by the developed countr  (es-

/ . . .



A/41/925
English
Paqe 6

was replaced by a new preamhuLar paraqraph which read:

"Considering that the efforts of developing countries  for their own
development should be supported by increased flow of resourcecl,  as well au by
policy and appropriate muaeuree aimed at creating an external environment
oonducive  to the development of their countries".

The representative of Mozamhiaue Rubseauently  joined in spon8orinq  the draft
resolution.

19. At the same meetinq, the representative of the United Kinqdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland (on behalf of the 12 Statea members  of the European Community)
made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote (Bee A/C.3/41/SR.50).

20. At the same meetinq, the Committee took the followinq action nn the revined
draft  resolution:

(a) The seventh preamhular paraqraph was retained by a recorded vote of 111
to 1, with 21 abetentionst  the votinq was aFi follows:

In  favour:

Aclainstr

AfqhaniRtan,  Algeria, Anqola, Arqentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Banqladesh, Barbados, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darwsaljm,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comcros, Conqo, C&e d’Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus,  Czechoslovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Dominica.1 Republic, Ecuador, Eqypt,  El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Fiji, France, Gabon, 2erman  Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Grccace, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Hunqary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraa, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, La0 People'8 Democratic Republic,  Lebanon,
Lesotho, L iber ia , Lihyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madaqascar,  Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Monqolia,
Morocco, Mozamhiuue, Nepal, Nicaraqua,  Niqer, Niqeria,  Oman,
Pakistan,  Panama, Peru, Philippines,  Poland, Qatar, Romanit,,
Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sac 'i Arabia,
Sinqapore, Somalta,  Sri Lsnka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Toqo, Trinidad and Tohaqo, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uqanda, Ukrainian Soviet  Socialist RepuhZic,  Union of
Soviet Socialist Rcp~:hlicn, United Arab Emirates, llnited  Republic
of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yuqoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

United States of America.

AbRtainingr Australia, Austria, Belgium,  Canada, Denmark, Finl.>nd, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourq, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, PortuqaL,  Spain,
Sweden, United Kinqdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay.

/ ..I



A / 4 1 / 9 2 5
Enqlish
Page 7

(h) Operative paraqraph 8 was retained by a recorded vote of 110 to 1, with
22 abstentions] the voting  was as follows:

In favour:

Against:

Ahataininq:

Afqhanistan, Alyecia, Anqola, Arqentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Banqladesh, Barbados, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byeloruasian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, ComoroR, Congo, C&te d’Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Fiji, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,  Ghana,  Greece, Grenade,
Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraa, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lehanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahitiya, Madagascar, Malawi, Nalaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, MOnq3lia,  Morocco, Mozamhiaue, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Niqeria,  Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Sinqapose, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sadan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Toqo,
Trinidad and Tohaqo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uqanda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialis Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Jenezuela,  Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

United States of America.

Australia, Austria, Belqium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Rc?puhlic  of, Iceland, Iceland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portuyal,
Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, Utuquay.

(CT) Revised draft resolution A/C.3/41/L.41/Rev.lI  as a whole, was adopted by
a recorded vote of 112 to 1, with 21 abstentions (see para.  34, draft
resolution IV), the votirq was as followsr

In favours Afghanistan, Algeria, Anqc,la, Arqentina, 13ahema.s,  Bahrain,
Banqladesh, Barbados, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, L unei
Dacuaealam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Hyelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Camoros, Cot-go,  Chte d'Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti , Dominican Republic, Ecuador,  Egypt, El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon, German Democratic Republic:,  Ghana,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran (IRlamiC  Republic of), Iraa, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Republic,  Lebanon, Leclotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madaqascar,  Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mr?xic:o,  Monqolia,  Morocco, Mozamhiaue,

/ . . .



A/41/925
English
Page 8

Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niqer, Niqeria,  (nnan, Pakistan,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia,
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sytiar
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Repuhlice, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Ur uquay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against a United States (,,f America.

Abatainingr Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Fecreral Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain,
Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

21. After the adoption of the revised draft resolution , statements were made by
the representatives of Norway (also on behalf of Denmark, Finland, Iceland and
Sweden) , Japan, Australia and Iraa (see A/C.3/41/SR.43).

/ . . .



A/41/9 35
Enqlish
Paqe 9

E. Draft resolution A/C.3/41/L.42

22. At the 43rd meetinq, on 12 November, the representative of the United States
of America introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/41/L.42)  entitled “The importance
of respect for the right of individuals to own property in achievinq  economic and
social development”, which read as follcirsr

“The General Assembly,

“Guided by the desire to promote a higher standard of living, and
conditions for economic and social development that foster the qreateat
possible we of human resources,

“Rearing  in mind the principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration Of
Human Rights, 2/

“Em7hasizing  the role of individual initiative as an invaluable resource
in proztinq  economic and social development,

“Convinced that the full enjoyment by individuals of the right to own- -
property is necess:ry  to secure the goals of economic and social development
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,

“Convinced ae well that the right to individual ownership of property,
stipulated in article 17 oE the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
paragraph 11 of the Declaration on the Rights of Disabled Peraons 1/ and
article 16 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination
against Women, A/ is of particular aiqnificance in fostering widespread
enjoyment of other basic hnman  rights,

“Recalling that the right to property ownership ie included in reqional
human rights instruments euch am the Organlzation ot African Unity and the
European Charters of Hur-an Riqhte,

“1. Affirms the importance of disseminatinq  information concerninq and
promotinq the human rights contained in the Universal  Declarations

“’
4. Invites the regional commissions to consider the relationship

between the ownership of private property and the economic and social
development of Member States1

21 Resolution 217 A (III).

Y Resolution 3447 (XXX) .

!v Resolution 34/18C.

/ . . .
0



A/41/925
Enqlieh
Paqe 10

*3. Requests the Secretary-General to undertake a study, within exietinq
resources, of:

“(a) The relationship between the enjoyment by individuals of fundamental
human riqhts, in particular, the rignt to individual property ownership and
economic and social developmentr

“lb) The role of the right of individuals to own private property in
ensurinq their full participation in the economic and social systems of States1

and to report his findings, through ihe Economjc ar.d Srxial Council at its
first session in 1987, to the General Assembly at its forty-second session1

“4. Invites the Commission on Human Riqhts at its forty-third session to
cesume  consideration of the rir’lt to own property)

II
5. Decides to consider at its forty-second session, under the aqenda

item ‘Alternative approaches and ways and means within the United Nations
system for improvinq the effective enjOyL*nt  of turnan riqhts and fundamental
freedoms’ , ‘The importance of respect for the right of individuals to own
property in their achievinq  economic and social development’.”

23. At the 60th meetinq, on 28 November, the representative of the United States
of America introduced a *nvised  d r a f t  sasolution (A/C.3/41/L.42/Rev.l)  e n t i t l e d
“Reflpect  for  the right  vc everyone to own property alone as well as in association
with others and its c<Jntrihution  t.o the economic and social development of Member
States”. At ttbe  same time, he c, ..llly corrected the revised draft resolution hy
inscrtinq the word “upon” hetween the words “based upon the principle  of mutual
benefit and” and the words “international law” in the fourth preamhular paraqraph.

24. At the same meetinq, the representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist
Rep+ibl  its introduced amendments (A/C.3/4l/L.58/Rev.l)  to the revised draft
resolution, which read as follows:

I. In the title of the draft resoluticmx

(a) Replace “respect for” by “use of”1

lb) rnser t “States, qCcl~p~  and” before nevecyone”  t

(cl Rep1 ace “,lnd its  contribution  to” hy “for”)

(d) Add at the end “and the promotion of human rights for all”.

“2. In the first line of the eighth preamhular paraqrap?,  after “associated
with the right of”, insert “States, qroups andW.

"3. In operative? paraqraph 1, cr?p:ace “private” by M individua  I , group,”  .

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enqlinh
Paqe 11

“4. In operative paragraph 48

(a) Replace “full enjoyment” by “URN”)

fh) Insert “States, qroups and” before “everyone”1

(c! Delete “as set forth in article 17 of the Universal Declaratian”#

(d) Add at ‘.ne end “and the promotion of human  riqhts for all”.

“5. In operative  paraqraph 5, subparaqraph (A):

(a )  Replace “full enjoyment” by “use”l

(t-l)  D e l e t e “in particular the r iqht of everyone to own property alone
as well as in association with others, as set forth in article 17 of the
Universal Declaration”.

“6. In operative paragraph !i, auhparagcaph (h):

(a) Replace “role” by “use” I

(h) Inset t “States, qroups and” before “everyone” 1

(cl Delete “as set forth in article 1’7 of the Universal Declaration”.

“7. In operative paraqraph 10:

(a) Replace “resume coneitizrntion 0:’ hy “consider”r

(h) Inner t “the use” before “of the riqht”)

(cl Insert “state3, qroups and” hefore  “everyonc”l

(d) Add at the end “for the promotion of human r iqhts for al1 “.

“8. In operative paraqraph 1.1:

(a) Rep1  ace “respect for” by “u~F? of”;

(h, ,T sect “States,  qroups and” before “everyone”r

(c) Repl.47e “and its contribution  to” by “for”l

((1) Af tet “Member States” inRc.ct “and the pr,,motion of human r iqhts
for  a l l ” . ”

/...



A/41/925
Enqlieh
Paqe 12

25. At the game meeting, the representative of Czechoslovakia introduced
amendments  (A/C.3/41/L.Sg/Rev.l)  to the revised draft resolution, whi.ch read aR
fallowat

“1. Ineert a new pceambular paragraph 5 reading:

“Convinced that the c igt,t to own property should be considered and
reslized in the context of all basic human cightn,  in particular, the
right to work, to free choice of employment,  to just and favourahle
conditions of work and to protection against unemployment,”

“2. Reformulate the second operative paragraph as followsr

“Emphaaizes the role of creative individual initiative as a valuanle
ceBoucce in promoting economic and social development.“”

26. At the same meeting, the representative of Bulgaria, also on behalf of the
German Democratic Republic, introduced amendments (A/C.3/41/L.60/Rev.l)  to the
reviaed draft resolution, which cead ae follows:

“1. Add at the end of the second preambulac paCaqCaph: “and the
International Covenants on Human Rights”.

“2. Insect a new pscaqraph  after the existing fourth preambulac paraqcaphr

“Collvinced  that man can achieve complete fulfilment of his
aspirations only within a just social order and that it is conseauently
of cardinal importance to accelerate eocial and economic progress
everywhere, thus contributing to international peace and solidarity,“.

w3. In old pceambulac pecagcaph 5 add:

(a) “eaual’ before “right to own pcopecty”t

(t-a) “eauitable  distribution of wealth among all members of society, and
the establishment of the new international economic order” after *in
association with others”.

“4. After the last pceambulac paragraph insect the following new pac,=igcaph;

“Recalling also its resolution 34/137 on the role of the puhltc
sector in promoting economic development, which emphasised the importance
of an efficient public sector in the development process.“”

27. At the same meeting, the representative of the Qelotussian Soviet SmialiRt
Ropubl ic, introduced amendments (A/C.3/41/L.62/Rev.l)  ‘to the revised draft
resolut ion, which read as follows:

/ . . .



A/41/925
Englitsh
Paqe 13

“1. In operntive  paragraph 1;

( a )  Ineart “independent” before “development”l

( b )  Inc.ert  “full” b e f o r e  *utilization”l

(61; Insert nand natural” before “reeourceb’l

I?) Replace “through the establishment” by “aa well HR to aatah11eh1nq”.

“2. In operative paragraph 5, subparagraph (a), insert “independent” hefore
“economic and eocial development”.

‘3. In operative paragraph 5, Aubparagraph  (h)r

(a) Insert “independent” before “economic and social”l

(b) Replace “syRtem8” by “development”.”

28. At the same meeting, the representative of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Repul)lic  introduced amendments (A/C.3/4l/L.63/Rev.l)  to the revised dczlft-
resolution, which read as followsa

“1. Add the following new last preambulac paragraph:

“Recallinp  also its ceeolutione 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of
1 May 1974, containing the Declaration and the Programme of Action on the
Establishment of a New International Economic 3rder,  3281 (XXIX) of
12 Dt?cembec  1974 containing the Charter of Economic Rights and Duties of
States, 3362 (S-VII) of 16 December 1975 on development and international
economic co-operation and 35/56 of 5 December 1980, the annex to which
contains the International Development Strategy LOC the Third United
Nations Development Decade,“.

“2. Insect a new operative paragraph, ceadinqr

“Recognizes  the right and responsibility of each State to choose  its
economic system in accordance with the will of itrl people, to detecqinf?
freely its own development ohjectiven, to set it.4 priorities and to
dec ide, in conformity with the principles of the Charter of the UnitPd
Nations, the mC\anR ;ind mc?thMa  of their achievement  without external
interference)“ .

*-3. In operative pacaqcaph 7:

( a 1 Replace “in accordance with article 30” by “ in  accocdancp  with
articles 29 and 3O”i

(h) Before “nothing in the Universal Declaration”, insrct “the rights
and freedoms may in no CARP he exercised contt acy to the p~~cpos~.s  and
pcir~ciple~  of the United Nations and that”.”

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 9 2 5
Enqliah
Page 14

29 . At the same meet in9, the repr eeentativa of Mongolia, introduced amendmenta
(A/C.3/4l/L.64/Rev.l)  to  the  revised dra f t  resolution, which read aa f~llowcrx

“1. In the fifth preamnular paraqraph replace the word “contribute”  with the
word8 “ehould contr ihute”.

“2. In the sixth preambular paraqraph replace the words “i~ of particular
siqnificance  in fostering” by the words “should foster”.

“3 . In operative pa agrap.1  5 (b) replace the words “in enaurinq”  by the word8
“for enaur inq” .”

30. At the 60t.1  and 61st meetinqs, on 28 November, the Committee tank action on
the draft resolution and the amendmente  thereto, aa followa:

(8) The representative of the United States of America put forward a
motion I/ not to take acti on the nmendtnents contained in A/C.3/41/L.W/Rev.l,
which wa8  carried by a co1 call vote nf 31 to 24, with 74 ahatentione. The votinq
was a~ followf3:

In favour:

Against:

Ahstaininqr

Antigua and Barhuda, AuRtrnlia,  Austria, Belqium,  Canada, Chad,
Chile, Coeta Rica, Denmark, El Salvador, France, Germany, Federal
lepubulic  of, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland,
I s rae l , Italy, Japan, Jordan, Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Philippines, Poct:lqal,  Spain, Turkey, United Kinqdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Staten  of America.

AfqhaniRtan,  Alqeria,  Anqola, Bulqar ia, Burk ina Faso,
Byelocuesian Soviet Sncialiet  Repuh ic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic,  Hclnqory,
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Maur i tania, Monqolia,  Mozamhioue, Nicaraqua,  Poland, Romania,
Syrian Arah Republic,  Ukrainian Soviet Socialist P,epuhlic,  Union
of Soviet Socialist Repuhlice, Viet Nam.

Acqcntina, Bahrain, Bolivia, BotRwann, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,
Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, China, Colombia,
Comorofs, Conqo, C&e d’Ivcira,  Cyprus,  Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Eqypt,  Eauatorial  Guinea, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic  Republic of), Iran,  Jamaicn,  Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia,  Madaqascar,  Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
MeXiCO,  Nepal, Niqer,  Niqeria, Oman, Pakistan,  Panama, Paraquay,
Peru, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Seneqal,  Sierra Leone, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname” Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Toqo,
Trinidad and Tchaqn, Tunisia, Uqanda, United Arab Emirates,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruquay, Venezuela. Yemen,
Yuqoslavia, Zatte, Zambia.

Y Under rule 116 of the rules  OE pcczetlur+?.

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enqliah
Page 15

(h) The representative of the Byelorueaian Soviet Socialist  Republic put
forward A motion 2/ to defer decision  on revined draft reeolution
A/C.3/41/L.42/Rev.l  and the remaining amendmentA  thereto to the forty-second
ee?esion  of the General Aasemhly. The motion was rejected by a roll-call vote of 34
to 29, with 67 ahntentiona. The voting was 8s follower

In  favourl

Aga!nRt t

Abetaininqt

Afghs.rietan,  Angola,  Bulqari?,  Burkina Faso,  Byelorunaian  Soviet
Socialist  Republic, China, Wnqo,  Cuba, Czechoelovktiia,
Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Hunqary,
Iran (Ielamic Republic of), Iraa, Lao People’6  Democratic
Repuhl ic, Libyan  Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Monqolia,
MIzamhiaue,  Nicaragua, Poland, Romania, Suriname, Syrian Arah
Republic, Ukrainian Soviet Sociallet Republic, Union of Soviet
Soc ia l i s t  Republica, United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam.

Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Auatria, Belgium, Brazil, Canada,
Chad, Chile, Cost8 Rica, Denmark, Djibouti,  Dominican Republic,
El Salvador, France, Germany, Federal Repuhulic of, Greece,
GLJAtemala,  Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, Inraelr  Italy, Japan,
Luxembourq,  Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Philippines, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kinqdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Arqentina, Bahrain, Bolivia, BotRwnnA,  Brunei Darusaalam,
Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Repuhli:,  Colombia, ComoroB,
C&e d’Ivoire, Cyprus, Ecuador, Eqypt, Euuatorial Guinea, Fiji,
Finland, Gabon, Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India,
Indonesia, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Madaqaecar,  Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,  Mexico,
Nepa 1, Niger, Niqeria,  Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraquay,  Peru,
Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi .+rahia,  Seneqal, Sierra Leone, Sri L,anka,
Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Toqo, Trinidac;  and Tohaqo,
Tunisia,  Uqanda, United Arab Emirates, Uruquay, Venezuela, Yemen,
Yuqoelavia, Zaire, Zambia.

(c:) The representative of the United State8 of America put forward a
motion 2/ not to take action on the amendments contained in A/C-3/41/L.  59/Rev.  1,
which WAR carried hy a recorded vote of 34 to 23, with 68 ahstentionn. The votinq
was a8 followt3:

In favour: Australia, Austria, Belqium,  Canada, Chad, CI ,le, Costa Rica,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, France,
Germany, Federal Ht:puhlic of, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras,
Iceland, Irola,~d,~  Israel, Ttaly, Japan, Luxambourq, Morocco,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines,  Portuqal,  Samoa,
Sinqapore,  Spain, Turkey, United Kinqdnm of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

/ . . .



A/41/925
Eng?ish
Paqe 16

Againeta

Abstaininqc

Afghanistan, Algeria, Anqola, Bulqaria, Burkina Faso,
Byelotueaian Soviet Soclaliet Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen,  Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Hungary, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Libyan Arsb
Jamahiriya, Mongolia, Nicaragua, Poland, Romania, Syrian Arab
Republic, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist  Republicrc,  Viet Nam.

Arqentina,  Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Botawana, Brazil, Brunei
Datueaalam, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, China,
Colombia, Comoron,  Conqo, Cyprus, Djibouti, Egypt, Finland,
Gabon, Gambia, Guinea, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraa, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Leeotho, Liberia,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldivee,  Mali, Mexico, Nepal, Niqer,  Nigeria,
Oman, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Qatar, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and 'Ibbago, Tunisia,
Wanda, United Arab  Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay,  Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbahwa.

(d) The representative of the United St&tee  of America put forward a
motion y not to take action on the amendments contained in A/C.3/41/L.60/Rev.l,
which was carried by a recorded vote of 32 to 22, with 68 abstentions. The votlnq
wa.8  a8  fol lows:

In favour: Australia, Austria, Belqium,  Canada, Chad, Chile, Costa Rica,
Denmark, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, !Iondu as, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands,
New Zealand, "orway,  Paraway,  Philippines,  Portugal ,  Singapore,
Spain, Turkey, United Kinqdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Against: Afqhanistan,  Algeria, Anqola,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic,  Cuha, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, Gambia, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Hungary, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mongolia, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Poland, Romania, Syrian Arab Republic, Uqanda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Viet Narn.

AhEtaintnq: Argentina, aahraln,  Banqladesh,  Bolivia, Botswana,  Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, China,
Colombia, ~omocoa,  Congo, Cyprus, Djibouti, Ecuador, Eqypt,
Finland, Gabon, Guinea, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iraa,  Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Llbetia,  blawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mal i ,  Mexico,  MOfocCo,  Nepal ,  Niqer,  Oman,
Pakiutan,  Panama, Pspua New Guinea, Peru, Qatar, Rwanda, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Spneqal,  Sierra Leone,

/“..



A/41/925
English
Page 17

Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Trinidad
and Tobago, ‘Tunisia,  United Arab Emiratea, Uni:-;3  Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

b) The repreeentatlve of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics put forward
a motion 5/ to defer consideration of reviaed draft reeolution A/C.3/41/L.42/ReV.l
and the r~mainlng  amendmente thereto to the forty-second eeanion of the General
Assembly. The motion wa8  rejected by a recorded vote of 47 to 44, with 44
ahatentione. The

In iavout I

Againfit:

Ahatainitqa

voting wae a8 followar

Afghanietan, Algeria, Angola, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Byeloruasian Soviet Socialist Republic. China, Colombia, Congo,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoalovak is, Dsmocrat ic Yemen,  El Salvador,
Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guyana,
Haiti, Hungary, I n d i a ,  Inc nesia, Iran ( Islamic Republic of) ,
l;aa, Lao People’s Democra  IC Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Mauritania,  Ivbnqolia,  Nicaragua,  Nigeria,  Poland,  -mania,  Sri
Lanka, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republice,  United
Republic of Tanzania, Vlet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangludesh, Belgium,
Brazil, Canada, Chad, Chile, Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivolre, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Eclypt,  France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Itally, Japan, Luxembourg, Morocco, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Pakistan, Pan&ma, Paraguay, Philippines,
Portugal, Saint Vincent and the Grenadineu,  Samoa, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Spain, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and NIsrthern Ireland, United Statea of America,
Uruguay.

Fahrain, Bolivia, B&ewana,  Brunei Daru8salam,  Cameroon, Central
Afr ican Republ ic ,  Ccmoroa, Eouatorial  Gllinea,  Fi j i ,  Finland,
Gambia, Guinea, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Malawi,  Malaysia, Maldives,  Mali, Mexico, Nepal, Niger,
Papua New Guinea,  Peru, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Somalia, Sudan, Swcrziland, Sweden, Thailand, Tqo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia,  Venezuela, Yemen, Zaire, Zambia.

(f) The representative of the United States of America put torward  rfi
motion 2/ not to take action on the zmendmenta  contained in A/C.3/41/L.62/Rev.l,
which was carried by a recorded vote of 34 co 23, with 75 abstentione. The Voting
was  aa fol lows:

In favour: Australia, Auutria,  Belgium, Canada, Chile, Coota Rica, Denmark,
Dominican Republic, El Salvador, France, GeLmany, Federal
Republic of, Greece, Guatemaia, Haiti, Honduras, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Mauritania,

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enqli sh
Page 18

Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Phiiippines,  Portugal, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Singapore, Spain, Turkey,
United Kinqdom of !;reat  Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

Againett Afghanistan, Alqeria, Anqola, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Byelorussian Soviet socialist  Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Hungary, Lao Peopla’e  Democratic Republic, Libyan Arah
Jamahiriya, Mongolia, Nicaragua, Poland, Romania, Syrian Arab
Republic, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, Vlet Nam.

Abstaining: Arqentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, iWt8wana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burundi, Cameroony  Central African Republic, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Congo, C&e d’Ivoire,  Cyprus, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Eqypt , Equatorial Guinea, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Gambia,
Cui nea , Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iraa, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Lee&ho, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,  Mali,
Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Gulr,ea,  Paraguay, Peru, Qatar, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Thai?and,  Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,, Tunisia,
Uqanda, United Arab Fmirates, Lln ited Republic of Tanzar) ia,
Uruquay,  Venezuela, Yemen, Yuqoslavia, 28,re,  Zambia, Zimbabwe.

(9) The representative of the United States of America put forward a
motion 5/ not to take action on the amendments contained in A/C.3/41/L.63/Rev.l,
which wrs carried by A recorded vote of 31 to 30, with 72 abstentions. The voting
was as follows:

I n  Eavourt

Aqainstr

Ahetainingr

Austtalia, Austria, Eielqium,  Canada, Chile, Costa Rica, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, France, Germany,
Federal Rapuhlic of, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Pltilippinea,  Portuqal,  Sinqapore,  Spain, Turkey,
United Kinqdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

Afqhanistan,  Alqeria, An9ola,  Arqentina, Bulqaria, Burkina Faso,
ByelOKU%3ian  Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Colombia, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ecuadot p Ethiopia. Gambia,
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Hungary, Iran (Islamic:
Republic oE) , Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lih,an Arab
Jamahiriya, Mautitania,  Monqolia,  Nicaraqua, Poland, Romania,
Syr fan At ah Republic, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, Viet Nam.

Bahrain, Bangladesh, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burundi, Camercnn,  Central African Republic,  Chad,
Comor 0s , Conqo, Cijte d’Jvoire, Cyprus, Eqypt, Eauatorial  Guinea,

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enqliah
Paqc 19

Fiji, Finland, Gabon, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia,
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon,  Lesotho, Malawi,
Malaysia,  Maldives, Mali, Mexico, Morocco, Nepal, Niger, Niqetin,
&an, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, P;rraguay,  Peru, Qatar,
Rwanda, Saint Vincent and the Grenadinea, Saudi Arabia, Seneqal,
Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobaqo,  Tunisia, Uganda,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic Of Tanzania, Irruguay,
Venezuela, Yemen, Yuqoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

(h) The representative Of the United States Of Ametica put forward a
motion z/ not to take action on the amendments contained in h/C.3/41/L.64/Rev  i#
which was carried hy a tecorded  vote of 33 to 24, with 76 ahstentiona. The voi inq
was a8 follower

In favoutr Australia, Austria, Belqium, Canada, Chile ,  Costa Rica, Denmark,
Dominican Repuhl ic , El Salvador, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland,
I s rae l ,  I ta ly , Japan, Luxembourg, Nether lands, New Zealand,
Norway, Paraquay, Philippines, Portuqal, Saint Vincent and the
Grenadines, Samoa, Singapore, Spain, Turkey, United Kinqdom of
Grkat Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Against 8 Afqhanistan, Alqeria, Anqola, Bulqaria, Burkina Faso,
ByelorustiJ?n  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemerr, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Hungary, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Lao People’s Democratic
Repuhl ic , Libyan Arab Jamehiriya, Monqolia,  Nicaraqua,  Poland,
Romania, Syr Ian At ah Rep&l ic, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Repuhl ic, Union of Soviet Socialist Repuhllcs,  Viet Nam.

Ahstaininql Arqentina,  Bahrain, Banqlade:.h,  Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad,
China,  Colombia,  ComotoF, Cnnqo, C&e (J’Ivoirc?,  Cyprus,  Djibouti ,
Ecuador, Egypt, Eullatnrial  (;llinea, Fiji, Finland, Gabon,  Gambia,
Gii I nea , Guyana, I-dia, Indonesia, Tram, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, MCXiCO,  Morocco, Nepal, Niqer, Niqeria,  Oman, Pakistan,
Panama , Papua New Guinea, PertI, Qatar,  RwaIlda,  Saudi Arabia,
Seneqal, Sierra Leonta,  Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Toqo, Trinidad and mhaqo,  Tunisia,
Uqanda, United Atab Emiratf??R, United Republic of Tanzania,
Utuquay, Venezuela, Yemen, Yuqosl,avia,  Zaire, Zambia, ZimhahwP.

31. The representative of Sweden proposed the followinq  amendment to revised draft
resolution A/C.3/4l/L.42/Rev.l:

Tn Operative paraqrnph 5, suhparaqraph (h) ,  aftf??r the word “ful l” ,  insert
t h e  words “ilnd f tee”.

/ . . .



A/41/925
English
Page 20

32. The Committee adopted revised draft resolution A/C.3/41/L.42/Rev.lr  aa orally
amended, by a recorded vote of 88 to none, with 46 abstentions (see para.  34, draft
resolution V) . The voting was as follows:

In favour: Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,  Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belgium, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darusaalam, Canada,
Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Comoros, Costa Rica, Cdte
d’rvoire, Cyprus, Democratic Kampuchea, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Eauatokial
Guinea, Fiji , Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic
of, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, Iceland,
Ireland, Ibrael, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Lebunonr
Maotho,  Liberia, Luy3mbourg,  Malaysia, Mali, Mexico, Morocco,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portugal, Rwanda, Saint
Vincent and the Grenadines,  Samoa, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Sinqapore, Somalia, Spain, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand,
Togo,  Trinidad and ‘Tobago, Tunisia,  Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland # United Republic of Tanzania,
United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Zaire.

Against:

Ahstaininpr Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Bulgar’a,  Burkina Fano,
Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, China, Congo, Cuba,
Czechoslovak ia, Democratic Yemen, German Democratic Republic,
Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran !Ialam!c Republic of) I
Itaa, Kuwait, La0 People’s Democratic Republic, Lihyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Malawi, Mauritania, Mongolia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Papua
New Guinea, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

33. Austria and Uganda made statements on the motions put forward under the item.

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enqlinh
Page 21

I I I . RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

34. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft tesol.utionst

DRAFT RESOLDTI3N I

Right to development

The General AEsemhly,

Having considered the auestion  of the riqht to development,

1. Decides to adopt the Declaration on the Riqht to Development, the
text of which is annexed to “.he prenent  resolution.

ANNEX

Declaration on the right to develripment

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations relating to the achievement of international co-operation in solving
international problems  of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian
r tllre, and in promotinq and encouraqinq respect fcr human riqhts and
tit- *&mental  freedoms for all without liRtinction as to race, sex, lanqunqc!  or
reliqion,

Recognising  that development 1~ a comprehensive economic, social,
cultural and pal itical process, which aims at the constant improvement of the
well-beinq  of the entire population and of all individuals on the basis of
their active, free and meaningful pa:ticipation  in development and in the fair
difitribution  of benefits resultinq therefrom,

Considering that under the provisions of the Universal Declaration of
Human Riqhts 2/ everyone is entitled to a social and international orde; in
which the r1qht.s  and fr~?edoms  set forth in that Declaration can be fully
realized,

Recallin  the provisions of the International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Riqhts  6/ and the International Covenant on Civil and

-P o l i t i c a l  Riqtrts,  F;/

!I/ see KC-?sO~utiOn  2200 A (XXI), annex.

/ . . .



A/41/925
English
Paqe 22

Recalling further the relevant aqreements, conventions, resolutions,
recommendations and other instruments of the United Nations and its
special iced agencies concerning the integral development of the human heinq,
ecxomic  and nocial  proqress and devalcpment of all peoples, inclddinq  th9sc
instruments concerninq  decolonization, the prevention of discrimination,
respect for, and ohservanc : of, human rights and fundamental freedoms, the
maintenance of international peace and security and the further promotion of
friendly relations and co-operation among StateR in accordance with the
Charter,

Recalling the riqht of peoples to self-determination, by virtue of which
they haw the riqht freely ,o determine their political status and to pursue
their economic, social and cultural development,

Recalling further the right of ptioplee to exerciffe,  subject to relevant
provisions  of both International Covenants on Human Riqhts, s/ their full and
complete soverciqnty over all their natural wealth and resources,

Mindful of the obliqntion of States under the Charter to promote
universal respect  for .tnd observance of human ciqhts and fundamental freedoms
for all without distinction  of any kind such as race, cnlour, sex, lanquaqc,
teliqion, political or other opinion, national or 8ocial oriqin,  property,
birth or other atatua,

Considering  that the elimi~stion  of the massive and flaqrant violations
of tne :,lrman  riqhLa  of the peoples and individuals affected by situations euch
as those resulting from colonialism, neo-colonialism, apartheid, all forms of
racism and racial discrimination, foteiqn domination and occupation,
aqqtession  and threats against national eoveceiqnty, national unity and
territorial inteqrity and threats of war would contribute to the establishment
of circumstances propitious to the development of a qreat part of mankind,

Concerned at the existence of serious obstacles to development, as well
as to the complete fulfilment of human heinqe and or peoples, constituted,
inter alia, by the denial of civil, political, economic, social and cultural
ciqhts, aldd considerinq  that all human riqhta an? fundamental freedoms arp
indivisible and interdependent and that, in order to promotca development,
eaunl  attention and urqent consideration should be qiven to the
implementation, promotion and protection of civil, political, economic, eoci.~l
and cultural riqhts and that, accordinqly,  the promotion of, respect for, and
enjoyment of certain human ciqhts and fundamental freedomn  tinnot justify thp
denial of c,ther human riqhts and fundamental freedoms,

Considering that internatic>nal  peace and security are aesential  e1emcnt.r;
for the realization  of the riqht to development,

Reaf? tminy ttlat there- - .  - in a clnee relationship between disarmament and
develnpmp,.r:  and  t h a t  proqrcss  in  the field of disarmament  would congider,2bly
promote prnqrf?sri  in the field of devolopmnnt and that reqourcc:R  rel+aas4

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enqlif#h
~aqe 23

throuqh diearmamenk measures should he devoted to the economic and social
development and waXl-heinq  of all peoples and, in particular, those of the
developinq courrtr  1~8,

Recoqniziny  tlrlat  the human person ia the central subject of the
development procesit and that development. policy ehould therefore make the
human beinq the mrr in participant and !wnef  iciary of development,

RecoqnizAnA tiat the creation of conditioncl favourable to the development
of peoples and individuals ie tnc primary reeponeihi1it.y  of their States,

Aware that efforts to promote and protect human riqhts at the
international lewtrl should be accompanied by efforts to establish a new
international economic order,

Confirmi  that the riqht to deva’ Zment  is an inalienable human r iqht- -
and that euuality  of opportunity for development is a preroqative both nf
nations and of individuals who make up nations,

PrcclaimR the followinq  Declaration on the riqht to developmentt

Article 1

1. The riqht to development is an inalienable human riqht by virtue of
which every human person and all peoples are entitled to participate in,
contribute to, and enjoy economic, social, cultural and political development,
in which all human rights and fundamental freedoms can be fully realized.

2. The human riqht to development aleo implies the full realization of
the right  of peoples to Aelf-determination,  which includes, I, nject to
relevant: provisions of both Internatio.lal  Covenant.3 on Human Riqhts,  the
exercise of  t.heir inalienable r ight tc> ful l  sovereiqnty over all their  natural
w&x  1 th and resources.

Attic1.a  2-__I--

1. The human person in thar  ct?ntral subject of development and !:hould be
thp active participsnk  and hencf iciary of the riqht to development.

2. All human heinqa  have a reuponsihility  for development, individually
and col lectively, t a k i n q  i n t o  a c c o u n t  t h e  n e e d  for  ful l  respect of  their  human
riqhts and fund,hmental freeckme as well as their duties to the community,
which alone can eneure t.he free and complete fulfilment of the h, .lon beinq,
and they should therefore promote and protect an appropriate pal itical,  social
and economic order  for development.

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enqlish
Paqe 24

3. States have the right and the duty to formulate appropr late nationa?.
development policies that aim at the constant improvement of the well,-heinq  of
the entire population and of all individuala, on the basis of their active,
free and meaninqful participation in development and in the fair distrihutinn
of the benefits resultinq therefrom.

Article 3

1. States have the primary respnRihility  for the creation of national
and international conditions fAVoUr?hle to the realization of the riqht to
development.

2. The realization of the riqht to development raauirea  full respect
for the principles of international law concerninq  friendly relationR and
co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of! the United
Nations.

3. State8 have the duty to co-operate with each other in enaurinq
development and eliminatinq  obstacles to development. St Ftes Rhould fulfil
their riqhtR  and duties in wch a manner a8 to promote A new international
economic order hssed on sovereiqn eauality, interdependence, mutual i;,LereRt
and co-operation amonq all States, aR Well As to encouraqt,  the OhRervance and
renlization  of human riqhts.

Article 4

1. States have the duty to take steps, individually and collectively,
to formulate international development policies with a view to fAcilitotinq
the f1~11 realization of the rlqht to development.

2. Sustained action la reauired to promote more rapid development of
developinq countr ieR. Ae a complement to the cfforte  of developinq countrieR
effective internationdl  co-operation is eseential  in providinq  theRe countr ieR
with appropriate meanR  and Eacilit!.eR  to foster their comprehenRive
development  t .

Article 5

StateR shall take resol.ute  utr x to e! iminate  the maesive  and flaqrant
violations of the human riqhts of peoples and human heinqR  Aflacted  hy
Rituations uuch as those resulting from apartheid, all formR of rAcinm  and
racial discrimination, colonialism, foreiqn domination and occupation,
aqqresaicn,  foreiqn interference and threats aqainAt  national %overeiqnty,
national unity and territorial inteqr ity, t h r e a t s  o f  war .lnd rsfuenl  t o
recoqnizp  the  EundamentaL  r iqht  o f  peoplea  to  aelf-determination.

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enqliah
Page 2 5

Article 6

1. All States  should co-operate with a view to promoting, encouraging
and etrengtheninq univeraal reepect for and observance of all human rights and
fundamental freedoma for all without any dietinction  aa to race, sex, language
and reliqion.

2. All human riqhte and fundamental freedom8 are indivieible  and
interdependent! eaual attention and urqent consideration ahould be given to
the implamentation, promotion and protection of civil, political, economic,
eocial and cultural rights.

3. States  should take etepe  to eliminate obstacle8 to development
reaultinq from failure to obeerve civil and political right8 as well a8
economic, social and cultural righto.

Article 7- -
.

All States should promote the establishment, maintenance and
strengthening of international peace and security and, to that end, should do
their utmoet to achieve general and complete disarmament under effective
international control se well aa to ensure that the refJoutce6 released by
effective diaarmament measure8  are used for comprehensive development, in
particular that of the developing countries.

1. State8  should undertake, at the national level, all neceeaary
measures for the realization of the riqht to development and shall ensure,
inter alia, equality of opportunity for all in the’r RCC~RB  to baeic
reaourcee, education, health BerviceR,  food, houainq, employment and the fair
difstrthution  of income. Effective measures ehould he undertaken to ensure
that women have an active role in the development process. Appropt ia te
econolnic:  and social reform6 should he made with a view to eradicating all
Racial in just ices .

2. Staten should encouraqe  popular particip$btion  in all ssphereci  as an
important factor in development and in the full realization of all human
r iqhtft .

Article 9

1. Al.1 the atlpects  of the right to development set forth in this
Declaration are indivisible and interdependent and each of them should he
considered in the context of the whc>lc.

/ . . .



A/41 /925
English
Page 26

2. Nothing in this Declaration shall he construed as heinq contrary to
the purposes and principles of the United Nations , or as implying that any
State, qroup OL person has a right to enrraqe  in any activity or to perform any
act aimed at the violation of the riqhtc et forth in the ‘iniversal
Declarathn  of Human RiqhtR and in the International CovenantR  on Human RiqhtR.

Article 10

Stepe should be taken to ensure the full exercise  and proqressive
enhancement of the right to development, including the formulation, adoption
and implementation of policy, leqialative and other meaaures at the national
and international levels.

DHAF’T RESOLUTION II

National institutions for the protection and promotion
of human rights

The General Assemhl;

Recallinq  its resolutions 32/123  of 16 December 1977, 33/46 of
14 December 1978, 34/49 of 23 November 1979, 36/134  of 14 December 1981,
38/123 of 16 December 1983, 39/144  of 14 December 1984 and 40/123  of
13 December 1985 concerninq  national institutions for the protection and
promotion of human rightR,

Mindful  of the guidelines on the structure snd functioning of national- -
and local institutions for the promotion and protection of human rights,
endorsed by the General ARsembly  in its resolution 33/46,

EmphaRizix  the importance of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rightu, 2/ the International Covenantn  on Human Rights g and other
international human righta instruments for promoting reflpect for and
observance of human rightR and fundamental freedoms,

GOn6CiOUR  of the Rignificant  role that institutione  at the national level
can play in protecting and promotinq human rights and fundamental freedoms and
in developinq and enhancinq public awareness and ohaervance  of those riqhtR
and freedoms,

Welcominq the holding of seminars at Geneva, under the auspices  of the
United  Nations, on the experience of different counttieR in the implementation
of international standards on human rights, held in June and July 1983, and on
commis:kions for community relationR, held in September 1985, and other current
[Jnited Nations initiatives to assist in the development of national mnchinc!ry
to comhat racial diRCrimination,

/ . . .



A/41/925
English
Paqe 27

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General) I/

2. Emphaeizes  the importance of developinq, in accordance with national
leqielation, effective national institutions for the protection and promotion
of human rights, and of maintaininq their independence and integrity1

3. Encourages all Member State6 to take the appropriate steps for the
establishment  or, where they already exist, the strenqthenlnq of national
inetitutiona  for the protection and promotion of human rlqhts)

4. Drawe attention to the constructive  role that national
non-qovernmental orqanizations can play in the work of such national
inRtitutionRj

5. Encourages all Member Statea to take appropriate steps to promote
the exchanqe of information and experience concerninq  the Rtahlishment  o f
Ruth national  inRtitutiona#

6. Reauests the Secretary-General to give due attention to the role of
national institution8 and non-governmental orqanizations concerned with the
protection and promotion of human ciqhta and to provide all necessary
aeeietance to Member States, upon their reauest, in thf? implementation of
paraqrapha 3 and 5 above, accordinq high priority to the needs of developinq
countr ieat

7. Also reauefita  the Secretary-General  to continue to provide and, as
apprnpr iate, to enhance aaBistance  in the field of human riqhte to
Governments, at  their  reauest, within the framework nf the proqramme of
advisory uerviceA  in the field of human riqhta!

8. Encourages the Secret,ary-General  to complete as soon as poesihl~~ and
uuhmit  to the (‘enera Aasemhly, throuqh the Commission  on Human Rights and the
Economic and Social Council, a consolidated report, for eventual pub1 icat ion
an a United Nations handt. ok, on national institutions for the use of
Governmcntfl, includinq Jnformation on the various  types and models of national
and 10~~11 institutions for the protection and promotion of human riqhts,
takinq into account differinq  social and leqnl .systemst

9. Heauests the Secretary-C+neral  to report to the General Assembly at- -
itn forty-s/!cond  .ression  on the implementation of the present resolution.

u A/41/464.

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enqliah
Paqe  20

DRAFT RESOLUTION I II

Development of public information activities in the
field of human right8

The General Assembly,

Reaffirm*  that activities to improve public knowledqe in the field of
human rights are necessary to the fulfilment of the purposes of the United
Nations as set out in Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United
Nations and that proqrammes of teaching, education and information are central *
to the achievement of lasting respect for human riqhts and fundamental
freedoms,

Recalling its relevant resolutions on this subject, notably resolution
40/125  of 13 December 1985, and related resolutions in the field of human
r iqhts concerninq  international instruments and the activities of national
institutions and reqional arrangements,

Welcoming Commission on Human Riqhts resolution 1986/54  of 13 March 1986
on the development of public information activities in the field of human
r iqhta,  g/

Recoqnizinq the catalytic effect of initiatives of the United Nations on
national and reqional public information activities in the field of human
I: iqht:?,

Recoqnizing  also the valuable role that non-governmental orqanizations
can play in this field,

Believinq that the twentieth anniversary of the adoption of the
International Covenants on Human Riqhts g and the fortieth anniversary of the
adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Riqhts 2/ should provide a
focus and renewed impetus to the promotional activities of the United Nations
system in the field of human rights,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the development
of public information activities in the field of human riqhtsl  z/

2. Requests  all Member States to qive, faci l i tate and encouraqe
pub1 icity for the activities of the United Nations in the field of human
rights and to accord priority t.o the flissemir~ltion  of the Universal

!Y See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1986, Supplement
N O .  2 (E/1986/,2), chap. II,<ect.  A.

-.-

Y E/CN.  4/1986/20 and Add. 1-3.

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enql ish
Paqe 29

Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human Rights and
other international cc,hventions  in their respective natio,>nl  and ‘local
lanquaqear

3. Emphasizes the need to make available United Nations materials on
human r 1qht.s in simplif led , attractive and accassihle form, in national and
local lanquaqea, and to make effective use of the mass media and new
audio-visual technologies to reach a wider audience with priority on children,
other young people and the disadvantaged , especially those in isolated areas!

4. Calls upon all relevant parts of the United Nationa  System,
includinq  the specialised agencies and the regional commissions, as well a8
Member States and non-qovernmental organisations, to assist further in the
dissemination oi Vnited Nations materials on human rightsl

5. Recommends that all Member States include in their educational
CUKKicu~a mtltecials  relevant to a comprehensive underatandinq  of human riqhts
issuesl

6. Reuuesta the SeCKetaKy-GeneKal, within exiatinq resources, to
finalize  work on a draft teaching booklet on human rights, taking into account
Rllch comments as may have been offered by Governments, and to draw the
attention of Member States to this document, which could serve  an a broad and
flexible framework within which teaching could be structured and developed in
accordance with national circumstancesr

7. Requests the Secretary-General to complete the task of issuinq the
personalized version of the Universal Declaration of HUIL~~II  Rights in the six
official lanquaqes of the United Nations as soon as possible and to proceed
thereafter, in co-operation with regional orqanizations  and Cfivernments, to
the production of this document in nat.ional  and local lanquaqesl

8. Invites Member States to consider nominatinq national focal points
to which the Secretary-General could supply copies of relevant human riqhts
materials to complement the existinq means by which such materials are
disseminated~

9. JIeauests  the Secretary-General to expedite work within availahla
K~SOUKC~S  on buildinq up collections of reference WOKkS  and United Nations
materials at **ach United Natione information centre,  takinq into account the
list of basic reference works on human Kiqhts prepared by the IJnited Nations?

10. Reauests  the Secretary-General to make available from the existinq
hudqet of the Department of Public  Information appropriate fundinq for puhl ic
information activities in the field of human riqhta, and to ensure that
adecu;lte  arranqemente are made for the stotaqe and distribution of United
Nations public informntion materials in this field1

11. Reduests  the Secretary-General to atranqe for the Keprintinq of tht?- -
United Nations compilation of international instruments entitled “Hilman
Riqhts” as srzn a~ practicshle)

/ . . .



A/41/925
English
Page 30

12. Reaueste the Secretary-General to submit in his report  to the
Commission  on Human Rights at its forty-third seseion information on the
implementation of the present resolution, includinq  a statue report on the
availability, in the official and other languages, of the principal
international inetrumenta in the field of human riqhtR and an assessment of
the activities of the United Natlone information centreo in this fieldr

13. Decides to continue its consideration of this auestion at its
forty-eecond cession  under the agenda item “Alternative approaches and way8
and means within the United Nations system for improvinq the effective
enjoyment of human riqhte and fundamental freedoms”.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Alternative approaches  and way8 and nteane within the United
Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of

*man r ighte and fundamental freedome

The General Assembly,

Recalling that in the Charter of the United Nation8  the peoples of the
United Nations declared their determination to reaffirm faith in fundamental
human t iqhte, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the eaual
righta of men and women and cf nations larqe and small and to employ
international machinery for the promotion of the economic and social
advancement of all peoples,

Recalling also the purposes and principles of the Charter to achieve
international co-operation in oolvinq international problema of an economic,
eocial, cultural or humanitarian character , and in promotinq and encouraqinq
reepect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without
distinction as to race, sex, lanquaqe or religion,

Emphasizinq  the significance and validity of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights 2/ and of the International Covenants on Human Righta  6J in
promoting respect for and obeervance  of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Rcbcall inQ its resolution 32/130  of 16 December 1977, in which it decided
that the approach to the future work within the United Nations system with
respect to human riqhts aueetions  should take into account the concepts set
forth in that resolution,

Recalling also its renoluticjne  34/46 of 23 November 1979, 35/174  of
15 December 1980, 36/133  of 14 December 1981, 38/124 of 16 December 1983,
39/145  of 14 December 1984 and 40/124 of 13 II-cember  1985,

Taking into account Commission on Human Riqhtu ceaolution 1985/43  of
14 March 1985, g/

/ . . .



A/41/925
Enqlish
Paqe 31

Underlininq the fact that the right to development is an inalienable
human right,

Recognising that the human being is the main subject of development and
that everyone has the right to participate in, as well as to benefit from, the
development process,

Reiterating once again that the establishment of the new international
economic order is an essential element for the effective promotion and the
full enjoyment of humcn  rights and fundamental freedoms for all,

Reiterating also its profound conviction that all human riqhts and
fundamental freedoms are indivis4ble  and interdependent and that equal
attention and urgent consideration should be given to the implementation,
promotion and protection of both civil and political and economic, social and
cultural  r ights,

Reaffirminq the importance of furthering the activities of the existinq
orqans of the United Nations system in the field of human rights in conformity
with the principles of the Charter,

Bearing in mind Economic and Social Council resolution 1996/56 of
22 July 1986,

Underlininq the need for the creation of conditions at the national and
international levels for the promotion and full protection of the human rights
of individuals and peoples,

Recognizlng that international peace and security are essential elements
for the full realization  of human rights, including the right to developmert,

Conniderinq that the resources that would he released by disarmament
could contribute siqnificantly  to the development of all States, in particular
the developiny countr lee,

Rrrc:ognizinq  that co-operation amony all nations on the hasia of respect
for the independence, sovereignty and tcrrit.oriaL  integrity of each State,
includinq  the right of each people to choose freely its own socio-economic and
political system and to exercise full sovereiqnty over its wealth and natural
resources, subject to the principles referred to in article 1, paraqraph 2,
and article 25 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural
Riyhts,  g is essential for the promotion of peace and development,

Convinced that the primary aim of such international co-operation must be
t_he achievement by each human being of a life of freedom and diqnity and
freedom from want,

Acknowledginq  the proqress  so far achieved by the international community
in the promotion and protection of human riyhts and furldamental  freedoms,

/ ..I



A/41/925
English
Page 32

Concerned, however, at the occurrence of violations of human rights in
the world,

Reaffirmi. that nothing in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or
in the International Covenants on Human Rights may be interpreted as implying
for any State, group or person the right to engage in any activity or perform
any act aimed at the destruction of any of the rights and freedoms set forth
therein,

Affirming that the ultimate aim of development is the constant
improvement of the well-being of the entire population, on the basis of its
full participation in the process of development and a fair distribution of
the benef ita therefrom,

C-onsiderinq  that the efforts of developing countries for their ow’n
development should be supported by an increaeed flow of resources, as well as
by policy and appropriate measures aimed at creating an external environment
conducive to the development of their countries,

Emphasizing  that Governments have the duty to ensure respect for all
human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Taking note of the work done by the Working Croup of Governmental Experts
on the Right to Development, as reflected in its reports to the Commission on
Human Rights, lJ

1. Reiterates its reauest that the Commission on Human Rights continue
its current work on the overall analysis with a view to further promoting and
improving human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the queetion of the
Commission’s programme and working methods, and on the overall analysis of the
alternative approaches and ways and means for improving the effective
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in accordance with the
provisions and concepts of General Assembly resolution 32/130 and other
relevant texts?

36 . Affirms that a primary  aim of international co-operation in the
field of human rights is a life of freedom, diqirity  and peace for all peoples
and for each human being, that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivieible  and interrelated and that the promotion and protection of one
category of rights should never exempt or excuse States from the promotion and
protection of the others1

3. Affirms its profound conviction that eaual attention and urgent
consideration should be given to the implementation, protection and promotion
of both civil and political and economic, social and cultural riqhtst

UJ E/CN.4/1983/11, E/CN.4/1984/13  and Corr.1  and 2 and E/7N.4/~985/11.

/ . . .



A/41/925
EmqliRh
Paqe 33

4 . Reaffirma that it in of paramount importance for the promotion of
humdn right8  and fundamental freedoms that Member Statea  ahould undertake
Rpecific obligations through accession to, or ratification of, international
instrument8 in this field and, conaeauently, that the standard-setting work
within the United Nation8 syetem in the field of human rights and the
universal acceptance and implementation of the relevant international
instsumenta should be encouraged 1

5. Reiterates once again that the international community should
accord, or continue to accord,-priority to the search for solutions to rnaRn
and flagrant violation8  of human riqhts of peoples and individual8 affected by
situations nuch as those mentioned in paragraph 1 (2) of resolution 32/130,
paying due attention alao to other situationa of violations of human riqhte,

6. Reaff irmk its reaponeibility for achievinq  international
co-operation in promoting and encouraging respect for human riqhtB  and
fundamental freedoms for all, and expresses ita concern at serious  violationa
of human r ighta, in particular maa8 and flagrant violations of theee rights,
where +hey occur 1

7. Expreeses  concern at the present eituation with regard to the
achievement of the objectivea and goala for establiahinq the new international
economic order and its adverse effects  on the full cealization of human
rights, in particular the right to development;

8. Reaff irme that the right to development is an inalienable human
right,

9. Reaffirms also that international peace and security are essential
element8 in achieving the full realization of the riqht to developmentf

10. Recognizes  that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interdependentt

11. Coneiders it neceaaary that all Member StateR promote international
co-operation on the haaie of respect for the independence, sovereignty and
territorial inteqrity of each State, including the right of each people to
choose freely its own eocio-economic and political syetem and to axerciae fill1
Rovereiqnty  over its wealth and natutal r@uources, subject to the principles
teEerred  to in article 1, paragraph 2, and article 25 of the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Riqhts, with a view to resolving
international problems of an economic, social and humanitarian character1

12. Expreoaes  concern at the existing  dieparity between the estahllshed
norms and principles and the actual situation of all human rights and
fundamental freedoms in the world,

13. Urges all State8 to co-operate with the CommisRton  on Humnn Riqhts
in the promotion and protection of hum r~ rights and fundamental freedomnr

/, . . .



A/41/925
English
Page 34

14. Reiterates the need to create, at the national and international
levels, conditions for the full promotion and protection of the human rights
of individuals and peoples*

15. Reaffirms once aqain that, in order to facilitate the full enjoyment
of all rights and complete personal dignity, it is necessary to promote the
right8 to education, work, health and proper nourishment through the adoption
of measures at the national level, including those that provide for workers’
participation in management , as well as the adoption of measures at the
international level, including the establishment of the new international
economic otderl

16. Aqain requests the Commission on Human Rights to take the necessary
measures to promote the right to developmnt, and welcomes the decision of the
Commission in its resolution 1986/16 on the future work of the Working Group
of Governmental Experts on the Right to Development of the Commission on Human
Rights1

17. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the General Assembly
at its forty-second session a report containing information on the progress
made by the Working Group in the accomplishment of the tasks mentioned in the
preceding paragraph;

18. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-eecond
session the item entitled 'Alternative approaches and ways and means within
the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedoms”.

DRAFT RRSGLVTIONV

Respect for the right of everyone to own property alone as well as
in association with others and its contribution to the economic

and social development of Member States

The General Assembly,

Guided by the desire to promote a higher standard of living, full
employment and conditions for economic and social development that foster the
greatest possible use of human resources,

Reaffirming the principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration  of
Human Rights, 2J

Bearinq in mind the right Of States freely to chce and develop their
political, social, economic and cultural  systems as well as their right to
determine their laws and regulations,

/ . . .



A/dl/92S
English
Page 35

Bearing  in mind also that all peoples may, for their own ends, freely
dispose of their natural wealth and resources without prejudice to any
obligations arising out of international economic co-operation, based upon the
Principle of mutual benefit and upon international law, and that in no case
may a people be deprived of its own means of subsistence,

Convinced that the full enjoyment by everyone of the right to own
property alone as well as in association with others contributes to securing
the goals of economic and social development enshrined in the Charter of the
United Nations,

Convinced further that the right to own property alone as well as in
association with others, as set forth in article 17 of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, and as reaffirmed in paragraph 11 of the
Declaration on the Rights of Disabled Persons 3J and article 16 of the
Convention on the Elimination of All FOrmS of Disccimination  against Women, I/
is of particular significance in fostering widespread enjoyment of other basic
human rights,

Reaffirming, in accordance with article 29 of the Universal Declaration
of Human Bights, that in the exercise of his rights and freedoms, everyone
shall be subject only to such limitations as are determined by law solely for
the purpose of securing due recognition and respect for the rights and
freedoms of others and of meeting the just reuuirements  of morality, public
order and the general welfare in a democratic society,

Recalling the principles associated vith the right of individuals to own
property described in the relevant articles of regional human rights
instruments of the Organisation of American States, the Organisation of
African Unity and the Council of Europe,

1. Recognises that there exist in Member States many forms of legal
property ovnership, including private, communal , and state forms, each of
which should contribute to ensuring effective development and utilisation of
human resources through the establishment of sound bases for political,
economic and social justice;

2. Emphasises the role of individual initiative as an invaluable
resource in promoting economic and social develapmentt

3. Affirms, in accordance with article 30 of the Universal Declaration,
that nothing in the Declaration, including the right of everyone to own
property alone as well as in association with others, may be interpreted as
implying for any State, group or person any right to engage in any activity tx
to perform any act aimed at &he destruction of any of the rights and freedams
set forth thsreina

/. . .



A/41/925
English
Page 36

4. Invites the United Nations regional commissions to consider the
relationship between the full enjoyment of the tight of everyone to own
property alone as well as in association with others, as set forth in
article  17 of the Universal Declaration, and the economic and social
development of Member  States?

5, Requests the Seoretaty-General  to prepare a report, taking into
account the views of Member States, speoialised agencies and other competent
bodies of the United Nations system, within existing resources, onr

(2) The relationship between the full enjoyment by individuals of human
rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular the right of everyone to own
property alone aa well ss in association with others, as set forth in
article 17 of the Universal Declaration, and the economic and social
development of Member States}

@) The role of the right of everyone to own property alone as well as
in association with others, as set forth in article 17 of the Universal
Declaration,  in ensuring the full and free participation of individuals in the
economic and social systems of Statest

6 . Invites Member  States to communicate to the Secretary-General their
viewa on the subject of his report1

7. Invites the specialised agencies and other competent bodies of the
United Nations system to contribute their views to the Secretary-General on
the subject of his report,

8. Reuueats  the Secretary-General to report his findings, through the
Economic and Social  Council, to the General Assembly at its forty-third
session;

9. Further requests that a preliminary oral report on this auestion be
made to the General Aasembly at its forty-second seasiont

10. Invites the Commission on Human Rights at its forty-third session to
resume consideration of the right of everyone to own property alone as well as
in association with others?

11. Decides to oonsider, at its forty-second session, ‘Respect for the
right of everyone to own property alone as Well as in association with others
and its contribution to the economic and social developoent  of Member States’
under the agenda item entitled -Alternative  approaches and ways and means
within the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of
human rights and fundamental freedoms*.

/.*.



35. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly
following d r a f t  decieionr

A/41/925
Eng l i sh
Page 37

t h e  adopt?on  o f  t h e

D&FT DECISION

Right to development

The C;errer  al  Aas’?mbly  declares that t

1. The achievement  of  the  r ight  to  development  requi tes  a  concerted
internat ional  and nat ional  ef fort  to  e l iminate  economic deprivat ion,  hunger
and disease  in  a l l  parts  of  the  wor Id without  discr iminat ion in  accordance
with the Declaration and the Programme of Action on a New International
Economic Order , s/ the  Internat ional  Development  Strategy for  the  Third
United Nations Development Decade 12/ and the Charter on the Economic Rights-
and  Dut i e s  o f  S t a t e s ,  13/-

2. To this end, international co-operation should aim at maintenance of
stable and sustained economic growth with simultaneous action to increase
concess ional  aesi%tance to  developing countr ies , b u i l d  w o r l d  f o o d  s e c u r i t y ,
resolve the debt burden, eliminate trade barriers, promote  monetary  s tabi l i ty
and enhance sc ient i f ic  and technologica l  co-operat ion.

es---

11/ Reoolution 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI).-

12/ Official Iiccorrls of the General Assembly, Fortieth Session, Supplemr nt
N o .  4H(A/40/48)  .- - -

13/ Hcsolution 32Hl (XXIX) .-


