







































Distr.
General

A/41/842
26 November 1986
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCN

Forty-first session
Agenda item 62

REVIEW  OF THE IMPLRMENTATION  OF THE RECOHEIIENDATIONS AND DECISIONS
ADOPTED BY TFIE GENERAL ASSEMBLY AT ITS TRNTR SPRCIAL  SESSION

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Doulaye Corentin KI (Burkina Faso)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled:

nReview  of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions adopted by
the General Assembly at its tenth special session:

"(a) Report of the Disarmament Commission;

"(b) Report of the Conference on Disarmament;

“(c) Statue of multilateral disarmament agreements: report of the
Secretary-General;

"Id) Comprehensive pragramme of disarmament: report of the Conference on
Disarmament;

"(e) Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies: report of the Secretary-General;

"(f) United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research: report of the
Director of the Institute;

. "(9) Study on deterrence: report of the Secretary-General8

36-32514  0464P (6)
/..a

; \ ‘?



A,‘41/042
Engl iah
Page 2

‘(h) Non-ure of nuclear weaponn and prevention of nuclear war8  report of the
Conference on Disarmaments

“(i) C-.,-nation  of the nuclaar-atme  race and nuclear disarmament: report of
the Conference on Dilarmamentr

” (j) Dimarmamont  Week # report of the Secretary-General8

“(k)  Prohibition of the nuclear neutron weapon: report of the Conference on
Disarmament,

"(1) United Nations dimarmament studies: report of the Secretary-General!

“(III)  Review and appraisal of the implementation  of the Declaration of the
1980e  am the Second Disarmament Decade: report of the Secretary-General)

“(n)  Implemeatation of the recommendation8 and dectaions of the tenth special
reaslonr

"(i) Report of the Disarmament Commisslonl

“(ii) Report of the Conference on Dlsarmamentr

"(iii) Verification in all its aspects: report of the Secretary-General}

* (0) Prevention of nuclear war: report of the Conference on Diearmament"

wa8 included in the provisional agenda of the forty-firat neeaion  in accordance
with General Asss~ebly resolutions 36/92 H of 9 December 1981, 38/183 0 of
20 December 1983, 39/148  H of 17 December 1984, 40/152 A, C, 0, E, F, H nnd K to Q
of 16 December 1985 and decision 39/423  of 17 Decumher 1904.

2, At it8 3rd plenary meeting, on 20 September 1986, the General AReemhly,  nn the
recxnmnendation  of the General Committee, decided to include the item in itn nqenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October, the Firrrt Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the diearmament  items allocated to it, followed by atatementR on
specific disarmament aqetlda iteme and a continuntion of the general debate, BR
necessary. The deliberation8 on thoee iteme, namely, iteme 46 to 65 and item 144,
took place between the 3rd and the 32nd meetinqrr,  from 1'1 October to 4 November
(e~eo A/C. 1/41/PV.  3-32) .

4. fn connection with item 62, the First Committee had before it the followinq
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Diearmament) L/

Y Official Records 25 the General Assembly, Forty-firet SeBRion,  Supplement
No. 27 (A/41/27).

/ . . .



A/41/042
Enqlieh
Page 3

(b) Report of the Dinarmament  Commission; 2/

(Cl Fourth report of the Advisory Committee on Administrative and Budgetary
Questions (A/41/7/Add.  3) ;

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on IJnited  Nations disarmament etudies
(A/41/421 and Add.1 and 2) t

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on verification in all its aspects
(A/41/422 and Add.1 and 2) t

(f) Report of the Secretary-General transmittinq the study on deterrence
(A/41/432 and Corr. 1) ;

(4) Report of the Secretary-General on Disarmament Week (A/41/492 and Corr.1)  ;

(h) Report of the Secretary-Gc.neral  on the status of multilateral disarmament
agreement8 (A/41/644)1

(i) Report of the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Studies (A/41/666) I

Cj) Report of the Secretary-General on the review and appraisal of the
implementation of the Declaration of the 1980s as the Second Dtsarmament  Decade
(A/41/607 atrd Corr.1) 8

(k) Note by the Secretary-General on the implement-ation  of General Assembly
resolution 40/H (A/41/599) ;

II) Note by the Secretary-General on the implamentation of the
recommsndationa and decisions of the tenth special :;ession (A/41/645);

(ml Note by the Secretary-General transmittinq the report on the activitieo
of the IJnited  Nations Inatitute for Disarmament Research  (A/41/676);

fn) Letter dated 20 December 1985 from the Permanent Representative of the
United Kinqdom of Great Britain and Northerr)  Ireland to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General, tranamittinq the text of the communiqd  issued
by the Ministers for Foreiqn Affairs of the North Atlantic Council at Brussels on
13 December 1985 (A/41/58) I

(0) Letter dated 21 January 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/97);

21 Ibid., Supplement No. 42 iA/4’1./42).



~/41/t-)42
English
Page 4

(p) Letter dated 30 January 1986 from the representatives of Sweden and the
United Republic of Tanzania to the United Nations addressed to thu
Secretary-General, tranemitting  the text of the Delhi Statement adopted on
19 January 1986 by the Independent Commiseion on Disarmament and Security Issues
(A /41 /124-S/17777) ;

(9) Letter dated 3 February 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
Mongolia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/131);

(r) Letter dated 21 February 1986 from the Acting Permanent RepresentatSve  of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/175) J

(8) Letter dated 3 March 1986 from the Acting Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/185) J

(t) Letter dated 11 March 1986 from the representatives of Arsentina,  Greece,
India, Mexico, Sweden and ‘Lhe United Republic of Tanzania to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General, t ransmit t ing  the  text  o f  the  jo int  messaqe dated
28 February 1986 addreeeed to the President of the United States of America and the
General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet
Union by the Heads of State or Government of Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico and
Sweden, and the First President of the United Republic of Tanzania
(A/41/210-S/17910 and Corr. 1) I

(u) Letter dated 21. March 1986 from the Permanent Representati.ve  of China to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-GeneraS  (A/41/230-S/17937 and Corr.1);

(v) Letter dated 8 April 1986 from the Charge  d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Brazil to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/272) I

(w) Letter dated 9 April 1986 from the Acting Permanent Representative of
Bulgaria to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmittinq the
text of the address of the member States of the Waceaw Treaty Orqanization to ths
European States, the United States of America and Canada on the issue of
establishing nuclear-weapon-free zones in Europe (A/41/273) t

(x) Letter dated 10 April 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Romania
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/276)1

(Y) Letter dated 9 May 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Greece to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/330-S/18051 and Corr. 1
and 2);

(2) Letter dated 14 May 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Naticns addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/339);



A/41/842
English
Page 5

(aa) Letter dated 15 May 1986 from the Permanent Representative of India to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, tranbmittinq the final
documents of the Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating Rureau of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at New Delhi from 16 to 19 April 1986 (A/41/341-S/18065 and Corr.1)

(bb) Letter dated 21 May 1986 from the Chary4 d’affaires a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of Japan to the United Nations addressed to the secretary-General,
transmitting the declaration and statement issued at the Tokyo Economic Summit,
held from 4 to 6 May 1986 by the heads of State. of Reven major industrial nations
and the representatives of the Europe&-n Community (A/41/354);

(cc) Letter dated 6 June 1986 from the Chargh d’affaires a. i. of the Permanent
Mission of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed
to the Secretary-General (A/41/403) ;

(dd) Letter dated 5 August 1986 from the Chary6 d’affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the Union of Sovfe t Socialist Republics to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/505) ;

(ee) Latter dated 14 August 1986 from the Permanent Representatives of
Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the
Mexico Declaration adopted by the heads of Stare or Government OS Argentina,
Greece, India, Mexico ulld Sweden and ‘-he First President of the United Republic of
Tanzania at Ixtapa, Mexico, on 7 Au? *st 1986 and copiee  of the letters that they
addressed on the same date to the General Secretary of the Central Committee of thm
Communist Party of the Soviet Union and to the President of the United States of
America (A/41/518-S/18277) t

(ff) Letter dated 25 August 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addreszed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/541-S/18295);

(gg) Letter dated 10 September 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations a&.ressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/594-S/18333)1

(hh) Letter dated 30 September 1986 from the Permanent Representative of
Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to the Secrttary-General, transmittinc  tt
final documents of the Eighth Conference of Heads of State or Government of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Harare from I to 6 September 1986 (A/41/697-S/1839:

(ii) Note verbale dated 9 October 1986 from the Permanent Mission of Zimbabwe
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the final
communiqd of  the  Meet ing of the  Min!.sters  and Heads of neleqations  of Non-Aliqnec
Countrieti  to the forty-first session of the General A ,sembly,  held in New York on
2 October 1986 (A/41/703-S/18395)1

(jj) Letter dated 14 October 1986 from the Deputy Heaq  of the delegation of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the forty-first session of the General
Assembly addressed to the Secretary-.General  (A/41/709-S/18401),

/.



A/41/842
English
Page 6

(kk) Letter dated 15 October 1986 from the Deputy Head of the delegation of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the forty-first session of the General
Assembly addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/714-S/18403) I

(11) Letter dated 23 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Romania
to the United Nations addressed ta the Secretary-General (A/41/745) 1

(mm) Letter dated 23 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/759-S/18422)  t

(nn) Letter dated 4 November 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republic,, to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/794-S/18445);

(00) Letter dated 6 November 1986 from the Chargb  d’affaires of the Mission of
the United States of America to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/807-S/lSSSl);

(pp) Letter dated 20 November 1986 from the Permanent Representative Of
Romania to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/41/866);

(qq) Letter dated 21 November 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Rlcpublics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/41/873) I

(rr) Letter dated 30 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Swede;\
to the United NatiXs and the representative of Mexico to the First Committee
addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the document entitled “What is to
be done? Recommendations of the Palme Commission”, adopted on 26 October 1986 by
the Palme Commission on Disarmament and Security Issues (A/C.1/41/8).

IT. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.l/Il/L.l

5. On 17 October, Bulgaria and Czechoslovakia submitted a draft resolution
entitled “Verification in all its aspects” (A/C.1/41/L.l),  which was introduccrd
the representative of Bulqaria at the 12th meetinq, on 20 October, and read as
follows:

“The General Assembly,

by

“Deeply concerned over the acceleration and intensification Of the arms
race, which threaten international peace and security, increase the danger of
nuclear war and tend to get out of control,



A/41/042
Englfsb
Page 7

“Stressinq again the ‘urgent  need to reach meaningful agreements on
curbinq the arms race, limitation and reduction of armaments and disarmamkrrt
under ef feet ive co.rtrol, without prejudice to the right of all States to
undiminished security, self-defence and sovereignty,

“Reiterating its view that disarmament and arms limitation agreements
should provide for adequate measures of verification satisfactory to all
parties concerned in order to create the necessary confidence ?rnd to ensure
that they are being observed by all parties,

“Noting  thatt he importance of verification and compliance
agreements is universally recognized and that all Member States
interest in the inclusion of effective measures of verification
respective agreements,

of Governments“Emphasizinp  thatt he necessary political will on the part
is the most important prerequisite for reaching and implementing agreements On
srms limitation and disarmament,

with the
have an equal
in the

“Aware of the fact that disarmament without verification is not feasible
and that verification without disarmament is poin less,

“Referring to the respective provisions of tie Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly 2/ concerning the forms \nd
modalities of the verification to be provided for in any specific agreement,
which would depend upon and should be determined by the purposes, scope and
nature of the agreement,

“Convinced that the verification procedures in all fields and al!. stages
of arms reduction and disarmament, based on national technical means,
international procedures , as well as on-site inspections and any additional
verification methods whnn appropriate , would create the necessary confidence
that all parties concerned comply with the relevant agreements,

“Bearing iv mind that the verification measures should be
non-discriminatory and should not unduly interfere in the internal affairs of
other States or jeopardize  their economic and social develorrment,  and that
effective verification requires co-operation amoncr States,

“Taking  note cf the report of the Secretary-General 41 Containing the
opinions of the Member States on the issues of verification,

y Resolution S-10/2.

!.I A/41/422 and Add.1 and 2.

I
/ . . .



A/41/842
English
Page 0

“1. Urges all Member States to reinforce their readiness to pursue
intensively negotiations in a constructive spirit aimed at reaching early
conclusion of agreements on curbing the arms race and on disarmament with
adequate verification arrangements8

“2. Emphasizes the necessity of agreeing upon measures and procedures of
verification in each aqreement in such a way that they correspond to the SCOPC
and nature of the obligations assumed by the States parties to the nqreement,
the compliance with which is subject to verific?tion;

“-3. Affirms that, where appropriate, a combination of several methods of
verification and other compliance procedures should be employed, in particular
the combining of international procedures accordinq to the nature of the
agreements;

“4. Affirms further that disarmament and arms limitation agreements
should provide for the participation of parties in the verification process
directly or through the United Nations system and other appropriate
international mechanisms;

“5. Declares that measures and procedures of verification must be based
on the principle of the undiminished security of all participating parties;

“6. Declares further that it is necessary to secure reliable control at
all stages of the implementation of the agreements, all the participatinq
States bearing equal responsibility for the compliance with the agreements to
their full extent;

“7. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to speed up substar-tive
negotiations, including measures of verification, related to the immediate
cessation and prohibition of nuclear-weapon tests, as well as to the
prohibition of the development, production and stockpilinq  of chemical weapons
and their destruction, and other priority issues, with the aim of promptly
elaborating the respective agreements on these issues.”

6. At the request of the sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolution
A&.1/41/L.  1.

B. Draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.3-

‘I
4 . On 24 Octobe
of, Italy, Japan,
Swaziland, Turkey
submitted a draft

r , Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Federal Republic
the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Rwanda, Spain,
and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland
resolution, entitled “Bilateral nuclear arm3 neqotiations”

(A/C.1/41/L.3),  which was later also sponsored by Greece and Liberia. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of the United Kinqdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland at the 22nd meeting, on 27 October.

/ . . .



A/41/842
English
Page 9

8. At the 45th meeting, on 14 November, the representative of the United Kingdom
orally revised the draft resolution as follows:

(a) In the first preambular paragraph the word “Recalling” was replaced by
the word "Noting";

(b) A new third preambular paragraph was added, reading:

“Noting  that int heir joint communiq& of 8 January 1985 the two
Governments agreed that the subject of these negotiations was a complex of
questions concerning space and nuclear arms, both strategic and
intermediate-range, with all these questions considered and resolved in their
interrelationship”;

(c) In the original third preambular paragraph, now the fourth preambular
paragraph, the words “their further meeting” were replaced by “the further meeting”;

cd) In the original fourth preambular paragraph, now the fifth preambular
paragraph, which had read:

“Notinq al= that a large measure of agreement was reached on a number of
issues, including deep reductions in the strategic nuclear arms of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America as well as in
their intermediate nuclear forces",

the text after the word “issues” was deleted;

(e) Operative paragraph 2, which had read:

"2. Urges the two Governments to reach early agreements in those areas
where common ground already exists",

was revised to read:

"2. Urges the two Governments to make early progress, in particular in
areas where there is common ground*.

9. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.3,  as
orally revised, by a recorded vote of 57 to none , with 66 abstentions (see
para. 68, draft resolution A). The voting was as follows:

Xn favour: Australia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Cameroon, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, C6te
d’Ivoire,  Democratic Kampuchea#  Denlzark,  Djibouti, Finland,
France, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Lesotho. Liberia,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Morocco. Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Oman, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sweden, Thailand, Togo,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Zaire.

/ . . .



A/41/842
English
Page 10

Aqainstr

Abstainin%: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bangladesh, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Bulgaria, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Congo,  Cuba, cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador,  Egypt,  Ethiopia,
German DeIW3CratiC  Republic, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jordan, Kenya, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Maldives, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
Mozambiaue,  Nepal, Nicaragua , Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama.,
Paraguay@  Peru, Poland, Romania, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Syrian Arab Republic, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Republic Of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

C. Draft resolution A/C.1/4l/L.5

10. Cm 27 October, Cuba, the German Democratic Republic, Hungary and Romania
submitted a draft re=tion,  entitled "Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention
of nuclear war" (A/C.1/41/L.S), which was introduced by the representative of the
German Democratic Republic at the 28th meeting, on 31 October.

11. At its 41st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.5 by a recorded vote of 93 to 19, with 10 abstentions (see pata. 68,

. draft resolution B). The voting was as follows: S-/

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina  Faso, Burma, Burundi,  Byelotussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Chad, Cango,  C&e d*Ivoite,  Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lebanon,  Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritius#  r4exic0,  Mongolia, xorocco,
Mozambique,  Nepal, Nicaragua I Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Peeu, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian  Arab
Republicr  Thailand, -0, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republicsr United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay,  Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
2;imha bwe.

Y Subseuuently the delegations of the Central African Republic, Cyprus,
Iran (Islamic Republic Of), Malavi  and Rwanda indicated that they had intended to
vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ .*.



A/41/842
Engl irh
Page 11

Against g Australia, Belgium, Canada, Central African Republic, Danmark,
France, Germany,  Federal Republic  of, Iceland, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg,  Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain,
Turkey,  United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of Amer ica.

Ahstaining: Bahamas, Brazil, Chile, China, Colombia, Ireland, Israel,
Paraguay, Samoa, Saudi Arabia.

D. Draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.6

12. On 27 titober, the arman Democratic Republic  submitted draft resolution
entitled “Nuclear weapons in all aapecte” (A/C.l/Il/L.6),  which was introduced by
its representative at the 28th meeting, on 31 October. The draft resolution read
ayB follows :

“The General Assembly,

“Recalling  that “,t its tenth special session, the first special session
devoted t0 diBiSrnWI@nt, the ASBemhly’  decided that effective measursa  of
nuclear disarmament and the prevention of nuclear war had highest priority and
that it waB essential to halt and reverse the nuclear arms race in all its
aEpeCtB, including ite quantitative and aualitative  dimensiona, 2/

“Recalling further that, at its twelfth Especial session, the second
special session devoted to disarmament. the Assemhly expressed its profound
preoccupation over the danger of war, ( * qarticular  nuclear war, the
prevention of vhich remains the most acute and urgent task of the present
day, 1/

“Reaffirming that nuclear weapone of all types and vereione pose the moat
serious threat to mallkind  and ite survival and that it ia therefore eSSentia1
to proceed with nuclear disarmament aimed at completely eliminating nuclear
weapons and to conduct negotiations on this subject with priority,

“Taking into account that all nuclear-weapon States, in particular those
which poeseas the mont important nuclear i!JrsenalfJ,  hear a special
responsibility for the fulfilment of the task of achievinq the qoals of
nut:: rtli; disarmament,

“Convinced of the necessfty of rejecting any military doctrine and
concept that miqht lead ta unleashing nuclear war and might impede measures to
halt the nuclear arme  race,

a/ Resolution S-10/2.
31 Official Recordu  of the General AsSefIthly, Twelfth Special Session,

Supplement No. 3 (A/S-12/3), para. 22.

/ . . .



A/41/042
Englieh
Page 12

“Welcominq the Jcint Statement issued by the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republ.ice and the United States of America on 21 November 1985 and, in
particular, the conviction expressed therein that a nuclear war cannot he won
lnd muat never he fought , and the agreement of both aidee to accelerate
negotiations in accordance with the Joint United Statea-Soviet agreement of
8 Janl’dry 1.985 g aimed at averting an armta  race in outer epace and
terr.lnatlng  it on Earth, limitinq  and reducinq  nuclear weapons and enhancinq
strataqic atahility,

“Sharing the belief expressed by the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics
and the United Statee of America that ultimately their negotiations, just, 08
efforts in general to limit snd reduce arms, should lead to the complete
elimination of nuclear arma everywhere,

“Welcoming proposals! on the complete elimination of nuclear weapona
throughout the world hy the end of the twentieth century,

“Considerinq the deliberation8 of the Diaarmament Commission in 1986 with
reqard to item 4 of its agenda p afx contained in its report,

“Notfnq with satisfaction the qrowing interest in IeRuee  related to the
ceesation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament at the 1986 c?eaeim
of the Conference on Disarmament demonstrated by its Member States and by
several proposals submitted,

“Regretting, however, that the Conference on Disarmament wan un*hle to
reach aqreement on the eRtahlishment  of an ad hoc committee for the purpose of
elahoratinq measures to halt the nuclear arms race and to proceed with nuclear
disarmament,

“Expressing the expectation that efforts will continue to be made in
order to enahle the Conference on Disarmament to fulfil its neqotiatinq  role
with reqard to the cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear llsarmament,

“1. Calls upon the Conference  on DisrPrmament  to proceed withnut delay to
negotiations on the cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament
and especially to beqin  the elaboration of practical meaeureR to thiR and in
accordance with paraqcaph 50 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Seenion of the General Assembly, q includinq a nuclear disarmament  Droqramme,
takinq also into account proposals submitted at the Conference, and to
establish for this purpose an ad hoc committee8

-2. Decide? to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-second
session an item entitled ‘Cessation of the nuclear arms race and nuclear
disarmamentt report of the Conference on Disarmament’.”

Y-Ihid., Fortieth Session, Supplement No. 27 (A/40/27 and Corr. 1) ,
appendix II (CD/642/Appendix II/vol.  II), documents CD/570 and CD/571.



13. At the reaueet of
A/C. 1/41/L.  6.

E.

A/41/042
Enqliah
Page 13

the aponaor , no action wae taken  on draft reeolution

Draft reaolutiona A/C.l/Il/L.ll  and Rev.1

14. On i8 fnztober,  France, Norway and the United Kingdam  of Groat Britain and
Northern Ireland rubmittad a draft reaolution entitled “United Nation8 diaarmament
mtudiee” (A/C.P/Ql/L.ll),  which warn frrtrcduced  by the representative of the United
Kingdom of Greet Britain and Northern Ireland at the 28th raeeting, on 31 October.

15. On 7 November, Cameroon, Danmark,  Rance#  Germany, Fadaral Republic of,
Norway, Portugsl and the United Kingdom of Groat Britain and Northern Ireland.
fiuhmitted  a reviaed draft resolution ;A/C.l/4l/L.ll/Rev.l),  in which operative
paragraph 1, which had read:

“1. Reaffirms the value of a thorough appiaiaal of the subject of United
Nations dinarmament  atudiea”,

was revilsed tl read:

“1. Reaffirme the value of United Nations disarmament studies, and of
the need for a thorough appraieal of the subject”.

16. At ItA 37th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adoptad draft reaolution
A/C.1/41/L.ll/Rev.l  WithOUt a vote (see par&. 68, draft reaolution C).



A/41/042
English
Page 14

F. Draft resolution  A/C.1/41/L.l3

17. On 28 October, the German Democratic Republic auhmitted a draft reeolution
entitled “Ohliqatione  qf St&tee  to contribute  to effective diaarmament
neqotiatione”  (A/C.1/41/L.13), which W&R introduced hy its repreaentative at the
31et meetinq” on 4 November. The draft reeolution read as follows8

“The General AaRembly,

“Having r &viewed  the implementation of the recommendations and decinionn- -
of the Gene,;al  Aaeemhly adopted at itn tenth epecial eeseion, the firet
epecial eerrsion devoted to d+sormament,

“Recalling ItR rt.levant reeolutions on this subject,

“Deplorinq  that no tanqihle proqrese has been achieved in the
implementation f theBe reeolutione  an9 alarmed at the qcowing threat of
nuclear war, \ .ch can lead to the destruction of civilization on Earth,

“Benring in mind the fundamental importance of disarmament for the
accomplishment  of the principrrl purpoee of the United NationA,  that in,
maintaining international peace and Recurity and settling international
dieputc8 by peaceful meann,

“Convinced that the active participation of Member Statefi  in effective- -
diearmament negotiations  in imperative for diecharging their respon~ihil  ity to
contribute to the maintenance of interr,ational  pesce and security, ar,d that
all States have the riqht anti duty to contribute  to effortcl in the field of
disarmament,

“StresRtng the importance of the Final Documer,t of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Asa?mbly,  y which wan  unanimously  and categorically
reaffirmed hy all Momher  StateA at the twelfth special  seeaion of the General
Aesemhly, aa the comprehensive and long-term uasig for effort9  towards haltinq
and reverainq the arms race,

“Believing that the pre!?ervation of the exiatinq  bilateral, regional and
qlobal system of arms limitation and disarmament aqrpemente a8 well aa the
.strict observance of such aqrcemcntR  are important elements  of diaarmamcnt
efforts at all levels,

“StreRsinq the commitment of Staten, which they have undertaken under the
terms of international law in various existing international instruments, tn
conduct neqotiationa  that would lead to early aqreements on diearmament
meaRure8,

2/ ReRoluti  >n S-10/2.

/ . . .



A/41/042
Engli8h
Page 15

“Noting with great concern that no real progrore in dirarmament
negotiations has been achieved for eeveral yoarm  and that negotiations  on
disarmament iaeuee are lagging far behind tha rapid technological development
in the field of armaments and the relsntlees growth of military  atarnala,

“Coneiderinq that it is more than ever imperative in the preaent
circumetancse to give a new impetue to negotiationa in good faith on
diaarmamsnt,  in particular nuclear disarmament, at all levels and to achieve
genuine progreen in the immediate future,

“Considering aleo that all States ahould rdfrain  from any action6 that
have or may have negative effects on the outcome of disarmament negotiations,

“Welcoming the moratorium on all nuclear explosionr  that har been carried
Out by one nuclear-weapon State in 1985 and 1986 as an expre8rion of the
political will to cease the nuclear-arms race and to promote negotiations on a
comprehensive  nuclear-test-ban treaty,

“Regrettinq,  however, that thie moratorium did not meet due reeponee,

“Expressing ita concern about attempts at using disarmament negotiation8
a8 a smokescreen for the arms race aa well a8 attempt6 at striving for
military euperiotity, which constitute a eerious obstacle to such negotiation@,

"Welcoming  the Joint Statel,,znt  ieaued by the United States of America and
the Union of Soviet Socialiet Republics on 21 November 1985 in which,
inter al ia, they expretaeed their intention not to achieve military
super ior ity, and to accelerate negotiations on the range of ineuee related to
space and nuclear weapons, both etrateqic and medium-range, aimed at aolving
in practice the task of averting an arms race in outer apace and of
terminating it on Earth,

“Streeaix the significance of a number of priority meaaure8  that Rhould
be implemented by the Soviet Union and the United States a8 a major
contribution to halt the arms race and to proceed to disarmament, that is, the
cenunclation  of development, testing and deployment of space etrike weapons, a
auspeneion  of nuclear-weapon tests and the radical reduction of nuclear
weapona e

“Aware of the necessity to proceed to honeet, hueinese-like and
constructive multilateral ncqctiatione in good faith aimed at the achievement
of early reeulte, in particular at the prevention of nuclear war and an arms
race in outer space, the cesastion of the nuclear-acme race and at nuclear
disarmament,

“Welcominq  propoaale aimed at the complete elimination of nuclear weapons
throuqhout the world hy th,, year 2000,

I...



A/41/042
Enqliah
Page 16

‘1. Expreuree itu grave concern over the acceleration and
i n t e n s i f i c a t i o n  o f  t h e  arma r a c e , particularly the nuclear-arm8  race, and
plane to spread It to outer apace, am wall au the continued, very serious
deterioration of relations in the world)

“2. Expreeees  ite conviction that it is the foremost obligation of all
States, in particular the nuclear -weapon States and the other mllitar ily
Riqnificant-  States, to live up to their commitment undertaken In inLcnationa1
inetruments and to the recommendationa  and decisions of the General Aefiembly
at itn tenth special seesion and to conduct aeriouR neqotiationa  on the baaie
of eauallty, reciprocity and undiminished security to halt and reverse the
arm8 r a c e )

‘3. Appeals to all five nuclear-weapon Sttrtee  to enter into a dialogue
on waya  and means  to strengthen peace and to achieve diearmament, particularly
nuclear dlearmamentr

“4. Calls upon States to undertake genuine neqotiatione  in h
constructive  and accommodating spirit and taking into account the intereat  of
the entire international community An order to halt the arms race,
particularly the nuclear-arms race, and to achieve dlearmamentt

“5. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to concentrate it8 work on
the substantive  and priority Items on ite aqenda# to proceed to neqotiationfl
on the ceeaation of the nuclear-arm@ race and nuclear disarmament, on the
prevention of nuclear war aa well an the prevention of an arm3 race in outer
space without further delay and to elaborate drafka of treatiee  on a
nuclear-weapon-teat hdn  and on a complete and effective  prohibition of the
development, production and stockpiling of all chemical weapon8 and on their
deatructionr

“6. Call8 SIpon  States engaged in diearmament negotiations! outside the
United Natione  framework to intenelfy their effort8 with a vie?w to achievinq
concrete reelilte without delay, and to implement such reeulte immediately RO
aa to create favourable conditions for further proqresar

“7. Underlinee the need for 8 .rict compliance w!th disarmament
agreements)

“0. Invites all States engaged in diearmament and/or arms limitation and- -
reduction negotiation*] outside the United Nations framework to keep the
General Aeeembly an< chc Conference on Disarmament appropriately informed of
such neqotlations without prejudice to their proqreee)

“9. Decide0 ta include in the provisional agenda of its forty-second
session the item entitled ’ Implementat ion of the recommendations and dec i s ions
of the tenth special aeaeion’.”

18. At the request of the eponstir, no action was taken on draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.13.

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 0 4 2
English
Page 17

G. ,lkaft resolution A/C. 1/41/L. 14

19. On 29 October, Afqhanietan, Angola, DulqariaL the Byelorut.ian  SoviaL Socialist
Republic, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, the German  Democratic Republic,  the Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Monqollac  the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and Viet Nam
subm;tted a draft reeolution entitled aDiaarmaaent  Week” (A/C.l/41/L.14],  which Was
later aleo sponeored by Mozambique. The draft resolution  was introduced by the
representative of Mongolia at the 28th meeting, on 31 October.

20. At ite 39th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted  draft resolution
k/C.1/41/L.14  by a recorded vote of 89 to 1, with 22 abstentions (see para. 68,
draft reeolution D). The votlnq waa au follows: 10/

In favour: Afghanistan, Argentina, Bahamaa,  Bahrain, Barbados, Bhutan,
BbtIWana,  Brazil, Brunei Darueealam, Bulguris,  Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorue .an Soviet Socia!.let Republic, Cameroon,
Chad, Chile, China, CololltLjia,  Congo, C&e d’lvoire,  Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ecuador, Eqypt, Ethiopia,
Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Reyuhlic,  Ghana, Guinea,
Guinea-Bifiaau,  Hunqr.ry, India, Indoneeia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Leaotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab’Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malayaia, Maldives, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozamhiaue,  Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan,  Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippinee,  Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Syrian Arah Republic, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobaqo, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet SocialiFit Republic,  Union of Soviet
Socialist  Repuhlice, United Arah Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruquay,  Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yuqoelavia, Zambia,
Zimbahwe.

Aqainat a United States of America.

Ahetaininq: Australia, Auetria,  Belgium, Canada, LMnmark,  France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, LUXemhoUtq,  Nethetlands, New Zealand, Norway, Fortuqal,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kinqdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

lO/ Suhsequently the deleqationa  of Anqola, Bolivia, Central African
Repuhzc, Guyww, Malawi, Mali, Sierta Leona, Yemen Arah Republic and Zaire
indicated that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.



A / 4 1 / 0 4 2
English
Page 18

H. DraSt resolution A/C.l/I:./L. 30

21. On 30 October, Australia,  Burma, Cameroon, Ecuador, Germany, Federal Republic
of, Hunqary,  Peru, Poland and Uqanda eubmitted a draft resolution entitled “Report
of the Dirarmament  Commission” (AjC.1/41/L.30),  which was later also sponsored by
Llber ia. The draft resolution was  introduced by the representative of Australia at
the 34th moetinq, on 5 November.

22. At Its 37th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/Il/L.30 without a vote (sea pare. 60, draft reeolution  E).

I . Draft rreolutions A/C.1/41/L.33  and Rev.1

23 . On 30 October, Argentina, Mnqladeeh,  Cameroon, India, Indonesia, Mexico,
Romtinla,  Swedenc  the United Repi~blic of Tanzania and Venezuela eubmitted a draft
reaolutfon, entitled “Cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear diaarmament”
(A/C. 1/41/L.  33) , which wau introduced by the representative of Aryentina  at the
36th meeting, on 6 November.

24 . On 10 November, Arqentina, Banqladesh,  Cameroon, the German Demczratic
Republic, India, Indonesia, Mxi~c, Romania, Sweden, the United Republic of
Tanzania and Venezuela submitted a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/41/L.33/Rev.l),
which was later also sponsored by Bulqarla,  Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Poland, the
Ukrainfan  Soviet Socialist Republic and Viet Nam. The revised draft resolution
contained the following chanqesa

(a) A new sixth preambular paragraph was added, reading:

“Welcominq proposals on the complete elimination of nuclear weapons
throughout the world”l

(b) In the original sixth prenmbular pataqraph, now the seventh pteamhular
paragraph, the words “of all types and versions” were inserted after the worda
“deployment of nuclear weaponaWl

(c) A new eighth preambular paragraph was added, readinqr

“Reqrettlnq, however, that the Conference on Diearmament waR unable to
reach agreement on the eatabliahment of an ad hoc committee on the ceanatinn

of the nuclear-arms race and illclear disarmament”.

25 . At its 40th meeting, on 11 Nwamber, the Committee adopted draft reclolution
A/C.1/41/L.33/Rev.l  by a recotdsd vote of 113 to 15, with 5 ahetentions (see
para. 68, draft resolution P). The vot inq was as followcz

In favour :- - Afghanistan, Algeria, Anqola, Argentina, Austria, BClhamau,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina FaBO, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,

/ . . .



Against:

~/u/042
English
Page 19

Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, ComOtOS~
Cango, C&e d'Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Wuador,  Egypt, Ethiopia,
Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia,  Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratk  Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Niger ia, Oman, Pak i R+an,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Poland, Jatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Sinqapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Wanda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Sociallet
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Wet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

A u s t r a l i a , Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Iceland, Italy, Luxemhourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

_Abetalninga Denmark, Greece, Israel, Japan, Spain.

J. Draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.34

26. On 30 October, Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cameroon, Colombi-L
mnqo, Egypt, the German Democratic RepublicI I n d o n e s i a ,  M e x i c o ,  M o r o c c o ,, India
Nigeria, Pakietan, Romania<  the Sudan, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam and
submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prevention of nuclear war" (A/C.1/41/Lz,3,  ',
which was later also sponsored by Ecuador. The draft resolution was introduced by
the representative of Argentina At the 34th meetinq, on 5 November.

27. At its 41ut meetinq, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.34  by a recorded vote of 113 to 3 with 14 abstentions (see para. 68,
draft resolution G). The voting was as follows: ll/-

IF favour t Afqhanlutan, Algeria, Anqola, Arqentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Banqladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Central AfKiCan Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colomhta,  Comoroa,
Congo, Cete d'Ivoire,  Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, ECUadOK,  Eqypt, Ethiopia, Finland,

ll/ Subsequently the deleqations  of Cyprus, Malawi and Rwanda indicated that-
they had intended to vote in favour of the tlraft  resolution.

/ . . .



A/41/042
Enqlimh
Pago 20

Aqaineta

Abstainlnq:

Gaban, German DamOCratiC Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guyhna,  Hungary, India,, Indonesia, Iran (Ielamic Republic
of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Leeotho,  Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozamblaue, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Roiltanla,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet 6acialist ReyJblic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Fr ante , United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Nether lands, Norway, Portugal.,
Spain, Turkey.

K. Draft resolutions A/C,l/41/L.36 and Rev.1

28. On 30 October, Bangladesh, India, Mexico, Pakistan and Sweden eubmitted a
draft resolution entitled “Climatic effects of nuclear war, including nuclear
winter” (A/C.l/ll/L.361, which was introduced by the representative of Mexico at
the 37th meeting, on 10 November.

29. On 10 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.l/4l/L.36/Rev.l1, containing the following changes:

(a) In the second preambular paragraph, the worda  “some of” were inserted
before the words “the atudiee”)

(b) The end of operative paragraph 4 was revised to read: “at its
forty--third sesslon,  in 1988”r

(cl In operative paragraph 5, the words “forty-second session” were replaced
by the words “forty-third aesaion“.

30. In connWtion  with draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.36/Rev.l, the Secretary-General
submitted a statement on the programme budget implications (A/C.1/41/L.79).

/ . . .



~/41/042
Engl irh
Page 21

31. At its 41st meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.36/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 119 to 1, with 10 abatentionm (mea
para. 68, draft rerolutlon ii). The voting was as follower z/

In favour: Afghanistan, Alqetia, Angola, Argentina, Auetralia,  Austria,
Bahamaa, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Balivia, Botswana,
Braril, Brunei Darufstsalam,  Eulqaria, Burkina Pam, Burma,
Burundi, Byeloruseian Soviet Sociallet Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoron, Congo, C&e d’Ivoire, Cubs, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indoneria,  Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iran,  Ireland, Jamaica,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People ’ 8 Democratic Republ ic ,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahlriya, Madagascar,
Malayria,  Maldlvee, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambiaue,  Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niqor,
Nigeria, Norway, Gman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippinee,  Poland, Qatar, Romania, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Rapublic, Thailand,
ToqO, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uqanda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republic&, United
Arab ‘Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Wet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againetr United States of America.

Abetaininq: Belgium, France, Get -any, Federal Republic of, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlanda, Portugal, Turkey, United Kingdom  of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

L. Draft renolution  A/C.1/41/L.39

32. On 30 October, Romania submitted a draft resolution entitled “Review of the
implementation of the reccnnmendatione  and decisions adopted by the General Aesembly
at Its tenth special aersion” (A/C.1/41/L.39),  which waa introduced by Its
repreeentative  at the 35th meeting, on 6 November.

33. In connection with the draft resolution, the Secretary-General sut~mitted  I
statement on the programme budget implication6  (A/C.1/41/L.76).

12/ Subsequently the delegatione of Cyprus, Malawi and Rwanda indicated that
they had intended to vote in favour of the draft ree Ition.

/ . .



A/41/844
English
Page 22

34. At ite 40th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/ll/L.39 by a recorded vote of 119 ko 1, with 13 abetentione (see para. 60,
draft reeolution

In favour :

I) l The voting was ap follower

Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria,  Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darusealam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi,  Byelorueaian Soviet SoclaliRt  Republic,  Cameroor,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
COmOCo8,  Congo, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cypruua, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, DemcXatic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Eg:ypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German Democrat lc
Republic, Greece, Qatemala,  Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) ,
Iraq, Ireland, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Leflr?ho,  Liberia, Madagascar,
Ma1aw1,  Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, ;4alta, Mauritania, MaurltiuR,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand,
Pica:, qua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Wanda, Samoa, Senegal,
Sierra -one, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia,  Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic , Uniun of Soviet SociallRt  Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,  Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

AgainBtt

Ahetaininyt

United States of America.

Auetralia, Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana,
Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Papua Neti Guinea,
Portugal, Saudi Arabia, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

M. Draft teeolut ione A/C. 1/41/L. 46 and Rev. 1

35. On 30 October, Iraq aubmitted a draft reaolution entitled “Review of the
implementation  of thecommendationff  and decisions adopted by the General Asaemhly
at ite tenth special aessl.on”  (A/C,1/41/L.46), which was int l duced by its
representative at the 34th r -etinq, on 5 November.

36. On 6 November, Iraq and Jordan Hubmitted  a revised draft resolution
(A/C.l/4l/L.46/F&v.l),  containi,q  the followinq chanqau:

(a) ( 2erativt paragraph 2, which had read:

“2. Regrets that a non-member State ha.s been dr?pr  ived of ItR riqht of
participat  ion in the work of the Cnnfcrence on Disarmament in its annual
Reeaion o f  1986”,

was deleted and operative paragraph 3 WAR renumbered as 2~



A / 4 1 / 0 4 2
English
Page 23

(b) A new oper(!tive pacaqraph 3 waR added, reading8

“3 . fhtauwka the Secretary-General to report to the f%neral Assembly at----*“s-m
it8 forty-oecond session on the proqrese made in the implementation of the
present resolutionn.

37. At  i ts  45th  meet ing,  on 14 November , the Committee adopted draft CeSOlUtiOn
A/C.l/4l/L.46/2ev.l, by a recorded vote of 108 to none , with 19 abstentions (se@
para. 68,  draft resolution J). The voting waa as follower

In favour 8

Against 8

Abstaininy!

Afqhaniotan, Algeria, Anqola, Argentina, Australia, Bahamaa,
Bahrain, Banqladeah, Uenin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botewana, Brazil,
Ilulgar la, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelot uesian  Soviet Sot ial 1st
liePuh3  ic, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
2olombia, Comoroe, Congo, Costa Rica, C8te d’Ivolre,  Cuba,
(JJ’PCUR,  Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, France, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyanil,  Hungary, Iceland, Iraq, Ireland, 18rae1,
Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
t& banon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagaacarr
Mlaysia, Maldives, Ma’i, Malta, ;lauritania,  Mexico, Mongolia,
MOrOCCO,  Mnzamhique,  Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Norway, Oman,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portuqal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Seneqal, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Syrian Irrab Republic, Toqo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uqanda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruquay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yuqoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimhahwe.

None.

Austria, Belqium, Burma, Canada, Ethiopia, Finland, Germany,
Fedetnl Republic of, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua
New Gu I neo , Sweden, United Kinqdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Staten of America.

N. Draft rrsolution A/C.1/4l/L.47-

38. On 30 October, Afghanistan, Angola L. the Congo, Cuba I Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, the German Democratic Republic, Guyana, Hungary, Indonesia, the
Lao People’8 Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Polas the Syrian Ar ,) Republic, the
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and Viet Nam submitted a draft resolution
entitled “International co-operation for disarmament” (A/C.1/41/L.47),  which was
later also sponsored by Mozambique. The draft resolution was introduced by the
cepre8entative  of Czechoslovakia at the 33rd meetinq, on 5 November.

/ . . .



A/41/042
English
Page 24

39. At ita 42nd meet ing,  on 12  November , the Committee adopted draft reeolution
A/C.l/4l/L.47  by a racorded vote of 95 to 19, with 11 abeter,tione  (eee para. 68,
draft resolution I). The voting wae am followe:

In favour I Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkila  Faso, Burma,
Burundi, BysloruRaian Soviet Socialist Republic,  CamC.roon,  Central
African Republic, Chad, Comorne, Congo, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,  Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bisaau, Guyana, Huligary,  India,
Indoneeia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kmye,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,  Lesokho,
Liberia, Lihyan Arab Jamahiriya. Madagascar, Malayria,  Maldives,
Mali, Mauri t ius,  Mexico,  Monqoli.c,  Mozanibiaue,  Nepal, Nicaraqua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakietan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, :;ri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet .Socialist  Republic, Union of Soviet Socialiat  Repuhlicn,
United Arah Emlrater, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viut Nanl, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimhohwe.

Againet t Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, .‘ederal
Republic of, iceland,  Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxemhourq,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United
Kinqdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United StateR nf
Amer lea.

Ahatain ‘9: Auetria, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Finland, Grew  co, IrclaTd,
Malawi, Mar occo , Paraguay, Sweden.

0. Draft reeolution A/C., 1/41/L.50

40. On 30 octoher , Sweden nuhmitted  a draft reAolution  entitled “The Stockholm
Conference on Confidence- and Security-Buildinq MeaRureR and Diearmamant  in Europe*
(A/C. 1/41/L. 50) , which was introduced by itfl representative at the 48th meeting, on
18 November.

41. At that maetinq, the Committ.ee - lopted draft raaolution A/C.1/41/L.50  without
a vote (eee para. 68, draft resolution L).

P. cft resolution A/C. 1/4>L.  51

42. On 30 October, Algeria, Argentina, Bangladesh,  Brazil, Col.omhia,  Cuha, Eqypt,-
EthiolIis, Ghana,  India, Indonesia,  Iran (Islamic  Republic  of), fQ+aglecar,  Mexico
Morocco, Nigeria, Pakifltan,  Peru, Romania, Sri Lnnka, the Sudan, Sweden, Venezuela,
Vlet Nam, Yugoslavia and Zaire eL\hmitted  a draft. renolution  entitl.ed “Report of the

/ . . .



A/41/042
English
page 25

Conference on Disarmament”  (A/C.1/41/L.51), which waa later aleo sponsored hy
Ecuador and Kenya. The draft resolution watt Introduced by the repreeentative  Of
Yuqoalavia at the 34th meeting, on 5 Novemher.

43. At it8 45th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/4l/L.51 by a recorded vote of 110 to 3, with 18 abstentions  (see pars. 68,
draft reeolution M). The voting was a8 follower

In favour I Afqhanintan,  Algeria, Angol.a, Arqentina, Austria, Bahamaa,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Daruefialam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byeloruaeian Soviet Sociallat Republic, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoroa,  Conqo, Costa
Rica, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,  Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Finland, Gabon, German  Democratic Repuhl ic , Ghana, Greece,
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hunqary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iran, Ireland, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’R Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,  Libyan
Arah Jamahlrrya, Madagaecaro Malaysia, Maldivee,  Mali, Malta,
Maurit Inia, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,  Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakietan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi
Arabia, Seneqal, Sinqapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Repuhl ic, Thai land, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uqanda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Hepuhlicfl,  United Arab Kmlrate.~, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruquay, Venezuela, Vict Nam, Yemen,
Yuqoalavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimhahwe.

Against.: Fr ante, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

AhRtaininqx Australia, Belqium, Canada, Denm,jrk, Germany, Federal Republic
of, Guatemala, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxemhourq,
Netherlands,  New Zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Portugal, Spain,
Turkey.

0. Draft resolution A/C.l/41/L.52

44. On 30 October, Algeria, Rangladesh,  Egyptl Ghana, India, Indonesia,
Madagascar , Mexico,N i g e r i a., Peru, Romania, Sri Lanka, the Sudan and Yugoslavia
kuhmitted a draft resolution entitled “Bilateral nucle. r-armR  neqotiations”
(A/C. 1/41/L.52), which was introduced hy the reprceentative  of Yugoslavia at the
.jRth meetinq, on 10 Novemher .

/ . . .



A/41/842
Engliah
Page 26

45. At ite 45th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft reeolution
A/c. 1/41/L. 52 by rl recorded vote of 114 to none, with 15 abetentione (see para. 68,
draft teeolution N) l The voting was as fo >ws ;

In favoulr Afghanietan,  Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bawladeeh,  Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,  Brazil, Brunei
Darut!uIalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Fatxo,  Burma, Burundi, Byeloruaaian
Soviet Sacialist Republic, Cameroon, Canada@  C’ ?tral African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoroe,  Congo, C&e
d’Ivoire, C u b a ,  Cyprue, Czechoelovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bieeau, Guyana, Hungary, India,
Indonee La, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Irao, Ireland, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People ’ EI Bemocr a t ic Republic , Lehanor, ,
Lesotho, Liher is, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagaflcar,  Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
MoxambicUe,  Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Niger ia,
N o r w a y ,  P ‘I# Pakistan,  Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, landa, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Somalia, Spairl, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic,  Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tohaqo, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Sociallet Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republ  ice, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe,

Againett

Ahetainin?:

None.

Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands,  Paraguay,
Portugal, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United StateR of America.

R. Draft resolutions A/C.l/dl/L.53  and Rev.1

46. On 30 October, Algeria, Bangladesh, Colombia, Cuba, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Madagascar, Niqeria, Pakietan, Peru,
Romania, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Tunisia, Venezuela, Viet Nam andxelavia
submitted a draft resolution entitled “Implementation of the recommendsti~Ins  and
decisions of the tenth special session” (A/C.1/43/L.53) , which waR introduced hy
the representative  of Yugoslavia at the 36th meetinq,  an 6  November.

47. On I1 November, Algeria, Bangladeah, Colomhia, Cuba, Ewt,  Ethiopia, the
German Democratic Republic, Ghana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic &p&lic of),
Madagaecar,  Nigeria, Pakietan, Peru, Romania, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Tunisia,- .-
Venezuela, Viet Nam and Yugoslavia submitted a revised draft *.Tdolution
(A/C. 1/41/L. 53/Rev.  1) , which was later aleo sponeored  hy Burkina Faso and Ecuador.
The revised draft resolution contained the followinq c*hanqeat

/ . . .



A/41/042
E n g l i s h
Page 27

(a) After the fifth preamhular paragraph, a new preambulat paragraph WacI
ineerted, reading:

“Believing  that the preservation of the existing bilateral, regional and
global syetem of arms limitation and disarmament agreements and the strict
observance  of euch agreements by their parties are important elements of
disarmament efforts at all levels”)

(b) The original seventh preambular paragraph , now the eighth preambular
paragraph, which had reada

“Streeeinq  once again that it is more than ever imperative in the present
circumstancea to give a new impetus to negotiations on disarmament, in
particular nuclear disarmament , at all 1evelR and to achieve genuine progress
in the immediate future”

waB reviued to read:

“Stressing once again that the active participation of Member States In
effective disarmament negotiations is necessary for discharging their
responsibility to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and
security, that all States have the right to contribute to efforts in the field
of disarmament, that it is more than ever imperative in the present
circumstances to give a new impetus to negotiations on disarmament, in
particular nuclear disarmament, at all levels and to achieve genuine progress
in the immediate future, and that all States should refrain from any actions
which have or may have negative effects on the outcome of disarmament
neqotiations”r

(cl In operative paragraph 5, the phrase “nuclear-weapon-test ban” wan
revised to read “nuclear-test ban”.

48. At its 45th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted dtaf t I esolut ion
A/C.1/41/L.‘,3/Rev.l  hy a recorded vote of L12 to 13, with 7 abstentions (See
para. 68, draft resolution 0). The Voting was as followsr

In favour I Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austr la, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darusealam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, iameroon,  Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa
Rica, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Repuhl ic, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Lihyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,

/ . . .



A/41/042
EngliBh
Page 28

Panama, Papua New Guinea,  Peru, Philippinea, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunimia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist  Republica,  United
Arab Emiratea, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoalavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againet: Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland,
Israel, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
Amer  ica.

Ahstaining: Australia, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Samoa, Spain.

8. Draft decision A/C.l/Il/L.62

49 . &l 30 October, Algeria, Argentina, Australia,  Bulgaria, China, Hungary,
Indoneria, Mexico, Mongolia, Sri Lanka, Sweden, and Yugoslavia aubmitted a draft
decision entitled “Compreheneive  programme of diearmament’ (A/C.l/ll/L.62),  which
wan introduced by the representative  of Mexico at the 34th meeting, on 5 November.

50. At ite 37th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft decision
A/C.l/ll/L.62 without a vote (see para. 69).

/ . . .



A / 4 1 / 8 4 2
English
Page 29

T. Draft resolutions A/C.l/Ql/L.69  and Rev.1

51. On 30 October  r986,  Australia, Belgium, Canada, Den;;lark, Prance, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Iceland, Italy, the Netherlal:da,  Norway, Sweden, Turkey and
the Unlited Kingdom  of Great Britain and Northern Ireland uubmitted a draft
reaolution entitled ‘Report of the Confnrence on Disar~ment”  (A/C.l/ll/L.69),
which  was later alro sponsored by Japan, Portugal and Spain. The draft reeolution
was Introduced by the representative of the Netherlande at the 34th meeting, on
5 November.

52. On 12 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/41/L.69/Rev.l),  containing the following chrrr.‘;z?t

(a) The second prsambular paragraph, which had read:

“Convinced that the Conference on Di,sarmament, as the single multilateral
disarmament negotiating forum , BhOuld play a central role in the consideration
and negotiation of disarmament agreements”,

waB revised to read:

“Convinced that the Conference on Disarmament, an the sinqlt multilateral
disarmament ntqotiating forum , should play a central role in the
implementation of the Programme of Action set forth in section III of the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the Genecal Aeeembly"t

(b) Operative paragraph 2, which had read:

“2. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmamuqli to continue, during its
1987 session, the consideration of all items on its agenda, taking into
account the provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Aseembly”,

was revised to read:

“2. calli UPOn the Conference on Disarmament to continue, during its
1987 aest3ion, the work on all items of its agerda, taking into account the
provisions of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Aseembly, including the priorities set forth in paragraph 45 of that document’.

53. At the 45th meeting, on 14 November, the Netherlands orally revised draft
resolution A/C.1/41/L.69/Hev.l, deleting operative paragraph 2.

54. At the same IMeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/41/L.69/Rev.l,  as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 70 to none, with 56
abstentions (see para. 68, draft resolution P). The voting wan  as follows:

/ . . .



A/41 /042
English
Page 30

In favour: Australia, Auatria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Belgium, Bolivia,
Elotswana, Burma, Bllrundi,  Cameroon, Canada, Chad, China,
COmOrOs,  Coflta Rica, C&e d’Ivoire, Democratic Kampuchea,
Denmark, Djibouti I Finland, France, Gabon, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Lu%embourq,  Malaysia, Morocco, Mozamoique,  Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Philippines, Portugal, Qatar,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia,
Spain, Suriname, Sweden, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Unitod AC-5 Fmirates, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States nf
America, Uruquay,  Zaire, Zambia.

Againstr None.

Abstaininqr Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bangladesh, Benin,
Brazil, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Byelorusaisan Soviet
Scxialist  Republic,  Central African Republic, Chile,
Colombia, Congo, Cuha, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraa, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Nicaragua, Pakiatan,
Panama, Peru, Poland, Romania, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab
Repuhl ic, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic of Tanzania,
Venezuela, Vict Nam,  Yemen, Yuqoslavia, Zimbabwe.

0. Draft resolutions A/C.1/41/L.71  and Rev.1

5 5 . On 30 October, Australia,  rrance, I c e l a n d , the Netherlands, Norway, Papua New
Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Sweden and the United Kingdom of Great Btitain and
Northern Ireland submitted a draft resolution entitled “Advisory Board on
Disarmament Studies and United Nations Institlute  for Disarmament ReseL,rch”
(A/C.1/41/L.71),  which was intr,%-luced by the representative of Australia at the
35th meeting, on 6 November. The draft resoll:tion read as follows:

“The General Aasemhly,

“Noting the report of t.11~ Secretary-General on tCle Advisory Board on
Disarmament Studies and the United Nations Institute for Disarmament
Research, 13/ and in particul,ar  paraqrapl ‘: 23-27 thereof concerning the-
absence of t;le Director of t.he  Inatit.ute from his post,

13/ A/41/666.

/ . .



A/41/042
Englinh
Page 31

“Convinced of the importance of the observance by Member States of
Article  100 of the Charter of the United Nations, in accordance with which
they undertake to respect the exclusively international character of the
responsibilities of the Secretary-General and his staff,

“Recallitq  resolution 31 (XXXVI) of the Commieoion on Human Rights
Concerning the human right8 of staff members of the United Nations, by which,
inter alia, the Commiselon  appealed to Member States to respect the Convention
on the Privileges and Immunities of the Unitti  Nations l4J and requested the
Secretary-General to use his good offices to ensure the enjoyment by united
Nations staff members of their r ights under  the Convention,

“Deeply concerned by the continuing absence of the Director of the
Institute and the serious effect that this is having on the work of the
Institute,

"1. Leplores  the fact that the Director of the JJnlted Nations Institute
for Disarmament Research, Mr. Liviu Bota, has not been allowed to return to
his post in Geneva since December 19858

“2. Fully supports the continuing efforts being made by the
Secretary-General, the Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies and Member Staten
to rectify this situation1

“3. Calls upon the GovernIt,, -Lnt  of Romania to permit Mr. Bota to return to
Geneva forthwithj

“4 . Requests the Secretary-General to take all possible steps to secure
the implementation of the present resolution and to submit a report on his
actions and their outcome to Member States , and subsequently to the General
Assembly at its forty-second session.n

56. On 12 November, Australia, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, the
Netherlands, Norway, Samoa, Sweden and the United Kingdam of Great Britain and

WI

Northern Ireland submitted a revised draft resolutlon (A/C.1/41/L.71/Rev.l),  which
.-AS irltroduced  by the representative of Australia at the 47th meeting, On
17 November. The draft reuolution read as follows:

“The General Assembly,

"Noting the report of the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on
Disarmament Studies and the United Nations Institute for Disarmament
Research, s,/ and +n particular paragraphs 23-27 thereof concerning the
absence of the Director of the Institute from his post,

14/  R e s o l u t i o n  2 2  A  ( I )  .

/...



A/41/042
English
Page 32

“Convinced of the importance of the observance by Member Statee of
Article 100 of the Charter of the United Nations, in accordance with which
they undertake to respect the exclusively international character of the
responsibilities of the Secretary-General and his staff,

“ReCa>linQ r08OlUtiOn 31 (XXXVI) of the Commission on Human Rights
concerning the human rights of etaff members of the United Nations, by which,
inter alla, the Commission appealed to Member Stetea to respect the Convention
on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations l4J and reauested the
SWXetary-(%netal  t0 use hi8 go&l offices to en8ure  the enjoyment by United
Nations staff members of their rights under the Conventior,

“-concerned hy the continuing absence of the Director of the
Institute and the serious effect that this is having on the work of the
Institute,

“I. Deplores the inability of the United Nations Institute for
Disarmament Research to fulfil its functions due to the absence of its
Director from his post in Geneva since December 1985)

“2. Fully supports the continuing efforts being made by the
Secretary-General, the Advisory Hoard on Disarmament Studies and Member States
to rectify this situation,

*3, Calls upon the Government concerned to co-operate with euch efforts8

“4. Requests the Secretary-General to take all necessary steps to ensure
the effective functioning of the United Nations Institute for Disarmament
Research and, in this respect, to submit a report on his actions and their
outcome to the Advisory Hoard on Disarmament Studies and to the General
Assembly at its forty-second session. ’

57. On 13 November, Romania submitted the following amendments (A/C. 1/41/L. 84) to
draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.71/Rev.l:

(a) To Insert, after the third preambular paragraph, a new preambular
paragraph was inserted, reading:

-Taking  note of the statements made on this subject, including those
relating to the duties and obligations of international civil servant6
contained in the Staff Regulations of the United Nations, especially those in
article 1, which provide, inter alia, that international civil servants shall
not engage in any activity that is incompatible with the proper discharge of
their duties with the United Nations”)

(b) To delete the original fourth preambular paragraph, now the fifth
preambular pacaqcaphr

(cl To replace operative paragraph 1 by the followinq:

/ . . .



A/41/042
English
Page 33

“1. g%Presees  its concern about the continuing absence of the Director
of the Institute for Disarmament Research and the serious effect that thin 1s
having on the work of the Institute”)

(d) To delete, in operative paragraph 2, the words “and Memher Stateear

(e) To replace operative paragraph 3 by the following:

“3. Calls upon all concerned to co-operate in findinq a satlafactory
solution, taking into account the rights and intereuts  of all par tieu and
through a proper application of the Staff Regulations of the United Nation 1
and other relevant international legal instruments”fi

(f) To delete, in operative paragraph 4, the text starting with the words
‘and, in this respect” until the end of the paragraph.

58. At the 47th meeting, on 17 November, the representative of Australia orally
revised draft resolution A/C.1/41/L.71/Rev.l  as follower

In operative paraqraph 1, the word “Deplores” was changed to “Regrets”1

lb) In operative paragraph 2, in the second 1 in%, after the wor-ls
“Secretary-General”, the comma was deleted and the word aandW  was inserted, and the
words “and Member States” were deleted, thus incorporatinq  the amendment referred
to in paragraph 57 (d) above.

59. At the same meeting, the representative of Romania made a motion under rule
121 of the rules of procedure of the General Assembly , which was re jetted by a
recorded vote of 42 to 38, with 22 abstentions. The votinq was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Angola, Banqladeuh, Benin, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorusslan  Soviet Socialist
Republ ic, China, Comoros, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Guinea,
Hungary, Indonesia, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republ ic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Mali, Mongolia, Mozambique, Poland, Romania, Rwanda,
Somalia, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Repuhl ic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
Viet Nam, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against 8 Arqentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Belqium, Cameroon,
Canada, Chile, Colomhia, C&e d’Ivoite, Denmark, Ecuador,
Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Guatemala, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Lesotho,
Luxembourg, Nepal, Nether lands, New Zealand, Norway,
Paraquay, Peru, Philippines, Portuqal, Samoa, Seneqal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruquay, ienezuela.

/ . . .



A/41/842
English
Page 34

Abstaining: Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Congo, Egypt, Ghana, India,
Kenya, Liberia, Mauritania, Mexico, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Clman, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Turkey, Uganda, United
Republic of Tanzania, Yugoslavia, Zaire.

60. Subsequently the reprQSQntatiVe  of Romania intr&duced the SUlendmentS
(A/C.l/Ql/L.84)  to draft resolution A/C.l/Ql/L.71/Rev.l.

61. At that meeting, the Committee voted on the amendments (A/C.l/Ql/L.84)  to
draft resolution A/C.l/4l/L.'Il/R~v.l, as followsr

(a) The amendments referred to in paragraph 57 (a), (b), (e) and (f) above
were adopted by a
as follows:

recorded vote of 36 to 31, with 36 abstentions. The voting was

In favourr

Against:

Abstaining:

Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Comoros,  Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, German Democratic
Republic, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iran,  Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Madagascar, Mongolia, MOZambiouQ, Nicaragua,
Oman, Poland, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Somalia, Syrian Arab
Republic, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, Viet Nam, Yemen, YugOSlaVia, Zaire,
Zimbabwe.

Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Colombia, CBte
d'Ivoire,  Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Philippines,
Portugal, Samoa, Singapore , Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Uruguay, VQnezuela.

Argentina, Bahamas, Barbados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Burundi, Cameroon, Congo, Egypt, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,
Guyana, India, Israel, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Mauritania,
MQX~CO,  Nepal, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Peru, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey, Uganda, United
Republic of Tanzania, Zambia.

(b) The amendment referred to in paragraph 57 (c) above was adopted by a
recorded vote of 41 to 28, with 33 abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour8 Afghanistan, Angola, Bangladesh, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, China,.Comoros,
Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, German
Democratic Republic, India, Iraq, Kuwait, Lao People's
,Democratic  Republic, Madagascar, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Mozambique, Nicaraguat Niger, Philippines, Poland,
Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Somalia, Syrian Atab Republic,



A/41/842
Englirh
Page 35

Againfxtr

Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialiet Republic, Union of
Soviet .Socialist Republics, United Republic of Tanzania,
Viet Nam, Yemen, ‘yuqoelavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Colombia,
Denmark, “inland, France, Germany, Federa:\.  Republic of,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Samoa, Singapore,
Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
‘Ireland, United States of America, Venezuela.

,\bStaininy: Argentina, Bahamas, Bachados, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Burundi, Cameroon, Congo, Ecuador, Egypt, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guyana@  Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Israel, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, Nepal, Nigeria, ChIan,
Pekietan,  Sri banka,  Sudan, Suriname, Togo, Trinidad and
Tohaqo, Turkey, Uganda, Uruguaq.

62. AC that meetinq, the Committee rejected draft resolution
MC.1/41/L.71/Rev.l,  as orally revised and amended, by a recorded vote of 34
to none, with 54 abstentions. The votinq was as follQwsr

In favour: None.

Against1 4UstCall 4, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Chile,
Colombia, C&e d’Ivoire, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, ILeland,
Ireland, Italy, Luxemhourq, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nrxwa!‘, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Portuqal, Samoa,
Sinqapore,  Spain,, Sweden, United Kinqdom of Great Britain
and Northern Tceland, IJnited Staten n f  Amerirrr, Uruquay,
Venezuela.

Abstaining: Arqentina, Bahamas, Bangladefsh, Barbados, Bhutan, Botswana,
Brazil, Burkina Fe~o, Burundi, Cameroon, Central AfThan
RepuC.1  ic, Chad, China, Cnmoros, Conqo, Eqypt, Ethiopia,
&bon, Ghana, Guyana, India, :tan (Islamic Repuhl ic of) ,
Trau, Israel , .Japrrn, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia, M%ldiven,
Mautlt,?nia,  Mexico,  Nepal, Nicaragua, Niqer, Niqeria, Oman,
Pakista:-,  Rwanda, Seneqal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri b,nks,
Sudan, Sur. iname,  Toqo, Trinidad and ‘Ibhaqo,  Turkey,  Uqanda,
1Jnited  Arah EmirzteR, United Republic  OF Tanzania,
YuqoRlavia,  Zuire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

v. Draft resolutions A/C.1/4l/L.73 and Rev. 1-

63. On 30 October, Australia, Austria,  the Bahamau, Belgium, BottWPna,
Cameroon, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Fcder:l
Republic  of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, S_arnoa,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Tutkey  and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and

/ - . .



rr/s1/042
EnqliRh
eaqa 36

Northern Ireland nutmitted a draft ceeolutlon  entitled “VeciCic  .ction in all
ita afipect6’  (A/C. l/ll/L.73) , which wacl  introduced hy the representative of
Canada Llt the 31st meeting, on 4 November.

64. On 11 November , Jiuetralia, Austria, tho Bahamas, Belgium, Eiotawanrr,
Bulgaria, Cameroon&Canada, COSta  Rica, Cxechoelovakia,  Denmark, Finlandc
Eance, Chcmany,  Federal Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, New Zealand,
Norway, PcrctUqal,  SamOn,  Sierra Leone, Singapore, TuLkey and the United
‘ii-inqdom  of Great Bciain and Northern Ireland auhmitted a revised draft
resolution (A/C.1/41/( ..73/Rev.l) I which wae later also eponuoced  by Malaysia.
The cevieed draft reeolution contained the following chanqeas

(a) Xn operative pacaqcaph 1, the wotd “comprehenfiively” was inBetted
hefore t h e  word8 “verifiable and eEfective”j

(b) In operative paragraph 4, the word “purauinq” was inserted before
th,! word6 “qenecal anA  complete diearmament”.

65. At itR 41er meeting, on 12 November, the Committee  adopted dcnf t
resolution A/C.1/41/L.73/Rev.l  without a vote (Ree pace. 68, draft
resolution Q) .

,w. Draft resxolut ion A/C. 1/41/L. 74

66. On 30 Octohec, India auhmitted  c draft resolution entitled “Study on
deterrence” (A/C. l/41/2.14)  , which w&n introduced by itR reprmentative  at the
34th meeting, on 5 Novemhet.

67. At it8 37th meetinq, on 10 November, the! Committeca  adopted dcirft
ceeolution  r./C.1/41/L.74  without a vote (see para. 68, draft cennlution R).

/ c . .



A/41/842
Enqlieh
Page 37

II I . RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

68 . The Ficot Committee recommende  to the General Aaaembly the adoption of the
following draft reaolutionsa

Review of the implementation of the recommendatione  and decisions- -
adopted by the General Aaaembly at its tenth epecial  eareion

A

Bilateral nuclear-acme negotiatiione

The General Aeaembly,

Noting ite crsolutione 38/183 P of 20 December 1983, 39/148 B of
17 Decemhec 1984 and 40/152 B of 16 December 1985,

Noting with eatiefaction that at their meeting at Geneva in November 1985
the leaders of the Ur,ion of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States
of America committed themeelvee to the objective of working out effective
agreementa aimed ab, preventing an acme rtce in apace and terminating it on
E a r t h ,  lSJ

Noting that in their joint statement of 8 January 1385 the Government  of
the Union of Soviet Socialist hepuhlice and the favernment of the tlnited
State6 of America agreed that the subject of the negotiations wae a complex of
aueationa  concerning apace and nuclear armn, both atcateqic  and
intermediate-range, with all these uueetiona considered and ceeolved in their
interrelationship, E/

Notinq that at the further meeting at Reykjavik in October 1986, although
no comprehensive  aqreement was reached, intensive discussion of for-reaching
arms-control underetandinqe took place,

Noting aleo that a large meaeure of aqr eeme.>t was reached  on a number of
ItlBUCR,

Noting further with eatififaction  that the two aides remain committed to
further proqreR6  in their bilateral neqotiatione, building on what has been
achieved 80 far,

Expceseinq itR appreciation to the two Govecnmentn  concerned for their
readineae  to keep othec.Statca  Memhere of the Unite13  Nation0 duly informed of

15/ S e e  A / 4 0 / 1 0 ’ annex.

16/ See Official Record@.-?f the General Aesembly, Fortieth Seseion,
Supplement No. 27 (A/40/27 and Core .l) , appendix I I  (CD/642/Appendix II/Vol.  I I ) ,
documenta CD/570 and CD/571.



A/41/042
English
Page 38

progress in those  negot int ior,a, in accordance with paragraph 114 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, IJ the first
special session devoted to disarmament,

Believinq that, tllrough negotiations pursued in a epirit of flexibility,
and with full account taken of the security interests of all States, it iS
possible to achieve far-reaching and effectively verifiable agreements,

Firmly convinced that an early agreement in these negotiationa, in
accordance with the principle of undiminished security at the loweat poaeible
level of armaments, would rse of crucial importance tier the strengthening of
international peace and security,

Further convincQ$  that the international community ehould encourage the
Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Government of
the United State8  of America in their BndeavourB, taking into account both the
importance and complexity of their negotiations,

1. Call8 upon the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
and the Government of the United States of America to spare no effort in
seeking the attainment of their agreed objectives in the negotiations, in
accordance with the security interests of all States and the universal desire
for progress towards disacmamentr

2. Urges the two Governments to make early progceas, in particular in
area8 where there ie common qroundj

3. Expresses its firmest poanible encouragement ant; support for the
bilateral negotiation8 and their auccesnful ConClUBiOn.

B

Non-uee of nuclear weapons and prevention of nuclear war

The General Assembly,

Recallinq  t h a t , in accordance with paKagraph  20 of the Final Document of
the Tenth Special Session of the General ARnembly, P7/ the first special
session devoted to disarmament, effective meaRutee of nuclear disarmament: and
the prevention of nuclear war have the hiqheet  prior Lty and that thia
commitment wae reaffirmed by the ARscmbly  at ItR twelfth Apecial Reaeion, the
oecond  special session devoted to disarmament,

Recalling also t.hat, in paKaqKaph 58 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Speciil Session=  ie stated that all States, in part iculalt nuclear -weapon
Stateu, should conRider  as soon as posRihle varioue propoealw deeigned to

17/ Resolution S-10/2.

/ . . .



A/41/042
English
Page 39

aecura the avoidance of the use of nuclear weapons, the prevention of nuclear
war and related objectivee, where poesibla  through international aqreement,
and thereby ensure that the survival of mankind is not endangered,

Reaffirminq that the nuclear-weapon States have the primary
responsibility for nuclear disarmament and for undertaking measure8 aimed at
preventing the outbreak of nuclear war,

Convinced that it is possible and necessary for lnankind  to block the way
to a nuclear catastrophe and that the renunciation of the first use of nuclear
weaporlLs  is a most urgent meaaure to thie end,

Welcominq the joint statement issued by the Unit.ed States of America and
the Union of Soviet Sxialist Republics on 21 November 1985 and, in
particular, the conviction expressed therein that a nuclear war cannot be won
and must never be fought, l5J

Taking note of the Political Declaration adopted at the Eighth Conference
of Heads of State or Government  of Won-Aligned Countries, held at Harare from
1 to 6 September 1986, in which all nuclear-weapon States are called upon to
enter early into an internationally binding commitment not to be the first to
use or to thKeaten  to use nuclear weapons, le/

1. Consider8 that the solemn  declaration8 by two nuclear-weapcn  States
made OK reiterated at the twelfth special session of the General Assembly,
concerning their respective obligationa not to be the fir&t to u8e nuclear
weapons, offer an important avenue to decrease the danger of nuclear wart

2. Expresses the hope that those nuclear-weapon States that have not
yet done 80 would coneider  making eimilar declarations with respect to not
being the first to use nuclear weaponsl

3. Requeste the Conference on Disarmament to coneid.!r  under ItR
relevant agenda item, inter alla, the elaboration of an international
instrument of a legally binding character laying down the obligation not to be
the first to use nuclear weapons)

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-second
aeenion  the item entitled *Non-use of nuclear weapone and prevention of
nuclear war”.

-

le/ See A/41/697-S/18392, annex, sect. I, para. 47.

/ . . .



A/41/042
English
Page 40

C

United Nationa  diaarmament ntudiee

The General Aaaembly ,

Recalling  its resolution 40/152  I(, adoptad  by consensus on
16 December 1985,

diuNoting the related cuaaiona that have taken place in the Advisory
Board on Disarmament Studies during 1986, g/

1. Reaffirma the value of United Nation8 disarmament studies and the
need for 4 thorough appraisal of the subject)

2. Takes note with appreciation of the views of Member States contained
in the report of the Secretary-General) E/

3 . Invites those Member States that have not yet done so to communicate
to the Secretary-GE! ral c by 1 April 1987, theit view8 and proposal8 on how
the work of the United Ndtions in the field of disarmament studies can be
further improved1

4 . Requests the Secretary-General to tsanamit the repliea received in
1987 to the AdviBOKy Roa,cd on Diaarmament Studies and to the General Aaaemhly
at ite forty-second seesionl

5 . Decidea to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-second
aesaion the item entitled “United Nation8 diearmament  studies”.

D

Disarmament Week

The General Aaaemhly,

Gravely concerned over the escalating arms race, especially the
nuclear-arms race* which represent8 a serious  threat to the very existence of
mankind,

StKeSainq the Vital importance of eliminating the threat of a nuclear
war, ending the nIlclear-arm8 race, bringing 8bOUt  diearmament for the
maintenance of world peace and creating a comprehensive  system of
international peace and recur ity,

l9J See A/41/666, sect. 1I.A.

20/ A / 4 1 / 4 2 1 and Add.1 and 2.

/ . . .



~/41/842
Enql ish
Page 41

PIlnphanizinq  anew the urgent need for and the importance of wide and
continued mobilization  of world public opinion in eupport of halting and
reverainq the arma  race, especially the nuclear-arms race, In all ite aaPectRr

Taking into account the aspirations of the world public for halting the
arms race on Earth and preventing it in outer apace and for eliminatinq
nuclear weapons and other type8 of weapona of maas  destruction, as well as the
new initiatives to this end,

Mindful of the world-wide maas  anti-war and anti-nuclear movement,

Recognizinq the important role of the mass media in mobilizinq world
public opinion in support of dioarmament,

Noting with eatisfaction  the broad and active support by Governments and
international and national orqanizatione  of the decision taken by the General
Aseembly at its tenth special seesion, the first special session devoted to
disarmament, regarding the proclamation of the week Atartinq 24 October, the
day of the foundation of the United Nationa, aa a week devoted to fostering
the objectives of disarmament, 21/

Recalling  the recommendations concerninq  the World Diaarmament Campaign
contained In annex V to the Concluding tiument  of the Twelfth Special Session
of the General Assembly, the second  special Resaion devoted to disarmament,  in
particular the recommendation that Disarmament Week should continue to be
widely oheerved, 22J

Recall ing also its resolutione  33/71  D of 14 December 1978, 34/83 I of
11 December 1979, 37/78 D of 9 December 1982, 38/183  L of 20 December 1983,
39/148 J of 17 December 1984 and 40/152  E of 16 December 1985,

1. Takea note with satiufaction  of the report of the
Secretary-General 23/ on the follow-up measures undertakei,  Ly qovernmental and
non-governmental orqanizationa in holdinq Disarmament  Week1

2. Expreeeee  ita appreciation to all Statee and international and
national governmental and non-governmental orqanizationR for their enerqetic
support of and active participation in Disarmament Week, in particular in
holding the 1986 Disarmament Week in close connection with the celebration Of
the International Year of Peace)

3. Exprefmes serioue concern over the continued escalation of the arms,

2lJ Resolution S-10/2, para. 102.

22/ Official Recorda of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Annexes, agenda iteme 9 to 13, document A/S-12/32, annex V, pata. 12.

23/ A/41/192 and Corr.1.

/ . . .



A/41/842
Engl iah
Page 42

race, eepecially  the nuclear-arm6 race , and the imminent danger of itR
extension into outer apace , which gravely jeopardizes  international Peace and
BeCUrity and increarea  the danger of outbreak of a nuclear war’)

4. Streeees  the important role of the maas media in acquainting the
world public with the aime of Disarmament Week and meaeurea undertaken within
its framework!

5. Invites all States, in carrying out appropriate measuree at the
local level on the occaeion of Disarmament Week, to take into account the
elemente  of the model programme for Disarmament  Week, prepared by the
Secretary-General) 24/

6 . Invite8  the relevant specialized  agencies and the International
Atomic Energy Agency to intensify activities, within their area8 of
competence, to dieeeminate information on the conaeuuencea  of the acme race,
especially the nuclear-arm8  race, and reaueets  them to inform the
Secretary-General accordlnqlyr

7 . Also invites international non-governmental orqanizations to take an
active part in Diearmament Week and to inform the Secretary-General of the
activiti.?a  undertaken!

8 . Further invitee  the Secretary-General to uee the United Nations ma88
media a8 widely a8 possible to promote better underetanding  among the world
public of dlaarmament probleme and the objective8  of Disarmament Week1

9. Requests Governmente  to continue, in accordance with General
AAaembly  reeolution  33/71  D, to inform the Secretary-General of activities
undertaken to promote the objectives of Disarmament Week)

10. Requeete the Secretyry-General, in accordance with paragraph 4 of
resolution 33/71 D, to eubmit to the General Aseembly at itn forty-second
aeasion a report on the implementation of the provision8 of the preeent
resolution.

E

Report of the Disarmament Commi~aion

The General Aseembly,

Having coneidered the report of the Disarmament Commiesion,  25J

Emphaeizinq again the importance of an effective follow-up to the

24/ A / 3 4 / 4 3 6 .

21/ Official Records  of the General  ABeembly, Forty-first Session, Supplement
N o .  4 2  (A/41/42) l

/ . . .



A/41/842
Enql ish
Page 43

relevant recommendations and decisions contained in the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Seasion of the General Aaeembly, l7J the firet special cession
devoted to diearmament,

Taking into account the relevant sectiona of the Concluding Document of
the Twelfth Special Session of the General Aaaemhly,  26J the second Special
session devoted to diaarmament,

Considering the role that the Diaarmament Commiaeion haB been called upon
to play and the contribution that. it should make in examining and submitting
recommendation8  on Various problems in the field of disarmament and in the
promotion of the implementation of the relevant decisions of the tenth special
ueRsion,

Recallinp  ita resolution6 33/71 H of 14 December 1978, 34/83  H of
11 December 1979, 35/152 F of 12 December 1980, 36/92 B of 9 December  1981,
37/78 H of 9 December 1982, 38/183  E of 20 December 1983, 39/146  R of
17 December 1984 and 40/152  F of 16 December 1985,

1. Take8  note of the report of the Dimarmament  Commlssion~

2. Notes that the Disarmament Commiseio~  haa yet to conclude the
coneideration  of some items on its agenda, but notes also with appreciation
that the Commission hae tranamitted to the General Assembly for consideration
draft guidelines for the appropriate type of confidence-huildir:q  meaeurea  and
for the implement qtion of Ruth meaBufeR  on a global OK regional level, and
that progress has alao been achieved on other items1

3. Recalls the role of the Disarmament Commission a8 the epecialized,
delibeKatiVe  body within the United Nations  multilateral dinarmament  machinery
that allow8 for In-depth deliberations on specific disarmament IssueA, leadinq
to the submission of concrete recommendations  on those iRsuee1

4. StKesBeR  the impOKtanCe  for the Disarmament Commission to work on
the baeie Of a relevant agenda of disarmament topics, thereby enabling  the
Commieaion to concentrate lta efforts and thus optimize its progress on
specific euhjecte in accordance with Assembly resolution 37/78 HI

5. Recyueeta  t h e  Dieaemil Commission  to continue its work in
accordance with it8 mandate, as t forth in paragraph 118 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Se0eion  of the General Assembly, 17/ the first
special Reeaion devoted to diearmament, and with paragraph 3 ofresolution
37/78 H, and to that end to make every ei’fort to achieve epecific
K@COmm@ndatiOnEi, at it8 1987 subntantive  session, on the outstanding items on
ito agenda, takinq into account the relevant resolution6 of the General
ARAembly  a8 well as the result8  of itu 1986 substantive sessionr

z/ Official Record8 of the General Aftsemhly,  Twelfth Special Session,
AnnexeR, agenda item8 9 to 13, document A/S-12/32.

/ . .



A/41/942
English
Paqe 44

6. Requests the Disarmament Commission to meet for a period not
exceeding four weeks during 1987 and to submit a substantive report,
containing specific recommendations on the items inecribed in it5 agenda, to
the General Aesembly at it5 forty-Becond seseion)

7. Reausste  the Secretary-General to transmit to the Disarmament
Commission the report of the Conference on Diearmament, 27/ together with all
the offialal record5 of the forty-firet  seasion of the General Assembly
relating to disarmament matters, and to render all assistance that the
c!ommission  1~3y require for implementing the present resolutiont

8. Decides to include In the provisional agenda of its forty-second
seseion the item entitled “Report of the Diearmament  Commission”.

F

Cessation of the nuclear-arm5 race and nuclear disarmament

The General Aeaemhly,

Recalling  that, in paragraph 11 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly, G/ the first special seasion devoted
to disarmament, the Assembly stated that the nuclear-arms race, far from
contributing to the strengthening of the security of all States, on the
contrary weakens it and increase5 the danger of the outbreak of a nuclear war
and that existing arsenals of nuclear weapons are more than sufficient to
destroy all life on Earth,

Recalling also that, in paragraph 47 of the Final Document, the Assembly
expressed the belief that nuclear weapon5 pose the greatest danger to mankind
and to the survival of civilizetion, tha’: it ia essential  to halt and reverse
the nuclear-arm5 race in all its aepects  in order to avert the danger of war
involving nuclear weapons, and that. the ultimate goal in this contexL  is the
complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

t h a t ,Noting in the Political Declaration adopted by the Seventh
Conference of Head5 of State or Government  of Non-Aligned Countries, held at
New Delhi. from 7 to 12 March 1983, it IB stated that the renewed eecalation
in the nuclear-arms race, a5 well as reliance on doctrines of nuclear
deterrence, had heightened the riBk of the outhrtrrk of nuclear war and led to
greater insecurity and instability in international relatlona, and that It waB
alS0 Stated that ~uCh?ar  weapons were more than weapon5 of war, that such
weapons were inefxuments  of mass annihilation, 28/

27/ Official Records of the General Assembly,  Forty-first Session, Supplement
No. 27 (~/41/272  l

28/ See A/38/132-S/15675 and Cort.1 and 2, annex, t. I, para. 28.

/ .C.



A/41/842
Enqliah
Paqe 45

Noting further that, in the Political Declaration adopted by the Eighth
Conference Of Head5 of State or fk#Vernment  of Non-Aliqned Countries, held at
Harare from 1 to 6 September 1986, i? w&s stated that the idea that world
Peace Could be maintained through nuclesr deterrence, a doctrine that lay at
the root of the continuing escalation in the auantity  and auality  of nuclear
weapons, was the most dangerous myth in existence, 29J

Believlnq that all nations have a vital interest in negotia’ions  on
nuclear disarmament because the existence of nuclear weapona in the arsenals
of a handful of States directly and fundamentally jeoptiidizes  the vital
security interests of both nuclear and non-nuclear-weapon State5 alikes

Welcoming proposals on the complete elimination of nuclear weaponfi
throughout the world,

Consic iz that it is necessary to halt all testing, production and
deployment OL nuclear weapons of all type5 and version5 and their delivery
syeteme  as a first step in the prcxess which should lead to the achievement  of
substantial reduction5 in nuclear force5 , and welcoming in this context the
Joint Declaration issued on 22 May 1984 by the heads of State or Government of
Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of
Tanzania, z/ which was reaffirmed in the Delhi Declaration 31/ and the Mexico
Declaration 32/ issued by the leaders of those States on 28 January 1985 and
7 Aw,uet  1986, respectively,

Noting that in the Conference on Disarmament, at itR 1986 se5sion,
several proposal5 were presented ‘for the consideration of practical measureRI

Rcgrettinq, however, that the Conference on Disarmament was unable to
reach agreement on the establishment of an ad hoc committee on the ceeeation
of nuclear arms race and nuclear disarmament,

Convinced of the imperative need to take constructive action towardn
halting and reversing the nuclear-atmp  ram,

1. Affirms that the existence of hilateral  negotiations on nuclear and
space arms-in no way diminishes the urge’qt  need to initiate multilateral

29/  See A/41/697+/18392, anne%, sect. I, para. 33.

the s~r1:/3~~~~3;5/16587,  annex. For the printed text, eee Official Recorda of
Y , Thirty-ninth Year, Supplement for April, May and June 1984;

document S/16587, annex.

31/ A/40/114-S/lhY:>l,  annex. For the printed text, sr?e  Official Records nf
the Security Council, Forti  th Year, Supplement for January, February and March
1985, document S/16921, annex.

32/ A/41/518-S/10277, annex.

/ . . .



A/41/842
English
Page 46

negotiations in the Conference on Disarmament on the cessation of the
nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament!

2. Believes that efforts should be intensified with a view to
initiating, as a matter of the highest priority, multilateral negotiations in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, g/ the first special session
devoted to disarmament,

3. Again requests the Conference on Disarmament to establish an ad hoc
caemittee at the beginning of its 1987 session to elaborate on paragraph 50 Of
the Final Document and to submit recommendations to the Conference as to how
it could best initiate multilateral negotiations of agreements, with adequate
measures of vet if ication, in appropriate stages fort

(a) Cessation of the qualitative improvement and development of
nuclear-weapon systems;

(b) Cessation of the production of all types of nuclear weapons and
their means of delivery, and of the production of fissionable material for
weapons purposes ;

(c) Substantial reduction in existing nuclear weapons with a view to
their ultimate eliminations

4. * Requests the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-second session on its consideration of this subject1

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-second
session the item etilitled  “Cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear
disarmament*,

G

Prevention of nuclear war

n;* General Assembly,

Alarmed by the threat to the survival of mankind posed by the existence
of nuclear weapons and the continuing nuclear-arms race,

Deeply concerned by an increased danger of nuclear war as a result of the
intensification of the nuclear-arms race and the serious dzketioratian of the
international situation,

Conecious that removal of the threat of nuclear war is the most acute and
urgent task of the present day, .

Reiteratinq that it is the shared responsibility of all Member States to
saw succeeding generations from the scourge of another world war, which would
inevitably ha a nuclear war,

/ . . .



~/41/842
English
Page 47

Recalling the provisions of paragraphs 47 to 50 and 56 to 58 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, l7J the first
special session devoted to disarmament , regarding the procedures designed to
secure the avoidance of nuclear war,

Recalling also that at the Seventh Conference of Heads of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at New Delhi from 7 to
12 March 1983, it was stated that nuclear weapons were mote than weapons of
war, they were instruments of mass annihilation, 28/ and that at the Eighth
Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at
Harare from i to 6 September 1986, it was stated that the accumulation of
weapons, in particular nuclear weapons , constituted a threat to the survival
of mankind and that, therefore, it had become imperative that States abandon
the dangerous goal of unilateral security through armament and embrace the
objective of common security through disarmament, z/

Recalling further its resolutions 36/81 B of 9 December 1981, 37/78 I of
9 December 1982, 38/183 G of 20 December 1983, 39/148 P of 17 December 1984
and, in par ticulat, its resolution 40/152 Q of 16 December 1985, in which it
expressed its conviction that, in view of the urgency of this matter and the
inadequacy or insufficiency of existing measures, it is necessary to devise
suitable steps to expedite effective action for the prevention of nuclear war@
and reauested once more the Conference on Disarmament to undertake, as a
matter of the highest priority , negotiations with a view to achieving
agreement on appropriate and practical measures for the prevention of nuclear
war,

Having considered the report of the Conference on Disarmament on its
1986 session, 2J

Notinu with grave concern that the Conference on Disarmament vas once
again unable to start negotiations on the question during its 1986 session,

Taking into account the deliberations on this item at its forty-first
session,

Convinced that the prevention of nuclear war and the reduction of the
risk of nuclear war ate matters of the highest priority and
to all people of the world*

of vital interest

Also convinced that the prevention of nuclear war is a
important to be left to the nuclear-weapon States alone,

problem too

1. Notes with regret that, despite the fact that the Conference on
Disarmament has discussed the question of the prevention of nuclear war for
several years, it has been unable even to establish a subsidiary body to
consider appropriate and practical measures to prevent it,

E/ See A/41/697-S/18392, annex, sect. I, pata. 31.

/ . . .



A/41/042
Engl ish
Page 40

2. Reiteratea ite conviction that, in view of the utqency of thie- -
matter and the inadeauacy or ineufficiancy  of exiatinq meafsurer),  It ie
nc!ceseary to devise nuitahla  steps to expedite eSSective action for ths
prevention of nuclear wart

3. Again requmta the Conference on Diaarmamant to undertake, as a
matter of the hiqheet priority, neqotiatione with a view to achievinq
Wraemsnt  on upp*oprinto  and practical mea&urea  which could he neqotiated and
adopted individually for the prevention of nuclear war and to errtahliah for
that purpose  an ad hoc committee on the Rlihject at thta  beqinninq of fta 1987
aeeson 1

4. Decidoa  to include in  the  provrnional  agenda of itR forty-nccond
aeesion the item eni Ltled “Prevention of nuclear war”.

Climatic effects of nuclear war, includinq nuclear winter- -

The General Aeoemhly,- -

Recalling that in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Aesamhly, 17/ its fir >I. special BeRgion devoted to diaarmamenr,  after
referring specifically to “the threat to the very survival of mankind” po6r.d
by the existence of nuclarlr weaponA,  it declared, in paraqraph 18, that
removinq the threat of a world war - a nuclear war - in the moRt acute and
utqent taek of the pceaent  day,

t hN&in% t h a t R conclueionA  of Rome of the atudiea  compiled in the report
of the Secretary-General, 34/ in conformity with resolution  39/148  F of
17 December 1984, confirm that nuclear winter and other climatic efL.jctB of
nuclear war po~a an unprecedented pet Al to all natLc,lis,  even thoeti  far removed
from the nuclear exploetons, which would add immeaeurahly to the pravtouely
known danqere of nuclear war> w i t h o u t  excludinq t h e  poeRihility  of  al l  t h e
Earth being transformed into a darkened, frozen planet, Whf?tC  conditioner  would
b6 conducive ta mana  extinction,

Recallinq  that, by itf8 refmlution  40/152  G of 16 Decembet 1985, the
General AReembly recoqnized the necessity of t3yetemattc4  KefWaKch  on the
ccuhject and taclueeted the Secretary-General to carry out a study on the
climatic .pnd potential phyeical  effects of nuclear war, includinq  nuclear:
Lttnter, .and t o  tranemit.  t h e  Rtudy t o  t h e  At-?amhly  car connidetation  a t  ite
forty-R<!conrl  c ension,

1. -I___ReitPK&ct?R  its appreciation to the Secretary-General fc~r thr,
cof.rpfLatfC,rl or excerpts of scientific AtudiaR on ,hc climatic s Ife~,t~ of
nt clear war . . lncludinq n u c l e a r  winte , prepared in accordance with the rtcrueat
mada i n  itrl c?solution  39/148  FI 34/-

-

34J A /40 /449 and Corr.1 and 2.

/ . . .



4/41/842
JhJliSh
Page 49

2. Regrets that, owing to the current financial crisis of the United
Nations, the Secretary-General had to defer to 1987 the meeting of the Group
of Consultant Experts to Catty Out a Study on the Climatic and Potential
Physical Effects of Nuclear War, including Nuclear Winter, requested in its
resolution 40/152 Gt

3. Once again requests the Secretary-General, with the assistance of
the Group of Consultant Experts chosen by him, bearing in mind the
advisability of wide geographical representation and of their qualifications
in a broad range of scientific fields, to carry out a study on the climatic
and potential physical effects of nuclear war, including nuclear winter, which
will examine, inter alia, its socio-economic consequences and would take into
account the Secretary-General's report and the source documents from which the
compilation was prepared, together with any other relevant scientific studiesd

4. Also requests the Secretary-General to transmit the study to the
General Assembly in due time for consideration at its forty-third session, in
1988%

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-third
session the item entitled "Climatic effects of nuclear war, including nuclear
winter: report of the Secretary-General'.

I

Review of the implementation of the recommendations
and decisions adopted by the General Assembly at its

tenth special session

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 40/150 of 16 December 1905,

Regretting that, owing to the financial difficulties of the United
Nations, the Secretary-General had to defer until 1987 the updating of the
report entitled Economic and Social Consequences of the Arms Race and of
Military Expenditures, z/ as requested in paragraph 1 of resolution 40/150,

Deeply convinced that, in undertaking further measures that might be
required to face the financial difficulties of the Organization, due attention
should be given to the pressing need for all Governments and peoples to be
informed about the problems created by the arms race and of the need for
disarmament, which is of vital interest to all peoples and for which the
United Nations has a central role,

1. Requests the Secretary-General to bring up to date the report

35J United Nations publication, Sales No. E.83.IX.2.

/ . . .



h/41/042
Engl irh
P8qe 5 0

ent i t led  Economic and Social  Conaequenceo,  of the  Arma Race and of  Military
Expenditures under the conditiona provided in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of its
resolution 40/l 50 I

2. ReguOsts the Secretary-General to submit the updated report to the
General Aeuembly  at its forty-third session and to inform the Aatiemhly  at its
forty-second session on the progresa achieved in implementation of the pranent
resolution.

Rlevlew  of the
and decision8

J

implemen  ta t iDn of the r ecommenla  t ions
adopted by the General Aanemhly at its
tenth special session

The General AeaembPy,

Recalling  i ts reaolotione 39/148 L of 17 Decc?mht?r 1984 and 40/152 J of
16 December 1985,

Noting with concern that the problem identified tn the above-mentioned
resolutions has not been alleviated,

Firmly convinced that all States have a vital intereat  in the RUCXXFIB of
disarmament neqotiations,

Earing in mind paragraph 28 of tho Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, 17/ in which it. affirmed that “all Stnteu
have the duty to contribute to efforts in the fieLd of die8rmamcnt”  and that
*all States have the right to participate in diaa;mament  neqottations”, as
well as paragraphs 120 (g) and (h) of the Final Document,

Recalling further its resolution 38/183  F of 20 December 1981, in rhtch
j+ called upon the Government8 of all States to contribute  Ruhetanttally,
alia,inter to halting and reversing the arms race, particularly in thP
nuclear field, ani! thus to reducing  the Aanqw  of nuclear War,

1. Reiterates once more the right of all Staten not memnern of thf?
Conference on Disarmament to participate in thf? work of the plenciry R+bnRiCrnn
of  the  Conference on whfstantive  aueationet

2. Urges States members of the Conference on DiAarmamenc  not to misufxrb
the rules of procedure of the C!onfererkW so WI to pravpnt StntsR not mcamhers
from exercising  their right t.r> pfirticipatc  in the work oE the Conferpncei

3. RequeatA the Secretary-C+naral  tn report to th+* Wner.>l Af;gpmbly  tit
its forty-second session on the proq~of~~  made in the LmplPmentat inn >f thir
present resolution.

/ . *.



A/41/042
Eng l i sh
Page 51

K

International co-operation for dibarmaaent

The Gcneral  Aoaombly,

Stressing again the urgent need for an active and mmtained  offort to
expedite the implementation of the recommendations and decisions unanimously
adopted at ito tenth special aeaeion, the  f irs t  special  session devoted to
disarmament,

Recalling  the Declaration on International Co-operation for Disatmamont
of 11 December 1979 36J and i t s  resolutiona  36/92  D of 9 December 1981,
37/78  B of 9 December 1992, 38/183  F of 20 Decombr 1983, 39/148 M of
17 December 1984 and 40,‘152 I of 16 member  1985,

Stressing ths vital need to proceed to concroto  measutol  towardn halting
the arms race and attaining disarmament, particularly in the nuclear field,
for the preeervation of peace and the atrenqtbeninq of international recutity,

Bearing in mind the vital interertm of all States in the adoption of
concrete effective disarmament measures, which m;Ad, inter alla, release
considerable material,  f inancial  and human resources to  be  used for  peaceful
purposes and particularly for ovetcominy economic underdevelojxnent,,  especially
in the developing countries,

Stressing  the importance of the appeals and proposals of the group of six
Statea of five continents and the Movement  of Non-Aliqned Countrieo  and of
their unewerving  efforts to achieve genuine disarmament,

mnvinced  of the need to strengthen constructive international
co-operation baaed on the political goodwill of States for successful
negotiatione on disarmament, in accordance with the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Session of the General  Aeeembly, 17/

Stresainq that international co-operation for dimarmammt ahwld, an a
matter of priority, be aimed at averting nuclear war through the gradual
elimination  of nuclear  weapone, the discontinuation of nuclear-weapon terte
and the prevention of an acme racm in outer space and at confidence-building
as an tndiepensahle component of rolationr  l mony States,

Beljevinq  t h a t  t h e  t w o  nuclear-weapon S t a t e s  t h a t  poeaese  t h e  moat
impor= nuclear arsenals should jointly take the lead and chow a good
example in curhinq the nuclear arms race while mutually refraining from
launching weaponu into outer spacoP

Conecious  that. in the nuclear  apace  age  the  re l iable  8ecuc ity of all-u_
countr  lee can be anauted  only hy political means, through the joint efforts of
all Staten,

36/ Resolution 34/8S.
/ . . -



A/41/842
English
Page 52

1. Invites all States to increase co-operation and to strive actively
for meaningful disarmament negotiations on the basis of reciprocity, eouality,
undiminished security and the non-use of force in international relations, so
that they may prevent qualitative enhancement and quantitative accumulation Of
weapons, as veil as the development of new types and systems of weaponry,
especially weapons of mass destruction;

2. Stresses the importance of strengthening the effectiveness of the
United Nations in fulfilling its central role and primary responsibility in
the sphere of disarmament,

3. Rmphasizes the necessity of refraining from the dissemination of any
doctrines and concepts endangering international peace and justifying the
unleashing of nuclear war , which lead to the deterioration of the
international situation and to the further intensification of the arms race
and which are detrimental to the generally recognized necessity of
international co-operation for disarmament1

4. Declares that the use of force in international telations as well as
in attempts to prevent the full implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples 37J constitutes a
phenomenon incompatible with the ideas of international co-operation for
disarmament*

5.
excluded

Reiterates its profound conviction that outer space should be
from the sphere of military preparations and used exclusively for
purposes, for the benefit of all mankindt

6. Appeals to States that are members of military groupings to pfOmOter
on the basis of the Final Qccument of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly and in the spirit of international co-operation for disarmament, the
gradual mutual limitation of military activities of these groupings, thus
creating conditions for their dissolution;

7. Calls upon all Member States and the international organisations
concerned to continue to cultivate and disseminate, particularly in connection
with the World Disarmament Campaign, 38/ launched by the General Assembly at
its twelfth special session , the ideas of international co-operation for
disarmament1

8. Calls upon the Governments of all States to contribute
substantially, while observing the principle of undiminished security, to
halting and reversing the arms race, particularly in the nuclear field, and
thus to reducing the danger of nuclear var.

37/ Resolution 1514 (xv).

38/ Qfficial Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Annexes, agenda items 9 to 13# document A/S-12/32, annex V.

/ . . .



A/41/842
Englirh
Page 53

L

Stockholm  Conference on Confidence- and Security-Building
Meaeurse and Dieatmament in Europe

The General Assembl) ,

Determined to achieve progreee in disarmament,

Reaffirming the importance of continued efforts to build confidence, to
lessen military confrontation and to enhance security for all,

Z&ressing  that confidence- srrJ secur  :ty-building meatsurea  derlgned to
reduce the dangera  3f armed conflict and of misundetetanding or miscalculation
o f  mill.tary a c t i v i t i e s  wi l l  c o n t r i b u t e  t o  these o b j e c t i v e s ,

1. Welcomes the adoption by the Conference on Confidence- and- - -
Security-Building Measure8  and Disarmament in Europe of the Document of the
Stockholm Conference, which conta ins  concrete ,  militarily signi f icant ,
politically binding and vet if iable conf idcnce- and security-buildinq measureal

7. . Considers that the Document of the Stockholm Conference will
canttibute to furthering the procese of improving security and developing
co-0peratSon  in Europe, thereby contributing to international peace and
secur i ty  in the  world  aa a  whole .

M

Reoott of the Conference on Diaarmament

The General Assembly,

Recallinq  its resolutiono 34/P3  B of 11 December 1979, 35/152 J of
12 December 1950, 36,192 F of 9 &dembet 1981, 37/78 G of 9 December 1982,
M/1133  I of 20 December 1983, 39/148  N of 17 December 1984 and 40/152  M of
16 Decenlber 1985,

Recalling aleo the Final Document of the Tenth  Special Seeaion of the
Cineral  Ansembly, z/ the firet special Ression  devoted to disarmament, and
ths Concluding Documant of the Twelfth Special Session of the General
Assembly, z/ the second special session devoted to dirlacma;nant,

lfaving considered the report of the Conference on Dlaarmament, 27J

Convinced that the Conference on Disnrmament, as the single multilateral
ncqot iat inq body on disarmament , should play the central role in sutitantiva
neqotiations  on priority aueatione of dlsarmnment  and on ttha implementation ot
the Proqramme  of Action set forth in section ITT of the F1’1al  Document of the
T e n t h  Spc~cirrl  SeRBiOn,



A/41/%42
Englieh
Paqe 54

Rcaffirmirq  thAt the establishment of ad hoc committees offers the best
available machinery for the conduct of multilateral negotiations on items on
the agenda of the lanference  on Disarmament dnd contrrhutes  to the
etrenqtheniug sf the neqotiatinq role of the Conference,

DeplOrin:  the fact that, despite the repeated requesta  of the GenerAl
Assembly and the expressed wish of the great majority of members of the
Conference on Disarmament, the establishment of an Ad hoc committee on the
cessation of the nuclear-arms rAce and on nuclear diAarmament  was once Again
prevented during the 1986 session of the Conference,

Deploring alao the fAct that the Conference on Disarmament hacr  not been
enabled to set up Ad hoc committees under item 1 of its Agenda, entitled
*Nuclear -test han”, and on the prevention of nuclear wAr,

Notinq .th satisfaction that further Qrogreee  hA8 been made in the
neqotiatlon on the elAbOratiOn  of A draft  convention on the Complete And
effective prohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of all
chemical weapons and on their destruction,

1. Expreeses  its deep concer;r  And disappointment that the Confarencr on
DiSAKmAment  has not been enabled, this year either, to reach concrete
agreements on any Aisar~~amen~  issues to which the United Natione  haa Assiqned
greatest priority  and urgency And which hAVe been under ConRiderntion for A
number of yearat

2. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to inteneify its work, to
further its mandate more earnestly through negotiations And to adopt concrete
WeAsUres  on the Specific  priortty  issuea of diRArmAment  on its Agenda, in
particular those relatinq  to nuclear diSArmamentI

3. Once aq's-!i urqes the Conference on Diaaimament  to .:.r,ntinue or to
undertake, during its 1987 session, substantive npqotiations  on the priority
quest ions of  disarmament  on i ts  agenda, In Accordance with tho provisions of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the C*neral Assembly and
other resolutions of the Ans+mhly  on those aurnstions)

a . Calls upon, me Conference on Disarmament tc provide t9e exlatiny
Ad hoc COmmit,'ees  with appropriate neqotirrtirrq  mAndAteR  An6 to eetahliah,  As A
msttes  o f  urqency, the Ad hoc commfttee~ under item 1 of its aqflndll,  entitled
“NIxleAr-teOt ban", on the cessation of the nuclear-arm8 r8ce And nuclear
disarntAIltent  aqd on the prevention of nuclear warp

5. 3rges t h e  Conference! on Diearmament to undertake, without furtl.*r
delay,  neqotiaticlns with A View to elahototinq  A draft ttc?Aty On A
nuclear  -teet banI

6 . Alsb urges the Confetence  on Disarmament tr, intansiEy  further itst
work wi th  A v iew to  completinq  neqatiations  on A draft convent ion on the
complete And effective prohibition of the developllent, production and
RtocCpiLfng of all chemical w+Aponfl And on their dastructtc 11

/ . . .



A/41/842
English
Page 5 5

7 . Requests  the Conference orI Disarmament -0 submit a report on Lts
work tc, the GenerAl Assembly  at ite forty-second  aessiont

8. Decides to include In the provisional agenda of its forty-second
session the item entitled “Report of the Conference on Diearmaaentn.

N

BilAteral  nuclear-arme negOtiatiOnA

The General Aeeemhlyr

Recalling  its resolution 40/18  of 18 November 1985,

Recalling also the Harare Appeal on Disarmament, 39J adopted by the
Eiqhth Conference of Heads of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries on
6 September 1986,

Gravely concerned over the continuing escalation of the Arms race,
especially  in nuclear weapons and other weapon8 of mass destruction, despite
tht? fact ihAt this increases the risk of nuclear war and endangers the
sucviv~l of humanity,

Convinced that the alternative today in the nuclear age ia not between
war OK peace, hut between life and dearth,  which makes the prevention Of
nucleei WAC the principal  tA8k of our times,

Further convinced that international peace and security can be ensured
only throuqh qeneraland  complete disstmament under effective international
control and treat one of the most urqent tasks la to halt and reverse the arms
race And t.o undertake concrete meAsuret3  of disarmament, partiCUlarly  nuclear
disArmAlN?nt,

1. Appc?~l8  to the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialiet Republics
and the Governme,lt of the United StAtes of America to conduct, Fursuant to
their Flpecial  ohliqAtiOn8 And rctaponslhilitiae  AB Zeadinq  nucleat-waapon
StAteFl, thfa!t bilateral negotiations with the greatest rQI#OlVe with A View to
Achieviny ayreementR  on concrete And effective meAsutes for the halting of the
nuclear armA  race, radical reduction of their nuclear armmala,  nuclaar
disarmament and the prevention of An arms race in outer spacer

2 . Invites the two negotiating parties to keep the General ‘ssemhly
duly infors=the  proqreae of their negotiations.

39/ SPP ~/41/697-S/18362,  a n n e x ,  sect.  I .- -

/



A/41/842
English
Page 56

0

Implementation of the recommendations and decisions
of the tenth special SeSSiOn

The General Assembly0

Having reviewed the implementation of the recommendations and decisions
adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth special sessionc E/ the first
special session devoted to disarmament, as vell as the Concluding Document of
the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly, 26/ the second special
session devoted to disarmament,

Recalling its resolutions S-10/2  of 30 June 1978, 34/83  C of
11 December 1979, 35/46 of 3 December  1980, 35/152  E of 12 December 1980,
36/92  M of 9 December 1981, 37/78 F of 9 December 1982, 38/183  Ii of
20 December 1983, 39/148  0 of 17 December 1984 and 40/152  N Of
16 December 1985 and its decision S-12/24 of 10 July 1982,

Deeply concerned that no concrete results regarding the implementation Of
the recommendations and decisions of the tenth special session have heen
realized in the course of more than eight years since that session, that in
the meantime the arms race, particularly in its nuclear aspect, has gained in
intensity, that there has been furthet deployment of nuclear weapons in some

* parts of the wcrrld,  that annual global military expenditures are estimated to
have reached the staggering figure of $1,000 billion, that mankind is faced
with a real danger of spreading the arms race into outer space, that urgent
measures to prevent nuclear war and for disarmament have  not been adopted and
that continued colonial domination and foreign occupation, open threats,
pressures and military intervention against independent States and violations
Of the fundamental principles of the Charter of the United Nations have  taken
place, posing the most serious threat to international peace and security,

Convinced that the escalation of the nuclear-arms race, in both the
quantitative and qualitative dimensions, has heightened the risk of the
outbreak of nuclear war and led to greater insecurity and instability in
international relations,

Further convinced that international peace  and security can be ensured
only through general and complete disarmament under effective international
control and that one of the most urgent tasks is to halt and reverse the arms
race and to undertake concrete measures  of disarmament, particularly nuclear
disarmament, and that, in this respect, the nuclear-weapn States and other
militarily significant States have the primary res-ponsibility,

Relieving that the pteSerVatiOn  of the existing bilateral,  regional and
global System of arms limitation and  disarnwoent  agreements and the strict
observance of such agreements by their parties are important elements of
disarmament e'fforts at all levels,

/ . . .



A/41/842
English
Page 57

Noting with great concern that no real progress in disarmament
negotiations has been achieved in the murse of several years,

Stressing once again that the active participation of Member States in
effective disarmament negotiations is necessary for discharging their
responsibility to contribute to the maintenance of international peace and
security, that all States have the right to contribute to efforts in the field
of disarmament, that is more than ever imperative in the present circumstances
to give a new impetus to negotiations on disarmament, in particular nuclear
disarmament, at all levels and to achieve genuine progress in the immediate
future; and that all States should refrain from any actions which have or may
have negative effects on the outcome of disarmament negotiations,

Reaffirming  that the United Nations has a central role and primary
responsibility in the sphere of disarmament,

Stressinp  that the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, which was unanimously and categorically reaffirmed by all
Member States at the twelfth special session as the comprehensive basis for
efforts towards halting and reversing the arms race, retains all its validity
and that the objectives and measures contained therein still represent one of
the most important and urgent goals to be achieved,

1. Expresses its grave concern over the acceleration and
intensification of the arms race, particularly the nuclear-arms racer which
increase the danger of nuclear war and constitute a threat to the continued
survival of mankind1

2. Calls upon all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States and other
militarily significant States, to take urgent measures in order to promote
international security on the basis of disarmament , to halt and reverse the
arms race and to launch a process of genuine disarmament1

3. Invites all States, particularly nuclear-weapon States and
especially those among them which possess the most important nuclear arsenals,
to take urgent measures with a view to implementing the recommendations and
decisions contained in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, as well as to fulfilling the priority tasks set forth in the
Programme of Action contained in section III of the Final Documents

4 . Calls upan  the tvo leading nuclear-weapon States to pursue their
negotiations with renewed determination and taking into account the interest
of the entice international community in order to halt the arms race,
particularly the nuclear-arms race , reduce substantially their nuclear
arsenals, prevent the arms race in outer space and undertake effective
measures of nuclear disarmament)

5. Calls upon the Conference on Disarmament to prcxxed urgently to
negotiations on the cessation of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear disarmament
and on the prevention of nuclear war, to intensify negotiations on the
prevention of an arms race in outer space and to elaborate drafts of treaties
on a nuclear-test ban and on a complete and effective prohibition of the

/ . . .



A/41/842
Engl  iah
Page 58

devalopmmnt,  production and stockpiling of all chemical weapona and on their
domttuction,

6. Csllr upon the Diaarmament  Commiaaian to intensify  itn work in
accordance with Ita mandate with a view to making concrete recommendatianm on
epocific itoma  o n  i t s  agenda)

7. InvIta all Stab8 engaged in disarmament and armu limitation
neqotiationa  outride the framework of the United Nation8 to keep the General
Aemombly and the Conferonce on Diearmament informed on tho statue and/or
tomulta  of such negotiation@, in conformity with the relevant provisions of
the F i n a l  Dccumont  o f  the T e n t h  S p e c i a l  Seeslon~

8. Docidoa  to include in the provlaional  aqenda of itn forty-8ecor.d
session the Item entitled “Implementstian  of the recommendatianfl  and deciaione
of tho tenth special session”.

P

Report of the Conference on Disarmament

The Ganoral Assembly,

mallinq the relevant portion8 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Spatial Sem#ion of the General As#iembly, lJ the fitfit special aeaaion devoted
to dimarmammnt,  in particular paragraph 120 of the Final Document,

Convinced Yrat the Conference on Disarmament, aft the ninqlo multilateral
diaarmamont n e g o t i a t i n g  f o r u m , should play a central role in the
implementation  of the Programme of Action set forth in eection  III of thn
Fix1 Document of the Tenth Special Seesion of the General Assembly,

Having considered  the report of the Conference on Di8armoment,  ?z/ which
the  Conferonce  adopted by conseneua,

1. Takes note of the report on the 1986 eeeeion of the Conference on
Disarmament 1

2 . Requests the Conference on Disarmament to eubmit  a report on itR
work to the General Assembly at its forty-second aeesiont

3. Decides to include in the provisional aqenda of ita forty-second
session the item entitled “Report of the Conference on Disarmament”.

Veriflc;ation  in all its aspecte

The General  Aaeembly,

Recalling ita resolution  40/152  0 of 16 December 1985,

/ . . .



A/41/842
English
Paqe 59

Conscious of the urgent need to reach agreement8 on arme limitation and
diaarmament meanures capable of cnntrihutinq  to the maintenance of peace and
Recur ity,

Convinced that, if such measures are to be effective, they muat be fair
and balanced, scceptable to all parties, their substance muet be clear and
compliance with them must be evident,

Noting that the importance of verifLcation of and compliance with
aqraementc ia univer eally recognized,

Reaffirming its convsction, ae expreesed in paragraph 91 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, 17/ adopted by
confieneurr  at that Reunion, it8 first special Resaion devoted to2iaarmament,
that in order to facilitate the conclusion and effective implementation of
disarmament agreements and to create confidence, States should accept
appropriate provision8 for verification in Ruth aqreementfl,

Reiterating its view that:

(a) Diaarmament and arms limitation agreementa  ehould provide for
adequate measurse of verification Patinfactory  to all parties concerned in
order to create the necessary confidence and to ensure that they are beinq
obeerved hy all parties,

(b) The form and modalities of the verification to he provided for in
any specific aqreament depend upon and should be determined by the purposes,
ncope and nature  of the aqrcement,

(cl Aqreement8 should provide for the participfition of partiee directly
OK throuqh the United Nations system in the verification proceflR,

(d) Where rrppropr  iate, a combination of Reveral methods of verification
an well a~ other compliance procedures should be employed,

Rwalliny that:

(a) In the context of international disarmament neqotiatione, the
problem of verification should he further examined and &sauate method8  and
procedures in thie field should he considered,

(h) Every effort Rhould he mode to develcp appropriate methods and
proceduren that ace non-discriminatory and that do not unduly interfere with
the internal affairs of other Staten or ‘jeopardize  their sconomic and social
davel. pment,

Relieving that verification techniqurrs shoultl  be developed  ae an
ohjectivc? means of determininq coml)liance  with aqreements and appropriately
taken into account in the course of disarmament  naqotiationn,



A/41/842
English
Paqe 60

1. Calls upon Member  States to increaee their efforts towardR achieving
agreement8  on balanced, mutually acceptable, comprehensively verifiable and
effective arm8 limitation and disarmament meamtes#

2. Tskee note with appreciation of the report of the
Secretary-General 4& containing the views and auqqestione  of Memher StateR on
verification principles, procedurce  and techniaues, and encourages  all States
that have not already done so to communicate to the Secretary-General, not
later than 31 March 1987, their views and suggestions on verification
Principles a8 invited by the Aesembly in its resolution 40/152  01

3. MUrges individual ember States and groups of Member State8
posreseing  verification expertiae to consider means by which they can
contribute to, and promote the inclusion of , sdeauate  verification meaeuree in
atdo limitation and disarmament agreements1

4. Reaueste  the Disarmament Commieeion to consider at its 1987 aeosion,
in the context of pureuing qeneral and complete disarmament under effective
international control, verification in all its ampecta,  including principles,
provisions and technique8 to promote the inclueion of adequate verification in
arm8 limitation and diearmament agreementa and the role of the United Nations
and ite Member States in the field of verification, and to report on ita
deliheratione, conclusions and recommendations to the General Aesembly at its
forty-second cession in 19871

5. Reaueete  the Secretary-General to prepare for the Disarmament
Commiesion at its Rubetantive  session in 1987 a compilation of the views
received from Member State8  on this issue!

6 . Dek.idea  to include in the provisional agenda of ite forty-second
session the item entitled Werification  in all its aspects” under the item
entitled WReview  of the implementation of the recommendations and decieione
adopted by the General Aeeembly at ita tenth special eeesionr tmplementation
of the recommendations and decieionfl of the tenth epecial eefiaion”.

R

Study on det,er r ence

The General Aerrembly  ,

Recallin% its decision 39/423  of 17 December 1984, by which it recueated
the Secretary-General to prepare a atudy undet the title “mterrenceg itFl
implicationa for disarmament  and the arma race, neqot la ted arme reductions and
international eecurity  and Other  related m&tt(?ra”,

40/ A / 4 1 / 4 2 2 and Add.1 and 2.

/ . . .



A/41/842
English
Page 61

Raving examined the report of the.Sectetary-General  containing the
study, 411

1. Expresses its appreciation to the Sectetary-General  and the Group of
Governmental Experts who assisted him in the preparation of the studyr

2. Commends the study to the attention of all Member States?

3. Reauests the Secretary-General to make the necessary arrangements
for the reproduction of the study as a United Nations publication ana to give
it the widest possible distribution.

* l *

DRAFT DECISION

69. The First Committee recommends to the General
following decision:

Assembly the adoption of the

Comprehensive programme of disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 38/183 K of 20 December 1983, 39/148 I of
17 December 1984 and 40/152 D of 16 December 1985, in which it requested the
Conference on Disarmament to submit to the General Assembly at its forty-first
session a complete draft of the comprehensive programme of disarmament,

Having examined the report of the Ad Hoc Committee on the Comprehensive
Programme of Disarmament concerning its work during the 1986 session of the
Conference on Disarmament, g/ which is an integral part of the report of the
Conference, and noting the recommendation contained therein that work on the
elaboration of the programme be resumed at the beginning of the Conference’s
1987 session for the purpose of completing that task during the first part of
that session and submitting a complete draft of the programme to the General
Assembly at that time,

Decides to keep open agenda item 62 (d) in order to allow the Conference
on Disarmament to conclude the elaboration of the comprehensive programme of
disarmament during the first part of its 1987 session and to submit a complete
draft of the programme to the General Assembly at that time.

w--m-

4l/ A/41/432 and Corr.1.

42/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-first Session, Supplement
No. 27, (A/41/27), paras. 106 and 107.


