







































UNITED
NATIONS

A
_.._.__  _._____  “_.  __ --_  . . ___---  ._-. -.-_c.-- -_--.  -- ..-  _.__.._.._.._  ___~, ___ .-__.  ._-  ..I--._  -“- .__- ---..--

Dietr.
G E N E R A L

A/42/7 S1
19 November 1967

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-ascend oseeion
Agenda item 63

REVIEW AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONCLUDING DCCUMENT  Oti
THE TWELFTH SPECIAL SESSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

Report of the Firat Committee

Rapgorteur;  Mr. Kdzimiern  ‘NMASZEWSKI  (Po1ar.d)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. The itom  entitled!

“Review and impllmel,tation  of ?he Concludictg  Document o f  t h e  Twelfth
Special  Sesrsion  o f  t h e  Goneral  Aosembly:

’ (a) Reqinnal diearmanent: r e p o r t  of the Secretary-General8

” (b) World Dinarmamant  Campaiqnr report  of  the  secrethry-General1

“(c) [Jrited  Nationrl  Regional  Centre  for  Peace and Diaarmamont  in Africa:
report of the Secretary-General)

“(d) Freeze o n  nucioar weapon61

“(e) Convention on the Prohibition of t h a  Uao  o f  Nuclear  Weapons;  repor t  of
the Conference on Diearmnmontt

“(f) llnitod  Nations programme of fellowships on disarmament: report of the
Secretary-General t

“(g) Implementation of General Aeoembly resolut.ion  4i./‘60  T on 6 nuclear-arme
freozf;r

“(h) United Nattonn Roqlonal  Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in
Latin  America: repor t  0: the Secretary-General”

H7-30374  057SP (IS) 3\p / . . .



A/42/751
English
Page 2

was included in the provisional agenda of the forty-second session in accordance
with General Assembly resolutions 39/63  F of 12 December 1984 and 41/60  A, %I  D, RI
F, R, I and J of 3 December 1986.

2 . At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1987, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to aLlocate  it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 1 October , the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items 48 to cigo
followed by statements on specific disarmament agenda items and a continuation of
the general debate, as necessary. -The deliberations on those items took place
between the 3rd and the 31st meetings, from 12 October to 3 November (See
A/C. 1/42/W.  3-31) .

4 . In connection with item 63, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a)  Rep+Xt of the Conference on Disarmament; L/

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on regional disarmament (A/42/457);

(c)  Report of the Secretary-General on the World Disarmament Campaign
(A/42/543)  I

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America (A/42/544);

[e) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace and Disarmament in Africa ‘1A/42/609)  I

(f)  ’ Report of the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Studies (A/4266111  ;

(g)  Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations programme of
fellowships on disarmament (A/42/693);

(h) Letter dated 2 March 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/160-S/18733);

(i) Letter dated 30 March 1987  from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the concluding documents of the regular

Y Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-second Session,
Supplement No. 27 W42/27)  l

/ . . .



A/42/751
English
Page  3

eelasian  of the Committee of Minietere  for Foreign Affaira of the S t a t e s  partiee  to
the Warsaw Treaty of Yriendahip,  Co-operation and Mutual Assistance, held in Moeaow
on 24 and 25 March 1987 (A/42/189-S/16768)1

Cj) Letter deted 15  April 1987 from the Permanent Repreeentative  of the Union
of Soviet  Socialist  Republics to  t h e  United Nationa addreeeed  to the
Sscretary-General  (A/42/2:1-9/18816)  1

(k)  Letter  dated 29 May 1.987 from the Permanent Representative of the German
Democratic Republic to the United Nations addrek!sed  to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the text of tha aommuniqub and document8 adopted at the oeesion of the
Politiaal Consultative Committee of the States parties to the Wareaw Treaty of
Friendehip,  Co-operation and Mutual Assietance,  held in Berlin on 28 and
2E May 1987 (A/42/313-S/18880)  J

(I.)  Letter dated 28 May 1987 from the repreoentativee  of Argentina, Greece,
India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the United Nations
addressed  to the Secretary-General, tranemit.tlny  the text of the joint etatement
dated 22 May 1.987 of the Pteeident of 4rgentina, the Prime Minister  of Greece,  the
Prime Minieter  of India, the Preerident of Mexico, the Prime Minister  of Sweden and
the Firat President  of the United Republic of Tanzania (A/42/319-S/18694)1

(m) Latter d&ted 23 July 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet  Socialist  Republica  t o  t h e  United Nationfs  addraeaed  to  the
Secretary-General (A/42/418-5/18994) 1

in) Letter dated 9 October 1987 from the Permanent Repreaentativee  of
Arqentina,  Greeae,  I n d i a ,  Mexico, Sweden and the Unitocl Republic of Tanzania to the
United Nations addreeoed  to the Secretary-General, tranemittinq the tent of the
joint etatement iaeued on 7 October 1987  by the Provident  of Argentina, the Prime
Minister of Greece, the Prime Minister of India, the Preeident  of Mexico, tho Prime
Minister of Sweden and tho Firat President of the United Republic of Tanzania
iA/42/652-S/19201)  1

(0) Letter dated 19 October 1987 from the Permanent Rayrsflentative  of Canada
to the United Nation&  addroanod to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
Vancouver Declaration on World  Trade, the Okanagan Statement on Southern Afr ice and
Programme of Action and the communique of the Moetinq of the Communwonlth  Head8  Of
Government, held at Vancouver, Canada, from 13 to 17 October 1987 (A/42/677)1

(P) Letter dated 23 October 1987 from the Permanent ReprWentative  of
Zimbabwe to the United Netione  addreseed  tr,  the Secretary-General, tranemitting the
final communique of the Meetinq of Minietero  for Foreiqn  Affairs and Heads Of
Deleqation  of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countriaa  to the  forty-second  Reeeion  of
the General Aaaembly,  held in New York from 5 to 7 October 1987 (A/42/681).

/ . . .



A/42/751
English
Page 4

II . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft reeo.lutAo~r  A/C.l./42/L.  1’3. -

5. On 23 Ootober, Cyprus eubmitted a draft resolution, ontitled  “Review  and
implementation of the ConaluUing  Document of the Twelfth Speaial Seaeion of the
General Aeeembly~ (A/C.1/42/L.13),  which was introduced by ite representative at
the 28th meeting, on 2 November.

6. At it8  40th meeting, on 11 Nowmber, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/42/L.13  by a recorded vote of 103 to 1, with 21 abetentions (see  para. 38,
draft  resolution A). The voting waq aa  followal

I n  favours

Aqainatl

Abetaininqr

Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbadoe,  Benin, Bhutan,  Bolivia, Botswana,  Braeil,  Brunei
Darusaalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Fabso,  Burma, Burundi, Byelocuesian
Soviet Sooialiet Republic, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chile, China, Colombba,  Congo, Costa R ica ,  Cdte d’fvoire,  Cuber
Cyprua, Czetohoelovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Dominiaan Republia, Eouador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon,
German Demooratio Republia, Ghana, Greeue,  Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bieaau,  Hungary, India, Indoneeia, Iran (Ielamic  Republic
of) I Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’8  Democratic
Republio,  LerJotho,  L ibe r i a , Libyan Arab Jamshiriya, Madagaecar,
Malawi, Malayeib,  Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia,
Moroaoo,  Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Dmanr
Pakietan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Qatar, Romania, Saudi  Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,  Somalia,  Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Bwaailand,  Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republiaa,  United Arab
Emiratee, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Ven8ZUelat ViQt
Nam,  Yemen, Yugoelavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Unit8d State8  of America.

Auetralia, Auetria,  Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany,  Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, I ta ly ,
Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlande,  New Zealand, Norway, Portugal,
Spain, Sweden, United  Kinqdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.

n. Draft reglolut ion A/C. 1/42/L. 23

7. On 26 October 1987, Bulgaria, tke Byelorueeian S o v i e t  Socialiert  Republic, the
German Democratic Republic, Monyolia,  Romania, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialiet
Republic and Viet Nam eubmitted a draft resolution, entitled “World Diearmament
Campa iq n I actions and activitiee”  (A/C.l/42/L.  23). The draft reeolution was
introduced by the reproeentative  of Bulgaria at the 33rd meeting, on 4 November,
and read aa followsr

/ . . .



A/42/7 51
English
Page 5

Vhe Qeneral  Aaeembly,

'Aware  of the growing public ooncern  at the dangerfl of the arms race,
par’iic=y the nuclear-arms race1 and its negative eocial  and econonic
cor.seguenoea)

WNoting  with aatiefaction the eucceeeful  implementation of the World
Diaarmament  Campaign and ite positive impact on the mobiSlzation  on a large
scale of world publio opinion on behalf of peace  and diubrmament,

nRecallinq  ita  reeolutione 36/92  J of 9 Derlember 1981, 37/100  H Of
13 December 19R2, 38/73  F of 15 December 1983, 39/63  A of 12 December 1984,
40/151  D of 16 December 1985 and 41/60  A ot 3 December 1986,

nWelaominq  the voluntary oqntributione  made to the World Diearmament
Campaign Truet Fund to carry out the objectives of the Campaign,

“Taking into account the report of the Secretary-General on the progress
and implementation of the programme of activitiee  of ths Campaign,  y

“Convinced that the United Naticne  eyetem, Member atatee, with reepect
for their sovereign righte, and other btiies, in  particular ~on-governmental
organizatione,  all have their role to play in achieving l he objective5  of the
Campaign, u

n8eliWinq  that world public opinion could contribute effectively to the
positive outcome of the third special seeeion  of the General Aaeembli devoted
to diearmament,

“Expreeeinq it61  satisfaction over  the great number of variouu activities
carried out within tho framewrk  of the Campaign in support of IIIE)&8’lrea  to
prevent nuclear war I to curb the arme race and  for disar~amont,

“1. Reaffirms the ueefulneoe  of further carrying out actions ard
activitieee  an imflrtant manifestation of the will o f  world I Llfc
opinion rnd contr ibute effectively to the  achievement of the  olylectives  of the
World Disarmament Campaign, and thue to the creation of a favourable climate
for making progrew  in the field of disarmament with a view to achiavirrg the
goal of general and complete disarmament under effective intsrnationol ;>ntrolj

*2. Reaffirma  aleo  the importance of carrying out the Campaign in
accordance with the priori t ies  in  tho field of disarmament eethbliehod  in the

21 A/42/543.

y Official Hecotde of the General Aeeambly,  Twelfth Special Sosaion,
Annexe@,  a g e n d a  iteme 9-13, document A/S-12/32, annex V.

I’.  I.



A/42/791
English
Page 6

Final Document of the Tenth Special Saeeion  of the Qeneral  Aeelembly,  i/ the
first epecial  eeoeion devoted to t!ie6rmament, taking into aocount  that  the
aesraation  o f  nuclear-weapon68  teate, the adoption of effective meawrea for
nualear diearmanent, the prevention of an arms race in outer space anA  the
prevention of nuclear war have the highest priority!

n3. Calls upon Qovernmento  of all States to lecogr,ize  and respect  the
morte  peace and disarmament movements ao an important faator of current world
polit ics contributing to the promotion of a  new poli t ical  approach required  by
the realities of the nuclear and space  age!

“4. Invite8 all maee  peace and diearmament movemente, non-governmt.W%l
orgnnizatione and other bodice to express  in an appropriate form their
demandcl,  views and suggeetione with respeat  to the taeke and specific rssultn
of the third epeaial  seesion of the General  Aaeembly  devoted  to diaarmamontt

HS. Urqes  Governments of all Statoo, eepecially t h e  nuclear-weawn
States and other militarily significant States, in formulating their policiee
in the field of disarmament, to take into account the main demands of the maa0
peace and disarmament movements, in particular with regard to the immediate
ceaeation and prohibit ion of all  nuclear-weapon teste,  the prevention of an
arm race in outer space and ita  termination on Earth, and invites them to
inf!orm  the Secretary-Qensral  annually on bhe  actions takon to  that  endI

“6. Recommondo that, in carrying out the Campaign, due regard should be
given to important daten and annivoroarioa  related to international peace  and
aecuri  tyj

H-
1. Coneiders it necessary, the future of  mankind being at Gtake, tha t

more attention ehould be paid ta the active involvement of  children and youth
in Campaign activitiaej

H8. Invites once again  Mombor Statee  to co-operate with the Unltod
Nation@ to ermure a  botter  f low of accurate  information with  rsyard  to  the
various aepecte of diearmament, aa well a8  actiona a.rd activities of the worlt l
public in Rupport  of peace  and diearmament, rind to avoid dineemination  of
f;Ilae and tondontious information)

” 9 , Requaate  the Secretary-Genorel, in lmplsmonting the programme of
ectivitien of the Campaign, to give wider pub1icit.y to  the work of  the  General
Assembly  in  the  field of disarmament, paying due attention, in portictilnr, to
the propoaels  of  Member  Sta tes  and the action  taken  thereon1

“1.0.  A l s o  raquoatn t h e Rocre tary-Genera l  to  repor t  annuillly to the
General  Assembly on the implamentatian of  the provisions of t h e  proflent
resolution.  W

i/ RnRolution S-10/2.

/ . . .



Il. A t  t h e  reyuset  of thr! sponnoia,  n o  nctlon  wu  taken  o n
A/C.  1/42/L, 23,

c. Draft refialut ion A/C. 1/42/t. 27

A/42/7 51
15ng  1 I sh
Page  7

draft.  r e s o l u t i o n

9. On 27 October, India  dnd R o m a n i a  submitted  P draft  resolution,  enti t led
“Freeze on nucie4r  weaponh” (A/C.l/42/L.27),  which was introduced by the
reprenentstive  of India at the 32nd meeting, on 4 November.

10. At ite 37th meeting,  on 9 November, the  Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.  27 by a recordad  vote ol 113 to 12, with  4  obatentions  ( s e e  para.  18,
d r a f t  rceolution  Ia). T h e  voting was as  followa,

I n  favourr A l b a n i a ,  Algeria,  Angola, A r g e n t i n a ,  Austria,  Bahamas,  Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, nolivia,  Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darusaalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,  B u r m a ,  Byelorusaian
Soviet  Socialist  Republic,  Cameroon,  Central  African Republic,
Chile, Colombia, Conqo, Coata  Rica, C&e  d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cypru8,
Czechoelovakia,  Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,  Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Biak’ J, Guyana,  Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia ,  I ran
(Ielsmic  Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait,  Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagbocar,  Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali,  Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Now Zealand,
Nicarnguo, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Saudi Arebla, Sctneqal, Singapore, Solomon IRlalids,  Somalia, Sri
L8nka,  Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden,  Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo,  Trinidad end Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda,- Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist  Republic,  U n i o n  of Soviet  Socialist  Republic8 United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,  Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet  Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
I t a l y , Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Turkey, Untted Kingdom
of Great  Bri tain and Northern Ireland,  United  Statea  of America.

Abetnininqr Austral ia ,  China,  Japan,  Spain.

n. Draft  reooluticn  A/C. 1/42/I,.  28

11. On  27  tktohnr,  Algeria,  Argentina, Banqladeeh, Bhutan, Ecuador,  qypt,
Ethiopia,  India,  Indonesia,  Romania a n d  Yugoslavia  eubmitted  a draft  resolution,
entitled “Convention on the prohibition of the use of nuclear weapons”
(A/C.l/42/L.28),  which was later albo oponoored  by Madaqaecar and xiet Nam. The
draft  resolut ion was introduced b y  the representativeof  India a t  t h e  3 2 n d  mestinq,
on 4 November.

/ . . .



A/42/751
English
Page 8

12. At its 38th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft reeolution
A/C,l/42/L.28  by a recorded vote of 103 to 17, with 5 abstentions (see para.  38,
draft resolution C) , The voting was as followsr

I n  favour8 Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Sooialiot Republic,  Central  African Republic,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Riaa, C&e  d@Ivoire,  Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Demoarertic  Yemen,
Djibout.i,  Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Blsoau,  Guyana, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Pecple’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco,  Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singa,.xe, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialirlt
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republice,  United Arab
Emirates, United Republia of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against  J Australia, Belgium, Canada,  Denlnark,  France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Groat
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Staten  of America,

Abstaininqt Greece, Ireland, Israel, Japan, Saa Tome and Princiw.

E. Draft resolution A/C. 1/42/L. 30

13. On 27 October, Nepal submitted a draft resolution, entitled “United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia” (A/C.1/42/L.30),  which WIS
introduced by its reproaentative  at the 35th meeting, on 6 November.

14. At the 42nd meeting, on 12 November, the sponsor oral ly revised operat ivo
paragraph 2  of’ draft  resolution A/C.1/42/L.30,  a s  follows:

(a) In line 2, the word “of” af ter  the word “activitieo” wad replecod by the
words “mutually ogreod upon by”r

(b) In line 4, the word “reutilization” was replaced by the word
Hutilizationn.

15. In connection with draft  reeolut.‘on A/C.L/42/L.30,  t.hQ Committee had before i t
a note by the Secretariat  (A/C.1/42/L.84) concerning the requests made to the

/ . . .



A/42/351
English
Page 9

Saaretary-General in the  draPt  ronolution, and the Becretariat  provided oral
clerification thereto at ths 4%~~  meeting,  on 12 November,

16. At the same  m e e t i n g ,  the Committee adopt&  draft  reoolution A/C.  1/42/L.30,  aa
orally revinod, without a  vote  (NO  per&,  3f1, draft reoolution  13).

F. Draf!t  reoolution A/C.l/42/L.47

17. On 27 October,  Austria, Ranqladonh, Belqium, Bulunrie, Camaroon.  Canada. Coat%
Rica, Czochoelovakia,  Dsnmerk,  Finlang France), Germany, Federal Rapublic  of,
Qreoce,  H u n g a r y ,  Ice land,  Italy, Libsri(r, Malayoia, tha  NQtherlandaI,  Ncrwa~~
Pakis tan,  Poland,  Portuqal,  -Jmtrnia, Spa!n,  Swsdon,  the United Kinedom  of  Chat
Britain and Narthorn Ireland and Zaire eubmitted  a drat’t reoolution, entitled
“Regional dinarmament”  (A/C. 1/42/mj . The draft. roaolution was  introduood by the
representative of’ Dolyium  at +he 34th  mooting, on (I Novombor.

18. At tho 40th  meeting, on 11 Novemhr, the apjnnorn oral ly  reviewd  oporativ0
parargraph  6 of tha draft resolution, ir,oorting  (1  comma aftur tho word nAfCsirom,
a n d  r-eplacinq  the word “in” b y  “are’  i n  line 4.

19. At tha numo  meeting, t n e  Committee  adoptad  d r a f t  renolution  A/C.  1/42/L.47,  IO
o r a l l y  reviaod, without a  voto  (aoe  para.  3S,  draf t  roaolutlon  El *

0. Draft ronolut ion A/C. 1/42/L. 48And  Wgv, 1

20, On 27 October, thu  Fader01  Hopublic of  Germany  oubmittad  a d r a f t  reoolution
e n t i t l e d  “Consideration  fiidolineo f o r  conf!idonce-building  meaouree”
(A/C. 1/42/L. 48) .

21. O n  10  Novombor ,  Cameroon,  Cdnntla,  Coatn  Rica, Gnrmnny,  IWaral  Her&hlic  OF;C
Hunqary  and #waden  nubmittod a  roviaed draft rotiolution  (A/c!.  1/42/L, 48/Rav.  1) t
w h i c h  wan  later alao aponoorod  b y  t h e  Uyolorufinian  !Wvicrt  SoclaA:nt  FM@lber,
Qreecn,, and Poland. T h o  roviutxf draf!t  rorrolltion WAU  introduood b y  the
rapraeontativo  of t h o  Podoral  Hopublic o f  Germany a t  t h u  39th  Ineating,  o n
10  Novombor, a n d  contained  tho fol lowinq  chenyoo:

(a) I n  thr., Pirnt l i n e  of t h e  aocond  preambulnr paragraph  t.hu  worda “rwont
dovolopmuntn in the Eiold  c>t dioarmomont  and”, nftor  t h o  wordo “Con~lderlnq  t h a t . “ ,
were duleted  1

! : 1 Thor  oporativo  paragraph, which had ro&rll

“Heque@ta t h o  Preparatory Commit toe for  t h e  Third Wecinl Soeuion  ot’  the
Goners1  AeEsembly  Devoted  t o  Dinarmament  t o  include  the connidoration  0”
quidelinee for conf  idonce-buildinq  meatluton  under i tem 12 of th@ provirional
agenda  of the t h i r d  spctcial ne,:Rion  o f  thn  Generaal  Anwmbly  tlovot.@d  to
diearmament”,

/ . . .



A/42/751
English
Page 10

was replaced by an operative paragraph, reading:

"Requests the Disarmament Commission to consider, at its 1988 session,
the above-mentioned draft guidelines with a view to finalising them in the
must expeditious manner to be determined by that body".

22. At the 41st meeting, on 12 November, the sponsors orally revised the third
preambular  paragraph of draft resolution A/C.1/42/L.48/Rev.l,  inserting, after the
the word "security", in line 2, the words *and for promoting and facilitating the
attainment of disarmament measures”.

23. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.48/Rev.l,  as Orally revised , without a vote (see pat-a.  38,  draft
resolution P).

H. Draft resolution A/C.1/42/L.SQ  and Rev.1

24. On 27 October, Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Wexico, Pakistdn,  Peru, Sri
Lanka, Sweden, Venezuela and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution, entitled
"World Disarmament Campaign" (A/C.1/42/L.50),  which was later also sponsored by
Romania. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Mexico at
the 36th meeting, on 9 November,

25. On 10  November, Bangladesh, Bulgaria* Egypt, Indonesia, MexicoI  Pakistan,
Peru, Romania, Sri Lanka, Sweden, Venezuela and Yugoslavia submitted a revised
draft resolution (A/C.1/42/L.5O/Rev.l),  which was later also sponsored by the
Byelorussian  Soviet Socj.alist  Republic and Viet Nam, The revised draft reSOlutdOn
was introduced by the representative af Wexico at the 41st  meeting, on 12 Nwember,
and contained the following chanqeb:

(a) A new fifth preambular paragraph was added, reading:

'%elLevina  that the World Disarmament Campaign has an Important  ro&?  to
play  for a positive outcome of the third special sessfon  of the GeneraP,
Assembly devoted to disarmament, by informing, educating and generatS..%q  public
understanding and support for the objectives of the United Nations in &tie
field of arms limitations and disarmament";

(b3 A new operative paragraph was added as operative paragraph 8, reading:

“8. Requests the Secretary-General, in carrying out the activities of
the World Disarmament Campaign contemplated for 1988, to give particular
attention to the third special session of the General Assembly devoted to
disarmament'

and the subsequent paragraphs were renumbered accordingly.

At its 42nd meeting, on 12 November, the Committee
$.1/42/L.5o/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 119 to 1, with

adopted draft resoluticrn
IO  abstentions (see

para. 38, draft resolution G). The voting was as fPllows:

/..I



A/42/751
English
Page 11

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austral$ar
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalamr  Bulgaria, Burkina
Fast, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congon Costa
Rica, C&e d*Ivoire,  Cub%, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Mungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,  Ireland, XSPael,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar*
Malawi, Malaysia,  Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Borway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore@ Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venesuelar
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining: Belgium, Cameroon, Canada, France, Germany, P&era1  Republic of,
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.

I. Draft resolution WC.1/42/L.57

27. On 27 October, Indonesia, Mexico* Pakistan, Peru and Sweden submitted % draft
resolution, entitled "Implementation of General Assembly resolution 41/60 I on a
nuclear-arms freesen (A/C.1/42&57),  which was later also sponsored by Romania.
The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Mexico at the 36th
meeting, on 9 November.

28. At its 37th meeting, on 9 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.L/42/L.S7  by a recorded vote of 114 to 13, with 2 abstentions (see para. 38,
drafr resolution a). The voting was as follows: 5/

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,'Austr$a,  Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia@  Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria*  Burkina Faso, Burma, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African,Republ$c,

21 Subsequentlyr  the delegation of Sweden indicated that it had intended to
vote in favour of the draft resolution.

-
J . . .



A / 4 2 / 7 5 1
English
Page 12

Againetr

Abataininq:

Chile, Colombia, Congo, Coeta Rioa,  C&e d@Xvoire, Cuba, Cygcue,
Czeohoslovakia,  Demoaratio Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, DominiUan
Republia, Uouador,  Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German
Demooratio  Republic,  Ghana, Weeoe, Guatemala, Quinoa,
Guinea-Bieeau,  Quyanrr,  H u n g a r y ,  Ioeland, Indis,  Intloneeia,  Iran.
(Islamic Republio  of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaiaa, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Demwratic Hepublia,  Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jbmahiriya,  Madagaeaar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Morouoo,  Moeambique,  Nepal,
New  qealand,  Nioaragua,  Niger, Nigetia,  Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippinea,  Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, 8eneqa1,  Singapore,  Solomon
Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swasiland, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Wandat
Ukrainian Soviet Swialiet  ReQUblio,  Union of Soviet Soaialiet
Republiae,  United Arab Emiratea, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Veneouela,  Viet  Nam, Y e m e n ,  Yugoelavia, Zaire, Zambia,
2 imbabwe .

Belgium, Canada, Franoe, Uermany, Federal Republia of, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Qreat  Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
Amer ica.

China, Spain.

J . Draft resolution A/C.1/42/L.58  and Rev.1

29, On 27 October, Algeria, Argentina, The Bahamae,  Bolivia, Brazil, Camermn,  the
German Democratic! Republia, Qreeoet,  Indoneeia, Kenya, Mali, Moroaoo,  Nepal,
Nigeria, Senegal,  Somalia, the ISudan,  Uganda, the United Republia of Tanzania&
Veneauela,  Viet Nam, Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe submitted a draft reeolution,
entitled “United Nation8  programme of fellowships on diearmament” (A/C. 1/42/L*  58) .

30. On 30 October, Algeria, Argentina, The Bahamas, Bolivia, Brasil, CamcWon,  the
German Democratic Republio,  Greeoe,  Indonesia, Kenya, Mali, Morcxco, Nepal,
Nigeria, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Uganda, United Republia of Tanzania, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Zaire, Zambia and Zimbabwe submitted a reviead  draft resolution
(A/C.l/42/L.SP/Rev.l),  which was  later also eponeored  by Ethiopia, germany,  Federal
Republic of, Liberia, Sri Lanka and Tunisia, @nd which wae  hntrorluced  by the
representative of Nigeria at the 30th meeting, on 3 November. The revised draft
resolution contained the following changeal

(a) In the third line  of  the first preambular paragraph, the words “to
eetsblleh  a programme of fellowehips  on diearmament” were ineerted after the words
“the firet special  eeesion  devoted to diaarmament,“j

/ . . .



A/42/751
Englil3h
Page 13

(b) Tho fifth proamhuler  paragraph, which had read8

“Coneidorinq  that thy diearmamoFt fellowship programme,  which is now in
it.a ninth year, ehr~ld  b e  aeeoeaad  it1 a l l  respecta,  inoludinc;  i t s  t r a i n i n g
component and advbeory  ~ecvicee, from the point of view of ite  achiovomonto,
shortcomings, potentiality and further e~olutior~“~

wau  deleted)

(c) Operative paragraph 2, which had roadr

“2. Raquaste the Secretary-General to undertake the above-mentioned
aoeeosment and to report thereon to the General Atsoombly  at its third opecinl
aoaaion  devoted to diearmnnwnt  with appropriate recommendationo  concerning the
further evolution of the programme”,

was deleted and the subsequent paragrapha  were renumbered acaordingly.

31. In connection with draft resolution A/C.1/42/L.5t3/Wev.l,  the Secretary-Goners1
submitted a etaterlrent  on its programme buc3get  impliaationc (A/C.  1/42/L. 78) l

32. At its 38th meeting, cm 10 Nove;nber, tha Committee adopted draft reaolution
A/C.1/42/L.SS/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 129 to 1 (see pare. 38, draft
reeolution I) , The voting was  as followot

In favour, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austrelia,  Auatriu, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botewana,  Brazil, Brunei Darussallm,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelotuseian  Soviet Soaialist  Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central Afrioan  Republio, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rioa,  C&e B’Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Caeohoslovakia,
Democratic  Kampuchea, Demouratic  Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Eouador,  Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France,
Gabon, German Democratic Reprtblio, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,  Guinea, Quinea-Bieeru,  Guyana, HungPrY,
Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland,  Israel,  Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya,  Luxembourg, Madagaecar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mnlta, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway#
Oman, Pakietan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

/ . . .



A/42/751
Engliah
P a g e  1 4

Againetr United States of America.

Abetaininqr None.

K. Draft reeolut ion A/C, 1/42/L. 62

33. On 27 October, Madagascar,  on behalf of the State8  Members of the United
Nations that are member8  of the African Group, eubmitted a draft  resolution,
entit led ‘United Ntltiona Regional  Centre for  Peace and Disarmament in Africa’
(A/C.1/42/L.62),  which was  introduced  by i ts  repreeentative at th@  30th meeting, on
3 November.

34. At ite 38th mettting, on 10  November, the Committee adopted draft reeolutior\
A/C.1/42/L.62  by a recorded vote of  131 to  none (see  para.  38, draft
reeolution J) . The voting WUB  88  fol lower

Xn favourr Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Auetralia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladeoh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutarl, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Daru88alam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Fauo,
Burma, Burundi, Byeloruesian  Soviet Sooialiet Republic, CamerOOnr
Canada, Central Afriaan  Republia, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Coeta  Riaa,  C&e d@Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprue, C8eahoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, France,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic Of,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bisuau,  Guytna,  Hungdry,
Iceland,  I n d i a ,  Indoneeia,  I r a n  (Ielamic Rapublio o f ) ,  I r a q ,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,  Kuwait,
Lao People’s  Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Luxembourg, Madagaeoar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldivee, Mali, %aIta, Mexico, Mongolia, Moroaco,  Biozambique,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niaaragua,  Nigeria, NorwaC
Oman, Pakietan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal,  Qatar, komania,  Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thaiiand,  Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Sovic?t  Socialiet
Republic,  Union of Soviet  Socialist  Republice,  United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, United Staten  of America, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoelavia,  Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aqainstr

Abstaining! None.

/ . . .



A/4 2/7  51
Englislh
rage 15

L. Draf’t  rur,olution  A/C,1/42/L.72 and Rev.1

35. On 2’7 Octaboe,  Arvsntina,  Tha Bahamas,  Bolivia, Brazil,  Chile, Colombia,
Coata  Riaa, the Dominican Republic, Ecrrndor,  Guatemala, Mexico,  Panama, Paraguay#
Peru, Saint Lucia, Uruguay and Venezuela oubmitted  a draft  resolution,  entit led
“United Natione Regional Centro for Pease, Disarmament and Development in Latin
America” (A/C. 1/42/L. 72) , The draft  reoolut ion was  irltroduced  by the
representat ive of Peru at tho 3Znd  meetinq,  on 4 November.

36. On 4 November, Argentina, The @ahAmas,  Bolivia, Brazil ,  Chile,  Colombia,
Cotta  Rica, Dominican Republic, Ecu@dur,  Guatemala, Jamaica, Mexico, Panamar
Paraguay, Peru, Saint Lucia, Uruguay and Veneil;uela  submitted a revieed  draft
reeolution (A/C.l/SZ/L.72/Rev.l), in which operative  paragraph 5, which had reed2

wS. Hecommendo  that  the Regional Centre hold a regional conference,  if
poeeible,  i n  t h e  firot h a l f  o f  19SS  o n  the  etrenqlhening  o f  p o l i t i c a l
co-operation in Latin Amorlca  in the are&o of peace, diaarmament and cecurity
under the Wor Id Dioarmament  Campaiqn”  I

wa8 revioed to read:

“5. Recommenda that the Regional Centre hold, in 1988,  a conference of
experts  on the atronqtheniny  of  politic81 co-operation in Latin America in the
aeoae  of peace, disarmament, development and escucity  under the World
Disarmament Campaign”.

37. At  it8 3 8 t h  mooting, o n  10 Novombor, the Committee adoptod draft resolut ion
A/C.l/4+/L.72/Wev.l  w i t h o u t  tl v o t e  (ooc para.  3 8 ,  d r a f t  roeolution  K).

III. HlKOMMl~NDATIONS  01”  THE  FI  RS’I’ iUMMI’I’TEE

3M. The k’Arot  Committee recommenda to tho General Aaeombly the adoption of the
following draft  reoolutionst

Review and implementation of tho Concluding Document of tho
Twelfth Special  Seaeion  of  the General  Asoembly

A

Review and implementation of the Concluding Document  af the
Twelfth Special SeAsion  of the General  Aaeembly.- _-

The General Assembly,

Recallinq its resolutions 34,‘83  A of 1 I Decemlxr  1979,  35/156  J o f
12 December 1980, 36/97 K of 9 Deccnrbc-!r 19tl1.,  3~7/100 IS of 1 3 DeC@mb&+r 1982,
jtl/‘/.J  H of 1.5 December 1983, 39/6  4 K 01 12  Ikcemkr 1984 and 40/151  A o f
1 6  Decemhc?t 1985,

/ . . .



A/42/1  51
Enylieh
Page 16

Ewreeeinfl  the growing  &arm  of the world uommunity over the dangers of
the  arms  raoe,  in partiaular t h e  nuolear-arme raae ,  and  i t s  adveroo aooial and
eoonomio oonaeguenoea,

Notinq that the proeent  state of  the international situation requireo
that the disarmament prinoiples embeeied  in the  Charter of the United Natione
beoome part and parool of any colleotive effort8  aimed at ensuring a t ruly
eafo  world, inolut¶ing thooe undertaken by tho Saourity  Counail ,

Reaffirminq  that tho United Nations under i ts  Charter plays a aentral
ro le  and beare  main  reoponeibility in the area of disarmament an8  ths
etrengthening  of i n t e r n a t i o n a l  seourity,

ReOalling  paragraph 13 of the Final Dooument of the Tenth Speoial Seosion
o f  t h e  Qeneral  Aeeembly,  2/ in  w h i a h  t h e  Aeosmbly  aoknowledgecl  that  genuine
and lasting puaoe  oan only be oreated  through the effeotive Lmplementation  o f
the seaurity eyetem  provided for in the Charter ad the speedy and eubstantial
roduotion  of  arms  an8  armed foroefii, by international agreement and mutual
example I

Rooalling  that under Artiole 26 of  the Charter, the Security Council  ia
reeponeible  for formulating, with the aeeietanoe  of  the Military Staff
Committee, plane for setabliehing an arme reyulation system,

,Notinq  the faot that the soourity Cuunoil,  whioh  ie vested under the
Charter with the principal reeponeibility for maintaining intornationei paaco
and eaourity, hae not yet oonduoted  any axamination of the queetion of the
advoroo  effeote o f  t h e  arm8  raoe, eopsoially  in tho nuuluar field, on
internationa: oaaoe  and securi ty, an provided for in the relevant Genera!
Aosembly  reoolutions,

1. Calls upon the Securi ty Counoil , in partioular itH permanent
membera,  within the framework of it8 main task,  to contribute to establiohiny
and maintaining international peaoo  and eeourity  with the leaat ~eeible
diveroion  of world human ark!  economic reeouroee  to armament, and to take the-
necessary s tops  for  the  offeotivo implomontat ion of  ArticlQ  26 of  the Charter
of  the United Nations with a view to enhancing the oentral  role  of  the  United
Natione in facili tating solutiona to the i~euos  o f  arma  l imitation,  primarily
in the nuclear field,  and diaarmamont, a8  well aa t h e  otrengthoninc  o f
intflrnotional peace and security1

2 . Recommendrz  that the nuclear-weapon Statos, which at the same t ime
are the five permanent members of the Seaurity  Counoil, hold joint moetinqe
and provide regular information to the General  Assembly, as well ae to the
Conference on Disarmament, about the etat c,f  a f f a i r s  ae  regart3s  the  range  of!
isauee  related to diaarmamont, eepecially in the nuclear field,  prevention of

Y Reeolut ion S-10/2.

/ . . .



A/42/7!iP
Englinh
Paga  1 7

a ntrclctar  war and the statue of the outrent agreemonte  in the field of ermll
limitation and Aiearmement, and about proqreee  at thoee neqatiatione wrrioh
include the  partioipation  of  the  nrrolear PQwersl

.-I  . Reoammands  that  the  Seaur i ty  Counoil  cmnabder  the queertim  of
astahlinhinq, unAsr  Artiole  29 of the Charter, suoh  oubridiary bodice a8 i t
doerno  nooaeoary  for  the performanoe of it8  tunotione  t o  faoilitrtr  a  e o l u t i o n
t o  diaarmamant ieeueo,

4. Requesta  the Bearetary-Genaral  t o  rubmft  to  the  General Aasambly at
ite forty-third eaeeion  a report on the implemntation of the prodent.
roeolution within the framework of the agonba  item  entitlti  WRo~ie~  &nd
iml)lementntion  of the Conoluding Dooument of the Twelfth  Spaairl  Seraion  of
t h e  Qoneral  Aeeombly”.

Freeze  on nuclear weapons

The General.  Aseembly,,

Rooallinq itrr resolution@  37/100  A of  13 Doaomhr 1982, 36/73  B o f
15 Daaomber  1983, 39/63  0 of 12 Dearmber  1984, 4^,,?.51 E of 16 Deambor 1965
and 41/60  E of 3 Deaembe:  1986 oonasrning a  ftoeaa on nuolear  woapono,

Convince  that in thio  nuolear age laobing world peaue aan  be bared Only
on tho attainmont of the goal of goneral  and oompleta dioarmamsnt under
effaativtir  international  oontrol ,

Rrrthar  convinced  that  the  highrslt  priority objeutivao in the fialJ o f
Aiaarmamant havo to be rruoloar dinarmament  and the rlimination  of all weapona
of mar30 dootruction,

Weeognizina t h e  u r q s n t  need  t o  h a l t  t h e  L .  rem,  partioularly  in
nuclear woaponBI

Rsoogniaing further  the urgent need  f o r  a  negotiated  reduation  of
nuclear-weapon etoukpilatl  loading to their complete sliminatian,

Noting with deep mnuern  that nuclear-weapon Statee  have not 60 far takon
any action in rooponeo  to the oall mado  in the above-mentioned raoolutions,

1. Once again aalln upon all nualear-weapon State6  to aqree  to a frcmx3
o n  nuobx  weapone, which would, inter alia, provide for (L oimultaneoue total
ntoppaqe  oP  any furthor produotion of nuclear wea~~nn  and a oomplete art-off
in the production of fissionable  material for weapons purpoaeer

2. Docidee to  include in  the provie ional  aqonda o f  ite forty-third
eeoeion  the item entitled “Freeae  on nuolear weapone”.

/ . . .



A/42/751
Englioh
Faqa  I R

c

Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear  Weamna

The General Asaombly,

Alarmed by the threat to the eutvivel of mankind and to the
l ife-sustaining system  posed  by  nuclear  ww.pone and by their uee, inherent in
concopte 0C  deterrence,

Conoaioua  of  an  increaeed  danger  of nuclaas  w a r  ae a  result  o f  the
intensif icat ion of the nuclear-arms cam and the seriaus deterioratior. of the
international situation,

Convinced that nuclear disarmament is  oaoenttal  for  the prevention of
nuclear  war and for the utrongthening of! internationaL  peace and aeourity,

Further convinced that a prohibit ion of  ths,  use or  threat  of  use of
nuclear weapons would be a etep towards the complete  el imination 0e nuolear
woa&Wno loading to gonoral and complete  diL+s.rmament under atriot and effeotive
international control,

Rocalliny  that in paragraph 58  of  thrr  Final  Uucument  of the Tenth Special
Heorsion  of the General Aeoembly, k/ i t  is s t a t e d  t h a t  a l l  States  s h o u l d
actively participate in eeforts to bring about conditione  in international
rolatione anK>ng  States  in which Q code of  peaceful  conduct  of  nat ions in
international affairs oould bo agrood  upon and that would preclude the uee  or
throat of UQU  of  nuclear  woapcme,

Reeffirminq  that the ueo  of nuclear weapon8  would 1~3  u violation of the
Chartor  of! the United Nations and a cr ime againet  humanity, ao  declared in itu
rauolutio~~e 1653 (XVI) of 2 4 Nowmber 1961, 33/7l.  l3 of 14 December 1978,
34/83  G SC 11 December 1979, 35/152  D of 12 i.&aember 1 9 8 0 and  36/92 I of
9 December 1981,

Noting with regret that the Conference on Dfsarmament, during its 1187
session, warn  not able to undertake negotiations with a view to achieving
aqruomont  on an international convetltion  prohfbitinq the UEJQ  or  threat  of  ~88
of nut lear woaporru  under any c i rcuma tarrcow  , ‘;dkirlq  a8 n baeis  the text  annexed
to Gunoral  Aneembly  reoolution  41/60  P’  of! 3 December 1986,

1. Reiterates  its requoflt  to the Conferexe  on Disarmament  to commence
naqot  iat ions, a8  a matter of priori ty,  in order  to reach aqreement on an
international convention prohibiting the use  ur threat  of  use  of nuclear
weapona under any circumstances, taking as a basici  the draft Convention on the
ProhIbition  of the Urle of Nuclear Weapons annexed to the present resolution1

2. Further  requests the Conference on Diearmament to report to the
General  Assembly  at  i ts  forty-third session on the !.esults  of thoas
neqotlatlons.

/ . . .



A N N E X

Draft Convention on the Prohibition of. tbc!  CJBO  0f
Nua lea r Weapona

The  Htataa  Partien  to this Convention,

Alarmed by the threat to the very survive1  of mankind poeed  by the
exintonco  of! nualoar woapono,

Convinced that any uee of nuclear weapona  aonstituteta a violation of the
Charter of the Unit&  Nation8  and a crime againet  humanity,

Convinced that thio  Convention would be  a etep toward8 the oomplete
elimination of nuolear weapono  leading to general and complete diearmament
under striot and effootive  international control,

Datormined  to continue negotiations t’or  tho achievement  of! thie  goal,

Ilavo  agreed aL3 followp8

Article 1

l’ho  Htatee  Part ies to this  Convantion eolamnly undertaka  uot to  u80 Or
throuton  to use  nuclear  woapono  u n d e r  any  circumstancea.

Article 2

This  Convention  ahall kw  of  unlimited duration. ’

A r t i c l e  3

1. This  Convention shall  bo open to  a l l  Statea  fcrl eignatUre. Any
State that  doou  not  uiqn  tho Convention  beforo A t e  entry into form  i n
accordance  with parngraph  3 of thin srticlo  may accede  to it at any t?me.

2 . ‘l’hio Convention ehall  be oubjoct  to  rat i f icat ion by oignatory
StatoR. Iwtrumontn of ra t i f icat ion or accuoeion shall  be  depoeited  with the
!Jocretary-General  o f  the United Nations.

3, Thie  Convention shall enter  into Porte  on the deposit of! inetruments
of rattfication by twenty-five Governmenta, including the Governmentrs  of the
five  nuclear-weapon Statea, i n  accordance  w i t h  paraqrcrph 2  of this  artials.

4. For Statue whose  inetrunjonto  of  rat i f icat ion or aCCeFJRiOn  are
deposited after the entry into force of this Convention, it rphall enter into
Porco on the date of the dopoeit OP their instruments of ratification or
occeasion.

/ . . .



A/42/751
Engliah
Page 20

5. The depositary shall  promptly inform all  signatory and acaeding
States of  the date of eaah eignature, the date of depoeit of eaah instrument
of  ratifiaation or aoaeaeion and the date of the entry into forae  of  thie
Convention, aa  well  as of the reaeipt  of  other  not ices .

6. Thie Convention shall be regietered by the depository in acoordanae
with Artiale 102  of  the Charter  of  the United Nations.

. Ar t i c l e  4

Thie Convention, of whiah the Arabia, Chineee, English, French, Rueeian
ant!  Spr.lieh tvxte  are equally authentia, ehall  be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations, who shall send  duly aertified aopiee
thereof  to the Qovernment of the signatory and aaaeding Statee.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undereigned,  being duly authorised thereto by
their  reepeative Governments, have tligned this Convention, opened for
signature at I on the - day of one thousand nine
hundred and .

D

United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Diearmament in Asia

The General Aesembly,

Recalling its resolution 39/63  J of 12 December 1980, in whiah it
requested the Searetary-General to provide aeeietanae to euah Member States in
the region8  concerned aa  might rG;cr!leet  it with a view to eotabl!,ehing  regional
and inetitutional arrangement8 for  the implementat ion of  the World  Diaarman\*nt
Campaign, on ths baeie  of exieting resourcea  and of voluntary Contributions
that Member States  might make to that end,

Reaffirming ite reeolutions 37/100  F of 13 December 1982, M/73  J of
1 5 December 1983 and 39/63 F of 1 2 December 1 9 8 4 on regional diearmament,

Bearing in mint resolutions 40/151  G of 16 December 1985, which--.
establiehed  the United Natlone Regional Centre for  Peace and Disarmament in
Africa, and 41/60  J of 3 December 1986, which established the United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace, Diaarmament and Development in Latin America,

1 . Decides  to establish the United Nations Regional C-ntre  for  Peace
and Diearmament in Asia with headquarters at Kathmandu, on the basis of
existing reaouraea and of voluntary contributiona that Member States and
interested organizatione may make ta that end1

2. Decides  aleo  that the Centre shall provide, on request,  eubetantive
support  for  the initietivee and other activitiee  mutually agreed upon by the



A/42/791
Enqlioh
Page  21.

Member Statea  of the Aeian  reqian  for the implementation of mwwe~  fur  pea00
and diearmament, through appropriate utilisation of available tefsourose, end
shall .  la-ordinate the implementation of! reqional  outivitiee in Auia under  the
World  Dioermament  CsmpaiqnJ

3, RsWastEl  t h e  Beoretary,-Goneral t o  t a k e  t h e  neoesssry rrdminietrative
meaaureo  t a  enauro the Hstablishmont  and  funotioniny o f  t h e  C e n t r e ,  inulubiny,
to that end, the pooeihle  utilimatian of  tha exirrtinq !Jnitad Natione
infraetruoture at  Kathmandu with a view to the full  employment of’ available
rooouraes~

4. Invitae Member Rtates  and intereotecl  orqaniaationa ta make voluntary- -
aontributions  t o  t h e  Centre1

!i. _tIaquascn  the Beoretary-Qenoral  t o  Iatxjrt  to  the Oerrerrrl  Aruembly  at
ito f o r t y - t h i r d  aeooion  o n  t h o  implamentation  of t h o  pleoent reoolution.

Reaellirq ito raaalutiono 17/100  P of X3 Uauemkwr  1901, W/73  J of
15 Deaembor 1983, 39/63  P of 12 December 19114, 40/94  A  o f  11  Deosmber lYf13  and
41/S9 M  of 3 Deoembor  19tJ6,  relating to  reyional disarmament,

Raaffirming t h a t  a l l  Rtaton, in part  inular nuolsar  -wnaiw,n  Uta tee anA
othor mil i tar i ly oignifioant !ftateo, have  t h o  roopontiibi1ity  o f  halting and
revorreiny  the arme raoo,

Confirmi~  ths importance  a n d  p o t e n t i a l  effeotiveneso 04  reqionnl
Alfiar;uauurea t a k e n  a t  the i n i t i a t i v e  a n d  w i t h  t.he partiuipation  UC  all
t:ho Fitatoa  uwwmrned, in that they aan aontrihute to the real isat ion of
c;snaral und  oomplotn  dinarmamant  utrdur  atrict and nEf!awtive  Lnturnatirlrba1
cont.rol,

Htrunninq  t h a t  a n y  roqional  diwrmamcwt  snt:erpr  Leu  muut  t a k e  into aWl)unt
tho opocific conditionu  charrcter iat ic  of  uach region,

Aleo  stranoinq  that.  it:  irr  f’or  ttw  oaunt:riea  1:hemaeIvea  c)f a rsqlon to
take approprlato  init,iativen in common anA to  praparn nqrsemant#  that will.
ellow  t h e  achiovamont o f  regional diuarmamont,

Alas n:rorrninq  that diunrmamant ~fftzrts  in a roqion cannot be iuolatd
either  f rom tho diMarmament  nfl’orta  in other  reyionn or  Prom qloba1
Aioarmamrnt efforta both in the nuuloar rind uonvuntional field,



A/42/7 51.
English
Page 22

Taking into account the decisions and recommendations appearing in the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assemblyr  2/
particularly in paragraph 114,

Aware of those studies which have already been carried out and of the
viewsztates  which are of interest for regional disarmament,

1. Expresses its thanks to the Secretary-General for his report
submitted pursuant to resolution 39/63 F; I/

2. Notes with satisfaction the importance of the regional measures that
have already been adopted and the regional efforts undertaken in the field of
nuclear and conventional disarmamentr

3. Encourages States to consider and develop as far as possible
regional solutions in the matter of arms reduction and disarmament; .

4. Invites all States and regional institutions associated with
regional disarmament efforts to report thereon to the Secretary-Generali

5. Requests the United Nations to lend its  assistance to States and
regional institutions that may request i t , with a view to the institution of
measures within the framework sf an effort for regional disarmament;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to keep the General Assembly
regularly informed of the implementation of resolutions on regional
disarmament and of the activities which the Secretariat, in particular the
Department for Disarmament Affairs I and the United Nations Instftute for
Disarmament Research are conducting in the field of regional disarmament:

7. Also requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolution-_5
to the attention of the General Assembly at its third special session devoted
to disarmament;

8. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
session the item entitled “Regional disarmaments report of the
Secretary-General*.

F

Consideration of guidelines for confidence-buildinq measures

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 41/60 C of 3 December 1986, as well as the
relevant paragraphs of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, 6J the first special session devoted to disarmament,

Y W/42/45?.

/al..



A/42/751
English
Page 23

Considering  that growing  positive and concrete experience with
confidence-building measure8 could facilitate reaching final consensus on the
draft guidelines for confidence-building measures, as contained in the 1986
report of the Disarmament Commission, 8J

Noting with satisfaction that the concept of confidence-building as an
important instrument for the strengthening of international Peace and security
and for promoting and faciitating  the attainment of disarmament measures meets
with growing acceptance among States,

Requests the Disarmament Commission to consider, at its 1988 session, the
"Draft guidelines for appropriate types of confidence-building measures
for the implementation of such
view to finalizing them in the
that body.

measures on a global or regional level*,
most expeditious manner to be determined

a n d
with a
by

G

World Disarmament Campaign

The General Assembly,

Recalling that in paragraph  15 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, g the first special session devoted to
disarmament, itdeclared  that it was essential that not only Governments but
also the peoples of the world reoognize  and understand the dangers in the
present situation and stressed the iwrtance  of mobilizing world public
opinion on behalf of disarmament,

Recalling also_  its resolutions 35/152 I of 12 December  1980, 36/92 C of
9 December 1961, 37/100 I of 13 December 1982. 38/73 D of 15  December 1983,
39/63 D of 12 December 1984, 40/151 R of 16 December 1985 and 41/60 B of
3 December 1986, as well as the reports of the Secretary-General of
17 September 1981, z/ 11 June 1982, UIJ  3 November 1982, llJ

g/ Official Records of the General Assembly; Forty-first Session, Supplement
No. 42 (A/41/42), annex 11.

y A/36/458.

1c)/  A/s-12/27.

11/  A/37/548.

/ a..



A/42/752
Engl  tab
P a g e  2 4

30 Auguet 1983, l2/  4 October 1985, l3/ 1 9 September 1 9 8 6 I& and
28 September 1907, Ifi/

Raving examined tho report  of  the Secretary-General  on the impl.amontation
of the proqramma  of activities of  the World Disarmament Campaign  by the United
Nations system during 1987 and the aotivities contemplated for 1988, afl well
a s  it6 main  f i n a n c i a l  aspecte,  IS/

Having also examined  the part  of the report of  the  Secretary-General
dealing with the actimos  ti  the Advisory Board on Disarmament Studiee
relating to the implementation of the World Disarmament Campaign, IX/ aa well
oa the Final Act of  the 1987  United Nations Pledging Conference for the
Campaign, l7/  hold on 26 October 1987,

Believing that the World Disarmament Campaign has an important role to
play for a positive outcome of  the third special  session of the General
Asee%bly devoted to disarmament by informing, educating and generating public
understsndinq  and support for the objectives of the United Nations in the
field of arms limitntiona  ancl  disarmament,

I, * Reiterates  its commendat.ion  of the manner in which, as doecribed in
the above-mentioned repoct.8, the 3x8  Disarmament Campaign has bmn geared by
thQ  Secretary-General  i n  O r d e r  to  gUarantQe “ t h e  wiAeet porsoikle  diesemination
of information and unimpeded  aocerm for al l .  flectora of thu pub! ic to a btoa?
range of information and opinion6 on questionfi  o f  arme limitation and
disarmament and the dangers relating to all  asgecte  o f  the arm0 race and war,
in  par t icu lar  nuclear  war”r  III/

2. Recalls that, as was also agrsod by cot\aervaua  in tho Concluding
Document of the lbelfth Special Session of the General. Aeoembly,  the oocond
special  session  devoted to disarmarrant, it is  l ikewise an  eseential  requisi te
for  the urriverselity of  the  Campaign  that it receive “the co-operation and
p a r t i c i p a t i o n  o f  a l l  Stntc?n”j lQ/

g/  A / 3 0 / 3 4 9 .

Q/  A/40/443.

14/  A/41/554.-

rs/  A / 4 2 / 5 4 3 .

l.fJ A/42/611,  paran.  9 - 1 9 .

g/ AJCONF.  142/l.

l.J/ See Off  iclal Records  of  the  Goncrral Aesambly,  Twelfth Special  SeasiLQ,--..
Annexes, ayend.i  items  9-13,  document  A/S-12/32,  annex V, paro.’  4 .

/ . . .



A/42/7 51
English
Page 25

a. Pndorsoa  once more the statement made by the Secretory-General  on
the occaoionf the 1984  Unitod Nation0 Pledqinq Cr)nEaKttnc@  f o r  tha World
biaarmamunt  Campaign l9/ to the effect  that  such  co-operatisn  impliec  that
edoquata  funds bo mad0 available and that conaaquontly  tho CL itarion of
univsroality  al.00 applies t o  plodgeo, oinco  a campaign without world-wide
participation and funding will have difficulty in rsflocting this prir1aip.1~  in
it8  implomontationt

4. Heitxratos  ita cogrot  t h a t  mont  o f  t h e  S t a t e n  t h a t .  h a v e  the  largoat
military  eXEPnditUKf?fI  havo not 80 far  made any finanCi 41  Contribution  t0 the
Campaign1

5. Deaidan  that at ite forty-third oeseion  there should be a sixth
United Nationa  Pledging Conference for tho World Diuarmamont  Campaign, and
exproacoa  the hope that on that  occaoion all  thoao Member  States  which have
not yot crnnounced  any voluntary contribution may do 00)

ii . ReitQrat@n  itn  racxnnmondotion  that the vuluntary  contributions made
by Mttmber States to the World Disarmament  Campaign Voluntary ‘J’KUtit  Fund ohould
not be oat-marked for  opecific activitioa  inasmuch 40  i t  is  moat desirable that
the  !;ocKetaKy-General  enjoy full f!CeQdOm  to t a k e  the dQCiaiOnI3 h e  deemEI  f i t
within the !!KamCiWOKk  of the Campaign previouely approved by tho Gen0Kpl
Aeeomhly  and in exorcioo  of the powers vested  in him in connection with the
Campaign;

7. Noton  wi th  apwciation  that  tho Socrntnry-Goneral  haa qivon1-
parmonant character to hi&r  inetructionn to  the United Nattonn information
controu and tsyional commiau ionn to give wida pub1 icity  to the Campaign and,
whonovar nccefiuary,  to a d a p t , 88 far  GO  puaibl.o,  United Nat ions information
mater tulo  to loed.  I.angurrgfluj

8. muoote tho Sucrotnry-Gonor al , in carrying cut the activit ies of
t h e  Compign  ciontompl.ated  for 1988, t o  g i v e  purticular attent ion to the third
~pwciul  uesoion  o f  t h o  GQ~~KLI~  Aeosmbly  dcvotod  t o  Aisarmamontr

9. Haquo#to  the Secretary-Gonaral  to  submit to  the General Aaaembly at
itu for&y-third  aooaion o report  cavoring  both the implementation of the
programme of  activitioa of t.ho Campaign by the United Nations ayntt?m during
1908  and the programme of activitieo  contemplotud  by tho system  for  1989r

IQ. Dueidea  to  include in the provisional ayonder  o f  ita forty- third--em--
FlOSUion t.hc* it-em  ontit1.d  “ W o r l d  Diaarmmont Campaign".

/ . . .



H

Implementation of Ganeral  Aaaambly~resolution  41/60  1
o n  a nuclear-arms  frooze

_H_c~al.lin~  that in the  Final Document of the Tenth Special fieBni.on  of the
General  Assembly,  g/ the firat special  e~oaaion  devoted  to  BSenrmoment,  adoptfitd
in 1978 and unanimouely and cgteqoricfilly reaffirmed in 1982 during the
twelfth q~~inl.  noaaion  of! the Genera1 At~eemhly, 201  the second apecinl
r;esrjion  dovoted  to  di 6armmnent, the Assembly  oxprenoed  deep concern over the
threat  tu tha  very survival of mankind poach by the  exintenco of nuclear
weeponn ond the continuing arms  race ,

Rscal.1~ al.~o t h a t ,  o n  thone  occ~~iona,- - i t .  pointed out that existing
arcrenalF\  of nuclear weapona  are  more than sufficient to &et  roy all  life an
Earth rind  ntroanod that mankind ia thercEoro confronted with H choicer h a l t
the arms I-AC@  and proceed to diaarmsmant, o r  fete annihilation,

Convinced of the urgency further to pureue nogottotionn  for the- - -
nubntuntiul  reduction  and quAlitetiva l imitat ion of  exieting nuclear wrma,

Considering  that et nuclear-armc  freeze,  while not an and in iteelf, would
conntf tute the  moet  defective firet step to prevont the continued inctcJaEa  and
qua1  itative improvement of existing nuclear weaponry during the period when
t h e  n e g o t i a t i o n s  t&o  pIlace ,  and that at the name  time it  would provide a
fnvourablc?  environment far the conduct of negotiation0  to reduce and
eventual  ly 01 tminato  nuclear wcapOnsr

Firmly convinced that at preclent tha conditions are most propitioufs  for
such a freeze, since-the  Union of Soviet  Socialiet Republica and  the United
Staten of Amorfcn  are now aguivalont  in nuclear mili tary power and it seomo
r!vidctnt  that there oxinto  between them an overal. rough parl.ty,

Conncioue  that: t h e  clpplic~~tion  of  the  sys tems  o f  aurvebI.l.ance,--.--
veri Picat  Son and  contr0L  alrsady  agreed upon in some  previous canes would he
:.;crf’!  Iclent  to provide a beaRonoble  guarantee of faithful  compliance with the
\1t~le!t~tclkingo  derived from the freeze,

Convinced that it would he to the henflf ft o f  ~111.  other  ritatas poEsensing
nuc:lc!~~  weapnc;  to fol low the example of the  tcrfo  major nuclear-weapon States,

-  -_. -.  I---

2 0 /  ofl’icial R e c o r d s  o f  t h e  Ger.eral  R~sambly,  Twelt’th  S&al  Session,-c  -.--
Annexes, ijqenda i tems 9-13, docume;;Ttl-A1/S-l2/32.

- - -..__I

--.  .._I_

/ . . .



A/42/751
English
Page 2 7

1. Urges once more the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the
United States 0e America, ao the two major nuclear-woapon States, to proclaim,
ei ther  through eimultaneous  unil.atsral declarations or through a jaint
declaration, an immediate nuclear-arms freeze,  which would be a first  s t ep
tower& a comprehensive programme of dinarmament and whose etruotura  and @Cope
would be the following,

(a) It would embrace:

(i) A comprehensive te8t  ban of nuclear  weapone and of their
delivery vehicles1

(i i)  The complete ceesation  of  the manufacture of  nuclear weapon6
snd oE  their  dulivary vehicleot

(iii) A ban on all  further deployment of nuclear weapons and of their
del.  ivery vehiclesr

(iv)  The complete cessat ion of  the production of  f issionable
metertal  for weapon6 purposcsl

(b) It would he nubjcct  to appropriate measures  and procedures of
verification, such a~  three  that have already been agreed by the parties in
the cake  of the SALT I 2lJ  and SALT II 22/ troatien,  those agreed upon  in
principle by them during the preparatorytrilateral nogotiatione  on the
ccmprehensivu taat  ban hold at Geneva and those contemplated in the ckxument
on vet1 fication  measurea issued at the Mexico Summit on 7 Auguet  1986 23/ and
drawing upon the resul ts  of  the  work  of the c;roup of  Scientific  Exportyin the
&nference  on Disarmament  I

(c) I t  w o u l d  b e  of.  a n  i n i t i a l  f i v e - y e a r  duretlon,  euhject  t o
prolongation when other nuclear reapon  Staten jcln in such a Freeze,  08 the
General Aaeembly urges them t.o do)

2 .l/ “Interim Aqreement.  between the United ::t.trtc!a o f  America and the Union of:
SovietSocialiet  Republics;  on certain measures with respect  to the  l imitation of
Rtrutegic offenuivs arma” (United Notions, Treaty Sort*\?,  vol.  944, No. 1 .3445 ,
p.  3) .

22/ “Treaty between the United Staten of Americn and the Union of Soviet.--
Soctaliut Republican  on the Limitat.lon of  Stratcglc Offensive  Arms” (WC
CD/S3/Appendix  III/Vol  . I, document CD/ZS)  .

23/  A/41/5l.&S/lS%77,  annex  I ,  attclchment  .e...

/ . . .



A/4 2/7 51
Englieh
Page  28

2. RequaAte  the above-mentions8 two major nuclear-weapon States to
auhnit a joint  report  or two eeparate  repor ts  to the Qenoral  Aaaembly,  pr ior
to  the opening of i ts  forty-third session, on the implementation of the
preeent reeolutionl

3. Decidea  to include in tho provisional agenda of  ite forty-thirf3
eeesion  an item entitled nImplementation of General Aaeembly resolution 42/-
on a nuclear-arm8 freeze”.

I
.

United Nation8  programme of fellowehipe on diearmament

Recall ing i ts  decision,  contained in paragraph 100  of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special Seenion  of the General  Aseembly,  y the f irst  special
cession devoted to disarmament, to establish a programme of fellowehipe on
disarmament, as well as ite decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding
Document of the Twelfth Speoial  Session of the General Aaeembly, 20/  the
second special  eeeeion devoteci  to Aiearmamont, in whioh it decided,
inter alia, to continue the proqramme and to incroaee  the number of
fellewehipe  from twenty to twenty-five a8 f rom 1983,

Notinq  with satisfaction t dt tho proqramme hae already trained an
appreaiablo  number of public  off ic ials  selected from geoqraphiual  reqione
represented in the United Natlone  eyetem, moat of whom are now in poei  tiona  of
responsibil i ty in the field of disarmament affairs in their  respective
countriee or Governments,

ReCalling its resolutions 37/100  G of 13 December 1982, 36/73  C of
1 5 &ember  1983, 39/63  B of 12 kcember 1984, 40/l% H of 16 December 1985
and 41/60  II of 3 December 1986,

Recall ing further that, in i ts  raeolut  Lan 40/l%  H, it  decided to
cor,solidate  the disarmament fellowehip programme with the newly  established
regional disarmament training progrsnune  and diearmrtment  advieory  services
prografmne  under the Office of the Under-Secrstary-General !?ar Diearmament
Affairs of the United Natlontl  Secretar iat ,

NotiM  with satisfaction that the proqramme, as designed, hR8  enabled an
increaeed  number of public officials,  particularly from the c’  velopinq
countr ies ,  to  acquire more expert ise in the sphere  of  disarmamant,

Relieving that the forms of aeeistance availsblo to Member States
particularly to developing countries, under the United Nations proqranul  8 o f
fellowehips  on disarmament will  enhance the capabil i t ies of  their  ofFiciala to
fol low onqoing  deliberationa and negotiations on diearmament, both bilateral
and multilateral,

/ . . .



A/42/751
Engl ieh
Page 29

1. Reaffirms it8 decisiona  contained in annex IV to tk4  Conaluding
Dczument  of the Twelfth Speoial  Seeeion  of the General Assembly and the report
of  the  Secretary-General  24/  approved by resolution  33/71  E Of
14 December 19781

2. ReQ$eta  the Secretary-General to implement the Unitad Nations
prograrrme  of feGships on disarmament, including the advieory  eervicee  and
tra  ininq  proq  rammee, within exist inq reeourceej

3. Expreesen  ita appreciation to the Guvernmente  of the German
Demcwratic  Republio, the Federal Republic of Germany, Japan, Sweden, the Union
of Soviet  Social is t  Rspubliolr and the United State6  of Ameriaa for inviting
the 1987 fel low8 to s tudy releotod  aotivit iee in the f ield of diaarmament,
thereby contributing to the fulf i lment  of  the overall objective8 of the
piog ranme  1

4. Commend8  the Secretary-General  for the diligance  with which the
programme hae continued to be oar ried out1

5 . Decides to rename the throe proqrammes  coneolidated  pursuant to
paragraph 3 of resolut ion 40/151  H “the United Natione biBarmament  fellowship,
training and advisory oervicee programme”~

6. Reqlreste  t he Secretary-General to report to the General Aaeembly at
its forty-thir=neian  on hie  aseeemnent  o f  the  operationa  of  the programtt.

J

United Natlona  Regional  Centre  for  Peace aru!  Wearmament
in Africa

The General Assembly,

Recall.inq it8 ret3OlUtiC~n&I 40/151 G of 1 6 December 1985 and 11/60 D o f
3 December 1986,

Taking note of  the Polit ical  Declaration adopted by the Eighth Confarencft
of Heade  of State or Government of  the Non-Aligned Countriea, held at Harare
Prom 1 to 6 September 1986, in which the Herrdn  of State or Government,
i n t e r  alin, reaff irmed the need to  etrengthen the role of  the regional  MdieR
in mobilizing  support  for the World Disarmament Campaign and, in thio regard,
welcomed the aetahliehmant  of the United Nations Regional Centre for Peaca and
Diearmament in Africa at Lomb,  2J

24/ A / 3 3 / 3 0 5 .-9

z/ S e e  A/41/697+/10392,  a n n e x ,  Hect..  I ,  para.  5 8 .

/ . . .



A/42/7 51
Enq  lish
Page 30

Bearing in mind  roeolution  AHcVRaa.164  (xxmx) , 261 adopted by  the
Aseembly  of  Heads  of  Btate  or hvernmont  of  tha Organization  oP  Afr ican Undty
at  ite  twenty- third ordinary eoaeion, held at Addis Ababu  from 27 to
29 July 1987, by which it, intar  al ia ,  anGoreod  tho Mm6  Declaratian  on
Security, DisarmcMlent  and Development and the Programme  of Action  for PDACO,
Security and Co-operation in Africa, 271

Taking into account the report of the &‘?cr@tary-&nbL,:1  I z/

1. E%preeam  ito eatipfaotion  that tha United Nations  Roglonal Centre‘..a--
for Peace  and Disarmament in Africa? ineugurat,eA  on 24 October  1986, has
become operat iona  1 I

2. Commsndls  the effort6  of the Secretary-General  for taking the
neceaclary  meaaureo  to ensure  the affective  functioning of the Centre and
rogue&o  him  to cont inue to lend al.1  the nocaamry arupport  to the Centre1

3. Expreenee  itn gratitude to those  Member  Statea  and international,
governmental and non-govetnmontal organ izat.ions which hove al ready made
contribution8 to ensure  the functioning of the Centret

4. &peals once agein to Member S tatea, au wQl1  a0 to i n t e r n a t i o n a l ,
governmental and non-goaernmentul orqanizutione, to muko volunkary
contributions in ordor to strongthun  thr,  offwtivo  omrotional  ectivittea of
the  C!entrer

5. Requent~  the Secretary-Gonaral  tc.) report. to tho Gonoral.  ArJsembly  nk
it6 f o r t y - t h i r d  eeseion a n  t h e  implomuntatlon  of the prenent  rfJMO’I.IltiOn.

K

United Nation6  Regional Csntre  for Bracw----_..__.....a-  -.L&,..Dim~*nt  z!.g
Development in LAr,l.n  America---“.I

ze  Cinero  1 Anaornbly  ,

Recalling ita resolution 41/60  J o f  3  Docetntsr  lYS6 o n  t h e  United  !Jtitionu
Rogionol  Centre :‘or  lhdc0, I)iRarmamer.t:  a n d  flevel.opmont  in LatJ.n  America,

Bearing  in rc+ the report  of  the  Secretary-Gone-!ra.l., 29~’

26/ See A/42 /699,  annex IJ.

2J/  Soo  A/40/761.+/17573,  a n n e x .

2tJ/  A / 4 2 / 6 0 9 .

L?/ A / 4 2 / 5 4 4 .

/ . . .



A/42/751
Knq  1 I nt\
rugs  31

2. Al.so  welmmel;  the prmptnnss  with  which the !lecret  ary--Cionorul  hat1_.-.-.  . . -.....  “.--..-a  -.
taken the necerlwary  administrative  step8 to ensure the functionSng  of the
Centre, a n d  roqucstfl him  t o  c o n t i n u e  t o  give t h e  Centre al  1  necaneary  supports

3. rtxpmma  I tn thankn  t o  thp  hoat M e m b e r  Stoto f o r  1 t a  vrrlwakl  c-_C_.
contribution to the functioninq  of the Regional.  Centre1

4. Be1  ieves  t h a t ,- - -  - in carrying out. Itn activitieu,  the Regional Centre
will  eeek to pro!,wte  rolutionf; baned  on mutual t.lumt and m~cilr  ity batwaen the
countrion of? t h e  r e g i o n  in  a  spirit  of  harnwny, eel iduri 1:y and co-operation
f o r  the impl.ementatSon  of rn(IeHtireti  F o r  peace, a n d  dl  F;armment,  rind  for t.he
promotion of flconomic  and tiocial  devolopmont  in Istin America1

5. . Recammend~  t h a t  the Region&l  Centre h o l d ,  tn 1988, ,J c o n f e r e n c e  ot:_I..
csxporth:  o n  t h e  atrongthf!ninq  of  p01itical  co-operiltion  i n  Idt I n  Amc?ricu  i n  the
areat;  of peace, Al aarmament., development. and  recur ity  undue  the War  ld
Diuarmament  Campaign1  ’

6. _Agai  n call  R 11~~~  Member States  end internat.  tone1  , qovr~~rnnrctntn1.  and----.
non-qovernmerkal  organizations  to make voluntary contributione  to the Control

7. poquoatn  the Secretary-General.  to trenrimit  that, appeal  to al l  Member-.
States  i n  o r d e r  t o  enllurc?  the  n o r m a l  funcrtt.oniny  ol’  t.he Reqionul  Cc>nt.re;

R. Alfm  rosent:fib  t h e  Secrstary-General.^--...^..._-  m-  -...- t o  ro[xIrt  t o  tht!  Gorwral
Assembly  a t  it.n for ty- third  wanion  on t h e  tmpl@mnntntiorr  o f  the  prcarbnt
renalutt0n.


