







































UNlTED
NATIONS

A
-- ___.___ _.“___  .~ ..__-  --.-- .---.*--

General Assembly Dietr.
CImmAL

A/42/748
17 November 1987

ORIG INALa EWQLf  SH

Forty-second eesnfon
Agenda item 59

PROHIBITION OF THE DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURE %’ NEW TYPES OF
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION AND NEW SYSTmS OF SUrH WEAPONS

Re&x.:*t ot the  First  Committee.

Rappor te ut : Mr.  Kazimierz  TUMASaEwsKI (Poland)

I. INTRDnUCTION

1. The item entitled *Prohibition of the development and manufacture of new type8
of woapone  of Maya destruction can8  new syetems  of such weapons8 report of the
Conference on Disarmament” was  included in the provioional  agenda  of the
forty-second seaelan in occorc3ance  with General Aoaembly  reaolut ion 41/96  of
3 December 19Bc.

2. At its 3rd plenary neetinq,  on 10 septomber  1987 ,  the  General  Aeeembly,  on the
recomnsndation  of thq General Committee,  decided to include  the item in ito  agenda
and to allocate it to t*e  Firat Committee.

3, At i te 2nd meeting, on 1 Cztober, the kArst  Comittee  dec ided  to  ho ld  a
general debate on tile disarmament  items allooated  to it, namely, items 48 to 69,
followod b y  statemente  o n  specif’lc  diearmament crgunda items and a  cont inuat ion O f
th6 general  debate ,  as  neceeeary. The deliberations o n  thase i tems took pl;rce
between the 3rd and the 31st meetings, from 12 October to 3 November (eee
A/C. 1/42/PV.  3-31) .

4. In connection with item 59, t h e  Firet  Committee  hai,  begore  i t  t h o  f o l l o w i n g
documentf3~

87-29539 0557P  ( E ) C‘ / . . .,>
c

--



A/42/740
Enql ieh
Page 2

( a )  Raport of the  concaroncs o n  Dioarmemontj  LJ

(b) Note verbale  datod 16 June 1987 frolll the Pormanont  Mionion  of Mozambique
to  the  United Nation8  addreaeed  to  the  Seutetary-General ,  t ranemitt inq the text  of
the  final aomnuniqut$  of the VII Sumnit Conference of  the Road8  of  State  of  A n g o l a ,
Ca@e  ‘Verde, Qufnea-Bisoau,  Mozambique and Sao Tome and Principe, held at Maputo  on
21 and 22 May 1987 (q/42/352-S/10930))

(a) Letter dated 9 October 1987  from the Permanent Representatives of
Argent ina,  Greeae,  Ind ia , Mexico, Sweden tend the United Republic of Tanzania to tho
United Nationa  addreeeed  to  the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the
joint atatoment  iesued on 7 October 1987 by the Preoident 9f Argentina, the Br ime
Minister  of GreBC8,  the  Prim Minister  of  India,  the Preoident  of  Mexiao,  the Prime
Ministor  of Sweden and  the First President of the United Republic! of Tanaania
(A/42/652-S/19201)  I

(d) Letter dated 23 October 1987 from the Permanent Representative of
Zimbabwe  to  tho United Nation8  addreesed to the Secretary-Oeneral,  trantrnlittiny tho
final communique of the Meeting of Minietere  foi Foreign Affaira and Hoado  of
Dulegation to the forty-second eoeeion of the General Aeserrbly,  held in New York
from 5 to 7 October 1997 (A/42/681).

I f . CONSIDERATXON  OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/42/L.55

5. On 27 Oatobor 1987, Afqheniatan,  Angola, Benin, Bulgaria, the Byaloruseian
Soviet Socialiot Republicr  Cuba, Czechoebovakia,  Domocratia Yemen, Ethiopia, the
Uerman  Demoaratio  Ropublia,  Hungary, the Lao People’e Danocratio  Republic,
Mongolia, Mozambiquo, Poland, Romania, the Ukrainian Soviet Soaialiet  Republic, the
Union of Soviet  Sooialiat Republicls and Viat Nam oubnitted  a draft roeolution,
-4  ‘Wohibition of the development and manufaaturo of new types of weapona of?
mass doetruction  and now systems of euoh waapone” (A/C.  1/42/~.55),  which was later
alao  sponsored by Burkina Faso,  and the Syrian Arab Repuhlia. The cfraf  t reeolut ion
was introduced by the ropreoentetive  of the Byeloruesian Soviet Sooialiet Republic
at the 39th meeting, on 10 November.

6. At it8  40th meeting, on 11  November, the Committoo udoptod draft rooolution
A/C.1/42/L.S5  by a recorded vote of 106 to 1, w i t h  1 8  ebutontions  (oee  para.  7).
The vot ing wao  ae  follows:

y OEEicial Record8 of  the?  Goneral Aesemblv1 , Fcrty-8ocond  Session,
Supplamcnt  N o .  27 (A/z/27).- -

/...



AJrzpre
Enql ieh
Page 3

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamaa,  Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail,
Brunei Darueealam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faeo, Burma, Burundi,
RYeloruesian  Soviet Sooitrliat Republio,  Cameroon, Central African
Rupublic,  Chinn, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rioa,  C8te d’xvoire,
Cuba, Cyprua, Caeahorlovakia,  Demoorat io  Yemen, Djibouti,
Daniniuan  Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,  Ethiopia, Finland, Gebon,
German  Democratic RepublAc,  Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Gu  inea-Biaea:a. Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonseia,  Iran (Islamic
Ropublio of) , Iraq, Ireland, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao :ceople’e
Democratic  Republfu,  Leeotho,  Liberia, Libyan Arab Jarnaniriya,
Madagaeoar,  Malsryeia,  Maldives, Mali, Malta, Me~ioo,  Mongolia,
Motoaoo,  Moaambique,  Nepal,  Nioaragua, Niger, Nigeria, man,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Quinea,  P e r u ,  Philigpinom, Poland,
Qatar, Rcanania, Snmoa‘  Saudi Arabia, Senegal, S i n g a p o r e ,  SUnalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tuniria,  Uganda, Ukrainian
soviet  Socialiet  Republic, Union of Soviet Sociallet  Republics,
United Arab Emiratee,  United Republic of Tanaania,  Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoolavfa, Zaire,  Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againfit, United States  of America.

Abetaininyl Australia,  Belgium, Canada, Chile,  Denmark, Pranoe, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Iaracll  , I ta ly , Japan, Luxembourg,
Netherland@,  New Zealand, Norway, PorLugal,  Spain, Turkey, United
Kingdom of areat uritain  and Northern Ireland.

III . RECOMMENLJATION  OF THE FIRST COMWl”l%E

7. The First Crrmnittee tecomnende to the General Ae6orrbl.y the adoption Of the
foLlowing  d r a f t  reeolut  ion8

Prohibition of the development and manufacture of
new type6  of weapons of mace  destruction and net7

eyetemsl  of ouch weapons

The Genera i A~~embl.,

Recallinq ito  previous reeolutions on the prohibition of the development
and manufacture of new types  of weapon6 of mdrae de, truction and new systems  of
euch weaponn,

Recalling also the decision contained in paragraph 77 of the Final
DooLlment  of thexth  Special Seesion  of the General Aerembly,  g/ the first

Y Resolution S-10/2.

/ . . .



A/42/740
English
Page 4

epeaial  seeoion devoted  to  dioarmament, to the effect  that,  in ozdor  to  help
preventi  a  qualitative arms race and 80 that  oaientifia  and taehnological.
aohievemente might ultimately be used  solely for peaceful purpoaea,  effeative
meaeuretr  ehould be taken to provont the emergence of new typo of weapons  of
mass deetruation baeed on new eciantlfia principlea and achievement8 and that
efforta  aimed at the prohibition of such  new typee and new syotamo  of woapolro
of maea deetruction  should be appropriately pureuad,

Noting that in tha aouree  of i to 1987 oelsoion  the Conference on
Diearmament considered the item entitled “New typos of weapono  of ma08
destruction and new eytltema  of ouah weaponal  radiolcgioal weaponeN,

Taking into consideratiion  the seotion  of  the report  of  the Conferonco  on
Disarmament relating to this queetion, y

Convinced that all  way8 and means  should be utilizod to prevant  the
development and manufacture of new typeo of weapons of mass destruction and
new eyetem  of ouch weapone,

Determined to prevent modern science and tsohnolqy from loading to the
developnent  of new types of wedgono  of moo8  destruction that  hove
oharaatorietias comparable in destructive effect to those of weapona  ok’ magi
destruction identified in ths defiliition of  weapons of  maas  dootruct ion
adopted by the United Nat ione in 1948, 4J

1. Reaffirms on the basis of the o~mnot~  desire  of  the  in ternat iona l
00mllWnity  the nQOefMi  ty  of prohibit Ing the devcrlopm@nt and manuf  acturu of rlQW
typee of weapons of matie doatruction  and new eyetems  of such  woaponar

2. Roqueotcr the Conference on Disarmament, i n  t h e  l i g h t  o f  ita oxioting
prioritias, to keep constantly under roviow,  with appropriate export
ao818tanc8,  the question of the prohibition of the dovolopment  and  manufacture,
of new types of weapon0  of maas  daotruation and new eystome  of ouch weapons
with a view to making, when neceaaary, recommendations o n  undertaking  apocific
negotiations on the identified type8 of such weapons)

3. Calle u p o n  a l l  States, brranadiately  f o l l o w i n g  t h e  idontificution  of
any new typo of weapon of muna dootruction, to renounce p-act  icul dwelopnent
of such  a weapon and to commence negotiatione on ite prohibitlonl

Y Official Records of the General Aasombly,  Forty-second  Son~isrr  ,
Supplement No. 27 (A/42/27), eect. III, paras.  86-89.

!I The definition was adopted by the Cormniasion  for Conventional  Armtimcnts
(see S/C.3/32/Rov. 1) l

/ . . .



AJra/Tre
Eng  1 Leh
mge  5

4. Once again xgos  all Stutee  to refrain from any aotion  that aou1.d
lead to the emergenoe  of now types  of weapone of RWW  deettuotion  and new
eyotema  o f  ouah  weapnei

5. Ccrlla again upon  all Stateo  to undertake effort8 to ensure  that
ult.imatoly scientific  and teohnologfoal  aghiovemenC8  ma!*  be  uoe3  eolely  f o r
poacef  ul purposoej

6. Request6  the Secretary-Qeneral  to transmit to the  Confererwe on
Disarmament  a l l  Aocumente  re la t ing  to  the mnefderation  of thie item b y  t h e
Genaral  Assembly  a t  ite forty-oooond  soeeion#

7. @quests  the Conference  on Diearmament to w&nit  to the General
Aeeenbly  for conoideration  at ite forty-third eeusion  a report on the teoult~
achieved)

0 . Decideo  to include in the provisional agenda of its  forty-third
eeeeion  the item entitled ‘Prohibition of the develoment  and manufaatute  of
new typos of weapona  of maae  doetruction  and new eyetetm 3f suoh  waspone:
report  o f  the Confsrenco  o n  Diearmament”.


