







































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/42/720
6 November 1987

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-second session
Agenda item 92

ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF RACIAL DISCRIMINATION

Report of the Third Committee

Rapporteur: Mrs. Ani SANTHOSO (Indonesia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1987, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in its agenda the item
entitled:

"Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination:

"(a) Report of the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination;

"(b) Status of the International Convention on the Suppression and
Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid: report of the
Secretary-General;

"(c) Question of financing the expenses of the members of the Committee
on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination: reports of the
Secretary-General"

and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered the item jointly with items 87 and 91 at its 3rd to
13th‘  23rd and 27th meetings, from 5 to 9, 12 to 14 and on 23 and 28 October 1987.
An account of the Committee's discussion is contained in the relevant su&nary
records (A/C.3/42/SR.3-13,  23 and 27).

3. For its consideration of the item,. the Committee had before it the following
documents:

87-28113 '0544P  (E) / . . .



A/42/7 20
tTnql.inh
Paga 2

(a) Report  of the! Committee on F:l,i.mination  of Racial J>iscriminationl  I-/

(11)  Report  of  the  Secretary-Gonoral  on tho status of thr! Inb3rnaticJnai
c!onvontian  on tho Suppreonion  and Punishment of tha Crime  of Apartheid (A/42/449) 1

(c)  Report  of  ehe Secretary-General  on the  yuontion of  financing the axponnen
sf the mombero  of the Committee on the Xlimination  of Racial Discrimination
(A/42/468  and Corr.1 and Add.l)j

(A)  Letter dated 23 October 19H7  Pram the Permanent Representative  of
Zimnabwr~  t-o  the United Nationn addrasned  to  the sacrotary-General ,  t ransmitt ing the
Pi.nQl.  Communiqu6 of the Meetinq  of Ministers  for E’oreiqn  Affaire oE States  members
of the Movomont of Non-Aligned Countrion, hold in New York from S to 7 October 19U7
(A/42/681).

4. At the 3rd meetinq, on 5 Oct.obor, the Under-Secretary-General for Human Riqhta
made  an introductory statement  ( see  A/C.3/42/SRe3).

5. At tho ll.th meeting, on 13 October, the Comptroller made a ntatemsnt under
sub-item  ( c )  (oea A/C.3/42/SR.l.l.).

B. At the 23rd meeting, on
Democratic Repuhlit, o n  behit

A.

CONSIDERA’L’ION  OI”  P R O P O S A L S

Draft resolution ALC. 3/42/L, 9

2 3 Oc taber , the ropreeontstive of the German
f of Afghanistan, Algeria,,-Angola,  Bulgaria, Durkina

. - -.
I”Lllw,  cu bn , Czechoelovnkia, Jzthlopia, the German Democratic Republic, Gtl=,
lungary, India,  ths  Lao Poople’8  Democratic Republic,  Madagascar,  Mongolia,
Nicaragua,  Nigeria ,  z.ond,  the Syrian Arab Republic,  the Ukrainian Soviet
Socintint Republic, Viet  Nam and Zambia, introduced a draft  resolut ion
( A / C .  3/42/L.9) entit led “Statue of the International Convention  on the !?ur~r ‘@asion
and Puniohment of the Crime of Apsrthoid”.

7 . At the 27th meetirlq, on 2fl Ocztober, the Secretary of the Committee, on behalf
of the flponsorfi, reed  out t h e  folI.~ing revision t o  t h e  s i x t h  preambulsr
paragraph: The phrano “neither peace in the roqim, nor oecurity  for any country
nor true i ndepondence  for Namibia” WBH  replaced by the phrase “neither peace nor
rrc’curity  for any country in the roqion  nor  early independence for Namibia”.

t3 . !itatpmentn were made  by the repreeentativco  of the United State8  of America
and Dtmnark  (on behalf of the States  Membern  of the (Jnited Nations that are members
of the European I?,conomic  Community) (flee  A/C. 3/42/SR.27)  .

--

y Official. Records of the General Assembly, Forty-second Sesnion,
Supplement<% 1 8  (A/42/18).-

/, . . .



A/42/720
English
Page 9

9, At  the  roqueot  o” t-hu reprooentat ive 0,(’ tho Federal, Republic of Germany, the
Committeo Proceeded to  vote cn tho draft resolution QB  followor

(a)  The worda “State  terror ism@’ in the fourth preambular paragraph were
adopted by a recorded vote of 100 to 16, with 15 abetentione. Tho voting was a8
followet

In favour:

Againnt  i

Abotaining.8

Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Angola,  Argentina, Bahamaa,
Bahrain,  Banylcdeoh, Barbadoa,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia,  Botewanar
Brazil, Brunei Daruesalam, Bulqaria, Burkina Faso,  Burma,
Burundi, Byelorueeian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Chad,
China, Congo, Costa Riaa, C&e  B’Ivoira, Cuba, Cyprus,
Ceechoelovakia, Demooretio  Kampuchea,  Democratio  Yemen, D$ibouti,
Dominiaan  Republia,  Eouador,  Eqypt, El  Salvador,  Ethiopia,  German
1)emooratic  Republia,  Grenada,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bieeau,  HonduraB,
Hungary,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran (Ielamic  Republic  of) ,  I raq,
Jamaiaa, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madaqaeaar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mexioo,  Mongolia, Morocco, Mosambique,  Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakiotan, Panama, Peru, Philippinee,
Poland, Qatdr , Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Sonegal, Singapore, Somalia, 9r.i Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Toqo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Soaialiet Republic, Union of
Joviet  Sc,(:ialiet  Republics, United Arab Emiratee.  United Republic
of Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet  Nam, Yemen, Yuqoelavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Iaoland,  I re land,  Israel, I taly,  Japan,  Luxembourg,  NetherlandQ,
Portugal ,  Spain, United Kinqdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United Statea  of America.

Auotral ia ,  Austr ia ,  Canada,  Chile,  Equatorial  G u i n e a ,  Fiji,
Finland, Guatemala, Malawi, Now Zealand, Norway, Swaziland,
Sweden, Turkey, Uruguay .

(h) The fifth preambular paragraph wa8 adopted by a recorded vote of 105 to
15, with 13 abetentiono. The voting wae ae follows:

2.n E avou r I Afqhanietan, Alqoria,  Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei
Daruesalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Fauo, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, Chinj,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e  d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras, Hungary, India,
Indonesia,  Iran (Is lamic Republic  of) ,  I raq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,

/ *..



A/42/720
English
Page 4

Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republio, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morooco,  Mosamb:.que,  Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger,  Nigeria, Pakietan,  Panama, Peru, i’hilippinea,
Poland,  Port.uqal, 21 Qa ta r , Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Prinoipe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobaqo,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,  Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuala,  Viet  Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Agafnstr Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Qreeoe,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel ,  I ta ly,  Luxembourg,  Netherlands,
Spain, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United 3tates  OF  America.

Abetai ninql A u s t r a l i a ,  Auetria,  Brazil, Chile,  Fij i ,  Finland, Japan, Malawi,
New Zealand, Norway, Swaziland, Sweden, Turkey.

(c) Operative paragraph 5 was  adopted by a recorded vote of 106 to 18, with 8
abstentione. The voting wa8 a8 followsc

I n  favour8 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darus8alam, Bulgaria, Burkina Paao, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorusnian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C8te
dlIvoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Dominican Republia,  Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial  Guinee, Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, ilunqary, India,
Indonesia ,  I ran (Islamfc  Republic  of) ,  I raq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriyt+, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,  Monqolia,  Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Nicaragua,  Niger ,  Nigeria ,  Pakis tan,  Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar r Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic,  Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Wet  Nam, Yemen, Yuqoslavia,  Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

21 The delegation of Portuqal  subsequently indicated that  i ts  vote on the
paragraph should have been recorded as being against and not in favour.

/. .I



A / 4 2 / 7 2 0
Enq li sh
Page  5

Against  J Auntria,  Relqium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Foderal
Republic  of ,  Greece,  Iceland,  I re land,  Ierael,  I taly,  Japan,
Luxembou::l,  Netherlands,  Portugal, Spain, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

AhetainingJ Australia, Finland, Malawi, New Zealand, Norway, Swaziland,
Sweden, Turkey,

(d) Operative paragraph 8 was adoptecl  by il recorded vote of 107 to 16, with
10 abstentions. The voting was as follower

I n  faVOUrJ hfqhanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Daruesalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cape Verde,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e  B’Ivoire,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,  Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial  Guinea, Ethiopia,  Fiji ,  C3erman  Demooratio  Republic,
Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Honduras,
Hungary, India,  Indonesia,  Iran (Islamic Republic of) ,  Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya , Kuwait, La? Poople@s Democratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morooco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe,  Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia,  Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic,  Union of
Soviet  Socialist  Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruquay, V e n e z u e l a ,  Viet  Nam, ,Yemen,  YUgCdaVia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe,

Against J Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal Republic oi,
Greece , Iceland,  Ireland,  Israel ,  I ta ly,  Luxembourg,  Netherlands,
Porruqal, Spain, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining8 Austral ia ,  Canada,  Finland,  Japan, Malawi, New Zealand, Norway,
Swaziland, Sweden, Turkey.

10. At the same meeting, the representat ive of  the United States of  America
requested a recorded vote on the draft resolution as a whole, as orally revised.
The draft resolution was adopted by a recorded vote of 107 to 1, with 27
abstent ions  (see para. 14,  draf t  resolut ion I) . The voting was as fOllOWEIJ

I n  faVOUrJ Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Anqola, Arqentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Banqladetih, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Wunei Darussalam, Bulgaria,  Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socl ti? ist Republic,

/ . . .



A/42/720
Enqlieh
Page 6

Cameroon, Chad, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e
d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprue, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuohea,
Demrxxatic  Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Rttpublicr  Ecuador, Egypt,
El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic
Republ’  c , Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Gui nea-Biseau ,
Honduras, Hunqary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic Of),
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republio, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madaqaacar,
Malayeia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaraqua,  Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe,  Saudi Arabia, 3enega1,  Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname#  Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,  Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining;  Austral ia ,  Austr ia ,  Belgium, Canada,  Cape Verde,  2/ Chile,
Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Iceland, Ireland, ferael, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malawi,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Swaziland,
Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.

11. Statements were made by the representatives of Honduras, Turkey, Australia,
Austria, Japan and Finland (also on behalf of Norway and Sweden) (see
F ‘C. 3/42/SR.  27) .

8. Draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.l3

12. At the 23rd meetinq, on 23 October, the  representative of Yugoslavia, on
behalf  of ALgeria, Australia, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus, Denmark, Eqypt,  Ethiopia,
Germany,  Federal  Republic  of ,  India,  the Netherlands,  Nicaraqlra, Nigeria,  NorwayI
Pakistan, Rwanda, Senegal, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland and Yugoslavia,  introduced a draft  resolution (A/C.3/42/L.13) entitled
“Report of the Committee on the Elimination OP  Racial Discrimination”.

13. At the same meeting, followinq a statement by the representative of Morocco
(me A/C.3/42/SR.23), the- Committee adopted draft resolution A/C. 3/42/~.13 (see
para.  14, draEt resoLution  I I ) .

Y The delegation of Cape Verde subsequently ?.nrficated  that its vote on the
draEt resolution should have been recorded as being in favour and not as an
abstention.

/ . . .



A/42/720
EnglilJh
Pago 7

I I I . RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

14. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly  the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT  RESOLUTION I

adoption of t h e

Sta tus  of the International Convention on the Suppreesion
a n d  Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid

The General Assembly,

Recalling ita resolution JO68  (XXVIII) o f  N o v e m b e r  1973, by  which  it
adopted and opened for  s ignature and rat i f icat ion t h e  International Convention
on the Suppression and Punishment of the Crime of Apartheid, and ite
s u b s e q u e n t  reoolutions o n  t h e  s t a t u s  of the Convention,

Reaffirming its conviction that 3artheid constitutes a total  negation of
the purposes  and principles oFthe Charter of t h e  United Nat ions ,  a  groes
violation of human rights and a crime againet humanity, aeriouely threatening
international peace and’ security,

Al.lrmed  by the aggravation of t h e  situation in S o u t h  Africa, in- - -
particular the further eecalation  of r u t h l e s s  repreeBion b y  t h e  Fascis t - l ike
apartheid rdyime,

Strongly condemninq  S o u t h  Africa’s continued policy of apartheid and i ts
continued il legal occupation of Namibia, as well  a8 its policy of aggression,
State  terror ism and deutabilization against  independent African States,

Mindful of Commission on Human Right8 resolution 1907/11  Of
26 February 1987, 4J  in w h i c h  t h e  Commission expressed  its c o n v i c t i o n  t h a t  t h e
crime of apartheid is a form of the crime of genocide,

Stressin t h a t  t h e  racist apartheid regime is t h e  root c a u s e  of the
conflict in eouthern Africa and t h a t  as  lonq a s  it exist8 there will  be
ne!ther  peace nor Recurity  for any country i n  t h e  region nor early
independence for Namibia and that  i t  mufit,  therefore ,  be  eradica ted ,

Condemning t h e  c o n t i n u e d  collaboration of certain States and
tranenational corporationn  with the raciet rdgime of S o u t h  Africa in the
political, e c o n o m i c , military and other fields as on encouragement
intensification of its odioue policy of wrtheid,- -

to the

i!/ Official Records of the Exnomic  and Social Council, 1987, Supplement
No.  5 (E/1987/18), chap. Il=act.  A.- -

/ . . .



A/42/720
English
Page 0

Firmly convinced that the legitimate struggle of the oppressed peoples in
southern Africa against  apartheid, racism and colonialiem and for the
effective implementation of their inalienable right to self-determination and
independence demand8 more than ever all  neceesary support  by the international
community and, in particular, further action by the Security Council in
accordance with Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations,

Underlining that  rat if ication of or accession to the Convention on a
universal basis and the implementation of i ts provisions without any delay are
necessary for  i t8  effectivenees, and therefore will  contribute to the
eradication of the crime of apartheid,

1 . Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the statue of
the Internationalxnvention  on the Suppression and Punishment of  the Crime of
Apartheid1 !5J

2. Commends those States parties to the Convention which have submitted
their  reports  under art icle VII  thereof)

3. Appeals  once again to  the States  that  have not  yet  done so to ratify
or to accede to the Convention without further delay,  in part icular  those
States which have jurisdiction over tranenational  corporations operating in
South Africa and Namibia and without whose co-operation such operation6 cannot
be halted1

4. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Group of Three of
the Commiasion on Human Rights, established in  accordance with article IX Of
the Convention,  and,  in part icular , of the conclusions and recommendations
contained in that  report!  6J

5 . Draws the at tention of  al l  States to the opinion expressed by the
Group of Three in i ts  report  that  transnational corporat iona  operatinq  in
South Africa and Namibia must be considered accomplices in the crime of
apar theid ,  i n  accordance with ar t ic le  III  (b) of the Convention1

6. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to intensify, in
co-operat ion with the Special  Committee against  Apartheid,  i ts  efforts  to
compile periodically the progressive list  of individuals,  orqanizations,
institutions and representatives of States deemed responsible for crimes
enumerated in article If  of the Convention, as well as those against whom or
which legal proceedings have been  undertaken;

7. Requests  the Secretary-General  to  circulate  the above-mentioned l is t
to all States parties to the Convention and all Member States and to bring
such facts to the attention of the public by all means of mass oommunicationr

Y A/42/449.

s/ E/CN.4/1987/28.

/ . . .



A/42/720
Eng Ii ah
Pago 9

8. Requenta  the Secretary-General  to  invi te  the Statee partiee to the
Convention, the specialized agencies and non-governmental organiaatione to
provide the Commission on Human Rights with relevant information concerning
the forma of the crime of apartheid, aa described  i n  a r t i c l e  I I  o f  t h e
Convention, committed by transnmnal corporations operating in South Africa1

9. Notea  the importance of measures  to  be  taken by Statee  par t ies  in
the field bEaching and education for fuller implementation of the
Convent ion )

10. Appeals  to  all Statee ,  Uni ted Nationa organa,  specialized agenciee
and international and national non-governmental organizations to  otep up their
activitiee in enhancing public awareneaa  by denouncing the crimeo  committed by
the racist  rdgime of South Africa)

11, Requests  the  Secretary-General  to  inteneify his efforts,  through
appropriate  channels , to disseminate information on the Convention and its
implementation with a view to promoting further ratification of or accession
to the Conventioni

12. Requests  the Secretary-General  to include in his  next  annual  report
under General Assembly resolution 3380 (XXX) of 10 November 1975 a special
section concerning the implementation of the Convention.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Report of the Committee on the Elimination
of Racial Discrimination

The General Awsembly,

Recallinq its  previous resolutions concerning the reports of the
Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination  and resolution 41/104  of
4 December 19fl6 on the status of the Internattonal Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, I/ as  well as ita other
relevant resolutions on the implementation of the Programme of Action for the
Second Decade to Combat Raciem and Racial Discrimination, E/

Reiterating the importance of the Convention, which is the most widely
accepted h u m a n  righta instrument adopted under the auspices of the United
Nations, as  well atl of the contribution of the Committee to the United Nations
efforts to combat racism and al l  other forma  of discrimination based on racer
colour , descent or national or ethnic origin,

31 Resolution 2106 A (XX) , annex.

iv Resolution 38/14,  annex.

/ . . .



A/42/120
Enqlieh
pegi3  10

Welcoming the report of the Committee covering its 1986 and 1987
eessione,  9J

Reiterating once again the need to intensify the struggle for t h e
elimination of raaiem  andracial  discrimination throughout the world,
especially the elimination of apartheid in South Africa and Namibia,

Mindful of the obligation of all States parties to comply fully with the
provisions of the Conventicn,

Recalling the urgent appeals made by the Secretary-General, the General
Aesembly, the  11th meetinq of States partiee to the Convention and the
Committee i tself  to the States parties to honour their  f inancial  obligation
under the Convention,

Gravely concerned that ,  In spite of al l  the urgent appeals for f inancial
payment of assessed contributions under the  Convention, the situation impedinq
the  proper functioning of the Committee continues to deteriorate,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-General on the question of
financing the  expenses  of the members of the Committoe on the Elimination of
Racial Discrimination, lo-/

1. Expresses its profound concern at the  fact that a number of States
parties to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial
Discrimination have not complied with their financial obligations under the
Convention, which led to the cancellation of the August 1986 session and the
curtailment by two weeks of the Auquet 1987 session of the Committee on the
Elimination of Racial Discrimination1

2. Expresses once again its concern that euch  a situation preventad the
Committee from submitting an annual report to the General Assembly at its
forty-first  session as required by the Convention and led to further delay in
discharging its substantive obligations under the Conventions

3. Commends the Committee for its work with regard to the
implementation of the Convention and the  Programme of Action for the Second
Decade to Combat Racism and Racial Dfscrfmination/

4. Takes note with appreciation of the report of the Committee covering
i ts  1986 and 1987  sessionst

Y Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-second Session,
SupplementxT(d/42/18) w

Lo/ A/42/468 and Corr.1 and Add.1.



A/42/720
English
Page 11

5. Calls upon States parties to comply fully with their obligation
under article 9, paragraph 1, of the Convention and to submit in due time
their periodic reports on measures taken to implement the Convention;

L. Strongly appeals to all States parties to fulfil without delay their
financial obligations under article 0, paragraph 6, of the Convention so as to
enable the Committee to continue its work;

7. Calls upon States partier;  to explore, at their next meeting on
15 January 1988, all appropriate measures, and to take a decision that would
enable the Committee to meet regularly in the future;

8. Invites the States parties to consider , pending a fully satisfactory
solution to the current financial difficulties, the possibility, as an
exceptional measure, of the Committee holding one extended session per year;

9. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-third session on the financial situation of the Committee;

10. Decides to consider the report at its forty-third session under the
item entitled "Elimination of all forms of racial discrimination".


