







































.  - -_..,“..

UNITED
NATIONS

A

Distr.
GENERAL

A/4 2/7  4 3
13 November 1987

ORIGINAL1 ENGLISH

Forty-second eeaaion
Agenda item 54

CONCLUSION OF EFFECTIVE IWTERNATIONAL  AA.RAMXMENTS  ON THE
STRENGTHENING  OF THE SECURITY OF NON-NUCLEAR-WEAPON STATES

AGAINST THE USE OR THREAT OF USE OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS

Report of the FirsC Conmnittee

Rapportour  a Mr. Kazimiorr  TOMASZEWSKI  (Poland)-”

1. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entititd “Conclusion  of effective international arrangements on tne
Ptrenqtheninq of the Jecvrity  of non-mclear-weapon State8 again&  the uIe  Or
threat of use of nuclear weapons” wan included in the provisional  agenda 01’ the
forty-second session in acccrdancc with General Assembly  rcdsolution 41/51  of
3 December 1986.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1987, the  Csneral  Asremhly, on the
recommendation  of the General Consnitt.ea, decided to include the item in its aqenda
and to allocate it to the First Corr,nittea.

3 . At its 2nd meeting, on 1 October, the First Committee decided to bold a
qeneral  debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, item8  48 to 69,
followed by statements cn specific disrrmament agenda  item6  and a continuation of
the general debate, aa necessary. The deliberations on those Items took place
between the 3rd and the 31st meeti!qrr,  from 12 October to 3 November (ace
A/C. l/4  2/W.  3-31) e

4. In connection with i tern 54, the  First Committee  had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Diaarmannntt  A/

.Y Official Recotcla  of the General Assembly, Forty-second Sesnion,
Supplement No. 27 (A/42/27).

87-29034  0549P  ( E )
/

. I.



A/42/743
English
Page  2

tb; Letiez dated 15 July 1987 from the Permanent Repres@ntative  of Malaysia
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text Of:
the final statement of tke fifth seesion  of the Interaction Council, held at Kuals
Lumpur from 19 to 21 April 1987 (A/42/407)?

(c) Letter dated 23 Octohr  1987 from tke  Permanent Representative of
Zimbabwe to the United Nations  addressed  to the Secretary-General, transmittiw  the
final  comnunioui of the Meetin  of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Beads of
Delegation of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to the forty-second session  Of
the General Aesembly, held in New York from 5 to 7 October  1987 (A/42/6813.

16. CONSfDERATION  OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/42/L.19

5. On 26 October, Afghanistan, Angom#  the Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, Mongolia and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics submitted a draft resolution, entitled
"Conclusion of effective international arrangement8  on the strengtheniW of the
security  of non-nuclear-weapon States against the UBe  or  threat of ui.se  of nuclear
weapons” (A/C. 1/42/L.19)  . The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of Bulgaria at the 33td  meeting, on 4 November.

6. At its 36th meeting, on 9 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
AJC.l/42/L.19  by a recorded vote of 87 to 18, with I5 abstentions (see para.  7).
The vetimg  WEW  as  bOllclwS:

In favour: Algeria, Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, ByebOrUS5ian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Congo, C6te  d’fvoire,  Cuba, !Zyprus, Czeckoslovakiar  DemoeXatio
Yemen, Djibouti, Ecutior,  Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, Gernrdn
&mocratic  Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Biasau, Guyana,
Hungary, fnd ia, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) , Iraq,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People*s Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamakiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mexico, Y%golia,  Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria* Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
ScciaUst  Republic, Unicm  of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United tepublic  of Tanzania, Mmezuela,  Viet  Ham,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,  Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, IEceland,  Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

/. .I)



A/42/74  3
Enqlirh
Page 3

Abatainingr Arqentina, Austria,  Braail,  Burma, Chile, China, Co8ta  Rica,
Greece, Ireland, Israel,  Jamaica, Malta, Sudan, Sweden, Uiuquay.

III . RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The Firat Comnittee  racomnmndm  to the General Asrembly the adaption of the
following dtdf t reaolutionr

Conclurion  of ottective  international arrangements on the
rtrenqthoninq of thj;rcuritv of non-nucloacwapon State0

ageinet  the ume  or threat  of UIO  of nuclear weapon6

The Genera 1 Aarembly,

,Convincrb  of  t h e  need  t o  t.ako ~ttoctiva moauure6 for t h e  atrenqtheninq of
the security of Statrr, and prompted by the dQrire rhared  by all  nations  to
elimlrlate  war and pr*vrnt nuclear  conflagration,

Coneidrrrinq  that, until nuclear  dirarmament ir QchiovQcI on a universal
baai8, it ir imperative for the international community to develop effective
maasurQQ  to QnrurQ  the 8eWrity  cf non-nuclear-weapon Stater againat the ure
or threat of u~r) of nuclear weapona,

Recoqnirinq  that Qt tQctiva  measurua  to aaauro  non-nuclear-weapon State8
against. the use  or thcaat of ume of nuclear waaponlr  can constitute a positive
c o n t r i b u t i o n to the prevent  ion of the spread  of much weaponm,

Noting with ratirfaction the datermination of non-nuclear-wapon States
in VariOum parts of the world to provont  nuclear weapon8 from king introduced
into their territorier and to Qnruro  thQ complete absonoe  of ruch  weapons in
t h e i r  roapectlvo reqiona, including through thQ l rtablishmant of
nuclear-weapon-tree toner on thQ barir of l rranqement8 freely arrived at among
the Statea  of thr  region concernad, arsJ  being anxious Lo encourage and
contribute to the attainment of thir objective,

Darirous  of promoting the  inplomentation of paragraph 39 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Seamion of the General Asrembly, z/  the tirbt
apecirl  seesion devoted to dirarmament, in which it urged the nuclear-weapon
Stater to purrue efforts to cOncludQ,  as appropriste,  effective arrangements
to a8QurQ  non-nuclear-weapon States against the IJSQ or threat of UIQ  of
nuclear weapons,

21 Resolution S-10/2.

/ . . .



A/42/743
English
Page 4

Recalling its numerous resolutions on this subject, as well as the
relevant part of the special report of the Committee on Disarmament z/
submitted to the General Assembly at its twelfth special sessionr s/ the
second special session devoted to disarmament,

Natinq  that the Conference on Disarmament considered in 1987 the item
entitled "Effective international arrangements to aszure non-nuclear-wea'wn
States against the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons", as reflected in
its report, z/ where it is stated that discussions on the conclusions that
could be drawn from the work  of the Ad Hoc Coranittee  on this item, including
consideration of the possibilities for inherim measures and alternatives Once
again proved inconclusive,

Noting further that during that consideration the importance of making
progress on this issue was underlined in the light of the forthcoming third
special session ?f the General Assembly dievrjted  to disarmament,

Recalling the proposals submitted on the subject to the General Assembly
and in the Conference on Disarmament, including the drafts of an international
convention, and the widespread internaticnal  support for the conclusion Of
such a convention,

Aware that additional proposals on the substance af the issue of security
assurances with respect to non-nuclear-weapon States were submitted in the
Conference on Disarmament in 1987, as reflactud in its report, z/

Mare also that the work on the substance of the effective arrangements
and discussion on Various  aspects and elements of an interim solution revealed
that specific difficulties relating to differing perceptions of SecuritY
interests persisted and that the complex nature of the issues involved
continued to prevent agreement on a "common formula",

Recognising  the need for fresh approaches to the solution of urgent
security issues in the nuclear age, many of which relate to the security of
non-nuclear-weapon States as well,

Aware of the wide support in the Conference on Disarmament for continuing
the search for a “conrnon formula-, which could be included in an international
legally binding instrument to assure non-nuclear-weapon States against the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Y The Corsrittee  on Disarmament was redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament as from 7 February 1984.

Y *Official Records of the General Assembly, Twelfth Special Session,
Supplement No. 2 (A/S-12/2), sect. fIX.C.

21 x., Forty-second Session, Supplement Na. 27 (A/42/27),  sect. 1II.F.

/ l . .



A/42/743
Enqlinh
Page 5

Welcoming once again the solemn  declarationa  made by sane  nuclaar-Hapon
States concerning non-first use of nuclear weapona,  and convinced that if all
nuclear-weapon States  were to atmume obligationa not to be the first to uee
nuclear weapons, that would he tantamount in practice to banning the uoe of
nuclear weapona  against  all States, including all non-nuclear-weapon Strtor,

@naidering  that t.he  non-nuclear-weapon States having no nuclear weapons
on thzterritoriee have every rfqht to receive reliabla,  uniform and
unconditional international legal aaaurancce  againet  the use  or threat of ume
of nuclear weapone#

1. Reaffirms once again the urgent need to reach agreement on effective
international ar rangemente to aenure non-nuclear-weapon Staten againat  the use
or threat of use of nuclear weapons  and to find a conmnon  approach acceptable
to all;

2 . Considers that the Conference on Disarmament  should contiaue to
explore ways and means of overcaning  the difficultler  encountered in carryiraq
out negotiations on this quest ion)

3. Appeals to all States, erpecially  the nuclear-weapon States, to
demonstrate political will dnd to exerclea  tne flexibility necesrary  to reach
agreement on a “comnon  formula”, which could be includ& An  an international
inatrument of a legally binding naturei

4 . Request8  the Conferonce on Dirarmament  to cant  inue active
negotiations on this subject  and to srrtabllrh  for this  purpose the rerpectiva
ad hoc committee  at the beginning of its 1988 seralont

5 . Decides to include in the provisional agenda of it4 fort+third
session  the i tem entit led “Conclusion of effective intetnac:  ional  arrangement8
on the strengthening of the security of non-nuclear-weapon State8 against the
use or threat of use  of nuclear weapons”.


