







































UNITED
NATIONS

Distr.
GENERAL

A/42/032
3 December 1987

ORIGINAL; ENGLISH

Forty-seaond eeeeion
Agenda item 126

MEASURES TO PREVENT INTERNATIONAL TERRORISM WHICH  ENDANGERS OR TAKES
INNOCENT HUMAN LIVES OR JEOPARDIZES FUNDAMENTAL  FREEDOMS AND STUDY
OF THE UNDERLYING CAUSES OF THOSE FORMS OF TERRORISM AND ACTS OF
VIOLENCE WHICH LIE IN MISERY, FRUSTRATION, GRIEVANCE AND DESPAIR AND
WHICH CAUSE SOME PEOPLE To SACRIFICE HUMAN LIVES, INCLUDING THEIR
OWN, IN AN A’Fi’EMPT TO EFFECT RADICAL CHANGES:

(a) REPORT OF THE SECRETARY-GENERAL!

(b) CONVENING, UNDER THE AUSPICES OF THE UNITED NATIONS, OF AN
INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE M DEFINE TERRORISM AND TO DIFFERENTIATE
IT FROM THE STRUGGLE OF PEOPLES FOR NATIONAL LIBERATION

Report of the Sixth Committee

Rapporteur 8 Mr. Kenneth MoKENZIE  (Trinidad and Tobago)
l

1. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled Vletasure8 to prevent international terrorism whiah endangers
01: takee innoaent human livea or jeopardizee’fundamental  freedoms and etudy of the
underlying oausea of those forms of terrorism and aots of violenae  whioh lie in
misery,  frustration, grievance and deepair and whkoh  aauee some  people to sacrifice
human lives, inaluding their own? in an attempt to effeat radical ahangee” was
included in the provisional agenda of the forty-second session of the General
Assembly in aacrordance with paragraph 15 uf Aeeembly  resolution 40/61 of
9 December 1985.

2. The Syrian Arab Republic requested the inclusion under the above-mentioned
item or the ptovieional agenda of a supplementary item entitled: “Convening, under
the auepiaee  of the United Nations, of an international conference to define
terrorism and to differentiate it from the struggle of peoples  for national
liberation" (eee A/42/193). The progcreal was supported by Democratic Yemen,
Algeria and Kuwait (on behalf of the Gtoup of Arab States) (eee A/42/193/Add.l-3),

87-32370  -4942P (E)



A/42/032
English
Page 2

3. At its 3rd meeting, on 17 September 1987, the General Committee deaided  that
the proposed supplementary item should be included a8 cub-item (b) of the original
item and reaomrnended  that the General Assembly should include the item, aa amended,
in its agenda.

4. At ite 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September, the Ge.:eral  Assembly, on the
reoommendation  of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda, and to
allocate to the Sixth Committee, the item entitledt

“Measures  to prevent international terrorism which endangers or takea innwent
human livee or jeopardizee  fundamental freedoms and study of the underlying
cau8ee of those forms of terrorism and acts of violence which lie in miQerYr
frustration, grievanoe and despair and whiah cause some people to sacrifice
human live8, including their own, in fn attempt to effect radical changeer

“(a) Report of the Secretary-General1

“(b) Convening, under the auepiaes  of the United Nations, of an international
conference to define terrorism and to differentiate it from the struggle
Of peoples for national liberation”. I/

5. In connection with the item, the Sixth Committee had before it the report of
the Secretary-General (A/42/519 and Corr.  1 and Add.1) which was introduced by the
Under-Secretary-General, the Legal Counsel, at its 28th meeting, on 21 October.

6. The Committee also had before it the following communicationso

(a) Letter dated 17 December 1986 from the Charge d’affaireo  a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of the Syrian Arab Republic to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/42/58) I

(b) Letter dated 6 January 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Egypt to
the United Nation6 addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/72)1

(c) Letter dated 3 March 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Kuwait to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary,.General  (A/42/178-5/18753)1

(d) Letter dated 31 March 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Belgium
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/201 and Corr.1)  t

(e) Letters dated 4 May and 9 and 13 July 1987 from the Charge
d’affaires  a.1. of the Permanent Mission of Suriname to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General  ( A / 4 2 / 2 7 0 ,  A / 4 2 / 3 9 3  and A/42/398)1

Y The General Assembly decided that the item should be allocated to the
Sixth Committee on the understanding that sub-item (b) should first he introduced
at one plenary meeting before it was considered by that Committee. At the 44th
plenary meeting, on 20 October, the representative of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya
introduced eub-I tern (b) .

/ . . .



A/42/032
English
Page 3

(f) Letter dated 21 May 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya  to the United Nations addressed to tha Sooretary-General (A/42/307) I

(g) Letter dated 10 June 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Italy to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/336-5/19913)!

(h) Letter dated 23 July 1987 from the representativas of Bulgaria,
Czechoslovakia, the German Demooratic Republic, Hungary, Poland, Romania and the
Union of Soviet Soaialiet  Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/416)1

(I) Letter dated 20 July 1987 from the Charge  d’affairee a.1. of the
Permanent Mission of Samoa to the United Nations addressed to the Seoretary-General
(A/42/417); #

(j) Letter dated 14 August 1987 from the Charge d’affaireo  a.1. of the
Permanent Mission of the Syrian Arab Republic to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary-General (A/42/193)1

(k) Letter dated 18 August 1987 from the Permanent Reprusantative  of
Democratic Yemen to the United Nations address&  to tha Secretary-General
(A/42/193/Add.l)#

(1) Letter dated 25 August 1987 from the Charge d’affaires a.i. of the
Parmanent  Mission of Algerra to the United Nations addressed to the
secretary-General (A/42/193/Add.2)!

(m) Letter dated 2 September 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Kuwait
to the United Nations addreseed to the Secretary-Goneral (A/42/193/Add,3)  I

(n) Letter dated 11 September 1967 from the Permanent Representative of
Kuwait to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/564)1

(01 Letter dated 19 October 1987 from the Permanent Repreeentotive  of Canada
to the United Nationa addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/677)~

(p) Letter dated 23 October 1987 from the Permanent Representative Of
Zimbabwe to the United Nation8 addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/691)1

(9) Letter dated 17 November 1987 from the Permanent Representative Of YOrdan
to the United Nations addresssd  to the Secretary-General (A/42/779-9/19274)  I

(r) Letter dated 18 November 1987 from the Permanent Representative of South
Africa to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C.6/42/5)*

7. The Committee considered  the item at its 28th to 34th meetings, held from 21
to 28 October, and at its 60th meeting, on 1 December. The summary records of
those meetings (A/C.6/42/SR.28-34  and 60) contain the views of the representatives
who spoke on the item.



A/42/832
English
Page 4

11” CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

8. The Committee had before it a draft resolution (A/C.6/42/L.Z)  sponsored bY
Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Norwayr  the
Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Turieey  and the
Britain and Northern Ireland, which read as follows:

“The General Assembly,

"Reaffirmin  its resolution 40/61  of 9 December 1985, adopted without a
vote, i:r which it unequivocally condemned, as criminal, all acts, methods and
practices of terrorism wheKever  and by whomevel:  committed, including those
which jeapardize  friendly Kelations ar@ng States and their security,

"Deploring the continuation of terrorist outrages, including those
instigated or supported by States, involving assassinations, the taking of
hostages, the hijacking of aircraft, bomb attacks, letter or parcel bombs and
other criminal acts that spre%d violence and teKroK, may result in loss of
human lives and jeapardize the normal functioning of international relations,

"Deeply disturbed that tertorism  has become a world-wide phenomenon and
can pose a threat to international peace and security,

"Taking note of the deep concern wnd condemnation of all acts Of
international terrorism expressed  by numerous international organisations,

"Convinced of the importance  of expanding and improving international
co-operation amwg States, on a bilateral and muJ&ilateral basis, that will
contribute to the elimination of acts of international terrorism and their
underlying c%uses and to the prevention and elimination of this criminal
scourge,

"Recalling the existing international conventions relating to various
aspects of the problem of international terrorism, inter alia, the Convention
on Offences and Certain Other Acts Committed on Board Aircraft, signed at
Tokyo on 14 September 1963, the Convention  for the Suppression of Unlawful
Seizure of Aitcraft,  signed at The Hague on 16 December 1970, the Convention
for the Suppression of Unlawful Acts against the Safety of Civil Aviation,
signed at Montreal on 23 September 1971, the Convention on the Prevention and
Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Protected Persons, including
Diplomatic Agents, concluded at New York on 14 December 1973, the
International Convention against the Taking of Hostages, concluded at New York
On I.7 December 1979, and the Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear
Mater ial, concluded at Vienna on 3 MaKch 1980,

"Convinced of the importance of the observance by States of their
obligations under the relevant international conventions to ensure that
appropriate law-enforcement measures ate taken in connection with the offences
addressed in those ConVentionS,

/**.



A/42/832
English
Page 5

“Commending the International Civil Aviation Organization and the
International. Maritime Organization for their efforts and important
achievements in promoting the security of international air and sea transport
against acts of terrorism, consistent with its resolution 40/61,

“Urqing all States to take effective measures in accordance with
established principles of international law, in order that all acts, methods
and practices of international terrorism may be brought to an end,

“Mindful of the necessity of maintaining and protecting the basic rights
of the individual including those relating to procedural. safeguards and
guarantees, in accordance with the relevant international human rights
instruments and generally accepted international standards, #

“Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General, z/

“1. Calls up,n all States to fulfil their obligations under
international law to refrain from instigating or supporting terrorist acts in
other States, or acquiescing in or encouraging activities within their
territory directed towards ale oommission  of such acts;

“2. Urges all States to intensify their co-operation in the struggle to
Prevent and eliminate all acts of terrorism, especially through the exchange
of information and the apprehension of the perpetrators of such acts1

“3. Calls upon States which have apprehended perpetrators of acts of
terrorism to extradite them or to submit a case to their prosecuting
authorities in accordance with applicable lawt

“4. Urqes  all States effectively to apply appropriate law enforcement
measures provided for in the relevant  international conventions to which they
are party to persons who commit acts of terrorism covered by those conventions
and not to allow any circumstances to obstruct such application8

“5, Appeals to all. States that have not yet done so to consider becoming
party to the international conventfon;i  relating to various aspects of
international terrorism, and requests the Secretary-General to bring this
appeal especially to the attention af those States;

‘6. Further appeals to all States to take all appropriate stepsI as
recommended in particular by the International Civil Aviation Organization and
the International Maritime Organization, and as set forth in relevant
international conventions, to prevent terrorist attacks against various forms
of public transport?

y A/42/519 and Corr.1 and Add.1.



A/42/832
English
Page 6

“ 7 . Takes note with appceoiation  of the effort8  undertaken by the
International Civil Aviation Organisation  aimed at promoting universal
aaaeptanee of and etriat aomplianae with the international air-seourity
aonventions,  and weloomes ite ongoing work on a new instrument for the
ou~prueeion  of unJ.awful  aate of violenae  at airports serving international
caivil aviation)

“8. Also take8 note with apdreoiation of the work undertaken by the
International Maritime Organisation on the problem of torrorism aboard or
against ships, and welaomao the initiative under way to draft instruments on
tho WppreeMion  of unlawful aots againet the eafety  of maritime navigation and
of fixed platforms on the aontinental shelf)

“9. Raquesta the Univeroal Postal Union and the World Tourism
Oryaniaation, within their respeotive aompetenaes , to aoneider what further
measures aan usefully be taken to oombat and e$iminate  terroriemr

“10. Requests the Searetary-QQneral  to follow up, ae appropriate, the
implementation of resolution 40/61 and c,P thQ present resolution and to eubmit
a roport to the Qenoral  Af35Qmbly  at ite forty-fourth eeeeion#

“11. Doaides to inalude  the item in the provieional agenda of its
forty-fourth session.n

9. The Committee also had before it a draft resolution (A/C,6/42/L.7)  sponsored
by 2 imbabwe , whioh read as follower

“The General Aseombly,

‘Reaallinq it8 reeolutione 3034 (XXVII) of 18 Deaember 1972, 31/102 OS
15 Deaember 1976, 32/147 of X6 Deaember 1977, 34/^145  of 17 Deaember 1979,
36/109 of 10 Deaember 1981 ar,d 381130 of 19 Deaember 1983,

fi’Reaffitminq  the recommendations of the Ad Hoa Committee on International
Terrorism oontained in its report to the General Aeaembly at its thirty-fourth
sQ8sion,  1/

“~eoa111n~  also its resolution 40/61 of 9 Deaember 1985,

*Reaffirming also the Dealaration on Brinaiplee  of International Law
aonoerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with
the Charter of the United Nations, q the Dealaration on the Strengtheninq  of!

21 Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-fourth Session,
SupDlement  No. 37 (A/34/37) l
m

Lv Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.

/ .*.



A/42/032
English
Rage 7

International blearicy, !3J the Definition of Aggreaeion, $,/ and re~ovent
instrument8 on international humanitarian law applioable in armed aonfliot,

“Furthsr  reaalling the existing  international aonventions relating t0
Various aspsots  of the problem of international terrorism, inter alie, the
Convention ori Offenaes and Certain Other Aote Committed on Board  Airoraft,
signed at Tokyo on 14 September 1963, 7J the Convention for the Suppression OP
Unlawful Seisure  of Airoraft, aiqned at The Hague on 16 Deuomber  1970, v the
Convention for the Suppreosion  of Unlawful Aute against the Safety of Civil

’ Aviation, signsd at Montreal on 23 September 1971, v the Convention on the
Prevention and Punishment of Crimes against Internationally Proteated Persons,
inaluding  Diplomatio Agents, oonaluded  at New York on 14 Dttuamber  1973 Q/ and
the Inteenational  Convention against the Taking of Hostage&, adopted at NW
York on 17 December 1979, x/

“Deploring the continuation of all tarrorist aots,  in partioular those
oommitted, direoted, finanoed or otherwise instigated or eupportsd  by Statas@
Lrvolving politioal assassinat ions, destabilisation of duly oonstituted
Covernmsnte, the aativitiee of meraenariee,  the taking of hostages, the
hijaaking of airoraft, bomb ateaoke and other oriminal terroriet sations which
take a toll of innoaent  human lives and jaopardiee the normal funotioniny of
international relations,

“DeesW disturbed by the world-wide esatlation of these aats of
international terrorim,  whioh pose a threat to international poaae and
eeowity and to friendly relation6 among States,

Vonvinaed  of the importanoe of expanding and improving international
oo-operation among Statee, on a bilateral, regional ancl multilateral basis, to
eliminate the underlying oauees of international terrorism whioh will
oontribute to the prevention and sl’imination  of this oriminal  soourge,

“Raaffirming  the prinaiple of self-determination of peoples as enshrined
in the Charter of the United Nations,

Resolution 2734 (XXV)  .

Resolution 3314 (XXIX), annex.

United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 704, No. 10106, pm 21:.

Ibid. ,  vol. 860, No. 12325, p. 106.

United States Treaties and Other International Agreements, vol. 24,
(19731, pa 268.

United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 1035, No. 15410, p. 167.

Resolution 34/146,  annex.

/ . . .



A/42/032
English
Page 0

“Reaffirminq also the inalienable right to self-determination and
independenoe of all peoples under aolonial  ant! raoist &imee, foreign
oaoupation  and other forms of alien dominatian  and upholding the legitimaoy of
their struggle, in partioular the struggle of national liberaticn  movementsr
in auoordanoe with the purpoeee and prinaiplee of the Charter and of the
Dealaration on Prinoiples of International Law oonoerning  Friendly Relations
and Co-operation  among States in aooordanoe with the Charter of the United
Nations,

“Ureinq all Statee to take effeutive measures in aaoordanoe with
established prinaip!.es  o f  international law, in order that all aats, methods
and praotioee of international terrorism may be brought to an end,

aTakinq  note of the report of the Seoretary-General, g/

“1. Unesuivooally  oondemns, as ariminal, all sots, metho& and praotiaes
of terrorism wherever and by whomever aommitted,  inaluding  those; whiah
jeopardise friendly relations among States and their seaurityl

n2. Deeply deplores the 108s of innwent human live8 whioh results from
suah acts of terrorism1

“3. Also deplores the pernioious  impaat of sate of international
terrorism on relations of ao-operation among States, inoluding  ao-operation
for development)

“4. Calls upon all States to fulfil their obligatione under
international law to refrain from organizing, instigatingr  assisting or
participating in terrorist  aats in other States, or aaguieeaing  in aativities
within their territory direoted  towards the oommission  6f euah aster

“5. Appeale  to all States that have not yet done 80 to aoneider  becoming
party to the existing international aonventions  relating to various aepects  of
international terrorisml

“6. Invites all States to take all appropriate measures at the national
level with a view to the speedy and final elimination of international
terrorism, such as the harmonization  of domestio  legislation with the existing
international conventions, the fulfilment of assumed internatinal  obligations
and the prevention of the preparation and organisation  in their respective
territories of aats of terrorism, including subversive acts and acts of
meruonarism directed against other States and their citizens#

“7. Urges all States, unilaterally and in ao-operation with other
States, as well as relevant United Nations organ@, to contribute to the
progressive elimination of the causes underlying International terrorism and

l2J A/42/519 and Corr.1  and Add.1.

/ . . .



A/42/03 2
Englieti
Page 9

91 pal epeaiaL attention to all situations, inoludin~,  aolonialism,  racism and
situations involving mass and flagrant violations  of human right6 and
fundamental freedome  and those involving alien domination and foreign
ooaupation,  that may give rieo to international terrorism and may endanger
international peaae and seuurity,  with a view to the applioation, where
feasible and neoessary, of the relevant provisions of the Charter of the
UniteU Nations, inoluding  Chapter VII thereof1

“8 . Takes note of the efforte undertaken by the International  Civil
’ Aviation Crganieation  aimed at promoting universal aaoeptanae  of and striot

oomplianae with international air-seourity oonventiono, and weloomee its
ongoing work on a new instrument for the suppression r?f  unlawful aats Of
violence at airports eerving  international aivil aviations

I
“9, Also takes note of the Work undertaken by the International Maritime

Grganiaation  on the problem of terrorism aboard or againet ships, and welaomes
the initiative under way to draft inetruments on the ouppreeeion of Unlawful
auts against the safety of maritime navigation and of fixed platform8 on the
aontinental  shelf ,

“10. Requests tho other relevant speaialiaed  agenaies and
intergovernmental organieationsr within their  respective oompetenaes,  to
consider what further measures aan usefully be taken to oombat  and eliminate
terrorism)

“11. Requests the Searotary-General to follow upr as appropriate, the
implementation of the present resolution and to submit a report to the General
Assembly at its forty-fourth seseionl

“12. Further requests the Seoretary-General to prepare a topioal summary
conoerning the problem of international  terrorism based on the viewe expressed
in the debate in the Sixth Committee during the forty-eeoond  seeeion 6f the
General Assembly as early as possible and to eeek the views of Member Stateu
on international terrorism in all its aepute and to submit a report to the
General Aoeombly  at its forty-fourth seseionl

“13. Reaffirms that nothing in the preeent resOlution  uould in any way
prejudice the right to self-determination, freedom and independence as derived
from the Charter of peoples forcibly deprived of that right and referred to in
the Deularation  on Principles of International Law aonoerning Friendly
Relations and Co-operation among States in aooordanae with the Charter of the
United Nations, particularly peoples under colonial and raoiet  r&imee and
foreign occupation or other forms of colonial domination, nor the right of
theee people to struggle to this end and to seek and receive support in
accordance with the principles of the Charter and in conformity with the
above-mentioned Declaration8

“14. Decides to include the item in the provisional agenda of its
forty-fourth aeesion.  w

.

/ . . .



A/U/032
Engliah
Page 10

10. A rfk!VCaed  VorSion  o f  thu  d r a f t  csaolution  (A/C.6/42;L.7/Rev.l),  aleo eponeored
b y  zimbabws,  wao subosquently oiroulated, That reviserl draft resolution inoluded
the insertion of an additional paragraph after operative paragraph 12, whiah read
ae folLower

“13. Endorse6  the prinoiple  of uonvening  an international oonferenoe
under the auepiaee of the United Nation8 to deal aompreheneively with the
question Of international terrorism  taking into aocount defining terrorism in
order to reaffirm the differenoe between aato of terrorism and people’8
struggles for national liberation and requeets  the Seoretary-Qeneral  to seek
the viewa  of Member Stateo in order to take the neaeeeary  oteps towards
aarrying  out hie mandate under the present reoolutionl”

11, At the 60th meeting, on 1 December, it was announaed that the sponsors of
draft reeolutiona  A/C,6/42/L.2  and A/C.6/42/L,7/Hev.l  did not ineiet that any
aotion be taken on thoee draft resolutions.

12. At the same meeting, the representative of Yusoelavia , aleo on behalf of Cuba,
Caeahoelovakia and Malta, introduoed  and orally amended draft reeolution
A/C. 6/42/L. 24. The Committee then adopted draft relsolut ion A/C. 6/42/L. 24, a8
orally amended, by 128 vote6 to 1, with 1 abetention (eee pars. 14).

13. Statementa in explanation of vote were made by the representative8  of
Mongolia, Denmark (on behalf of the 12 member States of the European Community),
tho United States of America, Israel,  Uruguay , the Syrian Arab Ropublia,  Finland
(on behalf of the Nordio uountriee) , Colombia, Canada, New Zealand and Auetralia,

/ . . .



A/42/032
Englieh
Page 11

I I I , RECOMMENDATION OF THE SI#TH CO~Il’TEE

14. The Sixth Committee recommends to the Qeneral  Aeeembly the adoption of the
following draft roeolution~

Measures to prevent international terrorism whioh endanqers or
takea innoaont human livae or jeopardiees  fundamental freedOma
and study of the underlying oatwee of thoee forms of terrorism
and acts cf violenae which lie in misery, frustration,
grievanoe  and despair and whiah aause  Borne people to saarifioe
human livea, inaludinq their own, in an attempt to effeot
radical changes: 0

(a) Report of the Seoretary-General!

(b) Conveninq, under the auepioee of the United Nations  I
of an international aonference  to define terrorism
and to differentiate it from the etrugqlo of people8
for national liberation.

The General Assembly,

Recalling it8 resolutions 3034 (XXVII) of 18 Deoember 1972, 31/102 of
15 December 1976, 32/147 of 16 Deaember 1977, 34/145 of 17 December 1979,
36/109 of 10 Deuember  1981 and 38430 of 19 Deoember  1983,

Reaffirming its resolution 40/61 of 9 December 1985, adopted without a
vote, and its importance in the consideration of the queotion of international
terrorism and, in partioular, in the strengthening of co-operation in
preventing and eliminating terrorism,

Recalling the recommendations of the Ad HOB Committee on International
Terrortern contained in its report to the General Assembly at its thirty-fourth
seasion,  l3J

Recalling also the Declaration on Principles of International Law
concerning P’riendly Relations and Co-operation among States in accordance with
the Charter of the United Nations, l4J the Declaration on the Strengthening of
International Security,  l5J the Definition of Aggression J&/ and relevant
instrumonts on international humanitarian law applicable in armed conflict,

l3/ Official Records of the General Assembly, ‘Thirty-fourth Session,
Supplement Na. 37 (A/34/37)-

I,,/ Resolution 2625 (XXV) , nnne%.

l(j/ Rooal.utian 2734 (XXV).

lG/ Resolution 3314 (XXIX), annex.-*

/ . . .



A/42/032
Englftrh
Page 12

Further reaalling the existing international aonventione relating to
various aegmots  of the problem of international terroriem, inter alia, the
Convention on Offenoee and Certain Other Aots Committed on Board Aircraft,
signed at Tokyo on 14 September 1963, l7/ the Convention for the SuppreBaiOn
Of Unlawful Seizure of Airaraft,  signed at The Hague on 16 Deaember 1970, e/
the Convention for the Buppreeeion  of Unlawful Aate againet the Safety of
Civil Aviation signed at Montreal on 23 September 1971, x9/ the Convention on
the Prevention and Puniehment  of Crimes again& Internationally Proteoted
Persona, inaluding Diplomatia Agents, signed at New York on
14 Deoembet 1973, 20/ the International Convention against the Taking of
Hoetagee, adopted at New York on 17 Deoember 1979, 21/ aa well as the
Convention on the Phyeioal  Proteation  of Nuclear Material, ooncludad at Vienna
on 3 Marah  1980,

Convinced of the importance of the observanoe by States of their
obligations under the relevant international conventions to ensure that
appropriate law enforaement measures  are taken in uonneotion with the offensos
addreesed in those oonventions,

DePlorinq the aontinuation of al l  terrorist  bats, inaluding those in
whioh State8 am directly or indirectly involved, whiah epread violenae and
terrorr may result  in loss of human lives and material damage and jeopardize
the normal funationing of international relations,

DeePly disturbed by the world-wide persietenoe of thoee aats of
international terroriem whioh oan poee a threat to international peace and
oecurity  and to friendly relation8 among Statee,

Convinced of the importanoe  of expanding and improving international
uo-operation among Statee, on a bilateral, regional and multilateral basis,
whiah will contribute  to the elimination of aote of international terrorism
and their underlying cauaee and to the prevention and elimination of thie
criminal m30urger

Convinced that international oo-operation in combating and preventing
terroz= aontribute to the strengthening of aonfidencre among Statea,
reduce tensions and create a better alimate among them,

l7J United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 704, No. 10106, p. 219.

.l.l. I b i d . , vol. 860, No. 12325, p. 106,

l9J United St ta es Treaties and Other International Aareementtr, vol. 24,
part one (1973) I pa 268.

20/ United Natione, Treaty Series, vol. 1035, No. 15410, p. 167.

2lJ nssolution 34/146, a n n e x .



A/42/032
Englieh
Page 13

Reaffirming, the principle of the aelf-determination  of peoples a8
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,

Reaffirminq alao the inalienable right to eelf-determination and
independence of all people8  under colonial and racist  r~gimee  and other forms
of alien domination, and upholding the legitimacy of their struggle, in
particular the etruggle of national liberation movements, in accordance with
the purposes and principles of the Charter and of the Declaration on

’ Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation
among Statee in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations,

Notinq the efforts and important  achievement8  of the International Civil
Aviation Organization and the International Maritime Organization in promoting
the eecurity  of international air and aea traneport against acto of terrorlam,
coneistont with General Assembly resolution 40/61,

Appealing  to all States to take all appropriate eteps  to prevent
terrorist attacks against various forms of public transport,

Urging all States to take effective measures, in accordance with
eetabli8hed  principles of international law, in order that all acts, methods
and practices of international terrorism may be brought to an end,

Mindful of the neoeseity  of maintaining and eafeguarding  the basio  rights
Of the individual in acaordance  with the relevant international human rights
+netrumente  and generally aaoepted international etandards,

Recoqnizinq that the effeotiveneee  of the struggle against terrorism
could be enhanced by establishing a generally agreed definition of
international terrorism, l

Takinq into acaount the proposal made at the forty-eecond seeeion to hold
an international uonfetence  on international terrorlam,  as referred to in
agenda item 126 (b) ,

Takinc note of the report of the Secretary-General, az/

1. Unequivocally aondemnrs  onoe again, as criminal, all aate, methtis
and practices of terrociem  wherever and by whomever committed, including those
which jeopardize friendly relationa  among States and their security;

2. Deeply deplores the lose of human lives which result8 from euch acts
o f  terrotismt

3. Also deplores the pernicious impact of actgi of international.
terroriom on relations of co-operation among Statee, including co-operation
for developmi?ntr

3 A/42/519 and Corr.1  and Add.1.

/, . . .



A/42/032
English
Page 14

4. Calls upon all States to fulfil their obligations under
international law to refrain from organizing, instigating, assisting or
participating in terrorist acts in other States, or acquieticing  in activitiee
within their territory directed towards the commiseion  of such acts1

5. tUrges all S ta es to fulfil their obligations under international law
and to take effective and resolute measures for the speedy and final
elimination of international terrorism and, to that endr

(a) To prevent the preparation and organization  in their respective
territories for the commission within or outside their territories of
terrorist acts and subversive acts directed against other States and their
ci tizensj

(b) To ensure the apprehension, ‘prosecution or extradition of
perpetrators of terrorist  acts1

(c) To endeavour to conclude special agreements to that effect on a
bilateral, regional and multilateral basis1

(d) To co-operate with one another in exohanging relevant information
concerning the prevention and combating of terrorisml

(e) To harmonize their domestic legislation with the existing
international conventions on this subject to which they are parties8

6. ma@ to all Status that have not yet done so to consider becoming
party to the international conventions relating to various aspects of
international terrorism referred to in the preamble to the present resolution)

7. Urges all States not to allow any circumstancee  to obstruct the
application of appropriate law enforcement measures provided for in the
relevant conventions to which they are party to persons who commit acts of
international terrorism covered by those conventions!

8. Urges all States, unilaterally and in co-operation with other
States, da well as relevant United Nations organs, to contribute to the
progressive elimination of the causes underlying international terrorism and
to pay special attention to all situations, including colonialism, racism and
situations involving mass and flagrant violations of human rights and
fundamental freedoms and those involving alien domination and occupation, that
may give rise to international terrorism and may endanger international peace
and security)

9. Welcomes the efforts undertaken by the International Civil Aviation
Organization  aimed at promoting universal acceptance of and strict compliance
with international air-aecu-ity  conventions, and its ongoing work on a new
instrument for the suppression of unlawful acts of violence at airports
serving international civil aviation1

/I..



A/42/032
Engfieh
Page 15

10. Also welcomes the work undertaken by the International MarifinW
OrganiZatiOn on the problem of torroriem on board or against ships, and the
initiative under way to draft instruments on the eupproooion  of unlawful Wto
against the safety of maritime navigation and of fixed platforms on the
continental shelf1

11. Requests the other relevant speoialized agenoies and
intergovernmental organizations, in partiaular the Universal 1’oetal Union, the

‘World Tourism Organization  and the International Atomio  Energy Agenay,  within
the i r  respeative competenae, to consider what further moaauree aan usefully be
taken to combat and eliminate terrorism1

0
12. Requests the Seoretary-General to seek the views of Member States on

international terrorism in all its aspoots and on ways and mean8  of aombatine
it, inaluding  , inter alia, the convening, under the auspiaee  of! the United
Natione, of an international conference to deal with international terrorism
in the light of the proposal referred to in the penultimate preambular
paragraph of the present resolutions

13. Further requests  the Secretary-General to follow up, aa appropriate,
the implementation of the present resolution and to submit a report to the
General Assembly at its forty-fourth session;

14. Considers that nothing in the present resolution oould in any way
prejudice the right to self-determination, freedom and independenae,  as
derived from the Charter of the United Nations, of peoples foroibly deprived
of that right referred to in the Declaration on Prinoiplus of International
Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States in aooordanm
with the Charter of the United Natigno, particularly  peoplerr  under colonial
and racist regimes and foreign occupation or other forms of aolonial
domination, nor, in accordance with the prinaiplee of the Charter and in
conformity with the above-mentioned Declaration, the right of these pooples to
struggle to this end and to seek and receive support1

15. Decides to include the item in the provioional agenda of its
forty-fourth session.


