







































UNITED
NATIONS A

Ckneral  Assembly Distr .
GENERAL

A/42/761
1 December 1987

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

For ty-eeaond 6ooEJiOn
Agenda Ltem 73

COMPl3EHENSIVE SYSTEM OF INTERNATIONAL PEACE AND SECURITY

Report CJ~ the First Committee

Rapporteurt  M r . Kazimierz  TOMAS’LEWSKI

I . INTRODUCTTON

(Palard)

1. ‘rho i t e m  entitled  “Comprohenoivo  oyatom  o f  i n t e r n a t i o n a l  peaae a n d  aocuritv”
wafl included in  the  provieional  agenda of  the  fo r ty -oeaond  oeeoion o f  t he  Genernl
Assembly in accordance with Gonoral Aeeembly resolution 41/92 of 4 December 1986.

2. At i to 3rd plenary moating, on 1.C bepiember  1987, tho Goner al Aeeambly, on tl :
recommendation of the General Commltteo,  decided to include the ttem in ite aqenda
and to allocate it to the Firet Committoo.

3. Tho Firot Committee conoidered item 73 jpintly  with itemo 71 and 72 a t  ita
49th to 57th moetinge, OF 19, 20 and 23 t o 25 November 1987 (see A/C.1/42/PV.49-S7).

4. In connection with item 73, the First Committee had bofore it the following
documentsl

(a) Letrere  dated 19 December 1986, 9 and 19 January, 17 February, 2 and
30 March, 14 and 15 April, 12 June, 23 July and 5 Novombsr 1987 from the Permanent
Representative of the Union of Soviet Socialist  Republics to the United  Nations
addreeeed  to  the Secretary-General  (A/42/59-5/18534,  A/42/80-6/18571,
A/42/93-9/18620, A/42/132-9/18701,  A/42/160-S/18733, A/42/189-8/18768,
A/42/228-9/18811,  A/42/231-S/18816, A/42/346-#18922,  A/42/418-S/J8994 and
A/42/715-5/19242) 1

(b) Letter8  dat.ed 5 M a r c h , 29 May and 12 June 1987 from the Permanent
Repraaentative of the German Democratic Republic to the United Nations addreRced  to
the Secretary-General (A/42/167-S/ld741,  A/42/313-9/18888 and A/42;354-E/1987/110)1^

A7-3211n  0615P  (R) uAL-L--- - - - - - - / . . .



A/42/761
English
Pago 2

(a) Letters dated 10 Jima elnd 2 November 1987 from the Permanent
Representative of Czechoolovakia  to the United Nations addressed to tho
Searetary-General (A/42/333 and A/42/708 and Corr.l)l

(d)  Let ter  dated 23 July  1987 f rom the  Chargd A’affairee a.i. of  tho
Permanent Mission of Poland to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General  (A/42/413)1

(0) Note verbale  dated 14 August 1987 from tho Permanent Mission of the Union
of  Soviet  Soaial!.st Republ ica  te the  Uni ted  Nation0 oddreseed  to  the
Sea re ta ry -Genera l  (A/42/509))

(f) Letter dated III Soptember 1987 from the Deputy Head of the Delegetion  of
t h o  U n i o n  o f  Boviot  floaialist  Repuhlica  t o  t h o  forty-necond  cmosion  acldranaed  to
t h e  !1ecretary-Genoral  (A/42/574-S,‘19143)  1

(g) Letter dated 5 October 1987 frcm the Head of? the Delegation of the Union
of  Soviet  Socialiet  Republ ics  to  the  for ty-second eeesion  of  the  General  Aaeembly
addressed to  the Bearetary-General  (A/42/622-S/19180)1

(h) Letter datod 23 Oatober 1987 from the Permanent Repreeentative  of
Ximbabwo  to  the  Uni ted  Nat ions  addressed to  tho Secretary-General  (A/42/681)1

(i) Latter  dated 24 October 1987 from the Permanent Ropreeentative of
Mongolia to tho United Nation0  addroaand to the Secretary-General (A/42/684) 1

(j) Note vorbale dated 18 Septcsmber  1987 Prom the Permanent Mission of the
Dyoloruoofan Soviet  Socia l i s t  Republ ic  to  the  Uni ted  Nat ions  addreesed to  tho
Secrata:y-Gonoral  (A/C.l/42/2).

I I . CONSIDCRATIQN OF DRAFT RESOLUTIONS A/C. 1/42/L. 89 AND Rev, 1

5. On 20 November, Bulgaria ,  the Byeloruesian Soviet Socia l i s t  Republ ic ,
Czechoslovakia, the GaLman Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, Romania.
thakrainian  Soviet Socialist  R&public and the Union of Soviet Socialiet  Republics
submi t t ed  a  d r a f t  rooolution  e n t i t l e d “comprehunaiq*9  system of  in ternat ional  peace
and necurity'  (A/C.1/42/L.89),  which was l a te r  aleo sponsored  by  E th iop i a ,  t he  Lao
People’s  Democratic Republllc and Madagascar. The d r a f t  r@floI.ut:ion r o a d  a13 follswar

"The  General  Aseomhly,

"Hecallinq  its reuolution 41/32 of 4 December 1986, entit led
tEetabliahmsnt of a comprehensive system of intsrnationoL  peace and nocurity’,

“Emphaaiainq t ha t  t he  ca rd ina l  i s sue  o f  ou r  t imes  i s  t he  su rv iva l  o f
mankind,  above al l  in  the  face  of  nuclear  threat ,  and tho exercise  of  the
r ight  of  every nat ion and every pereon to  Life,  f reedom, peace,  wel t -being and
the  pursuit  of  happiness ,

/ . . .
-.



A/42/761
English
Page 3

VtConvinaed  that in tho nuolear  and epaae age, in condition0 of growing
intordopendonae, Stateu need a new mode of polAtioa1  thinking and aation fn
order to implement fully tho purporsee and prinoiploe  of the United Nations and
to ensure the survival and progreee of oivilization  and the building of a
nualear-weapon-free arrd non-violent world,

%mphnsiz~nq  that the world ie ona and ite eeaurity  is indivis ible and
that in their approaah to the probieme of eeourity States ehould give priority
to univoroally acaapted human valuee , with the unoonditional  psimaoy  of
international law over the political aepiratione of States,

“Declarinq that taday States have no reasonable alternative to the
rqnuneiation  in practical  terme of the use or threat  of  foroe in al l  spheres
o f  their r e l a t i o n s ,

“Convinced that the international oommunity should  resolutely proaeed  to
praotioinl  stops aimed at aooerting  the principles of non-violenas,  toletranoe
and reopect  for the right of every people to make their own eoaial,  politioal
or ideological  choice ,

“Exproeoinq  i ts  f irm aonvirttion  that  ensuring rel iable erecurity for every
State and foi al l  State8 toge’;her ie po.eeible only through politiaal  meane, by
strengthening international  mechanisms , and above all the United Natione,

“Emphaoieing  that universal  and oompreheneive  edurity require0 jo int
effortsl of  al l  the partiaipante in international  relation6  without exoeption
in the aruaiol  and interrelated araae of disarmament, peaoeful  eettlement of
crieoe and oonflicts, eaonomia  development and uo-operation, preeervation of
the onvironmor.t,  promotion and proteetian  of human right8 and fundamental
freedoms  for al l  without dietinotion  aa to ravel eexl language or rel igion,

“Solemnly reaffirminq  that the aolleotive  eeourity meohaniam embodied in
the Charter of the United Nations aonetitutes  a fundamental and irreplaoeable
inetrumont  for tha preservation of international peace and security,

“1. Urges all States to focus their effort6 on ensuring univereal
security through political means on an equal bade  and in all tIphere of
international  relationat

H2. Exprossoe  its conviotion that there should be continuation  and
development of an eEfectivo  dialwue in the United Nations  and at other forums
in  a l l  dir0ctione  and  a t  a l l  l eve l s ,  so  a8 to  prmeed to  prac t ica l  meat3ure6
related to tha shaping oP material, politioo-legal  and moral-peyahological
quarantoos  for peace to  the practical  building of security for all1

” 3 . Declares that the road to eeuurity liea through practioal  step8 to
strenqthun truet among Stateu on the baeie of democratization,  through
impreesinq  on the minds of  poop19 the ideae of  l i fe  in the condit ions of
peace, tho Insdmd.osibili  ty of war and violenae, abandonment of the etereotypee
OF thinkinq  in terms of enemy, overcoming the confrontations1 approaohee,

/ n ,I .



A/42/761
English
Raqe 4

aoneolidating the norm8 of aivilized  eonduat  and the atmosphere of information
of the publio and openness in international relationsr

“4. Reaffirms that all States should adhere striatly to the fundamental
prinaiplee of  international  law, eepeaially respeot  for the sovereignty,
politiaal  independenoe and territorial  integrity of  States ,  non-intervention
and non-interferenuo in their internal affairs, refraining from the threat or
use of foroe,  peaceful aettlement of disputes, equality and self-determination
of peoplee, respeot for human rights and fundamental freedoms, oo-1operation
among States ,  aomplianoe  in good faith with their  obl igatione aesumed  in
azcordanoe with the Charter of the United Nations)

“5. Calls  upon all  States ,  including at  bi lateral  and multi lateral
forums dealing with disarmament issues, to multiply their efforts  in order to
ourb the arms raae# adopt and implement a set of epecific  measures, in
acoordanoe with tho agreed priorities, with a view to reducing and eliminating
nuolear arms and other type6 of weapons of mass destruction, preventing an
arms raae in spaoe and substantially reduoing  the armed forces, conventional
weapons and military expenditures , whiah would constitute an imwrtant element
of a oomprehensive  system of international peace and security)

“6. Calls upon States and United Nations organs, within their mandate
and in aocordence  with the relevant provisions of the Charter, to utilize
fully the exist ing means of  peaoeful sett lement of  disputes and confl icts
between States through negotiation, inquiry, mediation” conailiation,
arbitration,  judicial  sett lement, resort to regional agencies or arrangements,
the use of good offiaes, including thoee of the Secretary-General, or other
means of their own free ahoiael

*7. Calle upon all States and the appropriate eoonomic forums to uee to
the maximum extent all opportunities for elaborating the necessary and
mutually aooeptable measures ensuring economic development and equitable
oo-operations

“8. Calls upon all States, in the interests of comprehensive security,
to co-operate broadly with eaah other in the humanitarian field and to ensure
fundamental human rights and freedomal

*9. Considers that interackion in the ecological sphere should become an
integral part of comprehensive international aecurityt

“LO.  Calls upon Member States to strengthen and enhance the role and
efficiency of the United Nationa aa an indispensable instrument for the
maintenanue of international peace and eecurity with a view to solving
international. issues for the benefit of all States and elaboratinq guarantees
of comprehensive security for all on an equal basis8

“11. Calls upon United Nations organs and specialized agencies,
international intergovernmental orqanizetions, international forums,
participants in negotiations, regional orqanizationa,  both within and outside

_ ._.-  II, c1-.  ._- -
__ _- - ._ .- _. _---_  -.--.-----  .-.-... - _



A/42:761
Engliat.
Page  s

the United Nations syotem, to examine the relevant ieouee  under their
consideration  in terms of  creat ing oondit ions of  eocurity  for al l)

“12. Calls upon. international and national non-governmental
orgeniaatione, politiosl and publio figures in all uountriee to make their
positive aontribution to the development of a produotive  and meaningful
international dialogue on the queetion of a comp;ehensive  eyutem of
international peace and eecurityfi

‘13. Calls upon the Searetary-General  to prepare, with the aesietanoe of
a group of experts, a etudy on comprehensive international eeourity  an8  submit
a report to the General  Aeeembly  at ite forty-f i f th eeesion,

“14.  Decides to inolude in the agenda of ite forty-third eseeion  the item
entitled ‘Comprehensive system c\f international peace and eeaurity’.”

Ctietohoelovakia,  the German
6. On 23 November, Bulgaria, the EJeloruaaian  Soviet Soaialiet Republio,

Demwratio  Republia,  Hungary, Mongolia, Polx Ra.nani&,
ublicethe Ukrainian Soviet &clialist  Republia and tha Union of Soviet SouP&.et  Rep

submitted a revised draft reeolution (A/C.l/42/L. 89/Rsv.  1) , whioh wao  later alum
eponeored by the Lao People’8  Demouratic  Republio,  Madagaeoar and Viet Nam. The
revieed draft reeolution was  introduoed by the representative of Poland at the
54th meeting, on 24 November.

7. At the S7th meeting, on 25 November, the repreeentatlve  of Poland orally
revieed the draft  resolution ae fol lows:

(a) The tenth preambular paragraph, which had read:
.

“Solemnly reaffinlunq  that the aollactive eeaur!ty  meahaniem embodied in
the Charter of the United Nation8 oonstitutee  the fundamental and
irreplaoeable inetrument  for the preservation of international peace 8\ld
8eaur ity’ ,

wae deleted t

(b) After operative paragraph 1, a new operative paragraph, reading:

“2. Solemnly reaffirms that the collective eecurity mechanism embodied
in the Charter of the United Nation8 conetitutee the fundamental and *
irreplaceable instrument for the preservation of international peaoe and
aecur i ty n,

was inserted snd the cllbsequent  operative paragraph6 were renumbered accordingly;

(c) In original operative paragraph 12, now operative paragraph 13, the word
“ensuring”  was  replaced by the word “promotingWa

(d) In original operative paragraph 13, now operative paragraph 14, the words
“look into” were replaced by the word “explore”, and the words “with the

I



A/42/761
Englieh
Page 6

participation of outstanding personalities” were replaaed by the words “among the
Member States”.

8. At the same rn-Rting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/42/L.OS/Rev.l,  as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 70 to 12, with 49
abstentions (see para. 9). The voting was a8 follows:

In favour: Afghanietan, Algeria, Angola, Auetria, Bahrain, Sancladonh,
Benin, Bhutan, Botewana, Brazil, Bulgarfa, Burkina Paau, Burundi,
Byelorueeian  Soviet Socialiat  Republic, Colombia, Congo, Cuba,
CYPrue,  Csechoelovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ethiopia,
Finland, German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bitieau,
Guyana, Hungary, Ind ia ,  Indonersia, Iran  (Islamic  R e p u b l i c  o f ) ,
Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao Peop?.e,e  Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagascar, Malayaha, Maldives, Mali,
Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Pan&ma,
Peru, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Sociallet  Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, UnSted
Arab Emirates, United RePclblic  of Tanllania,  Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against 8 Eelglum,  Costa Rica, Ecuador, France, Israel, Japan, Luxembourg,
Mauritania, Netherlande, Portugal, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaining:  Argentina, Auetralia,  Bahamas, Barbados, Bolivia, Brunei
Darueealam, Burma, Camerccn, Canada, Central African Republic,
Chad, Chile, China, C&e d,Xvoire,  Democratic Kampuchea, Denmark,
Egypt, Fiji, Gabon, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Guatemala, Hondurae,  Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Kenya,
Liberia, Malawi, Malta, Morocco, New Zealand, Norway, Oman,
Pakietan,  Paraguay, Philippinee,  R***lda,  Samoa, Senegal,
Singapore, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Zaire.

I I I . RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMWI’EE

9. The First Committee recommends to the General Aarembly  the adoption of the
following draft resolution;

Compreheneive  system of international peace and security

The General Aseembly,

Recalling its reeolution 41/92 of 4 December 1886, entitled
“Establiehment  of a comprehensive system of internationel pc!ace  and security”,



A/42/761
Englieh
Page 7

Emmhasizing that  the great  poli t ical , eoonomic and social chanqee  and
scientific progreee that have taken place in the world since the adoption of
the Charter of the United Nation8 and the most acute and urgent task of the
present day - to remove the threat of a world war, a nuclear war - give
increased imfzrtance  to the purposes and principles of the Charter and to the
need for their iriOre  effective application in the conduct of Statee, who) ever
carried on,

Convinced that in the nuclear and space age, in conditions of the
indivisibility of peace and eeuutity  in all parts of the world and the
inorealsing interdependence among nation@ , the challenges of our times make a
strengthening of multilateral co-operation in all fields and collaboration on

ways and mean8 to implement the security eyetem  provided for in the Charter
indfspeneable,

Convinced of the need for the effective universal application of the
princGf;efraining  from the threat or uere  of force in international

’ relation9 and of the immrtance  of the role of the United Nations in this
regard,

Reaffirming the inalienable right of every State to choose it8 political,
economic, social ana cultural systems without interference in any form by
another State,

Recogniain_y  the common interest of all netione in promoting an effective
and comprehensive approach to eeuurfty , whioh will eeek the common security of
al l  nat ions,  by their  joint  act ions ad in  al l  f ields,

Convinced that new thinking that stems from the knowledye that States  can
only survive with one another, not against one another, should govern the+,:
acticSn8,

Emphaeisinq  that in their approach to the problems of security, States
should give priority to universally accepted human values and the promotion of
the rule of law among natione in accordance with the Charter,

Rxprasainq its firm conviction that ensuring reliable security for every
State and for all States together is possible only through peaceful political
means, by strengthening international mechanisms, above all the Uni:.ed Nations,

Em>haoizinq that, in accordance witn the Charter, universal and
comprehensive security requires joint eEforts of all the participants in
international  uelatione,  withotit exception,  in the crucial ,  essential  for
international eecurity and interrelated areas of disarmament, peacofu’l
settlement of crises and conflicts, economic developrrent and co-operation,
preeerration of the environment, and promotion and protection of human rights
and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as to race, sex, language
or religion,

-- - - --- -. - .-. ----. - --. ---. .--_. - --- .-. -.. _ 1. ‘_’



A/42/761
English
Puge 8

1. Urge0  a l l  S ta te s  to  focus the ir  e f for t s  on  ensur ing  in tegra l
universal security through peaceful political means  on an equal basis and in
all  spheres of  international  relations in aocordance with the Charter of  Lhe
United Nations and within the United Nations framework)

2. Solemnly reaffirms that the colleative  security mechanism embodied
in the Charter of the United Nations constitutes the fundamental and
irreplaceable instrument for the preeervation of international peace and
securi tyl

.

3. Expresses its conviction that there should be cont$nuetion  and
development of an effective dialogue in the united Nations and other  forums in
al l  direct ions and at all  levels , in order to bridge different concepts and
examine generally acceptable ways and means of ensuring comprehensive security
in accordance with the Charter, bearing in mind the realities of the, nuclear
end space ager

4. Declares that the road to security lies through prnatical  steps to
strengthen trust among States on the basis of overcoming confrontations1
approaches and consolidating the norms of civilised  conduct and the atmosphere
of information of the public and openness in international relationst

5. Reaffirms that all State8 should adhere strictly to the fundamental
principles  of  international  law, especial ly  respect  for the sovereignty,
polit,:al independence and territorial  integrity of  States ,  non-intervention
and non-interference in their internal affaire, refraining from the threat or
use of  force,  peaceful  sett lement of  disputes , equality and self-determination
of peoples, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, co-operation
among States and compliance in good faith with their obligations assumed in
acaordance with the Charter of the United Nations)

6. Calls  upon al l  States,  including in’bilateral  and multi lateral
forums dealing with disarmament issues, to multiply their efforts  in order to
prevent an arms race in outer space and to halt and reverse it on Earth, to
lower the level of military confrontation and to enhance global stahilityr

7. Calls upon States and United Nations organs, within their manda
and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter, to utilize
fully the existing means of peaceful settlement of international disputes
confl icts  through negotiat ion,  inquiry,  mediation,  conci l iat ion,  arbitrat
judicial  sett lement, resort to regional agencies or arrangements, the use
go& o f f i c e s , including those of the Secretary-General, or other means of’
their own free choice)

te

and
ion,
o f

8. Calls- all States and the appropriate economic forums to use to
the maximuxtent  all opportunities for promoting a stable and equitable
world economic environment and, : ; that end, to strengthen international
co-operation for development and to work towards a new international economic
order, elaborating the necessary and mutually acceptable measure9 ensuring
economic development and equitable co-operation;



A/42/761
Bnq 12 ah
Pa90 9

9. Calla upon all Ytato~ to  co-oporotc broadly with each other in the
humanitcrrian field and to promote and encouroyo raepoct for human riclhte and
furrdomontal  t’roedome for al.1 I

10. Conaidore that in teract ion  in  the  ocologiual  aphero  ohould bucamo a n
integral part of comprehensive international  eocurity,

11. Calls upon Mombor Stateo  to  strenqthen and onhanoe the role and
eff iciency of the Unitod Netiolre ey.stem aa an indiepeneable inatrumont for the
maintonancc  of international peace and uocurity with a view to eolvinq
international ieouae Eor th-. bonofit  of’ all Stcrtee  and elaborating guarantws
of comprehoneive  necurlty for  all on  nn equal  barliej

1.2. Vurthsr CLB~~R. for tho implementation of the resolutfono  of the
United Nationsj

13. Calls upon intert~ationel and rlatfonol  non-yavernmental orgonizotlonn
and poli.ttc:al  and public  f igures in al l  countrieo to make their poitive
contribution to the Yevolopmont of (I productive and meaningful international
cIialoquo  on the ways  and meane of promotinq eompreheneive  security baaed on
the Charter end within the United Nation8 fromeworkj

14. Haquostf~  the?  Secretary-General to explore tho ways and mw.ww  of:
orqanizihg  on oxchanqc of viewo an the subject amon the Member Stateo and to
relxxt  t o  t h e  Gonorcrl Aeoombly  a t  ito f o r t y - t h i r d  soedonl

15, Decidoe to  inc lude  in  the  aqonda of  i t s  for ty - th ird  ooaeion  Lho item
ontitled “Compreheneivo  syetem o f  i n t e r n a t i o n a l  peace end oocurit:y”.

,

m-m--


