







































UMOTED
NATIONS

- -c-T.-- -----_-_---. -

General Aesembly ntatr  1
GENERA 18

A/42/730
10 November  1.987
ENCL  If; H
ORIGINAL: S P A N I S H

Forty-second session
Aqenda  1.  tern  1.8

IMPLEMENTATION OF THF: DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING OF
JNDEPENDENCl3  TO COLONIAL CGUNTHY  ES AND PEOPLE,S

Chnptern  of  the report  of  t.he SOP-.-- .cial. Committee on the 3itua::ian  w i th
g;gEtrd  to the  T:-ipl  ementat  ton uf the Declaration on the Grant inrj
Independence to C!oloniel  (_‘\ur,tries  and Peoples relating to sperrific- - -*-

Territories not covered b y  o t h e r  a g e n d a  items

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rnpportf?u[.:  M t  , Alvaro CfiRNEWf,T-VTt,EGAS

T. INTRODUCTTON

(Venezuela)

1  . At i t.s  3 r d  p l e n a r y  mec?ting, o n  la  September 1987, t.hn  Gpnt+ra,l  hnsembly,  o n  t
recnmmendetion  of t h e  Ckanf?ral Committee, decided to include in the agenda of Its
forty-second ses:  i o n  t h e  item cnti tl ed:

“Implementation  o f  the  Decl.arntfon  o n  t h e  Granting  o f  Independence  t o  roloninl

Caun  trios and Peoples :

“(a) Report of t h e  Specjal  C o m m i t t e e  on t h e  Situation  with  regard  t o  t h e
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Co1onia.l Cduntr  ies and Peoples ;

” (h) Report of the  Secretary-General”.
\

At the same meeting , the Assembly decided to refer to the Four-MS Committee those
chapters of the report o f  t h e  Special C o m m i t t e e  rel.atinq to specific Territories.

2 . The chaptet of t h e  Special  C o m m i t t e e ’ s  r e p o r t  c o n c e r n i n g  t h e  Territories w h i c h
were not covered by o t h e r  agenda items related t.o  the following specific
Territoriesl

s.

97-28462 491dP  ( E ) / . . I



A/42/730
Englieh
Page 2

Terri tory
Relevant chapter of the report

of the Special Committee lJ

WeBtern Sahara 1

Gibraltar 1

New Caledonia 1

Anguilla 1

Yitcairn 1

Montaerrat 1

Rritieh Virgin Islands 1

Turke  and Caicos Islands )

Tokelau 1

Cayman Islands 1

St, Helena 1

Bermuda 1

Guam 1

American Samoa 1

United States Virgin Islands I

Trust  Terri tory of the Pacific Islands )

A/41/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,
chap, IX

3. At its 2nd meeting on 23 September, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 108, 110 and 12, 111 and 112, on the
understanding that individual proposals  on matters covered by those items would be
considered separately . The Committee held the general debate on those items at its
LOth and 12th to 21at meetings, between 9 and 23 October.

4, The Fourth Committee considered item 18 at its 10th to 23rd meetings, between
9 and 28 October (see A/C. 4/42/SR.10-23)  .

5. At the 10th meeting, on 9 October, the Happorteur  of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which he gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 1987 and drew
the Fourth Committee's attention to the chapte;.? of the report of the Special
Commjttee referred to in paragraph 2 above, containing, int.er alla, the related
draft decisions and draft resolutions submitted by the Committee for the
consideration of the Fourth Committee, as well as the relevant documentation of the
Special Committee (A/AC.109/889-891,  892 and Add.1 and 2, 893 and Add.1,  894 and
Add.1,  895, 896 and Add.1 and 2, 897, 898 and Add.1,  899-903, 904 and Corr.1,
905-912, 913 and Add.1, 914, 915, 918 and 921).

L/ To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-second Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/42/23)-

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page  3

6. The tburth  Committee had baforo it the report of the Secretary-Genoral  on the
queetion of Western Sahara (A/42/601) eubmitted in accordance with General Aeeembly
reeolution  41/16  of 31 October 1.986.

7. In addition, the Fourth Committee had before it tho following communicatione
addreseed to th4  Secretary-Gsneralr

(a) Letter dated 29 January 1987 fran the Permanent Representative of
Afghanistan to the United  Nation0  (A/42/111-8/18644) t

(b)  Letters dated 20 July and 2 October 1987 fran the Charge  d’affairee  a.i.
of t.he  Permanent Mission of Samoa to the United Nations (A/42/417, A/42/606)  I

(Cl Letter dated  1.0 October 1987 fram the Permanent Repreeentative  of France
t o  t h e  wited  Nationo (A/42/651).

8. The Fourth Committee  granted the following requests  for hearing in connection
with its consideration of the item8

Petitioner
Meetinq at which request
for hearing was granted

Mr. Glenn Alcelery,  National Committee
for tladiation  vict  ime (A/C. 4/42/2) 3rd

Ms. Fe1  ice D. Gaer , Snter  national League
for Human Rights (A/C.4/42/2/Add+l) 3rd

Miss  Sue Rabhitt RoEI,  Minority Rights
Group (A/C.4/42/2/Md.2) 3rd

Mr. Mouloud Said, Frente Popular para  la
Liberecidn de Seguie  ol-Hamra y de Rio
de Oro (Frente POLISARJO)  (A/C. 4/42/3) 3rd

Miss Sue Babbitt  Roff, Minority Righte
Group (A/C. 4/42/4) L’rd

M r . J. A .  Gonz&ez--Gonzdle  1.
(A/C. 4/42/2/Add.  3) 4th

Miss Susan Qua68, Unittd  Methodist
Off ice for the United Nations
(A/C.  4/42,‘2/Add. 4)

Mr. Glenn Alcalay , National Committee
for Radiation VictimEl  (A/C.4,/42/4/Add.l)

4th

4th
.

Miss  Teresa K. Smith, Western Sahara
Camp i gn , U.S.A. for Human Rights  and
Humabitarian  Relief (A/C. 4/42/3/Add.l) 5th

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Pago 4

Peti t ioner

Dr. Arthur Lewis (A/C.4/42/4/Add.3)

Miss Angela Gilliam, International
Women ‘s  Anthropology Conference
(A/C. 4/42/4/Add.  3)

Mr, Jean-Marie  Tjibaou,  Front de
liberation natif7nale  Kansk  eocialiste
(FLNKS) (A/C.4/42/4/Add.4)

MS. Fe1  ice D. Gaer , Inter national League
for Human Rights (A/C,4/42/4/Add  .5)

Meet ing at which request
for hearing was granted-_II_

5th

7th

9th

9th

Mr. Benjamin L. Hooks, National Association
for the  Advancement of Colared  People
(A/C. 4/42/4/Add.6) 9th

Mr. Bill &lice (A/C. 4/42/3/Add.  2) 12th

Miss Deborah A. Jackson, American Rssociation
of Juriets (A/t.!,4/42/3/Add.  3 ) 12th

Mr. Simon Loueckhote and Mr. Goine  Wamo,
Associat ion de solidaritd, libertd,
c u l t u r e  e t  securite (A/C.4/42/4/Add.7) 13th

9. The Fourth Committee heard statements of the ptitioners as followsr
Mr. Glenn  Alcalay  at the  l.Oth  meeting, on 9 October) Mr. Roger Clark (on behalf of
the  International League for Muman  Rights), Miss Ingrid Kircher (on behalf of the
Minority Rights Group), Mr. J. A. Gonzdlez-Gonzdlez, Miss Susan QUASS,
Mr. Jean-Marie Tj ibaou And Dr. Arthur Lewis at the 11th meeting, on 12 October 1
Mr. Michael Lawrence (on behalf of the National Association for the Advancement of
Colored  People) at the 12th meeting, on 13 @tobert  and Miss Angele GIl.l.iAm and
Mr. Simon Loueckhote at the 14th meeting , on 16 October 1 Miss Deborah Jackson,
Miss Cheri  Attix (on behalf of Western Sahera  Campaign, U.S.A. for Human Rights and
Humanitartan Helief) a n d  Mr.  0rnar  MAtlSUr  ( o n  b e h a l f  of Frente  POLISAKIO)  at the
17th meeting, on 21. October.

I I . CONS IDKKATION  OF PROPOSALS

10. Fbllowing its c o n s i d e r a t i o n  of the propz)sals relat ing to the 16 TerritoriaR
referred to in paragraph 2, the Fourth committee adopted 12 draft resolutions,
2 draft consensuses ancl 1 draft. decision. in account of the Committee’s
considerat ion of  the proposals is given in paragraphs I.2 to 21.

/ . . .



A/42/130
En91  IBh
P a g e  ‘j

11, At the 22nd meeting, on 28 October, the Secretary of the Committee ma& a
0 tatement , in accordance with rule 153 of the rules of procedures of the  panoral
Assenbl:{,  concerning the programme budget  implications relating to the  proposals on
Western Sahara, New Caledonia, Anguilla, Montserrat ,  the Britieh Virgin Ielands,
the  Turks and Caicos Islands, Tokelau, the Cayman  Is!.erds,  Potmuda,  Guam, American
Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands and St. Helena.

A. Gibraltar  and Pitcairn_

12. At ita  22nd meeting, on 28 October, the Fourth Committee adopted, without
objection, the dreft consensus ancerning  Gibraltar contained in document
A/C.4/42/L.4 (see para.  23, draft consensus I).

13. At the 23rd meeting, on the same day, the FIourth  Committee adopted, without
objection,  the draft consensus concerning Pitcairn contained in paragraph 129 of
chapter IX of the  report of the  Speoia ? Committee (A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1)
(see para.  23, draft consensus II).

14. At its 23td meeting, on 28  Wmber, the Fburth Cord  ttee took action on the
draft decision on the question of St. Helens contained in paragraph 1.29 of
chapter IX of the  report of the  Special Committee (A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.11,
aa follows; 2/

(a) At the request of the  United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, a separate vote was taken on the eixth eentence  of the  draft decision,
which read: “The Assembly notes with deep concern the continued preaslce  of
military facilities o n  the dependency of  A s c e n s i o n  Is land and,  in that  regard,
recalls all  the re l evan t  United Nations resolutions and decisions concerning
military bases and installations in colonial and Won-Self-Governing Territories”.
The sixth sentence of the  draft decision was retained by a recorded vote 0.
73  to  31 ,  with  2 1  abstent ions.  The Mting was  aa follows2

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Belize, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil ,  Bulgaria, Burkina Fador Burmar
Burundi, Byeloruseian Soviet Socialist Republic, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Equatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemalc,
Hungary, Indonesia ,  Iran (Islamic Republic of), I raq ,  JC*dane
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Malaysia, Mldives, Mali, Mexico, hngolia, Mozambique,

21 The representative of the Ur,itad  Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland made a statement in explanation of wte.

/ . . .



._(  ._.---  -.
A/42/730
Enq 1 ieh
Paqe 6

Aqainetr

Abstaininqt

Nicaraqua, Nigeria, Qnan, Pakistan,  Panama, Peru, Poland, Qatar,
ROmania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychel!es,  Sierra Leone,
Solomon Xelande,  Somalia, Sri Lanka, Budan,  Suriname, Syrian Arab
Republia,  ‘Rlnieia,  Uganda ,  Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,

. Union of Soviet &cial.icnt  Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yuqoslaviar
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Belgium,
Canada, Denmrrk,  Fiji , Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic
Of,  Greece,  Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Malawi, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Saint Lucia,
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Swaziland, Sweden,
Turkoy, United Kingdom of Qreat  Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Barbados, Brunei Darwssalam, Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chad, C&e d0’2voirer  El Salvcdor,  Grenada, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti,
Hondurae,  Jamaica, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, MaUritiUB, Niger,
Papua New Guinecr,  Paraguay, Philippines, Saint Kitts and Nevis,
Singapore, Spain,  Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Zaire.

(b) ‘Ihe draft decision as a whole, was adopted by a recorded vote of
112 to 2, with 29 abstentions (see para.  24). The voting wa8  a s  follows: Z3/

In favour; Afghanistan, Albania, Algeriar Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belize, Benin,
B h u t a n ,  Bolivia, Eotewana,  Brazil, Brunei Darusaalam, Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burme,  Burundi, Byeloruse ian Sovje t Social ist
Republic, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Congo,
Cuba, Cyprus,  Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic
Yemen, Dj ibout i , Egypt, El Salvador,  Equatorial  Guinea,  Ethiopia,
Fiji, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Baiti, Honduras, Hungary, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Nadagascar,  Malaysia, Maldives, lulali, Mauritius,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saint Kitts
and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Sao
Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Sarlal  la, Sri Lanka, Sudan,
Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thai!.and, Tago,  Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet  Socialiet Republic,

21 Subeequently, t h e  delegation of Malawi informed the Secretariat  that i t
had intended to vote in favour of the draft  decision.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 7

Againstr

Abstain! ,sqt

Union of Soviet Socjaliet Republics, United Arab Emiratea, United
Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia,  Zambia, Zimbabwe.

United Kingdan  of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United
States of America.

Australia, Austria, Belgium, Cameron,  Canada, C&e d’lvoire,
Dennar k, Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Grenada, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg,
Malawi, Netirerlands,  New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Samoa, Spain,
Swaziland, Sweden, Turkey, Zaire.

C. Wster  n Sahara

15. At the 17th sleeting, on 21 October, the  Chairnan drew attention to draft
resolution q/C.4/42/L.S,  submitted by  fi!!  hanisteil,  A l g e r i a ,  A n g o l a ,  A n t i g u a  a n dq
Barbuda, Belize, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso, Burundi, the Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic Yeme:),  Ethiopia, Ghana, Guyana, India, Iran, Islamic Republic Of,  the
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  M~gaecar,
Malawi, Mali, Mauritania, MexI’co,  Mozambique, Nicaragua, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Rwanda, Seychelles, Sierra Leone, Solomon Islands, Suriname, Swaziland, the Syrian
Arab Republic, the United Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu, Viet  Nam, Yugoslavia,
Zambia, and ,timbahwe.

16. At the 22nd meetiry, on 20 October, the  representative of Madagascar
introduced dref t rnsolution A/C.4/42/L.5 on behalf of the sponsorsr  now joined by
Albania,-Guinea-Bisueu, Nigeria,  Sao Tane.and  Principe  and Uyanda.

17. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.4/42/L. 5 by a
recorded vote of 93 to none, with 49 abstentions (see pare. 22, draft
resolu?  ion I) . A/ The voting was as followsr z/

Y Statements in explanation of vote were made by rhe representatives of the
following Metier Stetesr Austrai ia ,  Austr ia ,  Canada,  China,  C&e  d’Ivoire,
Finland,  Iceland,  I raq, Ireland, Ma1  ta, Morocco, Norway, Phil ippines, Saint Vincent
and the Grenadines, Sri Lnnka,  Sudan, Sweden, Turkey, United Stat<6  of America,
Uruguay end Zaire.

y Subsequently, the delegat ion of the Dominican Republic informed the
Secretariat  that  i t  had intended to vote in favour of  t h e  draft  resolution. The
delegation of Gabon informed the Secretariat that it had intended to abstain in the
vote.

/ . . .



A/42/130
Eng li  sh
Page 8

I n  favour8 Afghanistan, Albania, A!gsria,  Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Areentina,  Australia, Austria, Bahamas, B a r b a d o s ,  Belize, B e n i n ,
Bhitan,  Bolivia, Botswana, Draz  il, Bulgaria, B u r k i n a  F a s o ,
Burundi, Byeloruseian Soviet Socialist Republic, C a m e r o o n ,  Cape
Verde, Colombia, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana,
Eonduras,  Hungary, Iceland, India, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Ireland, Jamaica, Kenya, Lao People’u  Democratic Republic,
Iseotho,  Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagascar, Malawi, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippinea, Poland, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal,
Seychelles, Sierra bone,  Solomon Islande, Spain, Sudan,
Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden,  Syr ian Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad
nnd Tobago,  Tunisia, Uganda, Ukra in ian  Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Vie t Nam, Yugoslavia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against t None.

Abetainingr  Bahrain, Belgium, B r u n e i  Darussalam, Burma, Canada, Central
African Remblic, Chad, Chile, Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire,
Denmark ,  D j ibout i ,  Equatorial G u i n e a ,  Fiji, France, Gambia,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Haiti,
Indonesia, Iraq, Israel, Italy, Japan, Jordan, L u x e m b o u r g ,
Malaysia, aldives,  Nepal, Netherlands, Niger, Pakistan,
Paraguay, Portugal, Saint Kitts  and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint
V incent  alId t h e  Grenadines, Samoa,  Saudi Arabia, Singapore,
Scnnalia, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Turkey , United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, U n i t e d  S t a t e s  of Amer ica ,  Zaire.

D. New Caledonia

18. At its 22nd meeting, on 28 October, the Fourth Committee Gdopted,  by a
recorded vote of 69 to 27, with 46 abstentiona, draft rerolrltion I c o n c e r n i n g
N e w  Caledonia, contained in  paragraph 128 of chapter IX of t h e  report  of t h e
Special Commit tee  (A /42 /23  (Part VI) and Corr.1.)  (see pare. 22, draft
resolution II) . 6/ The vat i n g  was  a8  follows1 I/

a/ S t a t e m e n t s  i n  explanation of vote were made by t h e  representatives of t h e
fol lowing Metier  States;  Bel ize,  Canada,  Finland,  France,  Greece,  I raq,  Japan,
Malta, Netherlands, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Suriname, Sweden and Vanuatll.

7/ Subeequont  t o  t h e  v o t i n g , the delegation of  Afghanistan ctated  t h a t  i t
had iitended to  vote  i n  favour of the draft  resolution. Subsequently ,  the
delegation of G a b o n  informed t h e  Secretariat t h a t  h e  had intended to abs ta in  in  the
vote.

/ . . .



A/42/730
Enqliah
Pago 9

In favour; Aibania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua an8  Barbuile, Austrslis,
Bahamas, Bathedoe,  Belize, Bhutan, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulqaria,  Burma, Byeloruseian  Soviet  Socialist
Republic,  Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, Fiji, German
Democratic  Republic, Ghana, Guyana, Hunqary, India, InBoneeie,
Iran (Islamic Republic  ot), Kenya, Isa  People’s Democratic
Republic ,  Lesotho,  Liberia , Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Wxico,  Mongolia, New Zealand, Nicnregua,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Ranania, Samoa, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sudan,
Swaziland, Syrian Idab  Republic, ThAiland,  Trinidad and Tobago,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialiet Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist .,epublica,  United Republic of Tanzania, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Viet  Nam, Yugoslavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aqainstr Belgium, 0 ntral African Republic, Chad, C&o B’Tvoire,  Djibouti,
Vaninica,  Dominican Republic, Eqypt , France, Gabon, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Grenada, Ronduras,  Iraq, Italy, Jamaica,
Lebanon, Luxembourg, Mauritania, Netherlands, Niger, Portugal,
Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Spain, Togo, Zaire.

Abetaininqt Argentina, Austria, Bahrain, Bolivia, Burkina Paao,  Burundi,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Costa Rica, Denmark, El Salvador,
Equatorial  Guinea, Finland I Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
G u i n e a - B i s s a u ,  Hait i ,  Iceland,  I re land,  Israel ,  Japan,  Jordan,
Mali, Mlta,  Morocco, Nepal, Norway, Wan,  Panama, Paragusy,
Qatar ,  Rwanda,  Saint  Ki t ts  and NQV~E,  Senequl,  Sierra  Leon@,
Suriname, Sweden, Tunisia, Turkey, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom  of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay, Yemen.

E. Anquilla, Montserrat,  British Virgin Islands, Turks a n d
Caicos Islands, Yokelau, Cayman  Isla\rda,  Bermuda, Guam,
American Samoa, United States Virgin Island@

19. At the 23rd meeting, on 28 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Qlonial Quntries and Peoplc*a, on behalf of that Committee,
read out corrections (A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1)  t.o operative paragraph 6 of
draft  resolution IX, relating to G u a m , and operative paragraph 11 of draft
resolution XI,  relating to t h e  United StateR V i r g i n  IRlandB,  contained in document
&‘42,‘23  (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chapter XI, paragraph 128.

20. At the same meetiilg,  the Fourth Committee adopted, without objection, the
following proposals o n  t h e  10 Terr i tor ies  referred to  above8

(a) The draft  resolution concerninc  Anquilla, contained in paragraph 128 of
chapter IX of the report of the  Special Committee (A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1)
( see  para.  22,  draf t  resolut ion III)  f

/ . . .



A/42/730
Enylish
Page 10

(b) Tine draft resolution concerning mntserrat , contained in paragraph 128 of
chapter  IX of the report of the Special Committee (A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1)
<see  para. 22, draft resolution IV);

(c)  The draft resolution concerning the British Virgin Islands, contained in
paragraph 128 of chapter IX of the report of the Special Committee (A/42/23
(Part VI) and Corr.1) (see para..  22, draft resolution V) ;

(d) The draft resolution concerning the Turks and Caicos Islands, contained
in paragraph 128 of chapter IX of the report of the Special Committee (A/42/23
(Part VI) and Corr.1) (see para, 22, draft resolution VI) ;

(e) The draft resolution concerning Tokelau , contained in paragraph 128 of
chapter IX of the report of the Special Committee (A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1)
(see  para.  22, draft resolution VII) 8

(f)  The draft resolution concerning the Caymen  Islands, contained in
paragraph 128 of chapter IX of the report of the Special Committee (A/42/23
(Part VI) and Corr.1) (see para. 22, draft resolution VIII) J

(g)  The draft resolution concerning Bermuda , contained in paragraph 128 of
chapter IX of the report of the special  Committee (A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1)
(see para. 22, draft resolution IX);

(X3) The draft resolution concerning Guam, contained in paragraph 128 of
chapter IX of the report of the Special Committee (A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1)
(see para.  22, draft resolution x);

(i)  The draft resolution concerning American Samoa, contained in
paragraph 128 of chapter IX of the report of the Special Committee [A/42/23
(Part VI) and Corr.1) (see para. 22,  draft resolution XI);

(2,. The draft resolution concerning the United States Virgin Islands,
r-..,:%j.ned in paragraph 128 of chapter IX of the report of the Special Committee
<A/42,23  (Part VI) and Corr.1) (see  pata. 22, draft resolution XII).

F* Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands

21. At the 23rd meeting, on 28 October, the Chairman stated that, on the basis of
his consultations with the Chairman of the Special Committee as well as with a
number of delegations concerned, he ‘would suggest that the Fourth Committee decide
not to take any action at that stage on the draft resolution submitted by the
Special Committee (A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX, par%. 128, draft
resolution XII). The Fourth Committee decided, without ob=jection,  to adopt the
Chairman’s suggestion.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 11

I I I . FtECOMM2?NDATIONS  OF THE FOURTH  CIOMMITTEE

22. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
fo. iowing draft resolution:

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Ouestion  of Western Sahara

The General Assembly,

Having considered in depth the question of Western Sahara,

Recalling the inalienable right of al.1 peoples to self-determination and
independence, in accordance with the principles set forth in the Charter of
the United Nations and in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of
14 December 1960, containing the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Feoples,

Recalling its resolution 41/16  of 31 October 1986 on the question of
Waster n Sahara,

Recalling resolution AHGfRes.104  (XXX) on Western Sahara, ~~ adopted by
the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organization of African
Unity at its nineteenth ordinary session, held at Addis  Ababa  from  6 to
12 June 1983,

Taking note with appreciation of the part of the final communiqui adopted
by the Meeting of Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Heads of Delegation of the
Non-Aligned Countries, held in New York on 5 and 6 October 1907, concerning
P&ester  n Sahara,

Having examined the relevant chapter of the report of the Special
Committee  on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of fndependence  to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, cy

Having examined the report of the Secretary-General on the question of
*stern  Sahara, la/

Noting with appreciation the continuation of the joint good offices
process of the current Chairman of the Assembly of Heads of State and

Y For the text@ see resolution 38/40,  para.  1.

Pi A/42/23  (Part  VI) and Corr.1, chap. IX.

IQ/- A/42/601.

/ l  .  .



9/42/730
English
Page 12

Government of the Organ ization  of African U;rity  and the Georetary-General  of
the  United Nations with a view to implementing Organization of African Unity
resolution AHG/Hes.lOQ  (XIX) and General Aesembly  reeolutione 40/50  of
2  Decenber  1985, a n d  41/16,

1. Takes note with appreciat ion of  the  report  of  the  Hscrotary-General
on the question of Western Sahara;-

2. Reaffirms that  the question  of Western Sahara io a question  of
docolonization which remains to be  campletod on the basio  of the  exercise by
t h e  people  of  We’ltorn  S a h a r a  of their inalienable right to eelf-dotermjnation
and indep9ndenOeJ

3. Reaffirms aXs?  that  the solution of the  question of Western Sahara
lies in the  implementation of resolution AHG/Ree.104 (XIX) of the Assembly crf
Heads of State and Government of the Organiaation of Afrioan Unity, which
establishes ways and means for a just and definitive political solution to the
Western  Sahara COnf  1iCt  J

4. A g a i n  rwwsts,  ts that  end,  the  two par t ies  to  t h e  conflict,  t h e
Kingdom of Morocco and the Frente Popular para  la Liberaci6n  de Saguia
el-Hamra  y de Rio de Oro, to undertake direct negotiations, in the shortest
possible time, with a view to bringing about a cease-fire to create the
necesslary  oonditions for  a  peaceful  and fair  referendum for self-determination
of the  people of bster n Sahara, a referendum without any administrative or
military constraints, under the  auopices of the  Organization of African Unity
and the United Nations1

5. Welcomes the afforts of the current Chairman of the Assembly of
Heads of State and Government  of the Organization of African Unity and the
Secretary-General  of  t h e  United Nations to pranote  a  juet  and definitive
solution of the question of Western Sahara, in conformity with General.
Assembly resolution 40/50  J

6. Takes note of the joint decision of the  current Chairman of the
Organisation of African Unity and the Secretary-General of the  United Nations
to send a technical mission to Western Sahara in order to collect th6 relevant
technical information to assist them in diccharging  the  mendate  entrusted to
them by General Assembly reeolutions 40/50  and 41/16  and by the preaont
reoolutionfi

7. Invites the current Chairman of the Assembly of Heads of State  and
Government of the  Organization of African Unity and the Secretary-General Of
the United Nations to continue to exert every effort to persuade the two
part ies to the confl ict , the Kingdom of Morocco and the Frente Popular para la
Liberacidn  de Saguia el-Hemra y de Rio de Oro, to negotiate, in the shorteet
pngsible t i m e  and in conformity with Organlzation  of African Unity resolution
AHG/Res.lOJ (XIX), General Assemhly resolution SO/50  and the present
resblution, the terms of  a  cease-f i re  and t h e  modalities for organizing t h e
said referendum1

/ . . .



A/42/730
Engliuh
Page 13

8. Appeals to th$ Kingc3om  of Morocco and the Frente Popular para  la
Liberacidn  de  Saguia el-Hamrs  y de  R i o  d e  O r o  tie display t h e  political will.
necessary to implenIent  Organisation of African Unity resolution
AHG/Res.l04  (XIX), General Assembly resolutions 40/50  and 41/16  and the
prasen  t resolut iojr;

9. Reaffir$hs the  determination of the  United Nations to co-operate
fully with the  Ornanieation  of African Unity with a view to implementing the
relevant decisions of that organisation, ir particular resolution
AHG/Ree.lOQ  (XIX) 1

10. Requests the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoplea  to continue to consider the situation in Western Sahara
as a matter of priority and to report t.heraon  to the Genera!.  Assembly at Ctcl
forty-thira  session!

11. Invi tes the Secretary-General of the Organization of African Unity
to keep the Secretary-General of the United Nations informed of the  progress
achieved in the implementation of the  decisions  of the  Organization of African
Unity relat  Ing  to weter n Sahara)

12. Invites t h e  Secre tary-Genera l  to follow the situation in Western
Sahara closely with a view to the implementation of the  praeent  resolution and
to report thereon to Lhe  General Assembly at its forty-third eeesion.

DRAFT REBOWTION  II

Queetion of New Caledonia

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of New Caledonia,

Hav!ng  examined the  relevant chapter of the  report of the  Special
Commiice o n  the Situation with regard tc the Implementation of the
Ibclaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
People 8, ll/

Recallinq its resolution 1514 (XV)  of 14 December 1960 containing the
Declaration on the Granting 3f Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

’ Recalling also its resolution 41/41  A of 2 December 1986 by which the
Assembly “considers that, in the light of the provisions of Chapter XI of the
Charter of the United Nations and General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) and

l.J/ A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 14

1541 (XV), New Caledonia ie a Non-Self-Governing Territory within the meaning
of the Charter”,

decisiNoting the on adopted by the Special Committee on the question of
New Caledonia on 17 March 1987, l2/ a8 weL ae  the reoolution  adopted by the
Special Committee on 14 August 1987, l3/

Noting also the section relating to New Caledonia in the communiqud
iseued at the conclusion of the eighteenth South Pacific Forum, held at Apia
on 29 and 30 May 1987, g/ and in particular its call for a United
Nations-sponeored  referendum in the  Territory consistent with the univursally
aooepted principles and practicec of self-determination and independence,

Noting further the provisions concerning New Caledonia contained in the
mlitical Declaration adopted by the Eighth Conference of HeaAe  of State or
Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Harare  fran 1 to
6 Septenjser  1986 ,  s/

Conscious of the  reaponeibility of the  administering Power to eneure the
full and speedy implementation of the Declaration in respect of New Caledonia,

Mindful that United Nations vielting missions provide an effrctive means
of a s c e r t a i n i n g  t h e  situation in Territories and considering that the
poosibility of sending a visiting mirPeion to New Caledonia at an appropriate
time should be kept under review,

1. Approves the chapter of the report  of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the  Implementation of the  Declaration on the Grantir.g
of Independence to Colon ial Countries and Peopleer

2. Peaffirme the inalienable right of the people of New Caledonia to
self-determination and independence in conformity with the  Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960;

3. l&affirms that an obligation exists on the part of the Government of
France to transmit information on New Caledonia under Chapter XI of the
Charter of the United Nations and requests the Government of France to
transmit to the Secretary-General such information as is called for under
Chapter XI and in the related decisions of the General Assemblyr

12/  E.,A- pare. 35.

128, draft resolution I.

IA-/  A / 4 2 / 4 1 7 ,  annex.

E/ A/41/697-5 /18392 ,  annex ,  sec t .  I .

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 15

4. Regrets that the Govornment of France hae  not reoponded  to the
request to submit such information and calls upon it  ta do  sol

S. Considers  t h a t ,  consietent with the principles laid down in General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), the peaceful transition of New Caledonia to
self-determination and independence  should be undertaken In a manner which
guarantees the rights and interests of the people of New Caledonia1

6. Declaree that  progress towards a lonq-term poli t ical  solution in
New  Caledonia requires a free and genuine act of self-determination consistent
with United Nations principles +nc¶  practice8  of self-determination and
i ndepende rice  1

7, Emphasizes  that  such an act  of self-dat.ermination, in which all
options should be  made available, should be pracoded by a camprehensive
programme of political education in which all options are  impartially
preaented and coneequences  fully expla innd I

8. Calls uPOn  the Government of France tc resume dialogue with all
sections of the population of New Caledonia in order to facil i tate rapid
progress towards such an act of self-determination in which all sections of
t h e  cormnunity  part ic ipate?

9. Affirms the reetcnsibility  of the administering Power to  pranote
economic and social development and calls upon it  to institute programmes
designed to benefit all the  people throughcut the Territory1

10. Requests the Special Committee to continue the examination of the
item  at  its next session, including t h e  possible dispatch of a visit ing
mieaion to New Caledonia at an appropriate time and ii1 consultation with the
administering Power, and to  repor t  thereon to  t h e  General.Assembly  at i ts
forty-third session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Question of Anquill  a

The General Assombly ,

Having considered the question of Anquilla,

Having examined the  re levant  chapters of the  report of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard tp the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples , l6/

l6/ A / 4 2 / 2 3  (Par t  I I ) ,  chap . 1111  A/42/23 (Part III), chap. IV1 A/42/23
(Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 16

Recall ing i ts  resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and all o t h e r  resolution6 a n d  deofsions  of t h e  Unitud Nations  relating to
Anguilla, inaluding in partiaular General Assembly resolution 4l/l7 of
31 Ootober 1086,

Conscious  of the  need tc ensure  the full and speedy implementation of the
Declaration in respect of the  Ter ritary ,

CNoting that the onstitutional Review Committee, which was appointed in
October 1985, held a eerie8  of publio meetings in 1986 in the  Territory and
with Anguillians residing in the United 8tatee Virgin Islands and noting that
the territorial Government recognizee  the  need to  rep1aq.o  the outdated edit ion
of t h e  laws pertaining to the Territory,

Aware of th&  special circumstances of the  geographical. loaation and
econmsonditions  of the  Territory and  bearing in mind the  neceseity  of
divereifying and strengthening further its economy as a matter of priority, in
order  to  Pt%mote econanic stability,

Reaffirming the  resparaibility  of the  administe’ring  Power to promote  the
economic an8  social development of the Territory,

t hNoting  that e economy of the  Territory grew in 1985  mainly as a result
of a n  expansion in tourism, a n d  noting that,  while  reoommending  restrictions
on foreign investment and tourism, the Government of Anguilla recogrizes  the
importame of balamed sectoral growth and continues to give the  highest
priority to the development of the  Territory’s economic and soaial
infraetruct’iro,

.Expressinq its conaern  o v e r  t h e  illegal operation of foreign fishing
veesele  within t h e  terri torial  water8  of Anguilla and ite offshore fishing
banks and welcoming, in view of the importance of the  fishing industry to the
diversification of the econany, the intention of the Government of Anguilla to
introduce appropriate legislat ion to conserve the Terri tory’s f ish etocka.

Fmphasizing, the  importance of elaborating an appropriate strategy for the
efficient productSon  and m a r k e t i n g  of sal t ,

Underlining  the need for efi’nctive instruments to regulate the  commercial
banking system and noting in that connection the Te:ritory’s decision to join
the Eastern Caribbean Central Bank,

Noting with satisfaction the contributions of the United Nations
Development  Programme and other special :-Jed  agencies and organizations of the
United Nations eyetem  to  t h e  development of the Territory,

Wtinq  the continued participation of the  Territory in the Caribbean
GZOUp  for Co-operation in Economic Development,

/ . . .



A/42/730
Englieh
Page 13

M?allinq  t h e  dispatch  in 1984 of  a United Natiana  visiting m i s s i o n  to
the Territory,

Mindful that United vations  visiting missions provide an ef.feative means
of ascertaining t h e  situation in the small Territoriea and considering t h a t
the maaibility  of sending a furtbar visiting mission to Anguilla at an
appropriate time should be kept  under review,

1. Approves the  chapter of the report of the  Special Committee on the
Situation with reqarcl to the  Implementation of the  Declaration on ha Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countr iea and Peoples relating to Anquills) l7/

2. Reaffirms the  inalienable right of the people of Anguilla t0
self-determination and independence in conformity with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independeraze  to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) 1

3 . Rei terates  the  v iew that  such factore a8 terri torial  size,
geographical location, size of population and limited natural resources should
in no way delay the speedy exercise by the people of the  Territory of their
inal ienable right to self-determination and independence in conformity with
t h e  Declarat ion,  w h i c h  fully applies to Anquillar

4. Reiterates that it is the  responsibility of the  United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as the  administering Power, to create such
conditions i n  Anguilla es will enable its people to  exercise freely and
w i t h o u t  interference,  from a  well-informed standpoint  as to the available
opt ions,  t h e i r  inalienable right to self-determination and independence in
accordance with resolution 1514 (XV), and all  other relevant resolutions of
the General Asaemblyr

5. Reaffirms that  i t  i s  ult imately  for the  people  o.f  Anquilla
themselves to determine freely their future political s t a t u s  i n  accordance
with the relevant provisions of the  Charter of the United Nations and the
&claration and,  i n  that  connection, reaffirms the  importan? of fostering Bn
awareness among the  people of the  Territory of the possibilities open to  them
in the exercine  of their right to self-determination and independence8

6. Calls upon  the administering Power, in co-operation with the
terri torial  Government, to continue to strengthen the economy and  to increase
its aaaiatence  to programmes of diveraificatfonr

7. Urges the administering Power, i n  co-opera t ion  w i t h  t h e  terr i torial
Government, to continue the assistance necessary to increase employment of the
local population in the civil  service, as well a s  i n  managerial,  t e c h n i c a l  l-M
other  sectors  of  the  econany)

l7/ A/42/23  (Par t  VI) ,  and  Corr.1,  chap.  IX.

/ e..



AJ42/730
Eng 11  sh
Page 18

8. Reitoratas  its  request  to the  administering Power to continue to
enli*.t the  nssistanoe  of the  specialised agencies and other organisations of
the United Nations system0 a s  kell as  othe;  regional and international bodies,
in the development and etrengthening  of the economy of Anguillat

9. Urges  the administering Poticfr, in  co-operat ion w i t h  the terr i torial
Government, to take effective measures to safeguard, guarantee and ensure the
rights of the people of Anguilla to own and dispose of their natural resources
and to establieh and maintain control over  the i r  future developmentr

10. Requests the administering Porter to continue to make every effort to
facilitate and encourage the participation of the Territory in regional and
international organisations, inaluding the Economic Commission for Latin
America and the Caribbean)

11. Requests the Special  Committee to continue the examination of this
question at i ts next session, including t h e  possible dispatch of  a  further
visit ing mission to Anguilla at an appropriate t ime and in consultation with
t h e  administering POWer,  a n d  to  repor t  there&n  to  t h e  General  Aesembly  at  i ts
forty-third session.

DRAFT RESOL’UTION  IV

Question of ,MontRerrat

The Genera 1 Assembly, ,

Having considered the question of Montserret,

Having examined the  relevant chapters of the report of the Cpecial
Committee on the Situation with regard ti the  Xmplementation  of the
Declaration on the  Granting of Indepndence  to Colonial Countries and
Peop1.e  8, le/

Recallinq its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the  Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and all other resolution8 and decisions of the  United Nations relating to
tbn  tser rat, including i n  particular Generel.  Assembly resolution 41/21  o f
31 October 1986,

COnSCiou@  of the  need to ensure the  full and speedy implementation of the
Declaration in respect  of  the Terri tory,

l8J A / 4 2 / 2 3  (Par t  I I ) ,  chap . III?  A/42/23  (Par t  I I I ) ,  chap .  IV1  A / 4 2 / 2 3
(Part VI and Corr.1) , chap. IX.

/ . . .



A/42/330
English
Page 19

Aware of the special circumstances of the  geographical location and- -
economic conditions of the Territory and bearing in mind the neceeeity  of
diversifying and strengthening further its e c o n o m y  a8  a  matter of priOritY in
order to promote economic stability,

Recalling the view of the Government of Montserrat that independence was
both inevitable and desirable, provided that It wae  preceded by the attainment
b y  M o n t s e r r a t  of a level of econtnnic  a n d  financial v i a b i l i t y  sufficient to
sustain it ae an independe.>t  State; and recalling also the intention of  the
Government to seek frun the Government of the United Kingc!om  of Qreat  Britain
and Northern Iroland  and from other sources levels of assistance necessary to
achieve suah viability and not to seek indepnc¶ence  without the support of the
majority of the people  of the  Territory ,

Notinq  that the economy of the  Territory continued to recover in 1985,
while the productivity of agriculture continued to decline and that of
fisheries remain& at a low level,

Noting also the measures taken by the territorial Government to increase
the rjfficiency of the  civil service and the high priority it  continued to
place on the training of cadres,

$nphaeizinq  the importance of broadening the educational proqranme,
including the provision of improved classroana, teaching facflitfee and
well- t rained teachers?

Emphasizing the importance of the continued part icipation of the
Territory in the Caribbean Group for Co-operation in &onomic Development,  89
Well as in regional organizations euch  as the Caribbean Canmunity and its
associated institutions, including the Caribbean Development Bank I

Welcominq  the contribution6 to the development of the Territory by the
sspecialized  agencies and organizations of ehe United Nations system Operating
in Montserrat, including the  United Nations Development Programe and  the
United Nations Children’s Fund,

Recallinq the  diepatch  in 1975 and 1982 of United Nations visit ing
missions to the Territory,

Mindful that United Nations visiting missions provide an effective means
of aecertaining  the situation in the small Territories and considering that
the possibility of sending a further visiting mission to Montserrat at an
appropriate t ime should be  kept under review,

1. Approves the  chapter of the  report of the  Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the  Implementation of the  Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countriee  and Peoples relating to Monteerratj  l9/

l9J- A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.l, chap. TX.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 20

2. Reaffirm8 the  inalienable right of the  people of Monteerrat  to
self-determination and independence in conformity with the Declaration on the
Grantiny of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV))

3. Rei terates  t h e  v i e w  that  s u c h  factors as terr i torial  s ize,
geographical location, size of population and limited natural r e s o u r c e s
should in no way delay the speedy exercise by the people of the  Territory of
t h e i r  inalienable right to self-determination and independence in conformity
with the Declaration, which fully applies tc Montserratl

4. Reiterates that i t  is the reapansibility of the United Kingdom Of
Great Britx and Northern Ireland, as the  administering Power, to create such
co,rditions  i n  t h e  Terri tory a8 will enable t he  people  of  Mnteerrat  to
ehercioe  freely a n d  w i t h o u t  interperence  their inalienable right to
self-determination and independence in accordance with resolution 1514 (XV)
a n d  all  other relevant resolutions of t h e  General  AJsemblyt

5. Reaffirms t h a t  i t  is ultimately for the people of Montserra t
themselves to determine their future political status in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Charter  of  t h e  United Nations and the Declaration,
and reiterates i ts  call  upon the administering Power to launch programmes,  in
co-operation with the territorial Government, to foster an awareness among the
people of Montserrat  of  the possibil i t ies available to them in the exercise of
t h e i r  r ight  to self-determination and independence!

6. Reaffirms the  responsibility of the  administering Power to pranote
the economic and social development of kntserrat t

7. Calls upon the administering Power in co-operation with the
terr i torial  Government, to cnntinue  to strengthen the economy of the Territory
and to increase i ts  assistancu to  progrsrmmes  of diversification  i n  order  to
promote balanced growth and the economic and financial Viability of the
Territory!

8. Urges the  administering Power, in co-operat ion with the terr i torial
c;Ov  er n;ne nt , to take effective measures to safeguard, guarantee and ensure the
rights of the peop1.e  of Montserrat to own and dispose of the natural resources
of the Territory,  including i ts  terri torial  waters,  and to establish and
maintain control over their future developmentr

9. -iterates  its call.upon  the administer ing Power,  in co-operat ion
with the territorial. Gqvernment,  to continue the assistance necessary for the
employment of t h e  local population in t h e  civil  service, particularly at
senior levels 1

10. Urges the administering Power, in co-operation with the territorial
Government, to overcome shortages in human resources by providing appropriate
incentives to assist nationals in finding better opportunit ies at home and to
attract qualified nationals from abroadi

/ . . .



A/42/7 30
Enq  1 i flh
Page 21

11. 5118  upon_  the specialized  agencies and other organisations of the
United Nations system , and invites donor Governments and regional
orqanizatione  to intensify their efforts to accelerate progress in the
economic and social life of the Terr itoryj

12, Reiterate8 its call upon the administer inq  POwer,  in oo-opsration
with the territorial Government, to take urgent steps to facilitate the
readmission of Monteerrat  aa an aseociate  metier  of the United Nation8
Educational, Scientific and Cultural. Organizationl

13. Requests the Special Committee to continue the examination of thie
question at its next session, including the possible dispatch of a further
visiting mission to Montserrat at an appropriate time and in coneultetion with
the administering Power, a*ad  to report thereon to the General Aeeombly  at it!]
f orty-th ird session.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page  22

DRAFT RESOLL?ION  V

Question of the British Virqin Islands

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of the British Virgin Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters  of the report of the S_=cial
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, 20/-

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the
British Virgin Islands, including in particular General Assembly resolution
41/19  of 31 October 1986,

Conscious of the need to ensure the full and speedy implementation of the
Declaration in respect of the Territory,

Aware of the special circumstances  of the geographical location and- -
economic conditions of the Territory and bearing in mind the necessity of
diversifying and strengthening further its economy as a matter of priority in
order to promote econcmic  stability,

Reaffirming that it is the responsibility of the administering Power to
promote the econmic and swial  development of the Territory.

Noting that, while tourism increased during the year under review, the
contribution of other sectors to the Territory’s gross domestic product
declined, arl  noting the expressed commitment of the Government of the British
Virgin Isltnds to achieve sound fiscal management, as well as economic
diversification, and to establish a national development strategy,

Welcoming the contributions to the development of the Territory by the
specialized  agencies and other organizations  of the United Nations system,
particularly the United  Nations Development Programme as well as regional
organ iza tions, including the Caribbean Development Bank,

Emphasizing  the importarce  of the continued participation of the
Territory in the Caribbean Group for Co-operation in Economic Development and
in all other regional and international organisations concerned, and noting
that the Territory was host to the Eleventh Meeting of Heads of Government of
the Organization of Eastern Caribbean Statesr

20/  A/42/23 (Part II), chap.- III; A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 23

Notinq the critical need for the training of nationals in technical,
vocational, managerial and proEessiona1  fields, and taking note in a related
context, of the expressed intention of the Governor to accord priority ta the
creation of an institution for post-secondary education,

Rec:.llinq  the dispatch in 1976 of a United Nations visiting mission to
the Territory,

Mindful that United Nations visiting missions provide an effective means
of ascertaining the situation in the small Territories, and considering that
the possibility of sending a further visiting mission to the British Virgin
Islands at an appropriate time should be kept under review,

1, Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration an the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the British
Virgin Islands; 21/-

2 . Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of the British Virgin
Islands to self-determination and independence in canformity  with the
Declaration an the Granting’af Independence ta Colonial Countries and Peoples,
contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV);

3 . Reiterates the view that such factors as territorial size,
geographical location, size of population and limited natural resources should
in no way delay the speedy exercise by the people of the Territory of their
inalienable right ta self-determination and independence in conformity with
the Declaration, which fully applies ta the British Virgin Islands;

4 . Reiterates that it is the responsibility of the United Kingdam  Of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland, as the administering Power,  ta create such
conditions in the Territory as will enable the people of the British Virgin
Islands to exercise freely and without interference their inalienable right to
self-determination and independence in accordance with resolution 1514 (XVI
and all other relevant resolutions of the General Assembly;

5. Reaffirms_ that it is ultimately far the people of the British Virgin
Islands themselves ta determine freely their future political status in
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nations
and the Declaration, and, in that connection, reaffirms the importance of
fostering an awareness among the people of the Territory of the passibilities
open to them in the exercise of their right ta self-determination;

6. Calls upon the administering Power, in co-operation with the
territorial  Cavernment,  ta intensify its efforts ta broaden  the base of the
economy af the Territory?

21/  A/42/23 (Part VI) and Carr.1,  chap. IX.-

/ l . .



A/42/730
English
Page 24

7. Urqos  the administering Powor, in ao-operation with the territorial
Government, to safeguard the inalienable I:  ight of the people of the British
Virgin Islands to the enjoyment of their natural resources  by takinq  effeotive
measurea  to ensure their riyht to own a,id dispose of those natural resources
and to establish and maintain control of their future dsvalopmontl

8, Urqos  the spocialized  agencies and other organizatians  of the United
Nations ayatem, as ~011  as the regional organizatione concerned, to intensify
meawrw  to  accelerate  progress  in  the social  and eoonomic  development of the
Territory1

9. Roiteratoe  its call upon the administering Power to oontinue Co
facilitate the  further partioigation of the British Virgin Islands  in  varioutl
international and regional organizations  and in othor organizatione of ths
United Nations system)

10. Calls upon the administering Power, in ao-operation with the
terri torial  Government ,  to  take al l  neaeseary  meaautea  to expand
systematically the participation of the locaL population in the
decision-making process in all sectoro as well as their deployment in othor
managerial  and technical positional

11. Roquestn  the  Spatial  Clommittee  to continua  the examination of thio
question at  its next ue&sion, including the possible  diepatr:h  of a visiting
mission to the British Viryin Islands at an appropriate time and in
consultation with the administering Power, ma to roport thereon to the
General Aooombly at ite  forty-third e~ee~on.

DRAFT  RESOLUTION VI

Question of the~l’urks  uncl Caicos In.l,nnda,

The  General Asnombl~,

Having  considered the quoetion of the Turk3  and Caicou  Isl;lnda,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special
Committee on  the Situation with rey~~rd to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Grantiny  of Indupundenou  to Colonial  Countr ioe und
Peoples, 22/

Recalling its rerlolution  1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,  containing  the
Declaration on the Grantirrq of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples

22/ A/42/23  ( P a r t  II) I chat).  .III; A/42/2.3  (Part I I I ) ,  c h a p .  Iv1 A / 4 2 / 2 3
(Part VI) and Corr.l.,  chap.  IX.

/ . . .

--



A/42/730
English
Page 25

and all other resolutions and deaisions of the United Nations relating to the
Turks and Caiaos Islands, including in partiaular General Aesembly resolution
41/22  of 31 October 1986,

Conscious of the need to ensure the full and speedy implementation of the
Declaration in roepeat  of the Turritory,

Aware of the speoial  oiroumetanoes  of the geographical location and-.w.
eeonomia  oonditions of the Territory and bearing in mind the neoeeeity  Of
diversifying and strengthening further its economy as a matter of priority in
order to promote economic stability and to develop a wider economia  base for
the Territory,

Notinq  that a constitutional commission was appointed in 1986 to review
the 1976 Constitution and make recommendations for tho future administration
of the Territory,

Noting  the continuing contribution of the United Nations Development
Programme to the development of the Territory and welaoming  the intention Of
the terri torial  Government, $n  conjunction with the United Nation8 Development
Proq r ammo, to improve the primary and secondary education system in the
Territory,

Reaalling the dispatch in 1980 of two United Nations visiting missions to
the Terr i tory,

Mindful that  United Natlone visiting mission6  provide an effecltive means
of asaertaining  the situation in the small Territories,  and considering tha t
the possibility of sending a further visit ing mission to the Turks  and Caicos
Islands at an appropriate time should be kept under review,

1. &provos  the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independenae to Colonial Countries and People8  relating to the Turke and
Caicos  Islander  2J

2. Reaffirms the  inalienable right of the people of the Turks and
Caicos  Island8  to  self-determination and independenoe  in  conformity with the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countriee  and Peoples,
contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)  I

3 . Rei terates  the  view that such factors  as  terr i torial  size‘,
geographical location, size of population and limited natural resources should
in no way delay the speedy exercise by the people of the Territory of their
inalienable right to self-determination and independence in conformity with
the Declaration, which fully applies tc, the Turks and Caicoe  Islander

w A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX.
^

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
page 26

4. Reiterate8 that it is the obligation of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, as the administering Power, tc? oreate  such
oonditions  in the Territory as will enable the people of the Turks and Caicos
Islands to  exeroise  freely and without interferenae  their inalienable right to
self-determination and independenae  in aacodanee  with resolution 1514 (XV)
and all other relevant resolutions of the General Assemblyr

5. Urgea. the administering Power to aontinue  to facilitate the
resolution of,the situation that led to the appointment of a aonsti tutional
aommiseion in 19861

6. Reaffirms that it is the responsibility of the administering Power
under the Charter of the United Nations to develop its dependent Territories
eoonomiaally and 6ocially  and urges the adminietering  POwer,  in consultation
with the territorisl Government, ‘to take the neaeesary  measures to promote the
eaonomia and soaial development of the Turks and Caiaoe  Islands and, in
partiaular, to intensify and expand its programme of assietanae in order to
acrrelerate  the development of the economic and social infrastructure of the
Territory8

7. Emphasizee  the need to acaelerate  the Biveisifiaation  of the economy
in order to develop a wider economic base for the Territory and welaomes the
proposal of the territorial Government to inalude, in its National Development
Plan, provisions for the improvement of the regulatory practice governing the
fisheries  sector ,

8. Reaalls that  it is the  responsibility of the  administering Power,  in
acaordanae with the wishes of the people, to safeguard, guarantee and ensure
the inalienable right of the people of the Turks and Caicos Islands to the
enjoyment of their ratural  resources, inaludinq their territoriul waterer and
to establish and maintain’control over the future development of the
Territory’s natural  reeources1

9. Urges the specialised agencies and other organizations of the United
Nations system, 88 well a8 the regional institutions concerned,  to  cont inue to
pay epecial  attention to the development needs of the Turks and Caicos Islands)

10. Urges the administering Power, in consultation with  the terr i torial
Government, to continue to provide the necessary aseietance for  the
localization of the  civil service at all levers and f o r  the training of
qualified local personnel in the skills essential to the development o f
various sectors of the economy and the society of the Territory1

11. Requests the Special Committee to continue the examination of this
question at  i ts  next session, including the possible dispatch of a further
visi t ing mission to the Turks and Caicos Islands at  an appropriate t ime  and  in
consultat ion’ with the admi~~ister  inq Power, and to report thereon to the
General ‘ssembly at  i ts  forty-third session.

/ . . .



A/42/730
Englieh
Pago 27

DRAFT RESOLUTION VI I

Question of Tokelau

The General Assembly,

Having considered the quoetion  of Tokelau,

Havins examined the relevant chapters of the report of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Dealaration  on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, 24J

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
and al l  other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to
Tokelau, including in particular General Assembly resolution 41/26  O f
31 October 1986,

Havinq heard the statement of the representative of New Zealand, the
administering Power,

Welcoming the participation of the Chairman of the General E of
Tokelau in the related work of the Special Committee,

Noting the continuing development of the General Fono as  Tokelau’s
highest polit ical body and taking note of the views ofthe General  I”ono that
such development of the indigenous political institutions of  Tokelau must
proceed in full  recognition of the distinct and valued cultural heritage and
traditions of Tokelau and that further economic development is a prorequisite
for continued devolution of political authority in Tokalau,

Noting with satisfaction the continued progress being made towards the
drafting of a legal code to conform witi  the traditional laws and cultural
values of Tokelau,

Expreseinq  its sympathies to the people of  Tokelau for  the lobctis
incurred in natural disontlxrs  in 1987,

Taking note of the decision of the General Fono to include Tokelou in  the
Multilateral Fisheries Agreement between the UnixStates of America and
States members of the South Pacific Forum Fisheries Agency,

Welcoming the appointment of a Tokelauan as head of the Tokelau Public
Service ,

24/  A/42/23  (Par t  I I ) ,  chap . III) A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 29

Taking note of the strong opposition in Tokelau to nuclear tests being
carr ied out in the Pacific area as consti tuting a grave threat  to the  natura l
resources of the Territory and its social and economic development,

Notincr  with satisfaction the assistance extended to Tokelau by the United
Nations Development Prqramme and other regional and international
i n s t i t u t i o n s ,

Recalling, the dispatch in 1976, 1991 and 1986 of United Natione visiting
missions to the Territory,

Mindful that United Nations visiting miseione provide an effeative  means
of ascertaining the situat ion in the small Territories,  and considering tha t
the possibility of sending a further visiting mission to Tokelau at an
appropriate time should be kept under review,

1. Approves  the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to Tokelauj 25J

2. Reaffirma the inalienable right of the people of Tokelau t0
self-determination and independence in accordance with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly reeolutio?  1514 (XV) 1

3, ‘Reiterates the view that  such factors as terr i torial  Size,
geographical location, size of population and limited natural resources should
in no way delay the implementation of the Declaration, which fully applies to
Tokelau 1

4. Wekomes  the statement of the Chairman of the General Mono  of
Tokelau that Tokelau wishes to see the devolution of authority toe s
consolidated and continued1

5. Notes that the people of Tokelau are determined to manage their
economic and political development in such a way as to ensure the preservation
of the social ,  cu!. tural  and tradition71 heritage o f  Tokelau,  and urges the
administering Power and the specielized agencies and other organizations of
the United Nations system to respect fully the wishes of the people of Tokelau
i n  t h i s  regard1

6. Urges Member States and relevant epecialized agencies and other
organizations of the United Nations system to extend to Tokelau the maximum
assistance possible to help in the rehabil i tat ion and reconstruction of the
islands in order to overcome the losses incurred in natural  dieeat.  ~8  in 19871

25J  A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr. 1, chap. IX.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 29

7. Urges the Goverriment  of New Zealand, the administering FoWen:t  in
co-operation with the General Fono,
grounds of the people of TokelGro

to ensure  that the traditional fiehing
protected in accordance with the

Multilateral Fietreries  Agreement between the United States of America and
States members of the South Pacific Forum Fieheries  Agency}

8. Calls  upon,  the administering Power, in co-operation with the General
Fono, to continue and expand its development assistance to Tokelau!

9. Urqee the epecialized agencies and other organizatione of the United
Nation6  By&em, ae well as the regional institutions concerned, to continue to
taI:e all necessary measurea, in close consultation with  the Office for Tokelau
Affairs, and taking due account of the decieione of the General FB on the
allocation of resource8 and development priorities, to accelerate progress in
the social and the economic life of the Territory)

10. Requests the Special Committee to continue the examination of this
question at its next session, including the  possible diepatch  of a further
visiting miclslion  to Tokelau at an appropriate time and in coneultation  with
the administering Power,  and to report  thereon to the General Aesembly  at it.9
forty-third seesion.

DRAFT RESOLUTION VIII

guestion  of the Cayman Islands

The General Assembly,

Having considered the gueation of the Cayman  Islands,

Havinq examined the relevant chapters  of the report of the S?eCial
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, 26J

Recalling ite  resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and PeOPle8,
and all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nation6  relating to the
Cayman  Islands, including in particular General Assembly reeolution 41/20  Of
31 October 1986,

Conscious of the need to ensure the full and speedy implementation of the
Declaration in respect of the Territory,

26/  A[42/23  (Part II), chap. III; A/42/23 (Part III), chap. IVt A/42/23
[Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX.

/..C



A/42/730
English
Page 30

Aware of the special circumetanccs  of the geographical looation  and
econosonditiono of the Territory and bearing in mind the necessity 03
diversifying and strengthening further its economy as a matter of priority i n
order to promote economic stability,

Noting that  over  35 per  cent  of the civil servants  of the  Terri tory ara
expatr ia tes ,

Noting with appreciation the continued contribution of the United Nations
Development Programme to the development of the Territory,

Recalling the dispatch in 1977 of a United Nations visit ing mission  t0
the Territory,

Mindful that United Nations visiting missions provide an effective means
of ascertaining the situation in the small Territories,  and considering that
the possibility of sending a further visiting miosion  to the Cayman  Is lands at
an appropriate time should be kept under review,

1. Approves  the  chapter  o f  the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the Caymen
Islands!  c/

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the  people  of  the Cayman  Isl~\nds
to self-determination and independence in conformity with the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV),

3. Reiterates  the view that  such factors as terr i torial  s ize,
geographical location, size of population and l im i ted  natural reeourcoo  should
in no way delay the speedy exercise by. the people of the Territory oL their
inalienable right to self--determination and independence in oonformitY with
the Declarat ion , which fully applies to the Cayman  Islands8

4. Reiterates that  i t  is  the responeibilit~ of the United Kingdom of
Great  Britain and Northern Ireland,  as the administering Fewer,  to  c rea te  such
conditions in the Caymarr  Islands as will  enable the people of the Terri tory to
exercise freely and without interference their inalienable right to
self-determination and independence in accordance with resolution 1514 (XV)
and all  other relevant resolutions of the General  Assembly8

5. Reaffirms that it is ultimately for the people of the Cayman  wanda
themselves to determine tneir future political statue in accordance with the
relevant provisions of the Charter  of  the United Nations and the Declarat ion,
and, in that connection, reaffirms the importance of fostering an  awareness
among the people of the Terri tory of the possibil i t ies open to them in the
exercise of their  r ight  to self-determination and independence,

27J  A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr. 1, chap. IX.



A/42/7 30
English
Page 31

6. Urges’ the administering Power, in consultation with the territorial
Government ,  to continue to assist  in the localisation of the Territory’s civil
service I

7. Reaffirms the responsibili ty of the administering Power ta promote
the economic and social development of the Territory and recommends that
priority should continue to be given to the diversification of the Territory’s
economy in order to provide the foundations for sound social and economic
development 1

8, Notee  the steps taken by the territorial Government to promote
agriculturaloduction and calls upon the adminietering Power to provide the
neaeseary assistance in that field so as to reduce and resolve the Territory’s
heavy dependence on imported fcxxhtuff~l

9 . Calls upon the specialised agencies and other organisations of the
United Nations system, a8 well as regional institutions such as the Caribbean
Development Bank, to continue to take all necessary measures to accelerate
progress in the social  and economic life of the Territory1

10. l$quasts the Special Committee to continue the examination of this
question at its next session, including the possible dispatch of a further
visiting miseion to the Cayman  Islands at an appropriate
consultat ion with the administering Power,  and to report
General Assembly at its forty-third session.

time and in
thereon to the

DBAFT  RESOLUTION Ix

Question of Bermuda

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of Bermuda,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report-. . . - - of  the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to tne Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, 28J

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
a:,d all  other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to
Bermuda, including in particular General Assembly resolution 41/18  o f
31 October 1986,

28/  A/42/23  (Par t  I I ) ,  chap .  1111  A/42/23  (Par t  I I I ) ,  chaps .  IV and Vi
A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Rage 32

Conscious of the need to ensure the full and speedy implementation of the
Declaration in respect of the Territory,

Noting that I although the Senate of Bermuda  did not adopt a bill calling
for a referendum in April 1986 29/ on the issue of independence, the issue has
been the subject of debates in the Territory,

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and
eoonomonditione  of the Territory and bearing in mind the necessity of
diversifying and strengthening further its economy as a matter of priority in
order to promote economic stability,

Welcoming the role being played in the Territory by the United Nations
Development Programme,

Mindful that United Nations visiting missions provide an effective means
of ascertaining the situation in the small Territories, and considering that
the possibility of sending a visiting mission to Bermuda at an appropriate
time should be kept under review,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to Bermuda8  3OJ

2. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Bermuda to
self-determination and independence in conformity with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly reaclution  1514 (XV) J

3. Reiterates the view that such factors as territorial size,
geographical location, siae of population rend  limited natural resources should
in no way delay the speedy exercise by the people of the Territory of their
inalienable right to self-determination and independence in conformity with
the Declaration, which fully applies to Bermudat

4. Reiterates that it is the obligation of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, as the administering Power, to create such
conditions in the Territory as will enable the people of Bermuda to exercise
freely and without interference their inalienable right to self-determination
and independence in accordance with General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) and,
in that connection, reaffirms. the importance of fostering an awareness among
the people of Bermuda of the possibilities open to them in the exercise of
tha t  right)

29J See General Assembly resolution 41/18 of 31 October 1986.

38J A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX.

/ .*.



A/42/730
Englieh
Page 33

5. Reaff’irms  that, it is ultimately for the people of Bermuda
themaelves to determine their own future political etatue  in accordance  with
the relevant provleions  of the Charter of the United Nations and the
Declaration contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) )

6, Reaffirms it8  attonq  conviction that the presenae of military bases
and instslletione  in the Territory could constitute a major obstaale to the
implementation of the Declaration and that it ie the responeibility  of the
administering Power to emure  that the exiotence  of such baeee  ant3
inotallatione doea  not hinder the population of the Territory from exercising
its right to self-determination and independence, in conformity  with the
purposea  and principles of the Charter;

1. Urges the administering Power to continue to take all neoeseery
measures not to involve Bermuda in any offensive acts or interference againet
other States and to comply fully with the purpoees and principles of the
Charter, the Declaration and the resolutions and decision6  of the General
Assembly relating to military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers
in Territories under their adminiatrationr

8. Urges  once again the adminietering Power, in co-operation with the
territorial Government, to continue to take all effective meaaurea  to
guarantee the right of the people of Bermuda to own and diepooe of their
natural reaourcee and to ostablidh  and maintain control over their future
development with a view to creating conditions for a diversified, balanced and
v ieble economy 1

9. Urqes  the epecfalized  agencies and  other organisations  of the United
Nations system to continue  to pay special attention to the development needs
of Bermuda]

10. Urges the adminietering  Power, in co-operation with the territorial
Government, to continue to aseist  in the localizetion  of the Territory’9  civil
service, particularly at senior  levelet

11. Rmnhaefzes  the deeirability  of sending a vieiting  mission to the
Territory and requeete the administering Power to facilitate the dispatch of
such  a miseion at the earliest possible opportunity1

12. Requests the Special Committee to continue the examination of this
question at ite next session, including the possible dispatch of a vioitfng
mission to Bermuda at an appropriate time and in consultation with the
administering Power,
forty-third eeesfon.

and to report thereon to the General Aeeembly  at Its

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 34

DRAFT RESOLUTION X

Question of Guam

The General Assembly,

Having considered the question of Guam,

Having examined the relevant chapters of.the report of the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, 3JJ

Recalling its  resolution 1514 (Xv)  of 14 December 1960, containing  the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating  to
Guam, including in particular General Assembly resolution 41/25 of
31 October 1986,

Conscious of the need to ensure the full and'speedy implementation of the
Declaration in respect of the Territory,

Having heard the statement of the representative of the United States of
America, as the administering Power, relating to GUanb

Taking note of the statement by the representative of the administering
Power that the Guam Commission on Self-Determination, which was appointed in
February 1984, had completed its work on the draft text of a Commonwealth Act,
and that voters would be required, in a referendum, to pronounce themselves on
the draft text, and noting that the Guam Legislature had appropriated
$us 183,000 to fund a voter education programme in that connection,

Taking note of the statement by the representative of the administering
Power that the United States Department of Defense planned to release an
additional 1,435 hectares of land to the territorial Government in 1986,

Noting the potential for diversifying and developing the economy of ‘he
Territory offered, for example, by commercial fishing and agriculture, and
noting also the statement of the representative of the administering Power
that the draft Commonwealth Act seeks to promote economic development by
establishing a free trade zone between Guam and the United States of America,

Taking note of the statement of the representative of the administering
Power that provisions of the draft Commonwealth Act would re.cognize  the
distinct cultural identity of the Chamorro people, the indigenous inhabitants
of Guam,

31/ A/42/23 (Part II), chap.
(Part%)  and Corr.1, chap= IX.

III; A/42/23 (Part III), chap. VI A/42/23



A/42/730
English
Page 35

Aware of the special circumstances of the geographical location and
econo=onditions  of the Territory and bearing in mind the necessity of
diversifying and strengthening further its economy as a matter of priority in
order to promote economic stability,

Recalling the dispatch in 1979 of a United Nations visiting mission to
the Territory,

Mndful  that United Nations visiting missions provide an effective means
of ascertaining the situation in the small  Territories, and reiterating that
the Possibility of sending a furttir  visiting mission to Guam at. an
appropriate time should be kept under review,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on  the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to Guam: 32/

2 . Reaffirms the inalienable right of the people of Guam to
self-determination and independence in conformity with the Declaration OD  the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in
General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV)8

3 . Reaffirms its conviction that such faGor  as territorial size,
geographical location# size of population and limited  natural resources should
in no way delay the implementation of the Declaration, which fully applies to
Guam s

4 . Reaffirms the importance of fostering an awareness among the People
of Guam of the possibilities open to them with reqard to their right to
self-determination and calls upon the United States of Americi, as the
administering Power, in co-operation with the territorial Government, to
expedite the process of decolonization  strictly in accordance with the
expressed wishes of the people of the Territoryp

5. Reaffirms its stronq conviction that the presence of military bases
and installations in the Territory could constitute a major obstacle to the
implementation of the Declaration and that it is the responsibility of ‘the
administering Power to ensure that the existence of such bases and
fW3taLlatiOnS  does not hinder the pdpulation of the Territory from exercising
its right to self-determination and independence in conformity with the
purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations;

6. Urqes the administering Power to continue to take all necessary
measures not to involve the Territory in any offensive acts or interference
against other States and to comply fully with the purposes and principles Of

z/ A/42/23 [Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX.
n

/ . . .



,. ,. .
rra*urwrilu,- -... ‘.

A/42/730
English
Page 36

the Charter, the Dealaration  and the resolutions and deaisione  of the Uoneral
Aesembly relating to military aativitios  and arranqomento by colonial  Powers
in Territories under their administrationl

7. Reaffirms the responsibility of the adminieterinq  Power, under the
Charter, to proMote  the eaonomia  and eooial  development of Guam and, in that
aonneation, aalla  upon the administering Power to take further steps to
strengthen  end divereify  the eaonomy  o ‘! the Territory, with a view to reduaing
ito  eoonomiu  Bepandenoe  on the adminietering PowerI

6. Reiterates  that on@ of the obstaoles  to eaonomio growth, and
partioularly  t o  agrioultural  Bevelopment, ie the holtling  of large tracts of
land by tha United Statee  federal authorities,  and aallo  upon the
administering Power Win ao-operation with the territorial Government, to
expedite the tranefer of laru!  to the people of the Territory1

9. Reaffirms ita  oall  upon the adminiotering  Power to support measure8
by the territorial Qovernment aimed at removing aonetraints to growth in the
areas of ayriaultura  and oomtneraial fiehing  and to ensure their development to
the fullest extent)

10. Uraos  the administering Power, in ao-operation  with the territorial
Government, to aontfnue to take effeative  meaeures  to eafeguard  and guarantse
the right of the people of Guam to the natural reaourxea  of the Territory,
inoluding  i t s  t e r r i t o r i a l  w a t e r s , and to eetablief  and maintain aontrol over
the future development of those reaouraea, and req,leots  the adminietering
Power to ta&e  the neueesary  steps to proteat  the property righte  of the people
of the Territoryr

11. Reaffirma  tho importance of continued efforte by tho territorial
Government, with the support of the adminietering Power, toward  promoting the
Chamorro language and oulturcl

12. Requests the Special Committee to continue the examination of this
queetion at ite  next soaaion, including tho possible dispatoh  of a furthe
visiting  miesion to Guam at an appropriate time and in coqultation  with the
administering Pobter,  and to report thereon to the General Assembly at it8
forty-third session.

DRAFT RESOLUTION XI

Question  of American Samoa

The General Assembly I

Having considered the question of American Samoa,

/ . . .
L-



A / 4 2 / 7 3 0
English
Page 37

&vIn(I ewaminti  the roisvunt  ahaptors  of  the report  of  the SPecAal
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation oL’  the
Dealaration on tha Qranting of Independenae to Colonial Countrios  and
Peoples, 33/

ReaaXlinq it8 resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 Deoember 1960, aontaining the
Declaration on the Qrantfng  GP  Independenae to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
and all other resolut ions  and doeisions of  the United Nations relating to
American  Samoa, inoluding in particular General Aseombly  reeolution 41/23  Of
31 October 1986,

Taking into  account the statement of  the  ropreaentative of the
adminietering  Power relating to American Flamoa,  */

Consoioue  of the need to promote progrese  towarc3e  the full  implementation
of the Dealaration in respect of Amsriean  Samoa,

Noting the aontinuing  process  of  conetitutional reviews, through popular
aonsultations ana  through the work of a conetitutiohal  review committea,

Aware of the special  circumstances of the geographical location and
eoono;nli;;ldonditions of the Territory and bearing in mind the necessity of
diversifying and strengthening further  i ts  economy as a matter  of  pr ior i ty  in
order to promote  economic stability,

Reaallinq  the dispatch in 1981 of  a United Nationo visi t ing mission to
the Territory,

Mindful that United Nations visit ing missions provide an effeativs  means
of ascertaining the situation in the small  Torrftorius, and qonsidering  that
the goeeibility of sending a further vieiting  mission to American Samoa at an
appropriate time should be kept under review,

1 . Approves the ahapter  of  the report  of  the Special  Comaittee on the
Situation with regard to  the Implementation of the Declarat ion on the Granting
of  Independenoe  to  Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to American
Samoat 3!iJ

2 . Reaffirm6 the inalienable right of the people of American Samoa to
self-determination and independence in conformity with the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,  contained in
General Assembly reeolution 1514 (XV) t

33/ A/42/23 (Pact  I I ) ,  c h a p . III; A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX.

34/ S e e  A/C.4/42/SR.20.

35/ A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr. 1, chap. IX.

/ . . .



A / 4 2 / 7 3 0
English
Page 30

3 . Raitoratee  the view that suah faotoce as terri torial  size,
qeographiaal  l w a t i o n , size of population and limited natural  resources should
in no way delay the speedy exercise by the people of the Territory  of  thair
inalienable right to self-dsternination and independenae  in conformity with
the Declaration, whiah fully applies to  Amoriaan  Samoa1

4 . Calls upon the Government of the United States of Amerioa, as the
administering Power, to take all  neaessary steps, taking into acoount the
rights,  interests and wiohoe  o f  the paoplo of American Saqoa as  expressed
freely in condit ions lsading to roal  self-doterminat ion,  to  expsdite  the
process of decolonizatior of the Terri tory in accordanoo with the relevant
provisions of ths Charter of the United Nation6 and the Declaration and
reaff irme the importance of fostering an awareness among the people of
Amorioan  Samoa of the pousibllities open to them in the exercise of their
right to self-dat.ermination  and independence)

5 . Calls upon the administering Power to aonsidur  favourably the
expressed request of the Samoan people to appoint the Chief Justice and other
members of  the judiciary of  the Tarritory themsslvesl

6 . Raaffirms the responsibility of the administering Power,  under the
Charter, to promote the oconomio  and social development of American Samoa and
aalle  upon the administering Power to intensify i ts  efforts  to strengthen and
diversify the euonomy of the Terri tory and to make i t  more viable in order to
reduae  its heavy economic and financial dependence on the United States and to
oreate  more employment opportunities for the people of the Territoryt

7. Expresses the hop0 that  th0 development planning process init iated
under the f i rs t  five-yaar developmsnt plan will be strengthened)

0. Urges  the administering Power, in co-operation with the territorial
Government, to safeguard the inalienable right of the peopla of  the Terr i tory
to the enjoyment of their  natural  r0sourcea by taking effect ive measur0s  to
ensure  their right to own and dispoee of  thoss resourcea and to establish and
maintain control of their future development with a viow tu creating
conditions for a balanced, diversified and viable economy1

9. Urges the administering Power to continue to promote close relations
between the peoples of  the Territory and the neighbouring island communities
and to facil i tate co-operation.  between  the terri torial  Government and thu
regional  inst i tut ions in order to enhance the economic and social  welfaro  of
the people of American Samoai

10. t hRequests e Special Committee to continue the examination of this
question at  itayxt session, including the dispatch of a further visiting
mission  to  American  Sam\>a at an appropriate time and in consultation with the
administering Power, taking into account, in particular, the wishes of the
people  of  the Territory, and to report  thereon to the General Asoembly at i t s
forty-third session.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page  39

DRAFT  RESOLUTXOR  Xl1

Question of the United States Virqin  Islands

The General Assembly,

Raving oonsidered  the question of the United States Virgin Islands,

Having examined the relevant chapters of the report uf the Special
Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, 36/

Recallin%  its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and %WleS,
and all other resolutions and decisions of the United Nations relating to the
United States Virgin Islands, including in particular General Assembly
resolution 41/24  uf 31 October 1986,

Taking note of the statement of the representative of the administering
Power that the people of the Territory  of the United States Virgin Islands l
through theft democratically elected legislature and executive, have primary
responsibility for local government and control of their future, including the
possibility of modifying their present relationship with the United State8 of
America and that it fully supports the principle that it is the right of the
people concerned to decide and determine their own destiny,

Taking note of the general elections held on 4 November 1986 in the
Territory,

Noting the statement of the representative of the territorial Government,
that the public education programmes envisaged by the Select Committee on
Status and Federal Relations established in 1983 had not been imple,mented
owing to a lack of resources , and that additional eesoutcea  are also needed to
initiate a study on the question of territorial jurisdiction ovet  customs and
immigration control and other areas of autonomy,

Taking note of the measures introduced by the territorial Government to
strengthen the Territory’s finances and its economic development byr
inter alfa, attracting foreign investments to industrial programmes and
eliminating the budget deficit,

$phasizinq  the importance of the continued participation of the united
States Virgin Islands in the Economic Commission for Latin America and the

w A/42/23 (Part IX), chap. XII$  A/42/23 (Part 111) , chaps. 19 and Vp
A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX,L

/ l . .



A/42/330
English
Page 40

Caribbean and the Caribbean Group for Co-opscation  in Economic Development,
and welcoming the recent participation of the Territory in the Caribbean
h~~cil  for Science and Technology,

Noting with satinfnction  the policy of the adminietecing Power that
cepcesentativee of the Territory should participate in forums at which the
Territory is the subject of diocueeion,

Aware  of, the special circumstances of the geographical looation  and
econo=onditione  of the Territory and bearing in mind the necessity of
diversifying and strengthening further its economy a8 a matter of priority in
order to promote economic stability,

Recalling thip  dispatch in 1977 of a United Nations vieiting  mission to
the Tecc  itocy,

Mindful that united Nations visiting mieeions  provide an effective means
of assessing the sit.uetion  in the small Territories, and con8idecing  that the
poeeibility of sending a further visiting mission to the United States Virgin
Islands at an appropriate time should be kept under review,

1. Approves  the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence  to Colonial Countries and Peoplee  relating to the United
States  Virgin Islands) a/

2. Reaffirm8 the inalienable right of the people of the United States
Virgin Islandrr  to self-determination  and independence in conformity with the
Oeclacetion  on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countriee and Peoples,
contained in General Assembly ceeolution 1514 (XV) #

3. Reiterates the view that such factors as territorial size,
geographical location, size of population and limited natural resources should
in no way delay the speedy execcive  by the people of the Territory of their
inalienable c iqht to self-determination and independence in conformity with
the Declaration, which fully applies to the United States Virgin Islandal

4. Reiterates that it is the responeibility  of the United State@  of
America, ae the administering Power, to create such conditions in the United
States Virgin Islands as will enable the people of the Territory to exercise
freely and without interference ‘their inalienable right to self-determination
and independence in cvonformity  with General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV), a6
well as all other relevant resolutions of the Assembly1

5. Reaffirms that it is ultimately for the people of the United States
Virgin Island0  themselves to determine their futuct:  political status in

37J  A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap, IX.

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 41

accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter of the United Nationa,
and the DacliXation  and other relevant resolutions of the General  Assembly
and, in that connection,  cal ls  upon the administering Power, in ao-operation
with the terri torial  Government, to faci l i tate programmes of poli t ical
education in the Territory to foster an awareness among the people of the
possibi l i t ies  open to them in the exerc ise  of  their r ight  to
self-determinationJ

6. Reaffirms the responsibility of the administering Power under the
Charter to promote the economic and social development of the United States
Virgin IslandsJ

7. Urges the administering Power, in co-operation with the terri torial
Government, to strengthen the economy of the Terri tory,  inter  alia, by taking
additional measures of diversification and continuing to develop the
Territory’s infrastructure with a view to reducing the heavy economic
dependence of the Terri tory on the administering Powers

8. Urges the administec  ing Power, in co-operation with the Government
of  the United States Virgin Islands, to safeguard the inalienable right of the
people of  the Terri tory to the enjoyment of their  natural resources by taking
effect ive nloasur’9  Co guarantes  their  r ight  to own and dispose of those
resources and to establish and maintain control of their  future developmentr

9. Requests  the administering Power to seek for  the terr i torial
Government a status similar to that  of other dependent Territoriee within the
Caribbean Group for Co-operation in Economic DevelopmentJ

1 0 . Rei terates  i ts  cal l  upon the administering Power to facil i tate
further the participation of the United States Virgin Islands in various
intergovernmental bodies and organisations, including the organizations of  the
United Nations system and regional and subregional organizationsJ

1 1 . Urqes the administering Power to continue to take al l  necessary
mewurea  to comply fully with the purposes and principles of the Charter,  the
DeclaLation  and the relevant resolut ions  and decisions of  the General  Assembly
relating to military activities and arrangements by colonial  Powers  in
Terr i tor ies  under their  administrationr

12. Requests the Special  Committee to continue the examination of this
question at  i ts  next session, including the possible dispatch of a further
visiting mission to the United States Virgin Islands at an appropriate t ime
and,in consultation with the administering Power, and to  repor t  thereon to  the
General  Assembly at  i ts  forty-third session.

* * *

I. The Fourth Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
be following draft  consensusr

^

/ . . .
-



A/42/730
English
Page 42

DRAFT CONSENSUS I

guestion  of Gibraltar

The General Assembly, recalling its docieion 41/407 of 31 Ootober 1986,
recalling at the same time  that the Bruaeela  declaration, 9 agreed to on
27 November 1984, by the Governments of Spain and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, states the following:

“The  establishment of a negotiating proceee aimed at overaoming all the
differenoee  between them over Gibralter and at promoting co-operation On
a mutually benefioial  basis on eaonomic,  cultural, tourietia,  aviation,
military and environmental mattera. Both eidee acaept that the fesuee  of
eovereignty  will be dieaussed  in that process. The British Government
will fully maintain itle  oommitment to honour the wishes of the people Of
Gibraltar aa set out in the preamble of the 1969 Constitution”)

takes note that the Minister8  for Foreign Affairs met in Madrid on 5 and
6 October 1985 and in London on 13 and 14 January 1997 ae  part of this
proaese,  and urgee both Governments to continue these negotiations with the
objeot of reaahing  a definitive solution  to the problem of Gibraltar in the
light of relevant resolutions of the General Assembly and in the spirit of the
Charter of the United Nations.

DRAFT OONSENSUS  II

guestion  o f  Pitcairn

The General Assembly, having examined the relevant chapter of the report
of the Speaisl  Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples, 39/ reaffirm8  the inalienable right of the people of Pitcairr:  to
self-determination in conformity with the Declaration on the Granting of
Independenae to Colonial Countries and Peoplee. The Aesembly further
reaffirms the responsibility of the administering Power to promote the
economic and social development of the Territory. The Assembly urges the
adminietering  Power to continue to respect the very individual life-style that
the people of the Territory have chosen and to preserveI  promote and  protect
i t . The Aecsmbly  requests the Special Committee to continue to examine the
question at its next session and to report thereon to the Assembly at ite
forty-third soseion.

* * *

38/ A/34/732, annex.

39/ A/42/23 (Part VI) and Corr.1,  chap. IX .

/ . . .


