







































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Diatr  *
GENERAL

A/42/738
17 November 1987

ORIGINAL; ENGLISH

Forty-kzecand  0esf3ion
Agenda  Stem 49

CESSATION OF ALL NUCLEAH-TEST  G-XPLOSIONS

Report of the Firat  Committee

Rappor  teur I' Mr. Kazimier  z TOMASZEWSKI  (Poland)

I. INTRODIJCI’ION

1, The  item entitled "Cecfiation  of al.1 nuciear-teat explosionsr report  of  the
Conference on Disarmament" was included in the provisional agenda  of the
fort;.-second session  in accordance with General. Assembly recolutisn 41/46  A of
3 December 1986.

2 . At its 3rd plenary meetj  ng , on 1.8 September 1987, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 1 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
qoneraJ  debate on the disarmament items allocated to tt, namely, items 48 to 69,
fol  lowed by statements on speci fit disarmament agenda items and cant inuat ion of the
general debate, as necessary. The de 1 ibera tions on those items took place between
the 3rd and the 31st meetingfi, from 12 October to 3 November (see A/C.l/42/PV.  3-31).

4 . In connection with item 49, the First Committee had before it the following
documents :

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament-, &/

L/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-second Session,
slplement No. 27 (A/42/27).

-

87-29714 0558P  (E) / . . .



A/42/738
English
Page 2

(b) htter  dated 19 December 1986 from the Permanent Representatives of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/42/59-5/18534) ;

(c) Letter dated 15 January 1987 from the Permanent Representative of
Nicaragua to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/89);

(d) Letter dated 19 January 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/93-S/18620);

(e) Letter dated 17 February I.987 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union  of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/132-S/18701)r

(f) Letter dated 5 March 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the German
Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the StXKetaKy-Gen@ral
(A/42/167-S/18741);

(g) Letter dated 12 March 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Mongolia
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/174);

(h) Letter dated 30 March 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the concluding documents of the regular
session of the Committee of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of t'"  ,? States parties to
the Warsaw Treaty of Friendship, Co-operation and Mutual Assist,?nce,  held in Moscow
on 24 and 25 March 1987 (A/42/189-S/18768);

(i) Letter dated 29 May 1987 from  the Permanent Representative of the German
Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, ,
transmitting the text of the communiqd and documents adopted at the session of the
Po3itioal.  Consultative Committee of the States parties to the Warsaw Treaty on
Friendship, Cooperation and Mutual Assistance, held at Berlin on 28 and
29 May 1987 (A/42/313-S/18888);

(j) Letter dated 28 May 1987 from the representatives of Argentina, Greece,
India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of T!mzania to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the joint statement
dated 22 May 1987 of the President of Argentina, the Prime Minister of Greece, the
Prime Minister of India, the President of Mexico, the Prime Minister of Sweden and
the First President of the United Republic of Tanzania (A/42/319-S/18894);

(k) Letter dated 12 June 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/346-5/18922);

(1) Letter dated 20 July 1987 fKGn the Chargd d’affaires  a.i.  of the
Permanent Mission of Samoa to the United Nations addressed to the

/ l .*



A/42/738
Engl iah
Page 3

Secretary-General, tranmnitt ing the text of the  final communigd of the  eaghteenth
South Pacific Forum, held at Api& on 29 and 30 May 1987 (A/42/417!  I

(m) Note verbale  dated 14 August  1987 from the  Permanent Miutaion  of the  Union
of SovLet  Social ilrt Republic8 to the  United Ncu  tione  addreeeed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/509) t

(n) Letter dated 14 September 1987 from  th6 Permanent Repreeehtative  of
Rur!anis  to the United Nations  addreseed to the  Secretary-General (A/42/562) I

(0) Letter dated  5 Gctober  1987 from the  Read of the  Delegation of the Union
of Soviet  Socialiet Republic6 to the forty-second eeeeion of the  Genaral Aerenbly
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/621-S/19180)  1

(p) Letter dated 9 October 1987 from the Permanent  Repreaentativer  of
Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania ta the
United Nations addressed  to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the
join!, statement issued  on 7 October  1987 by the Freeident  of Argentina, the Prime
Minieter  of Greece, the Prime Minieter  of India, the  Preeident  of MexL:or  the Prime
Minister  of Sweden and the  Fir&  Prerident of tha United Republic of Tanzania
(A/42/652-8/19201) 1

(9) Letter dated 23 October 1987 frun  the Permanent Repreeentative  of
Zirrbabwe  to the United Nations addreeeed to the Secretary-General, transmitting  a
copy of. the  final communigud  of the  Meet ing of the  Ministers Rot Foreign Affair8
and Reads of Delegation of the Movement of ??n-Aligned  Countriee  to the
forty-second seseion of the  General Aeeembly , held in New York from  S to
7 October 1907 (A/42/661),

(r) Letter dated 2 November 1987 from the Permanent Representattve  of
Czechoslovakia to the Unj ted Net  ione addreeeed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the communique and the document entitled Ybwarde  Increasing the
Ef fectivenees of the  Conference on Disarmament in Geneva”  issued at the rreesion  of
the Committee of the  Minietere  for Foreign Affairs of the  State8  members of the
Warsaw Treaty, held at Prague on 28 and 29 October 1987 (A/42/708 and Corr.1)  1

(a) Note verbale  dated 18 September 1987 from  the Permanent Representative of
the Byelorussian  Soviet Socialiet Republic to the United Natlone addreered to the
Secre tary-Genera l  (A/C.1/42/2).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PRO#)SALS

A. Draft resolution A/C. 1/42/L.  29

5. On 27 October 1987, Finland, Indonesia, Iteland, Kenya, Mexico, Pakistan,
Peru,  Sr i  hnka, Sweden,  Venezuela-and Yugoelavia eubmitted a  draft  resolution,
enti t led “Cessation of al l  nuclear-test  explosions” (A/C. l/ 42/L. 29) , which was
later  also eponeored  by  Rcanania  a n d  Uruquay. The draft relrolution  was  introduced
by the representative of Mexico at the 29th meeting, on 2 Novmber.

/ . . .



W42/738
Engliah
Page 4

6. At ii.- 43rd meeting, on 13 November, the Canmit tee adopted draf t  resolut ion
A/C.1/42/L.29 by a recorded vote of 1.16 to 3, with 14 abstentiona (see parn.  9,
draf t  reSOlutioR  A )  . The voting WEIS  QB  foll~e8

In favour, Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Auet.ralia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Rol  ivia,  Botswana, Brunei  Dntue&?alam,  Bulgaria, Burkina l?aBor
Burma, Burundi, Byelorueaian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Central  African Republic, Chile, Colombia, Comoros,  Corlgo, Coeta
Rica, C&e  d’fvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Ceechoslovakia,  Democratic
Yemen,  Denmark,’ Dj ibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Equatorial  Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Guyana, Hondurae,  Hungary, lceland, India, Indonesic,  Iran
(Islamic Republic of) ,  Iraq,  Ireland,  Jamaioa,  Jordan ,  K e n y a ,
Kuwait, LL\O People’s Democratic Repubtlic,  Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madadaacar,  Malawi, Mslayeia,  hIdives,
Ma1  i, Mel ta, Mexico, Mongol ia, MnroaCo,  Mozambique, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Qnan,  Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Phl.lippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal ,  Hingspore,  Somalia,  Sr  i
Lanka, Sudan, Swaz Sland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, The i land,
lbgo,  Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist  Republic,  Union of Soviet Socialist  Rcpublicc;, United
Arab ESniretes,  United Repubiic  of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet  Nam, Yemen, Yugoelavia,  Zaire, Zimbabwe.

Fre  rice  , United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Ahsta initqt &19ium, Brazil, Canada, China, Germany, Fe.deral  Repub’,ic  of,
Israel , Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain,
Turkey, Zambia.

B. Draft resolution A&.1/42/L.  38

7. On 27 October 1987, Indonesia, Mexico, PeruA  Sri Lanka,  Venezuela and
Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution enti;Gd  “Ceehation of all nuclcer-teat
explosions” (WC. 1/42/L.38) . The draft  resolution wee introduced by the
reprefientetive of Mexico at the 29th meeting, on  2 Novct,nber.

8. At its 43rd meeting on, 13 November, tho Conunittee  adopted draf t  resolut ion
A/C.l/42/L.  38  by  Al recorded vote  of  101  to  3, witi, 24  abstentions (see  para.  9,
draft resolution El. z/ The vot ing was  as  folI.ows:

21 Subsequent1 y, the delegation of Hungary indicated that i t  had intended to
vote  i n  favour nC the draft  resol.ution.

/ . . .



A/42/738
English
Page Ii

Zn favour 8 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Dhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Bramil,
Brunei Daruaaalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,  Burma,  Burundi,
Byelorueeian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chile, Colombia, Comoroe, Congo, Coeta Rica, C8tO
d@Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprue, Ceechoelovakia,  Democratic Yemen,
Dj ibouti, Daminican  Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, German
Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bieeau,
Guyana, Hondurar, I n d i a ,  Indo;leeia,  I r a n  (Ielarnic  Regublic  Of),
Iraq, Israel, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’6
Democratic Republ io , Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagaecar,  Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,  Me%ico,  Mongolia,
Morocao,  Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, aRan, Pakistan,
Panama, Peru, Philippinea,  Poland, Qatar, mania,  Rwanda, Isaudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Srt  Lanka, Sudan, Swsziland,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union Of
Sov ie t  Soc ia l i s t  Republioe, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Veneauela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yuqoelavia,
Zaire, Zimbabwe.

aAgainet France, United Kingdrim of Great Brttain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining: Auetralia,  Auetria,  Bahamas,  B e l g i u m , Canada, Denmark , Equator ia 1
Guinea, Finland, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain,  Sweden, Turkey, Zambia.

I I I . RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

9. The First Comnittee  recommends to the Gtneral  Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution81

Cesration  of  all  nuclear-test  explosions

A

The General Aeaenbly,

Bearing in mind that the complete cessation of nuclear-wespon tests,
which has been examined for more than thirty ycare and on which the General
Assembly has adopted more than f ift.y resolutions, Jo a  basic  object ive  of the
United Nations in the sphere of disarmament, to the attainment of  which it has
repeatedly assigned the highest  priority,

/ . . .



-L..__-.

A/42/738
English
Page 6

Stressinq that on eight different occasions it ha8 condemned such tests
in the strongest terms and that , since 1974, it had stated its conviction that
the continuance of nuclear-weapon testing will intensify the arms racer thus
inoreasing the danger of nuclear war0

Recall inq that the Secretary-General, ad&easing  a plenary meeting of the
General Assembly on 12 December 1984, A/ after appealing for a renewed effort
towards a comprehensive test-ban treaty , emph  asized  that no single
multilateral agreement could have a greater effect on limiting the further
refinement of nuclear weapons and that a comprehensive test-ban treaty is the
litmus test of the real willingness to pursue nuclear disarmament,

Takins into account that the three nuclear-weapon States that act aa
dopsitaries  of the 1963 Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the
Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water I/ undertook in article I of that
Tl:eaty to conclude a treaty resulting in the permanent banning of all
nuclear-test  explosions, including all those explosions underground, and that
such an undertaking was reiterated in 1968 in the preamble to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, 5/ article VI of which further
embdlies  their solemn and legally binding cormnitment  to take effective
measures relating to cessation of the nuclear-arms race at an early date and
to nuclear disarmament,

Bearing in mind that the same three nuclear-weapon States, in the report
they eubnitted on 30 July i980  to the Conxnittee  on Disarmament after four
years of trilateral negotiations, stated, inter alia, that they were “mindful
of the great  value for all mankind that the prohibition of all nuclear-weapon
test e%plOsiOne in all environments will have” as well as nconscious of the
important responsibility placed upon them to find solutions to the remaining
problems”, adding furthermore that they were “determined to exert their best
efforts and necessary will and persistence to bring the negotiations tC an
early and successful conclusion”, v

t hNoting that e Third Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in its Final Declaration I/ adopted

1/ See Official Records of the General Assembly, Thirty-ninth Session,
Plenary Metinqs,  97th meeting, para.  302.

!I United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 480, No. 6964, p. 43.

51 Resolution 2373 (XXII), annex.

Y CD/139/Appendix  II/Vol.  II, document CD/130.

11 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation
of Nuclear Weapons, Final Document, Part I (NPT/CONF.I11/64/1)  (Geneva, 1985),
annex I.

/ . . .



n/42/738
Englioh
Page 7

on 21 September  1985, callod on the nuclear-woepon  Stateo parties to  the
Treaty to reriumo  trilateral negotiations in 1985 and on all the nuolsar-weapon
States to wrcicipate in the urgent negotiation and COnOlUsiOn  Of 8
comptehoneive  nuclear-test-ban treaty , as a metter of the highest pr  iocity, in
the Oonfereme  on Disarmament,

Reeallinq that  the leadc+rA  of the aix countriee  associated irk the
f ive-continent peace and disarmament initiative affirmed in the Mexico
Declaration, 8J adopted on 7 August 1986, that they *remain aonvinced  that no
issue is more urgent and crucial today than bringing to an end 011  nuclear
teste’8, adding that “both the qualitative and the quantitative development of
nuclear weapons exacerbate the erme race , and  both would tie inhibited by the
complete abolition of nuclear weapons testing”,

Taking note with satisfaction of the progress made by the Ad WC 6rOUg  Of
Scientific Experts in the Conference on 1)isarmcrment  on the seismiu
verification of a comprehensive teat ban, 2/

Bearing in mind that  the multilateral negotiation of fduch  u treaty in the
mnference on Disarmament must aover  all the various interrelated problems
that it will be necessary to solve in order that the Conferenoe  may transmit a
canplete  draft treaty to the General Assembly,

1. siterates  once again its grave concern that nuclear-weapon teeting
continues unabated, against the wishes of tho overwhelming majority of Member
S tatee;

2. Reaffirms its conviction that a treaty to achieve  the prohibition of
all nuclea=t explosions by 03.1  .States  for all time is a matter of the
highest priority1

3. Reaffirms al.80 its cc,rviction  that suoh a treaty would conetitute  a
contribution of the utmost importance to the ceeeation  of the nualear-arm8
race1

4, Urges once more the three depositary Powors OC the Treaty Banning
Nuclear Weapon Testo in the Atmosphere, in (Xlter  spaoe  and Under  Water and of
the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in particular the
Union of Soviet .Socialist  Republics and the Unit& Statoe of America, to abide
strictly by their undertakings to seek to achieve the  early discontinuance  of
all test explosions of nuclear weapons for all time and to expeclite
negotiations to this end, k-ping  the Conference on Disarmament regularly
informed of their negotiationsr

!!I A/41/510-S/18277, annex I.

21 See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-second Seseion,
mlement  No. 27 (A/42/27) , par a. 31.. -

/ . . .



A/42/730
English
Page 8

5 . Appeals  to all States members of the Conference on Disarmament, in
particular to the three depositary &were  of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon
Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and Under Water and of the Treaty on
the Won-Proliferation of Nuclear Wapans, to prQlaote  the establishment by the
Conference at the heginning  of its 1988 session of an ad hoc committee with
the objective of carrying out the multilateral negotiation of Q treaty on the
canplete cessation of- nuclear-test explosions; -

6. Fm?cum?iends  to the Confere:ence  on Disarmament
cawnittee  should comprise two working groups dealing,
following interrelated questions: contents and scope
compliance and vedfication;  __

that such an ad hoc
respectively, with the
of the treaty, and

7 . Calls upon the States depositaries of the Treaty Banning Nuclear
Wsapun  Tests  in the Atuwsphere,  in Chter  Space and Under Water and the Treaty
on the Won-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapm, by virtue of their special
responsibilities under those two Treaties and as a provisional measurer to
bring to a halt without delay all nuclear-test explosions, either thraugh a
trilaterally agreed moratorium or through tiree unilateral moratoria, which
should include appropriate means of verification;

8. Decides  to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-third
session the item entitled “Cessation of all nuclear-test explosions”.

B

The tzeneral  A8seHblY,

Pearina  in mind the deterndnstion,  proclaimed since 1963 in the Treaty
Banning Nuclear mapon  I&sts  in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under
Water, 10/  to seek to achieve the discontinuance of all test explosions of
nuclear weapons  for all time and to continue negotiations to this end, 1

Bearing  in mind alSO  that in 1968 the Treaty on the ““on-Proliferation of
Nuclear mapons  lJ/  recalled such determinition  and included  in its article VI
an undertaking by each of its parties ,to pursue negotiations in good faith on
effective measures relating to the cessation of the nuclear-arms race at an
early date,

Recalling that in its resolution 2028 (XX) of 19 Wovember 1965, adopted
unanimously, it had stressed that one of the basic principles on which the
treaty to prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons should be bssed  was
that such treaty, which was then to bs negotiated, should embody an acceptable
balance of mutual responsibilities and obligations of the nuclear and
non-nuclear &wets#

lo/ United  Nations, Treaty  Series, vol. 480, No. 6964, p. 43.

ll/  Resolutionz  2373 (XXII) I annex.
/ . . .



A/42/738
English
Page 9

kcallinq  also that the Third Review ibnference of the Parties to the
Treaty on the Ron-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in its Final
Declaration 12/  adopted by consensus on 21 Septetier 1985, expressed its deep
regret that acomprehensive multilateral nuclear-test-ban treaty had not been
concluded so far and call&  for the urgent negotiation and conclusion of such
a treaty as a matter of the highest priority,

Noting that article II of the Treaty Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the
Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under Water provides a procedure for the
consideration and eventual. adoption of amendments to the Treaty by a
conf  ecence of its parties,

1 . Recommends that the rwn-nuclear-weapon  States parties to the Treaty
Banning Nuclear Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in Outer Space and under  Water
formally submit an amendment proposal to the depositary Governments with a
view to convening a conference at the earliest possible date to consider
amendments to the Treaty that would convert it into a comprehensive
nuclear-test-ban treaty;

2 . Requests that the States parties to the Treaty Banning Nuclear
Weapon Tests in the Atmosphere, in titer  Space and under water report to the
General Assembly at its’ forty-third sessicn  on the progress of their efforts.

12/  Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation-
of Nuclear Weapons, Final Documentr Part I O?PT/CONF.IZP/~I/I)  (Geneva, 19851 ,
annex I.


