







































General Assembly Distr.GENERAL

A/42/745
19 November 1987

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-second session
Agenda item 56

PREVENTION OF AN ARMS RACE IN OUTER SPACE

Report of the First Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Kazimietz  TOMASZEWSKI  (Poland)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled "Prevention of an arms race in outer space: report of the
Conference on Disarmament" was included in the provisional agenda of the
forty-second session in accordance with General Assembly resolution 41/53 of
3 December 1986.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1987, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 1 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely, items 48 to 69,
followed by statements on specific disarmament agenda items and a continuation Of
the general debate, as necessary. The deliberations on those items took place
between the 3rd and the 31st meetings, from 12 October to 3 November (see
A/C.1/42/PV.3-31).

4. In connection with item 56, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament; A/

L/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-second Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/42/27).

87-30096 0572P (E)

'9

/ . . .



A/42/745
English
Page 2

(b) Letter dated 19 December 1986 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics addressed to the Secretary-General
( A / 4 2 / 5 9 - S / 1 8 5 3 4 )  ;

(c) Letter dated 19 January 1987 from the Permanent Represent&tive  of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/93-S/18620);

(d) Letter dated 17 February 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/132-S/18791);

(e) Letter dated 5 March 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the German
Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/42/167-5/18741)  ;

(f) Letter dated 15 April 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-Generai (A/42/231+/18816);

(g)  Letter dated 28 May 1987 from the representatives of Argentina, Greece,
India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General , transmitting the text of the joint statement
dated 22 May 1987 of the President of Argentina, the Prime Minister of Greece, the
Prime Minister of India , the President of Mexico* the Prime Minister of Sweden and
the First President of the United Republic of Tanzania (A/42/319-5/18894);

th) Letter dated 12 June 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/346-S/18922);

(i) Letter dated 15 July 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Malaysia ’
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of
the final statement of the fifth session of the InterAction  Council, held at Ruala
Lumpur from 19 to 21 April 1987 (A/42/407) ;

(j) Letter dated 9 October 1987 from the Permanent Representatives of
Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the
joint statement issued on 7 October 1987 by the President of Argentina, the Prime
Minister of Greece, the Prime Minister of India, the President of Mexico, the Prime
Minister of Sweden and the First President of the United Republic of Tanzania
(A/42/652-S/19201)  ;

(k)  Letter dated 23 October 1987 from the Permanent Representative of
Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
final communiqui of the Meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegation of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to the forty-second session of
the General Assembly, held in New York from 5 to 7 October 1987 (A/421681)  ;

/ .*.



A/42/745
l%t#iSh
Page 3

(1)  Letter dated 2 UOvember  1987  from the Permanent Representative Of
Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addtessed ta the Secretary-General,
transmitting the communiqui and the document entitled “Towards Increasing the
Effectiveness of the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva” , issued at the session of
the Committee of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the States members of the
Warsaw Treaty, held at Prague on 28 and 29 October 1987 (A/42/708 and Corr.1);

(III)  Letter dated 5 November 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the
Upion of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed t0  the
Secretary-General (A/42/715-5/19252 and Corr.1).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.1/42/L.11

5. On 22 October 1987, Belqium,  Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Italy, Japan,  the Netherlands, Norway, S,pain, Turkey and the United Kingdom  of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland submitted a draft te!salution  entitled
“Prevention of an arms race in outer space” (A/C.1/42/L.11).  The draft resolution
was introduced by the representative of France at the 35th meeting, on 6 November,
and read as followsr

“The General Assembly,

“Recalling its relevant resolutions and the applicable provisions of the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the general Assembly,

“I&cog&zing  the common interest of all mankind in the exploration and
use of outer space for peaceful purposes,

“Reaffirming that the exploration and use of outer Space,  including the
Maan  and other celestial bodies, shall be carried out for the benefit and in
the interest of all countries, irrespective of their degree of economic or
scientific development, and shall be the province of all mankind,

*Recalling  that the States parties to the Treaty on Principles Governing
the Activities of States in the Exploration and use of Outer Space, including
the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, 1/  have undertaken, in article 11X,  to
carry On activities in the exploration and use of outer space, including the
Moon and other celestial bodies, in accordance with international law and the
Chatter of the United Nations, in the interest of maintaining international
peace and security and promoting international co-operation and understanding,

3 Resolution 2222 (XXI),  annex.

/ . . .



A/42/745
English
Page 4

“Emphasizi~  aleo the importance of art.Ccle  IV of the Treaty on
Principle8 Governing the Activities of Statea  in the Exploration and Use of
Outer Space, including the Moon and other Celeetial Bodies, which etipulatee
that States  partiee  to the Treaty undertake not to place in orbit around the
Earth any object6  carrying nuclear weapons or any other kinds of weapons of
ma88  d e s t r u c t i o n ,  inetall  such w e a p o n s  o n  celeetial  b o d i e s ,  o r  s t a t i o n  such
weapona  in outer space in any other manner,

“Reaffirming the importance of rerpect  for existing disarmament
agreementa  r e l a t i n g  t o  o u t e r  apace  a n d ,  i n  g e n e r a l ,  f o r  t h e  e x i s t i n g  l e g a l
rbqime  r e l a t i n g  t o  t h e  u s e  o f  o u t e r  space,

“Bearinq  Ln  mind that outer space haa been used for national security
a c t i v i t i e s  f o r  30xrs,

“Aware of the fundamental contribution that space  activities can make to
the eczc  and social  progrees  of mankind, to the maintenance of
‘.nternational  peace and security and to the implementation of aqreements on
arma c o n t r o l ,

“Recognizing  the importance of the bilateral negotiations being conducted
by the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on
a complex of questiona concerning epace  and nuclear arms with the declared
objective of formulating effective agreements aimed, i n t e r  alia,  a t  p r e v e n t i n g
an arms race in outer apace,

“Convinced of the importance of the role of the Conference on tisarmament
in regard to the prevention of an arme race in outer apacel

“Notiqy  Lhe  work undertaken to date by the Conference on Diaarmamant  and
by its Ad Hoc Committee to examine and to identify iesuea  relevant to the
prevention of an arme race in outer apace,  and convinced that this
multilateral process  and the bilateral negotiations are complementary,

” 1 . Recall8 t h e  o b l i g a t i o n  o f  a l l  States  t o  r e f r a i n  f r o m  t h e  t h r e a t  o r
uue of force fn their apace activities  in accordnnce  with the Charter of 4 he
United Nationet

n2. Expresses its satisfaction regarding the aqreement reached in 1987
at the Conference on Disarmament on the re-eatabliehment  of an a4 hoc
committee on the specific topic of the prevention of an arms race in outer
space t

II
3. Notes that the work accomplished in 1987 by the Ad Hoc Committer?  of

the Conference on Disarmament has contributed to a better understanding of a
certain number of problem8  and to a cle er p e r c e p t i o n  o f  t h e  various
posi tionsl

“4. C o n s i d e r s  t h a t  t h e  e x a m i n a t i o n  a n d  i d e n t i f i c a t i o n  o f  i s s u e s  r e l e v a n t
to the prevention of an arms race in outer apace  needs  to be advanced and

/ . . .



~/42/745
Enqli Rh
Paqe  5

furi.her-  developed, with a view to reaching a Level of aqreement which wo111d
permit joint definition of the scope and dlpecific  objectives of the
multilateral efforts to prevent an arms race in outer apacer

“5. Ctinrifderl  that no effort should 11e  sparet  to ensure that the
subntantive  work on the aqenda item entitled “Prevention of an arma  race in
outer Bpace” continues during the 1988 session af the Conference on
Diaarmamenti

“6. Recommenda that the Conference on Disarmament, at its ;988  session
re-establish the Ad Hoc Committee on the prevention of an arms rar;e in Outer- -
space with an adequate mandate)

” 7 . Exprense6 the hope that t.he  proqress achieved in rc?LatSon  to
tntermedinte-range nuclear weapons will  Lead the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics  and the United States  of America to intensify their bilateral
neqotiationa  BO ae  to arrive at effective and verifiable agreementa designed
to effect major reductions in their nuclear weapona,  Rtrengthcn  international
c,tahiLity  and prevent an arms race in outer epacel

” 8 . Streusee  the need to prevent the erosion of the trestles  in force
regarding this matter!

“9. Requeete the Conference on Disarmament to report on the work it has
devoted to this queetion  to the General Asae..!hLy  at its forty-third session!

“LO. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to t;le Conference on
Disarmament all the document6  relating to the considt+ration  of this subject by
the  General Assembly at its  forty-second seasion

“11.  Decides to include in the provisional agenda of itfr forty-third- -
session  the item entitled ‘Prevention  of an arms race in outer space’.”

6. At the request of the eponeora , no action was tarten  on draft resolution
A/C. L/42/L. 11.

B. Draft resolution A/C. 1/42/L.14

7. On 23 October, Rulgarfa, the Byelorussian  Soviet SociaList  Republic,
Czechoslovakia, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Poland, the
Ukrainian  Soviet Socialiet  Republic and the Union of Soviet Sociallat  RepubLi(:s
submitted a draft resolution entitled “Prevention of an arm8  race in outer sp,ze”
(A/C.1/42/L.14),  which read as follows:

“The Genera 1 Assembly,

“Recalling its resolutions 36/97  C and 36/99  of 9 December 1981,  as well
as resolutions 37/83  of 9 December 1982, 37/99  D of 13 December 1982, 38/70  of
Lci  December 1983, 39/59  of 12 December 1984, 40/87  of 12 December 1985 and
41/53  of ‘3  December 1986,

/ . . .



A/42/745
English
Page 6

nRacallinq  the provisions of articies  XII and IV of the Treaty on
Prip:iples  Governing the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use  of
Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, 2/ as well as
paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly, 4J

‘Reaffirminq  that the exploration and tme  of outer space, including the
Moon and othnr celestial bodies, shall be carried out for the benefit and in
the interest of all countries, irrespective of their degree of economic or
scientific development, and shall be thd province of all mankind,

“Considering that there is a need to unite the efforts of tha  whole
international community and to develop and intensify comprehensive
co-operation for the peaceful exploitation of outer space, which would be
facilitated by the establishment of a World Space Organization,

“Noting the great significance of confidence-building measures relating
to the space activities cf States for the development of international
co-operation in the peaceful exploitation of outer space and the  strengthening
o f  i n t e r n a t i o n a l  s e c u r i t y ,

“Convinced that specific measures ace needed for the preventfon of a n
arms race in outer space and, in the first instance, for the banning 01:
offensive space weapons,

“Convinced also that a strengthening of the mutual and complementary
relationship between multilateral efforts to prevent an Lrrns  race in outer
space and the bilateral negotiations on nuclear and space weapons between the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and tho United States of America could
make a significant contribution to such an objective, in accordance with
paraqraphs 27 and 114 of the Final Document  of the Tenth Special 3ePsion of
the General Assembly,

“Desiring that the negotiations betwcan the Union of Soviet  Socialist
Rqx~blics  and the United States of America should Lead as soon  as possible to
conc:r:ete  results regarding the prevention of an arms race in outer Rpace and
the cessation of the arms race on Earth,

“Empha:;txine  t h e  g r e a t  s i g n i f i c a n c e  fl,r  the  p r e v e n t i o n  o f  a n  arms  r a c e  i?
outer space of the ABM Treaty of 1972,

“Acknowledginq  t h e  i m p o r t a n c e  o f  e n s u r i n g  s t r i c t  v e r i f i c a t i o n  o f  t h e
observance of obligations with respect to the prevention of an arms race in
outer space, and of creating for these pur$oees  a system of international
verification to preserve peace in outer cpaceti

21 I b i d ,

Y Resolution  S - 1 0 / 2 .

/ . . .



~/42/74’i
Enqliah
Paqe  7

“Convinced that tha opread  of the arm3  race to outer space wound entail,
among other negative consequences, the waete  of enormous resources acutely
needed for development purposea, including the proviaian  of tnnqible  material
aasietance  to developing countries,

“Taking note of the conclusion  in the report of the Conference on
Diaarmament  that the Ad Hoc Committee 011  the prevention of an arm8  race in
outer space in the course of ite 1987 eesefon  advanced and developed further
the examination and identification of various  insues relevant to tile
prevention of an arms race in outer apace, z/

“1. Recall5 the obligation of all State8 to refrain from the threat or
use of force in their space activities)

“2. Reaffirm5 that general and complete disarmament under effective
international control warrant5 that outer space  shall  be ueed exclusively for
peaceful purposes and that it shall not become an arena for an arms race)

“3. Emphaaizes  that concrete measures with appropriate and effective
provision5 for verification to prevent an arms race in outer space should be
adopted by the international communityI

“4. Call5  upon all States, especially those with major ap,lce
capabilities, to comply strictly with existing legal restrictions, both
bilateral and multilateral, aimed at preventing an arm5 race in outer space,
in the firet  instance the ABM Treaty of 19721

“5. Emphaeizee  the urqent need for the prohibition, haltinq of the
development and destruction of anti-satellite weapons, at,J  for the prohit ition
of the deployment of weapon5 in outer space1

“6. Calls upon all State0 engagea  in space activities to facilitate the
development and strengthening of an international inspection system for the
maintenance of peace in outer 5pace, whose functions would include the
inspestion  of every launch of apace objecte,  and to transmit to
representatives of the inspectorate in yood time the necessary information
about such launches, including their location, type of Launch vehirle, general
information about the  object Launched and relevant date58

“7. Requeste  the Secretary-General to Anvite States Member5 that have
not yet done RO  to submit their views on the possibility of developing
international co-operation for the prevention of an arms race in outer space
and for the peaceful exploitation of outer Rpace, includi.nq  the establishment
Of a World Spat ‘3 Orqanizntion  which would become an important component part

T/ Official Records of the General #ssembly,  Forty-second Session,---.11- .--- -
-.  SIIp&lemc?nt. No. 27 11\142/27),  sert. 111-E, pata. 82.-.

/ . . .



A/42/745
English
Paqe 8

Of the machinery for internationalizing the effort8 of States to ensure
security and co-operation and would fulfil the function8 both of verifying the
preVentiOn  of a space arms race and of co-ordinatinq the peaceful exploitation
of outer space , and to report to the General Assembly at ite forty-third
sesaionl

“8. Notes that the study on disarmament problems relating to outer space
and the consequences of extending the arms race into outer apace, which was
requested by the General Assembly  in resolution 41/53,  has been prepared by
the United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research, and that following a
final meeting of the group of experts in September 1987, a report on the work
on tFdt study was completed and prepared for publication in the autumn of 1987)

“9. Reiterates that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, has the primary role in the
negotiation  oE a multilateral agreement or aqreemente, as appropriate, on the
prevention of an arms race in outer space in all its aspectar

“10. Requests  the Conference on Disarmament to re-establish an ad hoc
committee at the beginning of its 1988 session in order to initiate without
delay negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement or agreements, as
appropriate, on the prevention of an arms race in outer space in all its
aspects 1

“11. Requests the Corrference on Disarmament to report on its
consideration of this subject to the General Assembly at its forty-third
session:

“12. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all documents relating to the consideration of this subject kJ  the
General Assembly at its forty-second session#

“13.  Decides to include in the provisional  agenda of its forty-third
session the item entitled ‘Prevention of an arms race in outer spnce’.”

8. At the request of the sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolution
A/C. 1/42/L. 14.

c. Draft resolution A/C.1/42/L.20

9. On 26 October, China submitted a draft resolution entitled “Prevention of an
arms race in outer 83 (A/C.1/42/L.20),  which read a8 followsr

“The General Assembly,

“Reaffirming that the peaceful exploration and use of outer space,
including the Moon and other celestial bodies, a8 a common aspiration of all
countries in the world, shall be carried out for the benefit and in the
l~tcrest of all countries, and shall be the province of all mankind,



A/42/745
Rnq  1 i ah
Paqo  9

“Recalling.  the principles and objective6 of the 1967 Treaty on PrinciPlefl
Governinq the Activitiee  of States  in the Exploration and Use  of Outer Spac:e,
includinq  the Moon and Other Celestial Rodiea,  P,/  and in particular
articles III and IV thereof,

“Further recalling paragraph 80 of the Final Document of tho Tenth
Special Session of the General Assembly  7J  and ita  relevant reflolutions  since
1981,

“Especially  bearing in mind its  renolution  4l/53  of 3 December 1986,

“Convinced that the development of xter  space weapon eyRt&?rnn  entnl1R a
qualitrtive  escalation of the already serious arms race and further nqyravat.cn
the war Id situation,

m~ully  taking note of the urgont demcind  of the international (:ommunitY
that immediate and effective measures be taken to prevent an arm8 race in
outer space,

“Affirmin  the need to consolidate and reinforce the legal  rhgime
applicable to outer space and recognizing  that thie  legal rhqime,  an such, 1:;
not sufficient to guarantee the prevention of &n  arms race in outer ~pnce,

“Also recognizinq  that, with a view to achieving the qoal  of preventin<
an arm8  race in outer space, meaauree may be coneidered  in the following
aspects, simultaneously or eeparately: completely prohibit all types of olltc?r
space weapon systems, including anti-missile weapons  and ant-i-sate1  Lite
weapons, so aa  to realize  the ‘non-weaponization’ o f  o u t e r  epacet  p r o h i b i t  thp
uEIe  or threat of force and any other hostile actihna  or threat of such actions
in outer space, against. outev apace from the Earth or fr6m  outer ~pacr  WainRt-
the Earth,

“l3elievinq  that the two State8  with the largest outer apace copabili  tif*n
bear a special responsibility for the prevention of an armo race in ollter
space,

“‘Taking  note 01  the consideration of the queotion  by the ConfcrPncr  on
Disarmament, S/

“Welcomina
of an arms race
1987 cession,

--

51 Resolution

1/ Resolution

the re-eet.ablishment  of the Ad Hoc Committee on t he pr csvent  I on-_I
in outer space by the Conference on Disarmament <luriW  it:H

2222  (XXI ) ,  anvex.

s-10/2.

a/ Official Recorda  of the General Assembly, Forty-second SenRion.-  ’
Supplement No. 27 (A/42/27), sect. 1II.E.

/ . . .



A/42/745
English
Page 10

“Noting  with regret that the Ad Hoc Committee so far has not been able to
start negotiations on an international agreement for the prevention of an arms
race in outer spacer

“1. Calls upon all States, especially those with major outer space
capabilities, to contribute actively to the realisation of the objective of
the peaceful use of outer space and to adopt prompt and effective measures to
prevent an arms race in outer space;

“2. Requests the Confeience  on Disarmament, the single multiEatera1
disarmament negotiating body, to speed up the consideration of the question of
the prevention of an arms race in outer space in all its aspects as a matter
of priority and urgency, taking into account all relevant draft resolutions
and proposals;

“3. Requests the Conference-on Disarmament to re-establish immediately
an Ad Hoc Committee on the prevention of an arms race in outer space with an
adequate mandate at the outset of its 1988 session, with a view to initiating
negotiations for concluding an international agreement or agreetients,  as
appropriate, on the prohibition and destruction of all outer space weapon
systems and on the prohibition of the use of force or hostile actions in, to
or from outer space;

“4. Urges the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States
of America, the two major space Powers, to refrain from developing, testing
and deploying outer space weapons, to conduct serious bilateral negotiations
on the prevention of an arms race in outer space and to keep the Conference on
Disarmament properly informed of the progress of these negatiationst

“5. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all the documents relating to the consideration of this item by
the General Assembly at its forty-second session;

“6. Requests the Conference on Disarmament to submit a report on its
consideration of this subject to the General Assembly at its forty-third
session;

“7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda  of its forty-third
session the item entitled ‘Prevention of an arms race in outer space’.”

10. At the request of the sponsor , no action was taken on draft resolution
h/‘C.1/42/L.20.

D. Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L,43  and Rev.1

11. On 27 October, Algeria, Arqentina, Bangladesh, Rrazil,  Cameroon, Rgypt,
Ethiopia, India, Xndonesia, Jordan, Mexico, Morocco, Uigeria,  Pakistan, Romania&
Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Sweden, Uruquay,  Venezuela, Yugoslavia and Zimbabwe submitted
a draft resolution entitled ‘Prevention of an arms r,a$e  in outer space”

/ ..*



A/42/745
English
Page 11

(A,‘C.1/42/L.43). The draft resolution was introduced by the representative Of
Egypt at the 25th meeting, on 29 October.

12 . On 12 November, Alqeria,  Argentina, Bangladesh, Brazil, Cameroon, Egypt,
Ethiopia, India, Indonesia, Jordan, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, Romania,
Sri Lanka, the Sudan, Sweden, Uruquay,  Venezuela, Yugoslavia and Zimbabwe submitted
a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/42/L.43/Rev.l),  which was later also sponsored by
Ireland. The revised draft resolution was introduced by the representative of
Egypt at the 44th meeting, on 16 November, and contained the following changes:

(a) The twelfth preambular paragraph, which had read:

“RecognizinQ  that the legal rhgime  applfcable  to outer spacer  as such, is
not sufficient to guarantee the prevention of an arms race in outer spacerar

was deleted;

(b) After the eighteenth preambular paragraph, (now the seventeenth
preambular paragraph) a new preambular paragraph was added, reading:

‘Noting that the work accomplished in 1987 by the Ad Hoc Committee of the
Conference on Disarmament has contributed to a fuller identification of issues
.and a better understanding of a number of problems and to a clearer perception
of the various positions,“r

(c) Operative paragraphs 5 and 6, which had read:

“5, Invites all States, in particular those with laajor  space
capabilities, to declare that they have not deployed weapons in outer space on
a permanent basis;

.

“6. Affirms the need to consolidate and reinforce the legal regime
applicable to outer space in recognition of its significant role in the
prevention of an arms race in that environment and the importance of strict
compliance with existing agreements, both bilateral and multilateral;“,

were replaced by a new operative paragraph 5, reading:

‘5. Reoognizes,  as stated in the report of the Ad I&c  Committee of the
Conference on Disarmament, that the legal rdgime  applicable to outer space, as
suc?h, is not sufficient to guarantee the prevention of an arms race in outer
space, the significant role that regime  plays in the prevention of an arms
race in that environment, the need to consolidate and reinforce that r&gime,
to enhance its effectiveness, and the importance of strict compliance with
existing agreements, both bilateral and multilateralta

and the subseguent paragraphs were renumbered accordingly;

/ . . .



A/42/745
Rnglieh
Page 12

(d) Opei%tive paragraph 11, which had read:

“11. Requeets  the Conference on Disarmament  to thoroughly examine varima
propoeala and initiative8 before it on ~11  aapecte of the queatlon of the
prevontion of an arma  race in outer apace with a view to identifying specific
measures in reepect of the queetionj”,

was  deleted and the eubeequent paragrapha were renumbered accordingly;

(0) In operative paragraph 14 (now operative paragraph 12) in the penultimate
l i n e , the word “being”  before the word “finali  zed” was  deleted and waq  inserted
before the word “prepared”.

13. At ita 44th meeting, the Committee voted on draft  resolution
A/C.1/42/L.43/Rev.l,  a s  followal

(a) Operative paragraph 9 waa adopted by a recorded vote of 116 to 1, with
10 abstentiona. The voting was a8  followe:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Auatralia, Austria,
The Bahamar, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia,
Botswana,  Brazil, Rrur,ei  Daruaaalam,  Bulgaria, Rurkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi,  Byelcruerian Soviet Socialief Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchen,  Democratic Yer,en,  Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finland, Gabon,
German Democratic Republic, Ghar,a,  Greece, Guatemala, Quinea,
Guinea-Bieeau, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Ielamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica,. Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,  Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho,  Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malayeia,  Maldivee, Mali, Malta,
Mexico, Monqolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunifiia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialiet Republic, Union of Soviet Socialiet  Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic oE Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aqainetr United State8  of America.

Abntaininqr Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, IuraelF  Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg,  Netherlands, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.

( b )  D r a f t  resolution A/C.1/42/43/Rev.l, ae  a whole, was adopted by a recorded
vote of 127 to 1 (see para.  14). The voting was  a8 follower

/ . . .



h/42/745
English
Page 1 3

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, The Bahamas, Eahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, BOtswana, Brazil, Brunei DarUSSdamr
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso8 Burma, Burundi, %yelorussian  Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic*
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d'Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, DemQcratic.Yement
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecu&dorr Egypt, Ethiopia,
Finland, France, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Germany*
Federal Republic of, Ghanac Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Iceland, fndia, Indonesia, Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenyap Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru@ Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Rcmania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand* Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics , United Arab Emirateso United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic Of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Vi& Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

IX. RECOMMENDAT1ON  OF THE FPRST -ITTEE

14. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Wevention of an arms race in outer space

The General Assembly,

Inspired by the great prospects opening up before
man's entry into outer space8

Recognizing  the common interest of all mankind in
of outer space for peaceful purposesl

mankind as a result of

the exploration and use

Reaffirming that the exploration and use of outer space, including the
Moon and other celestial bodies, shall be carried out for the benefit and in
the interest of all countries, irrespective of their degree of economic or
scientific development, and shall be the province of all mankind,

/ *..



A/42/745
English
Page 14

R e a f f i r m i n g  f u r t h e r  t h e  will  of  al l  st.ates  that  t h e  explorat ion and use
OP  outer  apace,  including the Moon and other  celertial bodies ,  shal l  be far
peaceful  purpoao~,

Recallinq that  the State8  partiee to the Treaty  on Principlesl  Governinq
the Activities o f  States in t h e  Exploration and Ure o f  O u t e r  Space ,  includinq
the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, 9J have undertaken, in article III, to
carry on activitfem in  the exploratfon and UIIO of outer  epaco,  including the
Moon and other celential  bodier,  in accordance with international law and the
Chartor of the United Nationm, in the intoretrt of maintaining international
peace and security and promoting international co-operation and underetanding,

Reaffirminq, i n  partioular, artiale  IV of the above-mentioned Treaty,
which stipulates that States partlea to the Treaty undertake not to place  i.n
orbit around the Earth any objectr aarrying nuclear weapon6  or any other kinda
of weapons of maoa  demtruction, inmtall rruch  weapon6 on  ce l e s t i a l  b&ies  o r
atation such weapone  in outer space  in any other manner,

Reaffirming also paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of thr General Aarembly,  lOJ  the Lirrt mpecial taermion  devoted to
disarmament, in whioh  it  ir stated that, in order to prevent an arms race in
outer apace, further maaeurem  rhould be taken and appropriate international
negotiations hold in aooordanoe with the rpirit of the Treaty,

Reca l l ing  it8 reaolutionr 36/97  C and 36/99  of 9 December 1981, a8 well
as reeolutiona 37/63  of 9 December 1982, 37/99  D of 13 December 1962, 38/70  of!
1 5 December 1983, 39/59  of 12 December 1984, 40/87 of 12 December 1985, and
41/53  of 3 December 1986 and the relevant paragraphe of the Political
Declaration adopted by the Eighth Conference of Head8  of State or Government
of Non-Aligned Countries,  held at Harare  from  1 to 6 September 1986, s/

Gravely concerned at the danger poeed to all mankind by an arms  race in
outer  epace  and,  in particular, by the impending threat of the exacerbation of
the current state of insecurity by developments that could further undermine
international peace and security and retard the purtwit  of qaneral  and
complete di:Iarmament,

Mindful of the wideepread  Interest expreeeed by Member Staten in the- - -
course of the neqotiattone on and following the adoption of the
above-mentioned Treaty in eneuring that  the explr)r~t:lnn and 1151’1  (>1’ outc?r !.I~,wv
zhou1.d  he Eor  peaceful purpoaee ,  and  t a k i n g  n o t e  oE  pro[~~s.~l:~  eubmitted  to  thr:
Genera’1  Assembly  at  ite tenth epecial  eeeeion  devoted  to  d i s a r m a m e n t  clnd a t
it:n regular sesqione  and to the Conference on Disarmament,

!Y Henolution 2222 (XXI), annex.

lO/ Reeolution  S-10/2 l

jy see A/41/697-S/18792,  a n n e x ,  parae.  36 -39 .

/ . . .



A/42/745
English
Page 15

Noting  thrt qrovc‘r concern expressed by the Second IJni  ted Nattons
ConfeTence  on the  Exploration and PeaceEul  Uses oE Outer Space at the
extenol.on  of an  arms race into outer space and the recommendations 12/ made to
the competent organs of the United Nations, i n  p a r t i c u l a r  t h e  General
Asaemhly, and also to the Committee on Disarmament, G/

Convinced that further measures  are needed for the prevention of an arms
r a c e  i n  o u t e r  spacer

Recognizinq that, in the context of multilateral negotiations for
preventing an arms race in outer space, bilateral negotiations between the
Union  of Soviet Socialist  Republics and the United State8  of America could
make a significant contribution to such an objective, in accordance with
pr.raqraph  27 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Aaeembly ,

Noting with satisfaction that bilateral negotiations between the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republic8 and the United States o f  America have continued
since 1985 on a complex of questions concerning space and nuclear arms, both
strategic and intermediate-range , and in their relationship, with the declared
objective, endorsed in the’joint  statement of the!r leaders on
21 November 1985, e/ of working out effective agreements aimed, inter alia,
at p r e v e n t i n g  a n  arm5  race  i n  o u t e r  s p a c e ,

Anxious that concrete results should emerge from these negotiations as
soon  a8  p o s s i b l e ,

‘&king  note of the report of the Conference on Disarmament, 15/

Welcoming the re-eatabliehment  of an Ad Hoc  Committee on the prevention- -
of an arms race in outer space during the 1987 session of .the ConEerence  on
Disarmament, i n  t h e  r!xercise  o f  t h e  n e g o t i a t i n g  r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s  o f  t h i s  sole
mult!Lateral  negotiating body o’  diaarmament, ta continue to examine and to
i d e n t i f y  throuqh  s u b s t a n t i v e  ancr  g e n e r a l  c o n s i d e r a t i o n  i s s u e s  r e l e v a n t  to  the
prevention of an arm8  race  in outer apace,

12/ S e e  R .qort of the  Second United Nation8 Conference on the  Exploration and
Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, Vienna, 9-21 August 1982 (A/CONP.lOl/lO  and Corr.1
a n d  21, para. 426.

13/ The Committ ee on Disarmament wan  redesignated the Conference on
Disarmament aa from 7 February 1984.

L4/  A / 4 0 / 1 0 7 0 ,  a n n e x .

15/ O f f i c i a l  Hecordn o f  t h e  G e n e r a l  A s s e m b l y ,  Forty-second  !ics’:ion,  Supplwnent
N o .  2F(A/42/27).

_.. _ ._  -__-  . . .--
- -

/ . . .



I A/42/745English
Paqe  16

Noting that the work accomplished in 1987 by the Atl  Hoc Committee of the- -
Conference on Disarmament hae contributed to a ful.ler  identification of iaauea
and a better understanding  of a number of problems  and to a clearer perception
of the varfoue  positions,

1. Recall8 the obligation of all States to refrain from the threat or
u(~e of force in their space activitieei

2. Reaffirmrr that general and complete disarmament under effective
international control warraate-that outer apace shall be used  exclusively for
peaceful purposes and that it shall not become an arena for an arm8 race8

3. Emphasizee  that further measures with appropriate and effective
provisions for verification to prevent an arma  race fn outer space should be
adopted by the international community8

4. Call8 upon all Statea,  in particular those with major apace
capabilities, to contribute actively to the objective of the peaceful u6e of
outer apace and to take immediate meaaurea  to prevent an arms race in outer
apace in the interest of maintaining international peace and security and
promoting international co-operation and underetandinqt

5. Recoqntzes,  as st? Id  in the report of the Ad Hoc Committee of the
CanPecence on Disarmament, t -at  the legal regime  applicable t.o outer apace, as
such, is not eufficient to guarantee the prevention of an arm8  race in outer
space, the siqnficant role that rdqtme  plays in the prevention of an arms race
in that environment, the need to coneolidate and reinforce that rdqime,  to
enhance its effectiveness, and the importance of strict compliance with
exintinq agreements, both bilateral and multilateral}

6. Reiterates that the Conference on Disarmament, a8 the single
multilateral disarmament nsqotiatinq forum, haa  the primary role in the
negotiation of a multilateral agreement or agreements, a8  appropriate, on the
prevention of an arms race in outer  space  tn all it8 dspectsy

7. Requests the Conference on D;sarmament  to consider an a matter oE
priority the question of preventing an arms race  in outer space;

8. Also requests the Conference on Disarmament to intensify its
consideration of the question of the prevention of an arms race in outer space
in all its aspects,  taking into account all relevant prop ~18,  including
those presented in the Ad Hoc Committee on the prevention oE an arma  race in
outer space at the 1987 eeaeion  of the Conference and at the forty-second
session  of the General Aasemblyt

9. Further requeate  the Conference on Disarmament to re-ectahlish  an
ad hoc committee with an adequate mandate at the heqinninq  of its 1988_I_-
ness ton, with a view to undertaking negotiations for the conclusion of an
aqr~ecmnt  or aqreements,  as appropriate, to prevent. an arms race in outer
.p,pxc  i.n  a11  i t s  aspectul

/ . . .-



A/42/745
English
Page 17

10. Urqes  the Union of Soviet Socialiet  Republics and the United States
o f  A m e r i c a  t o  p u r s u e  i n t e n s i v e l y  t h e i r  b i l a t e r a l  n e g o t i a t i o n 8  i n  a
conetructive  spirit aimed at reaching early agreement for preventlnq  an arms
race in outer space, and to advise the Confererrce on Disarmament periodically
o f  t h e  p r o g r e s s  o f  t h e i r  b i l a t e r a l  s e s s i o n s  s o  a s  t o  f a c i l i t a t e  i t s  work)

11. C a l l s  u p o n  a l l  S t a t e s ,
capabtlitizto  r e f r a i n ,

especially those with major space
i n  t h e i r  a c t i v i t i e s  relatinq  t o  o u t e r  s p a c e ,  f r o m

a c t i o n s  c o n t r a r y  t o  t h e  o b s e r v a n c e  o f  t h e  rnlevant  existing  t r e a t i e s  o r  t o  t h e
o b j e c t i v e  o f  preventinq  a n  a r m s  r a c e  i n  outt!r  apace8

12. Takes note that the study on disarmament problems relating to outer
space and the consequence of extending the arms race into outer space?  called
for Ln  resolution 41/53,  has been prepared by the United Nation8 Jnstitute far
Disarmament Research and that, a f t e r  a  f i n a l  meetinq  o f  t h e  g r o u p  o f  e x p e r t s
held in September 1987, the report wau  finalized  and being prepared for
publication in autumn 1987r

13. Requests  the Secretary-General to invite the views of Member States
on all aspects of the queption  of: t!z  Drevention  of an arm6 race in outer
space and to submit a report t o  t h e  G e n e r a l  Assembly  a t  i t s  f o r t y - t h i r d
session8

14. s@?dts the Conference on Disarmament to report on its
consideratizi  ofhis s u b j e c t  t o  t h e  G e n e r a l  A s s e m b l y  a t  l t s  f o r t y - t h i r d
s e s s i o n ;

15. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit to  the Conference on
Disarmament all documents relating to the consideration of this  subject by the
G e n e r a l  Assembly  a t  i t s  f o r t y - s e c o n d  session1

lti. Decides  t o  i n c l u d e  i n  t h e  p r o v i s i o n a l  a q e n d a  o f  i t s  f o r t y - t h i r d
session the item entitled “Prevention of an arms race in outer  space“.


