







































UNITED
NATIONS
-----__- _--_ .._,.__,__._.-  ___.  .__...._-  -_-..  _. _- ._._  ___--.- .--

aeneral  Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/42/727
10 November 1987
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL1 SPANISH

Forty-second session
Rqcnda i t ems  110  and  12

I’MPLEMENTATION  OF THE DECLARATION ON THE GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE
TO COJ,ONIAL  COUNTRIES AND PROPLFS  BY THE SPECIALIZED  AGENCIES AND

INTERNATIONAL INSTITUTIONS ASSOCIATED WITH THE UNITED NATIONS

RETORT OF THY  ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL COUNCIL

Report of the Fourth C o m m i t t e e

Rapper tour 1 MI:  , Alvaro CARNEVALI-VILLEGAS (Venezuela)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd pLorrery meetiny,  on 18 September 1987, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of tt,..-  General Committee, decided to include i n  t h e  agenda of itc
for ty-second seseion  t h e  followinq  !tsms;

"110. Implementdtior  of t h e  Declaration on the Grartinq of Independence to
Colonial C o u n t r i e s  and Peoples by t h e  specialized agencies and t h e
in te rna t iona l .  i ns t i tu t ions  assoctated  wikh t h e  Unf t e d  Nationsr

"(a) Report of t h e  Spec-ial  C o m m i t t e e  o n  t h e  Situation with regard to t h e
Tmplertl?nt.ation  of t h e  Declaration o n  t h e  Granting of Independence to
Colonial C o u n t r i e s  and Peoples)

“(b) Report  of  the Secrekary-General.”

“12. Report of t h e  Secretary-General.”

A t  t h e  same  meetinq, the  Assembly  decided to allocate to the Fourth Committee
agenda t tern  110, t o g e t h e r  w i t h  chaptere I, VI (sect. D)  and VIII  of  the  repor t  of
the Economic and Social Counci;, w h i c h  relate to the i tem (A/42 /3 ) .  A/

Y Official Records of t h e  General Assembly, “arty-second  Session,
Supplement No. 2 (A/42/3).

87-28400 491.7P  (E)

1%

/ . . .



A/42/727
Englirh
Page 2

2. At itr  2nd mretinq,  on 23 September, the Fourth Committee deaided to hold a
general debat@ aovering  agenda itema 18, 108, 110 and 12, 111 and 112, on the
understanding that individual proposals on flatters covered by those items would bo
conridered eepsrately . The Committee held the general debate on these item8 at ita
10th and 12th to 21at  meetings, between 9 and 23 Outober.

3. The Fourth Committee considered items 110 and 12 at ite 10th and 12th to 23rd
meetings, between 9  and 28 October (aee A/C.4/42/SR.10  and 12-23).

4. At the 10th meeting, on 9 October, the Rapporteur of the Speaial Committee on
the  Situation with regard to the  Implementation of the Declaration on the Qranting
of Independenae  to Colonial Countriee and Peoplee  made a rtatement in whiah  he gave
an acaount of the relevant activitiee of the  Special Committee during 1987 and drew
attention to ohaptrr  VI of the  report of that Committee relating to item 110
( A / 4 2 / 2 3  ( P a r t  IV))  2/ containing, inter alia,  the re la ted  draf t  resolution
submitted by that Committee for the conriderstion of the Fourth Committee.

5. During its consideration of the i tem, the Fourth Committee had before  it the
report of the  Secretary-General submitted in pureuance  of paragraph 25 of Qenrral
Assembly reeolution 41/l!?  of 31 October 1986 (A/42/264 and Add.1).

6. At its 22nd meeting, on 28 October, the  Fourth Committee took action on the
draft  resolut ion contained in paragraph 24 of  chapter  VI of  the report  o f  the
Special  Committee ( A / 4 2 / 2 3  (Par t  IV)) ,  a8 followar  2/

(a)  At the request  of  Ierael , a eeparate vote was taken on the word W18rAel’@
in the  eighth preambular paragraph. The word “18rael”  in tho eighth preambular
paragraph was retained by a recorded vote of 72 to 52, with 21 abetentione. The
v o t i n g  was  aa  followe:  4J

.

Y To be incorporated in Official 8 of  the General Aesembly,
( A / 4 2 / 2 3 ) .Forty-second Session,  Supplement  No. 23

Y Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representative8 of the
following Member States: Canada, Chile, Colombia, Finland (on behalf aleo of
Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Sweden), France, Greece, Haiti, Honduras, Ireland,
Israel ,  I ta ly ,  Japan,  Kuwait , Netherlands, Syr!&n Arab Republic, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Zaire.

Y Subsequent to the  voting, the delegation of Argentina stated that  i t  had
intended to abstain in the vote. The delegation of the Sudan atated that it had
intended to cast  an affirmative vote. The delegation8 of the Dominican Republic
and Honduras stated that they had intended to cast a negative vote.

/ . . .



_..  __.

A/42/727
English
Page 3

In favour a Ahghanistan,  Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentine, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Benin, Botewana, Brunei Daruaaalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burundi, uyohoruseian  Soviet Sooialiet Republia, China,
Conqo, Cuba, Czeahoelovakia, Pemocratia  Yemen, Djibouti,
Dominiasn Republia, Egypt,  Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, German
Demooratio  Republic, Ghana, Guinea-Bieeau, Guyana, Honduras,
India, lndoneeia, Iran (Ialamia Republia of), Iraq, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’e  Domooratia  Republia, Lebanon, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagaaaat, Malaysia, Maldivee,  Mali,
Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Poland, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Seyohellee,
Sierra Leone, Samalia,  Sri Lanka, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunieia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialiet  Republic, Union of Soviet
Sooialiet Republioe,  United Arab Emirates, United Republio of
Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoelavia, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againeta Antigua and Barbuda, Australia, Auetria,  Bahamaa,  Belgium,
Belize, Bolivia, Cameroon, Canada, Chile, Colombia, Coeta RiOa,
C&e d’Ivoire,  Denmark, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Fiji,
Finland, Franue,  Germany, Federal Republio of, Greeoe,  Grenada,
Guatemala, Haiti, Iceland, Ireland, Ierael,  Italy, Jamaiaa,
Japan, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malawi, Netherlande,  New Zealand,
Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Portugal, Saint Kitte and Nevis,  Saint
Luaia,  Saint Vinaent and the Grenadines, Samoa, Spain, Sudan,
Swaziland, Swudon, Togo, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Statoo  of America, Uruguay, Zaire.

Abotaining: Barbados, Bhutan, Urazil,  Burma,  Central African Republio,
Cyprus, Guinea, Leeotho, Mexico, Nepal, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippinea, Rwanda, Sinqepore, Solomon Ilslande,  Suriname,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkoy, VeneBUela.

(b)  The draft reeolution, aa a whole, was adopted by’ a reoorded  vote of 119
to 3, with 25 abetentlone  (eoe para. 7). 5J The voting was a8 follower v

u Statement8 in explanation of vote were made by the  repreeentativee of the
following Member States: Canada, Chile, Colombia, Finland (on behalf also Of
Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Sweden), Francs, Greece, Haiti, Honduras, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Netherlando, Syrian Arab Republic, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Zaire.

!v Subsequent to the voting, the delegations of Belize, Jamaica, Panama and
Vanuatu stated that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.
Subsequently, the  delegation of Grenada informed the Secretariat  that hie
delegation’s affirmative vote had not reqiatered  un the bard.

/ . . .



A/42/727
Engliah
Page  4

I n  favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Bahamae, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbadoa, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botewana,  Brazil, Brunei Darusealam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byeloruesian  Soviet  Socialist Republic,
Cape Vercle,  Central Afriaan  Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo , Costa Riaa, Cuba, Cyprus, Czeohoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuahea,  Demwratio Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican
Republio,  Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Gabon,
Gambia, German Democratic Republic, Qhana,  Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Bieeau, Guyana, Haiti, Hondurae,  Hungary, India,
Incloneeia, Iran (Ielamia  Republ ic  of) ,  I raq,  Jorclan,  Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’e bemoaratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagnsoar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Malc!ivee,  Mali,  Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Niaaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saint Kitto  and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the
Qrenat¶inee,  Samoa, Sao Toma  and Prinaipe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Beyahellee,  Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan,  Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunioia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirateo,  United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam,  Yemen, Yugoslavia,  Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Again&r Israel, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Abstaining-t Australia, Auatria, Belgium, Cameroon, Canada, Denmark,
El Salvador, Finland, France, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Togo,
Turkey, Zaire.

/ . . .



HECOMMENDATION

7. The  Fourth Committee recommends
following draft rueolution:

A/42/727
English
Page !i

OF THE FOUR’CH  COMMITTEE

to the General Assembly  the adoption of the

Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence
to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the specialized  agencies and
the international institutions arasociated  with the  United Nations

The General Anaembly,

Having examined the item entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples by the
apecialized  agencies and the international institutions associated with the
United Nations”,

Having examined the reports submitted by the Secretary-General, 1/  the
Chairman of the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independenae to Colonial
Countries and Peoples 8J and the Sub-Committee on Petitiona, Inforration and
Assistance y on the item entitled “Implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countriee and Peoples b’]  the specialised
agencies and the international institutions associated with the United
Nationa”,

Recallinq  the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Coionial
Countries and Peoples , contained in General Assembly resolution l5!4 (XV) of
14 December  1960, the Plan of Action for the Full Implementation of khe
Declaration, contained in the annex to Assembly resolution 35/118  of
11 December 1980, and its resolution 40/56 of 2 December 1985 on the
twenty-fifth anniversary of the Declaration on the Granting of Indopendeqczi?  to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, as well as all other relevant reeolutionb
adopted by the Assembly on this subject, including in particular resolution
4111s of 31 October 1986,

Recal.ling  also its resolutions ES-S/2 of 14 September  1981, S-14/1  o:
20 September 1986 and 41/39 of 20 November 1986 on the question of Namibia.

Taking into account the relevant provisions of the Declaration and the
Programme of Action adopted at the International Conference for the Immediate

Y A/42/264 and Add.1.

y A/AC. 109/L. 1620.

2/- A/AC. 109/L. 1616.

/ . . .



A/42/737
English
P a g e  6

Independenae  of Namibia, held at Vienna from 7 to 11 July 1996, 10/  the
Dealaration adoptexl  by the World Conferenae  on Sanatione against Baaist  South
Afriaa,  held in Paris f r o m  16 to 20 June 1996, 11/  and the Luanda Dealaration
and Programme of A&ion  adopted by the United Nations Counail for Namibia at
it8  492nd meeting, held at Luanda on 22 May 1987, 12/

Bearina  in mind the relevant provisions of the final dooumente of the
Bi.ghth Conferenoe  of Heade  of State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries,
held at Harare  from 1 to 6 September 1986, 131 and of the resolution on the
question of Namibia adopted by the Assembly of Head8  of State and Government
of the Organisation of Afriaan Unity at its twenty-third ordinary ueeoion,
held at Addle Ababa from 27 to 29 July 1987,

Aware that the  struggle of the  people of Namibia for eelf-determination
and independenoe  is in ite aruaial stage and has sharply intensified aa  a
aoneeguenae  of the stepped-up aggression 02 the  illegal tolanialiat  r6gime  of
Pretoria againet  the people of the Territory and the inareased  support
rendered to that rdgime by its allies, aoupled  with efforts to deprive the
Namibian people of their hard-won victories in the liberation struggle, and
that it 18 therefore  inaumbent upon the entire international aommunity
deaieively to intensify aonaertet¶  aation  in support of the  people of Namibia
crnd their sole and authentia representative , the South West Africa People’s
Organisation, for the attainment of their goal,

Conaerned that the poliay of “aonetruutive engagement” with the apartheid
regime of Zlouth  Africa and the  wlinkagew, as well a6 eoonomio and military
aollaboration maintained by aertaiq  Westorn powers, Israel and other aountries
with Pretoria, have only enaouraged and strengthened the raaiet regime  in its
oontinued illegal oooupation and maeeive  militarisation and exploitation of
Namibia in violation of the relevant resolutions and deaieione of the United
Nations,

Gravely aonaerned at the  continued imperialist and neo-aolonialiet
support for South Africa’s oppreeeive  and aggreeeiwa  policies in Namibia and
with reepeot  to independent States in southern Afriaa, in particular the
front-line States, as exemplified by the discussions and reeolutione ef the
Sflaurity  Counail,

10/  See Report of the International Conference for the Immediate Independence
OP Namibia, Vienna, 7-11 July 1986 (United Nation8  publication, Sales No. E.86.1.16
and addendum), part three. See also A/41/479-5/10234.

11/  See Report of the World Conference on Sanctions against Raoiet  South
Africa, Paris,  16~20  June 1986 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.66.1.23),
ahap.  IX.

12/  A/42/325-5/10901,  a n n e x .

13/  A,‘41/697-S/10392,  a n n e x .

/ . . .



A/42/1  27
English
Page  7

Consaioue of the worsening of the situation in southern APriaa  because of
South Africa’s raaist poliaies  of oppression, aggression and ouaupation whiah
constitute a clear threat to world peaoe and seaurity,  and aondemning  the
aontinuing broaah by South Afriaa  of the obligations assumed by it under the
Charter of the United Nations and its persistent non-oomplianae  with the
relevant resolutions and deaieions  of the United Natione,

Deeply conscious of the continuing aritical  need of the Namibian people
and their nationalTberation  movement, the South West Afrioa  People’e
Organisation, and of the peoples of other aolonial Territories for oonareta
assietanae from the specialised agenciee  and other organizatione  of the Unitad
Nations system in their struggle for liberation from oolonial rule and in
their efforts to achieve and consolidate their national independenue,

Deeply aoncerng  that, although there has been progreea in the extension
of aoeistance to refugee8 from Namibia, the actions taken hitherto by the
organisations aonoerned  in providinq  aeeietanoe  to the people of the Territory
through their national liberation movement, the South West Africa People’s
Organizatior,,  still remain inadequate to meet the urgent and growing needs of
the Namibian people,

Reaffirming the responsibility of the speoialiaed  agencies and other
organizations  of the United Nations system to take all the neueoeary  measures,
within their reepectjve  spheres of oompetenae, to ensure the full and speedy
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples and other relevant resolutions of the Unit&l  Nations,
particularly those relating to the provision of moral and material assistance,
on a priority bao!.s,  to the peoples of the colonial Terrjtories  and their
national liberation movements,

xressinq  its firm belief that closer aontaafe and consultations between
the specialized  agencieo and other organisations of the United Natione system,
on the one had,  and the Organisation of African Unity and the lout., West
Africa  People’s Ocqanization, on the other, will help the above agencies and
orqanizatione to overcome procedural and other diffiaulties  which have impeded
or delayed the implementation of some assistance proqrammeSr

Recalling its resolution 41/39 C of 20 November 1986 in which it
requested all  epecialized  agencies and other organisations and conferences of
the United Nations system to grant full membership to the United Nations
Council for Namibia GO  that the Council may participate, as the legal
Administering Authority for Namibia, in the work of those agencies and
orqenizations,

Expressing its appreciation to the General Secretariat of the
Organization  of African Unity for the continued co-operation and assistance it
has extended to the specialized  aqencies  and other organisations  of the United
Nation3 system in connection with the implementation of the relevant
resolutions of the United Nation@,

/ . . .



A/42/727
English
Page 8

Expceesing  ita  appreciation aleo  to the Governments of the front-line
Wtatee  for the steadfaat eupport extended to the people of Namibia and their
irational  liberation movement, the South West  Africa People’6 Orqanization, in
their just and legitimate struggle for the attainment of freedom and
independenoe’despite  inoreaeed armed attacke by the forces of the racist
regime  of South Africa, and aware of the particular needs of those Governments
for aeeietance in that connection,

Noting the support given by the epecialized agencies and other
organizations  of the United Nations system to the implementation of the
Nationhood Programme for Namibia, in accordance with ito resolution 32/9 A of
4 November 1977,

Deploring the continued co-operation with and aseietance  rendered to
South Africa by oertain  epecialized agencies in the  financial, economic,
technical and other fields  in contravention of the relevant reeolutione of the
United Nations, thus enhancing neo-colonialist practice8 in the system of
international relations,

Gravely concerned at the continued financial support from the
International Monetary Fund to the Government of South Africcr  in disregard of
relevant General Aeeembly reeolutions, in particular resolution 37/2 of
21 October 1902,

Bearing in mind the importance of the activities  of non-governmental
organizatione aimed at putting an end to the aeeietance which is still  being
rent.  red to South Africa by some specialized  agencies,

Mindful of the imperative need to keep under continuoue review the
activities  of the specialized  agencies and other organizatione of the United
Natione system in the implementation of the various United Nations decieions
relating to decolonization,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peopleo relating to the itemj  l4J

2. Reaffirm8 that the apecialized agencies and other orqanizations and
institutions of the United Nations system should continue to be guided by the
relevant reeolutione of the United Nation6  in their effort8 to contribute,
within their sphere of competence, to the full and speedy implementation of
the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoplee, contained in General Aesembly  resolution 1514 (XV) of
14 December 19601

14/ A/42/23 (Part IV), chap. VI.

/
.Y.



A/42/327
Mnglish
Pago 9

3. ReaCflrms  a lso  tha t  the recognition by the General Assembly, the
Rocurity  Council  and other  United Nat ions  oegann of the loqitimnoy of t h e
struggle of colonial people8  to exercPse  their riyht to aelf-determination  and
independence entails, as a corollary. the extension hy tho opoctalizod
agencies and other organizotfono  of the United NationA  system  o f  all the
necessary moral and material asoietonce  to thooe  pooploe  and their national
l iberat ion movemontsl

4. IZxcprasses  its appreciation to thooo specialfzed agencioe a n d  other
organizations of the United Nations system that have continued to co-oparato
in varying degrees with the United Nations and the Orqanization  of African
Unity in the implementation of the Declaration a n d  other reluvant rooolutione
of the United Nations, and urges all the spocfelizad  agencies and otha1
organizatione o f  t h e  Un’ ..ed  Nat ions  sys tem to  accslerata t h e  full and epoody
implementation of the r e l e v a n t  provisions of those  rosolutionsl

5. Expresses its xncern  t h a t  t h e  assistance ext,>nded  t h u s  Par  b y
certain spociclized  agencies and other orqanizetions of t h e  United Nations
system eo  the colonial peoples, particularly the people of Namibia and their
national liberation m o v e m e n t , t h e  South  W e s t  Africa People’s Organization, is
far from adequate i n  r e l a t i o n  t o  t h e  actual needs  of tho puoplee  concerned;

6. Hequeots all specialized  agencies  and other orqanizationn and bodice
of the Unit.ed  Nations system, in accordance with the relevant resolutions of
t h e  General Assembly  and of the Security Council, t o  t a k e  all necessary
maasurca  to withhold from the racrst  r6gime  of  South  Af r ica  any  form of
co-operation and a s s i s t a n c e  i n  t h e  f i n a n c i a l ,  e c o n o m i c ,  technical and o t h e r
fiel.dw and to discontinue all support to that r&gime  u n t i l  t h e  people of
Namibia have axorcised  fully their inalienable riqht to self-determination,
freedom and national independence in a united Namibia and until the inhuman
system of apartheid has been totally eradicated1

-J. Reiterates its c o n v i c t i o n  that the epecialized  a g e n c i e s  and o t h e r
orqunizations and bodies of the United Nation6 syetem should refrain from
taking  any action tha t  m ight  imp ly  recogn i t ion  o f ,  or s u p p o r t  f o r ,  the
legitimacy of the domination of t h e  Territory of Namibia b y  t h e  racist  rdgime
of South Africa!

R. Regrets that the  Worid Hank continue8 t o  maintain  certain f inancial
and technical links with the racist r&gimo  of Pretoria, and exprosneu  the view
that those l inks  shoulrl  be discontinued1

9. Deplores the financial and other collabotation  and condemns the
rinancial  Support from the International  Monetary  Fund to  South  Afr ica  in
disreqard of repeated resolutions of. the General  Assembly, a n d  c a l l s  u p o n  t h e
Fund to p u t  a n  end to such collaboration, as the apartheid system implies a
serious instability in the S o u t h  African economy,  including its balance of
p a y m e n t s , and thus the International. Monetary Fund according to ita rulce
should not ,  as long as apartheid a n d  t h e  illeqel occupation of Namibia b y
South Africa continue to exisr extertid any credits to S o u t h  Africa1

/ . . ”



10. Urgee onae  ageg  the executive heac¶a  of the World tiank  and the
International Monetary Fund to draw the particular attention of their
governing bodies  to the prwent  reeolution with a view to formulating specific
programmea  benefioial to the peoples of the  oolonial Territories, particularly
Namibia8

‘1. Requeete  the epeoialiaed  agenoiee and other orqanizatione of the
United Nationa eyetam  to render Gr  oontinue  to render, as a matter of urgencyz
all poeeitle  moral and material aeeietanae  to the colonial peoples struggling
for liberation from colonial rule, bearing in mind that such  assistance ehould
not only meet their immediate needs but also create condition6 for development
after they have exeraieed  their right to eelf-determination and independence1

12. Requests  .bnce  again the epeaialized agencies  and other orqanizations
of the United Nationa  eystem to continue to provide all moral and mdterial
alsleietanae  to the newly-independent Rnd  emer~iw: States BO aa to enable them
to aahieve genuine eaonomio independenaet

13. Reiterates ite recommendation that the specialixed  agenciecl  and
other organiaatione of the United Nation8 eysteln should ii.itiaLe  or broaden
uontacte and  co-operation with the colonial pcoplee and their national
liberation movements, direotly or@ where appropriate, through the Orqanization
of Afriaun  Unity, and review and introduce greattp  flevibility  in their
procedure8  with reepeclt  to the formulation and preparation of assistance
programmea and projeats  80 ae to be able to extend the neaeseary  aseistance
without delay to help the aoloni;. &oplecJ  and their national liberation
movements in their struggle to e:ieroiee their inalienable right to
self-determination and independents  in accc,,““ante with General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV) 8

14. Reaommende  that a BepaLate  i tem on aseizt.ance  to national liberation
movement8 recogni;bad  by the Organizatron of Afriaan Unity should be included
in the agenda of future high-level meetings between the General Secretariat of
the Organisation  of Afrioan  Unity and the eearetariats  of the United Nations
and other organizations  of the United Nations system,  wlth a view to
strengthening fr,r  ther the existing measures of co-ordir,.Ttion  of action to
ensure  the  beet  ume  of available resources  for  assistance to the peoples  of
the colonial Territories)

15. Urge8  the epecialized  aqenciee and other orqanizationa of the United
Nation6  system  that hew  not already done 80 to include in the agenda of the
regular meeting8  of their qoverninq bodies a separate item on the progress
they have made in the implementation of the Declaration and the other relevant
resolutions of the United Nations1

16. Urges the specialized  agencies and other orqanizatione and
inetitutions  of the United Nations system to extend, a8 a matter of priority,
eubetantial material assistance  to the Governments of the front-line States in
order to enable them to eupport more effectively the etruqgle of the people of
Namibia for freedom srld  independence and to resist the violation of their

/ ..*



terri torial  inteqrity by the armed forces of  the racist  r&qime of South
Afr ica,  directly or. ae in Angola i .d Mozambique, through puppct qroupfl  in the
service of Pretoria8

17. Welcomes the establishment by the non-aligned countries of the
Action for Resistinq Invasion, Colonialism and Apartheid Fund and invitan the
specfalized agencieo and other organizatione of the United Nations system to
co-operate  wi th  i t , in the common ob:]ective  of providing emerqonzy  aosistance
to the front-line States and national l iberation movements in southern Africa
in their struggle aqainnt the aparthe!.d  rfgime;

18. Notes  with satisfaction the arrangements made by several specializedIV
agencies and other orqanizations of th3 United Nations aystem which enable
rbpreuentatives of the national l iberation movements recoqnized by the
Orqanization of African Unity to participate fully as observers in the
proceedings relat ing to matters concerning their  respective counrries, and
calls upon those agencies and organizations that have not yet done so to
follow this exa,nple  and to make the necessary arrangements without delayt

19. Urgee  the specialized agencies and other orqanizations and
inst i tut ions of  the United Nations system to assist  in accelerat1r .q proqreaa
in all  sectors of the national l ife of colonial Territories,  particularly in
the development nf their economies;

20. Draws the particular attention of the specialized aqoncies and other
orqanizations of the United Nations system  to Security Council  resolution
566 (1985) of 19 June 198.5, in which the Council condemned the racist regime
of South Africa for its installation of a so-called interim government in
Namibia and declared that  action to be i l legal  ?nd null and void;

21. ~eccmmends  that all Governments should intensify their efforts in
the specializcd agencies and other orqanizations of the United N a t i o n s  s y s t e m
of which they are members to ensure the full and effective implementation of
the Declaration and other relevant resolutions of the United Nations and,  in
that  connection,  should accord priori ty to the quest ion of  ,nrovidinq
assis tance on an emorqenc!’ basis  to the peoples of  the colonial  Terri tories
and their national l iberation movements;

22. Rei terates  i t s  proposal ,  unde:r article III of the Aqreement between
the United Nations and the International Monetary Fund, g/ for the urqent
inclusion in the aqend,+  fl>f the Board of Governors of the Fund of an item
dealing with the relatioll;,rlip between the Fund and South Africa,  furt.her
reiterate&  i ts  proposal  that, in pursuance of art icle II  of the Agreement,  the
relevant orqans of the United Ngtions should participate in a n y  meetinq of the
Board of Governors called by the Find for the purpose cjf  discussfr,(r  the item,

g/ See Agreements between tile United Nations and the Spccialized  Agencies-11
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IJhitcd Nations publicat ion,  Sales
E.6L.X.11,  p .  61 .

/
,’  .  . .



A/42/727
English
Page 12

and urges the International Monetary ‘Qnd. to  discuss  its relationship with
South Africa at its annual meetings in compLia;.,ce  with ths above-mentioned
Agreement and to report to the Rac!rcCnry-General  o f  the llnited Nationn o n  khe
actions taken1

23. Drawa  the attention of the specializecl  aqencien and ot.her
orsanizatione of the  United Nations Ryetern  to  the  P lan  o f  Ac t ion  for t h e  Ful’l
Implementation of the Declaration on ihe  Granting of Independence to Cotonial
Countries and Peoples, contained in the annex to General  Aesembly  revolution
35/110,  i n  p a r t i c u l a r , to  those provisions calling upon t h e  aqenci.eR  rind
orqanizatione to render ~11.2  pos.si.b’lct  moral and mater ia l  antilstance  to the
peoples oP  the colr,nial Territoriefl ;Ind to their nutional Liberation movements)

24. Urges the e x e c u t i v e  heads o f the specialixed nqencies and other
orqanizations of t h e  Unitkl  Nations nytltem, h a v i n g  reqard to the provisions of
paragraph 14 above, to formulate, wl  th  the act ive co-operat ion of  the
Orqanization  of African Unity where appropriate, a n d  to submit, as  a  matter of
priority, to their qoverninq and leqislative orqann  concrete proposals for t h e
full implementation of the relevant rfnited Nntiona decisic,ns,  in particular
specif ic  programme8 of assistance to the peoples  oE the colonial rerritortes
and their  n a t i o n a l  li.beration movemantRI

25, Requests  the Secretary-Genera1  to continue to assist the upecial.i.zed
agencies and other orqanizationa of the United Nat ions  system in working out
appropr ia te  measure9  for implementinq the relevant resolutions of the United
Nat ions  and to prepare for submission to the relevant hodies,  wi th  the
aaeietance  of those agencies and orqanixatione, a report o n  the ac t ion  taken
since the circulation of his previous report in implementation of the relevant
resolutions, including t h e  present  renolutionl

26. Requests the Economic and Social Council to continue to consider, in
consultation with the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colon ia l .
Countries and Peoples, appropriate measures for co-ordination of t h e  poll.cies
and activities of the speciatized aqenciee and other  orgnnizations of the
United Nations system i n  implementinq the relevant resolutions of the General
A s s e m b l y  1

27. Requests  the spectalized ayencies  to report  periodical ly to  t h e
Secretary-General of t h e  llnited  Nationn  o n  t h e i r  i m p l e m e n t a t i o n  of the present
resolution 1

28. Requests the Special. Committee to continue to e x a m i n e  t h e  i t e m  a n d
to  repor t  thereon to  t h e  General  AR3embl.y  at i ts  forty-t!lird session.


