






































UNITeD
NATIONS A

._..._._. -.------------

G.ne,al A.lembly
Dhtr.
GENERAL

A/42/814
4 D.c.mb.r 1987

ORIGINAL' KNOLISH

•

Forty-geconn seRRion
Aqendl.l i tnm 7R

QUESTIONS RELATING TO INFORMATION

Report of the Special Political Committee

Rllppor teu r I Mr. Mp\lmelp.Lo J. HLOPNE (Swaziland)

I • I N'rRODUCT ION

1. 'rhA item enti. t lod I

"QueRtionn re)/ltJnq to Informatinnl

.1 (1) Heport of' th~ Commttt.fle on Informllt. ion,

" (h) Heport of th~ Recrntllry-General,

"(c) Report of t~-p nl.rp.ct()r-t;l!np.r~l of thp. Ilnit.eci NationR l~ducational,
Hcientill.c ann Cultural Orqani~ation"

waR inclunno in th~ provisional aqenda of th" forty-second •••• ion of the General
l\9Hcmhly in accordance with 1\8Foembly reRoluUon 41/68 1\ of 3 December 1986.

2. At its 3ro plenary meeting, on 18 Septemher 19b7, the General A••embly, on ~he
r~commendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item in it. agenda
anrl to 1l11ocl\te it to the Bpectal Po] iUca1 Committee.

1. The Special Political Committee considered the item ~t itB 20th, 22nd, 24th to
28th. 30th and 34th meetings, held between 11 and 19 November and on
~5 November 1987 (Aeo A/SPC/42/SR.20, 22, 24-28, 30 and 34).

I . •.

---- ---------------- -- ------------ ------------ -------------------- - --------



A/42/814
English
Page 2

4. The Cowmittee had before it the following documents:

(a) Report of the Committee on Information; 1/

(b) Report of th~ ecreta~y-General (A/42/494);

(c) Report of the Director-General of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural organization (A/42/57l).

5. The Committee also had before it three letters dated 6 and 24 July and
23 October 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Zimbabwe to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/4ll, A/42/43l and Corr.l and A/42/68l) •

6. At its 2nd meeting, on 8 October, the Committee decided to establish an
open-ended working group on questions relating to information. traditionally
chaired by One of the Vice-Chairmen of the Special Political Committee, and at the
current session by the Vice-Chairman from Chile. At its 16th meeting, on
5 November, the Chairman stated that Mr. Raimundo Gonzalez of Chile, Vice-Chairman
of the Committee, had informed him that the delegation of Chile had proposed that
Mrs. Noelia Miranda, a member of the Chilean delegation, should chair that working
group. The Committee concurred with this request, on the understanding that it did
not constitute a precedent.

7. At its 20th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee heard introductory
statements by the Under-Secretary-General for Public Information of the
Secretariat, t,he Chairman of the Committee on Information, and the Acting Director
of the United NQtions Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization Liaison
Office.

8. At the 34th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Chile, in her
capacity as Chairman of the Working Group on Questions relating to Information,
made a statement.

11. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/SPC/42/L.20 and Corr.!

9. At the 34th meeting, on 25 November, the representative of Guatemala
introduced a draft resolution (A/SPC/42/L.20 and Oorr.l) on behalf of the States
Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77.

_0. At the same meeting, the Chairman conveyed to the Committee information
concerning the programme budget implications of draft resolution A/SPC/42/L.20 and
Corr.l provided by the programme Planning and Budget Division (see A/SPC/42/SR.34,
para. 62).

1/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-second Session,
Supplement No. 21 (A/42/21).

/ ...



A/42/814
English
Pago 3

11. ~lso at the same meeting, before the vote on the draft resolution, the
representative of Poland made a statement in explanation of voto.

12. The Committee adopted draft resolution A/SPC/42/L.20 and Corr.l by a recorded
vote of 109 to 1, with 15 abstentions (sec para. 17, draft resolution A). The
voting was 68 follows. ~

In favour. Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Ar~entina, Australia, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Beni~, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darusoalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviot Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Chile, Ch!na,
Colombia, Congo, Cub~, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
K8m~uchea, Democr&tic Yomen r Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopiaf
Fiji, Finland, l1erman Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-B1ssau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Jamalca, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritnnia, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal,
New Zealand, Hicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Roma~ia, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Seneg~l, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yomen, Yucaoslavia, Zaire, Z811\:)18, Zimbabwe.

Against. United State9 of America.

Abstaining. qelgtum, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Fedoral Republic of,
I".land, Israol, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway,
Purtugal, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northorn
:ireland.

B. Draft rORolution A/SPC/42/L.2l and Corr.l

13. At the 34th meeting, the representative of Guatemala !ntroduce1 a draft
rosolution (A/SPC/42/L.2l and Corr.l) on behmlf of the States M~mber8 of the United
Nations that :lre mernbers of the Group of 17.

y The delegation of Cote d I IVo! re aUbsequPi'lt,ly stated thnt it had intended
to vote in favour of tho draft resolution.



A/42/8l4
English
~ge 4

14. At the same meetir.g, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/SPC/42/L.21 and
Corr.l by a recorded vote of 111 to 1, with 11 abstentions (see para. 17, draft
resolution B). The voting was a~ follows, 11

In favour, Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argen~ina, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Ben~n, Bhutan, Boliviaf Rotswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republio, Cameroon, Chile, China, Congo, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czeohoslovakia, Demooratio Kampuohea, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, German
Democratic Republio, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanorl, Lesotho, Liberia, Liby&n Arab Jamahiriya,
Luxembourg, Madagasce.r, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand,
Nioaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Omen, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, SWQziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United RepUblic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against. United States of America.

Abstaining, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Federal Republic
of, Iceland, Israel, Japan, Netherlands, Norway, United Kingdom
of Great Britain ~nd Northern Ireland.

IS. Following the vote on the draft resolutions, the representatives of thA
Netherlands, Japan, Denmark, the United States of America, Norway, the Islamic
Republic of Iran, Finland, Sweden, the United Kingdom of Great Eritein and Northern
Ireland and the Federal Republio of Germany made statements in explanation of vote.

16. SUbsequently, the representative of Guatemala, in his capacity as Chairman
of the Group of 77, and the repres9ntatives of Argentina, Colombia and Uruguay made
statem~ntu in connection with the resolutionR just adopted.

11 The delegations of Colombia, Cote d'Ivoire and Morocco subsequently
indicated that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ ...



A/42/814
EngUsh
lIage 5

I I I. ItECOMMJl:NDA'l'IOHS Oll-' THE SPECIAL POLITIC~ (),')MMI'f':~E

17. 'l'he Spec la1 PaU t ical Commi ttee reoommonda to the Gene ral Assembly the
adoption of the following draft resolutions.

Q~e8tion9 relating to information

A

The General Assembly,

Reoalling its previous resolutions on questions relating to information,

Reoalling the recommendations of th~ Committee on Information a8 adopted
by the General Assembly in paragraph 1 of its resolution 41/68 A of
3 December 1986, as well as tbe provisions of that resolution, taking into
account the views expreosed by d31egations at the forty-first s8ssion of the
Assembly on 3 December 1986, !I

Reaffirming the ma~date given to the Committee on Information by the
General Assembly in its resolution 34/192 of 18 December 1979,

Taking note of th~ report of the Secretary-Generftl on questions relating
to information, 1I

Enoouragins. the Seoretary-General to oontinue neueoeary aotion in ordel
to increase th~ efficienoy and effeotiveness of the De~artment of Public
Information, with pa~ticu1ar emphasis on seouring a co-o~dinated a~proach to
priority issues before the Organization,

1. Takes note of the comprehensive report of the Committee on
Information 6/ which served DS an important basis and stimulated turther
deliberations, and urges the full implementation of the following
rocomJnQn~ations as adopted at ita substantive Resalon.

(1) All countries, the united Nations system as a whole and all others
co~norned should co-operate in the establishment of a new world
information and communioation order, soen aw an evolving and continuous
process, and basod, inter aUa, on the free circulation and wider ""nd
~Qlt9r balanced dissemination of information, guaranteeing diversity of

~/ Official Recorda of the Gene ral Assembly, .-'orty-fi ret SOl'lRlon, Plenary
Meetings, 95th meeting.

2/ A/42/494.

§/ Of( ie lai Records of the Genenl Assembly, Forty-second Session,
Supplement No. 21 (A/42/21) •

I . ..



A/42/8l4
English
Page 6

sources of information and free access to information and, in particular,
the urg~nt need to change the dependent status of the developing
countries 1n the field of information and communication, as the principle
of sovereign equality among nations extends also to this field, and
intended also to strengthen peace and international understanding,
enabh•.;,! all persons to participate eftectively in pcUtical, economic,
social and cultural life and promoting human rigats, understanding and
friendship among all nations. The ongoing efforts of the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, which ret~ins the
central rolo in this field, to eliminate gradually the exiat1l'a9
imbalances in the field of information and communication and to encourage
a free flow and a wider and better balanced dissemination of information
in accordance with the relevant resolutions of that organization, adopt~i
by consensus, should be reaffirmed,

(2) Fully aware of the important rcle that the me~ia worldwide can
freely play, particularly under the present situation, it is recommended
that.

(a) The mass media should be encouragoQ to givo wider coverage to
tho efforts of the international community towards global development
and, in ~articular, the efforts of the developing countries to achieve
economic, social and cultural progress,

(b) The United Nations ayst6m as a whole should co-operate 1n a
concerted manner, through its inf~rmation services, in promoting a more
comprehensive and re~listic image of the activities and potential of the
United Nations system in all its endeavours, in accoraance with th~
purposes of the Charter of the United Nations, with particular em~hasis
on the creation of a climate of confidence, tho strengthening of
multilateralism and the prolnotion of the developmbnt activities in the
United Nations system,

(c) All countries shoula be urged to extend assistance to
journalists for the free and offective performance of. their professional
tasks,

(3) Aware of the existing imbalanc6s in the international distributlo~
of news, particularly that affecting the developing countries, it is
recommended that urgent attention should be given to the elimination of
existing inequalities 1n and all ot,her obstacles, both internal and
oxternal, to the free flow and wider anu oett~r balanced dissemination of
information, ideas and knowledge by, inter alh, diversifying the yources
of information and respecting tho interests, aspirations and
socio-cultural values of all peoples, as a step towards the attainmont of
a free flow and a wider and better balanced dissemination of information,

(4) The United Nutlons system as a whole, aa well as the developed
countries, should be urged to co-operat~ in a concerted manner with the
developing countries towards strength~ning the information and

/ ...
----- ------ - ---------- -- --- -------- --------------------



------

A/42/8l4
English
Page 7

communication infraDtructure~ in the latter countries, in accordance with
the priorities attached to such areas by the developing countries, with a
view to enabling them to develop their own information and communications
polioies freely and independently and in the light of their history,
sooial values and cultural traditions, taking into aocount the prin~iple
of freedom of the press and information. In this regard, full support
for the International Programme for the Development of communication of
the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization,
whioh oonstitutes an important step in the development of these
infra8t~ucture9, sh~uld always be emphasized,

(5) It is recommended that the need be stressed to promote the ~ocess of
the developing countries to communications technology, including
co~munioation satellites, modern electronic information systems,
informatic8 and other advanced information and communication facilitieR
with a view to improving their own information and communication 8ystems
in acoordance with the specific conditions ~revailing in each country,

(6) It i~ recommended that the Department of Public Information of the
~eoret~riat, in co-operatio with the United Nations Eduoational,
Soientifio and Cul~ural Organization, should explore further ways and
means of strengthoning co-operation and co-ordination with the News
Agenoies Pool of Mon-Alignod Countries, with the Eao-Pool of the News
Agenoies of Non-Aligned Countries, as well as with the regional news
agencies of devQl~~ing countries, as this constitutes a concrete step
towards the elir~lnction of existing imbalanoes. It is also recommended
that the Departnlent of Public Information should establioh adequate
co-operation with the developinq countries in tho audio-visual field,
especially with the Broadcasting Organization of th~ Non-Aligned
Countries,

(7) Reaffirming the pri"~ry role that the General Assembly is to pla~ in
elaborating, co-ordinating and harmonizing United Nations policies and
activities in the field of information and emphasizing the central role
of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
in the field of information and communioaticn~ it is recommended that the
Unitl9d Nations system as a whole and all others conoerned should be 'Jrged
to give that organization adequate support and assistance in the field of
information and communication. The Department of Public Information, in
pL'irticular, should co-operatE:' more regularly with the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, especially at the
working level, with a view to maximizing the contributions of the
Department to the efforts of that organization in further promoting the
attainment of a free flow and a widbr and better balanced diss~mination
of information,

/ ...



A/42/8l4
English
Page 8

(8) Artiole 19 of the Universal Deolaration of Human Rights, 11 which
provides that everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and oxpression
and that this right includes froedom to hold opinions without
interference and to seek, reoeive and impart information and ideas
through any media and regardless of frontiers, and article 29, Which
stipulates that these rights and freedoms may in no case be e~ercieed
contrary to the purposes and principles of the United Nations, should be
recalled.

(9) The Department of Publi~ Information 8hould be requested to
disseminate information about the United Nations activities in tho field
of human rights. The Department of Public Information should be
requested to make broad use of the fortieth anniversary of the Universal
Deolaration on Human Rights, which will be observed in 1988, for the
diseemination of information on human rights,

(10) The United Nations system, partioularly the United Nations
Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, should aim at
providing all possible support and assistal e to the developing countries
with due regard to their interests and needs in the field of information
and to action already taken within the United Nationa system, including,
in particUlar,

(a) Development of human resources as indiapensable for the
improvement of information and communication systoms in developing
countries, and support for the continuation and strengthening of
practioal training programmes, suoh as those already operating under both
pUblic and private auspices throughout the developing world,

(b) Creation of condit.ions that will gradually enable the
developing oountries to produce, by using their own reBOur.:es, the
communication technology suited to their national needs, as well aB the
neoessary programme material, specifically for radio and telev~qlon
broadcasting,

(0) Assistance in est:ab1.ishing and promtlting telecommunication
links at subregional, regional and interregional levels, especlally al1long
doveloping countries,

(ll) The Secretary-General should be requested to ensure that the
activities of the Department of Public Information, as the focal point of
the public information tasks of the United Nations, are strengthened dnd
improved, keeping in view the pur.poses and principles ~f the Charte~ of
the United Nations and the priority areas such as those stated in
section lXI, paragraph 1, of General Assembly resolution 35/201 of
16 December 1980 and other pertinent resolutions of the Assembly and th(c!

11 Resolution 217 A (Ill).

/ ...
--- -------------



A/42/IH4
~ngHah

lJ~~Q 9

recommendatiOlltl of the Committee on Informatioll, BO as to enaure an
objoctivo and moro coherent ooverage of, aa well alii a batter knowlttdqo
about, the Unitod Nationa and ita work. It ia rooOlilnlandoo t'urthor that
no new pUbl ic information uni ts ind-Jpendent of the Dellartm~nt IIhould l.Mt
oreated in the SQCrtltllr1at at' t.he United Natiolls,

(U) 'rho Socretary-General Bhould be t'e,!ueatet'l to provide the CoRuil1ttee
on Information at ita 9ubatantive session of 1988 with 11 feasibility
study on the conaoUdation and co-ordination of all [lUblio informatiun
activities within the United Nations with Bpeoi~io refereneo to the
fin&ncial impl1cationa as well as to the effectiveneuliI of tho Departlllont
of Public Information as th-. fooal point for public information
activities,

(13) 'l'he Department of l'ubUc Informatioll uho"ld be roquouted to L"Onl1IlUC
ita co-operation wit.h the Movement. of Non-"Ugnvd Countrioa, all well as
with intergovornmentil organizations and regional organizationa, and
should mOllitor, ao appropriate, importont mQQt1nt~8 of that MoV..-lWnt, fUll
woll aa of intergovernmental and regional organizationa, with a view to
promoting a froo flow and a wider and better balanoed dislutmination of
information,

(14) In tho light of the 8erious oconomic situation prevailing i" Africa,
the SenrotDry-Genoral should be rot.JueMted to Qnsure that the Dupartmont
of Public Information oontinuOlii to do its utlDOst in bringing to t.ho
attention of the internationol oommunity the roal dimensionll of tho
plight of the Aft'icQn peo.\le and the tremeMOUQ oUarts of the Aft'lc4In
oountries towards reoovery and devolopment, ao well aa th~ lJoBitive
rosponae by the intorl1ational community, with la view to illcn,auinq ito
L"Ontr ibution to olloviatin'.l thia human tragooy. In thh logan), thu
Secretary-General IIhould be requtt8tod to enllUl'O that tn~ Ue(>utmont ot
Public Inforloation oontinues to do it, utmust to di~M.min.t. widely an~
to pUbl!oize the United Nations Programme of Action for Ar~ican Ecunomic
neoovery and Devolopment 1';86-1990. !I In thiM relilluict, tho effurtu of
the Department of Public Information ahould be ~~mendedr

(15) The Department of Public Information IIhuuld be ur.god to q lYe thtt
widest posuible d1saominot:i.ol\ of! information llOrtaining to acute wor ld
eoonomic problomo in goneral and, in particular, to the 8~V01'O economic
difficulties of the least d8velol~d oounlri~8 and the novd for
strengthening the international eoonomic Co-op9ution aim4Hl at rellolvinq
external debt problems of developing cuu"triQ~'

(16) The relevant paraqrapho of Genoral Assombly resolution 59 (1) uf
14 December 1946, in which t.ho Alisombly stated, jntor: aUa, that houdom
of in(ormation is a fundamental human right, must be reit~ratQdl

!I Mesolution 5-11/2, annex.

I . ..



./42/814
ngUsh
'8ge 10

(17) The relevant ~.ovlsions of the Finol Act of the Conference on
Security and Co-operath)n in Europe, si«jned at Helsinki on 1 August 1975,
and those of the Conoluding Document oC the meeting of represe"tatives of
the participating States of the Conference on Security and C~-o~drathn
in Europe, held at Madrid from 11 November 1980 to 9 September 1983,
should ue recalled,

(18) The relevant provisions of the Deolaration on the Preparation of
Societies for Life in Peace 1/ should also be ~eoalledJ

(19) The final documents of the Conferenoes of the Ministers of
Information of Non-Aligned Countries, held ftt Jakarta from 26 to
30 January 198~, !QI and at Harare fLom 10 to 12 June 1987, !!I should be
recalled,

(20) The Conference of Minist~~s of Infor~Gtion of States members oE the
O:ganization of African Unity, held ~t Addis Ababa in March 1985, whic~
expressed its convicti~n of the importance of a new world information and
communioation order, should be noted,

(21) The relevant resolutions on the ques~ion relating to information of
the Fou~th Islamio Summit Conference, held .t Casab)~noa in
January 1984, 11/ And the Fifth Islamic Summi~ ~~nference, held at Kuwait
in January 1987, Jl/ should be recalled,

(22) The relevant sectiot, of the Political Declaration adopted by the
Eighth Conference of Heads c.'f State or Government of Non-AU9ned
Countries, held at Harar.e from 1 to 6 Sel)tember 1!J86, .!!I should be
recalled,

,23) The Dep.\I:tment of Publio InCormation should continue to maintain
consistent editorial independenoe aud accuracy in reporting for all
material produced by the Deportment and should promote, to the greatest
posptble extent, an informed understa~din9 of ,he work and purposes of
the United " ,Uons system among the peoples of th, world, inter sUa,

!I Resolution 33/73.

lQ..I A/39/l39-S/l6430, annex.

1lI P, '42/431, annex.

12/ A/39/l31-S/l64l4 and Corr.l, annex 11, resolution lC/4-P(IS) •

W A/42/l78-S/18753, annex IV, resolution l/S-C/IS) •

1lI A/4l/697-S/18~~2, annex, sect. I, paras. 294-312.

/ ...



A/42/8l4
I!:ngUsh
Page 11

the cultural, humanitarian, economic and 800ial programmes of its
specialized ager..~iea, taking necessary measures to ensure that it!! ou~put
contains objective and equit~ole information about isaues before the
Organization, reflecting divet"gent IJpinions where they occur,

(24) The Department of Public Information should, in the context of the
review of hs role, performance aud method of work, consider the
feas~bility of applying modern technologies for the collection,
produotion, storage, dissemination and distribution of information
materials, inoluding the use of satellite faoilities, having in mind tho
possibility of owning one in the future. The Secretary-General should be
requeated to submit suoh a feasibil:ty study, inclUding ita financial
implications, to the Committee by its next organizational sessi>n, at the
latest,

(25) In this regard, attention is drawn to the suocess attained by the
ARABSAT, BRASILSAT, INSAT-lB, MO~EL03 and PALAPA satellite systems and
the CONDOR project, designed to promote national and reg10nal
integration, and the improvement of communication infrastructures,

(26) In the light of the pt'esent finanoial difficultiea of the Department
of Public Information, it is recommel.ded that the Department consider
expanding the programme of telephone news bulletins that are paid for by
its users. The Committee on Information notes with appreciation the
positive response of those countries that are assisting the United
Nations in resuming the sh~rt-wave broadcasts thro~9h their respective
national networks free of charge. In the light of this successful
co~peration, the Department of Public Inform.tion is requested to
continue hs contaots with intere&ted countries a•.d broadoastin9
or9anizations, in both the developed and dev~loping countries, ospecially
those with reoognized capabilitJes, to sulicit this type of co-operation
and to report to the COmmittee at its substantive session in 1988 on the
outcome of those contacts. The Depar~ment of Public Information shoul.d
be requested to ensure that these radio programmes a,re ob.) lctive and
professional,

(27) The Committee on Information takes note with appreciation of
re9ion81 effoLts, especially among th~ developing countries, as well aa
c~-operation between developed and developing countries to develop
further their media ~;".w8trL1cture, especially in the areas of trainj,ng
and dissemination of 111r.';:'lllat!on, with a view to encouraging a free flow
and a wi~n and betler bLillanced disseminat.ion of information,

(28) The Department of Public Information should cont~,nue its annual
trainin9 programme for broadc8eteLs and journalists from developing
countries. The Committ~a on Information notes that the workshop for the
familiarization of nev~ sgen~ies of developing countries with modern

I . ..



A/42/814
English
Page 12

teahno1og iea, as reoommended by the Commi tteo 15/ and apllroved by the
General Assembly in its reool"'tion 41/68 A of 3 Deoembet' 1986, has not
been organized owino to finanoial oonstrainea. '11t1e Dopartment of Publio
Information is onoe again requested, in Oo"'ol>oraUon with the United
Nations Eduoational, Soientifio and Cultural Organization and the News
Agenoies Pool of Non-Aligned Countries, to Ollauro tho continuation and
expansion of this kind of activity. In this conneotion, th£t llollartment
should oontinue to examine thfl possibility of llllooating a week of the
progral1Ulle for ,. . lait by journalista and broadcasters from devoloping
oountries fo' .lle of the developing oountries that expro9Dos roadiness to
reoei'" ••,~lR for tho purpose of aoquainting them with tho wayo in which
information ~'1'1 the United Nations is reoeivod and utilized,

(29) In order to enhanoe awareness and understanding of the lofty
objectives of the United Nations, the Dopartmont of Public Information
should provide assilitance, in an objective and equitable way, to
educational institut'.ions of Member States for teachiny about the
struoture of the United Nations, as well as the principlos and purpoue8
enunciated in ita Charter. In order to implement this recolhffiondlltion,
the Department should continue to organize oominlHb for oduulltc.,rs and
eduoation policy makers,

(30) Within the World Disarmament Campaign, tho Departmont of Publio
Information should encourage oov8rligo aimed at. tho promotion of a olimate
of understanding, confidence and oo-operation, peaco unu dovolopment, and
the enhanoement: of human rights,

(31) The Department of Publio Information should be roque6t(~d to continuo
to cover adequately and accurately all United Natiorlo activitios
pe~taining to the situation in the Middlo I!:aut. and the quooUon of
Palestine, in accordanoe with relevant. United Nations l'eIJolutiotla, Llnd to
report to the Committeo on Xnformation at its uubsl:llntivc ooooiol1 of 1988;

(32) The Department of Publio Informot~on should continua ltu activitiea
and dissemination of information on the po11c ioo and praol1cea of
apartheid, giving due attention to the unilatural moauureo and offioial
censorship imposed on the looal and international media with roglltd to
all aspeots of this iesue,

(33) The Seoretary-Genenl should be requested to intensify hill efforts
in order to alert world public opinion to the illegal occupation of
Namibia and to continue to disseminate adequately and accurately, with
the full assistance of the United Nations Council ror 11' ,tibia, the
Department of Public Information and the 1mi tecJ Nations system au a
whole, information relating to the struggle of the oppro8uoo people of

1lI See flfficial Records of the General Assembly, J:t'orty-firfJt SO'wion,
Supplement No. 21 (A/41/21), para. 69.

/ ...



A/42/814
Engl1f1Jh
Paf;l~ 13

Ntutlil>ita fOt" ae!f-dotorlllination, nationll1 indellondonoo and frt;uKiom aa well
aa to the neud f(n' Lilo fUll ancl 8(,uedy implomontation ot' tho United
Nationu plan tor N~miblaJ

(34) '1'ho l)epal't.~nt of Publio Informotion ahould further OOVQr adequately
Ilnd with imputial ay the activiths of all united Natiolls PQaoe-keeping
operationa, in view c)f the llaramount importance of such operationa fer
tho ·maintonanQ~ ot !nternational peace and socurity,

(35) 'l'ho Sooretlary-(»enerol IIhould 00 requoated to onsuro tho o<)ntlnuation
Ilnd lmpt:ovomont of Unitod Nations radio and tolevision programmos ond,
inter ali~, to strengthen the Middle Eallt/Arabic Unit as tho produoer of
Arnbio telovision and ra~io progrommes. The DQpartment of PUblic
Information shOUld imploment the provisions o~ General Ausembly
resolution 38/82 B 01 15 Dooember 1983 on the Caribboan Unit. In viuw of
tho lmportanQe of UniteC.l Nations rat"io progrmmmes in tha Ashn and
Illuropoan regions, the funotiono of tho Asian and European Unito ahc)uld
not only be maintained, thoy shoula alBO be expanded,

(36) Tho unique funotion of tho Unitod r.atlona information oentres 'Ul ono
at.: the IOOllt lmport~nt moons of dissominating information about the United
Nottonu among the peoples of the world is reoognijed. In this regard,
Unitod NatiQns information oentres should oontinue to ossist pross and
information media In their respQotive countrieo in acoordanoe with the
mandGto given by the General Assombly and shoultJ intensl fy dir.eot and
syotomatic oommunioation exohange with 10001 information and educational
institutions and non-4lovornment.ml organizatiof1a i" a mutually benofioial
woy. Every offort should be made to estoblish C1080 co-ordination with
~t',her fiold offices of the United NationCll systom, portioularly thooo of
the Unitod Nations Development Programmo, in order to avoid dupl1clltion
of work. Co-ordination with other United Nationo offices should take
into account the funotional autonomy of the United Nat iona intormation
centroll. 'l'he Department should en1lU1'0 open and unh indured aCCless vy 1111
peoplo to all United Nations information centreo anu to all materials
diatrlbuted throu9h tho I,entrea,

(37) '!'ho Department ot' Public Information should di8Bem~nate infol'mation
oonoornin9 tho decisiolls of tho United Nations dUllling with acts of
t9rroriom in all its forme, taking into aocount partioull1rly General
Assembly r~Bolutiof1 40/61 of !i Deoember 1985, as wall as the relevlJnt
statements of tho llros!dont of the Seoudty Council Ilnd the
Seoretary-General,

(38) The Socretary-Gonoral should contif1l.1e to strengthen and accolerate
hiD efforcs to devolop a system for monitoring and evaluating the
offoctivonoss of the aotivities of the Departmont of Public Informatiou,
particularly in tho priority areas determined by the General Assembly,
.:aking into account the need to improvo data l:ollection procodures,
analysis .:If feedbaok data l!ind end-uso of the Ocp.utment I~ material." anri
IIIllximizing tho officiency of t.hlJ O(l()liltiOIW ill all t'hc.' i.t" iHlp"ct ~I

/ ...



1'/42/01.
IngllBh
Pave 14

(39) Jj'uturtt reports of the Department of Publio Infor.mation to the
COmmittee on Information and to the General Assemhly, 1n partioular on
new pragrmmmes ~r on the oxpanaion of existing programmes, should contain.

(0) Moro adequate information on the outllut of the Departmont in
reapeot of ~ach topic included in ita ~~tk programme, which forma tho
basis of its programme budget,

(b) 'rho costs of the activities undertaken in respect of oach tOLlio,

(c) More adequate information or, target audiences, end-uso of the
Departmeut'ij products, and analysis of feedback data roceived by the
Departmont,

(d) A statement dotailin9 the priority level that the
Secretary-Gene.. ral ha. attached to aurrerat. or future activitios of thtJ
Depaltmlnt in documents dealing with such activities,

(e) The Departmont's evaluation of the effectivene8s of itw
different programmes and activitie8, with particular referenoe to the
need constantly to review internal programme olemont8 and activitiei'

(40) The steps taken by t~o Dopartment of Publio Information in
redrelliling the imbalullce in its .taff should be noted. 'llhe Dopartmollt
should oontinue its efforts to that end. Tha Seoretary-General ohoultl
take appropriate steps to incroase the reprosentation of underrepreaentod
developing oountrhs antl of othor underreproGonted groups of aountrioB,
elilpouinlly at. tho sonior lovelB, i", oonformity with the relovant
provisions of tho Charter of the Un! tod Nationa, and to oUbRlit a roport
to the Committoe on Information at its substantive S88.io~ 1n 1988,

(41) Mombor StatttIJ ~JII()ult1 00 called upon onop. aCJdn to muk~) vulunt:IHY
,"ollt:ributl()lI~ to the UllitNi Nationu 'l't'uat lI'uful for lo:conomic' olld r-lO<:ii'l,
III f cH' R1~' t; i un ,

(42) Noto la takon of th/:, L'ollOl:l:. on tho curtailmont of radio pr:t>qrJlmmoy
and tho impwvemf}nt in the distr ibution of tlll}Q(l radio progrumlllml
(Jl'oouood by the Department of' Public Information, W and th~ DepcHtmonl
lU CQquoul:od to take uteps to improve their tlillta:ihution, to UX.'lIl!i.1lO lU.l
CUL'ront: ot'1'ectivon09u and to L'eport: to tho Cc),"mltt:oo ut ita Hubut:anti.vo
soasion in 19U8. In th1B conneotion, tho Dopat'tment of Public
Infor:maHon should Qxplore adequate measures to C09umo radie> prognullmou
that huve beon curtailed, bearing in mind the need to enouro effective
uti tization, timeliness and maximum Iludionce impact,

!!I A/AC.198/l1?

/ ...



A/42/814
EngUsh
vlI\le lS

(43) Note ia takQn of the [Qport on the programma and acUvitiee of the
Juint UnitQd Natit)na Infot:maUon CommittoD, !11 and the seoretary-Genera..
le uf<Jod to continue his effofte to aooure a sound and stable Unanoiel
baaia {'or Dftvelopmont Forum, the only intor-agonoy pubUcation of the
United Nations ayatem that oonoentrateD on devolopment issue., The
Seoretary-General should continue to ensure that Development Forum
rotains ita editorial policy of intelleotual independenoe, thuI enabling
this publication to continue to serVQ aa 11 world-wido forum in whioh
diverse opinions on iaBu•• relating to eoonomio and aooial development
oan be fre.ly .xpreaaod,

(44) In ordor to ensure a bettor image of tho United Nations and to
promote a more accurate understanding of ita aotivities, the OOpartment
oC Publio Information .hould guarantee doily ~overa9~ of all United
Nations meetings through i~.uanco of tho daily press re lea••• and the
weekly nows di~e.t in all working 1~nguago8. The Department of Public
Information should continuo to oo-opo~ato olosoly with and provide
asaistanco to the member. of the United Nations Correspondent.
A99ociatio". taking into aoouunt their needs and requirement., especially
in th4 areo of pross reloa80s, whioh provido them with tho neaessary raw
material for adequate reporting. Tho OQpartment of Publio In~ormation
9hou1d bo requestod anew to use the ofZioial languages of the aeneral
Assembly adequately in ita documents and audio-visual documentation in
ordor to inform the publio better about the aotivities of the Unitea
Nations. The Departmont of Publio Info:mation should a9ain be reque.ted
to make balQn~ed use of the two wor:ki~9 languages of the Seoretariat, in
oonform:l,ty with General Assombly resolution 2 (I) of 1 February 1946 in
itli writton and audio-v1aual' documents and to provido tho t~o press
gectiona with the moans of produoing and distributing prouEI relea888 ancS,
accortlinqly, to arranQo appropt!ate staffinq. The Department of Publio
lllformation should co-operato with delegations when they request. that
thuir views be refleoted with aoouracy and objoot:ivity, "y issuing
addenda or oorrigend~ in the language of the VrOB9 releasos,

(45) 'l'ho DepBrtmont of Publio Infol'matiufI should improve tho tiJllely
distribution of it9 materials to subsoribors ~nd United N~tion8
information centres, partloul"rLy the UN <:hron1"le, a IMjor source of
itlforullltion on the United Nations to i~ol:irionts, an,1 ohould roaS8881
tho offoctivonOHB ot' thh }>ubl1cat inn and rQport to tho Commi ttoe on
\ 1\ to l'llult lon at.. ita uuba ttlint i vu fle.n itm in 14lt8 J

(4u) 'l'ho Sooretar:y-(illntHal t1huuhl l~ ~I\G(")ur"~JI~d lo ,:ont.illuo and intensify
h in oHm:ta to exploro all p09~ihi 1it: il'B uf :1P.'Cllt i Ill) iu.l(;'lJU(\ll~ rOlSOU1C09
'(H' the cc>nt inuat 1,)n of tho ~;~L~.~·,~I)Lli!1.'.!lL.~';~..!,!~I~:!.I.!-..pro h.-ct,. "ho
,;~-l..!l1.?~~~ ohould lw properly lab(·llml to i,'(!nl:.i.fy ll~; Bouu::es,

111 A/AC.198/120.

I . ..



A/42/814
English
Page 16

(4'7) It is recOCjnized that froe distribution of materials is neoessary ill
the pUblic information aotivities of the United Nationa, but, as demanus
increase and whenever it i~ desirable and possible, the Dupartment oC
Public Information ahould aotively enoourage the Bale of its materiala,

(48) It is roquested that the reoommendations relating to the activities
of the Department of Publio Information of tho Secretariat be implemented
within existing resources,

2. Requests that the reoommendations relating to the aotivities of the
D partment of Publio Information of the Seoretariat be implemented within
existing resouroes,

3. Regueatu the Secretary-General to report to the Committee on
Information, at its aubatant.ivo session in 1988, on the blplementation of tho
above reoownendations,

4. Also roguo3ts the Sucretary-General to roport to the General
Aas6mbly at its forty-third sossion on the implementation of tho presont
resolution,

S. Requeat~ the Committee on Information to roport to the General
Assombly at its forty-third 906sion,

6. Deoidos to inoludo in the provisional agonda of its forty-third
sossion the item ontitlod "Questions relating to Information".

B

The Genoral Ansembly,

Recalling ita resolutions 34/101 and 34/182 of 18 December 1979, 35/201
of 16 December 1900, 36/149 A of 16 Decembor 1981, 37/94 A and a of
10 Uocomber 1982, 38/82 A of 15 December 1983, 39/98 A and B of
14 Decomber 1984, 40/164 A and U of 16 December 1985 and 41/68 A and 0 of
3 Decomber 1986,

Rocallinq the rolovant provisions of the final documents of the Second
Confaronce of! the Ministers of InfQrmation of Non-Aligned Countrios, held at
Ilaure from 10 to 12 June 1987, W the Declarations of the Seventh and Eighth
Conferences oC Heada of state or Gt;)vernment of Non-Aligned Countrba held at
Now Ue1hi in 190J, .!!I and at Uaral'Q in 1986, !y as well as the final
documents of the l~l\ferenoo of the Ministers of Infol:nation of Non-Aligned
Countries, held ut Jakarta in 1984 !.Q/ and the relevant provisions of! tho

2:.!!/ ~;U(;' J\/:i8/132·-n/1S671:) and Con.l and 2, annex, soct. I, para. 173.

I . ..



,\/42/814
EngUah
vage 17

1"inal Politica 1 UecliHlltioll adopted by the CClI'lforenoQ of MinistQru for lI'oroi9n
AHuinl oC Non-Alignod Countr ios, held at LuandA in 1985, !!I

Uocallinf) tlh:l relevant roeolut.iona adoptod by tho Assombly of iloads of
State and Govurfllllent at.' tho OrC:Janhation of Afr lean Unity at its eighteenth
orcHnal':j soedon, holu at Ndrobi in 1981, lQ./ and tho Conferenoe of Ministers
of Information uf :itatos mombol's of tho Organizatica of Afrioan Unity "t its
third ordinary aORoion, huld at A<1tHs Ababa in '.985, and at ita first
oxtraol'dinarv sU6lJioll, hold at Cairo in November 1985, ospecially thoE;e
oncnuraginq regional co-operation in the ftold of information,

noculliQU the relevant provisions of tho Final Act of the Confef9noe on
Security and Co-oporation in Europe, aignod at lielslnki on 1 August It\'/5, and
thmle 01' the ConclUding UOcument of the moeting of representatives at the
partioipating Statos ol tho Conference on Seourity and Co-operation in Europo,
held at Madrid from 11 November 1980 to 9 Septembor 1983,

Rocal1!!m. article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Iluman Rights, .V
which providco that evoL'yone has the right to freedom of opinion and
cxprossion and that thiA right includes freodom tC' hold opinions without
interference and to Book, ['ecehe and impArt information and ideas through any
modia Qnd rotjanllesu of frontiors, and articlo 29, which stipulates that thoae
rights and froodomo may in no C300 be oxorcioed contrary to the llurpos05 and
principles of tho Unitod Nationa,

Recalling aloo tho relevant pl'ovisiona of the Declaration on tho
Preparation 01:' Socioti06 for Lifo in Peace, !I

Conscioull that, in oruor progressively to r:ul1Iedy existing imbalances, it
is cHHlontial to strengthon lllla intensify the devolopment of infrastruoturfll,,
networks and rosourcoo in lhe comn\un:!.cations field and thus encourage a free
flow and a wider and betlol balancod dissemination of information,

l~mpllLlAidntJ its full sUl1port for the Intornational Proqrammo (or the
l.>evelopmellt of Communication of thl! United Nations F.oucational, Sciontific and
Cultural OrqullhClti()ll, which cOllotitutus an ossttntial instrument for the
devolopment of hUlRun Ilnd mater ial resources and cORllnunication infrastructures
in tho dovoloping countrios,

l{e~.olJnhinlJ thl' t::~ntral role ot' the United Nlltionll Bducational,
Scientific and Cultural Organhation in the field of information and
communications within its mandate, as woll as the progress accomplished by
that organization in that field,

III Sec 1\/40/854-S/L"I610 and Corr.t, annex I, l'J(,!ct. XXXIV.

20/ See A/3G/SH, annux 11.

I . ..



A/42/814
English
Page 18

1. Takes note of the report of the niraotor-Goneral of the United
Nation~ Eduoational, Soientifio and Cultural Organization, lA/

2. Reol.'\la the Deolaration on Fundamental Prinoiples oonoerning the
Contribution of the Mass Media to Strengthening Poa~o and International
Understanding, to the Promotion of Humar Rights and to Countering Raoialism,
Apartheid and Inoitement to War, l!I adogt6d on 28 November 1978 by the
General Conferenoe of the United Natior,s Eduaational, Soientifio and Cultural
Or9anization,

3. Considers that the International Programme for the Development of
Communioation of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization represents a signif1.oant step towart1a the gradual elimination of
existing imbalanoes in tho field of infol:'mt.ation and oommunioations, and
woloomes the deoisl~ns adopted by the Int~rqovernmentalCounoil of th@
Programme at ita eighth session, held in Pari4 in January 1987,

4. ~xpresaea its appreciation to all Member States that ~ave made or
pledged a oontribution towards the implemencfttion of the International
Programme for the Development of Communioationi

5. Again oalla uegn Member States ,tnd organizations and bodies of the
United Nations system aa well as other international governmental and
non-governmental organizationa and oonoerned publio and private enterpriseJ to
ro~pond to the appeals of the Direotor-General of the United Nations
Eduoational, Soientifio and Cultural Organi~ation to oont~ibute to the
International Programme for the Development of Communioation by making
financial resouroes available as well 8a staff, equipment, teohnologies and
traini~g resouroes,

6. ~!!! resolution 4/22 of 27 Ootober 1980 1lI ooncerning the
reduotion of telecommunication tariffs for newe exohanges, adopted by the
General Conferenoe of the United Nationa educational, Soientific and Cultural
Organization at ita twenty-first session, and takos note of the efforts made
by Member States in this respv.ot,

7. Reaffirms its support for the United Nations Eduoational, Soient,tfio
and Cultural Organization, its Constitution alld the ideals refleoted in tt,

.£1/ A/42/571 •

.!5/ United Nations Eduoational, Scientifi~ and Cultural Organization, ~eoords
of the General Conference, Twentieth Session, vol. I, Resolutions, pp. 100-104.

~ lB!2., Twenty-first SesBion, vol. I, Reoolutions, sect. Ill.

/ ...



A/42/814
English
Page 19

8. InvitAA the Director-General of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization to continu& his efforts in the
information and communication field anj to submit to the General Assembly, at
its forty-third sosRion, a detailed report on the application of the
International Programm~ for tha Development of Communication as well as on the
l1ocial, economic and CllltL:ral affects of the accelerated cleve10pment of
communication technologiesl

9. Reaffir~ the ongoing efforts of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization, which retainR the central rolo in the
fiolo of information, gradually to eliminate Axisting imbalances, particularly
with r.oapect to the development of infrastructur.es and production capacities,
and to encourage a free flow and wider and t~tter balanced dissemination of
infolmation with a view to the estahlishment of ~ new world information and
communication order, seen as an evolving and continuous process, in accordance
with the relevant United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization consonsus resolutionR.


