







































General Assembly Distt.
GENERAL

A/42/726
10 November 1987
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL : SPANXH

-.-.

Forty-second session
Agenda item 108

INFORMATION FROM NON-SELF-GOVERNING THRRITORIES  TRANSMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 2 OF THE CHARTHR  OF THE DNITHD NATIONS

Report of the Fourth Committee

Rapporteur: Mr. Alvaro CARMEVALI-VILLEGAS  (Venezuela)

1 . At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1987, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda Of itis
forty-second session the item entitled:

"Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under
Article 73 2 of the Charter of the United Nations;

"(a) Report of the Special Cofianittee on the Situation with regard to the
Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples;

.

"(b) Report of the Secretary-General."

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Fcrurth
Committee.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 23 September, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda items 18, 108, 110 and 12, 111 and 112, on the
understanding that individual proposals on matters covered by those items would be
considered separately. The Committee held the general debate on these items at its
10th and 12th to 21st meetings, between 9 and 23 October.

3. The Fburth Conunittee  considered item 108 at its 10th and 12th to
23rd meetings, between 9 and 28 October (see A/C.4/42/SR.10  and 12-23).

4. At the 10th meeting, on 9 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee Qn
the Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting

87-28414-4616P (H)

Y a
/..-



A / 4 2 / 7 2 6
English
Page 2

of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which he gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 1987 and drew
attention to chapter VII of the report of that Committee relating to item 108
(A/42/23 (Part IV)) A/ containing, inter alia,  the related draft resolution
submitted by that Committee for consideration by the Fourth Committee.

5 . The Fburth Committee also had before it the report of the Secretary-General
relating to the item (A/42/577/Rev.l).

6. At its 22nd meeting, on 28 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 9 of chapter VII of the report of the Special
Committee (A/42/23 (Part IV)) by a recorded vote of 134 to none, with 4 abstentions
(see para.  7). 2,' The voting was as follows: z/

In favour; Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chile,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gambia, German
Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's DemocrOatic  Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritius, Mexico, Mongolia, 1
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines,
Samoa, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles,
Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,

L/ To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-second Session, Supplement No. 23 (A/42/23) -

21 The representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland made a statement in explanation of vote.

2/ Subsequent to the voting, the delegations of Zaire and Zimbabwe indicated
that they had intended to vote in favour of the draft resolution. The delegations
of Botswana, Egypt and Sierra Leone indicated that, had they been present at the
time of the votingr they-would have voted in favorir  of the draft resolution...'

:

.’ / . . .



A/4 2/726
English
Page 3

Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstainirlg:  Chad, France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America.

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

7. The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

Information from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted
under Article 73 e of the Charter of the United Nations

The General Assembly,

Having examined the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 g of the
lharter  of the United Nations i/ and the action taken by the Committee in
respect of that information;

Having also examined the report of the Secretary-General on this item, S/

Recallinq  its resolution 1970 IXVIII)  of 16 December 1963, in which it
requested the Special Committee to study the information transmitted to the
Secretary-General in accordance with Article 73 e_ of the Charter and to take
such information fully into account in examining the situation with regard to
the implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General Assembly resolution
1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Recalling also its resolution 41/13 of 31 October 1986, in which it
requested the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under resolution 1970 (XVIII),

9 A/42/23 (Part IV), chap. VII.
*
Y A/42/577/Rev.l.

/ . . .



A/42/726
English
Page 4

Noting with concern that the working papers on Territories prepared for
the Special Committee by the Secretariat do not, in some instances, contain
adequate, timely information, due in large measure to the late transmission of
information under Article 73 e,  of the Charter,

1. Approves the chapter of the report of the Special Committee On the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under Article 73 e of the
Charter of the United Nations;

2. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decision by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory has attained a full measure Of
self-government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter of the United Nations,
the administering Power concerned should continue to transmit information
under Article 73 2 of the Charter with respect to that Territory;

3 . Requests the administering Powers concerned to continue to transmit
to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in Article 73 e of the
Charter, as well as the fullest possible information on political and
constitutional develapments  in the Territories concerned, within a maximum
period of six months following the expiration of the administrative year in
those Territories;

4 . Requests the Secretary-General to ensure that adequate information
is drawn from all available published sources in connection with the
preparation by the Secretariat of the working papers relating to the
Territories concerned, for the Special Committee;

5, Requests the Special Committee to continue to discharge the
functions entrusted to it under General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII),  in
accordance with established procedures , and to report thereon to the Assembly”
at its forty-third session.


