







































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly

.

--
A

. -_. . --_.~,. -. -. _~__

Dintr.
GRNERAL

A/42/804
27 Navombctr  1987

ORIGINAL: ENGLT815

Yorty-oocont neRoion
Aqanda  item 99

IIIJMAN 112GIl’l’S  ANI) !iCIEN’l’1’l~IC  AND ‘I’lSClINOLOGICAL  DWELOPMEN’I’S

~ortour  Im_- Mrt.3.  Anl SANTHGSO (Indoncoia)

1, At its 3rd plenary weetinq,  on 18 I3optember  1987, tha GonaraL Afwambly, on the
recommendation of the Cenornl Committoo, duoidud  t o  i n c l u d e  i n  ita aqenda t h e  i t e m
e n t i t l e d  “Human riqhka a n d  wientl  Cic U,I~ tochnolnglcal  dovolopmentsr report of
t h e  fiucrotury-Gc!nornl.” and to  ul..Lacat:a i t  to  the  Thi rd  Commit tee .

3 The Third Co;nmittr?s  wnaidered  tho item jointly with itans 98, 100, 101, 102,
GC, a n d  1 0 7  a t  its 39th t o  41nt, 43rd,  4&h and Slnt  t o  53rd meetinqs,  f r o m  9  t o
and 18 tn 20 Novornher 1987, An ocoount  of: the Commi  t.tsc’!i dishuseion it3 contoinl  i
i n  t h e  r e l e v a n t  uummary  rccorda (A/C.3/42/f,l~.39-41.,  4 3 ,  4 6  a n d  51-53).

3. For its conniderat.i.on of tho item, the Committotl  had before itg

(a) Report of the Economic and Social Counci. L, chapter V, aectfon A
(A/42/3) t y

(b) Human  riqhtn  and ~~cientific and tschnoloqical  developmental report of
the Secretary-GoneraL  (A/42/392 and Add.1 and 2).

4. At the 39th mee:inq,  on 9 Nc>vemt:er, t h e  llndor-Sccretnry-General  f o r  Human
Hiyhtn  made an introductory fltatsment.

Y To be  i ssued  as Off ic ia l  Records  of the C;ene,:al Assembly,  Forty-aenond
Session, Supplement No. 3 (A/42/3) .

8 7 - 3 1 6 6 8  06OLP  (E) / . . .



A/42/004
English
Page 2

II. CONS1 DERATION  OF PROPOSALS

A. D r a f t  rosotution A/C.3/42/L.53

s, At the Slnt  meeting, on 18 November, the  representa t ive  of  the  Uni ted  Kinqdom
of Great  Bri ta in  and Northern I re land int roduced a  draf t  resolution  (A/C.3/42/L.57)
ent i t led  “Impl.ioations  of  sc ient i f ic  and technclogioal  developments  for  human
r igh t s” ,  on  beha l f  o f  Bol iv ia ,  C o l o m b i a ,  Costa Rica, C&o d@Ivoirs,  Fiji, I ta ly ,
M roaco, the Netherlands, Norway, Samoa, Singapore, Sweden and the United Kingdom
of Qraat Bri ta in  and Northern I re land.

6. At its S3rd meeting, on 20 November, the Committea adopted draft resolution
A/C,3/42/L.53  w i t h o u t  a  v o t e  ( s e e  para, 13,  d r a f t  r e s o l u t i o n  I ) .

B. Cruft  r e s o l u t i o n  A/C.3/42/L.58

7. At the S2nd  meeting, on 19 November, the  representa t ive  al? the  Union of  Sovie t
SocIalIst Republ ics  in t roduced a  draf t  resolu t ion  (A/C.  3/42/L.  58) en t i t led  “Human
righta  and use of  sc ient i f ic  and technological  developments” ,  apowored  by
Pfghanintan,  Anqola ,  Bulgar ia ,  the  Byeloruoeian  !3oviet  Socia l i s t  Republ ic ,  Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethiopia, the German DemocraLic  Republic,
Hungary, Ido People’s  Democratic Republic,  the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Monqolia,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Poland, Romania, the &rian Arab Republic, the [Jkrainian Soviet
Socia l i s t  Republ ic ,  the  [Inian of Soviet Socia l i s t  Republ ics  and Viot Nam.

0. At its 53rd meetiaq,  on 20 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C,3/42/L.50  by a recorded vote of t03 to 10, with 15 abutontiona (see pare. 13,
d r a f t  r e s o l u t i o n  I I ) . The voting was as follows:

In favour; Afyhanlstan,  Alqeria, Argen t ina ,  Rahamee,  Bahra in ,  Il&qqladesh,
Earbadoa,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bol ivia ,  Botswana,  Brazi l ,  Bru?eJ.
Darussalam,  Rulqaria,  Burkina Faso,  Burma,  Burundi ,  Bjpelorusuian
Sovie t  Socia l i s t  Republ ic , Cameroon, Central African Republic,
Chad, China, Comoros, Conqo, Costa  Rica ,  C&e d’Ivoire,  Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic  Yemen, Djibouti,  Pominicnn
Republic,  Ecuador, Egypt ,  El  Salvador ,  Equator ia l  Guinea,
Ethiopia, German Democr.ltic  Republic, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea,
Honduras, Hunqary, India, Indonesia, I ran (Is lamic Republ ic  of) ,
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,  Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niqer,  Nigeria,
Oman,  Pakist.an,  Panama, Paraguny, Phi l ippines ,  Poland,  Qatar ,
Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Seneqal,  Sierra  Leone,
zingapore,  Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobaqo, Tunisia, Uqanda,
Ilkrainian  Sovie t  Socialist  Republ ic ,  Union of  Sovie t  Socia l i s t
Republics, United Arab Emiratefl,  rJruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

/ . . .



A/42/904
Englieh
page 3

B e l g i u m ,  F r a n o e ,  Q e r m a n y ,  Feditral R e p u b l i o  o f ,  I s r a e l ,  Italy,Againatt
Nether lands, Papua New Winerr, Portugal, United Kingdom  of Great
Britain and Northern  Ireland, United States of Amerioa.

Abstaining: Austra l ia ,  Auetria, Canada, Denmark,  Finland,  Greeoe,  Ice land ,
Ireland, Japan, Luxembourrj,*New  Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden,
Turkey.

9. After t h e  adcjption of tho d r a f t  LeeoXution, etatemente  were made by the
repregsntativee  of  Sweden  and Japan (see  A/C.3/42/SR.54).

c. Draft rseolrrtion  A/C. 3/42/L. 59- - -

10. At the S2nd meeting, the representative of the Byelorueeian Soviet Sooialist
Republic  introduoed a draft  resolution (A/C.3/42/L.S9)  entit led %uman rights and
roientifio and teohnoloqioal developments’, eponsord by Afghanistan, Algeria,
Angola, Argentina, Bangladesh, Benin, Bolivia, Bulgaria, Burkina Faeo, the
Byeloruarian Soviet  8ooialiet  Republio,  Cameroon,  Coats Rioa, C8te d~fvoire,  Cub&
Cygrue, Cseohoelsvakia,  Demoaratio Yemen<  the German Demwratio Republio,  Hungary,
the Lao Paopla~a  Demoorat,io  Republic, the Libyzrnb Jamahiriya, Madaqaaoar,  Mali,
Mongolia, Moroooo,  Nepal, Nioaragua,  Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Poland, Romania, Sierra
Leone, the Syrian Arab Republic, the Ukrainian Soviet Sooialist Republio, the Union
of Soviet Sooialiat  Republics, Viet Nam and Zambia.

11. At ite 53rd meeting, the Committee adopted draft reeolution  A/C.3/42/L.59 by A
reoorded  vote of 108 to none, with 25 ahstentione (see para. 13,  draft
reso lut ion  I I I ) . The voting was a6 follower

IIl fAVOUrJ Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina , Bahamas,  Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbadoe,  Bonin, Bhu+;an,  B o l i v i a ,  Botswana, Braz i l ,  Brune i
Daruesalam, Bulgaria , Burkina Fatso,  Burma,  Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Soaialist  Republic, Cameroon,  Central Afrioan Republic,
Chad, Chile,  China,  Comoroe,  Congo, Coeta Rioa,  C&e B’Ivoire,
Cabs, Cyprus, Cseohoslovakia, Demooratio KamFuohea,  Demoratio
Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,  El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Geriru8n  Demoaratio Republic, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Honclurae,  Hungary,  India, Indonesia, Iran
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaioa, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic  Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan
Arab Jrrmahiriya,  Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mauritania,  Mexioo, Mongolia, Morocoo, Moeambique,  Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger,  Nigeria , Oman, Pakietan, Panama, PArAguAY  N
Peru, Philippinea, Poland, Qatar, Romania,  Rwanda, Samoa,  Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname,  Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Toqo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

/ . . .



A/42/004
English
Page 4

Againstt None.

Abstaininqc Australia, Aurrtria,  Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Franoe,
Oermany,  Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg , Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Papua
New Guinea, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern  Ireland, United States of Ameriaa.

12. After the adoption of the draft resolution, the representative of Japan made a
statement (eee A/C.3/42/SR.54).

I I I . RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

13. The Third Committee recommend8 to the Qeneral Assembly the adoption of the
fol lowing draft  resolutioner

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Implioatione of soientifio  and teohnologioal developmenta
for  liuman r ights

The General Aesemblyr

Reoallin~ its  resolution 33/53 of  14  Decembar  1978,  in which it requested
the Commission on Human Rights to urge the Sub-Commission on Prevention of
Disarimination  and Protection of Minorities to undertake, air a matter of
priority, a etudy of the queation of the proteotion of those detaimd on the
grounds of mental ill-health, with a view to formulating guidelines,

Mindful of the Prinoiplee of Medical Ethios relevant to the role of
health personnel, particularly physicians, in the protection of prisoners and
detainees against torture and other oruel, inhuman or degrading treatment  or
punishment, y

Reoalling also i ts  resolution 41/114  of  4  December  1986,  in  which i t
again urged the Commission on Human Rights and the Sub-Commission to expedite
their consideration of this question, so that the Commission could submit its
views and recommendations, including a draft body of guidelines, principles
and guarantees, to the General Assembly at its forty-third session, through
the Eoonomio  and Social Council,

Reaffirming Commission on Human Rights resolution 1986/12  of
10 March 1986,

v R e s o l u t i o n  37/194,  annex.

/ . . .



c A/42/8C4
English
Pags S

Taking note of Sub-Commission resolution 1987/22  of 3 September 1907,

Expreeeing deep oonoern at the repeated evidence of the misuse of
psyohiatry to detain persons on non-medical grounas, aer refleet8d  in the
report of the Speoial Rapporteur of the Sub-Commission, .3/

Reaffirminq  ite ocxrviation  that detention of persons in mental
institutions on aooount of their politioal views or  on other non-medical
grounds ie a violation of their human rights,

3%
that,Notinq because the Working Group of the Sub-Co~:miseion hae made

only limited progresa so far ,  the Sub-Commieeion  is  et111 far from conoluding
its ooneideration of the draft body of guidelines, principles and guarantees,

1. Again urges the Commission on Human Rights and, through it, the
Sub-Conuniesion on Prevention of Discrimination and Proteation of Minoriti8s to
expedite  their  oonsideration  of  the draft  body of guidel ines,  prinoiples and
guarantnea, 80 that the Commission:  can submit  i ts  views aad reuommendations,
inoluding a draft  body of  guidel ines,  principles  and guarantee& to the
General Aaeembly at its forty-fourth session, through the Economia  and Social
Counoill

2. Invites the Commission on Human Rights at its forty-fourth session
to oonaider the question of the emphasis to be attached to the Working CrOuPI
in  the  l ight  of  the  Sub-Commieaion~s diooussios  a t  i t s  th ir ty -n inth  sess ion .

save

DRkFT RESOLUTION II

Human rights and use of  soienti f io  and teohnologioal  developmsn++
.

The General Assembly,

Reaffirminq the determination of the peoples of the United Nations ta
sucaeeding  generations from the scourge of  wart to  reaff irm faith AD the

dignity and worth of the human  person, to maintain international peace and
eecurity an8 to develop friendly relations among peoples and international
co-operation in promoting and encouraging universal respect for human  rig%8
and fundamental freedoms,

Recalling the relevant provisions of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, 4J the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural
Righto SJ and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, w

Y E/CN.4/Sub.2/lU83/17.

9 Resolution 217 A (III).

Y See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.
-

/ .*.



A/42/804
English
Page 6

Reoalling further the Deolaration on the Strengthening of International
Senurity, 6J the Declaration on the Use of Scientific and T8ChnOlcgiOal
Progress in tho Intereato of Peaoe and for the Benefit of Mankind, 2/ and the
Declaration on the Right of People8  to Peace, u as well ae other relevant
reeolutione and deciaione of the United Nations,

Bearing L,S mind that, in its resolution 38/75  of 15 Decmber  1983, the
General Aseembly reso lute ly ,  unoonditionally and fo t  a l l  t ime  ccndemned
nut-Lear  war aa being oontrary to human conscience and reason, aa the moat
monstrous crime against peoples and a8 a violation of the foremoet human
right - t h e  r i g h t  t o  l i f e ,

Recallinq i t s  reso lut ions 37/189 A of 18 December 1982, 38/113 o f
16 Deoember 1983, 39/134 of 14 December 1984, 40/111 of 13 December 1985 and
41/113  of 4 December 1986,

Taking note with appreoiation of Coau&eion  on Human  Rights raeolutiona
1982/7 o f 19 February 1982, 9J 1983/43 of  9 Maroh  1983,  lOJ 1984/28 o f
12 Maroh 1984, 11/ 1986/10 o f 10 Maroh 1986 12/ and 1986/29 o f
11 March 1986, 12/

Conscious that the widening availability of technology and eoientiflo  and
teohnioal advanoe@,  bringing new posribilities  for peaoeful and produutive
enterprise, open new perepectivee for the progreee of civilisation  and provide
inoreaeing opportunitiee to better the oondit ions of  l i fe  of people6 and
natione, but at the 8drllle time, prersent new danqere, if ueed for the oreation
of new type8 of deadly weapons , which already are able to traneform an armed
confiot from human tragedy to human annihilation,

Coneoious that, while it is only the oreative genius of man that make6
progress and the development of oivilization  poseible  in a peaceful
environment, human  life must be recognised aa supreme,

y Resolution 2734 (XXV),

7J Resolution 3384 (XXX).

Y Reso lut ion  39/11,  annex.

y See Official Records of the Economic and Social Counoil,  1982, Supplement
NO. 2 (E/1982/12 and Coor.l), chap. XXVI, sect. A.

1983, Supplement ?Jo.  3 (E/1983/13 and Ccrr,l), chap. XXVII,I - -

11/ Ib id . , 1984, Supplement No. 4 (E/1984/14 and Corr.l), chap. If, sect. A.

&y Ibid . , 1 9 8 6 ,  Supplement No. 2  (E/1986/22),  c h a p .  I I ,  s e c t .  A.

/ . . .



. A/42/004
English
Page 7

Convinced that all the rights and freedoms, a8 well as all the material
qWde and epiritual  wealth that both man and nations po88e88, have a aommon
foundation - the right to life, freedom, peace and aspiration for happiness,

1, Keaffirso that all people8 and all individual8 have an inherent
right to l--hat the safeguarding of  this  cardinal  right is  an essential
oondition for the enjoyment of the entire range of economic, eocial and
aultural,  a6 wel l  a8  c iv i l  and  po l i t i ca l ,  rights)

2. Stressee once arjain  the Urgent need for the international community
lo make every effort to etrengthen  peace, remove the growing threat of wart
particularly nuclear war, halt the arms race and achieve general and complete
diearrmamant  under effective international control and prevent violations of
the principle8 of the Charter of the United Nation8 regarding the eovereignty
and territorial integrity of States and the self-determination of peoplee,
thue taontributing to ensuring the right to lifer

3. Streeeee further the foremost importance of the implementation of
pKai?tical measure8  of disarmament to bring an end to the warrte of valuable
remurC’e8  and to streamline ther to fight economic backwardness and poverty
and to  aoaeierate  social  and eca;romic  progrees, particularly for the benefit
o f  d e v e l o p i n g  oountriee)  ’

4. Call8 upon a11 Statee, appropriate United Nation8  organe,
8pWialiZea  agencies end intergovernmental and non-governmental organizatione
concerned to take thst  necessary measures  to ensure that the result8  of
eaientif ic and technological progre88, the material  and intel lectual  potential
of mankind, are wed to eolve global problem8 exclusively in the interest8 of
international peace, for the benefit of mankind and for promoting and
enCOUraging  universal respect for human right8 and fundanlantal freedoms~

5. Stresses that a world with&t  nuclear weapon8 and violence would
open vaet opportunities for the joint efforts of all nations aimed at solving
urgent humanitarian problem8 and at co-operating in the areas of Bcience,
eduoation, medicine, art8 and others, thus guaranteeing the necessary
conditions for the harmonious development of the individuals

6. Again calls upon all States that have not yet done 80 to take
effeotive meaeums  with a view to prohibiting, in accordance with the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, any propaganda for war,
in partioular the formulation, propounding and dissemination of an< propaganda
for doctrines and concept8 aimed at unleashing nuclear war1

7. Look8 forward to further efforta by the Commission on Human Riqhts
with a view to ensure the inherent right of all peoples and all individuals to
l i f e r

8. Decide8 to  consider this qUe8tiOn at i t8  forty-third ee88ion under
the item entitled “Human rights and scientific and technological developments”.

I

/ . . .



A/42/004
English
Page 0

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Human right8 and scientific  and technological developments

The General Aesembly,

Noting that ecience and technological progress is one of the decisive
factor8 in the development of human society,

Recalling once again the great importance of the Declaration on the Use
of Scientific and Technological Progress 13 the Interests of Peace and for the
Benefit of Mank!..nd,  adopted by the General Aseembly  in its reeolution
3384 (XXX) of 10 November 1975,

Coneidering that the implementation of the Declaration will contribute to
the strengthening of international peace and security of peoples and to their
economic and social development, a8 well a8 to international co-operation
the field of human riqhts,

in

Bearing in mind the relevant provisions of the Declaration on Social
Progress and Development, Q/

Realising that the science and technology of our times create
poeeibilities for providing an abundance of wealth on Earth and establishing
material condition8 for the prosperity of society as well aa the all-round
development of every person,

Seriouely  concerned that the results of scientific and technological
progrese  could be used for the arms race and development of new types of
weapon8 to the detriment of international peace and security and social
progree8,  human rights and fundamental freedoms and the dignity of the human
pereon,

Emphasizing the growing importance of intellectual work, of interaction
between science, technology and society and the humanistic, moral and ethical
orientation of science and of scientific and technological proqress,

Convinced that in the era of modern scientific and technoloqial progro88
the re8ources  of mankind and the activities of ecientiets should be ueed for
the peaceful economic, social and cultural. development of countries and for
the improvement. of the living standard8 of all people,

Recoqnizinq that the establishment of the new internatitinal  economic
order call8 in particular for an important contribution to be made by science
and technology to economic and social progress,

13/ Resolution 2542 (XXIV).

/ . . .



lieacing in mind \.:la\: t-he  exchange and transEer  of ocientific and
technoloqioal  knowledqe ia on@ of the important ways to accolorata  the social
and economic development ot’ the devalopinq  countries,

Noting with niatisI:ActAon  the ruport  of the Secretary-General on human
r ights  and sc ient i f ic  and tuchnoloqicol  uevolopments,  g/

1. Stresses the importance of the implementation by all  State8 of the
provisions and principles contained in the Declaration on the Use of
Scient i f ic  and Technoloyieal  Proqress  in the  Interest8  OF Peace and for: the

‘Benefit o: Mankind in order to promote human right8 and fundamental froodornet

2. Calls  upon all States to make every effort to u8e the achievements
of  sc ience and technoloq)  in  order  to  promote  L,aaceful social ,  economic and
Cultural development and progress and tn put an end to the uue of the00
achievements  for  mil i tary purpoacoj

7. Also t.alls upon States to take all necessary measures in ortIer  that:
al.1 the  achievements  of  sc ience  and technoloqy  be  placed a t  the  service  of
mankind and do not lead to the degradation of the natural environmantj

4. Reques ts  the spbcialized  ayerrcien and othor orqanizatione  of  the
United Nations system to take into account in their programmes and activities
the  provis ions  of  the  Declarationj

5. Reques ts  the  Conlmiseion on  Human  Right8  to  cont inue  to  qive apuciol
a t tent ion ,  in  i t s  cons idera t ion  of  the  item ent i t led  “Human r iqhto  and
scientific and technoloqical  developments”, to the queetion of the
implementation of the provisions of the Declarationj

6. Tnviten the Commission on Human Rlqhte to take appropriate  measures
and to assist t.he Sub-Commission on ‘Prevention of Uiocri\~~nstion  and
Protec t ion  of  Minor i t ies  in  prepar ing the  etucly reques ted  by the CommiR6)ion  in
its resolutions 1982/4 of’ 19 Vebruary 1982, u/ 1984/29  of 12 March 1984 ll-/
and 1986/11.  of 10 March 1986j I.J

7 . Decides  to  inc lude  in the  provis ional  agenda of i:e forty- third
sess ion  the  i tem ent i t led “Human riqhts and scienti fit and technobqical
developments”,


