







































UNITED
NATIONS

Diotr.
GENERAL

Aj4 2/006
27 November 1987

ORIGINALr  ENGLISII

Forty-second  t3ef3siOll
Agenda item 101

INTERNATIONAL COvENANTS ON HUMAN RIGHTS

Report of “,he Third Committee

Rappor tsur 8 M r s .  Ani SANTHOSO (,ndonesie)

I . INTROWCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1987, the General Assembly, on the
recomnendation  of tha General Committee, decided to include in  i ts  agenda the  i tem
ent itledr

“Internat ional Covenants on Human Riqhts:

“(a) Report of the ffumen Rights Comm;tteel

” (b )  S ta tus  of  the  In ternat ional  Covenant o n  Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the
Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rightsc report of the Secretary-General.;

“(cl Elaboration of a second optional protocol to the Internaticrnal  Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights, aiming at the abolition  of the death
penal ty : report of the Secretary-General1

’ (d) Efforts and measures for promoting the eradication of tlliteracyr report
of the Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and
Cultural Organization’  ;

and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2 .  T h e  Committee  c o n s i d e r e d  t h e  iten: jointly with items 98, 99, 100, 102, 106 and
1 0 7  a t  i t s  3 9 t h  t o  41st, 43rd, 46th and 52nd to 54th meetinqs, from 9 to 13 and 19
and 20 November 1987. An account of the Committee’s rl iscussion  is contained In the
relevant-summary records (A/C,3/42/SR. 39-41, 43, 46 and 52-54) l

8 7 - 3 1 8 2 1  0607P (E) / . .*



A / 4 2 / 0 0 6
Englieh
page  2

3 . For it*. ccneideration of the item, the Comunittee  had before it the followinq
documentationr

(a)  Chapter III, section D of the report of the Eoonomic  and Social Council
(~14213)  t 11

(b) Report  o f  the  Human  Rights  Comnittee)  2/

(c) Status of the International Covenant on Ecmomic, Social and Cultural
Rights, the International Covenant on Civil ar.8  Pclitical  Rights and the Optional
Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Politioal  Rightet report of
the Secretary-General  ( A / 4 2 / 4 5 0 )  1

(d) Elaboration of a second optional protouol.  to the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Righte, aiming at the abolition of the death penaltyr
report of the Secretary-General (A/42/613) a

(e) Proclamation of the International Literacy Yearr note hy the
Secretary-General (A/C.  3/42/4) a

(f) Letter dated 18 June 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Guyana to
the United Nations addreeeed to the Secretary-General (A/42/357-S/18935)*

4 . At the 39th meeting, on 9 November, the Under-Secretary-Genera 1 for Human
Rights and the Deputy Aeeietant  Director-General For Mucation  of the United
Nations Educational, Scientific an8 Cultural Orgsnizatfon made introductory
etatemente.

I I . CONSIOERATION  GF PROPOSALS

A. Draft decision ~/c.3/42/~.47

5 . At. the 52nd meeting, on 19 November, the  repreoentative  of the  Federal
Republic of Germany introduced a draft decieion  (A/C.3/42/L.47)  l

6 . At the 53rd meetinq, on 20 November, the representatives of Kuwait, Yemen and
Egypt metle  statements in explanation of vote before the vote-

7 . At the same meeting, the Comnittee adopted draft decision A/C.3/42/L.47  by a
recorded vote of 62 to 17, with 35 abetentiono (see pare. 27, draft decie!.on) .xnd
voting wat3 as followe:

A/ To be iesued au Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-eecond
Session, supplement No. 3 (A/42/3)  l

2/ Official Records of the General Aeeembly,  Forty-second SekWon,
Supplement No. 40 (~/42/40)  l

/ . . .



A/42/006
English
Page 3

In favour; Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil.
Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Ccmoros, COSta
Rica, C&e d*Ivoire,  Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, El Salvador, Finland, France, German
Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece,
Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Ptaly,
Jamaica, Japan, Kenya, Luxembourg, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Norway, Panama8
Paraguay, Peru, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Spain, Sweden,
Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Scclalist Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay, Venezuela.

Aqainstr Bahrain, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Irau, Jordan, Kvwalt, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya,  Maldives, Oman, Pakistan, BataL, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, Yemen.

Abstaining: Afghanistan, Algeria, Bahamas, Benin, Botswana, Burkina Faso,
Cameroon, China, Congo, Cuba, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethlcpia,
Grenada, India, Lebanon, Lesotho, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Morocco, Nepal, Niger, Papua New Guinea, Sierra Leone, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Swaziland, Thailand, Tunisia, Uganda, United Republic
of Tanzania, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia.

0. At the 54th meeting, on 20 November, the representatives of the Islamic
Republic of Iran and China made statements in explanation of vote after the vote.

9. At the same meeting, the representative of Australia, on behalf of Austria I
Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, the Netherla@ and Norway, made a statement.

B. Draft  resolution A/C.3/42/L.49/Rev.l

10. At the 52nd meeting, on 19 November,. the representative of’ the German
Democratic Republic introduced a revised draft resolution (A/C.3/42/L.  49/Rev-  1)
entit led “Indivieibility  and interdependence of  economic,  social ,  cultural ,  Civil
and pol i t ical  r ights” ,  spnsored by Bulqaria, the Byeloruosian Soviet Soci~r~ 1st
Republic, the German Democratic  Republic, Hungary, Mongolia, Nicaragua and the
Syrian Arab Republic, and orally revised it by inserting the following new
operative paragraph 5 after operative paragraph 4:

“Further requests the Committee on Econanic, Social and Cultural Rights
to take due account of the experience gained in the Sessional Working Group of
Governmental Experts on the Implementation of the International Covenant On
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights , and in particular of the sugqestions and
reconunendations of the Sessional Working Group;".

/ . . .



.A/42/606
English
Page 4

11. At the 54th meeting, on 20 November, follo~~inq  consultations held on the
revised draft resolution, the representative of the German Democratic Republic, on
behalf of the sponsors, made fur ther  oral  rev is ions as fol lows:

(a) Operative paragraph 4, which readt

“Requests the Committee on Economic, Social  and Cultural Rights to
consider ways and means of furthering co-operation with the Human Rights
Committee and other counnittees  set up under convc& ions with a view to
uti1iaing, where appropriate, their practices, standards and experience in
implementing the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights; *

was replaced by the following textt

u4. Takes note with appreciation of the report of ‘;he Comml  ttee on
Econrvnic,  Social  and Cultural  Rights on its  f irst  session,  including
suggestions and recomnendations  of a general nature approved by the Coxnnitteet”

(b) A new oparictive paragraph 5, which readr

” 5. Endorses the invitation made by the Economic and Social Council to
the Committee to consider again at its next session the compilation Of
recormnendations  in the summary records of the Committee relating to its future
work, paying particular attention to practices followed by other treaty
bodies, including the preparation of general comments by the Human Rights
Committees”

was added after new operative paragraph 4;

(c) The remaining paragraphs were renumbered.

12. At that meeting, following oral proposals by the representatives of the
Netherlands and Australia, the representative of the German Democratic Republic On
behalf of the sponsors, accepted the amendment proposed by the representative of
Australia and revised operative paragraph 3, which read:

” 3 . Requests the Commission on Human Rights to continue its
consideration of the realization of economic, social  and cultural  rightsl”

t o  read:

” 3 . Requests the Commission on Human Riqhts to give more attention to
the realisation of economic, social and cultural rights under the relevant
agenda itemsi”.

13. At the same meeting, a statement was made by the representative of Djibouti.
The representative of Denmark, on behalf of the twelve States members of the
European Community made a statement in explanation of vote before the vote.

/ . a.



~/42/806
Engl iah
Pago 5

14. At the 8tme meeting, the Committee took the following action On the
revised draft  resolution,  as  further oral ly revisedr

(a) The eighth preambular paragraph was retained by a recorded vote of
117 to  9 ,  w i th  13  abstent ions.  The voting was as fol lows:  i/

I n  favour* Afghanistan,  Alger ia ,  Ant igua and Barbuda,  Argent ina,  Austra l ia ,
Bahamas, Bahrain, IUngJ.adesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
BOteWana,  Brazil, Brunei Daruesalam, Bulgaria, Burkina F’lfso,
Burma, Burundi,  Byelorussian Soviet Sccialist  Republic, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, CanorOsI
Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d’lvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czeohoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti,  Dminioan Republic, Ecuador, KgyPtr
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic Republic, Grenada,
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  Hai t i ,  Hondurae,  Hun9aW
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica,
Jordan, Kenya,  Kuwait, Lao People’6 Democratic Republic, Lebnont
Lesotho, Liberia,  Libyan Arab Jamahlriya,  Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,  Malta, Mauritania, MeXiCO,  Mongolia,
Morocm, Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Niquria,  Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, WtQr I
Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet SocialiEt
Republic, Union of Soviet Scclalist Republics, United Arab
Rnirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, tineZUela#
viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Agalnetr Belgium, France, Germ@ny,  Federal Republic of, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Nethsrlands, United Kingdom of ,Great Rritain and
Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaininpr Austria, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland,
Japan, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden.

(b) Draf t  reso lut ion  A:C.3/42/L.49/Rev.l,  a s  a  who le ,  a s  ora l ly  rev i sed ,  was
adopted by a recorded vote of 118 to 1, with 22 abstentions (see para. 26, draft
resolution I) . The voting was as followst

Y Subsequently, the representative of  Albania stated that  his  delegation
had not participated in the vote.

/ . . .



A/42/80 6
English
Page 6

In favour:

Against:

Abstaining:

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria* Antigua and Barbuda, Argentina,
Australia, Bahamas, Bahrain, Banqladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Filso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, China, Colombia,
Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Ciite d'fvoire,  Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau,
Haiti, Bonduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, MOngOlia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda,
Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon
Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republicl Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Wnezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

United States of America.

Austria# Belgium, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain,
Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland.

15. After the adoption of the revised draft resolution, the representative of
Japan made a statement in explanation of vote after the vote.

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.S1

16, At the 52nd meeting, on 19 November , the representative of Denmark introduced
a draft resolution (A/C.3/42&  51) entitled "'International Covenants on Human
Rights", sponsored by Austraiia, Canada, Costa Rica, Cyprus, Denmark, Ecuador,
Finland, Iceland, Italy, the Netherlands, Nicaragua, Norway, Peru, Spain, Sweden
and the United Kingdun of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

17. At the 53rd meeting, on 20 November, the representative of Bulrlaria orally
proposed an amendment to insert the words .the Cornmission on the Status of Wdmenr
the Cormnission for Social Development" after the words "the Conuaission on Human
Rights," in operative paragraph 14.

/. . .



A/42/806
English
Page 7

18. At that meeting, the representative of Denmark, on behalf of the sponSOrSt
revised operative paragraph 11 by replacing the word “Recommends” with the word
“Appeals” before the words “to States”; and by replacing the words ‘that they
cant inually” with the word “to’ before the word “review”.

19. AC the same meeting, the representatives of Bulgaria and the Federal Republic
of Germany made statements.

20. “At the 54th meeting, on 20 November, following informal consultations held on
the draft resolution, the representative of Denmark e on behalf of the sponsors,
orally revised operative paragraph 14 as follows:

la) The words “the Connrission on the Status of Wanen,” were inserted after
the words “the Conmission on Human Rights,‘; and

(b) The words ‘other functional conuaissions of the Economic and Social
Council and,” were added after the words ‘where appropriate,“.

21. Subsequently, Bulg’aria  joined in co-sponsoring the draft resolution.

22. At the same meeting, the Comittee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/42& 51, as
orally revised, without a vote (see para. 26, draft resolution II).

23. After the adaption of the draft resolution, the representative of the Sudan
made a Statement in explanation of Vote.

C. Draft resolution A/C. 3/42/L. 55

24. At the 52nd meeting, on 19 November ,= the representative of Mongolia introduced
a draft resolution (A/C. 3/42/L. 55) entitled “International Literacy Year.,
sponsored by Afqhanistan, Bulqaria, Burkina Faso, Cuba, France, the German
Democratic Republic, Greece, India, Indonesia, Kenya, the -Lao People’s Denmxratic
Republic, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madaqascar, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Nepal, Nicaragua, Rwanda, Spain, Sri Lanka, the Sudan, the Syrian Arab
Republic, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, the United Republic of Tanrania and Viet Nam, subsequently joined by the
Ffi and Samoa.

25. At the 54th meeting, on 20 NoVeer, following a statement in explanation of
vote before the vote by the representative of the United States of America, the
Committee took action on the draft resolution as follows:

(a) Operative paragraph 5 was adopted by a recorded Vote of 136 to none, with
1 abstention. The voting was as follows:

/1..



; A/42/806
$ English
; Page 8

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutanr
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet SooialiSt Republic,
Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d@Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Oe&XkXatiC Yema,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dcminicsn Republic,  Ecuador, EsVptr
El Salvador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Frame,  German Democratic
Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, rsrselr
Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Pecple's DWmCKatiC
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab JamahiriYar
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,  Mohambique, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway,
Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Bnirates,  United Kir&3dem of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United R,epublic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Vanezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe*

Aqainst: None.

Abstaining: United States of America.

(b) The draft resolution, as a whole, was adopted without a vote (see
para. 26, draft resolution III).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

26. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAFT RESGLUTION I

Indivisibility and interdependence of econanic, Social,
cultural, civil and political riqhts

The General Assembly,

Mindful of the obligations of States under the Charter of the United
Nations to promote social prcqress and better standards of life in larger

I

/ . . .



n/42/006
English
Page 9

f reedom and univoraal raepcct for ,  and abeorvance of ,  human  rights and
fundamental Preodomo  for all without diet inction  a8 to raceI sex, languaqe or
rel igion,

iNoting.  tho u n voreol Declaration of Human Rights, $/ ths International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 1/ the International Covonant on
Eaonomic~,  Social and Cultural Rights !j/ and the Declaeation on Social Progress
and DeVQl+nQntr 2/

I,

Recallinq  that in tho prQamblQs  to the International Covenants on Human
Right8 z/ i t  is recognized t h a t  t h e  i&al  o f  f r e e  h u m a n  beinqe  enjoying
fredom from fear ati want uan only be aohieved if condition8 are created
whereby persons may enjoy their Qconamio, eooial and oultural riqhts as well
as the ir  c iv i l  and  po l i t i ca l  r ight s ,

Recal l ing i ts  resolutions 40/114  of  13  December  l.985 and 41/117  of
4 December 1966,

Rooffirminq  the provisions of its resolution 32/130 of 16 December 1977
that all human rights and fundamontal freedoms are indivisible an8
intordepsntient  and that the promotion and protection of one oategory  of rights
can never exempt or excuse States from the promotion ancl  protection of the
o t h e r  r i g h t s ,

Convinood that equal atte,rtion and urgent consideration should be given
to the implementation, promotion and protection of economic, social,  cultural,
c iv i l  and  po l i t i ca l  r i g h t s ,

Deoirous of removing all obstacle6 to the full realization  of human
rights ,  in particular colonial ism, nao~colonialiem, recism,  racial
d i scr iminat ion  in  a l l  i t s  f o r m s ,  aparthe id ,  fore ign  in tervent ion ,  occupat ion ,
aggression and daaination,

Rocoqnizinq  the  fundamontel r iqhts  o f  every  poaple  to  exerc i se  fu l l
sovereignty over ita natural wealth  and ri?sources,

Reaf f.l rminq th&t there is a close and multidimensional relationship
between disarmament and development, that proqress  in the field of disarmament
would coneiderably  promote progress in the field of development and that
resources  rslaesed through diearmament measures could contribute to t+Q
economic and social development and well-beinq of all peoploe, !n part eular
those of the developing countries,

-

Ai Resolutior! 217 A (IlI) .

21 See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

Y Resolut ion 2542 (XXIV) .

/ . . .



A/42/806
Enqliah
Page  10

RwOqnioinq that tho realisation of the right to development may help to
promote the rnjoymsnt  of all human rights and fundamental freedoma,

Reaallinq Comniasion  on Human Riqhte resolutions 1985/42 of
14 Maroh  1985,  z/ 1986/15  of 10 Marah 1906 9J and 1987/19  and 1987/20  of
10 Maroh 1987, 9J in whiah the Commission etated that the implementation,
pranotion and protection  of eaonanio, social and oultural rights have not
received suffiaient attention within the framework of the United Natione
eyetern,

Requentinq the Seotetary-Cleneral  to  enhanoe his  efforts  under  the
proqrame of advisory servioee to States in the impleaentation, promotion and
protection of human rights anal fuidamental  freedoms as oontainrd in the
International Covenants on Human Right8  and other United Nations instruments
in the field of human rights,

1. Notes the essential importance of national af forts and international
co-operati=  aohieve the full and effective realisation of all human rights
recoqniaed in the International Covenants on Human Rights1

2 . Appeals to all States to pursue polioies  direated towards the
inqblementation,  proaz3tion  a n d  protection  o f  euonomio,  soulal, c u l t u r a l ,  aivil
and political rights recognised in the International Covenant8 on Human Rights
and other internat ional inetrumentsl

3 . Request8 the Comnieeion  on Human Riqhte to qive more attention to
the reali&ation  of eeonanic, swial and cultural rights under the relevant
agenda itemer

4 . Takes note with crppreciat ion of the report of the Committee on
Econanicr  S o c i a l  and Cultural  R’.!qhte on  i t s  f i re t  session,  ino ludinq
ougqeetione and recomsendatione of a general nature approved by the Commtttee;

5. Endorse6 the invitation made by the Economic and Social Counail to
the Committee to consider again at its next seeaion the compilation of
recomnendatione in the sumnary records of the Committee relating to its future
wxk, paying particular attention to practicee fol lowed by other  t reaty
bodies, including the preparation of general conwnents  by the Human Rights
commi  ttm;

11 See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1985, Supplement
NO. 2 (E/1985/22) ,  chap.  I f ,  sect .  A.

g Ib id . , 1986, Supplement No. 2 (E/1986/22), chap. II, sect. A.

21 -Ib id . , 1987,  Supplement  No.  5  (E/1987/18),  chap.  II ,  eect. A.

/ . . .



A / 4 2 / 8 0 6
Lnqlish
Page 11

6 . Fur ther  requeots the  Committso  on Eoonomic, Social  and Cultural
Righto to take due account of tho experience gained in the Saaaional  Working
Group Of Governmental Experts on the Implementation of the International
Covenant on Eaonomic,  Social and Cultural Rights, and in portioular of the
wggestione  and recommendation8 of the Seseional Working GrOUPl

7. Urge8 t h e  Secretary-mneral  t o  t a k e  determined 8tep8,  w i t h i n
existing reBource8, to qive publicity to the Human Riqhta Committee and to the
Committee  on Economic, Social and Cultural Right8 and to enaure that they
receive ful l  adminiatretlve support to enable them to  disaharge their
funotiono effect ively  1

8. Affirms the importance nti relevance, to programme8 and activit ies
Ming under taken throuqhaut  the  United Nation8 oystem in the  f ie ld of  human
rtghto,  of  report8 oubmitted by State8 pertiee to  the  International  COVQnant8
on Human Right8 to the Human Right6 Committee and the Committee on EcOnQmiC,
Social and Cultural Rights)

9. Decidaa  t o  diacuea,  a t  ito f o r t y - t h i r d  se8oion,  u n d e r  t h e  item
entit led “International  Covencrlts  on Human Wighto”,  the  quest ion  of  the
indivieibility and interdependence of  economic,  8ocia1,  aultural, c iv i l  atu!
politic41  r ight8.

DRAFT RESOLUTION I I

International Covenants on Human  Rlyhtfi

The General Aoeembly, ,

Hocelling i t 8  resolutions  33/51 o f  1 4  December 1 9 7 8 ,  34/45  O f
23 November 1979, 35/132 of 11 Decor .wr 19130, 36/58 of 25 November 1961,
37/191 of 18 December 1982, 36/116 ard 3&J/117  of 16 December 1963, 39/136  and
39/13B of 14 December 1984, 40/115  ond 401116 of 13 December 1985, 41/32 of
3 Novomlwr  1966 and 41/119 and 41/121 Of 4 December 1906,

T a k i n g  note oE t h o  report o f  the SFN:~‘~*.YL,-**-~enera1  UJ on tho  s ta tus  o f
the IMernat  ional Covenant un Economic ,  Social  and Culture1  Hiyhtfl,  llL/ t h o
International Covenant on Civil crnd  Political Riqhta J&/ and the Optional
Protocol to tho International Covenant on Civil and Political Righter  II/

Recoqnizing  the important role of the Human Right8 Committee  in the
Implei%%Btion  of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Riqhto and
the Optional Protocol thereto,

l.J A/42/45Q.

ll/ Se62 r e s o l u t i o n  2200 A (Xx1),  atirwx.

/ . . .



A/42/006
Engl ieh
Page 12

Bourine  in mind the, InOportant  reeponsibilitier  of the Eoonomic  and Social
Counoil in relation to the International Covenants on Human Righte,

Welaomin~  the eatablishmsnt, pureuant to Eoonomio and Sooial  Counoil
resolution 1985/17  of 38 May 1985, of the Committee on Eaonumia,  Stxial and
Cultural Right8  to oversee the i~lenmntation  of the International Covenant on
Econanio, 8~ial  and Cultural Righta,

We~ominq  the eubmieeion to the Qeneral
t h e  H u m a n  Right8  Conunittee l.2/ and  the  f i r s t
Eaonomio, Soaial  and Cultural Rightpr, l3J

Aeeembly of the annual report of
report of the Committee on

Noting with aonuern the oritioal situation with regard to overdue reports
from States parties to the International Covenante on Human Righta,

1. Takes note with amreaiat  ion of the report of the Human Right8
Committee on its twenty-ninth and thirtieth sesaiona, g/ and expreeees it8
eatiefaction with the serious and aonetruotive manner in which the Corsnittee
is c?ontinuing to undertake its funotione#

2. Further take8 note with azmrsoiat  ion of the report of the Committee
on Econanic, Social and Cultural Righte, inoluding the euggeetiona ana
recomnendatione  of a general nature approved by the Committee)

3. Expresses i t s  apprc ation t o  t h e  States  p a r t i e s  t o  t h e
International  Covenant  on Civil  and Polit ical  Rights  that  have  euhmitted their
report8 to the Human Rights Committee under article 40 of the Covenant and
urqee  State6  parties that  have  not  yet  done so to submit  their  reports  a!?
8pWdi1y  8 8  PQRQiblf)j

4. tUrge8 those Sta es parties to the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Riqhts  that have been requested by the Human Riqhts Committee to
provide additional  in format ion to  comply with  that  reouestj

5. Commends the States parties to the Internatio.lal  Covenant on
Ecwtomk,  Social and Cultural Right6 that have submitted their reports under
article 16 of the Covenant and urges States parties that have not yet dons so
to submit their reports as soon  as poseiblej

6. Note8 with sat isfact ion that the majority of  States  parties  to  the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and an increasinq number
of States partiea  to th.2 International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights, have been represented by experts for the presentation of
their reports ,  thereby assist ing the ,  respect ive monitoring bdies in their

l2/ Official Record8 of the General Assembly, Forty-second Seesion,
supplement No. 40 (A/42/40) l

z/ E / 1 9 8 7 / 2 8 .
/ . . .



A/42/806
English
Page  13

work, and hopes that: all States parties to both Covonenta  will arrange euch
rapretwntat  ion in tho future 1

7 . Aqain  urw?s all States that have not yet done so to become parties
to the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Riyhts, a8 well aa to consider
acceding to the Optional Protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and
Polit ical  Rights;,I

8. Invites the State8 partiee to the International Covenant on Civil
and Political Rights to consider making the declaration provided for in
art ic le  41 of  the Covenant1

9. Bhasizes the iwttance of the Btricteet  compliance W States
parties with their obligationa u&er the International Covenant on Econcmic,
~mial  and Cultural Rights an8 the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights and, where appliaablo, the Optional Protocol to the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights8

IO. S t r e e e e s  t h e  impbrtanoe  o f  a v o i d i n g  t h e  e r o s i o n  o f  h u m a n  r i g h t s  b y
derogation, and underlines the neceesity of strict observance of the agreed
conditions and procedures for derogation under article 4 of the International
Covenant on Civil and Politioal  Rights, bearing in mind the need for State6
parties to provide the fullest possible information during etatee  of
emergency, so that the juetif ication and appropriateness of measures taken in
these circumstances can be assessedl

11. Appeals  to States parties to review whether any reservation made in
respect of the provisions of :he Inte,rnational Covenants on Human Righte
should be upheld1

12. Urge6 a l l  S ta te s  par t i e s  to  pay  ac t ive  a t t e n t i o n  t o  th,t protec t ion
and promotion of civil and political rights, aa well as economic, social and
cultursll rights1

13. Urges States parties to the International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights, the specialized agencieo  and other relevant United
Nations bodies to extend their full support and co-operation to the Cormnittee
on Economic, Social and Cultural Rightsr

14. Requeets tho Secretary-General to keep the Human Riqhte Committee
and the Committee on Economic, social and Cultural Riqhts informed of the
relevant activitiee of the General Aesembly, the Economic and Social.  Council,
the Commission on Human Riqhts, the Commission on the Status cf Wcmen,  the
Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discriminatlun and Protection of Minorities,
the Committee on the Elimination  of Racial l>iscrisinat.icn, the Committee on
the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, the new Committee against
Torturt~  and, where appropriate, other furlckiuna  1 commissions of the Economic
and !;dcial. Counci l  and the  opecial ized aqenciw,  ~nd alao to transmit  the
annual reports of the Human Rights Corrmittee and the CommLttce  t.>n  ikonctnic,
!bcial  tind Cultural  Rights to  those  bodies;

/, . . .



A/42/0Q6
English
Page 14

15. Also request8 the Secretary-General to submit to the Genaral
Assembly at  its forty-third eeeeion a  repor t  on  the  statue  of the
International Covenant on Economic, Sooial  aM Cultural Rights, the
International Covenant on Civil and Politiaal  Rights and the Optional Protocol
to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rightsj

16. Further requeate the Seoretary-General, w i t h i n  e x i s t i n g  ret302rcee1
to ensure that the Human Rights Committee  and the Committee on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights are able to hold the necessary eer;slone and are
provided with administrative support and summary records;

17. Further requeete the Seoretary-General  to ensure that the Centre for
Human Rights of the Secretariat effectively assists the Human Rights Comnittee
and the Conunittee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights in the
implementation of their respective mandates1

18. Again urges the Secretary-General, taking Into account the
suggestions of the Human Rights Comnittee, to take determined steps, within
existing resources, to give more publicity to the work of the Committee and,
similarly, to the work of the Convnittee on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights1

19. Invites the Human Rights Comittee  and the Conunlttee  on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights to explore further ways of expediting consideration
of  periodic  reports1

20. Welcomes the publication of the first volumes of the official public
records of the Human Rights Committee and looks forward to the early
publication of further volumes;

21. Encourages all Government8 to publish the texts of the International
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights tend the Optional Protocol to the Internat.lonal
Covenant on Civil and Political Right8 in a8 many languages as poR8ible  and to
distribute them and make them known as widely  a8 possible in their territories.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Internet ional Literacy Year

The General Assemblyr

Recallinq its resolution 41/118  of 4 December 1986,

Recalling Economic and Social Council resolution 1987/80 of July 1987, in
which the Council recommended that the General Assembly  proclaim 1990 as
International Literacy Year,

/ . . .



A/42/006
English
Page 15

Recalling ‘that in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights l4/ and the
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights Is/ the
inalienable right of everyone to education is recognized,

Mindful  of  the fact  that  the eradication of  i l l i teracy is  one of  the
paramount objectives of the International Development  Strategy for the Third
United Nations Development Decade, $/

1, Recognizing that  t h e  e l i m i n a t i o n  of  i l l i t eracy  c o n s t i t u t e s  a  prerequis i t e
for ensuring the right to education,

Emphaeizinq  that  widespread I l l i teracy, especially in many developing
countries, seriously hinders the process of economic and social development
and cultural and spiritual advancement,

Emphasising further that th is  s i tuat ion is  utterly incompatible  wi th  what
is  required by the  great  advance8 in the scientif ic  and technical  revolution
that mankind is witnessing,

Convinced that the process of education can make an indispeneable
contribution to the achievement of social progress, mutual understanding and
co-opera t ion among nat ions,

Mindful  of  the fact  that the  eradicat ion of  i l l i teracy cal l8  for
world-wide co-operation and joint efforts,

Considerinq that  the complete el imination of  i l l i teracy In al l  regions of
the world should be recognised as a priority objective of the international
conununi  ty,

,

Convinced that the elaboration of a global strategy for the eradication
of illiteracy and the organisation of a world-wide literacy campaign will
promote deeper understanding by the world public of the various aepecte of the
problem of  i l l i teracy and help to intensify efforts  to  spread l i teracy and
educa t ion,

Taking note with appraciat ion of the programme for Internat ional Literacy
Year submitted by the Director-General of the United Nations Educational,
Sc i en t i f i c  and Cultural  Or-ganization,

Taking into account the guidelines for international year8 and’
anniversaries adopted by the General Assembly in it8 decision 35/424 of
5 December 1980,

fi/ ReBOlUtion 2 1 7  A  ( I I I ) .

g/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI),  annex.

G/ S e e  r e s o l u t i o n  35/56,  a n n e x ,  s e c t .  I I .
/ . . .



A/42/00  6
Engl ish
Page 16

1. Proclaims 1990 a8 International Literacy Year i

2. Invites ell States to ensure adequate nation-wide preparation for
Internet ional Literacy Year 1

3. Recommends that the epecialized agencies, regional commissions and
other organisations of the United Nations system consider at their respective
forum6 the contributions that they could make to the success of International
Literacy Year t

4. Invites interested intergovernmental and non-governmental
organizations  to  exer t  e f for t s  in  the ir  respec t ive  f i e lds  to  c o n t r i b u t e
adequately to the preparation and implementation of national and international
progtanunes  for International  Literacy Yeari

5. Invites the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organisation to assume the role of lead organisation for International
Literacy Year 1

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
session an item entitled “Preparation and organization  of International
Literacy Year”.

27. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft decision8

Elaboration of a second Optional Protocol to the International
Covenant on Civil and Political Rights aiming at the abolit ion

of the death penalty

The General Assembly, pursuant to its resolution 39/137 Of
14 December 1984, decides to continue Its consideration of the question of
elaborating a second optional protocol to the International Covenant on Civil
and Po l i t i ca l  R i g h t s ,  l7/ a i m i n g  a t  t h e  a b o l i t i o n  of  the  death  pena l ty ,  a t  i t s
forty-fourth session under the i tem entitled “International Covenants on Human
Rights“ , in the light of action taken by the Commission on Human Rights and
its Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection Of
Minori ties.

17/ See resolut ion 2200 A (XXI), annex.-


