






































UNITED
NATIONS

•
General Assembly

A

Distr.
GENS;AAL

A/42/7lJ2
23 November 1987

ORIGINAL, ENGLISH

Forty-second session
Agenda item 105

ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES AND WAYS AND MEANS WITHIN THE UNITED NATIONS
SYSTEM FOR IMPROVIOO THE EFFECTIVE ENJOYMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS AN:)

FUN~ENTAL FREEDOMS

Report of the Third Comm~ttee

Rapporteur, l-lra. Ani SANTHOSO (Indonesia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 Soptember 1987, the General Assembly, on the
reoommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of its
forty-seoond session the item entitled:

"Alternative apprcaches and ways and means within the United Nations
system for improving the effect he enjoyment of hr.man rights and fundamental
freedoms:

"(a) International conditions a~ humall rights: report of the
Seoretary-General,

"(b) National institutions for the protection and promotion of human
~ights, report ef the Secretary-General,

n (c) Right to development: report of the Secretary-General,

It (d) Respect for the right of everyone to 0:," property alone as well oa
in association with others ann ita contribution to the economic and social
development of Member States."

and to allocate it to the Thi rd COllu:li ttee.

2. The Third Committee considered the item at its 36th to 39th, 41st, 42nd and
44th mQetings on 5, 6, 9, 11 and 12 November 1987. An account of the Convnittee's

87-31027 0593P (E) / ...



A/42/792
BngUsh
Page 2

disoussion is oontained in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/42/SR.36-39, 41, 42
and 44).

3. The Committee h~d before it the following documentation,

(a) International conditions and human rights. report of the
Secretary-General (A/42/585 and Add.l),

(b) National institutions for the protection and promotion of human rights:
report of the Secretary-General (A/42/395),

(c) Right to development. note by the Seccetbry-General (A/42/396),

(d) Letter dated 21 August 1987 from the Charge ~'affaires a.i. of the
Permanent Mission of Zimbabwe to the United Natiolls addresFJed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/520-S/19084).

4. At the 36th meeting, on 5 November, Mr. J~n ~artenson, Under-Secretary-G~neral
for Human Righte, made an introduotory statement.

11. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution ~/~.3L42/L.J3

5. At the 39th meeting, on 9 November, the representative of the ~d States of
America introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/42/L.33) entitled "R&spect for the
right of everyone to own property alone as well as in association with others and
its oont'dbutlon to the economic and social development of Member States",
sponsored by the United States of America.

6. At the 44th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/42/L.33 without a vote (see para. 31, draft resolution I).

B. Draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.34

7. At the 39th meeting, on 9 November, the rep!esentative of the Germ~n
Democratic Republic intr~uced a draft resolution (A/C.3/42/L.34) entitled "The
impact of propert~' on the enjoyment of human rigM:s and fundamental freedomfj",
sponsored by the German Democratic Republic.

8. At the 44th meeting, on 12 November, the rep~e~entative of the German
Democratic Republic orally revised the draft resoll1tion as follows.

(8) In the sixth preambu1ar paragraph, after. the words "right to
self-determination", replace the words "by the" with the word "of",

(b) In the same paragraph, delete the phrase "of economically less developed
countries" ,

/ ...



A/42/792
English
Page 3

(c) Delete op@rative paragraph 4 and renumber the remaining paragraphs
accordingly.

9. At tho same meeting, the representalive of Egypt proposed that the ninth
preambular paragraph be amended to include the words "and wo~n" after the phrase
"lasting peace and that man".

10. At the same meeting, the representative~ of Algeria, the German Democratic
Republic, Indi~, Morocco, Burkina Faao, Senegal, Canada, the Sudan, France, oman,
the Nethex'lands, Australia, Iraq, tile Congo, the United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland and COHta Rica made statements concerning the amendment.

11. The Chairman then made a statement and, based on the discussion, subsequently
decided that, in the ninth preambu1ar paragraph of the original English text, the
word "man" should be replaced by the word "peoples", and after the rbrase "complete
fulfilment of", the word "his" should be replaced with the word "their".

12. At the same meeting, tho Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.34 by a
recorded vote of 103 to 24, with 2 abstentions (see para. 31, draft
resolution 11). The voting was as follows I

In favours Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
8onin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Bramil, Brunei Daruasalam,
8u1garia, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad,
China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&te d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon,
German Democratic Republic, Guinea, Guinea-Bir.=~u, Haiti,
Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of),
Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People'& Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Li~eria, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Ma1dives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique, Nioaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Panama, Papua N~w Guinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, SW8ziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailan', Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Soc~alist
RepUblic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Rep~bllc of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zim~bwe.

Against: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abst3inin~: Nepal, Singapore.

/ ...



A/42/192
English
Page 4

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.3S

13. At the 42nd meeting, on 11 November, the representative of India introduoed
and orally revised a draft resolution (A/C.3/42/L.3S) entitled "National
institutions for the protection and promotion of human rights" sponsored by
Australia, Finland, India, Iraq, New Zealand, Nigeria, Poland, Sri I.anka, the
Ukrainian Soviet Sooialist Republio and the pnion of Soviet Sooialist Republios,
subsequently joined by Norway and Sweden.

14. By the oral amendment, after the words "at its forty-fourth session for" in
operative para~raph 7, the word "publication" was replaced by the words "wide
distribution".

15. At the 44th meeting, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.3/42/L.3S without a vote (see para. 31, draft resolution Ill).

D. Draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.36

16. At the 41st meeting, on 11 November, the representative of Yugoslavia
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/42/L.36) entitled "Right to development",
sponsored by Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, China, Colombia, Costa Rioa, CUba, Cyprus,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Guatemala, India, Iraq, Mexico, Nicaragua, Pakistan, Peru,
Sri Lan~a, the United Republic of Tanzania, Venezuela, Yugoslavia and Zimbabwe,
subsequently joined by Morocco, Rwanda and the ~~.

17. At the 44th meeting, on 12 November, the Secretary of the COmmittee, on behalf
of the co-sponsors, announced the following amendement to the draft resolution,

(a) In operative paragraph 5, after the phrase "this question", delete the
phrase "as a priority",

Cb) In the sam~ paragraph, at thA end of the sentence, add the phrase "undel
the it~m entitled 'Alternative approaches and ways and means within the united
Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms'."

18. The representative of the United States of America explained his position
before the decision.

19. The Committee adopted draft resolutio" A/C.3/42/L.36 without a vote (see
para. 31, draft resolution IV).

20. The representatives of the Federal RepUblic of Germany and J~pan explained
their position after the decision •

•

E. Draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.37

21. At the 42nd meeting, on 11 November, the representative of Australia
introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/42/L.37) entitled "Development of public

I ...



A/42/7Q2
English
l)a90 5

information activi ti'oa in the field of human tighte", aponDored by Australia,
~anada, Colombia, Cyprus, Eouador, Finland, Ireland, Mexioo, Moroooo, the
NothorlandD, Peru, the Philippines, Senegal, the United Kingdom of Groat "ritain
and Northern Ireland and Yugoslavia, subsequently joined by ~olivia, Coata l~ioa,
Germany, ~'oderal Republio of, India, Norway, Samoa and Sweden.

22. At the 44th meeting, on 12 November, the reprosentative of Australia, on
behalf of the sponsors, orally revi~c(l t~e draft resolution by replaoing tho words
"expt'esaos ooncern" by tho word "notos" in operativo paragraph 1.

23. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.37
without a vote (see para. 31, draft reoolution V).

24. The reproaen~ative of the Byelorussian Soviet Socialiot Republio Qxplainod his
position after the decision.

F. Draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.38/Rov.l

25. At the 41st meeting, on 11 November, the repreaontative of Cuba introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.3/42/L~38/Rev.l) entitled "Alternative approaohes and waye
and means within the United Nations system for improving the effeotive enjoyment of
human rights and fundamental freodoms", sponsored by Angola, Atgontina, n~nin,
Bolivia, Burkina Paso, Colombia, the Congo, Cuba, Cyprus, Domooratio Yomon,
Ethiopia, Ghana, T.ibyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagasoar, Mexioo, Mozambiquo, 1I:iol1ra9uo,
Nigeria, Panama, Peru, Romania, Sao Tome and Prinoipe, Syrian Arab Republio,
Uganda, the United Republic of TanzaniaL-Viet Nam, YU9~elavia and ~imbabw~,
subaequent~y joined by Cameroon, the Lao People's Democratic RepublicL.Mali and
Rwanda.

26. At the 44th meetinq, on 12 No"~mber, the representatives of Denmark (on bohalf
of the 12 members of the European Community), New zealand and Canada apoko in
~xplanation of vote before the vote.

27. At the same meeting, the representati~e or Egypt proposod an amendment to
operative ~aragraph 5 of the draft resolution, whoreby after the phraoe -human
rights of the peoples and individuals", the phrase ",particularly in Namibia and
Palestine," would be added.

28. Following a statement by the representative of Cuba, the repl'esC'lltativo of
Egypt withdrew his proposed amendment.

~~. At the samO meeting, the Committee adopted tho 1aft resolution by a recordod
vote of ll~ to 1, with 23 abstentions (see para. 31, draft resolution VI). Tho
voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazll,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelurussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C8te d'Ivoiro,

/ ...



A/42/792
English
Page 6

Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, DetllOCratic lCampuchea. Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador,
Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Grenada, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Haiti, Honduras,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic ReF:Jblic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia. Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay,
peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Senegal,
Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab RepUblic, Thailand, 'logo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Against: United States of America.

Abstaining; Australia, Austria, Belgium, canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Federal Republic.of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, portugal,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland.

30. The representatives of Turkey, Japan and SWeden (on behalf of the Nordic
countries) spoke in explanation of vote after the vote.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF 'l'HE THIRD COMMITTEE

31. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

DRAF'l' RESOLtJ'l'ION I

Respect for the right of everyone to own property alone as well as
in association with others and its contribution to the economic and

social development of Member States

The General Assembly;,

Recallin~ its resolution 41/132 of 4 December 1986, by which it expressed
the conviction that the full enjoyment by everyone of the right to own
property alone as well as in association with others, as set forth in
artiole 17 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, !I is of particular

11 Resolution 217 A (III).

/ ...



A/42/792
Bnqlish
Page 7

significance in fostering widespread enjoyment of other basic human rights and
contributes to securing the goals of economic and social development enshrined
in the Charter of the United Nations,

Recalling further Commission on Human Riqhts resolction 1987/17 of
10 March 1987, Y by which the ~ssion urqed States, in accordance wi th
their respective constitutional systems and in accordance with the Universal
Declaratiop of Human Riqhts, to provide, where they have not done so, adequate
constitutional and legal provisions to protect the right of everyone to own
property alone as well as in association with others and the right not to be
arbitrarily deprived of one's property,

1. ~ that its resolution 41/132 calls for a report by the
Secretary-General to the General Assembly at its forty-third session that will
take into account the views of Member States, specialized agencies and other
competent bodies of the United Nations system, within existing resources, on:

(a) The relationship between the full enjoyment by individuals of human
rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular the right of everyone to own
property alone as well as in association with others, as set forth in
article 17 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and the economic and
social development of Member States,

(b) The role of the right of everyone to own property .alone as well as
in association with others, as set forth in article 17 of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, in ensuring the full and free participation of
individuals in the economic and social systems of States,

2. Takes note of the pr~liminary oral report on this question made by
the Under-Secretary-General for Human Rights,

3. Appeals to Member States, on the basis of their national experienco,
and to specialiZed agencies and other competent bodies of the United Nations
system to respond as constructively and as factually as possible to the
invitation in General Assembly resolution 41/132 to communicate to the
Secretary-G&neral on the SUbject of his report,

4. Renews its r!9uest to the Secretary-General to report his findings
to the General Assembly at its forty-third session,

S. Decides to consider this system at its forty-third session under the
item entitled ·Alternative approaches and ways and means within the United
Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rightr. and
fundamental freedoms·.

~ Official Records of the Economic anu Social Council, 1981, Supplement
~ (E/l987/l8) chap. 11, sect. A.

/ ...



A/42/792
English
Page 8

DRAFT RESOLUTION 11

The impact of property on the enjoyment of human rights
.,nd fundamenta 1 freedoma

The General Assembly,

Reoalling the Universal Deolaration of Human Rights, 11 the Deolaration
on Sooial Progress and Development 4/ and the Deolaration on the Right to
Development, 5/ whioh assign property a role in the implementation uf human
rights and fundamental freedoms,

Reoalling further COlllllission on Human Rights resolution 1987/18 of
~O Maroh 1987, !I

Mindful of the obligations of State~ under the Charter of the Unit.ed
Nations to promote higher standards of living, full employment, and oonditions
of economio and sooial progress a:Ki development, sol.utions of international
eoonomic, social, health, and related problems,

Rocognizing the universal respeot for, and observance of, human rights
and fundamental freedoms fo~ all without disorimination of am!' kind as to
race, oolour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or
~ocial origin, property, birth or other status,

RecQ9nizing also that all peoples have the right to self-determination,
by virtue of whioh they may freely determine th~ir political status a~d m~y
freoly pursue their eoonomio, sooial and oultural development,

Noting with ooncern that the conoentration of eoonomic power in the hands
of transnational corporations may imnede the comprehensive and meaningful
realization of the right to self-determination of peoples,

B8calling General Assembly resolutions 3201 (S-VI) and 3202 (S-VI) of
1 May 1974, containing the Deolaration and the Programme of Action on the
Establishment of a New International Economic Order, 3281 (XXIX) of
12 December 1974, containing the Charter of Economic RightD and Duties of
States, 3362 (S-VII) of 16 September 1975 on d~velopment and international
economic co-operation and 35/56 of 5 December 1980, the annex to which
contains the International Development Strategy for the Third United Naticna
Development Decade,

1/ Resolution 217 A (Ill).
!/ Resolution 2542 (XXIV).
1/ Resolution 41/128, annex.
2/ Off.icial Records of the Eoonomic and Social Council, 1987, supplem~'l

No. 5 (E/1987/1ij), chap. 11, seet. A.

I . ..



A/42/792
English
page 9

Reoognizing further that the right of the peoples GO self-determination
includes the exercise of their inalienable right to full sovereignty over all
their natural wealth and resources,

Convinoed that Bocial justice is a prerequisite for lasting peace and
that peup1es can achieve complete fulfilment of their asplrationa only wt. thin
a just social order,

Convince~ also that aooial development can be promoted by peaceful
ooexistence, friendly relations and co-operation among States with different
social, eoonomic or political systems,

Reaffirming, in accordance with article 28 of the universal Declaration
of Human Rights, that everyone ie entitled to a social and international order
in which the rights and freedoms set forth in the Declaration can be fully
realized,

Bearing in mind that in no case may human rights and fundamental freedoms
bo exeroised oontrary to the purposes and principles of the Charter of the
United Nations or to the dghts and freedoms of others,

Reoalling General Assembly resolution 34/137 of 14 December 1979, on the
role of the public sector in promoting the economic development of developing
countries, in which the General Assembly emphasized the importance of an
efficient public sector in the development process,

Reaffirming, in aocordance with article 6 of the Declaration on SOCial
Progress and Development, ~ that social progress and development require the
ostablishment, in oonformity with human rights and fundamental freedoms and
with the principles of justice and t~e sooial function of ,property, of forms
of ownership of land and of the means of production which preclude any kind of
exploitation of man, en9ur~ equal rights to property for all and create
oonditions leading to genuine equality among people,

1. Reaffirms the obligation of States to take effective steps with a
view to aohieving the full realization of civil, political, eoonomio, sooial
and oultuLol rights,

2. ReCognizes that there exist in Member States many forms of le901
property ownership, including private, communal, and State forms, eaoh of
which should contribute to ensuring the effeotive development and utilization
of human resources through the establishment of Bound bases for political,
economio and sooial justice,

3. Calls upon States to ensure that their national legislation with
rogard to all forms of property shall preolude any impairment of the enjoyment
of human rights and fundamental freedoIDs, without prejudice to their right
freely to choose and develop their political, soclal, e~onomlc and cultural
systems,

/ ...



A/42/792
English
Page 10

4. Vigoroualr condemns the transnational corporations that maintain or
oontinue to increase their collaboration with the racist r'gime r~ south
Africa, thus encouraging that r'gime to persist in its inhuman and criminal
polioy of brutal oppression of the peoples of southern Africa and denial of
their human rights and becoming accomplioes in the inhuman practices of racial
discrimination, oolonialism and apartheid,

5. Requests tho Secr6tary-General in preparing his report to the
General Assembly at ita forty-third session, in accordance with
resolution ~1/132 of 4 December 1986, to take into account resolution 1987/18
of the Commission on Human Rights as well as the prosent resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

National institutions for the protection and promotion
of human rights

The Goneral Assembly,

Recalling the relevant re&olutionA conoerning national institutions for
the proteotion and promotion of human rights, notably ita resolution 41/129 of
4 Deoember 1986 and Commission on Human Rights resolution 1987/40 of
10 Maroh 1987, 1/

Emphasizing the importanoe of the Universal Declaration of HUlnan
Rights, !I the International Covenants on Human Rights !I and other
international instrumerlts for promoting respect for and observanoe of human
rights and fundamontal freedoms,

Af~irming that ~riority should be accorded to the development of
appropriate arrangements at the national level to ensure the effective
implementation of international human rights standards,

Consoious of the significant role that institutions at the national level
can play in protecting and promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms and
in aeveloping and enhancing publio awareness of those rights and freadomR,

Recognizing that the United Nations oan play a catalytic role in
assisting the development of national institutions by acting as a clearing
house for the exchange of information and experience,

1/ Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1987! Supplement
No. 5 (E/1987/18), chap. 11, sect. A.

!I Resolution 217 A (Ill).

!I Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

I ...



A/42/792
English
Page 11

Mt.ndful in this regard of the guidelines on the struoture and funotioning
of national and looal institutions for the proteotion and promotion of human
rights, endorsed by the General Aosembly in its resolution 33/46 of
14 December 1978,

weloominn the holding at Geneva, under the auspioes'of the United
Nations, of a Seminar on the Experienoe of Different Countries in the
Implementation of International Standards of Human Rights, from 20 June to
1 July 1983, and a Seminar on Community Relations commissions and Their
Funotions, from 9 to 20 September 1985, and other ourrent United Nations
initiatives to oombat raoial diBcrimination,

1. Takes note of the report of the Seoretary-General, !Q/

2. Reaffirms the importance of developing, in aocordanoe with national
legislation, effeotive national institutions for tho protection and promotion
of human rights and of maintaining their independence and integrity,

3. Encourages Member States to establish or, where they already exist,
to strengthen the national institutions for the proteotion and promotion of
human rights and to inoorporate these elements in national development plana,

4. Encourages all Member States to take appropriate steps to promote
the uxohange of informatio~ and experienoe ooncerning the establishment and
operation of such national institutions,

S. Welcomes the consolidated report of the Seoretary-General on
national institutions !!I and requests the Secretary-General to bring the
report up to date, bearing in mind the praotical needs of those engaged in th~
development of national institutions;

6. Invites the Seoretary-G\ loral to include in his updated report all
the information providsd by Gc'vernments and any additional information
Governments may wish to provide, with p~rticular ~mphasiB on the functioning
of variouD models of national institutions in implementing international
standards on human rights, as well as a list of existing national inst~tutionG
with oontaot points and a bibliography of relevant material~,

7. Requests the Secretary-General to transmit the updated report
through the Commission on Human Rights and the Economic and SOoial Council to
the General Assembly at its forty-four~h session for wide distribution as a
United Nations handbook on national institutions,

.!Q/ A/42/395.

!!I' E/CN.4/1987/37.

/ ,. ..



1./42/792
English
Pago 12

8. Recognizes the constructive rolo that non-governmental organizations
can play in relation to national institutions,

9. Affirms the role of national institutions as focal points for th~
dissemination of human rights materials and other public information
activities under the auspices of the United Nations,

10. Encourages the development of funding and other strategies to
facilitate the establishment of national human rights institutions and, in
this regard, invites Member States to consider making requests for such
assistance through the advisory services programme of the United Nations,

11. Requests the Secretary-General to provide all necessary assistance
to Member states, upon their request, in the implementation of paragrapns 2
to 4 and 8 to 10 above, according priority to the needs of developing
countries,

12. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-fourth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

Right ,.0 development

The General Assembly,

Welcoming the proclamation by the General Assembly at its forty-first
session of the Deolaration on the Right to Dev~lopment, 131

Recalling the resolutions of the General Assembly and the Commission on
Human Rightn relating to the right to development, especially Commission
resolution 1987/23 of 10 Maroh 1987, III approved by the l!conomic and Social
Council,

Reiterating the importance of the right to development to all countries,
in particular the developing countries,

Convinced of the importance of the fl.'ture work of the Commission on Human
Rights and its Working Group of Governmental Experts on the Right to
Development, including the practical measures to implement the Declaration on
the Right to Development,

!lI Resolution 41/128, annex.

!11 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1987, Supplement
No. 5 (E/1987/18), chap. 11, sect. A.

/ ...



A/42/192
English
page 13

Having considered the report of the Working Group, 1!1 as well aa all
other relevant documents submitted to the General ABa~mbly at its forty-second
session,

Aware of the great interest shown by several States Members of the United
Nations, specialj,~ed agencies and non-governmental or~anizations, which dasire
to contribute to the work of the Working Group,

1. Expresses, its hope that the replies of the Government, Un i ted
Nations bodies and specialized agencies and other governmental and
non-govornmental organizations, submitted at the request of the
Sooretary-General based on Commission on Human Rights resolution 1987/23 to
oft~r their comments and views on the implementation of the Declaration on the
Right to Development, will contain practioal proposals and ideas that should
oontribute substantively to further work on the imple~entation of the
Deolaration on the Right to Development,

2. Calls upon the Working Group of Governmental Experts on the Right to
Development, at its elevent~ session, to study the analytioal oompilation to
be prepared by the Secretary-General of all replies reoeived, if neoessary
together with the individual replies, and to submit to the Commission on Human
Rights at its forty-fourth session its reoommendations and suggestions on
whioh proposals would best contribute to the further enhanoement and
implementation of the Declaration on the Right to Development,

3. Calls uP9n the Commission on Human Rights, at its forty-fourth
session, to oonsider the report, recommendations and suggeolions of the
Working Group, as well as all other relevant materials, inoluding the
analytioal oompilation, with a view to.deoiding on praotical measutes to
implement the Declaration on the Right to Development, including speoiric
proposals conoerning future work,

4. Invites the Commission on Human Rights to report to the IJaneral
Assembly at its forty-third session, through the Eoonomio and Sooial Counoil
on the organizational and substantial measures to implement the Deolaration on
the Right to Development at all. levels,

5. Decides to consider this question at its forty-third session under
the item entitled "Alternative approaohes and ways and means within the United
Nations system for improving the effeotive enjoyment of human rights and
fundamental freedoms".

!iI E/CN.4/1987/10.



A/42/792
English
Page 14

DRAFT RESOLUTION V

Develoement of 2ublic information activities in the
field of huma~ rights

The General Assembly,

Reaffirmini that activities to improve pUblic knowleu~~ tn the field of
human rights are essential to the fulfilml!nt of the purposes of the United
Nations as set out in Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United
Nationo and that programmes of teaching, education and information arc central
to the achievement of lasting respect for human rights and fundamental
freedoms,

Recalling the relevant resolutions o~ this subjeot, notably ita
resolution 41/130 of 4 December 1986 and Commission on Human Rights
resolution 1987/39 of 10 March 1987, !21

Reoognizing the catalytic effect of initiatives of the United Nations on
national and regional public information activities in the field of human
rights,

ReCogl ~zing also the valuable role that non-governmental organizations
can play in these endeavours,

Believing that the fortieth anniversary of the adoption of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights !!I should prov~de a focus and renewed impetus to
the promotional activities of the United Nations system in the field of human
rights,

Taking note of the successful United Nations regional training course on
human rights teaching held at Bangkok from 14 to 20 Ootober 1987,

1. Takes not~ of the report of the Secretary-General on the development
of public information activities in the field of human rights, !11 and notes
that, de~pite its repeated appeals, these acttvities continue to be denied
adequate resources and pr>ori ty J

121 Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1987, Supplement
No. 5 (E/l987/lB), chap. 11, sect. A.

Resolution 217 A (Ill).

E/CN.4/1987/l6 and Add.1-3 •.

/ ...



A/42/792
English
Page 15

2. Invites all Member States to make special efforts during 1988 to
provide, facilitate and encourage pUblicity for the activities of the United
Nations in the field of human rights and to accord priority to the
dissemination, in their respeotive national and looal languages, of the
Univ~rsal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants on Human
Rights !!I and other international oonventions, .

3. Requests the Secretary-General to prepare a report for presentation
to the Gen~ral Assembly at its forty-third session on the advisability of
launohing, within existing resources, a World Public Information Campaign on
Human Rights in 1989 and to include in the report an outline of planned
activ~ties,

4. Reaffirms the need for materials on human rights to be made
available in simplified, attractive and accessible form, in national and local
languages, and for effective use to be made of the masa media, in particular
radio and television and audio-visual teohnologies, in order to reach a wider
aUdience, with priority qiven to children, other young people and the
disadvantaged, including those in isolated areas,

5. Recognizes the need for the United Nations to harmonize its
aotivities in this field with those of other organizations, in partioular the
International Committee of the Red Cross, with regard to the dissemination of
information and oduoation relating to international humanitarian law,

6. Emphasizo~ the key role of the United Nations info~mation centres in
the public information programme of the United Nations .in the field of human
rights, and urges the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat to
give special attention to improving the performance and accountability of the
c·antr:es, •

7. Renews its request to the Secretary-General to establish, within
available resources, collections of basic reference works and united Nations
materials at each United Nations informat~on centre by the end of 1988, taking
into aocount the list of basic human rights materials,

8. Invites all relevant elements of the United Nations system,
including the speciaUzed agencies and regh.. nal commissions, aa well as Mf?mber
States and non-governmental organizations, to facilitate the dissemination of
the human rights material.s of the United Nations and to improve the
co-ordination of their activities in this field,

9. Requests the Secretary-General to finalize the draft teaching
booklet on human rights without delay and to draw the attention of Member
States to the booklet, which could serve as a broad and flexlhle ft'amework
wi thin which teach:l.ng could be structured and developed in accordance wi th
national circumstances,

l.~/ l~{\noll\t ion ,~/()O A (XXI), cllH\P.X.

.
I _



A/42/792
English
Page 16

10. Urges all Member States to include in their educational curricula
materials relevant to a comprehensive understanding of human rights issues and
encourages all those responsible for training in law and its enforcement, the
armed forces, medicine, diplomacy and other relevant fields to include
appropriato human rights oomponents in their programmes,

11. RegUflStS the Secretary-General to complete the task of issuing the
personalized version of the Universal Deolaration of Human Rights 1n the six
offioial languages of the United Nations in 1988 and to proceed thereafter, in
co-operation with regional organizations and Governments, to the production of
this document in national and looa1 languages,

12. Further requests the Seoretary-General to invite Member States to
nominate national fooal points whioh oould be supplied with copies of relevant
human rights materials and to publish the list of suoh fooal points in his
report to the General Asaembly at its forty-third session on the
implementation of the present resolution,

13. Renews its request to the Seoretary-Genera1 to arrange for the
reprinting as soon as praotioable of the pUblication entitled Human Rights. A
Compilation of International Instruments, !!I

14. Emphasizes the importance of maintaining adequate stooks of basic
human rights materials in New York and Geneva, and expresses its ooncern about
the serious limitations placed on the storage oapaoity of the United NatiGn~
in New York for such documents,

15. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the Commission on Human
Rights at its forty-fourth session on the public presentations, in New york
and Geneva, on Human Rights Day in 1987 of a selection of audio-vi Jua~ and
other United Nations materials in the field of human rights, inclUding an
analysis of comments made during the presentations about the future direction
of these programmes,

16. Further requests the Secretary-General. to submit to the General
Asnembly et its forty-third session a comprehensive report on the
implementation of the present resolution,

17. Decide~ to continue its consideration of this question at its
forty-third session under the item entitled "Alternative approaches and ways
and means within the United Nations system for improving the effective
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms".

W United Nations publication, Sales No. E.83.XIV.1.

I . ..



A/42/"/lJ'}.
l':n" 11 all
Pago 17

DRAFT RE.ClOLUTI0N VI

Alternative ~l)proaoheB and waya and means. y!'ithin tJl.o United
Nations sxstem for im,Proving the effectj'le enjoyment of

human rights and fundamental freedoma

The General Assembly,

Recailing that in the Charter of the United Nations the peoples of the
United Nations deolared their determination to reaffirm faith in fundamental
human rights, in the dignity an~ worth of the hu.an ~~rson and in the equal
rights of men and women and of nations both great and small and to use
ifiternational maohinery for promoting the eoonomio and soolal advanoement of
all peoples,

Reoalling also the purposes and prinoiples of the Charter for aohieving
international oo-operation in solving international problems of an eoonomio,
social, cultural or humanitarian oharaoter, and in promoting and enoouraging
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinotion
as to race, sex, languoge .or religion,

Emphasizing the signifioanoe and validity of the Univorsal Deolaration of
Human Rights l2I and of the International Covenants on Human Rights l!I in
promoting respect for and observanoe of human rights and fundamental freedoms,

Reoalling its resolution 32/130 of 16 Deoembe~ 1977, in whioh it dooided
that the approaoh to future work within the Unitod NotionD oystem with respeot
to human rights questions should take into acoount the uonceptB Det forth in
that resolution,

Recalling also its resolutions 34/46 of 23 November 1979, 35/174 of
15 December 1980, 36/133"of 14 Deoember 1981, 38/124 of 16 December 1983 and
39/145 of 14 December 1984, 40/124 of 13 Docember 1985, 41/131 of
4 Deoember 1986 al\d 41/133 of the Game date,

Takin9 into acoount resolution 1985/43 of 14 Murch 1985 of: tho Commission
on Human Rights, W

~mphaoizin9 that the right to development ia an inalionablQ human right
llnd that equality ot: development opportuniticEl it; LA prerOC)ativo both of
nations and of individuals within nationa,

~/ Resolution 217 A {IIl).

1!/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI) ~ anl'ex.

El See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, PJ85, ..~!}lpplonlCmt:
~-! (E/1985/22), chap. 11, seot. A.

I . ..



----------- -- ------ ----

A/42/792
English
Page 18

Recognizing that the human being is the main subject of development and
that everyone has the right to parti~ipate in, as well as to benefit from, the
development process,

Reiteratini once aiain that the establishment of the New International
Economic Order is an essential element for the effective promotion and full
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all,

Reiterating also its profound conviction that all human rights and
fundamental freedoms are indivisible and interdependent and that equal
attention and urgent consideration should be given to the implementation,
promotion and protection of civil and political rights and of economic, social
and cultural rights,

Emphasizini the need for the creation, at the national and international
levels, of conditions for the promotion and full protection of the human
rights of individuals and peoples,

ReCogniZing that international peace and security are essential elements
for the full realization of human rights, inclUding the, right to development,

Considering that the resources that would,be released by disarmament
could contribute significantly to the development of all States, in particular
to that of the developing countries,

Recognizini that co-operation among all nations on the basis of respect
for the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of each State,
including the right of every people to choose freely its own social, economic
and political system and to exercise full sovereignty over its wealth and
natural resources, subject to the principles referred to in article 1,
paragraph 2, and article 25 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social
and Cultural Rights, III is essential for the promoti~ of peace and
development,

Convinced that the primary aim of such international co-operation must be
the achievement by all human beings of a life of freedom and dignity and
freedom from want,

Distressed, however, by the occurrence of violations of human rights in
the world,

Reaffirming that nothing in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or
in the International Covenants on Human Rights may be interpreted as implying
for any State, group or person the right to engage in any ~ctivity or perform
any act aimed at destroying any of the rights and freedoms proclaimed therein,

23/ See resolution 2200 A (XXI), anne~.

/ ...



A/42/792
English
Page 19

Affirming that the ultimate aim of development is the constant
improvement of the well-being of the entire population, on the basis of its
full participation in the process of development and a fair distribution of
the benefits therefrom,

Considering that the efforts o~ the developing countries for their own
development should be supported by an increased flow of resources and by the
adoption Of appropriate and substantive measures for creating an external
environment conducive to such development,

Takins into account the Political Declaration adopted by the Eighth
Conference of the Heads of State or Government of the Non-Aligned countries
held at Harare on 1 September 1986, ~

Emphasizing the special importance of the purposes and principles
proclaimed in its Declaration on the Right to Development, ~

Taking into account resolutions 1987/19 and 1987/23~ of the Commission
on Human Rights of 10 Mar~h 1987,

Reaffirming the importance of furthering the activities of the existing
organs of the united Nations system in the field of human rights in conformity
with the principles of the Charter,

Emphasizing that Governments have the duty to ensure respect for all
human rights and fundamental freedoms,

1. Reiterates its request that the Commission on Human Rights continue
its current work on overall analysis with a view to further promoting and
strengthening human rights and fundamental freedoms, including the question of
the programme and working methods of the COmmission and on the overall
analysis of the alternative approaches and ways and means for improving the
effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in ac~ordance
with the provisions and concepts of Gen~ral Assembly resolution 32/130 and
other relevant texts.

2. Affirms that a primary aim of international co-operation in the
field of human rights is a life of freedom, dignity and peace for all peoples
and for every human being, that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interrelated and that the promotion and protection of one
category of rights should never exempt or excuse States from promoting and
protecting the others,

24/ A/4l/697-S/18392, annex.

~ See resolution 41/128. annex.

~ See Official Records of the Economic and Social Council, 1987, SUpplement
No. 5 (E/1987/18), chap. 11, sect. A.



A/42/792
En~U8h

Page 20

3. Affirmo its profound conviotion that oqual attention and urgent
consideration should be given to the im91ementation, promotion and protection
of oivil a~ political rights and of 'ocC)nomio, Aoo181 and cultural rights,

4. Reaff:lr.ns that it is of paramount importance for the prumotion of
human tights and fundamental freedoms that Member States should assume
specific obliqations by acceding to or ratifying international instrumonts in
this field, and oonsequently that th~ work of setting standards within the
United Nations sYBtem in the field of hUmQn rights and the universsl
aoooptanoe and implementat ion of the relevant internat ional instruments ahould
be enoouraged,

5. Reiterates on09 again that the international community should
accord, or oontinue to aocord, priority to the searoh for solutions to m~SB
ancl fl~rant violations of the human rights of the peoples and indivldualo
affected by situations such as those montioned in paragraph 1,
aubparagraph (,2), of Gen~ral rjssemb~.y resolut ion 32/130, paying due attent ion
also to other situations of violations ~r human rights,

ti. Reaf firms its responsibility for aohi oving intornat ional
co-operation in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms for all, and expresoes its concern at serioua violations
of human rights, in particular mftSB and flagrant violations of these rights,
wherever they ocour,

7. Expresses concern at the present a1 tuat ion as rogardu the
achievoment of the objectives and goals for the es\'ablishment of the New
International Economtc Order, and at its adverso efL'lcts on the full
realization of 'human rights, in particular the right to development,

8.
rightJ

Reaffirms that the right to development is an inalionable human

9. Reaffi~ms also that international peace and security are essential
elements for achieving full realization of tho ri~ht to dAvelopment,

10. Recognizes that all \Iuman rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interdependentJ

11. Considers that all Member States must promote international
co-operation on the basis of respect for the independence, sovereignty and
territorial integrity of each State, including the right of each people to
choose freely its own social, economic and political system and to exercin~
fUll sovereignty over its wealth and natural resources, subject to the
principles referred to in article 1, paragraph 2, and artJ,cle 25 of the
Illternational Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, w1th a "~3W tc.
solving international economic, social and humanitarian problems,

I . ..



A/421792
English
Pag't 21

12. Expresses oonOl~ at the existing diQparity betwe~n established
norms and prinoiples and the ~otual Bitu~tion of all human rights and
fundamental freodoms 1n the world,

13. Urg~B all States to oo-operat~ wlth the Commission on Hum~n Rights
in the promotion and proteotion of human rights and fund~mental freedoms,

14. Reiterates the need to create, at the national and international
levels, oonditions for the full promotion and protection of the haman rights
of individuals and peoples,

15. ~eaffirms once again that, in order to'facilitate the full enjoyment
of all rights without d~.minishing porsonal dignity, it is necessary to promote
the rights to education, work, health and proper nourisbme~t through the
&doption of measures at the national level, inoluding those that provide for
the partioipation of workers in management, as well as the adoption of
measures at the international level, inoluding the establishment of the New
International Economio Order,

16. Deoides that tha approaoh to future work within the United Nations
system on human righto matters Ghou!d also take into aocount the oontent and
need for the implementation of the Deolaration on the Right to Development,

17. Do~i~ea to include in the prOVisional agenda of its forty-third
session theTtement1tl~d "Alternative approaches and ways and moans within
the United Nations syntem for improving the effeot~.ve enjoyment of human
rights and fundamontal freodoms".

--...-.-


