







































Qeneral  Assembly Dietr  .GENERAL
A/42/739
17 November 1987

ORIGINALI  PNQLISN

For ty-ooaond  eetieion
Aqonda  item SO

URGENT NEED FOR A ~MPREUYNSIVC  NUCLEAR-TEST-BAN TREATY

Report of the Firet Committee

Rlpppor  teur : Mr. Kanimier z MMASZEWSKI  (Poland)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. The item antitled  *Urgent need for a uompreheneive  nuolear-test-ban  treaty:
report of the Conferenae on Disarmament” was  inaluded in the provisional agenda of
tho forty-oeaond oeeaion  in aocordanae  with General Aeeembly reeolution  41/47  of
3 Doaemlw 1986.

2. At ito 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1987, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to inolude the item in ito agenda
and to allocate it to the Firet Committee.

3. At i ta 2nd meeting, on 1 October, the Firet Committee deoided to hold a
genoral dobeto  on the diearmomont  items allooated to it, namely, itema  48 to 69,
followed by etatnmente  on epeaifia  diearmament agenda iteme  and aontinuation of the
general dobatcr,  QB tt  :oeeeary  . The deliberations on thoee  iteme took plaae  between
tho 3rd end the 31et meetinge, from 12 October to 3 November (Bee  wC.l/42/PV. 3-31) l

4. In oonnaution  with item 50, the Firet Committee had  before it the following
documanto:

(a) Koport of the Conference on Disarmament8 I/

(b) Letter dated 15 January 1987 from the Permanent Repreeentative  Of
Nicaragua to the United Nations addressed to the Seort&ary-General  (A/42/89)1

I/ Official Record8 of the General Aeaembly, Forty-eeoond Seaaion,
Supplement No. 27 (A/42/27).

87-29732 05683 (E)
6

r
a

/ . . .



A/42/739
English
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 30 Maroh  1987 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Soaialiet Republics to the United Nations addreeead  to the
Searetary-General, transmitting the text of the oonaluding documentc  of the regular
eeseion  of the Committee of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the States  parties to
the Warsaw Treaty of Friendship, Co-operation and Mutual Assistanae,  held et M O S C O W
on 24 and 25 Marah  1987 (A/42/189-S/18768)1

(8) Letter dated 29 May 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the German
Demoaratio Republic to the United Nations addreseed to the Seoretary-General,
transmitting the text of the aommunique  ant!  dosuments  adopted at  the seaeion  of the
Politiaal Coneoltative Committee of the States parties to the Warsaw Treaty of
Sriendship,  Co-operation and Mutual Assistance, held at Rerlin on 28 and
29 May  1987 (A/42/313-S/lSSSS)#

(e) Letter dated 29 May 1987 from the representatives of Argentina, Greene,
India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republio of Tanzania to the United Nation8
addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the  joint statement
dated 22 Xay 1987 of the President of Argentina, the Prime Minister of Greece, the
Prime Minister  of India,  the  President  of  Mexioo, the Prime Minieter  of Sweden and
the First  President  of  the United Republia of Tanzania (A/42/319-S/19694)!

(f) Latter  dated 12 June 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the Union
of Soviet Swialist Republios to the United Nations addressed to the
Searetary-General (A/42/346-5/18922))

(9) Letter dated 15 July 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Iraq to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/404-5/18982))

(h) Let te r  da ted  15 July 1987 from the Permanent Repreeentative  of Malaysia
to the United Nations addressed  to  the  Secretary-General ,  t ransmitt ing the text  of
the final statement of the  fifth sessiou  of the InterAction  Council ,  heid a t  Kuala
Lumpur from 19 to 21 April  1987 (A/42/407) I

(i) Let ter  dated 20 July 1987 from the Charge  d’affaires a.i. o f  the
Permanent Miseion  of Samoa to the United Nations addreesed  to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the text of the final communique of the eighteenth South  Paaifia
Forum, held at Ap!.a  on 29 and 30 May 1987 (A/42/417) I

(j) Note verbale  dated 14 August 1987 from the Permanent Mission of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/509) i

(k) Letter dated 5 October 1967 from the Head of the Delegation of the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics to the forty-second seeeion  of the General Assembly
addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/621-S/19180)#

(1) Letter dated 9 October 1987 from the Permanent Representatives of
Argentina, Greece, India, Mexico, Lweden and the United Republic of Tanzania to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the
joint statement issued on 7 October 1987 by the President of Argentina, the Prime

/ . . .



A/42/739
Enq li ah
Page 3

Minister of Greeue,  the Prime Minioter of India, the President of Mexico, the Prime
Minieter of Sweden and the Firet  President of the United Republic of Tanzania
(A/42/652-8/19201) ?

(m) Letter dated 19 Dotober  1987 from the Permanent Bepresentativa  of Canada
to the United Nation6  addrsoeed  to the Soaretary-General, tranomittinq the
Vancouver Deolaration on World Trade, the Okanaqan Statement on Southern Afrioa and
Programme  o f  Aation, and the communique of the Meetinq of the Commonwealth Heada  of
Government, held at Vanaouver from 13 to 17 Ootober 1987 (A/42/677)1

(n) Letter dated 23 October 1987 from the Permanent Hopreaentative  Of
Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting a
oopy of the final communique of the Meeting of the Minietera  for Foreign Affairs
and Heade  of Delegation of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to the
forty-eeoond 8eeElion  of the General Aoeembly, held in New York from 5 to
7 Octolcer  1987 (A/42/681))

(0) Letter dated 2 November 1987 from the Permanent Representative of
Czeahoslovakia  to the United Natione addreseed  to the Searetary-General,
tranemittinq the communique and the document entitled “Toward6  Increasing the
Effeativeness  of the Conference on Disarmament in  Geneva” ieeued at the BeesliOn  of
the Committee of the Minieters  for Foreign Affairs of the States  member0  of the
Warsaw Treaty, held at Prague on 28 and 29 October 1987 (A/42/708 and Corr.1)  t

(p) Note verbale dated 18 September 1987 from the Permanent Representative of
the Byelorueeian Soviet Socialist Republic to the United Nation8  addreeeed to the
Secretary-General (A/C.1/42/2).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF DRAFT RESOLUTION A/C.1/42/L.77

5. On 27 Outober 1987, Australia, Austria, The Bahamas, Brunei Darueealamr
Cameroon, Canada, Denmark, Fiji, Fi land, Greeoe, Iceland, Ireland, Jamaica, Japan,
Liberia, Malaysia, New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, the Philippinee, SaWa,
Singaporec  the Solomon I~lande,  Sweden, Vanuatu and Zaire Aubmitted a draft
reeolution, entitled “Urgent  need for a aompreheneivs nuclear-teat-ban treaty”
(A/C.1/42/L.77),  which was  later aleo  eponeorod  by Barbadoo,  Ewanda  and Thailand.
The draft reeolution was  introduced by the representative of New ZealtiM  at the
29th meeting, on 2 November.

6. At it6 43rd meeting, on 13 November, the Committee voted on draft reeolution
A/C. 1/42/L.77 as follower

(a)  Operative paragraph 3 was adopted by a recorded vote of 114 to none, with
15 abstentiona, The voting was a8  followet

In favour: Afqhanietan, Auetralia, Austria, The Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbadoe, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brunei Daruasalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorueeian Soviet
Soc ia l i s t  Eepublic, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic,
Chile, Colombia, Comoroe, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire,

/ . . .



A/41/339
Englirh
Page 4

Cseohoelovakia,  Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German
Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece,
Guatemala, Quinea,  Quinea-Bieeau, Guyana, Hondurae,  Hungary,
Ioeland,  Indoneeia,  Iran (Ielamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Israel,  Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’8  Democratic Republic, Leootho, Liberia, Luxembourg,
Madagaeoar,  Malawi, Malaysia, Maldivee,  Mali, Malta, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocuo,  Mosambique , Nepal, Netherlande, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama, Papua New
Guinea, Peru, Philippinea, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Rcmania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaailand, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunieia,  Turkey , Ukrainian Soviet Sooialiet  Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialiet Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republia  o f  Tanzania, United State8  of America, Uruguayr
Viet Nam,  Yemen, Zaire, Zambia,  Zimbabwe.

Aqainetr None.

Abetaininqr  Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Braail,  Burkina Fauo,  Burma, Cuba,
Cyprue, France, India, Syrian Arab Republic, Uganda, United
Kingdom of Qreat  Britain and Northern rreland,  Venezuela,
Yugoelavi a.

(b)  The draft reeolution, aa  a whole, was  adopted by a recorded vote of 122
to 2, with 8 abetentione (see para.  7). The voting was  a8 follower

In favour1 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Auetralia, Austria, The Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbadoe,  Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Bot awana, Brunei Darueaalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faeo,  Burma,
Burundi, Byelorueeian Soviet Socialiet Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central African Wpublic,  Chile, Colombia, Cornor%,
Congo, Costa  Rica, C&e d’Ivoire,  Cyprus,  Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Equatorial Guinea , Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German
Dem-ratio  Republic, Ger,qany,  Federal Republic! of, Ghana, Greeae,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bieeau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Ielamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’6
Democratic Republic, Leeotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagaecar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldivee,  Mali, Malta, Mexico, Monyolia,
Morocao,  Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlande, New Zealand,  Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakietan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwand , Samoa,

. Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, St1  Lanka,
Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Sodalist  Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venesuela,
Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoelavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.



A/42/739
Bnglieh
page  5

Acsainst  : Ftanae,  United States of America,

Abetainingr  Angola, Argentina, Brazil, China, Cuba, India,  Israel,
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northerr. Ireland.

III. RECOMMENDATION OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

7. The Firet  Committee recommends to the General Aeeembly  the adopticn
following draft reeolutiont

Urgent need for a aompreheneive nualear-teat-ban treaty

The General Assembly,

United

of the

Convinaed that a nuolear war aannot be won and must never be fought,

Convinrred  of the ooneequent urgent need for an end to the nuslear-arms
race and the immediate and verifiable reduation  and ultimate elimination of
nuclear weapone  I

Convinoed,  therefore, that an end to all nuolear te&ing  by all States in
all environmente  for all time ie an essential step in order to prevent ti.’
qualitativa improvement and development of nualear weapon6  and further nualear
proliferation and to oontribute, along with other aonourrent effortrP  to limit
and reduoe  nualear arma,  to the eventual elimination of nuclear weapons,

Weloominq  the joint statement of 17 September:  1987 by the United State8
of Amerioa  and the Union of Soviet Souialist  Republioe that they have agreed
to aommenae  negotiations in 1987 on nuolear testing ieauee,

Reaallinq  the proposal8 by the leaders of the six-hation  initiativtr  to
promote an end to nuclear testing, and other resent  initiative6  to thie end,

Convinced that the moat  effective way to aohieve the difiaontinuarme of
all nuclear testo  in all enviranmente  for all time ie through the oonolueion,
at an early date, of a verifiable, compreheneivo  nualear-teat-ban treaty open
to and capable of attraating  the adherenoe  of all Statear

Reaffirminq  the partiuular reeponeibilitiee  of the Conferenoe  on
Disarmament in the negotiation of a comprehensive nuclear-teat-ban treaty,

1. Reaffirma its aonviotion  that a treaty to aohieve the prohibftion of
all nuclear-test explosions by all States in all environment8 for all time ie
a matter of fundamental importance!

2. Urges, therefore, that the following actione  be taken in order that
a comprehensive nuclear-test-ban treaty may be concluded at an early dater

!a) The Conference on Disarmament ehould initiate eubetantive work on
all aspecte of a nucrear-test-ban treaty at the beginning of ita  1988 seesionl”

/ . . .



A/a/739
Engl ieh
Page 6

(b)  State8  membera  of the Conferenoe  on Disarmament, in partiaular the
nuclear-weapon States, an8  all other Statsa  should co-operate in order to
faoilitate  and promote euoh work)

(a) The nuolear-weapon States, eepecially  those whiah poeeeae  the moat
important nualear  arsenala, should agree to appropriate verifiable, znterim
meaBUret3  with a view to realising  a oompreheneive  nwlcm*-teat-ban  treaty)

(8) Thorae  nuolear-weepon States whiah have not yet done so should adhere
to the Treaty Banning Nuolear Weapon Tests in the Atmsphore,  in Outer Spaoe
and Under  Water) 2/

3. Aleo urges  the Conferenae on Diearmamentr

(a) To take imnediate  steps for the eetabliehment,  with the widest
poeeihle  participation, of an internat ional  eeiamio moni tot ing notwor  k with a
view to the further development of its  potential to monitor and verify
oonpliame  with a aongrehoneive  nuclear-to&-ban treaty)

(b) In this  oontext, to take into account the progreee aahieved  by the
Ad Iion  Qroup  of Scient  if io Expert@  to Conaider  Internat  ional  Co-operative
hasuree  to Deteat and Identify Seiemia Events, inaluding  the exahange of
wave-form data, anf other relevant ini  tiativos  by individual State6  and groups
o f  State01

(a) To initiate detailed investigation of other measures to monitor and
verify complianae with such a treaty, ineluding an internetiol:al  network to
mod tor atmDepher  iu rad ioac t ivi tyg

4. Call6 UROn  the Conference on Disarmament to report to the General
Aosembly  at ite forty-third session  on proqrese  made)

5. Deoidee  to include in the provioional  agenda of its forty-third
eeeeion  the item entitled “Urgent  need for a canpreheneive nuclear-teat-ban
treaty”.

-a---

2/ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 480, No. 6964, p. 43.


