







































UNITED
NATIONS

DiStr.
GENLRAL

A/42/758
24 November 1987

OKIGINALr ENGLISE

Forty-second eeeoion
Agenda item 70

QUESTION OF ANTARCTICA

Report of the Firet  Committee

RaPPorteurt M r .  Kazimierz  TWASZEWSKI (Poland)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. Tho item ontitled the “Question of Antarctica8 reports of the
Secretary-General” was included in the provfeional  agenda of the forty-eecond
saeeion  in accordance with General Assembly  reeolutione 4:/W A, B and C of
4 December 1986.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 Septenrbor 1987, the General Aaoembly,  on the
recommendation of the General Committee’, decided to include the item ir. it8 agenda
and to allocate it to the Firat Committee.

3. The Fir& Committee considered the item at its 46th to 48th meetings, on 17
and 18 November 1987 (see A/C.1/42/PV.44-4.8).

4. In connection with item 70, the Ffret Committee had before it the following
dccuments:

(a) Letter dated 3 March 1987 from the Permanent Representative of Kuwait to
the United Nations addreosed  to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the
final communiqu6  and the resolutions adopted by the Fifth Islamic Summit
Conference, held at Kuwait from 26 to 29 January 1987 (A/42/178-8/18753) ;

(b) Letter dated 23 October 19137  from tho Permanent Reproeentative of
Zimbabwe to the United Nation6  addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
text of the final communique of the Meeting of Minister6  for Foreign Affair6  and
Heads of Delegation of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to the forty-eecond
session of the United Nation6 General Assembly, held in New York from 5 to
7 October 1987 (A/42/681) ;

^
fJ7-31206 OSYSP (E) I/ . . .



A/42/756
Englieh
Page 2

(0) Letter dated 11 November 1987 from the Permanent ReproPontative  of Brazil
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, tranemitting the English
text of f:te provisional version of the final report of the t’ourteenth  Antarctia
Treaty Coneultat ive Meeting , held at Rio de Janeiro from 5 to 16 October 1967
WC. l/42/7) t

(d) Report of the Secretary-General an the queetion  of Antarctica (A/42/586
and Corr,  1) 1

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the question of Antarotica (A/42/587).

I I . CCNSIDERATI@N  OF PRWOSALS

A. lhaft reeolutfon A/C.1/42/L.86

5. On 16 November, Zambia submitted, on behalf of the mombore  of the Group of
African States, a draft teso.Iut ion entitled nQuest  ion of Antarcticaa
(A/C.1/42/L.f36),  which wae frtrcduced by the rsprocentative  of Zambia at the
46th meeting, on 18 November,

6. At the same meeting, the Committee addxpted  draft resolution A/C. 1/42/L.86  by a
roll-call vote of 96 to none, with 7 abstentions (ace para, 10, draft
reeolutfon A). 1/ The voting was as follows;

In  favours Afghanistan , Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argent ina,  Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbadoe, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botewana, Brazil,  Brunei Darusealam,  Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Byeloruesian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Central African Republic, China, Colombia, Congo,
Coeta Rica, Cuba, Cyprus , Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
German Demwrat  ic Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iran (IQlomic Republic), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao Paople’e  Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malayeia,  Maldives, Mali, Mexico, MOngOiia, MOrOCCO~
Mozambique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Peru, Phillppfnee,  Poland, Qatar, ?omanla,
Rwanda, Saint Vincent and that Grenadinee, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Solomon Ielande, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Tcgo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Sccialict  Republic, ‘Inion of Soviet
Sccialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Reput  tic of
Tanzania, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
2 imbabwe.

y The following 22 delegations announced that they were not participatino
in the voter Australia, Austria, Belgium, Chiles Denmark, Finland, France,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Greet Britain and
Northern IrelaId,  United State8 of Americs and Uruguay.

/ . . .



A/42/758
English
Page 3

Aqafnstr None.

Abst4iningr  Canada, &to d’Xvoire,  Ireland, Lesotho, Luxembourg, K414wi,
Portugal.

B. Drtlft reoolution A/C.1/42/L.Q7

7. On 16 November, Bang$deeh,  Brunei Daruesalam, the Congo, Ghana, Indonesiarr-
Malaysia, Mali, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Rwanda, Sri Lank4, the Sudan, Uganda,
Zambia and Zimbabwe submitted 4 draft resolution, entitled “Question of Antarctica”
(A/C.1/42/L.87),  which was introduced by the representative of Malaysia at the
48th meeting, on 16 November.

8. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/WL.87  by a
roll-call vote of 73 to none, with 10 abstentions  (see pare. 10, draft
resolution B) . y The voting w4a au follows:

In favour: Albania, Algeria , Angola, Bahamas, Bahrain,  Bangladesh, Barbados,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Derueealam,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Cameroon, Central Afrioan  Republic, COngO,
Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire,  Cypruo, Democratic Kampuchea,
Djibouti, Eg’ypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, Guinea, Guy4na, Indonesia, Iran
( I slamic Kopubl ic of ) , Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho,
Liberi4,  Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Maciagaeaar,  Malawi, Malaysia,
Maldivee, Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mortmco, Mozambique, Nepal,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakietan,  Panama, Paraguay, Philippines, Qatar,
Pomania,  Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapre, Sudan,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
‘Psbago,  Tunieio,  Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Yemon, Yuqoal4vie,  Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

,
Aqsinstt None.

Abotaininqr Antigua and Barbuda, Canad4,  China,, Fiji, Ireland, Luxembourg,
Portug41, Solomon Islands, Turkey, Venezuela.

y The following 42 delegations announced that thoy were not participating
in the vote: Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Auetria,  Belgium, Brazil,
Bulgaria, Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Chile, Colombia, Cuba,
Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Ecuador, Finland, France, German Democratic Republic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Hungary, Iceland, India, Israel, Italy,
Japan, L4o People’s  Democratic Republic, Mongolia, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Poland, Spain, Sweden, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great
Uritein  and Northern Ireland, United States of America, Uruguay and Vlet Nam.

/ . . .



A/42/750
English
Page 4

9. On 17 November 1987, _Ant,tqua  and Barbuda submitted a draft resolution entitled
aQueet ion of Antarctica* (A/C, 1/42/L.88),  which read as follows:

*The  General Aeeembly,

“Having regard to the debates on the question of Antarctica at the
thirty-ninth, fortieth and forty-first sessions of the General Assembly,

*Havinq regard also for the study of tne Antarotio question undertaken by
the Secretary-General, 2/

@Recognizinq the importance of Antarctioa and its continental shelf and
the Antarctic Ocean for the world aa a whole, particularly in maintaining the
stability of the global marine environment and weather and climate patterns
ar.3 the great importance to mankind of its natural environment,

*CotwciouB  of the increasing concern  shown by non-governmental
environmental groups for the protection of Antaratica  and the Antarctic Ocean,

‘potinq that the living marine resources of Antarctica are now in danger
of over-exploitation but that, with proper management, they have the capacity
to add substantially to world protein resources on a sustainable basis,

‘Noting further that there is a danger in the future of disturbing the
ecologiaal  system of Antarotica by the uncontrolled exploitation of the
mineral reaourcefs  in Antaratiaa,

“Aware that the 1959 Antarctic Treaty 4J specifies that Antarctfea  should
be ueed for peaceful purposes only and provides far freedom of scientific
investigation in Antarctica,

“Noting that the Antarctic Treaty holds in abeyance all claim6 to
sovereignty in Antarctica,

“Conscious that the Antarctic Treaty could be reviewed in 1991,

“Recoqniz.  the leqitimate  interest in Antarctica of States other than
those that have acceded to the Antarctic Treaty,

‘1. Considers that the Treaty Parties should provide a valid base from
which to develop a system of tha widest international participation in the
decision-making process af fectinq Antarctica and should establish an authority
for day-ta-day management and a sharing of the resources;

3J A,41,72;.

Y United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 402, No. 5770, p. 72.

/ . . .



“2. Decidaf3 to dofor further Unit&i Natiom  uonoidoration  of! tbom-
question  of AnthL‘ctica unti l  the forty-third eoewion of the Qerwal  AocombYyg

Gubooquontly, at tho 47th maotiny, on 10 November,  Antigua and Uarbudu  wifhdruw
draf t  soeolutfon A/C.1/42/E.W.

10. Tho First Committog rucommondu  to tho General Aeaombly tho adoption OF’ Lho
following rooolut ione:

Antarutioa

A

Ttro Gunoral  Awombdy,

l~ecolling  ito rooo~ution 41/U C of 4 Wwembor  UU6,

Huvfng considorud the  itom ent i t led  *Queetion  of  Antarctiaenr

which hoe boon suspondod f ram
United Not ionu, hue continued
Treaty Conuultotivo FartiQe,

Noting with raqret tha t  tho  rac i s t  aporthoid dgimo of  Wuth Ai!riue,
par t ic ipat ion  in  tha Wnoral  AooembXy  of thu
io yartkipoto in tho moetinyo of the Antsrct. ic

Hmalliny the roooluL ion adopted  by tho Council of Mf~liuterc  of thQ
Organizotwn  of African Unity at ite forty-kuouond  ordinary Y8wfun,  hold al
Addis Abebo from 10 ta I.7  July 19Wi,  y

RecalJirrq  also tho relovont  garligraphe of the l~oXitios1 Uaulavstiiorr
adopted by the Uighth Cotrforanco of Hsclds  of Btate or Government of
Non-Al  iqrrod Count r ioo, hold at Hararo from 1 to 6 Gioytombuk  1906, y

Y A/40/666,  annox 11, raaolut ion Cruq/Hos.  9W (XLXI) ,

Y A/41/697-5/18392,  annux, sect. I . ,  @a~‘ao.  19H-202.

Y Unttcd Naktws, ‘l’rcat;y SOK~QU,  v o l .  401, N o .  5 7 7 8 ,  p. 72.

/ . . .



.‘m.I.YA.. L,,.  , .

A/42/350
English
page 6

Notinq further that the policy of apartheid practised by the raciot
minority regime of South Africa, which has been universally condemned,
oonetitutes a threat to regional anti  international peace and security,

1. Views with concern the continuing participation of the apartheid
ragime of South Africa in the meetings of the Antarctic Treaty. Consultative
Part ies;

2. Appsalc  once again to the Antarotic Treaty Consultative PartisEi to
take urgent measures to exclude the rwiot apartheid r6gime of South Africa
from participation in the meetings of the Consultative Parties at the earliest
posoible  t?ate; .

3. Xnvitea the States parties to the Antarctic Treaty to inform the
Secretary-General on the actione taken regarding the provisions of the present
resoluti0r.j

4. @quo&a the Secretary-General to eubmit a report in this regard to
the General Aeeembly at ita forty-third eeeeionj

5. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-third
ueoeion the item entitled *Question of Antarctica”.

B

The General Aseembly,-

Having coneidered the item entitled “Queetion of Antarctica”,

Recalling its reeolutions 3S/77 of 15 December 1903, 39/152 of
17 December 1984, 40/156 A and B of 16 December 1985 and 41/M A and B of
4 December 1986@

Recalling the relevant paragraphs of the Political Declaration adopted by
the Eighth Conference of Head8  of State on Government of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Harare from 1 to 6 sept;mber 1986, ,6J and the resolution on
Antarctica adopted by the Council of Mini&era of the Organization of African
Unity at its forty-second ordinary session, held at Addis Ababa from 10 to
17 July 1985, 5/ a8 well as the decision of the Council of Ministers of the
L!:rgue of Arab Status held at Tunis on 17 and 18 September 1986 and reeolution
25/S=P(IS) adopted by the Fifth Xslamic  Summit Conference of the Organization
of the Xelamic Conference, held at Kuwait from 26 to 29 January 1987, O-/

Welcoming the increasing awareness and interest in Antarctica ehown by
the international community,

Y See A/42/178+/18753, annex 11.

/ . . .



A/#?/753
English
Page 7

Taking  intd account the debates on this item held at its thirty-eighth@
thirty-ninth, fortieth, forty-first and forty-second sessions,

Convinced of the advantages to the whole of mankind of a better knovledge
of Antarc tica,

Affirming the conviction that, in the interest of all mankind, Antarctica
should continue for ever to be used exclusively for peaceful purposes and that
it should not beoome  the scene or object of international discord,

Conscious of the eignificande  of Antarctica to the international
community in terms, inter alia, of international peace and security,
environment, economy, scientific rosearch and meteorology,

Reaffirminq that the management, exploration, exploitation and use of
Antarctica should be conducted in accordanoe with the purposes and principles
of the Charter of the united Nations and in the interest of maintaining
international peace and security and of promoting international co-operation
for the benefit of mankind as a whole,

Taking  note with appreciation of the report of the Secretary-General on
the question of Antarctica, s/

Further takinq into account all aspects pertaining to all areas covered
by the Antarctic Treaty system,  I/

Reaffirming the principle that the international community is entitled to
information covering all aspects of Antarctica and that the United Rations be
made the repository for all such information in accordance with General
Assembly resolution 41/08 A, c

Reaffirming further that any eventual minerals r6gime  on Antarctica
should take fully into account the interests of the international c-unity
and that a moratorium on the negotiations to establish a minerals r&gime
should be imposed until such time as all members of the international
community can participate fully in such negotiations, in accordance with
General Assembly resolution 41/M R,

1. Calls upon the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Parties to invite the
Secretary-General or his representative to all meetings of the Treaty Parties,
including their consultative meetings and the minerals regime  negotiations:

2. Requests the Secretary-General to submit a report on his evaluations
thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-third sesson;

/ . . .



A/42/750
Englieh
Rage 0

3, Further cells  upon the Antarotla Treaty ConouPtativo  Parties to
impoee a moratorium on the negotiation8 to eotablioh a minerals  regime until
such time, OQ all member8  of the international community aan partiaipete  fully
in suah negotiations!

4. Urclee  all State8 Members of the United Xatione to ccroperate  with
the Searetary-General  and to aontinue aoneultationo on all aopecte  relating to
Antaratfca;

5. Deoidoo to inoludo Sn the provisional agenda of its forty-third
sueoion the item entitled “Queetiorr of Antaratlca”.


