






































UNITED
NATIONS_..._-------_ .._---------------

A

General Assembly
Distr.
G~ERAL

A/42/669/Add.l
23 November 19ti7

ORIGINAL' ENGLISH

Forty-sec~nd session
Agenda item 62

3ENERAL AND COMPLETE DISARMAMENT

Report of ~hc First Committee (part 11)

Rapporteur I Mr. Kazimierz TOMASZEWSKI (Poland)

t. INTRODUCTION

1. Part I of the report of the First Committee on item ~2 (A/42/669) dealt witt\ a
dralt resolution entitled "General and complete disarmamerltl nuclear disacmament"
and a draft decision entitled "General and complet,e dlaarmamert", part I1 deals
with all other proposals submitted under item 62.

2. As indicated ill pl'\rt I, at ita 2nd meeting, on 1 October, the First Committee
decidcn to hold a general debate on the disarmament items alloc6ted to it, namely,
hems 48 to 69, ':ollowed by statements on spec if ic disarmament· agenda items and a
continu&tion of the general debate, as necessary. The deliberations on those items
took place between the 3rd and the 31st meeting, from l? October to 3 November (see
A/C.l/42/PV.3-31) •

3. In connection with item 62, in addition to the documents listed in part 1, the
First Committee had before it the following documentsl

(a) Letter dated 19 October 1987 from the Permanent Representative nf Canada
to the united Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
Vancuuvor Declaration on World Trade, the Okanagan Statement on ~~uthern Africa and
PruqrallUlIt! of Action and the convnunique of the Meeting of the CORlllonwealth Hpads of
Governlllent, beld at Vancouver, Canada, from 13 to 17 october 19&7 (A/42/6 77) ,

(IJ) Letter dated 23 OCtober 1907 from the Permanent Representative of
Zimbabwe to the United Nations adciresued to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
final l:ol1l1\unique of the Meetinq of NinilitlO:rs for Foreign Affairs and Heads of
De legat ion of the ~'ovement of Non-Aligned Countries to the for ty-second sess ion of
the Gp-fleral Assembly, held in Ne\>' York from t; to 7 OCtoher 1987 (\142/681»

97-3U794 0589P (B) / ....



1I/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 2

(c) Letter dated 24 October 1987 from the Petmanent Representative of
Mongolia to the united Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/42/6S4)J

(d) Letter dated 2 Noveni>er 1987 from the Permanent Representative of
Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General,
transmitting the communique and the document entitled "Towards increasing the
effectiveness of the Conference on Disarmament in Geneva", issued at the session of
the Committee of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the States members of the
Warsaw Treaty, held at Prague on 28 and 29 OCtober 1987 (11/42/708 and Corr.l);

(e) Letter dated 5 Noveni>er 1987 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the united Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/42/7l5-S/19252).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft tes01ution A/C.l/42/L.2 and Rev.l

4. On 16 OCtober, Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Ureece, ~taly, Japan, the Netherlands, New zealand, Norway, Spain,
Turkey and the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland submitted a
draft resolution, entitled "Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations" (A/C.l/42/L.2),
which was later also sponsored by Portugal. The draft resolution was introduced by
the representative of the United Kingdom at the 9th meeting, on 16 OCtober, and
read as follows:

"The General Asseni>ly,

"Recalling that at their meeting at Geneva in Novembe~ 1985 the leaders
of the United States of America and the Union of Soviet socialist Republics
committed themselves to the objective of working out effective agreements
aimed at preventing an arms race in space and terminating it on Earth, y

"Noting that in their joint statement 01 8 January 1985 the Government of
the united States of America and the Government of the Union of Soviet
Socialist RepUblics agreed that the subject of the negotiations was a complex
of questions concerning space an~ nuclear arms, both strategic and
intermediate-range, with all ~~." questions considered and resolved in ~~eir
interrelationship, ~

11 A/40/1070, annex.
2/ See Official Records

Supplement No. 27 (A/40/27 and
documents CD/570 and CD/57l.

. heral l\ssernbl , Fortieth Session,
pendix II (CD/642"jAppendix ii:7vol. Il),

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
Enqliah
PaC)o 3

"Noting with satisfaction that at thoir meeting at Waahington from 15 to
1'1 Soptembor 1987, the United ~3tatel.' of Amorica and the Union ot SovJ ut
Socialist Republics reached an agreement in pr ioo :6.1,10 on the elimination of
their intermodiate-range and shortel ·ranC)e missiles,

"Noting aloo with satisfaction the agreement of the two Governmenta that
a sin.ilarly intensive offort should bo made to achieve a treaty on a
fifty por cont reduction in their strategic offensive arms,

tlNot ing further wi th s.::.t isfaction that the two s idoo l'omllin commi ttod to
furthor progress in their bilateral negotiations, building on what hae beon
achieved so far,

tlUel1~vin9, that, throuqh negotiations pursued in a spirit of floxibility
and with full account ta~en of the aecurity intereste of ~ll States, it is
poasible to ~"-hievc far-reaching and effectively verifiablo agreements,

"Firmly convinced that an early agreement in these negotiations, in
accordance with the principle of undiminished security at the lowest possible
levol of armaments, would be of crucial importance for the strengthening of
international peace and oecurity,

"Purther convinced that the international community should encourage tho
Government of the United States at America and the Government of tho Union ol
Soviot Socialist RepUblics in their endeavours, taking into account both thl'
importance and complexity of their negotiaLicns,

"1. Welcomes the agreement in principle between the United States of
Amorica and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to cor-elude a treaty
eliminating their intermediate-rango and shorter-'rango mJ.saUeeJ

"2. Urges tho two Governmonts to make oarly progress in other aroae
wh~re there is cOllll\on ground, in partiCUlar to m.,ke an intensive effort. to
achieve a treaty on a fiCty per cont reduction in their strategic ol(onuivu
arms,

"3. Calls upon the Government of the Unite" ::itatoD of America and 1Ill'
Governmont of the Union of Soviet Socialist nepublics to sp,jro no effort in
s(wking the attainment of all their agreed objectives in the noqotiat ions, in
accordance with the security interests oC all States and the universal denial'
for progress towards disarmament,

"4. Invites the two Governments concerned to keep other. States Membcl's
ot the United Nations duly informed of progress in those neqotiations betwoon
tho United States of America and the Union of Soviet S~ialist Republics, in
uccordance with pal aqraph 114 oC the Final Docwnent of the Tonth Special
Session of the General Assembly, '1/ t:he first special session devoted to
cl isarmament J

~/ Resolution S-10/2.
I • ..



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 4

.. 'j. Expre at:l~s its f irmest ~ss ible encouragemont and suppor t for the
bilateral negotiations t..,d the ir suco~ssful oonCJluslon."

s. On 9 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draf.t resolution
(A/C.l/42/L.2/Rev.l), whioh was introduoed by the representative of the United
Kingdom at the 39th meeting, on la November, and oontained the following ohangesl

(a) Tto third preambular paragraph was revised to read as followsl

·Noting with satisfaotion that the Uniced States of America ~nd the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republios ha1e reaohed an agreement on t~e total
elimination of their intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles".

(b) In the fourth preambular paragraph t~e word "should" was roplaoed by che
word ·will". thf. comma at the end of the paragrar". was deleted and the phrase
·within the framework of the Geneva nuclear and spaoe talks" was addud,

(c) The fifth preambular paragraph was t~visGd to read aa followsl

"Noti ...g further with sati... faction tha::, at. the it' forthcaning meeting, the
leaders of the two countries will consider thoroughly the developmer.t of
Instr~ctions to delegations on a future treat; on ~ i1tty per oent reduction
in United States and Soviet strategic offensive arms and on the observance of
and non~dthdrawal from the ABM "'TPaty for an agreed period".

(d) In operative paragraph l~ the words "in principle" were delated.

(e) Operat ive para9raph 2 was replaced by the following paragraphl

H2. Notes with satisfaction that Presid,,,,t Rea9an and
General se~~l.Y Gorbachev have agreed to "'Pflt in the United States be9inning
on 7 December 1987, and that a further meeting in the Soviet Union is
envisioned between them in the first half of 1980".

(f) In opar,.' ,ive para9raph 3, a cClnuna was inserted ,~t the end of the
paragraph and the following text was addedl

"in particular early aoh1evement of a treaty implementing the agruement
to reduce strate9ic offeru~ive arms by fifty per cent, which could bo signed
durln') Pr~Eident Reagan's visit to Moscow".

6. At its 39th m~eting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/42 /L.2/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 84 to none, with 42 abstentious (see
para. 54, draft resolution A). The voting was as (ollowsa

In favour a Australia, Austria, klahamas, Bahrain, Barbados, Belgium,
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African Republic,
Chil~, China, Colombia, COsta Rica, Cote d'Ivoire,
Czechoslovakia, DemocL"atic Kanpuchea, Denmark, Djibouti,

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 5

oominican Republic, ~uador, Equatorial Guinea, Finland, France,
German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana,
Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao People's Democratic Rep,lblic, Lesotho, Liberia, Lux""tbourg I
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mongolia, Morocco, Ne~herlands,
New Zealand, Norway, Papua New Guinea, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Swaziland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, united Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America, viet Nam, Yemen, Zambia.

Against: None.

Abstaini"2: Algeria, AnQola, Argentina, Bangladesh, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Brazil, Burkina Faso, Burma, cameroon, Congo, Cuba, Cyprus,
Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Gabon, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Maldives,
Mexico, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republic, uganda, united Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, V~nezuela, Yuqoslavia, zaire, Zimbabwe.

8. Draft resolution A/C.I/42/L.5

7. On 20 OCtober, Hungary, !ndonesia, Japan and Sweden submitted a draft
resolution, entitled "Prohibition of the developnent, production, stockpiling and
use of radiological weapons" (A/C.1/42/L.5), which was later also sponsored by
Australia. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of HUngary at
the 24th meeting, on 28 OCtober.

8. At its 36th meeting, on 9 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.5 without a vote (see para. 54, draft resolution B).

C. Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L.9

9. On 22 October, Australia, Austria, Cameroon, Fiji, Finland, Iceland, Ireland,
New Zealand, Pae~a New Guinea, Samoa and Sweden submitted a draft resolution,
entitled "Notification of nuclear tests" (A/C.l/42/L.9), which was introduced by
the representative of Australia at the 33rd meeting, on 4 November.

10. At its 43rd meeting, on 13 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/42/L.9 by a recorded vote of 121 to 1, with 8 abstentions (see para. 54,
draft resolution C). The voting was as follows:

I . ..



A/42/669/Add.l
Englioh
llago 6

In favour: Afghanistan, All.>ania, Alaor ia, .\r90nt ina, Australia, AUBtr ia,
Uahaulus, Dahrain, U,sngladosh, Dinbadoa, Uol':liulI\, Donill, Uhutan,
Uolivia, lJotawanu, Urunoi I)arussalam, Dulgar ia, Uurkina ["aso,
Uurlll8, Uurundi, Dyolorussian So'.,riet Socialist lt01JUblic, Camoroun,
Canada, Central African ltepublic, Chilo, Colombia, Comoros,
Congo, Couta IHca, C8te d'Ivoiro, Cuba, cy[>t'us~ Czechoslovakia,
Oemooratic Yemen, Dorunark, Djibouti, EouaJor, ~Qypt, ~quatorial
Guin311, Ethiopia, 1"1.j i, [t'inland, German DOOIooratic Itopublic,
Germany, lo'oderal Itepublic of, Ghana, Groooe, GuatQlIlI.\la, Guinea,
Guinea-Uissau, Guyana, Honduras, lIungary, Ioeland, Indonesia,
tran (Islamic Uepublio of), Iraq, Irftland, Israel, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Konya, Kuwait, Lao people's Democratic
nopublic, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxemuourq, Madagaooar, Malawi,
f-talaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mongolia, [401.'00co, Mozambique,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, Norway, OIlll1I\, pakistan,
1>andfl\a, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, l'Oland, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, SQnegal, Singapore,
Sanalia, Spliln, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Sweden, '1'hailand,
'!'oqo, 'l'r inidad and Tobago, Tunisia, 'l'urkey, Uganda, Ukra inian
soviet Socialist Republic, union of Soviet Socialist "el~blics,
United Arab Emirates, United nepubUo of '1~lin2ania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, ~ah'o, ~ll.IRl.>la, ~il\lbabwe.

Aljainol: [i'rance.

Abotaining: Angola, Brazil, China, India, Mexico, Nicaragua, United Kingtlolll
of Great Britain an\l Northorn Ireland, Unitod states of America.

I). Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L.l0

11. On 22 octol.>er, Zimbabwe, on behalf of the States Membere of the United Nations
that aro lIIomber9 ot the Movol(l!nt of Non-Aligned Countr ioy, Bulllni tted a dral t
rouolutioll. ontitled "Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations" (A/C.l/42/L.lO), which
Wi.lU intL'oduced by its representative at the 3Jrd meeting, on 4 Nllvem!Jot:.

12. At its 39th moeting, on 10 November, the CC"l\lIlittee adopted draft resolution
t\/<:.1/42/L.10 by a recorded vote of 116 to none, with 13 abotentiono (Heo para. 54,
draft reuolution I)). The voting wus aa followa:

In favour& Algeria, Anqola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
B£lngladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Urazil,
Ut'unei I)lU"ussalam, Dulgar ia, Uurkina Faso, Burma, Burund i,
Byolorussian Soviet Socialist Itepublic, Camoroon, Canada, Contral
Ahican Republic, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica.
Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Kampuchea, UeltDcratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican
nepublic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, l·'~.nland,
Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Greeco, Guatoll"-lla,
Guinoa, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Iceland, India, In\lonooia, 1I:'.3n

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
EnCJliah
paCJe 7

(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Japan t Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People'S Democratio RepUblic, Lesotho,
L1beri~, Libya~ Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, ~auritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, N~w ~e41and, Nioar"9ua, NiCJeria, Norway, oman, pakistan,
Panan~, ~ftpu. New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,' poland, Qatar,
Romerlia. &>anda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
SomaliA, Sri Lanka, Cudan, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republio, Th~iiand, TOCJo, Trinidad and TObago, Tunisia, Uganda,
U~rainian Soviet Socialist Republio, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republios, united Arab Emirates, United Republio of Tanzania,
Urugu~y, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zalre, zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Against, None.

Abstaining I Belgium, Chile, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
Italy, LuxembOurg, Natherlands, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

E. Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L.12 and Rev.l

13. On 23 OCtober, Denmark submitted a draft repolution, entitled "COnventional
disarmament" (A/C.l/42/L.12), whioh was introduced by its representative at the
35th meeting, on 6 November.

14. On 9 November, Denmark submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.l/42/L.12/Rev.l), which was later also sponsored by!!!!e. The revised draft
reeolution contained the following changes,

(a) In the first preambular paragraph, the phrase "35/156 A of
L2 December 1980," was deletedJ

(b) In operative paragraph 1 the words "Notes with satisfaction" were
replaced by "Takea note with satisfaction of", and the word "substantive" before
the word "consIderation" was deletedJ

(c) In the first line of op~rative paragraph 2 the word ·this· before the
word "report· was replaced by "the", and the word "tho· before tho word "basis" was
replac'~d by "Q"J

(d) In operative paragraph 4, after the word "report", the phrase "on its
deliberations and recommendations· was deletedJ

15. At it.s 41st meetinCJ, on 12 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.12/Rev.~without a vote (see para. 54, draft resolution E).

I . ..



A/42/669/ALld.l
English
11 ago 0

F. Or~ft resolution A/C.l/42/L~

16. On 26 OCtober, lra51 submitted a draft ruaolu"ion, entitled "Prohibition of tho
development, produotion, atookpil1ng and use of rlldiolOCjioal weapons"
(A!C.l/42/L.l7), which was introduoed by its roproaentat ive at the 29th lIIoot ing, on
2 November 1907.

17. At its 40th meeting, on 11 November, the COII1i1ittee adopted draft rosolution
A/C.l/42/L.17 by a reoorded "ote of ~4 to 2, with 27 abstontions (BOO para. !)4,
draft reaolution F). 'l'he voting was a 1 follows I

In favour:

Ayainstl

Abstaining :

Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argontina, Bahrain, Uanglo1dosh, Ilenin,
Bhutan. Bolivia, Uotswaml, Bradl, Urunoi Darussalam, Uulgur ia,
Burkina l"o1so, ~urundi, Bycloruaaian Soviet ~ocialiat Uepublic,
Cameroon, Central Afrioan Republic, Chile, China, Colombia,
Oongo, COsta Rioa, C8to d'lvoire, 01ba, Cyprus, Czochoslovnkiu,
Democratic Kampuohea, Democratio Yemen, Ojibouti, Dominican
Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Gabon, German Democratic Rnpublic,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Dissau, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's DOlOOcratic Republic, Lesotho, Liheria,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali,
Mexico, Mongolia, Mor'.loco, MoZ8l1lbiqul), Nepal, Nicaragua. Niqor,
Nigeria, oman, pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Oatar, Iwmania, Saudi Arabia, Senogal,
Sanalla, Sri Lanka, Sudan, swazlland, Sweden, SyriaI' Arab
Mepublic, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Ropublic, Union of Soviet Socialist
RepUblics, Ullited Arab t::mirates, viot Nam, Yemon, YUQo8l.ilviu,
Za ire, Zambi a, Zimbabwe.

Israol, United States of America.

Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Daroados, Belgium, Burma, Canaua,
Denmark, '.linland, 1I1rance, Germany, I!'odural Republic of, GL'eece,
Iceland, Ireland, Italy, Jallan, LIJxelllbourg, M..tlta, Netherlands,
Now Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain: United Kingdom of Great
IJritain and Northern Iroland, unitod Itepublic or Tanzania,
Uruguay, Vene~uela.

G. Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L.18

18. On 26 october, China submitted a draft rosolut ion, entitled "Conventional
disarmamont" (A/C.l/42/L.IO). which was introduced by its representative .Jt the
33rd meeting, Oil 4 November.

19. At its 39th meeting, on la November, the Conuni ttee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.18 uy a rocorded vote of 126 to none, with 1 abstention (aee para. 54,
draft resolution G). The voting was dS follows:

I . ..



JV42/669/Add.l
Enqliah
Page 9

In favoura Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Dolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei uarussalam, 8ulguria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorusoian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, China, COlombia, OOngo,
Costa Rioa, C8te d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czeohoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dj ibouti,
Dominioan Republio, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
France, Gabon, German Democratic Republio, Germany, Federal
Republic of, Ghana, Greeoe, Guinea, Guinea-Bisaau, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaioa, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait,
Lao Peo~le's Democratic Republic, Liberia, LUxembourg,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldi~es, Mali, Malta i Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozamtique, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, pakistan, Panama,
papua ~ew GUinea, Peru, Philippin~~, Poland, Portugal, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Sa'i¥)a, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Siligapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, sweden, Thailand,
Toqo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Sooialist Republic, Union of Soviet SOCialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britaln and
Northern Ireland, United Republio of Tanzania, United States of
America, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againstl None.

A~Btaininga India.

H. Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L.21

20. On 26 OCtober, China submitted a draft resolution, entitled -Nuolear
disarmament" (A/C.l/42/L.21), which was introduced by its representative at the
33rd meeting, on 4 November.

21. At its 31th meeting. on 9 Novomber, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.2l without a vote (scc para. 54, draft resolution H).

/ ...



A/42/669/Adl1.1
English
Page 10

1. UL"at: l resolut ion Alc .1/42/L. 22 and Uov.1

22. On 26 OCtober, Australia, Dolyium, Botswana, Canada, ueM\ar~, France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Ioo1l.lnd, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Samoa, Sein Swaziland, Turkey and the United KilllJdom of Great oritaIn and
Northern xratand aubmlttod a draft roaolution, entitled "Objective information on
military matter6" (A/C.l/42/L.22), ":Mch was introduced by the rapresentat he of
the United Kingdom at the 35th meeting, on 6 Novemb~r.

23. un 10 November, Australia, Uultjium, UOtowaua, Canada, DenmaL'k, l'~raooe,
~.rmany, Federftl RepUblic of, Iceland, Italy, Japan, tho Netherlands, New ~ealand,
~orw~i' portugal, Smnoa, Spain, Swaziland, Turk!lL and the United Kingdom of Great
Brlta n and Northern Ireland aubmitted a rovised draft resol~lion
(A/C.l/42/L.22/Rev.l), whioh was later also sponsored by BUlgaria, Czeohoslovakia,
the German Democratic Kepublic, Gr"eoe, Poland, Homania l the Union of Soviet
SOCialist Republios and the United States of Amerioa. The revisoJ draft rosolution
was introduoed by the representative of the United Kingdan at the 40th meeting, on
11 November, and contained the following changesl

(a; In preambular paragraph 1, the phrane "in which it encouraCjed" was
revised to read "which oncouragos" J

(b) 'rhe seoond preaJllbu1ar paragraph, which hOld readl

"Reoalling its resolutions 37/99 G ·)f 13 DQcember 1982, 3U/I08 C of
20 December 1983, 40/94 K of 12 Uecolllber 1985 und 41/59 13 of 3 Uecembf': 1986".

was revised to readl

"Reoalling its provious resolutiono on the subject" J

(c) A new third preambular paragraph was added, readinyl

"Taking note of the report at the Secretary-General of 5 Aunust 1981",

(d) In the formor four th preambular pal"agraph, now the f H th pa:eamlJu1ar
paragraph, the text that readl

..... oponness and transparency, thus helping to prevent misperceptions of the
miHtary capabilities and tho intentions of potential adversarios t which could
induce States ••• "

was revisod to read:

H ••• oper.noss and transparency, thus he IpJ to prevent mispet'ceptions of
military capabilities and intentions, whi~j' could induce states ••• " J

(0) In the former fifth prealllbular paragraph, now the sixth preal/lbular
paragraph, the word "the" before the word "military" in the first line was deleted,

/ ...



AI42/66 9/Add.l
English
pclge 11

(f) The former eighth preambular paragraph, now the ninth proambular
paragraph, whioh had read:

-Notes with s~tisfaotion that an inoroasing number of Statea are
providing annual reports ••••

was revised to read:

MNnting that an inoreased number oC States have provided annual
reports ..... ,

(q) In operative paragraph 2, the word "Urges" \"as replaoed by the words
"Reoommends that", ~nd the words -to intensify" were replaoed by the words "should
intensify" ,

(h) Operat1ve paragraph 3, which had read:

-urges all States, in particular nuolear-weapon States and other
.nilitar11y signifioant States, to consider iarplementing additional measures
based on the principles of openness and transparency, suoh as the
international system for the standardized r~porting of military expenditures,
wit~ the aim of facilitating tho availability of objective informat~on on, as
well as objeotive assessment of, military capabilities",

was revised to rcad:

IIReooRlRenda that all States, in p6.ct1cular nuclc"r-weapon States and
other militarily significant States, sho~ld consider implementing additional
measu~es based on the principles of openness and transparency, such as, for
example, the international system for the standardized reporting of military
expenditures, with the aim of achieving a realistic comporison of military
budgets, facilitatil.g the availability of object lve information on, as well as
obje~tive assessment of, military capabilities and contributing towards the
process of disarmament",

(1\ Operative paragraph 4, which had resds

"Welcomes the report of the Secretary-General prepared 1n conformity with
resolution 41/59 B",

was replaced by the following paragraphs

"Invites all Member States to transmit to the Secretary-General, nut
later than IS April 1988, their views concerning ways and means of ensuring
confidence and furthering openness and transparency in military matters for
submission to the General Assembly at its thiLd special session devoted to
disarmament",

(i) In operative paragraph6 5 and 6, the wo~d lIall" was ins6ried before the
words "the provisions".

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 12

24. At ita 41st lI\Qeting, un 12 Novomer, the COOll\! tteo adopted draft resolut iun
A!C.l/42/L.22/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 100 to ..lone, with 12 abstentions (aoe
para. 54, draft resolution I). The voting 'was aB follows: j1

In favourt Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Banclladeah, Barbados, BelgiulI\J Benin, Bhutan, BoliviD, Botswana,
Urunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burki.'ID Paso, Uurundl, Uyeloru9sian
Soviet Socialist Republio, Camaroon, Canada, Central Af.:ioan
Republio, Chile, COlombia, COngn, COsta Rioa, C8te d'Ivoiro,
Cyprus, Czeohoslovakia, Demoorlootio Kampuohea, Denlllark, Djibouti,
Dominioan Republio, Ecuador, F!n14nd, Ffanoe, Gabon, ~erman
Demooratic Republio, Gormany, Federal RepUblic of, Ghan~. Greeoe,
Guinea, Guinea-Biss8u, Honduras, Hungary, Ioeland, Indonesia,
Irpland, Israol, Italy, Jauan, Kenya, Lesotho, Liberia,
Luxembourg, Madagasoar, Malawi, Mal"ysia, Maldivos! Mali, Ma~ta,
Mexioo, Mongolia, Nepal, Netherland~, New Zealand, Nigoria,
Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Poru, Philippines, Poland, portugal,
l«>mania, Samoa, saudi Arabia, SQn~gal, ~ingapore, Scmalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Swaziland, Sweden~ ~nailend, Toga, Trinidad and
Tobago, Turkey, Uganda, Union of soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United KingdOlR of Gre"t Oritain and
Northern Ireland, United Rep~blic of Tanzania, United Stdtes of
Amerioa, uruguay, vonezuela, Viol Nam, Y()IIIon, Yugoslavia, Za i,o,
Zimbabwe.

Againstt None.

Abstainin~t Algeria, Brazil, Burma, Cuba, ~9ypt, India, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Kuwait, Nicar~gua, Sudan, Zambia.

J. Dr~ft resolution A/C.l/4~L.3J and "ev.l

25. On 27 october, Czeohoslovakia an') the Ukrainic1il Soviet Socialist Ropublic
suulIlittel' a draft resolution entitled "Implementation of United Nations l'esolUtiono
in t~e field of disarmament" (A!C.l/42/L.33).

26. On 10 November, the sponsors submitted a re~ised draft resolution
(A/C.l/42/L.JJ/Rev.l) I entltled "Implementation of Guneral Assembly tcsoluti(lns i.n
the Hold of disarmament". which WllS introduoed bi' the representative of the
Ukrainian Soviet Sociallst l{epubl1c at tho 40th meeting, ora 11 Novel.:ber, and
contained t~e following changest

11 Subsequently, the delegation of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Itepublic indicated that it had intended to vote in favuur of the draft
resolution.

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
EnCllish
Page 13

,a) In the third preambular paragraph, the words "United Nations" were
replaoed by the worda "General Assembly".

(b) operative paragraph 1, whioh had reada

"Calls upon all Mamber States to make every effort to faoilitate
oonsistent Unplementation of United Nations resolutions in the field of
disarmament, and thus to show their resolve to arrive at balanoed, mutually
aooeptable, oomprehensively verifiable and etfeotive disarmament measures",

was revised to readl

"Deems it important that all Membor States make every effort to
faoilitate the oonsistent implementation of General Assembly resolutions in
the field of disarmament, and thus show their resolv9 to arrive at mutually
aooeptable, oomprehensively verifiable and effeotive disarmame It measures".

(0) In op~rative paragraphs 3 end 5, the words ·United Nations· before the
word ·resolutions" were replaoed by the words "General Assembly".

27. At its 40th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.33/Rev.l by a reoorded vote of 100 to 2, with 23 abstentions (see
par~. 54, draft resolution J). The voting waG as followsl

In favoura

Againstl

Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
B~rbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei
Darusoalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Bfelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republio, Cameroon, Central Afrioan Republic,
China, COlombia, Congo, COsta Rioa, Cote d'Ivoire, CUUG, CO/prus,
Czeohoslovakia, Democratio Yemen, Djibouti, Dominioan Republic,
Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabun, German Dem~rQtic Republic,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Gui 'ea-Bissau, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republio of), Irdq, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People's Demooratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia,
Ljbyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, MalayAia, MaId ives,
Mali, Mexioo, Mongolia, Moza~ique, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Ni~eria, oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Petu,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwa~a, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Swaziland, Syrian
Arab RepUblic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobag~, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Israel, united States of America.

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 14

Abstainingl Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Demnark, Finland,
France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Ireland, Italy,
Janan, Luxembourg, Malta~ Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway,
Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland.

K. Draft resolution A/C.l/4l/L.35

28. On 27 October, Italy submitted a draft resolution, entitled "'1'ransfer of
conventional armaments" (A/C.l/42/L.3S), which read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

-Reaffirming the role of the United Nations in strengthening
international peace and security and promoting disarmament,

"Recalling the need to reinforce the role of tho united Nations for the
reduction of the level of conventional weapons,

"Welcoming the opening of talks on the control of conventional armaments,
conventional stability and confidence-build! og measures in Europe from the
Allantir. to the Urals,

"Requesting the States participating in the talks to intensify their
efforts towards an early elacoration of a mandate and subsequent substantive
negotiations aimed at establishing better conditions of security at a lower
level of forces in Europ'"

-Taking into account that conventional weapons absorb more than
oighty per cent of world global military oxpenditure,

"Bear ing in mind the Final Document of the Tenth Spec ial Sess ion of tt.e
General Assembly, ~ the first special session devoted to disarmament, whereby
in paragraph 22 the General Assembly states that "there should also be
negotiations on thu limitation of international transfer of conventional
weapons" ,

"ronvinced that new efforts need to be deployed towards lowering the
lovel of conventional arm,wents throughout the world, also by curbing the arms
trade whenever it represents a threat to international or regional security,

"1. st~s the need, on the basis of the existing general con~ensus,
to promote measures aimed at avoiding the aggravation of CO.lflicts and of
situations of tension through the supply of arms and at constraining
international arms traffickingJ

~ Resolution S-10/2.

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
Enqlish
Page lS

"2. Endorses the concluoiono reached by tho Intornational COnference on
the RelationshIp between Disarmament and Devolopmont in its Final DoCument, !I
whereby in its par.agraphs 25 and 35 it states that Mthe use of resouroes for
military purposes amounts to a reduction of resources for the civilian seotor M
and invites the participating states to consider Mthe adoption of measures to
reduce the level and magnitude of military expendituresM,

M3. Calls upon Governments which are among the main suppliers and buyers
of ar.aaments to oonsult on how to limit international transfers of
conventional weapons,

M4. Invites all GOvernments to intensify also at a regional level their
search for new imaginative approaohes towaLJa the l~itation of the arms trade
in parallel wich conventional disarmament negotiations,

MS. ReqUests the Secretary-General to {1arry out 4 stUdy on the ,reation
of a united Nations General Committee, subdivided into regional committeea,
with the participation of militarily relevant States, in order to monitor th~
trends of the arms trade in the world and to establish a code of conduot for
both suppliers and buyers."

29. At the request of the sponsor, no action was taken on draft resolution
A!C.l/42/L.35.

L. Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L.40

30. On 27 OCtober, Australia, Austria, China, Finland, France, Iceland, Indoneala,
Mexico, Peru, Sri Lanka, Sweden and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution,
entitled -Naval armaments and disarmamentM (A/C.l/42/L.40), whioh was later alao
aponsored by Bulgaria and .he German ~~mocratic Republic. The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Swed~n at the 36th meeting, on 9 November.

31. At its 39th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.~/42/Lo40 by a recorded vote of 128 to 1, with 1 abstention (see para. 54,
~:aft resolution K). The voting was as follows.

In favour. Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, A~'stria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina 'aso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, China, COlombia, congo,
Costa Rica, C8te d'Ivoire, Cuba, CYFrus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
DOminican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Finla~l, p,oance,
Gabon, German Dem?Cratic Republic, Germa.lY, Federal Re~ lic of,

!I A/CONF.l30/39, chap. 11.

I ...



1\142/669/Add.l
English
Poge 16

Ghana, Greeco, Guatemala, Guinea, Gutnoa-BAssau, Hungary,
Iceland, Indonesia, Iran (T.slwnic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
people's Democratic Republic, Losotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Mada9as~ar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldivos,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mozambique,
Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway,
oman, Pakistan, panama, PaF.a New Guinea, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Qatsr, Romania, Rwanda, ~amoa, Saudi Arabia,
SHnellal, Singapore, Somalia, SPflin, Sri Lanka, SUdan, Swaziland,
8wod<J'l, Syr ian Arab Republic, Thailand, TogC', ~rrin4Jtd and
TObago, Tunisia, Turkey, U~anda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
J!}niratos, Ullited Kingdom of Greut Dritain and Nor·' ern It'oland,
United RepUblic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, ~.et Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Againstl United States of America.

M. Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L.42

32. On 27 OCtober, !ulgaria, the ByeloruBsian soviet Socialist RepUblic,
Czochoslovakia, the German Democratic: T1epublic, Hungary, Mongolia, Polalld, the
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic and tho union of soviet Socialist Republics
Buliriltted a draft resolution, entitled "Confidence-building and increased openness
in military matters" (A/C.l/42/L.42), which road as followsl

"The General ASS~nDly,

"Refer ri.ng to paragraph 24 of the l-'inal Docum !nt of the Tenth Spec ial
Session of the General Assembly, 7/ the first special sesoion devoted to
disarmament, which states that collateral measures in both the nuc~.ear and
conventional fields, together with other measures specifically designed to
build confidenc~, should be undertaken in order to contribute to the creation
of fayourable conditions for the adoption of additional disarmament measures
and to further the ra laxation of international tension,

-Recollecting the provisions of paragraph 93 of the Final Document, which
statesz -In orde~ to facilitat~ the prOLOSS of disarmament, it is necessary
to take measures and l'\IJrsue policies to streng then internationa 1 peace and
security and to build ~onfido,.ce among Stat.es. COlllllitment to
confidence-~uildingmeasures could significantly contribute to preparing for
f Irther progress in di:3armament",

11 Resolution 5-10/2.

/ ..



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 17

"Referring also to paragraph 105 of the Final Document, which states that
Member States should be encouraged to ensure a better flow of information with
regard to various aspects of disarmament to avoid dissemination of false and
tendentious information concerning armaments, and to concentrate on the danger
of escalation of the armaments race and on the need for general and complete
disarmament under effective international control, .

"Bein2 of the view that openness in the military and political sphere is
intended to eliminate sources of suspicion, create an atmosphere of clarity
and predictability and contribute to genuine disarmament,

"Aware also that increased openness with regard to military activities
and military expenditure can contribute to confidence-building,

"Noting with satisfaction the progress achieved in this field,

"Recognizin2 the need to continue efforts towards a realistic comparison
of military budgets in order to restrict further bloating and limit them to
levels of reasonable sufficiency,

"Considering the defensive nature of ~ilitary doctrines and defence
postures as being a major factor in building confidence,

"Believing that the policy of confidence-building could be stimulated by
international agreement on defensive strategy and reasonable sufficiency,
which presuppose that the structure of the armed forces of States will be
sufficient to repel possible aggression but not sufficient to carry out
attacks,

"1. Invites all Member States to transmit to the Secretary-General not
later than 15 April 1988 their views concerning principles and ways and means
of ensuring confidence and furthering openness in military mattersl

"2. Requests the secretary-General, on the basis of the views of Member
States, to submit a report to the General Assembly at its forty-third session.-

33. At the request of the sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.42.

N. Draft re~olution A/C.l/42/L.49

34. On 27 OCtober, Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Bangladesh, Botswana,
Cameroon, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Indonesia, Ireland, Japan, the
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, the Philippines, Romania, Samoa, sweden and
uruguay submitted a draft resolution, entitled ·prohibition of the production of
fissionable material for weapons purposes" (A!C.l/42/L.49), which was introduced by
the representative of Canada at the 33rd meeting, on 4 November.

/ •• (I,



J\/42/669/Add.l
En91 iah
pa90 18

35. At ittil 3ith meeting, 01\ 9 NovQliber, the COllillittee adopt',od draft roaolution
A/C.l/42/L.49 by a reoorded vote of 125 to 1, with 6 abslel',dona (800 para. 54 6
dnft reBolulinn L). 'l'he votinq was as tollows:

In favours Albania, Algeria, Angola, Auetralla, Austria, nahWl~&, Bahr3in,
llanqladoah, Uatbadoe, Uelg iUll\, Ueni,n, Bhutan, Uo!ivia, Botawana,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Uurkina Faao, Burma, uyelorusslan
Soviot Sooialist Republio, CamQroon, Canada, Central Aftioan
U01>UuUO, ChiJ.e, COlombia, COngo, Costa Rioa, C8te d'ivoiro,
Cuba, Cyprus, Czeohoslovakia, Demooratio Yemen, Derunark,
Djibouti, Uallinioan ltepublio, 1':ouador6 Egypt, Ethiopia, li'iji,
I!'inland, Gabon, German uOllolZratic ltepublio, GerlMny, Fedoral
l{Ql>ublio ot:, Ghana, Greeco, Guatemala, <.:uinoa, Guinea-Diosau,
Guyana, lIollduraa, Hungury, Icolo1nd, Indonesia, Iran (Islamio
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Iara01, Italy, J~\aio~, Japan,
Jordan, KOllya, KUWAit, Loo l'eople' B DelOOorat io ltepublic, Loaotho,
Liberia, Libyan Al:'ab JWlIahidya, Luy.elllbour9, M6.dagGsoar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Moxioo, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambiql~e, Nopal, Nottwclanda, Now Zealand, NioarAgua, Nlger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, papua New Guinoa, Poru,
Philippines, poland, Portugul, Qatftr, Romania, Rwanda, SAmOa,
Saudi Arabia, !)enaqal, SillCla(lOL'e, 80101l0n Ililanda, Somalia,
Spain, 8ri Lanka, Sudan, 3wa~iland, Sweden, syrian Arab Republi~,
Thailand, 'l'oqo, 'l'r i nidad and Tobago, 'l'unisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
KOl)ubllo8, United Arab l!:mirE.l.ee, United l~apubllo of Tan~ania,
Uruguay, Vono~uela, Viot NOIII, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zairo, Zambia,
~illlbabwe.

Againstl ["ranee.

Abstaining I Argontina, 111:'£1:.-:11, China, India, United K.inlJdom or Great Dritain
and Northern Ireland, Unitod States of Amerioa.

o. ur~rt reaolution A/C.l/42/L.54

36. On 27 OCtobor, Canada, Denmark, 1"rance, Germany, l"edera.l Republic of, Gl:'oeco,
Italy, the ~erlando, Spein, 'l'urkey and tho United Kingdom of Great Britain a~
Northerl' Iroland sulJmitted a draft resolution, entitled "Confidence-building and
seourIty-building 1II0l1aUrea and conventional diaarmament" (A/C.l/42/L.54), which
read as follcltrl81

"The Genera 1 Assembly,

"Determined to achieve prO'JcesB and concreto results in disarmament,

"Recallinq the obligation for StuteG to refrain in their international
relations from the threat or use ot (OL'CO aga inut tho ter ri tor ial intagr i ty or
political independenco of any State, or in any milnner inconaistent with the

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 19

purposes of the united Nations and reoalling the inherent right of individual
or oollective self-defenoe if an armed attaok occurs, as set forth in the
Charter of the United Nations,

"Reaffirming the need to inorease security and stability in Europe
through a stable, secure and veri£iable balance of conventional foroes at
lower levels, as well as through inoreased openness about military aotivities
and potcntJ als as an objeot ive of great importanoe,

"Reaffirminv the importance of oontinued efforts to build oonfidenoe, to
lessen militalY confrontation and to enhance security for all,

"Mindful of the positive effects that the implementation of the
a9reements aohieved in the pr~cess of the COnference on Seourity and
Co-operation in Europe has fot consolidating security and co-operation on that
continent and in the whole world,

"Noting the agreed aim of the Conference on Confidence- and
Seourity-building Measures an~ Disarmament in Europe to undertake in Dtageo
new effective and concrete actions designed to make progress in strengthening
oonfidence and security and in achieving disarmament,

"Stressing that the implementation of the confidence- and
security-building measures adopted in Stookholm has in the first year proved
satisfactory and has thus contri'.uted to corl.fidenoe-building in Europe,

WNotlng that the build-Up of conventional forces has led to imbalances,
the elImInation of which could increase ~tability and security,

"Bearins in mind the need for the el imination of existing disparities in
conventIonal forces In Europe, so as to ostablish conventional stability,

"Aware of the fact that the complexity of negotiations aiming at
achievrng-a stable, oecure and verifiable balance of conventional forces at
lower levels requires a step-by-step approach, which should proceed in a
manner which onsures that the security of each participant Is not adversely
affected at any stago,

"Mindful that the defensive character of military concepts must be
reflected in the structures, postur~s and deployments of armed forces, as well
as the military capabilities that derive from these,

"Taking note of the report of tho Disarmament Commission on the
question, y

!I A/CN.10/l987/WG.III/CRP.3.

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
EnC:flioh
PIlge 20

IIUe.:lr in9 in mind the pr inoiples of the Final Document oS: the ri'enth
Speoial Sesoion of the General Assembly, y the first spocl" session devoted
to disarmament,

Ill. WelcoRcs a9ain the results achieved by the Conferenoe on Confidonce-
and Socurity-building Measures and on oisarlllWQont in Europe in the light of
the implelOOntation during the first year of the conorete, miUtarily
significant, and politically bindinC:f measures and accompunied by adequate
forms of verific,oaLion, covering the whole of Europe, adoptod on
19 Sopl ember 1986 J

"2. llolievos that thero is a neod tor strengthening stability and
socurity at a lower level of forces through concreto, effeotive and verifiable
moasures bear ing upon convent ional £orOOIl and ~!eapons consiatont with that
object iveJ

"3. Welcomos the prospect of negotiations in the field of oonfidence-
and security-buildin':) moasures and in the field of conventio.,al stability,
both to be held within the fral\1QwoL'k of the procoss ot: the Conferenoe on
security and Co-operation in EuropeJ

"4. Believes that such negotiations should lead to further ur09ress in
the area of military transpa,ency, thus stre~thenin9 confideooo betwc"n
States and promot ing secur i ty and peace J

"5. Invites all Status to oonsider the possibility of negotiating
concrete agreements which would take full account of spoc if ic reg ional
conditions and contribute to leusening confrontation as well as strengthening
security."

37. At b:le request of the sponsors, no act ion was takon 011 draf: t resolut iOIl
A/C.l/42/L.54.

P. Draft resolution A/C.l/4~/L.59

]8. On 27 octobor, Canada, Colombia, Costa nica, Czechoslovi:lkia, llenmark, EouadOl:',
I"rance, the German Domocratic RepUblic, Greece, Iceland, Italy, Japan, New Zea1.'Uld r.
Norway, Poland, Sierra Leone, Spain, the united States of AmerIca and ZaIre
sulinltted a draft resolution, entitlod "Compliance with arms limitation and
disarmament agreements" (A/C.l/42/L.59), which was later also sponsored by
Austr.:llia, Germany, [I'edera 1 Republic ot:, Mongolia, ltomania and Uruguay. The draf t
rosolution wag int,roducod by the representat lve of the united States at the
27th mJ.leting, on 30 October.

39. At its 36th meeting, on 9 Novo1wer, the Coulnitteo adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.59 without a vote (soe para. 54, draft resolution M).

2/ Resolution S-10/2.
/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
ErlCJllsh
Page 21

Q. Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L.64

40. On 27 OCtober, Bulgaria, the German Democratic Republic and the Lao pe311e'sDemocratic Republic ~ubmitted a draft reBoluti~n, entitled ·COnfidence-bull ng
measures at sea" (A/C.l/42/L.64). The draft resolution was introduced by the
representative of BUlgaria at the 34th meeting, on 6 November,' and read as follows.

"The General Assembly,

"Bearing in mind the report of the Disarmament Commission, !2/

"Noting the significance of confidence-building measures for cre~ting
favourable oonditions for progress in the field of disarmament and for
ensuring the seourity of maritime communioation in peacetime,

"Considering that at the present stage confidonce-building measures of
various kinds, both in the global and in the regional oontext, would be more
amenable to further consideration and possible negotiations in appropriate
forums,

"1. Requosts the Disarmament Commission to oontinue at its 1988
substantive session the consideration of the question of naval armamunts and
disarmament, with a view to faoilitating the identifioation of possible
measures in the field of naval arms limitation and disarmament, as well as
confidence-building measures, taking into aocount the security interests of
all states, and to submit a report on the subjeot, including findings and
reoommendations, as appropriate, to the General Assembly at its forty-third
sessionJ

"2. Requests further the Disarmament Commission, as part. of the
consideration of the quesLion of naval armamonts and disarmament, to devote
more attention to the identification. at an early stage, of specific
confidence-building measures at sea Which might be generally aoceptable and
whioh could become subject to consultations uld eventual negotiations."

41. At the request of the sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.64.

!QI See Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-second Session,
Supplement No. 42 (A/42/42) •

•
I ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
PG<je 22

l~. Draft rosolution A/C.l/42/L.65 God Core.l CllllJ Uev~l

42. On 27 OCtober, Canada, Germany, Federal Republio of, Greeoe, Italy and the
Lnt ted States of Amor ica subilli tted a draft resolut ion, entitled "{i'ree exohange of
views on disarmament and related security issues" (A/C.l/42/L.65), whioh was later
also sponsored by the Netherlands. The draft resolution was introduoed by the
representative of the United States at the 35th meeting, on 6 November, and road as
followa:

"'l'h~' General ADsem ly,

"Uecall1n9 its resolut ion 37/100 J of 13 December 1982 on peace and
disarmament movements,

"Mindful that well-informed, open discussion and debate on all points of
view concerniny disarmament I.lnd related security issues contribute to batter
understanding of such isuuos, I.lnd may exercise a positive influence on the
attainmem. of moaniJ¥J ful arms limitation measueos and progress in disarmament,

"Underscor ing the !leed for the widest dissominat ion of infornlat ion on a
broad range of disarmwnent:. and related security issues among all countries and
peoples, and welcoming stops that Member States have taken to facilitate the
freer and wider dissarninatiol' )f such information alllong the ir citizens,

"Convinced that the free oxchange of information on disarmament questions
and relatod security issues among individuals, non-government"l organizations
and nations can h~lp to erode international suspicions and to build
international contidenco ~o as to support the arms control process,

"J!'ully cognizant of the princ 11'les embodied in the Char ter of the United
Nations and the Universal Ueclal'ation of lI\.URan Rights, and especially of those
which promoto and encourage respect for human rights and fundamontal freedoms,
which are essential '..tctors for international peace, ju 3tice and security,

"HeC09nh ing that inclUded al1l)llg the above-menl ioned fundamental freedoms
for all is freedom of opinion and expre6sion, including the freedom to hold
opiniolls without interference and to soek, receive and inl>art information and
ideas through any modia and rogardless of frontiers,

"l. Urges all Menner states to pronnte the public d ..ssernination of
information concerning the ir armaments progralll1les and the relationship of
those progralll1les to the objective of arms limitations and disarmament, so as
to encourage ~ell-informed public debate on such issuesJ

"2. Appeals to all Member States to permi t the broadest possihle public
circulation of articles, books, journals, newspapers and other publications
dealing with the full range of d isarmamont and related seoUl' i ty issuesJ

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
PAge 23

"3. Proposes thlt all Member States encourage the partioipation of
foreign experts in radio and television broadcaots of discussions on
disarmament and related security issues to faollital',Q lA better understanding
of such issues and to promote well-informed publio debate,

M4. Calls upo~ all Member States not to interfere with the rights of
their oitizens to organize and meet publicly in order to express views freely
and openly on disarmament questions and related security issues,

MS. Invites Member States t~ submit views and lnfolmation to the
Secretary-General on the implemencation of the present resolution,

N6. Requests the Secretary-General to bring the present resolutio~ to
the attention of the General Assembly at its third special session devoted to
disarmament, and to report to it any views and information submitted pursuant
to paragraph 5 of the present resolution,

N7. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-third
session an item entitled 'Free exchange of views on disarmament and related
security issues'.M

43. On 10 November, Zimbabwe, on behalf of the states Members of the United
Nations that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned COuntries, submitted the
following amendments (A/C.l/42/L.81) to draft resolution A!C.l/42/L.65 and Corr.l.

(a) To delete the words Mand related seourity issuesM from the title, from
the second, third and fourth preambular paragraphs and from operative par~9raph 7,

(b) To insert the following two new preambular paragraphs at the end of the
preamblel

"Mindful of its obliCJation to preserve the inalienable right o.~ all
peoples to live in peace, free of the fear of nuclear destruction,

"Reca!ling that, at its twelfth speoial session, the General
Assembly called, inter alia, for the World Disarmament Campaign to be carri~d
out in all regions of the trorld in a balanced, factual and objective manner,
for the universality of the Campaign to be guaranteed by the co-operation and
participation of all states and by the widest possible dissemination of
information for unimpeded access by all sectors of the publio to a broad range
of information and opinions, and for the CampaiCJn to provide an opportunity
for discussion and debate in all countries on all points of view relating to
disarmament issues, objectives and conditionsM,

(c) To delete operative paragraphs 1, 2, 3 anu 4 and replace them by the
following two paragraphsl

Ml. Calls upon Member States to facilitate the flow of a broad
range of accurate informaticn on disarmaruent matters, both governmental and
non-governmental, to and among their citizens, with a view to the furtherance

I ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
I'a90 24

of the objeotives of the Wor ld DhHltI1UlII~H\t Cali\la iyn and in ordel to advanco
the final objeot lve of ljeneral and complete dillArrnament under et: (.)lot ive
intornat 10n£11 oontrol.

"2. Calls upon all Monthor States to enoourage the it cithens freely
and puuUcly to express their own views on diaarmi2ment questi.ons and lo
organize and meet l)ubl ioly for that purposl:I"

Gnd to renumber the subsequent operative para-}upha accordinljly.

44. On 12 November, the sponaors Dubmi tted a revisod draft resolut ion
(A/C.l/42/L.6S/nov.l), which road as follows,

"The General Assontlly,

·RecalUnq its resolution 37/100 J of 13 Dl~colllbot 1982 on ~ace and
disarmiwent mov~nent8,

"Undorscor ing the need for the wideat d isseminat ion of i nformat ion on a
broad range of disarm~nent and related intornational security lssued among all
countries and peoples, and welcoming steps that Member S~atQs have takon to
facilitate the freer and wider disseJllilladon of Duch information among thoir
citizens,

·Convinced that. tho free exchango of infornwt ion on dJ s~.nl\Qment and
related international security issues amonlj individuals, non-governmental
organizations and nations oan help to dispul inturnational suspicions and to
build international confidence so as to support the arms 1 imi tation and
disarmament procetn,

"It'ully cognizant of the principles oJd>odied in the Charter of the Unitod
Nations, tho Universal Declaration of Ilwnun "ights .w and lnternatiol .11
Covenants on lIuman Rights, in particular of thoae which promote and encourage
respect (or hwnan rights and fundamental freedo:ns, which are essential factors
for international peace, justice and eecucity,

"Recognizing that included among the above-mentioned fundamental fraedana
t'or all is freedom of opinion and expr~8sion•. including the freedom to hold
opinions wi thout interference and to seek, recoive and impart information and
ideas through any modia and regardloss of [rontiers,

"Mindful that well-informed, open discussion and debate or all points of
view concerning disatmament and related international security issues
contribute to better understanding of such issues, and may exercise a positive
influence on the attainment of meaningful arms limitation measures and
progress in disarmament, and of the ultimate goal of general and complete
disarmament under effective international control,

!!I Rosolution 217 A (Ill).
/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 2S

"1. Urges all Member Statos to promote the pubUc disJ;3emination of
information on disarmament and related international soourity issuos,
including information concerning tha relationship of their armaments
programmes to the objectiv~ of arms limitations and disarmament, so as to
encourage well-informed public debate on suoh issuesJ

"2. Appeals to all Member States to facilitate the broadest possible
public oiroulation of articles, books, journals, newspapers and other
publications dealing with the fUll range of dis8rmament and related
international seourity issues, in order to pramo~e greater public
understanding of these issues, and to promote greater mutual understanding and
to build confidence among all countries and peoplesJ

"3. Proposes that, to the extent that the nocessary facilities are
avail~ble, all Member States encourage the participation of foroign experts in
radio and television broadcasts of discussions on disarmament and related
international seourity issues to facilitate a better understanding of such
issues and to promote well-informed public debateJ

"4. Calls again upon all Member states to encourage their oitizens
freely and publioly to express their own views on disarmament questions and to
organize and meet publicly for that purposeJ

"5. Invites Memer states to sutmit views and inforution to the
secretary-~eralon the implementation of the present resolutionJ

"6. Requests the Seoretary-General to bring the present resolution to
the attention of the General Assembly at its third special session devoted to
disarmament, and to reJ;lort to it any views and informat ion suboi tted pursuant
to parag~aph 5 of the present resolutionJ

"1. Decides to includc in the provisional agenda of its forty-third
sussion an item cnti tled 'Free exohange of views on disarmament and related
international seourity issues'."

45. At the 44th meoting, on 16 November, the represontative of Zimbabwe,
introducing the amendments oontained in document A/C.l/42/L.Bl, stated that they
applied also to draft resolution A/C. 1/42/L.65/Rev.1.

46. At the request of the sponsors, no action was takon on draft resolution
A/C. l/42/L. 6S/Rev. 1.

S. Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L.66

47. On 21 OCtober, Poland submitted a draft resolution, entitled
"Confidence-building and security-building measures and conventional disarmament 1n
Europe" (A/C.l/42/L.66), which read as followsl

I . ..



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 26

"'l'ht) Goner:al Asseni.>ly.,

"Determined to achieve substant ial progress in disarmament,

HRecalling the obligation for States to refrain in tl~ir relations from
their thr~at or: use of force against the territorial integrity or political
independence of any State, or in any manner inconsistent wi th the purposes of
thu United Nations, arv.l recalling the inherent right of individual or
collect ive se If-defence if an armed at tack <ncurs, as set forth in the Charter
of the United Nations,

HReaffir:lIling that the final objective of the efforts of all States should
continue to be qeneral and complete disarmament under ef fect ive international
control, and that at each stage of the process the objective should be the
und~"inished Jocurity of each State at the lowest level of armaments and armed
forcea, and that no individual State or group of States looy obtain advantages
over: others,

HNoting with deep concern that the qualitative development of
conventional weal~ns adds a new dimension to the arms race, especially among
States possessing the largest conventional arsenals,

"Aware that in Central Europe the two political and military groupings
are in direct contact and that it is also there that the greatest
concentration of mui tary potential in the world exists,

"Convinced that, although confidence- and security-building measures
cannot be a substitute for disarmament, the concept of confidence-building may
be i~)ortant for progress in disarmament,

"MindfUl of the positive role that the process of the Confel.!nce on
Secur i ty and Co-oporat ion in Europe has for consoJ.idat ing secur i ty and
co-operation on that continent and in the whole world,

"Not ing that since the adoption, on 19 Septenver 19H6, of the document of
the Stockholm Conference on Oonfidence- god Security-Building Measures and
Disarmalftl;:nt in Europo a nunber of measures envisaged by the document have been
successfully implemented, thus confirming its particular significance in
promot inq prOle tica lly a cl imtlte of growing confidence alOOng European Stateo,

"1. W~lcomea the progress made in the implementation of concLete,
militarily significant, politically binding and verifiable measures in Europe
within the fr~ul\ework of the process ot the COnference on Security and
Co-operation in Europe as stipulated in the document of the Stockholm
Conference)

"2. Encourages all Eurofean States to cont inue the inplementat ion of the
decisions o( t.he Stockholm COnference so as to further increase confidence
among them and to reduce the dangers of armed conflict aoo of misunderstanding
or miscalculation of military activities)

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 27

"3. Considors that tho full implementation of those measureD will
contribute to the strengthening of confidence and security throughout Europe,
thereby promotinq international peace and security, dnd will croate better
conditions for undiminished and equal security at a considerably lower level
of military potentialJ

"4. Commends all efforts and initiatives of a unilateral, bilateral or
multilateral nature, and at the global or rogional level, leading to
decreasing armaroonts and increasing confidence in EuropoJ

"5. .!!!!ll!.s all States, with full account to be taken of specific
regional conditions, to consider measures designed to build confidenoe in
order to contribute to the creation of favourable conditions for the adoption
of equitable and balanced disarmament measures without detriment to the
security of any State and to further the relaxation of international tensions."

48. At the request of tho sponsor, no action was tsken on draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.66.

T. Draft reaolution A/C.l/42/L.73 and Rev.l

49. On 21 October, Bangladesll, Bolivia, Cameroon, Chile, COlombia, Oost~ Rica,
Coto d'Ivoire, the Dominican RepUblic, Ecuador, Guyana, Pakistan, Paraguay, Peru,
Ranania, uruguar and Yugoslavia submitted a draft resolution, entitled·Conventional d sarmament on a regional scale" (A/C. 1/42/1.• 73). The draft
resoluticn was introduced by the reprosentative of Poru at the 12nd meeting, on
4 Noveni>er.

50. On 4 November, the sponsors, who had been joined by §!i Lanka, submitted a
revised draft resolution (A/C.l/42/L.73/Rev.l), which was later also sponaored by
El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicara9ua and panama. In the revised draft
resolution, operative p'-'.ragraph 2, which had readl

"Ex~resses its firm support of all regional 01' sub-regional endeavours,
as well as unilateral measures, ••• ",

was revised to readl

"Expresses its firm sup[~rt of all regional or sub-regional endeavours,
taking into account the characteristics of each region and when the regional
situation so permits, as well as unilateral measures, ••• ".

51. At its 39th meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/42/L.73/Rev.l by a recorded vote of 121. to none, with 2 abstentions (see
para. 54, draft resolution N). The voting was as follows I

/ ...



42 9/Add.l
Sn1 1 ish
?Qg0 28

In f~: Albania, Alaeria, Anaola, Arqentina, Australia, Austria, Baharras,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, Cote dtrvoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,
Fiji, Finland, France, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao Peoplets Democratic Republic, Liberia,
Luxembourg, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands,
N~w Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama, Papua
New GUinea, Peru, Philippines, POland, portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, SWaziland, SWeden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad nnd
Tobago, Tunisia. Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, union of Soviet socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republic of Tanzania, United States of America, uruguay,
Venezuela, viet Nam, Yugoslavia, zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Abstaining: Ethiopia~ Ghana.

U. Draft resolution A/C.l/42/L.75

52. On 21 October, Anti2ua and Barbuda, Australia, the Bahamas, Batbados, Belgium,
Bolivia, Burundi, Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, the Central African Republic, Chad,
Colombia, Camoros, COsta Rica D"ibouti, Dominicnn Republic, Equatorial Guinea,

ermany, Federal Repub11c of, Greece, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Italy, Jamaica, Japan,
Ken a, Lesotho Mada ascar Mala ia, Mali, Mauritania, Mauritius, Morocco,
New Zeala , the Niger, Panama, Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Samoa, Sierra Leone,
Singapore, Somalia, the Sudan, Suriname, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Uruguay, Vanuatu, Zaire and Zambia submitted a draft resolution, entitled "Review
of the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament" (A!C.lj42/L.75),
whi~n was later also sponsored by Brunei Darussalam, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Fiji,
Gabon, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, the Philippines, Saint Kitts and Nevis, saint
Vincent and the Orenadines, Sao Tome and Principe and the Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of
Cameroon at the 32nd meeting, on 4 November.

53. At its 36th meeting, on 9 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l!42/L.7S without a vote (see para. 54, draft resolution 0).

/ ...



A/42/669/Md.1
Eliglish
Page 29

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMlTTEE

54. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

GENERAL AND COOPLETE DISARMAMENT

A

Bilateral nuclear-arms negotiations

The General Assembly,

Recalling that at their meeting at Geneva in November 1985 the leaders of
the United states of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
committed themselves to the objective of working out effective agreements
aimed at preventing an arms race in space and terminating it on Earth, 12/

Noting that in their joint statement of 8 January 1985 the Government of
the United states of America and the Government of the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics agreed that the subject of the negotiations was a complex
of que~tions concerning space and nuclear arms, both strategic and
intermediate-range, with all these questions considered and resolved in their
interrelationship, 13/

Noting with satisfaction that the United States of America and the Union
of soviet Socialist Republics have reached an agreement on the total
elimination of their intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles,

Noting also with satisfaction the agreement of the two Governments that a
similarly intensive effort will be made to achieve a treaty on a 50 per cent
reduction in their strategic offensive arms within the framework of the Geneva
nuclear and space talks,

Noting further with satisfaction th,'\t, at their forthcoming meeting, the
leaders of the two countries will conside~ thoroughly the development of
instructions to delegations on a future treaty on a 50 per cent reduction in

12/ A/40/l070, annex.

13/ See Official Records of the ~eneral Assembly, Fortieth Session,
SUPelement NO. 27 (A/40/27 and Corr.l), appendix II (CD/642/Appendix IX/Vol. Il),
documents CD!570 and CD/57l.

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
Engli8h
PlIgo 30

United Stateti cUld Soviot utratOlJic oL'f~nuivo acme and 011 the olJsorvaucu ot: al~
non-wl thdrawal frOl" tho AUM '.l'roaty !!I {or an aqreod poriod,

DeUovinCJ that, through negotiationB llUL'suod in a slJirit of Uoxibility
and wi th full acoount takon of the fleourity interoBts of all States, it is
l)ooaible to achieve far-rouchinq and ef Coctivoly vor ifiablo agroellllnts,

Ii'irllll~ c~winued that un olJrly aqroomont in those nogotiations, in
accordance with tho principlu ot undilllluishou socurity at tho lowest llosslblo
lovol of armaments, would bo of cl<ucial importance for the strongthoning of
lnternatiunal peace and security,

li'urthor convincou that tho intek:'IHltional cOlllllunity 800uld encourag~ tilU
Government of the Unitod states of AlIIOriCll and the Government of the Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics in the ir encJoavours, taking into account both tho
importance and complexity of the it' negotiations,

1. W0100II~8 tho agroencnt between the Un! ted States of Amor ica and the
union of Soviot So"cial1st Uepublics to :.oncluue a tro'\ty 01 illlinating the ir
il\tormediale-rango anu shortor-rango missiles)

2. Notos with slltis(uotion that llreaidont Heagan and Genoral
Secretary GLlrbachev have agruod to meol: in tho Un! tod States bog inniny on
7 Dooumbor 19U"/, and that a turther moetinq in the Soviot Union la onviaioflt!d
between thelll in the first hul( of 1988J

3. ~ls upon the Government uf the Uni ted Sta;es or Alllor iea al'Ml tho
GovonUlIont of the Union of Suvi{)t Soe11111 ut Ue[lublies to spare no ef fort ln
uookiny the attainment of aU thoir ayreed obioctivoB in the nogotiations, in
accordanco with the uocurity interosts of all Statos and the univorsal dOBire
for pnlCJress towards disarmament, in particular oarly lSchiovollcnt ot: a \:oreaty
implomentinC] the agreement to leduco stratoqic offensive ~U:IIlS by SO ..)or cent,
whic~ eould bo signod dur iug lJresiuent l~eagan'u visi t to Moscow.

4. Invites the two Govern1llunts conc;;ernod to koep other Statee Memburs
of tho Uni tau Nat ions dUly in(ormol,) of prog1'osB in those nO<jotiat ions botweon
tho Unitod Statea of Amorica and tho Union o( Soviet Socialiat Republica, in
accordance witl: paraglaph 114 of the l!'inal uocument oC the 'i'onth Special
Session of the General Assombly, 15/ the tirst special session uevotod to
disarmament. -

5. f:xprosses ita drlllout pOBBiulo encouru(jemnt and support (or the
bilateral negotiations and tho ie aucco9sfu1 conclusion.

~ Treaty between tho united St~tes of America and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republica 0,1 the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile Systems
(A/C.l/1026) •

!21 RCBolut lon 5-10/2.
/- ..



A/42/669/Add.l
EI1g1iah
l·age 31

'J

l)[ohibition oS; tho ~lQPmont, produotion, stoclr,piUnq
and uso of radiol~Jical weal~ne

The Goneral ASBembly,

Reoalling its re~olution 41/59 A of 3 Decelwer 1986,

1. Takos note of the part of the report of the COnforence on
Disarmament on its 1987 session that deals wi th the quest ion of racHologioa1
weapons, in particular the report of the Ad Hoo Conwltte~ on Radicl~loal
WeaponsJ !§I

2. Reoognizee that the A..~ Hoc COlI'mittee in 19U7 lnade a further
oontribution to tht. oladfioation and batter understanding of difforenc
41>proaches that oontinue to exist with regard to both of the lnportant
aubjoots under consideratio...

3. Takes nota of the reoommendation of the Conference on Disarmament
that the Ad Hoo Coomitteo on Radiologioal WOlllx>na t)hould be re-QRtabUahed at
the bog inning of it 1988 sossionJ

4. 1~egdest9 tta~ Conference on DlliMlllaloont: t\l continue Lts nogotiationli
on the subjoot with a view to a prompt conclusion of its work, taking into
account all proposals presented to the Confurence to this end and drawing upon
the annexus to its report as a basis of its future work, the result of whioh
should be submitted to the General Assellbly at its forty-third sossionJ

5. Alao roquests that the Secrotary-GeneraL transm'i t: to the Conferenco
on Dbarlllamollt. all relevant dooulWnts rolating to the discussion of all
uspocts of the issue by the Ganeral AGSQlfuly at i ts fortY-B~oond aOBsionJ

6. ~ecides to include in the proviYional agenda of its forty-third
s08siol1 tho item entitled "Prohibition of the dovelopllunt, production,
stockpiling and use of radiological weapons".

c

Notification of nuclear tests

The General Assembly,

!£callinIJ its resolution 41/59 N of J Decomber 1986, in whioh it called
upon each cf the States conducting nuclear explosions to provide the
Socretary-General with specific data on nuclear explosions conducted by thorn,

!~/ See Official Reoords of the General Assullbly, J,"orty-uecond Session,
Supplement No. 27 (A/42/27), para. 88.

/ ...



I~ -

A/42/669/Add.l
Englillh
VAge 32

Noting that, despite the continuation of nucloar OX1)loaiona, no such data
havQ boen submittud to the Seoretary-General,

1. Calls upon all S"a\:.OB to 001lply wi th rouolut ion 4l/S9 N.

2. A!1ain urgoa eaoh of the States conduoting nuolear ex[,losiolls to
provide to the SeoretarY-General within one week ot: each nuclear explosion
suoh data refer rod to in pa~a9raph 1 of resolution 41/59 N as thoy may have
4va i '.ablo J

J. InviteD all ethor States to provido to tha Seoretary-Genoral any
Muoh data on nuolear Qxploo ions they may havo available.

4. ~~~uoata the Secrotar/-Gorwral to make thio information ilmlediately
availablo to all Member Stl:itea and to 8ubmit to the Oo"orl'-l ASflolftbly annually
11 rQCJ lstor of the informal ion provided Oil ;\uoloar explouiono dUI: il1'::1 tho
preooding twolvo montho.

Bilateral nuclear-arms nCCjotiat.!2!.!!

The General Assembly,

~lling its rosolution 40/10 of 18 NovolIIl.'er 1985 alld 41/86 N oC
4 DOoembor 1986 r

Recalling aloo tho lIararo Appeal on OiaarmalOOnt, 17/ adopted in New York
on 7 OCtober 1981 by the Eiqhth O:m1:'troooo of Heads of State or Govornmont of
Non-Aligned Countries on 6 SeptonDor 1986, apj tho 1I-'1n£11 oonmuniquC§ adO(lted by
th~ Ministers for Foreign Affairs and huads ot' delegation of the Movement of
Nt:I..-Aligned Countrios to the forty-oooond sossion ot the Genoral Assonbly, !!!I

Q!.!.V0ly aonoerned over the continuing escalation of Lt.o arms raoe,
espeoially in nuclear weapons llnd other woapono of III11StJ destruction, despite
the fact that thi9 inoreaaes the r iak of nuolear war and endangero t.he
survival of humanity,

Convinoed that the alternat ive today 1n the nuclear aqc is not between
war or poaoe, but botween 1 He and doath, which makes tho prevention of
nucloar war tho principal taok of our timoo,

!!I Soe A/41/697-S/10lJ2, annQX, sect. I.

!!I A/42/681, annex.

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
Engliah
Pa90 33

l"ua:tho( aOllvinrJod that internat.1\>nal poaca and socurity can be enaured
only "throu\Jh 'l0naral and oomplote disarmllment under affeotive internat 10nal
control and that one ot the most urgent tasks is to halt and reverso the arms
raoe ard to undertake OOI~reta meAsurea of di8arn~mont, particularly nuclear
disarmament,

N~tin9 that the unitod States of AI~rioa and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republica roached un agreement. in principle, during the meeting held
at Washington, D.C., from 15 to 17 septeaoer 1987, on the elimination of
intermediate-range and shorter-runge ~issiles,

:onvinced also that in the interest of mankind as a whole, the United
States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, in their
bilateral nuclear-arms nqgotlations, should oontinue their endeavours w.i.th the
.ultimate objective of aohiElving goneral and o<l.,plete disarmament under
effeotive internatioual oontrol,

1. ~Q1COIOOS the agreenent in principle between the United States of
America and the union of Soviot Sooialist RepuDlics to sign a treaty on
intermediate-rango and shorter-tange missiles in the autumn of 1987, t.o make
intensive efforts to achieve a treaty on a 50 per oent reduction in strategic
of fOlloive arms wi thin the frahlowr k of the Goneva nuclol.ll' and space talka, am
to bo~in nucloar-tost-ban ne~otiationa before 1 Deoember 1987.

2. Calls upon the two Governments oonoern~d to intensify their efforta
with tho objectivo of achieving agreements in other areas, in particular, the
aroas ot strategic arms and Q nuclear-test ban, as a matter of urgenoy)

3. Invitus the Governments of the United states Qf America and the
Union of Soviet. Socialist Republioa to keep the Conference on Oiaarmament u~ly
informed of progress mado in theit negotiations.

Conventional disarmament

The General Assen~ly,

Recalling its resolutions 39/151 C oC 17 December 1984, 40/94 C of
12 December 1985 and 41/59 C of 3 December 1986,

naving examined the report of the Disarmament Conmiasion, !21

!!I Official Records of tho General Assenbly, Forty-.econd Session,
llupplement No. 42 (1\/42/42).

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 34

1. 1lakeo note with satisfaction of the repol'l on t:he consideration of
the question of conventional disil~nt during the 1987 session of the
Disarmament Conl1lissionJ .w .

2. Recommends that the report should provide a basis for further
deliberations on the subject by the Disarmament Commiasion,

3. Requests the Disarmament Commission to include in the agenda of its
1988 session an item entitled ·Substantive consideration of issues related to
conventional disarmament, including the recommondations and conclusions
contained in the Study on Conventional Disarmament·, ~

4. Also rC1uosts the Disarmament Commission to continue at its 1988
oession the consideration of the question of ccnvention41 disarmament with a
viow to facilitating ~le identification of possible measures in the fields of
convontional arms reduction and disarmament and to report to the General
AssenOly at its forty-';hird sessionJ

S. ReqUests the Secretary-General to draw the present resolution to the
attention of the General Assembly at its third special session devoted to
disarmament J

6. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-third
session the item entitled ·Conventional disarmament".

~.

Prohibition of the develq.>ment, production, stockpiling
and use of radiological weapons

Tho General Ausembly,

Recalling its resolutions 37/99 C of 13 December 1982, 38/188 D of
20 ~cember 1983, 39/151 J of 17 December 1984, 40/94 0 of 12 Decembor 1985
and 41/59 A and I of 3 December 1986 on, tntel alia, the conclusion of an
agreement prohibiting military attacks against nuclear facilities,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General on this subject
submitted pursuant to rosolution 41/59 X, ~

Gravely cOI\l'erned that armed attacks against nuclear facilities, though
carried out with conventional weapons, could be tantamount to the use of
radiological weapons,

~I ~., para. 45.

~ United Nations pUblication, Sales No. E.85.IX.I.

El A/42/517.
I ...



A/42/669/Add.l
Bngl!sh
Page 35

Hocalling alao that I\Jditional l'rotocol 1 ot 1977 W to the Geneva
ConventIons of 12 August 1949 W prohibits attacks on nuclear
electrioitY-generating st-.ationa,

Deeply concerned that the destruc tion of nuclear fa~ ili ties by
conventional wQapons oauses the release into the onvironmQnt of huge amounts
of dangerous radioaative matorial, which results in serious radioactive
contaminat ion,

Firmly convincod that the Israeli attaok against the safeguarded nuclear
facilities in Iraq constitutes ~n unprecedented danger to international peace
and secur i ty,

Recalling further resolutions GC(XXVII)/Res/407 and GC(XXVII)/Res/409,
,adopted in 1983 by the General Conference of the International Atomio Energy
Agency, in which the General Conference urged all member states to support
actions in international forwns to reach an international agreement that
prohibits armed attacks aguinst nuclear installations devoted to peaceful
purposes,

1. ReaCficms that armed atta~kB oC any kind against nuclear facilities
are tantamount to the use of radiol~ical weal~ns, owing to the dangerous
radio..actb: t:urcea that such attacks cause to be releasedJ

2. RoqUL .sls the Conference on Disarmmller.t to intensify further its
efforts to reach, as early as possible, an a~reement prohibiting armed attacks
against nuclear faeilitieDJ

3. l~equeDte the Internat iona1 Atomi'.: l:inergy Agency to provide the
Conterence on Disarmament with the technical studios t-hl1t would facilitate toe
conclusion of 8uuh an agreement,

4. ReqUeste the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its for.ty-third session on the progress made in the implementation of the
present resolut ion.

G

Convent 10na1 cl isarnwlIlont

The General Assenwly,

Reaftirming the determination to saV3 sucr-eeding g~nerations from the
scourge of war axpressed in the Preamble to the Charter of the United Nations,

W A/32/144, annex I.

~ United Nations, Treaty Series, vol. 75, NuS. 970-973.

I ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Pago 36

Uecall1ng the Final Document of the Tenth Spooial sossion of the Genel:al
Assembly, !21 the first special sessi~n devoted to disarmament, and
partioularly its paragraph 91, whioh provides that together with negotiations
on nuolear disarmament measures, the limitation and gradual reduction of armed
forces and conventional weapons should be resolutely pursued within the
framework of prCJCJress towards general and complete disarmwnent, and which
stresse& that States with the largest military arsenals have a special
responsibilty in pursuing the process of conventional armaments roductions,

Also recalling that the same document declares, inter alia, that
priorities in disarmament negotiations shall bel nuolear weapons, other
weapons of mass destruction, including chemical weapons, oonventional woapons,
including any which may be deeme~ to be exoessively injurious or to havo
indi9cri~inate effeots, and reduction of armed forces, and that it stressos
that: nothing should preclude States from conducting negotiations on all
priority iteMS concurrently,

Further recalling that the same document states that effective moasures
of nuclear disarmament and the prevention of nuclear war have the highest
priority, and that real progress in the field of nuclear disarmament oould
create an atmosphero conducive to progress in conventional disarmament on a
world-wide basis,

Aware of the dangers to world peace and socurity originating from wars
and conflicts fought wi th conventional wea(X)na, as well as of their pussible
escalation into a nuclear war in regions with a high ooncentration of
conventional and nuclear weapons,

Also aware that with the advanoe in sch'l1ce and coohnology, convent ional
weapons tend to beoome increasingly lethal Qnd destructive,

Believing that resourcos releas"3d through disarmament, including
conventional disarmament, can be used for the social and uoonallic developllont
of people of all countries, partiCUlarly the developing oountries,

Bearing in mind its resolution 3C/97 A of 9 uece~ler 1981 and the Study
on Conventional Disarmament ~ conducted in accordance with that reaolution,
as well as its resolutions 41/59 C and 41/59 G of 3 December 1986 and the
considerat ion by the Disarmament Comlliasion at its 190'/ session of the
question or conventional disarmament, ~

Bearing in mind also the efforts made to pronvte conventional disatllUlment
and the related proposals and sugge3tions, as well as the initiat ives taken by
various countries in this regard,

1. Reaffirms the inportance of the efforts aimed at resolutely pursuing
the 1 imi tat ion and gradua 1 reduction of armed forces and conventional weapona
w.i. thin the framework of progress towards genera land conplete disarmament,

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Pagc 37

2. Uelicves that the military forco& of all countries slwuld not be
used other~~r the purposo of self-defence,

3. Urges the countries with the largest military arsenals, which boar a
sl'ecial responsibility in pursuing tho process of conventional armaments
r~duotions, and the laembet states of the two major military allianoes to
oontinue negotiations through various forums on oonventional disarmalnent in
earnest, with a view to reaohing oarly agreement on the limitation and gradual
end balanced reduotion of armed foroos and conventional weapons under
effeotivo international cor.trol in their respective regions, partlcuarly in
Europe, whioh has the largest concentration of arms and fcrces in the world,

4. Encourages all States, while caking into account the need to protect
security and maintain necoss~y defensive capabilities, to intensify their
,efforts and ta~e, either on their own or in a regional context, appropriate
steps to promote progress in conventional disarmament and enhance peace and
security,

5. Requests the DisU[mament Commiosion to consider further, at itB 1988
substantive session, issues related to conveutional disarmament,

6. Decides to inolude in the provisional agenda at its forty-third
session the item entitled "COnventional disarmament".

II

Nuclear disarmament

The Goneral AsS(,mbly,

Recalling its resolution 41/59 F' of 3 December 1986,

Heaffirmi~ the determination to save succeeding generations from the
scourgo of war ~s expressed in the Preamble to the Charter of the United
Nations,

Convinced that the most acute and urgent task of the present day is to
r~Rove the threat of a world war - a nuclear war,

Recalling and reaffirming the statelnents and provisions on nuclear
disarmament set forth in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of
the General Asseooly, !y the first special session devoted to disarmament,
and, in particular, the provisions that -effective measures of nuclear
disarmament and the prevention of nuclear war hav~ the highpgt priority",
contained in paragraph 20, and that -In the task of achieving the goals of
nuclear disarmament, all the nuclear-weapon States, in partic111ar those alOOng
them which possess the most important nuclear arsenals, bear il special
responsibility", contained in paragraph 48,

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 38

Dear lng in mind that the ultimate goal of nuclear disarmament is the
oomplete elimination of nuclear weapons,

Noting that the leaders of the Union of Soviot s~ialist Republics and
the unitod States of America agreed in their joint statement issued at Geneva
on 21 November 1985 that "a nuclear war cannot be won and must never be
fought- !!I and the common desire they expressed in the same statement calling
for oarly progress in aroas where there is COlllllon ground, including the
principle of a SO per cent reduction in the nuclear arms of the Soviet Union
and the United States appropriately applied,

Noting also that the Union of Soviet Socialist Repuulics and the United
States of America have conducted intensive negotiations on various issues of
disarmament,

Noting further that the Conference on Di~armament has not played its due
role in the field of nuclear disarmament,

Bearing in mind that the Governments and peoples of various countries
expect that the Union of soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of
America will reach agreelOOnt on halting the nuclear-arms raco and reducing
nuclear weapons, so as to start the process of nuclear disarmament,

1. WelcomAs the agreement in princip~e between the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics dnd the united States of America to conclude a treaty on
the elimination of their intermediate-range and shorter-rango missiles, and
calls upon the two Statea t~ make further efforto for eliminating, in
accordance with the 8greemant in principle, all thoir in~ermediate-ran9c and
shorter-range missiles at the earliest possible datc,

2. Urges the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States
of America, which possess the most important nuclear arsenals, further to
discharge their special responsibility for nuclear disarnwment, to take the
lead in halting the nuclear-arms race and to negotiate in earnest with a view
to reaching early agreement on the drastic reduction of their nucl~ar arsenals,

Roiterates ita belief that bilatoral and multilateral efforts for
nucleaz: d iaarmament shuuld complelOOnt and fac ili tate each other,

4. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-third
session the item ent itled "Nuclear d isarmament".

/ ...



A/42/669/Adcl.l
l~ngliah

Page 39

Objective information on mil~tary matters

The Genoral Assembly,

Rocalling paragraph 105 of the Final Doculllent of the 'l'enth special
Session of the General Assembly, lS/ the first special session devoted to
disarmament, which encourages Member States to ensure a better flow of
information with regard to the various aspects of disarmament to avoid
dissemination of false and tendentious information concerning armaments and l~>
concentrate on the danger of escalation at the arms race and on tho neod for
general and complete disarmament under effective international control,

Recalling, ita previous resolutions Oh the subject,

Taking note of the report of the Secretary-General propared in conformity
with resolution 41/59 B of 3 December 1986, ~5/

Recognizing that the adoption of concrete, confidence-buildinq measures
on a global, reqional lli: subregiollal level would greatly contrl huto to l)
reductio,", in international tension,

Believing that the adoption of such measures would contribute to qr~ater
openness and transparency, thus helpi 'g to prevent misperceptions at' military
capabilitiF.!s and intentions, which could induce Stat.es to und~rtake armamonta
programmes leading to the 8cceleratio~ of the arms race, in partic'Jlar the
nuclear-arms raco, and to heightened international tensions,

Believinq that objective information on military capahilitios, in
particular of nuclear-weapon states and other miU tartly 6i'gni ficanl States,
could contrihute to the building of confidence among Statoa and to the
conclusion of ,::oncrete disarmament agreements and thereby help lo halt illld
reverse the arms race,

Con"inced that: greater openness on mili tary acli vi ties, inter alia,
through transmH:tal ot relevant information on those activiti"es, inclUding on
"he levels of military budgets, would contribute to increased confidence amonq
~tates,

'raking into account the work und~rtaken in the uisQrmament Commisaioll Oil
the reduction of military budgets, ~

~otin9 that an increased number of states have providod annual reports Oil
military expenditures in conformity with the international SystOll1 for the
standardized I:eport1ng of milit.uy expenditures under lhe auopices of the
United Nationa,

W A/42/435.
26/ "See Official Records of the Genen,l Assembly, l"orty-second He~sioll,

Supplement No. 42 (A/42/42), para. 41.
/ ...



40

1. Reaffirms its firm conviction that a better flow of objective
information on military capabilities ~auld help relieve international tension
and contribute to the building of confidence among States on a global,
regional or sUbregional level and to the conclusion of concrete disa~ament
a9 reeme nts;

2. Recollll\ends that those global, regional and subregional organizat ions
that have already expressed support for the principle of practical and
concrete confidence-building measures of a military nature on a global,
regional or subregional level should intensify their efforts with a view to
adopting such measures;

3. Recommends that all States, in particular nuclear-weapon States and
other militarily significant States, should consider implementing additional
measures based on the principles of openness and transparency, such as, for
example, the international system for the standardized reporting of military
expenditures, with the aim of achieving a realistic comparison of military
budgets, facilitatin9 the availability of objective information on, as well as
objective assessment of, military capabilities and contributing towards the
process of disarmament)

4. Invites all Member States to transmit to the Secretary-General, not
later than 15 April 1988, their views concerning ways and means of ensuring
confidence and furthering openness and transparency in military matters for
SUbmission to the General Assembly at its third special session devoted to
disarmament;

5. ReqUests the General Assent>ly at its third special session devoted
to disarmament to take into account all the provi3ions of the present
resolution in its deliberations;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assenbly at
its third special eession devoted to disarmament on the implementation of all
the provisions of the resolutions On the sUbject;

7. Decides to include in the provision~l agenda of its forty-third
session the item entitled ·Objective information on military matters".

J

Impletrentat ion of General Assent>ly resolut ions in the field
of disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recallin2 paragraph 115 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the; General Assembly, 15/ the first special session devoted to
disarmament, which states, inter ilia, that the G~neral Assenbly has been and
should remain the main deliberative organ of the United Nations in the field
of disarmament and shc:Jld mak.e every effort to facilitate the i!\Flementation
of disarmament ~~asures,

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 41

Mindful of the fact that the role of the United Nations in the field of
disarmament could be strengthened substantially through an increased effort by
Member States to implement faithfully General Assembly resolutions in the
field of disarmament,

Convinced of the importance of treating recommendations of the General
Assembly in the field of disarmament with due respect in accordance with the
obligations assumed by Member States under the Charter of the United Nations,

1. Deems it impqrtant that all Member States make every effort to
facilitate the consistent implementation of General Assembly resolutions in
the field of disarmament, and thus show their resolve to-arrive at mutually
acceptable, comprehensively verifiable and effective disarmament measures;

2. Invites all Member States to make available to the Secretary-General
their views and suggestions on ways and means to improve the situation with
regard to the implementation of General Assembly reSOlutions in the field of
disarmament,

3. Reguests the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly, on
an annual basis, a report regarding the developments in the field of arms
limitations and disarmament, which would include all relevant information
provided by Member States concerning the implementation of General Assembly
resolutions in the field of disarmament, as well as their views on possible
avenues to improve the situation in this resPect,

4. Calls upon all Member States to render every assistance to the
Secretary-General in fulfilling the request contained in paragraph 3 above;

5. Decides to continue its consideration of the issue of the
impl~mentation of Gen~ral Assembly resolutions in the field of disarmament at
its forty-third session.

K

Naval a~maments and disarmament

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolution 38/188 G of 20 December 1983, by which it
requested the Secretary-General, with the assistance of qualified governmental
experts, to carry out a comprehensive study on the naval arms race,

Recalling its reSOlution 40/94 F of 12 December 1985, by which it
requested the Disarmament Commission to consider the issues contained in the
study on the naval arms race, ~/ both its substantive content and its

27/ A/40/535, annex. The study was subsequently issued with the title
The NavarArms Race (United Nations pablication, Sales No. E.86.IX.3).

/ ...



A/42/(i69/Atld.l
Enljl iuh
Palj',' 4~

conclusions, takin:J into acoount iill othot' t'olevant preaout and futuro
proposals, with £i view to faoilitatinlj the identifioation of possiblo measures
in tho fiuld 'f navul ar.ms reduotions and disarmulIWnt, pursued within the
frwllework c.·f ~'r()(.Jree8 towarda g-:lnoral and oOlll111ete diuarUHlhlent, aB well as
confidenoo-bulitting measures in this fiold,

Uocalling aiDo its reaolution 4,1./59 K of 3 Deoember 191)6, by whioh it
t'oqueated the Disarmament: COllluitlsion to cont inuo, at i tB (orthcolI.inq 80soion
in 1987, the sll~stantive consideratior. of the question und t" report on itIJ
de libe~at iona and reoolllRendat ions to the Qeneral Assol~ly at its forty-second
uession,

~i';J examined the r ...port uf the Chairmun of: the Disarmament COnltlli8Siuu
on tho Bubstant iv€! consideration of tho question of the naval arllls race and
d h»L1rmulIIOnt dur ing the 1937 a08aion of the COJll1liasion, W which Rlet w' ch the
approval o~ all de!.egations pal'tic ipating in tho suustuntive consultattons and
which, 1n their vif,lw, could fot:'i1\ the basis of further ~eliberations on 1''\0
Ull ujo<."~,

1. Noteo with oatisfaction the re[)()L't on tho suustantive oonsidoration
of tho quo6tion of t."o nava 1 olrans t'aco and d ioarm \I1Hmt uy the Cho irmun of tho
Di ULli'mallK.mt conlniasiollJ

2. ~~uosta the Disarmament Commission to continue, at its forthcoming
sosulor in 1968, the uubstant ivo consideration of the quostion and to report
on its do liberat ions alltl recollulondat iono to the Genora 1 Aaooulbly not later
than ut ila forty-third oessionJ

). Also requests the Disarmament Commission to inacr iuo Oil the aqenua
lOl' its 19t1tl aoeuion the item enti t1ed "Naval armaments &llld diuarluamont" J

4. Dec idol:' to 1ncl ude in th~ prov lUional ayuntla of i Ls lut· ty-third
0003ion the item ontit1ed "Naval aImWllonts and dhHlrIll1llIlu.1L".

L

Pt'ohihllion or the production or fissi..>naule mate' .al
for weapons purposes

1'ho Genora 1 Ass omll ly ,

n~calli~ its resolutions 33/91 H of 16 Uecember 1978, 34/07 I) or
11 Uccember 1919, J~/156 11 or l::! UocemlJer 1980, 36/97 G of 9 llocelllber 1901,
37/99 E of 13 I)ecolllber 19t12, 3U/188 E or 20 Uooemuec 19t1J, 39/151 11 or
1'1 December 1984, 40/94 G of 12 Deoember 1985 ant] 41/!)9 '"' of 3 l)ocemuer 1986,
in which it requested the Conforence on uiaal'llwmont, at an appropriate otage

1!1 A/CN.IO/I02.

/ ...



A/4~/669/Add.l

Enylieh
l>a90 43

of tho implolllontation ol' tho 11r09rallluo of Action sot forth in Hection III of
tho l" inal Uocumont of tho 'l'onth Speo ial 80soion of the Genora 1 Asaolfbly, l~
tho l'lL'Ell Dpooial 609010n dovotod to disarmamont, and of its work on tho itom
out i tiod "Nuoloar woapo"u in all aspoota", to oonsidor urgontly the qU-lst ion
ol' adequatoly verifiod ocuoation and prohibition of tho produotion of
t'iuaionablo mater ial for nuclear woapons and other nooloa, oxplosive dovioeo
'-lllll to koop tho AoaomlJly inforRlod of tho progr.os8 of that consideration,

,Not illl) that tho agolld ... of tho conferenoe on Disarmamont for 1987includod
tho itom onL1tled "Nuoloar woapons in all aspeots" and \,;hat the progralllRO ot
work of tho ~ouforonco for both parts of ita 1987 800s10n oontained th\! item
ont itlod "Cessation of the nuoloar-arms raoo and nuoloar disarmament", W

,UOOLt 111n'J the proposals and statolllonts lIIado in the Conference on
UiOatlllwlIunt on those i tOIllB, !Q/

Conoldot'iu9 that the COBsat ion of produotion of fissionable mater iul for
woallolll:l purposos and tho proqrotisivo converaion and transfer. of: stocks to
lluoooJ.'ul usus would bo a signifioant atet> towards halting and revorsillg the
nuoloar-arllls rac",

Couohlor inC;J 01100 that:. the l>r:ohibi tion of the production of fieaionable
Illaterial for: nucloar woapons and othor oXl,losive devicos would be an important
llIUUUUIO in facilitating tho l>rovontion of the pa:ol1ferotion of nuclear weapons
t1nd oXl'louivo devices,

~~ tho Con(el::enc~ un Di~ur:ll\alfluut, at ,)11 appropl'lat4ol stago of its
work 011 tho item ontitled "Nuclnur weapons in all aspoct.s", to PUL't~uO ita
oonuidoratiofl 0J.' the question of adoquately verHie<J coasation and prohibition
ol the production 01' Hsuionable materbl for: nuoloar weapons Gnd other
Ilucloar explosive devicus and to koep tlw Genoral ASEJolnbly informed of t,ho
proqruBu of t:.hllt oOl.uidm",t:.ion.

M

Compli""l1Co \o/ith <lrmo limitation and disarmament atJreoll~nts

'1'lIu GUlIural AuuollllJly,

Uooollliug i to rOHolut; il.>ll: 41/S9 J of 3 lJocolllbc.u: 1986,

ConooiouG of the al:.iding ouncorn of all Momber States for presorving
1'Oupocr::--for right!,; and obU9lJ.donu ar iIi 1n9 froRl trea.... ioo and oLh"r soureeD of
inturnational law,

~ Ht" OUio i.:ll Hec(J,:,du ut tllu Goneru 1 AnaomlJly, l~ol tY-S10COnd S09ulon,
l.'pl 01110 III .No ;;'1 </\/42!27r:--vur:.u:-:/ UIIU 9.

l£,1 11.1ij., pUl'I.w. 4lJ-(,U.
/ ...



J\l42/669/Add.l
EU9liah
Page 44

~onvinced that observance of the Charter of the United Nationa, relevant
treaties and other souroes of lnt~rnational law i~ ossential for the
strong thening of internal ional sQOut':f. ty,

Mindf~l in partioular of the fundamental importance of full
implelD9ntation and atriot observance of agreelOOnts on arlUS Umi lat iOIl and
disarmament if lndivldual nations and the international cwanunity arc to
derivQ enhancod security from them,

Str~ssi~ that any viOlation of such agreements not only adversoly
affects the seourity of St~tos parties but can also oreate seourity risks for
other States relying on the constraints and oommitments stipulat ~d in thoso
agreements,

Stressing furt~er that 4n¥ weakening of oonfidenoe in suoh agreeloonts
dUDlnishes their oontribution to global or regional stability and to further
disarmamant 1~ arm» limitation effottB and undermines the oredibility and
effeotiveness of the international legal system,

Reoggnizlng ln this oontext that, inter alla, full oonfidenoe in
c~nplianoe with exi8tinq agreement. ca~ ~nhancQ the negotiations of arms
Umi tat ion and d lsArmament a9reelQlnts,

Believing ttat ow~liance witt. arms limitation and disarmament agreements
by Stateu parUea is, therofore, • matter of interest and ooncern to the
international oommunity, and noting the role that the United Nations oould
play in ch~t regard,

Convinced that re~olution of non-oompliance questions that have ariuen
with reg&rd to agreements on arm. limitations and disarmament would oontribute
to botter relations among States .....ld tho strengthening of world poace and
sQourit1,

1. urges all Statea parties to arms limitation and disarmament
agroemonts to implement .nd comply with the ontirety of the provisions of such
agroementa.

A!. Calls upon all Member StatQs to CJive serious corwideratioll to tho
implic3tions of non-compUance with those obligation~ t!OL' international
sucur ity and stab! 11 ty, GS woll as for the prospoc la fm. further progro9~ in
the tield of disarmamont.

3. Further ualls upon all Member States to support ~1!forts ain~d at the
resolution of' non-oompliance queatiollu, with a vioew to encouraging atrict
obuQtvance b~' all partios of the provisions of arms limh.at 10n and disarnu:uoont
agreements and maintaining or restoring the integrity oC suoh agreemonts.

4. R~luouls the Seoretary-General to provido Member State6 with
a"siataocQ that may be nooessary in this l'egaed,

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
Englillh
()Ggo 45

5. Further requosts the secretary-General to bring the prasont
resolution to the attention of the Goneral Assembly at its third special
sossion devoted to d195cmament.

N

conventional disarmamant on a [egit ",al scale

The Gonorol Assembly,

Reaffirming its rosolution 40/94 of 12 Deoember 1985,

Taking note of the Final oommuniqu' of tho Spacial Ministerial Meet.ing of
the Co-o.:dinating Bureau of tha Movement of Non-Aligned Countries on Latin

,America and the Caribbean, hold at Georgetown, from 9 to 12 March 1987, 1!1

~aking into account its resolution 41/59 Mof 3 Deoember 19&6,

1. Reitera ~8 its adherence to resolution 40/94 A relating to
oonvention~lsarmamenton a regional scal~,

2. Exprossos ito firm support of all regional or subrogional
ondeavours, taking into aacount the oharacter ~tics of each region and whon
the rogional aituation so pormits, as wall as unilateral measures, directed to
stren9th~ning mutual confldencQ and to assuring the security of all Statea
involved, making pu8s1~le regional agreements on a~ms l~itatlons in the
futu':oJ

3. Furth~~ reiteratos the prl..ry rQsp~noibi1ity of ~he m~lita~i1y
significant stat~s, espe,ially the nuolear-weapon Statod, for halting and
reversing :-'1e arms [liCe, and the priority &8signod to nuclear disarmament in
tho context', of the advancoa towards general and compluto cHsarmalnUllt.

o

Hoview of tho role of the Unitod Nations in the
tlcla ot-alsarmmmont

._-~~=.;.;.;;.

The r.unora 1 AHtH.tmbly,

~lling its rosolutionu J~/lSl G ot 11 Decembor 1984, 40/94 0 01
12 December 1985 and 41/59 0 of 3 OQcemblr 1986,

Uearing in mind that the primary purposo ot' the United Nationa is to
maintain international paaoe and seourity,

1!1 ~/4ZI3~1-S/189)S, Annox I.

/ ...



A/42/669/Add.l
English
Page 46

Reaffirming its conviction that genuine and lasting peace can be created
only through the effective implementation of the security system provided for
in the Charter of the United Nations and the speedy and substantial reduction
of arms and armed forces, by intern~tional agreement and mutual example,
leading ultimately to general and complete disarmament under effective
international control,

Reaffirming further that the United Nations, in accordance with its
Charter, has a central role and primary responsibility in the sphere of
disarmament,

Recognizini the need for the United Nations, in discha~ging its central
role and primary responsibility in the sphere of disarmament, to play a more
active role in the field of disarmament in accordance with its primary purpose
unde£ the Charter to maintain inte~natlonal peace and security,

Taking into account the part of the report of the Disarmament Commission
relating to this question, ~

1. Reguests the Disarmament Commission to continue its consideration of
the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament as a matter of
priority at its next substantive session, in 1988, with a view to the
elaboration of concrete recommendations and proposals, as appropriate, taking
into account, inter alia, the views and suggestions of Member States as well
as the aforementioned documents on the subject}

2. Requests further the Disarmament Commission to submit its report on
the sUbject, including findings, recommendations and proposals, as
appropriate, to the General Assembly at its forty-third session;

3. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-third
session the item entitled -Review of the role of the United Nations Ll the
field of disarmament: report of the Disarmament Commission".

32/ Official Records of the General Assembly, Forty-second Session,
suppl;;ent No. 42 (A/42/42), para. 43.


