






































UNITED
NATIONS

....__ .. -._--_ .._......_----_._----~----
A

Oene'll AI.8mbly Distr.
GENERAL

A/42/773
2S November 1987

ORIGINAL. ENGLIAH

Forty-second sessi~n
Aqenda item 91

IMPORTANCE OF THE UNIVERSAL REALI7.ATION OF THE RIGHT OF PEOPLES
T0 SELF-DETERMINATION AND OF THE SPEEDY GRANTING OF INDEPE~lDENCE
TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES FO~ rHE EFFECTIVE GUARANTEE

AND OBSERVANCE OF HUMAN RIGHTS

Report of the, Th!!d Committ!!

Rapporteur. Mrs. Aoi SANTHOSO (Indonesia)

I. IN~RODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 September 1987, ~he General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the Gen~r41 Committee, decideJ to include in its agenda the item
p,ntit1ed "Importance of the universal realization of the right 01 veoples to
~e'f-determinatio" and of the speedy qranting of independenoe to colonial countries
3nd peoples for the e{fGc~ive quarante8 a~ observance of human rights" and to
allocate it to th~ Third ~ommittae.

2. The Third Committee conAidered the item jointly with itemA 87 and 92 at its
3rd to 13th, 23rd, ~4th, 27th, 29th, 39th, 42nd, 52nJ and ~4th meetinqs, from ~ to
9, 12 to 14 and on 23, 26, 28 and 10 October .and o~ 9, 11, 19 and
20 November 1987. An account of the Committee's discussion in contained in thA
relevant summary records (A/C.3/42/SR.3-13, 23, 24, 27, 29, 39, 42, 52 and 54).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Third Committee had before it the
f0tlowiny ~ocumentel

(11) Report of the Aecretary-neneral on the importance of the universal
realization of the right of peoplaR to ae~f~determin4tion and of the speody
granting of independence to colonial countries and peopLes for the effective
quarantee and ohservanc~ of humon riqhts (A/42/448 and Add.l),

(h) Letter dated lO Decemher 1~A6 from the Permanent Represent~tlve of the
Uni ted Rtaten of America to t.he tlni tee'! Nationa ad~lreRsed to the Secretary-Genera 1
(1\/42/67) ,

87-31597 060,P (E) I . ..



A/42/773
Enqlish
Page 2

(c) Let.cer dated 6 Febr'.lary 1987 from the Permanent Repreoontativo of Yomen
to the United Nationo addrossed to the Secretary-General (A/42/l2l).

(c't) Let.ter dated 4 May 1987 from tho Charqo d'affairoR a.i., of tho Permanont
MiGaion of Surinama to the Unitec'l Nationn actdrOfJAOd to t.ho Searnt~r.y-Gonorl.tl
(A/42/.270) •

(e) Letter dated 9 July 1987 from the Charge d'affairefl a.L, of the
Permanent Mission of Suriname t.o the United Nations addrossed to the
Secretary-Gena~al (A/42/393).

,
(f) Letter dated 13 July 1987 from the Charge d'affaireD a.i. of the

Permanent Mission of Suriname to the United Nations addressed to tho
Secretary-General (A/42/39B) J

('1) r,etter dated 15 July 1987 from the Charge d'affaires £l.L of tho
Permanent Miasion of Denmark to the United NationfJ addressed to tho
Secretary-General, transmittinq a declaration ac'lopted on 13 July 1987 at C()penhagen
by the Mininteru for Foroiqn Affairs of the twolvo StateD momberB of: the ~uropo~n
Community (A/42/403-S/18980).

(h) Lettor dated 23 October 19B7 from tta-) PeL'manent Represon:~ative of
Zimbabwe to the Uni+-,d Nations addresfJad to the Secretary-Goneral, tranamittinq the
final communiqu' of the Meeting of Ministera for Foreign Affairs and Heads of
Delegation of the Movemont of Non-Aligned Countries to the for.ty-second sossion of
tho Genoral Assembly, hold in New York from 5 to 7 October 1987 (A/42/68l).

4. At the 3rd maeting, on 5 Octobor, the Undor. -Socretc'lry-Gonr~ral for Human H1.l)htA
mado an int~oductory statement.

t I. CON~IDEHA'l'ION or·' pnOPOSArlS

A. Draft rosolution A/C.l/42/L.ll

5. At the 23rd meeting, on 23 October, the rupresen~ative of Pakistan, O~ behalf
of Drllnei DarusLlalamr Chi,la, the Comoros, Costa Rica, Djibollti, Ecuador, ,Torda!l!.
Kuwait, Malaysia, Morocco, Nepa.!.L....Oman, Pakin1an, Pflpua New (;uinea, the
PhiUppine"!..t. qatar, Samoa, HaucH Arnbia, Singapore, Somu.lia, th~ Budan and
'rhai land, introduced a draft resolution (lVC.1/42/r.. 1.1) cmtitlon "Univurf.lill
realization of: the right of peoples to oelf-determin~tion".

6. At the same meeting, following a statement by the reprenentativ~ of Morocco,
the Committun ddopted draft reaollltion A/C.V42/rJo 11. without a vote (see para. l7,
draft resolution I).

7. At the 24th meeting, on 26 October, the r~presentative of India mane a
statement.

/ ....



A/42/7H
English
Page 3

D. Draft resolution A!C.3/42/L.12

8. At the 23rd meeting, on 13 Octoher, the representative of Madagascar, on
behalf of. the State~ Members of the United Nations that are memhers of the African
Group, introduced a draft res~lution (A/C.3/42/L.12) entitled "Importance of the
universal realizat~on of the ~ight at peoples to self-determination and of the
speedy granting of independence to colonial countries and peopleo for the effective
guarantee and obselvance of huma:, rights".

9. At the 27th meeting, on 28 October, the representative of the Unitpd States of
America made a statement in which he requested a recorded vote on the draft
resolution.

10. At the some maeting, the Commit~ee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.12 by a
recordeu vote of 107 to 17, with 10 abstenti~ns (see para. 37, draft
resolutior. 11). The voting was as, follows.

In favour.

Against.

AbstRiningl

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bang ladeoh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Boli via, Botswana,
arazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
r.urundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cape
Verde, Chad, China, Colombia, Congo, C8te d'Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Rampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Djlbouti, Dominican RepUblic, Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic Republic, Ghana, Grenada,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Biasau, Hungar~, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Itaq, Jamaica, Jordan, Renya,
RlIwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahi~iya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Me~ico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principa, ~audi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, TCJgo, Trinidad ancl
Tobago, Tunisia, Turk~y, Uqanda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
RepUblic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab
Emirates, United Repuhlic of Tanzania, Uruquay, V~nezuela, Viet
Nam, Yemen, YugOSlavia, Zaire, Zambia, zimbahwe.

Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finlancl, France, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Iceland, Israel, Italy, Luxembourg,
Netherlanda, Norway, Portuqal, Sweden, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Irelan~, United StaLes of Americ",.

Austria, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Greece, Hon111raA, Ireland,
Japa~, New Ze11and, Oman, 1/ Spain.

1/ The delegation of Oman Auhsequently indicated that its vote on the draft
resol\Jtion should have been recorded as heinq in favour and n(')t 8S an ahstention.

/ ...



A/42/773
English
Page 4

11. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of Denmark (on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations
that are members of the European Economic Community), Spain, Ecuador, Argentina,
Turkey, Austria, the Byeloruasian Soviet Rocialist Repuhlic, Colombia, Me~ico an~
Israel.

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/42/~

12. At the 23rd meeting, on 23 October, the representative of Nigeria, on behalf
of Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Behin, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, the
Congo, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Ethi~ the German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Guyana, India, Lesotho, Madagascar, Mauritania, Mongolia,
Nicaragua, Nigeria, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, the Seychelles, Rierra Leone,_
Swaziland, the Syrian Arah Republic, the Ukrainian soviet Socialist Republic( the
United Republic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Zambia and Zimhabwe, introduced a ~raft
resolution (A/C.3/42/L.14) entitled "Use of mercenaries as a means to violate human
rights and to impede the exercise of the right of peoples to Belf-d~termination".
Subsequently, Kenya, Panama ( Peru and Uganda joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

13. At the 27th meeting, on 28 October, statements were made by the
representatives of the United States of America, Denmark (on behalf: of the States
Members of the United Nations that ara members of the Europedn Economic Community),
Honduras, Oman, Chile and the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya.

14. At the same meeting, at the requeat of the repL'esentative of Denmark, the
Committee voted separately on operative paragraph 8 of draft resolution
A/C.3/42/L.14, which was adopted by a recorded vote of 99 to 17, with 11
abstentions. The voting was as followsl

In favour, Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Daruasalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina PaRo, Rurma, Burundi, ByelorusRidn Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chad, China, Colombia,
Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuna, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican RepuhHc, Ecuador, Egypt, F.quatorial
Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic Repuhlic, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Hungary, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kp.nya,
Kuwait, I.ao People's Democral1c Republic, Lebanon, Lesoth,),
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Ma~agascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Mozambique, Nepal,
Nicaragua, Niger, Niqeria, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Poland,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, !Hnqapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Syrian Arab R~public, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Uqanda, Ukrai nian Soviet Sociali st Repuhlic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, uruguay, Venezuela, Vie~ Nam, Yemen~
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe~

/ ...



Against,:

Abstaining,

A/42/773
English
Page 5

Austria, Belgi,um, Denmark, France, Germany, Faderal Republic of,
Greeco, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembou:g,
Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, United ~lngdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United StateR of Amerlc~.

Australia i Canada, Costa Rica, El Salv~dor, Finland, New
Zealand, Norway, Oman, Philippines, Sweden, Turkey.

15. Also at the same meeting, at the request of the reprenentative of the United
St.ates of America, the Committee voted on draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.l4 as a
whole, which was adopted by a recorded vote of 104 to 10, with 19 abstentions (see
para. 37, draft resolution Ill). The voting was as followsr

In favour a

Against,

Abstainingr

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Hen!n, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana.
Brazil, Brunei Darussa1am, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist R~public, Cameroon, Cape
V~rde, Chad, China, Colombia, Congo, Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Damocratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Dj ibouti, Dominican Republic, "~cl\ador, Egypt, Equatod-al Gui nea,
Ethiopia, Fiji, German Democratic RepUblic, Gt'olin3, Guatemala,
Guinea, Guinea-Biasau, Hunqary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
R€publi~ of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People'a
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Leso~ho, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldivea, Mali, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, M01.ambique, Nepal, Nicara~ua, Niger, Nigeria,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Oatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Surillame, Swaziland, Syrian Arab RepUblic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Ugallda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet ~ocialist Republi~s,
Unitod Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimb.,,'\'Ie.

Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy, Japan,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, portugal, tJnited ~ingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, Unite~ States of America.

Australia, ~ustria, Canada, Costa Rica, Denmark, El Salvador,
Finland, Greece, Honduras, Iceland, Ireland, IGrael, New
Zealand, Norway, oman, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, ~urkey.

16. After the adoption of the draft resolution, statements were made by the
representatives of the Netherlands, Pakistan, ~urkey, Cameroon, Australia, Chad,
ECIlca.dor, Austria, Sweden (011 behalf of the Nordic countr ie9) and Japan.

D. Draft resolutions A/C.l/42/L.15, Rev.l, R~v.2 and Rev.l

17. At.the 23rd meeting, on 23 Octoher, the ~epr~sentative of the United Stal:s of
Amer ica introduced a draft resolution (A/C. 1/42/L.15) entitled "Genuine and

/ ...



A/42/773
English
Page 6

periodio eleotions ar~ freedom of assooiation". Subsequently, the Netherlands
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution, whioh read as follows.

"The Generl!}. Assemblx.,

"Consoious of its obligation under the Charter of the United Nations to
promote and eHoourage respeot for human rights and fundamental freedoma for
all,

"Affirming that by virute of the prinoiple of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations,
all peoples have the right freely to determine, without external interfereno~,
their politioal status and to pursue eoonomio, sooial and oultural
development, and every State has the duty to respeot this right in aooordanoe
with the provisions of the Charter,

"Reaffirming the prinoiple enshrined in the preamble of the Universal
Deolaration of Human Rights 11 that it is essential, if man is not to be
compellad to have recourse, as a last resort, to rebell~on against tyranny and
oppression, that human rtghts should be pr~tected by the rule of law,

"Reoognizing in acoordance with artiole 21 of the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights that everyone has the right to take part in the g~vernment of
his country, directly or through freely chosen representatives, and that the
will of the people, as expressed in periodic and genuine eleotions, sball be
the basis of the authority of goverr.ment,

"MindfUl that the right to take part in the government of one's oountry
has been reinforced in several interna~.\onal instruments, among them, the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Righta, y the Il,ternational
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Raoial Disorimination !I and the
Convention on the Elimination of ~ll Forms of Discrimination Against Women, 11
and in regional instruments adopted by the Organization of African Unity, the
Organization of American States and the Council of Europe,

"~oting the progress in recent years in many region~ towards the
aohievement of free and dernocratio political institutions, concretely
expressed through the holding of genUine and periodio elections,

"Noting that, in recent years, States in various regions have invited
intergovernmental organizations, parliamentary obs~[vers and non-governmental
org~nizations to observe elections in those states,

11 Resolution 217 A (III).

Y Resolution 2200 A (XXI) , :Annex.

!I Resolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

11 Resolution 34/180, annex.

I . ..



A/42/773
English
Page 7

"Recalling resolution 1 (XIV) of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities concerning the General Principles
on Freedom and Non·-Discrimination in the M&tter of Political Right~, §j

"Further re~llin~ resolution 6 (XXIX) of the Commission on Human Rights
and resolution 1186 (LXV) of the Economic and Social Council,

"1. Recalls Article 55 of the Charter of the United Nations, which
states that the United Nations shall ~romote, inter alia, universal respect
for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without
distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion with a view to the creation
of conditions of stability and well-being which are necessary for peaceful and
ftiendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal
rights and self-determination of peoples,

"2. Reaffirms that by virtue of the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter, all peoples have the
right to determine, without external interference, their political status and
freely to pursue their econ~mic, social and cultural development and every
State has the duty to respect thie; ':ight in accordance with the provisions of
the Chart.er,

H3. Notes the duty of every State to promote, throught joint and
separate aCtIOns, the rea1ir.ation of the princ~plQ of equal rights and
self-determination of peopl~s, in accordance with the provisions of the
Charter, in order, inter alia, to bring a speedy end to colonialism, having
due regard to the fr,ely expressed will of th~ peoples concerned and bearing
1,n mind that the subjection of peoples to alien subjugation, domination and
e~ploitation constit~tes a violation Qf that principle and is contlary to the
Charter,

"4. !ecogn1zes, in the context of the right of peoples freely to
determine their political status and in accordance with such internationally
accepted instruments as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, that everyone has the
right to take part in the government of his country, directly or through
freely chosen representatives, and that the will of the people, as expressed
in genuine and ~riodic elections, shall be the basi~ of the authority of
government,

"5. Acknowledges, in accordan~e with the Declaration on Principles of
International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation amonq States
in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, 7/ the injunction
against authorizing or encouraging any action that would dismember or impair,

!I E!CN.4/Sub.2/213/Rev.l (United Ne-tions publication, Sales No. 63.XIV.2).

11 ~Resolution 2625 (XXV).

I . ..



A/42/773
English
Dage 8

totally or in part, the territorial integrity or political unity of sovereign
and independent States conducting themselves i~ compliance with the principle
of equal rights and self-determination of peoples and thus possessed of a
government representing the whole people belonging to the territory without
distinction as to race, creed or colour,

"6. Appeals to Member States to provide, where they have not already
done so, the necessary con~titutional and legal protections that ~ill
guar~ntee and secure full respect for the free expression of the will of the
people in genu~ne and periodic elections,

"7. Appeals further to Member States to provide similar protections that
will guarantee and secure full respect for the right to freedom of peaceful
assembly and association, including for the purpose of the peaceful expression
of differing political views and for the effective and meaningful organization
and free functioning of the political process,

"8. Recognizes that although political institutions and mechanisms are
continuously evolving world-wide, the General Principles on Freedo~ and
Non-Discrimination in the Matter of Political Rights continue to provide a
sound basis for determining the genuine nature of elections,

"9. Urges reg1on&l intergoveornmental organizations, non-governmental
orqanizations and other groups, in responding to requests from Governments for
exp~~t assistance and observation to help ensure the genuine nat~re of their
countries' elections, to draw upo~ the General Principles when carrying out
the aforementioned functions,

"10. Invites the Commission on Human Rights, at its forty-f0urth session,
to consider during its debate on self-determination the issue of genuine and
periodic elections, using as an element to guide its deliberations thereon the
General Principles 'nd to consider requesting the Secretary-General to
transmit the report of its dellberations on this subiect through the Rconomic
and Social Council to the General Assembly at its forty-third session."

18. At the 29th meeting, on 30 October, the representative of the Unitp.d States of
America, also on behalf of the Dominican Republic and the Netherlands, introduced a
revised draft resolution (A/C.3/42/L.15/Rev.l), which, after further oral
revisions, read as follows:

"The General Assembly,

"Conscious of its obligation under the Charter of the United Nations to
promote and encourage respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms for
all,

"Affirminrr that by virtue o~ the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter, all peoples have the
right freely to determine, without external interference, their ?olitical

_____ .1__



A/42/711
EnqliAh
Page 9

status and to pursue economic, social and cultural development, and every
State ~as the duty to respect this right in ~ccordance with the provisions of
the Charter,

"Reaffirming the principle enshrined in the preamble of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights !/ that it is er-sential, if. man is not to he
compelled to have recourse, as a last resort, to rebellion against tyranny and
oppression, that human rights should be protected by the rule of 1&w,

"Recognizing in acoordance with article 11 of the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights that everyone has th~ right to take part in the government of
his country, directly or thr,~gh freely ~hosen representatives, that everyone
has the right of equal access to public service in his country and that the
will of the people, as expressed in genuine and periodic elections - which
shall be by universal and eql'd suffrage and shall be held b:' secret vote or
by equivalent free voting procedures - 6ha~1 be the basis of the authority of
government,

"~ndful that the right to take part in the government of one's oountry
has been reinforced in several international instruments, among them the
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, !I the International
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination !El and
the Convention on the EUmination of All Forms of Disorimination Agai nst
Women, !!I and in regional instruments adopted by the organization of African
Unity, the Organization of American States and the Council of Europe,

"~na the progress in recent years in many regions towards the
achievement of free and democratic politioal institutions, ooncretely
exrressed through the holding of genuine and periodic elections,

"Noting with great conoern, however, that despite Auoh progress, gross
and cruel violations of human rights under the apartheid system, itself a
gross violation of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the people of
Routh Africa, continue to take place .in South Africa, and rejecting in
particular the denial of full citizenship rights to the black population,

-Noting that, in recent years, States in variou~ reqions have invited
intergovernmental organizations, parliamentary observers and nOh-governmental
organizations to observe elections in those States,

!I Resolution 217 A (111).

!/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

~/ R~solution 2106 A (XX), annex.

!l{ Resolution 34/180, annex.

/ ...



A/42/773
EngUE1h
Page 10

"Recalling resolution 1 (XIV) of the Sub-Commission 0" Prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities concerning the Draft Gener~l
Principles on Freedom and Non-Discrimination in the Matter of Political
Rir:"'ts, il/

"!~.lrther recalling resolution 6 (XXIX) of the Commission on Human Rights
and resolution 1786 (LIV) of the Economic and Social Counoil,

"1. Recalls Article 55 of the Charter of the United Na~ions, which
states that the U~ited'Nations shall promote, inter alia, universal respect
for, and observance of, hu~an rights and fundamental freedoms for all without
distinc~ion as to race( sex, language, or religion with a view to the creation
of conditirnls of stability and well-being w~:o~ are necessary for peaceful an~
friendly relations among nations based on respect for the princlple of equal
rights and self-determination of peoples,

"2. Reaff~rms that by virtue of the principle of equal rights and
self-deter~inatlon of peoples (~shrined in the Charter, all peoples have thA
right to determine, without external interfe~ence, thei~ political status and
freely to pursue their economic, social and c~ltur~~ development and every
State has the duty to respect this right in accordance with the provisions of
the Charter,

"3. Notes the duty of every State to promote, through joir.t and separate
action, the realizatio~ of the principle uf equal rights and
self-determination of peoples, in accordance with the provisions of the
Charter, in order, inter alia, to bring a speedy end t~ colonialism in
accordance with the freely expressed will of th~ peoples concerned and b€!ring
in mind that the subjection of peoples to a1i9n 9ubjugation, domination and
exploitation constitutes a violation of that principle and is contrary to the
Charter,

"4. Rec.. (. ::irms the necessity of expeditious and effective exercise of the
right of self-determination by all peot·les under o~lonial or alien domination
or foreign occupation in accordance with internationally established
principles such as those formulated in, inter alia, General Assembly
resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960 and 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960J

"5. Recognizes, in the context of the riqht of p~oples freely to
determine their political statuA and in accordance with the principles stated
in Such internationally accepted instruments as the Universal Declaration of
HUIi:an Rights and to.he International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,
that everyone has the right to take part in the goverrment of his country,
directly or through freely chosen representatives, and that the will ot the
people, as expressed in genuine and periodic elections, shall be thp. basie of
the authority of government,

111 E/CN.4/Sub.2/2l3/Rev.l (United Nations publication, Sales No. 63.XIV.2).

/ ...



A/42/773
Enqlish
Page 11

"6. Affirms that in order to build a true democracy in South Africa
apartheid should be abolished in all its forms and that the enjoyment by all
South Africans of human righta and fundamental freedoma is essential for the
exercise of genuine self-determination,

"7. Recalls that, in accordance with the Declaration on Principles of
International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States
in accordance with the Char~er of the United Nations, !lI no action should be
authorized or encouraged that would dlSfl"Jmber or impair, totally or in PS1't,
the territorial inte~rity or political unity of sovereign and independent
States conducting themselves in compliance ~ith tne principle of equal rights
and self-determinatio~ of peoples as described in that Declaration an~ thus
possessed of a government representing the whole people belonging to th\~
terr~tory witho~t distinction as to raCQ, creed or colour,

R8. Appeals to Member States to pr~vide, where they have not already
do. so, the necessary constitutional and legal protections that will
guarantee and secure full respect for the free expression of the will of the
people in genuine and periodic elections,

"9. Appeale. further to Member States to provide sir.IUar protections that
will guarantee and secure full respect for the right to freedom of peaceful
assembly and association, inclUding for the purpose of the peaceful expression
of differing political views and for the effective and meaningful organization
and free functioning of ~he political process, subject only to such
limitations as are determined by law solely for the purpose of seauring due
recognition and r~spect for the rights and freedoms ~f others and of meeting
the jUyt roquirements of mora~ity, public order and the general welfare in a
domocratic society,

"10. RecoCi,nizes that although political institutions and mechanisms are
continuously evolvinq world wide, the Draft ~eneral Principles on Freedom and
Non-Discrimination in the Matter of Political Rights continue to provide a
sound basis for determining the qenui~e nature of elections,

"11. Urges r~ginnal interqovernmental organizations, non-governmental
organizations and other groups, in respondilq to requests from Governments for
expert assistance and observRtion to help ensure the genuine nalure of their
countries' elections, to dr ......; .ipnn the Draft General Principles when carrying
Ollt thu aforementioned func:timH}'

"12. Invites the Commission on lIuman Rights, at itl> forty-fourth session,
to consider during its debate on Belf-d~termination the issue of genui~e and
periodic elections, usinq as an element to guide its deliherations theteon,
inter alia, the Draft General Principles and to consider requesting thp.
Secretary-Gen~ral to transmit the report of its deliherations on this subject
through the Economic and Social Council to the General Assemhly at its
forty-third session."

1lI Resolution 262~ (XXV).

I . ..



A/42/771
English
Page 12

19. At the 39th meeting, on 9 Novomber, the representative of the United States of
America, also on behalf of the Dominican Republio and the Netherlands, introduced a
second revision of the draft resolution (A/C.3/42/L.l~/Rev.2), whioh read as
follows.

"The General Assembly,

"Conscious of its obligations under the Charter of the United Nations to
develop friendly relati~ns among nations based on respect for the principle of
equal rights ana self-determination of peoples and to promote and encourage
respect for human rights and fundamental freedoma for all,

"Affirming that by 7irtue of the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter, all peoples have the
right freely to determine, without external interference, their political
status and to pursue economic, social and cultural development, .snd every
State has the duty to respect this right in accordance with the provisions of
the Charter,

"Pecognizing that the Charter of the United Nations, General Assembly
resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, which contains the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and Assembly
resolution 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960, provide a framework in accordance
with which peoples under colonial or alien administration are able to exercise
effectively their right to self-determination and to freely determine their
political status,

"Regretting that peoples in certain parts of the world are being deprived
of their right to self-determination,

"Reaffirming the principle enshrined in the preQmble to the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights !iI that it is eBsential, if man is not to be
compelled to have recourse, as a laRt resort, to rebellion against tyranny an~
oppression, that human rights should he protected by the rule of law,

"Also recognizing, in accordance with article 21 of the Univel.E~al
Declaration of Human Rights, that everyone has the right to take part in the
government of his country, directly or through freely chosp.n representatives,
that everyone has the right of equal access to public service in his country,
and that the will of the people, as expressed in genuine a ; periodic
elections - which shall hE by universal and equal suffrage and shall be held
hy secret vote or by equivalent free voting procedures - shall he the hasis of
the author! ty of government,

lil Resolution 217 A (Ill).

I, ...



A/42/773
English
Page 13

"Mindful that the right to take part in the government of one's country
ha~ been reinforced in Beveral international instruments, among them the
Intnrnational Covenant en Civil and Political Rights, 1lI the International
Convention on the Elimln~tion of. hll Forma of Racial Discrimination !!I and
the convention on the F.limll\ation of All It'o~:ms of »i~crimination A9ainat
Women, 1:1/ and in regiona'. instruments adopted by the Organhation of African
Unity, the organi~ation of ~~erican States and the Council of Europe,

"Notinc;z the progress in recent years in many regions towards the
achievement of free and democratic political institutiona, concretely
exprossed thr~ugh the holding of genuine and periodic electiona,

"Noting with great concern, however, that gross and cruel violations of
human rights under the apartheid system, itself a gross violation of the human
rights and fundamental freedoms oC the people uf South Africa, continua to
take place in South Africa, and in particular in this regard, rejeots the
aeniul to the black majority popUlation of their full oitizenship rights and
the exolusion of the black majority population from participating in the
politioal, 80cial, economic and cultural life of ~heir country,

"~tinc;z a16~ that, in recent years, States in various regions have
invited intergovernmental organizations, parliamentary observers and
nOll-governmental orqanizati ..ns to observe ele.:tions in those States ~

"Recalling resolution 1 (XIV) of the Sub-C(:mmission on Prevention of
Disorimination and Protection of Minorities concerninq the Draft General
Principles on Freedom and Non-Oiscrimination in the Matter of Polilioal
Rights, 2.lI

"Further rocalling resolut.ion 6' (XXIX) of the Commission on Human Rights
and rosolution 17R6 (LIV) of the Economic and Soc~al Countiil,

"1. Recalls Article 5S of the Charter of the United Nations, which
states that the United Nations sh Jll promote, inter alia, universal respe(,;t
for, and observance of, human rights an~ funda~~ntal freedoms fGI all without
distinction as to race, sex, language, or religion with a view to the creation
of conditions of stability and well-being which are necessary for peaceful and
friendly relations among nations based on respect for the principle of equal
rights and self-determination of peoples,

1iI Resolution 2200 A (XX!), annex.

III Resolution 2106 A (XX), B.,nex.

!21 Resolution 34/180, annex.

!!I E/CN.4/Sub.2/213/Rev.l (United Nations publication, Sales No. 63.~IV.2).

/ ...



A/42/773
Englhh
Page 1..

"2. Reaffirlll' t.hat, by virtue of the principle of equal rights and
nolf-dotermination of peoples enshrined in the Charter, all peoples have the
right to determine, without extecnal interference, their politioal atatus and
freely to pursu~ their economic, social an~ uultural development and every
State haD the duty to respect this right in accordance with the provisions of
the Charter,

"3. Recognizes, in aooordanoe with the Declaration on Principles of
International Law conoerning Friendly Rolations and Co-operation among States
in acoordanoe with the Oharter of the United Nations, !21 that the
establishment of a sovereign and independent State, the free association or
integration with an independent State or the emergence into any other
politioal status freely determined by a poople constitute modes of
implementing the ;'ight to self-determination by that people,

"4. Welcomes th'l progressive exercise of the right to self-determination
b~ peoples under colonial, foreign, or alien occupation and their emergence
into sovereign statehood and independence,

"5. Notes the duty of every State to promote, through joint and separate
action, the realization of the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples, in accordanoe with the principles of the
Charter, and in accordanoe with blternat10nally testabUshed princip\es such BS
those formulated in, inter alia, General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of
14 December 1960 and 1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960,

"6. Also reaffirms that the subjeotion of peoples to alien subjugation,
domination-and exploitation or foreign occupation constitutes a violation of
the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples an~ is
contrary to the Charter,

"7. Further reaffirms the necessity of expeditious and effective
exercise of the right of sel.f-determination by all peoples under colonial or
alien domination or foreign occupaticn in accordance with internationally
established principles,

"8. Recognizee, in the context of the right of peoples freely to
d~termine thelr political status and in accordanoe with the prinoiples stated
in such internationally accepted instruments as the Universal Deolaration of
Human Rights and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights,
t.hat everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country,
directly or through freely chosen repreSentatives, that everyone has the right
of equal access to public service in his country, and that the will of the
people, as expressed ln genuine and periodic elections - which shall be by
universal and equal suffrage and shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent
free voting prccedures - shall be the basis of the authority of government,

121 Resolution 2625 (XXV).

/ ...



A/42/713
English
page 15

"9. Affirms that, in order to build a united, non-racial democratic
society in South Afrioa, aparthei~, which is a gross violation of. the human
rights of the people of South Africa, should be abolished in all its forms and
that the enjoyment by all South Afrioans of human rights and fundamental
freedoms, including in particular the right to participate in a political
system based upon common and equal citizenship, universal franchise and duly
elected representative institutions, is essential for the exercise of genuine
self-dutermination,

"10. Recalls also that, in accordance with the Declaration on Principles
of International Law ooncerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among
States in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations, no action should
be authorized or encouraged that would dismember or impair, totally or in
part, the territorial integrity or political unity o~ sovereign and
independent States conduoting themselves in compliance with the principle of
equal rights and self-determination of peoples as described in that
Declaration and thus possessed of a government representinq the whole people
belonging to the territory without dintinction as to tace, creed or colour,

"11. Appeals to Member States to provide, where they have not already
~one so, the necessary con~titutional and legal protections that will
guarantee ~nd secure full respect for the free expression of the will of their
peoples in genuine and periodic elections,

"12. Appeals further to Member States to pr.ovide similar protections that
will guarantee and secure full respect for the right to freedom of peaceful
assembly and association, inclUding for the purpose of the peaceful expression
of d~ffering political views and for tho effective and meaningful organization
and free functioning of the politica~ process, subject only t~ such
limitations as are determined by law solely for the purpose of securing due
recognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and of meeting
the just requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a
democratic societYJ

"D. Calls upon Member States to fulfil their duty to promote, through
joint and separate action, realization of the principle of equal rights an~
self-determination of peoples, in acc~rdance with the Charter, in particular
on behalf of peoples in certain parts oF. the world who are being deprived of
their right to oelf-determination,

"14. Recognizes that, although political institutions and mechanisms are
continuously evolving world-wide, the Draft General Principles on Freedom a~d
Non-Discrimination in the Matter of Political Rights continue to provide a
sound basis for determining the genuine nature of electionsJ

"15. Urges regional intergovernmental organizations, non-governmental
organizations and other groups, ~.n responding to requests from Governments for
expert assistance and observation to help ensure the genuine nature of their
countries' elections, to draw upon the nraft General Principles when carrying
ou~ the aforementioned functions,

/ ...



A/42/773
English
Page 16

"16. Invitee the Commission on Human Rights, at its forty-fourth session,
to consider during its debate on self-determination all aspects of the
principle of equal rights and oelf-detetmination of peoplee. inclUding the
right of all peoples freely to determine, without external interferenoe, their
political status, and to consider requeoting the Secretary-General to transmit
the report of its deliberations on this subject through the Economic and
Social Council to the General \ssambly at its forty-third session."

20. At the 42nd meeting, on 11 November, the representative of Zimbabwe, also on
behal. of Algeria, Burkina Faao, Cuba, Ghana, Nigeria, Uganda and Zambia, proposed
oral amendments to draft resol'Jtion A/C.3/42/L.lS/Rev.2, according to whichl

(a) A new operative paragraph would be insorted after oporative paragraph 5,
reading bS fo1lowsI

"Reaffirms the inalienable rights of the peoples of Namibia and Palestine
to self-determination and independence in accordance with the principles of
the Charter and the relevant resolutions of the United Nations, in particular
General Asspmbly resolution 1514 (XV)",

(b) The phrase "constitutes a total negation of the purposes and principles
of the Charter and is a crime against humanity as declared by the General Assembly
in resolution 2786 (XXVII) of 6 December 1971 and" would be inserted between the
words "which" and "is a graBS violation" in operative paragraph 9.

The proposed amendments were suhsequent1y circulated in document A/C.3/42/·,.69,
opons~red by Algeria, Angola, "ahrain, notswana, Burkina raso, Cameroon, Cuba,
Democratic Yemen, D;Hbouti, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Ghana, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Ira~.:,__Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, LeF.lotho, Liher!!, the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritania, Morocco, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, the Sudan, Swaziland, the Syrian Arab Republic,
Tunisia, Uganda, the united Arab Rmirates, the united Republic of Tanzania, Yemen,
Zambia and Zimhabwe.

21. At the same meeting, the representative of Colombia made a statement.

22. Also at the same meetinq, the representative of the United States of America,
on hehalf of the sponsors, orally revised draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.15/Rev.2, as
followsl

(il) In the third preambular paragraph, the words "an important" were inserted
before the word "framework",

(b) A new operative paragraph was inserted following operative paragraph 1,
reading as followsl

"Recalls the Declaration on Principlu~ of International Law concerning
Friendly RelatlonA and Co-operation among StateA in accordance with the
Charter of the Unitpd Nations and, in particular, recalls that the general
part of that neclaration dAclares that 'in their interpretation and

/ ...



,-./42/773
English
Page 17

application the principles are interrelated and each principle should be
construed in the context of the other principles''',

(c) In operative paragraph S, the words "every State to promote, through
joint and separ3t'e action," were replaced by the words "States to co-operate with
one another for",

(d) In operative paragraph 7, the words "in accordance with internationaUy
established princi(Jles" were replaced by thv words "in accordance with the relevant
resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly and internationally
established principles and practices to ensure that such exercise of
self-determination is genuine",

(e) In operative paragraph 14, the words "continue to" were deleted,

(f) Operative paragraph 15 was deleted.

23. The representative of Cameroon made a statement and orally proposed additional
amendments to draft r4solution A/C.3/42/L.l5/Rev.2, by which.

(a) In operative paragraph 10, the phrase "conducting themselves 1n
compliance with the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples au
described in that Declaration and thus possessed of a gove~nment representing the
whole people belonging to the territory without distinction as to race, creed or
colour" would be deleted,

(b) In operative paragraph 14, the words "continue to provide a sound basis
for determi~ing the genuine nature of elections" would be replaced by the words
"provide a basis for further study of the,nature of elections".

24. Statements were made by the representatives of Yemen and the Netherlands, as
well as by the Secretary (Ree A/C.3/42/SR.42).

25. The representative of Belgium propo~ed a sub-amendment to amendment (a)
proposed by Zimbabwe (C'~e para. 20 (a) above), by whic.'h the words "Kampuchea and
Afghanistan" would be added after the words "Namibia and Pa1eHtine".

26. Statements were made by the representatives of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, Zimbabwe, Afghanistan, Cameroon, Belgium; Ghana, the
United States of America, the Federal Republic of Germany, Gabon, Nigeria,
Honduras, Denmark and the Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, as well as by the
Chairman of the Committee (Ree A/C.3/42/SR.42).

27. On the proposal of the representative of the Netherlands, made in accordance
with rule 118 of the rules of proce~ure of the General Assembly, and supported by
tha representatives of the United States of America and Nigeria, the Committee
decided to suspend consideration of draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.1S/Rev.2.

/ ..



A/42/773
English
Page 18

28. At the 52nd meeting, on 19 November, the representative of the United States
9£ America, ~lso on behalf of the Dominican Repu~, and the Netherlands,
introduced a third revision of the draft resolution (A/C.3/42/L.15/Rev.3), which
read as follows,

"The General Assembly,

"Conscious of its obligations under the Charter of the United Nations to
develop friendly relations among nationa based on respeot for the pri~,ciple of
equal rights and self-determination of p~oples and to promote ~nd encourage
respect for human rights 'and fundamental floedoms for all,

"Affitmin9 that by virtue of the prin~iple of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter, all peoples have the
right freely to determine, without external interference, their political
status and to pursue economic, social and cu'.t~ral development, and every
State has the duty to respect this right in accordance with the provisions of
the Charter,

"Reco9nizin9 that the Charter, Gener~l Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of
14 December 1960, which contains the Declaration on the Granting OL
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, and Assembly resolution
1541 (XV) of 15 December 1960 provide an important framework in aocordanoe
with which peoples under colonial or alien administration are able to e~ercise
effectively their right to self-determination and to froely determine their
political status,

"R~9rettin9 that peoples in certain parts of the world are being deprived
of their right to self-determination,

"Reaffirmin9 the principle enshrined in the preamble to the UnlV&lSal
Declaration of Human Rights lQ/ that it is essential. if man is not to be
compelled to have recourse, as a last resolt, to rebellion against tyranny and
oppression, that human rights &hould be protected by the rule of law,

"Also recognizing, in accordance with article 21 of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, that everyone has the right to take part in the
government of his country, directly or throuqh freely chosen representatives,
that everyone has the right of equal acceSE to public service in his c~untry
and that the will of the people, as expressed in genuine and periodic
elections - which shall be by universal and aqual suf!rage and shall be h~ld
by secret vote or by equivalent free voting proc~dureB - shall be the basis of
the authority of government,

"Mindful that the right to take part in the government of one's country
has been reinforced in several international instruments, amonq them the

lQI Resolution 217 A (Ill).

I ...



A/42/773
English
Page 19

International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, 21/ the International
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial DIScrimination ~ and
the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against
Women, 1lI and in regional instruments adopted by the Organization of African
Unity, the Organization of American States and the Council of Europe,

"Noting the progress in recent years in ma"y regions towards the
achievement of free and democratic political institutions, concretely
expressed through the holding of genuine and periodic elections,

"Noting with great concern, however, that gross and cruel violations of
human rights under the aparth6id system, itself a gross viola~ion of the human
rights and fundamental freedoms of the people of South Africa, continue to
take place in South Africa, and in particular in this regard, rejects the
denial to the black majority POPUlation of their full citizenship riqh:s and
the exclusion of the black majority population from participating 1n the
political, social, economic and cultural life of their country,

"~lng also that, in recent years, States in various regions have
invited intergovernmental 'organizations, parliamentary obSArvers and
non-governmental organizations to observ~ elections in those States,

"Recalling resolution 1 (XIV) of the Sub-Commission on prevention of
Discrimination and Protection of Minorities concerning the draft General
Principles on Freedom and Non-Discrimination in the Matter of Political
Rights, l!I

"Further recalling Commission on Human Rights resolution 6 (XXIX) and
Economic and Social Council resolution 1786 (LIV),.

"1. Recalls Article SS of the Charter of the United Nations, which
states that the United Nations shall promote, i .. ter alia, universal respect
for, and observance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without
distin~tion as to race, sex, language o~ religion with a view to the creation
of the conditions of stability and well-being which are necessary for peaceful
and friendly relationu among nations based on respect for the principle of
equal rights and self-determination of peoples,

"2. Recalls the Declaration on Principles of International Law
concerning Friendly Relationo and Co-operation among states in accordance with

l!I Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

B/ ttesolution 2106 A (XX), annex.

111 Resolution 34/180, annex.

~. E/CN.4/Sub.2/213/Rev.l (United Nations publication, Sales No. 63.XIV.2).

/ ...



A/42/773
English
Page 20

the Charter of the United Nations 25/ and, in particular, recalls that in the
general part of that Declaration the General Assembly declares that "in their
interpretation and application the ••• principles are interrelated and each
principle should be construed in the context of the other principles",

"3. Reaffirms that, by virtue of the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples enshrined in the Charter, all peoples have the
right to determine, without external interference, their political status and
freely to pursue their economic, social and cultural development and every
State has the duty to rebpect this right in accordance with the provisions of
the Charter,

"4. ~cognize.!, in accordance with the Declaration on Pr inciples of
International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among States
in accorJance with the Charter of the United Nations, that the establishment
of a s~vereign and indepAndent State, the free associa~ion or integration with
an independent State or the emergence into any other political status freely
determined by a people constitute modes of implementing the right to
self-determination by that people,

"5. Welcomes the progressive exercise of the right to self-determination
by peoples under colonial, foreign or alien occupation and their emergence
into sovereign statehood and independence,

"6. Notes the duty of States to co-operate with one another for the
realization of the principle of equal rights and self-determination of
peoples, in accordance with the principles of the Charte~, and in accordance
with internationally established principles such as those formulated in,
inter alia, General Assembly resolutions 1514 (XV) and 1541 (XV),

"7. Also reaffirms that th~ Iilubjection of peoples to aHen Bubjugati,'O,
domination and exploitation or foreign occupation constitutes a violation 01
the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples and is
contrary to the Charter,

"8. Further reaffirms the necessity of the expeditious and effective
exercise of the right of self-determination by all peoples under colonial or
ali~n domination or foreign occupation in accordance with the relevant
resolutions of the Security Council and the General Assembly and
internationally established principlss and practices to ensure that such
exetcise of self-determination is genuine,

"9. Recognizes, in the context of the right of people~ freely to
determine their political status and in accordance with the principles stated
in such internationally accepted instruments as the Universal Declaration of
lIuman Rights and the International Covenant on Ci.vil and Political Rights,

25/ Resolution 262fJ (XXII), annp-x.

/ ...



A/42/113
English
page 21

that everyone has the right to take part in the government of his country,
directly or through freely chosen representatives, that everyone haD the right
of equal access to public service in his country, and th~t the will of the
people, as expressed in genuine and periodic electiono - which shall be by
universal and equal suffrage arid shall be held by secret vote or by equivalent
free voting procedures - shall be the basis of the authority of government,

"10. Affirms that, in order to buIld a united, non-racial democratic
society in South Africa, apartheid, which is an offense against the conocience
and dignity of mankind and is a gross violation of the human rights of the
people of South Africa, should be abolished in all its forma and that the
en10yment by all South Africans of human rights and fundamental freedoms,
including in particular the right to participa~.e in a political system based
on common and equal citizenship, universal fr,anchise and duly elected
representative institutions, is essential for the exercise of genuine
self-determination,

"11. Recalls also that, in accordance with tho Declaration on Principles
of International Law concerning Friendly Relations and Co-operation among
States in accordance with' the Charter of the United Nations, every Stat~ shall
rofrain from any action aimed at the partial or total disruption of the
national unity and territorial i~tegrity of any other State or oountry,

"12. Appeals to Member States to provide, where they have not already
done so, the nece~sary constitutional and legal protections that will
guarantee and secure full respect for the free expression of the will of their
peoples in genuine and periodic elections,

"13. Appeals further to Member States to provide similar protections that
will guarantee and secure full respect for the right to ~reedom of peaceful
assembly and association, includin~ for the purpose of the peaceful· expression
of diffp.rinq political views and for the effective and meaningful organization
and free f~nctioninq of the political process, suhject only to such
limi~ationq as are determinod by law s~lely for the purpose of securing due
r~~ognition and respect for the rights and freedoms of others and of meeting
the just requirements of morality, public order and the general welfare in a
d~mocratic society,

"14. Calls upon Member States to fulfil their duty to promote, through
joint and separate action, realization of the principle of equal rights and
self-determination of peoples, in accordance with the Charter, in particular
~n behalf of peoples in certain parts of the world who are being deprived of
their right to self-determination,

"15. Recognizes that, although political institutions and mechanl 9 are
continuously ~volving world wide, the draft General Principles on Freeuum and
Non-Discrimination in the Matter of Political Rights provi~e a basis for
considering the nature of qenuine elections,

/ ...



A/42/773
English
Page 22

"16. Invites the Commission on Human Rights, at its forty-fourth session,
to consider during its debate on self-determination all aspects of the
principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples, including the
right of all peoples freely to determine, without external interference, their
political status, and to consider requesting the Secretary-General to transmit
the report of its deliberations on this subject through the Economic and
Social Council to the General Assembly at its forty-third session."

29. At the 54th meeting, on 20 November, the Committee had before it amendments to
draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.15/Rev.3, which were contained in document
A/C.3/42/L.69/Rev.l and were sponsored by Algeria, Angola, Bahrain, Botswana,
Burkina Paso, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Ghana L
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, RenIa! Kuwait! Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
the LibIan Arab JamahiriIa, Madagascar, Malawi! Mauritania, Morocco! NicaraguaL
Ni3eria! oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia! so~alia, the Sudan, Swaziland, the Syrian Arab
RepUblic, Tunisia, Uganda, the United Arab Emirates, the United Republic of
Tanzania, Yemen, Zambia and Zimbabwe.

"1. After operative paragraph 6, insert the following new paragraph 7 and
renumber the remaining paragraphs accordingly:

'7. Reaffirms the inalienable rights of the peoples of Namibia and
Palestine to self-determi.nation and independence in accordance with the
principles of the Charter and the relevant resolutions of the United
Nations, in particular General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV),'

~2. In new operative paragraph 11, after the words "dignity of mankind",
insert the following words:

" constitutes a total negation of the purposes and principles of the,
Charter, is a crime against humanity as declared by the General Assembly
in resolution 2786 (XXVII) of 6 December 1971'"

30. At the same meeting, the representative of Denmark, speaking on a point of
order, moved, in accordance with rule 116 of the rules of procedure of the General
AssemblYr that no action be taken on the first amendment contained in document
A/C.3/42/L.69/Rev.l and on the sub-amendment proposed by Belgium (see para. 25
above).

31. The representative of Democratic Yemen, also speaking on a point of order,
moved, in accordance with rule 116 of the rules of procedure, that no action be
taken on the sub-amendment proposed by Belgium.

32. Following statements by the represe~tatives of the United States of America,
the United Republic of Tanzania, the Federal Republic of Germany, Democratic Yemen,
the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya and Denmark, the Chairman ruled that the motion made by
the representative of Denmark should be put to a vote (see A/C.3/42/SR.54).

33. Statements were made by the representatives of Costa Rica, Denmark, Malta,
Ethiopia, the Byelor'lssian Soviet Socialist Republic, Ghana. and Algeria, as well as
by the Chairman (see A/C.3/42/SR.54).

/ ...



A/42/773
English
Page 23

34. The Committee rejected the motion by a recorded vote of 56 to 45, with 21
abstentions. The voting was as follows:

In favour:

Against:

Afghanistan, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Chile, Costa
Rica, Czechoslovakia, Denmark, Dominican Republic,
El Salvador, Finland, France, German Democratic RepUblic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Honduras, Hungary,
Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malta,
Morocco, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Philippines,
Poland, Portugal, Samoa, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Spain,
Sweden, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
uruguay.

Algeria, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Benin, Botswana, Brunei
Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, China, Congo,
Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ethiopia,
Ghana, Guinea, Haiti, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic RepUblic of),
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libyan
Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Mauritania,
Mexico, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Peru, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, SWaziland, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo,
Uganda, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania,
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Abstaining: Argentina, Barbados, Bolivia, Brazil, Central African
Republic, Chad, Cyprus, Ecuador, Egypt, Lad People's
Democratic Republic, Mali, Paraguay, Rwanda, Senegal,
Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Venezuela, Viet Nam,
Yugoslavia, Zaire.

35. The representative of the United States of America made a statement in which,
on behalf of the sponsors, he withdrew draft resolution A/C.3/42/L.l5/Rev.3 (see
A/C.3/42/SR.54).

36. Statements were made by the representatives of Democratic Yemen, the Dominican
RepUblic, the Netherlands, Morocco, Ghana, the Sudan, Sweden (on behalf of the
Nordic countries), Sri Lanka, Viet Nam, Austria and the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland (see A/C.3/42/SR.54).

/ ...



A/42/773
EngU.1h
Page 24

Ill. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

37. The Third Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions.

DRAFT RESOLUTION I

Universal re&lization of the right of peoples to
self-determination

The General Assembly,

Reaffirming the importance, for the effeotive guarantee and observance of
human rights, of the universal realization of the right of peopl~s to
self-determination enshrined ill the Chart,,&: of the United Nations and embodied
in the International Covenants on Human Rights, l!I as well as in the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peopleo
contained in General Assembly resolution 1514 (XV~ of 14 December 1960,

Welcoming the progressive exercise of the right to self-determination by
peoples under colonial, foreign or a'.ien occupation and their emergence into
sovereign statehood and inde~endence,

Deeply conc~rned at the continuation of acts or threats of foreign
military intervention and occupation that are thleatening to suppress, or have
already suppressed, the right to self-determination of an increasing number of
sovereign paoples apd nations,

Expressing grave concern that, as a co~sequence of the persistence of
such actions, millions of people have bean and are being uprooted from their
homes as refugees and displaced person~, and emphasizing the urgent need for
ooncerted international action to alleviate their condition,

ReCAlling the relevant reaolutions regarding the violation of the right
of peoples to self-determination and other hU.llan rights as a result of foreign
military intervention, aggression and occupation, adopted by the Commiosion on
Human Rights at its thirty-sixth, 27/ thirty-seventh, 1!1 thirty-eighth, l!/

~/ Resoluticn 2200 A (XXI), annex.

311 See Official J,LecordB of the Economic and Social Council, 1980, Supplement
No. 3 (E/1980/l3 and Corr.l), chap. XXVI, sect. A.

28/ Ibid., 1.981, Supplement No. 5 (E/1981./25 and Corr .1), chap. XXVIII,
sect. A.

29/ lh!2., 1982, Rupplement No. 2 (E/1982/12 and Corr.l), ~hap. ~XVI, sect. A.

/ ...



1\/42/773
English
Page 25

t.hirty-nint.h, W fortieth, 1lI forty-first, W forty-seoond wand
forty-third, l!I sessions,

Reiterating its resolutions 35/35 B of 14 November 1980, 36/10 of
28 OCtober 1981, 37/42 of 3 December 1982, 38/16 of 22 November 1983, 39/18 of
23 November 1984, 40/24 of 29 Nove~ber 1985 and 41/100 of 4 Deoember 1986,

Taking note of the report of the Seoretary-General, ~

1. Reaffilms that the universal realization of the right of all
peoples, inoluding those under oolonial, foreign and 41ien domination, to
self-determination is a fundamental oondition for the effeotive guarantee and
observanoe of human rights and for the preservation and promotion of suoh
rights,

2. Deolares ita firm opposition to aots of foreign military
intervention, aggression, and oooupation, sinoe these have resulted in the
suppression of the right of peoples to self-determination and other human
rights in oertain parts o~ the world,

3. Calls upon those States responsible to oease immediately their
military intervention and oooupation of foreign oountries and territories and
all aots of repression, disorimination, exploitation and maltreatment,
partioularly the brutal and inhuman methods reportedly employed for the
exeoution of theae aots against ~he peoples oonoerned,

4. Deplores th~ plight of the millions of refugees and Gisplaoed
persons who have been uprocted by the aforementioned aots and reaffirms their
right to return to their homes volun~arily in safety and honour,

5. Requests the Commission on Human Rights to oontinue to give speoial
attention to the violation of human rights, epeoially the right to
self-determination, resulting from foreign military intervention, aggression
or oooupation,

lQ/ Ibid. , 1983, Supplement No. 3 (E/1983/13 and Corr.l), ohap. XXVII,-seot. A.
1Y .!.!ili!. , 1984, Supplement No. 4 (E/1984/14 and Corr.l), ohap • 1I, sect. A.

.w .!!ilit. , 1985, Supplement No. 2 (E/1985/22) , chap. TI, sect. A•

W lE.!.!!. , 1986, Supplement_~..2 (E/19J6/22), chap. 1I, sect. A.

1!1 ~., 1987, Supplement No. S (E/1987/l8), chap. 11, sect. A.

lV~ A/42/448 and Add. le

I . ..



A/42/773
Rngliah
Page 26

6. Requests the Socretary-General to report on this ioDue to the
Gonoral Assembly at its forty-third aeaaion under the item entitled
"Importance of the universal roalization of the :ight of peoples to
oolf-determination and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial
countries and peoples for the affective guarantee and observance of human
rights".

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

Imeortance of the universal realization of the ri9ht of peoples
to self-determination and of the speedy grantinq of independenoe
to colonial countries and eeoeles for the effective guarantee

!nd observance of human rights

The General Assembly,

R~affirming its faith in the importanoe of the implementation of the
Deolaration on the Granting of Independenoe to Colonial Countries and peoples
contained in its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960,

Reaffirming the importance of the universal realization of the right of
peoples to self-determination, national sovereignty and territorial integrity
and of the speedy granting of independence to colonial ooun'tries and peoples
as imperatives for the fUll en~oyment of all human rights,

Reaffirming the obligation of all Member States to oomply with the
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the resolutions of the
United Nations regarding the exeroise of the right to self-determination by
peoples under colonial and foreign domination,

Recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) and all relevant resolutions
concerning the implementation of the Declaration o~ the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,

~ecalling further its resolutions on the question of Namibia, in
parti~ula( resolutions 2145 (XXI) of 27 OCtober 1966 and S-14/1 of
20 September 1986, as well as the relevant Security Council resolutions, in
particular resolutions 385 (1976) of 30 January 1976 and 435 (1978) of
29 September 1978,

/ ...



A/42/773
English
Page 27

Recalli~j1 the Declaration adopted by the World Conferenoe on Sanctions
against Raciet South Africa l!I and the Deolaration and Programme of Action of
the International Conference for the Immediate Independence of Namibia, 11/

Also recalling the Luand~ Declaration and Programme of Action adopted by
the United Nations Council for Namibia at its extraordinary session held at
Luanda on 22 May 1987, l!I

~aking note of the final communique issued by the ministerial meeting of
the United Nations Council for Namibia held at United Nations Headquarters on
2 October 1987, l!I

Bearing in mind the outoome of the International Conference on the
Alliance between South Africa and Israel, held at Vienna from 11 to
13 July 1983, ~

~coming the holding at Tunis from 7 to 9 August 1984 of the Conference
of Arab Solidarity with the Struggle for Liberation in Southern Africa, ~

Recalling resolution CM/Res.1099 (XLVI)/Rev.l on South Africa and
CM/Res.109l (XLVI) on Namibia adopted by the Council of Ministers of the
Organization of African Unity at its forty-sixth ordinary session, held at
Addis Ababa from 20 to 25 July 1987, ~

Also recalling the stater.lent issued on 21 August 1987 by the President of
the Security Council, on behalf of the members of the Council, in which he
expressed t.hcdr concElrn in the face of the constant deterioration of the

1!1 Report of the World Conference on Sanctions agai1st Racist South Africa,
Paris, 16-20 June 1986 (United Nations publication, Rales No. E.86.I.23), chap. IX.

W See ReP2rt of the International Conference for the Immediate Independence
of Namibia, Vienna, 7-11 July 1986 (United Nations publicati~n, Sales No. E.86.I.IG
and addendum), part three •

.w A/42/325-S/18901, annex.
l2/ A/42/631-S/19187, annex.

iQ/ See A/38/3l1-S/15883, annC!x.

!Y See A/39/450-S/16726.

.iY~ See A/42/699, annex I •

/ ...



A/42,'773
English
Page 28

situation in Namibia due to the intensification of the repression perpetuated
by the South African for.ces of occupation against the Namibian people in the
tMUre Territory, W

Reaffirming that the system of apartheid imposed on the South African
people constitutes a violation of the fundamental rights of that people, a
crime against humanity and a constant threat to international peace and
security,

Gravely concerned at the continuation of the illegal occupation of
Namibia by South Africa and the continued violations of the human rights of
the people in the Territory and of the other peoples still under colonial
domination and alien subjugation,

Reaffirming its resolution 39/2 of 28 September 1984 and recalling
Security Council resolution 554 (1934) of 17 August 1984, in which the Council
rejected the so-called "new constitution" as null and void, Security Council
resolution 569 (1985) of 14 August 1985 and the statement made by the
President of the Security Council on 13 June 1986 on the nation-wide state of
emergency, !y

Deeply concerned at the continued terrorist acts of aggression committed
by the Pretoria r'gime against in pendent African States in the region, in
particular the unprovoked attacks dgainst Zimbabwe, Zambia, Mozambique and
Botswana,

Deeply indignant at the continued occupation of part of the territory of
Angola by the troops of the racist regime of SOI:th Africa and the persistent,
hostile and unprovoked acts of aggression and sustained armed invasions
committed by the r'gime in violation of the sovereignty, airspace and
territorial integrity of Angola, in particular the recent armed invasion
perpetrated by the racist regime on the provinces of Kuando·Kubango and Kunene,

~ecalling Security Council resolutions 527 (1982) of 15 December 1982 and
535 (1983) of 29 June 1983 on Lesotho, and Council resolutions 568 (1985) of
21 June 1985 and 572 (1985) of 30 September 1985 on Botswana,

Reaffirming the national unity and terri~~rial integrity of the Camoros,

Recalling the Political Declaration adopted by the First Conference of
Heads of State and Governmer.t of the Organization of African Unity and the
League of Arab States, held at Cairo from 7 to 9 March 1977, ~,'

.!y S/19068.

!y See Official Records of the Security Council, Forty-first Year,
Resolutions and Decisions.

!2/ A/32/6l, annex t.



A/42/773
English
Page 29

Recalling further its relevant resolutions on the question of palestine,
in particular resolution 41/43 of 2 December 1986,

Recalling the Geneva Deolaration on Palestine and the Programme of Action
for the Achievement of Palestinian Rights, adopted by the International
Conference on the Question of Palestine, ~

Considering that the denial of the inalienable rights of the Palestinian
people to self-determination, sovereignty, independence and return to
Palestine and the repeated aots of aggression by Israel against the people of
tho region oonstitute a serious threat to international peace and seourity,

Deeply shocked and alarmed at the deplorable consequences of the Israeli
invasion of Lebanon and reoalling all the relevant resolutions of the Security
Counoil, in particular resolutions 508 (1982) of 5 June 1982, 509 (1982) of
6 June 1982, 520 (1982) of 17 September 1982 and 521 (1982) of
19 September 1982,

1. Calls upon all States to implement fully and faithfully all the
resolutions of the United Nations regarding the exercise of the right to
self-determination and independence by peoples under colonial and foreign
domination,

2. Reaffirms the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples for their
independence, territorial integrity, national unity and liberation from
colonial domination, apartheid and foreign occupation by all available means,
including armed struggle,

3. Reaffirms the inalienable right of the Namibian'people, the
Palestinian people and all peoples under foreign and colonial domination to
self-determination, national independence, territorial integrity, national
unity and sovereignty without foreign interferenoe,

4. Rtrongly condemns those Governments that do not recognize the right
to self-determination dnd independence of all peoples still under colonial
domination and alien subju9ation, notably the peoples of Africa and the
palestinian people,

5. Calls for the full and immediate implementation of the declarations
and programmes of action on Namibia and on Palestine adopted by the
international conferences on those questions,

6. Reaffirms its vigorous condemnation of the continUed illegal
occupation of Namibia by South Africa,

~ ReP2rt of the International Conference on the Question of Palestine,
Geneva, 29 August-7 September 1983 (United Nations publication, Sales
No. E.83.I.21), chap. t.

/



11./42/773
English
Page 30

7. Condemns once again the racist regime of South Africa for its
installation of a so-called "interim administration" at Windhoek and deolares
that action to be illegal, null and void,

8. strongl¥ condemns the illegal occup3tionist regime of South Africa
for its increased repression of the Namibian people, as recently manifested by
the arrest and detention of leaders of the South w~st Afr!ca People's
Organization and of trade unions, the cold-blooded murder and torture of.
children, women and the elderly, and the bombing and destructlv~ of social and
educational institutions by the racist army, polico and murder squada, and
demands the immeniate and unconditional release of all Namibians imprisoned
and detained by the Pretoria regime,

9. Further condemns the policy of "bantustanization" and reiterates its
support for the oppressed people of South Af~ica in its JUBt and legitimate
struggle against the racist minority regime in Pretoria,

10. Reaffirms its rejection of the so-called "new constitution" as null
and void and reiterates that peace in South Africa can be guaranteed only by
the establishment of majority rule through the full and free exercise of adult
suffrage by all the people in a united and undivided South Africa,

11. Commends the efforts of the democretic forces within various
sections of the South African society that are striving towards the abolition
of apartheid and the creation of a united n~n~r&cial democratic soci~ty in
South Africa and, in this connection, takes note with satisfaction of the
meeting held at Oakar from 9 to 12 July 1987, ~

12. Strongl¥ condemns the wanton killing of peaceful and defenceless
demonstrators and workers on strike, as well as the arbitrary arrests of the
leaders and activists of the democratic mass organizations, and demands their
immediate and unconditional release, in particular that of Nelson Manda1a ~nd
Zephania Mothopeng,

13. strongl¥ condemns South Africa for the imposition of the state of
emergency under its repugnant Internal Security Act and calls for the
immediate lifting of the state of emergency, ae well as the repeal of t~e
Internal Security Act,

14. Strongl¥ condemns the holding of an all-white election by the racist
regime in May 1987, in the midst of the state of emQrgency, accompanied by the
muzzling of the press and increased brutal repr~ssion of the majority, which
once again clearly manifested the apartheid r~qime's arrogant defial-.ce and
intransigence,

15. Condemns South Africa for its increasing oppression of thp Namibian
people, for the massive mi1itarization of Namibia and for its armed attacks

!11 See A/42/554-S/19126.

/ ...



A/42/773
English
Page 31

launched against the States in the region in order to destabilize them
politically and to sabotage and destroy their economies,

16. Strongly condemns the establishment and use of arnled terrorist
groups by South Africa with a view to pitting them against the national
liber.tion movements and destabililing the legitimate Governments of southern
Africa,

17. Strongly condemns the repeated acts of aggression and the continued
occupation of parts of southern Anyola and de~ands the immediate and
unconditional withdrawal of the South African troops from Angolan territory,

18. Strongly condemns the persistent, hostile and unprovoked acts of
aggression and sustained armed invasions carried out by the racist regime of
South Africa in violation of the sovereignty, airspace and territorial
integrity of Angola, in particular the armed invasion perpetrated by the
racist regime on the provinces of Kuanda-Kubango and Kunene,

19. Strongly reaffi:ms its solidarity with the independent African
countries and national liberation movements that are victims of murderous acts
of aggression and destabilization by the racist regime of Pretoria, and calls
upon the international community to render increased assistance and support to
these countries in order to enable them to strengthen their defence capacity,
defend their sovereignty and territorial integrity and peacefully rebuild and
develop,

20. Reaffirms that the practice of using mercenaries against sover~ign
States and national liberation movements oonstitutes a criminal act, and calls
upon the Governments of all countri,s to enact legislation declaring the
recrultment, financing and training of mercenaries in their territories and
the transit of mercenaries through their territories to be punishable
offences, and prohibiting their nationals from serving as mercenaries, and to
report on such legislation to the Secretary-General,

21. Strongly condemns the continued violation of the human rights of the
peoples still undel colonial domination and alien subjugation, the
continuation of the illegal occupati.on by the racist minority regime in
southern Africa and the denial to the Palesttnian people of their inalienable
national rights,

22. Further strongly condemns the racist regime of Pretoria for its acts
of destabilization against Lesotho, and strongly urges the international
community to continue to extend maximum assistance to Lesotho to enable it to
ful!ll its international humanitarian obligations towards refugees· and to use
its influence on the racist regime so that it would desist from such acts
against Lesotho,

23. StronglY condemns the unprovoked and unwarranted military attacks of
14 June 1985 and 19 May 1986 on the ca~ita1 of Botswana and demands that the
racist regime pay full and adaquate compensation to Botswana fo~ the 10s6 of
life and damage to property,

I ...



A/42/773
English
page 32

24. Strongly condemns the escalation of massacres of defenceless
population and the continuing destruction of economic and social
infrastructures perpetrated against Mozambique by armed terrorists, which are
an extension of the South African army of aggression,

25. Denounoea the collusion between Israel and South Africa and
expreSAes support for the Declaration of the International Conference on the
Alliance between South Africa and Israel, ~/

26. Strongly condemns the policy of those western States, Israel and
other States whose political, economic, military, nuclear, strategic, cultural
and sports relations with the racist minority reqin~ of South Africa encourage
that regime to persist in its suppression of the aspirations of peoples to
self-determination and independence,

27. Again demands the immediate application of the mandatory arms
embargo against South Africa, imposed und~r Security Council resolution
418 (1977) of 4 November 1977, by all countries and more particularly by those
countries that maintain military and nuclear ~o-operation with the racist
Pretoria regime a~d continue to supply it with related materiel,

28. Calls for the full implementation of the provisions of the
Declaration adopted by the World Conference on Sanctions against Racist South
Africa 36/ and the Declaration and Programme of Action on Namibia adopted by
the IntQ;national Conference for the Immediate Independence of Namibia, 11/

29. Demands once again the immediate implementation of its resolutions
ES-8/2 of 14 September 1981 and 8-14/1 of 20 September 1986,

30. Reaffirms all relevant resolutions adopted by the Organization of
African Unity and ~the United Nations on the question of Western Sah:.ra,
including General Assembly resolution 41/16 of 31 October 1986, and calls upon
the current Chairman of the Organization of African Unity and the
Secretary-General of the United Nations to continue their efforts to find a
just and lasting solution to this question,

31. Urges all States, the specialized aqencies, organizations of the
United Nations system and other international organizations to extend their
support to the Namibian people through their sole and legitimate
representative, the South West Africa People's organizat~on, in its struggle
to gain ita right to self-determination and independence in accordance with
the Charter of the United Nations,

32. Notes the contacts between the Government of the Camoros and the
Government of France in the search for a just solution to the problem of the
integration of the Comorian island of Mayotte into the Comoros, in accordance
with the resolutions of the Organization of African Unity and the United
Nations on this question,

/ ...



A/42/773
Enqliah
Pago 31

33. Calls for a substantial increase in all forma of assistanoe given by
all States, United Nations organs, the specialized agencies and
non-governmental organizations to the victims of racism, raclal diocrimination
and apartheid through national liberation movements recognizod by tho
Organization of Afrioan unity,

34. Strongly condemns the racist regime for its want~n arrests and
detention of women and children in South Africa and Namibia and demands their
immediate and unconditional release,

35. Strongly condemnn the constant and deliberate violations of the
fundamental rights of the Palestinian people, as well as the expansionist
activities of Israel in the Middle East, which oonst\tute an obstaole to the
achievement of self-determination and independence by the Palestinian peoplo
and a threat to peace and stability in the region,

36. Demands the immediate and unconditional release of all persons
detained or imprisoned as a result of their struggle for self-determination
and independence, full respect for their fundamental individual rights in
complianoe with artiCle 5 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, undnr
which no one shall be sUbj~cted to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading
treatment,

37. Urges all States, the specialized agencies, organizations of the
united Nations system and other international organizations to extend their
support to the Palestinian people through its sole and legitimate
representative, the Palestine Liberation Organization, in its struggle to
regain its right to self-determination and independence in accordance with the
Charter,

38. Expresses its appreciation .for material and other forms of
assistanoe that peoples under colonial rule oontinue to receive from
Governments, organizations of the United Nations system and intergovernmental
organizations, and calls for a substantial inorease in this assistance,

39. Urges all States, the specialized agencies and other competent
organizations of the United Nations system to do thei: utmost to ensure the
full implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples and to intensify their efforts to support
peoples under colonial, foreign and racist domination in their just struggle
for self-determination and independence,

40. Requests the Secretary-General to give maximum publicity to the
Declaration on the Granting of Indepenjence to Colonial Countries and Peoples
and to give the widest possible publicity to the struggle of oppressed peoples
for the achievement of their self-determination and national independence and
to report periodically to the G~neral Assembly on his activities in this
regard,

I ...



A/42/773
English
Page 34

41. Decides to consider this item at its forty-third session on the
basis of the reports on the strengthening of assistance to colonial
territories and peoples that Governments, organizations of the United Nations
system and intergovernmental and non-governmental organizations have been
requested to submit.

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

Use of mercenaries as a means to violate human rights
and to imE!de the exercise of the right of peoples to

self-determination

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the need for strict observance of the principles of
sovereign equality, political independence, territorial integrity of States
and self-determination of peoples, as well as scrupulous respect for the
principle of the non-use or threat of the use of force in international
relations, enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations and developed in the
Declaration on Principles of International Law concerning Friendly Relations
and Co-operation among States in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nations, 48/

Reaffirming the legitimacy of the struggle of peoples and their
liberation movements for their independence, territorial integrity, national
unity and liberation from colonial domination, apartheid and foreign
intervention and occupation, and that their legitimate struggle can in no way
be considered as or equated to mercenary activity,

Deee1y concerned about the increasing menace that the activities of
mercenaries represent for all States, particularly African, Central American
and other developing States,

Recognizing that mercenarism is a threat to international peace and
security,

Recognizing also that the activities of mercenaries are contrary to
fundamental principles of international law, such as non-interference in the
internal affairs of States, territorial integ~ity and independence, and
seriously impede the process of the self-determination of peoples struggling
against colonialism, racism and aeartheid and all forms of foreign domination,

Recalling all of its relevant resolutions, particularly resolution 41/102
of 4 December 1986, in which it denounced the practice of using mercenaries,
in particular against developing countries and national liberation movements,

48/ Resolution 2625 (XXV), annex.

/ ...



A/421113
English
Page 35

Recalling also Security Council resolutions 239 (1961) of 10 July 1967,
405 (1971) of 14 April 1917, 419 (1977) of 24 November 1977, 496 (1981) of
15 December 1981 and 507 (1982) of 28 May 1982, in which the Council,
inter alia, condemned any State that persisted in permitting or tolerating the
recruitment of mercenaries, and the provision of facilities to them, with the
objective of overthrowing the Governments of States Members of the United
Nations,

welcoming the adoption by the Economic and Social Council of
resolution 1987/61 of 29 May 1987, in which the Council condemned the
increased recruitment, financing, training, assembly, transit and use of
mercenaries,

Reaffirming its decision, in its resolution 12/130 of 16 December 1977,
to accord priority to the search for solutions to the mass and flagrant
violations of human rights of peoples and persons affected by situations such
as those resulting, inter alia, from aggression and threats against national
sovereignty, national unity and territorial integrity,

Recalling the relevant resolutions of the Organization of African unity
and the convention adopte~ by the Assembly of Heads of State and Government of
the Organization of African unity at its fourteenth ordinary session, held at
Libreville from 2 to 5 July 1977, 49/ condemning and outlawing mercenarism and
its adverse effects on the independence and territorial integrity of African
states,

Deeply concerned at the loss of life, the substantial damage to property
and the short-term and long-term negative effects on the economy of southern
African countries resulting from merc~nary aggression,

1. Condemns the increased reccuitment, financing, training, assembly,
transit and use of mercenaries, as well as all other forms of support to
mercenaries for the purpose of destabi1izing and overthrowing the Governments
of southern Africa and Central America and of other developing States and
fighting against the national liberation movements of peoples struggling for
the exercise of their right to self-de~rmination;

2. Strongly conoemns the racist regime of South Africa for its
increasing use of groups of armed mercenaries against national liberation
movements and for the destabilization of the Governments of southern African
States;

3. Denounces any State that persists in the recruitment, or permits or
tolerates the recruitment, of mercenaries and provides facilities to them for
launching armed aggression against other States;

49/ See A/32/310, annex 11.

I ...



1\/42/771
EngUsh
t'l'ge l6

4, Calls '-ll!.0n al~. States to 8x8roi9'9 the utmost viqUanae aqainBt thE.
menace posl3d by the aotivities of meroenaries and to ensure, by both
adminiatratlv~ and legislative measures, that the territory of those St~ter.
and other territories under their. oontrol, BB well aa their nationals, are not
used for the reoruitment, assembly, finanoing, training and transit of
meraen"rios, or the planning of suoh aotivities designed to destahilize or
overthrow the Government of any State and to fight the national liberation
movements struggling against racism, !£~rtheid, oolonial domin~t4on and
foreign intervention and occupation for th9ir independence, territorial
integrity and national unity,

li. Urgo'! all. ~ltliteB to take the nooessary measures under their
respectivo domestic laws to prohibit the recruitment, finanoing, training and
transit of mercenaries on their territory,

6. Call~ upon all Rtatee to extend humanitarian assistanoe to viotims
of situatio~8 reaultinq from the use of mercenaries, as well aA from colonial
or alien nomination or foreign occupation,

7. Considers it: inadmissible to use channels of hllme.nitarian "nd other
a~AiBtance to f.inanoe, train and arm mercenaries,

8. Weloomes with satisfaction the recent appointment by the Commission
on Human Rights of a special rappotteur to study the matter with a view to
preparing a report for consideration by the CommiAsion at its f.orty-f.ourth
session and requests that the report be transmitted to the General ARsambly at
its forty-third AeaBion,

9. Decides to pay due attention to the matter 8L its f.or.ty-third
nession under the item entitled "Importanoe 0f. the universal realization of
tha right of peoplos to ~elf.-determinat1on and of tl.e speedy granting of ,
independence to colonial countries and paoplas for the effective guarantee and
obser,rance of human riqht:e lt •


