






































UNITED
NATIONS

•
General A88embly

A

tHatr.
GENERAL

A/42/82l/Add.7
3 Deoember 1987

Forty-second s06sion
Agenda item 82 (g)

ORIGINAL, ENGLISH

,

DEVEIOPMDlT AND IN'mRNATIONAL ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION,
fJU'tAN SE'l'TLDtENTS

Report of the S~cond Committee (~art VIII)

Rapporte'!!, Mr. s9yed Mojtaba ARAS'lOO (IslAmic Republic of Iran)

I. IN 'm,ODUCT ION

1. The ~econd Committoe held a su~etantivq debate ~, item 82 (see A/42/82l,
para. 2). Action to be taken on sub-item (g) was consioered at the 26th, 29th,
30th anl~ 34th meetings, on 30 OCtober and 6, 9 and 11 November 1987. An account of
tt,e Committee I a e:teneral di scuRsion of the item is conto ined in the relevant Bummar y
rocords (A/C.2/42/SR.26, 29, 30 and 34) •

1I • CONS IDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft roaolut ion AlC. :c!/42/t. 2 3

2. At the 26th meeting, on 30 October, the representative of Pakistan, on behalf
of Democratic Yemen, Ira~, Pakistan and Tunisia, introduced a draft resolution
lA/C. 2/42/L. 23) entitled "Living conditions of tha Palestinian people in the
occupied Palestinian territories". Subsequently, Bangladesh, CubA, and Yeme.!}
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

3. At the 30th meeting, on 9 November, the repr0sentfttive of Democratic Yemen
orally revised the dla1t resolution by r:eplacing, in operative paragraph 6, the
words "present and future infrastructure needed by" by the words "futlJre net.·ds in
the field of ihfrastructure for".

J

l
i

4. At the same meeting, the Comndttpe adopted droft resolution A/C. 2/42/1.. 23, as
orally cev!sc:>o, by 116 votes to 2 (see para. 9, draft resolution 1).

87-32290 0624P (E)
", fJ·

I . . ,



A/4 2/8 2l/Add. 7
English
Pnge 2

s. Before the adoption of the draft resolution, statpmentfl welP m.:lde by thE'
reprosentat ives of Israel and the Syrian Arab Republic.

6. Aftor tho adoption of the draft resolution, otatemonts wpro made by the
representatives of CBte d'Ivohe, Denmar\r.. (al behalf of t.he European Economic
Community), the United'States of America, the Islamic Republic of Iran and PolaOl~
(aloo on behalf of Bulgaria, the Byeloruasian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Czechoslovakia, the German Democratic Republic, Uungary, Mongolia, the Ukrainian
Soviet Social ist Republic and the Union ot' S'oviet Social ist Republics). Th~
observer for the Pal~stine Liberation Org~nization also made a statement.

B. Draft reBoluti~n A/C.2/42/L.33

7. At the 34th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee had before it a draft
rosolution (see A/C.2/42/L.33) entitled ftGlobal Strategy for Shelter to the Year
2000", recommended to the General Assembly for aooption at its forty-second seSl'lion
by the Commission on Human bettlements at its tenth session.

8. At the At 1 meeting, the committee adopted draft resolution A/C<2/42/L.33
without a vote (see para. 9, draft resolution 11).

11 1. RECOMMENDATION'; CJF THE Sl<;COND COMMITTEE

9. The Second Committee recommends to the Generul Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions\

DRAFT RESOI,UTION I

Living conditions of the p~~.inian people in the occupied
Palestinian ~!ritor:ies

The General Assembly,

Recallini the Vancouver Declaration on Human Settlements, 1;76, 11 and
the relevant [eoommendations for national ~ction ~/ adopted by Habitat:
United Nations Conference on Human Settlf>ments,

!!9!~lin9 ~ its resolution 40/201 of 17 December 19~5,

Q!..!Y"'y alarmed by the continuation of the Israeli settlement pol icies,
which ha' been declared null. and voi(~ and a major obstacle to peace,

.!/ Repor t of Habitat: -.!Ln ited Nations Conference on Human Settlem("nts,
Vancouver, 31 May-Ll June 1976 (United Nations publicat~on, SaleF. No. E.76.IV.7 ann
corrigenduml, chap. 1.

I/ Ibi~, chap. 11.

/ ...



A/42/821/Add.7
English
Page 3

1. Takes note wi th appreciation of the report of the secreta.:y-General
on the li,,'ing conditions of the Palestinian peopl~ in the occupied Palestil,ian
territories, 1/

2. Takes note also of the statement made on 27 October 1987 by the
observer of the Palestine Liberation Organization, !/

3. Rejects the Israeli plans and actions intended to change the
demographic canposition of the occupied Palestinian territories, particularly
the increase and expansion of the Israeli settlements, and other plans and
actions creating conditions leading to the displacement and e~odus of
Paletltinians from the occupied Palestinian territories,

4. Expresses its alarm at the deterioration, as a reGult of the I6rao1i
occupation, in t.he living conditions of the Palestinian people in the
Palestinian territories occupied since 1967,

5. Affirms that the Israeli occupation is contradictory to the basic
requiremento for the aocial and economic development of the Palestinian people
iu the occupied Palestil1ian territories,

6. Request~ the secretary-General to prepare anin~epth stUdy on
future n~ds in the field of infrastructure for the Palestinian people in the
Pal est inian ter ritories occupied since 1967,

7. Also lequests the Secretary-General to report to the General
Asselltlly at its forty-fourth session, through the Economic and Social Counci 1,
on the progress made in the implementation of the present resolution.

1/ A/42/183-E/1987/53.

~/ Official Records of t.he General Assembly, F'ol'ty-second Session, Sp.c:ond
f5?mmittee, 25th meetirYJ.

/ ...



A/42/82l/Add.7
English
Page 4

DRAFT RESOLUTION IX

Globa 1 strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000

The General Assembly,

Bearing in mind the Vancouver Declaration on Huma~ Settlements 51 and the
recommendations for national action !I adopted at Habitat, United Nations
Conference on Human Settlements,

Recalling its resolution 35/56 of 5 December 1980, the annex to which
conts ins the International Development Strategy for the Third United Nations
Development Decade, in which, inter alia, the importance of the provision of
basic shelter and infrastructure w~s stressed,

Recalling also its resolution 41/190 of 0 Docember 1986 on the
Int' :national Year of Shelter for the Homeless,

Taking note of the reports of the Executive Director of the United
Nations Centre for Human settlements (Habitat) entitled "Shelter and services
for the poor - a call to action" 1/ and "A new agenda for human
settlements", ~ as well as the comments made by Governments at the tenth
(commemorative) session of the Commission on Human Settlements,

Recognizing that adequate and secure shelter is a b,sic human right and
is vital for the fulfilment of human aspirations,

Recognizing further that a squalid residential environment is a constant
threat to health ~nd to life itself and thereby constitutes a drain on human
resources, a nation's most valuable asset,

Noting that this lamentable situation can adversel~ affect the a)cia] and
political stability of countrA~S,

Deeply concerned about the present alarming situation, in which, despite
the efforts of Governments at the national and local levels and of
international organizations, more than one billion people find themselves

5/ Report of Habitat' UnJted Nations Conference on Human Settlements,
Vancouver, 31 May-ll June 1976 (United Nations publication, Sales No. E.76.IV.7 and
corrigendum), chap. I.

!/ Ibid., chap. 11.

1/ HS/C/lO/3.

!/ HS/C/lO/2 and Corr.l and 4.

/ ...



A/42/821/Add.7
EnvUsh
Pago 5

either oompletely without shelter or living in homes unfit for human
habitation, and that, owing to prevai ling demographic trends, the a1 ready
formidable problems will esoalato in th~ coming yoars, unless concerted,
det~rmined mea~ures are taken immediately,

Fully aware of the multidimensional nature of the shelter problem, which
has ita main roots in poverty and, in many countries, is aggravated by th~
scarcity of resources, inQdequ~('Q inotitutional capacities and tha lack of a
legal and financial framework for alleviating the problem,

Realizing that the problem manifests itself in slums and shanty towns,
with inadequate social and technical services, and 1n a general deterioration
of the living environment in rural sottl~ments, ,

Conscious of the vital role of the solf-help efforts of the poor to house
themselYes and the multiplier effects of p.heltor development, based on tho
full mobilization of local resourceD, and their import.ance to the economic
development of a country, and the lost opportunities for development
represented by the neglected shel ter sector,

COnvinced that the continuous, co-ordinatod and widely based efforts of
all relevant agencies, bodieD, organizationo and individuals, when guided by
an appropriate strategy, will r.overoa the alarming trends and produce oleor
and visible improvements in the shelter and neighbourhoods of the poor and
disadvantaged by the year 2000,

~ncouraged by oction already taken in mQny countrios in order to preparo
natic~al shelter strategies and launch other measures that will promote
achievement of the goal of shelter for all,

•
1. Decides that there ehall be a Global Strategy for Sholtar to the

Year 2000, including a plan of action for ita implementation, monitor.ing and
evuluation,

2. Further decides that the objective of the Strategy should be to
stimulate measures that will facilitate adequate shelter for all by the yoar
2000,

3. Requests the Executive Director of the United Nations Centre fo~
Human Settlements (Habitat) to prepare a proposal {or a Global Strategy for
Shelter to the Year 2000 and its implementation, including ita financial
implications, for consideration by the Commission on Human Settlements at its
eleventh session,

4. Re~ests the Commission on Human Settlomonto to formula a Global
Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000, to be dra~l ~p within existing
resources, for sUUnission, through the Econanic and Social Council, tu the
General Assembly at its forty-thitd session,

I . . ·



A/42/82l/Add.7
English
Page 6

S. Ur~es all Governments to commit themselves to the objectives of the
Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year 2000 by adopting and implementing
shelter strategies in accordance with the quidelines contained in section I of
the annex to the present resolution, which will enable the mobilization of all
forces and resources in the country for the attainment of the objectives of
the strategy, and to renew this commitment annually by, inter alia, announcing
on World Habitat Day the concrete actions to be taken and targets to be
achieved during each successive year;

6. Re~ests all United Nations bodies and a;encies and the
international community at large to support the formulation and implementation
of the Global Strateqy along the lines defined in section 11 of the annex to
the present resolution.

ANNEX

I. GUIDELINES fOR NATIONAL ACTION

1. All Governments that have not already done so should endeavour to prepare
national shelter strategies at appropriate levels as an integral part of
development strategies.

2. The shelter strategies should take into account the multidimensional
nature of the problem and fulfil and reflect the wide socio-economic benefits
of shelter development.

3. The shelter strategies should also reflect the criteria of affordability
and replicability, particularly for shelter for low-income population groups.
special attention should be paid to improving the access of the poor to land
with secure tenure and appropriate building materials, as well as to
developing housing finance institutions that will mobilize household savings
and are responsive to the needs of low-income groups.

4. All efforts should be made to involve, in full partnership, all concerned
governmental, non-governmental, public- and private-sector bodies, agencies
and institutions at all levels and, in particular, the communities and people
concerned, in the planning and implementation of shelter strate~ies.

5. In the shelter strategies refer~ed to above, special attention should be
paid to the problems faced and capacities represented by marginalized groups
such as women and youth and disadvantaged groups such as the aged and the
disabled.

6. Governments should report biennially at the session of the Commission on
Human settlements on the progress made in implementing the measures mentioned
above.

I . ..



A/42/821/Add.7
English
Page 7

I I • GUIDELINES FO R INTERNATIONAL ACTION

1. All United Nations bodies, specialized agencies and institutions should
support, as necessary, the Commission on Human Settlements and the Executive
Director of the United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (Habitat) in the
formulation and implementation of the Global Strategy for Shelter to the Year
2000 and ensure that their relevant country-specific activities are supportive
of and co-ordinated with the shelter strategies.

2. The regional commissions of the United Nations should encourage and
assist in the formulation of shelter strategies in their respective regions
and the exchange of information thereon, and the Executive Director is invit~
to make full use of contacts with Governments through the regional commissions
and their subsidiary bodies.

3. All countries in a position to do so and international funding agencies
shoulJ give all possible support to national Governments in their efforts to
plan and implement shelter strategies for the attainment of the goals of the
Global strategy for Shelter to· the Year 2000 and, within the framework of an
enabling shelter strategy,. endeavour to achieve improvement in the shelter
situation of their inhabitants, in particular the poor and disadvantaged, and
they should report be the Executive Director of the United Nations Centre for
Human Settlements (Habitat) their actions in this respect.


