







































LJNITED
NATIONS

A
General Assembly Distr.

GENERAL

A/42/R70
14 December 1987

ORIGINAL; ENGLISH

Forty-second session
Agenda item 136

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON RELATIONS WITH THE HOST COUNTRY

Report of the Sixth Committee

Rapwrteur: Mr. Kenneth MCKENZIE  (Trinidad and Tobago)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled “R@port  oE the Committoo on Relations with the Host Country”
was included in the provisional agenda of tho forty-second session of the General
Assembly pursuant to paragraph 9 of resolution 41/82  of 3 December 1986.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 18 Soptamber 1987, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committea, decided to include the i tem in i tu agenda
and to allocate it to tho Sixth Committorj.

3 . In  connect ion  wi th  th is  I tem,  the  S’ixth Committee  had before  i t  the  repor t  of
the Committee on Relations with the Host Country, IJ which was introduced by the
Chairman of that Committee at the 56th meeting, on 24 November 1987.

4. The Sixth Committee considered the item at its 'Xth, 61st and 62nd meetings,
on 24 November, 9 and 11 December 1987. The summary records of those meetinqs
(A/C.6/42/SR.56,  61 and 62)  ref lec t  the  views  of  the  representatives  who spoke
dur ing the  considera t ion  of  the  i tem.

.Y n/42/25 and Corr .  1 to  he  issued as  Off ic ia l  Records  of  the  General
Assembly, Forty-second Session, Supplement No. 25 (A/42/26).

87-33448  4969P (E)
I

/ l .*



A/42/070
English
Page 2

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

5. The Committee had before it  draft resolution A/C.6/42/L.20,  sponsored by
Algeria ,  Bahrain,  Democratic Yemen,  Dj ibout i ,  I raq,  Jordan,  Kuwai t ,  Lebanon,  the
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Mauritania, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia’
the Sudan, the Syrian Arab Republic,  Tunisia,  the UniGd  Arab Emirates and Yemenc
which read as follower

“The General Assembly,

‘Guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nat ions  and i t s  re levant

“Guided also by the

“Taking note of the
Country,

provis ions ,

Headquarters Agreement of 26 June 1947,

report of the Committee on Relations with the Host

“Havinq  been appr ised of  the  ac t ion being taken by one of  the  brdnches  of
the Government of the United States of America implying, inter alia,
impediment of the discharge of or’ficial functions of the Permanent Observer
Mission of  the  Pales t ine  Libera t ion Organizat ion to  the  Uni ted  Nat ions  in
New York,

“Recalling its resolution 3237 (XXIX) of 22 November 1974, in which
i n t e r  alia it i n v i t e d  t h e  P a l e s t i n e  L i b e r a t i o n  O r g a n i z a t i o n ,  t h e
representa t ive  of  the  Pales t in ian  people , ‘ t o  p a r t i c i p a t e  i n  t h e  s e s s i o n s  a n d
the work of the General Assembly’,

“Recalling also its resolution 3375 (XXX) of 10 November 1975, in which
i n t e r  alia i t  c a l l e d  f o r ‘ t h e  i n v i t a t i o n  o f  t h e  P a l e s t i n e  L i b e r a t i o n
Organ i s a t i on ,  t he  r ep re sen t a t i ve  o f  t he  Pa l e s t i n i an  peop l e ,  t o  pa r t i c i pa t e  i n
a l l  e f f o r t s , de l ibera t ion  and conferences  on  the  Middle  Nast which are  held
under the auspices of the United Nations, on an equal footing with other
parties, on the basis of resolution 3236 (XXIX) ‘I

“Taking note with appreciation of the Secretary-General ’s  posi t ion on the
Observer Mission of the Palestine Liberation Organisation  of 22 October 1987’
which reads  as  Eollows; ‘The members oE the Palestine Liberation Organization
Observer  Mission are ,  by vir tue  of  rosolutior’  3237 (XXIX),  invitees  to  the
United Nations. Ao such , they are covered by sections 11, 12 and 13 oE the
Headquarters Agreement of 26 June 1947. The re  i s  t he r e fo re  a  t r e a ty
obl iga t ion  on the  hos t  country  to  permi t  Pales t ine  Libera t ion  Orqanization
Observer  Miss ion personnel .  to  enter  and rerllain  in  the  Uni ted  Sta tes  to  carry
o u t  t h e i r  o f f i c i a l  f u n c t i o n s at United Nations Headquarters ,

“Taking note with appreciation oE the statement issued on 5 November 19S7
by the  President  of  the  General  Assembly st its for ty-second sess ion in  which
h e  s t a t e d  i n t e r  alia t h a t ‘resolution 3237 (XXIX) and the relevant paragraphs
of the Headquarters Agreement concluded between the United States and the



A/42/070
Englirrh
Page 3

United Nat Cons in 1947 are binding obligations under international iawr whioh
have to bo adhered to’,

@@l. Considers that the a&ion  being taken by the Governmant  of the
United States of Americcr  ie not oonraietent with the, purposae  and prinuiples  of
the Charter of the United Nations and constitutes a violation of the
Headquarters Agtementt

n2. Determines that the Permanent Observer Mieeion of the Palestine
1 Liberation Organization  to the United Nations in New York is ooverad  by the

proviaione  of the Headquarters Agreement and uonsequently  should ba enabled to
eetablish and maintain premises, headquarters,  eta., and that the personnel Of
the Miseion should be enabled to enter and remain in the United States to
carry out  their official  tunotions) I 0

“3. Requests ‘he Government of the United Statee, tne host country, to
abide by its treaty obligations under the United Natione Headquarters
Agreement j

“4. Also requests the Government of the United States, the host country,
to refrain from taking @ny action that will hinder the disaharge  Of the
Official  functions of the Palestine Liberation Organisation Observer Miasion
to the United Nations8

“5. Requests the Secretary-General to take the appropriate measure6 to
ensure full reapect for the Headquarters Aqreemert  and to report immediately
to the General Assembly any further developments in this respect)

“6. Decides to keep this matter under aonstant review.”

6. Draft resolution A/C.6/42/L.20  wa8 subsequently revised. The revised draft
resolution, A/C.6/42/L.20/Rev.l,  sponsora!  by the aama Member States, read as
followe I

“The General Assembly,

*Guided  by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and its relevant Qrovisione,

“Guided also by the Headquarters Agreement of 26 June 1947, 2/

“Taking note of the report of the Committee on Relations with the Host
Country, 3J

Y Hesolutiun  169 (II).

3J Official Records of the General  Assembly, Forty-second Zession,
Supplement No. 26 (A/42/26).

,.
/ ..a



A/42/018
English
Page 4

*Havinc been apprised  of the action being coneidered  by the host country,
the United States of America, implying, inter alla, impediment of the
discharge of official  functiona of the Permanent Observer Mission of the
Paleetine Liberation Organization to the United Nations in New York,

%ecallin~  it8 resolutions 3237 (XXIX) of 22 November 1974 and 3375 (XXX)
of 10 November 1975,

‘Taking note with appreciation of the Searetary-General’s position on the
Obslerver  Mission of the Palestine Liberation Organization of 22 October 1967,
whiah reads as followes ‘The  members of the Palestine Liberation Organisation
Observer Mieeion are, by virtue of resolution 3237 (XXIX), inviteea to the
United Nations, Ae such, they are covered by sections 11, 12 and 13 of thu
Headquarters Agreement of 26 June 1947. There 18 therefore 8 treety
obligation on the hoat country to permit Palestine Liberation Organization
Observer Mission personnel to enter and remain in the United States to carry
out their official function8 at United Nations Headquarters’,

YTakinq note with appreciation of the statement issued on 5 November 1997
by the President of the General Aesembly at its forty-second session in which
he stated,  inter alia, that ‘resolution 323’7 (XXIX) and the relevant
paragraphs of the Headquarters Agreement concluded between  the United States
and the United Nations in 1947 are binding obligations under international
law, which have to be adhered to’,

“1. Reiterates that the Permanent Observer Mission of the Palestine
Liberation Organization to the United Nation8 in New York is covered by the
provisions of the Headquarters Agreement and thua should be enabled to
estebliah and maintain premises, headquarters, etc., and that the personnf31  of
the Mission  should be enabled to enter and remain in the United States ta
carry out their  official  functiorrsfi

w2. Considers that any action which would prevent or impede the
Permanent Observer Mission of the Paleetine Liberatiorl  Organization from
carrying out its official functions at the United Natione Headquarters would
constitute a violation of the Headquarters Agreement!

“3. Requests the Government of the United States, the host country, to
refrain from taking any action that would hinder or impede the discharge of
the official functions of the Permanent Observer Mission or the Palestine
Liberation Organization to the United Natio;rsl

“4. ResuestB  the Secretary-General to take the appropriate measures to
ensure full respect for the Headquarters Agreement and to report to the
General Aesembly on any further developments in this respect1

#5. Decides to reconvene to consider Laking appropriate action, in the
event the Government of the United States, the host country, takes any action
which would impede or prevent the Permanent Observer Mission of the Paleetine

/ . . .



A/4 2/0?0
English
Page 5

Liberation Grganization  from carrying out its official funations at United
Nations Headquarters or establishing the adequate facilities for carrying out
such functions.M

7. Draft resolution A/C.6/42/L.20/Rev.b  was further revised and circulated as
document A/C.6/42/L.?O/Rev.2.

0. At the 61st meeting, on 9 December, the representative of Cyprus introduced
draft’resolution  A/C.6,,42/L.23,  sponsored by that delegation.

9. At the 62nd meeting , on 11 December, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C,6/42/L.23  without a vote (see para, 14, draft resolution A).

0
10. At the same meeting, the representative of Zimbabwe introduced draft
resolution A/C.6/42/L.20/Rev.2,  sponsored t:* Afshaniatan, Algeria, Angola, Bahrai*r,
Bangladesh, Cuba, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ghana, India, Indoneaia, Irasc
Jordan, Kuwait, the Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, the Libyan Arab
Jamahiriva,  Madagascar, Malaysia, Mauritania,  Morocco, Nicaragua, Oman, Pakistan,
Qatar, Sautli  Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, the Sudan, Suriname, the Syrian Arab
Republio, Tunisia, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, the United Arab
Emirates, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia and Zimbabwe, later joined by the German
Democratic Republic and Uganda.

11. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.6/42/L.20/Rev.2  by a recorded vote of 100 to 1 (see pare. 14, draft
resolution B) . The voting was as followsr A/

In favour8 Afghanistan, Algeria, Anqole, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Rahrain,  Bangladesh, Earbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia,
BotswBna,  Brazil, Brunti  Darusealam, Bulgaria, Burkina Fsso,
Burma, Byeloruesfan Soviet Socialist Republic, Canada, Central
African Republic, Chile, Chrna, Coeta Rica, C8te d,fvoir%b  Cuba,
Cyprus, Denmark, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Finland,
France, German Democratic Republic, Germany, Federal Republic of,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala,*Guyana, Hungary, Ioelend, India,
Indonesia, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Jordan, Kuwait, Lao PeoFle’s
Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,  Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Singapore, Spain, Sudan, Suriname,

y The representatives of Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Czechoslovakia, Guinea,
Democratic Yemen, Malta, Senegal, Mauritania, Colombia, Kenya, Niger and Yemen made
ecatements  indicating that had they iwen present during the voting they would have
voted in favour of the draft resolution (see A/C.6/42/SR.62).  Subsequently, the
representatives of-Ethiopia, Iraq and Sri Lanka indicated to the Secretariat that
had they been present they would also have voted in favour of the draft resolution.

I

/ . . .
___- ---. ---



A/43/870
Englieh
Page 6

Swasiland,  Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republio,  Union of Soviet Swialiet  Republiuu;, United Arab
Emirates,  United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United Republia of Tanaania,  Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet N@m,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Asainetr Israel.

Abstafninqr  None.

12. The representatives of Israel, Denmark (on behalf of the twelve States Member8
of the European Community), the United States of America, Canada and the Union of
Soviet Smialiet  Republios  made statements in explanation of position (see
A/C.6/'42/SR.62).

13. The Chairman of the Sixth Committee made a statement in which he informed the
Cusittee that, with referenoe  to operative paragraph 4 >f draft resolution
A/C.6/42/L.20/Rev.2, the Sixth Committee would remain seized of
with in the resolution.

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SIXTH COMMITTEE

14. The Sixth Committee reoommends to the General Assembly the
following draft resolutioner

the matter dealt

adoption of the

Report of the Committee on Relations with the Host Country

A

The General AesembPy,

Having considered the report of the Committee on Relations with the Host
CountX5/

w Article 105 of the Charter of the United Nations, the’
Convention on the Rrivileges and Xmmunities of the United Nations 2/ and the
Agreement between the United Nation8 and the United States of America
regarding the Headquarters of the United Rations, 7J

a; A/42/26 and Corr.1.
w Resolution 22 A (I).

3 Resolu t ion  169 ( I I ) .

/ .*.
--



A/12/070
Enqlioh
Fhqe 7

Reoal,linq further that the problems related to the privil~oa  and
ifmUnitief3  of all mieaione  acoredited to the UnitQd  Nstionr, the SQOurity of
tne mieeions and the safety of their personnel are of great importinae  and
uon4ern to Member States, a8 well as the primary reo~neibility of the hoot
uountry,

Noting w4th deep concern the continued acts violating the eeeurity and
the safety of the personnel of the missions aaoredited ta the United Nationa,

Reuogniaing  that eEfective  measures should continue to be taken by the
aompetent authorities of the host country, i n  partiuular  t o  prevent  a n y  aate
violating the security  of missions and the safety of their perdonnol,

4
Considarinq  further the issues raised by certain States Members Of the

United Nations in response to the request and to action by the hoot country to
reduue  the sipe of their missions,

Conscious of the increased interest shown by Member Statae in
participating  in the work of the Committee,

1. Endoraea the reodmmendations OP the Committee on Rolationr  with the
Hoet Country contained in paragraph 81 of its report! z/

2. Strongly condemns any criminal acts violating the secwrity of
miseions  aoaredited  to the United Nations and the safety of their pereonnolr

3. Urges the host country to take all necessary  tneawrea to oontlnum to
prevent oriminal  acts, including harassment and violations of tha maurity of
missions and the safety of thert personnel or infringements of the
inviolability of their property, in order to ensure the existence and
functioning of all missions, including practicable measures  to prohibit
illegal activities of persons, groups and organisation@  that encwraqet
instigate, organise or engage in the perpetration of sots and rotivitier
against the security and safety of such missions and representativorl

4. Renew9  its request to the host country and the Member States that
raised the issues in response to the request and to aation by the host aountry
to reduce the size of their missions to follow coneultations with a virw to
teaching solutions to this matter, in accordance with the Agreement between
the United Nations and the United States of America regarding the Headquartece
of the United Nations1

5. Stteeses  the importance of a positive perception of the work of the
United Nations, expresses concern about a negative public image and,
therefore, urges that efforts he continued to build up public awareness by
explaining, through all available moans, the importance of the to&o played by
the United Nations and the missions accredited to it in the strengthening of
international peace and secur ityr

/. I.



~/42/878
English
Page 8

6. Requests the Secretary-General to remain actively engaged in all
aspects of the relations of the United Nations with the host country and to
continue to stress the importance of effective measures to avoid acts of
terrorism, violence and harasslment  against the missions and their personnel,
as well as the need for any p%rtinent legislation adopted by the host country
to be in accord with the Agreemmt  and its other rslevant obligations?

7. U%cides  to consider at its forty-third session the question of the
composition of the Cosunittee  on Relations with the Host Countryi

8. Fkqucsts the Commit‘tee on Relations with the Host Country to
continue its work, in conformity with G%neral Assembly resolution 2829 (XXVI)
of 15 b%cember  19711

9. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-third
session the item entitled “Report of the Cummittee on Peiations rith the Host
Country*.

B

The General Assembly,

Cuid@d by the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United
Nations and its relevant PrOViSiORSr

Guided alsQby the Headquarters Agreement of 26 June 1947, y

Taking n&e of the report of the Committee on Relations with the Host
Country, z/

Having b%%n asrised of the action being considered in the host country,
the United States of iQ@erica , uhich  might impede the maintenance of facilities
of the Permanent  Observer Mission of the Palestine Liberation Organisation to
the United Nations in New York, which enables it to discharge Its Official
functions,

R%callinq its resolutions 3237 (XXIX) of 22 November 1974 and 3375 (XXX)
of 10 Movember 1975, ,

Taking note with appreciation of the Secretary-General’s position on the
Permanent Observer Mission of the Palestine Liberation Organization to the
United Nations on 22 October 1987, which reads: “The members of the Palestine
Liberation Organization Observer Mission are* by virtue of resolution
3237 (XXIX), invitees to the United Nations. AB such, they are covered by
sqtions 11, 12 and 13 of the Headquarters Agreement of 26 June 1947. There
is therefore a treaty obligation on the host country to permit Palestine
Liberation Organization Observer Mission personnel to enter and remain in the
United States to carry out their official functions at United Nations
Headquarters’,

/ . . .



A/42/070
English
Pago 9

1. Roiteratti8  that the Permanent Obeervet Miseion of the Palestine
Liberation Organization to the United Nations in New York ir aovered by the
provisions of the Headquarters Agreement ant! should be enabled to establish
and maintain premises and adequate ?ur.ational  faailitiee,  and that the
personnel of the Mission should be enabled to enter and remain in the United
States to aariy out their ofPiuia1  fufiationsl

2. Request6 the host country to abide by it8 treaty obligation8 under
$he United Nation6  Headquarters Agreement  and in thi8 conneotion to mfrain
from taking any action that would prevent the dieoharge of the off iaial
function8 of the Permanent Observer Niercrion  of the Paleetine Liberation
Organization  to the United Nations!

3, Requests the Seoretary-General  to take effeotfve mea8urea  to ensur’e
full rospeot  for the Headquarters Agreement and to report, without delay, to
the General Assembly on any further development in thi8 matter@

4. Decides to keep this matter under active review.


