







































UNITED
NATIONS

General  Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/43/856
1 December 1988

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-third session
Agenda item 64

GENERAL AND COMPLETE DISARMAMENT

Report of the First Committee

RaDDorteuy: Mr. Virgilio A. REYRS (Philippines)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled

"General and complete disarmament:

"(a) Contribution of the specialised agencies and other organiaations and
programmes of the United Nations system to the cause of arms limitation
and disarmament;

"(b) Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and use of
radiological weapons;

"(c) Notification of nuclear tests;

"(d) Conventional disarmament;

*l(e) Nuclear disarmament;

"(f) Objective information on military matters:

"(g) Implementation of General Assembly resolutions in the field of
disarmament;

"(h) Naval armaments and disarmament:

"(i) Prohibition of the production of fissionable material for weapons
purposes;

88-31997 0108P (E)



A/4’)/8Sb
Bnglirh
Page 2

l*(j) Roviow  of the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmaments
report of the Disarmament Commissions

‘l(k) Dumping of nuclear and induetrial warrtes  in Afriaa@*

was inoludod in the grovioional  agenda of the forty-third sewsion  in aooordanae
with Oaneral  Assembly reoolutione  41159  D of 3 Deaember 1986 and 42/38 8, C, E to L
and 0 of 30 November 1987. The item entitlad “Dumping  of nuolear  and industrial
wart06  in Afrioal@ wan inoluded  in the provisional agenda of the forty-third eesaion
of the Qeneral Aassmbly pursuant to a letter dated 30 June 1988 from the Permanent
Roproaontative  of Rwaoilaad to the United Rations addressed to the
Sooretary-General  (A/43/142).

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1988, the Qeneral  Assembly, on the
rooommendation  of the Qsneral  Committee, decided to inolude  the item in its agenda
and to allooate  It to the First Committee. In addition, the General Assembly
daoided  that the relevant paragraphs of the annual report of the International
Atomio  Raergy Agsnoy (A/43/488), whioh wad to be oonsidered  directly in plenary
mooting under item 14, should  be drawn to the attention of the Firat Committee in
oonneotion with its ooneideration of item 64.

3, At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October 1988, the First Committee deaidad to hold a
grnoral  debate on the disarmament items allocated to it, namely items 51 to 69,
139, 141 and 145. The deliberation6  on those items took place at the 3rd to
26th meetinga, from 17 Ootober to 2 November (see A/C,1/43/PV.3-25).  Consideration
of and aotion on draft resolution8 on those items took place between 3 and
18 November (see A/C,1/43/PV.26-43).

4, In aonneotion  with item 64, the First Committee had before it the documents
referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2, aa well aea

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament) A/ "

(b) Report of the Diearmament Commieeionr  21

(0) Report of the Secretary-general  on notification of nuclear tests
(A/43/152 and Add.l-8))

(d) Report of the Seoretary-0eneral on the implementation of the general
Assembly resolutiona i#: the f ield of  disarmament ( A / 4 3 / 4 9 2  and Add.l-3)r

(e) Report of the Secretary-Qeneral  on the prohibition o f  the development,
produatian,  etookpiling  a n d  une of r a d i o l o g i c a l  waspone ( A / 4 3 / 6 2 2 ) ;

11
No. 27 ( A / 4 3 / 2 7 ) .

QeneralAaaemBlv.  Fortv-t&d SqB&lon.  w

21 x&uwr m N o .  42 ( A / 4 3 / 4 2 ) .

/ . . .



A/43/866
English
Page 3

(f) Report of the Seoretary-Qeneral on the contribution of sgeoialiaed
agenoies and other organisation8 and progranunee  of the United Nations ayetern  to the
oaune of arma l imitat ion and disarmement  (A/43/65O)r

(g) dote by the Secretary-Qeneral on notifioation  of nuolear test8 (A/43/625)1

(h) Letter dated 24 December 1987 from the Permanent Representative of
Thailand to the United Nations addrrased to the Secretary-Qeneral, transmitting the
text of the Wanila Deolaration of 1987”, issued at the oonolurion of the Meeting
of the ASEAN Heads of Qovernment, on 15 December 1987 (A/43/68-Wl938S)t

(i) Letter dated 11 January 1988 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Sooialirt Regublios  to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-Qeneral (A/43/88-8/19427))

(j) Letter dated 2 February  1988 from the representatives of Argentina,
Qreece, India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanaania to the United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral, transmitting the text of the Stockholm
Declaration, adoyted on 21 January 1988 (A/43/125-8/19478)1

(k) Letter dated 11 March 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Cseohoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Seoretary-Qeneral (A/43/214)1

(1) Letter dated 31 March 1988 from the Permanent Representative of Bulgaria
to the United Nations addreseed to the Seoretary-Qeneral, transmitting the texts of
the oommuniqu&  and the agpeal  issued by the Committee of the Ministers of Foreign
Affairs of the States Parties to the Warsaw Treaty at its meeting at Sofia on 29
and 30 March 1988 (A/43/276)1

(m) Letter dated 5 April 1988 from the Permanent Representatives of the Union
of Soviet Souialist  Regublics  and Yugoslavia to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-Qeneral (A/43/283-6/19736)1

(n) Note verbale dated 20 April 1988 from the Permanent Mission of France to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretariat +f the Organisation (A/43/337)1

(0) Letter dated 27 May 1988 from the Permanent Representative of Quatemala
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral, transmitting the text of
the resolu&ions  and decisions adopted by the seventy-ninth session of the
Inter-Parliamentary Union, held at Quatemala City from 8 to 16 April 1968
(A/43/370);

(p) Letter dated 11 May 1988  from the Permanent Representatives of the
Federal Republic of Qermany anC Thailand to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-Qeneral, transmitting the texts of the joint declaration of the seventh
meeting of the Foreign Ministers of the European Community and of the Associ&tion
of South-East Asian Nations, held at Dcsseldorf, Federal Republic  of Qermany, on 2
and 3 May 1968 (A/43/373);

(q) Letter dated 31 May 1988 Lrom the Permanent Representative of Kuwait to
the United Rations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/43/384-S/19915)1

/ .*e



A/43/8B6
Errgli8h
Page 4

(r) Letter dated 31 May 1988 from the Permanent Repreaentativee of Thailand
and the Union of Soviet Socialist  RepublSos to the United Nations addressed to the
Searotary-Qeneral  (A/43/387-8/19918)1

(I) Letter dated 6 June 1988 from the Chargd  d’affaires a,i. of the Permanent
Mission of Yemen to the United Nations addreassd to the Seoretary-Qeneral
(A/43/394-8/19928)~

(t) Letter dated 9 June 1988 from the Chargd d’affaires  a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of Trinidad and Tobago to the United Nations addreaaed  to the
Brarotary-General, transmitting the text of the aonunuaigu(  of the fourteenth
meeting of the Standing Cmmittee of Kinisters  responsible for Foreign Affairs of
the Caribbean Community, held at Port of Sgaia on 20 and 21 May 1988 (A/43/399)r

(u) Letter dated 17 June 1988 from the Permanent Representative of Poland to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qenersl  (A/43/411)1

(v) Letter dated 17 June 1988 from the Permanent Representative of Thailand
to the United Nations addreassd t o  the Seoretary-Qeaeral  (A/43/425-8119962)~

(w) Letter dated 30 June 1988 from the Permanent Representative of the
Federal Regublio  of Qermany  to the United Nations addressed to the
Seoretary-Qeneral, transmitting the text of the oonoluaions of the Heads of State
of the Twelve States members of the European Community at the European Council,
hold at Hannover, Federal Republio of Qermany, on 27 and 28 June 1988
(A/43/436-8/19976)r

(8) Note verbale  dated 19 July 1988 from the Permanent Representative of the
United State8 of America to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral
(A/43/471)J

(y) Letter dated 22 July 1988 from the Charg6  d’affaires  a.i. of the
Permanent Miseion  of Antigua and Barbuda to the United Nations addressed to the
S e o r e t a r y - Q e n e r a l , transmitting the text of the aommunique  of the ninth meeting of
the Conference of Heada of Qovernment  of the Caribbean Community held at Deep Bay,
Antigua and Barbuda, from 4 to 8 July 1988 (A/43/480)1

(8) Note verbale  dated 21 July 1988 from the Permanent Regresentative of
Caeohoelovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral (A/43/485),

(aa) Letter dated 26 July 1988 from the Permanent Representative of Poland to
the United Natione  addressed to the Seoretary-Qeneral, transmitting the texts of
the oonununiqui of the meeting of the Political Consultative Committee of the States
Partiera  to the Warsaw Treaty, the statement by the States Partien to the Warsaw
Treaty on Negotiations on Reductions in Armed Forces and Conventional Arms in
Europe, and the statement entitled “The  Implications of the Arms Race to ‘ihe
Natural Environment und Other Aspects of Ecological Security” adopted at the
meeting of the Political Consultative Committee of the States Parties to the Warsaw
Treaty, held at Warsaw on 15 and 16 July 1988 (A/43/486-8/20061)1



A/43$056
English
Pnge S

(bb) Note verbale dated 26 July 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Mexico to the United Nations addressed to the Seoretary-Qeneral (A/43/487)~

(ao) Letter dated 29 July 1985 from the Charge d’affaires a.1. of the
Permanent Mission of the Union of Soviet Sooialist Republios  to the United Nations
addreseed to the Seoretary-Qeneral (A/43/495)J

(dd) Letter dated 4 August 1988 from the Permanent Repreoeutative of Brunei
Darussalam to the United Nations addressed to the Searetary-Qeneral, transmitting
the text oontaining exoerpts from thrq joint aommunigu~  of the twenty-first ASEAN
Ministerial Meeting, held at Bangkok on 4 and 5 ;ruly 1 9 8 8  (A/43/510-S/2009:)  *

(ee) Letter dated 16 August 1988 from the Charge d’affaires a.1. of the
Permanent Mission of the Qerman Damooratio Republic to the llnited Nations addressed
t o  t h e  Secretary-Qeneral  (A/43/545)1

(ff) Note verbale dated 22 August 1988 from the Permanent Mission of the Union
of Soviet Sooialist Republios to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-Qeneral (A/43/563)1

(gg) Letter dated Vu August 1988 from the Charge d’affaires a.1. of the
Permanent Mission of the Union of Soviet Sooialist Republics to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral, transmitting the text of the final statement of
the sixth session of the InterAction Council, held in Mooaow from 17 to 19 May 1968
(A/43/584)~

(hh) Letter dated 29 September 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Cyprus to the United Nations addressed to the Searetary-Qeneral, trrasmitting the
text of the final documents adopted by the Conference of Foreign Ministers of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Niaosia from 5 to 10 September 198d
(A/43/667-8120212)~

(ii) Letter dated 29 September 1988 from the ‘ermanent Representative of
Colombia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral (A/43/668)~

(jj) Letter dated 6 October 1988 from the Permanent Representative of Zimbabwe
t o  t h e  U n i t e d  N a t i o n s  a d d r e s s e d  t o  t h e  S e c r e t a r y - Q e n e r a l ,  t r a n s m i t t i n g  t h e  t e x t  of
the final aommuniqu6  of the Meeting of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs and Head8
of Delegation of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to the forty-third session
of the United Nations Qeneral  Assembly, held in New York on 3 October 1988
(A/43/709)1

(kk) Letter dated 21 October 1988 from the Permanent Representative of the
Qerman  Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/43/741)1

(11) Letter dated 4 October 1985 from the Permanent Representatives of the
German Democratic Republic and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the
United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/C,1/43/3)1

I
I / . . .



A/43/866
Dngliah
Page 6

(mm) Letter dateC 31 Ootober 1988 from the Permanent Representative of Gungary
to the United Nations addressed to the Seoretary-Qeneral,  transmitting  the texts of
the oommunigu6 and the statement on friendship, oo-operation and mutual aesistanoe
issued by the Committee of the Ministern  of Foreign Affairs of the States Parties
to the Warsaw Treaty at ite meeting at Budapest OE 28 and 29 Ootober 1988
(A/C.1/43/7).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. wt rm A/C.l/wL.7

5. On 88 Ootober, timbabwa, on behalf of the States Member8 of the United Nations
that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a draft
resolution entitled @@Bilateral  nuolear-arms  negotiations*’ (A/C.1/43/L.7), whioh was
introduoed by its representative at the 32nd meeting, on 9 November.

6. At its 36tk meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution by a reoorded vote of 120 to none , with 13 abstentions (see para. 71,
draft resolution A). The voting was ad follows:

In: Afghan!.stan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Argentiua,  Australia,  Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brasil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian  Soviet Soaialist Republia, Cameroon,
Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republio, Chad, Chile, China,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprub,
Cseahl.slovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji,
Finland, Qaboa, German Democratic Republio, Ghana, Quatesala,
Quinea, Quyana,  Hungary, Iaeland,  India,.Indonesia,  Iran  (I s lamic
Republia  o f ) , Iraq, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s  Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya,  MaRagasoar,  Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocao, Moaambiquer Nepal, New
Zealand, Nioaraqua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Peru, Philippiner,  Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand,  Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Rtrpublios,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tansania,  Uruguay,
Venezuela,  Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

lrrrainst: None.

mu: Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Israel,
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America.

/ . . .



A/43/866
English
Page 7

8. Q&t rm A/C.1/43/L.B  asdRsv.l

7, On 28 r)otober, mr on behalf of the Rater Members of the United Nations
that are members of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, submitted a draft
resolution entitled “RelationshAp  between disarmament and dovelopmenV
(A/C.1/43/L.B), whioh was introduced by the representative of Zimbabwe at the
32nC meeting, on 9 November.

8. On 9 November, the sponsor submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/43/L,8/Rev.l),  whioh was later also sponsored by the Qerman
m and Romania. The revised draft resolution aontained the following
ahange:  in operative paragraph 1, “and to submit a report to the Qeneral Assembly
at ita forty-fourth sessionp’@  was added at the end.

9. At its 33rd meeting, on 10 November, the Conmittee  adopted the revised draft
resolution without a vote (see para. 71, draft resolution 8).

C .  Draft..reeolution  A/C&43&&

10. On 28 October, WV, Indanesia, and the 1
Iru submitted a draft resolution  entitled “Prohibition of

the development, produotion, stoakpiling and usr) of radioloCioa1  weapona"
(A/C.1/43/L.Q),  whiah was introduced by the representative of the United Kingdom f
Qreat Britain and Northern Ireland at the 27th meeting, on 4 November.

11. At ita 35th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution without a vote (see para. 71, draft resolution C),

D .  DraLt rm A1W431L.10 0

12. On 28 October, Denmsrk submitted a draft resolution entitled unconventional
disarmamentU*  (A/C.1/43/L.10).

13. On 10 November, the sponsor submitted a revised draft reaolution
(A/C.1/43/L.lO/Sev.l),  whiah wao fntroduaed  by i ts  representative at  the
38th meeting, on 15 November, and contained the following  changesa

(a) The second, fifth and sixth preambular paragraphs were deleted)

(bj The seventh preambular paragraph, which had read:

“v aom that conventional disarmament at both the global and
the regional level is a vital part of the disarmament proaess@’

was revised to reada

“wintp that conventiQna1 disarmament is a necessary part of
the disarman~ent  process”.

/ . . .



A/43/0b6
English
Paga 8

14. At the 38th meeting, on 15 November, the rgoa~or orally revised the draft
reso lu t ion ,  replaoing, in thr third preambular paragraph, @@dangerso by
@@imgliaations@@.

15. At the aame meeting, the Committee adopted the draft resolution, as orally
revised,  without a vote (see para. 71, dralt resolution D),

16. On 31 Ootober, C&&a submitted a draft resolution entitled @*Nualear
disarmament” (A/C.l/43/L.l4),  whiah was introduced by its regreaentative at the
30th meeting, on 8 November.

17. At ite 34th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted the draft
reaolution without a vote (see pars, 71, draft resolution E).

F. Draft. 1/43/L.&.&

18. On 31 Oatober, w submitted a draft resolution entitled *Conventional
disarmament” (A/C.1/43/L1.15),  which wan introduced by ita representative at the
30th meeting, on 8 November.

19. At its 38th meeting, on 15 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution without a vote (see pars. 71, draft resolution R),

On 31 Ootober, Clrba. and the Ugion of SqViCIt  fiaw
L submitted a draft deaision entitled “Contribution of the sgecialiaed
agenaies and other organisations and programmes of the United Nations system to the
aause of arma Zimitation and disarmament8t (A/C.1/43/L.l7),  whiah was introduaed  by
the representative of Caechoslovakia  at the 35th meeting, on 14 November.

21. At its 39th meeting, on 16 November, the Conunittee adopted the draft decision
without a vote (see pars* 72,  draft  decis ion).

Ii. wt rm A/C,JJ43/uQ.  R e v . 1  &

22. On 31 Oatober, f Frv
a l  w Or-

Narwav.  the wPorJ,::“Z
Ireland and the s of m submitted a

draft resolution entitled “Objective information on military matterev'
(A/C.l/43/L,lQ),

/ l .*

- -.-- - - _ .-- - --- ..-.--.-.-



A/43/886
Rnglilrh
Page 9

On 9 November, g
kk, Franae.  the g O f ,‘.

or Wuaasrv, the & the

v a n d  the s o f  &R&&Q~ submitted a revised draft
resolution (A/C,1/43/L,l9/Rev.l),  whiah was later also sponsored by -a The
revised draft resolution was introduced by the representative of the United Kingdom
of Qreat Britain and Northern Ireland at the 31st meeting, OD 9 November, and
aontained the following ahanges:

(a) In operative paragraph 4, after “should  implement”, the word 80forthwith8*
was deleted8

(b) In operative paragraph 6, Waited Nations” wae deleted before
@@Disarmament  Commission*@.

24, On 14 November, the rgonaors submitted a further revised draft resolution
(A/C.l/43/L,l9/Rev.2),  whiah aontained the following ahangea in the third
preambular paragraph, %ontrol@@  was replaced by ~~limitation’~.

25. At its 40th meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C11/43/L.19/Rev.2  by a reoorded vote of 109 to sone , with 9 abstentions (see
para. 71,  draft  resolution 0). The voting was ae fol lows:

,-1 Afghanistan, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana,  Brunei Darubbalm,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faoov Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian  Soviet
fiooialist Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republia,
Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa Ricra, C8te d’Ivoire, Cyprus,
Coeahoslovakia, Demoaratia Kampuchea, Denmark, Dominiaan
Republic, Ecuador, F i j i ,  F i n l a n d ,  Franoe,  Qabon,  Qerman
Democratia Republic, Qermany, Federal Republic! of, Qhana, Qreeae,
Quatemala, Quinea, Quyana, Honduras, Hungary, &eland,  Indonesia,
Iran (Ielamia Republia of), Ireland, Israel, Italy, Jemaioa,
Japan, Kenya, Lao People’s Demooratia Republio,  Leuotho, Liberia,
Ltixelnbourg,  Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Moaambigue, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Quinea,  Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Rpain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaoiland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo,
Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republiar  Union of
Soviet  Social ist  Republias, United KingUom  of Qreat Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanaania, United States of
America, Uruguay, Veneauela, Viet Nam, Yugoslavia, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

4lALMk: None.

/ .*.



A/43/056
Bnglish
Page 10

ma Algeria, Brao?l,  Cuba, Egypt, India, Iraq, Libyan Arab
Jtunahiriya,  Saudi Arabia, Somalia’

I .  Draret A/C.1/43&20  -J

ae. On 31 Oatober, B and the m Soviet,-
submitted a draft resolution entitled “Implementation of Qeneral Assembly
resolutions in the field of disarmament” (A/C.l/43/L.20),  which waa later aleo
aponrored by ~&Rw.QM. The draft resolution was introduaed by the repreeentative
of the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic at the 32nd meeting, on 9 November.

On 11 November 1988, Cametoon. and the mviet
submitted a revised draft resolution (X/C.1/43/L,20/Rev.l),

which contained the following changes:

(a) In the third preambular  paragraph, ‘@whioh states*@ wab reglaaed by “in
whiah it is stated”, and ‘tQeneral*t  was deleted from the second reference to
“Qeneral  Assemblyttr

(b) Operative paragraph 2 waa deleted and the remaining pirragraphs  were
renumbered accordinglyr

(a) In the former operative Pqragrrph  5, now operative paragraph 4,
“paragraph 4 ahove” was l ’ _ *aced by “P:ragraph 3 above**.

28. At its 39th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee adopted the revised draft
resolution by a recorded vote of 106 to 2, with 24 abstentions (see para. 71, draft
resolution R). The voting was as followa:

Infavourt Afghbistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail,
Brurrei Darussalem,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byeloruasian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cdte
d*Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Caechoslovakia,  Democratic Ksmpuchea,
Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopiad  Fiji, Qerman  Democratic Republic, Ghana, Guatemala,
Quinea, Quyana, Honduras, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran
(Xelamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lecotho,  Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Moaambique,  Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swasiland,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanxania, Uruguay,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

/ * . .



A/43/856
Eaglieh
Page 11

-8 Israel, United States of Amerioa.

-1 Australia, Auetria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland,
Franoe,  Qermany, Federal Republic of, Qreece,  Iceland,  Ireland,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom uf great
Britain and Northern Ireland.

J, Draftn Rm.A&uU

29, On 31 October, e&.@m and Bweden
submitted a draft resolution, entitled “International arms transfer 3”
(A/C.l/43/L,22), which was later also sponsored by HorrButaa,  the w and
m. The draft resolution was introduced by the reprerentative  of Colombia at
the 29th meeting, on 7 November, and read as follows:

“w in ~ that, in the Charter of the United Natiom, Member
States have undertaken to proinote the maintenance of intdrnationsl peace and
security with the least diversion possible for armaments of the world’8  human
and economic resources,

"-into account the general prinoiples  outlined in paragraph 22 of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Aaeembly,  a/ in
particular that ‘there shou:.d also be negotiations on the limitation of
international transfers of conventional weapona’,

HAlsowm the conclusions and recommendations of the
United Nations studies on conventional disarmament, a/ all aspects of regional
disnrmament, s/ the economic and social consequences of the arma race and
m i l i t a r y  xpeaditures, a/ the relationship between disarmament and
development, z/ reduction of military budgets, 11 the relationship between

91 Resolution S-10/2.

41 United %&ions publication, Sales No. E.05.IX.l.

51 A/35/416,

61 A/43/368,

I./ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.82.IX.l.

81 A/35/479.



A/43/856
Engld  ah
Page 12

disarmament and international seourity, P/ and aonfidenae-building
meaaurea* u/

IIFuFther the Programme of Aation  as agreed upon in
the Final Dooument  of the International Conferenoe  on the Relationehip between
Disarmament and Development, u/

“ 1 .  -ta QruudstjQp that  arms t rans fer s  in  a l l  the i r  aspects
deserve serious oonsideration by the international  oommunity,  maliar
beoaurre  of:

“(a) Their potential harmful effeots in areas of tension and regional
confliot,  whioh threaten international peaoe and aeouritg and national
eeourityr

‘l(b) Their known and potential negative effects on the prooeas of the
peaceful social and economic development of all peoplest

l@(c)  Increased illicit and covert arms traffioking,

“2 . m Member States to consider action on the following measures
relating to these conoerna:

“(a) Peinforoement of their national rysteme of oontrol and vigiLanoe
over the arm8 produced by them or transported through their territorieer

l@(b) Examination on a regional basis of ways and mean8  to refrain from
aoquirinq arma additional to those needed for legitimate national aeourity
requirements and whioh could generate uncertainties in the regions

l’(c) Puruuit  by exporting A.A~ importing States of agreements providing
for more opennsm and transparency with regard to world-wide arma tranaferu,
including the yoesibility rf establishing a system for Member States to report
information on arms transfers to the United Nations, on a universal and
non-discriminatory ba8iaJ

“3 . Requests the United Nations Disarmament Commission to take into
account the above-mentioned elamente in its deliberations on the issue of
conventional disarmament1

“4 . Recrvests  the Secretary-General  to seek the views of Member States on
the implementation of the provisions mentioned in paragraph 2 of the present
resolution,

w United Nations publication, Sales No, E.82.1X.4.

IQ/ J,bid.,  Sales No. E.82.1X.3.

&.a/ u., Sales No. E.87.IX.8.



A/43/058
English
Paga 13

"5. m t h e  Seoretary-Qeneral, with the aaaiatanae  of governmental
experts, to explore the nature of  mechanisms whiot  might assist in the
implementation of the provisions desoribed in paragraph 2 of the present
reaolution#

"6. &.qm the Reoretary43eneral  to make efforts, within the
framework oL the World Disarmament Campaign, to oolieot and disseminate
information oonaeraing the question of arms transfers and their consequences
for international peace and security)

“7. v the Secretary-Qeneral  to report to the Qeneral
Assembly at its forty-fourth session on the views of Member States and on the
work of the governmental experts on the possible means of implementation of
the relevant provisions of the present resolutionr

‘(8. Daa to inolude  in the provis ional  agenda of  i ts  forty-fourth
session an item entitled ‘International arms tranaferatrBQ

30. On 14 November, Auetralis., CsnaBs.  Co-
r. WEederal -of, I- t h e

letherlands.Peru.  thev, lamoa and lweden submitted a revised draft
resolution (A/C.1/43/L.22/Rev.l), which was later also sponsored by Bolivia.
a and the v of 1
IrelanB,  The revised draft resolution read as followaa

@@v the oentral role of the United Nations in rtrengthening
international peace and aeourity and promoting disarmament,

“v that, in the Charter of the Unitedpationa, Member
States have undertaken to promote the establishment and maintenance of
international peace and security with the least diversion for armaments of the
world’s human and economic reaouroear

@‘B)2g be-w the inherent right to self-defence embodied in
Article 51 of the Charter of the United Natione,

‘I- the general principles outlined in paragraph 22 of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the Qeneral Assembly, u/
in partioular that ‘there should also be negotiations on the limitation o?
international transfer of conventional weapons’,

“w acco\mt the conclusions and recommendations uf the
United Nations studies on conventional disarmament, n/ all arpects of

JJ/ Resolution S-1012.

n/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.85.IX.l.

/ . . .



A/43/006
English
P a g e  1 4

regional disarmament, u/ the eoonomio and aooial aoneequenoea of the arms
raoe and military expenditures, J&1 the relationship between disarmament and
development, u/ reduation of military budgets, n/ the relationship between
disarmament and international aeourity, M/ and oonfidenoe-building
measures I U/

IIFurther the Programme of Aotion set forth in the
Final Doawnent of the International Conferenoe  on the Relationship between
Disarmament and Development, 2p/

“1. w i t s  mthat  arms transfers in al l  their  aspeats
deserve serious oonaideration by the international oommunity, m,
beoause  of8

“(a) The potentially harmful effeote in areas where tenaioa and regional
oonfliot threaten international peaoe and aeaurity and national aeourityr

l’(b) Their known  and potential negative effects on the prooesa of the
peaceful aoaial and eoonomia development of all peoplear

“(0) Increasing i l l ic i t  and covert  arms traffiokiuyl

II 2. m Member States to aonsider,  malia, the following
measures relating to these oonuerna:

“(a) Reinforoement  of their national systems of aontrol and vigilanoe
ooncerning  produotion and transport of arma,r

@l(b) Examination of ways and means of refraining from aoquiring arms
additional to those needed for legitimate national security requirements,
taking into aocount the specific charaoteristica of each region1

U/ A/35/416.

U/ A/43 /360 .

u/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.82.IX.l.

U/ A/35/479.

J,& United Nations publication, Sales No, E.62.1X.4.

w Jhid., Sales No. E.82.1X.3.

.zQ/ um., Sales No. E.87.1X.8.

/ . . .



A/43/086
EnLiah
Page 15

*‘(a) Pursuit by exporting and importing States of agreements or
arrangements providing for more openness and tranaparenoy with regard to
world-wide arms transfers, inaluding  the poaeibility of establishing  a ayatam
for Member States to report information on arms transfers to the United
Nations, on a universal and  non-discriminatory basis;

“3. m the Diaarmament Commission  to take into aooount the
above-mentioned matters in its deliberations on the issue of aonventioaal
disarmament J

“4. -ate the  Secre tary-Qenera l  to  s e e k  t h e  v iews  a n d  propora l s  o f
Member States on the matters contained in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the prorent
resolution and to oolleot all other relevant information for eubmiseion  to the
Qeneral Assembly at its forty-fourth aessiont

“5, Becrueste the Secretary-Qeneral to aarry out, thereafter, with the
asaistanae of governmental experts, a study on ways and means of promoting
transparenoy in international transfers of oonventional arms on a universal
and non-diaoriminatory baai8, also taking into oonsideration  the virwr of
Member States as well as other relevant information, inoluding  on the problem
of illicit arms trade, for subnrission to the Qeneral  Assembly at its
forty-sixth seaaionr

“6, -ta u the Beoretary-Qoneral to make available, within the
framework of the World Disarmament Campaign, information aonoerning the
question of arms transfers and their oonaequ=noes  for international peace and
securitya

“7. m t3 inolude in the provisional  agenda of its forty-fourth
aeaslon  an item entitled ‘International arms transfera’.tt

On 17 November, Australia. Co

the NetharlsnBa,.  Pew the v. &UIW~ and the
submitted a further revised

draft  resolution (A/C.1/43/L.22/Rev.2), It was introduced by the representative of
Colombia at the 42nd meeting, on 18 November, and contained the following changes8

(a) In the fourth preambular paragraph, “in particular that ‘there should
also be negotiations on the limitation of international transfer of conventional
weapons ’ , ” was deleted)

(b) In operative paragraph 1 (a), “The  potentially harmful effects” was
replaced by “Their potential effocts”t

(c) Operative paragraph 2 (c) was revised to read:

“Examination of the ways and means of providing for more openness and
transparency with regard to world-wide arms tranef era”.

/ *..



A/43/006
Bnglirh
Page 16

32, In oomeation  with the draft rerolution,  the Seoretary-Qeneral  submitted a
statement on its programne budget implioations (A/C.l/43/L.B0).

33. At it8 42nd meeting, on 10 November, the Conunittee  adopted draft rerolution
A/C.l/43/L.22/Rev.2  by a reoorded vote of 93 to none , with 36 abstentions (see
para,  71,  draft  resolution I),  The voting was as followal

-1 Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamao, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Belgium, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byeloruasian Soviet Sooialist Republio,
Cameroon, Canada, Central Afriaan Republio, Chad, Chile,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Bias,  C&e d@Ivoire,  Caeohoslovakiar
Denmark, Dominioan Republia, Eouador, Finland, Franoe, Qabon,
Qerman  Demooratio Republio, Qermany,  Federal Republio of, Qhana,
Qreeoe,  Quatemala, Quinaa,  Quyana,  Honduras, Hungary, Ioeland,
Indonesia, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Lao People’s
Democlratia Republio, Lesotho, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malawi,
Malaysia, Mali, Malta, Mexico, Mongolia, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nioaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway ,  Panama, Paraguay,
Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriname,
Swaailand, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Turkey,
Ukrainian Soviet Sooialist Republia, Union of Soviet Sooialist
Republiaa,  United Kingdom of Qreat Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay, Veneauela,  Yugoslaviar  Zaire,

-: None.

-I Alger ia ,  Angola , Bahrain, Braail, China, Cuba, Cyprus, Demooratic
Yemen, Dj ibouti, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, India, Iraq, Jordan,
Kuwait, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Maldives, Moroooo,
Oman, Pakistan, Papua New Quinea, Uatar,.eaudi  Arabia, Somalia,
Sudan, Syrian Arab Republio, Tunisia, Uganda, Unit& Arab
Emirates, United Republic of Tanaania,  United State3 of America,
Yff=aen,  Zambia, Zimbabwe.

K. ut rm A/C.1/43/L.25

34. On 31 October, m and J.a submitted a draft resolution, entitled
“Prohibition of the development, production, stockpiling and use of radiologiaal
weapons” (A/C.l/43/L,25),  which was introduced by the repreeentative of Irag at the
27th meeting, on 4 November.

35, At its 35th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution by a recorded vote of 99 to 2 , with 30 abstentions (see pars. 71, draft
resolution J). The voting wau as follows:

/ . . .



A/43/056
English
P a g e  1 7

‘InI Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail,
Brunei Darusaalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Sooialiat Republio, Cameroon, Central Atrioan Republio,
Chad, Chi? , China, Congo, c8te d@Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus,
Cseohoalovakia, Damooratio Rampuahea, Demoaratio Yemen, Djibouti,
Dominican Republio, Ewador,  E g y p t ,  E t h i o p i a ,  F i j i ,  Qabon,  Qerman
Demoflratio Republior Qhana,  Quinea, Quyana,  Hungary, India,
Indouesia, Iran (Ialamia  Republia of), Irag, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Demooratio Republia, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriycr,  Madagascar, Malaysiar  Maldives, Mali,
Mauritania, Mexioo,  Mongolia, Moroooo, Mosambigue,  Nepal,
Nioaragua,  Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New
Quinea, Peru, Philigpinea,  Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanker Sudan,
Surineme, Swamiland, Syrian Arab Republio, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Sooialist
Republio, Union of Soviet Socialist Republioa, United Arab
Emirates, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zrmbia, Zimbabwe.

Aersinat: Israel, United States of America.

-I Auatralie, Austria, Bahemaa, Belgium, Canada, Colombia, Denmark,
Finland, Franoe,  Qermany, Federal Republio of, Qreeoe,  Quatemala,
Honduras, Iaeland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jemaioa, Japan,  Liberia,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Samoa,
Spain, Sweden, United Kingdom of Qreat Britain and Northern
Ireland, Uruguay, Veneauela.

36. On 31 Ootober, u submitted a draft resolution entitled 8tInternational
transfer of oonventional armaments” (A/C.1/43/L.28),  which was introduced by its
representative at the 29th meeting, on 7 November, The draft resolution read as
follows:

It- the central role of the United Nations in streti,gthening
international peace and security and promoting disarmament,

“Rees.llincr that, in article 26 of the Charter of the United Nations,
Member States have undertaken to promote the establishment and maintenance of
international peats and security with the least diversion for armaments of the
world’s human and economic resources0

‘ID the importance of regional arms control agreements for
achieving such a high goal,



“w the inherent  risght  to relf-defenae  embodied in
Artialo 51 of the Chartor of the United Nations,

@‘m the ueed of States to proteot their seourity,

a’- that exgenr~er  for oonvrntionsl  armaments absorb more than
80 per aont of world global military expenditure and that, while olandeetiae
and illioit arms trade are inoreasing,  the nature sad means of internatAona1
arm8 transfera  have beoome more oomglex and the responsibilities involved have
bean olouded  by unoertainty,

@am in u the Final Dooument of the Tenth Speoisl Session of the
Qanoral  Arrembly, U/ the firrt apaoial session devoted to disarmement,
whereby in paragraph 22 the Qeaeral Assembly states that ‘there rhould aleo be
negotiation8 on the limitation of international transfer of oonventional
wrapona 1,

@@m that now effortr need to be deployed towarda  lowering the
Aevel of conventional armaments throughout the world, and ourbing the arma
trade whenever it represents a threat to international or regional seourity,

#NW the oonoluoione  reaahed by the International Conferenoe  on the
Rolationrhip between Dirarmame&$-.  and DOValOpment  in its Final Dooument, a/
whereby in paragrapha  2S and 38 it state8 that ‘the UIO of reaouroea  for
military gurgores emouatr  to a reduotion of reoouroea for the civilian sootor’
and invitsr the participating Statea to ooneider *the adoption of measures to
reduoa  the level and magnitude of military e%penditUree’,

“1. m the need to promote restraint and greater tranegarenoy in
the transfer8 of oonventional arm8 with a view to keeping these armaments at
the loweet  possible level in all regions of the world!,

“2. m all Qovernments to abstain from supplying armb to areas of
oonfliot, avoiding the agpavatioa  of such conflicts and of situations of
teneiont

“3. m Qovemmenta  whioh are the main su@iere and buyers of
armaments to oonault  on how to strengthen the eniating  ao-operation aimed at
oonetrainiag  international illioit trade of conventional armaments and to
identify porreible  additional mea@utes  to aurb itt

“4. m the Searetary-Qeneral  to oarry out, with the assietance  of
governmental experts and on the basis of information provided by Member
Stateu, o study on wayr and mean8 of promoting transparency in international

a/ Rerolution  S - 1 0 / 2 ,

a/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.1X.8.

/ . . .



A/43/886
Englirh
Page 19

tranrRors  of arma on a univerral  and non-diroriminatory baeie, ar well a6 on
the problem of illioit arma trade and on meana to prevent it, for submierrion
to the Qeneral AaoembXy  at its forty-fifth eeebion,  in 199Oj

(‘6. m all Qovernments  to oommunioate to the Searetary-Qeneral
their viewa and progolrals  on these matter8  for submission  to the Qeneral
Assembly at its forty-fourth 8eeoion,  in 1989~

“6, m to inolude  in ita forty-fourth sersioa the guestion of
promoting traaagarenoy  in international arma transfers and preventing the
i l l io i t  arma t rade.

37, At the reguest of the aponaor, no aotion wae taken on the draft resolution.

On 31 Ootober, g the ’
and the Union of Sov$,&u

resolution entitled VNObjeotive  information on military matters" (A/C,1/43/L,29),
whioh was later also sponsored by Romania. The draft resolution read a8 follows:

@I- paragraph 105 of the Final Dooument of the Tenth Special
Session of the Qeneral Assembly,  2;L/  the first speoial seasloo devoted to
disarmament, which rnaourages Member Btates to enoure a better flow of
information with regard to the various aageotlr of disclrmament to avoid
dissemination of false and tendentious information aoncerning  armaments,  and
to oonoentrate  on the danger of escalation of the armaments race and on the
need for general and complete disarmament under effective international
oontrol,

@‘w aam the erahange  of viewe on openness in the militarg
field at  the f i f teenth speaial  eeesion OL t h e  Qeneral  Assembly,  the third
apeaial  seasion devoted to disarmament,

'l&&g with w that the beginning of genuine nuclear
disarmement  aa a reault of the conclusion of the Treaty between the United
States of Amerioa and the Union of Soviet Sccialiet Republics on the
Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range snd Shorter-Range Miesilee has led to
greater openness in the military field,

“B that the adoption of measures designed to build confidence and
inorease openness  could help to prevent mieoonceptione  about military
capabilities and intention6 which could prompt States to undertake armament6

a/ Reeolution  S - 1 0 1 2 .

/ ..*



A/43/08$
English
Page 20

programtner leading to the aoceleration of the arm8 raae, in partiaular the
nuolear-arms raae, and to heightened international tension,

I’- that objeative information on al l  mil i tary mattera,  in
partiaular those involving nualear-weapon  States  and other mil i tari ly
signif ioant States, aould oontribute  to the building of aonfidenae  among
States and to the oonolusion of oonorete disarmament agreements, and thereby
help to halt and reverae  the arms race,

"1, Takss of the report of the Secretary-Qeneral on the question,
submitted to the third special session of the United Nations Qenerel Aesetily
devoted to disarmamentr 291

I I 2. Reiterates its fitmvw that a better flow of objective
information on all military matters aould help to ease international tension
and confidence among States on a global, regional or subregional level and
facilitate the conclusion of concrete disarmament agreements,

"3. m all States,  in partioular  nuclear-weapon States and other
mil i tar i ly  s ign i f ioant  Sta tes , to implement further measures based on the
prinoiples of openness and transparency which will facilitate the provision of
objective information onl and the objective assessment of, military
capabil i t ies  and contribute to the disarmement  proceeer

“4. w all Member States to communicate to the Secretary-Qeneral,
not later than 1989, their views concerning ways and means of building
confidence and increasing ogennese  in military matters for submission to the
general Assembly at its forty-fourth seasionJ

“5. Futther all Member States also to oommur.ioate  to the
Secretary-Qeneral their views on ways ad means of further consolidating  the
emerging trend towards greater openneqd in military matters, specifically with
regard to the provision of objective information on military matters for
consideration by the Disarmament Commission at its session in lQ9Ol

"6 . I&&&& to include in the provisional agenda of the forty-fourth
seasion the item entitled 'Objective information on military matters'."

39. At the request of the sponsors , no action was taken on the draft resolution.

a/ A/S-15/7 and Add.1 and 2.

/ . . .



A/43/086
Englirh
Rage 21

40. On 31 Ootober, m the Bahamaa,k,~&x~~
k. FuQreeaa,~ndanesia,  the

Nom the ml 8omania. and
m submitted a draft resolution entitled @@Prohibition of thr produotion  of
fissionable material for weapons purposes” (A/C.1/43/L.32),  whioh was introduaod  by
the representative  of Canada rt the 32nd meeting, on 9 November.

41. At its 34th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution by a reoorded  vote of 126 to 1 , with 6 abstentions (see paral 71,  draft
resolution K) , The voting was as follows:

In: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbador, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Soaislist  Republio, Cameroon,
Canada, Contra1 Af riaan Republio, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo,
Coats Bias, C8te cn’fvoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Caeahoslovakiar
Demoaratia Yemen, Donmark,  Djibouti, Eouador, Egylat,  Ethiopia,
F i j i ,  Fialand,  Qabon, Qerman Demooratia Republio,  Qermany,
Federal Republic of, Qhana, Qreeoe, Quatemala, Quinoa, Quyana,
Honduras, Hungary, Ioeland,  Zndoneeia,  Iran (Islamic Rogublia
of), Iraq, Xreland,  Israel, Italy, Jamaioa, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Domoaratia Regublia, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Luxembourg, Madagaeaar,  Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexioo,  Mongolia, Moroooo,
Moaambique,  Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niaaragua,  Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philigpin8s,  Poland,
Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwan%a,  Samoa, Sao Tomo and Prinoipe,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swamiland, Sweden,  Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailana, Togo, TrinidaB an% Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet SOOieliSt  RepUbliOr  Union of soviet
Sooialist  Republics, United Arab Emirates, United ROpUbliO  of
Taneania, Uruguay, Veneauela, Viet Nam, Yemen, YWJOUlaViB,  Zaire,
Embia, Zimbabwe.

-1 France.

ma Argentina, Brazil, China, India, Unite% Kingdom of Qreat Britain
and Northern Irelen%,  Unite% States of America.

42. On 30 October, Alrstralial--China,i~I&~u&a~&  the
c. Ic~.~~ and

m submitted a %raft resolution entitled “Naval armaments and diearmam8ntt’
(A/C.1/43/L.37),  which was later also sponsored by w, The draft resolution
was intro%uced  by the representative  of Sweden at the 29th meeting, on 7 November.



A4434886
English
Page 22

43. At itlr  39th meeting, on 16 November, the Committro  adopted the draft
resolution by a recorded vote of 134 to 1 (see pars. 71, %raft  resolution L)' The
voting wan aa fol lows:

In: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Arrg0l8,  Argentina,  AUatr8liar
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,  Barbados, Belgium, Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswanal  Braail, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byeloruseian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cameroon, Cana%a,  Central African Republio,  Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba,
Cyprus, Caechoslovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Denmark, Djibouti, DOminiCen  ReQubliC,  Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fiji, Finland, France, Qerman D8mOOratiO  Republic, Qermany,
Federal Republic  Of, Qhana,  Qr8eC8, Quatemala,  Quinea, Quyana,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, In%ia, Indonesia, Iran (Islam10
ReQUbliO  of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Xtaly, Jamaica,  Japan,
Jordan, K8nyar Kuwait, Lao P8Opl8'S  D8mOCratia R8Qubli0, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Luxembourg, Madagasoar,
Malayria, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, MeXiCOI  Mongolia,
Morocco, Moaambiqu8,  Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealen%, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,  Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Polan%,  Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Rwan%a,  Samoa,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Su%ari,  Suriname, Swaailand,  Swo%en, Syrian Arab
Republic, ThailanB, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist RoQUbliC, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics,
United Arab Emirates, United King%om  of Qreat Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, UrUgU8yr
Veneauela, Viet Narn, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

-1 United States of America. .

P, greft r e s o l u t i o n  AK.l/43/Lm39

1On 31 October, Araent,nalBustrelFe.4ustria,  Belw Bov

a n  WC, FinlanB,

Reaublh  the won of Soviet So- the -Kincrdomaf
man8 the Uniteaststeao.la”Nam,
and w eubmitte%  8 draft resolution entitled “Review Conference of  the Parties
to the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuc!sar Weapons and Other
Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Be% and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil
Thereof” (A/C.1/43/L.39),  which was later also sponsored by Ecusdor and H6l.t~.  The
draft resolution ~88 introduce%  by the representative  of Norway at the
26th meeting, on 3 November.

/ . . .



A/43/056
Eaglirh
Paga 33

45. In this oonnection,  at the 33rd meeting, on 10 November, the Seoretary  of the
Committee stated that thora were ISO programme budget implioatioae of the draft
resolution (see A/C.l/43/PV,33).

46. At the ssme meeting, the Committee adopted the dreft resolution without a vote
(see para. 71,  draf t  resolution M).

On 31 Ootober,  m the Qarman-
:Zeland.l~A- New ZealAnd. Peru, -8ri
and m submitted a draft resolution entitled Vomgrehensive  United Nations
study on nuolear weapona8v CA/C,1/43/L.46),  which was later also sponsored by
m m -&B and w. The draft reeolution wail introduoed  by
the regreaentative of Sweden  at the 26th meeting, on 3 November.

48, In oonneotion with the draft resolution, the Secretary-Qaneral  submitted a
statement on its progrslrune  budget implications (A/C.1/43/L.78).

49, At its 41st meeting, on 17 November, the Cmmittee adopted the draft
resolution by a recorded vote of 122 to 1, with 9 abstentions (see para.  71, draft
resolution N). The voting was as follows8

In8 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Braail, Brunei Darussalsm,  Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Blrrundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republio,
Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile,
Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, Cbte dlIvoire, Cuba, Cyprus,,
Caechoslovakia,  Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Bcuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, C&bon, t3erman  Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Qreeoe, Quetemala, Ouinea, Guyana, Honduras,
Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamio Republic of),
Iraq, Ireland, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya,  Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mosambique,  Nepal, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Peru, Philippines, Polaud, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa,
Ssudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain,
9ri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swrafland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republica,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tansania,  Uruguay,
Veneauela,  Viet Ntun, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zsmbia, Zimbabwe.

Aasinst: United States of America,

/ . . .



A/43/08a
English
Pago 24

-I Belgium, Frmoe,  Oermany,  Federal Republio of, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, United Kingdom of Qreat
Britain and Northern Ireland.

R, D r a f t

On 31 Ootober, AuatFalia.lek. F-m
t h e  mm. Nmrrd,. Paw

W&BY snd t h e  s o f  Qr#m nubmitted a
draft  resolution entit led “Bilateral  nuolear-arms  negotiations*’  (A/C.l/43/L,47),
whioh was introduoed by the representative  of the United Kingdom of Cheat Britain
and Northern Ireland at the 27th meeting, on 4 November.

61, Subsequently,  the delegation of  greeoe  formally requested that Greece be
inoluaed  among the co-sponsors of the draft reeolution,

Sa, At its 36th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted the draft
resolution by a reoorded vote of 70 to noner with 58 abstentions (see para. 71,
draft resolution 0). The voting was as follows:

In: Australia, Au8tria. Bahrain, Belgium, Bhutan, Brunei Dsrusralem,
Bulgaria, Burkina Fuo, Byelorussian Soviet Sooialist Republio,
Cameroo,  , Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, C&e
d”Ivoird  Caeohoslovakia, Demooratio Mmpuohea, Denmark, Fiji,
Finland, France,  Oerman  Demooratic Republio, Qermany,  Federal
Republio of, Greeoe, Quatamals, Quinea, Hungary, Ioeland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Joxdan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao
People~s Democratio  Republic, Liberia, Luxembourg, Malaysis,
Malta, Mongolia, Moroooo, Netherlands, New Zealand, Niger,
Norway, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania, Samoa,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sweden,
Thailand, Tunisia, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Sooialist Republio,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Kingdom of great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of
America, Uruguay, Viet Nam, Zaire.

mtai Afghmietan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Bresil, Burma, Burundi, Cape
Verde, Central African Republic, C%$o, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic
Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, Ghana,  Quyana,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Libyan Arab
Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Maldives, Mali, Mexioo,  Nepal, Nicaragua,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Rwanda, Sierra Leone, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand, Syrian Arab Republic, Togo,
Trinidad and Tobago, Uqanda, United Republic of Tanaania,
Veneauele,  Yemen, Yugosl0via,  Zambia, Zimbabwe.



A/43/086
English
Page 26

8 .  DPait AX&43/L.bl

On 31 Ootober,  Canads, Frsasrmamv. Fm QrS
&j,~ and XR,&,R~  submitted a draft resolution entitled Tonfidenoe-  8%;
seourity-building measures and oonventional disarmament@@ (AfC.1/43/L.61),  whioh
read 08 follows8

“TheI,

l@Petermlneb  to aohieve  progress in disarmament,

tow the need for continued efforts to build oonfidenoa,  lessen
military oonfrontation and enhanoe seourity for all,

@I- that the establishment of inoreased seourity and stability in
Europe through a stable, reliable sad verifiable balanoe of oonventional
forces at lower levels and through inoreased openness about military
aotivities is an objective of great importance,

I’- that new negotiations in the field of oonfidenoe- and
seourity-building measures, as well as the initiation of new nsgotiatioas on
conventional forces and wesponr  aimed at preventing surprise sttaokr and the
launching of large-aoale offensives will help to strengthen eriating  effortr
to improve seourity and develop oo-operation in Europe, thereby oontributing
to intsrnational peace and aeourity,

“1. m the Statea ooncerned, following the adoption, as part of a
balanoed outcome of the meeting at Vienna of the Conference on Soourity and
Co-operation in Europe, of the mandates for two kinds of distiaot and
independent negotiations, in the field of oonfidenoe- and security-building
meaaures  and in the field of conventional armed foroes, which will take plaoe
within the framework of the Conference, to contribute actively to the
implementation  of those mandateor

II 2. lnvitee all States to consider the pbseibility  of negotiating
agreements which take due account of specific regional conditions and help to
reduce confrontation and strengthen seourity.”

54. On 10 November, f&&a&., France, Qerm&~&  Federal.,  we. X&&,y
and w submitted a revised draft resolution entitled “Confidence- and
security-building measures and conventional disarmament in Europe”
(A/C.1/43/L.61/Rev.l), which read as follows:

“ThkQenerel_Aasemblvr

“m to achieve progrew in disarmament,

“D the need for continued efforts to build confidence, to
lessen the risk of military confrontation and to enhance mutual sec*\rity,

/ . . II



A/43/086
Baglirh
Paga ae

“w the need for 1norear.d  roourity and rtability in Eurogo
through a rtablo, moure  and verifiable balanoe of ooaveatioaal  Roroos  at
lowor lov0111,  am well aa through inoroamd opanrss  about military aotivities
ae an objootivr  of great imgortanoe,

@I- that further negotiations ia the field of oonfidenoe-  and
roourity-building  nwaaurea aa well ae the launahing  of new negotiations on
oonvontional  armament8 crad foroea,  both with the aim of furthering the process
of impoving reourity and developing oo-operation in Europe,  will thereby
oontributo to international pesoe and arourity,

“1, w the indioations  of grogroar  in  we.:k at the meeting at
Virnna  of thr Confotrnoo  on Seourity and Co-ogeratron in Euroger

I’ 2. m Member States partioigating in the above-mentioned
nogotiatione  to oontribute aotively  to the attainment of thelre objeotivesr

“3 . Invite all States to consider the possibility of taking appropriate
meaburoe with a view to rrduoing the risk of oonfrontation  and strengthening
reourity, taking due aaaount  of sgeoifia regional oonditione.”

On 16 November, v Frsn~s. U~MY, Fw of. Qreeqk
and w submitted a further revised draft resolution

(A/C’1/43/~.61/8ev.~),  whiah was later also sgonaored  by &&& and m, I t
was introduoed  by the representative of krsnae at the 43rd meeting, on 18 November,
and oontained the following ahangesl

(a) The third greambular  paragraph was revised to read1

a’- the great imgortanae  of .Lncreasing rreaurity and stability in
Eurogo through the establishment of a rtable,  eeoure and verifiable balance of
oonventional armed foraer  at lower levelb,  a8 well aa ,t@rough  inoraased
ogennerr  a n d  prediatability of military aotivitieat@;

(b) The fourth preambular  paragraph wae revised to read1

“m that further negotiation8 in the field of oonfidenae- and
seaurity-building measures  ae well aa a new negotiation on aonventional
armamonta  and forcea,  both within the framework of th@ process of the
ConCoronae on Seourity and Co-operation in Europe, should promote the prooeslr
of etmngthening  confidemae, improving security and developing ao-operation i n
Europe, thereby contributing to international peace and aecurity”#

(a) Operative paragraph 1 was revised to read:

@@m the progress achieved so far in the deliberations in Vienna on
isrues aonaerning  the above-mentioned aegotiationa”r

id) Operative paragraph 2 was revised to read:

/ . . .



A/43/086
Etigliah
Page a7

“u*QBB Member States which will partialpate in the above-mentioned
negotiations to oontribute aotively to the attainment of their objectives as
agreed”.

Sb. At its 43rd meeting, o n  18 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/43/L,61/Rev.2 without a vote (see para, 71,  draft  resolution P),

57, On 31 Oatober, Braail.- and Pakietan submitted a ‘draft resolution
entitled ONProhibition  of the dumQing  of radioaative  waistes for hostile purpobeb”
(A/C.1/43/L.62),  whioh was later also sponsored  by #
8ri the &%Am.AuArrb  and ThailanB. The draft reeolution wan
introduced by the representative of Nigeria at the 32nd meeting, on 9 November, and
read as followe:

“8BBrinQ  in u resolution CWRES.1153  (XLVIII) conoerning the dumping
of radioactive and industrial wastes in Africa, adopted on 25 May 1988 by the
Counoil of Ministers of the Orgsniaation of African Unity at ita forty-eighth
ordinary session held at Addis Ababa from 19 to 23 May 1900, a/

‘ORBpal  resolution QC(XXXII)/RES.490  on the dUmQing of nualear  wastes,
adopted by the Qeneral  Conferenqe of the International Atomic Energy Agenay at
i ts  thirty-seaond regular session,

1°B its resolution 2602 C (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in whioh
it requested the Conference of the Committee on Diearmsment, m~l.i.~, to
aonsider effective methods of control against the use of radiological method0
of warfare,

“Concpg~  about the harmful effects of radioactive wastee and the
devastation which could resu?.t  from illegal dumping  of nuclear wastes,

“&&.*orixwd to prevent the dumping of radioactive wastes in the territory
of other Otates in contravention of their national or regional laws and
regulations,

I’- of promoting the implementation of paragraph 76 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Sgeaial Session of the Oenezal  Assembly, a/ the first
special session devoted to disarmsment,

u/ See A/43/390, annex I.

u/ R e s o l u t i o n  S-10/2.



A/43/056
English
Page 28

@@&6~6  of the in-depth aonsideration of the question of the dumping of
radioaotive wantea for hostile purpoees  in the Conferenoe on Disarmament
during its 1988 session, n/

“1, m all State6 to obrerve all national laws and regulations
of other States prohibiting the dumping of radiosative wastes in their
territory8

‘I 2’ Wslaomea the deaision of the International Atomia Energy Agenoy  to
establish a representative teahniaal working group of experts with the
objective of establishing an internationally agreed aode of praatiae  for
international  trsnsaations involving nualear wastes1

‘I 3. m the Conferenoe on Disarmament to take into aaaount, in the
ongoing negotiation .for a oonvention  on the Prohibition of radiologioal
weapona, the dWQing  of radioactive waatw in the territory of other State8
for hostile purposes)

“4, m the Searetary-general to transmit to the Conferenae on
Disarmament all doournents relating to the aonsideration of this item by the
Qeneral  Assembly at  i ts  forty-third sess ion)

II
8. w4ap to inalude  in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth

session aa item entitled ‘Prohibition of the dUmQing of radioaotive wastes for
hostile purporea @ . @I

On 10 November, Br&.L InBaneaia.  Pakistan.
the w?m and Thailand submitted a revised draft

resolution (A/C,l/03/L,62/Rev.l),  whiah oontained the following changes:

(a) The fourth greambular  paragrsgh was deleted]

(b) Operative paragraph 5 was replaaed  by the following Paragraph:

“RBQUBBtB the Conference on Diearmsment  to include in its report to the
General Assembly at its forty-fourth session the developments on the ongoing
negotiat ions on this  subjectO@.

59. On 15 November, the sponsors submitted a further revised draft resolution
(A/C,1/43/L,62/Rev.2),  which contained the following changear

(a) The fourth preambular paragraph, oriqinaPly the fifth preambular
Qaragragh,  which had read:

n/ See -Records of the._Oeneral_v.  Fortvmd SW,
so. 27 (A/43/27),

/ . . .



A/43/056
English
Page 29

“DeterminsB  to prevent the dmQing of radioactive  wastes in the territory
of other Staten in aontravention of their national or regional laws and
regulations’@,

was reglaoed  by the followinga

"Petetminsd to prevent all nuolear-waste dumping prantices  whiah would
infringe upon the sovereignty of States’@t

(b) Operntive psragragh 1, which had readr

'@m all States to observe all national lawa and regulations of
o t h e r  States prohibiting the dumping of radioactive wastes ?n their
territorytt,

was repl&ced  by the following p8ragr8Qhl

I’m all Staterr  to enwre that no nualear-waste dumging practioes
occur whioh would infringe ugon the sovereignty of Stateett;

(a) Operative paragragh 3, whiah had readr

“RBQusatB the Conferenae  on Disarmament to take into aooount, in the
ongoing negotiation for 8 oonvention  on the prohibition of radiologioal
weapons, the dumging of radioactive wsetee in the territory of other States
for hostile purposes@*,

was revised to read:

“RBQuBBtl  the Conference on Disarmsment  to take into account, in the
ongoing negotiation f o r  a convention on the prohibition of radiological
weapons, the deliberate employment of nuclear waatea to came destruction,
damage or injury by means of radiation produced by the decay of such
material”.

60. At its 42x8 meeting, on 18 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/43/L,62/Rev.2 by a recorded vote of 103 to 3, with 11 abstentions (see
pars. 71, draft resolution Q). The voting was as follows:

Infavourl Afghanistan, Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil,
Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burma, Byeloruseian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Cuba, Cyprus,
Caechoslovakia,  Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Dominican Republia,
Ecuador, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, Qambis, Qerman
Democratic Republic, Qermany, Federal Republic of, Qhana, Qreece,
Quatemala, Quinea,  Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan,
Jordan, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriys,  Luxembourg, Malaysia,



A/43/066
Englirh
Page 30

Maldivee, Malta, MeziOo,  Mongolia, NeQal, Netherlandr,  New
Zealand, Niaaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Quinea,  Paraguay, Peru, PhiliQQinee,  Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Surinsmo,  Swasiland,  Sweden, Syrian Arab Re~ubl10,
Thailand, Turkey, Ukrainian Soviet Soaialist  Regublio, hion of
Soviet Sooialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom
of Qreat Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America,
Uruguay, Venezuela,  Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zimbabwe.

-8 Congo, C&e d@Ivoire, Togo.

mt Angola, Bahamaa, Burkina Paso, Burundi, Quyana,  Malawi, i,iali,
Niger, United Republic  of Tanaania, Zaire, Zambia.

U, v A/W43/L.69  and

61. On 31 Ootober, &A- Bur&
f .  It.ly.-

submitted a draft resolution entitled @‘Review of the role of the United Nations in
the field of disarmament@* (A/C.l/43/L,BQ), whiah  wae later also BQOn8Orad  by
Liberia.  the w and the sm.

62. On 7 November, f thu B, c&e
ITV

, ItQJv,  rJg
and Z,&Q submitted a revised draft resolution (A/C.1/43/L.69/Rev.l),  whioh was
later also sponsored by the Bahamaa.- the ,Central

vLiherl.a.v
Pamew Qa the L and

the Ukrainiagt  Sosli~.  The revised draft  resolution wae
introduaed  by the representative of Csmeroon  at the 32nd meeting, on 9 November,
and oontained the following ahangea in the seventh preambular  Qaragraph,  @*the
universal concernqt was reglaced by “the common desire”.

63. At its 33rd meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted tlke revised draft
resolution without a vote (see para. 71,  draft  resolution R).

V. I&aft resw A/C.l/43/L,7Q_paB Rev.1

64. O n  3 1  O a t o b e r ,  BancrlaBcsh. B o l i v i a ,  ColQ&&~,&e  t h e
r. Quetemala,HonButes._Paki,rtanlPanMla.m

Peru. and m submitted a draft resolution entitled
9,!onventional  disarmament on a regional soale” (A/C.l/43/L,70),  which was later
also sponsored by Ecuaaor and the v. The draft resolution wae introduced
by the representative of Peru at the 30th meeting, on 8 November, and read as
follows:

/ . . .



A/43/066
Bnglieh
Page 31

“ T h e  0

@I- its resolutions 40/94 A of 12 Deoember 1986, 41/S9 M of
3 Deoember 1966, and 4208 N of 30 November 1987,

*Iv of the Final Dealaration of the Conferenae of Minietere  for
Foreign Affairs of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Niooeia  from 7 to
10 September 1988,

I’- that resgonsibility for halting and reversing the arm8 raoe
rents primarily with the militarily signifiaant  States, espeoially  the
nualear-weapon  States,

@I- at- to the need for nualear  disarmament meaeureo  to be
aCOOmQani0d  by the resolute agpliaation of aonventional diearmament mealurea,
in the context of which aonventional disarmament on a regional eoale  aoquiree
urgency and renewed importanoe,

*I- that regional or subregional arms limitation and disarmament
proaeseee  which do not reduae the seourity of any of the States involved do
not interfere with or prejudice global efforts, but rather sugplement  them, aa
ie aonfirmed  by the current international  s i tuation,

“I for all regional or subregional geaoe and
disarmament endeavours that take into aocount the aharaaterietice of eaah
region, as well as unilateral measure8 direated to strengthening mutual
aonfidence  and to assuring the seaurity of all States involved, making
regional agreements on arms limitation possible in the future,

@It the positive trend toward6  the peaoeful
settlement of various regional and subregional oonfliate and the important
role played therein by the United Natione,

“1. EKr>_resaee  its setiafactiog at the initiativee towards arms
limitation and disarmsment  8dopted jointly or unilaterally by some oountriee
at the regional and subregional levels, aa well  ae at  the syetematio
implementation of confidence-building measurea, the limitation of the
acquisition of conventional weapons and the reduction in military q qding,
with a view to alloaating the resources thue releaeed to the eooio-economic
development of their peoples, whioh in turn might lead to regional agreements
on limiting arms spendingr

I, 2, EaKQc04ses its keen at efforts to bring about the
peaceful solution of conflict situations and regional and subregional arisee,
with a view to setting in motion specific measures for conventional
disarmament on a regional scale through agreements negotiated under etriat and
effect ive international  control ;

II 3, Basinsfirmest SW for the United Nations ryutem,
end for the Secretary-Qeneral  in particular, in their efforts to find
solution0 to confl ict  s i tuations, thereby reaffirming the primary role of the
United Nations in promoting peace and diearmamentr

/ . . .



A/43/056
Eaglinh
Rags 33

“4 a w the Secretary-Qeneral  to persevere in his aurrent  peaae
efforta in various aream of tension in the world,

It b. m the United Nations to provide assistenae to States and
regional institutions that might request It with a view to establishing
measures aimed at conventional disarmament on a regional scale!

“6, m to other States , espeaially  the main arms produoera and
suppliera,  to faoilitete progress towards regional disarmament, refraining
from any aotion, inaluding  the threat or use of foroe, whiah might impede the
aahievement  of that objective)

“7, w to inolude in the provisional agenda of its fourty-fourth
session the item entitled ‘Conventional disarmament on a regional soale’.”

65. On 16 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C’1/43/L.70/Rev.l),  whioh contained the following changes;

(a) The third preambular paragraph was revised to read:

“n the primary responsibi l i ty  of  the mil i tari ly  s ignif icant
Btates, especially nuclear-weapon Stat.es, for halting and reversing the arms
raae,  and the priority assigned to nuclear disarmament in the context of the
advances towards general and complete disarmament”r

(b) The fourth preambular paragraph was revised to read8

*I- attention to the fact that together with negotiations on nuclear
disarmament measures, conventional disarmament measurer should be rrsolutelv
pursued, in the context of whiah aonventioaal disarmament on a regional scale
acquires urgency and renewed importance”t

(a) The fifth preambular paragraph was revised to reid:

“m that regional or subregional arms limitation and disarmament
proceseee complement and enhance global disarmament efforts”l

(d) The sixth preambular paragraph was revised to read:

“tof all regional and subregional peace and
disarmament endeavours that take into account the characteristics of each
region, as well ae unilateral measures to strengthen mutual confidence and
assure the security of all States involved, making possible regional
agreements on arms limitations in the future’*I

(e) A new seventh preambular paragraph was added reading8

**B that the adoption of such disarmament measurer!  should take
place in an equitable and balanced manner in order to ensure the right of each
State to security and that no individual State or group of States may obtain
advantages over others at any stage of this process”;

/ * . .



A/43/886
English
Page 33

(I) In  operat ive  ;Baragraph  1, the word *lthe” before ttlimitation8g  was deleted)
the word ttiatt after ‘@reduction*’  was replaoed by 8tofttl at the end of the paragraph
*I, whioh in turn might lead to regional agreements on limiting armb spending” was
deletedr

(g) In operative paragraph 3, ‘@its firmestt'  was replaaed by @‘firmttr  at the
end of the paragraph, the following was addedt  ‘I, and for the strict obsorvanoo  of
the prinaiples  and norma  embodied in the Charter of the United Natiouatt)

(h) In operative paragraph 5, “measures rimod at aonventional  disarmament on
a regional soaJett wau replaoed by “disarmament measures on a rrgioaal saalottr

(i) Operative paragraph 6 was revised to read:

I@- to all other States t9 faailitate the progrees of regional
diearmament, refraining from any aation, inaluding the threat or use of force,
which might Impede the achievement of this objeotive”.

66. At the 40th meeting, on 17 November, Peru orally revised the draft resolution
as follows: in operative paragraph 2, tthelptt was replaaed by “faoili  tate” l

67. At its same meeting, the Committee adopted the revised draft resolution, aa
further orally revised, by a recorded vote of 110 to noner with 18 abstentions (see
para, 71, draft reeolution 8). The voting was aa follower

Ing Algeria, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bangladesh,
Barbados, Belgium, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail, Brunei
Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussiaa
Soviet Socialist Republio, Cameroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e
d*Ivoire, Caechoslovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea,  Demark,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Fiji, Finland, France, Qabon,
Qerman Democratic Republic, Qermany,  Fedsral  Regublia  of, Qhana,
Qreece,  Quatemala, Quinea,  Quyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Ireland, Italy, Jamaiaa,
Japan, Kenya, Lao People’8  Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Luxembourg, Madagascar,  Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia,  Morocco, Nepal, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Pakistan, Panama,
Papua New Quince, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal,
Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Senegal, 8ierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Suriuame,  Swaailand,  8weden.  T h a i l a n d ,
Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republiae, United Arab
Emirates, United Kingdom of Qreat Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay, Veneauela,  Yugoslavia, Zaire.

Asl.bur None.

/ . . .



A/43/836
English
Page 34

-8 Afghani s tan , Angola, Cuba, Cyprus, Demoaratia Yemen, Djibouti,
Ethiopia, India, Israel, Jordan, Libyan Arab Jamabiriya,  Saudi
Arabia, Sudan, Syrian Arab Republia, United Republia of Tanaani&
United States of America, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

W .  &pft renaUj&a  A/C. llWt.7a4nd  RevA

68, On 31 Ootober, the Unitea of Tw, on behalf of the Member States
that are members of the Qroup of African Btates, submitted a draft resolution
entitled @‘Dumping of nuclear and industrial wastes in Africa’* (A/C.1/43/Lfi.72),
whiah was later also sponsored by m. The draft resolution was introduced by
the representative of Zaire, on behalf of the Qroup of African States, at the
26th meeting, on 7 November, and read as follows:

**m about the growing praatice of the dumping of nuclear and
industrial wastea in Afrioa, particularly by transnational  corporations and
other enterprises from industrialised countries,

“Mindful of the effects of nuolear  and industrial wastes which constitute
a dauger to man and his environmeat,

@*v the grave implications that the dumping of nuclear and
industrial wastes could have on the national securir:y  of African countries and
OXA  regional and international peace and security,

“NOtillQ  that the International Conference on the Relationship between
Disarmament and Development had emphariaed the attention to be paid to the
gravity of non-military threats to security, especially that of the devekping
countries,  281

“PBdlfOUB  of promoting the implementation of paragraph 76 of the Final
Document of tne Tenth Speaial  Session of the Qeneral  Assembly, 2p/ the firat
special session devoted to disarmament,

@‘m rerolution CM/REP,38  (I1l)r on the denuclearisation  of Africa,
adopted by the Council of Ministers of the Organfaation  of Africa Unity at it8
third ordinary session, held at Cairo from 13 to 17 July 1964,

“WA- the provisions of resolution CWRES.1153  (XLVIII), on

Devwt. New York. 24 dugj.Mt-11  Ss (A/CONF.130/39),

2kg Resolution  S-1012.

/ *..



A/43/086
English
Pago 38

the dumping of aualear and induntrial  waste8 in Afrias,  adoptad  by the Counail
of Ministerrr of the Organisation of Afrioan  Unity at itr forty-eighth ordinary
session, held at Addis Ababa  from 19 to 23 May 1908, u/

“m resolution QC(lQKII)/BE8,490 adopted by the Qeneral
Conference of the International Atomia Energy Agency on 23 September 1988,

“1 . m all praatices  of dumping nuclear and industrial wastes in
Africar

“2. Damanaa  that such dangerous, immoral and illegal praatiaes oease
forthwithj

“3 , w all Member Btates to ensure effeative oontrol of a
tranaboundary movement of nuclear and industrial wastes)

“4. D Member States, in aollaborotion with the International
Atom13  Energy Agency, the United Nations Environmental Programme and other
ofdnaerned  organisat~ions, to aarry out information aampaigns  about the dangers
of nuclear and industrial waste8,  through the existing United Nations regional
aentres for peace and development and other national and international
institutionsr

“5. v Member States, enterprises and transnational  aorporations
to respeat  nat ional , regional or subregional laws and regulations on nuclear
and industrial waetesr

“6. Racruests the Conference on Disarmament to take into acaount, in the
ongoing negotiations for a convention on the prohibition of radiological
weapona,  the dumping of nuclear and radioactive wastes in the territory of
other States1

“7 . m the Oecretary-Qeneral  of the United Nations, in
consultation with the Director-Qeneral  of the International Atomic Energy
Agency, to submit to the Qeneral  Assembly a report at its forty-fourth session
on the dumping of nuclear and industrial wastes in all ite aspects, in Africa,
including the adoption of a convention to ban the dumping of such wastes]

“8. m to iuclune  in the provis ional  agenda of  i ts  forty-fourth
seesJon  the item entitled ‘Dumping of nuclear and industrial wastes in
Af riaa’ . ”

69. On 17 November, Zaire, on behrlf of the Member States that are members of the
Qroup  of African Statea, submitted a revised draft resolution entitled “Dumping of
radioactive wastes” (A/C.l/43/L,72/Rev,l),  which was later also aQOnt4Gted by
-*

3p/ See A/43/390, annex I.

/ . . .



A/43/886
English
Rage 36

70. At its 42nd me&lag, on 18 November, thm Conunittee adopted tho revised draft
resolution by a reaorded  vote of 128 to noner with 13 abstentions (see pars, 71,
dra f t  resolution  T), The voting wae as follows8

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbadon,  Benin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil, Brunei Darussalam,
Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorusaian Soviet
Soaialist  Republia, Cameroon, Central Afriaan Republia,
Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Riaa, c8te
dt Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Cseahoslovakia,  Demoaratio
Kampuohea,  Demoaratio Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican
Republic, Eouador, Egypt,  Ethiopia,  Fi j i ,  Finland,  Qabon,
Berman Demooratia Republia, Qhana, Qreeae, Quatemala,
Quinea,  Quinea-Bissau,  Quyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iaeland,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republia of), Iraq, Ireland,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Demoaratic Republic,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagasaar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta,
Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Moroaco,  Moaambique,  Nepal,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan,  Panama, Papua New Quinea, Paraguay, Peru,
Philippines, Poland, Qatar, RGmania,  Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, IJuriname,  $waailand,  Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republia, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Eoaialist Rrpublia, Union of Soviet Sociallot
Republios, United Areb Emirates, United Republic of
Tanoania,  Uruguay, Veneauela,  Viet Nsm, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

None.
.

Belgium, Cannda,  France, Qermany,  Federal Republia of,
I s rae l , Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Pcrtugal,
Spain, United Kingdom of Qreat Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of Ameriaa,

/ . . .



A/43/886
English
Page 37

III. RECO.MMENDATIONS  OF THE FIRST CO?+MTTTEI

71, The First Committee rsaommrnds  to the Qeneral  Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution08

QENERALt  AND COMPLETE DISARMAMENT

A

w its reaolution 40110  of 18 November 198t, 41/86 N of
4 Deormber 1986 and 42138 D of 30 November 1987,

s the Harare Appeal on disarmament,  u/ adopt. ;1 by the
Eighth Conferenae  of Heads of State or Qovernment  of Non-Aligned Countrier,
held at Harare  from 1 to 6 Beptwnber  1966, the Havana Appeal, u/ adopted by
the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of Non-Aligned Countrioe  at the rpsaial
ministerial meeting devoted to disarmament issues, held at Havana from 26 to
30 May 1988, and the aonununiqui  of the Ministers of Foreign Affairs of
Non-Aligned Countries adopted at NiOGSia in September 1908,

sm about the aontinuing oaaalation of the arms taoor
especially in nualear  weaponr  and other weapons of mare  dertruation,  doapito
the faat that this inareases the risk of nuolear war and l ndaagors the
survival of humanity,

Cpnvinced  that the alternative today in the nuclear age ie not between
war or peaaer but between life and death, which makee the prevention of
nuolear war the principal task of our times,

Alan that international peaoe and security aan be enmrrd only
through general end oomplete disarmament under effective international oontrol
and that one of the most urgent task8 is to halt and reverse the arm6 race and
to undertake concrete rneasurea of disarmament, particularly nuolear
disarmament,

Eurther that, in the interest of mankind as a whole, the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of Ameriaa, in their
bilateral  nuolear-arms  negotiations, should continue their endeavours with the
ultimate objeative  of achieving general and complete disarmament  under
effective international control,

U/ See A/41/697-8/16362,  a n n e x ,  s e c t ,  I .

u/ A/S-15/27 and Corr ,l, annex XI.

/ . . .



A/43/086
Eaglirh
Page 38

m tha rntifiaation  and aommenaemsniz of imglemeatstion by the
Uaion  of Soviet Sooialirrt; Rep&liar  and the United ltater  of Amorioa of the
treaty 01 &ha l limiaatioa of their intermediate- and ohorter-range nualosr
foroam,

m that bilateral  and multilateral nogotiationr on diearmament
8hoU.d faailitato and aomplrmrat eaah other, and that grogrcrsa at the
bilateral  lrvel should not be used to poctgone or prohibit aotion at the
mul t l la tora l  l eve l ,

1, Calla the Union of 8oviet Sooialilrt Rspblios  and the United
States of Amoriea to exert every effort to aohieve  the goal they rret
thornselves  of I treaty on a 50 per aent reduatfon  in strategio  offearive arma
81 part of the prouesa leeding  to the oomglete elimination of nuolear weapons)

a , sm thr two Oovormenta to intrnlrify their efforts
with the objeotive  of aohiaviag agreements in other areaa  in partioular  the
irrue of a nualrar-test ban, as a matter of urgenoyr

3, Invitsr the f3ovornments  of the Union of Soviet Soaialist Regublios
and the United State8 of Amerioa to keep the Qeneral  Asrombly  and the
Coaforenar  on Disarmament  duly informed of progress made in their negotiations,

R

w the provisiona of the Final Dooument of the Tenth Speaial
Se~~sion  of  the General  Aeeembly,  U/ the first epeoial  seesion devoted to
disarmament, rrlated to the relatiOn8hip between disarmament and dOVelOpmOnt,

.
v the adoption of the Final Dooument of the International

Conferenae 00 the Relationship betwsen  Diearmament and Development,  391

1, m the Seoretary-Oeneral  to take aotion through the
agprogriato  organor with in  availab!.e  redouraea, for the imglsmentation of the
aotion programno  adopted at the International Conference,  and to submit a
report to the General Assembly at its forty-fourth sweion~

a. Deoidee  to inolude  in the provis ional  agenda of i ts  forty- fourth
aeseion the item entitled %3lationship between disarmament and development*O.

s/ R e s o l u t i o n  S-10/2.

a/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.87.IX.B.

/ ..a



A/43/066
lCIPgli8h
Pago 39

C

Reasllinn  ite rsaolution 42138 B of 30 Novrmbar  1987,

1, Takea of the part of the report of the Conferenae oa
Disarmament on its 1988 eeeeion  aa well aa that of thr epeoial  report of the
Conferenae oa Disarmament,  that deal with the queetion of radiologiaal
weaponor  in partioular  the reports of the Ad Committoe  on Radiologic?al
Weapons J U/

a, m that the u Committee in 1988 mado a further
contribution to tha olarifiaation  and hotter underetanding  of different
apprOmJhe8  that oontinue to oxiet with ragard  to both of the important
eubjeata under aonaiderationJ

3, m of the reaommendation  of the Conferenoo  on Diearmament
that the &&a Committee on Radiologiaal  Weapon6  should be re-eetabliehed  at
the beginning of it0 1989 t3WM3iOtlJ

4, Recrueats  the CoaPereaae  on Disarmament to oontinue its nogotiatione
on the eubjeat with a view to a prompt oonalueion of ite work, taking into
aoaount all propoeale preeented  to the Conferenae to thie end and drawing upon
the anaexee to its report aa a baeie of ite future work, the roeult of whioh
should be submitted to tho Qeneral Assembly at its forty-fourth eeaeic-a#

6, Alao that the Oearetary-Qoneral  tranemit to the Conferenoe
on Disarmament all relevant dooumenta relating to the disauesion  of! all
aspects of the iesue by the General Aeeembly at it8 forty-third ee:clsionJ

6, PaPidea to inalude  in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
aesaion the item entit led ‘OProhibition  of the development, produation,
8toakpiling  and use of radiologiaal weapona@*.

D

u it8 resolution 42/38 E of 30 November 1987,

u/ -Records o f  MQeneral w. F0r’tv-w
lo.  22 (A/43/27) ,  parse.  84-86~  A/S-15/2,  pares. 92 and 93.

/ . . .



A/43/086
Bnglieh

n Page 40

m the wide eugport  ergreseed by Member ltatea for greater
attention to be given to aonveational diearmament,

w tbe inareaeed  awareneee  of the imglicationa  of many
eepecte of the conventional arma build-up, both in it8 qualitative and ita
quant i ta t ive  aepeat,

m that aonventional diearmement is a neaessary  part of
the diearmament proaeeer

w thr central role of the United Nations in the field of
diearmement,

Wavfrvl the report8 of the Diearmament Commieaiorr to the Qeneral
Aeaembly at  i t s  th i rd  epecial eeeaion  u/ and  a t  i t s  forty-thirb  eeee ion,  31/

1. M&&&&a  that the United Nation8 ehould aontinue  to enoourags  and
faoilitate diearmament effort8 in all fields,

2. w the Diearmemeat  Conunieeion  to continue at ite 1989 session
the eubetantive aoneideration of ieeuee related to aonventional disarmament
and to report to the General Assembly at its forty-fourth session with a view
to CaaiIlitating  possible meaeurea  in the fields of aonventional arme reduotion
and diearmamentJ

3. s the Diearmament Commieeion for this gurgoae to include
in the agonda for it8 1989 eeeeion an item ontitled tWbetantive aoneideration
o f  ieeuoe  rolatod t o  conventional diearmement”J

4. m to inolude  in the provieional agenda of it8 forty-fourth
eeesion the item entit led Vonventional diearmament~~,

E .

m it6 reeolutions 41/59 F of 3 December 1986 and 42/38 H of
30 November 1987,

v the determination to nave succeeding generation0  from the
eoourge of war as expressed in the Preemble to the Charter of the United
Nations,

f the, F--al &.&Q&

Jl/ m., mrd m. 4’1 ( A / 4 3 / 4 2 ) .

/ . . .



A/43/0Bci
RnglilBh
Ifago  41

Canvinaed  that the most acute and urgent task of the present  day ir to
remove the threat of a world war - 8 nuclear war,

g the atatemeats and provision8  on nuclear
diearmament  sat forth in the Bins1 Document of the Tenth Special Searion of
the Qeneral  Asarmbly, U/ the firat agroial  reseloa devoted to disarmament..
and, in partioular,  provisions  that “effective meaburea  of nuclear disarmament
and the prevention of nuclear warthave  the highert  priority”, aontained in
paragraph 20, and that “in the task of achieving the goals 0 f nualoar
disarmament, all the nuclear-weapon States, in particular there emong them
which possess the moat imgortant nuclear areenale, bear a special
reponeibility8@, contained in paragraph 45,

,w that the ultimate goal of nuclear disarmament is the
complete elimination of nuclear weapons,

w that the leaders of the Union of Soviet Socialist Regublior and
the United Staten of America agreed in their joint atatemrnt  irrued at Qeneva
on 21 November 1985 that ‘Ia nuclear war cannot be won and must never be
fought” 3p/ and the common desire they expreaaed  ia the rame statement calling
for early progress in areaa where there ia oommon ground, including the
priaaiple  of a 50 per oent reduction in the nuclear arma of the Soviet Union
and the United States appropriately applied,

v that the Ur.on of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United
States of hnerica have conducted intensive negotiations on various ireuoa of
disarmament,

&&g further that the Conference on Dirarmeunent han not played its due
role in the field of nuclear disarmament,

,w that the gualitative  aspect of the arma race needs to be
addree,sed  along with its  quantitative aepeat,

in mina that the aovernmenta and peoples of various countries
expect that the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of
America will reach agreement on halting the nuclear-arm6  race and further
reducing nuclear weapon@,

1. m the signing and ratification of the Treaty between the
United States of America and the Union of Soviet locialist Republica  on the

ah/ R e s o l u t i o n  S-10/2,

391 See  A /40 /1070 ,  atme;-.

/ . . .



A/43/056
Rngliah
Page II

Blimiaation  of Their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Miaailer, .qP/ and
aallr  upon the two States strictly to obrerve and fully to implement the
Treaty!

a, w the Uaion  of Soviet Sooialist  ReQubliOa  and the United State8
of Amorioa,  whioh poaaear  the moat important nuolear arbenala, further to
diroharge their rgeaial reaQOnaibility  for nuolrar  disarmament,  to take the
load in halting the nuclear-arms race and to negotiate in earnest with a view
to reaching early agreement on the drastio reduction of their nuclear arsenalsr

3. warntab iw that bilateral and multilateral efforts for
nuoloar  disarmament should complement and faailitate each other1

4. Dsaidaa to inolude  in the provisional agenda of ita forty-fourth
ser8ion the item entit led “Nuolear disarmament’@,

F

m the determination to save suoaeeding  generations from the
scourge of war as eXQr006ed in the Preamble to the Charter of the United
Natione,

w the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the Qeneral
Arrembly, pj/ the first special session devoted to disarmament, and
partioularly its paragraph 81, which Qrovides  that together with negotiations
on nuolear disarmament meaaurea, the limitation and gradual reduotion of armed
force8 aad conventional weagona  ahould be resolutely pursued within the
framework of progresr towards general and complete disarmament,  and which
atrrsres that States with the largest military arsenals have a special
rergoneibility  in pursuing the process of conventional armaments reduotions,

s that the same document declares, &ta-u, that
priorit ies  in disarmament negotiat ions shall  be:  nuclear weaponal  other
weapone of maea  destruction, including ohemiaal weapons! conventional weapons,
including any which mrry be deemed to be excessively injurious or to have
indieariminnte  effecter and reduotion of armed forces, and that it stresses
that nothing should preolude State8 from conducting negotiations on all
priority items aonaurrently,

a/ S e e  CD/798.

fi/ Resolution S-1012.



A/43/866
Englirh
Page 43

v that the mme document states that ~ffeotiv~  mearurer
of nuolear diarrmament and the prevention of nuclear war have the highest
priority, and that real progress in the field of nuolear diearmament oould
create an atmongherr  oonduaive to progress  in conventional disarmament on a
world-wide basis,

m of the dangers to world peace and eeaurity originating from and the
loss in human life and property caused by wars and oonfliats fought with
conventional weapons, as well a8 of their QOtiMible escalation into a nuclear
war in regions with a high concentration of conventional and nuclear weapona,

Alao that with the advance in science and technology, oonventional
weapons tend to become increasingiy  lethal and destructive, and that
conventional armaments aonmme large amounts of resourcea,

m that resources released through disarmament, including
conventional disarmament, can be used for the social and economic development
of people of all countries, particularly the deVt3lOging  countries,

Notin<r that the ongoing conventional disarmament negotiation8 in Europe
have gained increasing importance,

Bearinn its resolution 36197 A of 9 Deoember 1981 and the a,&,&
& 4.31 conducted in accordance with that resolution,
as well as its resolutions 41159  C and 41459 0 of 3 December 1986, and 42/38 E
and 42/38  Q of 30 November 1987, and the aoneideration by the Disarmament
Commission at its 1988 r\eeeion of the question of conventional disarmament, fi/

Bastlna  in mind the efforts made to promote conventional disarmement
and the related proposals and suggestlone, a8 well  a8 the init iat ives taken by
various countries in thiu regard,

1. m the importance of the efforts aimed at resolutely pursuing
the limitation and gradual reduction of armed forces and conventional weagone
within the framework of progreee  towards general and complete disarmaments

2. Believea that the military forces of all countries should not be
used other than for the purpose of self-defence)

3. Uraee the countries with the largest military arsenals, which bear a
special reSQOnSibility  in pursuing the procese of conventional armaments
reductions, and the member States of the two major military alliances, to
conduct negotiations on conventional disarmament in earnest through

421 United Nations publication, Sales No, E.85.IX.l.

4.31 OfficielmoftheGeneralAsaemblv,Fmrtv-t;hi
b. 42 (A/43/42),  pare,  12.

/ . . .



A/43/066
English
Page 44

appropriate forume , with a view t o  reaahing  early agreement on the limitation
and gradual and balanced reduotion of armed forces and conventional weapona
under Qffective international control in their respective regiona,
particL ‘.arly  in Buroge , which has the largest concentration of arme and forces
in the world)

4 . Enaouracrea  all States, while taking into aaoount the need to protect
oeaurity and maintain aeoessary defensive aapabilitiee, t o  intensify their
effort8 and take, either on their own or in a regional context, appropriate
steps to promote progresrr in conventional disarmament and enhance peace and
seaurityr

6. Recruaata  the Diearmament Cornmission  to consider further, at its 1989
subs tant ive  aeeeion, issuee re la ted  to  oonventional disarmarnentt

6. Deaidea  to include in the provisional agenda of ita forty-fourth
session the i tem entit led YZonventional di8armament00c

a

Reasllina QaragraQh 105 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of the Qeneral  Assembly, fi/ the first special session d e v o t e d  to
disarmament, in which the Assembly encourages Member States to ensure a better
flow of information with regard to the various aspects of disarmament to avoid
diaaemination of false and tendentious information concerning armaments and to
concentrate on the danger of escalation of the arma race and on the need for
general and complete disarmament under effective international control,

w into aa- the attention paid to the &&ions  of ogennesa  and
ensuring an exchange of objective information in the military field at the
fifteenth special session of the Qeneral Assembly, the third speoial session
devoted to disarmament,

3 that recent agreements in the field of arms
limitation and disarmament have provided for gualitatively  new standards of
ogenneea  0

m that the adoption of confidence-building measure8 to promote
openness and transparency would contribute to the prevention of misperceptions
of military capabilities and intentions, which would induce States to
undertake armaments programmes leading to the acceleration of the arms race,
in particular the nuclear-arms race, and to heightened international tensions,

u/ Resoltition  S - 1 0 1 2 .

/ I..



A/43/088
English
Pago 4s

m that balanced and objective information on all military
matters, in Dartiaular  of nuolear-weapon  Statea and other militarily
aignifiaant States, would contribute to the building of confiderroe among
States and to the aonaluaion of aonorete disarmament agreementa, and thereby
help to halt and reverse the arma race,

w that greater ogenneaa  and transparenoy  would contribute to
enhancing security,

wi that greater ogenneas  on mil itary aotivit ier,  m,
through transmittal of relevant information on these aativitiee, inoluding  on
the levels of military budgets, would contribute to increased confidence among
States,

auumaccaynt the work undertaken in the Disarmament Commiaaion on
the reduction of military budgets,

Notincrwith.gm that an increased number of States have provided
annual reports on military expenditures in conformity with the international
system for the standardised reporting of military expenditures under the
auspices of the United Nations,

1. Tekas of the report of the Secretary-Qeneral  on thia aubjeot to
the third special session of the Qeneral  Aaeembly  devoted to di8armaSIentJ  fB/

2, Beafiirma that a better flow Of objective
information on military capabilities would help relieve international tension
and contribute to the building of confidenae among Rate8 on a global,
regional or subregional level anti to the conclusion  of oonarete disarmament
agreementa,

3, Renammenas  that those States and global, regional and subregional
organisations which have already eXQr8888d  aupport for the principle of
practical and concrete aonfidence-building  mebaurea  of a military nature on a
global , regional or subregional level should intensify their efforts with a
view to adopting such measures1

4. m that all States, in particular nualear-weapon State8 and
other  mil i tar i ly  s ign i f i cant  Sta tes , should impiement  the international ryatem
for the atandardiae9  reporting of military 8XpenditUre, with the aim of
achieving a realist ic  comparison of  mil i tary budgets,  faci l i tat ing the
availabil i ty of  objective information on, as well as objective aaaeaauent of,
military capabilities and contributing to the process of disarmament)

5. Invitee all Member States to communicate to the secretary-Qsneral
before 30 April 1989 measures they have adopted towards these enda, for
submission to the General Assembly at its forty-fourth seseionr

fi/ A/S-15/7 and Add.1 and 2.

/ .I.



A/43/856
English
Page 46

6. FurChar in/af;M all Member  States also to aonununiaate to the
Secretary-Qeneral  their views on ways and moans of further consolidating the
emerging trend towards greater openness in military matters apeaifioclly with
regard to the proviaiona of objective information on military matters for
consideration by the Diaarmsment Commission at its 1990 aeaaioc~

7, Dsaiaaa to inolude in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
session the item entitled “Objeative  information on military matteraoo,

w its resolution 42130  J of 30 November!  1987,

~-DQ&& of the report of tho SoCretary-Qeneral,  fi/

w Qaragraph 115 of the Final Document bf the Tenth Special
Session of the Qeneral Aaaembly, fl/ in which it is stated, fnter3, that
the Asaambly  has been and should remain  the main deliberative organ of the
United Nations in the field of disarmament and should make evsry effort to
facilitate the implementation of disarmament measures,

w of the fact that the role of the United Nations in the field of
disarmament could be strengthened substantially through an increased effort by
Member State& to implement faithfully Qeneral Assembly resolutions in ths
f i8ld Of disarmament,

W-Q of the importance of treating reconnnendationa  of the Qeneral
Assembly in the field of disarmament with due respect in accordance with the
obligations assumed by Member States under the Charter of the United Nations,

1. m that all Member States make every effort to
facilitate the consistent implementation of Gerieral Assembly resolutions in
the field ef diaarmeim8nt, and thus show their resolve to arrive at mutually
acceptable, COmQr8h8nSiVely  verif iable and effective diaarmmsnt  measureaJ

2. X,w all Member States that have not yet done so to make
available to the Wcretary-Qeneral  their views and suggestiona on wayr and
mean3  to improve the situation with regard to the implementation CR: Galera
Assembly resolutions in the field of disarmaments

fi/ A/43/492 and Add.l .

u/ R e s o l u t i o n  S-1012.

/ . . .



A/43/856
English
Pago 47

3. wf, the Seatetsry-denoral  to submit to the General Assem&ly at
its forty-fourth session, in aoaordanae  with resolution 42/38 J, a report that
would inolZude  information provided by Member States aoncerning the
implementation of Qeneral  Assembly resolution6 in the field of diearmament, as
well au their views on possible avenue1  to improve the situation la this
respectr

4. um all Member Btates to render every assistance to the
Searetary-Qeneral  so that he may fulfil the request contained in paragraph 3
abOW J

5. R&cj&jj  to continue ita consideration of the issue of the
implementation of the Qeneral  Assembly resolutions in the field of disarmament
at fte forty-fourth session.

I

Resffim the central role of the United Nations in strengthening
international peace and security and promoting disarmament,

w that, in accordance with the Charter of the United
Nationa,  Member States have undertaken to promote the establishment and
maintenance of international peace and security with the least divereion for
armaments of the world’s human and eoonomic  resources,

Alao.. the inherent right to self-defence embodied in
Article 51 of the Cherter,

v the general principles outlined in paragraph 22 of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, a/

Also- the conclusions  end recommendations of the
United Nations studies on conventional disarmament, 14p/ all aspects of
regional disarmament, U/ the economic and social consequences of the arms
race and military expend’ urea, a/ the relationship between disarmament a?d

&$/ R e s o l u t i o n  S-10/2.

pP/ United Nations publication,  Sales  Na. E.BS.IX.1.

a/ A / 3 5 / 4 1 6 .

/ . . .



A/43/056
Eaglieh
P a g e  4 8

development,  m/ reduation  of  mil i tary budgets,  &/ the relationehip  b e t w e e n
dirczmament and intern.ational  security, u/ and aonfidenae-building
mealrureer  1161

mther t:.a programme of action set forth in the
Fi rl Dcnument of the International Conferenoe  on the Relationship between
Dirrarmament  and Development, M/

1. v its m that arms tranefers in  al l  their  aspects
deserve serious consideration by the international community, malia,
because of 1

(a) Their potential effects in areas where tension and regional conflict
threaten international  peaae a n d  seaurity  and national  eeaurityt

(b) Their known and potential negative effects on the prooess of the
peaceful aooial and eooaomic development of all peoplesr

( a )  I n c r e a s i n g  i l l i c i t  ernd c o v e r t  arms  t r a f f i c k i n g ,

2, Bparuaata Member States to consider, m, the following
meaaurea  relating to these concerns8

(a) Reinforcement of their national syetems  of control and vigilance
conaerning  production and transport of arms]

(b) Examination of ways and means of reiraining  from aoquiring  arma
additional to those needed for legitimate national security requirements,
taking into account the specifia characteristics of each regionr

(c) Examination  of the way6 and moans of providing for more openness  and
transparency with regard to world-wide arms transferor

3. RR~RR&S  the Disarmament Commission to take into account the
above-mentioned matters in its deliberations on the issue of conventional
disarmament J

4. Resruests  the Secretary-General to seek the views and proposals of
Member States on the matters contained in paragraphs 1 and 2 of the present
resolution and to collect  all other relevant information for submission to the
general Assembly at its forty-fourth seeaionr

&2/ United Nations publication, Sales No. Z.82.IX.l.

u/ A/35/479.

u/ United Nations publication, Sales No. E.62.IX.4.

59 xku.0 Sales No. E.82.XX.3.

5.61 IBhLB*r Sales No. E.87.IX.8.

/ I . .



A/43/088
Eagliah
Page 49

6, Alsa the Secretary-Qenoral to carry out thrrraftor,  with
the aseiatanae of governmental experts , a study on way8 and mean8 of promoting
transparenay  in international transfers  of conventional arma on a universal
and non-diear imiaatory basis, alao taking  into aonaidrration  the views of
Member States ao well as other relevant information, inaluding  that on the
problem of illiait  arm6 trade, for submission to the Qeneral  Awmbly  at its
for ty - s ix th  eeeaionJ

6, Further the Secretary-Qeneral to make available, within the
framework of the World Dinarmament Csmpaign, information cronaerning the
question of arms transfers and their coneequenaee  for international peace and
seaurityt

7, Peoides  to incrlude in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
session an item entitled *‘International arme traneferw”.

J

of m devalalpment.  Dr-
and-

m its resolution 37199  C of 13 December 1982, 35/188 D of
20 December 1953, 39/151 J of 17 December 1954, 40194 D of 12 Deaember 1985,
41/59 A and I of 3 Deaember 1956 and 42138  F of 30 November 1987 on,
m, the aonclueion of an agreement prohibiting military attacks
against  nuclear faail i t iea,

mm of the report of the Secretary-Qeneral on this subject
submitted pursuant to resolution 42138  F, H/

Qrav_ely  B that armed attaoka against nuclear faailitiea, though
carried out with conventional weaponar could be tantamount to the use of
radiologicsl  weapons,

w that Additional Protocol I a/ of 1977 to the Qsneva
Conventions of 12 August 1949 a/ prohibits attacks on nuclear
818ctrioity-generating  s ta t ions ,

paeolv  c- that the destruction of nuclear faci l i t ira by
conventional weapons causes the release into the euviroment of huge amounts

u/ A/32/X44,  a n n e x  I.

B/ United Nations, Treaty SerFBB,  vol. 75, Nos. 970-973.

/ ..n



A/43, dS6
English
Page SO

of dangerous radic%ative material, which results in aerioun radionative
aontamination,

wm that the Israeli attaok againat  the safeguarded nuclear
faailitirs in Iraq oonatitutes an unpyeaedented  danger to international peace
and security,

-fur- resolutions QC(X%VII)/RZS/407  and QC(XJCVII)/REl3/409,
adopted in 1983 by the Qeneral Conference of the International Atomic Energy
Agency, in which the Qeneral Confersnae urged all member States to support
notions in international fortune  to reach an international agreement that
prohibits armed attacks against nuclear installationa devoted to peaceful
purposns,

1. Realfirma  that armed attacks of any kind against nuclear facilities
are tantamount to the use of rsdiologiaal  weapona, owing to the dangerous
radioaotive forces  that such attaaks aauae to be r810aSedJ

2, -6 w the Conference on Disarmament to intensify
further its efforts to reaah,  as early ae possible,  an agreement prohibiting
armed attacks against nuclear faailitiesr

3. Recluasts a~,&) the Xnternational  Atomic Energy Agency to provide the
Conferenae on Disarmament with the technical studies that could facilitate the
aonalusion of such an agreement1

4, v the Searetary-Qeueral  to report to the Qaneral  Ameembly  at
its forty-fourth seesion on the progreos made in the implementation of the
pteserrt resolution.

K

Dr- of m
#or wm

w its resolutions 33/91 H of 16 December 1978, 34187  D of
11 December 1979, 351196  H of 12 December 1990, 36197 0 of 9 December 1981,
37199 E Of 13 D8C8lnb8r  1962, 38/188 E of 20 December 1983, 39/151 H of
17 December 1984, 40194  Q of 12 December 1985, 41/59 L at 3 D#aember  1986 and
42/38 L of 30 November 1987, in which it requested the Conference on
Diearmament,  at an appropriate stage of th8 implementation of the Programme of
Action set forth in section III of the Final Document of the Tenth Pipecial
Session of the Qeneral Aeeembly,  bQ/ the first special session devoted to
dioarmament, and of its work on the j-tern entitled “Nuclear weapons in all

U/ R e s o l u t i o n  S-10/2.

/ . . .



A/43/081
Eaglirh
Page 51

aapeots” , to oonrider  urgently the quratioar  of adequately verified aorsation
and prohibition of the produatioa  of fineionable material for nuolear weapons
and other nuolear explosive davioes and to keep the Assembly informed of the
progress of that aonsideration,

&&&g that the agenda of the Conferenoe on Disarmament for 1988 iaaludsd
the item entitled Wuolear weapons in all asgeots o and that the programme of
work of the Conferenae for both parts of ita 1998 sesaion oontaiaed the item
entitled Vemation  of tho nuolear-arms raoe and nuolear disarmament”,  fi/

w the proposals and otstements  made in the Conferenoe OIL
Disarmament on those items, M/

D that the oeesation of produotion of fissionable material for
weapons purposes and the progressive aonvereion of transfer of stoaka to
peaaeful usea would be a siynifiaant  atop towards halting and reversing the
nuolear-arme  raOer

v that the prohibition of the grOdUOtiOn of fis8iOnsble
material for nuolear weapons and other explosive devioes would be an important
measure in faailitating the prevention of the proliferation of nualear woagous
and explosive devioes,

w the Conferenoe on Diearmament,  at an appropriate stage of its
work on the item entitled “Nuclear weapons in all aspeuts’@,  to pursue its
aonsideration of ths question of adequately verified cessation and prohibition
of the produotion  of fissionable material for nualear weapons and other
nuolsar explosive devioes and to keep the Qeneral  Assembly informed of the
grogreas  of that aoneideration,

L

w its resolution 30/166 0 of 20 Dsoember 1983, by which it
requested the Secretary-General, with the aasistanae  of qualified goveramental
experta, to carry out ~b comprehensive study on the naval arms racer

U-zZ. (A /43 /27 ) ,  paras. 6  a n d  6,

621 m., p a r e s .  4 6 - 6 5 .

/ # . .



A/43/B66
English
Rage 82

Raaalline  it8 resolution 40/94 F of 12 Deoember 19613, by which it
regurrted the Disarmament Conuniaaion  to consider the ieeuee oontained in the
study on the naval arms raue, U/ both its oubetantive content and its
oonolueions, taking into aocount all other relevant present and future
progoaala, with a view to facilitating the identification of poaeible measures
in the field of naval arma reductions and disarmament, pursued within the
Cramwork of progrers  towards general and oomplato disarmament, aa well as
oonfidenoe-building measures in this field,

s it8 resolution  42130  A of 30 November 1987, by which it
reguelrted the Disarmament Commiroion  to continue , at  i ts  forthcoming session
in 1988, the substantive consideration of the question and to report on ita
deliberation8 and reoommendatiaas to the Qeneral Assembly not later than rt
its f o r t y - t h i r d  eemion,

v the report of the Chairman of the Disarmament Conunisaion
on the euhatantive  consideration of the guestion of the naval arms race and
disarmament during the 1928 session of the Commission, BQ/ which met with the
approval of all delegation8 participating in the substantive consultationa and
whioh, in their view, should be discunaed  at the forty-third session of the
General Assembly,

1, Nataa with the report on the substantive  consideration
of the question of the naval arma race and disarmament by the Chairman of the
Disarmament  Commiarionj

2, utla the Disarmament Commission  to oontinue, at its forthcoming
rerrion in 1989, the er~batsntive  conrideration  of the question and to report
on itr deliberations and reoommendatione to the Qeneral  Aeeembly at its
forty-fourth sessfonr

3, s the Disarmament Commission to insaribe  on the agenda
for its 1989 aeaeion  the item entitled “Naval armament and diearmementO’r

4, &&&.a to include in the provision&l  agertda ~fl i ts  forty-fourth
eeseion the item entit led Naval armaments and disarmament”.

a/ n&lnL&GQ (United Nations publication, Sales No, G.86.1X.3).

bp/ AXN, 10/113,

/ . . .



A/43/056
Engf iuh
Page 63

M

BM&UIJQ  its resolution 2660 (XXV) of 7 December 1970, in whiah  it
commended the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Empl0Cem9nt  of Wuolear Weapons
and Other Weegone of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Red and the Oaean Floor and
in the Suberoil  Thereof,

w the grovieions of article VII of that Treaty concerning the
holding of review conferencea,

Bearincl. that, in its Final Declaration, a/ the Seaond Review
Conferenoe  of the Perrfies to the Treaty on the Prohibition of the Emplacement
of Nualear Weapons and Other Weapons of Mass Destruction on the Sea-Bed and
the Oaean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof, held at Uenevs  from 12 to
23 September 1903, decided that a third review conference should be held at
Geneva at the request of a majtrity of States partlen not earlier than 1908
and not later than 1990,

u its resolution 381188  B of 20 Deoember  1903, in which it made
an assessment oP the outcome of the Second Review Conference,

w all the relevant paragrapha of the Final Dooument of the
Tenth Special Seeeion  of the General Assembly, fi/ the first special session
8evoted  to disarmament,

1. &&RR that, following appropriate coneultations,  a Preparatory
Committee for the Third Review ConSerence of the Parties to the Treaty on the
Prohibition of the Emplacement of Nuclear Weapons and other Weapons of Mass
Destruction on the Sea43eb and the Ocean Floor and in the Subsoil Thereof ie
to be established  prior to holding a further review conference in 1909~

2. Rrrcrvebfn  the Secretary-Ganeral  to render the necessary asilistance
and to provide  such services, inolsrding  ewnmery  recorder  ao may be required
for the Rtaview  Conferencs  and ite pregarationr

§W S@e BacorrBBeviewConfer_ancsai_the  to MUJ Treaty on tha
of them- of u
on UM seW.fWand_in_the__subapil

(SBT/CONF.I1/20)  (Geneva, 1983), Part II.

pP/ Resolution S-1012.

/ . . .



A/43/0S6
Englirh
Page 54

3. w its exgreseed  hope for the widest pOadbl@ adherence to the
Treaty.

N

,m of the oentral role aud primary responsibility, in aoosrdanae
with the Charter, of the United Nations in the rghere of disarmament,

B that nualear diaarmement  and arms limitation remain a
priority objeative and represent a oentral task of the international ooi;ununity,

w the report of the Seoretary-general ent.ltled “COmpreh@neiVe
study on nuclear weapons*@, which was submitted to the Qeneral  Assembly in
1980, 621

Reaaclniain<r  that einae then many imgortant  develogments have taken place
in the area of nuclear arma, inaluding  the aontinued  gualitakive improvement
and development of nuolear-weapon ayatema,

w the importance attaohed by the international community to the
oomplete oeseation of nuclear testing within the frmework of an effootive
ddsarmrunent  proceua,

B the full-scale Ot0g8-by-at098 talks on nuolear  testing
between the Union of Sovie’; Socialist R@publiOs and the United States of
hneriaa,

)3asrincl  in- the aritical importance of an early and eignifiount
reduation of nqualear  arm8 and recent progrers  in this field,

&Q&Q  the reports of the Secretary43eneral  entitled “Study on the
climatia  and other global effecta of nualear war”, u/ Tonoepta of security”
and “Study on deterrence”,

w that a comprehensive United Nations study on new developments
ooncarning  different aegects of nuclear weapons would make a valuable
contribution to the diaeemination of factual information and to international
understanding of the issues involved,

a/ h/35/392.

481 h/43/351.



A/43/808
English
Page 8%

1, Reaueate  the Secretary-Qeneral to carry out, with the asriatanoe  of
qualified governmental experts and taking into aacount  reseat relevant
etudiee, a comprehensive update of the study on nuclear weapons that provides
factual and up-to-&ate information on and Rays regard to the political, legal
and seaurlty aspects of:

(a) Nuolear arsenals and pertinent technological developmentst

(b) Dootrinee concerning nuclear weapons)

(c) Efforts to reduce nuclear weagonsr

(d) P h y s i c a l , environmental, medical and other effect8 of uee of nualear
weagone  and of nualear  teatingt

(e) Efforts to achieve a comprehensive nuolear-test  banJ

(f) Efforts to prevent the us8 of nuclear weagona and their horisontal
and vertical  proliferations

(g) The question of verificatAon of aomglianae  with nualear-arme
l imi ta t ion  agreementst

2, Reaommenaa  that the study, while aiming at being as comprehensive aa
]BOSaible, should be based on open mateEls and such further information as
Member States may wish to make available for the purpose of the @tUdyJ

3. Invitea all Qovernmeate to co-operate with the Secretary-Qeneral 60
that the objectives of the etudy may be achievedr

4. Requests  the Secretary-Qeneral to submit the final report to the
General Aserembly  well in advance of its forty-fifth session.

0

w that at their meeting at Qeneva in November 1985 the leaders of
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Unit8d Statee of America
committed themselves to the objective of working out effective agreements
aimed at preventing an armB race In space and terminating it on Earth, 8p/

w the joint statement between the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and thv United States of America issued following meetings in Moscow
from 29 May to 1 June 1988,

u/ A/40/1070,  annex,

/ . I .



h/43/886
Englirh
Page S6

w with s the report ia the joirrt statement that a joint
draft text of a treaty on reduction and limitation of etrategio offenrrive  arms
had been elaborated, through which process the two sides had reaorded
extensive and significant area8 of agreement and detailed positions on
remaining areas of disagreement,

w the importanoo of the verification procedures contained in the
Treaty between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range
Missiles lQ/ ab an example of the high standards  of verification that are now
achievable in arm8 control agreements, both bi lateral  and mult i lateral ,

w that, through negotiation8 pursued  in a spirit of flexibility
and with full account taken of the security interest6 of all States, it ie
posrible  to achieve far-reaching and effectiveJ:v verifiable agreements,

uv convinced  that an early agreement in these negotiations, in
accordance with the principle of undiminished  security at the lowest possible
level of armaments,  would be of crucial importanae for the strengthening  of
international peaoe and security,

Furthsroanvinoed that the international community rhould encourage the
Qovernment of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Qwernment of
the Unitrd  State8 of Amsrioa  in their endeavours,  taking into account both the
importance and complexity of their negotiations,

1. w the ratfification  by the Union sf Soviet Socialist Republics
and the United States of America of a treaty eliminating their
intermediate-range and shorter-range miaailear

2, Further web- the successful commencement of the implementation
of the provieions of that treaty]

l .

3, w the Government of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic8
and the Government of the United States of America to spare no effort in
seeking, in aacordanae with the seaurity interest8  of all States and the
unJversa1  desire for progreerr  towarda  disarmament, the attainment of all the
agreed objectives in the negotiations, that in, the resolution of a complex of
gueetions concerning space and strategic nuclear arm8 with all these questions
considered and resolved in their interrelationships

4. Jay&~ the two Qovernments conoerned to keep other States Members
of the United Nations duly informed of progress in those negotiation6 between
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republias  and the United States of America, in

2p/ CD/798.

/ . . .



w4was6
BtIQ1i.b
Pago 87

accordance with paragraph 114 of the Final Doaument of the Tanth Special
Session of the Qeneral Aesembly,  U0 the first special ression devoted to
Jiaarmament  J

s. itik for the
bilateral  negotiat iona and their euaces~ful  conclusion.

P

Peterminad  to achieve progress in disarmament,

m the need for oontinued  efforta to build confidence, to leasen
the risk of military confrontation and to enhance mutual security,

mw th.;r great importance of increasing security and stability in
Europe through the setablishment  of a stable, secure  snd verifiable balance of
conventional armed forces at lower levels, am well as through increased
openneea  and predictability of military activitiee,

D that further‘ negotiations in the field of confidenoe- and
security-building meaeurcla as well aa a new negotiation on conventional
armaments and forced, both withla the framework of the grocer8 of the
Couferenae  oa Seourity and Co-operation in Europe, should promote the procearr
of strengthening confidence, improving security and developing co-operation in
Europe, thereby contributing to international peace ard eecurity,

1, m the progress achieved 80 far in the deliberation8 at Vienna
on iesues concerning :he above-mentioned negotiationar

2. ‘u Member States that will participate in the above-mentioned
negotiations to contribute actively to the attainment of their objective8 ar
agreed1

3. Iw all States to consider the possibility of taking appropriate
measures with a view to reducing the risk of confrontat.Lon  and strengthening
security, taking due account of their epecific regional conditions.

l.l/ Resolution S-10/2.

/ . * .
--_ --.



AZ43/8S6
Ingliah
Pago 88

m in migd rerolution CM/RES.l153(XLVIII)  conceic!ng the dumping of
radioactive and induattial  wastes in Africa, adopted on 25 May 1988 by the
Council af Ministera  of the Organisation  of African Unity at its forty-eighth
ordinary beeaion, held at Addle Ababa from 19 to 23 May 1988, u/

m resolution QC(X%XII)/RES/490  on the dumping of nuclear waatea,
adopted by the Qeneral  Conferenae of the International Atomic Energy Agenoy at
its thirty-second regular eeaaion,

v ita resolution 2602 C (XXIV)  of 16 Deaember 1969, in which it
requertrd  the Conference of the Committee on Disarmament, malia, to
conaider  effective methoda of control againet  the use of radiological methods
of warfare,

m to prlrvent all nuclear-watite  dumping practices that would
infringe upon the sovereignty of States,

~ of promoting the implementation af paragraph 76 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the Qeneral Assembly, n/ the first
special session devoted to diearmament,

m of the in-depth consideration of the gueation of the dumping of
radioactive wastes for hostile purposes in the Conference on Disarmament
during its 1988 aesbion,  u/

. .

1. m all States to enlure  that no nuclear-waste  dumping
practices occur that would infringe upon the eor.rereignty  of States1

2. Welcomea the decision of the International Atomic Energy Agency to
establish a representative technical working group of expert8 with the
objeotive of establishing an internationally agreed code of practice for
international transaotiona  involving nuclear waste81

n/ See A/43/390, annex I.

D/ Resolution S - 1 0 / 2 .

Ip/ S e e  -9cords of  the1 AasembJqr.  F o r t y - t h i r d  W,
-Jl (A/43/27).

/ .*.



A/43/656
Englirh
Page 89

3. Reauesta the Conference on Disarmament to take into account, in the
ongoing negoti&ion for a convention on the prohibition of radiological
waapono, the deliberate employment of nuclear wastes to cause destruction,
damage or injury by means of radiation produced by the decay of such materials

4, &gu9&2 the Secretary-Qeneral  to transmit to the Conference on
Diearmament all doouments  relating to the consideration of this item by the
Qeneral Assembly at its forty-third seseioat

S. mu the Conference on Dinarmament  to include in ita report to
the Qeneral Assembly at its forty-fourth cession the developments on the
ongoing negotiations on this subject.

R

w its resolutions 390151 Q of 17 December 1984, 40094 0 of
12 December 1985, 41059 0 of 3 December 1986 and 42038 0 of 30 December 1987,

wu that the primary purpose of the United Nation8 is to
maintain international peace and security,

8 that genuine and lasting peaae can be oreated
only through the effective implementation of the seourity ayEtom provided for
in the Charter of the United Nationa  and the speedy and aubatantial  reduction
of arm8 and armed forces, by international agreement and mutual example,
leading ultimately to general and complete disarmament under effective
international control.,

Reaffirminrr  that the United Nationti, in accordance with its
Charter, haa a central role and primary responsibility in the sphere of
disarmament,

B the need for the United Natione, in discharging its central
role pnd primary responsibility in the sphere of disarmament, to play a more
active role in the field of disarmament in accordance with it8 primary purpose
under the Charter to maintain international peace and security,

-0 acw the part of the report of the Diearmament Commission
relating to this question, n/ and noting the progress made in the
consideration of the question at the fifteenth special sebsion of the Qeneral
Assembly,

Records of the Gel-1 Assemblv,v~sshpn,
(A/S-1503), pare, 4 7 .

0 . . .- - -_-_---- --



A/43/8S6
English
Page 60

s the common desire expressed at the third special session
devoted to disarmament on the necessity to strengthen the role of the United
Nations in the field of disarmament and the increased reaffirmation of faith
in the United Nations as an indispensable instrument for international peace
and security,

1, m the Disarmsment Commission to oontinue  its consi;eration of
the role of the United Nations in the field of disarmament as a matter of
priority at  i ts  next substantive session,  in 1989,  with a view to the
elaboration of conarete  recommendations and proposals, as appropriate, taking
into account, inter, tho views and suggestions of Member States as well
as the aforementioned documents on the subjects

2. v the, Disarmsslsnt  Commission to submit its report on
the subject, inoluding findings, recommendations and proposals, as
appropriate, to the Qeneral  Assembly at its forty-fourth sessionr

3, M to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
session an item entitled “Review of the role of the United Nations in the
field of disarmament: report of the Disarmament Commission”,

S

n its  reso lu t ions 40094 A of 12 Deaember 1985, 41/59 M of
3 Deaember 1986, and 42/38 N of 30 November 1987,

w of the Final Declaration of the Conference of Ministers of
Foreign Affairs of the Non-Aligned Countries, held at Nicosia from 7 to
10 September 1988,

w the primary responsibility of the militarily significant
States, especially nuclear-weapon States, for halting and reversing the arms
racer and the priority assigned to nuclear disarmament in the context of the
advances towards general and complete disarmsment,

v to the fact that together with negotiations on nuolear
disarmsment measures, conventional disarmament measures should be resolutely
pursued, in the context of which conventional disarmsment on a regional scale
acquires urgency and renewed importance,

m that regional or subregional arms limitation and disarmament
processes complement snd enhance global disarmament efforts,

0 . . .



A0430SS6
English
Page 61

&zcseaslncr of all regional and subregional peace and
disarmament endeavours that take into account the characteristics of each
region, as well as unilateral measures to strengthen mutual confidence and
assure the security of all States involved, making possible regional
agreements on arms limitatior  in the future,

M that the adoption of sum disarmsment measures should take
plaoe in an equitable and balanced manner in order to ensure tr:e right of each
State to security and that no individual State or group of States may obtain
advantages over others at any stage of this process,

uth s the positive trend towards the peaceful
settltrment of various regional and subregional conflicts and of the important
role played in that regard by the United Nations,

1, -ita at the initiatives towards arms
limitation and disarmsment adopted jointly or unilaterally by some countries
at the regional and subregional levels, as well as at the systematio
implementation of confidence-building measures, limitation of the acguisition
of conventional weapons and the reduation of military spending, with a view to
allooating the resources thus released to the socio-economic development of
the ir  peoplesr

2. EKPreaseaita- at efforts to bring about the
peaaeful solution of conflict situations and regional and subregional crises,
whioh would facilitate setting in motion specific measures for conventional
disarmament on a regional scale through negotiated agreements under strict and
effective international controls

3. Q for the Unitad Nations system, azd for
the  Secretary-Qeneral  in  partiaularr in their efforts to f ind solutions to
confliat  situations, thereby reaffirming the primary role of the United
Nations in promoting peace and disarmament, &ad for  the strict  observance of
the principles and norms embodied in the Charter of the United Wationsr

4 . D the Secretary-Genera3 to persevere in his current peace
efforts  in various areas of  tension in the world)

5. m the United Nations to provide assistance to States and
regional  inst i tut ions that  might request  i t  with a view to establishing
disarmament measures on a regional scaler

6. m to all other States to facilitate the pragrsss of regional
disarmament, refraining from any action, including the threat or use of fcwce,
that might impede the achievement of this objectivet

7. D&&s to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
session the item entitled “Conventional disarmament on a regional scale’*.

0 . . .
~_- .-..- - -  _--- ~_-.-.-- - _. .-. -..~



A/43/SS6
English
Page 62

T

-in m&d resolution CM/RES.11S3(XLV111),  concerning the dumping of
nuclear and industrial wastes in Africa, adopted on 2S May 1988 by the Council
of Ministers of the Organisation of African Unity at its forty-eighth ordinary
session, held at Addle Ababa from 19 tl& 23 May 1288, .W

MindPul  of the serious ooncerns raised by the Council of Ministers of the
Organisation of Afriaan Unity nt its forty-eighth session aoncerning the grave
implications that the dumping of nuclear and industrial wcastes could have on
the national security of Afcican  countries,

w resolution QC(XX%II)/RES/490  on the dumping of nualear wastea,
adopts4 on 23 September 1988 by the Qeneral Conference of the International
Atomic Energy Agency at its thirty-seaond regular session,

m its resolution 2602 C (XXIV) of 16 December 1969, in which it
requested the Conference of the Committse on Disarmament, m, to
oonsider  effective methods of control against the use of radiological methods
of warfare,

&&RR of the potential hasards underlying the dumping of nuclear wastes
and also the transboundary radiological consequences , which could l..we adverse
implications 02 regional and international security, and in particular the
security of the developing countries,

m of promoting the implementation of parpgraph 76 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the Qeneral Assembly, 210 the first
special session devoted to disarmament,

Aware of the consideration by the Conference on Disarmament during its
1988 session of the question of the dumping of radioactive wastes, which cause
destruction, damage or injury by means of radiation produced by decay of such
material ,

1, Condemns  all nuclear-waste dumping practices that would infringe
upon the sovereignty of States;

260 See A/43/398, annex.

n/ Resolution S-1002.

/ . * .



A/43/856
Baglidh
Page 63

2. vm regarding practises  of dumping nualear
and industrial wastev  in Afriaa,  whiah have grave impliaations  on the national
security of Afriaan aountriest

3. Cella all States to ensure that no radfoaative waste is dumped
in the territory of other States in infringement of their sovereignty)

4. mu the Conferenas on Disarmament to take into aaawnt,  in the
ongaing  negotiation for a convention on the prohibition of radiologiaal
weapons, the dumping of radioaative wastes in the territory of other Statest

5, Recrueats the Searetary-Qeneral  to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all doaunents relating to the aonsideration of the present item by
the Qeneral Assembly at  i ts  forty-third sessions

6. Recruests  the Conference on Disarmament to include in its report to
the Qeneral Assembly at its forty-fourth session the developments on the
ongoing negotiations on this subjeatr

7. Recrueste the Secretary-General  to prepare a report, in consultation
with relevant international organisations, on the dumping of radioactive
wastes in  al l  its aspeats, in Africa. including all steps taken or envisaged
to monitor, aontrol and put a halt to such aativities, and tn submit his
report to the aeneral Assembly at its forty-fourth sessions

8. Deeiaea to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
sess+on an item entitled “Dumping of radioactive wastes80.

72. The First Committee recommends to the denera Assembly the adoption of the
following draft decision:

The aeneral Assembly, having taken note of the report of the
Secretary-General, U/ decides to defer until a later date, to be agreed upon
in consultationa among Member States, the consideration of the item entitled
‘*Contribution of the specialised agencies and other organisations and
programmes of the United Nations system to the cause of arms limitation and
disarmament’*.

W A/43 /650 .


