







































UNITED
NATIONS

A
a0nsf8l A88Wnbly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/43/838
30 November 1980

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-third sess ion
Agenda item 59

PREVENTION OF AN AHMS RACE IN OUTER SPACE

muul Mr. Virgilio  A. REYES (Philippines)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled “Prevention of an arms race in outer space” was included in
the provisional agenda of the forty-third session in accordance with General
Assembly resolution 42133 of 30 November  1987.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1988, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Commit\.ee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
gsneral debate on the diearmament item8  allocated to it, namely items 51 to 69 and
139, 141 and 145. The delibf*ratfons on those items took place between the 3rd and
the 25th meetings, from 17 October to 2 November (see A/C.1/43/PV.3-25).
Consideration of and action on draft resolutions on those items took place between
3 and 16 November (see A/C.1/43/PV.26-43).

4. In connection with item 59, the P’irst  Committee had before it the following
documents :

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament: &/

_1/ Dfficial Records of the General Assemble,  Forty-third Session, Suww1emen.t
No.<27 (A/44/27) .

88-31731 OlOlP (E) / . . .



A/43/038
Engl i sh
Page 2

(b) Report of the Searotary-General on prevention of an arms  race in outer
#pace  (A/43/506 and Corr.1, end Add.1 and 2)r

(a) Letter dated 11 January 1988 from the Permanent Representative  of the
Union of Soviet Socialist ~~publios  to the United Nations addreseed to the
Secretary-General (A/43/88-S/19427))

(d) Lotter dated 2 Bobruary  1988 from the regrerentativer  of Argentina,
Greece, India, Mexioo,  Swaden and the Unitrd Rrpublia of Tanaania  to the United
Nations addreraed to the Secretary-General, traarmittiq he text of the Stockholm
Declaration, adopted on 21 January 1988 (A/43/125-W19478)~

(e) Letter dated 31 March 1988 from the Permanent Roprerentative of Bulgaria
to the United Nation8 addreread  to the Searotary-General, transmitting  the texts of
the aommuniqd  and the appeal  isrued by the Committee of the Minietera for Foreign
Affair8  of the Staten Partiea to the Warraw  Treaty at its Sofia meeting, on 29 and
30 March 1988 (A/43/276)1

(f) Letter dated 5 April 1988 from the Permanent Repre8entativea of the Union
of Soviet Socialiat Republic6 and Yugoslavia to the United Nationa addressed to tiie
Secretary-Genrral (A/43/283-8119736)~

(g) Letter dated 29 September 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Cyprus to the United Nation8 addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
final documents adogtod at the Conference of Forolqrr Minirterr of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countrier, held at Nicoair from 5 to 10 September 1988
(A/43/867=8/20212)J

(h) Letter dated 21 October 1988 from the Permanent Reprerentative  of the
German Democratic Republic to the United Nation8 addrersed to the Secretary-General
(A/43/741) ,

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Prpft rm A/C.1/43/-  Reva

5. On 28 October 1988, ata dhana.# Irgn
(Islamic Republic of ), &~,&a. Pakirtan, Bri Lanka, the Budm.m,
m and m submitted a draft resolution, entitled “Prevention of an
arms race in outer space” (A/C.1/43/L.12). The draft resolution was introduced by
Kie representa+5ve of Sri Lauika  at the 30th meeting, on 8 November, and read as
follows~

I’m by the great prospects opening up before mankind as a result of
man’s eatry into outer upace

/ . l I

- -- __-----
-.._---.  - - - - - - -

- -- - -



A/43/838
English
Page 3

“v the common intorert of all mankind in the erploration  and
use of outer apace for peaaeful purpoeea,

“m chat the l xploretion end use of outer apeam, including the
Moon  and other aelertirl bodier, shell be carried out for the benefit and in
the interest of all countries, irreapeative  of their degree of economic! or
s c i e n t i f i c  d0WlOpmOnt, end shall be the grovince of all mankind,

“v the will of all State8  that the exploration end use of
outer apace, including the Moon end other celestial bodies, shell be for
peaceful  purposea,

“RBOallinQ that the States  part ies  to  the Treaty on Principles  Qoverning
the Activities  of Stetea la the Exploretion  end U8e of Outer Speae, including
the Moon and Other Celestial Bodielr, a/ have undertaken, in article III, to
carry on activities in the exploration and use of outer space, including the
Moon and Oth,Br  celestial bodies, in accordance with internationel  law and the
Charter of the United Nations, in the interest of maintaining international
peace and security and promoting international co-operation and understanding,

‘I-, in particular, article IV of the above-mentioned Treaty,
which stipulates that States gartier to the Treaty undertake not to place in
orbit around the Earth any object6 asrryfng nuclear weagonr  or any other kinds
of weapons of maae destruction, instal l  ouch weeponr on celest ia l  bodies  or
station such wargone  in outer rpeco in any other manner,

“v paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Z:ssion of the General Assembly, a/ the firrrt special  aesrion  devoted to
disarmameut,  in which it ir stated that, in order to prevent en arms race in
outer space, further meaauree  should be teken and appropriate international
negotiations held in accordance with the spirit of the Treaty,

,I- its resolutions 36/97 C and 36/99 of 9 December 1981, as well
as resolutions 37/83 of 9 December 1982, 37/99 D of 13 December 1982, 38170  of
15 December 1983, 39/59 of 12 December 1984, 40/87 of 12 December 1985, 41153
of 3 December 1986 and 42/33 of 30 November 1987 and the relevant paragraphs
of the Political Declaration adopted by the Eighth Conference of Heads of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Harare from 1 to
6 September 1986, fi/

*‘RBeOQniSinQ  the importance and urgency of preventing an arma race in
outer space end the readiness of all State6 to contribute to that common
o b j e c t i v e ,

21 Resolution 2222 (XXI), annex,

2s Resolution S-10/2.

41 See A/41/697-5/18392,  annex,  paras. 36-39.

/ *a*

-~--- ----- ..---- ------.- .--



A/43/030
English
Page 4

‘I- at the danger poard to all mankind by an arm8 race in
o u t e r  rpaca and, in p a r t i c u l a r , by the impending  threat of the exacerbation of
the aurrent rtate of inrecurity by developments that could further undermine
international peace and security and retard the pursuit of general and
complete disarmament,

@‘WQ~Y  v that rapid progrera in apaar technology leavea
open the danger of weapon8  being deployed in outer apacer

“n by the widespread interelrt exprearred by Member States in the
course of negotiationu on and following the adoption af the above-mentioned
Treaty in enrruring  that the exploration and UIO of outer space should be for
peace fu l  purpo806, and taking note of proposal8 rrubmitted to the Qeneral
Assembly at its tenth special ~easion and at ita regular aeaaions  and to the
Conference on Diearmament,

“m the grave conaern exgreused by the Second United Nations
Conference on the Exploration and Peaceful User of Outer Spaas  at the
extenlriln of an arms race into outer rpace and the recommendation8 51 made to
the competent organs of the United Natfonrr,  in particular the Qeneral
Assembly  , and alno to the Conference on Disarmament,

“Natina that, in the work of the u Committee on the Prevention
of an Arm8 Race in the Conference on Diearmament,  in 1988, the identification
and examination of variour iaauea, initiative8 and proporralr  aimed at
preventing an arms race in outer space and ensuring that itir exploration and
use will be carried out exclusively for peaceful purpoaea in the common
interest and for the benefit of all mankind has contributed to a deeper
understanding of a number of problems and to a clearer perception of varioue
pos i t ions ,

“m that further measures are needed for the prevention of an arms
race in outer apace ,

“w that the exirting  legal regime applicable to outer space  by
itself doea not guarantee the prevention of an arm8 race in outer #pace,

I@- that,  in  the context of multi lateral  negotiat ions for
preventing an arma race in outer apace, bilateral  negotiat ions between the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United State8 of America could
make a significant  contribution to such an objective, in accordance with
paragraph 27 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Sess ion ,

*I- the importance in this context of bilateral negotiations between
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America that

51 See &port of * StrcQna Conference on -A ati
Peaceful  Uses oc Outer  Rp&$ze,  VW 9-2JJ&gust 1902 (A/CONF.lOl/lO and Corr.1
and 21, pare. 426.



A/43/530
English
P a g e  5

have continued since 1985 and including at their Summits in Wackington and
Moscow on a complex of questions concerning space and nuclear arms.

@I- that concrete results would emerge from these negotiationa as
soon aa possible ,

VOW the complementary nature of bilateral and multilateral
negot iat iona,

“w not,9 of the report of the Conference on Disarmament relating to
th i s  ques t ion ,  61

‘YVelcql&g  the re-establishment of an AB Committee an the Prevention
of an Arms Race in Outer Space during the 1988 session of the Conference on
Disarmament, in the exercise of the negotiating reSpOnSibilitiaS of this sole
multilateral negotiating body on disarmament, to continue to examine and to
identify through substantive and general consideration issues relevant to the
prevention of an arms race in outer apace,

“1, Recalls the obligation of all States to refrain from the threat or
use of force in their space activities)

“2. Reaffirms that general and complete disarmament under effective
international control warrants that outer space shall be used encluaively for
peaceful purposes and that it shall not become an arena for an arma race)

“3, m t h e  i m p o r t a n t  r o l e  o f  t h e  l e g a l  regime aQQlicable to
outer space in the prevention of an arms race in that environment and its
peaceful development for the bene..it of humanity?

“4. -es m the need to consol idate and reinforce that  r6gime
and to enhance ita effect iveness  as  wel l as the importance of otrictly
complying with existing bilateral and multilateral agreements)

“5. ms that further s?asures with appropriate and effective
provisions for verification to prevent an arms race in outer apace should be
6dOQted  by the international community1

“0. &Us UDOU  a l l  S t a t e s , jn particular those with major space
capab i l i t i e s , to  contribute act ively to the objectivs  of the peaceful  use of
outer space and to take immediate measures to prevent an arms race in outer
space in the interest  of maintaining international  Faace and security and
promoting international co-operation and understand?ngt

“7 l Beiterates that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum, has the primary role in the

61 A / 4 2 / 2 7 ,  s e c t .  1II.E.



A/43/030
English
Page 6

negotiation of multilateral agreemeat or agceements,  as appropriate, on the
preventioa of an arms race in outer space in ~11 it8 aspsctrr

“8. m the Conferrnae oa Disarmament to aonsider as a matter of
priority the question of preventing an arms race in outer space!

‘“9. -T- the Conference on Disarmament  to intensify its
consideration of the question of the prevention of an arms race in outer space
in  a l l  i t s  a spec t s , taking into account al l  relevant proposals ,  including
those QrSSSntSd in the Ad_ Committee at the 1988 session  of the Conference
and at the forty-third session of the General Assemblyr

“10, mr re the Conferenae on Disarmsment  to re-establish an
u committee with an adequate mandate at the beginning of it8 1989
session, with a view to undertaking negotiations for the aonclusion  of an
agreement or agreements, as appropriate, to prevent am arms race in outer
space in all its asgectsr

“11. m the Conference on Disarmament, in the context of its
negotiating mandate, to continue to examine and analyse the various proposals
and initiatives before it with a view to aonsidering  appropriate measures for
the prevention of an arms race in outer apace and the development of that
environment for exclusively peaceful purposesr

“12. m the Union of Soviet Socialiat  Rsgublics and the United States
of  Ameriaa  to pursue intensively their  bi lateral  negotiat ions-in a
constructive spirit aimed at reaching early agreement for preventing an arms
race in outer apace, and to advise the Conference on Disarmament p@riOdiC&lly
of the progress of their bilateral sessions so as to facilitat;  its works

“13. n a l l  S t a t e s , especially thorre with major space
capab i l i t i e s , to  re f ra in ,  in  the i r  ac t iv i t i e s  re la t ing  to  outer  space ,  f rom
actions contrary to the observance of the relevant existing treaties or to the
objective of preventing an arms race in outer spacer

“14. wte of the report of the Seoretary-Qeneral I/ on the question
of the prevention of an arms race in outer space submitted in accordance with
resolution 42133 of 30 Novembar 19871

"15. m the Conference on Disarmament to report on its
consideration of this subject to the General Ansembly at its forty-fourth
sessionr

“16. Recruests the Secretary-Qeneral to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all documents relating to the consideration of this subject by the
General Assembly at its forty-third sessionr

21 A/43/506 and Add.1.

/ . I .



A/43/830
English
Page 7

“17. D&&s  to include in  the provis ional  agenda of  i ts  forty-fourth
session the item entitled nPrevention of an arms race in outer space”.

6. On 17 November, the sponsors submitted a revised draft resolution
(A/C.1/43/L.l2/Rev.l),  which was later also sQonsored by w,

representative of Sri Lanka at the 42nd meeting, on 18 November.

7. At its 62nd  meeting, on 18 November, the Committee voted on draft resolution
A/C.1/43/L.12/Rev.l,  a s  fo l lows:

(a) The eleventh preambular paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of
121 to 1, with 13 abstentions. The voting was as follows: a/

-1 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brasil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussfan Soviet Socialint  Republic, Camaroon,
Central African R9QubliC,  Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Csechoslovakia,
Democratic KamQUCh9a,  Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Pij i, Finland,
Gabon, Qerman  Democratic R9QUbli0,  Qhana,  Greece, Guatemala,
Guinea, Quyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Is lamic Repuulic of) ,  Iraq,  Ireland,  Jordan,  Kmya,  Kuwait ,
Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jemahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives,
Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mosambique,  Nepal,
New Zealand, N.icaragua,  Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan,
Panama, Paraguay, L’eru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Surinsme,  Swsailand, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist R9QUbliC,  Union of SOd9t
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United R9QUbliC  of
Tansania,  Uruguay, Venesuela, Viet  Uam,  Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

-1 United States of America.

-1 Belgium, Canada, France ,  Germany, Federal Republic  of, ISra91,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

81 Subsequently, the delegation of Mali indicated that it had intended to
vote in favour of retaining the eleventh preambular paragraph.

/ . . .

-----__



A/43/038
English
Page 0

(b) The eighteenth preMlbUl&r  paragraph was adopted by a recorded vote of
121 to 1, with 11 abstentions. The voting was as follows: p/

Infavaurt Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina,  Austral ia,  Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brasil, Brunei Dsrussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Byeloruesian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Canada, Central African ReQUbliC,  Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, CGte d’fvoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Ceechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, Qambia,  Qerman Democratic Republic, Qreece, Quatemala,
Gui?,cra,  Quyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’6 Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahfriya,  Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia,
Walta,  Mauritania, MexIco,  Mongolia, Morocco, Mosambique,  Nepal,
New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Cknan, Pakistan,
Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Uniorr of Soviet
Social ist  Republics , United .4rab Emirates, United Republic of
Tansania, Uruguay, Venesuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaailaeti United States of America.

Abstainina: Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

(c) Operative paragraph 8 was adopted by a recorded vote of 123 to 1, with
13 abstentions. The voting was as follows: u1/

Zn_f : Afghanis tan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi,  Byelorussian Soviet  Social ist  Republic ,
Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, C6te d’Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Caechoslovakia,

91 Subsequently, the delegation of Mali indicated that it had intended to
vote in favour of retaining the eighteenth preambular paragraph,

LQ/ Subsequently, the delegation of Mali indicated that it had intended to
vote in favour of retaining operative paragraph 8.

/ . . .

----.  --____ -- ---- --



A/43/030
English
Page 9

Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Gabon, Gambia, German  Democratic Republic, Qhans, Qreece,
Guatemala, Guinea, Quyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia,  Iran (Ielamic Republic  of) ,  Irag, Ireland,  Jordan,
Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebaron,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Moxambique,  Nepal , New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Gman, Pakistan, Pansma, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Taneania, Uruguay, Veneauela,  Viet  Nam, Yemen,
Yugoelavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

A!afdaafI United States of America.

A-r Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Turkey,
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,

(d) Draft resolution A/C.1/43/L.12/Rev.l,  as a whole, was adopted by a
recorded vote of 137 to 1 (s8e pare. 14). The voting was as follows1

.In.favour Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, 0enin,
Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana, Braail, Brunei Darussalsm,  Bulgaria,
Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist
Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire,  Cuba,
Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fij i ,  Finland,  France, Gabon, Gambia, German Democratic Republic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greec8, Quatemala,  Guinea,
Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran
(Islamic Republic  of) ,  Iraq,  Ireinnd,  Israel ,  Italy,  Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Moeambique,  Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, (hen, Pakistan, Panama,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaeiland,  Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago,
Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United

/ . . 1

~-- - - --- ----------. ~--



A/43/838
English
Page 10

Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of
Rmania,  Uruguay, Veneeusla, Viet Nam, Yemen, Ylrgoslavia,  Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaeinetl U n i t e d  Stat88  O f  AmeriCa.

B .  &&aft  sC.l/43/L.~.9-

On 31 October 1988, We.
ky. Ju, t h e  Hetherlande. Turkey a n d  t h e

Briwn fru submitted a draft  resolution entitled
“Prevention of an arms race in outer space” (A/C. 1/43/L, 27), which was later also
sponsored by Auetrelie. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative
oE Italy at the 28th meeting, on 7 November, and read as follows:

“m its relevant resolutions and applicable provis ions of the
Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Assembly, u/

“w the common interest of all mankind in the progress of the
exploratiofi  and use of outer space for peaceful purposes,

“K9sC”‘~ thr,t the exploration and use of outer space, including the
Moon ana other celestial bodies, shall be Carried out for the benefit and in
the interest  of  al l  countries ,  irrespective of  their  degree of  economic or
scientific development, snd shall be the province of all mankind,

**RuWl& that the States parties to the Treaty on Principles Governing
the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space, including
the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, J,.2/ haV8  undertaken, in article III, to
carry on act ivit ies  in the exploration and use of outer space,  including the
Moon and other celestial bodies, in accordance with international law and the
Charter of the United Nations, in the interest of both strengthening
international peace and security and promoting international co-operation and
understanding,

ttv , in particular, article IV of the above-mentioned Treaty,
which stipulates that States parties to the Treaty undertake not to place in
orbit around the Earth any objects carrying nuclear weapons or any other kinds
of weapons of mass d8struCtiOn, instal l  such weapons on celest ial  bodies  or
station such weapons in outer space in any other manner,

,lJ/ R e s o l u t i o n  S-10/2,

l-21 Resolut ion 2222 (XXI),  snnss.

/ ..*



A/43/030
English
Page 11

ttw the paramount importance of strict compliance with existing
arms : * ..Lrol and disarmament agreements  relevant to outer space and, in
generel, with the existing Legal regime concerning tho use of outer apace ,

*I- of the fundamental contribution that space activities can make to
the economic and social progress of mankind, to the maintenance of
international pesce and eecurity  and to the implementation of agreements in
arms control,

It&&& the important contribution to an increase in international  trust
that can be made by a greater openness and transparency in activities related
to outer spaqe,

“Cm that further efforts should be made in the search for
effective and verifiable agreements on the interrelated questions of
preventing an arms race in outer space and terminating it on Earth,

“Notina_witb that bilateral negotiations between the Union
of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America haV8 mad8
progress since 1985 on a complex of q&sstions concerning space and nuclear
arms* both strategic and intermediate-range, with the declared Objective,
endorsed in the joint statement of their leaders on 21 November 1965, lJ/ of
working out effective agreements aimed, inter, at preventing an arms race
in outer spacer

“mw that the effective foundation for significant progress in
the multilateral domain is dependent on basic understandings achieved between
the United States of America  and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in
their bilateral negotiations,

“i&g- the two negotiating parties to achieve positive results as soon
as possible in their efforts to prevent an arms race in outer space,

“1. Re the obligation of ail States, in accordance with the Charter
of the United Nations, to refrain from the threat or use of force in general,
including in the area of outer space1

“2. Emzxessesm at the agreement reached in 1980 in the
Conference on Disarmament, the single multilateral negotiating forum,
rs-cstablishinq the A,dJ&u2  Committee on the Prevention of mn Arms Race in
‘St11 or Space;

‘1 3. W that it is necessary to advance and develop further the
examinat.ion  and identification of issues relevant to the prevention of an arms
race in outer space;

u/ A/40/1070, annex.



A/43/030
EfWJlitilh
Page 12

“4 I QB.Slu&it&,  as waa recognised  by the Ad Committee, that
no efforts should be spared to ensure that substantive work will continue on
the item entitled “Prevention of an arms race in outer space” at the next
session of the Conference on Disarmament)

“5, m the neecl  that the aforementioned efforts - i n  the
multilateral field - ehould be aimed at decieively  advancing the cause of
disarmament, peace, stability and international trust and should be of a
mutually complementary character in respect to those being developed
bilaterally by the United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics in the field of preventing an arms ram in outer apace ard
eliminating it on Earth1

“6. Recorrnlsas  the further significant contribution that the ongoing
negotiations between the United States oP America and the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics could make to maintaining international peace and eecurityt

II 7. C&&JR.W  the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and on the United
States of America to continue their bilateral negotiations in the search for
effective and verifiable agreements aimed at preventing an arms race in outer
space and terminating it on Earth, at drastically reducing nuclear arms and at
strengthening international stability)

“8. -tie the necessity of preventing the erosion 0’: relevant
existing treaties and in this context reaffirms the vital importance of a
strict compliance with the Treaty on the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile
Syfitemsr

"9 I Urges  as a matter of universal concern, the Conference on
Disarmament to continue its work in the area of the prevention of an arms race
in outer spacer

“10, (&J,Ji UDO~ all States to make constructive contributions to the work
of the Ad-j&~ Committeer

“11. mts the Conference on Disarmament to report on the work it has
devoted to this question to the General Assembly at its forty-fourth session)

“12. Rawsste the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all documents ralatinq to the consideration of this subject by the
General Assembly at its forty-third sessiont

“13. Deci.&a to include in the provisions1 agenda of its forty-fourth
session the item entitled “Prevention of an arms race in outer space”.

9. At the request of the sponsorsr no action was taken on draft resolution
A/C. 1/43/L, 27.

/ . . .



A/43/030
English
Page 13

C, Qc&fit rm A/C.1/43/L.3Q

On 31 October 1988, mr the w Soviet So-
.iihuulw.W,l~,  the Lao Poole 6 Democratic Q&uk&ic.  Wn.gs&ia.

:
Polmu¶ 0

the J&,.i&j~ut’and the U&m of Soviet Socialist w
submitted a draft resolution entitled ‘*Prevention of an arms race in outer space@’
(A/C,l/4j/t,30),  which was later also 6ponsorecI  by m and the Getman
I&n~~~rgl;~c~.&p,&J&,  and read as follows!

“Mau1ng its resolutions 36197 C and 36199 of 9 December 1981, a8 well
as reeclutions 37/83 of 9 December 1982, 37/99 D of 13 December 1902, 38170 of
15 December 1983, 39159 of 12 December 1904, 40187 of 12 December 1985, 41153
o f 3 December 1986 and 42133 of 30 November 1987,

“‘J&king..-iwc.o.unt  the discussions that took place at the fifteenth
special ees6ion of the General Assembly, the third special session devoted to
disarmament,

“u the provisions of articles III and IV of the Treaty on
Principles Governing the Activitiee  of States in the Exploration and Use of
Outer Space, including the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, l,4/ as well as
paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General
Assembly, l,J2/

“&a.U.irmina that the exploration and use of outer space, including the
Moon and other celestial bodies, shall be carried out for the benefit and in
the interest of all countries, and shall be the province of all mankind,

*‘&n&&&.ng that there is a need to unite the efforts of the whole
international community and to develop and intensify comprehensive
co-operation for the peaceful exploitation of outer space, which would be
tacilitated  by the establishment of a World Space Organisation,

“EmphaeL&ag  the great significance of confidence-building measures
relating to the space activities of States for the development of
international co-operation in the peateful exploitation of outer space and the
6trengthening  of international security,

“N&ng that the extension of the arms race to outer apace would
undermine international security and pose a threat to the interests of all
State6 and t.he international community as a whole,

- _ _. _

14/ Reeolut,ion  2222 (XXI), annex.

151 RcnoluLion  S--10/2.

/ l . .



A/43/838
English
Page 14

“Mindful that the extension of the arms race to outer space would entail,
among other negative consequencesI the squandering of vast resources urgently
needed for the purposes of development, including the provision of tangible
material aid to developing countries,

18B the importance of ensuring striat verification of
compliance with obligations with respect to the prevention of an arms race in
outer space, and of creating for these purposes a system of international
verification to preserve peace in outer epace,

v*&@&&,bg  the great eignificanae of the ABM Treaty of 1972 for the
prevention of an arms race in outer space,

“J&&A@ that the negotiations between the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and the United States of America should lead as soon aa possible to
tangible results regarding the prevention of an arms race in outer space and
the cessation of the arms race on Earth,

“m that a strengthening of the mutual and complementary
relationship between multilateral efforts to prevent an arms race in outer
space and the bilateral negotiations on nuclear and space weapons between the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America could
make a significant contribution to such an objective, in accordance with
paragraphs 27 and 114 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session,

,I ConvinceaA,&~  that specific measures are needed for the prevention of
an arms race in outer space an3 broad development of international
co-operation in the peaceful exploration and exploitation of outer space,

“BB&UJAUUW  the proposal to establish, on the basie of the
Krasnoyarsk raclar  installation, a centre for international co-operation for
the peaceful use of outer space and to incorporate bt into the systbm of a
World Space Organisation,

“1, -4 the obligation of all States to refrain from the threat or
use of force in their space activities)

“2. &&L~&xM that general and complete disarmament under effective
international control warrants that outer space shall be used exclusively for
peaceful purposes and that it shall not become an arena for an arms race;

“3
provisions

Emphasises  that concrete measures with appropriate  and effective
for verification to prevent an arms race in outer space should be

adopted by the international community;

“4 . ~aJ&._rapn.n  all States, especially those with major space
capabilities, to comply strictly with existing legal restrictions, both
bilateral and multilateral, aimed at preventing an arms race in outer space,
above all the ABM Treaty of 19721

/ . . .



A / 4 3 / 0 3 0
English
P a g e  1 5

“5, m the  u r g e n t  need for  the  proh ib i t ion ,  ha l t ing  of the
development and destruction of anti-ratollitr weapons and for the prohibition
of the deployment of woapono  in outer spacer

“6. m all  Statar engaged in space aativitier to faailitate the
development and rtrengthsning  of an international inspection syrtem for the
maintenance of peace in outer apace , whose functions would include the
inopectfon of evrry launch of cgaco objects,  and to tranrmit to
representatives of the inaprctorato in good time the nrcosoary  information
about such launchee, inaluding their location, type of launch vehicle, general
information about the object launched and relevant datesl

“7 I w u a l l  Stateo  c o n d u c t i n g  spaae a c t i v i t i e s  t o  b e
guided by the principlrr of oponnorr  and to promote the rrtablichmont  and
strengthening of an atmoophere  of mutual trust1

“em -U the  Searetary-Qrneral  to  inv i t e  Member  Statec  to  oubmit
their views on the possibility to developing international co-operation for
the prevention of an arms ram in  outer spaao and for the peaceful
exploitat ion of outer spacer including the establishment of a World Space
Organisation, which would become an important componrnt  prrt of the machinery
for internationalising the effort0 of States to enrure security and
co-operation and would fulfil the functionr both of verifying the provontion
of a space arms raae and of ao-ordinating the poaaeful exploitation of outcJr
space # and to report to the General Aarrmbly at its forty-fourth rsssionJ

"9 . Reitrrstrre that the Conference on Disarmament, aa the mingle
multilateral disarmament  negotiating forum, h a o  the  pr imary  role in  the
negotiation  crf a multilateral agreement or agrrenmnte,  ae appropriate, on the
prevention of  an arms r a c e  in oirter space in all  ite arpsctei

ItlO, m the Conference on Disarmament to to-establish an ad
committee at the beginning of its 1959 session with a view to undertaking
without delay negotiations for the conclusion of an agreement or agreemanta,
as appropriate, to prevent an arms race in outer space in all its aspects;

“1%.  Reaueete  the Conference on Diearmament to report on i to
consideration of this subject to the General Assembly at its forty-fourth
sessions

“12. f?~.gu.e.&a  the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all documents relating to the consideration of this subject by the
General Assembly at its forty-third seesiont

“13, Dacide.s  to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
seseion the item entitled “Prevention of an arms race in outer IDpace”.

11. At the request of the sponsorsr no action was taken on draft resolution
A/C, 1/43/L, 30.



A/43/030
English
Page 16

D. Rx&ft rwC.1/43/&&&

12. On 30 October 1988, China submitted a draft resolution entitled “Prevention of
a n  arms r a c e  i n  o u t e r  apad* (A/C.1/43/L.36),  which read ao follows1

“Wafiirmina that outer space is the common heritage of mankind, and that
the peaceful exploration and use of outer opaae, including the M o o n  and other
celestial bodies, as a comon aspiration of all countries in the world, shall
be carried out for the benefit  and i n  tha interests of al l  countr ies,  and
shall be the province of all mankind,

@@u the principles and objectives of the 1967 Treaty on Principles
Qoverning the Activitirr of State8 in the Exploration and Use of Outer Space,
inaluding the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, I&/ and in particular
articles  III  and IV thereof ,

“Putther rw paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the Qsnrral Assembly n/ and ita relevant resolutions since
1981,

“Esaeciallv its resolution 42/33 of 30 November 1987,
I’- that the development of space weapons entails a qualitative

escalation of the already serious arms race and poses a new threat to
international peace and etabilfty, and that to prevent the arms race in outer
space has consequently become a new priority in the field of disarmament,

‘@Btiw  that the prohibit ion of  space weapons const i tutes  an effect ive
means to prevent the arm6 race i n  outer space,

“m of the urgent demand of the international community
that immediate and effective measures be taken to prevent an arms race in
o u t e r  s p a c e ,

“UJI,& the need to consol idate and reinforce the legal  rigime
applicable  to  outer space and recognising that this  legal  rdgime, as such,  js
not sufficient to guarantee the prevention of an arms race in outer space,

“A,l$o reuw that with a view to achieving the goal of pre*?enting an
arms race in outer space, measures may be considered in the following aqects,
simultaneously or separately1

161 Resolution 2222 (XXI),  annex,

U/ R e s o l u t i o n  S-10/2.



A/43/030
English
P a g e  1 7

“(a) Completely  prohibit all typo@ of rpaoo weapons, inoluding
anti-mimmilo wohpoam  and auti-•atollito woapoamr mo am to roalimo the
“non-weaponisation~~  of  outor  apaoo#

"(b) Prohibit the UIO or throat of forao and any other homtilo  aotionr  or
threat of 19 .h aotionm within outor mpaaor againmt:  outor mpaao from the Earth
or from outer apaae againrt th@ Earth,

“w that tha two Statrm with the largort epaoo wpabilitior  bear a
8pe\?ial  reoponribility  for the prevention of an arm taoo in outor apacer

I@- of the aonrideration  of the quortion by the Conforonoo on
Disarmament,  u/

t’m the ro-•rtablishmont  of the m Committoo on the Prevention
of an Arm8 Rae8 in Outer Space by the Conferanaa on Dimarmament  during itm
1988 merrrion,

‘I- regtot that the bb_Hao Committw  mo far ham not boon able to
start negotiation6 on en international agreement for the provontion of aa arms
race i n  o u t e r  opaoe,

“1, Calla a.11 State@, l 8paoially thoao with rpaae oapabilitims,  to
contribute actively to the realisation of the obfrotivo of poaaoful umo of
outer apace and to adopt prompt and l ffeativm meaburem  to provost an arm8 race
in  outer  apacrr

I@ 2, w the Conference on DimarmameUt,  the minglo multilateral
dirarmament  negotiating body, to speed up the oonridoration  of the question of
preventing an arma r a c e  in outer rpaao  in all  its arpeotr a8 a matter of
priority  and urgenCyI taking into aooount all the relevant draft resolutiona
and propoaaler

“3 . m the Conierence  on Diaarmameat  to  ta - • r tab l i sh  insmediately
an UC committee on the prevention of an arm8 race in outer rpace with an
adequate mandate at the outset of itm 1989 rrmsion , with a view to initiating
negotiat ion8 for concluding an international  a g r e e m e n t  or agreemaatr,  aa
appropriate, on the prohibition and destruction of all apace weaponr and on
the prohibition of the UIO of force or horrtilr actionr  in, to or from outer
space I

“4 . w the Union of Soviet Socialirrt  Republ!.cr and the United Statea
of America, the two major space Powerr currently engagrd  in the dovrlopment  of
space weaponat to refrain from developing, tooting,  producing and deploying
space weapona,  to  dertroy al1 their existing  apace weaponm, to  conduct  serious
bilateral negotiations on the prevention of an arm6  race in outer apace and to
keep the Conference  on Disarmament properly informed of the progrerr  of these
negotiations1

u/ a!See Qfficialorda  01 the General  m, Fortv-wd  Sew#
&clement  No. 27 (A/43/27), sect, 1II.E.



A/43/038
English
Page 18

“5. m the Secretary-Qeaeral to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all the doauments  relating to the aonsideration  of this item by
the Qeneral  Assembly at  i ts  forty-third sessions

“6. RecruePtn  the Conference on Disarmament to submit a report on its
consideration of this subject to the Qenersl Assembly at its forty-fourth
seseiont

,I 7. Deciaea  to include in  the provis ional  agenda of its forty- fourth
session the item entitled “Prevention of an arms race  in outer space*@,

13, At the request  of  the sponsorr n o  act ion  was  taken  o n  draft reso lu t ion
A/C.1/43/L.36.

I I I . RECCM4ENDATION  OF THE FIRST CCWITTEE

14. The First Committee recommends to the Qeneral Assembly the adoption of the
fol lowing draft  resolutions

w by the great prospects opening up before mankind as a result of
man’s entry into outer space,

w the common interest of all mankind in the exploration and use
of outer space for peaceful purposesr

D that the exploration and use of outer space, including the
Moon and other celestial bodies, shall be carried out for the benefit and in
the interest of all countries, irrespective of their degree of economic or
scientif ic  development, and shall be the province of all mankind,

ReeffirmLncl  the wil l  of all  States that the exploration and use of
outer space,  including the Moon and other celest ial  bodies, shal l  be for
peaceful  purposesr

m the ob l iga t ion  o f  a l l  S ta te s , in accordance with the Charter of
the United Nations,  to refrain from the threat or use of  force,  including in
the i r  space  ac t iv i t i e s ,

m that the States parties to the Treaty on Principles Governing
the Activities of States in the Exploration and Use o f  Outer Space, including
the Moon and Other Celestial Bodies, J,,W have undertaken, in article III, to

;Lp/ Resolution 2222 (XXI),  annex.

/ . . .



A/43/838
Enylish
Page 19

carry on act ivi t ies  in  the exploration and use of outer apacer including the
Moon and other celestial bodies, in accordance with international law and the
Charter of the United Nations, in the interest of maintaining international
peace and security and promoting international co-operation and understanding,

Dr in part i cu lar , article IV of the above-mentioned Treaty,
which stipulates that State8 partier  to the Treaty undertake not to place in
orbit around the Earth any objects aarryinq nuclear weapons or any other kinds
of weapons of mass destruction, instal l  such weapons on celest ial  bodies  or
station such weapon8  in outer apace in any other mannerr

Reaffirmincr  paragraph 80 of the Final Document of the Tenth Spesial
Session of the Qeneral Assembly,  1p/ the firat special  sess ion devoted to
disarmament, in which it is stated that, in order to prevent an arms race in
outer space, further measures should be taken and appropriate international
negotiations held in accordance with the spirit of the Treaty,

w its resolution6 36/97 C and 36/99 of 9 December 1981, as well a8
resolutions 37/83 of 9 December 1902, 37/W D of 13 December 1982, 30170 of
15 December 1983, 39159 of 12 December 1984, 40187 of 12 December 1905, 4:‘53
of 3 December 1986 and 42/33 of 30 November 1987 and the relevant paragraphs
of the Political Declaration adopted by the Eighth Conference of Head8 of
State or Government of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Harare from 1 to
6 September 1986, 211

v the importance and urgency of preventing an arms race in
outer space and the readiness of all States to contribute to that common
object ive ,

Gravu co- at the danger posed to all mankind by an arms race in
outer space and,  in particular, by the impending threat of the exacerbation of
the current state of insecurity by developments that could further undermine
international peace and security and retard the pursuit of general and
complete disarmament,

Wouraa by the widespread  interest expressed by Member State8 in the
course of negotiations on and following the adoption of the above-mentioned
Treaty in ensuring that the exploration and use of outer space should be for
peaciful purposes1 and taking note of proposals submitted to the General
Assembly at  i ts  tenth special  session and at  i ts  regular sessions and to the
Conference on Disarmament,

2p/ Reso lu t ion  S -1012 .

a/ See A/41/697-6/10392,  annex,  paras. 36-39 .



A/43/838
English
Page 20

Notinq the grave concern expressed by the Second United Nations
Conference on the Exploration and PeaCefUli  USeS of Outer Space dt the
exte,ision  of an arms race into outer space and the recommendations a/ made to
the competent organs of the United Nations, in particular the General
Assembly, and also to the Conference on Disarmament,

Notinq that, in 1988, the Ad Hoc Committee on the Prevention of an Arms
Race in Outer Space, taking into aCCOUnt its previous efforts since its
establishment, undertook the examination and identification of various issues,
existing agreements and existing proposals, as well as future initiatives
relevant to the prevention of an arms race in outer space and that this
contributed to a better understanding of a number of problems and to a clearer
perception of the various positions,

Convinced that additional measures should be examined in the search for
effective and verifiable bilateral and multilateral agreements in order to
prevent an arms race in outer space,

Emphasizinq  the paramount importance of strict compliance with existing
arms limitation and disarmament agreements relevant to outer space, and with
the existing legal regime concerning the use of outer space,

Emohasizinq the necessity of maintaining the effectiveness of relevant
existing treaties and in this context reaffirming the vital importance of a
strict compliance with the Treaty on the Limitation of Anti-Ballistic Missile
Systems,

Recoonizinq that bilateral negotiations between the United States of
America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics could facilitate the
multilaterai negotiations for the prevention of an arms race in outer space in
accordance with paragraph 27 of the Final Document cf the Tenth Special
Session of the General Assembly, the first special session devoted to
disarmament,

Notinq the importance in this context of bilateral negotiations between
the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of America that
have continued since 1985 and including at their summits in Washington and
Moscow on a complex of questions concerning space and nuclear arms,

Baneful that concrete results would emerge from these negotiations as
soon as possible,

Emnhasizinq the mutually complementary nature of bilateral and
multilateral efforts, in the field of preventing an arms race in outer space,

u/ See Report of the Second United Nations Cogfzrence on the Exploration and
Peaceful Uses of Outer Soace. Vienna. 9-21 August la (A/CONF.~Ol/lO and Corr.7.
and 2), para. 426.

/ . . .



A/43/030
Englirh
Pagm 21

Tnk&g..ants  of the report of the Conference on Diosrmemsat  relating to
this ques t ion ,  a/

m the re-eotablichment of an Ad Committee on the Prrvontion
of  a n  A r m s  Race i n  Outer Specs during the 1998 rosaion of the Conforoncr on
Disarmament, in the exeraiee of the negotiating reeponeibilitier  of thir sole
multilateral negotiating body on disarmament,  to continue to examine and to
identify through substantive and general consideration iseurs relevant to the
prevention of an arms race i n  outer apace,

1. Re&&m8 that general and complete dinarmament under l ffeotivo
international control warrants that outer apace shall be urod l xalurivoly for
peaceful purposes and that it shall not beaome en arena for an armr raaot

2. RQJIQ-,  ar otatrd in the report of tha Ads Committee of the
Conference on Diearmament,  241 that the legal  rigimr  applicable  to  outer rprce
by itself does not guarantee the prevention of en arm@  race in outrr rpaaol
that this legal regime play6 a  nignificant  role in the prevention of an armr
race in that environment, the need to conrolidate  and reinforce that rigimo
and enhance its effectlveneee, and the importance of strict complianae  with
existing agreements, both bi lateral  and multilateralj

3. m that further measures  with appropriate and effective
provisions for verification to prevent  an arms race in outer rpaae rhould be
adopted by the international community1

4. CaUkup~a all States, in particular, those with major apace
capab i l i t i e s , to  contr ibute  ac t ive ly  t o  the  objec t ive  of  the  peaceful UIO o f
outer space end to take immediatu meaourea  to prevent an  armr raae in outer
space i n  the interest of maintaining international peace and sraurity end
promoting international co-operation and understanding1

5. m that the Conference on Diearmament,  aa the mingle
multilateral diearmament negotiating forwn, hae the primary role in the
negotiat ion of  a mult i lateral  agreement or agreementr, ar appropriate* o n  the
prevention of an arms race in outer space in all its aspectst

6. Rrtgu the Conference o n  Disarmament to conoider  am a  matter OC
priority tho queotion of preventing an arm8 race in outer epacer

7. Alto requaat~ the Conference on Diearmawent  to intensify its
consideration of the queotion of the prevention of an armc race in outer opwc
in al l  ito aspects, taking into account all relevsnl proposal6 and

241 I b i d . ,  pure,  80.



A/43/838
English
Page 22

initiatives, inaluding those presented in the u Committee at the 1988
session of the Conference and at the forty-third session of the General
A~remblyt

8. Further reau the Conference on Disarmament to re-establish an
ad committee with an adequate mandate at the beginning of its 1989
aeseion,  with a view to undertaking negotiations for the conclusion of an
agreement or agreements, as appropriate, to prevent an arm0 race in outer
a p a c e  i n  a l l  i t s  espectsr

9 . m the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States
of America to  puraue intensively their  bi lateral  negotiat ions in a
constructive spirit eimed at reaohing early agreement for preventing an arms
race in outer space, and to advise the Conference on Disarmament periodically
o f  t h e  progresr  o f  t h e i r  b i l a t e r a l  ressiona s o  a s  t o  f a c i l i t a t e  its work8

1 0 .  m all  S ta tes ,  e spec ia l ly  those  wi th  major  space
~epabilities, to refrain,  in their act ivi t ies  relat ing to  outer space,  from
aotiona contrary to the observance of the relevant exist ing treaties  or to  the
objective of preventing an arms race in outer spacer

11. W nom of the report of the Secretary-General  as/ on the
quertion of the prevention of an arma race in outer apace, submitted in
accordance with resolution 42/33 of 30 November 1987)

12. &g&a&U the Conference on Disarmament to report on itr
coneideration  of  this  su’Jject to  the General  Asaernbly  et  it8 forty-fourth
eeasiont

13. &~R,R&R  the Secretary-General to transmit to the Conference on
Disarmament all documents relating to the consideration of this subject by the
General Assembly at its forty-third sessions

14, T)ecidea to include in the provisional  agenda of  i ts  forty-fourth
session the item entitled “Prevention of an srmr  race in outer apace”.

--m-w

fi/ A/43/506 and Corr.1 and Add.1 and 2.


