







































UNITED
NATIONS

aenerel Assembly
Distr.
QENERAL

A/43/857
25 November 1950

ORIGINALI  EN[3LIGH

Forty-third session
Agenda item 65

REVIEW AND IMPLEMENTATION OF THE CONCLUDINQ DOCUMENT OF
THE TWELFTH SPECSAL SRSSION OF THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY

o r t  o f  m F i r s t  CQmmittea

worteugr  Mr. Virgilio A. REYES (Philippines)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled;

“Review  and implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special
Session of the General Assembly~

"(a) Review and implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth
Special Session of the General Assembly8

‘l(b) F r e e z e  o n  aUCle8t  W0apOnSl

l’(c) Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons1

"(d) United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia;

“(e) World Disarmament Campaign;

“(f) Implementation of Gener‘ll  Assembly resolution 42139 H irn a nuclear-arms
freeze]

‘l(g) United Nations disarmament fellowship, training and advisory services
programmer

"(h) United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa;

66-31393  0078P  (D) / . . .



A/43/057
English
Page 2

“(i) United Nations Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and
Development in Latin America

was  :nclrded in the provis ional  agenda L- the forty-third session in accordance
w;th General Assembly resolutions 42139  A, B, C, D, Q, H, X, J and K of
30 November 1987,

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1988, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include the item ’ ! its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee,

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
general debate on the disarmament items allocated to it ,  namely, items 51 to 69,
139, 141, and 145, The deliberations on those items took place between the 3rd and
the 25th meetings, from 17 October to 2 November (see A/C.1/43/PV.3-25).
Consideration of and action on draft resolutions on those items took place between
3 and 18 November (see AK.1/43/PV.26-43).

4. In connection with item 65, the First Committee had before it the following
documents:

(a) Report of the Conference on Disarmament) A/

(b) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace and Disarmament in Asia (A/43/568)1

(c) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America (A/43/614)1

(d) Report of the Secretary-General on the World Disarmament Campaign
(A/43/642),

(e) Report of the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Studies; United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research (A/43/685)1

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace and Disarmament in Africa (A/43/669)1

(g) Report of the Secretary-General on the United Nations disarmament
fellowship, training and advisory services programme (A/43/719);

(h) Note by the Secretary-General on the review and implementation of the
Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the General Assembly
(A/43/798);

;h/ ial Records of  the General  Aasemblv.  Forty-third SctssiQI1 Suunlemenf;
PO. 27 (A/43/27).

/ . l .

-----.- -.-.-

-.-.- ---.- ._
_---- .---



A/43/857
English
Page 3

(1) Letter deted 11 January 1988 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Sociallet  Republics to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/43/88-W19427)J

(j) Letter dated 2 February 1988 from the representatives of Argentina,
Greece, India, Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanaania to the United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the Stockholm
Declaration adopted on 21 January 1988 (A/43/125-6/19478)1

(k) Letter dated 27 May 1918 from the Permanent Representative of Guatemala
to  the United Nations addressed to the Secretery-General,  transmitt ing the text  of
the resolutions and decisions adopted by the seventy-ninth session of the
Inter-Parliamentary Union, held at Guatemala City from 8 to 16 April 1988
(A/43/370)r

(1) Note verbale dated 21 July 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Caechoslovakia  to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral (A/43/485)1

(m) Note verbale dated 26 July 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Mexico to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/43/487)r

(n) Letter dated 29 September 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Cyprus to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the
final documents adopted by the Conference of Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the
Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Nicosia from 5 to 10 September 1988
(A/43/667-W20212)j

(0) Letter dated 29 September 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Colombia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/43/668)1

(p) Letter dated 6 October 1988 from the Permanent Representative of Zimbabwe
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the final
communique of the Meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of Delegation
of the MovemeEt  of Non-Aligned Countries to the forty-third session of the United
Nations Qeneral Assembly, held in New York on 3 October 1988 (A/43/709)r

(q) Note verbals dated 24 October 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/C.1/43/6).

I I . CONSIDERATInN  OF PROPOSALS

A, Draft resoluu 1/43/L. 24

5. On 31 October, (=Ynsua  submitt0.l a draft resolution entitled “Disarmament and
international security” (A/C.l/43/L,24),  which was introduced by its representative
at the 23th meeting, on 3 November.

/ ..I

----_- .~ ..__--._ --
---.-- --



A/43/067
English
Page 4

6, At ita 41rt meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/43/L.94 b y  a recorded  vote  o f  1 0 9  t o  1, w i th  21  abrrtentions (see para, 2G,
draft  resolution A). The voting wae aa followal

-8 Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,  Botswana, Braail,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo, Costa Rica, C&e
d’Ivolre,  Cuba, Cyprus, Csechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea,
Djibouti ,  Dominican Republic ,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Ethiopia,  F i j i ,
Qabon, Qerman Democratic Republic, Qhana,  Qreece, Quatemala,
Quinea, Quyana, Honduras, Hungary, India,  Indonesia, Irma
(Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Lesctho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malawi, Malaysia, Meldives,  Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Moaambigue,  Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger,
Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Qatar, homania,  Rwanda, SWnoa,  Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra
Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socfalist  Republic,  Union o f  Soviet  Social ist  Republics ,
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tansania,  Uruguay,
Veneauela,  Viet Nam,  Y e m e n ,  Yugoslavia,  Zaire ,  Zambia,  Zimbabwe.

Aaainat: U n i t e d  S t a t e s  o f  A m e r i c a .

&&&i&g: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France,
Qermany, Federal Republic of, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy,
Japan, Luxembourg,
Spain, Sweden,

Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal,
United Kingdom of Qreat Britain and Northern

Ireland.

8, Draft rest&&&ta A/C. 1/43/L.26  Rev. 1

7. On 31 October, InBoneeia.  Pakistan, Peru and &9&~  submitted a draft
resolution entitled “Implementation of Qeneral Assembly resolution 42/39 H on a
nuclear-arms f reeae” (A1C.11431L.261,  which was later also sponsored by w and
EQJIW&.  The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of Mexico at
the 29th meeting, on 7 November.

8. On 15 November,  the s g o n a o r e  submitted a revised draft  resolution entit led
"NUCl8ar-erms  f reeae’@ (A/C01/43/L.26/Rev.l),  containing the fol lowing changes!

(a) The second preambular paragraph, which had read;

“wiqa alsp that,  on those occasions, it pointed out that exist ing
arsenals  of nuclear wespons are more than suff ic ient  to destroy al l  l i fe  on
Earth and stressed that mankind is therefore confronted with a choice; h a l t
the arms race and proceed to disarmament, or face annihilation”,

/ . . .

--------  -...-. -- -.- ..-_ ---.._



A/43/057
EIiglish
Page 5

was replaced by a pfeambular  paragraph, reading:

“&~&ISA that in this nuclear age lasting world peace can be baaed only
on the attainment of the goal of general and complete disarmament under
e f fec t ive  in ternat iona l  control,@‘j

(b) A new seventh pr0ambular  paragraph was added, readinga

“1 that nuclear-weapon  States have not 80 far
taken any action in response to the call made in the relevant resolutions on
the question of a nuclear-arms free8e,@@j

(c) Operative paragraph 1, which had read:

"1. J&g.es Q~CB the Union O f  SOVi8t S o c i a l i s t  R e p u b l i c s  a n d  the
United States of America, as the two major nuclear-weapon States, to proclaim,
either through simultaneous unilateral declarations or through a joint
declaration, an immediate nuclear-arms freeae,  WhOS8 structure and scope would
be the fol lowing:

"(a) It would embrace:

"(i) A comprehensive test ban on nuclear weapons and of their delivery
vehiclesr

"(ii) The complete cessation of the manufacture of auclesr  weapons and of
the ir  de l ivery  veh ic l e s ;

@@(iii)  A ban on all further deployment of nuclear weepoas  and of their
delivery Vehic l e s ,

"(iv) The compl8t8  cessation of the production of fissionable material for
weapons purposest

“(b) ft would be subject to appropriate an4 effective measures
and procedures of verification)

"(c) It  would be of  an init ial  f ive-year duration,  subject  to
prolongation when Other nuclear-weapon States j o i n  i n  such a fr8038,  as the
General Assembly urges them to do",

was replaced by new operative paragraphs 1 and 2, readings

"1 , U&es once mom the Union of Soviet Socialist Repubircs and
the United States of America, as the two major nuclear-weapon States, to agree
to an immediate nuclear-arms freeze, which would, wr alb, prOVid8  for a
simultaneous total stoppage of any further production of nuclear weapons and a
complete cut-off in the production of fissionable matelial for weapons
purpusesl

/ . . .



A/43/857
English
Page 6

“2, murpg a l l  nuclee veapon State8 to agree8 through a  jo int
declaration, to a comprehensive nuclear-arms freeae, whose  structure and scope
would be the f ollo~Ang8

“(a) It would embrace:

l@(i)  A comprehensive test ban on nuolear weapons and of their delivery
vehiolesl

“(ii) The complete cessation of the manufacture of nuolesr weapons and of
t h e i r  d8liv8ry vehiclerr

“(iii)  A ban on all further d8QlOyment of nuolear weapon8  and of their
delivery vehicles,

“(iv)  The complete cesration of the production of fissionable material for
weapons purposest

“(b) It would be subject to appropriate and effective meanurea and
procedures Cf V8rifiCatiOn”t

(d) Operative paragraph 2, which had read:

“2, -4 the above-mentioned two major nuclear-weapon States to
submit a joint report or two separate reports to the Qeneral Assembly, prior
to  the opening of  its forty-fourth session, on the implementation of the
present r8solution't,

was renumbered operative paragraph 3 and revised to read:

“3 . w the nuclsar-weapon  States to submit a joint report,, or
separate reports, to the Qeneral Assembly, prior to the opening of its
for ty - fourth  ses s ion, on the implementation of the present resolution”#

(e) Operative paragraph 3, which had readr

“3. becfaes  to include in the provisional  agenda of i ts  forty- fourth
session an item entitled *‘Implementation of Qeneral Assembly resolution
431 on nuclear-arms f reeve”,

was renumbered operative paragraph 4 and revised to read as follows:

“4 . DeciQgg to include in the provis ional  agenda of i ts  forty- fourth
session an item entitled ‘*Nuclear-arms freeae”.

9. At its 40th meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/43/L.26/Rev.l  by a recorded vote of 116 to 13 with 3 abstentions (see
para.  28 ,  d ra f t  reso lut ion  B) .  The  vot ing  was  as  fo l lows:

/ . . .

.-.~-- --. -- --- -..-- .-.__ ..--_ - _-..-~. --- -.



A/43/057
English
Page 7

Infavourl Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Aurrtria,  Bahamaa,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  B e n i n ,  Bol iv ia ,
Botswana, Brasil,  Brunei Darussalam, Bulyaria, Burkina Fabo,
Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Sooialist  Republio, Cameroon,
Central Afr ican  Republio, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Coat8
R i c a ,  C&e d’Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus,  Ca8ohoslovskia, Democrat ic
Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,  Egypt,
Rthiopia, Fiji, Finland, Qabon, Qerman Democrstio Republic,
Ghana, Qr8eOe,  Quatemala,  Quinea, Guyana, Honduras, Wungary,
Itad&  Indonesia,  Iran (Is lamic Republic  of) ,  Iraq,  Ireland,
Jamaica, Jordan, KBnya, Kuwait ,  Lao People’s  Democratic  R e p u b l i c ,
Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahitiya, Madagascar,
Malayeia,  Maldives, Mal i ,  Mal ta ,  Maur i tan ia ,  Mexioo, M o n g o l i a ,
Morooco, MOsambigue,  Nepa l , N e w  Zealand,  Nioaragua,  Niger,
Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, 88moa,  Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
S i e r r a  L e o n e ,  Singaporn, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaailand, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Bepublic of
Tansania,  Uruguay, Veneauela, Wet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,
RMlbia, zinbabW8.

-8 Belg ium,  Canada ,  F r a n c e ,  Qermany, Federal  Republio of,  Israel ,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, Turkey, United
Kingdom of Great Britain and rJorthern Ireland, United States of
America.

&&&&G: C h i n a ,  Iceland, S p a i n ,

10. On 31 October, B. Egypt, Indonesia. t&~@o, Pu
&ri Lsnka,  SwqQen.  Vm and B submitted a draft  resolution’entitled
"World Disarmament Campaign” (A/C,l/43/L.33), which was later also sponsored by
UJ,ga&, t h e  -sovietsocialist t h e  detmcrr
&tg~U.Lq, t h ev and me The draft  resolution was introduced by the
representative of Mexico at the 29th meeting, on 7 November.

11. At its 35th meeting on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C,1/43/L.33  by a recorded vote of 128 to none, with 10 abstentions (see  pare.  28,
draf t  rerPolution  C) . The voting was as followsl

In; Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
BoLivia,  Botswana, Braril,  Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socirrlist  Republic,
Cameroon, Cape Verde, Centra l  Afr ican  R e p u b l i c ,  Chad,  Chi le ,
China, Colombia, Congo, C o s t a  R i c a ,  C&e d’Ivoir8,  C u b a ,  Cyprus,

/ . . l



A/43/051
English
Page 8

Csechoslovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark,
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,  Egypt,  Ethiopia,  Fi j i ,
Finland,  Qabon, Qerman Demosratic  Republ ic ,  Qhana,  Qreece,
Quatemala,  Quinea, Quyana,  Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia,  Iran (Islamic Republic  of) ,  Iraq,  Ireland,  Israel ,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldivtis, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Moaambfque,  Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Omen, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Quinea,
Peru,  Phil ippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri
Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand,  Sweden, Syrian Arab  Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet  Social ist  Republic ,  Union of Soviet  Social is t
Republics ,  United A r a b  Emirates , United Republic of Tansania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia,
Zimbabwe.

Aaainstf None.

&&&,&lga Belgium, Canada, France, Gutmany,  Federal Republic of,
Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Staterl  of America.

D .  D r a f t  reagJ&&m  A/m

12. On 31 October, the Unitea of Tm# on behal of the Member States
that are members of the Qroug of African States, submitted a draft resolution
entitled “United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Africa”
(A/C,1/43/L.41). The draft resolution was introduced by the representative of
Zaire, on behalf of the Qroup of African States, at the 28th meeting, on 7 November.

13. In this connection, at the 35th meeting on 14 November the Secretary of the
Committee informei  the Committee that the draft resolution had no programme budget
implication@.

14, At the same meeting, the Committee adopted &aft resolution A/C.1/43/L.41
wi thout  a  vo te  ( s ee  para. 28 ,  reso lu t ion  D).

E. D r a f t -

15. On 31 October,  Alner Arcrentina, B&g&n, EC&r,
ia. ma. I- Mad-m. Wia, V i e t  N&n a n d &Lbmitted

a draft resolution entitled “Convention on the Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear
Weapons” (A/C.1/43/L.55),  which was later also sponsored by w. The draft
resolution was introduced by the representative of India at the 30th meeting, on
8 November.

/ . . .

-- -- -.-..- ---.--.--. .~ -..--- -.--. -- ---. - ..-- - .--.-. -.-_.



A/43/857
English
Page 9

16. At its 34th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/43/L.55  by a recorded vote of 112 to 17, with 4 abstentionu (see pare, 26,
dra f t  reso lut ion  El+ The voting was as follcws: a/

Infavaurl

-1

Bbs:

Afghanietan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Braail,  Brunei Darusealam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burm&,  Burundi ,  Byelorussian Sov i e t  Soc ia l i s t  Republia,  CameroOnr
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Caechoelovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Qabon, Qerman  Democratic Republics,
Qhana,  Quatemala, Quinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, India,
Indonesia,  I ran (Is lamic Republic  of) ,  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,
Kmya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Maldives,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Moaambique,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Phil ippines, Poland, Qatar, Romarla, Rwanda, Sao Tome and
Principe, Saudi  Arabia,  Sonegal,  Sierra Leone,  Sincrapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaailand,  Sweden, Gyrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Social ist  Republics , United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanaania,  Uruguay, Veneauela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe,

Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Qermany,  Federal
Republic of, Iceland, Italy, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New
Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Qroet
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Qreece, Ireland,  Israel ,  Japan.

F. Draf t  reae;lution A/C.1/49/L.56

17. On 31 October, u&. and Romania  submitted a draft resolution entitled “Freeze
on nuclear weapons” (A/C.l/43/L,56),  which was introduced by the representative of
India at the 30th meeting, on 8 November. The draft resolution reads as follows;

11 Subsequently , the delegation of Niger indicated that it had intended to
vote  in  favour of  the draft  resolution.

/ I . .



A / 4 3 / 0 5 7
English
Page 10

“The,

I@- i t s  r e s o l u t i o n s 37/100  A of 13 December 1962, 36173 B of
15 December 1963, 39163 Q of 12 December 1964, 40/151 E of 16 December 1965
and 41/60 E of 3 December 1986 and 42/39 B of 30 November 1967 concerning A
freese on nuclear weapons,

@I- that in this nuclear age lasting world peace can ho based only
on the attainment of the goal of general and complete disarmament under
ef fec t ive  in ternat iona l  contro l ,

‘@Further  cm that  the  h ighes t  pr ior i ty  objec t ives  in  the  f i e ld  of
disarmament have to be nuclear disarmament and the eliminatioa  of all weapons
of mass destruction,

“RecOQniainar  the urgent need +o hal t  the  arma  race ,  par t i cu lar ly  in
nuclear weapons,

“w fur- the urgent need for  a negotiated reduction o f
nuclear-weapon stockpiles leading to their complete elimination,

I’- co- that nuclear-weapon States have not so far
taken any action in response c.o the call made in the above-mentioned
resolutions,

“ 1 .  dnceall nuc lear -weapon  Sta tes  to  a g r e e  to  a  freeae
on nuclear weapons,  which would, titer u, provide for a s imultaneous total
stoppage of any further production of nuclear weapons and a complete cut-off
in the production of f iss ionable  material  f o r  wenpons purposest

I I 2 . X&&,&.a t o  inc!.ude  in  the  prov i s iona l  agenda  of  i t s  fo r ty - four th
bession the item entitled “Freese on nuclear weapons”.

16. At the request of she sponsors, no action was taken on draft resolution
hiC.1/43/L.56.

0. wt resolution.A/C.  1143IL.64

19, On 31 October,  E&&& Arcrentfne,  Et&i&&, the Germen D-tic Reu&l& #
lim.wwla= Kenva.tiberie. vfmmaa
Zaire submitied  a draft resolution entitlecl “United Nations disarmament fello%p,
training and advisory services programme” ( A N . .  1/43/L.  641,  which was later also
sponsored by ), the E&Uig&m. SierraUone,  &.,,i.Jd.xUu
and S’ret NW . The draft resolution was introduced by the representative o f  Nigeria
at the 31st meeting, on 9 November. Subsequently, the delegation of Greece
formally requested that Greece be included smong the co-sponsors o f  the draft
resolution.

2 0 . At its 35th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/43/L.64  wi thout  a  vo te  ( see  pare .  26 ,  re so lu t ion  F ) .



A/43/857
English
Page 11

.H. QW% resolutron A/C.1/43/L.68

21. On 31 October, NeDa& submitted a draft resolution entitled "United Nations
Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in Asia" (A/C.1/43/E.68),  which was
introduced by its representative at the 30th meeting, on 8 November.

22. In this connection, at the 35th meeting, on 14 November the Secretary of the
Committee informed the Committee that the draft resolution had no programme budget
implications.

23. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution AX.11431L.68
without a vote (see pars. 28, resolution G).

I. Draft resolution A/C.l/43/L.?l

24. On 31 October, Araentina, Bolivia. Brazil, Colombia. Costa Rica, the Dominican
Renublic. El Salvador. Guatemala. Honduras. Mexico, NeDal. Panama. Paraguav, Peru,
Uruauav and Venezuela submitted a draft resolution entitled WnZted Nations
Regional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America"
(A/C.1/431L.71), which was later also sponsored by Ecuador and m.T h e  d r a f t
resolution was introduced by the representative of Peru at the 30th meeting, on
8 November.

25. At its 35th meeting, on 14 November, the sponsors orally revised draft
resolution AK.16431L.71, as follows:

(a) In the sixth preambular paragraph, the words "Foreign Ministers" were
replaced by the words "Ministers for Foreign Affairs";

(b) In operative paragraph 3, the words "implementation of peace" were
replaced by the words "promotion of peace".

26. At the same meeting, the Secretary of the Committee informed the Committee
that the draft resolution had no programme budget implications.

27. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.l/43/L.?l, as
orally revised, without a vote (see para. 28, draft resolution H).

III. RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEl

28. The First Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolutions:

/ . . .



A/43/U57
English
Page la

iew m o f  wm Doe- o f  I&g
Twelfth_BaecielBeeeionofthe

A

w its resolution 34/03 A of 11 December 1979, 351156  J of
12 December 1980, 36/97 K of 9 December 1981, 371100 E of 13 December 1902,
38/73 H of 15 December 1983, 39163  K of 12 December 1984 ant3 40/151 A of
16 December 1985,

u of the world community over the dangers of
the armb race,  in particular the nuclear-arms race,  and i ts  adverse social  and
economic consequences,

w that the present state of the international situation requires
that the disarmament principles embodied in the Charter of the United Nations
become part and parcel of any collective efforts aimed at ensuring a truly
safe world, including those unc¶ertaken by the Gecurity  Council,

Reaffirmina that the United Nations un!!er  i ts  Charter plays a central
role and bears main responsibility in the area of disarmament and the
strengthening of  international  secur i ty ,

m;USE paragraph 13 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special Sassion
of the Qeneral Assembly, 91 in which the Assembly acknowledged that genuine
an8 last ing peace can o n l y  be created through the effect ive implementation of
the security system provic¶ed  for in the Charter and the spedy and substantial
reduction of arms and armed forces, by international agreement an8 mutual
example,

w that,  under Article 26 of  the Charter,  the Security Council  is
responsible for formulating, with the assistance of the Military Staff
Committee, plans for establishing an arms regulation system,

&&J,.ng the fact that the Sticurity Council, which is vested under the
Charter with the principal  responsibi l i ty f o r  maintaining international  peace
and security, has n o t  yet  conducted any examination o f  the question o f  the
adverse effects of the arms race, espec ia l ly  in  the  nuc lear  f i e ld ,  on
international peace and security, as provided for in the relevant General
Assembly resolutions,

91 Resolution S-1012.

/ . . .



A/43/057
English
Page 13

w. the entry into force of the Treaty between the United States of
America and the Union of Soviet 5ocialist Republics on the Elimination of
Their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, &/ which opens the ’
process  of genuine BPsarmament,

w of the need to use all avenues for further progress through
effective measures  In the field of disarmament,

1 . m the Security Council, in particular its permanent
members, within the framework of its main task, to contribute to establishing
and maintaining international peace and security with the least possible
diversion of world human and economic resource6 to armament, and to take the
necessary steps for the effective implementation of Artiole 26 of the Charter
of the United Nations with a view to enhancing the central role of the United
Nations in faci l i tat ing solutions to the issues of arma l imitat ion,  primari ly
in the nuclear field, and disarmament, as well as the strengthening of
international peace and securityl

2. Recommends t h a t  the nuclear-weapon States , which at the same time
are the five permanent members of the Security Council, hold joint meetings
and provide regular information to the General Assembly, as well au to the
Conference on Disarmament,  about the state of affrrirs as regards the range of
issues related to disarmament, especially in the nuclear field, the prevention
of a nuclear war and the status of the current agreements in the field of arms
limitation and disarmament, and about proqresrl  at those negotiations which
include the participation of the nuclear-weapon Statesr

3. Recommends  that the Security Council  consider the question of
es tab l i sh ing ,  under  A r t i c l e  2 9  o f  the  Charter , such subsidiary bodies  as  i t
deems necessary for the performance of its functions to facilitate a  solution
to disarmament issuesr

4. Recluests  the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its forty-fourth session a report on the implementation of the present
resolution within the framework of the agenda item entitled “Review and
implementation of the Concluding Document of the Twelfth Special Session of
the General Assembly”.

B

f reeag

Recallinn that, in the Final Document of the Tenth Special liossion of the
General Assembly, a/ the first special session devoted to disarmament, adopted

41 See CD/798.

/ l . .



A/43/057
English
Page 14

in 1978 and unanimously and categorically reaffirmed in 1982 during the
twelf th special  sess ion of the General  Asrembly, &/ the second speaial  sess ion
devoted to disarmament, the Aesembly  expressed deep concern over the threat to
the very survival of mankiad posed by the existence of nuclear weapons and the
aontinuinq arms rcce,

errnvincea  that ,  in  th i s  nualear  aqe, lasting world peaoe aan be based
only on the attainment of the goal of general and complete disarmament under
ef fec t ive  in ternat iona l  contro l ,

m the improvement of the relations between the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and  the United States of America and the conclusion of the
Treaty on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range
Missiles, A/ a8 well aa their agreement in prinoiple to reduce by 50 per cent
their  atrateqia nualear arsenals ,

m of the urqenay further to pursue negotiations for the
substantial  reduction ar.8 qual i tat ive l imitat ion of  exist ing nuclear arms,

B that a nualear-arms  freeae, while not an end in itself, would
constitute an effective step to prevent the continued increase and qualitative
improvement of existing nualear weaponry during the period when the
negotiat ions take place, and that at the ssme  time it would provide a
favourable environmen”. for the conduct of negotiations to reduce and
eventually eliminate nuclear weapons,

m that the undertakings derived from the freese can be
effectively verif ied,

{ that nuclear-weapon States have not so far taken
any action in responee to the call made in the relevant resolutions on the
question of a nuclear-arms freeze,

1. UfQBB_.QDCB the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the
United States of America, as the two major nuclear-weapon States, to agree to
an immediate nuclear-arms freeae, which would, m, provide for a
simultaneous total stoppage of any further production of nuclear weapons and a
comglete cut-off in the production of fissionable material for weapons
purpose6 1

2. w UDQ)~  all nuclear-weapon States to agree, through a joint
declaration, to a comprehensive nuclear-arms freeae, whose structure and scope
would be the following1

w See OfficialRecorBs.oftheGenerialAsaemblr,Tktelfth~Session,
Mr agenda items 9-13, document A/S-12/32.

/ . . l



A/43/857
EnqlirL
Paqr,  1 5

( a )  I t  w o u l d  embracea

(i) A oomprehensive  test ban on nuclear weapons and on their delivery
Vehicles J

(ii) The aomplete cessation of the manufacture of nuclear weapons and of
their: delivery VehiCleat

(iii) A ban on all further deployment of nuclear weapons and of their
delivery VehiOleBJ

(iv) The aomplete  cessation of the production of f iss ionable materiul  for
weapons purposesl

(b) It would be subject to appropriate and effective measures and
procedures of verifioationr

3. Rscrueata the nuclear-weapon States to submit a joint report, or
separate reports, to the General Assembly, prior to the opening of its
forty-fourth session, on the implementation of the present resolutionr

4. D,&&J~ to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
session an item entitled “Nuclear-arms freeae”.

C

w that in paragraph 15 of the Final Document of the Tenth Special
Session of thr General Assembly, a/ the first special session devoted to
disarmament, it declared that it was essential that not only Qovermnents  but
also the peoples of the world recoqnire and understand the dangers in the
present situation and stressed the importance of mobilisinq  world public
opinion on behalf of disarmament,

,s its resolution 42139 0 of 30 November 1907,

Hevina the reports of the Secretary-General of 19 May 1988 p/
and 4 October 1988 p/ on the implementation of the programme of activities of
the World Disarmament Campaign by the United Nations system,

w A/S-15/9.

I/ A/43/642.

/ . . a



A/43/557
Enqlirh
Page 16

m the part of the report of the Secretary-Qeneral of
10 October  1988, dealing with the activities of the Advisory Board on
Disarmament Studier, relating to the implementation of the World Disarmament
Campaign, 81 as well as t h e  Final Act of the Sixth United Nations Pledging
Conference for the Campaign, a/ held on 27 October 1988,

1. Bsitaratsa of t h e  manner in which, as described in
the above-mentioned reports, the World Disarmament Campaign has been geared by
the Secretary-Qeneral in order to guarantee “the widest  possible  dissemination
of information and unimpeded acceea for all sectors of the public to a broad
range of information anf opinion8 on questions of arm6 limitation and
disarmament  and the danger8 relating to all aspects of the arms race and war)
in particular nualear waPr J&l

2, m that, as was also agreed by oonsensus  in the Concluding
Docwnont  of the Twelfth Special Session of the Qeneral Assembly, the second
special session devoted to diearmament, i t  i s  l ikewi se  a n  crssential  requis i t e
for the universality of the Campaign that it receive “the co-operation and
partic ipation of all  Statea**l  u/

3. Endorasa the statement made by the Secretary43eneral  on
the ocoasion of the Third United Nations Plodqinq Conference for the World
DirarmMIent Campaign U/ to the effect that suah co-operation implies that
adequate fund8 be made available and that consequently the criterion of
universal i ty alao appl ies  Lo pledges , since a campaign without world-wide
partScipation  and funding will have difficulty in reflecting this principle in
its implementations

4 . Reiterates that most of the States that have the largest
military expenditures have not so far made any financial contribution to the
Campaiqnr

5 . bw that at ite forty-fourth session there should be a seventh
United Nation8 Pledging Conferenae  for the World Disarmament Campaign, and
exprearea the hope that on that occasion all those Member States that have not
yet announced any voluntary contribution may do 801

6, that the voluntary contributions mr\de
by Member States to the World Disarmament Campaign Voluntary Trust Fund should
not be earmarked for specific activities inasmuch as it is most desirable that

41 A / 4 3 / 6 0 5 ,  sect. I I  . D .

w AKONF.  14611.

Ju . .See Officialda of -Y# Tw..l.fth  5@idd sef-im *
~nnex~~~, agenda items 9-13, d o c u m e n t  A / S - 1 2 / 3 2 ,  a n n e x  V, para. 4 .

l.v See AKONF.  131/SR. 1.



A/43/857
English
Page 17

the Secretary-General enjoy full freedom to take the decisiona  he deoma  fit
within the framework of the Campaign previously approved by the General
Assembly and in exercise of the powers vested in him in aonnectioa with the
Campaign J

7, Notea with apare- that the Seortttary-General has given
permanent  character to h ,  instructions to the United Nations information
centres and regional commissions to give wide publicity to the Campaign and,
whenever necessary, to adapt, aa far as possible, United Nations information
mater ia l s  to  loc.rl ianquaqssr

8, N the Secretary-General to submit to the Qeneral  Assembly at
its forty-fourth session a report covering both the implementation of the
programme of activities of the Campaign by.the United Nations system dwrinq
1989 and the programme of activities contemplated by the system for 199Ot

9. D&&R to include in the provisional agenda of it6 forty-fourth
session the item entitled “World  Disarmament Campaign”.

D

w its reso lut ions 401151 G of 16 December 1985, 41160 D of
3 December 19S6 and 42139 J of 30 November 1987,

Taking.  of the Political Declaration adopted by the Eighth Conference
of Heads of State or Government of the Non-Aligned Countriee, held at Harare
from 1 to 6 September 1986, in which the Heads of State or Government,
titer alb, reaffirmed the need to strengthen the role of the regional bodies
in mobiliainq support for the World Disarmament Campaign and, in thia regard,
welcomed the establishment of the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Africa at LOme,  u/

Bw i n  u&~d r e s o l u t i o n  AHG/Rea.i64 ( X X I I ) ,  u/ adopted  b y  t h e
Assembly of Heads of State and Government of the Organisation of African Unity
at  i ts  twenty-third ordinary session, held at Addis Ababa from 27 to
29 July 1907, by which it, inter, endorsed the Lomd  Declaretj.on  on

w See A/41/697-6/16392,  annex,  sect .  I ,  para. 58 .

.ll/ S e e  A / 4 2 / 6 9 9 ,  a n n e x  I I .

/ . . .



A/43/057
English
Page 18

Seaurity, Dirarmament and Development in Afriaa and the Programme of A&ion
for Peaao, Seourity and Co-operation in Afriaa, u/

m the regozt of the Seoretary4enera1,  u/

1, wita that the United Nations Regional Centre
for Peaae and Disarmament in Africa, inaugurated on 24 Ltober 1986, has
beoome ogerationalr

2. w the Searetary-Ueneral for hir efforts in taking t;\re
neaeaaa.cy  meaeuree to enlure the effeative funatioaing  of the Cent.rr,  and
requests him to oontinue to lend all the neceaaary  support  to ths Centre,

3. g to the Member States and the international,
governmental and non-governmental organisation8 that have already made
contributions to ensure  the funationing  of the Centret

4 . m to Member States, as well as to int0rnationa1,
governmental and non-goverzunental  organisations,  to make voluntary
oontributiona  in order to strengthen the effeotive functioning of the Centre1

5. v the Searetaty-Qeneral  to submit  a report  to the Qeneral
Assembly at its forty-fourth aearion on the implementation of the present
resolution.

Al by the threat to the survival of mankind and to the
life-ruataining system posed by aualear weapon8 and by their use, inhera?t  in
concepts of deterrence,

Conscious of an increased danger of nuclear war aa a result of the
intensification of the nuclear-arms race and the rierioue  deterioration of the
internat iona l  situation,

m that nuclear disarmament ia ersential for the prevention of
nuclear war and for the strengtnening of international peace and security,

IN See A/40/761-6/17573,  annex. For the printed text, see v
Qf the Sewitv Cou.~il, ForcL&&a Ye-et for October. Nove&er pILa
s, d o c u m e n t  S/17537,  a n n e x .

w A / 4 3 / 6 8 9 .

/ . . .



A/43/857
English
Page 19

Further- that a prohibit ion of  the use or  threat  of use of
nuclear weapons would be a step towards the complete elimination of nualear
weapons leading to general and complete disarmament under strict and effective
international  control ,

Bar- that, in paragraph 55 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the Qeneral Assembly, a/ it is stated that all States
should act ively partiaipate in efforts  to bring about condit ions in
international relations among States in which a code of peaaeful conduct of
nations in international affairs could be agreed upon and that would preclude
the use or threat of use of nuclear weapons,

Reeffirmina that the use of nuclear weapons would be a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a orims against humanity, as dealared  in its
resolutions 1653 (XVI) of 24 November 1961, 33/71 8 of  14 December 1975,
34183 G of 11 December 1979, 35/152  D of 12 December 1960 and 36192 I  o f
9 December 1961,

&&-with regCat that the Conference on Diearmment,  during its 1986
session, was not able to undertake negotiations with a view to aahieving
agreement on an international convention prohibiting the use or threat of use
of nuclear weapons under any circumstances, taking ‘P a basis the text annexed
to Qeneral Assembly resolution 41160 F of 3 December 1956 and 42139 C of
30 November 1967,

1, Reiterrtee im to the Conference on Disarmament to commence
negotiat ions, as a matter of priority, in order to reach agreement on an
international convention prohibiting the use or threat of use of nuclear
weapons under any circumstances, t a k i n g  a s  a  b a s i s  t h e  d r a f t  C o n v e n t i o n  o n  t h e
Prohibition of the Use of Nuclear Weapons annexed to the present resolutionr

2. mer regm&E the Conference on Disarmament to report to the
General Assembly at its forty-fourth session on the results of those
negotiat ions.

ANNEX

I23a.ttS PrWof of

t e s  Par t i e s  to  tm*

w by the threat to the very survival of mankind posed by the
ex i s t ence  o f  nuclear  w e a p o n s ,

Convim that any use of nuclear weapons constitutes a violation of the
Charter of the United Nations and a crime against humanity,

/ . . .



A/43 /a57
English
Page 20

Convinced that this Convention would be a step towards the complete
elimination of nuclear weapons leading to general and complete disarmament
under strict and effective international control,

Determinea  to continue negotiations for the achievement of this goal,

Have  a as fo l lows:

The States Parties tee this Convention solemnly undertake not to use or
threaten to use nuclear weapons under any circumstances.

This Convention shall be of unlimited duration,

1. This  Convention shall  be open to al l  States  for signature.  Any
State that does not sign the Convention before its entry into force in
accordance with paragraph 3 of this article may accede to it at any time.

2. This Convention shall  be subject  to rat i f icat ion by s ignatory
States. Instruments of ratification or accession shall be deposited with the
Secretary-General of the United Nations,

3. This Convention shall enter into force on the deporit of instruments
of ratification by twenty-five Governments, including the Gcvernments  of the
five nuclear-weapon States, i n  accordance with paragraph 2 of  this  art ic le .

4. For States whose !lstruments of ratification or accession are
deposited after the entry into force of this  Convention,  i t  shall  enter into
force on the date of the deposit of their instruments of ratification or
accession.

5. The depository shall promptly inform all signatory and acceding
States of the date of each signature, the date of deposit of each instrument
of  rat i f icat ion or accession and the date of the entry into force of this
Convention, as  wel l  as  of the receipt  of other notices .

6. This Convention shall be registered by the depoditory in accordance
with Article 102 of the Charter of the United Nations.

/ . . .



A/43/887
English
Page 21

This Convention, of which the Arabia, Chinese, English, French, Russian
and Spanish texts are egually authentic, shall be deposited with the
Secretary-Qeneral  of the United Nations, who shall aend duly aertified  copies
thereof to the Qovernment of the signatory and aaaeding States.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorised thereto by
their respective Qovernments, have signed  this Convention, opened for
signature at on the - day of one thousand nine
hundred and I

F

fe-. tre advisoFy

Recallfncr  its decision, contained in paragraph 108 of the Final Document
of the Tenth Special Session of the Qeneral Assembly, 31 the first special
session devoted to disarmament, to establish a programme of fellowehips  on
disarmament, as well as  its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding
Document of the Twelfth Special Session of the Qeneral Assembly, B/ the second
special session devoted to disarmament, in whiah it decided, m, to
continue the programme and to increase the number of fellowships from twenty
to twenty-five as from 1983,

uth satisfsction that the programme has already trained an
appreciable number of public officials selected from geographical regions
represented in the United Nations system, most of whom are now in positions of
responsibility in the field of disarmament affairs in their respective
countries or Qovernments,

w i t s  r e s o l u t i o n s 371100 Q of 13 December 1982, 38173 C of
15 December 1983, 39163  B of 12 December 1984, 401151  H of 16 December 1985,
41160 H of 3 December 1986 and 42139 I of 30 November 1987,

Noting with satisfection that the programme, as designed, has enabled an
increased number of public officials, particularly from the developing
countries, to acquire more expertise in the sphere of disarmament,

w that the forms of assistance available to Member States,
particularly to developing countries, under the programme, will enhance the
capabi l i t ies  of their  off ic ials  to  fol low ongoing deliberations and
negotiations on disarmament, both bi lateral  and mult,ileteral,



A/43/857
English
Page 22

1, Heaff’irma its decisions contained in annex IV to the Concluding
Dr>cument  of the Twelfth Speoial Session of the Qeneral Assembly and the report
of the Secretary-Qeneral U/ approved by resolution 33111 E of
14 December 19781

2. Exar_esses! to the Qovernments of the Federal
Republic of Qermany, Hungary, Japan, Sweden, the Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics and the United States of America for inviting the 1988 fellows to
study selected activities in the field of disarmament, thereby contributing to
the  fulfilment  o f  the  overa l l  ob jec t ives  o f  the  programmet

3. Commenas  the Secretary-Qeneral for the diligence with which the
programme has continued to be carried outr

4. Recruests the Secretary-Qeneral to continue the implementation of the
programme within existing resources)

5. mo rew the Secretary-General to report to the General
Assembly at its forty-fourth session on the implementation of the programme.

Q

Centre for Peace an8.Disarmament
in-&Phi

w its resolution 42139 D of 30 November 1987, by which it decided
to establish the United Notions Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in
Asia with headquarters at Kathmandu,

w into accw its decision that the Centre should provide, on
request ,  substantive support for  the init iat ives  and other act ivit ies  mutually
agreed upon by Member States of the Asian region for the implementation of
measures for peace and disarmament through appropriate utilisation  of
available resources, and shall co-ordinate the implementation of regional
activities in Asia under the World Disarmament Campaign,

1. es note with satisfection of the report of the Secretary-General
of 19 October 19881 JJ/

2. Welcom  the signing of an agreement and a memorandum of
understanding between the Government of Nepal and the United Nations regarding

Lpi A/33/305.

171 A/43/560.



A/43/857
English
Page 23

the establishing of the United Nations Regional Centre for Peace and
Disarmament in Asia:

3. Commends the administrative measures taken by the Secretary-General
to ensure the establishment and functioning of the Centre and requests him to
continue lending all possible support;

4. Invite% Member States and interested organisations to make voluntary
contributions for the effective functioning of the Centre:

5. Reouests the Secretary-General to report to the General Assembly at
its forty-fourth session on the implementation of the present resolution.

H

United Nations Reaional Centre for Peace, Disarmament and
Develonment  in Latin America

Recallinq its resolutions 41160 J of 3 December 1986 and 42/39 K of
30 November 1987,

Welcominq the inauguration of the United Nations Regional Centre for
Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America on 9 October 1987,

Recallins also the Acapulco Commitment to Peace, Development and
Democracy signed by the Heads of State of States members of the Permanent
Mechanism for Consultation and Concerted Political Action on
29 November 1987, L8/ as well as the meeting of Ministers for Foreign Affairs
of the Permanent Mechanism held at Cartagena, Colombia, in February 1988,

Takino into account that the scope of action of the Centre includes Latin
America and the Caribbean,

Also welcominq the holding by the Centre of the Workshop-Seminar of
Experts on Disarmament from 4 to 6 May 1988,

Takina note of the final documents of the Conference of Ministers for
Foreign Affairs of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, held at Nicosia from
5 to 10 September 1988, B/

ExDressinu  its uratitude to the Member States that have made valnzble
contributions to the functioning of the Centre,

J&/ A/42/844-5/19314, a nex.

If/ A/43/667-5/20212, annex.

/ a..



A/43/557
English
Page 24

Convlnaefl  that ,  in aarrying  out i t s  act ivi t ies,  the Centre will  vsek to
promote relationships based upon mutual confidence and eecurity among
countries of the region in a spirit of harmony, solidarity and co-operation
aimed at the implementation of measures that foeter peace, disarmament a:d
social and economic development in Latin America and the Caribbean,

1. m that the United Nations Regional Centre for Peaoe,
Disarmament and Development in Latin Ameriaa, in aonformity with its mandate
contained in resolution 41/&I J, is aalled upon to explore now avenues for
concerted political action ~,,~ng the countries of the region and to strengthen
further the intra-Latin Amtrican  and Caribbean links in a framework of
harmony, solidarity and co-operation that wil: enable Latin America and the
Caribbean to become an effective area for peace)

2, th s of the holding of the Conference of
Experts on the Strengthening of Political Co-operation in Latin America and
the Caribbean in the fields of peace, disarmament, development and security,
within the framework of the World Disarmament Lanpaign,  to be held at Lima
from 6 to 9 December 1988, which will also examine various conceptual and
organisational  aspects of the Centre to enable it to fulfil its objoctivesr

3, m that the Centre hold two meeting8 during 1989 with a view
to reaffirming Ate role as a centre for documentary collection, information
and dissemination, as a forum for the promotion of peace, disarmament and
development measures in the context of the World Disarmament Campaign and as
an organ for the cc-ordination of studies, research and programmes in the
f i e l d s  o f  i t s  compe encej

4. utes e M e m b e r  Sta tes  and  in ternat iona l ,  goverrunental anti
non-governmental organisations  to make voluntary contributions to the Centre;

5. Deci_Bes  to rename the Centre “Regional Centre of the United Nations
for Peace, Disarmament and Development in Latin America and the Caribbeanl’t

6. Rsnuesta the Secretary-Qeneral to transmit that appeal to all Member
States in order to ensure the effective functioning of the Centres

I. Alsoreauests  the Secretary-General to report to the General
Asatimbly  at i ts  forty-fourth regular session on the implementation of  the
present resolution.


