







































UNITED
NATIQNS A

Cbneral Aesnmbly
Distc.
QENERAL

A/43/059
28 November 1988

ORIGINALs  ENGLISH

Forty-third session
Agenda item 67

REVIEW OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND DECISIONS
ADOPTED BY THE QENERAL ASSMBLY  AT ITS TENTH SPECIAL SESSION

-, Mr. Virgilio A. REYES (Philippines)

1. INTRODUCTION

1. The item entitled

“Revi~1w of the implementation of the recommendationo  and decisions adopted by
the General Assembly at its tenth special session:

"(a) Report of the nisarmament  Commissiont

"(b) Report of the Conference on Disarmamentt

“(c) Gketus  of multilateral disarmament agreements;

"(d) Advisory Board on Disarmament Studies1

"(0) United Nations Institute for Disarmament Research;

“(f) Review and appraisal oL the implementation of the Declaration of the
1980s  as the Second Disarmament Decade;

"(9) Climatic effects of nuclear war, including nuclear winter1

"(h) Economic and social consequences of the armaments race and its extremely
harmful effects on world peace and security;

*l(i) Review of the implementation of the recommendations and decisions of the
tenth special session;

88-31474 0083P (E) / 1 . .
Ad..- - - - - - - -



A/43/859
English
Page 2

II(j) Non-use of nuclear weapon6 and prevention of nuclear war1

‘l(k) Ceesation of the nuclear-arm6 race and nuclear dil!armamentt raport of
the Conference on Diearmamentl

“(1) Prevention of nuclear war)

@l(m) Disarmament Week]

‘l(n) Implementation of the recommendations and decision6 of the tenth epecial
nession”

was included i n  the provioional agenda of the forty-third seosion in accordanoe
with Qensral Assembly resolutions 36192 H of 9 December 1981, 38/183 0 o f
20 December 19113, 39/145 H of 17 December 1984, 40/150 and 40/152 L o f
I,6 December 1985, 41/86 H and I of 4 December 1986 and 42/42 A to N of
30 November 1987.

2. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1989, the General Aesrmbly,  on the
recommendation of the General  Committee, decided to include the item in its agenda
and to allocate it to the First Committee.

7 At its 2nd meeting, on 12 October, the First Committee decided to hold a
&era1 debate on the disarmament itome allocated to it, namely item6 51 to 69 and
139, 141 and 145. The deliberation6 on those items took place between the 3rd and
the 25th meetings, from 17 October to 2 November (see A/C.t/43/PV.3-25).
Consideration of and action on draft reoolutiono  on those items took place between
the 26th and 43rd meetings, from 3 to 18 November (bee A/C.l/43/PV,26-43).

4 . In connection with item 67, the First Committee had before it the following
documents I

(a) Report of the Conference on Diearmament)  f/

(b) Report of the Disarmament Commiesionr  21

(c) Report of the Secretary-General transmitting the study on the climatic
and other global effects of nuclear war (A/43/351);

(d) Report of the Secretary-General transmitting the study on the wonomic
and social consequence6 of ,.he arms race and military expenditure6 (A/43/368)1

A/ Rece o f  th.6 G-al w-fi
No. 27 ( A / 4 3 / 2 7 ) .

21 U., -No.42 (A/43/42).

/ l . .



A/43/059
English
Page 3

(e) Report of the Seoretary-General on the review and appraisal of the
implementation of the Declaration of the 19806 a6 the Second DiSarmaIIWat  Decade
(A/43/507 and Add.l)r

(f) Report of the Secretary-General on Disarmament Week (A/43/508 and Add.1))

(g) Report of the Secretary-General on the review of the implementation of
the recommendations and decisions adopted by the General Assembly at its tenth
special session (A/43/623)#

(h) Report of the Secretary-General on the Advisory Board on Disarmament
Studiesr United Nations Institute  for Disarmament Research (A/43/685)~

(i) Report of the Secretary-General on the Status of multilateral disarmament
agreement6 (~/43/686)1

(j) Report of tho Secretary-General on the United Nations Institute for
Disarmament Research (A/43/687);

(k) Letter dated 21 December 1987 from the Permanent Representative6 of the
United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republic6 to the United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the joint
statement issued at Washington, D.C. on 10 December 1987 on the meetings held there
from 7 to 10 December 1987 between the Preeident of the United States of America
and the General Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the
Soviet Union (A/43/58jr

(1) Letter dated 11 January 1988 from the Permanent Representative of the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republic6  to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General (A/43/88-S/19427)!

(m) Letter dated 2 February 1988 from the representative6 of Argentina,
Greece, India, Kexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tan6ania to the United
Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of the Stockholm
Declaration, adopted on 21 January 1988 (A/43/125-S/19478)!

(n) Letter dated 11 March 1988 frox the Permanent Representative of
Czechoslovakia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/43/214)r

(0) Letter dated 31 March 1988 from the Permanent Representative of Bulgaria
to the Unitod Notion6 addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the texts of
the communiqui  and tha appeal issued by the Committee of the Ministers for Foreign
Affairs of the States Parties to the Warsaw Treaty at its Sofia meeting, on 29 and
30 March 1988 (A/43/276):

(p) Letter dated  27 May 1988 from the Permanent Representative of Guatemala
to the Un!ted Nations addressed to the Secretary-General, transmitting the text of
the resolutions and decisions adopted at the seventy-ninth session of the
Inter-Parliamentary Union, held at Guatemala City from 8 to 16 Aprfl 1988
(A/43/370);



A/43/059
Englich
Page 4

(q) Note verbale dated 21 July 198ti from the Permanent Regresantative of
Cseahoslovakia  to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral (A/43/485)r

(r) Letter dated 26 July 1988 from the Permanent Repreoentative  of Poland to
the United Nations addressed to the Searetary-0enera1,  tranrmitting the texte of
the communique of the Meeting  of the Political Conoultative  Committoo  of the States
Parties to the Warsaw Treaty, the statement of the States Parties to the Wareaw
Treaty on Negotiations on Reduations in Armed Forces and Conventional Arms in
Europe, and the statement entitled #‘The imgliaatione of the arms race to the
natural environment and other aopects of ecological security”, adopted at the
Meeting of the Political Consultative Committee of the States Partiee  to the Warsaw
Treaty, held in Warsaw on 15 and 16 July 1988 (A/43/486-W20061)~

(8) Note verbale dated 26 July 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
t.lexico  to the United Nations addroared to the Socrrtary-Qrnoral  (A/43/487))

(t) Letter dated 29 July 1988 from the Chargd  d’affaires a.1. of the
Permanent Mission of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics to the United Nation6
addreeeed to the Secretary-Qeneral (A/43/495)1

(u) Letter dated 16 August lQ88 from the Charg/ d’affaires a.i, of the
Permanent Mission of the aerman  Democratic Republic to the United Natione addressed
t o  t h e  Seoretary-Qeneral  (A/43/646)1

(v) Letter dated 29 Srptember  1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Cyprus to the United Natione addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral, transmitting the
final documents of the Conference of Foreign Ministers of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Niaoeia from 5 to 10 September 1988
(A/43/667-6120212)~

(w) Letter dated 6 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Zimbabwe
to the United Nations addreflsed  to the Secretary-Qeneral, transmitting the text of
the final communique of the Mooting of the Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads
of Delegation of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries to the forty-third session
of the United Nations Qeneral  Assembly held in New York on 3 October 1988
(A/43/709)1

(x) Letter dated 21 October 1988 from the Permanent Representative of the
Qerman Democratic Republic to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral
(A/43/741)1

(y) Letter dated 31 October 1986 from the Permanent Representative of Hungary
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral, transmitting the texts of
the Communiquh  ernd the Statement issued by the Committee of the Ministers for
Foreign Affairs of the Warsaw Treaty Member States on Friendship, Co-operation and
Mutual Assistance at its Budapest meeting, on 28 and 29 October 1988 (A/C.1/43/7).



A/43/65fr
English
Page 5

I I . CONSIPERATIGH  OF PROPOSALS

A. graft reeolutian A/C!.1/43/~

5. On 26 Oatober, Australia., the Wh8ir&n, the Bveloruesian Sova
et -ia, mm, China.  QDenmaFk.

1 -Romania.- and Ururruav
submitted a draft resolution entitled “Report of tLr) Disarmament Commiesio!P
(A/C,1/43/L,3),  whiah was later also sponsored by E&R&&E.  The draft resolution
was introduaed  by the representative of the Bahamas at the 32nd nwting, on
9 November,

6. At its 33rd meeting, on 10 N o v e m b e r , the representative of the Bahamas orally
revised draft resolution A/C,1/43/L.3  as follows;

In ,perative paragraph 4, after the phrase ‘@on those issues@‘, the phrase
“and facilitating the work of the Conference on Disarmament in its
negotiations on specifia subjeatz”  was deleted.

7. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C,1/43/L.3  as
orally revised, without a vote (see para. 34, draft resolution A).

8. Dreft A/CJJ43/T,.4

8. On 27 October, (Jo&, the Qerman-Y and Romania
submitted a draft resolution, entitled “Non-use of nuclear weapons and prevention
of nuclear war” (A/C.1/43/L.4), which waz later also sponsored by @J&J&,&  and
&E~QUR.  The draft resolution was introduced by the representative  of the Qerman
Democratic Republic at the 27th meeting, on 4 November.

9 . At its 34th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee ndopte%  %raft resolution
A/C.1/43/L.4  by a recorde%  vote of 104 to 17, with 7 abstentions (see para. 34,
%raft resolution B). The voting was aa follows: a/

I n : Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bahamas,
Bahrain, BanglaBesh, Barbados, Berlin,  Bhute.n, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Central African
Republic, Chad, Congo, Costa Rica, Cbte B’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finlan%,  Qabon, Qerman Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary, India,
In%onesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Jor%an,

;I/ Subsequently, the delegation of Niger indicated that it ha; intended to
vote in favour of the %raft resolution.

/ .*.

--~---- ---.-~-_



A/43/059
English
Pago 6

Kenya, Kuwait, L a People’s Democratic Republic, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Elalaysib Maldivee,
Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,  Mosambique,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru,
Philippinesr Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia,
Senegal, Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad
an% Tobago, Tunioia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Union of Soviet Soaialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United
Republic of Tanzania, tiruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yaman,
Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwr’

-1 Australia, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, France, Qermany,  Faderal
Republic of, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, New Zealand,
Norway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United Kingdom of Groat Britain
and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

A&a-r B r a z i l , Chile, Colombia, Qreeoe,  Iaoland, Irelan%,  Israel.

C. I)reFtm A/r. 1/43/rq.  16 an8

10. On 31 October, (Isecho&- submitted a draft resolution entitle%
“International co-operation for disarmament” (A/C.l/43/L,16), which was intro%uced
by its representative at the 35th meeting, on 14 November,

i l . On 14 November, the sponsor submitted a revised draft resolution
A/C,1/43/L’16/Rev.lr which contained the following ahangesl

(a) The first presmbular paragraph, which he% read!

‘I- the goals proclaimed in the Declaration on International
Co-operation for Disarmament of 11 December 1979”,

was amended to rea%t

“D the importance of achieving international co-operation in
the fiel% of arma limitation and disarmsment”J

(b) In the third presmbular paragraph, the phrase “base% on co-operation an%
goodwill” was deletedt

(c) tit the en% of the fourth preambular paragraph, the phrase “in a
comprehensible manner” was deletrdr

(d) In the fifth preambular paragraph, the phrase “increased role”
was replaced by “enhanced role”J

(e) At the end of operative paragraph 2, the phrascr “development an%
environment” was replaced by “and other fundamental interests”J



A/43/059
English
Page 7

(f) The original operative paragraph 3, whioh had rea%:

‘@Further  all States to oonsider, in a spirit of ao-operation,
ways and meana to achieve, whenever possible, a broader partioipation  in
aurrent CIisarmament  efforts with the view to faailitating both bilateral and
multilateral solutions to disarmament*@,

was replace% by a paragraph readinga

I@- all States to consi%er, in a spirit of co-operation,
ways and means to facilitate both bilateral an% multilateral  solutions to
disarmament. *I.

12. At its 39th meeting, on 16 November, the Committee a%opte%  revised draft
resolution A/C.1/43/L.lWRev.l  by a recorded vote of 116 to 1, with 13 abstentions
(see pura. 34, draft resolution C). The voting was as follows:

In8 Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia, Austria,
Bahamas, Bahrain, BanglaBesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia,
Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,
Burma, Burundi, Byeloruseian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Colombia, Congo, Costa
Rica, C&e %‘Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominican Republic* Ecua%o?,  Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, German Democratic Republic, Qhana,
Qreece,  Quatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Hon%uras,  Hungary, Icelana,
In%ia, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireiand,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Rep!~blic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Mal%ives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Philippines,
Polan%,  Qatar, Romania, Rwan%a, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swazilan%,
Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, Unite% Arab Emirates, Unite% Republic of Tanzania,
Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, ysmbia,
Zimbabwe.

iiu!A.ntiI Unite% States of America.

Bb: Belgium, Canada, Francs, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
Italy, Luxembourg, Malta, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Turkey,
United King%om of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

/ ..*



A/43/059
Englirh
Page 0

D. wt rm A/C.l/43/i&i

13, On 31 October, Banaladarh, India., Pu and m rubmftted  a
draft rrsoluti9n  entitled “Climatic effecte of nuclear war, including nuclear
winter t report of the Secretary-Qeneral” (A/C,1/43/L.34),  which was later also
rponoored  by SMlap and the Ukrainian Soyiet So-t Rw The draft
resolution was introduced by the repreeentative  of Mexico at tk 30th meeting, on
8 November.

14. At ite 33rd meeting, on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft rerolution
A1C.11431L.34  by a recorded vote of 125 to none , with 9 abotentions  (tee para, 34,
draft resolution D). The voting wa,p aa follower 4/

-1 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbadoo,  Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Braril,  Brunei Daru6!ualam,  Bulgaria, Burkina
Faeo, Burma, Burundi, Byeloruseian Soviet Socialiet Republic,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Congo, C&e d@Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Caechoelovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democpatic  Pernon,  Donmark, Djibouti,
Dominican Republia, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland,
Qsbon,  Qerman Democratic Republic, Qhana, Oreace, Quatemala,
Quinea, Quyana, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, India, Indonesia,
Iran (Ielarnic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, ierael, Italy,
Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’6 Democratic
Republic, Lebanon, Leeotho, Liberia, Madagaecar,  Malayeia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mosambique,  Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, man,
Pakistan, Panama, Pspua New Quinea, Paraguay, Peru, Philippinea,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe,  Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Shrra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islande,
Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swamiland,  Sweden,
Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialiet Republic, Union of Soviet Socialiet Republics,
United Arab Emirates, JJnited Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Veneauela,  Viet Nam,  Yemen, Yugoelavis,  Zaire, Zimbabwe,

~&tafninQa Belgium, France, Germany,  Federal Republic ot!, Luxembourg,
Netherlands, Portugal, Turkey, United Kingdom of Qreat Britain
and Northern Ireland, United states of America.

4.1 Subsequently, the delegations of Colombia, the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Trinidad and Tobago and Zambia indicated that they had intended to vote in favour
of the draft reL:olution.

/ . 1 .

.- -~-- .--~



A/QS/IIDY
English
Page 9

On 31 October, BrmwlaBeQ, ths

Bapublicm and Veneauela  submitted a draft resolution entitled “Ceaaation
of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear c!lisarmament” (A/Ct1/43/L,42),  which was later
also sponsored by &l.&%i&  snd m, The draft resolution was introduced by
the representative of Argentina at the 31st meeting, on 9 Novomber.

16. At its 34th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C,1/43/L,42 by a recorded vote of 114 to 13, with 6 abstention3 (see pare, 34,
draft resolution E), The voting was as follows; 5.1

-8 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Austria,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burma,
Burundi, Byelordssian  Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,
Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, Chine, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, CSte d’Ivoiro, Cuba, Cyprus, Ceechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Qabon, Qerman Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Irelane,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagascsr, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Paname,  Peru, Philjppines,  Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singeport?,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaeiland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanpiania,  Uruguay, Venezuela,  Viet Nenr, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

AQ.%iufiL  t Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Ncrway, Portugal, Spain, Turkey, United
Kingarlm of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United State6 of
America.

&t&,&g: Australia,  Bahamas,  Deninerk, Iceland, Israel ,  Japan,

_-- . . . . - .

5.1 Subsequent.ly, the delegstion  of Niger indiceted that it had intended to
vote in favour of the draft resolution.

/ I . .

_ .----  --



A/43/859
English
Page 10

F. Draft resolution A1C.11431L.43

17.
.

On 31 October, Alaeria, Araentina. Banaladesh, Brazil, Cameroon, Colombra,
Concro, Costa Rica. Ecuador, EqyET, the German Democratic Republic. India.

. . . .
Indonesia. Mexico. Morocco, Nzqerla.Pahlstan,Petu.a.  Urug~y. Veneuaela,
Viet Nam and Yuaoslavia submitted a draft resolution entitled "Prevention of
nuclear war" (A/C.1/43/L.43), which was later also sponsored by Bulgaria, Diibouti,
Malavsia, and Mongolia. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative
of Argentina at the 31st meeting, on 9 November.

18. At its 34th meeting, on 11 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.1/43/L.43  by a recorded vote of 116 to 3, with 14 abstentions (see para. 34,
draft resolution F). The voting was as follows: fi/

In favour:

Acrainst:

Abstaining:

Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, C8te d'Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic,
Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Ireland,
Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mozambique, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman,
Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore,
Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian
Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Tanzania, Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe.

France, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Germany, Federal Republic of, Iceland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal,
Spain, Turkey.

$1 Subsequently, the delegation of Niger indicated that it had intended to
vote in favour of the draft re,solution.

/ . . .



A/43/‘059

English
P a g e  1 1

On 31 October, A&.‘.-.R&l,guia,
b, the -tic
2, t h e  Ukrainian a n d
Yiat NW submitted a draft resolution entitled “Disarmament Week” (A/C.1/43/L.48),
which was later also sponsored by sMorMlbicluelPanua.Bpl
the RhU&gims  and Srrmna. The draft resolution was introduced by the
repreeentative  of Mongolia at the 30th meeting, on 8 November.

20. At its 35th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
AIC.1143IL.48  without a vote (see para. 34, draft resolution 0).

H, &-3&-/43/L.  49

On 31 October, AuatxU.,i&J~~~,  the B.&wM~_~,  the ByaU~R&an
L--c. wn. m. CogwRiaa,, t h e
!J.0.mmDemocretig~~AfFaBeral~ublicof.Hunaarvl~
L,uxa~&~~ the MWU&mPalanB.--6weBen  and the lhUa.sl
luI.xbgmmf-mBL  BEAkwntl.w-tharnlralanc1 submitter  a draft resolution entitled
“Guidelines for confidence-building measures” (A/C.1/43/L.49),  which was later also
sponsored by Qx9.9~2. The draft resolution wa8 introduced by the representative of
the Federal Republic of Germany at the 32nd meeting, on 9 November.

22. At the 38th meeting, on 15 November, the representative of the Federal
Republic of Germany, orally revised draft resolution A/C.1/43/L.49,  a8 follows:

(a) The fourth prearnbular paragraph, which had readt

“Reaffirming Its conviction that commitment to confidence-building
measures can contribute to strengthening the security of States”,

was replaced by 3 paragraph, reading;

“Reaffirming its conviction that confidence-building measures, especially
when applied in a comprehensive manner, have a potential to contribute
significantly to the enhancement of peace and security and to promote and
facilitate the attainment of disarmament measures”;

(b) The fi.Ii.h preambular  paragraph, which hfd readr

“MiLndful  of the fact that, while confidence-building measures cannot
serve as a fiubstitute  for concrete dfsarmement  measures, they play a very
significant role in achieving disarmament”,

was replaced by n paragraph, reading:

“Mindful of the fact that confidence-building measures, while neither a
substitute rlor a pre-condition for arms limitation and disarmament measures,
can he conrluriva  to achieving progress in disarmament”;



A/43/859
Enqlilili
P a g e  12

(c) A new eixth proambular  paragraph wan crddod, trading1

I’- that effeativa disarmament and arms limitation mealurea which
directly limit or reduce military potential have particularly hiqh
confbdrncr-building valuel’j

(c:) The original &ath preambular paragraph, now the tenth preambular
paragraph, which had read1

“N that the implementation of the confidence- and
security-building measure8 adopted in Stockholm in 1986 prover eatirfactory
and thus contributes to confidence-building in Europe”,

wae replaced by a paragraph, reading1

“m to the example of progress in the implementation of confidence-
and securI.ty-building mea,rurerr  adopted in Stockholm in 1986 that haa
contributed to more stable relations and increaeed security, reducing the risk
of military confrontation in Europe”)

(a) Operative paragraph 2, which had read8

I’- these Guidelines to all Staten for implementation, fully
taking into account the specific political, military and other conditions
prevailing in the particular region”,

was replaced by a paragraph, reading;

‘I- these guidelines to all States  for implementation, fully
taking into account the speaific  political, military and other conditions
prevailing in a region, an the barfr of initiatives and with the agreement of
the States of the region concerned”.

23. At the same meeting, the Comml  ;tee adopted draft resolution A/C,1/43/L.49  as
orally revised without a vote (eee para, 34, draft resolution H),

I . D r a f t -

~Ic.land..&v.UI the
On 31 October, Australia, Bemmv, Fe-

SNorwav and &?.&a eubmitted  a draft
resolution entitled “Report of the Canference on Disarmament” (A/C,1/43/L,50),
which was later also sponsored by m, The draft resolution was introduced by
the representative of the Netherlande at the 32nd meeting, on 9 November,



A/43/859
English
Page 13

25. At its 41st meeting, on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft reeolution
A1C.11431L.50 by a recorded vote of 73 to nonet with 53 abstentions (see para. 34,
draft resolution I), The voting was as follows;

Jgf~ Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Belgium, Benin, Bhutan,
Botswana, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Byelorussian  Soviet
Socialist Republic, Canada, Central African Republic, Chad,
Chile, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, C&e d’Ivoire,
Ctiechoslovakia,  Democratic Kampuchea,  Denmark, Djibouti, Fiji,
F$nisnd, France, Qabon,  Qerman Democratic Republic, Germany,
Federal Republic of, Greece, Guinea, Honduras, Hungary, Iceland,
Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia,
Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Nepal, Netherlands,
New Zealand, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Spain, Swasiland, Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Turkey,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socie!ist
Republics, United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland,
Uruguay, Viet Nem, Yemen.

Aclainstt None.

WRgt Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bangladesh, Barbados,
Bolivia, Brasfl, Burkina Faso, Burma, Burundi, Cameroon, Congo,
Cuba, Cyprus, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethiopia,
Ghana, Guatemala, Guyana, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic
Republic of), Iraq, Jordan, Kenya, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagascar, Malawi, Mexico,
Nicaragua, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Sierra Leone, Somalia,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian Arsb Republic, Tunisia,
Uganda, United Republic of Tansania, United States of America,
Veneeuele,  Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

26, On 31 Octohr I Ban~Lad~~hL..,C~e.~Rl~~...bcuaeor.~.,.~~Msrico
N~gsxi~R~rn.aa&  Smden, . Xunkia, the IlaLPn,of~~tiULUBf,
Il.ru.gu~r...XUqOsla~i.A  and .Uti~ submitted a draft resolution entitled “Economic and
social consequences of the armaments race and its extremely harmful effects on
world peace and security” (A/C.l/43/L.  57), which was later also sgonso::ed  by
Malaysia. The draft resolution was introduced by the representative 0; Romania at
Lhe 32nd meel;ing, on 9 Navember.

27. At its 36th meeting, on 14 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution

/ * . .



A/43/869
English
Page 14

A/C,1/43/L,57  by a recorded vote of 125 to 1 ,  with 9 abstentions (see pars,  34,
draft resolution J). The voting was ae follows1

In1 Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas ,  Bahrain, Eiangladoch,  Barbadoc, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil,  Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorussian  Soviet 8oaial~st  Republic,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Central Afriaan Republic,  Chad,
Chile,  China,  Colombia,  C o n g o , Costa Riaa, C8te d’Ivoire,  Cuba,
Cyprus, Cseahoslovakia,  Demoaratic Ksmguahra,  Democratic Yemen,
Denmark, Djibouti, Dominiaan Republia, Eouador,  Egypt, Ethiopia,
Fij i ,  Finland, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Qhana,  Qreece,
Quatemala,  Guinea,  Quyana, Hungary,  Iarland, India,  Indonoeia,
Iran (Islamic Republic of 1, Iraq, Ireland, Jsmaiaa,  Japan,
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Demoaratic Republia, Lebanon,
Leso tho ,  L iber ia ,  L ibyan  Arab Jamahiriya,  M a d a g a s c a r ,  Mahysia,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, MOROCCO,
Mosambique,  Nepal, New Zealand, Niaaraqua, Niger, Nigeria,
Norway ,  Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar,
Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Baudi  Arabia, Senoqal,  Sierra  Loone,
Singapore, Somalia, Spain,  Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, bwasiland,
Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Soaialist  Republic, Union of Boviet
Socialist Republics, United  A r a b  E m i r a t e s ,  United  Republ ic  of
Tansania,  Uruguay, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yuqorlavia,  Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe,

-1 United States of America.

-1 Belgium, France, Qermany,  Federal Republic of, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland.

K, l&aft rv43A/C.1/4

28. On 31 October, w submitted a draft resolution entitled “Comprehensive
proqrsmme  of disarmament” (A/C.l/43/L,bO),  which was introducei;  by its
representative at the 3lst meeting, on 9 November.

29. At its 33rd meotinq,  on 10 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/43/L’bO  without a vote (see pars’ 34, draft resolution K).

30. On 31 October, e Nj,q&~j&  Pol.md  and u submitted a
draft resolution, entitled “Consideration of the Declaration of the 1990s as the
Third Disarmament Decade” (A/C.1/43/L.63),  which was later also sponsored by
EthioPia, the @~~!nn. BWRaoublir: and Thailand, The draft resolution was
introduced by the representative of Nigeria at the 31st meeting, on 9 November.



A/43/059
English
Page 15

31, At ite 33rd meeting, on 10 Novembe;, the Committee adopted draft reeolution
A/C.l/43/L,63  without a vote (see para, 34, draft resolution L),

Peru. 1 Ve
Y~&.&R&-X~$Q&~  and &&F,R  submitted a draft reeolution  entitled “Rep%%?he
Conference on Disarmament” (A/C,1/43/L,66),  which was later also sponsored by
&ua&Dilbouti,_~and t h e  &,&XI, The draft resolution was  introduced by
the representative of Yugoslavia at the 31st meeting, on 9 November.

33. At its 41st meeting on 17 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A/C.l/43/L,66 by a recorded vote of 117 to 3, with 14 abetentions  (see pars, 34,
draft resolution M), The voting wae a6 follows1

In; Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bhutan,
Bolivia, Botswana,  Brasil, Brunei Daruaaalem,  Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byelorusslan Soviet Socialist Republic,
Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, C6te d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cypruo, Caeohoolovakia,
Democratic Kempuchra, Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador,
Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, Qabon, CJerman Democratic
Republic, Qhana,  ~r:BeCe, Quatemala, Quinea,  Quyana, Hondurae,
Hungary, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Jamaica,  Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic
Republic, Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahfriya,  Madagascar,
Malawi, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,
Mongolia, Morocco, Moaambigue, Nepal, New Zealand, Nioaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Peru, Philippineta,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname,
Swesiland,  Sweden, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Tunisia,
1Jqenda,  Ukrainian Soviet Socialiet  Republic, Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic of
Taneania,  Uruguay, Venesuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire,
Zambia, Zimbabwe,

Acrainstl France, United Kingdom of Oreat Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America,

lil2E-I Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Qermany,  Federal Republic of, Iceland,
Israel, Italy, Japan, Luxembourg Netherlands, Norway, Portugal,
Spain, Turkey.



A / 4 3 / 0 5 9
Englirh
Paye 16

I I I , RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FIRST COMMITTEE

34, The First Committoe reoommrndo  to the Qeneral Aorembly  the adoption of the
following draft reeolutionel

REVIEW OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE RECOMMENDATIONS AND DECISIONS
ADOPTED BY THE QENERAL ASSEMBLY AT ITS  TENTH SPECIAL SESSION

A

v the special and annual reports of the Disarmament
C o m m i e o i o n ,  11

v the importance of an OffeCtiVe follow-up to the
rrlovant recommrndatiano  and decisions oontainod  in the Final Document of the
Tenth Speoial  Session of the Qeneral Asrembly, 81 the firet sgecjal  Beseion
devoted to disarmament,

-into acw the relevant rectionr  of the Concluding Document of
the Twelfth Special Seooion  of the Qeneral Aooembly, P/ the second special
eeecion devoted to dioarmament.

BLpo v aaU widespread view@  eXpreE!aOd during the fifteenth
rrpecial  seeeion of the Qenoral  Asrembly, the third rpecial session devoted to
diearmament,

D the role that the Diearmament Commicoion ha6  been oalled upon
to play and the contribution that it should make in examining and submitting
recommendations on varioue problems in the field of diearmament and in the
promotion of the implementation of the relevant deoieions of the tenth special
888sion,

w its resolutions 3L/71 H of 14 December 1978, 34/03 H of
11 December 1979, 351152 F o f 12 December 1980, 36192 B o f 9 December 1981,

Offici.aL.
&-3.

J3.SQ&L.Uh_0eneral.Aeeemblv,FifteenthGPecialSeB.BLQI)#
(A /S-15 /3 ) ,  and  j.,U., mrd Seseion, 6-t NO,.*

(A/43/42),

w Resolution S-1012.

P/ --ofthe-,
m, agenda items 9-13, document A/S-12/32,

/ . . .



A/43/869
English
Page 17

37178 H o f 9 December 1982, 30/183 E of 20 Deoember  1983, 39/138 R of
17 December 1884, 40/152 F of 16 December 1985, 41/86 E of 4 December 1986 and
42142 Q o f 30 November 1987,

1, Tekes of the special and annual reports of the Disarmament
Commissionr  U/

2, Cnmme&  the Disarmament Commission for its adoption by consensus of
a set of principles of verification on disarmsment  issues as well as a set of
guidelines for appropriate types of aonfidenae-building measures and for the
implementation of such mwaures on a global or regional level, which were
recommended to the Qeneral Assembly for conoideration)  U/

3, Ko_te.a  that the Disarmament Commission has yet to conclude its
consideration of some items on its agenda, but notes also with appreciation
the progress achieved on some of theset

4, &S.&US  the role of the Disarmament Commission as the specialised,
deliberative body within the United Nations multilateral disazmsment  machinery
that allows for in-depth deliberations on specific disarmsment issues, leading
to the submission of concrete recommendations on those issuesr

5. S.m the importance for the Disarmament Conunissicn  to work on
the basis of a relevant agenda of disarmanent  topics, thereby enabling the
Commission to concentrate its efforts and thus optimise its progrese on
specific subjects in accordance with resolution 37178 Ht

6. mu- the Disarmament Commission to continue its work in
accordance with its mandate, a6 set forth In paragraph 118 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the Qeneral  Assembly, and with
paragraph 3 of resolution 37178 H, and to that end to make every effort to
achieve specific recommendations, at its 1989 substantive session, on the
outetandiny iteme on its agenda, taking into account the relevant resolutions
of the General Assembly as well as the results of its 1988 substantive
sessions

7, AAsorsguaat;a  the Disarmament Commission to meet for a period not
exceeding four weeks during 1989 and to submit a substantive report,
containJnq specific recommendations on the items included in its agenda, to
the General Assembly at its forty-fourth session!

8, R.equ~...J;a  the Secretary-General to transmit to the Disannwient
Commission the special and annual reports of the Conference on

LQ../ See footnote 1.



A / 4 3 / 0 5 9
Englirh
Pago 18

Dirarmanwnt,  U/ togothor with a l l  t h r  o f f i o i a l  rooordr o f  the fiftronth
rpooial rorrion  a n d  the f o r t y - t h i r d  rrroion o f  the Qonoral  Aarombly  r e l a t i n g
to dirarmamrnt mattorr, and to  rendor all  arriatanoo that thr Comnirrion  may
rrquiro f o r  implomrnting  the grorent.  rerolutionl

9 . Alra thr Boorotary-Qonoral  to l nrura full pr-ovirion to the
Commirrion and itr rubridirrry bodies of intorprotation  and trsnrlation
faoilitior  i n  the o f f i c i a l  languagrr,  a n d  t o  aeeign, ar A  Inattor of p r i o r i t y ,
a l l  the noorrsary  roaouroom  a n d  rorviooo  t o  t h i r  OndJ

10. w to inolude in the provirional  agenda of itr forty-tausth
rorrion the item rntitlod Report of the Dirarmarnont  Commirrion.

B

u that, in aooordanoe with paragraph 20 of the Final Dooument  of
the T e n t h  S p e c i a l  Sorsion o f  the Qensral Assembly,  U/ t h e  firrt rpooial
rorrion devoted tn dirarmament,  effective meaIureti  of nuolear  dirarmcunent and
the grovention of nualear war have the highost priority and that thie
commitment wae reaffirmed by the Aaeembly at its twelfth special eeeeion,  the
tooond cpraial sorrion  drvoted  t o  disarmamrat,

Raeallina that,  in paragraph 58 of the Final  Document,  i t  is  stated
t h a t  a l l  S t a t e s , in partioular nucleer-weapon  Water, should  oonoidrr ae noon
ar porriblr  variour  p r o p o r a l r  d e s i g n e d  t o  rclouro t h e  avoidanoe  o f  t h e  UIO o f
nualoar woaponsr the prevrntion  of nualoar  w a r  and rolatrd objoativrs,  whom
porrible through international agreement, and thereby enrure that the survival
of mankind ic not endangered,

wu fur- t h a t ,  a t  itr fiftoonth rpocial  oorrion, the t h i r d
special  ereoion drvotod to disarmament, it was g e n e r a l l y  recognimed t h a t  Lhe
prevention of nuclear war ~86 of utmost concern crnd that @pacific efforto,
b i la tera l ,  reg iona l  or  multilateralr should be vigorously pursued a n d  measures
should be strengthened to reduce and ultimately eliminate the risk of nuclear
war,

D that the nuclear-weapon States have the primary
reeponeibility for nuolear diearpament  and for undertaking measures aimed at
preventing the outbreak of nuclear war,

(A/43/27),

rde of  M. Fifs S&.,
(A/S-15/2) , a n d  m,, Md &m.&& ~ug&b~U No. 22

l.W R e s o l u t i o n  S-10/2.



A/43/059
Englieh
Page 19

H&sur& meaaureo taken by the Union of Soviet Soaialiot  Regubliac  and
the United States of Ameriaa to reduoe the rick of nualear war,

w that a nuclear war cannot be won and muet never be fought,

m that,  in the Pol it ical  Dealsration adopted at  the Eighth
Conference of Heads of State or Qovernmont  of Non-Aligned Countries, held at
Harare from 1 to 6 September 1986, all nuolear-weapon States were oalled upon
to enter early i n t o  an internationally binding commitment not to be the first
to use or threaten to use nuclear weapon@,  U/

&&a&&$ that,  for the sake of  international  peace and seourity,
military concepts and doctrines must be of a strictly defsneive  character,

1. I&D- that the solemn declarations by two nuclear-weapon States
made or reiterated at the twelfth speoial  seseion  of the Qeaeral  Assembly,
concerning their respective obligations not to be the first to uoe nuolear
weapons, offer an important avenue to deorease  the danger of nuolear warI

2. &pw that those nuolear-weapon States whioh have not
yet done 80 will consider making similar declaration8 with reepect to not
being the firet to usa nuolear weaponat

3. RBQW  the Conference on Diearmament to commence negotiatione  on
the item Prevention of nualear war of its agenda and to oonsider, intet
the elaboration of an international instrument of a legally binding charactei
laying down the obligation not to be the first to uee aualear weaponal

4. Qti&a to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
session the item entitled 1’Non-u8e  of nuclear weapon@  and prevention of
nuclear war”.

C

&uw the importance of achieving international co-operation in the
field of arma limitation and diearmament,

Ic.eunQ-  i.llw.W that since its forty-second eeesion there have been
important and encouraging developments in the areas of acme  limitation and
disarmament,

stre.as.ing  that disarmament can only be achieved through active and
sustained joint efforts of all States,

fp/ See A/41/697-S/18392, annex, sect, I, para, 47.

/ . . I



A/43/859
English
Page 20

Stressing also the vital importance of proceeding to balanced, mutually
acceptable, fully verifiable and effective measures of arms limitation and
disarmament, in accordance with established priorities, for the preservation
of peace and the strengthening of international security,

Stressinu furthec that the necessary balance between bilateral and
multilateral approaches to arms limitation and disarmament should be secured
through a significantly enhanced role of the United Nations and its respective
bodies in this field,

1. Invites all States further to increase co-operation for achieving
effective arms limitation and disarmament agreements on the basis of
reciprocity, equality, undiminished security, non-ube of force and the rule of
law in inteLnational relations:

2, Calls uuon all States to aim at strengthening the effectiveness of
the United Nations in fulfilling its central zlle and primary responsibility
in the sphere of disarmament and to contribute actively to the consideration
and resolution of all disarmament issues that have a bearing on their security
and other fundamental interests:

3. Further invites all States to consider, in a spirit of co-operation,
ways and means to facilitate both bilateral and multilateral solutions to
disarmament.

D

Cu c l e alim l n . n r winter:
er>artr r- n

The Gene+al,

Recalling that, in the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the
General Assembly, E/ the first special session devoted to disarmament, after
referring specifically to "the threat to the very survival of mankind" posed
by the existence of nuclear weapons, it declared, in paragraph 18, that
removing the threat of world war - a nuclear war - is the most acute and
urgent task of the present day,

Recalling also its resolutions 401152 G of 16 December 1985 and 41/86 H
cf 4 December 1986, by which it requested the Secretary-General, with the
assistance of a Group of Consultant Experts chosen by him, bearing in mind the
advisability of wide geographical representation and of their qualifications
in a broad range of scientific fields, to carry out a study on the climatic
and potential physical effects of nuclear war, including nuclear winter, which
would examine, inter azia, its socio-economic consequences,

fi/ Resolution S-1012.

/ . l .



A/43/089
lEnqlirh
Pagm 21

v the report of the Seorstery-Qenrral  entitled “Study  on
the climatic and other global rffsotr of nuclear war”, u/

v by the oonalusiono of that study,

1, Takes of the stuUy on the alimatia and other giobal effootc of
nuclear WBC I

2. m ite w to the Searotary-Qenrral  and the Oroup of
Consultant Experts that assisted him in the preparation of thr study1

3. w the ntudy  and its conclurionr to the atte*rtion  of all
Member  Statesr

4, wm all Member States to oommuniaate to the Searotary-Qoneral
their views on the etudy before 1 September 1989r

5. Recrvesta  the Secretary-Qeneral  to make the necessary arrangement8
for the reproduction of the report ao a United Nationo publication and to give
it the widest possible distribution.

E

of UknuELanrsnuns racesndnuclsar8iparmamrnt.

mQ-- that all nations have a vital intrreet  in negotiations on
nuclear disarmament becauoe  the existence of nuclear weapone jeopardiaeo  the
vital security intereats of both nuclear and non-nuclear-weapon States alike,

&a&~$ that, in paragraph6  11 and 47 of the Final Doaument of the
Tenth Special Session of the Qenrral Aseembly,  &I/ the first opecial ceosion
devoted to disarmament, the Aessmbly stated that the nuclear-armr  race, far
from contributing to the strengthening of the eecurity of all States, on the
contrary weakens it and increaees  the Banger of the outbreak of a nuclear war,

Noj&g that the Minister8 at the ninth Ministerial Meeting of the
Non-Aligned Countriee held at Nicoeie in September 1988 welcomed the recent
developments in the field of diearmament, which they considered a hietoric
achievement, and expreseed the hope that they would result in further
substantive progress in the field of current and future bilateral and
multilaterel negotiations on diearmament, and amphaeiaed  a6 well the need to
encourage this positive trend through the immediate adoption of measures  for

1p/ A/43/351*

17/ Resolut ion  S-10/2,



A / 4 3 / 0 5 9
Engl ioh
Page 22

the reversal of the nuclear-arm6 raceI so as to remove the threat of a nuclear
holocaust which endangorn  the very eurvival  of mankind,

m proposals on the complete elimination of nuclear weapon6
throughout the world and, rapecially, the signing of the TreMzy between the
United States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialiot Republic6 on the
Elimination of Their- Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range Missiles, uI/

B that it is neneseary to halt all testing, production and
deployment of nuclear weapons of all type8 and verrione and their drl1very
oystemu  a6 a first step in the process that chould lead to the achievement of
substantial reductions in nuclear forces, and welcoming in this context the
propoeals to that end forwarded by the leaders of Argentina, Qreece, Ind ia ,
Mexico, Sweden and the United Republic of Tanaania in thbir various
declarations,

w that, at the fifteenth special cession of the Qeneral  Aeeembly,
the third special session devoted to disarmament, anU at the 1988 session of
the Conference on Disarmament, several proposals on nuclear disarmament were
introduced by Member States, and that there was general agreement that nuclear
disarmament remains a priority objective and represents a central task facing
mankind,

m that all nuclear-weapon States, in particular, those
with the moat important nuclear arsenals, bear a special responsibility fcr
the fulfilment of the task of ach iev ing  the goals of nuclear disarmament,

Convinced  of the imperative need to take construative  multilateral action
toward6 halting and reversing the nuclear-arm6 race,

1. m that both bilateral an8 multilateral negotiation6 on the
nuclear and space arm6 race are by nature complementary to one another1

2. m that effort6 should be intensified with a view to
initiating, as a matter of the highest priority, multilateral negotiation6 in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 50 of the Final Document of the
Tenth Special Sess ion  of the General Assembly, the first special session
devoted to disarmament #

3. &&,n ream the Conference on Disarmament to establish an aB
committee at the beginning of its 1989 session to elaborate on paragraph 50 of
the Final Document and to submit recommendation6 to the Conference as to how
it could best initiate multilateral negotiations of agreements, with adequate
measures of verification, in appropriate stages for;

(a) Cessation of the qualitative improvement6  and development of
nuclear-weapon6 systemst

;c&/  CD/798.



A / 4 3 / 0 5 9
English
P a g e  2 3

(b) Cessation of the production 0:: all typoo of nuolear  weapono and
their means of delivery and of the produation of fiesionable  material for
weapons purpoeest

(c) Substantial reduction in rxieting aucisar wespons with a view to
their ultimate eliminationl

4 . Reclueete  the Confrroncr on Diearmament  to report to the Qsnrral
Assembly at ite forty-fourth session  on ita consideration of this subjects

5. Q&,&a to imlude in the provdaional  agenda nf its forty-fourth
session the item entitled Teosation  of the nuclear-arms race and nuclear
disarmament”.

F

Convinced  that the prevention of nuclear war and the reduction of the
risk of nuclear war are matters of the highest priority end of vital interest
to all people of the world,

Rar;lLallina the provisions of paragraphs 47 to 50 and 56 to 55 of the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Seesion  of the General Assembly, u/ the first
special seesion devoted to disarmament, regarding the procedures dee&gned  to
secure the avoidance of nuclear wart

Wiag that it is the shawl responsibility of all Member State@ to
save succeeding generations from the scourge of another world war, which would
inevitably be & nuclear wart

R~t,i,xg  that the Minieters at the ninth Ministerial Meeting of the
Non-Aligned Countries held at Nicosia stated ‘:hat, being aware that the
gravest danger confronting humanity today was the nuclear threat, they
welcomed the recent developments in the field of disarmament, which they
considered a historic achievementi, and emphaeised  the need to encourage that
positive trend through the immediate adoption of measures for the prevention
of nuclear war,

j&cQgninlL\g  that the prevention of nuclear war requires disarmament
measurea, and welcoming the first bilateral nuclear disarmment  agreement
between the Unio.? of Soviet Socialist Republics and the United States of
America on the eiimination of all land-based intermediate-range nuclear forces,

&j/ Resolution S-10/2.



A/43/059
Engllrh
Page 24

&ua of the l rrential oomplomentarity which link8 both bilateral and
multilateral disarmament negotiationr,

Having the report of the Conference on Diearmament in ILr
1 9 8 8  seeeion, 1p/

Taking the del iberation8 o n  thic item at the f i fteenth
rpecial  rereion of the Oenoral Aerembly,  the third rpecial  eoeai0.1  devoted to
disarmament, and at it8 forty-third roarion,

1. Notrll wiw :hat, derpito Qhe fact that the Conference on
Diearmament har dircurrsd the quertion of the prevention of nuclear war for
reveral yeare, it has been unable even to l rtablirh a rubridinry body to
conoider appropriate and practiaal measure8 to prevent itr

2, Reitrratrm itc conviction that, in view of the urgenay of the matter
and the inadequacy or inrufficiency of existing meaeuree, it ir necerrary  to
device  ruitable step8 to expedite effective actrtiaa  for the preventian of
nuclear wart

3, up reau the Conference on Dirarmement to undertrke, ao a
matter of the highert priority, negotiation@  with a view to achieving
a,greement on appropriate and practical measurer  that could bo negotiated and
adopted individually for the prevention of nuclear war and to establish for
that purpoce  an A&U committee on the oubject at the beginning of its
1989 eerrionr

4, DaciaaP  to include in the provisional agenda of it@ forty-fourth
eeesion the item entitled “Prevention of nuclear war",

&&,& that there have been important developments of late fn the areas
of arme limitation and disarmament efforts which provide a sense of strong
encouragement and hopo for a more secure world,

Natine at the 8eme  time that, despite ths positive developments, the arms
race still poses a grave threat to lrorld peace and eecurity,

m the vital importance of elimino’i: iq the threat of a nuclear and
conventional war, ending the nuclesr and conventional arms race and bringing
about disarmament,



A / 4 3 / 5 5 9
Englieh
Page 25

F the need for and the importance of world public opinion
in support of halting and reversing the global arms race in all its aapecte,

uinto.aocaunt  the aspirations of the world public to prevent an
a r m 8  race i n  space a n d  to terminate it  o n  Earth,

g the broad and active rupport by Oovertunentr  and
international and national organisations of the deoision taken by the &neral
Assembly at its tenth special seeeion, the first special eeseion  devoted to
Qisarmament, regarding the proclamation of the week starting 24 October, the
day of the foundation of the United Natione, as a week devoted to fostering
the objectives of disarmament,

w the recommendations concerning the World Disarmament Campaign
contained in annex V to the Concluding Document of the twelfth special session
of the General Assembly, the second speoial  oessioa devoted to dfoarmament,  in
particul.lr  the recommendation that the Disarmament Week should continue to be
widely observed, a/

No.mg the support for the further observance of Disarmament Week
expressed by Member States at the fifteenth special session  of the Qeneral
Assembly, the third special session devoted to disarmament,

1, 2-m of the report of the
Secretary-General 221 on the follow-up measure6  undertaken by States,
governmental and non-governmental organisation6  in holding Disarmament Week;

2, Ccomm~ti  all States, international and national governmental and
non-governmental organ isat ions  for their energetic support of and active
participation in Diearmement  Week since its first obeervance  10 years agor

3 . Invites all States that so desire, in carrying out appropriate
measures at the local level on the occasion of Disarmament Week, to take inLo
account the elements of the model programme for ‘)isarmament  Week prepared by
the Secretary-General) 29/

4 , I.nv.ites  Governments to continue, in accordance with Qeneral  Assembly
resolution 33171 D of 14 December 1978, to inform the Secretary-General of
activities undertaken to promote the objectives of Diearmament Week]

5, A&IQ..~LIx~~  international and national non-governmental
organiantians to take Bn active pert in DJ.earmarnent  Week and to inform the
Secretary-General of the activities h.Tdertakenl

211 O.ff.iciui R0GQrdR  ..I. o.f..~;ha-G0n0~..al..A~embly~l.th,
&JAU~.&,  scpnda  .i tmns  9-13, document. A / S - 1 2 / 3 2 ,  annex V, para, 12.

221 A/43/508 a n d  Add.1.

23/ A / 3 4 / 4 3 6 .



A/43/000
Englirh
Page 26

s 6. v thr Soarotarp0enoral  to UIO the United Nation@
information organr  am widolg aa pormiblr  to promote bottor undmrrtmding among
thr world gublia of dimarmamont  problomm  and thr objoctivem of Dimarmammnt
Workr

7, m t-ho Sroratary4onora1, in acoordanao with paragraph 4 of
rrmolution 33171 D, to mubmit to thr Qwwrdl Ammambly  at itm forty-fourth
memmion a report on the implementation of the provimionr of the prrmrnt
rocolution.

w it8 rrrolution 42139 F, adopted without a vote on
30 November 1987,

w of the rrgort of the Dirarmamont  Commimrion,  a/ containing
the agreed tort of the Vuidolinor for appragriato typrr of oonfidoaco-
building meaeurea  and for the implomrntation  of ruah mearurem on a global or
regional  levels’,

e of thr work acaomplirhod by the Dirrrmamont  Commfrrfon in
finalising the text of theme Quidelinrr,

D its conviation that confidoncr-building mearurrsl ergnaially
when applied in a comprohenrivo mannrr, havr a  potential to aontribute
rignificantly  to the l nhanaommnt of poaao  and aocurity and to promoto and
facilitate the attainment of dirarmamant moamuror,

w of the faot that aonfidrnao-building moarurer, \#hile neither a
eubetitute not a pro-condition for arma limitation and dirarmnmont  meaaurrs,
can be conducive to achieving  groqrarc i n  dirarmament,

w that effective dirarmament  end arma limitation meaauree which
directly l imit or reduce mil i tary potential  have prrtiaularly high
confidence-building value,

m to all Water to conrider  the widget poraible UIO of
confidence-building measures  in their international  relations,

w that there are situationa  peculiar  to rpsaific  region6 which have a
bearing on the nature of the confidence-building measure8 feaoible in thoer
regions,

2.41 Qf.EicialRePorBrqitho~  FF,

-,&,A (A/S-15/3) ,  rect. 111,C.S. and U., mI
fbpgdmmk._h,-.U  (A/43/42 1 a

/ .*.



A/43,1069
Englieh
P a g e  2 7

wnawith the e n c o u r a g i n g  resultr o f  rpeaifia
oonfidence-building meaeurea  agreed upon and implemented  in rome regiona,

Est.hLiw to the exampls of progress in the implementation of aonfidence-
and security-building meaaurea  adopted in Stockholm i n  1986 that har
contributed to more stable relations and increased esaurity,  reducing the risk
of military confrontation in Europe,

1, Enaorees  the Guidelines for uppropriata  types of aonfidenao-building
measures and for the implementation of such measures on u global or regional
level, 88 adopted by oonoenaua  by the Disarmament Commission at ite 1988
substantive seseiont  U/

2, y therre guidelinee to all States iOr iIIQlOmntatiOnr  fully
taking into account the speaifia political, military and other aonditiono
prevai l ing  in  a r e g i o n , on the baeie of initiative8  and with the agreement of
the States of the region concsrnedr

3, ~&~uuU  the Secretary-General to submit a report to the Qenrral
Aaeembly at ite forty-fifth oession  on the implementation of theco guidelines
on the baeis of national report6  on accumulated relevant experienoel

4, P.s.ci@e  to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fifth
session an item entitled l’Implementation  of the Guidslineo for appropriate
types of confidence-building meaaurea”.

I

ort of m on s

~~~~g the relevant portion6 of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Session of the Qeneral  Assembly, 2% in particular, paragraph 120,

S.aar.ha~  hunAnd that considerable cllld  urgent work remains to be
accomplished in the field of disarmament,

.~wQnvinf,igd  that the Conferonce on Disurmament,  aB the eingle multilateral
negotiating forum for global disarmament questions should fully take into
account the Programme of Action set forth in section III of the Final Document
of the Tenth Specie1 Session,

~y,~ng..m~nsi&u&  the report of the Conference on Disarmament, u/ which
the Conference adopted by coneensus,

25/ Resolution S--10/2.



A/43/859
English
Page 28

1, u of the report of the Conference on Dirarmament  on itr
1988 ceesionl

2. m that the Confersnar on Disarmament  playr tl vital role in
the field of disarm&ment  for the world communityr

3, v itr rupport for the effortr of the Conference on
Disarmament in fulfilling its tarko and callo upon all Confrrenar mrmberr  and
obrerver States to contribute aa effectively ao porrible to thir end)

4, m the Conference on Disarmament  to continue and to intensify
its work on the varioud substantive items of it6 agenda!

5, &bo r- the Conference on Dimarmament  to rubmit a report on
its work to the General Aesrmbly  at its forty-fourth rearionr

6, pm to include in the provisional agenda of ito forty-fourth
oeroion the item entitled “Report  of the Conference  on Disarmament”.

J

v the item entitled ‘@Economic and oocial  consequences of
the armaments race and itc extremely harmful effeatc on world peace and
aecurityl’,

w ito resolutions 2667 (XXV) of 7 December 1970, 2831 (XXVI) of
16 December 1971, 3075 (XXVIII) of 6 December 1973, 32/75 of 12 December 1977,
35/141 of 12 December 1980, 40/150 of 16 December 1985 and 41186  I of
4 December 1986,

~~ that the arms race?  particularly in nuclear armaments
and military expenditures, continue6 to increat3e  at an alarming apeed,
representing a heavy burden for the economies of all States and constituting a
grave danger for world peace and security,

Recalli- the numerous  statements made by the repreeentatives  of
Governments during the disarmament negotiations and particularly at the
fifteenth special eeeeion of the General Aseembly,  the third special eeeeion
devoted to disarmament:, to the effect that the vastly increased military
budgets have aleo contributed to current economic problems  in certain States
and that existing and planned military programme6  constitute a huge waste of
precious resources which might otherwise be used to elevate living standards
of all peoples and eolve the problems confronting developing cauntriee in
achieving economic and social development,



A/43/559
English
Page 29

D the nerd for all Oovernmente  and poopleo to be informed about
and to understand the eituation prevailing in the field of the arm6 race and
disarmament,

&AX&IQ  in mind the objectives of the World Diearmament Campaign, n/
solemnly launched at the twelfth special oscrion , which io intended to promote
public interest in, and eupport for, the reaching of agreement8  on meaauree of
arms limitation and disarmament,

v paragraph 93 (c) of the Final Document of the Tenth
Special Seseion of the General Aeeembly, a/ the firet epecial  session devoted
to disarmament, in which it ie provided that the Secretary-Qeneral rhall
periodicelly submit reporto to the Assembly on the economic r.nd social
consequencee  of the armaments race and its extremely harmful effects on world
peace and security,

C_ans that the elaboration of such reports should be viewsc¶ a6 a
measure aimed at building confidence among States,

1, mmw the updated report of the
Secretary-Qeneral on the economic and .eocial consequencse  of the arme race and
military expendituresi 2p/

2, -es ite thanke to the Secretary-Qeneral and the conoultant
experts aa well as to the Qovernments  and international organiaatione  that
have rendered aseistance in the updating of the report1

3, Recommends  that the updated report be brought to the attention of
public opinion and aleo taken into account in future actiono by the United
Nation6 in the field of diearmamentr

4. Raquw the Secretary-Qeneral to make the necessary arrangements
for the reproduction of the report a8 a United Nations publication and to give
it broad publicity in the framework of the World Disarmament Campaign)

5. Rer;~mm  that all Qovernmente ensure the widest possible
distribution  of the report, including its translation into the respective
national lnnguagest

6. XnvFt;aa  the specialised agencies aa well a.8 intergovernmental,
national and non-governmental organisations to 1188  their facilitiee to make
the report widely knownt

271 See A/S-12/32, annex V.

a/ Resolution S-1012.

u/ A / 4 3 / 3 6 0 .



A/43/059
English
Page 30

7, w its deaision to keep the item l ntitlrd "Eaonomic  and
soaial oonsequenaes of the armaments race nnd its extremely harmful effeotr on
world peace and security" under aonstant review, and deaidee  to inalude it in
the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth sessionl

K

m its rooolution  42142 I of 30 Novembsc  1987, i n  which it urged
the Conference on Dilrarmsment  to resume the work on the elaboration of the
comprehensive programme of dloarmsment  at the outset of its 1988 session with
a view to resolving outstanding issuss and concluding negotiations on the
programme,

v the report of the Ad Committee on the Comprehensive
Programme of Disarmament concerning its work during the 1988 session of the
Conference on Disarmament, which is an integral part of the report of the
Conference, IQ/ and noting the agreement of the Ad Committee that it
uhould resume its work at the outset of the 1989 session of the Conference
with the firm intention of completing the elaboration of the programme for its
submission to the Qeneral Assrmbly, at the latest at its forty-fourth session,

Daciaes  to inalude in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth session
an item entitled “Comprehensive programme of disarmament”,

L

o f  ## Dew o f  m I.9904
--a

w its resolution 35145 of 3 December 1980, in which it declared
the 1980s as the Second Disarmum~nt  Decade,

v its resolution 34175 of 11 December 1979, in which it
directed the Disarmament Commission to prepare element6 of a draft resolution
entitled “Declaration of the 19806 as the Second Disermament  Decade” for
submission to the Qeneral  Assembly at its thirty-fifth 6essLon for
consideration and adoption,

w&n)i.nd that the Second Disarmsment  Decade lfeclared by its
resolution 35/46 is coming to an end,



A/43/859
English
P a g e  3 1

disar?
the responsibility of the United Nations in the attainment of

,

NQ.L& the progress l.n the disarmament talks between the Union of Soviet
Socialist Republics and the United States of America, and its positive impact
on the attainment of global peace and security,

lk&~.~ o f  m a i n t a i n i n g  the current m o m e n t u m  i n  the disarmament process,

C6n\LinceB that a third disarmament decade will accelerate the disarmament
process,

1, I)eciBee to declare the decade of the 19900 as the Third Disarmament
Decade)

2, pimu the Disarmament Commission, at its substantive session in
1989, to prepare elements of a draft resolution to be entitled, “Declaration
of the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade” and to submit them to the
Qeneral Assembly at its forty-fourth seseion for consideration and adoptionr

3 . m the Seoretary-Qeneral to seek the views and suggeetions  of
Member States and of relevant specialised agencies and the International
Atomic E n e r g y  A g e n c y  o n  the porrsible  elemer,ts  to be inaluded in  the
Declaration of the 1990s as the Third Disarmament Decade, and to make these
available to the Disarmament Commission at its substantive session in 1989)

4, Ux&bar-~wti  the Secretary-Qeneral to render all necessary
assistance to the Disarmament Commission in implementing the present
reeolutionr

5. Deciaee  to include i n  the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
session an item entitled “Declaration of the 19900  as the Third Disarmament
Decade”.

M

Berrorf.af-aon

Recel&h its resolutions 34183 B of 11 December 1979, 35/152 3 of
12 December 1980, 36192 F of 9 December 1981, 37170  0 of 9 December 1982,
36/183 I of 20 December 1983, 391148 N of 17 December 1984, 40/152 M of
16 December 1965, 41186  M of 4 December 1986 and 42142 L of 30 November 1987,

ubg-.ww the report of the Conference on Disarmament, 3.U



A / 4 3 / 8 5 9
English
Page 32

Canvincad that the Conference on Disarmament, as the single multilateral
negotiating body on disarmament, should play the central  role  in substantive
negotiations on priority questions of disarmament,

w regg& that the Conferenae  on Disarmament was not able
in 1988 either to establish m committees or to commence negM=!atione  on
nuolear issues  on i ts  agenda,

mgbLi.gn that the Conference on Disarmament, in view of
the positive current processes in some important fields of disarmament, would
be in a position to reach concrete ayreemente  on disarmament issues to which
the United Nations has assigned greatest priority and urgency and which have
been under consideration for a number of yearor

w that it is more than ever imperative in the present
circumstances to give an additional fmpotue  to negotiations on disarmament at
all levels and to achieve genuine progress in the immediate future,

1. ~&&&RIR  the role of the Conference on Disarmament as the single
multilateral disarmament negotiating forum of the international community)

2. Kpw that further progress has been made in the
negotiations on the elaboration of a draft convention on the complete and
effeative prohibition of the development, production and stockpiling of all
chemical weapons and on their dastruction, and urges the Conference on
Disarmament to intensify further its work with a view to completing
negotiations on such a draft convention as soon as poeeible~

3. v the C o n f e r e n c e  on Disarmament to intensify its work, tc,
further its mandate more earnestly through substantive negotiations, within
the framework of &L,&G  committees as the most appropr’ate mechanism, and to
adopt concrete measures on the specific priority issues of disarmament on its
agenda, in accordance with the Programme of Action set forth in section III of
the Final Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Aeeemblyr 321

4 . mmm the Conference on Disarmament to provide negotiating
mandates to a&M committees on all agenda items, in keeping with the
fundsmental role of the Conference on Disarmament as identified in the Final
Document of the Tenth Special Session of the General Aesemblyr

5. &q.u.s~u the Conference on Disarmament to submit a report on its
work to the General Assembly at its forty-fourth session;

6. I)eci8es to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-fourth
session the item entitled “Report of the Conference on Disarmament”.

J2.I Resolution S-10/2,


