
















































UNITED
NATIONS

(I*--

A
Geraeral Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/43/916
15 December 1988

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-third session
Agenda item 83

EXTERNAL DEBT CRISIS AND DEVELOPMENT

Renort of the Second Committee_

Rannorteur: Mr. Martin WALTER (Czechoslovakia)

I. INTRODUCTION

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 23 September 1988, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in its agenda the item
entitled "External debt crisis and.development" and to allocate it to the Second
Committee.

2. The Second Committee considered the item at its 16th to 21st, 24th, 28th and
48th meetings, on 19 to 21, 24, 26 an' 31 October and 9 December. An account of
the Committee's general discussion cs, the item is contained in the relevant summary
records (A/C.2/43/SR.16-21,  24, 28 and 48). Attention is also drawn to the general
debate held by the Committee at its 3rd to 10th meetings on 5 to 7, 10 and
11 Nove.mber (A/C.2/43/SR.3-10).

3. For its consideration of the item, the Committee had before it the following
documents:

A/43/184 Letter dated 1 March 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Colombia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the communiqu6 issued by the Ministers for Foreign
Affairs of the Contadora Group and its Support Group at the
conclusion of the third regular meeting of the Permanent Mechanism
for Consultation and Concerted Political Action, held at
Cartagena, Colombia, from 24 to 26 February 1988

88-33362 0175P (E) / . . .



A/43/916
English
P a g e  2

A / 4 3 / 2 3 5 -

8/ 19674

A / 4 3 / 2 8 3 -
8 / 1 9 7 3 6

A / 4 3 / 2 8 7 -

8 /  1 9 7 4 0

A / 4 3 / 3 7 0

A / 4 3 / 3 7 3

A/43/399

A/43/480

A / 4 3 / 5 1 0 -

s/20091

Letter dated 22 March 1988 from the Permlanent Ri preeentative  of
Panama to the Unite4 Nations addrerred to the Secretary-General
tranemitting exaergto from the meeeage to the nati\?n issued by the
Minioter  in Charge of ;ho Proridency  of the Republic of Panama on
21 Marah 1988

Letter dated S April 1988 from the Permanent Repreeentatives  of the
Union of Soviet Socialiet Republic8 and Yugorlavi?  to the United
Nationr rddrerred to the Secretary-General tranrmitting the text
of the Yugoelav-Soviet declaration adopted on 15 March 1988 in
Belgrade

Letter dated 5 April 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Panama to the United Nations addreosed to the Seoretary-Qencral
transmitting the text of decirrion 271 adopted by the Latin
American Council of the Latin American Economic Syetem (SELA) at a
special meeting held on 28 and 29 March 1988 at Caracas

Letter dated 27 May 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Guatemala to the United Nations addreraed  ‘r;o the Secretary-General
transmitting the result8 of the seventy-ninth session of the
Inter-Parliamentary Union, held at Quatemala  City from 8 to
16 April 1988

Letter dated 11 May 1988 from the Permanent Representatives of the
Federal Republic of Germany and Thailand to the United Nations
addreesed to the Secretary-Qeneral tranemitting the texts of the
joint declaration of the cevonth  meeting  of the Foreign Minioterc
of the European Cornunity and of the Aarociation of South-East
Asian Nationr, held at Dirreldorf on 2 and 3 May 1988

Letter dated 9 Juno 1988 from the Chargd d’affaires  a.i. of the
Permanent Miraion  of Trinidad aud Tobago to the United Nations
addrerred to the Secretary-Qeneral tranrmitting  the Communiqu6 o f
the Fourteenth Meeting of the Standing Committee of Ministers
responsible for Foreign Affairs of the Caribbean Community, held
at Port of Spain on 20 and 21 May 1988

Letter dated 22 July 1988 from the Charg6 d’affairee a.i of the
Permanent Mission of Antigua and Barbuda to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting the Communiqu6 of
the ninth meeting of the Conference of Heads of Government of the
Caribbean Community, held at Deep Bay, Antigua and Barbuda, from
4  to 8 July 1988

Letter dated 4 August 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Brunei Daruselrlsm to the United Nations addressed  to the
Secretary-General transmitting excerpts from the Joint Communiqui
of the twenty-first ASEAN Ministerial Meeting, he14 at Bangkok on
4 and 5 July 1988



A / 4 3 / 5 3 8

A / 4 3 / 5 8 7

A / 4 3 / 6 4 7

A / 4 3 / 6 6 7 -
6/20212

A/43/671

A/43/692-
6 1 2 0 2 2 0

A / 4 3 / 7 0 9

A/43/713

A/43/916
English
Page 3

Letter dated 15 Auguet 1988 from the Charqd d’affniree a.1 of the
Permanent Mirrion of the Philippinmr to the United Nation8
addreamed to tho Searetary-Oenoral  tranrmitting  the text  of  the
Manila Declaration of 1988 adopted at the International Conference
of Newly Rertored  Democracies, held at Manila from 3 to 6 June 1988

Letter dated 2 September 1988 from the Permanent Reprerentative  of
the German Demoorath Republic to the United Nation6 addresre4  to
the Secretary-General transmitting a statement  by the Minirtry of
Foreign Affairs on the implementation of the United Nations
Prograunne  of Action for African Economic Recovery and Development
1986-1990

Report of the Secretary-Qeneral  entitled tgTowarda a durable
solution of the debt problem”

Letter datrd 29 September X986 from the Permanent  Reprerontativo  of
Cyprus to the United Nations addrewed  to the Searetary-qeneral
tranrmittinq a copy of the final documentr  adopted by the
Conference of Foreign Ministers of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries,  held at Nicoria from 5 to 10 September 1988

Letter d&ted 30 September 1988 from the Permanent Reprerentative
of Tunisia to the United Nations addrerred to the
Secretary-General transmitting the declaration of the twelfth
annual meeting of the Minirterr for Foreign Affair6 of the Croup
of 77, held at New York from 28 to 30 September 1988

Letter dated 7 October 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Jordan to the United Nations addrea8ed to the Secretary-Conera
transmitting the text of the final comnunfqud adopted by the
Co-ordination Moetinq of the Minieterr  for Foreign Affairs of the
Organisation  of the Islamic Conference, held at New York on
29 September 1988

Letter dated 6 October 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the final conwnuniqu6 adopted by the Meeting of
Ministers and Reads o f  Delegation OF Non-Aligned Countries to the
forty-third rorrion  of the General Assembly on 3 October 1988

Letter dated 6 October 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting a document entitled “Asseesment of  the  current  s tate
of the North-South dialogue and proposals for ito revitalisation”,
isstied  by the First Substantive Meeting of the Standing
Ministerial Cormnittee  for Economic Co-operation of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Harare from 4 t.o 7 July 1988



R/43/916
English
Page 4

A/43/*140 Letter dated 21 October 1988 from the Permanent Yepresentat’ve  of
the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-Qeaeral transmitting a joint statement
of the delegations of Bulgaria, the  Byeloruseian  So-.liet S o c i a l i s t
Republic, Csechoslovakia,  the Oerman Democrstic  Republic, Hungary,
Mongolia, Poland, the Ukrainian Soviet Socialist  Republic and the
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics concerning the current
international monetary and finaxbcial  situation

A/43/791- Letter dated 29 October 1988 from the Permanent Representatives of
S/20265 Argentina, Brasil,  Colombia, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and Venesuela  to

the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral transmitting
the text of the Uruguay Declaration adopted on 29 October 1988 by
the Second Presidential Meeting of the Permanent Mechanism for
Consultation and Concerted Political Action, held at Punta de1
Este, Uruguay

A/43/800 Letter dated 11 November 1988 from the Permanent Representative of
Malta to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral
transmitting the text of the Madrid Appeal adopted by the European
Conference of Parliamentarians and Non-Governmental Organisations
on North-South Interdependence and Solidarity, held at Madrid from
1 to 3 June 1988

4, At the 16th meeting, on 19 October, the Secretary-Qeneral of the United
Nations made an opening statement, and an introductory statement was made by the
Secretary-Qeneral of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (see
A/C.2/43/SR.16).

5. At the 21st meeting, on 24 October, the Chairman of the Committee made a
concluding statement (see A/C.2/43/SR.21).

I I . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Quft raaplUtigns  A/C.2/43/Le15.  &.15/Rev.l  axuLLdWRe~~2

6. At the 24th meeting, on 26 October, the representative of u, on behalf
of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77,
introduced a draft resolution (A1C.21431L.15)  entitled “External debt crisis and
development t Towards a durable solution of t.he debt problem”, which read as
follows;

“Reafw its resolutions 41/202 of 8 December 1986 on strengthened
international economic co-operation aimed at resolving the external debt
problem of developing countries and 42/198  of 11 December 1987 on furthering
international co-operation regarding the external debt problem,



A / 4 3 / 9 1 6
English
Page 5

‘I- Trade and Development Board resolutfons 165 (S-IX) of
11 March 1978, A/ 222 (XXI) of 27 September 1980, 21 and 358 (XXXV) of
5 October 1988 91 and the relevent  reaommendations  o f  the mid-term global
review of progress towards the implementation of the Substantial New Programme
of Action for the 1980s for the Least Developed Countriee,  91

1*-b the Final Act adopted by the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development at its seventh 888sion, in  part icular  chapter  II ,  51

‘*w that the increased debt burden and the deterioratixq  debt
situation of developing countries continue to be the major obstacles to their
economic growth and sustained development and a threat to their political
s t a b i l i t y ,

‘*s the global impact and the political nature of the debt
c r i s i s ,

“Concerned  at the grave social consequences of the debt problem and of
the adjustment programmes in developing countries,

“-1~ con- t ha t ,  de sp i t e  the  s i gn i f i can t  effort6 a n d  s a c r i f i c e s
undertaken by dev3lopLng countries to deal with the debt crieia,  the current
international approach to solving thie crisis has been neither comprehensive
nor e f f e c t i v e  and hae not led to the restoration of growth and development in
debtor developing countries,

“RBCOQnlelIIQ that there ie an urgent need to further broaden the scope
and the implementation of debt reduction, including debt servicing,

“Acknowledghwtherel~~g the continuing need for effective international
co-operation, in particular through improvement in the international economic
environment, in order to attain a dur We, equitable and mutually agreed
eolu%ion  to the debt problem of developing countriae,

2’ IBid*, D. 1 5  (A/35/15),  v o l .  XI,
annex I.

To be issued as uRe=ds o f  &be Gea,ralAasemblv,
(A/43/15) ,  vol .  I I ,  part  oI[,.

41 Resolution 40/205,  annex,

51 TDi351, p a r t  o n e ,  s e c t .  I.



A/43/916
English
Page 6

“-1~ co- that &i&e gap between  debt-sorvico obligations and
capacities is widening and thus that the prospect for *:educing the debt burden
on the development process in developing countries remains bleak,

lluwith~ that the overall  loos and net tranrfer  of real
resources from developing countries l spooially exacerbated by the debt crisis
deprives those countries of resouraes  needed for finanoing their growth and
development,

“1. EzQ.mws  da- to the Socrotary-Qeneral  for his
personal involvement in the search for a durable and lasthg solution to the
debt crisis,  as well  as for his opening statement on this issuet

“2. Taheem Of the report of the Secretary-General
entitled “Towards a durable solution of the debt problem”, fi/ in particular
the foreword to the roportl

“3 . Gltrebaee  that the debt crisis of developing countries is global in
its impact and political in its nature and consequences, with a bearing not
only on relations between creditors and debtors, but also on proopects  for the
world community as a whole, thereby requiring concerted political action)

“4 . m that thr debt crisis remains unabated, that
indebted developing countries are still unable to grow and Uevelop and that
their economic and social prospects remain bleak;

“6. Also ex,p~UUaP that  under the  prevai l ing condit ions ,
including the ateonce of a supportive international economic environment, the
structural adjustment programmoo, owing to  their  negat ive  pol i t ical ,  soc ia l
and economic consequonoes, have resulted in inoreasing adjustment fatigue
among the debtor developing aountries, as  wel l  as  an inabi l i ty  to  restore
economic growth and credit-worthinessj

“6. Uraeo th8 intornati!;ral community to search for a durable, equitable
and mutunlly agreed growth- and development-oriented solution to the debt
problem of developing countries,

“7 . k the mult i lateral  f inancial  inst i tut ions  to  pursue their
reassessment of conditionality, emphasises the need for a more flexible
approach, consistent with social objectives, growth and development priorities
of developing countries, as well as with the conditions of the world economy,
and stresses further the need to avoid cross-conditionality;

61 A/43/647.



A/43/916
English
Pago 7

“8. m that the main priority of any debt rtrategy  rhould be to
ensure that debtor dmvoloping aountries aohAeve  an adoquato Pevol of growth
sufficient to enable them to satisfy their social, economic and development
needs, and urges all relevant parties to develop new ways and means to ensure
the availability of required roeources to attain such a level of growth]

“9. m that a glob61 solution to the debt problem involvee,
W, a substantial improvement in the access of developing countries’
products to developed countries’ markets anC in their terms of trade, aa well
as in their capability to increase their love1 of imports in accordance with
their growth and development noode)

“10. Weleomee  the increasing acceptance of the necsrrity  of debt
reduction and calls upon developed creditor countries,  relevant  organb8
organisatione, bodieo and o~eoialised  agoncior  of the United  Rationa  system,
as well as private banks, to broadon thir concept and its implementation in
order to include all types of debt and debtor developing aountrier,  and to
translate it  into policy actions with a view to reducing the stock and rervice
of debt in accordance with the capacity of dovoloping countries to pay and
their need to grow and develops

“11. m the Seoretary-Qeneral  to continue hie efforts and to engage
in a broad process of high-level conaultationr with head6 of State or
Government of creditor developed oountrios  and of ooncernod dobtod dovoloping
cduntries, heads of relevant specialised agencier  and chief executive offices
of concerned private fhanoing institutiono: in order to oontribute  to a
common understanding towards a solution to the debt problem of developing
countriee  in the context of their growth and development)

“12. w the Secretary-General to take all other measures  for
the implementation of the pre:reat  reoolutiong

“13. W rew the  Secrotary-Qoneral  to  report  on the
implementation of the precent  resolution to the General Assembly at its
forty-fourth sess ion.”

7. On 7 December 1988, a revised draft resolution was circulated
(A/C.2/43/L.15/Rev.l),  which read ar followst

“m its resolutions 411202 of 8 December 1936 on strengthened
intatnational economic co-operation aimed at resolving the external debt
problem of developing countries and 42/198 of 11 December 1987 on furthering
international co-operation regarding the external debt strategy,



A/43/916
English
Page 8

allinq Trade and Development Board resolutions 165 (S-IX) of
11 March 1978, lb 222 (XXI) of 27 September 1980 8/ and 358 (XXXV) of
5 October 1988 p/ and the relevant recommendations of the mid-term global
review of progress towards the implamentation of the Substantial New Programme
of Action for the 1980s for the Least Developed Countries, J,Q/

1, callinq the Final Act adopted by the United Nations Conference on
Trade and Development at its seventh session, u/

"Recoanizinq that the deteriorating economic situation faced by those
developing countries with heavy debt burden which constitute a major obstacle
to their economic growth and sustained development can be a threat to their
economic, social and political stability,

"@$asizing that the world-wide impact and the wide range of
implications of indebtedness of developing countries on today's increasingly
interdependent world economy can be a threat to their political st&ility,

"Recoanizinq that, in the present circumstances, adjustment efforts are
needed on the part of all countries, collectively and individually, each
country contributing to the common objective in accordance with its capacities
and weight in the world economy, while concern remains about the political and
social implications associated with the structural adjustment programme in
indebted developing countries,

"Welcominq the increasing acceptance of the reduction of the stock and
service of debt as being necessary to achieve a durable solution to the
external indebtedness of developing countries,

"Acknowledainq the continuing need for strengthening effective
international co-operation in order to resolve the external indebtedness of
developing countries on a durable, eguiteble and mutually agreed basis, in
particular through improvement in the international economic environment,

2.1 .Cfficial Records of the General Assemblv, Thirtv-third Session l
Sunulement  No. 15 (A/33/15), vol. I, part two, annex I.

J$/ I b i d . ,  T h i r t v - f i f t h15 (A/35/15), vol. II,
annex I.

4/ To be issued as Official Records of the General Assemblv, Fortv-third
Session, Sucnlement  No, 15 (A/43/15), vol. II, part one.

I&Q/ Resolution 40/205, annex.

111 TD/351, part one, sect. I.

/ . . l



A/43/916
English
Page 9

*@&&& that, although offorto have boon made by the international
community to deal with the debt problem, due to ita gravity, it ir eraential to
reaf f i rm the  shared reoponsibilLty of  a l l  partioc involved,

‘lN6tlPQ wim that the not outflow of rooourama from dmvmloping
countrimo a8 a groupI inoluding dm,tmrioration of thm tmrms of tradm, mspoclally
mxacerbated by thm dmbt crieie, dmprivec therm couatrimr of rmmourcem  amedmd
for financing their growth and dmvelopmmnt,

“1, gx&uSUsPs t o  the  Socrmtary-Qmnmral  f o r  hio involvmment
in the debt ieeue  and for his report matitlmd ‘Towards a durable solution of
the dmbt problem’; U/

“2 . m that thm dmbt cricis ia an incrmaringly intmrdmpmadmnt
world economy has a wide impact, oftmn with pol i t ical  impl icat ions ,  having a
bearing not only on rmlationa bmtwmen crmditorr and debtor.  but also on
prospmcts for thm world conmnunity ao a wholm, thmrmby rmquiriag a broad
approach with political impmtus and coatinumd close co-operationr

It 3. Erpresees that thm ovmrall indebtednesr of dmbtor
developing countries has peroirtmd and oftmn incroaced,  that indebted countries
am to d&e unable to grow and dmvmlop  and that thmir economic and social
prospects continue to be a causm of smrioue coacerat

“4 . Gtreseee  that  a  support ive  intmraational  economic environmmat
coupled with a growth-orimntmd dmvmlopment  approach is needed for ruppotting
debtor dmvmloping aouAtrimQ’ offorte in dmalinq with thmir mxtornal
indebtedneoo  and Ullmviating  the political and social coats of structural
adjustmmnt  progrannnes  as well as adjuotmmat fatigum, thus coatrj.butiag to the
restoration of their economic growth, dmvmlopmrat and crmdit-worthiamrst

“5. m the fnternatfonal  aonununity  to continue to march through
dialogue and shared reoponeibility for a durable, mquitablm  and mutually agrmed
growth- and development-orimntmd oolution to the dmbt problem of dsvmloplng
countrieet

“6 m m the  multilatmral f inanc ia l  in s t i tu t ions  to  continum t o
review condit ional i ty  cr i ter ia ,  taking into  account ,  &mr u, socia l
object ives , growth and dmvelopment prioritims of dmvmloping countries and
changing conditioae of the world economy, and rtrerser further thm ammd for a
more effective co-ordination among multilateral financial institutiona which
should not lead to cross-conditionalftyr

“7 . Reaffirms that a major objective of any debt strategy rhould be thrllt
debtor developing countrims achievm an admquate levml of growth sufficient to
enable them to satisfy their social, mconomic and development needs which will

l2/ A/43/647.



A/43/916
EZnglish

i ?age 10

B.

in turn enhance their ability to service debt, and urges all relevant parties
to develop new ways and means to sustain effectively policies airs;:, at
attaining such a level of growth;

II 8. RecoeniWzR that efforts to resolve the debt problem should include,I .
mter aL!a, policies in creditor and debtor countries that are supportive of
export growth and diversification in the latter in conjunction with
appropriate inacro-economic  policies and more open markets in both developed
and developing countries, in accordance with the General Agreement on Tariffs
and Trade provisions regarding the special and differential treatment of
developing countries;

"9. Recounizes that there is a need to broaden further within
appropriate forums the range of approaches to reducing the stock and service
of debt, including the expansion of scope and implementation of currently
implemented financial technipues;

"10. Reouesa the Secretary-General to enhance his efforts through  a
process of high-level consultations with heads of State or Government, as well
as .with other parties concerned in order to cshltribute to a common
understanding towards a solution to the debt problem of developing countries
in the context of their growth and development;

"11. Also reguesa the Secretary-General to take other appropriate
measures for the implementation of the present resolution and to report
thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-fourth session."

At the 48th meeting, on 9 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
dr. Ejeviome Eloho Otobo (Nigeria), informed the Committee of the outcome of the
informal consultations held on the revised draft resolution.

9. At the same meeting, the representative of Tunis on behalf of the States
#embers of the United Nations that are members of the Group of 77, introduced a
revised draft resolution (AK.2/43/L.15/Rev.2),  which he further orally revised by
replacing the words "debt strategy** at the end of the first preambular paragraph
with the words "debt problem", and by replacing the word "burdens" in the fourth
preembular paragraph by the word "burden".

10. The representative of Greece, on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are members of the European Community, made a statement in which he
proposed that, in the eleventh preambular paragraph, a comma be inserted after the
words "debt crisis", and the word "deprives" should read "deprive".

11. The representative of Saudi Arabia made a statement in which he proposed that
the word "developed" be inserted before the words "creditor countries" in operative
paragraph 8.

12. Following statements by the representatives of Greece (on behalf of the States
Members of the United Nations that are members of the European Community) and
Tunisia (on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations that are members of
the Group of 771, the Committee agreed to a suspension of the meeting.

/ l . .



A/13/916
English
Page 11

13. Upon the reeumption  of the meeting and following a quetrtion  raired by tha
representative of Grerco (on behalf  of the States  Momberc of the United  Nations
that are member6 of the European Conununity), the representative  of Tuniria  (on
behalf of the Staton  Mombore  of the United  Nations that are mombors  of the Group
of 77) made a statement in which he clarified that the only changer to the reviced
draft resolution A/C.2/43/L.l5/Rev,2  were the following8

(a)  In  the  t i t le ,  the wordo “debt problem” wa@ roplaaed  with the wordo “debt
problems” t

( b )  I n  t h e  f i r s t preambular paragraph, the words “debt otrategy”  at the end
of the paragraph were replaced with the words @‘debt  probl.em”t

(c) In the fourth preambular paragraph, the word ‘*burdena” becsma “burden@@.

14. Following statements by the representative  of Qreece (on behalf of the States
Mombere of the United Nations that are memborr of the European Conanunity),  Tuniria
(on behalf of the States Memboro of the United Nations that are membora of the group
of 77) and Saudi Arabia, the dommittee adopted draft resolution A/C12/43/L.15/Rev,2,
as orally revised, by a recorded vote of 115 to 1, with 1 abstention (aem para, 19,
draf t  resolut ion) . The result of the voting was ae follows8 &,3/

LB.-: Afghanietan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Aurtralie,
Auetria,  Bahamaa, Bahrain, Bangladerh,  Barbador,  Belgium,
Bolivia, Botswana, Brasil,  Brunei Daruosalam, Bulgaria, Burkina
Faso, Burma, Burundi, Byeloruesian  Soviet Soaialiot Republia,
Cameroon, Canada, Cape Verde, Chad, Chile, China, Colombia,
Comoroa, Congo, Costa Riaa, C&e d’Ivoire, Cuba, C8eohorlovakie,
Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti, Ecuador, Egypt, Ethtopia,
Finland, France, Qerman Democratic Republic, Oermany, Federal
Republic of, Ghana, Qreece, guinea,  Guinea-Birrau,  Guyana,
Bungary,  India,  Indonesi.  ,, Iran (Ielamia  Republic of), Iraq,
Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lesotho, Liberia,
Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Luxembourg, Madagarcar,  Malayria,
Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania, Mexico,  Mongolia,  MOrOCCo,
Mozambique, Netherlands, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore,
Somalia, Spain, 5ri Lanka, Sudan, Swasilaad,  Sweden, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey, Uganda, Ukrainian
Soviet Socialist  Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republice,
United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain and
Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tansania, Uruguay,
Veneruela,  Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zamb.ia, Zimbabwe.

u/ The delegation of Nepal subsequently indicated that, had it been present
ot the time of the voting, it would have voted in favour of the draft reeolution.



A/43/916
English
Page 12

BZlAinatr United States of America.

15. After the adoption of the draft resolution statements were made by the
representative6  of Qreece  (on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations
that are members of the European Community), Japan, the United States of America-
Tunisia (on behalf of the States Members of the United Natione  that I;rre  members of
the Qroup of 77), and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics (eee A/C.2/43/SR.49),

16. At the 28th meeting, on 31 October, the  repreeentativo of I’lrnisia,  on behalf
of the States Members of the United Nations that are member8 of the Group of 77,
introduced a draft decirion (A/C.2/43/L.19)  entitlrd “Establiohment  of tin Advisory
Comniosion  on Debt and Development”,

17, At the 48th meeting, on 9 December, the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr. Ejeviome Eloho Otobo (Nigeria), informed the Committee that it had been agreed,
a8 a result of informal conoultationc, to trnnomit the draft decision to the
forty-fourth session of the Qeneral Assembly f o r  consideration.

18. At the aeme meeting, the Committee decided to recommend to the General
Assembly that it transmit draft decision AKY.21431L.19  to ite forty-fourth eeseion
f o r  conoideration (oee para. 20 ,  d ra f t  decioion),

I I I . RECOMENDATIONS  OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

19. The Second Committee recommer*dR to the Qeneral Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

tr towudn a aurable

m its resolutions 411202 of 8 December 1986 on strengthened
international economic co-operation aimed at resolving the external debt
problem of developing countries and 421198 of 11 December 1987 on furthering
international co-operation regarding the external debt problem,



A/43/916
English
Page 13

Recallinq'Trade and Development Board resolutions 165 (S-IX) of
11 March 1978, &&/ 222 (XXI) of 27 September 1980 u/ and 358 (XEXV) of
5 October 1988 u/ and the relevant recommendations of the mid-term global
review of progress towards the implementation of the Substantial New Programme
of Action for the 1980s for the Least Developed Countries, n/

Recalling the Final Act adopted by the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development at its seventh session, &8/

Recoanizinq that the deteriorating economic situation faced by those
developing countries with heavy debt burden, which constitutes a major
obstacle to their economic growth and sustained development, can be a threat
to their economic, social.and  political stability,

Emnhasixing that the world-wide impact and the wide range of implications
of indebtedness of developing countries on today's increasingly interdependent
world economy can be a threat to their political stability, '.

Recoanizinq that, in the present circumstances, adjustment efforts are
needed on the part of all countries, collectively and individually, each
country contributing to the common objective in accordance-with its capacities
and weight in the world economy, while concern remains,about the political and
social implications associated with the structural adjustment programme in
indebted developing countries,

Welcominq the increasing acceptance of further diversifying the range of
options that, Malia, reduce the stock and service of debt and.contribute
to the achievement of a durable solution to the external indebtedness of
developing countries,

Acknowleduinq the continuing need for strengthening effective
international co-operation in order to resolve the, external indebtedness of
developing countries on a durable, equitable and mutually agreid basis+ in
particular through improvement in'the international economic erivironment,

.u/ Official Records of the General Assemblv, Thirtv-third Sessloq,
Supplement No. 15 (A/33/15), vol. I, part two, annex I.

151 Ibid., Thirty-fifth Session. Supolement No. 15 (A/35/15), vol. II,
annex I.

J&/ To be issued as Official Records of the General Assemblv, Forty-third
Session, SuoPlement No. 15 (A/43/15), vol. II, part one.

JJ/ Resolution 401205, annex.

J& TD/351, Part one, sect, I.

/ . . .



A/43/916
Englieh
Page 14

u that, although efforts have been made by the international
community to deal with the debt problem, i t  ie eeeeatial, o w i n g  to  the  g r a v i t y
of the problem, to reaffirm the shared rerponeibility of all parties involved,

-1~ m that debt-service obligationr remain high,  that  the
factors determkaing the capacity to pay have not moved in conaomnce with the
debt-rervice  obligations of the majority of developing countries, and that
proepects  for reducing the adverse effeatrr of the debt burden on the
development process in developing countries continue to be uncertain,

u with that the net outflow of finanaial reaouroee from
developing countrier  ar a whole, exacerbated by the debt crisis and the
deteriorat ion in  the  terms of  trade,  deprive0 those countries  of  resources
needed for financing their growth and development,

1.1 to the Secret?ry-benoral for his
involvement in the debt issue and for his report entitled “Towarda  a durable
solution of the debt problem”t U/

2. w that the debt crisis in an increasingly interdependent
world economy ha6 a wide impact, often with pol i t ical  impl icat ions ,  having a
bearing not only on relations between creditor8 and debtors but aleo on
prospects for the world community ae a whole, thereby requiring a broad
approach with political impetus and continued clore co-operation1

3. wm that the overall indebtedness of debtor
developing countries has persisted and often increased, that their growth and
development are oeverely  limited, and that their economic and rrocial prospects
continue to be a cause of oerioue concernt

4. m that a supportive international economic environment,
together with a growth-oriented development approach, ie needed for supporting
the efforts of debtor developing countrieo in dealing with their external
indebtedness and alleviating the political and social costr of structural
adjustment programmes and adjustment fatigue, thus contributing to the
restoration of their economic growth, development and credit-worthinesst

5. w the international community to continua to search, through
dialogue and shared reeponsLbility, for a durable, equitable and mutually
agreed growth-oriented and development-oriented solution to the external
indebtedness of developing countries!

6. Invites the mult i lateral  f inancial  inst i tut ions  to  cont inue to
review condit ional i ty  cr i ter ia ,  taking into  account ,  ipter alla, soc ia l
objectives, growth and development priorities of developing countries and
changing conditions of the world economy, and stresses further the need for

1g/ A / 4 3 / 6 4 7 .



A/43/916
English
Page 15

increased co-oesration  between the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank
and other multilateral financial institutions, which should not lead to
cross-conditionalityt

7. Reaf that a major objective of any debt strategy should be that
debtor developing countries achieve an adequate level of growth sufficient to
enable them to satisfy their social, economic and development needa, which
will in turn enhance their ability to service debt, and urges all relevant
parties to develop new waye and means to sustain effectively policies aimed at
attaining such a level of growth)

i&LALb,
m that efforts to resolve the debt problem should include,

policies in creditor countries and debtor countries that are
supportive of export growth and diversification in the latterr

9, v that there is need to broaden further the range of
approaches that, malia, reduce the stock  and service of debt, including
expansion of the scope and implementation of currently implemented financial
techniquest

10. w that the external indebtedness of some other countries
with serious debt-servicing problems give0 rise to considerable concern, and
invites all those involved to take into account, as appropriate, the above
provisions in addressing those problems)

11, m the Secretary-Qeneral to continue his efforts, through a
process of high-level consultations, as appropriate, with heads of State or
Government and other parties concerned, to contribute to a common
understanding on a solution to the external indebtedness of developing
countries in the context of their growth and development;

12. -0 ret- the Secretary-Qeneral to take any other appropriate
measures for the implementation of the present resolution and to report
thereon to the General Assembly at its forty-fourth session.

20. The Second Committee also recommends to the Oeneral Assembly the adoption of
the following draft decision8

The Generel  Assembly decides to defer consideratjon  of the draft decision
entitled “Establishment of an Advisory Commission on Debt and Development” 2Q/
to its forty-fourth session.


