







































UNiiED
NATCONS A

General Assembly
Distr.
LIMITED

A/44/L.63
28 December 1989
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: SPANISH

•

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 34

THE SITUATION IN CENTRAL AMERICA: THREATS TO INTERNATIONAL
PEACE AND SECURITY AND PEACE INITIATIVES

Cuba, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Libyan Ar~J Jamahiriya, Nicaragua,
United Republic of Tanzania and Zambia: draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Taking note of the statements made in the General Assembly and the Security
Council regarding the invasion of Panama,

Reaffirming the sovereign and inalienable right of Panama to determine freely
its social, economic and political system and to develop its international
relations without any form of foreign interventi.on, interference, subversion,
coercion or threat,

Recalling that, in conformity with Article 2, paragraph 4, of the Charter of
the United Nations, all Member States shall re(rain in their international
relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or
political independence of any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with the
purposes of the United Nations,

Reaffirming the need to restore conditions which will guarantee the full
exercise of the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the Panamanian people,

Expressing its profound concern at the serious consequences the armed
intervention by the United States of America in Panama might have for peace and
security in the Central American region,

1. Strongly deplores the intervention in Panama by the armed forces of the
United States of America, which contitutes a flagrant violation of international
law and of the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of States;

89-34241 1967Z (E) I • . ,.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.63
English
Page 2

2. Demands the immediate ~essation of the intervention and the withdrawal of
the United States armed invasion forces from Panama;

3. ~mands also full respect for and strict observance of the letter and
spirit of the Torrijos-Carter Treaties;

4. Calls upon all States to uphold and respect the sovereignty, independence
and territorial integrity of Panama;

5. Requests the Secretary-General to monitor the developments in Panama and
to report to the General Assembly within a twenty-four-hour period after the
adoption of the present resolution.

"

I"""'~.,
I

. ..;

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


