







































UNITED
NATIONS A

General Assembly Distr.
LIMITED

A/44/L.22
1 November 1989
ENGLISH
ORIGINAL: FRENCH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 20

RETURN OR RESTITUTION OF CULTURAL PROPERTY TO THE
COUNTRIES OF ORIGIN

Burundi, Central African Republic, Chad, Colombia, Comoros,
Cote d'Ivoire, Gabon, Greece, Guinea-Bissau, Madagascar,
Mala~i, Mali, Mauritius, Nepal, Rwanda, Yugoslavia, and

Zaire: draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Recalling its resolutions 3026 A (XXVII) of 18 December 1972, 3148 (XXVIII) of
14 December 1973, 3187 (XXVIII) of 18 December 1973, 3391 (XXX) of
19 November 1975, 31/40 of 30 November 1976, 32/18 of 11 November 1977, 33/50 of
14 December 1978, 34/64 of 29 November 1979, 35/127 and 35/128 of 11 December 1980,
36/64 of 27 November 1981, 38/34 of 25 November 1983, 40/19 of 21 November 1985 and
42/7 of 22 October 1987,

Recalling also the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the
Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property ~/ adopted on
14 November 1970 by the General Conference of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization,

Taking note with satisfaction of the report of the Secretary-General submitted
in co-operation with the Director-General of the United Nations Educational,
Scientific and Cultural Organization, ~l

~/ United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, Records
of the General Conference, Sixteenth Session, vo1. 1, Resolutions, p. 135.

~/ A/44/475.

89-27106 1564Z (E) I • ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.22
English
Page 2

Noting with satisfaction that following its appeal other Member States have
become parties to the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the
Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property,

Aware of the importance 'attached by the countries of origin to the return of
cultural property which is of fundamental spiritual and cultural value to them, so
that they may constitute collections representative of their cultural heritage,

Reaffirming the importance of inventories as an e~sential tool for the
understanding and protection of cultural property and for the identification of
dispersed heritage and as a contribution to the advancement of scientific and
artistic knowledge and intercultural communication,

Deeply concerned at the clandestine excavations and ~he illicit traffic in
cultural property that continue to impoverish the cultural heritage of all peoples,

Again sypporting the solemn appeal made on 7 June 1978 by the Director-General
of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization for the
return of irreplaceable cultural heritage to those who created it,

1. Commends the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization and the Intergovernmental Committee for Promoting the Return of
Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or its Restitution in Case of Illicit
Appropriation on the work they have accomplished, in particular through the
promotion of bilateral negotiations, for the return or restitution of cultural
property, the preparation of inventories of movable cultural property, the
reduction of illicit traffic in cultural property and the dissemination of
information to the public;

2. Reaffirms that the restitution to a country of its objets d'art,
monuments, museum pieces, archives, manuscripts, documents and any other cultural
or artistic treasures contributes to the strengthening of international
co-operation and to the preservation and flowering o~ universal cultural values
through fruitful co-operation between developed and developing countries;

3. Recommends that Member States adopt or strengthen the necessary
protective legislatio~ with regard to their own heritage and that of other peoples;

4. Requests Member States to study the possibility of inclUding in permits
for excavations a clause requiring archaeologists and palaeontologists to provide
the national authorities with photographic documentation of each object brought to
light during the excavations immediately after its discovery;

5. Invites Member States to continue drawing up, in co-operation with the
United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, systematic
inventories of cultural property existing in their territory and of their cultural
property abroad;

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L,22
English
Page 3

6. Recommends' that Member States should ensure that inventories of museum
collections include not only the items on display but also those in storage, and
that they comprise all necessary documentation, particularly photographs of each
item;

7. Also invites Member States engaged in seeking the recovery of cultural
and artistic treasures from the sea-bed, in accordance with international law, to
facilitate by mutually acceptable conditions the participation of States having a
historical and cultural link with those treasures;

8. ~~ to Member States to co-operate closely with the Interg~~ernmental
Committee for Promoting the Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin
or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation and to conclude bilateral
agreements for this purpose;

9. Also appeals to Member States to encourage the mass information media and
educational and cultural institutions to strive to arouse a greater and more
general awareness with regard to the return or restitution of cultural property to
its country of origin;

10. Reguests States parties to the Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and
Preventing the Illicit Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural
Property to keep the Secretal:l:-t:6'neral of the United Nations and the
Director-General of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization fully informed of the measures taken to ensure implementation of the
Convention at the national level;

11. Welcomes the steady increase in the number of States parties to the
Convention;

12. Invites once again those Member States that have not yet done so to sign
and ratify the Convention;

13. Reguests the Secretary-General, in co-operation with the Director-General
of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization, to submit
to the General Assembly at its forty-sixth session a report on the implementation
of the present resolution;

14. Decides to include in the provisional agenda of its forty-sixth session
the item entitled "Return or restitution of cultural property to the countri~s of
origin".

rf'7;'Tr~
r:i;;;UI ..... ..:....""J

r;·~:~~~l

~: '!
.i ..........~~;.:.Io~

r"'~""'~~''''''''

L~;LJ2J

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


