







































UNITED
NATIONS

A

General Assembly
Distr.
LIMITEO

A/44/L.45
20 November 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 39'

QUESTION OF PALESTINE

Bangladesh, Guyana, India, Indonesia. Madagascar, Malaysia,
Mali, Pakistan, Senegal and Ukrainian Soviet Socialist

Republic: draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Committee on the Exercise of the
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, l/

~aking note, in particular, of the information contained in paragraphs 94
to 109 of that report,

Recalling its resolutions 43/175 C, 43/176 and 43/177 of 15 December 1988,

Convinced that the world-wide dissemination of accurate and comprehensive
information and the role of non-governmental organizations and institutions remain
of vital importance in heightening awareness of and support for the inalienable
rights of the Palestinian people to self-determination and to the establishment of
an independent sovereign Palestinian State,

I. Takes note with appreciation of the action taken by the Department of
Public Information of the Secretariat in compliance with General Assembly
resolution 43/175 C;

2. Requests the Department of Public Information, in full co-operation and
co-ordination with the Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the
Palestinian People, to continue its special information programme on the question

l/ Official Records Qf the General Assembl~, Forty-fourth Session,
Supplement No. 35 (A/44/35).

89-29524 l756Z (E) I • ..

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



A/44/L.45
English
Page 2

of Palestine for the' biennium 1990-1991, with particular emphasis on public opinion
in Europe and North America and, in particular:

(a) To disseminate information on all the activities of the United Nations,
system relating to the question of Palestine, including reports of the work carried
out by the re~evant United Nations organs;

(b) To c:ontinueto issue and update publications on the various aspects of
the question of Pa~estine, including Israeli violations of the human rights of the
Arab inhabitants of the occupied territories as reported by the relevant United
Nations organs;.

(c) To expand its. ~~dio-visual material on the question of Palestine,
including the productio.:.i of special series of radio programmes and television
broadcasts;

(d) To organize fact-finding news missions to the area for journalists;

(e) To organize regional and national encounters for journalists.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


