
















































UNITED
NATIONS

A
General Assembly

Distr.
GENERAL

A/44/799
a9 November 1909

ORIGINAL, ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 96

ALTERNATIVE APPROACHES AND WAYS A:JD MEANS WITHIN THE UNITED NATION'S
SYSTEM FOR IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVE ENJOYMENT OF HUMAN RIGHTS AND

FUNDAMENTAL FREEDOMS

mm* Mr. Wilfried GROLIG (Federal Republic of Germany)

I . INTRODUCTION

1 . At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in its agenda the item
entitled1

"Alternative approaches! and ways and means within the United Nations
system for improving the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental
freedoms:

"(a) National institutions for the protection and promotion of human
rightsr

*l(b) Right to development;

'l(c) Developm<lnt  of  public  information act ivit ies  in the f ie ld of  human
rights"

and to allocate it to the Third Committee.

2. The Committee considered the item at its 34th,  35th, 43rd and 49th meetings, on
7, 15 and 20 November 1989. An account of the Committee's discussion is contained
in the relevant summary records (A/C.3/44/SR.34,  35, 43 and 49).

3. For its consideration of the i tem, the Committee had before it the following
documents:

89-30855 0262P (E) / . . .



A/44/799
English
Page 2

(a) Note by the Secretary-General  on national institutions for the protection
and promotion of human rights (A/44/525);

(b) Report of the Secretary-General  on the development of public infor-ation
activities in the field of human rights (A/44/660 and Add.1):

(c) Report of the Secretary-General  on international  conditions and human
rights (A/44/696);

(d) Letter dated 7 February 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Paraguay
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/44/118);

(e) Letter dated 7 February 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Paraguay
to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/44/119);

(f) Letter dated 2 March 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Paraguay to
the United Nations addressed,  to the Secretary-General (A/44;158);

(g) Letter dated 19 July 1989 from the Chargk d'affaireo a.i. of the Permanent
Mission of Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/44/409-5/20743 and Corr.1 and 2);

(h) Letter dated 22 September 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Yugoslavia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/44/551-5/20870):

(i) Letter dated 31 October 1989 from the Permanent Representative of Saudi
Arabia to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General (A/44/700-5/20934
and Corr.1):

(j) Letter dated 3 November 1959 from the Permanent Representative of
Democratic Kampuchea to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
(A/44/710-S/20948).

4. At the 34th meeting, on 7 November, the Under-Secretary-General  for Human
Rights made an introductory statement (see A1C.31441SR.34).

II. CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. Draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.37

5. At the 43rd meeting, on 15 November, the Secretary of the Committee drew
attention to omissions in the text of draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.37 and orally
corrected it as follows:

In operative paragraph 11, after the words "World Campaign",  add the following:

"and for the United Nations to harmonize its activities in the field of human
rights with those of other organisations, including the International Committee

/ . . .



A/44/799
English
Page 3

of the Red Cross, with regard to the dissemination  of information  on
international humanitarian  law and, with regard to education for human rights,
t-,he United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation".

6. At the same meeting, the representative of Australia, on behalf of Araentina,
Australia.  Colombia,  Costa Rica, Ecuadar, Finland, Germany. Federal Renublic of,
Hungarv, India, Ireland. Italv, Mexicoc the Netherlands, Norwav. Per& the
PhilioDines, Seneaal. Sweden, the Union of Soviet Socialist Reoublics. the United
Kinodom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Yuaoslavia, introduced the draft
resolution (AjC.31441L.37) entitled "Development of public information activities in
the field of human rights". Subsequently,  Bolivia, Samoa and Vanuatu joined in
sponsoring the draft resolution.

7. At its 49th meeting, on 20 November, the Committee was informed that there were
no programme budget implications pertaining to operative paragraph  8 of the draft
resolution (see A/C.3/44/SR.49). The Committee adopted draft resolution
WC.3/44/L.37 without a vote (see para. 18, draft resolution I!.

B. Drsft resolution A/C.3/44/L.38

8. At the 43rd meeting, on 15 November, the representative of Yugoslavia, on
behalf of Afahanistan, Alaeria. Araentba. Boiivia, Brazil, China, Colombia,  Costa
Rica, Cuba. Cvvrus. the Dominican  Reoublic,  Ecuador,.-@ypt. Ethionia, Guatemala,
India. Iraa. Jamaica. the Libyan Arab Jamahiriva,  Mexico. Morocco, Mvanmar.
Nicaraaua. Peru,- the Phi is, Romania. Rwanda, Seneaa I1 DP ine 1 the Sudan. Suriname,
Tunisia, the Uslavia, Zaire and
Zimbabwe, introduced a draft resolution (A/C.3/44/L.38)  entitled "Right to
development". Subsequently, Banaladesh and Vanuatu joined in sponsoring the draft
resolution.

9. At its 49th meeting, on 20 November, the Committee adopted draft resolution
A1C.31441L.38 without a vote A/ (see para. 18, draft resolution 11).

10. The representatives of Japan and the Federal Republic of Germany, spoke i;?
explanation of vote after the vote (see A/C.3/44/SR.49).

C. Draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.39

11. At the 43rd meeting, on 15 November, the representative of Cuba,  on behalf of
Afshanistan. Alaeria. An-a. Aruentina,  Benin. Bolivia, Burkina Faso,  Colombia,  the
Congo. Cuba, Cvurus. Democratic Yemen. Ecuador. Ethionia. Ghana. India, Irao, Lao
P_eonle's Democratic Revublic, the Libvan Arab IT%ahiriva,  Madaaascar. Mali, Mexico,

11 The representative of the United States of America indicated that his
delegation was not participating  in the action taken on the draft resolution.

/ . . .



A/44:799
English
Page 4

Mozambiuue. Nicaragua, Panama, Peru.  Romania, Rwanda, the Svrian Arab Renublic.  the
United Rs&lic of Tanzania, Viet Nam, Yuooslavia,  Zambia and Zimbabwe, introduced a
draft resolution (A/C.3/44/L.39), entitled "Alternative  approaches and ways and
means within the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of
human rights and fundamental freedoms". Subsequently,  Vanuatu, Cameroon and Guyana
joined in sponsoring the draft resolution.

12. At the 49th meeting, on 20 November, the representative of France (on behalf of
12 States Members of the United Nations that are members of the European Community)
syoke in explanation  of vote before the -Tote (see A1C.31441SR.49).

13. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A/C.3/44/L.39 by a
recorded vote of 113 to 1, with 25 abstentions (see para. 18, draft
resolution III). The voting was as follows:

In favour: Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas, Bahrain,
Bangladesh,  Barbados, Belize, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso,  Burundi,
Byelorussian  Soviet Socialist Rclublic, Cameroon, Chad,  China,
Colombia, Costa Rica,  Cote d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus,
Czechoslovakia, Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen..
Djibouti, Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador.
Ethiopia, Fiji,  Gaoon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guatemala, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Hungary,
India,  Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica.
Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,
Lesotho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,  Madagascar, Malawi,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritan'a, Mexico, Mongolia,
Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru,  Poland, Qatar, Romania, Rwanda, Samoa, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Singapore, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,  Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand,
Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emi rites, United Republic of Tanzania,  Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia,  Zaire,  Zambia, Zimbabwe.

Aaainst: United States of America.

Abstaininq:  Australia,  Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile, Denmark, Finland,
France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Greece, Iceland, Ireland,
Israel, Italy,  Japan, Luxembourg,  Malta, Netherlands, Norway,
Philippines,  Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Turkey, United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

14. The representatives of Sweden (on behalf also of Denmark, Finland, Iceland and
Norway) , New Zealand and Japan spoke in explanation of vote after the vote (see
A/C.3/44/SR.49).

/ . . .



A / 4 4 / 7 9 9
English
Page 5

15. At the 43rd meeting, on 15 November, the representative of India, on behalf of
Aus trali.a-.F_inland.India._Karrl;anlUmNotwav.  :=he -Pm
Brimeh t h e  Ulna-.nientSocieliat.c.  Union of SoviaL
Suciabi~~ and X-b, introduced a draft resolution (A1C.31441L.43)
entit.led  “National institutions for the protection and prl-motion of human rights”.
Suhsequec’ly,  the WussianSovietSocialist  Re,p&lica  Cameroon, CostD  Riw
t-jorQ.w.Qdd  &n0!& joined in SpOnSOrinq  the draft  reSOlUtiOn.

1G. At its 49th meeting, on 20 November 1989, the Committee adopted draft
resolution A/C,3/44/L,43  without a vote (see pars. 18,  draft  resolution IV) .

1’1 . The representative of Japan spoke in explanation of  vote after the vote (see
A1C.31441SR.49).

I I I . RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE THIRD COMMITTEE

LO. The Third Committee recommends to tie General .dssembly the adoption of the
fol lowing draft  resolutionsr

DRAFT RESOLUT1C.J  .

R?zUftiing  that  ac t iv i t i e s ;,o improve public knowledge in the field of
human rights are essential to the fulfilment of the purposes of  the Un.ced
Nations set out in Article 1, paragraph 3, of the Charter of the United Nations
and that carefully desiqned programmes of teaching, education and information
are essential to the achievement of lasting respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms,

R.mUb the relevant  resolutions  on this  subject ,  in  particular  i ts
resolution 431128 of 8 December 1988 and Commission on Human Rights resolution
1989153  of 7 March 1989, 21

&w the catalyt ic  e f fect  o f  init iat ives  of  the United Nations on
national and regional public information activities in the field of  human
rights ,

21 See QLLisiaReco-
No.*...2  (E/1989/20) ,  chap.  II ,  sect .  A.



A/44/799
English
Pqe 6

R.wxgnizing~& the valuable role that non-governmental organisations
can play in those endeavours,

Elali~~ixag that the World Public Information Campaign on Human Rights is a
v;.rluable  complement to the activities of the United Nations further to promote
and to protect human rights world wide,

1. Takas.n~te  of the report of the Secretary-General on the development
of public information activities in the field of human rights; 31

2. E&~~ffirma the need for information materials on human rights to be
cilreCully  designed in clear and accessible form, to be tailored to regional
and national requirements and circumstances  with specific target audiences in
mind and to he effectively disseminated in national and local languages and in
cufficient  volume to have the desired impact, and for effective use also to be
made of the mass media, in particular radio and television and audio-visual
technologies, in order to reach wider audiences, with priority being given to
children, other young people and the disadvantaged, including those in
i F:O I at.& areas;

3 I Apg.r-~r;i.&~g  the measures taken by the Secretariat to update,
i nc rnilse stocks and extend the language versions of human rights information
mi4terials, especially those on the basic United Nations human rights
instruments  and institutions, and, in that regard, urges the Secretariat to
t.i\ko measures to ensure the further production and effective diswmination of
:;uch documents in national and local languages, in co-operation with regional,
rlirtiondl  and local organisations as well as with Governments, making full and
nrfective use of the United Nations information centres;

4. Rnc.cu.rBge.s  all Member States to make special efforts to provide,
CLlcilitate  and encourage publicity for the activities of the United Nations in
the field of human rights and to accord priority to the dissemination, in
their respective nRtiona1 and local languages, of the Universal Declaration of
Hum~~n Rights, 41 the International Covenants on Human Rights 51 and other
i nternationi-ll conventions, as well as to information and education on the
Il~.~~(:t.icill ways in which the rights and freedoms enjoyed under those
i ti:;t.rrunents  can be exerr: isecl;

!I , urges. all Member States to include in their educational curricula
IIJ~II cbI.ii\ls rnlevnnt:  to a comprehensive understanding of human rig) ‘.s issues and
~~~~(:ouri~jes  nil those responsible for training in law and its enforcement, the
,\rmt?d Lorces, medic.ins, diplomacy and other relevant fields, to include
,~ppropri~~to  human rights components in tneir programmes;

.I ’ A/114/660  and Add. 1.

4 / Resolution 217 A (III).

!) / See resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex,

/ * . .



A/44/799
English
Page 7

6. Rague&s.  the Secretary-General to draw the attention of Member
St.i*tes  to the teaching booklet on human rights, which could serve as a broad
arlcl f lexible framework adaptable to national circumstances for the structuring
iuxl development of the teaching of human rights1

7. Nate.s. the special value, under the advisory services and technical
assistance proGramme, of regional and national training courses and workshops,
in co-operation with Governments, regional and national organisations and
non-governmental organizations, in promoting practical education and awareness
in the field of human rights, and welcomes the priority given to the
organization  of such activities by the Centre for Human Rights)

8. R.auw tire Secretary-General  to  ensure the ful lest  e f fect ive
deployment of the skills and resources of all concerned units of  the
Secretariat and to make available, within existing resources, and in
particular from the budget of the Department of Public Information, adequete
funding for developing practical and effective human rights information
act.ivities, including those within the programme of the World Public
Information Campaign for Human Rights;

9. Cal--on the Centre for Human Rights, which has primary
responsibility within the united Nations system in the field of human rights,
to co-ordinate the substantive activities of the World Campaign pursuant to
the direction of the General Assembly and the Commission on Human Rights, and
to serve as liaison with Governments, regional and national institutions,
non.-governmental  organisations and concerned individuals in the development
and implementation of the activities of the Campaignr

IO, CtiL.&~n  the Department of Public Information, which has primary
responsibi l i ty  for  publ ic  information act ivit ies ,  to  co-ordinate the publ ic
information activities of the World Campaign and, in its responsibility as
secretariat to the Joint United Nations Information Committee, to promote
co-urdinated  system-wide information activities in the field of human rights;

11. Stremm. the need for close co-operation between the Csntre for
Iluman Rights and the Department of Public Information, fnter, in the
implementation of the aims established for the World Campaign and for thu
United Nations to harmonize its activities in the field of human rights with
those of  other  organisations, including the International Committee of the Red
CfOSS, with regard to the dissemination of information on international
humanitarian law and, with regard to education for human rights, the United
Nat;ivns  Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organixationr

12. .&g,u.e.nti  the Secretariat , in the implementation of the World
Campaign, to take advantage, as much as possible, of  the col laboration of
non-governmental organizations, including the dissemination of human rights
material, with a view to increasing universal awareness of human rights and
fundnmental  freedoms;

/ . * .



A/44/799
English
Page A

13. aacsylasu the Commission on Human Rights, at its forty-sixth session,
on the basis of the report of the Secretary-General, to give priority
consideration to this question w’th a view to providing appropriate guidance
on the aims and activities of the World Campaign]

14 I &,gH6&s,  the Secretary-General to submit to the General Assembly at
its forty-fifth session a comprehensive report on the implementation of the
present resolution for consideration under the item entitled “Alternative
approaches and ways and means within the United Nations system for improving
the effective enjoyment of human rights and fundsmental freedoms”.

DRAFT RESOLUTION II

t o  devw

Rw the proclamation by the General Assembly at it; forty-first
session of the Declaration on the Right to Development, 61

&mu-~ its resolutions and those of the Commission on Human
Rights relating to the right to development, and taking note of Commission
resolution 1989/45  of 6 March 1989, [L/ approved by the Economic and Social
Counc.i 1,

Re_i.faraing  the importance of the right to development for all countries,
in particular the developing countries,

mfn’ co- the report of the Working Group of Governmental Experts
on the Right to Development 81 and all other relevant documents submitted to
the General Assembly at its forty-fourth session,

&m of the interest in the work of the Working Group shown by several
Member States, specialized agencies and non-governmental organizations,

1. &pw.Rrrsfhahone  that the replies of Governments, United Nation6
bodies and specialized agencies and governmental and non-governmental
organizations, including those active in development and human rights,
submitted at the request of the Secretary-General based on Commission on Human

61 Resolution 411128, annex,

71 See O.f.f..kial-R.0s;.~.dsl_nftheEcanomirand-..UELWmenf
tyq -,.. 2 (E/1989/iO),  chap.  II ,  sect .  A.

81 E/CN.4/1989/10,



A/44/799
English
Page 9

Righte resolution 1989145 to  of fer  addit ional , updated and more specific views
on the subject of the implementation and further enhancement  of the
Declaration on the Right to Development, will contain such view6 and proposalsr

2, m the invitation of the Commission to the Secretary-General to
organise, within exist ing resource6, a global consultation on the realisation
of the right to development , which would involve experts with relevant
experience gained at the national level and repreeentatives  of the United
Nations system, including the specialised agencie6, regional intergovernmental
organisations  and interested non-governmsntal  organisations,  including those
active in development and human rights, and which would focus on the
Cundamental  problems posed by the implementation of the Declaration on the
Right to Development, the criteria that might be wed to identify progress and
mechanisms for evaluating and stimulating such progrescl

3. &pr.R~qres  its that the results of that global consultation, the
report on which is to be presented to the Commission on Human Rights at ite
forty-sixth session, will substantially contribute to it6 future work on the
implementation and further enhancement of the Declaration)

4. Enaarsas the view of the Commission that there is a need for a
continuing evaluation mechanism so as to ensure the promotion, encouragement
and reinforcement of the principles set forth in the Declaration?

5. m all relevant bodies of the United Nations system, particularly
the speciali6ed  agencies, when planning their programmes of activities, to
take due account of the Declaration and to make efforts to contribute to its
application!

6, Rm the Secretary-General to inform the Commisuion on Human
Rights at its forty-sixth session and the G4neral Assembly at ite forty-fifth
session of the activities of the organiaatione of the United Nationr eyet4m  on
the implementation of the Declarationr

7. v the Commission to decide at its forty-sixth session on
the future course of action on the question, in particular on practical
measures for the implementation and enhantiement  of the Declaration)

8. Invites the Commission to report on the question to the General
Assembly at  i ts  forty- f i f th 6466iOnr through the Economic and Social Councflt

9. -6 to consider  this  quest ion at  i ts  forty- f i f th seesion  under
the item entitled “Alternative approach46 and way6 and means within the United
Nations system for improving the effective  enjoyment.  of human rights and
fundamental freedoms” .



A/44/799
English
Page 10

DRAFT RESOLUTION III

BacalljnO  that in the Charter of the United Nationa  the peoples of the
United Nations declared their determination to reaffirm faith in fundamental
human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal
rights of men and women and of nation6  large and small and to employ
international machinery Ear the promotion of the economic and social
advancement OF all peoples,

&2,- the purposes and principles of the Charter to achieve
international co-operation in solving international problem6 of an economic,
so c ia l , cultural or humanitarian character, and in promoting and encouraging
respect for human rights and for fundamental freedoms for all without
dist inct ion as  to  race,  sex,  language or  rel igion,

Eln&a&i.ug the significance and validity of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights Q/ and of the International Covenants on Human Right6 m/ in
promoting respect for snd observance of human right6 and fundamental frtedoms,

Rer&Ling its resolution 32/130  of 16 December 1977, in which it decided
that the approach to future work within the United Nations system with respect
to human rights questions should take into account the concepts set forth in
that resolution,

Rml1.ing-tis~  its resolutions 34146  of 23 November 1979, 35/174  of
15 December 1980, 36/133  of 14 December 1981, 381124 of 16 December 1983,
391145 of 14 December 1904, 40/124 of 13 December 1985, 411131 and 411133 of
4 December 1986, 42/119  of 7 December 1987 and 43/3.25 of 8 December 1988,

Ta.k~_jur.to....a.cl;tn.unt  Commission on Human Rights resolution 1985143  of
14 March 1985, 111

Reite.r:a.t.ing  that the right to development is an inalienable human right
,.\nd trlnt equality of development opportunities is a prerogative both of
nat.ions  and of indi.viAuaIs  within nations,

91 Resolution 217 A (III).

101 Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

111 See 0fficia.l  Records ..of.-th~&Sn.!XRiC  and SocLialC~c.~L...3.9_85,._S_up~~em.e.nt
NQ, 2 (E /1985 /22 ) ,  chap .  II, s e c t .  A.

/ * . .



A / 4 4 / 7 9 9
English
Page 11

Bacpw that the human being is the main s;bject  of development and
that everyone has the riqht to participate in, es well aa to benefit from, the
development process,

Ba in mind that the grave economic situatfon  facing the developing
countries noticeably affects the effective promotion and full enjoyment of
human rights and fundamental freedoms,

R-Q- that the establishment of the new international
economic order is an essential element for the offactive  promotion and full
enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms iw al-,

Reiteratina_alsoitszu- that all human rights and
fundamental freedoms are indivisible and interdependent and that equal
attention and urgent consideration should be given to the implementation,
promotjon  and protect ion of  c ivi l  and pol it ical  r ights  and of  economic,  social
and cultural rights,

B the need for the  creat ion , at the national and international
levels, of conditions for the promotion and full Protection of the human
rights of  individuals  and peoples ,

Recoanis  that international peace and security are essential elements
Kor the fu l l  realization  of  human riqhts, including the right to development,

C-a that the resourceo that would be released by dirarmamont  could
contribute significantly to the development of all States,  in particular to
that of the developing countries,

&I.&Q- that co-operation among all natioW.P on the basis of respect
Lou the independence, sovere ignty  and territorial integrity of  each State ,
including the right of every people to choose freely its own oocio-economic
and political system, is essential for the promotion of peace and development,

C&nr;ti that the primary aim of such international co-operation must be
the achievement by all human beings of a life of freedom and dignity and
freedom from want,

C~ruxmm.d~ however, about the occurrence of violations of human rights in
the world,

Reaffirmi.n9  that nothing in the Universal Declaration  of Human Rights or
i.n the International Covenants on Hull:an Rights :?ay be interpreted as implying
for any State, group or person the right to engage in any activity or perform
any act aimed at destroying any of the rights and freedoms proclaimed therein,

$.fu that the ultimate a i m  of development is the steady improvement
of  the wel l -being of  the entire  population,  on t?r basis  of ita full
participation in the process of development and a fair distribution  of the
benefits therefx Jrn,



A/44/799
English
Paqs  12

m that the efforts of C,ne developing countries for their own
development Bhould be supported by an increased flow of reBources and by the
adoption of appropriate and RUbBtafltiVe  measures for creating an external
environment conducive to such development,

T&&.~A&Q~cQQuJ&  the documents adopted by the Ninth Conference of
Heads of State or Government of the Movement of Ncj-Aligned  Countries, held at
Belgrade from 4 to 7 September 1989, JJ/

&arinaw the stipulations of the final documents of the
Ministerial Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of the Movement of Non-Aligned
Countries, held at Harare  from 17 to 19 May 1989, particularly paragraphs 10
to 13 of the Economic Declaration, JJ/

B the special importance of the pur~,oses and principles
proclaimed in its Declalstion on the Right to Development, JJ/

Wm.&o  acc~ti Commission on Human Rights resolutions 1989/15  of
2 March 1989 and 1989145 o f 6 March 1989, u/

* .
m the importance of furthering the activities of the organs of

the United Nations in the field of human rights in conformity with the
principles of the Charter,

Emk&tim  that Governments have the duty to ensure respect for all
human rights and fundwentnl  freedoms,

1. R&Wtes  its-.& that the Commission on Human Rights continue
its current work on ovsrall analysis with a view to further promoting and
Btrengthening human rightB and fundamental freedoms, including the question of
the programme and working methods of the Commission, and on the overall
analysis of the alternative  apprOaCheB and ways and means for improving the
effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms, in accordance
with the provisions and concepts of General Assembly resolution 321130 and
other relevant texts)

2. AW,..LIXB.  that a primary aim of international co-operation in the
field of human rights is a life of freedom, dignity and peace for all peoples
nnd for every human being, that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interrelated and that the promotion and protection of one
category of rights should klever  exempt or excuse States from promoting and
protecting the others;

4.2.1 A/44/551-S/20870,  annex,

,131 See A/44/409-S/20743 and Corr.1 and 2, annex.

J,4/ Resolution 411128, annex,

/ . . .



A/44/799
English
Page 13

3. WfFuns that equal attention and urgent consideration should be
given to the implementation, promotion and protection of civil and political
rights and of economic, social  and cultural  r ights;

4. Reaffirms that it is of paramount importance for the promotion of
human rights and fundamental freedoms that Member States should assume
specific obligations by acceding to or ratifying international instruments in
this field and, consequently, that the work within the United Nations system
of setting standards in the field of human rights and universal acceptance and
implementation  of the relevant international instruments should be encouraged;

5. -es om that the international community should
accord, or continue to accord, priority to the search for solutions to mass
and flagrant violations of human rights of peoples and individuals affected by
situations such as those mentioned in paragraph 1 (a) of General Assembly
resolution 32/130,  paying due attention also to other situations of violations
of human rights;

6. J&w its responsibi l i ty  for  achieving international
co-operation in promoting and encouraging respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms for all, and expresses its concern at serious violations
of human rights, in pnrticular  mass and flagrant violations of those rights,
wherever t!ley occur)

7. ExpresFLas  cons at the present situation as regards the
achievement of the objectives and goals for the establishment of the new
international economic order, and at its adverse effects on the full
realization of human rights, in particular the right to development;

8. R~a.fflms  that the right to development is an inalienable human
right;

9. i!t!mxkm that international peace and security are essential
elements for achieving full realization of the right to development:

10. wses that all human rights and fundamental freedoms are
indivisible and interdependent:

11. Considers that all Member States must promote international
co-operation on the basis of respect for the independence, sovereignty and
territor ial  integrity  of  each State , including the right of every people to
choose freely its own socio-economic and political system, with a view to
solving international economic, social and humanitarian problems;

12. w-s concern at the disparity existing between established
norms and principles and the actual situation of all human rights and
fundamental freedoms in the world;

13. w§ all States to co-operate with the Commission on Human Right6
in the promotion and protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms;

/ . . *



A/44/799
English
Page 14

14. &.im the need to create, at the national and international
levels , conditions for the full promotion and protection of the human rights
of individuals and peoples;

15.  Reaff irms once a that,  in order to faci l i tate  the ful l  enjoyment
of all human rights without diminishing personal dignity, it is necessary to
promote the rights to education, work, health and proper nourishment through
the adoption of measures at the national level, including those that provide
for the right of workers to participate in management, as wsll as the adoption
of measures at the international level, including the establishment of the new
international economic order:

16. I]ecides that the approach to future work within the United Nations
system on human rights matters should also take into account the content of
the Declaration on the Right to Development and the need for the
implementation thereof;

17. &ti to include in the provisional  agenda of  i ts  forty- f i f th
session the item entitled “Alternat; *e approaches and ways and means within
the United Nations system for improving the effective enjoyment of human
rights and fundamental freedoms”.

DRAFT RESOLUTION IV

for the orotecw  and aromotion
Qf Mriahts

Recu the relevant resolutions concerning national institutions for
the protection and promotion of human rights, notably its resolution 411129 of
4 December 1986 and Commissio:; on Human Rights resolutions 1987140 of
10 March 1987, l!i/ 1988172  of 10 March 1988 u/ and 1989152 of
7 March 1989, n/

I Is the importance of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, u/ the International Covenants on Human Rights l$!/ and other

131 Off ic ial  Records of  the Ecowmic and Social  Counci l ,  1987,  Supnlemenb
N_qt.-5 (E/1987/18 and Corr.1 and 2), chap. II, sect, A.

141 w., 1988.  Suonlement  No.  2  (E/1988/12 and Corr.l),  chap.  II ,  sect .  A.

l-7’ u*r L989,-lBUBBt.N!  ( E / 1 9 8 9 / 2 0 ) ,  c h a p .  I I ,  s e c t .  A.

J&!/ Reso lut i on  217  A ( I I I ) .

19/ Resolution 2200 A (XXI), annex.

/ . . .



A/44/799
Engl ish
Page 15

:nternational  instruments for promoting respect for and observance of human
rights and fundamental freedoms,

Affirming that priority should be accorded to the development of
appropriate arrangements at the national level to ensure the effective
implementation of international human rights standards,

(&nscio.us of the significant role that institutions at the national level
can play in protecting and promoting human rights and fundamental freedoms and
in developing and enhancing public awareness of those rights and freedoms,

Recogn.i.z.ing that the United Nations can play a catalytic role in
assisting the development of national institutions by acting as a clearing
Infuse for the exchange of info-.mation and experience,

Mj.ndfu.l in this regard of the guidelines on the structure and functioning
of national and local institutions for the protection and promotion of human
rights, endorsed by the General Assembly in its resolution 33146 of
14 December 1978,

tI.omna the diverse approaches adopted throughout the world for the
protection and promotion of human rights at the national level and recognizing
the value of such approaches,

1. Takes note of the note by the Secretary-General; LQ/

2. R2-af.f'i.rms  the importance of developing, in accordance with national
Inqislation, effective national institutions for the protection and promotion
of human rights and of maintaining their independence and integrity;

3. Sn.c.o.u.r..$g.e.s.  Member States to establish or, where they already exist,
LO strenqthen national institutions for the protection and promotion of human
rights and to incorporate those elements in national development plans;

4. W-e.e.c.am.o.s  the increase in the number of nat.ional institutions for the
pi.otec:.ion  and promotion of human rights in various countries around the world;

5. Encou.r..agt:s initiatives on the part of Governments, regional,
international and intergovernmental organizations and non-governmental
orqanizations  intended to strengthen existing national institutions and to
~l:;t.i\blish  such institutions where they do not exist;

[J . Talte.~....~s~e..._w_i_th  appreciation of the action taken by the Centre for
Ilunl~~n  Rights of the Secretariat to co-operate with regional and national
in:;Litutions for the protection and promotion of human rights;

201 A/44 /525 . For the updated report, see E/CN.4/1989/47  and Add.1.



A/44/799
English
Page 16

7. Encouraaea  a l l  Member  States  to  take  appropriate  s teps  to  promote
the Fxchange  of iniormation  and experience concerning the establishment and
o p e r a t i o n  o f  s u c h  n a t i o n a l  institutionsr

8. -a t h e  S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l  t o  p r e p a r e ,  w i t h  t h e  a s s i s t a n c e  o f
e x p e r t s ,  iE n e c e s s a r y , and including materiLls  Ruumitted  by Governments, a
report containing conceptual model? of national institutions for the promotion
and protect ion  of  human r ights , to be submitted to the C?nmission  on Human
R i g h t s  a t  its forty-seventh  SeSSiOn;

9. Requests  t h e  S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l  t o  r e s p o n d  f a v o u r a b l y  tc r e q u e s t s
from Member  States  for  ass is tance  in  the  establ ishment  and s trengthening  of
n a t i o n a l  i n s t i t u t i o n s  a s  p a r t c-f the Programme for Advisory Services and
Technical  Ass is tance  in  the  Fie ld  o f  Human Rights ;

10 . &~xLLQS  t h e  S e c r e t a r y - G e n e r a l  tu i n c l u d e  i n  h i s  u p d a t e d  r e p o r t  a l l
the  information  provided  by  Governments  and  any  addit ional  in format ion  that
Governments may wish to provide, with  part icular  emphasis  on  the  funct ioning
o f  v a r i o u s  mOd8lS o f  n a t i o n a l  i n s t i t u t i o n s  i n  i m p l e m e n t i n g  i n t e r n a t i o n a l
standards on human right; , a s  w e l l  a s  a  l i s t  o f  e x i s t i n g  n a t i o n a l  i n s t i t u t i o n s
w i t h  c o n t a c t  p o i n t s  a n d  a  b i b l i o g r a p h y  o f  r e l e v a n t  m a t e r i a l s :

1 1 .  &&firms  t h e  r o l e  o f  n a t i o n a l  i n s t i t u t i o n s  a s  a g e n c i e s  f o r  t h e
disseminat ion  o f  human r ights  mater ia ls  and  other  publ ic  in format ion
nctivities  under  tho  auspices  o f  the  United  Nat ions :

12 l R-aim the  construct ive  ro le  that  non-governmental  organizat ions
c a n  p l a y  i n  r e l a t i o n  t o  n a t i o n a l  i n s t i t u t i o n s :

1 3 . &zq!~.~sts  the  Secretary -General  to  report  to  the  General  Assembly  at
i t s  f o r t y - s i x t h  s e s s i o n  o n  t h e  i m p l e m e n t a t i o n  o f  t h e  p r e s e n t  r e s o l u t i o n ,


