
















































UNITED
NATIONS A

General Assembly
Distr 8
GENERAL

A / 4 4 / 7 3 9
17 November 1989

ORIQINALI  ENQLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 116

INFORMATION FROM NON-SELF-QOVERNING TERRITORIES TRANSMITTED
UNDER ARTICLE 73 a OF THE CHARTER OF THE UNITED NATIONS

BLlp~ort&xr Mr. Moharnmad Saeed AL-KIND1 (United Arab Emirates)

1, At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decjded to include in the agenda of its
forty-fourth session the item e;ititled “Information from Non-Self-Governing
Territories transmitted under Article 73 Q of the Charter of the United Nations“,
At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Fourth
Committee.

2. At its 2nd meeting, on 2 October, the Fourth Committee decided to hold a
general debate covering agenda i t e m s  18, 116, 118 and 12, 119 and 120, on tha
understanding that individuel proposals on matters covered by those items would be
considered separately.

3. The Fourth Committee considered item 116 at its 5th and 9th to 16th meetings,
between 10 and 25 October (see A/C.4/44/SR.S,  g-16). The general debate on the
items referred to above, including the present item, took place at that 9th to
15th meetings, between 18 and 23 October,

4 . At the 5th meeting, on 10 October, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee on
the Situation with regard to the Implementation  of the Declaration on the Oranting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples made a statement in which he gave
an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee during 1989 and drew
attention to chapter VIII of the report of that Committee  relating to item 116
(A/44/23 (Part  IV))  L/ containing,  jnter alipa, the related draft  resolution
submitted by the Committee for consideration by the Fourth Committee.

x/ To be incorporated in Qfficial Rewtds o f  t h e  WneralA s s - ,
F o r t y - f o u r t h  S e s s i o n ,  Suoolement  N o ,  ( A / 4 4 / 2 3 ) .

8 9 - 2 9 1 6 0  023OP  (E) / . . .



A/44/739
English
Page 2

5, The Fourth Committee also had before it the report of the Secretary-Qeneral
r e l a t i n g  t o  t h e  i t e m  ( A / 4 4 / 5 5 3 ) .

6, A t  ita 16th meeting, on 25 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in paragraph 9 of chapter VIII of the report of the Special
Committee ( A / 4 4 / 2 3  (Part IV)) by a recorded vote of 141 to none, with 3 abstentions
( see  para. 7 ) .  2/ The  vo t ing  was  as  fo l lows ,  a/

Infavourl Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda,
Argentina, Australia, Austria, Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh,
Barbadon, Belgium, Beliae, Benin, Bhutan, Bolivia, Botswana,
Brasil,  Brunei Darussalam,  Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi,
Byelorussian Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Canada, Cape
Verde, Central African Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, Congo,
Costa Rica, C8te d’Ivoire,  Cuba, Cyprus, Csechoslovakia,
Democratic Kampuchea, Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Djibouti,
Ecuador, Egypt, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Fiji,  Finland,
Qabon, Gambia, Qerman  Democratic Republic, Qermany,  Federal
Republic c-, Qhana,  Qreece,  Quinoa,  Quinea-Biseau,  G u y a n a ,
Honduras, Iceland, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of) I
Iraq, Ireland, 18rae1, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya,
Kuwait, Lao People’s Democratic Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho,
Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Luxembourg, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco,
Mosambique,  Myanmar, Nepal, Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua,
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea,
Paraguay, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Qatar, Romania,
Rwanda, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Samoa,
Sao Tome and Principe, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Seychelles,
Sierra Leone, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Spain,
Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland, Sweden, Syrian Arab
Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Uganda, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet
Social ist  Republics , United Arab Emirates, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Veneauela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe.

-r France,  United K i n g d o m  of G r e a t  Britain and Northern Ireland,
United States of America.

21 The representative of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
Ireland made a statement in explanntion of vote.

a/ Subsequently, the delegation of  Hungary informed the Secretariat that,
had it been present at the t ime of voting, it would have voted in favour of the
draft  resolution.



A/44/739
English
Page 3

RECOMMENDATION OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

7. The Fourth Committee recommenda  to the Ganeral Ae~~embly  the adoption of the
following draft resolution8

o n  f r o m  Non-Self-Qoverva  tn
-hfw 7 3  e of !aaaAaa  of t h e

e.m the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Wanting
of Independence to Colonial Countrier and Peoplea relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territorfer tranrmftted under Article 73 fi of the
Charter of the United Nation6  41 and the action taken by the Committee in
respect of that information,

m the report of the Secretary-General o n  thirr i tem s/

w ita rerolution  1970 (XVIII) of 16 December 1963, in which it
requested the Special Committee to study the information tranrmitted to the
Secretary-General in accordance with Article 73 d of the Charter of the United
Nationa and to  take  ruch in format ion ful ly into account in examining the
situation with r e g a r d  to the implementation of the Dec’aration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in General
Assembly  resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 Dec;ember  1960,

B its resolution 43128 of 22 November 1988, in which it
requested the Special Committee to continue to discharge the functions
entrusted to it under resolution 1970 (XVIII),

m the importance of timely tranrmianion  by the administering
Power6  of adequate information under Article 73 a of the Charter, in
particular in relat ion to the preparation by the Secretariat  o f  the working
papers on the Territories concerned,

1. &prove8  the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
Situation with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the information
from Non-Self-Governing Territories transmitted under AtticLo  73 a of the
Charter of the United Nations1  a/

41 A/44/23 (Part IV), chap. VIII.

w A/44/553,

/ . . .



A / 4 4 / 7 3 9
English
Page 4

2. Reaffirms that, in the absence of a decirion by the General Assembly
itself that a Non-Self-Governing Territory haa attained a full measure  of
aelf-government in terms of Chapter XI of the Charter of the United Nations,
the adminirtering Power concerned should continue to transmit information
under Article 73 B of the Charter with respect to that Territory)

3. m the administering Power8  concerned to tranrmit or continue
to transmit to the Secretary-General the information prescribed in
Article 73 B of the Charter, aa well  as the fullest  possible information on
political and constitutional developments in the Territories concerned, within
a maximum period of air months following the expiration of the administrative
year in those Territoriest

4. m the Secretary-General to continue to endure that adequate
information ir drawn from all available published nourcen in connection with
the preparation of the working paper8  relating to the Territories concernedt

5. m the Special Committee to continue to discharge the
functions entrusted to it under General Assembly resolution 1970 (XVIII), in
accordance with established procedures, and to report thereon to the Assembly
a t  it8 f o r t y - f i f t h  s e s s i o n .


