







































UNI1"ED
NATIONS A

General Assembly
Distr.
LIMITED

A/44/L.51/·Rev.l
J: December 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 39

QUESTION OF PALESTINE

Afghanistan, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic Yemen,
Djibouti, Egypt, German Democratic Republic, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali,
Malta, Mauritania, Mongolia, Morocco, Oman, Pakistan, Qatar,
Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Somalia, Sudan, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist
Republic, United Arab Emirates, Vanuatu, Viet Nam, Yemen and

Yugoslavia: revised draft resolution

The General Assembly,

Having considered the report of the Secretary-Gener~lof 16 November 1989, .V

Having heard the statement madE on 29 November 1989 by the head of the
observer delegation of Palestine, £/

Stressing that achieving a comprehensive settlement of the Middle East
conflict, the core of which is the question of Palestine, will constitute a
significant contribution to international peace and security,

Aware of the overwhelming support for the convening of the International Peace
Conference on the Middle East,

Noting with appreciation the endeavours of the Secretary-General to achieve
the convening of the Conference,

Preoccupied by the increasingly serious situation in the occupied Palestinian
territory as a result of persistent policies and practices of Israel, the occupying
Power, and by the continuing lack of progress in achieving peace in the Middle East,

1/ A/44/73l-S/20968.

£/ See A/44/PV.67.

89-31329 1882Z (E) I ...

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library



AI44/L. 5J.1Rev.1
English
Page 2

Aware of the ongoing upr~s~ng (intifadah) of the Palestinian people since
9 December 1987, aimed at ending Israeli occupation of Palestinian territory
occupied since 1967,

1. Reaffirms the urgent need to achieve a just and co~prehensive settlement
of the Arab-Israeli conflict, the core of which is the question of Palestine;

2. Calls once agai~ for the convening of the International Peace Conference
on the Middle East, under the auspices of the United Nations, with the participation
of all parties to the conflict, including the Palestine Liberation Organization, on
an equal footing, and the five permanent members of the Security' Council, based on
Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) of 22 November 1967 and 338 (1973) of
22 October 1973 and the legitimate national righ~s of the Palestinian people,
primarily the right to self-determination;

3.
peace:

Reaffirms the following principles for the achievement of comprehensive

(a) The withdrawal of Israel from the Palestinian territory cccupied since
1967, including Jerusalem, and from the other occupied Arab territories;

(b) Guaranteeing arrangements for security of all States in the region,
including those named. in resolution 181 (II) of 29 November 1947, within secure and
internationally recognized boundaries;

(c) Resolving the problem of the Palestine refugees in conformity with
General Assembly resolution 194 (Ill) of 11 December 1948, and subsequent relevant
resolutions;

(d) Dismantling the Israeli settlements in the territories occupied since
1967;

(e) Guaranteeing freedom of access to Holy Places, religious buildings and
sites;

4. Notes the expressed desire and endeavours to place the Palestinian
territory occupied since 1967, including Jerusalem, under the supe~vision of the
United Nations for a limited period, as part of the peace process;

5. Once again invites the Securit~ Council to consider measures needed to
convene the International Peace Conferen' on the Middle East, including the
establishment of a preparatory committee, and to consider guarantees for security
measures agreed upon by the Conference for all States in the region;

6. Requests the Secretary-General to continue his efforts with the parties
concerned, and in consultation with the Security Council, to facilitate the
convening of the Conference, and to submit progress reports on developments in this
matter.

Digitized by Dag Hammarskjöld Library


