
















































UNITED
NATIONS

General Assembly
Distr.
GENERAL

A/44/664
23 October 1989

ORIGINAL: ENGLISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 117

ACTIVITIES OF FOREIGN ECONOMIC AND OTHER INTERESTS WHICH ARE
IMPEDING THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECLARATION ON THE
GRANTING OF INDEPENDENCE TO COLONIAL COUNTRIES AND PEOPLES
IN NAMIBIA AND IN ALL OTHER TERRITORIES UNDER COLONIAL
DOMINATION AND EFFORTS TO ELIMINATE COLONIALISM, APARTHEID

AND RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN SOUTHERN AFRICA

Report of the Fourth Committee

Ranuorteur: Mr. Mohammad Saeed AL-KIND1 (United Arab Emirates)

1. At its 3rd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1989, the General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, decided to include in the agenda of its
forty-fourth session the item entitled:

"Activities of foreign economic and other interests which are impeding the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries and Peoples in Namibia and in all other Territories under colonial
domination and efforts to eliminate colonialism, apartheid and racial
discrimination in southern Africa".

At the same meeting, the Assembly decided to allocate the item to the Fourth
Committee for consideration and report.

2. The Fourth Committee considered the item at its 2nd to 6th meetings, between 2
and 10 October (AK.4/44/SR.2-6).

3. At its 2nd meeting, on 2 October, the Fourth Committee decided without
objection, in accordance with established practice, to consider, in conjunction
with agenda item 117, chapter VI of the report of the Special Committee relating to
military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their

89-25436 02OlP (E) / . . .



A/44/664
English
Page 2

administration which might be impeding the implementation of the Declaration on the
Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples (A/44/23 (Part III)). J-/

4. At the same meeting, the Rapporteur of the Special Committee made a statement
in which he gave an account of the relevant activities of the Special Committee
during 1989 and drew attention to chapter V of the report of the Committee relating
to item 117 (A/44/23 (Part III)), as well as the relevant dkxnentation
(A1AC.1091976,  984, 989, 990, 994 and 997). The Rapporteur of the Special
Committee also gave an account of t:le Committee's consideration, in pursuance of
paragraph 13 of General Assembly decision 431410 of 22 November 1988, of the
question of military activities and arrangements by cclonial Powers in Territories
under their administration which might be impeding the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Indpendence to Colonial Countries and Peoples and
drew attention to chapter VI of the report of the Committee (A/44/23 (Part IlI)),
as well as the reievant documentation (A/AC.i09/987,  993 and 996).

5. The general debate on the item took place at the 3rd to 6th meetings, between
5 and 10 October.

6. At its 3rd meeting, on 5 October, the Fourth Committee granted a request for
hearing to Mr. J. A. Gonzalez Gonz&lez (A/C.4/44/2). At the same meeting,
Mr. Gonzslez Gong6lez made a statement.

7. At its 6th meeting, on 10 October, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft
resolution contained in document A/44/23 (Part III), chapter V, paragraph 10, by a
recorded vote of 84 to 10, with 16 abstentions (see para. 9). g/ The voting was as
follows: a/

Ln favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Byelorussian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Cameroon, Cape Verde, Chile, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia, Democratic
Yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic Republic, Ghana,
Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, India, Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic
of), Iraq, Jamaica, Kuwait, Lao People's Democratic Republic,

11 To be incorporated in Official Records of the General Assembly,
Forty-fourth Session, Suvolement No. 23 (A/44/23).

21 Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of the
following Member States: Argentina, Canada, Chile, Finland (on behalf also of
Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Sweden), France (on behalf of the States members of
the European Community), Israel, Japan, Kuwait, New Zealand, United States of .
America and Uruguay.

21 Subsequently, the following delegations informed the Secretaciat that,
had they been present at the time of the voting, they would have voted in favour of
the draft resolution: Burundi, Fiji, Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, Sudan, Zaire and
Zimbabwe.

/ . . .



A/44/664
English
Page 3

Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar, Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania,
Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Myanmar, Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria,
Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines, Poland, Qatar, Romania, Saudi
Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka,
Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and
Tobago, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of
Soviet Socialist Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Republic
of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu, Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen,
Yugoslavia.

Aaainst: Belgium, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel, Italy,
Luxembourg, Netherlands, Portugal, United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

Abstaininq: Australia, Austria, Canada, Cote d'Ivoire, Denmark, Finland,
Greece, Hungary, Iceland, Ireland, Japan, New Zealand, Norway,
Spain, Sweden, Turkey.

8. At the same meeting, the Fourth Committee adopted the draft decision contained
in document A/44/23 (Part III), chapter VI, paragraph 10, by a recorded vote of 86
to 12, with 12 abstentions (see para. 10). &/ The voting was as follows: 5/

In favour: Afghanistan, Albania, Algeria, Angola, Argentina, Bahamas,
Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Benin, Bolivia, Botswana, Brazil,
Brunei Darussalam, Bulgaria, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cameroon,  Cape Verde, China, Colombia,
Congo, Costa Rica, Cete d'Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Czechoslovakia,
Democratic Yemen, Egypt, Ethiopia, Gabon, German Democratic
Republic, Ghana, Guinea, Guyana, Haiti, Hungary, India,
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of), Iraq, Jamaica, Kuwait, Lao
People's Democratic Republic, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Madagascar,
Malaysia, Mali, Mauritania, Mexico, Morocco, Mozambique, Myaumar,
Nepal, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, Peru, Philippines,
Poland, Qatar, Romania, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, Solomon
Islands, Somalia, Sri Lanka, Suriname, Syrian Arab Republic,
Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Ukrainian Soviet
Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, United
Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Vanuatu,
Venezuela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia.

w Statements in explanation of vote were made by the representatives of the
following Member States: Argentina, Canada, Chile, Finland (on behalf also of
Denmark, Iceland, Norway and Sweden), France (on behalf of the States members of
the European Commuity),  Israel, Japan, Kuwait, New Zealand, United States of
America and Uruguay,

w Subsequently, the following delegations informed the Secretariat that,
had they been present at the time of the voting, they would have voted in favour of
the draft decision: Fiji, Mongolia, Papua New Guinea, Sudan, Zaire and Zimbabwe.

/ . . .



A/44/664
English
Parge 4

-1 Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Federal Republic of, Israel,
Italy, Japan, Luxembourg, Netherlauds, Portugal, United Kingdom
of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, United States of America.

-1 Australia, Austria, Denmark, Finland, Qreece,  Iceland, Irslond,
New Zealand, Norway, Spain, Sweden. ,-urkey.

RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE FOURTH COMMITTEE

9, The Fourth Committee recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution8

v& the item entitled “Act iv i t ies  of  foreign economic and
other interests which are impeding the implementation of the Declaration on
the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples in Namibia and
in all ather Territories under colonial domination and efforts to eliminate
colonial ism,  anas_tm and racial  discrimination in southern Afr ica”,

wsmi..wd the chapter of the report of the Special Committee on the
SituaLion  with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting
of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples relating to the item, 6.1

&a&&I its resolutions 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960, containing the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
2621 (XXV) of 12 October 1970, containing the programme of action for the full
implementation of the Declaration, 35/118  of 11 December 1980, the annex to
which contains the Plan of Action for the Full Implomertation of the
Declaration, and 40156  of 2 December 1985 on the twenty-fifth anniversary of
the Declaration, ds we!.1  as  al l  other resolutions of  the United Nations
rolat ing to the i tem,

Kmff irmLCnq the pcrlernn  obligation of the administering Powers under the
Charter of the United Nations to promote the political, economic, social and
educational advancomsnt oE tht, inhabitants of the Territories under their
administration and to protect. the human and natural resources of those
Territories  against  ahust3s,

ti/ A/44/23 (Part  III) ,  chap.  V.
/ . . .



A/44/664
Englirh
Page s

D that any economic or other activity that impeder the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Indrpendenco  to Colonial
Countrier and Peopler and obrtructlr effort6 simed at  the el imination of
colonial ism,  m and racial discrimination in southern Africa and other
colonial  Territories is  in  direct  violat ion of the rights of the inhabitsnta
and of the principlea  of the Charter and all relevant resolutions of the
United Nationr,

m that  the  nrrtural  renourcea  of  a l l  Territorias  under  co lon ia l
and racist domination are the heritage of the peoples of thoao Territotiea  and
that the depletivo exploitation of those reaource8  by foreign economic
interests  constitutes  a direct  violat ion of the rights of the peoples  and of
the principle8  of the Charter and all relevant resolutions of the United
Nations,

w in mm the  re l evant  prov i s ions  o f  the f ina l  document6 of  the
successive Conference8 of Hoads  of State or Government of Non-Aligned
Countries and of the rorolutiona adopted by the Assembly of Heada of State and
Government of the Organisation  of African Unity,

mm the  intensif ied act ivit ies  of  those foreign economic,
financial and other interertrr that continue to exploit the natural and human
reaourcea  of the colonial Territories and to accumulate and ropatriatr  huge
profits to the detriment of the interesta of the inhabitants, thereby impeding
the realisation by the poop108 of  the Territories  of their  legit imate
aspirations  for relf-determination and independence,

m the invortment  of foreign capital  in thr  production
of uranium and the collaboration by certain Westorn  and other countrier with
the racist minority rigimo  of South Africa in the nuclear field which, by
providing that rdgime with nuclear equipment and technology, enable it to
develop nuclear and military capabilities and tc become a nuclesr Power,
thereby strengthening itnr abhorrent system of m,

m about any foreign economic, f inancial  and other act ivit ies
which continue to deprive the indigenous populations of colonial Territcriea,
including certain Territories in the Caribbean and the Pacific Ocean regions,
of their rights over the wealth of their countries,  and that the inhabitants
of thoar Territorioa continue to suffer from a loas of land ownership a6 a
result of the fai ‘Itto of the administering Powers concerned to rertrict the
uale of land to foreignera, despite the repeated appeals of the Qeneral
Assembly,

Conscious  of the continuing need to mobilise  world public opinion against
the involvement of foreign economic, f inancial  and other interartr in the
exploitation of natural and human resources , which impedes the independence of
colonial Territorier and thr elimination of racism, particularly in South
Africa, and emphasising  the importance of action by local authoritioa,  trade
unions, religiour  bodies , ace.&mic i n s t i t u t i o n s ,  ma86 m e d i a ,  s o l i d a r i t y
movements and other non-governmental  organizationa,  as well a% individuals, in

/ .o



A/44/664
English
Page 6

applying pressure on transnational corporations to refrain from any investment
or act ivity in South Africa, in encouraging a policy of systematic divestment
of any financial or other intorost in corporations doing business with South
Afr ica and in counteracting al l  forms of col laboration with the aRartheaCl
regime,

1. U.&w the inalienable right of the peoples of dependent
Territories to self-determination and independence and to the enjoyment of the
natural  resources of  their  Territories , as  wel l  as  their  r ight  to dispose of
those resources in their bost  interests1

2. -J&Q& that any administering or occupying Power that deprives
the colonial  peoples  of  the exercise  of  their  legit imate rights  over their
natural resources or subordinates the rights and interests of those peoples to
foreign economic and f inancial  interests  violates  the solemn obligations i t
has assumed under the Charter of the United Nations)

3. &&firma that,  by their depletive  exploitat ion of  natural
resources , the continued accumulation and repatriation of huge profits and the
use of  those profits  for the enrichment of  fore ign set t lers  and the
perpetuation of colonial domination and racial discrimination in the
Territorie%, the act ivi t ies  of  foreign economic, f inancial  and other interests
operating at present in the colonial Territories constitute a major obstacle
to  pol i t ica l  independence and racial  equality, as well as to the enjoyment of
the natural resource8 of those Territories by the indigenous inhabitants)

4. Can&u those act ivi t ies  of foreign economic and other interests  in
the colonial Territories that are impeding the implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
contained in Qeneral Assembly reeolution  1514 (XV), and the efforts to
el iminate colonial ism,  ~&h&j and racial  discriminationr

5. &rp&?&j.&.agu&mm  the collaboration of certain Western Powers,
Israel  and other countries  with the racist  minority r6gime of South Afr ica in
the nuclear field and calls upon those and all other Governments concerned to
refrain from supplying that rrigime,  direct ly  or  indirectly,  with instal lat ions,
equipment or material that might enable it to produce uranium, plutonium and
other nuclear materials, reactors or military equipment;

b. SJ,.~ng.Jy-.~~&m;l~mns  the col laboration with the racist  minority regime
of South Africa of certain Western and other countries as well as
trenanational corporations thaL  continue to make new investments in South
Africa and supply the rigime with armaments, nuclear technology and all other
mater ia ls  that  are l ikely tl:, buttress  i t  and thus aggravate the threat  to
world peacer

7. $Q&&-.uE~ all States, in particular certain Western and other
Sta tes , to take urgent, effect ive measures  to  terminate all. col laboration w;+.h
thr racist  r6gime of  South Africa in the pol i t ical ,  economic,  trade,  militar;
ard nuclear f ields and to refrain Cram entering into other relations with that

/ . . .



A/44/664
English
Page 7

dgime in violation of the relevant resolutions of the United Nations and of
the Organisation  of African Unity)

0. mgaur>on a11 Governments that have not yet done 80 to
take, in accordance with the relevant provisions of i ts resolutions 2621 (XXV)
of 12 October 1970 and 43126 of 17 Novamber 1988, legislative, administrative
or other measures in respect of their nationals and the bodies corporate under
the i r  jurisdict ion tha t  own and operate enterprises  in colonial  Territories
that are detrimental  to the interests  of the inhabitants of  those Territories ,
in order  to put an end to such enterprisea and to prevent new invertments that
run counter to the interests of the inhabitanta of those Territorissr

9. $&l&m those oil-producing and oil-exporting countries that have
not yet done go to take effective measures against the oil companies concerned
so as to terminate the supply of crude oil and petroleum products to the
rac i s t  rigime of  South  Africa]

10. m that the exploitation and plundering of the marine and
othr * natural  resources of colonial  Territories  by foreign economic interests ,
including the act ivi t ies  of those tranenational  corporations that  are engaged
in the exploitation and export of  the natural  resources of the Territories ,  in
violation of the relevant reeo.lutions of the General Assembly and the Security
Council, are legal  and are a grave threat  to the in tegr i ty  and prosparity of
those Terri tc 081

1 1 ,  v to all  States ,  pending the imposit ion of
comprehensive mandatory sanctions against South Africa, to take legislative,
administrative  and other measures, ind iv idua l ly  or  co l l ec t ive ly ,  aa
appropriate, in  order  e f f ec t ive ly  t o  i so la t e  S o u t h  A f r i c a  po l i t i ca l ly ,
economically, m i l i t a r i l y  a n d  c u l t u r a l l y , in accordance with the relevant
resolutions of the Qoneral  Assembly, and encourages those Governments that
have recently taken certain unilateral sanction measures against the South
African rigime to take further meaauresr

12 . -a&a all Governments and organizationa of the United Nations
system, having regard to the relevant provisions of the Declaration on the
Eatabliahment  of a New International Economic Order, contained in General
Assembly resolution 3201 (S-VI) of 1 May 1974, and of the Charter of Economic
Rights and Duties uf Staten, contained in Assembly  resolution 3281 (XXIX) of
12 December 1974, to ensure, in particular, that the permanent sovereignty of
the colonial  Territories  over their  natural  reaource8 is  ful ly respected  and
safeguarded;

13. w the administering Powers concerned to take effective measures
to safeguard and guarantee the inalienable right of the peoples of the
colonial  Territorioe to their  natural  resources and to establish and mainta in
control over their future development, and requests the administering Powerc
to take  al l  necessary ateps to  protect the property rights of  the peoples  of
those Territories)



A/44/664
English
Page 8

14. We the administering Powers concerned to abolish all
discriminatory and unjust wage systems and working conditions prevailing in
the Territories under their administration and to apply in each Territory a
uniform system of wages to all the inhabitants without any discrimination;

15. Recrueate the Secretary-General to undertake, through the Department
of Public Information of the Secretariat, a sustained and broad campaign with
a view to informing world public opinion of the facts concerning the pillaging
of natural  resources in colonial  Territories  and the exploitat ion of  their
indigenous populations by foreign economic interests;

16. s to mass media, trade unions and non-governmental
organisations, 8s well  as  individuals , to co-ordinate and intensify their
efforts  to  mobilise  international  public  opinion against  the pol icy of  the
maw regime of South Africa and to work for the enforcement of economic
and other sanctions against that regime and for encouraging a policy of
systematic and genuine divestment from corporations doing business in South
Af rice;

17. w to continue to monitor closely the s ituation in the
remaining colonial  Territories  so as  to  ensure that  al l  economic act ivit ies  in
those Territories are aimed at strengthening and diversifying their economies
in the interests  of  the indigenous peoples, at promoting the economic and
financial  viabi l i ty  of  those Territories  and at  speeding their  accession to
independence and, in that connection, requests the administering Powers
concerned to ensure that the peoples of the Territories under their
administration  a r e  not  exp lo i t ed  for  po l i t i ca l , military and other purposes
detrimental  to their  interests]

18. Reaucats the Special Committee oii the Situation with regard to the
Implomentation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial
Countries an3 Peoples to continue to oxsmine  this item and to report thereon
to the General  Assembly at  i ts  forty-f i f th session.

10. The Fourth Committee also recommends to the General Assembly the adoption of
t:ho  fol lowing draft  decis ion:

1. The General Assembly, having considered the chapter of the report of
the Special Committee on the Situation with regard to the Implementation of
the Declaration  on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoples relating to an item on the agenda of the Special Committee entitled
“Military activities and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under

/ . . .



A/44/664
Engl i ah
Paga  9

their administration which might be impeding the implementation  of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and
Peoplea” 21 and recalling its decision 43/410 of 22 Novombor 1988 on the
question,  deplores the fact  that  the colonial  Powora  concorned  have taken no
atepa to implement the requast that the Assembly  has ropeatmclly addressed to
them, moat recently in paragraph 10 of its reaolution 43/45 of
22 November 1988, to withdraw immediately and unconditionally their military
bases and instal lat ions f rom colonial  Territories  and to  refrain f rom
establishing new ones.

2. In recalling its resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 Docomber  1960 and all
other relevant resolutions and deciaiona of the United Nations relating to
military bases and installations in colonial and Non-Self-Qoverning
Territories, the Qeneral Aaaambly reaffirms ita strong conviction that the
presence of military bases and installations in the colonial and
Non-Self-Governing Territories could conatituta a major obstacle to the
implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence  to Colonial
Countries and Poop108 and that it is the reapoaaibility  of thr administering
Powers to ensure that the existence of such bases and installations door n o t
hinder the populations of the Territories from exorcising their right to
self-determination and independence in conformity with the purpoara and
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and thr Declaration,
Furthermore, aware of the presence of military baaaa and inata2lationa  of the
administering Powers concerned and other countrims in those Territories, the
A;laambly  urges the administering Powers concerned to continue to take all
necessary meaaurea  not  to  involve those Territories  in any offensive acts  or
interference against other States and to comply fully with the purposes and
principles of the Charter, the Declaration and the roaolutiona  and decisions
of the United Nations relating to military activities and arrangamenta by
colonial Powers in Territories under their administration.

3. The General Assembly reiterates its condamnation of all military
activities  and arrangements by colonial Powers in Territories under their
administration that are detrimental to the rights and interesta of the
colonial peoples concerned, especial ly  their  right  to self-determination and
independence, The Assembly once again calls upon tho colonial Powers
concerned to terminate immediately and unconditionally such activities and to
eliminate such mil i tary bases in compliance with the relevant resolutions o f
the Assembly, in particular with paragraph 9 of the Plan of Action for the
Full Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of Independence to
Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained in the annex to Aaaambly resolution
351118 of 11 December 1980.

4. The General Assembly reiterates t’hat the colonial Territories and
areas adjacent thereto should not be used for nuclear testing, dumping of
nuclear wastes or deployment of nuclear and other woapona  of mass destruction,

11 A/44/23 (Part III), chap. VI.



A/44/664
English
Page 10

5. The General Assembly notes with serious concern that, in southern
Africa in general, a  cr i t i ca l  s i tuat ion  cont inues  to  preva i l  a s  a  resu l t  o f
South Africa’s inhuman repression of the people  of South Africa. The Assembly
declares that the policy of ~lp&LWg and deatabiliaation  pursued by Pretoria
not only undermines the peace and stability of the southern African region but
also  constitutes  a threat  to international  peace and security.

6. The General Assembly condemns the continuad  military, nuclear and
intelligence collaboration between South Africa and certain countries, which
constitutes a violation of the arms embargo imposed against South Africa by
the Security Council in its resolution 418 (1977) of 4 November 1977, and
which poses a threat to international peace and security. The Assembly urges
that the Security Council consider, as a matter of urgency, the report of the
Committee established under its resolution 421 (1977) of 9 December 1977 &/
and that it adopt further measures to widen the scope of resolution 418 (1977)
in order to make it more effective and comprehensive. The Assembly also calls
for the scrupulous observance of Security Council resolution 558 (1984) of
13 December 1984 enjoining all States to refrain from importing armaments from
South Africa. The Assembly is particularly mindful in that regard of a series
of resolutions adopted by the Security Council, p/ the General Assembly, the
Special Committee on the Situation with regar-d  to the Implementation of the
Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples,
the Special Committee against AQ&&.&&d  and the United Nations Council for
Namibia, as well as the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, the Organisation of
African Unity, the Commonwealth and a number of intergovernmental and regional
organizations.

7. The General Assembly reaffirms the legitimacy of the struggle of the
people of Namibia to achieve their freedom and independence and appeals to all
States to render sustained assistance in all fields in support of the faithful
implementation of Security Council resolution 435 (1978) of 29 September 1978.

8. The General Assembly considers that the acquisition of
nuclear-weapon capability by the racist rigime  of South Africa, with its
infamous record of violence and aggression, constitutes a further effort  on
its  part  to  terrorise  and int imidate indspendent  States  in the region into
submission while also posing a threat to all mankind. The Assembly condemns
the continuing support to the racist rbgime  of South Africa in the military
and nuclear f ields. In this context the Assembly expresses its concern at the

91 Security Council resolution:: 567 (1,985)  of 20 June 1.905, 568 (1985) o f
21 June 1985, 571 (1985) of 20 September 1985, 574 (19I35)  of 7 October 1985,
577 (1985) of 6 December 1985, 580 (1985) of 30 December 1985, 581 (1986) of
13 February 1986, 602 (1987) of 25 November 1987 and 606 (1987) of 23 December 1987.

/ . . .



A/44/664
English
Page 11

grave consequences  for international peace and security of the collaboration
betwoen the racist regime of South Africa and certain Western Powers, Israel
and other countries in the military and nuclear fields, It calls upon the
States concerned to end all such collaboration and, in particular, to halt the
supply to South Africa of equipment, technology, nuclear materials and related
training, which increases its nuclear capability.

9. The General Assembly strongly condemns the continuing collaboration
of certain countries with the racist regime  in the political, economic,
military and nuclear fields and expresses its conviction that such
collaboration is in contravention of the arms embargo imposed against South
Africa under Security Council resolution 418 (1977) and undermines
international solidarity against the e regime. The Assembly thus
calls for the termination forthwith of all such collnboration,

10. The General Assembly urges all Governments, the specialized  agencies
and other intergovernmental organisations to provide increased material
assistance to the thousands of refugees who have been forced by the aparthe.&
rigime’s  oppressive policies in South Africa to flee into the neighbouring
States.

11. The General Assembly deprecates the continued alienation of land in
colonial  Territories  for military instal lat ions, The large-acalo  uti l isation
of local economic and manpower resources for this purpose diverts resources
that could be more beneficially utilised in promoting the economic development
of the Territories concerned and is thus contrary to the interests of their
populations.

12. Tha General Assembly requests the Secretary-General to continue,
through the Department of Public Information of the Secretariat, an
intensified campaign of publicity with a view to informing world public
opinion of the facts concerning the military activities and arrangements in
colonial #ferritories which are impeding the implementation of the Declaration
on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, contained
in Assembly resolution 1514 (XV).

13 * The General Assembly requests the Special Committee on the Situation
with regard to the Implementation of the Declaration on the Granting of
Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples to continue to examine this
question and to report thereon to the Assembly at its forty-fifth session.


