
















































Chneral Assembly
Distr.
QENERAL

A/44/061
3 January 1990
ENGLISH
ORIGINALI  SPANISH

Forty-fourth session
Agenda item 84

EXTERNAL DEBT CRISIS AND DEVELOPMENT

-8 Ms, Martha DUE%AS de WHIST (Ecuador)

I . INTRODUCTION

1. At its Xrd plenary meeting, on 22 September 1939, ti.8 General Assembly, on the
recommendation of the General Committee, Decided  $10 include in its agenda the item
entitled "External debt crisis and develcpmant" ard to allocate it to the Second
Committee,

2. The Second Committee considered the item at its 26th to 31st, 41st, 50th and
Slst meetings, from 1 to 3, 6 and 2; Xovember  a-d 15 and 17 December 1989. An
account of the Committee's general discussion of the item is contained in the
relevant summary records (A/C.2/44/SR.26-31,  41, 50 and 51). Attention is alsc
drawn to the general debate held by the Committee at its 2nd to 10th meetings, from
2 to 6 and 9 October (A/C.2/44/SR.2-10).

3. F o r  its consideration of the item, the Cdr;jhittee  had before it the following
documents: I

A/44/235 Letter dated 18 April 1909 from the Permanent Representative of
S/20600 Saudi Arabia to the United Nations addressed to the

Secretary-General transmitting the text of the Final Communiqui  of
the Eighteenth Islamic Conference of Foreign Ministers, held ln
Riyadh from 13 to 16 March 1989

90-00217 0394P  (E) / . l .



h/44/861
English
Page 2

A / 4 4 / 2 7 5
E/1909/79

A / 4 4 / 3 5 5
S/20704

A / 4 4 / 3 6 1

A / 4 4 / 3 7 6
E/1989/125

A / 4 4 / 4 0 1
E/1909/129

A / 4 4 / 4 0 8

A/44/409-
S/20743
and Corr.1
and 2

Letter dated 11 May 1989 from the representatives of Bclivia,
Braail, Colombia, Ecuador, Quyana,  Peru, Suriname  and Venesuela to
the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-Qeneral transmitting
the Amason Declaration, adopted at Manam,  Brasi on 6 MaY 1989 bY
the Presidents of the States Parties to the Treaty for Amazonian
Co-operation

Letter dated 28 June 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Spain to the United Nationa  addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the conclusions  adopted by the Heads of State and
Government of the Twelve States members of the European Community
at the European Council, held on 26 and 27 June 1989 in Madrid

Letter dated 28 June 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Malaysia to tha United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the Caracas Declaration of the Ministera for Foreign
Affairs of the Group of 77 on the occasion of the twenty-fifth
anniversary of the Group, held at Caracas from 21 to 23 June 1989

Letter dated 6 July 1989 from the Head of the Observer Delegation
of the German Democratic Republic to the Economic and Social
Council at its second regular session of 1989 addressed to the
Secretary-General transmitting a communication en”,itled
“Assistance rendered by the German Der*\ocratic  Republic to
developing countries and national liberation movements in 1988”

Letter dated 18 July 1989 from the Charge d’affaires a,i. of the
Permanent Mission of Czechoslovakia to the United Nations Office
and other international organisations at Geneva addressed to the
Secretary-General transmitting information on economic assistance
given by the Csechoslovak Socialist Republic to the developing
countries and national liberation movements in 1980

Letter datsd 10 July 1989 from the Charge d’affaires a.f. of the
Permanent Mission of the Dominican Republic to the United Nations
addressed to the Secretary-General transmitting a communication
sent by the President of the Hispano-Luso-American  Institute of
International Law, concerning a resolution adopted bv the
Institute at its Fifteenth Congress held in Santo Damingo,
Dominican Republic from 23 to 28 April 1989

Letter dated 19 July 1989 from the Charge d’affaires a,i. of the
Permanent Mission of Zimbabwe to the United Nations addressed to
the Secretary..General  transmitting the final documr,nts  of the
Ministerial  Meeting of the Co-ordinating Bureau of the Movement of
Non-Aliened Countries, held at Harare  from 17 to 19 Mav 1989

/ L..



A/44/415
S/20749

A/44/477

A/44/551
S/20070

A/44/617
s/20009

A/44/620

A/44/603

A/44/609
s/20921

A/44/694

A / 4 4 / 0 6 1
English
Page 3

Letter dated 25 July 1989 from the Permanent Representative of
Indonesia to the United Nations addrerred  to the
Secretary-General tranrmitting  the text containing excerptn from
the Joint Communique of the twenty-second ASEAN MinisterAal
Meeting, held at Bandar Seri Begawan on 3 and 4 July 1909

Letter dated 22 August 1909 from the Permanent Representative of
Grenada to the United Nation6  addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the communiqui  of the tenth Meeting of the
Conference of Head8  of Government of the Caribbean Community,
held at Grand Arise,  Grenada, from 3 to 7 July 1989

Letter dated 22 September 1909 from the Permanent Representative
of Yugoslavia to the United Nations aadrassed to the
Secretary-General transmitting the <Anal documents of the Ninth
Conference of Heads of State or Government of the Movement of
Non-Aligned Countries, held at Belgrade from 4 to 7 September 1909

Letter dated 6 October 1909 from the Permanent Representative of
Yugoslavia to the United Nations addressed to the
Secretary-General transmitting the communique of the Meeting of
Ministers for Foreign Affairs and Heads of Delegation of
Non-Aligned Countries, held in New York on 3 October 1909

Report of the Secretary-General on the external debt crisis and
development

Letter datod 25 October 1909 from the Permanent Representative of
Brazil to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the Declaration of Brasi!ia, issued by the
participants of the Sixth Ministerial Meeting on the Environment
in Latin America and the Caribbean, held at Brasilia on 30 snd
31 March 1909

Letter dated 26 October 1909 from the Permanent Representative  of
Malaysia to the United Nationa  addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the communiq&  adopted on 24 October 1989 at the
meeting of the Commonwealth Heada  of Government, held at Kual4
Lumpur from 18 to 24 October 1989

Letter dated 23 October 1989 from the Permanant Representatives
of Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, Mexico, Peru, Uruguay and
Venezuela to the United Nations addreaeed  to the Secretary-General
transmitting the text of the Ica Declaration and Communiqui,
issued on 12 October 1909 at the Third Meeting of the Permanent
Mechanism for Consultation and Concerted Political Action

A/C.2/44/11 Note verbale dated 4 December 1909 frcm the Permanent Mission of
France to the United Nations addressed to the Secretary-General
transmitting the Economic Declaration of the Summit of the Arch
of 16 July 1989

/ . . .



A/44/061
English
Page 4

MC.21441L.0  Note by the Secretariat transmitting  a draft deciadon entitled
“Establishment of an advisory commission on debt and development”

4 . At the 26th meeting, on 1 November, the Secretary-General made a statement
(see A/C.2/44/SR.26).

z;ade
A t  the name m e e t i n g , the Secretary-General of the United Nations Conference on

and Development made a statement (8ee A/C.2/44/SR.26).

II . CONSIDERATION OF PROPOSALS

A. sresolutiand-

6. At the 41st meeting, on 21 November, the representative of M&&y&, on behalf
of the Staten Member8 of the United Nationn that are member8 of the Group of 77,
introduced a draft resolution (A/C,2/44/L,47)  entitled “Toward8  enhanced debt
reduction to revive growth and promote development in developing countries”, which
read as followsr

“m itr resolutions 41/202 of  0 December 1906, 421198 o f
11 December 1987 and 43/190 of 20 December 1900,

“WV Trade and Development Board resolutions 165 (S--IX) of
11 March 1978, JJ 222 (XXI) of 27 September 1980, 21 350 (XXXV) o f
5 October 1980 a/ and 375 (XXXVI) of 13 October 1909, IQ/

“Reaffirminn that the external debt crisis of developing countries has
political dimensions requirl lg a global and comprehensive solution,

“p8er)J.y  concerned that the external debt crisis continue8 to be a major
cause of the deterioration in the economic situation of the developing
countries, thereby causing social upheaval and posing a serious threat to
their political stability,

11 .W~Ati&-Of_frbe ‘3~~~1 ASBernblu,tv thkd.*- AiffmbL.,S.~!!  F
No. 15 (A/33/15),  vol. I, part two, annex I.

.2/ .J&JB.,  TUrty-fifth  Session, Suwo. 15 (A/35/15), vol. II, annex I.

91 ;I;hhd*, FQx~t~~Qa9ionl6uPnlem~ (A/43/15),  v o l .  I I ,
sec t .  1I.A.

4/ A / 4 4 / 1 5  ( v o l .  I I ) ,  s e c t .  i1.A.



A/44/061
English
Page 5

“m that, in this context, an early rolution to the long-standing
extsrnall  indebtedneaa of developing countrier  would require, w, a
significant reduction in the stock of debt and debt rervice sufficiently large
to permit the rerumption  of vigorous growth and lrustained  development in the
indebted developing countries,

It- that a number of recent initiative8 to write off and/or to
reduce the debt rtock and debt service  of developing countries  have had a very
limited impact on the resolution  of the debt crisis of developing countries
and do not extend to all those countrierr,

@@&w the close interrelationship among money, finance, resource flows,
trade, commoditier,  development and external debt, and recognising in this
regard the important policy implicationa of thir interrelationship for a
durable lrolution to the debt problem,

“Profoundlvmm  at the huge negative transfer of resourcea from the
developing countries aa a result of, inter, the continuing debt crisis,
thereby depriving them of much needed resourcea  for their growth and
development,

“RBCOQnlalnQ that an equitable and durable solution to the debt crisis
will require adjustment  in the economies of the industrialised countries
having a major impact on the world economy, including appropriate fiscal,
monetary and trade policies, in order to eliminate the major imbalances in the
world economy,

co- that developing countries continue to make great
sacrifices in striving to service  their external debt and that, in the absence
of a significant improvement in the present adverse international economic
environment, they may not be able to service their external debt,

“-the need for intensification of efforts by the international
community to resolve the eevere debt crisis, to forestall  its proliferation
and prevent its further aggravation,

“KQ$&J  with deerr  concea tho changes that have continued to occur in the
destination and pattern of financial and capital flows from developed countries
and the consequent decline in those flows to developing countries, which have
further hindered the efforts towards the economic recovery and sustained
development of these countries,

“1 l akes ~QLR of the .?eport  of the Secretary-General on the external
debt crisie and development; 5i/

3 A/44 /628.

/ . . .



A/44/061
Engliah
Page 6

“2. m the contributions of the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development to the international search for a aolution to the external
debt crisis of developing countries and, in this regard, takes note of Trade
and Development Board resolutions 165 (S-Ix) and 375 (IMCVI),  on debt and
development problema of developing countriesl

“3. -es its w to the Secretary-General for his efforts
to find a solution to the debt problem and, in this regard, stresses the need
for the intensification of his effortsr

“4 , S&g&6 the international community to search for a durable, equitable
and mutually agreed growth-oriented and development-oriented solution to the
debt problem of developing countries]

“5. Gtreasea that the debt crisis of developing countries is global in
impact and political in nature and consequences, with a bearing not only on
relations between debtors and creditors, but also on prospects for the world
community as a whole, thereby continuing to require concerted political action)

“6. m-es deer, co- that in spite of some efforts the debt crisis
remains unabated, that indebted developing countries are still unable to grow
and develop and that their economic and social prospects remain bleak;

“7 , vses that under the prevailing conditions,
including the absence of a supportive international economic environment,
internationally supported structural adjustment programmes, owing to their
negative political, socj.al and economic consequences, have resulted in
increasing adjustment fatigue among the debtor developing countries, as well
as inability to restore economic growth and creditworthiness;

“6. !%&omes  the increasing acceptance by creditor countries of the need
for writing off and/or reducing the debt stock and debt service of developing
countries and in this regard, takes notes of the recent initiatives aimed at
the reduction of the debt stock and debt service of developing countries)

“9 I .$treagag  the urgent need for the broadest implementation of the
recent initiatives and for the elaboration of effective and comprehensive
measures for dealing with the debt crisis in its entirety, so that all
indebted developing countries benefit from the process)

“10. ~sisep that in ordor to ensure that the debt-relief measures, in
particular debt reduction, have an effective and comprehensive impact on the
reactivation of economic growth and sustained development in the developing
countries, the following measures would be required?

“(a) The reduction of debt stock and debt service that is large enough to
significantly contribute to the release of adequate resources required to
generate higher levels of investment;

“(b) Broadening by the creditor Governments of their eligibility criteria
and scope of country coverage of their relief measures, in horticular

/ l . .



A/44/061
English
Page 7

reduction of debt outstanding to them and improvement in current procedures
for debt-relief measures through strengthening dialogue and negotiations with
the full participation of indebted developing countries, an well an an
increase in the flow of development finance to developing countriest

‘l(c) Review by creditor Governmentu  of budgetary, tax, regulatory and
accounting practices in order to remove unnecessary impediments with respect
to debt reduction for developing countries and to enaure that a supportive
policy environment is achieved and maintained in regard to new lending]

“(d) The rescheduling of official debts encompassing  all debtors, the
totality of the debt and longer consolidation periods, aa well as the extension
of debt-relief measures to all debtors, write-offs of outntandi.,g  interest
payments and reduction of interest rates agreed in previous rescheduling
agreements, longer maturity and grace periods and a prcmpt  return to full
export credit cover)

l’(e) A substantial increase in the resources of the multilateral financial
institutions - in the case of the International Monetary Fund, a significant
increase also in special drawing rights allocations - in order to enable them
to contribute efficiently and speedily to the debt-reduction process while
ensuring the preservation and increase in the flow of resources for
development)

“(f) Review of the policies and practices of the multilateral financial
institutions in order to reduce, reschedule and convert on more concessional
terms the debt of developing countries owed to them1

“(9) Regulatory support for the participation of commercial banks in debt
reduction so that indebted developing countries can benefit from secondary
market discounting of their loan portfolfovt

“(h) Establishment of new compensatory mechanisms nnd facilities within
the framework of existing international financial institutions to cope with
exchange-rate and interest-rate fluctuations, which adversely affect the
external debt of developing countries;

“(i) Use of local currency by indebted developing countries to repay part
of their external debt;

“11. Stressoa that a durable solution to the debt cr.isis and the revival
of growth and sustained development in the developing countries requires,
&ter aAiR,  the following:

“(a) A more open international tradir,g  environment  with better conditions
of market access for products from developing countries;

“(b) Effective dismantling of protectionist barriers and other support
measures maintained by the industrializcd  countries to the disadvantage of
developing countriesr

/ . . .



A/44/861
Englirh
Page 0

“(c) IncroaErd export raruingrr  of the developing counttier,  and
improvement of existing mechaniamr  and ertabli6hmrnt of new ones for
compen6ating  ahortfalle  in export earning6 from commodities in developing
countriert

“(d) A substantial increase of r e s o u r c e  flows from developed countries to
developing countrieal

“(0) Adoption by the induatrialiaed  countrie6 of an appropriate mix of
fircal and monetary policies that would bring about a prompt reduction of
imbalance6 in and among those countries and would allow for exchange-rate
atability and a rrubatantial decl.lne in intere6t  rat@?:

“(f) Strengthening of multilateral surveillance mechanirrms  aimed at
correcting exirting external economic imbslancesl

“12. m, in the context of reeking a durable solution to the debt
cri6i6, to establish,  under the aegis of the Secretary-General, an advisory
commiarion  on debt and developmrnt with a three-year term, composed of eminent
person6 from the academic, political and financial sectors with knowledge and
experience in international finance, trade and development, to develop
innovative approache6  and evolve specific proporal  related to all types of
debt in order to rolve the debt problem of the developing countrielr  in a
manner conriotent  with their 6urrtained  growth and developments and requests
the Secretary-Qeneral  to appoint the member6 of the Commiarion,  and organise
it6 rupport staff from within the United  Nations and, through recondment  or
other appropriate means, from relevant intergnvernmental  organisations and
bodier of the United Nation6  syatcmt

“13. w the Secretary-General to prepare a comprehen6ive  and
analytical report on the impact of the external debt crisie  of developing
countrie6 on the availability of resource6 for their growth and socio-economic
developments

“14. w the Secretary-General to report on the implementation of
the present resolution to the Genersl  Assembly at it6 forty-fifth session1

“15. -6 the Secretary-General to include in his report a study on
the feasibility of  ectsblishing an infttitution that would be devoted to the
resolution of  the debt crisis of  the developing countries.”

7. A statement by the Secretary-General on the progr6mme  budget implications of
the draft resolution, submitted in accurdance with rule 153 of the rules of
procedure of the General Assembly, WAB~ subsequently circulated in document
A/C.2/44/L.71.

8. At its 50th meeting, on 15 December, the Committee had before it a revised
draft resolution (A/C.2/44/L,47/Rev.l)  entitled “Towards a durable solution to the
external debt problems”, submitted by the sponsors  of draft resolution
A/C.2/44/L.47,  on the ba6i6 of informal consultations.

/ . . I



A/44/061
Englirrh
Page 9

9. ihe Committee was informed that the programme budget Implication6 contained in
document A/C.2/44/L.71  did not apply to the revired draft re6olution.

10, At  the  6ame m e e t i n g , the Vice-Chairman of the Committee,
Mr, Badam Ochiryn DOljint6OrOn  (Mongolia), informed the Committee that the
following additional reviuiona  were to be incorporated into the revi6ed  draft
resolution:

(a) Operative paragraph 11 (g), which read:

“Strengthening and improvement in existing compensentory finance6 of
multilateral financial in6titution6”

wa6 deleted)

(b) In oparative  paragraph 12 (b), the word6 “appropriate compensatory” was
replaced by the word8 “Strengthened exirting  compensatory”.

11. At the same meeting, the Committee adopted draft resolution A1C.21441L.471Rev.1,
a6 orally revi6ed, by a recorded vote of 120 to 1 (see pars. 16). The voting was a6
ro11owrr

In: Afghanirtan, Albania,  Algeria ,  Argentina,  Aurtral ia,  Aurtria,
Bah6ma6, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belgium, Bolivia, Brazil,
Brunei Dsrursalam,  Bulgirria,  Burkina Fa60, Burundi, Byelorussian
Soviet Socialist Republic, Cweroon, Canada, Central African
Republic, Chile, China, Colombia, C&e d’fvoire, Cuba, Cypru6,
Caecho6lovakia,  Democratic Yemen, Denmark, Ecuador, Egypt,
Ethiopia, Fiji, Finland, France, German Democratic Republic,
Germany, Federal Republic of, Ghana, Greece, Guatemala, Guinea,
Guinea-Bis6au,  Guyana, HOndur6s,  Hungary, Iceland, India,
Indonesia, Iran (16it~11iC  Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Israel,
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kenya, Kuwait, Lao People’s
Democratic Republic, Le6otho, Liberia, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya,
Madagarcar,  Malawi, Malaytsia,  Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Mexico, Mongolia, Morocco, Mosambique,  Myanmar, Nepal,
Netherlands, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Nigeria, Norway, Oman,
Paki6tan,  Panama, Papua New Guinea, Peru, Philippines, Poland,
Portugal, Qatsr, Romania, Rwanda, Saudi Arabia, Senegal,
Singapore, Somalia, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Swaziland,
Sweden, Thailand, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, Turkey,
Ukrainian Soviet Socialist Republic, Union of Soviet Socialist
Republics, United Arab Emirates, United Kingdom of Great Britain
and Northern Ireland, United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay,
Veneauela, Viet Nam, Yemen, Yugoslavia, Zaire, Zambia, Zimbabwe,

-8 United States of America.

12. After the draft resolution wa6 adopted, statements were made by the
representatives of Muluy6ia (on behalf of the States Members of the United Nations
that are members of the Group of 77) and Canada.

/ . . .



A/44/061
English
Page 10

B .  praft decbion  0 i n  do- A1C.21441L.B

13. By its decision 43/444 of 20 December 1988, the General Assembly. on the
recommendation of the Second Committee, decided to defer until its forty-fourth
seasion consideration of the draft decision entitled *~Establishment  of an advisory
commission on debt and dsvelopment” (see A/C.2/44/L.8).

14. At it6 Slut meeting, on 17 December, following a statement by the
Vice-Chairman of the Committee, Mr. Badam Ochiryn Doljintseren (Mongolia), in which
he reported on the results of informal consultation6 held on the draft decision
contained in document A/C.2/44/L.8,  the Committee decided tc recommend to the
General Assembly that it should defer consideration of the draft resolution until
its forty-f i fth session (see para. 17).

15. The representative of Malaysia (on behalf of the States Members of the United
Nations that are member6 of the Group of 77) made a statement.

I I I . RECOMMENDATIONS OF THE SECOND COMMITTEE

16. The Second Committee recommends to the General  Assembly the adoption of the
following draft resolution:

ds a durable solution of extw debt atoblempl

The*

m i t s  resolutions 41/202 of 8 December 1986, 421198 o f
11 December 1987 and 431198  of 20 December 1988,

RecsllFncr_  Trade and Development Board resolutions 165 (S-IX) of
11 March 1978, fi/ 222 (XXI) of 27 September 1980, IL/ 358 (XXXV) o f
5 October 198R @/ and 375 (XXYVI) of 13 October 1989, 9/

Cfficial Record6 of the General AgSemblv,  Thirtv-third Sessim,
A(A/33/15), vol. I, part two, annex I.

71 LBid.,  Thirty-fifth Session, Suoolement  No. 15 (A/35/15), vol. II,
annex 1.

81 tier Forty-third Session, Sunnlement  No, 15 (A/43/15), ~01. II,
sec t .  1I.A.

91 &k!*r Forty-fourth  SeSSiOA, Sunnlement  N o . 1 5  ( A / 4 4 / 1 5 ) ,  v o l .  I I ,
sec t .  1I.A.



A/44/061
English
Page 11

G.Qw~  that a large number of developing countries experiencing debt
difficulties, with serious social consequences, have recorded unsatisfactory rates
of growth of output and development for many years, and that overall prospects for
these countries are for a continuing unsatisfactory performance in 1989,

,
w that such a weak growth aggravated by the external debt crisis can

pose a threat to their social and political stability,

&&J)&Q$ that, in this context, overcoming the 1ODgstaDding  external
indebtedness  of developing countries would require, i&~,r a1i.Q and a8 appropriate,
a significant reduction  in the stock and Service of debt sufficiently large to
contribute to the attainment of the objective of the resumption of vigorous growth
and sustained development in debtor developing countries,

m that a number of recent initiatiV88 aimed at a reduction of the
stock and service of debt of developing countries, as  Well aa debt re l ie f  measures,
represent a conceptual advance and an important contribution to the efforts aimed
at dealing with the debt crisis and that, in this regard, those initiatives n&d to
be rapidly implemented to enhance their impact on the resolution  of the debt crisis
of developing Countries,

Nu the close interrelationship among moneyI finance, resource flows,
trade, commodities, development and external debt, and recognising in this regard
the important policy implications of this interrelationship for a durable solution
to the debt problems,

werned  at the decline  of external resources available to developing
countries for development, which is, fnter alb, due to severe external
indebtedness,

l

Becoatialng that overcoming the debt problems and ensuring that financial
flows are fully and effectively utilised require continuing adjustment efforts on
the part of all countries, collectively and individually, each country contributing
to the common objective in accordance with its capacities and weight in the world
economy,

&!!aWizing that the efforts being undertaken by developing  countries to
foster sustained economic growth, although important, cannot succeed in
reactivating growth and development without a faVOUrabl8  international economic
environment,

Recoaniaing that such a favourable international economic environment
requires, inter alia, adjustment in the economies of the industrialized  countries
having a major impact on the world economy, including appropriate fiscal, monetary
and trade policies, in order to eliminate the major imbalances in the world economy,

Welcoming the recognition of the need to continue efforts by all parties
concerned to resolve the severe debt crisis and to forestall its proliferation and
prevent its further aggravation,



A/44/861
English
Page 12

Notinq with deep concern the changes that have continued to occur in the
destination and pattern of flow of external resources and the decline of those
resources to developing countries, which have made the economic recovery and
sustained development of developing countries mole difficult,

1. Takes note of the report of the Secretary-General on the external debt
crisis and development: 101

2. Welcomes the contributions of the United Nations Conference on Trade and
Development to the international search aimed at resolving the external debt crisis
of developing countries and, in this regard, takes note of Trade and Development
Board resolutions 165 (S-IX) and 375 (XXXVI) on debt and development problems of
developing countries:

3. ExDresses its appreciation to the Secretary-General for his efforts to
find a solution to the debt problems of developing countries and, in this regard,
encourages him to continue further his efforts;

4. Recoqnizes the role of the international financial institutions in
dealing with the debt problems.of developing countries;

5. Urses all parties concerned to continue their efforts in pursuit of a
durable, equitable and mutually agreed growth-oriented and development-oriented
solution to the debt problems of developing countries, which requires concerted
international action:

6. Stresses that the deterioration in the economic situation of the debtor
developing countries constitutes a major obstacle to their economic growth and
sustained development, which can be a threat to their economic, social and
political stability:

7. Welcomes the increasing acceptance by creditor countries of the need for
writing off and/or reducing the stock and service of debt of developing countries
and also welcomes, in this regard, the contributions that the recent initiatives
aimed at the reduction of the stock and service of debt of the developing countries
can make:

8. Stresses that a supportive international economic environment, together
with a growth-oriented development approach, is needed for supporting the efforts
of debtor developing countries in dealing with their external indebtedness and
alleviating the political and social costs of structural adjustment programmes and
adjustment fatigue, thus contributing to the restoration of their economic growth,
development and credit-worthiness;

IQ/ A/44/628.

/ . . .



A/44/861
English
Page 13

9. ExsresaesaeeP  concerr)  that the overall in%ebte%ness of the debtor
developing countries has persisted and ofton increased, that their growth and
development are severely limited, and that their economic and social prospects
continue to be a cause of serious concern;

10. &~UIMB~  the urgent need for the broadest implementation of the recent
initiatives;

11. m that in order to ensure that the recent initiatives, in
particular those for debt re%uction, in conjunction with appropriate economic
policies an% a favourable internatjonal  environment, have effective an%
comprehensive impacts on the reactivation of economic growth an% sustained
development in the developing countries, the following measures would be required:

(a) Financial packages should be negotiated that are a%equate  to support
growth-oriente%  adjustment programmes, including, as appropriate, debt reduction,
debt-service re%uction, new londing and other measures, so that the financial
sbligations an% payment capacity of individual dobtor countries are made more
compatible) the combination of these elements should lead to the release of
sufficient resources to generate higher levels of investment, the resumption of
vigorous growth  and Bevelopment  an% the satisfaction of the needs of the
populationsr

(b) Creditor Governments should review tax, regulatory and accounting
practices in order to remove unnecessary obstacles with respect to new lending to
developing countries and to debt reduction and debt-service reduction in order to
ensure that a supportive policy environment is achieve% an% maintained!

(c) The me%ium-term  an% long-term perspective of the rescheduling process
shoul%  be enhanced by ensuring that it takes fully into account the policies and
programmes oriented towards development and adjustment with growth that are
formulated by each country contierne%j  in this context, consi%eration  should be
given, where appropriate, to resche%uling  agreements in a multi-year basis)

(%) The Governments of member countries of the International Monetary Fund,
the World Bank and other multilateral financ.Ial institutions should ensure that
these institutions have adequate resourcesr sufficient for the full discharga of
their mandate, including, where appropriate, their role in the implementation of
recent initiatives;

(e) Serious consideration should continue to be given to mutually agreed ways
an% means of assisting debtor developing countries faced with large and bunched
debts to the multilateral financial institutions;

(f) The parties concerned shnuld continue to exercise increased flexibility
in the development of innovative approaches, including those devised by banks and
debtors, to take advantage of discounts prevailing in secondary markets;

(g) All those involved should take into account the above, as appropriate, in
working towards a growth-oriented solution of the problems of external indebtedness



A/44/661
Englirh
Page 14

Of developing countries that are facing serious debt-rervicing  problems, includinq,
in-, thoae whose debt is mainly to official creditors or multilateral
institutions$

12. N that a durable 8olution to the debt problem8 and the revival of
growth an% surtained development in the developing countries require, m,
the following:

(a) All Governments should work '*riilards =r more open international trading
system that improves accea8 especially for the export product8 of developing
countries, particularly in the context of the Uruguay Roundr

(b) Increased effort8 should be directed to the diversification of export8 OL
developiaJ  countrier  in order to enable them to achieve more stable earnings)
strengthened existing COmpen8atOry  financing arrangement8 for shortfalls in export
etarning8 from COMnOditie8  can faCilit8tEi this proce88;

(fl) External reaourced should be increased to complement domestic  measure8
conducive to capital formation in developing countries with insufficient  saving8
and inadequate flow of re8ource8 from abroad;

(%) Industrialised countries should intensify effort8 to Continue  8trUCtUrsl
adjurtment, maintain the vigour of their expansion while reducing an%/or  containing
inflation, an% work toward8 a mix of fiscal and monetary policies that would allow
interest rates to come down, and hence induce a more favourable international
economic climate]

(e) It is eaaential for debtor developing countriee to pursue an% intensify
their effort8 to raise saving8 an% investment, reduce inflation and improve
efficiency, taking into account their own indivi%ual characterietics  an%
vulnerabi1it.y  of the poorer strata)

(f) Coherent and co-ordinate8 policies should be develope%  on the part of the
indu8triali8ed  countries, including multilateral surveillance, aime% at addre88ing
the imbalances in the worl% economy;

13. .m that the external in%ebtedness  of some other countries with
serious debt-eervicing problems also give8 rise to considerable concern and invites
all those involve% to takn into account, a8 appropriate, the above provisions in
addressing those problems and in working toward8 a growth-oriented solution tt the
external debt problems1

14. &~.uQE& the Secretary-General to report to the General Asss~bly at its
forty- f i f th  Bession, on the implementation of the present resolution including an
assessment of the impact of the external debt -:isis on the availability of
resources for the growth and socio-economic de. elopment of developing countries.

* * c



A/44/061
English
Page 15

17. The Second Committee al8o recommends to the General Assembly the adoption Of
the following draft decisionr

nt  of  a n  mv CPmmiPPjP1LPll&.&
develm

The General Assembly decider  to defer until it8 forty-fifth 8ession
consideration of the draft resolution  entitle% “E8tablishment  of an adVi8Ory
commi88ion  on debt and development”. u/

.U/ S e e  A/C.2/44/L.6. For the printed text of the draft decision, see
Official Recorkof  the General Assembly, Forty-third Sec,ion, Annexes,  agenda
item 03, document A/43/916,  pars. 16.


